◆The biography of Chen Fan, whose courtesy name is Zhongju, was born in Pingyu, Runan.
My grandfather served as the governor of Hedong.
When Chen Fan was fifteen years old, he lived in a room with nothing to do, and it was very dirty inside and outside. His father's friend Xue Qin, who was from the same county, came to see him and said to Chen Fan: "Child, why don't you clean up to welcome the guests?"
Chen Fan said: When a real man is alive, he should sweep away the rubbish in the world. How can he only care about his own room?
Xue Qin knew that he had the ambition to clarify the world and admired him very much.
At first, he served as an official in the county and was elected as Xiaolian and awarded the title of doctor.
Because his mother passed away, he resigned from office and lived in mourning.
When the mourning period expired, the governor Zhou Jing called him to serve as a chariot, but because he had different opinions on his advice, he abandoned the talisman and left.
Later, the government recruited Fang Zheng, but he didn't go.
Taiwei Li Gu recommended him and promoted him to Yilang, and then he was promoted to the prefect of Le'an.
At this time, Li Ying was appointed as the governor of Qingzhou, and he was famous for his strict governance. After hearing the news, everyone in the subordinate city asked to leave. Chen Fan stayed alone because of his clean and honest performance.
Zhou Chu, a county man, kept himself clean and cared for himself. He was invited by the county guards before and after him, but he refused to go.
Only Chen Fan can recruit him. Chen Fan called him by his name instead of his name and respected him very much.
A bed was specially built for him. After Zhou Chu left, the bed was hung up.
The common man Zhao Xuan buried his relatives without closing the tomb passage, and lived in it for more than 20 years. The towns and cities praised his filial piety, and the states and counties treated him with courtesy several times. The county recommended him to Chen Fan and asked about his wife and children. They found out that Zhao Xuan's five children were all born during his mourning period.
Chen Fan then said angrily: "Sages make rituals, and moral people must abide by them, and unworthy people should also strive to do so."
And the number of sacrifices does not need to be too many, as too much would be disrespectful.
You are sleeping in the tomb, raising your children in the tomb, deceiving the world, stealing your reputation, confusing the people, and insulting the ghosts and gods. How is this unreasonable!
So his crime was punished.
General Liang Ji was a powerful man in the world. At that time, he sent a letter to Chen Fan, asking Chen Fan to handle private matters. The messenger was not allowed to see him, so he lied and asked to see Chen Fan. Chen Fan got angry and beat the messenger to death, and was sentenced to military service for his crime.
After a slight promotion, he was appointed as minister.
At this time, mountain bandits in Lingling and Guiyang were in harm's way, and the minister considered sending troops to fight. The emperor also ordered the prefectures and counties to select filial piety, integrity, and maocai as appropriate.
Chen Fan went to the Supreme Court to argue and refute, saying: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu established a great cause, the people in the country were relieved, and the officials raised the people as if they were their own sons.
Now the common people in the two counties are all the sons of the emperor. Isn't the cause of the harm to the sons caused by the corruption and cruelty of the local officials?
We should strictly instruct the three government agencies to secretly evaluate the prefects, governors, and county magistrates. Those who are misbehaving in politics and harming the people should be reported to the court immediately, and people who are upright, virtuous, honest, honest, able to promote laws and love the people should be selected to replace them. This way, we don’t have to bother the army, and the thieves can naturally be put to rest!
In addition, there are more than 2,000 officials in the three departments. The subordinate officials in the three houses have exceeded the prescribed limit and have not been appointed. Only the good ones should be selected for official positions, and those who are stupid and lawless should be singled out and rejected.
In this way, why do you need to issue an edict to recommend talents expediently, thereby encouraging the trend of asking for help?
Because he offended the people around the emperor, he was released as the governor of Yuzhang.
Chen Fan had a serious and upright temperament and did not receive guests. The scholars and the people also respected his aristocracy.
He was recruited to serve as minister, and no one who saw him off walked out of the outer city gate.
When he was promoted to Dahonglu, he met Li Yun, the magistrate of Baima County, who spoke bluntly and remonstrated. Emperor Huan was furious and Li Yun should be executed. Chen Fan wrote a letter to save Li Yun, but he was dismissed and returned home.
He was appointed Yilang again, and a few days later, he was promoted to Guangluxun.
At that time, the titles and rewards exceeded the system, and the favored ministers and relatives in the palace were very powerful. Chen Fan then sent a letter to advise: I heard that those who serve the country do everything for the country; those who serve the emperor do everything to please the emperor.
Now that I have been favored by the emperor and am in the position of Jiuqing, if I see the emperor doing something bad and do not dissuade him, then I am just trying to please the emperor.
The princes have twenty-eight elephants above, and the elephants are hanging down in the sky, and the earth should be divided below. The royal family of Fanping, the emperor of the Han Dynasty made an agreement, and those who are not meritorious cannot be granted the title of marquis.
However, I heard that you remembered the small merits of Deng Zun, the father of Yin Deng Wansi in Henan, and re-granted the titles that had been extinguished by the ancestors of Huang Jun, the minister. The servants obtained the titles through improper means, and the favored ministers on the left and right obtained them. Rewards are received for unworthy merit, official positions are awarded without considering actual abilities, and actual merits are not assessed when dividing soil and enfeoffment. As a result, within a family, there are only a few people who can be enfeoffed, so the sun and the moon are lost, the yin and yang are disordered, the crops are not ripe, and the people's wealth is not abundant.
I know that the seal has already been carried out, and it will be useless to talk about it, but I sincerely hope that the emperor will stop it here.
Moreover, due to taxation in recent years, five to six out of ten people have been harmed. Thousands of people are hungry and cold, and their lives are difficult. However, there are thousands of palace maids, and various expenses such as eating meat, wearing finery, oil and makeup, etc. cannot be counted.
As the saying goes: "You can't steal a house with five daughters," because having too many daughters makes the family poor.
Now, won’t the ladies in the imperial court impoverish the country?
So the maids of Qing Palace got married, and the world's atmosphere also changed.
Chu women in the West Palace are worried and resentful. If they are kept together but not close to each other, they will definitely feel sad and suffer from floods and droughts.
Prisons are used to prohibit violations of laws and disciplines, and officials must manage them competently.
If law enforcement is unfair and officials are unpopular, the country's politics will be harmed.
Everyone in the world said that prisons were created because of public dissatisfaction, and titles were obtained because of bribery.
If it wasn't smelly and dirty, where would the flies come from?
You should investigate the gains and losses, choose the loyal and do the good, and issue an edict to hand over matters such as selecting talents to the minister and the three public officials, so that rewards and punishments should be in charge. Isn't this something to be thankful for?
Emperor Huan adopted many of his opinions and released 500 maids. He only granted Huang Jun the title of Marquis of Guannei and Deng Wanshi the title of Marquis of Nanxiang. In the sixth year of Yanxi's reign, Emperor Huan came to Guangcheng Garden to hunt. Chen Fan advised him: I heard that the emperor only went to the garden to hunt in mid-autumn when he was offering sacrifices to heaven and earth. In accordance with the season, practicing weapons and shooting animals is helpful for sacrifices and is used to express filial piety.
If you violate these, you are considered to be overindulgent.
Therefore, Gao Tao taught Shun that he should not wander around without instruction, and Zhou Gong taught Cheng Wang that he should not wander around in the fields.
Yu, Shun and King Cheng should take this as a warning, let alone those whose virtues are not as good as those of their two masters!
When the world is at peace, we need to exercise moderation, not to mention the current difficulties of "San Kong".
The fields are empty, the court is empty, and the warehouses are empty. These are the so-called "three empties".
In addition, the war continues and the people are scattered in all directions. This is when you are sad and haggard and can't sleep at night. How can you show off your power and be fascinated by the scene of galloping horses and horses?
Moreover, it is rainy in early autumn, which is the time for the people to start sowing. Instead, they are required to drive birds and animals and do the hard work of opening roads. This is not the compassionate heart of a wise and sage king.
Qi Jinggong wanted to go to Langyi to watch the sea. Yanzi told Qi Jinggong that the people did not like to listen to the sound of flags and horses, shaking their heads and frowning, so Jinggong did not go.
King Mu of Zhou wanted to travel around the world and do whatever he wanted, and there were traces of his rutted horses everywhere. He sacrificed his father to read him the poem "Praying for Moves" to stop his thinking.
I really hate the harm caused by amusement!
The memorial was sent, but Emperor Huan did not accept it.
Since Chen Fan became Guang Luxun, he and Huang Wan, a general with five senses, were in charge of the election of officials and did not favor the powerful. Therefore, he was framed and accused by the children of the wealthy family, and he was dismissed from office and returned home.
Soon, he was recruited as a servant of Shangshu and transferred to Taizhong doctor.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, Yang Bing was replaced as Taiwei.
Chen Fan declined and said: "Without mistakes or loss, I am not as good as Taichang Hu Guang in following the old classics; I am not as good as Yilang Wangchang in distinguishing the seven political principles of sun, moon, metal, wood, water, fire and earth and explaining the five classics."
I am smart, open-minded, and versatile in both civil and military affairs. I am not as good as the consumptive prisoner Li Ying.
Emperor Huan didn't allow it.
Su Kang, Guan Ba ​​and others were appointed again. They excluded and framed the loyal ministers and collaborated with each other.
Da Si Nong Liu, Ting Wei Feng Nui, and Henan Yin Li Ying were all punished for violating the emperor's will.
Chen Fan took advantage of the court meeting to resolutely appeal to Li Ying and others, asking the emperor to pardon them and promote their titles.
Repeated appeals, the words are sincere.
Emperor Huan ignored him, so Chen Fan got up and left in tears.
At that time, Zhao Jin, the young eunuch, Zhang Si, the big bully of Nanyang, and others served the eunuchs and relied on their power to commit evil and break the law. Liu Wangzhi and Cheng Jin, the prefects of Taiyuan and Nanyang counties, interrogated them. Although the emperor had issued an order to pardon them, they still interrogated them to the end and executed them.
The eunuchs held a grudge against them. The officials followed the instructions and reported to the emperor that Liu Wangzhi and Cheng Jin should be executed for their crimes.
In addition, Zhai Chao, the prefect of Shanyang, confiscated the property of Zhongchang Shihou Lan, and Donghai Prime Minister Huang Fu executed Xu Xuan, the magistrate of Xiapi County. Zhai Chao and Huang Fu were both tortured by Kunpin and were taken to Zuoxiao for hard labor.
Chen Fan, together with Situ Liu Ju and Sikong Liu Mao, advised the emperor and asked for leniency for Liu Wangzhi, Cheng Jin, Zhai Chao, Huang Fu and others. Emperor Huan was unhappy and the officials impeached them. Liu Ju and Liu Mao did not dare to say anything more.
Chen Fan went up alone.
Said: I heard that Duke Huan of Qi's pursuit of hegemony mainly focused on managing internal affairs. In the Spring and Autumn Annals of Lu, even minor mistakes must be written down. He should cultivate himself first before he can ask others to do so.
Nowadays, thieves and bandits are rampant outside, which is a pain to the limbs; but internal chaos is a disaster to the heart.
I can't sleep, I don't have enough to eat, I'm really worried that the people around you are getting closer every day, the people who give good advice are increasingly alienated, the internal disasters are becoming more and more serious, and the external disasters are deepening.
The emperor succeeded to the throne through princes.
If a small family accumulates millions of wealth, their descendants will be ashamed to lose the inheritance of their ancestors. How much more if they own the whole world and receive it from their ancestors, do they want to slack off and not respect themselves?
If you really don’t cherish yourself, shouldn’t you think about the late emperor’s hard work in conquering the world?
Once upon a time, the Liangji clan and the five princes brought disasters to the world. God inspired your sage thoughts to arrest and execute them. The public opinion of the world hoped that society would have a little peace.
Those obvious warnings are right in front of us, and the lesson of overturning the car seems like yesterday, but the power of the eunuchs encourages each other to collude.
The young eunuch Zhao Jin, the big bully Zhang Si and others were wantonly corrupt and cruel, and they flattered your favored ministers, the former Taiyuan Governor Liu Wangzhi, and the Nanyang Governor Cheng Jin. They were arrested and executed. Although it was said that they should not be executed after pardon, I believe that their sincerity is to eliminate the falsehood for you.
So what do you have to be angry about?
The villain Taoist priest confuses you and makes you furious. If the penalty is too much, how much more to impose capital punishment and order to kill?
Also, Zhai Chao, the former governor of Shanyang, and Huang Fu, the prime minister of Donghai, abide by the law and hate evil as much as their enemies. Zhai Chao confiscated Hou Lan's property, and Huang Fu executed Xu Xuan. Both of them were convicted and punished for this, and they cannot receive your pardon. Hou Lan committed evil, and it was a blessing that only his property was confiscated. Xu Xuan committed a crime and died unjustly.
In the past, Prime Minister Shen Tujia summoned Emperor Wen's favorite ministers to reprimand him, and Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to rebuke Emperor Guangwu's sister Princess Huyang in person. Emperor Wen asked Shen Tujia not to kill Deng Tong, and Emperor Guangwu also rewarded Dong Xuan heavily. There is no news that these two ministers were punished for their arbitrary actions.
The little ministers around you now maliciously harm the party members, fabricating charges at will, causing Liu Wangzhi and Cheng Jin to be imprisoned unjustly.
Hearing these words of mine, your favorite will cry again and complain.
You should cut off the interference of your favorite ministers in political affairs, accept ministers to work in the imperial court and ministerial provinces, and hold public meetings every five days, select upright and noble people, remove and repel evil people.
In this way, the sky is harmonious above and the earth is harmonious below. Is the beautiful fortune still far away?
Although you hate my words, those who help others have the desire to improve themselves, so they dare to risk their lives to report.
Emperor Huan read his memorial and became even more angry. Not adopted at all. Many people in the court hated him.
As a result, the eunuch hated Chen Fan even more. He selected talents to send memorials, but the eunuch immediately rebuked him in the name of the emperor and sent them back. Many officials under him, including the long history and below, were often punished on pretexts, because Chen Fan was a famous official in his generation and they did not dare to harm him.
Liu Wangzhi, whose courtesy name was Wenli, was from Gaotang, and Chengjin, whose courtesy name was Youping, was from Shaanxi County.
They are all famous for their Confucian skills. They dare to speak outright when they are in office, and they often criticize some bad things. At that time, they all died in prison.
In the ninth year of Yanxi's reign, Li Ying and others were imprisoned for trial due to party members' incidents.
Chen Fan therefore wrote a letter to strongly dissuade him, saying: I heard that a wise king trusts his ministers, but a king who has subjugated his country is unwilling to listen to the straight words of his ministers.
Therefore, Tang and Wu prospered because they had wise ministers like Yi Yin and Lu Wang; Jie and Zhou were confused and perished because they had no people.
From this point of view, the king is the leader, and the ministers are the members. They are the same body and use each other for good and evil.
I saw that the former Sili Colonel Li Ying, the Grand Servant Du Mi, the Grand Lieutenant Peng Fan Pang and others were upright and innocent, and they were devoted to the country.
Because they were loyal and violated your will, they were tortured and interrogated. Some were imprisoned and isolated, and some died or were exiled to places they shouldn't go.
What is the difference between shutting up the mouths of the world and turning the whole society into deaf and blind people and the burning of books and humiliation of Confucians in the Qin Dynasty?
Once upon a time, King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty destroyed the Shang Dynasty. He erected signs at the homes of loyal officials of the Shang Dynasty and built tombs for them.
Now that you are in charge of political affairs, you first kill wise and loyal ministers. Why are you so mean to good people, and why are you so kind to bad people? The slanderer makes smooth words and seems to be telling the truth, confusing those who listen and confusing those who see.
The vision of good or bad lies in knowing good, and the chance of success or failure depends on listening to words.
The ruler of human beings is in charge of the country's major affairs, controls the laws and regulations within the four seas, and his actions must not violate the laws and moral rules of the sages.
If you say the wrong thing, it will cause chaos in all directions. How much more to punish the innocent in prison and kill the innocent in the street!
Once upon a time when Xia Yu was patrolling Cangwu and saw people killing people on the street, he got out of the car and cried, "Thousands of people are guilty, but only one person is guilty!"
So Xia Yu prospered quickly.
In addition, Qingzhou and Xuzhou were suffering from hot and drought conditions, and the grains were not harvested. The people had to leave their homes, and even coarse grains were not enough to eat.
However, the palace is full of palace ladies, and all the national wealth is spent on them. The relatives have private families, are greedy for money and accept bribes. This is what Confucius said: Salary has nothing to do with the official position, and government orders come from the officials.
Once upon a time, at the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the virtues of the Zhou Dynasty declined, and no disasters were seen for decades. This was because God had abandoned it.
God still misses the Han Dynasty, so he added some variation to inspire the emperor.
The key to eradicating demons and evil is that you strengthen your self-cultivation. I am in the position of the Three Lords, and I am worried that I have a heavy responsibility. I dare not accept my salary for free, greedy for life, and sit back and watch the rise and fall of the Han Dynasty.
If my suggestion is adopted, even if you kill me and leave my body with my body, I will not feel any hatred.
Emperor Huan was dissatisfied with what Chen Fan said. He dismissed Chen Fan on the pretext that the talents he selected were inappropriate.
In the first year of Yongkang, Emperor Huan died, and Empress Dou took charge of the government. She issued an edict saying: The people are born to establish a king to manage them. There must also be virtuous assistant ministers to consolidate the great cause of the Wang family.
The former Taifu Chen Fan was loyal, upright and magnanimous. Now Chen Fan was appointed as Taifu and managed the affairs of the minister.
At that time, there had just been a national mourning, and the heir to the throne had not yet been determined. The ministers were afraid of offending the powerful ministers in the court, so they pretended to be ill and refused to go to court.
Chen Fan wrote a letter to reproach them, saying: The ancients paid great attention to moral integrity and served the deceased monarch as if he were still alive.
Now that the emperor's heir has not been decided, and political affairs are becoming increasingly urgent, why do you, gentlemen, abandon the sufferings of the country and lie down at home to rest?
We are already lacking in righteousness, so how can we talk about benevolence?
All the ministers were frightened and went to the court to do their work.
After Emperor Ling ascended the throne, Empress Dowager Dou once again issued an edict to commend Chen Fan: to reward meritorious deeds to encourage good deeds, to praise righteousness and righteousness to encourage customs, and there is no virtue that cannot be repaid, as "Daya" chants.
Grand Tutor Chen Fan assisted the late emperor and served as a capital official for many years. He was both loyal and filial. His moral conduct was the best in his dynasty. He was outspoken in his loyalty and advice and continued to do so even when he was old.
Now Chen Fan is granted the title of Marquis of Gaoxiang, with a settlement of 300 households.
Chen Fan declined and said: "The messenger came to my home and awarded me the seal of the Marquis of Gaoyang Township. I was really scared and didn't know what to do."
I heard that humility is the brilliance of one's character and the conspicuousness of one's virtue.
However, I didn't dare to steal the name. I wanted to cede land and make a lord, mainly to commend merit. I thought over and over, and I have held various positions without particularly good merit.
Although I have no integrity, I still envy the noble character of a gentleman who does not follow the way to achieve it, and does not live in it.
If I refuse to accept a title and accept it shamelessly, making the emperor angry and causing disasters to the common people, where will I be?
I just want your Majesty to take pity on me as an old man, and stop being greedy.
Empress Dowager Dou refused, so Chen Fan resolutely refused and submitted memorials ten times, but finally he was not granted the title.
At first, Emperor Huan wanted to make his favorite Tian Gui the queen. Chen Fan thought that the Tian family was of humble origin and the Dou family was a good family. He was very determined to make the Dou family the queen. Emperor Huan had no choice but to make the Dou family the queen.
Therefore, after Empress Dowager Dou took charge of the government, she appointed Chen Fan.
Chen Fan and General Dou Wu, the father of Empress Dowager Dou, worked together to recruit celebrities and wise men to participate in national politics. People in the world stretched their necks to hope for peace in the world.
However, Zhao Rao, Emperor Huan's wet nurse, was always with Empress Dowager Dou in the morning and evening. The regular attendants Cao Jie and Wang Fu colluded with her to please the Empress Dowager.
The Queen Mother trusted them and issued many edicts to confer titles and officials on them. However, most of their minions were greedy and cruel. Chen Fan always hated these people and was determined to eliminate the eunuchs. It happened that Dou Wu also had a plan.
Chen Fan believed that he was obedient to people's wishes and had done meritorious deeds to the Queen Mother. He believed that his purpose could be achieved, so he first went to the Queen Mother.
Said: I have heard that speaking without integrity and behaving improperly means cheating God and letting down the world.
If you speak your mind frankly, you will be hated by those vicious villains, which will soon lead to disaster.
Weighing the two, I am willing to suffer disaster, but I dare not deceive God.
Now the public opinion in the capital is boiling and the streets are noisy. It is said that Hou Lan, Cao Jie, Gongcheng Xin, Wang Fu, Zheng Sa and others, together with Mrs. Zhao Rao and other female officials in the palace, are disturbing the world and following their promotions. Anyone who opposes them will be punished.
Now the ministers of the Manchu Dynasty are like driftwood in the river, floating here and there, coveting wealth and position, and fearing death.
When you started your regency not long ago, you obeyed God's will and implemented punishments. Su Kang and Guan Ba ​​were both punished and executed.
At that time, the sky and the earth were clear and bright, and people and ghosts were happy. Why did you indulge your attendants just a few months later?
There is no greater evil or treachery than them.
If they are not executed immediately, something will happen? It harms the country and the harm is unpredictable.
I hope to show my memorial to the people around you and let the bad guys in the world know that I hate them.
Empress Dowager Dou did not adopt it, and everyone in the court was shocked when they heard about it.
Chen Fan discussed with Dou Wu and wrote in "The Biography of Dou Wu".
When the incident was revealed, Cao Jie and others forged the Queen Mother's order to kill Dou Wu and others.
Chen Fan, who was in his seventies at the time, heard about the rebellion. He led more than eighty officials and students and rushed into the Chengming Gate with swords drawn. He raised his arms and shouted: "The general is loyal to the country, but the eunuchs are rebelling. How can you say that the Dou family does not abide by the principles of being a minister?"
Wang Fu came out of the palace at that time and happened to hear what he said, so he rebuked Chen Fan and said: The late emperor has just passed away and the tomb has not been built yet. What credit does Dou Wu have, while three brothers, father and son, are granted the title of marquis?
In addition, he took away many palace maids, drank and had fun, and collected hundreds of millions of wealth in one month.
If the minister is like this, is this the way of being a minister?
You are the pillar of the country, you bend the law for your own interests and form cliques. How can you catch the thieves?
So he ordered Chen Fan to be arrested.
Chen Fan drew his sword and yelled at Wang Fu loudly. Wang Fu's soldiers did not dare to approach him. So more troops surrounded Chen Fan and others dozens of times, captured Chen Fan, and imprisoned him in Beisi Prison, which was run by eunuchs.
The eunuch's knights kicked and stepped on Chen Fan, scolding Chen Fan: "Old man, can you still cut our staff and deprive us of extra income?"
He was killed on the same day and his family members were exiled to Bijing. The clan, disciples, and old subordinates were all dismissed from their posts and imprisoned.
Chen Fan's friend Zhu Zhen, who was from Chenliu, was the magistrate of Yuzhi County at the time. When he heard the news, he abandoned his official position and mourned Chen Fan, and his body was collected and buried. He hid Chen Fan's son Chen Yi in Ganling.
After the incident was discovered, Zhu Zhen was arrested and imprisoned, and his whole family was imprisoned. Zhu Zhen was severely tortured, but he would rather die than tell Chen Yi's whereabouts.
Chen Yi was able to escape. Later, the Yellow Turbans launched an uprising, and the court pardoned the party members, so Chen Yi was found. Later, Chen Yi became the prime minister of Lu.
Zhu Zhen, courtesy name Bohou, first served as a prefecture official. He wrote a letter to expose Shan Kuang, the prefect of Jiyin, for embezzlement, and implicated Shan Kuang's brother Zhongchang, the chariot and cavalry general Shan Chao.
Emperor Huan ordered Shan Kuang to be arrested and handed over to Tingwei for interrogation. He reprimanded Shan Chao, and Shan Chao went to prison to plead guilty.
There is a proverb in Sanfu: A chariot is like a chicken, a horse is like a dog, and evil is like the wind.
The historian commented: During the reign of Emperor Huan and Emperor Ling, people like Chen Fan were able to establish a good reputation for their morals, speak out and comment on the dull reality, run through hardships and obstacles, and compete with the eunuchs in the same dynasty, which resulted in serious disasters.
It's not that they can't keep themselves clean and live in seclusion, but they are pitiful for ordinary people who regard staying away from the world as a noble thing and don't care about human ethics. They believe that escaping from the world is an unjust act, so they have been dismissed many times, but they still refuse to leave reality; they take advocating benevolence as their own duty, and although they know that this road is long, they are even more determined.
When it came time to meet Emperor Huan and Queen Mother Dou, he thought it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to advise Dou Wu.
How solemn are the deeds of Yi Yin and Taigong in assisting the king that they pursue!
Although the matter did not succeed, their faith was enough to support the people.
The Han Dynasty was in chaos, but it did not perish. For more than a hundred years, it was the power of Chen Fan and others.
◆Biography of Wang Yun, also known as Wang Yun, Zi Shi, a native of Qi County, Taiyuan County.
He has been a state and county official for generations.
Guo Linzong of the same county once met Wang Yun and admired him very much. He said: "The king's life has improved rapidly, and Wang Zuo is so talented."
Become a close friend with him.
At the age of nineteen, he became a county official. At that time, Zhao Jin of Xiaohuangmen, Jinyang, was corrupt and domineering and was a serious problem to the county. Wang Yun captured and killed him.
Zhao Jin's brother flattered the eunuch and used it to make false accusations. Emperor Huan was furious and summoned the prefect Liu Wangzhi to be thrown into prison and died.
Wang Yun sent Liu Wangzhi back to Pingyuan for three full years, and then returned home.
When he became an official again, Lu Fo, a member of the county, was young and undisciplined. Wang Yun, the prefect Wang Qiu, summoned him to serve as a replacement. Wang Yun dared to offend Wang Qiu and failed to do so. Wang Qiu became angry, arrested Wang Yun, and wanted to kill him.
The governor Deng Sheng knew about it, and he galloped to deliver orders and was promoted to another driver.
Wang Yun became famous for this, but Lu Fo was abandoned because of it.
When Wang Yun was young, he was very serious and determined to make contributions to the country. He often recited scriptures and learned to ride horses and archery in the morning and evening.
The three princes all recruited him and he was appointed as the censor according to Situ Gao's rank.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban rebels rioted, and Wang Yun was specially selected as the governor of Yuzhou.
He recruited Xun Shuang, Kong Rong and others to work and wrote a letter to lift the party ban.
The crusade against the Yellow Turbans was won by Don Shuai. Along with General Huangfu Song from the left Zhonglang, Zhu Gen from the right Zhonglang and others, hundreds of thousands of Yellow Turban thieves were surrendered.
Among the thieves, Wang Yun obtained a letter from Zhang Rang, the official attendant of Zhongchang, and interacted with the Yellow Turban. Wang Yun completely exposed his adultery and reported it to the court.
Emperor Ling got angry and scolded Zhang Rang. Zhang Rang kowtowed and asked for forgiveness, but Emperor Ling actually did not punish him.
However, Zhang Rang held a grudge and slandered Wang Yun. The next year, he was arrested and imprisoned.
In case of amnesty, he still served as governor.
Just ten days later, he was arrested again for other crimes.
Situ Yangci believed that Wang Yun was highly virtuous and did not want to subject him to pain and humiliation, so he sent a guest to tell him: "Because of Zhang Rang's incident, you will be recruited again in January. The disaster will be immeasurable. You should think carefully about it."
And everyone who was engaged in good spirit and bravery all offered medicine to Wang Yun with tears in his eyes.
Wang Yun said sternly: "As a minister, I have committed the emperor's crime and should serve the death penalty to thank the world. Can I drink medicine and wish to die?"
After throwing the cup, he stood up and walked into the prison car.
As soon as he arrived at the court, everyone on his left and right urged him to deal with the matter, and all the courtiers sighed.
General He Jin, Taiwei Yuan Wei, and Situ Yangci allied themselves to write a letter saying: When a ruler sees inwardly and hears inwardly, and has self-awareness, loyal ministers will serve the emperor wholeheartedly, be lenient to the wise for their minor faults, and reward their talents, and righteous men will be stricter with themselves.
Therefore, Emperor Xiaowen adopted Feng Tang's opinion, and Duke Ao of Jin forgave Wei Jiang's sins.
Wang Yun was appointed by special selection. The rebels were killed and surrendered, and within a month the state was cleared.
He was about to enumerate his merits and report to the imperial court for titles and rewards, but he was sentenced to death for improper service.
The rebuke is light, the punishment is heavy, and it will disappoint the public.
I am waiting for the chancellor's seat and dare not remain silent.
We do believe that Wang Yun should be heard by Sanhuai to show his loyalty.
Reporting to the emperor can reduce the death penalty and punish the crime.
In the winter of this year, there was an amnesty, but Wang Yun was not included in the pardon. The three princes spoke for him again.
It was not until the next year that he was released.
At this time, the eunuchs were violent, and if they had any small complaints or anger, they would kill them.
Wang Yun was afraid that he would be framed by eunuchs, so he changed his name and lived in Hanoi and Chenliujian.
Emperor Ling passed away and returned to the capital for mourning.
At this time, General He Jin wanted to kill the eunuchs, so he discussed with Wang Yun and asked him to serve as Zhonglang and transfer Henan Yin.
Emperor Xian succeeded to the throne and was appointed as the imperial servant, and then appointed as the acting minister.
In the first year of Chuping, he replaced Yang Biao as Situ, and also acted as Shangshu Ling.
Dong Zhuo moved the capital to Guanzhong, and Wang Yun collected all the important secrets of Lantai and Shishi books and brought them to Guanzhong.
When I arrived in Chang'an, they were all sorted.
He also collected old events from the Han Dynasty that should be used and reported them one by one.
Wang Yun is responsible for the preservation of the scriptures.
At that time, Dong Zhuo was still staying in Luoyang, and Wang Yun was entrusted with all the affairs of the government. Wang Yun pretended to be submissive and obeyed his orders. Dong Zhuo also trusted Wang Yun and was not suspicious, so he was able to support the royal family in the crisis. The emperor and courtiers, both inside and outside, all relied on him.
Wang Yun saw that Dong Zhuo's evil was getting worse and his conspiracy to usurp the throne had been revealed, so he secretly conspired with Sili Captain Huang Wan, Shangshu Zheng Gongye and others to kill Dong Zhuo.
So he asked Yang Zan, the captain of the Qiang Protector, to serve as the left general, and Sun Rui, the Jinwu soldier, as the Nanyang prefect. They all led their troops out of Wuguandao in the name of attacking Yuan Shu. In fact, they wanted to attack Dong Zhuo by separate routes, and then return the emperor to Luoyang.
Dong Zhuo was suspicious and kept Wang Yun. Wang Yun then introduced Sun Rui as a servant and Yang Zan as a minister.
In the second year, Dong Zhuo returned to Chang'an and recounted his achievements in entering the Pass. He granted Wang Yun the title of Marquis of Wen and granted him a settlement of 5,000 households.
Wang Yun resolutely refused to accept.
Scholar Sun Rui said of Wang Yun: Being modest and frugal depends on time.
You and Grand Master Dong both hold the same title, but you stand out for your own integrity and are not awarded titles. Is it possible that you are just messing around and trying to mix up with others without revealing yourself?
Wang Yun accepted his advice and received two thousand households.
In the spring of the third year, it rained continuously for more than 60 days. Wang Yun, Sun Rui and Yang Zan went on stage to ask God to clear up the weather.
Discuss the execution of Dong Zhuo again. Shi Sunrui said: Since the end of the year, the sun has not been seen, it has been raining for a long time, the moon has violated the law star, comets and stars are still appearing, it is cloudy during the day and sunny at night, and the fog invades. This is a victory that should be completed in a short time and launched from within.
This opportunity is not to be missed, so hurry up and make plans.
Wang Yun thought Shi Sunrui was right. So he secretly combined with Dong Zhuo's general Lu Bu and made him an internal correspondent.
Just as Dong Zhuo entered the court to congratulate Emperor Xian on his recovery, Lu Bu had time to kill Dong Zhuo.
The words are in "The Biography of Dong Zhuo".
Wang Yun began to want to pardon Dong Zhuo's subordinates, and Lu Bu also persuaded Wang Yun many times.
But Wang Yun finally became suspicious and said: These people are not guilty and are just following Dong Zhuo.
Now if you think that they are rebellious and you are pardoning them, it will just make them doubt themselves. This is not a way to make them stable.
Lu Bu also wanted to reward Dong Zhuo's property to the ministers and generals, but Wang Yun refused.
Wang Yun usually looked down on Lu Bu and treated him like a swordsman.
Lu Bu also believed that he had merit and boasted about his achievements. He was not satisfied and gradually became at odds with Wang Yun.
Wang Yun has a strong temperament and hates evil as much as hatred. He began to be afraid of the jackal Dong Zhuo, so he suppressed himself and obeyed his will.
After Dong Zhuo was annihilated, he thought that there would be no more troubles. In public places, he rarely had a gentle look, maintained the right path and was prudent, and did not use expedient measures. Therefore, the people below him did not support him very much.
Most of Dong Zhuo's generals and serving officers were from Liangzhou, so Wang Yun considered dismantling Dong Zhuo's original troops.
Someone said to Wang Yun: Liangzhou people have always been afraid of the Yuan family and feared Guandong. Now if it is revoked, everyone in Guandong will be in danger.
Huangfu Yizhen can be the general and lead this army, so that he can stay in Shaanxi to appease them, and slowly conspire with Guandong to observe its changes.
Wang Yun said: Otherwise, those who raise volunteers in Guandong are all my people.
Now if troops are stationed in Shaanxi far away from danger, although it can appease Liangzhou and make Guandong suspicious, this is extremely unacceptable.
At that time, people spread rumors that all the people in Liangzhou would be killed, so they were afraid of each other and rioted.
Those in Guanzhong all defended themselves with troops.
They also told each other: Ding Yansi and Cai Bojie were both implicated and convicted just because they were friendly with Dong Gong. Since we are not pardoned now, we want to cancel the army. If we cancel it today, tomorrow we will be slaughtered for the sake of fish and meat!
Dong Zhuo's generals Li Chun, Guo Si and others had previously placed troops in Guandong, so they felt uneasy and conspired to cause chaos and besieged Chang'an.
The city was broken and Lu Bu fled.
Lu Bu stood outside Ma Qingsuo's gate and called to Wang Yun: "Can you go?"
Wang Yun said: If I get the blessing of the emperor, it is my wish to secure the country.
Otherwise, he will die for his country. The Emperor is young and only relies on me. I can't bear to try to escape by chance when he is in trouble.
I would like to ask all the princes of Guandong to think of the country.
At first, Wang Yun used Song Yi from the same county as Feng Yi on the left and Wang Hong as Fufeng on the right.
At that time, the people of Sanfu were prosperous, there were many soldiers, and there was a lot of food. Li Ju and others wanted to kill Wang Yun, fearing that the two counties would be troubled. So Song Yi and Wang Hong were recruited first.
Wang Hong sent an envoy to tell Song Yi: "Guo Si and Li Chu were out of town, so they did not harm Wang Yun."
If we apply today, tomorrow we will all be exterminated. What are your plans? Song Yi said: Although misfortune and fortune are unpredictable, the king's destiny cannot be evaded.
Wang Hong said: The reason why the rebels are fierce is Dong Zhuo, not to mention his party members?
If you lead the troops to jointly attack the evil people around the monarch, Shandong will definitely respond. This is a plan to turn disaster into blessing.
Song Yi refused.
Wang Hong could not be independent by himself, so he recruited all of them and sent them to the judicial authorities.
Li Chu then arrested Wang Yun, Song Yi, and Wang Hong, and sentenced them all to death.
Wang Yun was fifty-six years old at this time.
The eldest son Shizhong Wang Gai, the second sons Wang Jing, Wang Ding and more than ten members of their clan were all killed. Only the elder brothers Wang Chen and Wang Ling were able to escape back to their hometown.
The emperor was grieved and the people were dejected. No one dared to collect Wang Yun's body. Only the old official Ping Ling ordered Zhao Jian to abandon his official camp for mourning.
Wang Hong's long prose was full of energy when he was young and he didn't pay attention to small details.
When he first served as the prefect of Hongnong, he interrogated those who served eunuchs in the county and bought titles. Although their official titles reached two thousand dan, they were arrested, tortured, and killed dozens of people, which shocked the neighboring counties.
On weekdays, he had conflicts with Hu Zhong, the captain of Sili School. When Wang Hong was imprisoned, Hu Zhong couldn't wait to kill him.
Before Wang Hong died, he cursed: Song Yi was a stupid Confucian and was not capable of planning big things.
Hu Zhong gloats over misfortune, and disaster will befall him.
Later, when Hu Zhong was sleeping, Wang Hong often beat him with a stick, so he fell ill and died within a few days.
Later, the capital was moved to Xuchang. The emperor missed Wang Yun's loyalty and reburied Wang Yun. He sent General Huben Zhonglang to carry out hanging sacrifices, gave him the secret weapon of Dongyuan, gave him his official seal and ribbon, and returned it to his county.
King Yun Sun Wanghei was granted the title of Marquis of Anleting, with a settlement of 300 households.
Shi Sunrui, courtesy name Junrong, was born in Fufeng County. Very talented and strategic.
Scholar Sun Rui was spared from death because of Wang Yun's dedicated campaign against Dong Zhuo.
Later he became the third elder of the country and the Guanglu doctor.
When the three Dukes were vacant, Yang Biao and Huangfu Song both gave way to the scholar Sun Rui.
In the second year of Xingping, he returned eastward from the emperor and was killed by the rebels.
Zhao Jian, courtesy name Shumao, was a native of Changling County. He had a simple and upright character and was resourceful.
In Yongpingzhong, he is the minister and is in charge of elections.
Dong Zhuo repeatedly wanted to ask him to do something privately, but Zhao Jian refused to listen and spoke harshly.
Dong Zhuo was angry and called him to kill him. Everyone was afraid, and Zhao Jian's words and demeanor did not change his normal state.
Dong Zhuo regretted and released him.
There was great chaos in Chang'an and he was a guest in Jingzhou. Liu Biao treated him generously.
Cao Cao pacified Jingzhou and promoted him. Holding Zhao Jian's hand, he said: "I regret meeting you too late."
He died during the tenure of Prime Minister Zhong Yao.
The historian commented: Although the scholar-bureaucrats set themselves up to do things right, they might as well use power to help others.
If Wang Yun respected Dong Zhuo and cited his authority, and took advantage of his unpreparedness to punish his crimes, then the world would be safe and peaceful.
The reason why he was not found guilty in the end was because he knew he was sincere and loyal.
Therefore, Wang Yun's recommendation of Dong Zhuo cannot be called injustice, decentralization of power cannot be called a random measure, and taking advantage of someone's unpreparedness cannot be called deceit.
When the plan is realized, it will be right and there will be no need to plan anymore.
