Zhang Qian was from Hanzhong. During the Jianyuan period, he was appointed as Lang Guan.
People who surrendered to the Xiongnu at that time said that the Xiongnu defeated the Yuezhi King and used the Yuezhi King's head as a drinking vessel. The Yuezhi fled and resented the Huns because they had no one to fight with them.
The Han Dynasty was planning to engage in a war to eliminate the Xiongnu. When they heard this, they wanted to send people as envoys to the Yuezhi. However, the Xiongnu Kingdom was the only way to go, so they recruited people who could go as envoys.
Zhang Qian was recruited as an envoy to Yuezhi as a Langguan. He left Longxi with Gan Fu, Tangyi's servant.
Passing by the Huns, he was intercepted by the Huns and sent to the Shanyu in a conveyor.
Shanyu said: The Yueshi are to the north of me. How can the Han Dynasty people send envoys there?
If I want to send someone as an envoy to South Vietnam, will the Han Dynasty let our people pass by?
Zhang Qian was detained for more than ten years. He married him and gave birth to a son. However, Zhang Qian still insisted on the Han Dynasty and still maintained his status as an envoy.
Because he lived in the western part of the Huns, Zhang Qian took the opportunity to lead his subordinates to flee towards the Yueshi. After running west for dozens of days, we arrived in Dawan.
Dawan heard that the Han Dynasty was rich in wealth and wanted to have contacts with the Han Dynasty but could not find the opportunity. He was very happy to see Zhang Qian and asked him where he was going.
Zhang Qian said: We were sent as an envoy to the Yuezhi on behalf of the Han Dynasty, but the Huns blocked the road and refused to allow passage. Now we are fleeing to your country. I hope that the king can send someone to lead the way and send us there. If we can reach the Yuezhi, after we return to the Han Dynasty, the property that the Han Dynasty will give to the king will be indescribable.
Dawan thought it was okay, so he sent them there and sent translators and guides for them.
They were sent to Kangju, who sent them to Dayuezhi in a conveyor.
At this time, the original King of Dayuezhi had been killed by the Xiongnu, and his wife was made king.
Da Yuezhi had made Daxia surrender and ruled over it.
The land there was fertile, the produce was abundant, there was no intrusion, and they felt relaxed and happy. They considered themselves far away from the Han Dynasty and did not want to get close to the Han Dynasty. They had no intention of revenge against the Huns. From Yuezhi to Daxia, Zhang Qian never received a clear statement from the Yuezhi King.
After staying for more than a year, I had to return. Along the Nanshan Mountains, I wanted to return to the Han Dynasty from the place where the Qiang people lived, but I was intercepted by the Xiongnu again.
After being detained for more than a year, it happened that the Chanyu died and the Xiongnu country was in chaos. Zhang Qian fled back to the Han Dynasty with his Hun wife and Tangyi Ganfu.
The imperial court granted him the official position of Taizhong Taifu, and Tangyi Ganfu also became the envoy.
Zhang Qian is strong and perseverant, magnanimous and sincere in his treatment of others. He is liked by ethnic minorities.
Tangyi's father was a Huns who was good at archery. When he was extremely poor, he shot animals for food.
At the beginning, there were more than a hundred people when Zhang Qian traveled. After thirteen years, only he and Tang Yi's father came back.
Zhang Qian had personally visited places such as Dayuan, Dayuezhi, Daxia, Kangju and other countries. He heard that there were five or six big countries next to these countries. He told Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty one by one about the topography and products of these countries. The contents mentioned are all contained in "The Biography of the Western Regions".
Zhang Qian said: When I was in Daxia, I saw bamboo sticks from Qiong and fine cloth produced in Shu County. I asked them where they got them. The people of Daxia said: Our merchants bought them from the country of Shendu.
Shendu Country is located in the southeast of Daxia, about thousands of miles away.
The custom of Nahuo is to live a settled life, which is the same as that of Daxia, but the terrain is low-lying, humid, and the climate is hot.
People there rode elephants to fight, and the country was bordered by floods. According to my guess, Daxia was about 12,000 miles away from the Han Dynasty and to the southwest of the Han Dynasty.
Now Shendu is thousands of miles southeast of Daxia, and there are products from Shu County. It seems that Shendu is not far from Shu.
It is very dangerous for the envoy to Daxia to pass through the Qiang area. The Qiang people hate the Han Dynasty. If you go a little north, you will be captured by the Huns. If you go from Shu County, it will be a convenient road and there will be no intrusion.
Emperor Mowu heard that Dayuan, Daxia, Parthia and other countries were big countries with many strange products and lived a settled life, which was the same as the customs of the Han Dynasty. However, the military strength is very weak and they value the property of the Han Dynasty. To the north are the Dayuezhi, Kangju and other countries, which have strong military strength. They can be lured to come to see the Emperor of Han by giving them property and benefits.
If we can really do this and use moral power to make them join the Han Dynasty, then the Han Dynasty can expand its territory by more than 10,000 miles. People from some ethnic groups who come to the court will have to go through multiple translations to understand the language. Some ethnic minorities with strange customs will also come to join the Han Dynasty. The prestige and virtue of the Han Dynasty will spread all over the world.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was very happy and thought Zhang Qian's words made sense.
So he ordered envoys to be sent to explore the road through Shu County and Jianwei County, and they set off in four groups at the same time. Starting from Ranchi all the way, starting from Jedudu all the way, starting from Yiheqiong all the way, and starting from Fen all the way, each has a distance of one or two thousand miles.
However, the northern passage was blocked by the clans and Jeduyi, and the southern passage was blocked by Ling and Kunming.
Kunming and other ethnic minorities have no rulers and are good at plundering and stealing. Every time they killed passing Han envoys and took away their property, this road finally failed to open.
However, I heard that about a thousand miles west of Kunming, there is Chengxiang Kingdom, named Dianyue. Some businessmen from Shu County who privately trade goods have been there. So the Han Dynasty began to communicate with the Dian Kingdom in search of the road to Daxia.
At first, the Han Dynasty wanted to communicate with the southwestern barbarians, but stopped this work because it was too expensive.
When Zhang Qian said that it was possible to reach Daxia via the Southwest Yi, the Han Dynasty began to open up the route to the Southwest Yi.
Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns as a captain. Because he knew where the water and grass were distributed, the army could not lack supplies, so he made Zhang Qian the Marquis of Bowang.
This year is the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Two years later, Zhang Qian, as a guard, set out from Youbeiping with General Li Guang to fight against the Huns.
General Li was surrounded by the Xiongnu, and the Han army suffered heavy casualties. However, Zhang Qian arrived later than the agreed time and was punished by beheading according to military law. He used his property to redeem himself as a civilian.
This year, Husband General Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu in the west, killing tens of thousands as far as the Qilian Mountains.
In autumn, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu led his tribe to surrender to the Han Dynasty. As a result, the area from Jincheng, Hexi Corridor, along the Qilian Mountains to Yanze was empty of Xiongnu.
During the Xiongnu period, some scouts might come, but they were very few.
Two years later, the Han Dynasty defeated the Xiongnu Chanyu and rushed to Mobei.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Zhang Qian many times about the situation in Daxia and other countries.
At this time, Zhang Qian had lost the title of Hou, so he replied: When I lived in the Xiongnu, I heard that King Wusun was named Kunmo.
Kunmo's father, Nan Doumi, originally lived in the Qilian Mountains and Dunhuang area with Da Yuezhi, which was a small country.
Dayuezhi attacked and killed Nandoumi and seized his land. The Wusun people fled to the Huns.
Nan Douli's son Kunmo was just born at that time. Fu's father Buju Linghou carried him and fled. On the way, he put him in the grass and went to find food for him. When he came back, he saw a wolf feeding him and a crow hovering next to him with meat in his mouth. He thought Kunmo was a god, so he embraced Kunmo and joined the Huns. The Chanyu liked him and raised him.
After Kunmo grew up, Shanyu returned his father's people to him and asked him to lead troops in war. Kunmo repeatedly made military exploits.
At that time, the Yuezhi had been defeated by the Xiongnu and attacked the king of Sai westward.
The King of Sai moved to distant places during his southern tour, and the Yuezhi people lived in the King of Sai's territory.
After Kunmo's strength grew, he personally asked Shan Yu for permission to avenge his father, and then went west to defeat the Dayue clan.
The Dayuezhi people fled west again and moved to the place where the Daxia people lived.
Kunmo plundered their people and stayed in the land of the Da Yueshi people. His army gradually became stronger, and just when the Xiongnu Chanyu died, he refused to enter the court to serve the Xiongnu again.
The Xiongnu sent troops to attack him but could not defeat him. They even thought Kunmo was a god and stayed away from him.
Now Shan Yu had just been defeated by the Han Dynasty and was in a difficult situation, and Kunmo's original place was uninhabited.
The ethnic minorities are attached to their homeland and are greedy for the property of the Han Dynasty. If we send more property to Wusun at this time to attract them to come to Shubian to live on their original land, and the Han Dynasty sends a princess to King Wusun as his wife, and the two parties form a brotherly relationship, based on the above analysis of the situation, Wusun will definitely listen to our suggestions, then it will be equivalent to cutting off the right arm of the Xiongnu.
By uniting with Wusun, Daxia and other countries west of Wusun can be recruited as your foreign ministers.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that Zhang Qian was right, and awarded Zhang Qian the official position of Lieutenant General. He led 300 people, each with two horses, driving tens of thousands of cattle and sheep, carrying gold and gifts worth tens of millions, and many deputy envoys accompanying him on a mission to Wusun.
If the road is convenient, he will send deputy envoy Chijie to the country next to Wusun.
After Zhang Qian arrived at Wusun, he gave Emperor Wu's gifts to King Wusun and conveyed Emperor Wu's wishes, but failed to obtain a clear statement from King Wusun. The specific content is recorded in "The Biography of the Western Regions". Zhang Qian then sent deputy envoys to Dayuan, Kangju, Yuezhi and Daxia respectively.
King Wusun sent an interpreter and guide to escort Zhang Qian. Wusun envoys of dozens of people and dozens of horses followed Zhang Qian back to the Han Dynasty to thank Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. They took the opportunity to let them inspect the situation of the Han Dynasty and understand the vastness of the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Qian returned to the Han Dynasty and was awarded a senior official.
More than a year later, Zhang Qian passed away.
More than a year later, most of the deputy envoys he sent to Tongdaxia and other countries returned to the Han Dynasty together with the envoys from these countries, and the northwest countries began to communicate with the Han Dynasty.
However, because Zhang Qian opened the way to the Western Regions, those who later went to the Western Regions as envoys followed Zhang Qian's example and were called Bowang Hou, in order to win the trust of foreign countries, and foreigners trusted them.
After that, King Wusun finally married Princess Xuan.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty opened the Book of Changes for divination and said: The divine horse will come from the northwest.
He thought it was good to get the Wusun horse, so he named it Tianma.
When they got the Dawan Khan-blooded horse again, it was fatter and stronger than the Wusun horse, so they renamed the Wusun horse "Xijima" and the Dawan horse "Tianma".
In addition, the Han Dynasty began to build fortresses from Lingju to the west and established Jiuquan County to facilitate access to various countries in the Western Regions.
The Han Dynasty then sent additional envoys to Anxi, Yancai, Yaxuan, Tiaozhi, and Shendu countries.
Emperor Mowu liked Dayuan horses, and the envoys sent to the Western Regions met each other on the road. There were a large group of hundreds of people and a small group of more than a hundred people. The things they carried completely imitated the grand occasion of Zhang Qian, the Marquis of Bowang.
Later, as they became more familiar with the situation in the Western Regions, the number of envoys in each batch became smaller and smaller.
During the Han Dynasty, there were probably more than ten batches of envoys a year, and as few as five or six batches. They could travel back and forth as far away as eighty or nine years, and in recent years.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had destroyed South Vietnam, and the southwestern barbarians connected with Shu County were shocked. They asked the Han Dynasty to establish a rule there and send officials to govern it.
The Han Dynasty established the counties of Yangke, Yueling, Yizhou, Shenli, and Wenshan in the southwestern Yi. They wanted to use the method of setting up counties in the southwestern Yi to connect the land boundaries and lead to Daxia.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty sent more than ten batches of envoys every year from these newly established counties, but they were once again blocked by the Kunming barbarians. The envoys were killed and the gifts were robbed.
So the Han Dynasty sent troops to attack Kunming and beheaded tens of thousands.
Later, envoys were sent, but they were unable to pass.
Details are contained in "The Biography of Southwest Yi".
Since Zhang Qian opened the road to the Western Regions and gained a distinguished status, those officials have been vying to write letters discussing the strangeness of foreign products and the interests of the envoys, requesting envoys.
Because the Western Regions were remote and far away, not everyone was willing to go there, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty accepted their words and gave them the talisman to go as envoys. He recruited officials and common people regardless of the identity and qualifications of the applicants. He prepared entourages for these people and sent them on their missions, thereby expanding the source of personnel for envoys to the Western Regions.
When these people came back, they would inevitably have plundered and stolen property, and they would have violated the will of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty when performing their missions. Because they were familiar with the situation in the Western Regions, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty would often examine them and punish them with serious crimes, so as to inspire them to work hard to atone for their sins and request to be sent to the Western Regions again.
There are endless reasons for sending envoys to the Western Regions, and they despise breaking the law.
Those officials often praised foreign products. Those who exaggerated to a greater extent were given talisman and were designated as chief envoys, and those who exaggerated to a lesser extent were designated as deputy envoys. Therefore, those who talk nonsense and those who have no good conduct are eager to imitate him.
Most of the envoys kept the gifts given by the emperor to the countries in the Western Regions for themselves, hoping to sell them at a lower price to make a profit.
Foreigners were also disgusted by the Han envoys who spoke untruthfully. They estimated that the Han army would not be able to reach the Han envoys because of the distance, so they cut off the food supply of the Han envoys, leaving them in a difficult situation.
The Han envoys lived in poverty, condemned and complained, and even attacked each other.
Small countries such as Loulan and Gushi were located on strategic transportation routes, and they were particularly powerful in attacking and plundering Han envoys such as Wang Hui, and the Xiongnu troops intercepted Han envoys from time to time.
The envoys argued that conquering these countries would be beneficial to the Han Dynasty, and not conquering them would be harmful to the Han Dynasty. These countries had cities, and their armies were weak and easy to attack.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, to lead tens of thousands of cavalry and troops from various counties in the Western Regions to attack the Xiongnu. All the Xiongnu soldiers fled.
The next year, Zhao Ponu defeated Gu Shi and captured King Loulan.
In the Han Dynasty, border posts were set up from Jiuquan County to Yumen Pass.
The Dawan countries sent envoys to follow the Han envoys to the Han Dynasty. Seeing the vastness of the Han Dynasty, they presented ostrich eggs and Yak Xuan magicians to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was very happy.
The Han envoys exhausted the source of the Yellow River. There were many jade in the mountains there, and the Han envoys collected them and transported them back to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty studied ancient maps and books and named the mountain where the Yellow River originates from Kunlun Mountain.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty happened to visit the beach many times, and he was surrounded by foreign guests. They would pass through large cities or places with a large number of people, distribute property, cloth, and reward them, and prepare generous gifts for them to show the financial strength of the Han Dynasty.
They performed novelties such as big horns and strange plays, which attracted many onlookers and rewarded them generously. The foreign guests were allowed to see the accumulations in various warehouses of the Han Dynasty, hoping to show the vastness of the Han Dynasty and make them admire and be surprised by the power of the Han Dynasty.
As for increasing the skills of illusionists and increasing the number of tricks and tricks every year, their further rise began in the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Moreover, foreign envoys continued to come and go in an endless stream.
The countries west of Dawan all considered themselves far away from the Han Dynasty and were still proud and indulgent. The Han Dynasty failed to make them surrender, so it maintained contact with them through courtesy exchanges and sent envoys to these countries.
There were many envoys from the Han Dynasty to the Western Regions. Those young envoys often used false words to encourage Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, saying that there were good horses in Ershi City in Dawan and they hid them so that the Han envoys would not see them.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty liked the Wan horse. After hearing about it, he wanted to get it. He sent his warriors and chariots to ask the King of Dayuan to give Ershi City a good horse with a thousand pieces of gold and a golden horse.
Dawan had a lot of property from the Han Dynasty. They discussed with each other: The Han Dynasty is far away from us, and people who pass through the salt marsh area often die. Passing from the north is harassed by the Xiongnu, and there is a lack of water and grass from the south. In addition, there are no cities along the way, and there is often a lack of food.
The Han sent a group of hundreds of people to come, and they often lacked food. More than half died. How could a large army be sent in such a situation?
Besides, the Ershima is Dawan’s BMW.
Finally, he refused to be envoyed to the Han Dynasty.
The envoy of the Han Dynasty was furious, cursed and ran away with broken vertebrae of the golden horse.
The nobles of Dayuan said angrily: The Han envoys despise us too much!
He ordered the Han envoys to leave Dayuan, and asked King Yu Cheng of Shubian to intercept them, kill the Han envoys and seize their belongings.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was furious.
Yao Dinghan and others who had been on an envoy to Dayuan said: Dayuan's soldiers are weak. If nearly three thousand Han troops are used to shoot at them with strong bows and powerful crossbows, they can be defeated.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhao Ye, to attack Loulan, and arrived at Loulan with 700 cavalry first and captured the King of Loulan. Therefore, he thought that what Yao Dinghan and others said was reasonable, and wanted to make the brother of his favorite concubine, Mrs. Li, a marquis, so he appointed Li Guangli as his general to attack Dayuan.
Zhang Qian's grandson Zhang Meng, also known as Ziyou, was quite intelligent. During the Yuan Dynasty, he was the official of Guanglu. He served as an envoy to the Huns and was promoted to Shizhong. He was framed by Shi Xian and committed suicide.
Li Guangli's sister, Mrs. Li, was favored by the emperor and gave birth to King Ai of Changyi.
In the first year of Taichu, Guangli was appointed as the general of the Second Division. He led six thousand cavalry from the vassal state and tens of thousands of young men with bad conduct from the county. He used these troops to attack Dawan. He expected to capture good horses from the city of the Second Division, so he was called "General of the Second Division".
Wang Hui, the former Haohou, led the army and served as a guide.
The troops of the General of the Second Division had already encountered Yanyan to the west. The small countries along the route were in panic and tightly defended their castles. They did not supply the Han army with food and could not be defeated.
Those who can be captured will have food to eat, and those who cannot be captured will have to leave in a few days.
By the time they reached Yucheng, there were only a few thousand soldiers left, and they were all hungry and tired.
They attacked Yucheng City and were defeated, with many casualties.
The general of the Second Division discussed with his left and right: We can't capture it until Yucheng, let alone the capital of King Dawan?
Just retreat with the troops.
It took two years of traveling back and forth. When we returned to Dunhuang, only one-tenth of the soldiers were left.
He sent an envoy to write a memorial to the emperor saying: The journey is long and there is a shortage of food. The soldiers were not afraid of war, but of starvation.
With few troops, Wan cannot be captured.
I hope to withdraw the troops temporarily and send more troops before going back.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard what had been reported, he became furious and sent envoys to guard Yumen Pass, saying that if any soldier dared to enter the pass, he would be killed immediately!
General Li Guangli of the Second Division was afraid and stayed in Dunhuang.
In the summer of that year, the Han Dynasty fought against the Xiongnu, and the soldiers of the Hou Po Nu were killed by more than 20,000 people. After discussion, senior officials of the Han Dynasty hoped to call back the troops that attacked Dawan and focus on dealing with the Xiongnu.
However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that since he had sent troops to attack Dayuan, if a small country like Dayuan could not defeat it, countries like Daxia would gradually look down on the Han Dynasty, and the good horses from Dayuan would be stopped from coming to the Han Dynasty. Countries such as Wusun and Luntai would also make it difficult for the Han Dynasty's envoys, and they would laugh at foreign countries.
So Deng Guang and others were punished for discussing that the attack on Dawan was particularly inappropriate.
The prisoner soldiers were pardoned, and the young men with bad conduct and the cavalry on the border were sent to the army. After more than a year, 60,000 troops were sent from Dunhuang, not counting those who personally brought food and followed the troops to fight.
This team contains 100,000 cattle, 30,000 horses, and tens of thousands of donkeys and camels.
They brought plenty of food and were well equipped with weapons, bows and arrows. The whole country was in turmoil, and supplies were supplied one after another for the expedition to Dawan. A total of more than fifty officers of the army went out for the expedition.
There were no wells in the capital of Dawan, so water had to be brought in from outside the city. So the Mo army sent water control craftsmen to divert the water from the city to prevent it from flowing under the city. Instead, they diverted the water into holes and attacked the city with water.
The Han Dynasty also sent an additional 180,000 soldiers to garrison north of Jiuquan and Zhangye, and established two new counties, Juyan and Xiutu, to protect Jiuquan.
And the Qikeshi of the world were sent out, and dry food was carried to supply the generals of the second division, and people were driven to Dunhuang in an endless stream.
Two people who knew how to look at horses were appointed as horse captains, preparing to select good horses after Dawan was conquered.
At this time, the general of the Second Division went out for the second time. The team was huge. Every small country along the way welcomed him and provided food to support the army.
When they arrived at Luntai, they refused to surrender. They fought for several days and bloodbathed them.
From then on, he marched westward and arrived at the capital of Dawan. Thirty thousand desert soldiers arrived.
The Wan army fought against the Han army, but the Han army defeated them. The Wan army fled to the castle and relied on the city walls to defend it.
The troops of the General of the Second Division originally wanted to advance and attack Yucheng City first, but they were afraid that the army would be delayed and the Dawan people would resort to deception, so they attacked Dawan City first, cut off their water sources, and changed their flow. Even if Dawan held on, they would be very worried and embarrassed.
He surrounded the city of Dawan and attacked it for more than forty days.
Their senior officials discussed with each other: The reason why the Han Dynasty came to attack Dawan was because our king Wuwu hid his good horse and killed the Han Dynasty envoy.
If the king is killed and his horse is taken out, the siege of the desert army will be relieved; even if it is not solved, it is not too late to fight and die.
The senior officials of Dayuan all believed that this was the right thing to do, and they jointly killed King Wuwi of Wan.
Its outer city was destroyed, and the Dawan noble general Jian Mi was captured. The Dawan people were greatly shocked and fled to defend the central city. They discussed with each other: The reason why the Han came to attack Wan was because the king was widowed. He took his head and sent someone to see the general of the second division and made an appointment: "The Han army will not attack us. We will take out all the good horses for you to choose and provide you with food."
If you don't obey, we will kill all the good horses, and Kang Ju's reinforcements will arrive soon.
As soon as we arrived, our Wan soldiers were inside the city, and Kang Ju's reinforcements were outside the city, fighting together with the Han army.
The Han army should think carefully about what to do?
At this time, Detective Kang Ju was spying on the desert soldiers, but the Han soldiers were still very strong and did not dare to attack.
General Ershi heard that Han people had recently been found in Dawan City, and they knew how to draw water from wells, and there was plenty of food in the city.
Considering that the reason why we are here is to kill the culprit, King Wuwu of Wan, and Wuwu's head has already arrived, and this does not allow us to break the siege, then they will hold on, and Kang Ju will wait until the Han army is tired to come to the rescue of Dayuan, then defeating the Han army is inevitable.
The officers all thought it was right and accepted Dawan's promise.
The Dawan people released their good horses and let the Han soldiers choose among themselves. They also provided a lot of grain to feed the Han soldiers.
The Han army selected dozens of good horses, including more than three thousand stallions and mares of medium and below average. Among the senior officials of Liduan, Meicai, who had been friendly to the Han people in the past, was appointed as the king of Dawan. They made an alliance with him and then withdrew the troops. Finally, they were not allowed to enter the inner city of Dawan, so they ended the war and withdrew their troops.
When the general of the Second Division sent troops to Dunhuang to march westward, he thought that because of the large number of people, the countries along the route would not be able to supply food, so he divided into several teams and advanced from the north and south.
Wang Shensheng, the school captain, and Hu Chongguo, the former Dahonglu, led a team of more than a thousand people to Yucheng. Yucheng held fast to the castle and refused to provide them with food.
Wang Shensheng's army was two hundred miles away from General Ershi's main force. He relied on the large army but despised the opponent and rushed to attack Yucheng.
Yu Chengren learned through spying that Wang Shensheng's troops were small, so he launched an attack with 3,000 troops one morning and killed Wang Shensheng and others. The army was defeated. Only a few people escaped and ran to the general of the Second Division.
The general of the Second Division ordered Lieutenant Sou Su to go to Gong Jie to attack Yu Cheng. Yu Cheng surrendered. King Yu Cheng fled to Kang Ju State, and Shangguan Jie pursued him to Kang Ju State.
When the people of Kangju heard that the Han army had defeated Dayuan, they handed over King Yu Cheng to Shangguan Jie. Shangguan Jie sent four knights to tie him up, guard him and escort him to the general Li Guangli.
The four people discussed with each other and said: King Yu Cheng is hated by the Han Dynasty. If he is sent alive, he is afraid that an accident will happen suddenly and the event will be delayed.
If you want to kill, no one dares to make the first move.
Shangzou's knight, Tandei, drew his sword and struck, beheading King Yu Cheng.
Shangguan Jie and others caught up with the general's large army of the Second Division.
At the beginning, General Li Guangli of the Second Division sent troops for the last time, and the emperor sent an envoy to notify the Wusun Kingdom, asking it to send troops to join forces with the Mo army to attack Wan.
Wusun sent two thousand cavalry to wait and see, not daring to step forward.
The troops of the General of the Second Division returned eastward in triumph. The small countries they passed through heard that Dawan had been conquered, and they all sent their sons to follow the Han army to pay tribute and meet the emperor as hostages.
The army returned, and more than 10,000 people entered Yumen Pass, with more than 1,000 horses.
During the last march of the Second Division General, the army was not short of food and the sacrifices could not be counted as many, but the generals were greedy for money and most of them did not care for the soldiers and embezzled the military pay, so many died.
Because the emperor traveled thousands of miles to conquer Dayuan, he did not blame them for their mistakes, so he issued an edict saying: The Huns have been causing harm for a long time. Although they have now moved to Mobei, they conspired with other countries to intercept the envoys of the Dayue clan, intercepted and killed Zhonglang Jiang and the former Yanmen prefect.
To the west of the Wei Xu Kingdom and Dawan, there were contracts to kill Qi Men Che Ling, Zhong Lang General, and Shen Du Kingdom envoys, cutting off the east-west road.
General Guangli of the Second Division conquered Dawan and defeated Dawan.
The spirit of Lai Tian traveled from the Suhe Mountain, waded through the quicksand, and led to the Western Sea. There was no accumulation of snow. The scholar-bureaucrats passed through directly and won the king's head. All the rare and strange things were displayed in the courtyard.
Li Guangli was granted the title of Marquis of Haixi, with a settlement of 8,000 households.
Zhao Di, who killed King Yu Cheng, was also granted the title of Marquis of the New Time; the most successful military leader was the Guanglu doctor; Shangguan Jie who dared to go deep was the Shaofu; Li Duo, who had a plan, was the governor of Shangdang.
Among the officers, there are three people who have been awarded the title of Jiuqing. There are more than 100 princes, ministers, county guards, and officials with the rank of 2,000 stone. There are more than 1,000 officials with the rank of 1,000 stone and below.
Voluntary participants were rewarded with more titles than they wished for, and those who were punished for crimes and joined the army were exempted from crime but not credited.
The rewards received by the soldiers were worth approximately 40,000 coins.
The two attacks on Dawan took a total of four years to end.
Eleven years later, and three years after the conquest, the general of the Second Division led 70,000 cavalry out of Wuyuan, attacked the Xiongnu, and crossed the Zhiju River.
He was defeated, surrendered to the Huns, and was killed by the Chanyu.
See the "Biography of the Huns".
Zan said: "The Chronicles of Yu" records that the Yellow River originates from the Kunlun Mountains. The Kunlun Mountains are more than 2,500 miles high. The light on the mountains is obtained by the alternation of the sun and the moon.
After Zhang Qian went to Daxia as an envoy, he walked to the end of the Yellow River and didn't see the Kunlun Mountains?
Therefore, when it comes to the mountains and rivers of Kyushu, "Shang Shu" is more credible.
As for the records in "Yu Benji" and "Shan Jing", they have no basis and are not credible!
