Guan Yu, whose courtesy name is Yunchang, originally called Changsheng, was from Jie County, Hedong.
At that time, he fled to Zhuojun. The First Lord gathered his troops in the village, with Guan Yu and Zhang Fei as his guards.
When the First Lord was the prime minister of Pingyuan, he appointed Guan Yu and Zhang Fei as commanders of other departments, commanding the troops respectively.
The late master and the two of them even slept in the same bed, like real brothers.
The two of them stood at the side of the late lord all day long in public, following the late lord everywhere without fear of danger. After the first lord attacked and killed Che Zhou, the governor of Xuzhou, he sent Guan Yu to guard Xiapi City, exercised his powers as prefect, and returned to Xiaopei himself.
In the fifth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao led his army to the east, and the First Lord defected to Yuan Shao.
After Cao Cao captured Guan Yu, he returned to the army and granted him the position of general, and treated him very politely.
Yuan Shao sent general Yan Liang to attack Liu Yan, the governor of Dongjun, at Baima. Cao Gong sent Zhang Liao and Guan Yu as the vanguard to attack him.
When Guan Yu saw the cover of Yan Liang's chariot, he rode on horseback to kill Yan Liang in full public view, beheading him, and then returned. Yuan Shao's generals were unable to resist him, and they broke the siege of the white horse.
Cao Cao immediately requested that Guan Yu be granted the title of Marquis Shouting of the Han Dynasty.
At first, Cao Cao thought that Guan Yu was very heroic, and after observing his mind, he didn't have any long-term plans to stay, so he said to Zhang Liao: You try to influence him with your emotions.
Soon, Zhang Liao wanted to question Guan Yu about this matter. Guan Yu sighed and said: I know that Duke Cao is very affectionate to me, but I am deeply loved by General Liu. I have vowed to live and die together and cannot betray him.
I will not stay after all, but I will serve and repay Duke Cao before leaving.
Zhang Liao reported Guan Yu's words to Cao Cao, and Cao Cao thought he was very righteous.
When Guan Yu killed Yan Liang, Cao Cao knew that he must leave, and he rewarded him very generously.
Guan Yu sealed up all the rewards he received, left a letter to say goodbye, and then went to Yuan Shao's army to join his former lord. Cao Cao's men wanted to chase him, but Cao Cao said: "Everyone is his own master, so stop chasing him."
Guan Yu followed Liu Bei and attached himself to Liu Biao.
After Liu Biao's death, Cao Cao pacified Jingzhou. The First Lord led his army from Fancheng to the south and crossed the river back. He also sent Guan Yu to take hundreds of ships to meet at Jiangling.
Cao Cao pursued them to Changban in Dangyang County. The First Lord took a small road and went straight to Hanjin. He happened to meet up with Guan Yu's fleet and arrived at Xiakou together.
Sun Quan sent troops to assist Liu Bei in fighting against Cao Cao. Cao Cao led his troops back. The First Lord occupied the counties south of the Yangtze River, rewarded and appointed meritorious officials, and appointed Guan Yu as the governor of Xiangyang and the general of the Dang bandits, stationed in the north of the Yangtze River.
The First Lord went west to pacify Yizhou and appointed Guan Yu to handle matters in Jingzhou.
Guan Yu learned that Ma Chao had come to surrender. The two did not know each other before. Guan Yu wrote to Zhuge Liang and asked who could compare with Ma Chao's talents.
Zhuge Liang knew that Guan Yu was arrogant, so he replied: Meng Qi is both civil and military, brave and brave. He is a hero of the world. He is a man like Ying Bu and Peng Yue. He can keep pace with Zhang Fei, but he can't compare with the extraordinary beauty of the handsome man.
Guan Yu had beautiful beard and hair, so Zhuge Liang called him Beautiful Beard Gong. Guan Yu was very happy when he saw the letter and showed it to the guests.
Guan Yu was once shot by a stray arrow, which pierced his left arm. Although the wound healed, his bones often ached in rainy weather. The doctor said: The arrow is poisonous, and the poison has penetrated deep into the bone marrow. An incision should be made on the arm to scrape off the remaining poison on the bone, so that the injury can be cured.
Guan Yu stretched out his arm for the doctor to operate. At that time, Guan Yu was inviting all the generals to have a banquet in the camp. His arm was bleeding and full of utensils, while Guan Yu was cutting meat, drinking wine, and talking and laughing freely.
In the twenty-fourth year of Jian'an, Liu Bei proclaimed himself the King of Hanzhong and appointed Guan Yu as the former general, holding Fu Jie.
At that time, Guan Yu led his troops to Fancheng to attack Cao Ren, and Cao Cao sent Yu Jin to assist Cao Ren.
In autumn, heavy rains continued and the Han River surged, and all seven troops led by Yu Jin were submerged.
Yu Jin surrendered to Guan Yu, and Guan Yu killed Wei Cao's general Pang De.
Some of the bandits in Liang, Jia, and Luhun were under Guan Yu's orders. As Guan Yu's local troops, Guan Yu was powerful in the Central Plains.
Cao Cao discussed moving away from Xudu to avoid Guan Yu's attack. Sima Yi and Jiang Ji believed that Sun Quan would not want to see Guan Yu succeed.
You can send people to persuade Sun Quan to follow Guan Yu and agree to cede the land south of the Yangtze River to Sun Quan, then the siege of Fancheng will be lifted.
Cao Cao adopted this suggestion.
Previously, Sun Quan sent an envoy to propose to Guan Yu's daughter for his son. Guan Yu insulted Sun Quan's envoy and refused to marry, which made Sun Quan furious.
In addition, Mi Fang, the governor of Nanjun, was stationed in Jiangling, and General Shiren was stationed in Gong'an, both of whom resented Guan Yu's contempt for them.
When Guan Yu led his army on an expedition, Mi Fang and Shi Ren provided military supplies but were unwilling to fully rescue Guan Yu.
Guan Yu said that I would punish them when I return. Mi Fang and Shiren were both frightened.
So Sun Quan secretly sent someone to lure Mi Fang and Shiren, and they sent someone to greet Sun Quan.
Cao Cao sent Xu Huang to rescue Cao Ren, but Guan Yu could not conquer it, so he led his army back.
Sun Quan had occupied Jiangling and captured Guan Yu's men, wives and children. Guan Yu's army collapsed.
Sun Quan sent his generals to attack Guan Yu and killed Guan Yu and his son Guan Ping at Linju.
Liu Bei gave Guan Yu the posthumous title of Zhuangmuhou, and his son Guan Xing inherited the title.
Guan Xing, whose name was Anguo, had a good reputation when he was young. Prime Minister Zhuge Liang also thought highly of him and thought he had a genius.
When Guan Xing was twenty years old, he served as a servant and supervisor of the army. He died a few years later.
His son Guan Tong inherited the title, married the princess, and became an official to the point of being a lieutenant general.
Later, when he died without any heirs, Guan Yi, the concubine of Guan Xing, was granted the title again.
Zhang Fei, named Yide, was a native of Zhuojun. When he was young, he served Liu Bei with Guan Yu.
Guan Yu was several years older than Zhang Fei, and Zhang Fei treated Guan Yu like an elder brother.
Liu Bei followed Cao Cao to defeat Lu Bu and followed him back to Xudu. Cao Cao appointed Zhang Fei as Zhonglang General. Liu Bei abandoned Cao Cao and relied on Yuan Shao and Liu Biao successively.
After Liu Biao's death, Cao Cao entered Jingzhou and Liu Bei fled to the south of the Yangtze River. Cao Cao pursued him day and night until he reached Changban in Dangyang County.
When Liu Bei learned of Cao Cao's sudden arrival, he abandoned his wife and children and fled, sending Zhang Fei to lead twenty cavalry to cut off the rear.
Zhang Fei guarded the river bank, demolished the river bridge, glared angrily, pointed his spear, and shouted: "I am Zhang Yide, who dares to come and fight me to the death."
No enemy dared to move forward, and Liu Bei was spared from danger.
After Liu Bei pacified Jiangnan, he appointed Zhang Fei as the governor of Yidu, the general who conquered the captives, and the title of Marquis of Xinting. Later, he was transferred to guard Nanjun.
Liu Bei marched into Yizhou and then returned to attack Liu Zhang. Zhang Fei, Zhuge Liang and others went upstream and pacified the counties along the river.
When he arrived in Jiangzhou, he defeated Yan Yan, the governor of Bajun, the general appointed by Liu Zhang, and captured him alive.
Zhang Fei scolded Yan Yan and said: The army has arrived, why don't you surrender as soon as possible and dare to fight?
Yan Yan replied: You sent troops without any name to invade our state. We in Yizhou only have generals who have beheaded and no generals who have surrendered.
Zhang Fei was furious and ordered his men to take Yan Yan out to behead him. Yan Yan's face remained unchanged and said: "Behead your head, behead it. Why are you angry?"
Zhang Fei thought Yan Yan was very brave, so he ordered his release and treated him as a guest.
Zhang Fei was victorious wherever he passed. He joined Liu Bei in Chengdu. After Yizhou was pacified, Liu Bei rewarded Zhuge Liang, Fazheng, Zhang Fei and Guan Yu each with five hundred catties, one thousand catties of silver, fifty million coins, one thousand pieces of brocade silk. The rest of the rewards varied, and Zhang Fei was also appointed as the governor of Brazil.
After Cao Cao defeated Zhang Lu, he sent Xiahou Yuan and Zhang Jia to stay and guard Hanchuan.
Zhang He led another army to march into Brazil, hoping to move the people here to Hanzhong. He also marched into Danqu, Mengtou, and Dangshi, and held a stalemate with Zhang Fei for many days.
Zhang Fei led more than 10,000 elite soldiers to fight Zhang Jiao's army from other roads. The mountain road was narrow and it was impossible for the front and rear to rescue each other, so Zhang Fei defeated Zhang He.
Zhang He abandoned his mount and fled along the mountain road with only a few of his subordinates. He led his army back to Nanzheng, and Brazil was stabilized.
The First Lord established himself as the King of Hanzhong and appointed Zhang Fei as the right general to hold the Jie Yue on his behalf.
In the first year of Zhang Wu, he was promoted to Captain of Chariots and Cavalry, concurrently serving as Lieutenant of Sili School, and was granted the title of Marquis of Xixiang. He issued an edict saying: "I have inherited the destiny, continued the legacy of my ancestors, eradicated the rebels, and stabilized the war, but I have not yet ruled the world."
Nowadays, the bandits are causing chaos and the people are in dire straits. The scholars who miss Han are all looking forward to it.
My heart is filled with sorrow, I cannot sit on my seat, and my food does not taste good. I rectify my troops, declare my oath, and prepare to do justice for Heaven.
Because you are loyal and courageous, have a character like Duke Zhao Mu, and are famous far and wide, I have specially announced that you will be promoted to a noble rank and given the title of guard of Kyoto.
You should vigorously uphold the emperor's majesty, use kindness to appease the people, and use punishment to punish the traitors. This is in line with my wishes.
The Book of Songs also says that one cannot disturb the people, one cannot advance too hastily, and everything must be subject to the laws of the dynasty.
Work hard to achieve great achievements, so I will bestow you with blessings.
We have to work hard!
At the beginning, Zhang Fei was mighty and majestic, second only to Guan Yu. Cheng Yu, the counselor of the Wei Dynasty, and others praised Guan Yu and Zhang Fei for their unstoppable courage. Guan Yu treated his soldiers well, but was arrogant in front of the scholar-bureaucrats.
Zhang Fei still has not changed. Liu Bei is conquering Soochow. Zhang Fei should lead more than 10,000 troops from Langzhong and join Liu Bei in Jiangzhou.
Before setting off, Zhang Fei's generals Zhang Da, Fan Qiang and others killed Zhang Fei and took his head down the river to join Sun Quan.
The commander-in-chief of Zhang Fei's camp reported the matter to Liu Bei. When Liu Bei learned that Commander-in-Chief Zhang Fei had reported the incident, he said, "Ah, Zhang Fei is dead."
Later, Zhang Fei was posthumously named Huanhou.
His eldest son Zhang Bao died young, so his second son Zhang Shao inherited the title and served as an official until he became a servant and a minister.
Zhang Bao's son Zhang Zun served as minister and followed Zhuge Zhan to garrison in Mianzhu. He later died in a battle with Deng Ai.
Ma Chao, courtesy name Mengqi, was a native of Maoling, Fufeng County.
His father Ma Teng, in the last years of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, started an uprising in Xizhou together with Bian Zhang, Han Sui and others.
In the third year of Chuping, Ma Teng, Han Sui and others led their troops to Chang'an.
The Han Dynasty appointed Han Sui as the General of Zhenxi and sent him back to the capital to garrison. Ma Teng was the General of Zhengxi and garrisoned in Yi County.
Later, Ma Teng attacked Chang'an, was defeated and fled, returning to Liangzhou.
Zhong Yao, the captain of Sili School, guarded Guanzhong and wrote to Han Sui and Ma Teng, stating the dangers and benefits for them.
Ma Teng sent Ma Chao to follow Zhong Yao to Pingyang to conquer Guo Yuan and high officials. Ma Chao's general Pang De personally beheaded Guo Yuan.
Later, Ma Teng and Han Sui disagreed and requested to return to the capital.
The imperial court conscripted him as a captain, appointed Ma Chao as a partial general, and named him Dutinghou to command Ma Teng's troops.
After Ma Chao took command of the troops, he joined forces with Han Sui and formed an alliance with Yang Qiu, Li Kan, Cheng Yi and others, and jointly marched to Tongguan.
Cao Cao, Han Sui, Ma Chao and others were each alone on horseback for talks. Ma Chao was proud of his strength and wanted to rush forward secretly to catch Cao Cao.
Cao Cao used Jia Xu's strategy to drive a wedge between Ma Chao and Han Sui, making them suspicious of each other, resulting in a major defeat when the two armies fought.
Ma Chao fled to the Xirong minority tribe. Cao Cao pursued him to Anding. When there was a war in the north, he led his army back.
Yang Fu persuaded Cao Cao: Ma Chao has the bravery of Han Xin and Ji Bu, and also has the support of the northwest ethnic minorities. If the army returns and is not strictly guarded, the counties in Longxi will be beyond our control.
Sure enough, Ma Chao led various ethnic minority troops to attack Longshang counties, and all counties responded to him. Ma Chao killed Wei Kang, the governor of Liangzhou, occupied Jicheng, and incorporated Wei Kang's troops.
Ma Chao claimed to be the General of the Conquest of the West, and concurrently served as the Bingzhou Mu, and was in charge of the military affairs of Liangzhou.
Wei Kang's old troops and common people Yang Fu, Jiang Xu, Liang Kuan, Zhao Qu and others conspired to attack Ma Chao.
Yang Fu and Jiang Xu first started an uprising in Lucheng. Ma Chao attacked with his troops, but failed to capture it. Liang Kuan, Zhao Qu and others closed the gates of Jicheng, preventing Ma Chao from entering the city.
When he was in a dilemma, he fled to Hanzhong and took refuge with Zhang Lu. Zhang Lu was not worthy of Ma Chao's collusion with him. Ma Chao was depressed and learned that Liu Bei was besieging Liu Zhang in Chengdu, so he secretly sent a message to ask for surrender.
Liu Bei sent people to greet Ma Chao, and Ma Chao led his troops directly to the gates of Chengdu.
There was a panic in the city, and Liu Zhang immediately surrendered. Liu Bei appointed Ma Chao as General Pingxi and the commander of Linju. He still had the title of Dutinghou.
After Liu Bei became the king of Hanzhong, he appointed Ma Chao as the general of the left, holding the talisman festival.
In the first year of Zhangwu, Ma Chao was promoted to General of Hussars, and concurrently served as Mud of Liangzhou. He was granted the title of Marquis of Yaxiang by the Jin Dynasty, and issued an edict: I relied on my meager moral character to gain the supreme position, take over the Han Dynasty, and continue the Han Dynasty ancestral temple.
The crimes of Cao Cao and his son are all over the world. I am worried and sad in my heart, and I am heartbroken.
The world was filled with resentment and hoped to restore the Han Dynasty, so that ethnic minorities such as the Daoyi and Qiang all admired Dayi and submitted to him.
Because your reputation is well-known in the northern region, and your prestige and force are very prominent, so I entrust Liangzhou to you, with the tiger perched on the dragon's plate, garrisoning the northern land, and eliminating the suffering of the people.
I hope you can promote the enlightenment of the imperial court, stabilize and pacify all directions, and prudently implement rewards and punishments to consolidate the well-being of the Han Dynasty and give back to the people of the world.
Ma Chao died in the second year of Zhangwu at the age of forty-seven. Before his death, he wrote in a memorial: "Nearly all of the more than 200 relatives in my family were killed by Cao Cao. Only my cousin Ma Dai is left. He should be allowed to continue the declining ancestral temple worship in my family. I entrust this matter to Your Majesty. I have nothing else to say."
Liu Bei posthumously named Ma Chao Marquis of Wei, and his son Ma Cheng inherited the title.
Ma Dai became an official and became the general of Pingbei, and was promoted to the title of Marquis of Chencang.
Ma Chao's daughter was betrothed to Liu Li, King of Anping.
Huang Zhong, whose courtesy name was Hansheng, was from Nanyang County.
Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, appointed him Zhonglang General, and together with Liu Biao's nephew Liu Pan, he guarded You County in Changsha County.
When Cao Cao captured Jingzhou, Huang Zhong took over the post of General Xinghuan on his behalf and remained in his original post to manage Han Xuan, the prefect of Changsha.
After Liu Bei went south to pacify the counties, Huang Zhong surrendered to Liu Bei and later followed Liu Bei into Shu.
Huang Zhong was appointed in Jiameng and returned to attack Liu Zhang. Huang Zhong often took the lead, taking the lead in charging into battle, and he was brave and resolute and brave enough to conquer all three armies.
After Yizhou was pacified, Liu Bei appointed him as the general against the captives.
In the 24th year of Jian'an, Huang Zhong attacked Xiahou Yuan at Dingjun Mountain in Hanzhong.
Xiahou Yuan's troops were very elite. Huang Zhong led his men to push forward vigorously, exhorting the soldiers. The sound of drums shook the sky, and the shouts shook the valley. Xiahou Yuan was killed in one battle, and Xia Houyuan's army was defeated.
Huang Zhong was promoted to General of Zhengxi.
When Liu Bei appointed himself King of Hanzhong and wanted to appoint Huang Zhong as his general, Zhuge Liang persuaded Liu Bei and said: Huang Zhong's reputation has never been comparable to that of Guan Yu and Ma Chao.
And now let him be tied with Guan Yu, Ma Chao and others.
Ma Chao and Zhang Fei are both nearby, and they have witnessed Huang Zhong's achievements and can explain them. However, Guan Yu is far away in Jingzhou. I am afraid that he will be unhappy when he finds out, so can he cancel the appointment first?
Liu Bei said: I will explain it to Guan Yu.
So Huang Zhong had the same position as Guan Yu and others, and was named Guannei Hou.
Huang Zhong died the next year, and his posthumous title was Ganghou.
His son Huang Xu died young, so he had no descendants.
Zhao Yun, courtesy name Zilong, was from Zhending, Changshan County.
Originally a subordinate of Gongsun Zan, Gongsun Zan sent Liu Bei to assist Tian Kai in resisting Yuan Shao. Zhao Yun also followed and took charge of the cavalry for Liu Bei.
When Liu Bei was chased by Cao Cao to Changban in Dangyang County, he abandoned his wife and ran south. Zhao Yun personally held his youngest son, who was the queen, to protect Mrs. Gan, who was the mother of the queen, so that they survived.
Later he was named General Yamen.
When Liu Bei entered Shu, Zhao Yun stayed in Jingzhou.
Liu Bei returned from Jiameng to attack Liu Zhang and recruit Zhuge Liang.
Zhuge Liang led Zhang Zhaoyun, Zhang Fei and others upstream to pacify the counties. When they arrived at Jiangzhou, they sent Zhao Yun straight up from the Minjiang River and into Jiangyang to join Zhuge Liang in Chengdu.
After Chengdu was pacified, Zhao Yun was appointed general of the Yi army.
In the first year of Jianxing, he served as the Central Protector and General of the Southern Expedition. He was named Yongchang Tinghou, and was later promoted to General Zhendong.
In the fifth year of Jianxing, he followed Zhuge Liang and stationed in Hanzhong.
The next year, Zhuge Liang sent troops and claimed to march from Xiegu. Cao Zhen led a large army to resist.
Zhuge Liang ordered Zhao Yun and Deng Zhi to attack, and personally led the army to attack Qishan.
Zhao Yun, Deng Zhi and others, with a small number of troops and a strong enemy army, were defeated in Jigu, but they still gathered their troops to hold on and avoid complete defeat.
The army retreated enough, and Zhao Yun was demoted to general of the town army.
In the seventh year of Jianxing, Zhao Yun passed away, and the imperial court gave him the posthumous title of Shunping Hou.
When Liu Bei was alive, only Fazheng was given a posthumous title. During the Later Emperor's period, because of Zhuge Liang's extraordinary merits, Jiang Wan, Fei Yi, etc. were also given posthumous titles because they held important positions in the country. Chen only received the emperor's favor and had special Xiahou Ba was given preferential treatment because he came all the way to submit to Shu, so he was also given a posthumous title. So Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, Ma Chao, Pang Tong, Huang Zhong and Zhao Yun were given posthumous titles. People at the time thought it was an honor.
Zhao Yun's son Zhao Tong inherited the title and was promoted to Huben Zhonglang General, supervising and leading the army.
Zhao Yun's second son, Zhao Guang, was a general in Yamen and followed Jiang Weida, but later died in battle.
Commentary: Guan Yu and Zhang Fei were both said to have the courage to be unstoppable by ten thousand men, and they were fierce generals in the world.
Guan Yu serves Cao Cao, Zhang Fei insists on morality and releases Yan Yan, both have the demeanor of a national scholar.
But Guan Yu is strong and arrogant, Zhang Fei is rough and has no kindness, and they all failed because of their shortcomings. This is also common sense.
Ma Chao blocked the minorities, but his own family was destroyed. What a pity!
Wouldn't it be good for the family to be able to move from poverty to prosperity?
Huang Zhong and Zhao Yun are brave and strong. As auxiliaries of Shu, aren't they people like Guan Fu and Teng Gong?
