Tian Dan was a native of Di County and a sibling of the Tian family, King of Qi during the Warring States Period.
Tian Dan's cousin and Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng was a powerful figure in the local area, and his clan was strong and very popular.
When Chen She began to raise troops and claim to be the King of Chu, he sent Zhou Shi to capture and pacify the Wei region, and then marched north to Di County, which was defended.
Tian Dan pretended to tie up his own slave and led his young men to the county government, claiming to kill the guilty slave after meeting with the county magistrate.
When they saw the magistrate of Di County, they took the opportunity to kill him, and then summoned powerful officials and young people to say: "The princes from all over the country have rebelled against Qin and established themselves. Qi is a country established in ancient times, and I, Tian Dan, am a member of Qi Wang Tian's clan and should be the king."
So Tian Dan proclaimed himself King of Qi and raised troops to attack Zhou City.
After Zhou Shi's army withdrew, Tian Dan took the opportunity to lead his troops eastward, seize and pacify the land of Qi.
Qin general Zhang Han led his troops to besiege King Jiu of Wei in Linji. The situation was urgent, and King Wei sent people to Qi to ask for rescue. King Tian Dan of Qi led the army to rescue Wei.
Zhang Han let his soldiers and horses hold the coins in their mouths at night, and took advantage of the cover of night to launch a sneak attack. He defeated the Qi and Wei coalition forces and killed Tian Dan at the foot of Linji City.
Tian Dan's cousin Tian Rong gathered the remaining troops of Tian Dan and fled eastward to Dong'a.
After the people of Qi heard the news that Tian Dan had died in battle, they supported Tian Jia, the younger brother of the former King of Qi Tian Jian, as King of Qi, Tian Jiao as prime minister, and Tian Jian as general, in order to resist the princes.
When Tian Rong fled to Dong'a, Zhang Han pursued and intercepted him.
Xiang Liang heard that Tian Rong was in critical condition, so he led his troops to Dong'a City and defeated Zhang Han in one fell swoop.
Zhang Han fled to the west, while Xiang Liang took advantage of the victory to pursue him.
However, Tian Rong was very angry about the fact that the Qi people made Tianjie the king of Qi, so he led his troops back and attacked and chased Qi King Tianjie. Tianjie fled to Chu State, and Prime Minister Tian Jiao fled to Zhao State. Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Jian had gone to Zhao State for help before, so he stayed in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong then made Tian Dan's son Tian Shi the king of Qi and appointed himself prime minister. Tian Heng was made a general and the land of Qi was pacified.
After Xiang Liang pursued Zhang Han, Zhang Han's army became increasingly powerful, so Xiang Liang sent envoys to inform Qi and Zhao, asking the two countries to jointly send troops to attack Zhang Han.
Tian Rong said: If Chu kills Tianjia and Zhao kills Tianjiao and Tianjian, we will send troops.
King Huai of Chu said: Tianjia is the king of our ally. He came to us when we were desperate. It is unethical to kill him.
Zhao State was also unwilling to trade with Qi State by killing Tian Jiao and Tian Jian Lai.
The people of Qi said: If the hand is bitten by a viper, the hand must be cut off; if the foot is bitten by the viper, the foot must be cut off.
Why?
Because if not, it will harm the whole body.
But now Tianjia, Tianjiao, and Tianjian are not flesh and blood relatives to Chu and Zhao. Why not kill them?
Moreover, if the Qin Dynasty succeeds in conquering the world, not only will we be humiliated, but even our ancestors' graves may have to be dug up.
Neither Chu nor Zhao were willing to obey Qi, and Qi was very angry and eventually refused to send troops to rescue.
Zhang Han indeed defeated the Chu army and killed Xiang Liang. The Chu army fled eastward, and Zhang Han took the opportunity to cross the Yellow River and besiege Zhao's Julu.
Xiang Yu went to rescue Zhao State, and therefore resented Tian Rong very much.
Xiang Yu had already protected Zhao State and surrendered Zhang Han and other generals of the Qin Dynasty, so he went west to Xianyang to kill, destroyed the Qin Dynasty, and then divided the princes and kings among themselves. So he changed the title of King Qi Tianshi to King Jiaodong and ruled in Jimo.
Qi general Tian Du followed Xiang Yu to rescue Zhao and then marched into Guanzhong. Therefore, Xiang Yu made Tian Du the king of Qi and ruled in Linzi.
Tian An, the grandson of Tian Jian, the former Qi king, captured many cities in Jibei one after another when Xiang Yu was crossing the river to rescue Zhao, and then led his troops to surrender to Xiang Yu. Xiang Yu therefore made Tian An the king of Jibei, and his seat was Boyang.
Because Tian Rong disobeyed Xiang Yu and refused to send troops to assist Chu and Zhao in attacking the Qin Dynasty, he could not be crowned king; Zhao general Chen Yu was also not crowned king because of his dereliction of duty. Both of them resented Xiang Yu.
After Xiang Yu returned to Chu, the feudal princes also returned to their own fiefdoms. Tian Rong sent troops to help Chen Yu and asked him to rebel against Xiang Yu in Zhao. Tian Rong himself also sent troops to fight against Tian Du, who fled to Chu.
Tian Rong detained Qi Wang Tianshi and refused to allow him to go to the administrative office of Jiaodong.
Tian Shi's men said: Xiang Yu is powerful and ferocious, and as the king of Qi, you should go to your own kingdom of Jiaodong. If you don't go, there will be danger.
Tian Shi was very frightened, so he ran away to Jiaodong.
When Tian Rong learned about it, he was furious and led his men to chase King Qi Tianshi and killed him in Jimo. When he came back, he attacked Tian'an, the king of Jibei, and killed him.
Therefore, Tian Rong proclaimed himself the king of Qi and occupied all the lands of Sanqi.
After Xiang Yu heard the news, he was very angry, so he launched an army to attack Qi in the north.
King Tian Rong of Qi was severely defeated and fled to Pingyuan. The people of Pingyuan killed Tian Rong.
Afterwards, Xiang Yu burned and leveled the walls of Qi's capital, and massacred everyone he passed. The people of Qi couldn't bear it, so they all gathered to rebel against him.
Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng gathered Qi's scattered soldiers and obtained tens of thousands of troops to counterattack Xiang Yu in Chengyang.
At this time, Liu Bang, king of Han, led the army of the princes to defeat the Chu army and entered Pengcheng.
After Xiang Yu heard the news, he let go of the Qi army and went back, launching an attack on the Han soldiers in Pengcheng. Then there were many battles with the Han army, and they were locked in a stalemate in Xingyang.
Therefore, Tian Heng was able to regain the large and small cities of Qi again, and established Tian Guang, Tian Rong's son, as the king of Qi. Tian Heng assisted him as prime minister and arbitrarily ruled the country. All political affairs, no matter how big or small, were decided by Tian Heng.
Three years after Tian Heng pacified Qi, King Liu Bang of Han sent Li Shiqi to Qi to lobby Qi King Tian Guang and Prime Minister Tian Heng to submit to the Han Dynasty.
Tian Heng believed that this was feasible, so he lifted Qi's defense against the Han army in Lixia.
Han Xin, the general of the Han Dynasty, was going to attack Qi State eastward.
At first, Qi State sent troops led by Hua Wushang and Tian Jie to station in Lixia to resist the Han army. When the Han envoys arrived, they abandoned their war preparations to defend the city, allowed the soldiers to drink, and sent envoys to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
However, after the Han general Han Xin pacified Zhao and Yan, he used Kuai Tong's strategy to cross the plains and make a sudden attack, defeating the Qi garrison stationed in Lixia, and then invaded Linzi.
When Qi King Tian Guang and Prime Minister Tian Heng saw the sudden appearance of the Han army, they were very angry. They thought they had been betrayed by Li Sheng and immediately cooked and killed Li Sheng.
King Tian Guang of Qi fled east to Gaomi, Prime Minister Tian Heng fled to Boyang, Prime Minister Tian Guang fled to Chengyang, and General Tian Ji led the army to garrison in Jiaodong.
At this time, Chu State sent Long Qie to lead the army to rescue Qi State. Qi Wang Tian Guang and Long Qie met in Gaomi.
Han generals Han Xin and Cao Shen defeated the Qi-Chu coalition forces in Gaomi, killed Chu general Long Qie, and captured Qi King Tian Guang.
Han general Guan Ying continued the pursuit and captured Tian Guang, the prime minister of Qi.
Guan Ying continued to march and arrived at Boyang. When Tian Heng heard that King Qi Tian Guang was dead, he proclaimed himself King of Qi and turned to fight Guan Ying. Under Yingxia, Tian Heng's army was severely defeated by Guan Ying. Tian Heng fled to Liangdi and surrendered to Pengyue.
At this time, Peng Yue supported the army and remained neutral between Chu and Han, as if for the king of Han and for the king of Chu.
After Han Xin killed Chu General Long Qie, he ordered Cao Shen to continue marching to Jiaodong, where he defeated Tian Ji and killed him in battle. Han Xin also ordered Guan Ying to pursue Qi General Tian Sui, defeat him in Qiancheng and kill him.
In this way, Han Xin pacified Qi and wrote to Liu Bang, asking him to make himself the false king of Qi. Liu Bang also took advantage of the situation and made Han Xin the king of Qi.
More than a year later, Liu Bang, king of Han, destroyed Xiang Yu, proclaimed himself emperor, and made Pengyue King of Liang.
Tian Heng was afraid of being killed, so he led more than 500 of his men to flee into the sea and live on a small island.
After Liu Bang, the emperor of the Han Dynasty, heard the news, he thought that Brother Tian Heng had already pacified Qi State, and most of the wise men of Qi State were attached to him. If he was left to wander in the sea without being taken in, he might be in trouble in the future.
Therefore, he sent an envoy to pardon Tian Heng's crime and summoned him to the court. However, Tian Heng declined and said: I once cooked and killed your majesty's envoy Li Sheng. Now I heard that Li Sheng's younger brother Li Shang was a very talented Han Dynasty general. So I was very afraid and did not dare to go to Beijing to follow the imperial edict. I asked you to allow me to be a commoner and stay on this island.
When the envoy came back to report, Emperor Gaozu immediately issued an edict to Weiwei Li Shang: King Tian Heng of Qi is about to arrive in Beijing. Anyone who dares to touch his entourage will be executed immediately!
Then he sent an envoy with a talisman to inform Tian Heng of the imperial edict issued by the emperor to tell Li Shang's situation exactly as it was. He also said: "If Tian Heng comes to Beijing, the largest one can be made a king and the smallest one can be made a marquis; if he does not come, an army will be sent to kill him."
Tian Heng and his two retainers took the stage carriage to Luoyang.
Thirty miles away from Luoyang, there is a place called Corpse Township. On this day, Tian Heng and others came to this inn. Tian Heng said to the Han envoy: As a human minister, you should take a refreshing bath before paying homage to the emperor.
So he stayed.
Tian Heng said to his disciples: At first, I, Tian Heng, and the King of Han were both lonely kings in the south. But now that the King of Han has become the emperor, I, Tian Heng, have become a slave of the subjugated country. It would be a great shame to have to serve him in the north.
What's more, I killed someone's elder brother and then served the same master side by side with his younger brother. Even though he was afraid of the emperor's order and did not dare to touch me, wouldn't I feel ashamed in my heart?
Besides, the reason why His Majesty the Emperor summoned me to Beijing is just to see my face.
Now that the emperor is in Luoyang, if I cut off my head and gallop thirty miles, my appearance will not change, and I can still see what I look like.
After saying this, he committed suicide, ordered two retainers to hold his head in their hands, follow the envoys and fly into the court to report to Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty said: Hey! It’s really amazing to be able to say and do this!
Starting from ordinary people, three brothers became kings one after another. Aren't they worthy people?
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty couldn't help but shed tears for him. Then Emperor Gaozu appointed two of Tian Heng's retainers as captains, and sent two thousand soldiers to bury Tian Heng with the funeral rites of a prince.
After burying Tian Heng, two retainers dug a hole next to Tian Heng's tomb, then committed suicide, fell in the hole, and followed Tian Heng to death.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty heard about this, he was greatly surprised and thought that Tian Heng's disciples were all talented people.
Emperor Gaozu heard that Tian Heng's men still had 500 people on the island, and sent an envoy to summon them to Beijing.
After entering Beijing, these five hundred disciples heard that Tian Heng was dead, and they all committed suicide.
From this, we can understand that Brother Tian Heng is indeed a person who can be supported by the wise men.
Tai Shigong said: Kuai Tong's strategy was too powerful. It disturbed the state of Qi and made the Marquis of Huaiyin arrogant. As a result, these two people were killed.
Kuai Tong was good at talking about the long and short, and discussed the expediency of the Warring States Period. He wrote 81 articles.
Kuai Tong was friendly with An Qisheng, a native of Qi. An Qisheng once asked Xiang Yu for help, but Xiang Yu did not adopt his strategy.
Later, Xiang Yu wanted to reward these two people, but they refused to accept it and fled.
Tian Heng's high demeanor and integrity made the guests admire Gao Yi and follow Tian Heng to death. Isn't he an extremely virtuous person?
Therefore I enumerate his deeds.
It is true that there are people who are good at painting in the world, but no one painted the death of Tian Heng and his disciple Mu Yi. What is the reason?
