Dongfang Shuo, courtesy name Manqian, was born in Yanci County, Pingyuan County.
Not long after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he asked the world to recommend scholars with talents such as integrity, virtuousness, and literature, and appointed them with special positions. Scholars from all over the world wrote letters to discuss the gains and losses of national affairs. As soon as Dongfang Shuo arrived in Chang'an, he wrote a letter saying: I, Dongfang Shuo, lost his parents when he was young and was raised by his brother and sister-in-law.
He started studying at the age of thirteen and learned writing and note-taking in three years.
Learned fencing at the age of fifteen.
At the age of sixteen, he studied the Book of Songs and Shangshu and recited 220,000 words.
At the age of nineteen, he studied Sun Wu's Art of War, and recited 220,000 words on battle formations, control of the advance and retreat of troops during battles, etc.
I memorized a total of 440,000 words.
He is also often familiar with Zilu's remarks.
I am twenty-two years old, nine feet three inches tall, my eyes are as bright as hanging pearls, my teeth are as neat and white as strings of shells, I am as brave as Meng Ben, as agile as Qing Ji, as honest as Uncle Bao, and as trustworthy as Weisheng.
A person like this can be a minister of the emperor. My minister Dongfang Shuo risked his life to pay homage to the emperor again.
Dongfang Shuo's letter was not modest, but he praised and promoted himself. However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that he was a great man and ordered him to stay with Shao in the Gongche Mansion. However, his salary was meager and he could not receive an interview from Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo once coaxed the dwarf who guarded the royal horse pen and said: The emperor thinks that you people are of no use to the court. Of course, you cannot keep up with others in farming. You are an official above the people and cannot manage civil affairs. You are not qualified to fight with soldiers when you join the army. You are of no use to the country. You will only waste food and clothing. Now the emperor wants to kill you all.
The dwarfs were very frightened and cried.
Dongfang Shuo instigated them and said: The emperor is about to pass by here, you must kowtow and apologize.
After meeting for a while, they heard that the emperor was passing by, and the dwarfs all knelt on the ground and kowtowed in tears. The emperor asked: Why are you doing this?
The dwarfs replied: Dongfang Shuo said that the emperor wants to kill us all.
The emperor knew that Dongfang Shuohuahua had a lot of intestines, so he summoned Dongfang Shuo and asked him: Why did you threaten those dwarfs?
Dongfang Shuo replied: My minister Dongfang Shuo will say it even when he is alive, and he will say it even after he is dead.
The dwarf is more than three feet tall and his salary is two hundred and forty yuan for a bag of millet.
The minister Dongfang Shuo is more than nine feet tall, and his salary is a bag of millet, worth two hundred and forty yuan.
The dwarf was starving to death, and his minister Dongfang Shuo was starving to death.
If my words can be accepted, I hope you will change your etiquette towards me; if not, please let me go home and don't let me eat rice from Chang'an in vain.
Emperor Wu laughed when he heard this, so he asked Dongfang Shuo to wait for Shao Jin Mamen, and gradually gained the emperor's closeness.
Emperor Wu once asked some magicians who were good at divination to cover the gecko under a basin and asked them to guess what it was, but they couldn't guess it. Dongfang Shuo introduced himself and said: I once studied "Yi", please allow me to guess what it is.
So he arranged the yarrow into various hexagrams and replied: I think it is a dragon without horns, but I think it is a snake with legs, its limbs are connected by pulses, and it is good at climbing walls. This thing is either a gecko or a lizard.
The emperor said: You guessed it right.
Give him ten pieces of silk.
He was also asked to guess other things, and he guessed correctly every time. He was given silk every time.
At that time, there was a favored actor Guo Sheren in the palace. He was very funny and often accompanied Emperor Wu. He said: Dongfang Shuo is too crazy. It was just a lucky guess. There is no real magic.
I hope to let Dongfang Shuo guess again. If he guesses correctly, he will give me a hundred lashes; if he guesses incorrectly, he will give me silk.
So he put the parasitic thing growing on the tree under the pot and asked Dongfang Shuo to guess what it was. Dongfang Shuo said: It is Baosou.
Guo Sheren said: I really know that Dongfang Shuo will not guess correctly.
Dongfang Shuo said: Raw meat is called 荍, dried meat is called preserved meat, attached to a tree is called parasite, and covered under a basin is called dou sau.
The emperor ordered Chang Jian to whip Guo Sheren. Guo Sheren was in unbearable pain and howled loudly.
Dongfang Shuo laughed at him and said: Hey, there is no hair on his mouth, he is screaming, and his butt is getting higher and higher.
Guo Sheren said angrily: Dongfang Shuo dared to slander and insult the emperor's attendants. He should be sentenced to death for abandoning the market.
The emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Why did you slander and insult him?
Dongfang Shuo replied: I dare not slander or insult him, I just told him a riddle. The emperor asked: What riddle are you talking about?
Dongfang Shuo said: The hairless mouth is a dog hole; the cry is the cry of a mother bird when feeding her chicks; the buttocks are getting higher and higher, which is the look of a crane lowering its head to peck at food.
Guo Sheren was not convinced and said, "I hope to ask Dongfang Shuo a riddle as well. If he doesn't know it, he should also be whipped."
He immediately made up a riddle with homophonic sounds and said: Ling Huhan, Lao Botu, Yiyouya, Biaopanya.
What is said?
Dongfang Shuo said: Ling is an order.
Pots are used to hold things.
It means the teeth are not straight.
Lao is an old man that everyone respects.
Bai is the palace of ghosts.
Painting is a road that is soaked.
Iyoya's words were slurred.
Biaopanya is a fight between two dogs.
Dongfang Shuo answered Guo She's riddles in the world, with many clever and clever changes. No riddle could stump him, and everyone present was very surprised.
The emperor appointed Dongfang Shuo as the Chang Shilang, and he gained the favor and favor of Emperor Wu.
After a long time, on a doggy day, Emperor Wu ordered that meat be rewarded to the attendant officials.
The high official did not come to divide the meat until nightfall, so Dongfang Shuo drew his sword and cut the meat alone, saying to his colleagues: "I should go home early in the dog days of summer. Please allow me to accept the emperor's reward."
Then he wrapped the meat in his arms and left.
Daguancheng reported this matter to the emperor.
When Dongfang Shuo entered the palace, Emperor Wu said: Yesterday, you gave me meat, but you cut the meat with your sword and left without waiting for the order to be issued. Why is this?
Dongfang Shuo took off his hat and knelt down to apologize.
The emperor said: Sir, stand up and blame yourself.
Dongfang Shuo paid his respects again and said: Dongfang Shuo!
Dongfang Shuo!
How rude to accept a reward without waiting for the order to be issued!
Drawing a sword to cut flesh, how heroic!
Not much meat is cut, but how honest it is!
How kind it is to go home and give meat to your wife to eat!
The emperor smiled and said: Mr. Jean blames himself, but he actually praises himself!
He also gave him a stone of wine and a hundred catties of meat and asked him to go home and give them to his wife.
At the beginning, in the third year of Jianyuan, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to travel incognito, traveling to Chiyang Palace in the north, Huangshan Palace in the west, Changyang Palace in the south, and Yichun Palace in the east.
Traveling in private is often done every year when the new wine is brewed and drank in the ancestral temple.
In August and September, the emperor agreed to wait at the gate of the palace with his attendants, regular attendants, and martial cavalry, as well as the good men from Longxi County and Beidi County in Shaoguan who were good at riding and shooting. Therefore, the title of "Qimen" came from this time.
When Emperor Wu traveled incognito, he would wait ten quarters at night before setting off, often pretending to be Cao Shou, Marquis of Pingyang.
At dawn the next day, when they arrived at the foot of Zhongnan Mountain, they shot deer, pigs, foxes and rabbits, or struck bears with their bare hands, running through the rice fields. The farmers shouted and cursed loudly, gathered together, and complained to the magistrates of Yuxian and Duxian counties.
The county magistrate went to the hunting place and asked to see Pingyang Hou. The attendants on horseback wanted to whip the magistrate.
The county magistrate was furious, and his subordinates scolded and stopped him. Several horsemen who were hunting were detained, so they took out the emperor's royal belongings and struggled for a long time before they were able to leave.
At the beginning, the emperor left the palace late at night and returned the next evening. Later, he carried food for five days. He did not return to the capital until the fifth day when it was time to go to Changxin Palace to see the Queen Mother.
Emperor Wu liked this kind of hunting in disguise very much. After that, the people at the foot of Zhongnan Mountain learned that the emperor often went hunting incognito, but Emperor Wu was still under pressure from the Queen Mother and did not dare to travel far.
The Prime Minister and Censor knew the emperor's intentions, so he sent Lieutenant You Fu to patrol east of Changyang Palace, and ordered You Neishi to recruit civilians and go to the place where the emperor hunted to wait for orders.
Later, dressing rooms were privately set up for the emperor, and palace staff were also assigned. A total of twelve dressing rooms were set up from the south of Xuanqu Palace for the emperor to rest and change during the day, and to stay in various palaces at night. Emperor Wu often visited Changyang, Wuzha, Beiyang, Xuanqu and other palaces.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that the journey was long and hard and hated by the people, so he sent King Wuqiu Shou, the Taizhong doctor, and two people who knew arithmetic to collect the area south of Acheng, Yanliyishu, and west of Yichun Palace. The total number of acres of farmland and the converted value of the farmland were compiled into a book. He planned to build Shanglin Garden here to connect it with Zhongnan Mountain.
Emperor Wu also ordered the lieutenants and internal historians to set aside wasteland belonging to the county, hoping to compensate the farmers in Guo and Du counties.
King Wuqiu Shou reported what he had done to the emperor. The emperor was overjoyed and praised him for a job well done.
At that time Dongfang Shuo was nearby and admonished the emperor:
I heard that if a man is humble, quiet, and prudent, heaven will show retribution and repay him with blessings; if a man is arrogant and extravagant, heaven will also show retribution and repay him with disasters.
Now that your majesty is building a terrace and gallery, you are worried that it will not be high enough; your hunting area will not be wide enough.
If heaven does not bring disaster, then the three auxiliary areas can be used as His Majesty's gardens. Why limit it to Gaixia, E, Du and other places?
Luxury went beyond etiquette, and heaven brought disasters. Although Shanglin Garden was small, I thought it was too big.
Zhongnan Mountain is a dangerous place in the world, with the Yangtze River and Huaihe River to the south, and the Yellow River and Weishui River to the north. This place stretches from Yanshui and Longshan to the west of Shang and Luo counties. The land is fertile and the products are rich.
When the Han Dynasty was established, he left Sanhe and lived west of Ba River and Tong River. His capital was Chang'an, south of Jing River and Wei River. This area is called Tianxia Mountain! The land of land and sea is a land with abundant products. The reason why Qin was able to surrender to Xirong and annex the six kingdoms of Shandong was because it occupied this land.
This mountain produces jade, gold, silver, copper, iron and other minerals, as well as Yuzhang, sandalwood, eucalyptus and other precious woods. It is a strange and strange thing, and its origin cannot be explored. This mountain contains the raw materials for hundreds of industries, and it is a treasure land on which all peoples depend for prosperity.
It is also rich in japonica rice, pears, chestnuts, mulberries, hemp, and bamboo shoots. The soil is suitable for growing ginger and taro, and the water is rich in frogs and fish. The poor people rely on these to have enough food and clothing, and do not have to worry about hunger or cold.
Therefore, the land between Feng and Dy is known as fertile soil, and the price of this land is one pound of gold per mu.
Now it is classified as a garden, cutting off the benefits of Pichi water and swamp, and occupying the fertile land of farmers, starving the country of finances, and depriving the people of the farming and mulberry industry that they rely on to make a living. Abandoning success will lead to failure and reduce food income. This is the first reason why Shanglin Garden cannot be built.
Moreover, it makes the thorn jungle dense and prosperous to support the growth of elk, expands the garden where foxes and rabbits live, expands the mounds where tigers and wolves roam, destroys people's tombs and cemeteries, demolishes people's homes and houses, makes the young and weak homesick, and the elderly weep and mourn. This is the second reason why forest gardens cannot be built.
Expanding the land for construction, building walls for gardens, riding horses to the east and west, driving cars to the north and south, and having deep ditches and canals, a day of hunting in the fields will not endanger the emperor's infinite wealth. This is the third reason why Shanglin Garden cannot be built.
Therefore, ensuring that the garden is vast and not caring about the farming season is not a way to strengthen the country and enrich the people.
King Zhou of Yin built the Palace of Nine Municipalities, so the princes rebelled; King Ling of Chu built Zhanghua Terrace, so the people of Chu were dispersed; Emperor Qin Shihuang built Afang Palace, so the world was in chaos.
Ignorant ministers who are as filthy as dirt, forgetting their lives and violating the death penalty, disobeying the emperor's great wishes and grand edicts, deserve to be punished by death, but they can't fulfill their great wishes. I hope Chen will read the "Tai Jie Six Talisman Sutra" and use it to observe the changes in the celestial phenomena. This must be observed.
On this day, because of the "Taijie Six Talisman Sutra", Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty made Dongfang Shuo the Taizhong doctor and rewarded Shizhong with one hundred catties of gold.
However, Emperor Wu still built Shanglin Garden according to the plan submitted by King Wuqiu Shou.
After a long time, Princess Longlu's son Zhaopingjun married Princess Yi'an, the daughter of Emperor Wu of the Yahan Dynasty. When Princess Longli was critically ill, she offered a thousand catties of gold and ten million yuan to redeem Lord Zhaoping from his death penalty in advance, and Emperor Wu agreed to her request.
After the death of Princess Longli, Lord Zhaoping became increasingly arrogant. He got drunk and killed Princess Yi'an's nanny. He was arrested and imprisoned in the inner palace.
Because he was the son of Princess Longlu, Tingwei asked the emperor for instructions to convict Zhaoping Jun. The ministers on the left and right interceded for Zhaoping Jun: Princess Longlu paid a large sum of money to atone for his death penalty before, and your Majesty approved Princess Longlu's request.
Emperor Wu said: My sister only had such a son in her old age, and she entrusted him to me before she died. So she shed tears and sighed about Lord Zhaoping. After a long time, he said: The law was made by the late emperor. If I violate the law of the late emperor out of sympathy for my sister, how can I have the dignity to enter the temple of Emperor Gao!
Besides, I feel sorry for the people.
So he approved Tingwei's petition to convict Zhaohujun. Emperor Wu couldn't stop mourning, and everyone around him was very sad.
However, Shu Fangshuo stepped forward to wish Emperor Wu a happy birthday and said: I heard that a wise king is in power and does not avoid his enemies in giving rewards and does not choose whether he is his or her own flesh and blood.
"Shangshu" says: Don't show favoritism and don't be partial, and the king's way is open and unobstructed. These two are highly respected by the five emperors, and even the three kings find it difficult to achieve.
Your Majesty has done this, so all the people in the four seas can find their own place, and the world is very lucky!
The minister Dongfang Shuo raised his glass and made a toast, risking his life to bow again and wish the emperor long live.
Emperor Wu actually stood up and went back to the palace. In the evening, he summoned Dongfang Shuo and scolded him: "The ancient book says that you should speak only when it is time to speak. Others are not tired of his words. Is it time for you to wish me a birthday today?"
Dongfang Shuo took off his hat and kowtowed and said: I have heard that excessive happiness will lead to excessive yang energy, excessive sadness will lead to loss of yin energy, and variations in yin and yang will cause restless heart energy. Restless heart energy will lead to mental disorder, and mental disorder will allow evil spirits to take advantage of the weakness.
Nothing can relieve worries like wine. The reason why my minister Dongfang Shuo wishes His Majesty a birthday is to show that His Majesty is upright and upright, so I use wine to soothe His Majesty's sorrow.
I am ignorant and don’t know taboos, so I deserve to die.
Prior to this, Dongfang Shuo had entered the palace drunk and urinated in the palace, and was impeached for the crime of disrespect. Emperor Wu issued an edict to demote him to a commoner and wait for the eunuch in the eunuch's office. Because of this conversation with the emperor, he was appointed as Zhonglang and given a hundred pieces of silk.
At the beginning, Princess Guantao, the aunt of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, was known as Mrs. Dou, and Chen Wu, the Marquis of Tangyi, married her.
After Chen Wu's death, the Grand Master became a widow. He was over fifty years old, but he was close to and favored a young man named Dong Yan.
At first, Dong Yan and his mother made a living by selling pearls. Dong Yan was thirteen years old at the time and often accompanied his mother to the home of Taizu Dou.
Empress Dowager Dou's attendants all praised Dong Yan's handsomeness. Empress Dowager Dou summoned Dong Yan's mother and son and said to Dong Yan's mother, "I will raise this child for you."
So he stayed in the mansion and taught him writing, arithmetic, horsemanship, driving, archery and other skills, and also let him read some biographical books.
When Dong Yan reached the age of eighteen, he was crowned. He would drive the master when he went out, and he would serve him when the master returned home.
Dong Yan has a gentle and loving temperament. Because Taishu Bao doted on him, many princes welcomed him, and he became famous in Chang'an City, known as Dong Jun.
Grand Master Bao took the opportunity to recommend him and asked him to spread his wealth and make friends with scholars. He ordered the Zhongfu official in charge of the gold and silk in the palace to say: Dong Jun will report to me only when the gold and silk he spent in a day exceeds one hundred catties, the money reaches one million, and the silk exceeds one thousand pieces.
Uncle Yuan, a native of Anling County, was the son of Yuan Ang's brother and was close to Dong Yan. He said to Dong Yan: You serve Taizu Dou privately and are hiding unpredictable disasters. How do you want to find peace with yourself?
Dong Yan said fearfully: I have been worried about this for a long time, and I don't know how to get rid of it.
Uncle Yuan said: The Gucheng Temple is far away from Chang'an and there is no palace for the emperor to live. It is surrounded by bamboo and catalpa trees for the emperor to play, and it also has the emperor's home fields. The emperor wants to patrol the crops in person. Why don't you tell the emperor to dedicate Changmen Garden to the emperor?
It was exactly where the emperor wanted it to be.
In this way, the emperor knows that the idea was yours, and you can sleep peacefully without fear or sorrow.
If you don't do this for a long time, the emperor will ask for Changmen Garden. What will happen to you?
Dong Yan thanked me and said: I appreciate your teachings.
Therefore, Dong Yan went into the palace to report this plan to the Grand Master, and Grand Master Dou immediately wrote a letter dedicating Changmen Garden to Emperor Wu.
The emperor was overjoyed and renamed Baotaizhu's Changmen Garden to Changmen Palace.
The Grand Master was also very happy and asked Dong Yan to send a hundred catties of gold to Uncle Yuan to celebrate his birthday.
Therefore, Uncle Yuan planned a way for Dong Yan to seek an audience with the emperor, and asked Taishu Bao to pretend to be ill and unable to meet the emperor.
Emperor Wu personally went to Taizu Dou's mansion to check on his condition and asked Taizu what he wanted. Taizu declined and said: "I am fortunate to have received your majesty's kindness and the kindness of the late emperor. I am able to participate in the court ceremony, perform the courtesy of a monarch and a minister, and be listed as a princess. I will be rewarded with a fief for income and rent. My kindness is so great that even death cannot make up for the guilt in my heart."
If one day I am suddenly unable to fulfill my duties in serving the Emperor, and I have to fill the gap first, I feel regretful privately that I cannot fulfill my wish to repay His Majesty. I hope that Your Majesty can sometimes forget about government affairs, recuperate his spirit, and walk a few more steps to visit my mansion when returning from the courtyard, so that I can offer wine to His Majesty on his birthday and be by your side to make you happy.
If you can do this, even if you are dead, what regrets will there be! The emperor said: What is your Majesty worried about?
Hope you recover soon.
I'm worried that there will be too many ministers and attendants accompanying you, which will cost you too much.
After Emperor Wu finished speaking, he returned to the palace. Soon, the Taishu recovered from his illness and went to court to see the emperor. The Emperor spent 10 million yuan to buy a banquet and drink with the Taishu.
A few days later, Emperor Wu came to the Grand Master's mansion. The Grand Master put on a cook's apron and personally led Emperor Wu into the mansion. He climbed up the steps and invited Emperor Wu to sit down in the hall.
Before he could sit down, Emperor Wu said: I hope to meet the protagonist.
The Grand Master hurriedly went down to the palace, took off the hairpin and earrings, kowtowed with bare feet and apologized, saying: "I have no face to see others, I have failed Your Majesty, and I have committed a capital crime."
Your Majesty will not accuse me of any crime, but I will kowtow to plead guilty.
Emperor Wu issued an edict to absolve the Grand Master of his crime.
The Grand Master put on the hairpin and shoes, stood up, and went to the Shuxiang Room to lead Dong Yan out.
Dong Yan, wearing the green scarf used by servants to wrap their heads and sleeves, followed the Grand Master to the front of the palace and fell prostrate to the ground.
The Grand Master then introduced: Dong Yan, the cook of Princess Guantao, risked his life to pay homage to the Emperor.
Dong Yan took the opportunity to kowtow and plead guilty, and the emperor asked him to get up.
The imperial edict gave him clothes and hats to allow him to go to the palace.
Dong Yan got up, went to change clothes and sit down.
The Grand Master personally presented food and toasts to Emperor Wu.
At this time, although Dong Yan was respected but without a title, he was called the "master". The king and his ministers drank happily and were extremely happy.
The Grand Master then presented a large amount of gold, money, and various colored silks, and asked Emperor Wu to give them to the generals, princes, and attendant officials. From then on, Dong Yan became more prominent and favored, and everyone in the world knew about him.
Dog racing, horse racing, football, and swordsmen from various counties gathered around Dong Yan.
Dong Yan often followed Emperor Wu to play games in Beigong, go to Shanglin Garden to enjoy horse racing and hunting, and watch cockfighting, football, dog racing, horse racing and other games. The emperor liked these entertainments very much.
So the emperor held a banquet in the Xuan room to entertain Mrs. Dou, and sent an audience to introduce Dong Yan into the palace.
At this time, Dongfang Shuo was guarding under the palace steps with his halberd. He put down his halberd and stepped forward and said to Emperor Wu: "Dong Yan has committed three crimes that deserve to be beheaded. How can he be allowed to enter the palace?"
The emperor said: What is the crime?
Dongfang Shuo said: As a subject of the emperor, Dong Yan served the princess privately. This was the first crime.
Corrupting the moral etiquette between men and women, disrupting the marriage ceremony, and destroying the court system are the second crimes.
Your Majesty is in the prime of life and is now devoted to studying the Six Classics, paying attention to state affairs, following the prosperous times of Tang and Yu, and admiring the virtuous monarchs of Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. Dong Yan did not follow the advice and study of the classics. Instead, he admired extravagant beauty, pursued luxury, indulged in sensual pleasures, and walked the path of evil and lewdness. This man was a great thief of the country and a ghost who deceived the emperor.
Dong Yan was the culprit of sexual immorality, and this was his third crime.
Once upon a time, Song Gongji encountered a fire and was burned to death because she abided by etiquette and waited for her nanny. She was respected by the princes. What should she do? His Majesty.
Emperor Wu remained silent for a long time and then said: I have already arranged a banquet and will correct it later.
Dongfang Shuo said: No.
The Xuanshi was the main palace of the late emperor, and political affairs other than those where laws were negotiated could not be entered.
Because fornication would gradually turn into a catastrophe of usurpation, Shu Diao behaved promiscuously in the Spring and Autumn Period and colluded with Yi Ya to cause chaos. Only after the death of Qing's father did the state of Lu survive, and only after Guan Shu and Cai Shu were executed did the Western Zhou royal family enjoy peace.
Emperor Wu said: OK.
An edict was issued to stop holding banquets in the Xuanshi room, and banquets were held in the Beigong instead, and Dong Yan was led into the palace from Shusimamen.
For this reason, Shusimamen was renamed Cambodian Jiaomen.
Reward Dongfang Shuo with thirty kilograms of gold.
董偃的尊宠从此曰衰，活到三十岁就死了。

A few years later, Taizu Dou also died and was buried with Dong Yan in Ba Ling.
From then on, many princesses and nobles went beyond etiquette and rules, starting with Dong Yan.
At that time, the world advocated luxury and beauty, and rushed to engage in industry and commerce.
Farmers are leaving their fields. Emperor Wu casually asked Dongfang Shuo during a casual chat: I want to educate the people. Is there any way?
Dongfang Shuo replied: The ancient events of Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, King Wen, King Wu, King Cheng, and King Kang have gone through almost thousands of years. It is difficult to explain clearly, and I dare not state it.
I would like to talk about what happened during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen in modern times. This is something that all the elders alive today know.
Emperor Wen was the emperor and was rich all over the world, but he wore black coarse cloth clothes, shoes made of rawhide, a sword hung on a cowhide without ornaments, and a straw mat made of cotton cattail. His weapons looked like wooden ones without sharp edges, his winter clothes had no literary talent, and his wrappers were made of random catkins. The green cloth bags containing memorials were collected and sewn into palace curtains. Emperor Wen regarded noble morality as beauty and benevolence and righteousness as the criterion.
As a result, everyone in the world looked up to his style, formed honest customs, and clearly enlightened the people.
Now His Majesty feels that the space in Chang'an City is small, so he built the Jianzhang Palace outside the city. There is a Phoenix Tower on the left and a Divine Terrace on the right. It is said to be home to thousands of households. The earthworks in the palace are wrapped in brocade silk, and the dogs and horses are covered with colorful blankets. The heads of the palace people are hairpins. Turtles, wearing pearls; setting up toy carts, advocating the joy of hunting, pursuing the brilliance of decoration, and collecting rare and rare objects; ringing a huge bell weighing ten thousand stones, beating a drum that sounds like thunder, advocating excellence in entertainment, and Zheng Nu dancing.
The emperor is so extravagant and extravagant, but he wants the people not to be extravagant and not abandon farming and doing business. This is something difficult to achieve.
If your majesty can really take the advice of your minister Dongfang Shuo, take down many gorgeous curtains, burn them on the streets connected in all directions, and abandon those good galloping horses to show that they will no longer be ridden, then only the heyday of Yao and Shun can rival your majesty's achievements. "The Book of Changes" says: Only by correcting the origin of things can everything be in order; if you miss the smallest detail, the difference will be thousands of miles.
I hope your Majesty will pay attention to the above matters.
Although Dongfang Shuo was humorous and funny, he always observed the emperor's face and spoke out when appropriate. Emperor Wu often adopted his opinions.
From the ministers to the ministers in office, Dongfang Shuo dared to despise and ridicule, and there was no one he was willing to submit to.
Because Dongfang Shuo was witty and quick-tongued, the emperor liked to ask Dongfang Shuo questions deliberately.
Emperor Wu once asked Dongfang Shuo: Sir, what kind of monarch do you think I am?
Dongfang Shuo replied: From the prosperous times of Tang and Yu to the eras of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou, it can be compared to the current world.
I think your majesty’s merits and virtues can be ranked above those of the Five Emperors and Three Kings.
Not only that, as expected, the wise men in the world were truly obtained, and the ministers and officials in office all had qualified candidates.
For example, Zhou Gongdan and Shao Gongshi were the prime ministers, Confucius was the censor, Jiang Taigong was the general, Bi Gonggao was the Taishi, Bian Yanyu was the Weiwei, Gaotao was Dali, Houji was Simong, and Yi Yin was In the Shaofu, Zigong was sent as an envoy to foreign countries, Yan Hui and Min Ziqian were doctors, Zixia was Taichang, Yi was Youfufeng, Zilu was Zhijinwu, Qi was Dahonglu, Guanlongfeng was Zongzheng, Boyi was Jingzhaoyin, Guan Zhong was Zuo Feng Yi, Lu Ban was the general and great craftsman, Zhong Shanfu was the official of Guanglu, Shen Bo was the imperial servant, Yanling Jizi was the captain of Shuiheng, Baili Xi was the Dianguo, Liu Xiahui was the Da Changqiu, and Shi Yu was the The prime minister was Sizhi, Zang Boyu was the Taifu, Confucius was the Minister of Zhan, Sun Shuao was the Prime Minister of the princes, Zi Chan was the county governor, Wang Qingji was a minister, Xia Yu was a Dingguan, Yi was a Taoist minister, and Song Wan was a Shi Daohou.
Emperor Wu burst out laughing after hearing this.
At this time, there were a large number of capable people in the court, and the emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Today, Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, Doctor Ni Kuan, Dong Zhongshu, Xiahou Shichang, Sima Xiangru, King Wuqiu Shou, Zhufu Yan, Zhu Maichen, Yan Zhu, Ji An, Jiaocang, Zhongjun, Yan An, Xu Le, Sima Qian, etc. are all eloquent, intelligent and eloquent. Sir, see for yourself, how can you compare with them?
Dongfang Shuo replied: "I see that they have shovel teeth, tree bark gills, turned lips, long necks, knotted feet, even trousers, a meandering and sloping walk, and a bent body. Although Dongfang Shuo is not very good, he still has the advantages of these people."
Dongfang Shuo's speeches and responses are all like this.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had recruited outstanding men and women, weighed their talents, and was afraid of making mistakes when appointing them.
At that time, the foreign economic strategy was to ensure peace and stability, and the internal system was being established. The country was troubled. From the prime minister, Gong Huanhong, to the Siwuqian capital, they were ordered to go abroad, and some served as county governors, princes, ministers, and even ministers. Hui Zuosu was once an official and became a doctor in Taizhong, and later he often served as a minister. He, Meigao and Guo Sheren were all around Emperor Wu, and they were just humorous and mocking attendants.
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo wrote to Chen Zuonong about his plan to strengthen the country through war. He took the opportunity to say that he had never been a high official and wanted to ask the emperor for a trial.
His memorial only used the remarks of Shang Yang and Han Fei. It was debauched and humorous. It contained tens of thousands of words, but was not reused in the end.
Dongfang Shuo then wrote a book and argued that if a guest accused him, he would use his low status to comfort and relieve himself with good words.
That article said:
Someone asked Dongfang Shuo: As soon as Su Qin and Zhang Yi met the monarch with ten thousand chariots, they became ministers, and their favor was passed down to future generations.
Now, sir, you practice the Taoism of the ancient emperors, admire the morality of the saints, recite and recite the "Poetry", "Books" and the books of hundreds of schools of thought, write books and treatises on bamboo slips and white silk.
However, for a long time, the emperor who tried his best to serve the sage with all his loyalty could no longer hold an official position like a minister, or hold a halberd in his position. It must be that his moral character still has shortcomings, right?
His official position is low, his salary is small, he cannot take care of others, and he has no place even for his brothers. What is the reason?
Mr. Dongfang sighed, raised his head and answered him: "This reason is not completely understandable to you."
Su Qin and Zhang Yi lived in the same era, and now they are in another era. How can they be the same?
In the era of Su Qin and Zhang Yi, the Zhou Dynasty was weak and the princes did not meet the emperor. They fought hard to fight for power and gain. They captured each other by force and merged into twelve vassal states, regardless of male or female. Those who gained scholars became stronger and those who lost them perished. Therefore, talking and lobbying became popular all over the world.
The lobbyist occupies a high position, has treasures inside his home, and has a granary outside. His blessings will be passed on to future generations, and his descendants will enjoy them for a long time.
This is not the case today.
The virtues of the sage emperor spread everywhere, the world was in awe, the princes paid tribute and surrendered, and the four seas were unified, wrapped around like a belt, more stable than a basin turned over and buckled.
The success and failure of actions are like running in the palm of your hand. What is the difference between virtuous and unvirtuous? Today's imperial court follows the development laws of heaven and earth, and everything is in its proper place; therefore, if you protect it, you will be peaceful, if you punish it, you will be miserable, if you respect it, you will be a general, and if you despise it, you will be a prisoner. If you promote it, you will be above the blue clouds, if you suppress it, it will be under the deep spring;
The world is vast, and there are many scholars. They try their best to lobby, and those who move forward are like the spokes of a wheel gathered on the axle. There are too many to count. They try their best to yearn for the emperor's kindness, but they are trapped in food and clothing and cannot find a way out.
If Su Qin, Zhang Yi and I lived together in today's society, even if we wanted to be a small official like a storyteller, we wouldn't be able to do it. How could we dare to hope to be a minister?
So times have changed, and practices must change accordingly.
Even so, how can we not devote ourselves to self-cultivation?
The Book of Songs says: If you ring a bell indoors, the sound will be heard outdoors.
The crane cries on Fukasawa Island, and the cry reaches the sky.
If you can cultivate your body and mind, you won't be honored!
Jiang Taigong personally practiced benevolence and righteousness, and at the age of seventy-two, he served King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou again, so that he could implement his suggestions. He was granted the title of Qi, which lasted for seven hundred years without interruption.
The example of Jiang Taigong inspired later scholars to study hard at night and work hard without slacking off.
Just like the flying owl and the crow.
Ancient books say: The sky does not stop wintering because people are afraid of the cold, the earth does not stop being vast because people hate the steepness, and a gentleman does not change his behavior just because villains make noisy objections.
Heaven and earth have certain laws of movement, a gentleman has lasting virtue; a gentleman has a legitimate path, and a villain cares about his own selfish interests.
The Book of Songs says: There is nothing wrong with etiquette and justice, so why are you afraid of people's comments?
Therefore, it is said: If the water is too clear, fish will not be able to survive; if others are too strict, there will be no partners; hang a hook in front of the crown to cover the eyes; use yellow silk cotton to plug the ears to reduce hearing; bright eyes will have invisible things; smart ears will also have unheard sounds; reward great virtues, forgive small faults, and do not demand that a person's benevolence and righteousness are perfect.
The crooked should be made straight, but he should be allowed to get it by himself; he should be made wide and relaxed, but he should be allowed to seek it by himself; he should be made to be reasonable, but he should be allowed to explore by himself.
This is probably the teaching of the saints, you have to get it by yourself through exploration and seeking. If you search for it and get it, you will be wise and magnanimous.
The hermits in the world today are lonely without friends, living alone in emptiness. Looking at the hermit Xu You from the top, and the hermit Jie Yu from the Spring and Autumn Period from the bottom, they are the same as Fan Li and loyal to Zixu. When the world is at peace, it is natural to have no choice but to lead with righteousness and show nothing, to be alone and to have few friends.
Why do you have any doubts about my personal character? As for the appointment of Yue Yi in the State of Yan, and the appointment of Li Si and Li Shiqi in the State of Qin to persuade King Tian Guang of Qi to return to the Han Dynasty, they captured more than 70 cities in Qi without a fight. Their lobbying was as smooth as running water, and they persuaded others to give up their own opinions and listen to the lobbyists. They rotated freely like a ring. They will surely get what they want. Their achievements will be as high as mountains, the sea will be peaceful, and the country will be peaceful. This is the opportunity for them to display their talents. Why are you surprised!
As the saying goes: Use a bamboo tube to see the sky, a ladle to measure the sea, and a straw stalk to ring the bell. How can you understand the stars, study the sea, and make sounds by doing this?
From this point of view, if a gopher attacks a dog or a piglet bites a tiger, it will only be eaten. So what is the use?
Now it is impossible for a stupid person like you to blame me without embarrassment. This is enough to explain why those who do not know how to adapt to changes do not understand the truth after all.
Also assuming that there is no discussion from Mr. Wang, the article says:
Unless there is a gentleman who serves as an official in the state of Wu, he cannot praise the distant ancient times to encourage the king's will, or praise the king's virtues to show his achievements. He has been silent for three years.
King Wu felt very strange and asked him: "I have inherited the achievements of my ancestors and placed myself on the wise men. I get up early and go to bed late. I never dare to slack off."
Sir, you are full of energy and fly high, and you have come to the country of Wu as soon as possible. You will help everyone with what you have learned in your life. I sincerely praise you in private. For the past three years, I have been restless, unable to eat well, my eyes have not been able to see the beautiful colors, my ears have not listened to the sound of bells and drums, and I have been humbly determined to listen to the master's great talks. I have been looking forward to it until now.
Nowadays, my husband cannot advance to assist the governance of Wu State, and my retreat cannot praise the reputation of the monarch. I privately think that my husband should not adopt such an attitude.
To have talents but not contribute them is to be unfaithful; to contribute talents but not be able to implement them is to be an unsage ruler.
You probably think I'm unsage, right?
Mr. Feiyou fell on the ground and respectfully responded with a "weiwei" sound.
King Wu said: "It's enough to say it. I will look forward to watching and listening."
Mr. Feiyou said: Woohoo!
Is it ok?
Is it ok?
Easier said than done!
Some of my words are unpleasant to the eyes, offensive to the ears, and uncomfortable to the heart, but are beneficial to the body; others are pleasing to the eyes, pleasant to the ears, pleasing to the heart, but damaging to virtue. Without the Holy Lord, the King of Ming, who can listen?
King Wu said: Why do you say this? Confucius said that people above the average level can talk to him about profound principles.
Sir, please tell me. I will listen to you carefully.
Mr. Feiyou replied: In the past, Guan Longfeng strongly admonished Xia Jie, and Prince Bigan spoke frankly to Shang Zhou. These two ministers tried their best to serve them. They were worried that Jun Qian's virtues would not spread to the lower levels and cause unrest among the people. Therefore, they directly pointed out the faults of Chen Xia Jie and Shang Zhou and tried their best to persuade them to correct their evil words and deeds, hoping to bring glory to the king and eliminate their troubles.
This is not the case now. On the contrary, it is considered that outspoken advice is an act of slandering the king and lacks the etiquette of a minister. Sure enough, those who spoke out and advised were injured one after another and were accused of innocence. The killings actually implicated their ancestors and were ridiculed by the world. So it was easier said than done!
Therefore, the loyal and upright auxiliary ministers collapsed one after another, while the treacherous and flattering villains were all reused, and finally developed to be comparable to the evil and sycophantic ministers Feilian, Elaige and so on during the reign of King Zhou of Shang Dynasty. Both of them were treacherous and hypocritical men. They climbed to high positions with their clever words and eloquent words, and secretly dedicated their skills in carving to defraud the king's trust.
Committed to satisfying the pleasure desires of the eyes and ears, and living in the world in a humble way as a rule of life.
As a result, the king slipped down the path of evil without taking precautions. He was killed, the ancestral temple collapsed, and the country was in ruins. This was all the result of the exile and killing of sage ministers and the close proximity of slanderous villains.
Doesn’t it say so in the Book of Songs? There is no limit to the harm of slander, which has led to war between the four countries and China. This is what we are talking about.
Therefore, being groveling, having a pleasant appearance, and being soft-spoken is ultimately not conducive to the Lord’s governance, and it is also something that people with lofty ideals and benevolence do not want to do.
He has a dignified look, is reserved and solemn, speaks out and outspoken, assists the monarch in correcting evil, and reduces the disasters of the people below. He will disobey the evil monarch's thoughts and withstand the harsh punishments of the declining era.
Therefore, those who want to prolong life and preserve life are not willing to give advice, so they live in the deep mountains, building houses with earth, and weaving doors with straw. They sit in wraps, play the harp, and sing the songs of the saint kings of the past, so that they can be happy and forget about death.
So Boyi and Shuqi escaped from King Wu of Zhou and starved to death at the foot of Shouyang Mountain. Later generations praised them as benevolent people.
Like the appearance, the evil monarch's behavior is already scary enough, so it's easier said than done!
Therefore, the King of Wu was frightened and changed his expression. He ordered his people to remove the recommendation seats and several cases, and sat down to listen.
Mr. Fei You said: During the Spring and Autumn Period, the hermits of the Chu State pretended to be crazy to avoid the world, and during the Shang Dynasty, Jizi wore his hair and pretended to be crazy. Both of them avoided troubled times to save their lives.
If they meet the Holy Master of the Ming Dynasty and have quiet and peaceful leisure, and use kind and gentle words, so that they can express their anger, devote all their loyalty, plan the safety of the country, and weigh the gains and losses of political affairs, which can stabilize the body of the monarch and facilitate the people, then the way of the Five Emperors and Three Kings can almost be seen.
Therefore, Yi Yin was willing to suffer humiliation and carried the cooking tripod and Zu to blend the five flavors in order to meet Shang Tang. Jiang Taigong fished on the shore of the Weishui River to meet King Wen of Zhou.
The king and his ministers are of the same mind, all their plans are successful, and all their plans are followed. It is truly a wise minister who has met a wise king.
Foresight, guidance of righteousness to correct one's own body and mind, extension of kindness to recruit subordinates, benevolence as the foundation, starting with righteousness, praising the virtuous, rewarding the virtuous, eradicating evil and chaos, gathering foreign races from far away, unifying the same kind in China, and beautifying customs, this is the only way for an emperor to prosper.
If nature is not changed above and human relations are not abandoned below, then the world will be harmonious and harmonious, and people from far away will come to join them. Therefore, King Tang and King Wen of Zhou are called holy kings, and their ministers' official positions are constantly promoted, so the land is divided and enfeoffed, and they are titled as princes.
The endings of Jiang Taigong and Yi Yin are so glorious, but the endings of Long Feng and Bigan are so tragic, isn't it sad!
So it’s easier said than done!
So King Wu remained silent, bowed his head and thought quietly. He raised his head, tears streaming down his chin, and said sadly: Oh!
My country will not perish, it will continue forever, it is dangerous, and the lineage will not be cut off!
So the King of Wu organized the court meetings in the Mingtang, arranged the positions among the monarchs and ministers, recommended talents, spread virtues, spread benevolence and righteousness, and rewarded meritorious soldiers; he personally practiced frugality, reduced the expenses of the harem and the cost of carriages and horses; and abandoned the beautiful ladies. The Zheng Guo music, stay away from flattery and flattering villains, reduce the number of kitchens, abandon luxury and licentiousness; shrink the palace, destroy the gardens, fill up the ponds and ditches, and distribute them to the poor who have no property for farming; open the inner palace treasury to relieve the poor. Condolences to the elderly and help those who are lonely; reduce taxes and regulations, and reduce penalties.
After these measures were implemented for three years, the sea was safe and peaceful, the world was harmonious, the yin and yang were harmonious, and everything was in its proper place; the country was not affected by disasters, the people were not hungry or cold, the family had enough food, there was more than enough storage, and the prison was empty; the phoenix flew, the unicorn appeared, the dew fell, and the vermilion sprouted; people with different customs from far away yearned for the customs of the Central Plains, admired the etiquette of the inland, and came to congratulate each other with their tributes.
Therefore, the principles of peace and chaos, and the clues to survival or destruction, are as obvious as this, but the king is unwilling to do it, and the minister privately and foolishly thinks that this is wrong.
Therefore, the "Book of Songs" says: Zhou State can produce many wise men, who are all good pillars of the country. If there are many talented people under one roof, King Wen will be at peace and the country will be prosperous.
That's what I'm talking about.
Among Dongfang Shuo's literary works, "Replying to Guests" and "On Mr. Feiyou" are the best.
Others include "Feng Taishan", "Responsibility for He's Bi", "The Crown Prince's Plum Blossoms", "Screen", "cypress pillars in the palace", "Poetry and Optimism about Hunting", eight-character and seven-character poems, each with two chapters, and "Borrowing a Car from Gongsun Hong", all of which are Dongfang Shuo's books recorded by Liu Xiang.
Other things rumored about Dongfang Shuo in society are all false.
Zanri: Liu Xiang said that when he was young, he visited many wise old people who knew stories and people who were contemporaries of Dongfang Shuo. They all said that Dongfang Shuo was witty and eloquent, could not stick to his own opinions, and liked to chat with ordinary people, so many people in later generations heard about him.
However, Yang Xiong believed that Dongfang Shuo's words were not a pure teacher, his actions were not pure virtues, and his words were meaningless, and there was nothing worthy of praise.
Dongfang Shuo is over-named because he is humorous, insightful, witty and changeable. There is no one behavior that is famous. He should be humorous and close to advocating excellence, being endless like wisdom, being honest and admonishing, and being filthy.
He criticized Boyi and Shuqi but affirmed Liu Xiahui, and warned his sons to avoid harm: Boyi and Shuqi did not eat Zhou millet and starved to death in Shouyang Mountain, which was clumsy; I served as the pillar of the Zhou Dynasty and lived without trouble for the rest of my life, which was skillful workmanship; after eating, I took a walk and exchanged my official salary for the stuff produced by farmers; I stayed in the court for a lifetime, and behaved against the times without encountering disaster.
Dongfang Shuo is the hero of comedy!
Dongfang Shuo's humor is manifested in rebellious ridicule, shooting, etc. These things are superficial and spread among the people, and children and herding children all show off.
Later generations of meddlesome people attached some strange words to Se Zuosu, so they collected Dongfang Shuo's words in detail.
