Tai Shigong said: When I read the regulations for the imperial examination and selection of academic officials, and when I read that Guang Kai encouraged academic officials to start education, I could not help but put down the book and sigh, saying: Alas, the Zhou royal family has declined, and the poem "Guan Ju" that satirizes current affairs has appeared;
Therefore, Confucius was worried about the decline of the royal way and the rise of evil ways, so he compiled "Poems" and "Books" and organized ritual music.
When he went to Qi State and heard the wonderful music of "Shao", he became so addicted that he couldn't taste the delicious meat for three months.
After he returned to Lu from Wei, he began to correct the music so that the songs of "Ya" and "Song" could be put into their proper places and in an orderly manner.
Because the world was chaotic and dirty, no one could use him. Therefore, Confucius traveled around the country and asked more than 70 kings for officials, but he could not get any advice. He said with emotion: If someone is willing to use me, it will only take one year to manage the country's affairs.
Someone hunted unicorns in the western suburbs of the state of Lu. Confucius lamented that his ideals could not be realized after hearing about it. So he wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals with the help of the existing historical records of the state of Lu, and used it to express the emperor's royal laws.
Since the death of Confucius, more than seventy of his good students have dispersed to make friends with the princes. Those who have achieved great success have become teachers and ministers of princes and kings, while those who have achieved little success have made friends and taught scholars and officials, while some have lived in seclusion and are not serving as officials.
Therefore, Zilu served as an official in the state of Wei, Zizhang served as an official in the state of Chen, Ziyu of Tantai lived in the state of Chu, Zixia taught in Xihe, and Zigong lived in Qi until his death.
People like Tian Zifang, Duan Qianmu, Wu Qi, and Qin Huali were all trained by Zixia's generation, and then became teachers of princes and kings.
At that time, only Wei Wenhou was the most humbly seeking advice from Confucianism. Later, Confucianism gradually declined until it suffered annihilation at the hands of Qin Shihuang. During the Warring States Period, when all the great powers in the world were fighting against each other, Confucianism had been squeezed out, but in the Qi and Lu areas, those who studied and studied it never abandoned it.
During the reign of King Wei of Qi and King Xuan of Qi, Mencius, Xunzi and others all inherited Confucius' work and carried it forward, becoming famous in the world with their own theories.
At the end of the Qin Dynasty, Qin Shihuang burned "Poems" and "Books" and killed Confucian scholars. The Six Arts of Confucian classics have been incomplete since then.
Chen She rebelled against Qin and proclaimed himself king. The Confucian scholars in Lu went to him carrying Confucius' ancestral ritual vessels.
So Kong Jia became Chen She's doctor and eventually died with him.
Chen She started out as an ordinary citizen and led a group of rioters to guard the border. Within a month, he became the king of Chu, but within half a year he was destroyed again. His career was very small and shallow, but the scholar-bureaucrats carried Confucius's ritual vessels to follow and submit to him. Why?
Because the Qin Dynasty burned their books and studies, they accumulated grudges, which forced them to seek refuge with King Chen to vent their anger.
Until Emperor Gaozu killed Xiang Ji and led his troops to surround the state of Lu, the Confucian scholars in the state of Lu were still reciting scriptures and practicing rituals and music, and the sound of string songs was endless. Isn't this the legacy of the ancient saints? Isn't this a country that deeply loves rituals and music?
So after Confucius traveled to the state of Chen, he said: Go back!
Go back. The young people in our village have lofty aspirations and brilliant literary talent. I don’t know how to teach them.
Qilu people attach great importance to cultural rituals. This has been the case since ancient times. This has become a natural trend.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Confucian scholars began to have the opportunity to re-study the classics, and they also taught and practiced the etiquette of shooting and drinking.
After Shusun Tong formulated the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, he became a Taichang official. The Confucian disciples who formulated the etiquette with him were also elected as court officials, so people sighed and became interested in Confucianism.
However, at that time, the war in the world had not yet ceased, and the emperor was busy pacifying the world and had no time to consider the establishment of schools.
When Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu were in power, the ministers were all highly skilled in martial arts and had outstanding military exploits.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he briefly appointed Confucian scholars as officials, but Emperor Xiaowen originally only loved the theory of punishment names.
When Emperor Xiaojing came to power, there was no need for Confucian scholars, and Empress Dowager Dou was fond of Taoist thought. Therefore, the doctorate positions were only reserved for officials waiting for imperial edicts.
Until the emperor came to the throne today, Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others had a deep understanding of Confucianism, and the emperor also yearned for it, so the imperial court ordered the recommendation of scribes and scholars who were virtuous, upright and proficient in Confucian classics.
From then on, those who taught "Shi" included Shen Peigong in Lu, Yuan Yinsheng in Qi, and Han Taifu in Yan.
Among those who talked about Shangshu was Jinan Fusheng.
Among those who talked about "Li" was Gaotangsheng from Lu.
Among those who taught "Spring and Autumn" were Hu Wusheng in Qi and Lu, and Dong Zhongshu in Zhao.
After the death of Empress Dowager Dou, Tian Fu, Marquis of Wu'an, became the prime minister. He abandoned Taoism, Xing Mingjia and other hundreds of schools of thought, and invited hundreds of Confucian scholars to serve as officials in the court. However, Gongsun Hong rose through the ranks due to his proficiency in the "Spring and Autumn".
From then on, students all over the world became fascinated and devoted themselves to studying Confucianism.
Gongsun Hong once worshiped as a doctor. He was afraid that Confucianism would be blocked and not spread. After he became the prime minister, he petitioned: The Prime Minister's Censor reported to the emperor: His Majesty once ordered: I heard that politicians should teach the people with etiquette and inspire them with music.
Marriage is the most important ethical relationship between husband and wife.
Now that rituals and music have been destroyed and abandoned, I am deeply worried.
Therefore, we vigorously invite people with upright moral character and broad knowledge from all over the world to come and serve as officials in the dynasty.
I ordered the ritual officials to study diligently, lecture on Confucianism, be knowledgeable, and revive ritual and music, so as to set an example for the people of the world.
He also ordered Taichang to discuss and allocate disciples and students to doctors, so that the people would respect education and open up the way to cultivate talents.
According to His Majesty’s decree. The ministers, Taichang, Kong Zang, and Doctors discussed and decided seriously: I heard that the way of governing the country in the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties was that there were places of education in every village. In the Xia dynasty, it was called the school, in the Yin dynasty, it was called the Xu, and in the Zhou dynasty, it was called Xiang.
When they encouraged those who did good, they allowed them to be prominent in the court; when they punished those who did evil, they punished them.
Therefore, the implementation of enlightenment must first set an example in the capital city and then be promoted from the capital city to local areas.
Now His Majesty has made it clear that his supreme kindness is radiating as bright as the sun and the moon. It is in line with the great way of heaven and earth. It is based on regulating human relations, encouraging learning, paying attention to etiquette, advocating education, and rewarding the virtuous. In this way, the four directions in the sea will change to good. This is the basis for realizing the rule of peace!
In ancient times, the political education was unharmonious and the etiquette was incomplete. Now it is requested to use the original official positions to flourish it.
Please assign fifty disciples to the doctorate and exempt them from taxes and corvee.
Let Taichang select people over the age of 18 with good appearance from among the common people to supplement his Ph.D. disciples.
If there are people in prefectures, counties, provinces, and towns who like classics, respect their superiors, strictly abide by politics and religion, are friendly to their neighbors, and do not violate the teachings they have learned when going out or going out, the county magistrate, the princes, the county magistrate, and the county magistrate should recommend them to the superior county governors and princes and kingdoms. Those who pass the careful inspection should go to Taichang in the capital with the superior planners to receive the same education as the doctoral disciples.
They have to take exams after one year of study. Those who can master more than one kind of classics can supplement the vacancies of literary and anecdotal officials. Among them, those with good grades and high rankings can be appointed as doctors, and Taichang will compile a book and record it.
If they are particularly outstanding, their names can be reported directly.
Those whose talents are low if they do not study hard, and those who are not proficient in a certain kind of classics, will be dismissed and the incompetent officials who recommended them will be punished.
I carefully understand the edicts and laws issued by Your Majesty. They clarify the relationship between the way of heaven and the way of humanity, and integrate the principles of governing the country from ancient times to the present. The articles are elegant and upright, and the words of instruction are profound and rich in meaning. Their immeasurable kindness will deeply benefit the people of the country.
However, the petty officials had little knowledge and could not explain the imperial edicts and laws thoroughly, and could not clearly communicate His Majesty's will to the world.
The duties of administering etiquette and telling stories were performed by people who understood the classics and etiquette. Their promotion was very slow, resulting in a backlog of talents.
Therefore, it is requested to select people with an official rank of more than 200 shi, and those with a hundred shi who are proficient in one kind of Confucian classics, to be promoted to the left and right internal history, and the history of the generals; to select people with an official rank of less than 100 shi to make up the history of the prefects and governors of counties: each county is allowed to have two people, and the border counties are allowed to have one person.
Prioritize the selection of people who are familiar with the scriptures and can recite them in large quantities. If there are not enough people, select officials with anecdotes to supplement the two thousand stones. Select officials with literary anecdotes to supplement the county and state, and complete the personnel.
Please record these in the regulations for selecting academic officers.
Others still follow the law.
The emperor's instructions said: "It's accurate."
From then on, there were many well-educated Confucian scholars among the officials and ordinary officials.
Duke Shen is from the state of Lu.
When Emperor Gaozu passed through the state of Lu, Duke Shen followed his teacher as a disciple to visit him in the Nangong of the state of Lu.
During the period of Empress Dowager Lu, Shen Gong went to Chang'an to study and study, and he and Liu Ying studied under their teacher Fuqiu Bo.
After graduation, Liu Ying was granted the title of King of Chu and asked Shen Gong to be the teacher of his crown prince Liu Wu.
Liu Wu was not good at studying and hated Duke Shen. When Liu Ying, the king of Chu, died and Liu Wu became the king of Chu, he imprisoned Duke Shen.
Duke Shen felt humiliated, so he returned to Lu and taught at home. He never left home for the rest of his life and refused all guests. He went only when Liu Yu, King Gong of Lu, invited him.
More than a hundred disciples came from far away to study with him.
Professor Shen Gong only explained the meaning of words in the Book of Songs, but did not elaborate on the meaning of the scriptures. If there were any doubts, he would leave them out and not forcefully teach them.
After Wang Zang Xiangshen, a native of Lanling, studied "Poetry", he used it to serve Emperor Xiaojing and became the prince's young master. Later, he was dismissed and left the court.
As soon as the emperor ascended the throne, Wang Zang wrote a letter requesting to enter the palace and serve as the emperor's guard. He was promoted continuously and became a doctor within a year.
Zhao Wan, a native of Dai, also studied the Book of Songs from Duke Shen, and he became a royal censor.
Zhao Wan and Wang Zang asked the emperor for instructions and wanted to build a bright hall to convene the princes to hold court meetings. They could not persuade the emperor to agree to this matter, so they recommended their teacher Shen Gong.
So the emperor sent envoys carrying valuable gifts of silk and jade, driving horses and chariots to greet Duke Shen. Two disciples, Zhao Wan and Wang Zang, accompanied him in ordinary post cars.
Duke Shen came to the capital to pay homage to the emperor.
The emperor asked him about the security of the country. Shen Gong was already over eighty years old at the time. He was very old. He replied: People in power don't need to talk much, they just focus on how well they do their best.
At this time, the emperor was fond of rhetoric and rhetoric. Seeing that Shen Gong answered correctly, he was silently unhappy.
However, Shen Gong had been recruited to the court and made him the official of Taizhong. He lived in Lu's mansion and discussed the construction of Mingtang.
The Empress Dowager Dou liked the teachings of Lao Tzu and disliked Confucianism. She found out the faults of Zhao Wan and Wang Zang to blame the emperor. Therefore, the emperor stopped discussing the construction of Mingtang and handed Zhao Wan and Wang Zang to the judge for trial. Later, they both committed suicide.
Duke Shen also excused himself from official duties due to illness and returned to the state of Lu, where he died a few years later.
Among Shen Gong's disciples, there were more than a dozen people who became doctors: Kong An was appointed as the governor of Linhuai, Zhou Ba was appointed as the internal historian of Jiaoxi, Xia Kuan was appointed as the internal historian of Chengyang, Danglu was appointed as the governor of Donghai, Miao Sheng from Lanling was appointed as the governor of Changsha, Xu Yan was appointed as the lieutenant of Jiaoxi, and Quemen Qingji from Zou was appointed as the internal historian of Jiaodong.
They manage officials and people with integrity and integrity, and people praise them for their studiousness.
Although the conduct of other disciples who are academic officials is not perfect, there are also more than a hundred people who are officials, doctors, and acquaintances.
Although their explanations of the Book of Songs are different. But most of them follow Shen Gong's opinion.
Yuan Gusheng, the Taifu of King Liu Cheng of Qinghe, was a native of Qi.
Because of his study of the Book of Songs, he became a doctor during the reign of Emperor Xiaojing.
He and Huang Sheng argued in front of Emperor Jing.
Huang Sheng said: King Tang and King Wu did not succeed to the throne according to destiny, but committed regicide and usurped the throne.
Yuan Gusheng retorted: No.
In the Xia Dynasty, Jie and Yin Zhou were violent and confused, and the hearts of the people in the world all surrendered to Shang Tang and Zhou Wu. Shang Tang and Zhou Wu agreed with the wishes of the people and killed Jie and Zhou. The people of Jie and Zhou refused to serve them and turned to Tang and Wu. Tang and Wu had no choice but to establish themselves as emperors. What else is this but upholding the destiny of heaven?
Huang Sheng said: Although the hat is old, it must be worn on the head; although the shoes are new, they must be worn on the feet.
Why? This is why there is a difference between up and down.
Although Jie and Zhou were immoral, they were in the upper position as monarchs; although Tang and Wu were sages, they were in the lower position as ministers.
When the monarch makes a mistake, the ministers cannot directly advise and correct it to maintain the dignity of the emperor. Instead, they use the fault to kill the monarch and replace him as the king in the south. What is this if not regicide and usurpation of the throne?
Yuan Gusheng replied: If we have to judge right and wrong according to your statement, then is it not right for Emperor Gao to replace Qin Dynasty as the emperor?
Then Emperor Jing said: If you eat meat but not horse liver, it is not not ignorant of the delicious taste of meat; if a scholar does not talk about whether Tang and Wu are destined to succeed to the throne, it is not considered stupid.
So the argument ceased.
Since then, no scholar has dared to argue whether Tang and Wu were established by destiny or whether they exiled Jie and Zhou to usurp the monarchy.
Empress Dowager Dou liked the book "Laozi" and summoned Yuan Gusheng to ask him about his experience in reading this book.
Yuan Gusheng said: These are just ordinary people's remarks.
Empress Dowager Dou said angrily: How can it compare with Confucian poetry and books that control prisoners!
So he asked Yuan Gu to enter the animal pen and kill the wild boar.
Emperor Jing knew that the Queen Mother was angry and Yuan Gu said she was not guilty, so he lent him sharp weapons. He went down to the animal pen to stab the wild boar, and hit it right in the heart. With one stab, the wild boar fell to the ground.
The Queen Mother remained silent. There was no reason to punish him anymore, so she had to give up.
Soon after, Emperor Jing believed that Yuan Gu was honest and upright, and worshiped him as the tutor of Liu Cheng, the king of Qinghe.
After a long time, he was discharged from office due to illness.
The current emperor has just ascended the throne and recruited Yuan Gu to join the court because of his virtuous character.
Many Confucian scholars who liked to flatter Yuan Gu were jealous and slandered Yuan Gu, saying that Yuan Gu was old, so he was dismissed from office and sent home.
Yuan Gu was already over ninety years old at this time.
When he was recruited, Gongsun Hong from Xue Yi was also recruited, but he did not dare to face Yuan Gu.
Yuan Gu said to him: Mr. Gongsun, you must discuss things with upright knowledge and don't use evil theories to cater to the world.
Since then, people in Qi have always discussed the Book of Songs based on Yuan Gusheng's insights.
Some Qi people became famous because of their achievements in studying the Book of Songs. They were all disciples of Yuan Gu.
Han Sheng was from Yanjun.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he was a doctor, and during the reign of Emperor Jing, he was the tutor of Liu Shun, the king of Changshan.
Han Sheng deduced the purpose of "Shi" and wrote "Nei Zhuan" and "Wai Zhuan" with tens of thousands of words. The terms in the book are quite different from those in Qi and Lu, but the purpose is the same.
Huainan Bensheng received his inheritance from him.
From then on, people who talked about "Poetry" in Yanzhao area all followed Han Sheng's views.
Han Sheng's grandson Han Shang is a doctor appointed by the current emperor.
Fusheng was from Jinan County.
I had previously been a doctor of Qin Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he wanted to find someone who could study "Shang Shu", but he searched all over the world and found no one. Later, he heard that Fu Shenghui taught it, so he planned to recruit him.
Fu Sheng was already over ninety years old at that time. He was very old and could not walk, so Emperor Wen ordered Taichang to send his master Chao Cuo to Fu Sheng to learn from him.
When the Qin Dynasty burned Confucian books, Fu Sheng hid "Shang Shu" in the wall.
Later, when the war broke out, Fu Sheng went into exile. After the Han Dynasty pacified the world, he returned to look for the "Shang Shu" in his collection. He had lost dozens of articles and only got twenty-nine articles. So he taught the remaining "Shang Shu" in the Qilu area.
Since then, scholars have become very good at explaining "Shang Shu", and all famous scholars east of Miaoshan have dabbled in "Shang Shu" to teach students.
Fu Sheng taught Zhang Sheng and Ouyang Sheng from Jinan, and Ouyang Sheng taught Qiancheng Ren Kuan.
After Kuan became proficient in "Shangshu", he participated in the county election based on his achievements in Confucian classics, went to study under a doctorate official, and studied under Kong Anguo.
Erkuan's family was poor and had no resources, so he often worked as a kitchen worker for the students, and often went out to work secretly to earn money to provide for his own food and clothing needs.
He often read the scriptures when he went out, and read and reviewed them aloud when he was resting.
According to the ranking of the examination results, he filled the vacancy of Yan Weishi.
At that time, Zhang Tangzheng was fond of Confucianism, so he asked Erkuan to be his agent and responsible for reporting the case. Erkuan judged difficult and major cases based on classics and ancient methods, so Zhang Tang favored him.
Erkuan was gentle and kind-hearted, with integrity and intelligence. He was able to control his own words and deeds. He was also good at writing books and drafting memorials. He was agile in writing and thinking, but he was clumsy in speech and could not explain.
Zhang Tang thought that he was a loyal person and praised him many times.
When Zhang Tang became the imperial censor, he appointed Er Kuan as an official and recommended him to the emperor.
After the emperor summoned Erkuan to inquire about him, he liked him very much.
Six years after Zhang Tang's death, Erkuan became a royal official and died after nine years in office.
Erkuan was one of the three princes. He had a long career as an official because of his gentle and kind temperament, his ability to obey the emperor's will, and his ability to mediate disputes. However, he did not correct the emperor's mistakes. During his tenure as an official, his subordinate officials looked down upon him and did not do their best for him.
Zhang Sheng also became a doctoral officer.
Fu Sheng's grandson was also recruited for studying "Shang Shu", but he could not clarify the meaning of "Shang Shu".
From then on, Zhou Ba and Kong Anguo from Lu and Jia Jia from Luoyang were all good at teaching the contents of Shangshu.
The Kong family had the Shangshu written in ancient pre-Qin script, and Kong Anguo re-copied and read them using the current official script font, thus giving rise to his own academic school.
Kong Anguo obtained more than a dozen lost chapters in "Shang Shu", and the number of "Shang Shu" probably increased gradually from this time on.
Many scholars have interpreted the "Book of Rites", but Gao Tangsheng's opinion from Lu County is the closest to the original meaning.
The Book of Rites was originally incomplete since the time of Confucius. After Qin Shihuang burned the book, more chapters of the book were lost. Today, only the Book of Rites survives, and Gao Tangsheng can explain it.
Xu Sheng of Lu State was good at practicing etiquette.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Xu Sheng served as a ceremonial official.
He passed down etiquette to his sons and grandsons Xu Yan and Xu Xiang.
Xu Xiang was naturally good at practicing etiquette, but he was not proficient in the "Book of Rites"; Xu Yan was very familiar with the "Book of Rites", but was not good at practicing etiquette.
Xu Xiang became a ceremonial official in the Han Dynasty because of his good practice of etiquette and rituals, and he served as an official in Guangling Neishi.
Xu Yan and his disciples Gonghu Yiyi, Huansheng and Shanchang all served as ceremonial officials in the Han Dynasty.
Xiao Fen, a native of Xiaqiu, became the governor of Huaiyang because he was proficient in the Book of Rites.
From then on, those who were able to explain the Book of Rites and practice etiquette and rituals were all from the Xu family.
Ever since Shang Qu of Lu State studied the Book of Changes from Confucius, after Confucius died, Shang Qu taught the Book of Changes. After six generations, it was passed down to Tian He, a native of Qi County. Tian He was named Zizhuang, and then the Han Dynasty was established.
Tian He taught it to Wang, a native of Dongwu, whose given name was Zizhong, who taught it to Yang He, a native of Shichuan.
Because Yang He was proficient in the "Book of Changes", he was recruited by the imperial court in the first year of Yuanguang and became a senior official.
Jimo, a native of Qi, was proficient in the Book of Changes and became the prime minister of Chengyang.
Meng Dan, a native of Guangchuan, became the prince's official because he was proficient in the "Book of Changes".
Zhou Ba from Lu people. Heng Hu from Ju and Fu Yan from Linyi were all due to their proficiency in the Book of Changes.
But the most accurate teaching of the "Book of Changes" comes from the teachings of Yang He's family.
Dong Zhongshu is from Guangchuan County.
Because of his study of "Spring and Autumn", he became a doctor during the reign of Emperor Xiaojing.
He taught at home, and many people came to learn from him, so he could not teach them one by one in person. Instead, his disciples passed it on from generation to generation, and some of them had never even met him in person. Dong Zhongshu stayed at home and never visited the garden next to his house for three years. He was so dedicated to his studies.
His appearance and behavior when he came in and out were all in line with etiquette. The students followed his example and respected him.
After the current emperor ascended the throne, he served as the Prime Minister of Jiangdu.
He deduced the reasons for the alternating movement of yin and yang based on the changes in natural disasters and special phenomena recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals. Therefore, when praying for rain, he shut down all kinds of yang qi and released all kinds of yin qi, and when he stopped rain, he used the opposite method.
This approach was implemented in Jiangdu State and all achieved the expected results.
Later, he was demoted to a middle doctor and wrote "The Chronicle of Disasters" at home.
At this time, a fire broke out in the Gaodi Temple in Liaodong. The master's father Yan was jealous of him, so he stole his book and wrote it to the emperor.
The emperor summoned the Confucian scholars and showed them the book. The Confucian scholars believed that it contained accusations and ridicules of the government.
Dong Zhongshu's student Lu Bushu didn't know that this was his teacher's work and thought it was extremely stupid. So he handed Dong Zhongshu over to the judge and sentenced him to death. However, the emperor issued an edict and pardoned him.
Therefore, Dong Zhongshu never dared to talk about the theory of disasters.
Dong Zhongshu is honest and upright.
During this period, the imperial court was using troops to eliminate the intrusion of ethnic minorities inside and outside the four borders. Gongsun Hong's research on "Spring and Autumn" was not as successful as Dong Zhongshu's, but he was good at catering to the secular world, so he was able to occupy a high position and became a minister.
Dong Zhongshu thought that Gongsun Hong was a flatterer.
Gongsun Hong hated him and told the emperor: Only Dong Zhongshu can serve as the prime minister of King Jiaoxi.
The King of Jiaoxi was vicious and violent, but he had always heard that Dong Zhongshu was virtuous and treated him well.
Dong Zhongshu was afraid that he would get into trouble if he stayed in an official position for a long time, so he resigned and went home.
Until his death, he never managed private property, but devoted himself to researching knowledge and writing treatises.
Therefore, since the founding of the Han Dynasty, it has gone through five dynasties. During this period, only Dong Zhongshu was the most proficient in the Spring and Autumn Annals and had a high reputation. He taught Gongyang Studies in the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Hu Wusheng was from Qijun.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, he became a doctor. Later, he returned to his hometown to teach "Spring and Autumn" due to his old age.
Many people who discussed "Spring and Autumn" in Qi were taught by Hu Wusheng, and Gongsun Hong also received his teachings.
Jiang Sheng, a native of Xiaqiu, studied Guliang studies in the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Since Gongsun Hong was put in high office, he had collected and compared the scriptures and meanings of Guliang School and Gongyang School, and finally adopted Gongyang's theory taught by Dong Zhongshu.
The most successful disciples of Dong Zhongshu were: Chu Da from Lanling, Yin Zhong from Guangchuan, and Lu Bushu from Wen.
Chu Daguan became Prime Minister of Liang Kingdom.
Lu Bushu, who was a long-time official, went out as an envoy with a talisman in hand to decide the crime of rebellion by Liu An, the king of Huainan. He dared to judge the princes and kings on his own without asking for instructions. He judged the case fairly according to the "Spring and Autumn" classics, and the emperor thought it was right.
Among the disciples, those who have good official career have achieved the position of great officials; there are more than a hundred people who pay homage to him and have anecdotes.
Dong Zhongshu's sons and grandsons also became high-ranking officials because of their proficiency in Confucianism.
