Emperor Jianwen's name was Yu, with the courtesy name Daowan, and he was the youngest son of Emperor Yuan.
He was very smart when he was young and was loved by Emperor Yuan.
When Guo Pu saw him, he said to people: This person must be the one who revitalizes the Jin Dynasty.
When Sima Yu grew up, he was pure and had few desires, and was especially good at talking about mysteries.
In the first year of Yongchang, Emperor Yuan issued an edict saying: King Wu Xiangong and King Xiankao Gong ruled Langye.
Father and son have been passed down from generation to generation, but the current heir has not set up a ceremony or presided over the ceremony. I am often sad about this.
His son Sima Yu is kind, wise, resourceful and generous, and can serve his ancestors respectfully to comfort his endless kindness.
Sima Yu was granted the title of King of Langxie, and his official residences were still Kuaiji and Xuancheng.
In the first year of Xianhe, Sima Yu's biological mother, Mrs. Zheng, passed away.
Emperor Jian Wen was only seven years old at the time. He cried blood when he cried to offer sacrifices to his biological mother, and insisted on wearing mourning clothes.
Emperor Cheng took pity on him and agreed to his request, so he changed his title to King of Kuaiji and assisted Sanqi as a regular attendant.
In the ninth year, he was promoted to general on the right and was awarded the title of Shizhong.
In the sixth year of Xiankang's reign, he was promoted to general of the Fu army and concurrently served as secretary and supervisor.
In the fifth month of Guichou in the summer of the first year of Jianyuan, Emperor Kang issued an edict saying: Taichang felt that the responsibility of worshiping heaven and earth and taking care of the ancestral temple can be said to be very great.
Therefore, in selecting roles throughout the ages, people who are both prestigious and knowledgeable have been chosen.
The King of Kuaiji advocated purity, worked tirelessly to pursue the Tao, took his time in high-ranking positions, and satirized the government and the public, so he allowed the King of Kuaiji to concurrently lead Taichang, and his original official position remained unchanged.
In the first year of Yonghe, Empress Dowager Chongde came to the court, and Sima Yujin was promoted to the general of the Fu army and recorded six things in Shangshu.
In the second year, the knight He Chong died, and Empress Dowager Chongde issued an edict to let Emperor Jianwen handle state affairs exclusively.
In eight years, he was promoted to Situ, but Sima Yu firmly refused.
When Emperor Mu began to perform the crowning ceremony, Emperor Jianwen asked for the return of state affairs, but Emperor Mu refused.
After the deposed emperor came to the throne, because King Langxie had no heir, he changed the title of Emperor Jianwen to King Langxie and made his son Sima Ming King of Kuaiji.
Emperor Jianwen tried his best to refuse, so although he was granted the title of King Langxie, he did not remove the title of King of Kuaiji.
In the first year of Taihe, when he was promoted to prime minister and recorded ministerial affairs, he did not need to step forward when entering the court, and did not need to say his name when paying homage. He could wear a sword and wear shoes when going to the palace. He was provided with an honor guard of sixty Yu Bao's advocating classes and swords. Emperor Jian Wen strongly recommended it.
After the deposed emperor was deposed, the empress dowager issued an edict saying: The prime minister, Lu Shangshu, and King Kuaiji are the descendants of Zhongzong. They have good virtues, noble empresses, and empresses advocate purity and emptiness, and their magic is manifested in their conduct.
Because of his position as an assistant to important ministers, he guided three generations of emperors to preside over state affairs.
It has been a long time since moral education spread and everyone expected it to return.
We should obey the will of God and the will of the people and ascend to the throne.
The people in charge clearly followed the regulations at that time and implemented them on time. So Grand Sima Huanwen led all the officials into the Taiji front hall, prepared the emperor's car, and went to the palace of King Kuaiji to greet Emperor Jian Wen. He changed his clothes in the court hall, wearing a plain scarf and single clothes, and bowed to the east to accept the seal ribbon.
In the eleventh month of the winter of the first year of Xian'an, Sima Yu ascended the throne as emperor.
Huan Wen left the palace and stayed in the middle hall, ordering the troops to garrison. On Yi Mao, Wen sent a petition to the emperor to depose Sima Xi, the Grand Prime Minister and King of Wuling, and his son, General Sima.
The emperor ordered Marshal Mao An, the prefect of Wei County, to lead his troops to guard the palace and change the name to Xian'an.
On the day of Xinhai, Huan Wen sent his younger brother Huan Mi to force Xincai King Sima Huang to go to the West Hall, forcing him to tell Dazai, Wuling King Sima Xi and others that he was conspiring against him. The emperor shed tears towards Sima Huang, and Huan Wen arrested Sima Huang and others and handed them over to the Tingwei.
On Guichou day, he killed the two sons of King Donghai and their mother.
At the beginning, the emperor was indifferent, pure, simple, arrogant and noble. He served as prime minister for three dynasties. Huan Wen always respected and feared him.
When the emperor received Huan Wen, he cried sadly to him. Huan Wen was so scared that he could not speak.
At this time, some officials adhered to Huan Wen's will and petitioned to kill Sima Xi, the king of Wuling, but the emperor refused.
Huan Wen insisted again and again, and the emperor personally issued an edict in reply: If the Jin Dynasty lasts for a long time, Ming Gong should implement the previous edict.
If the great fortune of the Jin Dynasty is over, then please let me make way for the sages.
Huan Wen looked at it and was so frightened that he broke into a cold sweat, his face changed, and he stopped talking.
On Yimao day, Sima Xi and his three sons were deposed and exiled to Xin'an.
On Bingchen day, Sima Chao, the new king of Cai, was exiled to Hengyang.
On Wuwu Day, an edict was issued saying: The royal family is in trouble. Emperors Mu and Ai passed away prematurely, the imperial line has long been changed, and the throne has no owner.
The King of the East China Sea is a close relative of the emperor's mother and brother. He has inherited the throne after entering the dynasty. He has been in charge for many years. He has traveled far and wide, disrupting the dynasty's agenda. Human relations have been corrupted. A great disaster is about to come. I don't know where to place the gods of my ancestors.
The Empress Dowager was deeply worried about the royal family's foundation and made a big plan in time.
Da Sima followed the will of heaven and man, coordinated with the gods' general strategy, personally led the princes, and respectfully accepted the orders of the saints.
Now that the clouds and mist have been cleared away and the royal family is clear, they will take care of me and inherit the great achievements.
Even if Yi Yin stabilized the Yin Dynasty and Bo Lu stabilized the Han Dynasty, they could not surpass them.
Because of my meager virtues, I temporarily occupy the throne. I am really worried that my vision is narrow and I will not be able to shoulder the important responsibilities. I am trembling and trembling, not knowing how to succeed.
Missing and renewing the world with millions of people, I decided to grant amnesty to the world. The people will have a feast for five days. The rank of civil and military officials will be increased to the second level. Those who are filial and loyal, the old, weak, sick and disabled, and those who have no one to support them, will be rewarded with five husks of rice per person.
At the end of the day, Huan Wen was rewarded with thirty thousand soldiers, each with a piece of cloth and a bushel of rice.
On the Gengshen day, the great Sima Huanwen was appointed as the prime minister, but Huanwen did not accept it.
On Xinyou day, Huan Wen came back from Baishi and guarded Gushu.
The champion general Mao Wusheng was appointed to command the military affairs in Miozhong in Jingzhou and Yicheng in Yangzhou.
On December Wuzi, the emperor issued an edict that because Kyoto had large reserves of supplies, he had the right to stop transportation for one year.
On the Gengyin day, Sima Yi, the king of the East China Sea, was deposed as the Duke of Haixi, with a settlement of 4,000 households.
On Xin Mao Day, Lu wine was offered to the Imperial Ancestral Temple for the first time.
In the spring of the second year of the first month of Xinchou, the kings of Baekje and Linyi each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In February, Fu Jian went to Liaodong to attack Murong Huan and destroyed Murong Huan.
On Dingyou in March, an edict was issued saying: I have been in the position of prime minister for three dynasties and cannot bring peace to the world. However, Haixi Gongxin lost his virtue and almost overturned the royal family. Relying on the kindness of the ancestors and gods, the empress dowager's virtues followed the destiny, and the loyal and virtuous officials who assisted Bi were able to sweep away the anger in the sky and shine the glory of the morning sun in the universe.
So I entrusted my broken body to the prince, thinking of relying on the virtuous ministers to correct my faults.
Reinforce one's roots, curb ostentation and extravagance, separate thirst and thirst, distinguish competent from incompetent, officials will not have bad political affairs, and scholars will not criticize. If there is no punishment and qualifications, how can morality and etiquette be implemented?
Moreover, the powerful enemy has not yet been eliminated, and labor has not ceased. Unless it is important matters such as military affairs, state affairs, war, and sacrifices, all the gorgeous decorations and complicated expenses should be reduced.
The wise men who retreat in the deep valleys and the scholars who follow the ups and downs of the world, even if they insist on the ambition as high as the sky, live in seclusion in the deep valleys, and want to revitalize the reputation of cooperation with noble moral principles, how can they be compared to being complacent among the mountains and rivers, hiding in the deep mountains and valleys, following the nobility of ordinary people, but forgetting the great righteousness of benefiting the world?
The ancients were not accustomed to borrowing from the sages of previous generations, so I have false hopes for today.
Hundreds of officials, both internal and external, worked diligently on their affairs, so that all good deeds were spread and all bad deeds were reported, so that the poet did not have the irony of a vegetarian meal, and I also gained the reputation of being an open-minded visitor.
On the day of Guichou, an edict was issued saying: I inherited the great foundation of my ancestors, but I am not good at running the country. I am afraid that I will not be able to manage the cause given by God and revitalize the foundation of my ancestors. I worry all day long, just like wading through a river.
It all depends on the loyalty and concerted efforts of the auxiliary ministers. The ministers at home and abroad tried their best to plan and assist. The civil and military officials showed their integrity regardless of themselves. I hope that if things go on like this, we can finally save the world. Whenever I think that the war has not stopped, the country and the people are tired and distressed, and the vassal towns are defended. The important task of guarding the border is that the soldiers guarding the border have the worries described in the poem "Dongshan". Some of them have been fighting on the battlefield until they are old, and their loyalty and hard work have not yet been rewarded. Some of them have served for a long time, but they don't even have food reserves at home. Why don't they get up before dawn and can't sleep in the middle of the night.
Although I cannot comfort and visit them personally, I also hope to convey my feelings to them.
Ambassadors were sent to express condolences to the Grand Sima and local governors, and went to the border garrison to read out edicts, reward the soldiers, and make them feel at ease.
He also rewarded them according to regulations so that everyone could know about them. On Yimao day, an edict was issued saying: "After the previous incident, all kinds of items were insufficient, and the officials' usual salaries were very meager. This was decided at any time."
However, in order to reduce meals in court, salary cannot replace work. This is not a normal system.
Now that shopping reserves are becoming increasingly scarce, you can increase your salary appropriately.
Monsters appear in Yuzhang.
In April of summer, Duke Haixi was transferred to Xichaili, Wu County.
After Yu was demoted, she was said to be his wife.
In June, an envoy was sent to consecrate King Yugou of Baekje as General of Zhendong and also as governor of Lelang.
On the day of Wuzi, the former guard general Geng hope led his troops to rebel and entered Jingkou from Hailing. Bian Wan, the prefect of Jinling, fled to Qu'a.
In the seventh month of Autumn, at Renchen, Huan Wen sent Zhou Shaosun, the internal historian of the East China Sea, to attack Geng hope, captured him, and killed him in the bustling city of Jiankang.
At the end of the year, Sima Changming, the king of Kuaiji, was made the crown prince, and the prince Sima Daozi was made king Langxie, and he also took charge of the internal history of Kuaiji.
On the same day, the emperor died in the East Hall at the age of fifty-three.
He was buried in Gaoping Mausoleum, with the temple name Taizong.
The posthumous edict asked Huan Wen to assist in state affairs, according to the story of Zhuge Liang and Wang Dao.
When Emperor Jian Wen was young, he was graceful and well behaved. He paid attention to the classics and did not care about his living environment. Even though his seat was covered with dust, he was still happy.
Once while visiting Banqiao with Huan Wen and Sima Xi, King of Wuling, Huan Wen suddenly ordered the drums to be beaten and the horns to be blown, and the carriages and horses suddenly galloped quickly, wanting to see how the two of them performed.
Sima Xi was very frightened and asked to get out of the car, but Emperor Jian Wen looked calm and did not panic at all. Heng Wen was therefore in awe of him.
Huan Wen relied on his civil and military positions to achieve great achievements many times. In addition, he abolished the old emperor and established a new emperor, which made him powerful both inside and outside the court.
Although Emperor Jian Wen was on the throne, he could only do nothing and stick to the normal way. He was often afraid of being deposed.
Previously, the disaster star entered Taiwei, and soon Haixi Gong was deposed.
When Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne, the disaster star entered Taiwei again, which Emperor Jian Wen hated very much.
At that time, Zhongshu Lang Xichao was on duty, so the emperor called him in and told him that the length of life is of course not considered, so there should be no more abolishment of the establishment of the previous days!
Xi Chao said: Grand Sima Huanwen is consolidating the country internally and planning extraordinary things externally, and I will use my whole family to guarantee it.
When Xi Chao asked for a quick visit to his father, the emperor said to him: Please convey my greetings to your father, the country's affairs have reached this point!
Because I cannot use the right way to rectify the country, I am so ashamed that words cannot express it.
So he chanted Yu Chan's poems. The patriots were saddened by the crisis of the court, and the loyal ministers were saddened by the humiliation of the monarch. In the end, they wet their clothes with tears.
Although Emperor Jian Wen was knowledgeable, he had no grand strategy to save the world, so Xie An called him someone like Emperor Hui, who was just a bit better at talking.
The monk Zhi Daolin once said that the King of Kuaiji had a lofty appearance but no lofty spirit.
Xie Lingyun traced his actions and believed that he was a figure like King Nan of Zhou and King Xian of Zhou.
Emperor Xiaowu's name was Yao and his courtesy name was Changming. He was the third son of Emperor Jianwen Sima Yu.
On June 12, the third year of Xingning, he was granted the title of King of Kuaiji.
On July 28, the second autumn of the second year of Xian'an, he was established as the crown prince.
On this day, Emperor Jianwen died, and the prince became emperor.
The edict was issued saying: Due to my misfortune, I suddenly encountered a funeral and cried out to heaven and earth, not knowing what to complain about.
He was young and weak, and the country was in danger. He deeply felt the importance of the country and worried that he would not be able to shoulder the important responsibilities.
Relying on the ancestors to show their spirits, accumulate virtues and enjoy sacrifices, the customs of the late emperors are honest and simple, and the moral teachings of the saints are spread among the people.
The prime minister is wise and virtuous, with high honor and great virtue.
Accepting the death sentence depends on everyone's correction and instruction.
The ministers perform their duties diligently, and all officials are diligent in political affairs.
I hope that the weak king will have some sustenance and the inheritance of the ancestors will not be destroyed.
The blessings left by our ancestors have spread to the world. I want to carry forward the remaining blessings and make the people healthy.
He will grant amnesty to the whole world and eradicate the old and establish the new with the people.
On September 24, the Queen Mother, Princess Kuaiji, was posthumously given the title of Queen Shun.
On the eighth day of October, Emperor Jianwen was buried in Gaoping Mausoleum.
On the fifth day of November, the demon thief Lu Chu entered the imperial palace early in the morning, and guerrilla general Mao Anzhi and others captured him.
This year, there was a severe drought in Sanwu, and many people died of starvation. An order was issued to provide relief to the drought-stricken areas.
Fu Jian captured Qiuchi and captured Yang Shi, the governor of Qinzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Ningkang, the new year name was changed.
In February, the great Sima Huanwen came to pay homage.
On March 26, an edict was issued to exempt four bridges, including Danyang and Zhuge, from taxes.
In May, there was a drought.
On the 14th day of the seventh month, the envoys Chijie, Shizhong, Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces, Prime Minister, Lu Shangshu, Da Sima, Yangzhou Mu, Pingbei General, Xuzhou Yanzhou Governor, and Nanjun Gong Huan Wen died.
On the 25th, Huan Huo, the right general, was promoted to the general of conquering the west.
Huan Chong, the governor of the state, was appointed as the general of the Chinese army, the governor of Yangzhou, Yuzhou, and Jiangzhou military forces, and the governor of Yangzhou to guard Gushu.
On August 27, Empress Dowager Chongde came to the court to take charge of the affairs of the court.
In September, Fu Jian's general Yang An invaded Chengdu.
On the twelfth day, Wang Biaozhi, the Minister of Public Affairs, was appointed as the Minister of Public Affairs, Xie An, the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was appointed as the Minister of Public Affairs, and Diao Yi, the Minister of Wu Dynasty, was appointed as Beizhonglang general and Yanzhou governor of Xuzhou to guard Guangling.
Re-establish Guang Luxun, Da Sinong and Shaofu officials.
In October, Duke Zhang Tianxi of Xiping paid tribute to local products.
In November, Fu Jian's general Yang An captured Zitong, Liangzhou and Yizhou, and the governor Zhou Zhongsun led 5,000 cavalry to escape south.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of Ningkang, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Sima Yu, the eldest son of the former King of Kuaiji, was posthumously named King Xian of Linchuan.
On the 27th, General Beizhong Lang and Diao Yi, the governor of Xuzhou and Yanzhou, died.
On the first day of February, Wang Tanzhi, Yin of Danyang Prefecture, was appointed Beizhonglang General and Xu Yanzhou Governor.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, a comet appeared in the constellation Nuxu.
On the fifth day of March, the comet appeared in the constellation Di.
On April 11, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: Recently, the celestial phenomena have been out of order, and the sky has shown changes. Looking up at these changes, I feel shocked and worried in my heart.
Being able to bring about beauty due to strange moves has been the way since ancient times. How dare I not pay attention and do my best to consider appropriate measures?
In addition, Sanwu is a close place, as important as a county. However, floods and droughts are coming, and the people are unemployed. I worry day and night and cannot forget that I should rescue them in time and save them from poverty and poverty.
Counties such as Yixing, Jinling, and Kuaiji in Sanwu that suffered particularly serious floods were completely exempted from rent and taxes for one year. Other counties were allowed to be exempted from rent and taxes for half a year, and those who received relief loans were rewarded.
In May, Zhang Yu, a native of Shu, claimed to be the king of Shu, led his followers to besiege Chengdu, and sent envoys claiming to be ministers of Fanping.
In July, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou and a mountain collapsed.
Fu Jian's general Deng Qiang attacked Zhang Yu and destroyed him.
In August, due to the establishment of a queen, civil marriages were temporarily suspended.
On September 29, a comet invaded the constellation Ama.
On the second day of the eleventh month, the Qiao bandits from Tianmen attacked the county. The prefect Wang bandits died in the battle. Huan Huo, the general of the Western Conquest, sent troops to attack and pacify him.
Qian Bushe, Qian Hong and others from the Great Wall rebelled, but Zhu Xu, the prefect of Wuxing, suppressed them.
On the 26th, Zhenyuan general You Qian defeated Fu Jian's general Yao Chang in Dianjiang.
On the fifth day of the first lunar month of the third year of Ningkang, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the second day of the fifth lunar month, Beizhong Langjiang, Xu Yan, the Governor of the Second Prefecture, and Lantian Marquis Wang Tan died.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Huan Chong, the general of the Chinese army and the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Xuzhou to guard Dantu. Shangshu Pushe Xie An was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
On August 20th, Wang was made empress, a general amnesty was granted to the world, and all civil and military officials were increased to one rank.
In September, the emperor lectured on the "Book of Filial Piety".
On the first day of October, there is a solar eclipse. On December 12, the Divine Beast Gate was hit by fire.
On the 13th, the Crown Prince issued an edict saying: Recently there has been a solar eclipse, and there have been floods and droughts. Although we have tried our best to remedy the situation, the methods are incomplete.
Five bushels of rice are now given to each of the poor people.
On the 22nd, the emperor personally worshiped Confucius in the middle hall, accompanied by Yan Hui.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Taiyuan, the emperor crowned him and paid homage to him in the Ancestral Temple.
The Empress Dowager returned the affairs of state.
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and the year name was changed.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, the emperor came to court to listen to the government.
Huan Huo, the general who conquered the west, was appointed as the general who conquered the west, Xi Yiyin, the leading general, was appointed as the general of the town army, Huan Chong, the general of the central army, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry.
On the 23rd, the emperor paid homage to the four emperors' tombs in Jianping.
May 14th, earthquake.
On the 15th, the edict was issued: Recently, heaven has shown signs and condemned and warned of disasters many times. I am worried and shocked in my heart.
Considering reconsidering the lawsuit, suspending the death penalty, and pardoning the crimes, perhaps there will be a big change and a new beginning.
So a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and all civil and military officials were given a new title.
In June, Sima Fanzhi, son of Sima Qin, king of Hejian, was granted the title of King Zhangwu.
In July, Fu Jian's general Gou Chang captured Liangzhou, captured Zhang Tianxi, the governor, and occupied all of Liangzhou.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the system of measuring land and collecting rent was abolished, and everyone below the prince paid three hu of tax rice, except those in service.
In October, the floating population in Huaibei was moved to Huainan.
On the first day of November, there was a solar eclipse, and the eunuchs were ordered to reduce the imperial food.
In December, Fu Jian sent his general Fu Luo to attack Dai and captured the king of Dai, She Yiqian.
In the first month of the second year of Taiyuan, the extinct ancestral sacrifices were restored, and the descendants who had been cut off were continued, so that the descendants of the heroes could inherit the ancestral inheritance.
In March, Zhu Xu, the governor of Yanzhou, was appointed as the general of Nanzhonglang, the governor of Liangzhou, and the troops of Jianmiozhong to guard Xiangyang.
On March 19th, there was an earthquake.
On the 21st, a strong wind blew, breaking trees and overturning houses.
On April 16, there was hail.
On May 14th, there was an earthquake.
One day in June, there was a strong wind and the sand and rocks were flying.
Linyi paid tribute to local products.
On a certain day in July, Canopus appeared.
On the first day of August, the chariot and cavalry general Huan Chong came to see him.
On the 16th, Shangshu Pushe Xie An was appointed as Situ.
On the 25th, the envoy Chijie was in charge of the military affairs of the six states of Jing, Liang, Ning, Yi, Jiao, and Guang. The governor of Jingzhou, General Huan Huo, died in the expedition to the west.
On October 11, General Huan Chong, the chariot and cavalry general, took over the military affairs of the seven states of Jing, Jiang, Liang, Yi, Ning, Jiao, and Guang. He led and protected the Nanman captains and the governor of Jingzhou. Wang Yun, the minister, was the governor of Xuzhou and supervised the troops in Jinling in the south of the Yangtze River. Xie Xuan, the commander of the Western Army, was appointed the governor of Yanzhou and the prime minister of Guangling, and supervised the armies north of the Yangtze River.
On the twelfth day, Sanqi Changshi, Zuo Guanglu, and Shangshuling Wang Biao died.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month, Wang Shao, the minister, was appointed as the servant of the minister.
On February 17, the third year of Taiyuan, the construction of the new palace began, and the emperor moved to the palace of Prince Kuaiji.
On the seventh day of March, there were thunderstorms and strong winds, which broke trees and destroyed houses.
On May 13th, Cao Hui, king of Chenliu, died.
In June, there was a flood.
On July 25, the emperor moved to the newly built palace.
On the 29th, Canopus appeared in the south.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of Taiyuan, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and counties and counties suffering from floods and droughts were exempted from rent and tax.
On the 23rd, the emperor paid homage to the seven emperors' tombs in Jianping.
In February, Fu Jian sent his son Fu Pi to capture Xiangyang and captured Nan Zhonglang general Zhu Xu.
They also captured Shunyang.
In March, there was a major epidemic.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, an edict was issued saying: The cunning enemy invaders are arrogant and indulgent, the defenders are overthrown, and the battlefield is more troublesome than usual.
Various officials, both internal and external, work together to make everything prosperous.
In addition, the grain harvest was not good, and the people were in many shortages.
The royal supplies provided by the imperial edict are all frugal. The supplies provided by the nine relatives, and the salaries of the officials are reduced by half.
All other labor expenses, except for military and national affairs, should be stopped or reduced to support current major events.
On the first day of April, the right general Mao Wusheng was sent to lead an army to attack Shu.
This month Fu Jian's general Wei Zhong captured Wei Xing, and the prefect Ji Yi died in the battle.
In May, Fu Jian's generals were all in trouble, Peng Chao captured Xuyi, and Mao Zhi, the internal secretary of Gaomi, was captured alive by the bandits.
In June, there was a severe drought.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, generals Xie Xuan, Peng Chao, and Ji Nan fought in Junchuan and defeated the enemy.
On the seventh day of the eighth lunar month, General Wang Yun of the left was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
On the 15th, there was a strong wind and flying sand and rocks.
In September, bandits killed Fu Zhan, the governor of Jian'an.
On the first day of December, there is a solar eclipse.
On the twenty-eighth day of the first month of the fifth year of Taiyuan, the emperor paid homage to Chongping Ling.
In April, there was a severe drought.
On the 27th, those serving prison sentences of less than five years were pardoned.
In May, there was a flood.
Situ Xie'an was appointed as the general of the guard and the third division of Yitong.
On the ninth day of the sixth lunar month, the four pillars of Hanzhang Hall were destroyed by lightning, killing two chamberlains.
On the 19th, due to successive years of famine, a general amnesty was issued for the whole country. The old rent debts before the third year of Taiyuan were all forgiven. Those who were widowed, lonely, old and unable to support themselves were given five bushels of rice each.
On the 22nd, Sima Daozi, the general of the Hussars and King of Ya of Lang, was appointed as the disciple.
On the tenth day of September, Queen Wang died.
In October, Li Xun, the governor of Jiuzhen, occupied Jiaozhou Zao.
On November 13, Queen Ding was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
In the first month of the sixth year of Taiyuan, the emperor began to believe in Buddhism, set up a Buddhist monastery in the temple, and introduced Buddhist monks to live there.
On the 26th, Shangshu Xie Shi was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
Begin to set up a censor to supervise transportation.
On the first day of June, there is a solar eclipse. Floods occurred in Yangzhou, Jingzhou, and Jiangzhou.
On the 30th, the system was revised, costs were reduced, and 700 officials were laid off.
On the seventh day of July, those who have been imprisoned for less than five years are pardoned.
On the 25th, Du Wangyuan, the prefect of Jiaozhi, killed Li Xun and Jiaozhou was pacified.
There is great hunger in the world.
On the eighth day of the eleventh month, the general of the army, Xi Yanyin, was appointed as Sikong.
Tan Yuan, a native of Kuaiji, rebelled and called himself General Anton. Xie Ai, the general of the Zhenjun army, launched a campaign to put down the rebellion.
On the eighth day of the twelfth lunar month, Fu Jian sent Yan Zhen, the governor of Xiangyang, to attack Jingling. Huan Shiqian, the governor of Xiangyang, attacked and captured Yan Zhen alive.
In March of the seventh year of Taiyuan, Fan Xiong of Linyi sent envoys to donate local products.
On August 11th, there was a general amnesty.
In September, the five countries of Dongyi sent envoys to pay tribute to local products.
Fu Jian's generals burned the rice fields in Mianbei and plundered the people of Xiangyang.
On October 15th, the sky thundered.
On February 24, the eighth year of Taiyuan, a heavy yellow fog filled the air.
In March, floods occurred in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the flat ground was five feet deep.
On the 28th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In May, Yang Liang, the general of the auxiliary state, attacked Shu, captured five cities, and captured Fu Jian's general Wei Guang alive.
In July, Yingyang's general Guo Qia and Fu Jian's general Zhang Chong fought in Wudang and defeated the enemy.
In August, Fu Jian led his troops to cross the Huaihe River. The imperial court sent the expedition commander Xie Shi, the champion general Xie Xuan, the auxiliary general Xie Yan, and the Xizhonglang general Huan Yi to resist.
In September, an edict was issued to ask Situ and Sima Daozi, King of Ya and King of Lang, to record six items in the Secretariat.
In October, Fu Jian's younger brother Fu Rong captured Shouchun.
On the 20th, the generals fought with Fu Jian at Fei River and defeated the enemy. They captured and beheaded tens of thousands of people and captured Fu Jian's chariot and mica chariot.
On a certain day in November, General Xie An of the Imperial Guard was in Jincheng to greet the victorious troops.
On the 27th, Cao Lingdan, the eldest son of King Chenliu, was made King Chenliu.
On December 15th, because the enemy invaders had just been pacified, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
Xie Shi, the general of the Chinese army, was appointed as Shangshu Ling.
Lift Prohibition.
And began to increase the tax rice from the people, five stones per person.
In the past, Zhai Liao, the king of Juding, betrayed Fu Jian and raised troops in Henan. Murong Chui joined Zhai Liao from Ye and attacked Fu Jian's son Fu Hui in Luoyang.
Yang Shi, Duke of Qiuchi, fled back to Longyou and sent envoys to proclaim him his ministers.
On the 16th day of the first month of the ninth year of Taiyuan, Sima Bao, the grandson of King Wuling, was granted the title of King of Linchuan.
On the fourth day of February, Sima Zun, the son of King Sima of Xinning, was made King of Xinning.
On the twenty-seventh day of the first lunar month, the emperor paid homage to the four tombs of Jianping.
Longxiang General Liu Laozhi captured Qiaocheng.
Guo Bao, the chariot general and governor Huan Chong's subordinate, attacked Xincheng, Wei Xing and Shangyong counties and surrendered them.
On February 27th, the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of Jingzhou, Jiang, Liang, Ning, Yi, Jiao, and Guangzhou, and the generals of chariots and cavalry, and the governor of Jingzhou Huan Chong died.
Murong Chui joined forces with Zhai Liao from Luoyang to attack Fu Jian's son Fu Pi in Yedi.
In March, General Xie An of the Guard was appointed as the chief security officer.
Fu Jian's northern governor Shi Muronghong and Pingyang governor Murong Chong both rebelled against Fu Jian.
On April 26, 100 Tai students were added.
Zhang Tianxi was granted the title of Duke of Xiping.
He sent Zhao Tong, the governor of Jingling, to attack Xiangyang and captured it.
Fu Jian's general Yao Chang betrayed Fu Jian, raised troops in the north, and proclaimed himself king. His country was named Qin.
On the first day of June, Empress Dowager Chu of Chongde died of illness.
Murong Hong was killed by his uncle Murong Chong, who called himself the emperor's younger brother.
On July 17, he sent Sikong Sikong and Sima Chunzhi, King of Gaomi, to repair and worship Luoyang and other Five Tombs.
On the 28th, Queen Kang Xian was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.
Baekje sent envoys to pay tribute to local products.
Fu Jian and Murong Chong fought in Zhengxi, and Fu Jian's army failed.
On August 27, Sikong Xiyin died.
On September 11, the forward commander Xie Xuan attacked Fu Jian's general Yanzhou governor Zhang Chong in Juancheng and defeated him.
On the 14th, Taibao Xie'an was granted the title of Grand Commander-in-Chief of Military Affairs in the fifteen prefectures of Yang, Jiang, Jing, Si, Yu, Xu, Yan, Qing, Ji, You, Bing, Liang, Yi, Yong, and Liang.
On the first day of October, there is a solar eclipse. On the seventh day of the lunar month, Sima Tan, the king of Hejian, died.
On the 15th, due to the violation of celestial phenomena, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
On the 20th, Sima Chong, the younger brother of Sima Huang, the former king of Xincai, was appointed king of Xincai.
Fu Lang, Fu Jian's Qingzhou governor, led his disciples to surrender.
In December, Fu Jian's general Lu Guang assumed the emperor's authority in Heyou and named himself Duke of Jiuquan.
Murong Chong usurped the throne and became emperor in Afang.
On the sixteenth day of the first month of the tenth year of Taiyuan, the emperor paid homage to the tombs.
In February, the National School was established.
Ren Quan, the governor of Shu County, beheaded Fu Jian's Yizhou governor Li Ping, and Yizhou was pacified.
In March, Zheng Xie from Xingyang led the county to surrender.
There was turmoil in Fu Jian's country, so he sent envoys to ask for help.
Longxiang General Liu Laozhi and Murong Chui fought in Liyang, and the imperial army was severely defeated.
On the ninth day of April, Liu Laozhi and the governor of Pei County Zhou Ci fought with Murong Chui at Wuqiaoze, and the imperial army was defeated again.
On the 15th, Taibao Xie An led the troops to rescue Fu Jian.
In May, there was a flood.
Fu Jian left Prince Fu Hong to guard Chang'an and fled to Wujiang Mountain.
In June, Fu Honglai surrendered and Murong Chong entered Chang'an.
In July, Fu Pi fled westward from Fangtou. Longxiang General Tan Xuan pursued him, but was defeated by Fu Pi.
Severe drought and famine.
On the 12th, Canopus appeared.
On August 19th, there was a general amnesty.
On the 22nd, the envoy Chijie, Shizhong, Zhongshu Jian, Dadu Superintendent of the military affairs of the fifteen states, General Wei, and Taibao Xie An died.
On the 25th, Sima Daozi, the King of Ya of Lang, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
This month, Yao Chang killed Fu Jian and usurped the throne as emperor.
In September, Lu Guang occupied Guzang and proclaimed himself the governor of Liangzhou.
Fu Pi usurped the throne as emperor in Jinyang.
On October 13, after reviewing the merits of the Battle of Feishui on the Huaihe River, Xie An was granted the title of Duke of Luling County, Xie Shi was granted the title of Duke of Nankang, Xie Xuan was granted the title of Duke Kang Le, Xie Yan was granted the title of Duke Wangcai, and Huan Yi was granted the title of Duke Yongxiu.
In this year, Qifu Guoren claimed to be the pastor of the two states of Shanyu, Qin and He.
On the 28th of the first month of the eleventh year of Taiyuan, Murong Chui usurped the throne as emperor in Zhongshan.
On February 10, Zhai Liao attacked Liyang and captured the prefect Teng Tianzhi.
On the thirteenth day, the emperor paid homage to the tombs.
Murong Chui's general Xu Mumo killed Murong Chong in Chang'an. In March, there is a general amnesty.
Zhang Yuan, the governor of Taishan, led the county to rebel and surrendered to Zhai Liao.
In April, Yuhui, the eldest son of King Baekje, was appointed as envoy Jijie, governor, general Zhendong, and king of Baekje.
King Tuoba Wang Gui began to rename the state of Wei.
On the 22nd, Shangshu Pushe Lu Na was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Sima Tian, ​​the king of Qiao, was appointed as Shangshu right Pushe.
June 9th, earthquake.
On the 20th, Yang Liang, the former general of the auxiliary state, was appointed as the captain of Xirong and the governor of Yongzhou to guard the emperor's mausoleum.
On the first day of August, Kong Jingzhi was made the Marquis of Fengshengting Pavilion and offered sacrifices to Xuanni.
On the 18th, King Anping Sima Sui died.
Zhai Liao invaded Qiao, and Long Xiang's general Zhu Xu drove him away.
In October, Murong Chui defeated Fu Pi in Hedong. Fu Pi fled to Dongyuan. General Feng Gai attacked and beheaded him, and his head was sent to Kyoto.
On the 16th, Ma Yi of Haixi Company died.
In November, Fu Pi's general Fu Deng usurped the throne in Longdong and became emperor.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Zhu Xu, the governor of Yuzhou, was appointed the governor of Qingzhou and Yanzhou to guard Huaiyin.
On March 11th, there was a general amnesty.
On the 16th, a strong wind blew, destroying houses and breaking down trees.
On the 22nd, Murong Chui invaded Hedong, and Wen Xiang, the chief defender of Jibei Province, fled to Pengcheng.
Zhai Liao sent his son Zhai Zhao to invade Chen and Ying, but Zhu Xu beat him away.
On April 3, the Emperor honored his wife Li as the Crown Princess.
On the 24th, it hailed.
Zhai Chang, a native of Gaoping, captured the prefect Xu Hanyuan and led the county to surrender to Zhai Liao.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, the officials Dai Kui and Gong Xuanzhi were hired with the gift of silk.
On August 18, the prince Dezong was made the crown prince, a general amnesty was granted to the world, civil and military ministers were promoted to a higher rank, a banquet was held for five days, and various amounts of cloth and silk were given to all officials.
On September 25, he appointed Sima Zun, king of Xinning, as king of Wuling, and Sima He, son of Sima Wangfeng, king of Liang, as king of Liang.
In November, Wang Xazhi, the prefect of Songzi, attacked Zhai Liao in Luokou and defeated Zhai Liao.
On April 29, the 13th year of Taiyuan, Zhu Xu, the governor of Qingzhou and Yanzhou, was appointed as Chijie and the military governor of the nine counties of Yong, Liang and Mianzhong. Sima Tianzhi, the governor of Yongzhou and the king of Qiao, was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Qingzhou and Yanzhou.
June, severe drought.
Qifu Guoren died, and his younger brother Qiangui inherited the false throne and assumed the title of King of Henan.
In September, Zhai Liao's general Zhai Fa invaded Xiangyang. Guo Gei, the governor of Henan, resisted the enemy and defeated the enemy army.
On the third day of December, waves entered Stone City, destroying the large pontoon bridge and drowning people.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, there was a strong wind and the day was dark, and Yanxian Hall suffered a fire.
On the 11th, Katydid's hall, guest house, and hussar arsenal all suffered fires.
On the 14th, Xie Shi was granted the title of Shangshu and was appointed General of the Guard and Kaifu Yitong to the Third Division.
On the 15th, Shangshu Ling, General Wei, and Kaifu Yi died with Xie Shi.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month of the fourteenth year of Taiyuan, the imperial edict was issued that all the prisoners captured in Huainan who had been handed over to the weapons-making department should be demobilized, and the men and women should be matched with each other, and they should be given a hundred days of food. Those who had been reduced to military rewards were all redeemed, and a county was established for them to live in the fertile lands of Xiangyang and Huainan.
Pengcheng bandit general Liu Li usurped the throne and proclaimed himself emperor in Huangqiu, and Longxiang general Liu Laozhi put him down.
In February, Funan presented local products.
Lu Guang assumed the title of King of Three Rivers.
On April 20th, Sima Hong, the king of Pengcheng, died.
Zhai Liao invaded Xingyang and captured the prefect Zhang Zhuo.
On June 19, the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Jing, Yi, and Ning states, and the governor of Jingzhou Huan Shiqian died.
On the third day of July, the four pillars of Xuanyang Gate caught fire.
In August, Yao Chang defeated Fu Deng in a secret attack and captured his puppet queen Mao.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, King Sima Yi of Runan died.
On September 19th, Ren Shangshu Zuopu shot Lu Na as Shangshu order.
On December 25, it rained and the trees froze.
On the twenty-sixth day of the first month of the fifteenth year of Taiyuan, Sima Tian, ​​the general of Zhenbei and the king of Qiao, died.
Longxiang General Liu Laozhi fought with Zhai Liao and Zhang Yuan in Taishan, and the imperial army was defeated.
General Zhu Xu defeated Murong Yong in Taihang.
On the second day of February, Zhongshu ordered Wang Gong to be the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the five states of Qing, Yan, You, Bing, and Ji, the former general, and the governor of the two states of Qing and Yan.
On the first day of March, there was an earthquake.
On the 20th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On July 11, a comet appeared near the star Pollux.
In August, Li Dan from Yongjia led his troops to rebel, and the prefect Liu Huaizhi put him down.
On the 13th, there was an earthquake in Beijing.
A comet appeared on the Big Dipper, attacking the Ziwei constellation.
Floods occurred in various counties in Miazhong and Yanzhou.
Long Xiang's general Zhu Xu attacked Zhai Liao at Huatai. Zhai Liao was defeated and Zhang Yuan came to surrender.
On the first day of September, Wang Wangxun, the prefect of Wu County, was appointed as the official secretary.
December 15th, earthquake.
In a certain month of the 16th year of Taiyuan, the Ancestral Temple was rebuilt.
In June, Murong Yong invaded Henan, and the prefect Yang Genquan defeated the enemy. On the 18th, Sima Fan, king of Zhangwu, died.
On September 14, Wang Xun, the right servant of Shangshu, was appointed as the left servant of Shangshu, and Prince Zhan Shi Xie Yan was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
The new Taimiao Temple was built.
In November, Yao Chang defeated Fu Deng in Anding.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the seventeenth year of Taiyuan, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and old rent debts from previous years were forgiven.
In April, the domestic history of Qi Jiang Zhe killed Pilu Xurui, the governor of Le'an, and occupied Qingzhou Zao. Piluhun, the governor of Beipingyuan, launched a crusade to quell the rebellion.
On the first day of May, there is a solar eclipse. On the eighth day of June, an earthquake occurred in Beijing.
On the 19th, floods entered Stone City and destroyed the floating bridge.
The tide surged in Yongjia County, and many people died in the four counties near the sea.
On the 20th, strong winds blew and the trees were broken.
On the 23rd, Sima He, King of Liang, died.
Murong Chui attacked Zhai Zhao in Liyang and defeated him. Zhai Zhao fled to Murong Yong.
On July 12, Taibai Star appeared during the day.
In August, the new East Palace was built.
On the fourth day of October, Taibai appears during the day.
On the 18th, Wang Chen, the military governor of Jingzhou, Yizhou and Ningzhou, and the governor of Jingzhou died.
On the tenth day of November, Huangmenlang Yin Zhongkan was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Jingzhou, Yi and Liangzhou, and the governor of Jingzhou.
On the 27th, Sima Daozi, King of Ya of Langwang, was renamed King of Kuaiji, and Prince Sima Dewen was named King of Ya of Langwang.
On December 27, an earthquake occurred.
This year, it doesn't rain from autumn until winter.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the eighteenth year of Taiyuan, an earthquake occurred.
On the fourth day of February, another earthquake occurred.
In March, Zhai Zhao invaded Henan.
On the ninth day of the sixth lunar month, floods broke out in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the water was five feet deep.
In July, there was a severe drought.
In the seventh month, the traitor Sima Hui gathered his followers in Ma Tou Mountain, and Liu Laozhi sent his troops to put him down.
On August 28, Longxiang general Yang Quanqi attacked Di commander Yang Fosong in Tonggu and defeated him.
In December, Yao Chang died, and his son Yao Xing inherited the pseudo-throne.
In June of the 19th year of Taiyuan, the Queen Mother Zheng of Kuaiji was honored as Queen Mother Jian Wenxuan.
In July, floods occurred in Jing and Xuzhou, destroying the autumn crops. The imperial court sent envoys to provide relief and compensation.
On August 16, the imperial concubine Li was honored as the empress dowager, and the palace where she lived was called Chongxun Palace.
Murong Chui's eldest son attacked Murong Yong and beheaded him.
In October, Murong Chui sent his son Ernu to invade Linqiu. Wei Jian, the prefect of Dongping, fought with Murong Chui's general Yin Guo in Pinglu, and Wei Jian died in the battle.
In this year, Fu Deng was killed by Yao Xing. Fu Deng's prince Fu Chong fled to Huangzhong and assumed the throne as emperor.
In February of the 20th year of Taiyuan, the Temple of Queen Mother Xuan was built.
On the fourth day of the lunar month, Sanqi Changshi, Guanglu Dafu, Kaifu Yitong, and Shangshu ordered Lu Na to die.
On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse. In June, there were floods in Jingzhou and Xuzhou.
In November, King Tuoba Wang Gui of Wei attacked Murong Chui's son Murong Bao in Shui Valley and defeated him.
In the first month of the 21st year of Taiyuan, the Qingshu Palace was built. In March, Murong Chui captured Pingcheng. In April, the new Yong'an Palace was built.
On the 14th, there was hail.
Murong was dying, and his son Murong Bao succeeded him to the throne.
On May 15th, Wang Cai Gong Xie Yan was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Flood.
In June, Lu Guang usurped the throne and became the emperor.
On September 20, the emperor died in Qingshu Palace at the age of thirty-five.
Buried in Longping Mausoleum.
Emperor Xiaowu was known for his intelligence and enlightenment when he was young.
When Emperor Jian Wen died, he was only ten years old. He did not attend the funeral in the evening, but came to give advice. He replied: "Weep when you are sad. What is the rule?"
Xie An once lamented that Emperor Xiaowu was as good at affairs as the previous emperor.
After the authority was established, some people were magnanimous and soon indulged in wine and sex, drinking almost all night long.
When the comet appeared at the end of the year, the emperor was very disgusted in his heart. He raised a glass of wine in Hualin Garden and prayed: Comet, I advise you to drink a glass of wine. Since ancient times, where has the emperor lived for ten thousand years?
The Taibai Star appears in the daytime year after year, and earthquakes, floods and droughts occur one after another.
Days of sobriety are rare. And since there are no upright people around him, he cannot change in the end.
At that time, Zhang Guiren was favored and she was nearly thirty years old. The emperor teased her and said: "You should be abandoned according to your age."
Zhang Guiren was secretly angry. At night, the emperor got drunk and died suddenly.
At that time, Sima Daozi was fatuous and confused, and Sima Yuan showed his power and did not even pursue the criminals.
At the beginning, Emperor Jian Wen saw the text predicting good and bad luck and said: The national destiny of the Jin Dynasty failed in the hands of Changming.
When Emperor Xiaowu was still a fetus, Empress Dowager Li dreamed that the man of God said to her: If you give birth to a boy, the character will be "Changming".
When he was born, it was bright in the east, so he took the word "Changming" as his character.
Emperor Jian Wen later understood and burst into tears.
When the Qingshu Palace was built, knowledgeable people believed that the sound of "Qingshu" was the sound of "Chu", which meant a sign of sadness and sadness.
Soon after the emperor died, the fortune of the Jin Dynasty collapsed.
Shi Chen said: The historical books in the past said: "How can a king rise without being deposed? If he is as outstanding as a god, he will inherit the throne with glory, cross the thick clouds with high head, and cross the river with leaps."
Shaokang only had one brigade of troops, so he won the throne of the Xia king; Chengtang only had seventy lands, but he revitalized the emperor's great cause; he was able to manage the rivers and seas after they broke out, and he was able to remedy the chaos in the sky; things are different from this, so the reasons are also different.
Emperor Jian Wen was in a difficult time because of his innocuous nature. Government orders were issued by the Huan family, and people of his own clan had no power.
After Taizong's death, Ningkang inherited the great cause. God was moved by his loyalty, and the treacherous officials perished on their own.
So in the west, we surpassed Jianxiu and crossed Lingshan Mountain, and in the north, we crossed the Yellow River and reached the clear Luoshui River. The warriors of Jing and Wu became powerful, famous virtuous ministers appeared one after another, and the virtuous elders were still there. Xie An can lead elegant and popular people, Wang Biaozhi can regulate discipline, Huan Chong works hard all day long, and Xie Xuan is good at military affairs.
At that time, God favored him, and the powerful Di people disappeared.
The five-foot-old boy waved his sleeves to the Yangtze River, hoping to let the flag fly to the Tianshan Mountains and guard the Xiongguan in Han Valley; but the laws and regulations were not spread, the majesty and kindness were rarely achieved, Sima Daozi was idle in the government, the national treasure gathered villains, the honor of being awarded an official title was not originally God's will, the goods obtained through corruption in prison entered the homes of the powerful, exorbitant taxes and miscellaneous taxes increased year by year, and the number of poor people increased year by year.
So Wen Ren and Xu Rong wrote to the emperor, and Lie Zong knew that they were frank and honest, but they hated hearing unfavorable advice, so they drank as much as they wanted in the morning and toasted frequently at night.
Although there are dreams of prosperity, where can I hear the words of the gods?
It can be seen that the decline of the Jin Dynasty was also man-made. As the saying goes, the political affairs of big countries have not yet declined, but the chaos of small countries has brought the country to its knees.
It happened that Fu Jian was at the moment when his misfortune was approaching. Isn't it funny to abandon his defeated troops and call Mi Mi the "Wu"?
Praise says: A king is like a crown, his fortune is not always good.
Emperor Jian was quiet and inactive, leaving no disaster behind.
When Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne, the traitor disappeared naturally.
Yan Zhizhi fought for the road, and Uncle Zheng parted ways.
The sponsors came to the emperor's banquet, and the beautiful women persuaded them to drink wine.
The autumn wind is sluggish, and human affairs are the first to decline.
