It is recorded in the ancient "Book of Songs" and "Shangshu" that during the Yu-Xia period, Shun and Yu accepted abdication, accumulated virtues, and had a harmonious relationship with the people. They began to take charge of administration and accepted the assessment of heaven. After decades, they then took office.
The king of Yin and Zhou Dynasty was from Qi and Houji. He practiced benevolence and righteousness for more than ten generations. As for Tang and Wu, he was exiled and killed.
Qin started with Duke Xiang, and through Duke Wen, Duke Mu, Duke Xian, Duke Xiao, King Zhaoxiang, and King Zhuangxiang, they worked hard to govern and began to encroach on the six countries for more than a hundred years. It was not until the First Emperor that he unified the world.
Even if they govern the country with virtue like they do, it can be seen that it took many twists and turns to establish the current situation.
After Qin Shihuang proclaimed himself emperor, he thought that the reason for the collapse of the Zhou Dynasty was due to the unreasonable comments of those who were not officials in the court. The power of the princes was too great, and the barbarians invaded each other. Their power was gradually weakened and they perished.
So he cut off the fifth-class titles, destroyed the city, destroyed the weapons, banned private discussions among the people, burned the banned books, eradicated the heroes internally, resisted the invasion of Hu and Guangdong externally, and unified the authority, thinking that this would be able to stabilize the country forever.
However, in just over ten years, ferocious enemies suddenly launched an attack. The group of criminals was stronger than the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period. Ordinary villagers were a more serious threat than the foreign troops. The response from the world was more brutal than slander and private discussion, and bare hands were more powerful than soldiers in armor. In the past, the bans imposed by the Qin Dynasty accelerated the pace of its own destruction precisely because they were beneficial to heroes.
Therefore, although the Han Dynasty did not have the rank of a foot or earth, he achieved imperial status in five years with just the power of a sword.
This is something that has never been recorded in ancient classics.
Why?
Most of the changes in power in ancient times inherited the achievements of the Holy Kings, but now the Han Dynasty is solely responsible for the disadvantages of the Qin Dynasty.
Those who engrave metal and stone are unlikely to succeed, and those who destroy the dead and decayed are easy to work hard. The situation dictates.
Therefore, since the founding of the Han Dynasty, a total of eighteen kings with different surnames have been granted the title, arranged by month. After the unification of the world, those granted later will be calculated by year.
By the time of Xiaowen, there were no more kings with different surnames.
