Zhang Er was a native of Daliang, Wei State.
When he was young, he was a guest at the gate of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
Zhang Er was once expelled from the local register and fled to Waihuang.
There was a daughter of a wealthy family in Waihuang. She was very beautiful, but she married a stupid and mediocre husband. She therefore ran away from her husband and went to live with her father's old friend.
Her father's friend knew Zhang Er well, so he said to the woman: If you must marry a talented husband, marry Zhang Er.
The woman listened to his advice, finally severed her relationship with her husband, and remarried Zhang Er.
At this time, Zhang Er was freed from his embarrassment and began to travel extensively. The bride's family provided Zhang Er with generous supplies, so Zhang Er could attract guests from thousands of miles away.
So Huang became the county magistrate outside Wei.
His reputation grew.
Chen Yu was also a native of Daliang in Wei State. He loved Confucianism and had visited Kuxing in Zhao State many times.
A very wealthy Gongcheng family married his daughter to him because he knew that Chen Yu was not an ordinary mediocre person.
When Chen Yu was young, he served Zhang Er like his father, and the two established a friendship through adversity that they would never regret.
When the Qin Dynasty destroyed Daliang, Zhang Er's family lived in Waihuang. When Han Emperor Gaozu was still an ordinary commoner, he had many contacts with Zhang Er and lived in Zhang Er's family for several months at a time.
A few years after the fall of the Qin State and the Wei State, it was heard that these two men were famous people in the Wei State, and a reward was offered for their arrest. Anyone who captured Zhang Er would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins, and whoever captured Chen Yu would be rewarded with a reward of five hundred gold coins.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu changed their names and fled to Chendi together, where they worked as guards to support themselves. They lived opposite each other.
A minor official once whipped Chen Yu for a minor offense. Chen Yu was about to resist, but Zhang Er quickly stepped on him to signal him not to move and accept the whipping. After the minor official left, Zhang Er took Chen Yu under the mulberry tree and scolded him: "What did I tell you in the first place?"
Now that I have suffered a little humiliation, am I going to die at the hands of an official?
Chen Yu thought he was right.
The State of Qin issued an order proclamation, offering a reward for the arrest of the two of them. They also used their status as Li Zhengwei to convey the order to the residents of Lizhong.
Chen She revolted in Qizhou and when he invaded Chen, his army had expanded to tens of thousands.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu asked to see Chen She.
Chen She and his cronies had heard that Zhang Er and Chen Yu were talented many times, but they had never met them, and they were very happy after meeting them.
The heroes and elders of Chendi persuaded Chen She: "The general wears strong armor and holds sharp weapons. He leads the soldiers to attack the tyrannical Qin State, reestablishes the power of Chu State, revives the destroyed country, and continues the extinct heirs. Such merits should be called the king."
Moreover, we have to supervise and lead all the generals in the world. It is impossible not to call ourselves kings. I hope that the generals will be established as kings of Chu.
Chen She asked Chen Yu and Zhang Er for their opinions on this, and they replied: The Qin State is unethical and has occupied other people's countries, destroyed their country, cut off their descendants, and plundered the people's property.
The general's eyes widened with anger, he let go of his courage and risked his life, just to eliminate cruelty and cruelty in the world.
Now he has just conquered Chen Di and proclaimed himself king, showing his selfishness in front of everyone in the world.
I hope the general will not become king. He quickly led his troops to the west and sent people to support the descendants of the Six Kingdoms as his own party members to increase the hostility to Qin.
The more enemies we make for it, the more dispersed its power will be. The more members we have, the stronger our troops will be. If this is the case, there will be no need to fight each other in the vast wilderness, and there will be no county towns to defend and attack. After eradicating the tyrannical Qin State, we can occupy Xianyang and issue orders to the princes.
The various vassal states can be reestablished after their destruction, and they can be inspired by kindness. If this can be done, then the great cause of the emperor will be successful.
Now that I am only king of Chen, I am afraid that all the princes in the world will become slack and disobedient.
Chen She did not listen to their opinions and proclaimed himself king.
Chen Yu once again advised King Chen and said: Your Majesty has dispatched the armies of Liang and Chu to advance westward. The top priority is to break through Hangu Pass. It is too late to recover the area north of the Yellow River. I have traveled extensively in Zhao State and am familiar with the outstanding people and geographical conditions there. I volunteered to lead an army to seize the land of Zhao State by surprise in the north.
Therefore, King Chen appointed his old friend Wu Chen from Chen as the general, Shao Sao as the guard, Zhang Er and Chen Yu as the left and right captains, and allocated an army of 3,000 people to seize the land of Zhao to the north.
Wu Chen and others crossed the Yellow River from Baimajin and went to various counties to lobby the local heroes and said: Qin's chaos and torture have been killing the people of the world for decades.
There were hard laborers building the Great Wall on the northern border, and soldiers were being recruited to garrison the Five Ridges in the south. There was turmoil at home and abroad, and the people were exhausted. Grains were collected on a per capita basis and collected with dustpans to support the expenses of the army. All the money was exhausted, and the people were in dire straits.
Coupled with severe harsh laws and torture, fathers and sons in the world have no peace.
King Chen rose up and first advocated for the world. He became king in Chu land. There was no one in the area of ​​two thousand miles who did not respond. Every family was filled with indignation and everyone was full of fighting spirit. Those who had grievances complained and those who had grievances took revenge. Each county killed their magistrates and magistrates, and each county killed their governors and lieutenants.
Now the great Chu State has been established, proclaimed king in Chen, and sent Wu Guang and Zhou Wen to lead a million troops to the west to attack the Qin army.
At this time, if you are not able to achieve the feat of becoming a prince, then you are not a hero among men.
Please plan for each other!
Everyone in the world agrees that they have suffered from the tyranny of Qin for a long time.
Using the power of the people of the world to attack the unprincipled king, avenge the father and brother, and complete the great cause of dividing the land, this is an opportunity that ambitious people cannot miss.
All the heroes thought this was correct.
So while marching and fighting, he gathered his troops. The army expanded to tens of thousands, and the military official named himself Lord Wu Xin.
Ten cities of Zhao were captured, and the rest were defended. No one was willing to surrender.
So he led his troops to attack Fan Yang in the northeast direction.
Kuai Tong, a native of Fan Yang, advised Fan Yang Ling: I heard privately that you were about to die, so I came to express my condolences.
Even so, I would like to congratulate you for being resurrected because of me, Kuai Tong.
Fan Yangling said: Why do you express condolences to me?
Kuai Tong replied: The laws of the Qin State are very harsh. You have served as the magistrate of Fanyang County for ten years. You have killed so many elders, created so many orphans and widows, cut off people's feet, and tattooed people's faces. They are countless.
However, no one of the kind fathers and filial children dares to insert a knife into your belly, just because they are afraid of the laws of the Qin Dynasty.
The world is in chaos now. The laws of the State of Qin cannot be enforced. In this case, those loving fathers and filial sons will plunge their sharp knives into your stomach to achieve their reputation. This is why I have come to condolences and condolences to you.
Now, all the princes have betrayed the Qin court. Wu Xinjun's troops are about to arrive, but you have to defend Fan Yang. The young people are rushing to kill you and defect to Wu Xinjun.
You should send me to see Mr. Wu Xin immediately. We can turn disaster into blessing now.
Fan Yangling sent Kuai Tong to see Wu Xinjun and said: You must win the battle and then seize the land, break through the enemy and then occupy the city. I privately think that this is wrong.
If you can follow my plan, you can surrender the city without attacking, seize the land without fighting, and let you pacify the vast land as long as you issue a proclamation. Is that okay?
Wu Xinjun said: What are you referring to?
Kuai Tong replied: Now Fan Yangling should organize his troops to resist, but he is timid and afraid of death, greedy for wealth and honor, so he wants to be the first to surrender, but he is also afraid that you will think that he is an official appointed by the Qin State, and will be killed like the officials in the ten cities that were captured before.
And now the young people in Fanyang City are also trying to kill him and defend the city to resist you.
Why don't you let me take Hou Yin and appoint Fan Yangling? Fan Yangling will dedicate the city to you, and young people will not dare to kill their county magistrate.
Let Fan Yangling ride in a luxuriously decorated car and drive through the countryside of Yan and Zhao.
When people in the countryside of Yan and Zhao saw him, they would say that this was Fan Yangling. He was the first to surrender, and he immediately received such generous treatment, so that the cities of Yan and Zhao could surrender without attacking.
This is my strategy for pacifying a land thousands of miles away with just one order.
Wu Xinjun followed his plan and sent Kuai Tong to give Fan Yanglinghou's seal.
After the Zhao people heard the news, more than thirty cities surrendered without a fight.
When they arrived at Handan, Zhang Er and Chen Yu heard that Zhou Zhang's troops had entered Guanzhong and were defeated again in the water-playing area. They also heard that the generals who had conquered the city for King Chen were often slandered, convicted and executed. They also resented King Chen for not adopting their strategy and promoting them to generals, instead making them captains.
So he advised the military officials: King Chen raised troops in Qixian and proclaimed himself king when he arrived in Chen. He did not necessarily support the descendants of the princes of the six countries.
Today, the general has captured dozens of cities with 3,000 men and horses, and alone occupies a vast area of ​​Hebei. If he does not become king, it will not be enough to stabilize society.
Moreover, King Chen listened to the slander. If someone goes back to report it, he may be in trouble.
It is better to support his brother as king; otherwise, he will support the descendants of Zhao.
General, don't miss the opportunity. The time is tight and there is no time to breathe.
The military officials listened to their advice and proclaimed themselves King of Zhao.
Chen Yu was appointed as the general, Zhang Er as the prime minister on the right, and Shao Sao as the prime minister on the left.
He sent someone to report to King Chen. King Chen was furious after hearing this and wanted to kill all the families of the military officials and others, so he sent troops to attack King Zhao.
King Chen's Prime Minister Fang Jun dissuaded him and said: "To kill the families of military officials and others before Qin is destroyed is to establish another enemy as powerful as Qin."
It is better to take this opportunity to congratulate him and let him quickly lead the army to advance westward and attack Qin.
King Chen thought he was right and followed his plan. He moved the family members of Wu Chen and others to the palace and placed them under house arrest. He also made Zhang Er's son the King of Chengdu.
King Chen sent an envoy to congratulate King Zhao and asked him to quickly mobilize his troops westward into Guanzhong.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu advised the military officials: This is not the original intention of Chu State, but it is just a trick to congratulate the king.
After the King of Chu destroyed Qin, he would definitely add troops to Zhao.
I hope that the king will not march to the west, but send troops to the north to capture Yan and Dai, and to march south to capture Hanoi to expand his sphere of influence.
In this way, Zhao State relies on the river to the south and Yan and Dai to the north. Even if the King of Chu defeats Qin, he will not dare to force Zhao State.
King Zhao thought they were right, so instead of sending troops westward, he sent Han Guang to capture Yan, Li Liang to capture Changshan, and Zhang Xiao to capture Shangdang.
Han Guang's army arrived in Yan territory, and the Yan people took advantage of the situation to support Han Guang as king of Yan.
King Zhao, Zhang Er and Chen Yu went north to attack the border of Yan.
King Zhao once went out in his free time and was captured by the Yan army.
The generals of the State of Yan imprisoned him and demanded that they divide half of the land of the State of Zhao with him before releasing King Zhao.
The State of Zhao sent envoys to negotiate, but the Yan army killed them and demanded the division of the land.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu were worried about this matter.
A diligent soldier said to his comrades in the same dormitory: I want to lobby the Yan army on behalf of Zhang Er and Chen Yu, and come back in the chariot with King Zhao.
His companions who lived together laughed at him and said: "I sent more than a dozen envoys, but they were killed immediately when they arrived. How can you save King Zhao?"
So he ran to the Yan army's camp.
When the general of the Yan army saw him, he asked the Yan general: "Do you know what I am here for?"
General Yan replied: "You plan to rescue King Zhao." He asked again: "Do you know what kind of people Zhang Er and Chen Yu are?"
General Yan said: He is a wise man.
He continued: Do you know what their intentions are?
General Yan replied: "It's just King Zhao who wants to save them."
Zhao's orderlies smiled and said: "You still don't understand the plans of these two people."
Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu held riding whips and commanded the army to conquer dozens of cities in Zhao. Each of them wanted to face the south and become king. Are they willing to be someone else's minister for the rest of their lives?
Can ministers and kings be compared? He was just worried that the general situation was firm and he did not dare to divide the world into three parts and establish each as a king. Instead, he first established military ministers as kings in order of age to maintain the hearts and minds of the people of Zhao.
Now that the Zhao land has been pacified and the people have surrendered, these two people also want to divide the Zhao land and become kings on their own, but the time is not yet ripe.
Now, you have imprisoned the King of Zhao. These two people are nominally trying to save the King of Zhao, but in fact they want the Yan army to kill him so that they can divide the land of Zhao and become kings on their own.
The original strength of the Zhao State could easily capture the Yan State, not to mention the two virtuous kings supporting each other and attacking with the crime of killing King Zhao, and it would be even easier to destroy the Yan State.
The general of Yan thought what he said was reasonable, so he released King Zhao, and the soldiers drove King Zhao's chariot back together.
After Li Liang pacified Changshan, he came back to report, and King Zhao sent Li Liang to capture Taiyuan again.
When Li Liang's troops arrived at Shiyi, the Qin army had tightly blocked Jingxing and was unable to advance.
The generals of the Qin State panicked and claimed that the Second Emperor sent someone to send Li Liang an unsealed letter. The letter said: Li Liang once served me and was favored by the nobles.
If Li Liang can abandon Zhao and return to Qin, he will forgive Li Liang's sins. Make Li Liang noble.
Li Liang received this letter and was suspicious.
So he returned to Handan and asked for more troops.
Before returning to Handan, I met King Zhao's sister returning from a banquet on the road, followed by more than a hundred followers.
Li Liang saw such arrogance from a distance and thought it was King Zhao, so he knelt on the ground and announced his name. King Zhao's sister was drunk and didn't know he was a general, so she just asked the soldiers accompanying her to thank Li Liang.
Li Liang, who has always been dignified, stood up from the ground and felt ashamed in front of the deployment.
One of the accompanying officials said: "Everyone in the world has betrayed the Qin Dynasty, and those who have the ability will be the first to be kings. Moreover, the status of King Zhao has always been lower than that of the general. Now, a daughter's family does not get out of the car and salute the general. Please let me catch up and kill her."
Li Liang had received a letter from King Qin and originally wanted to rebel against Zhao. But before he could make up his mind, he encountered this incident again. He became angry and sent people to catch up. He killed King Zhao's sister on the road, so he led his army to attack Handan.
Handan did not understand the situation, and Wu Chen and Shao Sao were killed.
Many Zhao people were Zhang Er and Chen Yu's eyes and ears, so they were able to escape.
They gathered the broken army of the military ministers and gained fifty thousand men.
Some guests advised Zhang Er, saying: "You are both strangers. It is very difficult for the people of Zhao to join you here. Only the descendants of King Zhao who supported the Six Kingdoms and supported them with justice can achieve great things."
So he searched for Zhao Xie, proclaimed him King of Zhao, and let him live in Xindu.
Li Liang advanced to attack Chen Yu, but Chen Yu defeated Li Liang. Li Liang had to flee back and join Qin general Zhang Han.
Zhang Han led his troops to Handan, moved all the people in the city to Hanoi, destroyed the city and leveled all the buildings.
Zhang Er and Zhao Wangxie fled into Julu City, where they were surrounded by Qin general Wang Li.
Chen Yu gathered tens of thousands of Changshan's remaining troops in the north and stationed them north of Julu City.
Zhang Han's army was stationed in Jiyuan, south of Julu City. A corridor was built to connect with the Yellow River to transport military supplies to Wang Li.
Wang Li's troops had plenty of food and they rushed to attack Julu.
The food in Julu City was exhausted and the troops were very weak. Zhang Er sent people to call Chen Yu many times to come to the rescue. Chen Yu considered that his troops were insufficient and could not defeat the Qin army, so he did not dare to go.
After several months of stalemate with no reinforcements, Zhang Er was furious and resentful of Chen Yu. He sent Zhang Xiao and Chen Ze to rebuke Chen Yu, saying: "You and I formed a life-and-death friendship at the beginning, but now King Zhao and I may die overnight, and you have tens of thousands of troops and refuse to rescue us. Where is the friendship of life and death?"
If you want to keep your promise, why don't you fight the Qin army to the death?
There may still be a 1/20 chance of winning.
Chen Yu said: I consider that even if we advance forward, not only will we not be able to save Zhao, but our entire army will be wiped out in vain.
Besides, I don’t go and die together because I want to avenge King Zhao and Jun Zhang from Qin in the future.
Now we must die together, just like giving meat to a hungry tiger. What is the benefit?
Zhang Xian and Chen Ze said: The matter is imminent. We need to die together to establish integrity. How can we care about the future?
Chen Yu said: I have no regrets about dying, it is just that it will be useless, but I will definitely do what you two said.
So he sent 5,000 troops under the leadership of Zhang Xian and Chen Ze to attack the Qin army. When they reached the front line, the entire army was wiped out.
At this time, Yan, Qi, and Chu heard that Zhao was in danger and came to rescue him.
Zhang Ao also gathered more than 10,000 troops from Daidi to the north. They all set up camp next to Chen Yu and did not dare to attack the Qin army.
Xiang Yu's army cut off Zhang Han's tunnel many times, and Wang Li was short of military supplies. Xiang Yu led all his troops across the Yellow River and defeated Zhang Han.
Zhang Han led his troops to retreat, and then the armies of various princes dared to attack the Qin army that besieged Julu, and finally captured Wang Li.
Qin general Shejian committed suicide.
In the end, it was the State of Chu that saved the giant deer.
At this time, King Zhao Xie and Zhang Er were able to leave Julu City to thank the princes from all over the world.
When Zhang Er and Chen Yu met, they blamed Chen Yu for refusing to save Zhao and asked about the whereabouts of Zhang Xu and Chen Ze. Chen Yu said angrily: Zhang Xu and Chen Ze blamed me for dying together. I sent them to lead five thousand troops to try to attack the Qin army first. As a result, the entire army was wiped out and no one was spared.
Zhang Er didn't believe it and thought Chen Yu had killed them, so he questioned Chen Yu many times.
Chen Yu was furious and said: I didn't expect your resentment towards me to be so deep!
Do you think I am reluctant to give up my position as general?
He untied the seal and pushed it to Zhang Er.
Zhang Er was also shocked and refused to accept it.
Chen Yu stood up and went to the toilet.
Some guests advised Zhang Er: I heard that if you don't accept the gift from heaven, you will suffer disaster.
Now, General Chen has given you the seal. If you do not accept it, it is unlucky to go against God's will.
Hurry and receive it!
Zhang Er wore Chen Yu's seal and accepted his subordinates.
When Chen Yu came back, he was also resentful that Zhang Er had taken the seal without giving up, so he walked out quickly.
Zhang Er then gathered his army.
Chen Yu went alone with hundreds of his followers to fish and hunt in the lakes near the Yellow River.
From then on, there was an emotional rift between Chen Yu and Zhang Er.
Zhao Wangxie returned to Xindu to live, and Zhang Er followed Xiang Yu and other princes into Guanzhong.
In February of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu enfeoffed the princes and kings. Zhang Er had always had many friends and many people spoke well of him. Xiang Yu also heard that Zhang Er was talented, so he divided the land of Zhao State and made Zhang Er the king of Changshan. He established Xindu and renamed Xindu Xiangguo.
Many of Chen Yu's old guests advised Xiang Yu: "Chen Yu and Zhang Er have also contributed to Zhao."
However, because Chen Yu did not follow him into Guanzhong, and because Xiang Yu heard that Chen Yu was in Nanpi, he granted him the three counties around Nanpi, moved King Zhao Xie's capital to Dai County, and changed his title to Dai Wang.
When Zhang Er went to his feudal state, Chen Yu became even more angry and said, "Zhang Er and I have equal merits. Zhang Er can be granted the title of king, but I can only be granted the title of marquis. This is unfair to Xiang Yu."
When King Tian Rong of Qi betrayed Chu, Chen Yu sent Xia Yuan to persuade Tian Rong: Xiang Yu, as the ruler of the world, is unfair. He enfeoffs good places to generals to be kings, and moves those who were kings to bad places. Now he has moved King Zhao to Dai County!
I hope your Majesty will lend me your troops and use Nanpi as a shield for your defense.
Tian Rong planned to establish a faction in Zhao State to oppose Chu State, so he sent troops to follow Chen Yu's command.
Therefore, Chen Yu mobilized all the troops from his three counties to attack Changshan King Zhang Er.
Zhang Er was defeated and fled. He thought that there was no one among the princes who could defect to him, so he said: Although the King of Han has an old friendship with me, Xiang Yu's power is strong, and he entrusted me, so I want to defect to Chu.
Duke Gan said: When the king of Han entered the pass, the five stars gathered in the Jingsu sky area.
Jingsutian District is the branch star of Qin State.
Whoever arrives first will definitely succeed.
Even if Chu is strong now, it will definitely belong to Han in the future.
Therefore, Zhang Er decided to go to Han.
The King of Han also returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and was besieging Zhang Han's army in Feiqiu.
Zhang Er came to see the King of Han, who received him with great courtesy.
After Chen Yu defeated Zhang Er, he recovered all the land of Zhao State, brought King Zhao back from Dai County, and became the king of Zhao State. King Zhao was grateful to Chen Yu and made Chen Yu the king of Dai.
Because King Zhao was weak and the domestic situation had just stabilized, Chen Yu did not go to the feudal state and stayed to assist King Zhao, while he sent Xia Yue to garrison Daiguo as the prime minister.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han attacked the Chu State eastward and sent an envoy to inform the State of Zhao that he would attack Chu together with the State of Zhao.
Chen Yu said: As long as the king of Han kills Zhang Er, Zhao will obey.
So the king of Han found a man who looked similar to Zhang Er and beheaded him, and sent someone to take the head to Chen Yu.
Chen Yu then sent troops to help Han.
The King of Han was defeated west of Pengcheng. Chen Yu realized that Zhang Er was still alive, so he betrayed the King of Han.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, not long after Han Xin pacified Wei, he sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to break through Jingxing of Zhao State, kill Chen Yu on the banks of the Sashui River, and pursue Xiang State to kill Zhao Wangxie.
The Han Dynasty granted Zhang Er the title of King of Zhao.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Er died, and his posthumous title was King Jing.
Zhang Er's son Zhang Ao succeeded his father as King of Zhao, and Princess Lu Yuan, the eldest daughter of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, married King Ao of Zhao and became his queen.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu passed by the State of Zhao from Pingcheng. The King of Zhao took off his coat, put on his sleeves, and personally served food and drinks from morning to night. His attitude was very humble, and he had the etiquette of a son-in-law.
However, Emperor Gaozu sat on the ground with his feet spread out like a dustpan and cursed King Zhao, being very arrogant to him.
Zhao Guoguo, Xiang Guangao, Zhao Wu and others were all over sixty years old and were Zhang Er's former disciples. They were bold and impulsive by nature, so they said angrily: Our king is a cowardly king!
He advised King Zhao: "When the heroes of the world came together, the talented ones were the first to be kings."
Now you serve Gaozu so respectfully, but Gaozu is arrogant and rude. Please let us kill him for you!
After hearing this, Zhang Ao bit his finger until it bled and said, "Why did you say such wrong things?"
Moreover, after my father's death, it was only thanks to Gaozu that he was able to restore the country. Every bit of his kindness and kindness to his descendants was attributable to Gaozu. I hope you will stop talking.
Guan Gao, Zhao Wu and more than ten people all discussed among themselves: "It's all our fault."
Our king has the demeanor of a benevolent elder and is unwilling to shoulder any kindness.
Moreover, our principle is not to regret humiliation. Now we resent our great ancestor and regret humiliating our king, so we want to kill him. Why should we taint our king?
If something succeeds, the credit goes to the king; if it fails, we bear the blame!
In the eighth year of the Han Dynasty, the emperor came back from Dongyuan and passed by the State of Zhao. Guan Gao and others hid a warrior in the wall of the Pavilion in Bairen County, hoping to intercept and kill him and put him in a hidden place.
The emperor passed by there and wanted to stay overnight. He was moved and asked, "What is the name of this county?"
Answered: Bai people.
The Bai people are being persecuted by others!
Left without staying overnight.
In the ninth year of the Han Dynasty, Guan Gao's enemies knew of his plan and secretly reported Guan Gao's rebellion to the emperor.
So King Zhao, Guan Gao and others were arrested at the same time. More than ten people rushed to commit suicide by cutting their necks. Only Guan Gao cursed angrily: Who told you to commit suicide?
Now, the king is indeed not involved in this matter, but he will be arrested together; you are all dead, who can defend the king that he did not rebel!
So Guan Gao was imprisoned in a prison car with dense sills and strong walls, and was escorted to Chang'an with King Zhao.
Trial Zhang Ao for his crimes.
The emperor issued a proclamation to the State of Zhao, saying that all ministers and guests who followed King Zhao were exterminated.
Guan Gao, guest Meng Shu and more than ten people all shaved their heads, locked their necks with iron rings, and pretended to be King Zhao's slaves and followed King Zhao to the capital.
As soon as Guan Gao arrived, he appeared in court for trial and said: "We are the only ones involved, and King Zhao really doesn't know."
The officials interrogated him, whipped him thousands of times, and stabbed him with red-hot iron bars. No part of his body was intact, but he never spoke again.
Empress Lu told Gaozu several times that King Zhao would not do such a thing because of Princess Lu Yuan. The emperor said angrily: If Zhang Ao were to dominate the world, would he still consider your daughter?
He did not listen to Queen Lu's advice.
Tingwei reported the trial and confession of Guan Gao to the emperor. The emperor said: What a strong man!
If anyone knows him well, go and ask him in private.
Zhongdafu Xie Gong said: He and I are from the same hometown and have always known him.
He was originally the person who established Zhao Guo's reputation and refused to break his promise.
The emperor sent Duke Xie to his bedside with a talisman to ask him.
Guangao raised his head and said, "Is this Mr. Xie?"
Xie Gong expressed his condolences and greeted him, talked to him as usual, and asked Zhang Ao whether he had participated in this plan.
Guan Gao said: Regarding human feelings, who doesn’t love his father and wife?
Now that all three of my clans have been sentenced to death because of this incident, will I sacrifice my relatives for the sake of King Zhao?
But King Zhao did not resist, only we people participated.
He explained in detail his original intention to murder the emperor and the situation that King Zhao did not know the inside story.
So Duke Xie went to the palace and reported in detail what he had learned, and the emperor pardoned King Zhao.
The emperor appreciated Guangao as a man of faith, so he sent Duke Xie to tell him about the pardon of King Zhao, saying: King Zhao has been released from imprisonment.
Therefore, Guan Gao was also pardoned.
Guan Gao said happily: Is our King Zhao really released? Xie Gong said: Yes.
Duke Xie said again: The emperor praised you, so he pardoned you.
Guan Gao said: The reason why I survived being beaten to death was to prove that King Zhang Ao did not commit rebellion. Now that King Zhang Ao has been released, my responsibility has been remedied, and I will not regret it even if I die.
Besides, if a minister has a reputation of usurping, how can he have the dignity to serve the emperor again?
Even if the emperor does not kill me, am I not ashamed in my heart?
So he raised his head and cut his throat and died.
By this time, he was already famous throughout the world.
Not long after Zhang Ao was released, he was named Marquis of Xuanping because he married Princess Lu Yuan.
Therefore, the emperor praised Zhang Ao's guests. All the guests who followed King Zhang into the pass as slaves were all princes, ministers, and county guards.
Until the time of Xiaohui, Gaohou, Emperor Wen, and Xiaojing, the descendants of King Zhang's guests had become high-ranking officials with a salary of two thousand stone.
Zhang Ao died in the sixth year of high school.
Zhang Ao's son Zhang Yan was named King of Lu Yuan.
And because Zhang Yan's mother was Empress Lu's daughter, Empress Lu named him King of Lu Yuan.
The king of the Yuan Dynasty was weak and his brothers were small, so he divided the two sons of Zhang Ao's other concubines: Zhang Shou was named the Marquis of Lechang, and Zhang Chi was named the Marquis of Xindu.
After the death of Empress Gao, the Lu family did evil and did not follow the right path, so they were killed by the ministers. They also deposed King Lu Yuan, Marquis Lechang and Marquis Xindu.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he enfeoffed Zhang Yan, the original king of Lu Yuan, as Marquis of Nangong to continue the Zhang family's descendants.
Tai Shigong said: Zhang Er and Chen Yu are both virtuous people in world legends; their guests and servants are all heroes in the world, and all of them have achieved the status of minister in the country where they live.
However, when Zhang Er and Chen Yu were poor and frustrated, they trusted each other and vowed to live and die together. Isn't it true that they had no hesitation?
When they gained territory and fought for power, they ended up killing each other, hoping to eliminate each other.
Why did they sincerely admire and trust each other in the past, but then betrayed each other, and their attitudes towards each other were so perverse and violent? Aren’t they interacting with each other for the sake of power and interests? Although they have a high reputation and many guests, their actions are probably very different from Taibo Wu and Jizi Yanling.
