Dou Ying, courtesy name Wangsun, was the son of Queen Xiaowen's cousin.
Tracing back to his father, he has lived in Guanjin for generations and likes to entertain guests.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Baoying was the prime minister of Wu State, but was dismissed due to illness.
Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne and appointed Dou Ying as Zhan Shi.
Emperor Xiaojing's younger brother, King Liang Xiao, was doted on by his mother, Queen Mother Dou.
Once, when King Xiao of Liang entered the court, Emperor Xiaojing drank with his brothers.
There was no crown prince at this time, and when everyone had finished drinking, Emperor Xiaojing said calmly: After my death, I will pass the throne to King Liang.
Queen Mother Dou was very happy to hear this.
At this time, Dou Ying brought a glass of wine to the emperor and said: The world belongs to Emperor Gaozu, and the throne should be passed down from father to son. This is a legal restriction of the Han Dynasty. How can the emperor pass it on to King Liang?
The Queen Mother hated Bao Ying because of this, and Dou Ying also felt that Zhan Shi's official position was too young, so she resigned due to illness.
The Empress Dowager then removed the name list that allowed Dou Ying to enter and leave the palace. During festivals, he was not allowed to enter the palace to see him.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wu and Chu rebelled. At this time, the emperor investigated and found that neither the Liu clan nor the Dou family members were as wise as Dou Ying, so he recruited Dou Ying. After Dou Ying came to see him, he resolutely declined, saying that he was ill and could not take on this important task.
The Queen Mother also felt ashamed.
The emperor said: "Now the world is in crisis, how can Wang Sun refuse?"
So he made Dou Ying a general and rewarded him with a thousand pieces of gold.
At this time, Yuan An, Le Bu and other famous generals and wise men retired from their posts and stayed at home, so Dou Ying recommended them to Emperor Jing to recruit them.
Dou Ying placed all the gold given to him by the emperor in the hallway. Whenever his military officials came to see him, he would ask them to use the gold according to their own expenses. He never took the gold given by the emperor to his private residence.
Dou Ying sat in Rongyang and supervised the armies of Qi and Zhao.
After the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms was put down, Dou Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Wei.
At this time, many tourists and guests rushed to join Wei Qihou's family.
Whenever Emperor Xiaojing went to court to discuss important matters with his ministers, all the princes would not dare to treat him with courtesy like Tiaohou and Wei Qihou.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he established Prince Li and ordered Wei Qihou to be the prince's teacher.
In the seventh year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Prince Li was deposed. Wei Qihou argued for Prince Li many times, but to no avail. Wei Qihou claimed that he was ill and stayed at the foot of Nanshan Mountain in Lantian for several months. People named Dou, many guests and debaters asked him to come out, but he was unwilling to come out.
Liang Guoren Zhisui said to Bin Ying: The one who can make you rich is the emperor, and the one who can make you a confidant of the court is the Queen Mother.
Now the general is the master of the prince. The prince has been deposed and cannot fight for it. He cannot fight hard and cannot die. He retires due to illness, embraces a beautiful singer, and lives in Nanshan, refusing to go to the capital to see him.
Comparing these situations, it is obvious that you are exposing the emperor's fault.
If the emperor and the queen mother are dissatisfied with you and want to harm you, then your wife and children will be killed, and no one in the family will be left.
Dou Ying thought what he said was right, so he resumed his duties and went to court to see the emperor as before.
When Taohou was removed from his position midway, Empress Dowager Dou repeatedly recommended Wei Qihou to be the prime minister. Emperor Xiaojing said: Does the Queen Mother think that I am stingy by not letting Wei Qihou become prime minister?
Wei Qihou was proud and complacent, and often acted rashly and casually. It was difficult for him to be the prime minister and shoulder important responsibilities.
In the end, he was not appointed, but Wei Wan, Marquis of Jianling, was appointed as prime minister.
Tian Fu was the half-brother of Emperor Xiaojing and Queen Wang, and was born in Changling.
After Dou Ying became the general, he was in his prime. Tian Fu, then a minister and not yet a nobleman, went to and from Dou Ying's house, accompanying Yi Ying to drink, kneeling and rising, as if he were a junior member of the Dou family.
In the later years of Emperor Xiaojing's life, Danxuan became more and more noble and fortunate, and became a middle-aged doctor.
Tian Fu was very talented in literature and had studied some ancient books such as "Pan Yu". Queen Wang thought he was very talented.
Emperor Xiaojing passed away and Emperor Wu Liu Che had just ascended the throne. Tian Fu was named Marquis of Wu'an as his uncle, and Tian Sheng, Tian Fu's younger brother, was named Marquis of Zhou Yang.
Tian Fu had just gained power and was very humble to his retainers. He also introduced those who had not served as officials among his retainers and made them serve as officials, hoping to overwhelm the power of the generals and ministers in the court.
Most of the emperor's efforts to calm the political situation at that time were planned by Tian Fu's guests.
When the Prime Minister Wei Wan was dismissed due to illness, the Emperor discussed setting up the Prime Minister and the Taiwei.
He persuaded Tian Fu to borrow the opportunity and said: "Wei Qihou has been a noble man for a long time, and all the talents in the world have always been loyal to him. General, you have just become more prosperous and cannot be compared with Wei Qihou."
Even if the emperor intends to use the general as prime minister, the general must give up the position to Wei Qihou.
When Wei Qihou becomes prime minister, the general will definitely become a Taiwei.
The noble status of the Taiwei and the Prime Minister are the same. The general not only gets the Taiwei, but also has a good reputation of giving his position to the wise.
Tian Fu secretly revealed his thoughts to the Queen Mother and asked the Queen Mother to hint to the emperor. So Dou Ying was made prime minister and Tian Fu was made Taiwei.
I congratulated Dou Ying by taking advantage of his blessings, and advised him by the way: The nature of a prince is to like good and hate evil. Now good people praise the prince, so the prince can be the prime minister. But there are many evil people, and they will also slander the king.
If the ruler can be tolerant to both good and bad people, then the ruler's position is expected to last for a long time; otherwise, he will be slandered and leave his job immediately.
Dou Ying didn't listen to him.
Dou Ying and Tian Fu both liked Confucianism, so they elected Zhao Wan as the imperial censor and Wang Zang as the doctor.
Welcoming Lord Shen of Lu State to the capital and preparing to set up a Mingtang. Let the princes return to their respective fiefdoms, cancel the confinement, and uniform them according to ancient rituals to show peace.
He also reported all the descendants of the sinister clan and the clan, and all those with bad conduct would be removed from the genealogy.
At this time, the princes of the foreign relatives married many princesses and were unwilling to return to their fiefdoms. Therefore, the slanderous words of Dou Ying and others reached the ears of Queen Mother Dou every day.
The Queen Mother was interested in Huang Lao's scholarship, but Dou Ying, Tian Fu, Zhao Wan and others insisted on respecting Confucianism and belittling Taoism. Therefore, Queen Mother Dou became increasingly dissatisfied with Dou Ying and others.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Zhao Wan, the imperial censor, did not want the Queen Mother to continue to interfere in political affairs, so he asked the emperor not to make trouble against the Queen Mother in the future.
When Empress Dowager Dou found out, she was furious and said, "Are you trying to repeat Aragaki Ping's tricks?"
So Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others were dismissed and expelled, and Dou Ying was removed from the post of prime minister and Tian Fu from the post of Taiwei. In addition, Bai Zhi Hou Xuchang was appointed as the prime minister, and Wuqiang Hou Zhuang Qingzhai was appointed as the censor.
From then on, Dou Ying and Tian Fu only lived at home as Hou.
Although Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, did not hold an official position, he was still favored by the emperor because of his relationship with the Queen Mother. He discussed political affairs many times, and most of them were adopted and came into effect. Those officials and scholars who were in favor of others left Wei Qihou Dou Ying and joined Tian Fu.
As a result, Marquis Wu'an became more and more arrogant day by day.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. Prime Minister Xuchang and Yushi doctor Zhuang Qingzhai were removed from their official positions because they failed to organize the funeral.
The emperor then appointed Tian Fu as the prime minister and the chief minister Nong Han Anguo as the censor.
As a result, the scholars of the world, the officials of the prefectures, and the princes and kings became even more attached to Wu'an Marquis Tian Fu.
Tian Fu is ugly in appearance but considers himself to be very noble by nature.
He believed that the princes and kings at that time were all older, and the emperor had just ascended the throne and was very young. Tian Fu himself regarded the emperor's closest relative as the prime minister. If he did not thoroughly rectify the situation and use etiquette to restrain them, the people of the world would not obey.
At that time, the prime minister would often sit there for most of the day when he came in to perform business, and the emperor accepted all his suggestions.
Some of the people he recommended reached the position of two thousand stones, and their power almost exceeded that of the emperor.
The emperor then said: Have you used up all the people you want to appoint?
I also want to appoint a few people!
Once, he asked the emperor to allocate the official land of the examination room for him to expand his private residence. The emperor was furious and said to him: Why don't you take away my arsenal too?
After this time, he restrained himself a little.
Once, he invited guests to a banquet and asked his elder brother Gaihou to sit facing north, but he sat facing east. He believed that the prime minister of the Han Dynasty was noble and he could not wrong himself in private just because he was his elder brother.
From then on, Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, became even more arrogant. The residences he built were extremely gorgeous and majestic, surpassing those of all nobles. His fields and manors are extremely fertile, and there is an endless stream of people he sends to counties to buy valuable artifacts on the road.
There are bells, drums and music in the front hall, and there are hundreds of women in the back room.
The treasures, dogs, horses, antiques and furnishings presented to him by the princes are countless.
Contrary to Tian Fu, Wei Qihou Dou Ying became even more alienated, not reused, and had no power since the death of Queen Mother Dou. All the guests gradually retreated and even treated Dou Ying with arrogance. Only Guan Fu still treated him the same way.
Dou Ying felt depressed every day, but he only had a particularly good relationship with Guan Fu. Guan Fu, courtesy name Zhongru, was born in Yingyin.
His father was Zhang Meng, who had once been the servant of Guan Ying, the Marquis of Yingyin. He was very favored, so he promoted him to an official of two thousand shi, so he took the surname of Guan and changed his name to Guan Meng.
When Wu and Chu were in power, Guan Ying, Marquis of Yingyin, was a general and was subordinate to Taiwei Zhou Yafu. He recommended Guan Meng to the Taiwei as a school lieutenant.
Guan Fu also brought a thousand people with him to be with his father.
At that time, Guan Meng was already very old, and the Taiwei did not want to use him. However, because Marquis Yingyin firmly recommended him, he agreed to let Guan Meng be the captain. Therefore, Guan Meng was depressed and frustrated. Whenever he fought, he often broke into the enemy's strong points, so he died in the Wu army.
According to the military law of the Han Dynasty at that time: if both father and son were in the army, and if someone died in the war, the surviving people could escort the remains back to their hometowns.
But Guanfu refused to do this. He said impassionedly: I am willing to behead the king of Wu or the general of Wu to avenge my father.
So Guan Fu put on his armor and held a halberd, and recruited dozens of strong men in the army who were friendly with him and willing to go with him. When they walked out of the gate of the military camp, no one dared to go forward. Only two people and more than ten slaves under Guan Fu's horse rushed into the Wu army and attacked until they were under the Wu army's general flag, killing and wounding dozens of people.
Because he could no longer attack, he rushed back to the Han army's camp. All the slaves he brought out died in the battle, and only he and a knight returned.
Guan Fu suffered more than a dozen serious injuries on his body. He happened to have precious medicine to heal the wounds, so he survived.
Guan Fu's wounds recovered slightly, and he asked the general again: "I now know more about the twists and turns of the Wu camp. Please allow me to go there again."
The general admired Guan Fu's courage and sympathized with his behavior. He was worried that Guan Fu's life would be in danger if he went again, so he reported it to the Taiwei, who then firmly stopped him and refused to let him go.
When the Wu army was defeated, Guan Fu became famous all over the world.
Marquis Yingyin reported Guan Fu's situation to the emperor, and the emperor appointed Guan Fu as lieutenant general.
A few years later, I lost my official position for breaking the law. Guan Fu's family was in Chang'an, and many dignitaries in the capital praised him, so he later became the Prime Minister.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he believed that Huaiyang County was a place where the world's traffic radiated, and a strong force must be stationed to defend it, so he appointed Guan Fu as the prefect of Huaiyang.
In the first year of Jianyuan, he was transferred to Taipu.
In the second year of Jianyuan's reign, Guan Fu and Dou Fu, the Changle guard captain, had a dispute while drinking together. Guan Fu was already drunk at the time, so he beat Dou Fu.
Dou Fu was originally the brother of the Empress Dowager Dou. The Emperor was afraid that the Empress Dowager would kill Guan Fu and transfer him to the position of Prime Minister of Yan.
A few years later, he was disgraced for breaking the law and lived idle at home in Chang'an.
Guan Fu is an upright person, he likes to use alcohol to make himself angry, and he doesn't like to flatter others in person.
For those noble relatives or generally powerful people who were above Guan Fu, he not only refused to show respect to them, but also tried to find ways to insult them. The poorer the ordinary scholars were below him, the more respectful Guan Fu was to them and treated them with equal etiquette.
In crowded situations, Guan Fu always praises and praises low-status juniors, so most people praise him.
Guan Fu didn't like learning, but he liked chivalry and would always do what he promised.
Those who associate with him are nothing more than heroes, knights, or cunning people.
His family's assets are tens of millions, and the number of diners every day ranges from dozens to nearly a hundred.
He built pits in his fields to store water for irrigation purposes. In order to monopolize the water conservancy fields, Guanfu's clan guests often fought for power and became rampant in the Yingchuan area.
So the children in Yingchuan sang: If the Yingshui is clear, the Guan family will be at peace; if the Yingshui is dirty, the Guan family will be destroyed.
Although Guan Fu's family was wealthy, they lost their power. As a result, the ministers, ministers, and those who had always been Guan Fu's guests gradually distanced themselves from him.
When Dou Ying lost power, he also wanted to rely on Guan Fu to settle accounts with those who followed Yan's influence. Guan Fu also wanted to use Dou Ying's relationship to make friends with the princes and clan members to increase his social status.
Therefore, the two of them respected each other and were as close as father and son. The two of them were very compatible and had no objections. They just regretted that it was too late for them to know each other.
Guan Fu's sister passed away, and Guan Fu went to visit the Prime Minister Tian Fu during the period of mourning.
The prime minister said calmly: "I want to visit Wei Qihou with you. It happens that you are in mourning and it is inconvenient to go."
Guan Fu said: "The general is actually willing to come to Wei Qihou's home. How dare I refuse because of mourning?"
Let me inform Wei Qihou and ask him to prepare wine and food. Please come early tomorrow.
Tian Fu then agreed.
Guan Fu told Wei Qihou Baoying the details of his appointment with the prime minister. Dou Ying and his wife specially bought more meat and wine. They got up at night to clean, prepare wine and food, and were busy until dawn.
At dawn, he asked his servants to wait in front of the house.
But at noon, Prime Minister Tian Fu still didn't come.
Dou Ying said to Guan Fu, "Has the Prime Minister forgotten?"
Guanfu was very unhappy and said, "I don't mind asking him to keep his promise during the mourning period. He should come himself and should not forget."
So Guan Fu drove his car and went to meet the prime minister in person.
Prime Minister Tian Fu just agreed to Guan Fu the day before and had no intention of actually going to the banquet.
When Guan Fu came, the prime minister was still lying down.
So Guan Fu went in to see him and said, "General, I was fortunate enough to agree to visit Wei Qihou yesterday." Wei Qihou and his wife organized a banquet, but from early morning to now, they have not dared to eat anything!
Wu Anhou pretended to be stunned and apologized to Guan Fu, saying: I was drunk yesterday and forgot what I said to you.
So he ordered him to go, but he went very slowly, which made Guanfu even more angry.
When the wine was almost done, Guan Fu started dancing, and after the dance invited the prime minister, but the prime minister didn't get up, so Guan Fu used words to offend the prime minister during the banquet.
Dou Ying helped Guan Fu leave and apologized to the prime minister in person.
Prime Minister Tian Fu drank wine until dark before leaving happily.
Later, Prime Minister Tian Fu asked Dou Ying to give him the land in the south of the city to take advantage of his blessings. Dou Ying said very unhappy: Although I, an old man, have been abandoned by the court, and the general is noble, can I use my power to seize my land?
Refuse to agree.
When my husband heard about this, he cursed me for being lucky.
Not wanting Dou and Tian to be at odds with each other, he made up some good words and said to the prime minister: Wei Qihou is old and is about to die. It's not difficult to endure it for a few more days. Let's wait.
Soon, Tian Fu heard that Dou Ying and Guan Fu were actually angry and refused to give him the land. He also got angry and said, "The son of Wei Qihou once committed a serious crime of murder, and I saved him."
I serve Wei Qihou, and I refuse to obey him on anything. Why is he reluctant to part with these few hectares of fields?
Besides, what does this have to do with Guan Fu!
I don't dare to ask for this land anymore.
From then on, Tian Fu became very resentful towards Dou Ying and Guan Fu.
In the spring of the fourth year of Yuanguang, the Prime Minister reported that Guan Fu's family was extremely arrogant in Yingchuan and the people suffered from it, and asked the emperor to investigate Guan Fu.
The emperor said: This is a matter within the prime minister's duties, why should I ask for instructions?
Guan Fu also seized on the prime minister's shortcomings as threats, including the prime minister using illegal means to pursue personal interests, accepting property from the King of Huainan, and saying things he shouldn't have said.
Later, thanks to the mediation and persuasion between the guests of the two families, the two sides stopped attacking each other and reconciled with each other.
In the summer of that year, Prime Minister Tian Fu married the daughter of King Yan as his wife. The Queen Mother issued an edict asking all the princes and clan members to go to congratulate her.
Dou Ying went to visit Guan Fu and wanted to invite him to go with him.
Guan Fu declined and said, "I have offended the prime minister many times because of my drunkenness and impoliteness, and the prime minister has recently had a grudge against me."
Dou Ying said: This matter has been settled.
So he reluctantly asked Guanfu to go with him.
When the wine was almost done, the prime minister stood up and toasted to everyone. All the guests left their seats and fell on the ground, expressing their disapproval.
After a while, Wei Qihou Dou Ying stood up to propose a toast. Only those who had old acquaintances with him left their seats, and the other half of the people just sat there without even leaving the table.
Guan Fu got up and left his seat, and toasted to Tian Fu one after another. When he came to Tian Fu, Tian Fu still sat there and said, "I can't drink a full cup anymore."
Guan Fu was very angry and said with a smile: "You are a noble man, but you still have to drink a full cup!"
But Tian Fu refused to toast.
A toast came to Lin Ruhou Guan Xian. Guan Xian was talking quietly to Cheng Bushi without moving away from his seat.
Guan Fu was so angry that he had nowhere to vent his anger, so he scolded Guan Xian and said, "Normally, it is worthless to slander Cheng Bu Shi. Now that the elders are toasting you, you are just like a girl, biting your ears and talking to Cheng Bu Shi."
Tian Fu said to Guan Fu: Cheng and Li are both guards in the East and West Palaces. Now that you insult Cheng Bushi in public, won't you leave room for your beloved General Li?
Guan Fu said, "I don't care if you kill my head or pierce my chest today. What else do I care about Cheng and Li?"
Seeing that the situation was not good, the guests at the table got up and excused themselves to go to the toilet, and gradually dispersed.
Shi Ying also stood up and left, waving to Guan Fu to leave quickly.
When Guan Fu had just left, Tian Fu said angrily: "It's my fault, because I spoiled him so much that he became so presumptuous."
He ordered his knights to detain Guan Fu so that Guan Fu could not leave.
Taking advantage of the blessing, he quickly got up and apologized to the prime minister for Guan Fu. He pressed his hand on Guan Fu's neck and asked him to bow his head and apologize.
Guan Fu became even more angry and refused to apologize.
Tian Gou then ordered the knights to tie up Guan Fu and keep him in the transfer house. He also called for Chang Shi and said to him: "Today we invite guests from the royal family to a banquet here in accordance with the order of the Queen Mother Shao."
So Guan Fu was impeached, saying that he insulted the guests at the banquet, insulted Shao Ling, and committed the crime of disrespect. He was imprisoned in the living room.
At the same time, a thorough investigation was made of Guan Fu's various illegal activities in Yingchuan, and officers were dispatched to arrest relatives of each branch of the Guan family. They were all sentenced to death by beheading in public.
Dou Ying felt so ashamed that he paid and sent guests to plead with the prime minister, but in the end he could not get Guan Fu released.
Since Tian Fu's subordinates were all the prime minister's eyes and ears, the people in Guan's family who had slipped through the net were all running away and hiding, and Guan Fu himself was being detained, so he could not report all the bad things Tian Fu had done secretly.
Dou Ying desperately tried to rescue Guan Fu, but his wife persuaded him: General Guan offended the prime minister and went against the Queen Mother's family. Can he be saved?
Dou Ying said: I earned the Marquis by myself, and now I throw it away without any regrets.
Besides, I can't let Guan Zhongru die alone, while I, Dou Ying, live alone.
So he went out privately to write to the emperor without telling his family.
The emperor read the memorial of Wei Qihou Dou Ying and immediately summoned him into the palace. Dou Ying explained in detail the situation where Guan Fu made a mistake because he was drunk at the banquet, and believed that it was just a trivial matter of excessive drinking and not worthy of the death penalty. The emperor agreed with him, so he gave Dou Ying a meal together and said to him: "You can go to the Empress Dowager of the Eastern Dynasty to plead her case in court."
When Dou Ying arrived in the Eastern Dynasty, he praised Guan Fu's merits and said that he made a blunder while drunk, but the prime minister used other crimes to frame Guan Fu.
Tian Fu then tried his best to slander Guan Fu for what he had done, which was arrogant and indulgent, and committed the crime of treason.
Baoying had no other choice but to attack the prime minister's shortcomings.
Tian Xidian said: Fortunately, everything in the world is peaceful and peaceful. Xizhi can be an important minister of the court and likes music, dogs, horses, and fields. What I like is just people who advocate excellence and skillful craftsmen. Unlike Wei Qihou and Guan Fu, who summon the heroes of the world and discuss with them day and night, full of dissatisfaction with the court, they either raise their eyes to look at the sky, or lower their heads to draw on the ground with their hands, squinting at the two palaces, hoping that there will be some unexpected changes in the world so that they can achieve great things and make great achievements. But I don't know what Wei Qihou and the others are going to do!
So the emperor asked the ministers at court: Which of the two of them is right?
Yushi doctor Han Anguo said: Wei Qihou said that when his father died for the country, Guan Fu rushed into the powerful Wu army with a halberd and suffered dozens of wounds on his body. His reputation for bravery was high among the three armies. He is a rare strong man in the world. If he has not committed a particularly serious crime, just to cause a verbal dispute after drinking is not worthy of the death penalty by citing other charges.
What Wei Qihou said is right.
The Prime Minister said that Guan Fu associates with big traitors and cunning people, oppresses the common people, owns tens of millions of gold, runs rampant in Yingchuan, insults the clan, and violates the flesh and blood. This is what is called "the branches are greater than the roots, and the courage of the legs is greater than the thighs. If it is not broken, it must be divided." The Prime Minister's words are not bad.
We can only ask the wise Lord to decide the rights and wrongs between the two families.
The Lord Commander Ji An believed that what Wei Qihou said was correct.
The internal historian Zheng also accepted what Wei Qihou said at the time, but later he did not dare to insist on his own opinion to answer the emperor.
The rest of the people didn't dare to answer correctly. The emperor became angry and said to the internal history: You have often discussed the merits of Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou, but today at the court debate, you cowered like a horse under the shaft of a chariot, not daring to express your opinions clearly.
I want to kill this group of people.
So the emperor got up from court and went in to serve the Queen Mother for dinner. The Queen Mother had also sent people to the court to inquire about the news. At this time, those inquiring people reported the details of the court debate to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother was angry and stopped eating and said: Now that I am still alive, others are already killing my brother; if I seek death, others will definitely come to slaughter my brother.
Besides, how could the emperor be like the stone man and not make his own opinions?
Fortunately, the emperor is still here, so these ministers can only echo what he says. If the emperor dies, will these people still be reliable?
The emperor apologized and said: The two families of Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou are relatives, so they debated in the court; otherwise, only one jailer can solve the problem.
At that time, the doctor ordered Shi Jian to tell the emperor privately about the feud between Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou.
After Tian Fu retired from the court, he walked out of the carriage door and asked Han Anguo, the imperial censor, to sit in the carriage with him. He said angrily: You and I will deal with an old bald man together. What's so difficult about it? Why are you always hesitant?
After a long time, Han Anguo said to Tian Fu: Why don't you respect yourself so much?
Since Wei Qihou has slandered you just now, you should apologize to the emperor without your crown, remove the seal and ribbon of the prime minister, return it to the emperor, and say: I am a close relative of the emperor, and I am fortunate to be prime minister. I was not qualified for the job. Wei Qihou's criticism of me is right. In this way, the emperor will definitely praise you for your virtue of humility and will not depose you.
When Wei Qihou saw that you were so humble and the emperor sympathized with you, he would definitely commit suicide behind closed doors.
Now when others scold you, you also scold others. In this way, each other is insulting each other, just like businessmen or women quarreling. Why are you so ignorant?
Tian Fu apologized and said: I was too anxious when arguing in the court and did not think of doing this.
Later, the emperor sent the censor to investigate Guan Fu's case file and found that what Dou Ying said was very inconsistent with the facts. Therefore, Dou Ying was corrected by the censor and was detained in the prison of Dusikong Yamen.
When Emperor Xiaojing was dying, Dou Ying once accepted the edict, and the Shao Shu said: If there is any inconvenience, you can make a note of it.
When Dou Ying was detained, Guan Fu might be sentenced to the crime of genocide. The situation became more and more urgent day by day, and no one among the ministers dared to mention the incident to the emperor again.
Dou Ying had no choice but to ask his nephew to write to the emperor to report the imperial edict, hoping to get a chance to be summoned again.
The memorial was submitted, but when checking the archives of the inner court, there was no sign of Emperor Jing's dying words.
This edict was only kept in Baoying's home and was sealed by his family chief.
So Dou Ying was impeached again, saying that he forged the emperor's edict and should be sentenced to the death penalty of beheading in public.
In October of the fifth year of Yuanguang, Guan Fu and his family were all convicted. It took a long time for Dou Ying to hear the news.
As soon as he heard this, he felt extremely sad and angry, and suffered a serious stroke. He didn't want to eat but wanted to die.
Later, I heard from somewhere that the emperor had no intention of killing him, so he resumed his diet and healed his illness.
The imperial court had decided not to execute Dou Ying, but at this time, rumors spread again, saying a lot of bad things about Dou Ying, deliberately letting the emperor hear it, so on December 30 of that year, Dou Ying was beheaded on the streets of Weicheng.
In the spring of the sixth year of Yuanguang, Tian Fu fell ill and felt pain all over his body, as if someone was beating him. He kept shouting loudly, admitting his guilt and apologizing. The emperor invited a wizard who could see ghosts to diagnose his illness. The wizard said: Two ghosts, Wei Qihou and Guan Fu, were guarding Wu'anhou and whipped him with whips to kill him.
Finally died.
His son Tian Tian inherited his father's title. During the Yuan Shuo period, his title was revoked because of his crimes.
Later, the rebellion of Huainan King Liu An was discovered.
A few years ago, the King of Huainan, Liu An, came to Beijing to pay homage. At that time, Tian Fu was the Taiwei and went to Ba Shang to greet the King of Huainan. He said to Liu An: The emperor does not have a prince yet. Your Majesty, you are the wisest and the grandson of the great ancestor. Once the emperor dies, who else should inherit the throne instead of you, the King of Huainan!
The King of Huainan was very happy after hearing this and gave Tian Ai many gold and silver items.
Ever since the incident involving Dou Ying and Guan Fu happened, the emperor did not take Tian Fu's actions seriously and tolerated them just to hinder the Queen Mother.
When the emperor heard about Tian Fu's collusion with King Huainan and the incident of accepting money from King Huainan, he said: If Marquis Wu'an is still there, it is time to exterminate the clan.
Han Anguo, whose courtesy name is Changru, was born in Cheng'an County, Liang State, and later moved to Suiyang.
He once studied "Han Feizi" and the doctrines of Zajia in Tiansheng's place in Zouxian County. Serve King Xiao of Liang and become a great official.
When Wu Chu rebelled, King Xiao sent An Guo and Zhang Yu as generals to resist the Wu army in Shu territory.
Because Zhang Yu fought hard and An Guo was mature and prudent, the Wu army could not cross Liang's defense line.
After the Wu Chu rebellion was over, the reputations of Han Anguo and Zhang Yu became prominent in the Liang Kingdom.
Because the King of Liang was a close relative of the royal family, he had the power to nominate candidates for the Prime Minister of Liang and the two thousand officials. His appearance in and out of the palace, and his entertainment, surpassed the status of ministers and was comparable to that of the emperor.
Emperor Han Jing, the emperor at that time, was very unhappy after hearing this.
Empress Dowager Dou knew that the emperor was dissatisfied, so she was angry with the envoys sent by King Liang and refused to receive them. Instead, she accused them of what King Liang had done.
At that time, Han Anguo was the envoy of Liang Dynasty, so he went to see the eldest princess and cried, "Why didn't the Queen Mother clearly understand the filial piety of King Liang as a son and the loyalty as a minister?"
In the past, when the Seven Kingdoms of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Tang were in power, all the princes who had been separated from each other united to march westward. Only Liang was the closest to the emperor and became a hindrance to the rebels.
The King of Liang often thought of the Queen Mother and the Emperor living in Guanzhong, and the princes rose up in rebellion. Every time he mentioned it, he shed several lines of tears. He knelt to see off his ministers and six other people, leading troops to repel the Wu Chu rebels. Therefore, Wu Chu's army did not dare to cross the Leichi even half a step westward, and was ultimately defeated. This was all the credit of the King of Liang!
Now the Queen Mother blamed King Liang for some small etiquette.
King Liang's father and brother were both emperors, and they were used to seeing grand pomp and show, so when he came in and out for recreation, he would clear the roads and be vigilant like an emperor. The carriages and flags were all given by the emperor. He just wanted to boast to his people in the border towns, and gallop back and forth in the country to show off to the princes, so that everyone in the world would know that the queen mother and the emperor loved him very much.
Now that Liang Envoy has arrived, he is being investigated and held accountable. King Liang was very frightened. He cried and thought day and night, not knowing what to do.
Why was the King of Liang so filial as a son and the most loyal as a minister, but the Queen Mother showed no mercy?
The eldest princess told the Queen Mother all this.
The Queen Mother happily said: I will explain to the Emperor for him. After the explanation, the Emperor felt relieved. He took off his hat and apologized to the Queen Mother and said: My brothers cannot advise each other, but the Queen Mother has made you worry.
So he received all the envoys sent by King Liang and rewarded them heavily.
After that, King Liang became even more favored.
The queen mother and the eldest princess rewarded Han Anguo with property worth about a thousand gold.
As a result, Han Anguo's reputation became more prominent and he established relations with the Han court.
Later, Han Anguo broke the law and was sentenced. Tian Jia, the warden of Meng County, humiliated him and said: Will the ashes that extinguish the fire not burn again?
Tian Jia said: If the fire breaks out again, I will drown it by urinating.
Soon after, the position of domestic history of Liang was vacant. The Han court sent an envoy to appoint Han Anguo as internal history of Liang, and promoted him from his disciples to serve as an official of two thousand stones.
Tian Jia abandoned his official position and fled.
Han Anguo said: If Tian Jia doesn't come back and take office, I will annihilate your clan.
Tian Jia then took off his clothes and apologized. Anguo smiled and said: Is a person like you worthy of my punishment?
Finally treat Tian Jia well.
When the internal history of Liang was vacant, King Xiao had just recruited Gongsun Gui from Qi. He liked him very much and wanted to request his appointment as internal history.
After Empress Dowager Dou heard about it, she issued an edict and ordered the King of Liang to appoint Han Anguo as the internal historian.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng lobbied King Xiao and asked him to request to be the heir to the throne and increase the fiefdom. They were afraid that the ministers of the Han court would not agree, so they secretly sent people to assassinate the powerful advisers of Moting.
When Yuan An, the former Prime Minister of Wu, was killed, Emperor Jing heard about the plans of Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others, so he sent people to capture Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng.
The Han Dynasty sent many envoys to Liang one after another, and a nationwide search was carried out from the Prime Minister of Liang on down. After more than a month, no one was caught.
The internal history of Han Anguo heard that Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others were hiding in Xiaowang's palace, so he went to the palace to see the king and cried and said: If the monarch is humiliated, the ministers should die.
The king has no good ministers, so things have become such a mess.
Now that I can't catch Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng, please let me say goodbye to you and grant my death.
King Liang said: "Why are you doing this?"
Han Anguo burst into tears for several lines and said: The king himself is thinking about the relationship between you and the emperor. Compared with the Supreme Emperor and Emperor Gao, or the emperor and King Linjiang, who is closer?
King Xiao said: Not as good as them.
An Guo said: The Supreme Emperor, Prince Linjiang, Emperor Gao and the Emperor all have a father-son relationship, but Emperor Gao said that I am the one who conquers the world with a three-foot sword, so the Supreme Emperor has never had the right to interfere in political affairs and only lives in Liangyang Palace.
King Linjiang was the eldest prince, but because his mother made a mistake, he was deprived of the title of King Linjiang; and because of the palace wall incident, he finally committed suicide in the Lieutenant's Mansion.
Why is this happening?
Because in governing the world, one cannot harm the public for private reasons.
As the saying goes: Although I have a biological father, how do I know that he is not a tiger?
Although he has a biological brother, how do you know that he will not turn into a wolf?
Now the king is a prince, but he listened to the false words of an evil official, violated the monarch's prohibition, and distorted the strict law.
Because of the Queen Mother, the Emperor cannot bear to use laws against you.
The Queen Mother cried at night, hoping that the king would realize and change his ways, but the king still could not wake up.
If the Queen Mother dies, who else can you cling to, Your Majesty?
Before he finished speaking, King Xiao burst into tears and blamed himself to Han Anguo: "I will hand over Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng immediately."
On that day, Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng committed suicide.
The Han envoys returned to answer their orders, and Liang's troubles were completely resolved. This was all due to An Guo's contribution.
So Emperor Jing and Empress Dowager Dou valued Han Anguo even more.
After the death of King Xiao, King Gong came to the throne. Han Anguo lost his official position because of breaking the law and lived at home.
After Liu Che, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, ascended the throne, Tian Fu, Marquis of Wu'an, became the Taiwei, favored and trusted and held great power.
Han Anguo gave five hundred gold to Tian Fu. Tian Fu mentioned Han Anguo to the Queen Mother. The emperor often heard about Anguo's talents, so he called him the captain of the North, and later he was promoted to Da Si Nong.
Min Yue and Shu Yue attacked each other, so the emperor sent Han Anguo and Daxing Wang Hui to lead troops to Vietnam.
Before reaching Yue, the Yue people killed their king and surrendered, and the Han court withdrew its troops.
At that time, Tian Fu became the prime minister, and Han Anguo was the censor.
The Xiongnu sent people to ask for peace, and the emperor asked the emperor to discuss it.
Wang Zheng of Daxing was an artist and had served as an official in border counties many times. He was very familiar with the situation of the Xiongnu. He made a comment and said: Most of the time when the Han soldiers make peace with the Huns, the Huns break the treaty again within a few years.
It would be better not to agree and send troops to attack them.
Han Anguo said: Sending troops to fight thousands of miles away will not yield good results.
If the Xiongnu relied on the speed of their troops and horses, had a heart like an animal, and migrated like a bird, it would be difficult to restrain them.
Acquiring their land does not count as opening up the territory, and ruling their people does not count as becoming rich and powerful. They have not been our subjects since ancient times.
If the Han soldiers traveled thousands of miles to gain victory, the troops and horses would be exhausted, while the Xiongnu could rest and wait for work. This was certainly very dangerous.
I think it's better to make peace with them.
When the ministers discussed this matter, most of them agreed with Anguo, so the emperor agreed to make peace with the Huns.
The next year, Nie Yi, a hero from Mayi City in Yanmen County, expressed to the emperor through Daxing Wang Zheng: Yu Xiangang has made a marriage with Xuan and is close to the people in the border areas. We can use profit to lure them over, and if we lay an ambush on the road, we will definitely destroy them.
The emperor then summoned all the ministers and asked him, "I will select my children, dress them, wear them, and betroth them to the Chanyu. I will also give him a lot of money, silk, and brocade."
The Chanyu treated my orders very lightly, and invaded and plundered without end. The people of the border counties were harassed many times, and I sympathized with them very much.
Now I want to send a large army to attack the Huns. What do you think?
Daxing Wang Hui replied: Even if your Majesty did not say it, I would have advocated the use of this strategy.
I heard that during the Warring States Period, when the world was not unified, although there were powerful barbarians in the north who threatened the interior, and the interior of the Central Plains was in turmoil, the countries were still able to support their people, farm according to the seasons, and the public and private warehouses were always full, so the Xiongnu did not dare to invade easily.
Now, relying on your majesty, the world is unified, and the Han Dynasty has sent its disciples to board the border towns to guard the fortress, transporting grain, and transporting chariots and horses. But Bao Xi continued to invade and plunder, for no other reason than because he had no fear.
I privately believe that attacking is beneficial.
Han Anguo, the imperial censor, retorted: That's not the case.
I heard that Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was once besieged by the Xiongnu in Pingcheng. The Xiongnu army took off their saddles and piled them up into camps. There were several places higher than Pingcheng.
In Pingcheng, Emperor Gao endured hunger and did not eat for seven days. Everyone in the world praised this incident. When the siege was lifted and he returned to the capital, he did not feel anxious, hateful or angry.
A sage should put the world first, be magnanimous, and not harm the world out of his own personal anger. Therefore, Emperor Gao sent Liu Jingfeng with a thousand catties of gold to make peace with the Huns. Up to now, the five emperors in Ligeng have benefited from it.
Emperor Xiaowen once unified and led the world's best soldiers and generals to assemble in Changxi, Guangwu. However, in the end, he achieved nothing, but the people of the world were all worried.
Emperor Xiaowen knew that the war could not be prolonged, so he once again made a peace treaty with the Xiongnu.
The deeds of these two enlightened emperors are enough to be followed.
I privately believe that not attacking is the best policy.
Wang Hui said again: What Han Anguo said is wrong.
I heard that the etiquette of the five emperors did not follow each other, and the etiquette and music of the three kings did not repeat. This was not a deliberate violation of the laws of the previous life. Only when each generation made laws and etiquette according to the actual Sui situation at that time was it appropriate.
Moreover, the Emperor of the Han Dynasty wore strong armor and held a sharp weapon in his hand, braved the morning fog, dew, and severe cold, frost, and snow, and traveled for nearly ten years. The reason why he did not avenge the resentment of the Qiancheng disaster was not because of lack of strength, but to allow the people of the world to rest and give them peace of mind.
Now the border has been invaded several times, soldiers have been killed and injured, and hearses are waiting for each other in China. This is a sad situation for people with lofty ideals. Your Majesty, I firmly believe that attacking and counterattacking is in the interests of the country. Han Anguo continued: That's not the case.
I heard that when the benefits do not reach ten times, they will never change their original occupation, and when the benefits do not reach a hundred times, they will never change their fixed careers. Therefore, when people in ancient times planned things, they would use the ancestral laws as an example, and they would also consult the scriptures when governing. This is because it is difficult to do things.
Moreover, since the Bai Dynasty became powerful, the Yi Di did not follow China to correct Shuo Yi's clothes. This is not because the majesty is not enough to subdue them, and the strength is not enough to make them obey, but because the people in the distant Jedi land who cannot be pastoral do not need to bother China to do so.
Moreover, the Huns' army was powerful and swift, coming like a gust of wind and going as fast as lightning. They rely on animal husbandry as their occupation, use bows and arrows to hunt, chase animals, and follow water and grass. They live in unstable places and are difficult to subdue.
Now it is not worth the gain to let the people of the border counties give up farming and weaving for a long time and come to support the things that the Huns are accustomed to.
I therefore consider it advantageous not to attack. Wang Hui said: That's not the case.
I heard that the phoenix crow flies on the wind, and the sage controls it according to the time.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin established his capital in Yongcheng, which was a land of three hundred miles. Knowing the changes of time and opportunity, he captured Xirong, opened up a territory of more than a thousand miles, and annexed fourteen countries. From then on, Longxi and the north became Qin's territory.
Later, Meng Tian led the army to attack the Xiongnu for Qin. Thousands of miles of territory were opened up, and all the north and south of the Yellow River were included in the territory of Qin. The Great Wall was built with soil and stones, and elm trees were planted as barriers. The Huns did not dare to go to the Yellow River to drink horses.
The Huns can only be subdued with majesty, but cannot be educated with benevolence and righteousness.
Now, relying on the strength of Mo, it has ten thousand times the wealth of the Xiongnu, and allocating one percent of it to attack the Xiongnu is like using a powerful crossbow to shoot through a festering sore, and there will definitely be no obstacles.
If the Huns are conquered in this way, then the Yuezhi can be recruited from the north to make them surrender.
Therefore, I said that it would be beneficial to use troops to conquer.
Han Anguo continued to argue and said: What Wang Hui said is wrong.
I heard that whenever you use troops to fight, you must feed yourself when you are hungry, rectify yourself, and treat the enemy? Kun is in chaos, rest in peace and wait until the enemy is tired.
In this way, the two armies are connected, defeating the enemy, conquering the enemy country, destroying their city, and often enslaving the enemy country easily. This is the method of the sage's use of arms.
Moreover, I have heard that when two strong winds collide, their power will become weaker and they will not even be able to blow the feathers; when a strong crossbow is at its end, its power will not be able to pass through Lu Zhen.
Therefore, whatever is strong must fall, just as morning must turn into evening.
Now if you put on your armor and go out hastily, going deep into the depths of the enemy, it will be difficult to achieve success and establish achievements. If it goes deep vertically, both wings will be threatened; if it goes deep horizontally, the center will be easily defeated; if the army moves quickly, food will be scarce and supplies will not be available; if it moves slowly, victory will not be achieved; before it reaches a thousand miles, the troops and horses will be short of food.
Zaocheng is as the Art of War says: Send the army to the enemy and let them capture it.
If those who advocate the use of troops have other techniques and methods to capture the enemy, then I don't know; if not, then I can't see what benefit it will be to attack the enemy in depth.
Therefore, I still advocate the advantage of not using troops. Wang Hui said: What Han Anguo said is wrong.
If grass and trees are hit by frost, they cannot withstand the wind and will wither quickly; clear water is like a mirror, and both beauty and ugliness can be revealed in its surface; a person who is proficient in the road and has a profound knowledge cannot disturb his mind with words.
Now the attack method I mentioned is not necessarily to send troops to fight deep into the hinterland of the Xiongnu. Instead, we will obey the Chanyu's desire and use leverage to lure him to the border. We choose smart, capable, brave, and swift cavalry units to secretly ambush as preparations, and inspect and inspect places with obstructions and dangers to strengthen our vigilance.
After our general situation is determined, we set up camps on the front, rear and left sides of the Shanyu's path. If we advance, we can resist him, and if we retreat, we can cut off his retreat. In this way, the Shanyu can capture him, and we will definitely win a complete victory. The emperor said: Very good.
So Wang Hui's suggestion was adopted. Secretly sending Nie Yi as a spy, he fled to the Huns and said to Shanyu: I can kill the magistrate and magistrate of Mayi and surrender the city of Mayi to you, so that I can get all the property.
Shanyu trusted him very much and felt that what he said was reasonable, so he agreed to him.
Nie Yi came back, beheaded the condemned prisoner, hung it under the city of Mayi, and pretended to be an official of Mayi city to win the trust of Shanzi's envoy. Said: The senior officials of Mayi City are all dead. You can come quickly.
So Shanyu passed through the border fortress and led more than 100,000 cavalry into Wuzhou Fortress.
At this time, the Han Dynasty ambushed more than 300,000 chariots, cavalry, and officials, hiding in the valley next to Mayi City.
Wei Lieutenant Li Guang is the heroic cavalry general, Grand Servant Sun He is the light chariot general, Daxing Wang Hui is the general general, Taizhong doctor Li Xi is the caiguan general, and Yushi doctor Han Anguo is the guard general. All the generals are led by the guard generals.
The generals agreed that as soon as Shan Yu entered Mayi City, the Han ambush troops would rush out to attack. Wang Hui and Li Xi would separately attack the Huns' baggage from Dai County.
At that time, Chanyu entered the Wuzhou Fortress of the Great Wall, which was still more than a hundred miles away from Mayi. He realized that there was a fraud in it, so he withdrew his troops.
The relevant situation is in "The Biography of the Huns".
It was said under the fortress that Shan Yu had retreated and the Han soldiers pursued them to the frontier fortress, but they probably could not catch up. So Wang Hui and other generals withdrew their troops and returned.
The emperor was very angry that Wang Hui did not attack the Xiongnu's baggage. Wang Hui said: It was originally agreed that as soon as the Xiongnu entered Mayi City and Mayi's army fought with the Chanyu, I would attack his baggage. This would be profitable. Now that the Chanyu has not entered Mayi and retreated, I can't fight with 30,000 people, and will only bring defeat to myself.
Although I know that I will be killed when I come back, this way I can save your Majesty's 30,000 soldiers.
So Wang Hui was handed over to the Tingwei for punishment. The Tingwei sentenced him to be afraid of the enemy and should be executed.
Wang Hui secretly gave a thousand pieces of gold to Prime Minister Tian Fu. Tian Fu did not dare to plead with the emperor, but said to the queen mother: Wang Hui was the first to propose the strategy of luring the enemy in Mayi, and now he has failed and killed him. This is to avenge the Huns!
When the emperor met with the queen mother, the queen mother told the emperor what Tian Xi had said.
The emperor said: Initially, it was Wang Hui who initiated the Mayi plan, so he mobilized hundreds of thousands of soldiers from all over the world to follow his plan and attack the Huns.
Moreover, even if Shanyu cannot be captured this time, if the troops led by Wang Hui attack the Huns' baggage, they may be able to achieve some results to appease the soldiers.
If Wang Hui is not killed now, he will not be able to apologize to the world.
Wang Hui heard about it and committed suicide.
An Guo is a man with deep strategies, and his wisdom and wisdom are all in line with worldly standards of choice, but they are all based on loyalty.
Although he is greedy for money, he only recommends honest people who are more capable than himself.
Recommend Yi Ya in Luang time? Wei Zhou and others were also famous people in the world, so the scholars praised and admired him very much. Even the emperor thought he was a talented person in governing the country.
Han Anguo served as the imperial censor for five years, and the prime minister passed away.
Longxuanli also acted as prime minister. When he was leading the way for the emperor, he fell from his car and became lame.
The emperor wanted to appoint Han Anguo as prime minister, but sent someone to visit him and found that he was lame badly, so he appointed Pingjihou Lanya as prime minister. Longyi was dismissed from office for several months due to illness. After his leg injury healed, the emperor appointed him as lieutenant again.
More than a year later, he was appointed as a guard.
At this time, General Wei Qing and others attacked Bao Chu and broke through.
The next year, Bao Chao invaded the border again.
The relevant situation is in "The Biography of Wei Qing".
Han Anguo was appointed as Caiguan General and stationed in Yuyang. Anguo captured and plundered the enemy alive, saying that the Huns had retreated far away.
He wrote a letter saying that it was the busy farming season and requested to temporarily stop the army.
Only a month after stopping the garrison, Xionghe launched a large-scale attack on Shangcha and Setan.
There were only more than 700 people in the state camp. They went out to fight with the Xiongnu. Han Anguo was injured and returned to the camp.
The Bao plastic prisoners plundered the remaining people, livestock and property and left.
The emperor was furious and sent an envoy to blame Han Anguo.
He was even ordered to move eastward and stationed in Youbeiping.
Because the prisoners at that time said that the Huns would invade from the east.
Han Anguo initially served as a royal censor and a general protecting the army, but was later alienated and demoted. The newly favored and young general Wei Qing and others had military merits and were even more important to the emperor.
Han Anguo was ostracized and alienated, and leading troops stationed at the border suffered many casualties. He felt very ashamed in his heart. I hoped to be lucky enough to return to the imperial court, but I was even transferred to the east to station. I felt very frustrated and unhappy. A few months later, he fell ill and vomited blood and died.
Husui, together with Taishi Sima Qian and others, revised the Han Dynasty laws and regulations, and served as an official until Zhan Shi. This man was honest, honest, consistent in his words and deeds, and a man of high moral character.
The emperor was about to rely on him to become the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, but he fell ill and died.
Zan said: Dou Ying and Tian Fu both held important positions because of their relatives, while Guan Fu became famous at that time because he made up his mind and showed his performance. They are all in the ranks of ministers, and their great cause has been determined.
However, Bao Ying was too ignorant of current affairs, Guan Fu was uneducated and not humble, and Tian Fu relied on his noble status to become arrogant and domineering.
The evil qualities of each other collide with each other, and they will show up at the right moment. Although Jiufeng mediates between them sincerely, how can he save their decline?
Based on Han Anguo's knowledge and understanding, when he was about to ascend to the throne, he suffered from illness and failed, and finally slowly died of worry. What happened to people is really destined, how sad!
For example, Wang Hui first proposed the use of troops against the Xiongnu but suffered disasters as a result. Was the dispatch ordained by fate?
