Emperor Wu's name was Yan and his courtesy name was Anshi. He was the eldest son of Emperor Wen of Jin Dynasty.
He is tolerant and kind, deep and magnanimous.
During the Jiaping period of Wei Dynasty, he was granted the title of Tinghou of Beiping, and successively served as the commander of the army, the commander of the army, the general of the base, the general of the cavalry, the general of the cavalry, and the title of the protector of the army and the holiday.
He went to Wuyang in the east to welcome Changdao Xianggong to the throne, moved to Zhongfujun, and was granted the title of Xinchang Xianghou in Jin Dynasty.
When the Jin State was established, he was established as the heir apparent and granted the title of General of Fujun, Kaifu, and Deputy Second Prime Minister.
At the beginning, because Emperor Jing was the heir of Emperor Xuan and died early without any heirs, Emperor Wen regarded Emperor Wu's younger brother Sima You as a heir of Emperor Jing. He took special care of him, thinking that he would be the prime minister and should pass on his great legacy to Sima You after his death.
Chang said: This is King Jing's world, and I will not get involved.
When it was time to decide on the crown prince, Emperor Wen wanted to appoint Sima You.
He Zeng and others persisted in their dissent and said: The Zhongfu Army is smart and martial, with extraordinary talents.
The hair is on the floor and the arms are above the knees. This is not the appearance of a minister!
It’s been settled ever since.
In May of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, he was established as the crown prince of Jin Dynasty.
On the ninth day of August, Emperor Wen died, and the prince inherited the titles of the Prime Minister and the King of Jin.
Orders were given to relax punishments, pardon sinners, appease the people, reduce corvee service, and observe three days of mourning in the country.
This month, a tall man appeared in Xiangwu, three feet tall, and said to the local Wang Shi: Now is the time of peace and prosperity.
On the seventh day of the ninth lunar month, Wei Situ He Zeng became prime minister, Zhennan General Wang Shen became Yushi Dafu, Central Guards Jia Chong became Guard General, Yi Lang Pei Xiu became Shangshu Ling and Guanglu Dafu. These people can open offices and set up staff.
In November, the Fourth Guard Army was set up for the first time to command the armies outside the city.
On the 15th, he ordered the officials of all counties to recommend talents among the people according to six standards: the first one is loyalty, respect, diligence and self-restraint, the second one is filial piety, the third one is brotherhood and friendliness, the fourth one is self-discipline, hard work and humility, the fifth one is to strictly keep faith and words and deeds can be verified, and the sixth one is to study hard to cultivate oneself.
At this time, the virtues of the King of Jin were spread all over the world, and the whole world returned to his heart.
So the emperor knew that the movement of heaven would be transferred to Jin, so he sent the Taibao Zheng Chongfeng to read the policy book and said: Inform the king of Jin that my imperial ancestor has the Yu family. In response to the order of heaven, he received the Zen of Tao and Tang and became the throne. He also gave the world to Youxia.
Only Xia Yu, Shang Tang, and Zhou Wen were able to match the sky, all because their holy virtues were like the sun and moon shining brightly.
After that, Heaven again poured great destiny into the Han Dynasty. As the fire virtues of the Han Dynasty declined, the emperor favored my great ancestor and granted it to the world. Our dynasty imitated the outstanding virtues and achievements of the Yu, Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties. I don’t know all about it.
It’s just that your grandfather and father are wise and wise, assisting my royal family, and their virtues illuminate the world, and all ghosts and gods above and below are harmonious, the water and the earth are peaceful, the heaven is orderly, and all nations are in peace.
He should accept the order of God and follow the righteous path of the emperor.
I respectfully entrust you with the position of Emperor by the destiny of Heaven. The important responsibility of the new dynasty lies with you. You should follow the right path so that the destiny of the country can be long-lasting. ah!
The king should respect and obey the destiny.
All must follow the precepts of the Holy Prophet, appease the countries in the four directions, safeguard the good will of heaven, and do not abandon the great cause of our two emperors.
Emperor Wu began to give in politely, and the Wei Dynasty ministers He Zeng, Wang Shen and others made firm requests, and Emperor Wu finally agreed to take the throne as emperor.
On the 17th day of the twelfth lunar month in the first year of Taishi, an altar was set up in the southern suburbs. Tens of thousands of ethnic minorities from all over the country, including the reigning Bailuo and Xiongnu Nanchanyu, gathered together. They lit fires, held rice dog sacrifices, and announced to heaven: The emperor's minister Sima Yan dared to use Xuanmu to declare to the emperor's land.
In the past, when Emperor Yao of the Tang Dynasty was prosperous, he abdicated to Yu and Shun, and Shun abdicated to Yu. His high virtues will be passed down to future generations and will last for a long time.
When the virtue of the Han Dynasty declined, Emperor Taizu Wu brought order to things, saved the situation, and supported the Liu family, so the Han Dynasty surrendered to the Wei Dynasty.
The Wei family had many troubles over the years and was almost defeated. It was thanks to Jin Kuang's help and rescue that they were able to protect the clan and tide over the difficulties. This shows that Jin made great contributions to Wei.
Everyone in the four directions is obedient, clarifying Liang and Min, appeasing Yang Yue, all directions are on the same track, auspiciousness appears repeatedly, heaven and man are in harmony, and all thoughts are obeyed.
I follow the example of the Three Empresses, and the destiny of heaven is gathered here. Yan's virtue is not enough to succeed him, and he will not be allowed to give in.
So all the ministers, princes and ministers, the sages and ministers, and the rulers of hundreds of barbarians all said: The Emperor and Heaven, considering the earth, seek the suffering of the people. The destiny has been fulfilled, and it is impossible to refuse to disobey it with humility.
The lineage of emperors cannot be without succession, and humans and gods cannot be without masters.
Yan respects the emperor's luck, fears the power of heaven, chooses an auspicious day, ascends the altar to receive Zen, and tells the story to heaven to satisfy the public's expectations.
After the ceremony, I went to the Taiji Front Hall of Luoyang Palace and issued an edict: In the past, my imperial ancestor, King Xuan, was a sage and wise man. He followed the destiny, prospered the emperor's career, and created a great foundation.
King Bo Kao Jing walked on the high road and conspired among the people, illuminating all the Xia.
As for King Xuan Kao Wen, he was wise and far-reaching, harmonious with people and gods, obeyed the destiny, accepted this clear mandate, benevolent and virtuous, and benefited the universe, and his merits reached all levels. In view of the ancient teachings, the Wei family imitated Yao and Shun, consulted the ministers, and entrusted me with great orders.
I fear destiny and dare not disobey it.
I have a meager virtue, but I shoulder a great responsibility. I rely on the princes and dominate the world. I am worried and fearful, and I don't know what to do.
You are the assistants of the minions and loyal ministers in civil and military affairs. Erzuer father, you are actually the assistant ministers on the left and right of my late king, who will prosper the great cause of Jin Dynasty.
I want to share the world with the subjects of all nations.
So a general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed.
The officials of the world are given titles of five degrees each. Those who are widowed and lonely and unable to support themselves are given five dendrobiums of grain. They are exempted from the taxes of the world and customs for one year. Old debts in the past will no longer be collected. All old suspicions and imprisonments will be lifted. Those who have lost their titles will be restored.
On the 18th, Liu Yuan, the imperial servant, was sent to the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
The Emperor of Wei was granted the title of King Chenliu, with a population of 10,000 households, and a residence in Ye Palace; all the kings of the Wei family were granted the title of County Marquis.
King Xuan was named Emperor Xuan, King Jing was named Emperor Jing, King Wen was named Emperor Wen, and Princess Xuan's concubine Zhang was named Queen Xuanmu.
The concubine Wang was honored as the empress dowager, and the palace she lived in was called Chonghua Palace.
The imperial uncle Sima Fu was named the King of Anping, the imperial uncle Sima Qian was named the Pingyuan King, Sima Liang was named the Fufeng King, Sima Qianyou was named the Dongguan King, Sima Jun was named the Ruyin King, Sima Wei was named the Liang King, and Sima Lun was named. The king of Lang is King Ya, the emperor's younger brother Sima You is the king of Qi, Sima Jian is the king of Le'an, Sima Ji is the king of Yan, the emperor's uncle Sima Wang is the king of Yiyang, the emperor's uncle Sima Fu is the king of Bohai, and Sima Huang is the king of Xiapi. , Sima Huan was the King of Taiyuan, Sima Wanggui was the King of Gaoyang, Sima Heng was the King of Changshan, Sima Ziwen was the King of Pei, Sima Tai was the King of Longxi, Sima Quan was the King of Pengcheng, Sima Sui was the King of Fanyang, Sima Then he became the king of Jinan, Sima Xun became the king of Qiao, Sima Mu became the king of Zhongshan, Sima Ling became the king of Beihai, Sima Bin became the king of Chen, the emperor's father's brother Sima Hong became the king of Hejian, and the emperor's father's brother Sima Mao became the king of Dongping.
Shi Bao, the general of the cavalry, was appointed as Grand Sima, and was given the title of Duke of Leling. General Chen Qian of the cavalry was named Duke of Gaoping. General Jia Chong of the Wei was appointed as the general of cavalry and Duke of Lu. Pei Xiu, the minister of the secretariat, was named Duke of Julu. Fu, Shouguang Gong, Taiwei Wang Xiang was Taibao and Suiling Gong, Prime Minister He Zeng was Taiwei and Langling Gong, Yushi doctor Wang Shen was Hussar General and Boling Gong, Sikong Xunqiye was Linhuai Gong, Zhenbei General Wei Guan was Suiyang Gong.
The rest were awarded various titles, and civil and military officials were generally promoted to the second rank. The "Jingchu Calendar" was changed to the "Taishi Calendar", with the wax festival in You and the social day in Chou.
On the 19th, an edict was issued to spread the trend of frugality. The pearls and jade in the palace were taken out and rewarded to officials below the princes and princes in varying amounts.
A general of the central army was appointed to lead the seven armies of Suwei.
On the 20th, an edict was issued asking King Chenliu to carry the emperor's banner when traveling, to prepare auxiliary vehicles for the five seasons, to use Wei's calendar, to worship heaven and earth in the suburbs like the emperor, and to follow Wei's rules for rituals and music.
One of the sons of Shanyang Gong Liu Kang and Anle Gong Liu Chan was given the title of Prince Consort Captain.
On the 26th, Sima Fu, King of Anping, was appointed as the Grand Administrator, the fake Huangyue, and the Grand Commander in charge of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
The edict was issued: In the past, Wang Chang planned to depose the King of Qi, but the King of Qi was eventually deposed.
Although Deng Ai was proud of his merits and betrayed his integrity, he still folded his hands and confessed.
Today, the two families are granted amnesty and they can return to their hometown to raise heirs.
Reviving what was destroyed, continuing what was destroyed, simplifying the law and saving punishment.
The confinement of the Wei clan was lifted.
All generals, non-commissioned officers and officials who have been mourned for three years will be sent back to mourn for three years.
People who have been mourning for three years are exempted from corvee during the period of mourning.
It exempts generals and officials below from using their families as hostages, saves the supplies that counties and states transport to the capital, prohibits Yuefu, extravagant opera skills and ornately carved hunting equipment, opens the door to public opinion, and sets up admonishers to take charge of this matter.
During this month, six phoenixes, three blue dragons, two white dragons, and one unicorn appeared in each county.
On the seventh day of the first lunar month of the second year, Shi Guang and others were sent to all parts of the country to inspect the customs and eliminate the sacrifices that were not included in the ceremony.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, a minister requested the construction of seven temples. Emperor Wu thought that the corvee was too heavy and would not allow it.
On the eleventh day, those who sang rooster songs stopped.
On the 22nd, Emperor Zunjing's wife Yang Shi became Queen Jing, and the palace she lived in was called Hongxun Palace.
On the 27th, Queen Yang was established.
In February, the confinement of the Han clan was lifted.
On the eleventh day, Sima Heng, the king of Changshan, died.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The five titles of nobility are reserved for the heroes of the past.
If a person was originally a county marquis, his second son would be granted the title of Tinghou when he ascended the title; if he was originally a township marquis, his second son would be a Guannei marquis; if he was originally a Tinghou, his second son would be a Guanzhong marquis, and they would all receive one-tenth of the title of the title.
On the 29th, Emperor Xuan was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of heaven.
The edict issued on the 22nd said: In ancient times, hundreds of officials were set up to admonish the king for his mistakes. However, Bao's officials have a special job of admonishing. Today's Shizhong and Changshi are actually in this position.
Choose those who can correct violations and rescue deficiencies to take on this position.
On March 20th, people from Wu came to offer condolences, and a superior responded with an edict.
Emperor Wu said: In the past, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty recruited Wei Ta, and Emperor Guangwu recruited Gongsun Shu, but they did not follow the etiquette of a monarch towards his ministers. This was to win over those who did not surrender.
When Sun Hao began to send envoys, he did not know that Jin had established a country and established an emperor, so he only thanked him in letters.
On Wuchen day of the fifth month of Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: King Chenliu has a humble character and always has to go to court for everything. This is not my request for preferential treatment and respect for him.
The person in charge of the matter explained to him that as long as it was not a major matter, it would be enough to let King Chenliu's officials come to the table.
On the day of Renzi, the hussar general Prince Boling died.
On June 25th, King Sima of Jinan died.
On the fifth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the Ancestral Temple was built. Timber was transported from Jingshan Mountain, stones from Huashan Mountain were mined, twelve copper pillars were cast, coated with a layer of gold, carved with hundreds of objects, and embellished with pearls.
On the 22nd, Sima Xun, the king of Qiao, died.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. On the tenth day of August, the rank of right general was reduced.
At the beginning, although Emperor Wu implemented the mourning system of the Han and Wei dynasties, mourning clothes were removed after the burial, but he still wore dark clothes and a plain crown.
On the 22nd, a minister asked him to change his clothes and eat as usual, but Emperor Wu refused. He waited until the mourning period was over before returning to normal. The queen also mourned for the Queen Mother. On September 20th, Huangfu Tao and Fu Xuan, who were regular attendants of Sanqi and remonstrated with the officials, wrote a letter of remonstrance. A minister asked him to suppress the remonstrance and not discuss it.
Emperor Wu issued an edict saying: It is difficult for ministers to express criticisms related to their masters, and they suffer from the fact that their masters cannot listen to them. Since ancient times, loyal ministers and honest men have sighed generously for this, and often handed over a book of statements to the person in charge.
Let the courtiers comment in detail.
On September 23, a minister reported that the Jin Dynasty should inherit the achievements of the three emperors, follow in the footsteps of Shun and Yu, obey the laws of heaven, and accept the Zen of Wei. It should follow the calendar of the previous generation, just like Yu and Shun followed the example of Tang Yao.
Emperor Wu approved.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, an edict was issued saying: In the past, when Shun was buried in Cangwu, the farmers did not change the cultivated land; Yu was buried in Chengji, and the market place did not change.
In order to recall the purpose of the ancestors' examination of the Qing Dynasty bamboo slips, the residents within ten miles of the mausoleum were relocated, which annoyed the people and stopped the implementation.
On the fifth day of the eleventh month, the Japanese came to offer foreign objects from their country.
The circular mounds for worshiping the sky and the square mounds for worshiping the earth were merged into the southern and northern suburbs, and the sacrifices for the summer solstice and winter solstice were merged into the sacrifices for the two suburbs.
Remove the governor of Shanyang Principality and remove its prohibitions.
On the 15th, Xiahou, the wife of Emperor Jing, was posthumously named Queen Jinghuai.
On the 17th, the ancestors and fathers were moved to the Ancestral Temple.
In December, agricultural officials in various places were dismissed and returned to counties and counties.
During this year, six phoenixes, ten green dragons, nine yellow dragons, and one unicorn appeared in each county.
In the spring of the third year of the first month of Guichou, two white dragons appeared in Mianchi, Hongnong.
On the day of Ding Mao, the prince Sima Zhong was made the crown prince.
The edict said: With my immoral body, I have been entrusted to the world. I work conscientiously and revere my duties. I am afraid that I will not be able to make Yu Nei happy. I want to clarify to the people of the world that the king's legal system has its original origin. As for the matter of establishing a prince, it is not an urgent matter.
Furthermore, in modern times, every time a prince is established, he must be given the gift of clemency. This matter cannot be avoided, and he often just obeys the opinions of the princes and ministers.
If there is peace in the world today, we will state our virtues and righteousness to the world, show our likes and dislikes, and make the people abandon the idea of ​​getting lucky. Instead, they must behave faithfully, consistently, and give small favors. This is not advisable.
Let everyone know this.
On the sixth day of March, two thousand stone officials were ordered to mourn for three years for the first time.
On the day of Dingwei, the day is dark.
Remove the military guard general from his post.
Li Xi was appointed as the crown prince and tutor.
The Taishan stone collapsed.
On April 16th in the summer, Jiao Sheng, the prefect of Zhangye, reported that there was a black stone at the mouth of Daliu Valley in Dichi County with white inscriptions on it, which was indeed a symbol of good luck in the Jin Dynasty. He painted the inscriptions and dedicated them to the emperor. He issued an edict to make coins as a sacrifice to the Ancestral Temple, and the pictures and texts were stored in Tianfu.
In the eighth month of autumn, General Duhu was dismissed and the five departments under his jurisdiction were returned to Guang Luxun.
On September 15th, an edict was issued stating: In the ancient system, titles were determined by virtue and salaries were determined by merit. Although the salary of a corporal was equivalent to the income of a superior farmer, externally they could serve the public and forget selfishness, and internally it was enough to support their relatives and benefit them.
Nowadays, the official salary of the current officials cannot be paid to farm the land for them, which will not achieve the purpose of promoting enlightenment.
It can be agreed to increase official salaries.
The gifts range from prince to prince.
Yi Taiwei was once the Taibao, Sima Wang, the king of Yiyang, was the Taiwei, and Sikong Xunji was the Situ.
In the tenth month of winter, soldiers who have lost their parents are allowed to go home to attend to the funeral if they are not on the battlefield.
In December, Kong Zhen, the Holy Marquis of the Relocation Sect, was appointed the Marquis of Fengshengting.
Liu Kang, Duke of Shanyang, came to court.
Superstitious doctrines such as stargazing, fortune telling, and latitude prediction are prohibited.
On the third day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of spring, Pei Xiu was made Sikong by the minister.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month, the new laws and regulations were completed, and the titles and titles varied.
A comet appeared near the star Zhen.
On the 19th, Emperor Wu went to the fields reserved for the emperor and ministers to cultivate.
On the 20th, an edict was issued saying: In ancient times, symbolic punishments were imposed but no one committed the crime. Today, although three tribes are exterminated, treachery and evil continue. How far apart is morality and punishment!
The late emperor was deeply concerned about the people and pitied the prisoners, so he ordered his ministers to examine the criminal law.
I should uphold the legacy and keep the imperial industry stable forever. I should rule all nations by doing nothing.
Now the spring is nourishing all things, and spring plowing has begun. I personally lead the princes and officials to cultivate thousands of acres of land.
Moreover, the laws and regulations have been completed and promulgated to the world, which will simplify the laws, encourage the people to follow the principles, and educate the people at home.
Sinners should be forgiven so that they can rehabilitate themselves. Today, there is a general amnesty for the whole country, and each of the chief officials, county magistrates, and chief historians will be given a horse.
On the third day of February, the Prime Minister of Shanyang Duke, Lang Zhong Ling, Ling Ling, handyman slaughtering people, and advocating chariots and horses were added.
The generals of the central army were dismissed and the central marquis officers of the northern army were appointed.
On the 17th, Donghai Liu Jian was worshiped as Lang because of his noble character.
Yang Hu, the general of the Chinese army, was appointed as the left servant of Shangshu, and Sima Qianyou, the king of Dongguan, was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
On March 21, the Empress Dowager Wang died.
On the second day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Taibao and Prince Suiling died.
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, the civilized queens and Wangs were buried together in Chongyang Mausoleum.
Remove the officers who are promoting their power and protecting their power, and appoint generals who are accumulating crossbows on the left and right.
On the first day of the sixth lunar month, an edict was issued saying: The prefects of each county and the prime ministers of each feudal state will visit their counties once every three years, always in the spring. The ancients used this method to describe their duties and to show their loyalty.
During the tour, they should meet with senior officials, observe customs, coordinate etiquette, correct weights and measures, express condolences to the elderly, and personally visit centenarians.
They also need to interrogate prisoners, deal with unjust cases, carefully examine the gains and losses of government and punishment, and understand the sufferings of the people.
You will come from far and near, just like I am here in person.
It proclaims the five virtues of filial piety, righteousness, kindness, respect and friendship, encourages farming, encourages students, and makes people diligent in their work and not engage in the low-end things of a hundred schools of thought. Those who travel far away will be in danger.
Among the scholars and common people, if there are those who are eager to learn and uphold morality, are filial, loyal and trustworthy, and are innocent and outstanding, we will recommend and promote them; if there are those who are unfilial to their parents, disrespectful of the party and clan, disobey etiquette and deviate from the law, and do not follow the law, we will picket and punish them.
The fields are opened up, all industries are prosperous, etiquette and education are in place, and orders and prohibitions are implemented, which shows that the chief officials are capable.
The people are poor, farming is neglected, rapes and robberies are frequent, there are many prisons, superiors and subordinates are derelict, and etiquette and justice are not flourishing. This is the dereliction of duty of the chief officials.
If the officials are honest in their official duties, do not seek personal gain, are upright and honest, and do not show off their reputation, as well as those who behave corruptly, flatter and scheming, and do not have the integrity to serve the public and get rich privately, they must be seriously investigated and punished.
Praising the honest and eradicating the filthy, recommending the kind and impeaching the violators, this is the general outline of my governance, and this is what I have entrusted Ryoji Sengoku to do.
Alas! Be alert!
In the seventh month of autumn, the rocks on Mount Tai collapsed and the stars flowed westward.
In Wuwu, the envoy Hou Shiguang was sent to patrol the world.
On the 14th, I paid a visit to Chongyang Mausoleum.
In September, floods occurred in Qingzhou, Xuzhou, Yanzhou, and Henan. The Yishui River and Luo River overflowed their banks and entered the Yellow River. The government opened warehouses to help the people.
The edict was issued and said: Although the edict requires that things be done and the memorials are approved, things that are not convenient for implementation must be reported truthfully and cannot be concealed.
In the tenth month of winter, Wu general Shi Ji entered Jiangxia, and thousands of depressions invaded Xiangyang.
Emperor Wu sent Taiwei Yiyang King Sima Wang to garrison Longpi.
Hu Lie, the governor of Jingzhou, defeated Wan Yu.
Wu general Gu Rong invaded Yulin, and the prefect Mao Jiong defeated his army and killed Wu Jiaozhou governor Liu Jun and general Xiu Ze.
In November, Wu general Ding Feng and others sent troops to Shaopi, but were defeated by Andong generals Ruyin King Sima Jun and Yiyang King Sima Wang and fled.
On the 27th, an edict was issued to the princes, ministers, ministers, prefects and ministers to recommend virtuous, upright and upright people.
In December, five edicts were issued to the counties and states. These five edicts are: first, be honest, second, be diligent in the affairs of the people, third, provide care for orphans and widows, fourth, urge the cessation of business, and fifth, prohibit bribery.
On the 28th, Emperor Wu personally visited the hearing hall, inspected the prisoners in Luoyang Prison who belonged to Tingwei, and made judgments in person.
Funan and Linyi each sent envoys to pay tribute.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, the chief minister of Shenjie County’s national affairs must make full use of the geographical advantages and prohibit idlers and traders.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Emperor Wu came to the hearing hall and inspected the prisoners. Many prisoners were pardoned and sent back.
Two green dragons appeared in Xingyang.
In February, the five counties of Longyou in Yongzhou, Jincheng in Liangzhou, and Yinping in Liangzhou were merged into Qinzhou.
On the 20th, two white dragons appeared in the State of Zhao.
There were floods in Qingzhou, Xuzhou and Yanzhou, and envoys were sent to help the people.
In Renyin, Shangshu Zuopu Sheyanghu, the governor of Jingzhou, was in charge of all the military affairs in Jingzhou, General Wei Yu, the general who conquered the east, was in charge of all the military affairs in Qingzhou, Sima Qianyou, the king of Dongguan, was the general in Zhendong, and the commander-in-chief was in charge of all the military affairs in Xuzhou.
On the 26th, an edict was issued saying: In ancient times, the competence of officials in various places was recorded every year, and rewards and punishments were carried out after three years.
Today, the officials who are responsible for recording the history of the previous and later orders only choose to record the poor and poor officials, but do not encourage the outstanding ones. This is not in line with the principles of promotion and demotion, reward and punishment.
It is necessary to report those officials who are diligent in political affairs and have outstanding talents and reputations. Once a year, it will become a routine and I will discuss their merits.
On this day, an edict was issued to assign Zhuge Jing, Zhuge Liang's grandson, an official position suitable for his talents.
Summer April, earthquake.
On the first day of May, the phoenix appeared in the State of Zhao.
Special amnesty for prisoners in Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen, Rinan and other places within five years.
In June, Guo Na, the governor of Xiguan in Yecheng, wrote a letter stating five things to remonstrate. His words were sincere and straightforward, and he was promoted to the post of Tunliu Ling. Qu Lu, a native of Xiping, beat the drum outside the court gate and spread evil rumors. Someone asked him to be executed and his body was thrown into the street.
Emperor Wu said: This is my fault.
Not traceable.
The generals of the town army were dismissed and the generals of the left and right were restored to their posts.
In the seventh month of autumn, I received the public and asked for honest words.
In September, a comet appears in the constellation Purple Palace.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Wang Hong, the prefect of Jijun, was given a thousand dendrobium grains because of his political achievements.
In November, the posthumous emperor's brother Sima Zhao was posthumously named King Ai of Chengyang, and his son Sima Jingdu was his heir.
In December, Zhaozhou County recommended brave and outstanding talents.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the sixth year of spring, Emperor Wu met with the ministers in front of the palace without playing music.
Wu general Ding Feng invaded the mouth of the vortex and was repulsed by Yangzhou governor Qianhong.
In March, prisoners under the age of five were pardoned.
In April of summer, two white dragons appeared in Dongguan.
In May, Sima Cheng, the Marquis of Anting, was appointed King of Nangong.
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, Hu Lie, the governor of Qinzhou, fought with the rebels at Wanhudui. He fought hard and died in battle.
The imperial edict was sent to send Shangshu Shi Jian to act as general of Anxi and governor of the Qinzhou army, and to jointly attack the rebels with Fenwei guard Tian Zhang.
On the 14th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the residents of the five counties on the right side of Longnan who were harmed by the invaders were exempted from rent and taxes. Those who were unable to survive were given loans from official warehouses for relief.
On the 22nd, Sima Jingdu, king of Chengyang, died.
The edict said: Since the beginning of Taishi, all important events have been recorded in writing, and the secretary has copied the copies. In the future, all important events should be collected and organized as a rule.
On the 24th, Sima Jun, king of Ruyin, was appointed as the general of Zhenxi and the commander-in-chief of the military forces of Yongliang and Liangzhou.
In the ninth month, Dawan presented horses with sweat and blood, and Yanqi came to pay tribute to local foreign objects.
In the eleventh month of winter, Emperor Wu inspected the Imperial Academy in the capital, held a drinking ceremony in the countryside, and gave Dr. Taichang and his students silk, cattle, and wine.
The prince Sima Jian was made King of Runan.
In December, Sun Xiu, the governor of Wu Xiakou and the former general, led his troops to join him. He was appointed General of Hussars, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title Duke of Kuaiji.
On the 17th, the post of town officer was restored.
On the twenty-sixth day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, the crown prince came of age and was crowned, and was given silk ranging from prince to prince.
The Xiongnu commander Liu Meng rebelled and left the fortress.
In March, Sun Hao led his troops to Shouyang, and Jin sent Grand Sima Sima Wang to station troops in Huaibei to resist the Wu army.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Sikong and Julu Gong Pei Xiu died.
On the 14th, Wang Ye of the Central Guard Army was appointed as the left servant of the minister, and Wang Gui, the king of Gaoyang, was appointed as the right servant of the minister.
General He Chong of Sun Xiu's tribe came to surrender with 5,000 men.
In April of summer, Dong Yuan, the prefect of Jiuzhen, was attacked by Wu general Yu Si. The Jin army failed and Dong Yuan died in battle.
The Hu people in the north invaded Jincheng, and Qianhong, the governor of Liangzhou, attacked the Hu people. The Hu people who had surrendered rebelled internally and surrounded Qianhong in Qingshan. Qianhong's army failed and Qianhong died in battle.
In May, Prince Sima Xian was made King of Chengyang.
There was a famine in the three states of Yong, Liang, and Qin, and the sinners in the three states who were under death penalty were pardoned.
In the leap month, a rain-seeking ceremony was held, and the eunuch in charge of the meals of the emperor's officials reduced the meal expenses.
An edict was issued to the three counties of Jiaozhi and the counties of Nanzhong to exempt each household from paying silk and silk this year.
In June, an edict was issued to recommend one general to each of the ministers below.
On the 24th, Sima Wang, the great Sima Yiyang king, died.
Heavy rains continued, and the Yishui, Luoshui, and Yellow Rivers overflowed, destroying more than 4,000 homes and drowning more than 300 people. An edict was issued to provide relief to the victims and provide coffins for the dead.
On the twenty-sixth day of the seventh month in autumn, Jia Chong, the general of chariots and cavalry, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Qin and Liang.
Wu general Tao Huang and others surrounded Jiaozhi, and Jiaozhi prefect Yang Ji, Yulin prefect Mao Jiong and Rinan surrendered to Wu.
On the ninth day of the eighth month, Wei Niu, the general who conquered the east, was appointed as the general who conquered the north and commanded all the military forces in Youzhou.
On the 19th, Sima Xian, king of Chengyang, died.
The four southern counties of Yizhou were separated and established as Ningzhou, and prisoners under death penalty in the four counties were granted amnesty.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
On November 12, Wei Gongji died.
In December, it snows heavily.
The central leader was withdrawn and placed under the command of the Northern Army.
Take Guanglu doctor Zheng Miao as Sikong.
In the spring and first month of the eighth year, the supervisor He Zhen attacked the Xiongnu Liu Meng and repeatedly defeated Liu Meng's army. The Xiongnu left commander Li Ke killed Liu Meng and surrendered to the Jin Dynasty.
On the 19th, Emperor Wu plowed his fields.
On the first day of February, illegal objects with ornate carvings are prohibited.
On the 18th, Dazai and Anping King Sima Fu died.
An edict was issued to ask internal and external officials to recommend three persons each who could serve in the border counties.
Emperor Wu discussed the issue with the right general Huangfu Tao. Huangfu Tao had a dispute with Emperor Wu. Zheng Hui, a regular servant of Sanqi, petitioned to punish Huangfu Tao.
Emperor Wu said: "Be upright and dare to speak out. This is what I ask of my ministers."
The master is often troubled by flatterers, how can he hurt his outspoken minister?
Zheng Hui went beyond his duties and acted recklessly, which was not to my liking.
So Zheng Hui was dismissed from his post.
In April of summer, a rear general was appointed to prepare the four armies.
In June, Yizhou Yamen general Zhang Hong falsely accused Yizhou governor Huangfu Yan of treason, killed Huangfu Yan, and passed his head to the capital.
Zhang Hong was sentenced to death and the three tribes were exterminated.
On the 19th, there was a general amnesty.
On the 23rd, an edict was issued to exempt households in the four counties of Longyou from land rent if they were harmed by bandits.
In the seventh month of autumn, the chariot and cavalry general Jia Chong was appointed as Sikong.
In September, Bu Chan, the governor of Wu Xiling, came to surrender and was worshiped as General Wei, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title of Duke of Yidu.
Wu general Lu Kang attacked Buchan, Jin sent cavalry general Yang Hu to lead his army out of Jiangling, Jingzhou governor Yang Zhao went to Xiling to meet Buchan, and Badong supervisor Xu Yin attacked Jianping to rescue Buchan.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
In December, Yang Zhao attacked Lu Kang, but retreated without victory. Bu Chan's defense was captured by Lu Kang, and Bu Chan was captured.
On the 22nd day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of spring, Sikong and Milinghou Zheng Miao died.
On February 24, Situ and Leling Gong Shi Bao died.
Sima Long, the Marquis of Anpingting, was appointed King of Anping.
In March, Prince Sima Zhi was established as King of East China Sea.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse. In May, there was a drought.
How could the Etaibao have also held the position of Situ?
On June 29, Sima Zhi, King of the East China Sea, died.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse.
Wu general Lu Shu besieged Yiyang, but was defeated by Jin's general Wang Hun.
The officials including Wu Guan, Zhonglang Jiang, Hongxun Taipu, Weiwei, Dachangqiu and other officials were dismissed.
Xianbei invaded Guangning, massacring and plundering five thousand people.
An edict was issued to recruit women from government officials and below to enrich the Sixth Palace. Marriage was temporarily prohibited until the selection was completed.
On the seventeenth day of the tenth month in winter, if a girl's parents do not want to marry at the age of seventeen, the local governor is ordered to choose a spouse for her and force her to get married.
On the third day of November, Emperor Wu went to Xuanwu Temple to conduct a grand review of the troops. The review was not completed until the tenth day of the eleventh month.
On the eighteenth day of the first lunar month in the tenth year of spring, Emperor Wu plowed his land.
On the eleventh day of the leap month, Zheng Chong, the Grand Tutor and Duke of Shouguang, died.
On the 17th, King Sima Wanggui of Gaoyang died.
On the 18th, Sima Huan, king of Taiyuan, died.
On the 25th, an edict was issued saying: The difference between the eldest son and the concubine is to distinguish between superior and inferior, and to distinguish between noble and inferior.
In recent times, many people have allowed their favored maids and concubines to ascend to the position of concubine, which disrupts the order of hierarchy.
From now on, maids, concubines, and maids are not allowed to be regarded as their legitimate wives. In February, five counties were separated from Youzhou and Pingzhou was established.
On the second day of March, there is a solar eclipse.
On the 28th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Xun Qiyou, the Taiwei and Duke of Linhuai, died.
On the third day of June, the prisoners were inspected at the Court of Justice, and many prisoners were pardoned and sent back.
This summer, there was a plague of locusts.
On the sixth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Queen Yang died.
On the 22nd, Wu Pinglu general Meng Tai, partial general Wang Si and others surrendered.
In August, the barbarians in Liangzhou invaded the counties of Jincheng. General Zhenxi and King of Ruyin, Sima Jun, led an army to attack them and killed the barbarian commander Qi Wenni and others.
On the 19th, Empress Yang of Yuan Dynasty was buried in Junyang Mausoleum.
On the fourth day of September, General Chen Qian was appointed as Taiwei.
Captured Wu Zhili City and captured Wu Lixin's captain Zhuang Hu.
Wu generals Sun Zun and Li Cheng led their troops to invade Jiangxia, but were defeated by Jiangxia's prefect Ji happy.
The Yellow River Bridge was built in Fupingjin. red tide network
In winter and November, the stone bridge over Qili Jian in the east of the city was built.
On the 12th, Emperor Wu went to Xuanwu Temple and held a large-scale military parade.
In December, a comet appeared in the constellation Zhen.
Set up the official position of Tianling.
Sima Ji, the son of King Taiyuan, was made King of Gaoyang.
Wu Wei's northern generals Yan Cong, Yangwei generals Yan Zheng, and partial generals Zhu Mai came to surrender.
This year, the mountains of southern Shaanxi were excavated, and the river was dug eastward to flow into the Luoshui River for water transportation.
On the first day of the first spring of the first year of Xianning, Emperor Wu implemented a general amnesty and changed the reign name.
In February, because many military officers and soldiers were already married, those with five daughters at home were exempted from military service.
On the day of Xinyou, because Xia Su, the original commander of Ye, had a reputation of being honest, he was given a hundred dendrobiums of grain.
Due to the meager salary, the amount of silk given by ministers and ministers varies from person to person.
The rebel tree could send hostages and ask for surrender.
In summer and May, strong winds blow in Xiapi and Guangling, uprooting trees and knocking down houses.
In June, Xianbei was weak and sent his son to pay tribute.
The Wu people invaded Jiangxia.
Ma Xun, the commander of Wuji School in the Western Regions, attacked the rebels who fled to Xianbei, defeated the Xianbei army and beheaded their leader.
On the 24th, the official position of Prince Zhan was established.
Autumn July 30th, solar eclipse. There is a borer infestation in the county.
On August 18, Sima Ziwen, King of Pei, died.
The late Taifu Zheng Chong, Taiwei Xun Qiye, Situ Shibao, Sikong Peixiu, Hussar General Wang Shen, Anping Xian Wang Sima Fu, etc., as well as the current Taibao He Zeng, Sikong Jia Chong, Taiwei Chen Qian, Zhongshu Supervisor Xun Xu, Pingnan General Yang Hu, Qi Wang Sima You, etc., all have their names engraved and listed in the imperial temple.
On September 11, a borer attack occurred in Qingzhou and floods occurred in Xuzhou.
On the second day of October in winter, Sima Yin, the king of Changshan, died.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Sima Quan, king of Pengcheng, died.
On November 11th, a large-scale military parade was held at Xuanwu Temple and ended on the 17th.
On the fifth day of the twelfth lunar month, the temple names of Emperor Xuan were called Gaozu, Emperor Jing was called Shizong, and Emperor Wen was called Taizu.
A great plague broke out this month, and more than half of the people in Luoyang died.
Granted Pei Weiye the title of Duke of Julu.
In the first month of spring of the second year, the court meeting was suspended due to the epidemic.
Various gifts were given to various officials and soldiers. On the fifth day of February, Sima Hong, the king of Hejian, died.
On the 13th, prisoners under five years old were pardoned.
The eight countries of Dongyi were naturalized, and the Hulu troops in Bingzhou invaded the frontier fortress. Hu Fen, who supervised the troops in Bingzhou, defeated the Hulu army.
At the beginning, when the governor of Dunhuang, Yin Quan, died, the prefecture ordered Liang Cheng from Dunhuang to also take charge of the governor's affairs. The governor ordered Gufeng to depose Liang Cheng and handle the county affairs himself.
After Linghu Feng died, his younger brother Linghu Hong took over the post.
In February of the second year of Xianning, Yang Xin, the governor of Liangzhou, killed Linghu Hong and his head was reported to the capital.
Previously, Emperor Wu was unwell. After recovering, the ministers congratulated him on his birthday.
Emperor Wu issued an edict saying: Every time I think of the possibility of death in the recent plague epidemic, I feel sad.
How can you rest in peace underground and forget the hardships of the people?
Those who give birthday gifts will not be accepted.
In the fifth month of summer, Sima Jun, the general of Zhenxi and king of Ruyin, attacked Beihu and beheaded its leader Tudun.
Established Guozixue.
On the 21st, a rain praying ceremony was held.
On Guichou day in June, lychees were offered as sacrifices to the Ancestral Temple.
On the day of Jiaxu, a comet appeared next to Di star.
There is a drought in spring, and it rains only this month.
Sun Kai, the commander-in-chief of Wu Jing, led his troops to surrender. He was appointed as a general of chariots and cavalry and was given the title of Marquis Danyang.
Two white dragons appear in Xingxing Well.
In autumn and July, a comet appeared next to Arcturus.
Wu Linping Lake had been blocked since the end of the Han Dynasty, but it was now open to water on its own.
Local elders say: If the lake is blocked, the world will be in chaos; if the lake is open, the world will be peaceful.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Sima Long, King of Anping, died.
Seventeen Dongyi kingdoms surrendered to China.
Heavy rains in Henan and Wei counties caused disasters. More than a hundred people drowned, and an edict was issued to provide coffins.
The Xianbei people Aluoduo and others invaded the border areas. Ma Xun, the commander of the Wuji School in the Western Regions, sent troops to attack them. They beheaded more than 4,000 people and captured more than 9,000 people. Aluoduo came to surrender.
On the second day of August, there were earthquakes in Hedong and Pingyang.
On the 21st, Yi Taibao He Zeng was the Taifu, the Taiwei Chen Qian was the Grand Sima, Sikong Jia Chong was the Taiwei, and the general of the town army, Qi Wang Sima You, was the Sikong.
A comet appeared next to the star Taiwei, and in September it appeared next to the star Wing.
On the 29th, Taicang was built in the east of the city and Changpingcang was built in the east and west cities.
In the leap month, floods occurred in five counties of Jingzhou, destroying more than 4,000 homes.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jun, king of Ruyin, was appointed as the general to conquer the west, and Yang Hu, the general of Pingnan, was appointed as the general to conquer the south.
On the 21st, Empress Yang was established and a general amnesty was implemented, with rewards ranging from princes and princes to orphans and widows among the people.
In November, two white dragons appeared in the Liang Kingdom.
In December, Huang Fumi, a civil servant from Anding, was recruited as the crown prince's concubine, and Yang Jun, the father of the queen, was granted the title of Marquis of Linjin.
In this month, Fu Xun, the governor of Pingzhou, and Meng Huan, the former prefect of Guangping, were given 200 pieces of silk to Fu Xun and 100 pieces to Meng Huan because of their clean and honest administration.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, there was a solar eclipse. Prince Sima Yu was made King of Shiping, and Sima Dun, the younger brother of Sima Long, King Mu of Anping, was named King of Anping.
The edict said: Relatives of the clan are the branches and leaves of the country. They should set an example, uphold morality and justice, and be a model for the world. However, there are few people who are in a wealthy position and behave cautiously. The Western Zhou Dynasty called Duke Mu to gather his brothers to compose the poem "Tang Di". This is the reason why the Ji family's roots are flourishing and will last for generations.
Today, General Wei and King Fufeng Sima Liang are the grand masters who supervise the clan's children. The clan relatives must seek the opinions of the grand master on anything they want to do.
On the 15th, Sima Yu, the king of Shiping, died.
A comet appears in the west.
He sent Wei Ni, the general who conquered the North, to attack the weak Xianbei.
In March, Wen Shu, the Pinglu army guard, attacked the rebels, including Shu Jiyou and others, and all the rebels were defeated.
A comet appears next to the Stomach Star.
On the 21st, Emperor Wu was going to hunt pheasants, but he stopped because he was afraid of damaging the wheat seedlings.
On the 15th day of the fifth lunar month, Wu generals Shao Kai and Xia Xiang led more than 7,000 people to surrender.
In June, floods occurred in eight counties in Liangzhou, Yizhou, drowning more than 300 people and submerging some residential warehouses.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wang Hun, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs in Yuzhou, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs in Yangzhou.
Sima Mu, king of Zhongshan, was deposed as Marquis of Danshui due to his crimes.
On August 21, Sima Liang, the king of Fufeng, was moved to be the king of Runan, Sima Qianyou, the king of Dongguan, was the king of Langya, Sima Jun, the king of Ruyin, was the king of Fufeng, Sima Lun, the king of Langya, was the king of Zhao, and Sima Fu, the king of Bohai, was the king of Taiyuan. , Taiyuan King Sima Yong was the King of Hejian, Beihai King Sima Ling was the Rencheng King, Chen King Sima Bin was the Xihe King, Runan King Sima Jian was the Nanyang King, Jinan King Sima Dan was the Zhongshan King, and Hejian King Sima Wei was the Zhangwu King.
The prince Sima Wei was made the King of Shiping, Sima Yun was the King of Puyang, Sima Gai was the King of Xindu, Sima Ya was the King of Qinghe, and the Marquis of Juping Yang Hu was the Marquis of Nancheng.
Sima Liang, king of Runan, was appointed as the general of Zhennan.
Strong winds uprooted trees and the weather was suddenly cold and icy. There was frost in the five counties, and the seedlings were frozen.
On September 17, with General Hu Fen from the left as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in the north of the Yangtze River, floods occurred in Yan, Henan, Xu, Qing, Jing, Yi, and Liang prefectures, destroying autumn crops, and an edict was issued to provide relief to the victims.
Sima Rui, the son of King Qi, was made King of Liaodong, and Sima Zan was made King of Guanghan.
On November 16th in winter, Emperor Wu went to Xuanwu Temple to hold a large-scale military parade.
Ends on the 22nd. In December, Wu general Sun Shen invaded Jiangxia and Runan, and robbed more than a thousand families.
In this year, more than ten batches of miscellaneous barbarians from the northwest and the Xianbei, Xiongnu, Wuxi barbarians, and Dongyi kingdoms each led their own tribes to the inland.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fourth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.
On March 15th, Shangshu Zuopu shot Lu Qin to death.
In Xinyou, the right servant of Shangshu Shantao was regarded as the left servant. The six countries of Dongyi paid tribute.
In April of summer, a comet named Chiyouqi appeared in the Dongjing constellation.
On the tenth day of June, there were earthquakes in Yinping and Guangwu, and another earthquake on the 27th.
Liangzhou governor Yang Xin and Hulu Ruoluo Ba Neng waited for a battle in Wuwei, but Yang Xin was defeated and died in the battle.
Queen Hongxun Yangshi died.
On the 22nd day of the seventh month in autumn, Queen Jingxian and the Yang family were buried together in Junping Mausoleum.
On the 23rd, Sima, the king of Gaoyang, died.
On the 26th, Sima Sui, King of Fanyang, died.
There were floods in twenty counties in Jing and Yang states.
In September, why did the Taifu become the Dazai?
On the 15th, he appointed Li Yin as Situ.
In the tenth month of winter, Wei Niu, the general of the Northern Army, was appointed as the minister's order.
Yingchuo, the governor of Yangzhou, attacked Wuwan City, beheaded 5,000 people, and burned 1.8 million bushels of rice.
On November 16, the imperial physician Sima Cheng presented a pheasant-headed fur. Emperor Wu thought that the strange skills and costumes were prohibited by the laws and etiquette, so he burned the fur in front of the palace.
On the 19th, officials inside and outside the palace were ordered to punish those who dared to commit crimes.
General Wu Zhaowu, Liu Fan, and General Liwu came to surrender.
On the 26th, Yi Shangshu Du Yu commanded the military affairs in Jingzhou.
Yang Hu, the general who conquered the south, died.
On the first day of December, Sima Bin, king of Xihe, died.
On the 13th, Duke Langling, the great strategist, died.
In this year, the nine countries of Dongyi surrendered to the mainland.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the Hulu commander Shuji Neng captured Liangzhou.
On the first day of the lunar month, Ma Long, the prefect of Wuwei, who was guarding the captives, was asked to hit the tree.
On the first day of February, Bailin appeared in the plain.
In March, the Xiongnu governor Ba Yixu led his tribe to submit.
On the twelfth day, due to famine among the people, the palace meals were reduced by half.
A comet appeared next to the willow star.
In April of summer, the comet appeared again in Nuyu.
A general amnesty was implemented, and hostages below the governor level were exempted.
On the day of Dinghai, hail fell in eight counties, damaging autumn crops and destroying people's houses.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the constellation Purple Palace.
On the fourth day of September, Lin appeared in Henan.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Du Yong, the commander-in-chief of the Xiongnu Yuqu, led his tribe to surrender.
In Ji County, a man whose name was not allowed excavated the tomb of King Xiang of Wei and obtained more than 100,000 bamboo slips written in small seal script, which he hid in a secret mansion.
In November, they launched a large-scale attack on Wu. They sent General Zhenjun and King Yawang of Lang, Sima Qianyou to send troops to Tuzhong, General Andong Wang Hun to Jiangxi, General Jianwei Wang Rong to send troops to Wuchang, General Pingnan Hu Fen to send troops to Xiakou, General Zhennan Du Yu to send troops to Jiangling, General Longxiang Wang Jun and General Guangwu Tang Bin led the Bashu army to float down the river, with a total of more than 200,000 troops from the east and west.
Taiwei Jia Chong was appointed as the chief governor, and General Yang Ji, the champion of the line, was appointed as his deputy, with overall command of the army.
In the twelfth month, Ma Long attacked the traitor Shu Jie Feng, defeated the rebel army, killed Shu Jie Feng, Liangzhou was pacified, and Su Shen came to offer wood, bitter arrows and stone valerians.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Taikang, there were five-colored clouds surrounding the sun.
On the 25th, Wang Hun captured the cities in Laixiang, Wu Xunyang, and captured Wu Wuwei general Zhou Xing.
On the first day of February, Wang Jun, Tang Bin and others captured Danyang City.
On the third day of the lunar month, they captured Xiling again and killed the governor of Xiling, the general of the town army Liu Xian, the general of the southern expedition Cheng Xu, and the supervisor of Xiling Zheng Guang.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Wang Jun captured the Lexiang City of Yi Dao and killed Lu Yan, the eunuch of Yi Dao, and Lu Jing, the commander of the navy.
On the 17th, Du Yu captured Jiangling and killed Wu Yan, the governor of Jiangling. Pingnan general Hu Fen captured Jiang'an.
So all the armies advanced together, and the Wu garrison garrison in Lexiang, Jingmen and other places surrendered one after another.
On the 18th, Wang Jun was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in Yi and Liang prefectures, and an edict was issued: Wang Jun and Kang Bin went eastward, wiped out the Wu army in Baqiu, and together with Hu Fen and Wang Rong, pacified Xiakou and Wuchang.
Du Yu should pacify the Lingling and Guilin areas and recruit the soldiers and civilians of Hengyang.
After the soldiers passed, the southern part of Jingzhou could be pacified with a single message. Du Yu should allocate 10,000 people to Wang Jun and 7,000 people to Tang Bin.
After Xiakou was pacified, Hu Fenying distributed 7,000 men to Wang Jun.
After Wuchang was pacified, Wang Rongying divided 6,000 men into Tang Bin.
Taiwei Jia Chong moved to Xiang, and the governor had various troops.
Wang Jun conquered Xiakou and Wuchang, and then sailed eastward. Wherever he went, he immediately pacified them.
Wang Hun and Zhou Jun fought with Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti at Banqiao and defeated the Wu army. Zhang Ti and his generals Sun Zhen and Shen Ying were beheaded, and their heads were sent to Luoyang.
Sun Hao was at the end of his rope and asked for surrender. He gave the seal to King Langya and King Sima Qinyou.
On March 15, Wang Jun led his navy to the Stone City near Jianye, the capital of Wu. Sun Hao was so frightened that he bound his hands, carried the coffin, and surrendered in front of the military gate.
Wang Jun held the emperor's talisman, untied Sun Hao, burned the coffin, and sent it to the capital.
After collecting Wu's books and records, we found that in this battle against Wu, a total of four states, 43 counties, 313 counties, 523,000 households, 32,000 officials, 230,000 soldiers, and a population of 2.3 million men and women were captured.
Officials below the county governor level remained in their original positions. Wu's harsh rule was removed and simple laws and regulations were implemented. The people of Wu were very happy.
On Yiyou day, a general amnesty is implemented, the year name is changed, the people are allowed to drink happily for five days, and the orphans, the elderly and the poor are helped.
In April of summer, hail fell in Hedong and Gaoping, damaging autumn crops.
Zhang Xiu, the minister-in-charge, and Zhu Zhen, the minister-general of Huangmen, were dispatched to Yangyue respectively to express condolences to the officials and people who had just returned.
Bai Lin appeared in Dunqiu.
Hail fell in Sanhe, Weijun and Hongnong, damaging winter wheat.
On May 25th, Sun Hao was granted the title of Marquis of Gui Ming. Prince Sun Hao was conferred the title of Zhonglang, and the other disciples were conferred the title of Langzhong. It turned out that the prestigious old ministers of Wu State were appointed according to their talents.
If a general of the Sun family died in battle, his family members would be moved to Shouyang. Those who led the officials across the river would be exempted from corvee for ten years, and the common people and workers would be exempted from corvee for twenty years.
On the day of Bingyin, Emperor Wu held a meeting with his ministers in front of the palace to introduce Sun Hao to the palace. The ministers all shouted long live.
On Ding Mao, he offered Lu wine to the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
Hail fell in the six kingdoms, damaging autumn crops.
On Gengwu, an edict was issued to send soldiers over sixty years old home.
In Gengchen, Wang Jun was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state and the Marquis of Xiangyang, Du Yu was the Marquis of Dangyang, Wang Rong was the Marquis of Anfeng, Tang Bin was the Marquis of Shangyong, and Jia Chong and Lang Wangya Wang Sima Qian increased their fiefdoms from the following.
So when it came to meritorious service, silk was given to officials and ministers alike.
On June 22, the lieutenants of Yi Military Academy began to be appointed.
Sima Mu, Marquis of Danshui, was granted the title of King of Gaoyang.
On the 29th, the ten countries of Dongyi surrendered.
In the seventh month of autumn, Hulu Kecheng invaded Xiping and Haoqian, killing more than 300 people including the governor.
The twenty-two countries of Dongyi paid tribute.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Shangshu Wei Shu was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
In August, the chaplain sent his son to serve in Kyoto.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Sima Yanzuo, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King Leping.
Three white dragons appeared in Yongchang.
In September, the ministers thought that the world was unified and repeatedly requested to hold a ceremony to worship heaven and earth on Mount Tai. Emperor Wu expressed humility and refused to agree.
On the fourth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the system in which five daughters in a family were exempted from the draft was abolished.
On December 15th, Sima Zan, king of Guanghan, died.
In the spring and February of the second year, there was an earthquake in Huainan and Danyang.
On March 21, Sima Dun, King of Anping, died.
The captured slaves of Wu were rewarded to officials below the prince in varying amounts.
An edict was issued to select 5,000 Sun Hao's concubines and prostitutes to enter the Jin harem.
The five countries of Dongyi paid tribute.
In June of Xia, the five Dongyi countries surrendered to the mainland.
Hail fell in sixteen counties, strong winds uprooted trees, and destroyed people's houses.
Floods occurred in Jiangxia and Taishan, destroying more than 300 homes.
In the seventh month of autumn, there was another storm in Shangdang, which caused hail and damaged the autumn crops.
In August, a comet appeared next to Zhang Xing.
In the tenth month of winter, Murong Xi of Xianbei invaded Changli.
On November 25, Grand Sima Chen Qian died.
A comet appeared next to Xuanyuan Star.
Xianbei invaded western Liaoning and was defeated by Xian Yuying, the governor of Pingzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year, Qinzhou was abolished and merged into Yongzhou.
On the 17th, Yi Shangshu Zhang Hua was in charge of the military affairs in Youzhou.
In March, Anbei general Yan Xun defeated Xianbei Murong Zhen in Changli, killing tens of thousands of people.
On the 25th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Taiwei and Lu Gong Jia Chong died.
On the first day of the leap month, Situ and Guanglu Marquis Li Yin died.
Guichou, two white dragons appeared in Jinan.
In the seventh month of autumn, the rule that the governors of Pingzhou and Ningzhou go to Beijing to report once every three years was revoked.
In September, the twenty-nine countries of Dongyi surrendered and presented local products.
Wu's old generals Wan Gong and Bo Feng rebelled, attacked and killed the Jianye order, and then surrounded Yangzhou. Ji Xi, the governor of Xuzhou, attacked and put down the rebellion.
On the 13th day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, Sikong and Qi King Sima You were appointed as the Grand Sima and Commander-in-Chief of all the military forces in Qingzhou. The General of Zhendong and Sima Qianyou, King of Ya of Lang, were appointed as the Generals of the Fu Army.
On the 25th, an order was issued that those affected by serious floods and droughts should not rent out their fields.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first month of Jiashen, Wei Shu, the right servant of Shangshu, was the left servant of Shangshu, and Sima Huang, the king of Xiapi, was the right servant of Shangshu.
On the 18th, Situ Shantao died.
On February 19, Sima Shi, the Marquis of Changleting, was appointed King of Beihai.
On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse. On the 14th, Grand Sima and King Sima You of Qi died.
In April of summer, Sima Ling, the king of Rencheng, died.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month, Sima Qinyou, the general and king of Langya, died.
Sima Rui, the king who moved to Liaodong, became the king of Donglai.
In June, the ceremonial rank of Jiuqing was added.
More than 2,000 villages in Zangkeli belong to the mainland.
On the fourteenth day of the seventh month in autumn, Shangshu Youpushe and Xiapi King Sima Huang were appointed as commanders to oversee the military affairs of Qingzhou.
On the 28th, there was a flood in Yanzhou, so the land rent was exempted.
In August, the king of Shanshan State sent his son to serve in Kyoto and gave him the title of Marquis of Guiyi.
Sima Tai, the king of Longxi, was the right servant of Shangshu.
On November 22nd in winter, Sima, the king of Xindu, died.
Take Shangshu Zuopushe as Situ.
On the fifth day of December, a grand military parade was held at Xuanwu Temple.
This year, there were floods in Hanoi, Jingzhou, and Yangzhou.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, two green dragons appeared in the arsenal well.
On the second day of February, Sima Tan, the son of King Nangong, was made King of Changle.
On the 28th, there was an earthquake.
In the fourth month of summer, the water in the ponds of Rencheng and Lu became red, like blood.
On May 13th, the beams of Emperor Xuan's temple were broken.
In June, the Huangsha Prison began to be set up.
On the 16th day of the seventh month in autumn, Prince Sima Hui died.
Hail fell in Rencheng, Liangguo, and Zhongshan, damaging autumn crops.
Reduce household tax by one-third.
In September, strong winds in Nan'an broke trees, floods and frost occurred in five counties, damaging autumn crops.
On November 14th in winter, Sima Fu, the king of Taiyuan, died.
On the tenth day of December, a general amnesty is held.
Linyi and Daqin sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the leap month, Du Yu, the general of Zhennan and the Marquis of Dangyang, died.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the sixth year of spring, due to successive years of poor harvests, the tax debt owed in previous years was exempted.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Wang Hun, the general who conquered the South, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe. Shangshu Chu Lei was in charge of the military affairs in Yangzhou, and Yang Ji was in charge of all the military affairs in Jingzhou.
In March, there was frost in six counties, causing frostbite to mulberry trees and wheat seedlings.
In the fourth month of summer, Funan and other ten countries paid tribute, and more than 4,000 villages were separated and returned to the interior.
There was drought in four counties and floods in ten counties, which destroyed people's houses.
In autumn and July, there was an earthquake in Brazil.
On the first day of August, there is a solar eclipse. One-third of the cotton silk for the common people is reduced. The white dragon appears in Jingzhao.
Wang Jun, the general of the Zhenjun army, was appointed as the general of Fuguo.
On September 21st, Liu Kang, Duke of Shanyang, died.
In October of winter, Nan'an Mountain collapsed and water surged underground. A bipedal beast was captured in Nanyang County.
Kucha and Yanqi sent their sons to serve in Kyoto.
On the first day of December, a grand military parade was held at Xuanwu Temple, which ended ten days later.
On the 17th, the general of the Fu army and the Marquis of Xiangyang Wang Jun died.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the seventh year, there was a solar eclipse.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, an edict was issued saying: Disasters have occurred continuously in recent years, including three solar eclipses, earthquakes and landslides.
The country's misfortune lies with me alone.
The ministers should each write a secret memorial, speak freely, find the reasons, and do not avoid any taboos.
In the fifth month of summer, there was a drought in thirteen counties, and Murong Zhen of Xianbei invaded Liaodong.
In the seventh month of autumn, there was a landslide in Zhuti and an earthquake in Jianwei.
In August, the eleven Dongyi countries surrendered to the mainland.
Beijing Zhao earthquake.
On September 29, General Hussar and King Fufeng Sima Jun died.
Floods occurred in eight counties.
On the fourth day of the eleventh month in winter, Sima Tai, the king of Longxi, took charge of the military affairs in Guanzhong.
In December, the imperial censor was dispatched to inspect the flood-hit counties.
Released 270 people including harem talents and prostitutes home.
A system whereby ministers could stay in mourning for three years was implemented. On the 21st, a patch of red snow as big as two hectares of land fell in Heyin.
This year, 21 countries including Funan and 11 countries including Mahan sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the eighth year of spring, on the first day of the first lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. The Imperial Ancestral Temple collapsed.
On March 19, Linshangguan was shocked. In the fourth month of summer, there was frost in the state of Qi and the water in the sky damaged the wheat seedlings.
In the sixth month, strong winds blew in the State of Lu, uprooting trees and destroying people's houses.
Floods occurred in eight counties.
In the seventh month of autumn, the front hall sank, several feet deep, and there were broken ships inside.
In August, the two countries of Dongyi surrendered to the mainland.
In September, the Ancestral Temple was renovated.
In the tenth month of winter, Li Feng, a county official in Pinggu County, Nankang, rebelled. He gathered a crowd to attack the county and claimed to be a general.
In November, Xiao Fu, the magistrate of Hai'an County, gathered a crowd to rebel.
In December, Jiang Di, a native of Wuxing, gathered his followers to rebel and besieged Yangxian County. The prefectures and counties sent troops to attack and pursue him, but they were all executed.
The Southern Yi Funan and the Western Region Kangju Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute.
This year, earthquakes occurred in five counties.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.
The edict stated: The foundation for revitalizing education lies in fair political affairs and appropriate handling of lawsuits and prisons.
The two thousand chief officials could not be diligent in investigating and relieving the sufferings of the people, but they were willing to do public good for personal gain, causing many prisons and many greedy and dirty things to annoy the people.
Now the governor, Er Qian Shi, is ordered to inspect those who are filthy and filthy, to recommend those who are honest and just, and to report to the competent officials to decide on their promotion, promotion, rewards and punishments, and to order the internal and external officials to recommend and promote those who are of humble origins but are honest and capable.
Earthquake in four counties of Jiangdong.
In February, Shangshu Youpushe and Yangxiahou Hu Fen died. Take Shangshu Zhu Zheng as the right servant of Shangshu.
On the seventh day of March, the queen personally went to the western suburbs to collect mulberry and raise silkworms, and gave various gifts to her concubines and concubines.
On the 22nd, the two societies were merged into one for the first time.
In April of summer, earthquakes occurred in eight counties in the south of the Yangtze River; frost fell in Longxi, damaging winter wheat.
In May, King Sima Qi of Yiyang was found guilty and demoted to the rank of Marquis of Sanzongting.
An edict was issued to allow internal and external officials to recommend talents who could serve as prefects and county magistrates.
On the first day of June, there is a solar eclipse.
Sima Wei, King of Zhangwu, was granted the title of King of Yiyang.
Thirty-two counties suffered from severe drought, damaging wheat.
On the fourteenth day of August in autumn, stars fell to the ground like rain.
An order was issued to all counties and counties to send criminals under five years old home without leaving any ordinary prisoners.
In September, the seven Dongyi kingdoms came to Xiaowei and expressed their submission to the mainland.
Borer infestations occurred in twenty-four counties.
On the seventh day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, Sima Ying, the son of Sima Hong, the king of Hejian Ping, became the king of Zhangwu.
On the eleventh day, a green dragon and a yellow dragon each appeared in the state of Lu.
In the summer and April of the tenth year, because of their political achievements, Liu Xiao, the prefect of Jingzhao, and Liang Liu, the prefect of Yangping, were each given a thousand dendrobiums of grain.
There was frost in eight counties.
The Ancestral Temple was completed.
On the eleventh day, the god moved to the new temple. Emperor Wu stood on the left side of the road to greet him, and held a joint sacrifice to ancestors from far and near in the new temple.
During the amnesty, the minister of civil and military affairs was increased to the first rank, and the minister responsible for building temples was increased to the second rank.
On the 13th, Shangshu Youpu She and Guangxing Hou Zhu Zheng died.
On the 19th, a fire broke out in Chongxian Hall.
In May, Murong Xi of Xianbei surrendered, and the eleven Dongyi kingdoms surrendered to the mainland.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, Duke Liu Jin of Shanyang died.
Restore the second club.
On the 21st of October in winter, Sima Cheng, the king of Nangong, was transferred to the title of king of Wuyi.
On Bingchen in the eleventh month, Xun Xu, the official of Shangshu Ling and Zuo Guanglu, died.
Emperor Wu recovered from his illness and gave the prince and prince various silks.
The place where Hanzhangdian played football caught fire.
On the 23rd, Sima Liang, king of Runan, was appointed as the Grand Sima, Grand Governor, and Fake Huangyue.
Sima Jian, the king of Nanyang, was renamed the king of Qin, Sima Wei, the king of Shiping, was the king of Chu, and Sima Yun, the king of Puyang, was the king of Huainan.
The prince Sima Yu was made the king of Changsha, Sima Ying was the king of Chengdu, Sima Yan was the king of Wu, Sima Chi was the king of Yuzhang, Sima Yan was the acting king, and the emperor's grandson Sima Wei was the king of Guangling.
He established Sima Di, Prince of Puyang, as King of Han, Sima Yi, King of Shiping, as King of Piling, and Sima Yi, the second son of King Runan, as Duke of Xiyang.
Sima Chang, King of Fufeng, was renamed King of Shunyang, Sima Xin, the brother of Sima Chang, was named Xinye Duke, Sima Dan, the younger brother of Sima Jin, King of Langya, was named Dongwu Duke, Sima Yao was named Dong'an Duke, Sima Hucui was named Guangling Duke, and Sima Juan was named Dongguan Duke.
Change the state affairs of the kingdoms to internal history.
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, the beams of the Imperial Ancestral Temple were broken.
This year, more than thirty countries from the farthest east Yi and more than twenty countries from southwestern Yi paid tribute.
One hundred thousand men and women of Hulu Xi Ke came to surrender.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Taixi, the year name was changed.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Shangshu Zuopu shot Wang Hun as Situ and Sikong Weiniu as Taibao.
On February 12, the seven Dongyi countries paid tribute.
King Langya and King Sima Jin died.
On the fifth day of March, Shi Jian, the doctor of Youguanglu, was appointed as Sikong.
On the 12th day of April in the summer, Yang Jun, the chariot and cavalry general in the service, was appointed as the Taiwei, the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign armies, and the ministerial affairs were recorded.
On the 20th, Emperor Wu died in Hanzhang Hall at the age of fifty-five. He was buried in Junyang Mausoleum, with the temple name Shizu.
Emperor Wu was broad-minded and loyal, his actions must be benevolent and tolerant, he could tolerate outspokenness, he had a solemn attitude toward others, he was consistent in appearance and inwardly, he was wise and good at planning, and he could resolve major issues, so he could stabilize all nations and bring tranquility to all directions.
After the extravagant and harsh government in the late Wei Dynasty, the people longed for the simplicity of ancient times, so they encouraged respect and simplicity, and urged honesty and lack of desire. A minister once reported that the green silk rope used to guard the cattle was broken, and he issued an edict to replace it with green hemp. He was to be lenient and graceful in his dealings with the court, and his laws were consistent. After the Ping Wu Dynasty, the world was stable, so he neglected political affairs, indulged in banquets, doted on the queen's family, relatives and nobles were in power, old ministers were not allowed to hold full-time posts, and the laws and regulations were disordered or abandoned. Please ask for bribes.
In his later years, he knew clearly that Emperor Hui could not shoulder the important responsibilities of the country, but relied on the wisdom of the emperor and his grandson and did not make up his mind to depose the prince.
He was also worried that the emperor's grandson was not born to Empress Jia and would eventually be in danger, so he plotted with his confidants about the future affairs. The planners came out one after another, and the decision was still pending for a long time. Finally, using Wang You's plan, he sent the prince's brother Qin Wang Sima Cambodia to supervise Guanzhong. Chu Wang Sima Wei and Huainan Wang Sima Yun guarded the key points to strengthen the imperial family.
Fearing the threat of the Yang family in the rear party, Wang You was appointed as the Marquis of the Northern Army to lead the imperial army.
Later, the illness worsened, and all the founding fathers of the country died. The ministers were panicked, doubtful, and at a loss. After Emperor Wu recovered from his illness, he issued an edict to let Sima Liang, king of Runan, assist in the government. He also wanted to ask several young and famous courtiers to assist him, so Yang Jun hid the edict secretly and did not publish it.
Emperor Wu soon fell into a coma again, and Empress Yang actually issued an edict to make Sima Jun assist the government and urge Sima Liang to advance.
Emperor Wu's illness improved slightly and he asked King Runan if he had come. He wanted to meet with King Runan and entrust him with something, but when no reply came, Emperor Wu changed the story. The chaos in the late Western Jin Dynasty actually started at this time.
Zhi said: Emperor Wu inherited the great cause, in fact, he complied with the destiny, controlled the world, universally educated the people, replaced labor with ease, and replaced chaos with rule.
No longer allow the four parties to pay tribute with fine silk fabrics, strive to get rid of carved decorations, suppress the trend of luxury and turn to frugality, stop frivolity and superficiality and return to simplicity.
They like to be outspoken and reverent, and carefully select talents. Plastic tunnel and tomb bumper are trusted because of their simplicity and integrity. Although haze crocodile and injection boy are enemies, they are not abandoned.
Rule the world with benevolence and righteousness, win the hearts of the people because of tolerance, be majestic and generous, and have the grace of an emperor.
At that time, the people were harmonious, their customs were peaceful, and their families were prosperous. Then they managed the army, practiced martial arts, and planned to expand the territory.
God's clever calculations and grand plans. Ma Long's expedition to the west and Wang Jun's expedition to the south did not delay the opportunity. The bandits disappeared, the blades were not stained with blood, and Yang Yue was reduced to ruins.
Communicate in places that were inaccessible in previous generations, and conquer countries that were not subject to previous kings.
The auspiciousness has been fulfilled, the customs and education have been cleared up, the deeds of heaven and man have been accomplished, and the overlord's deeds have been established.
Although he resigned and did not perform the ritual of climbing Mount Tai to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth, his arrogance and indulgence were born from this.
Seeing the vastness of the land, I thought that there would be no trouble for all generations; seeing the stability of the world, I thought that it would last for thousands of years and there would be eternal rule.
If you don't know how to be in a vast land and think about the tight situation, you can maintain long-term vastness; if you forget the critical moments when the world is in great rule, you will lose long-term stability.
In addition, the appointment of officials was not done in the right place, and the people entrusted with important tasks were improperly appointed. In order to achieve Shenghu, the operation first ushered in disaster.
This is like heading towards the desert when you want to go far away, or wading through rivers and boats to find the way when you want to climb a mountain. The farther the road you go, the harder it is to achieve the goal you are pursuing. The north and south are different, and the high and low are opposite. It is too difficult to reach the end!
What's more, relying on the foundation that has just been gathered and is easy to shake, without the consideration of long-term peace and stability, the vicious villains buy fakes and have treacherous plots to gain real power; Yang Jun, who is as ruthless as a wolf, hides evil intentions and arbitrarily assists the government.
When the emperor died and the mourning period was not over, the vassal states turned into relatives and alienated each other, and joined forces to compete to eliminate the imperial court; important ministers changed their loyalty to hypocrisy, and gathered scholars to build their own power.
Within a few years, the imperial court was in chaos, the country was in turmoil, and the ancestral temples were relocated and displaced.
The way of the emperor gave way to the custom of tattooing; Chixian County of China became a distant hometown.
Why do you abandon your own advantages to support other people, cover up your own weaknesses to comfort yourself, and be ridiculed by everyone in the world?
In fact, because of the lack of caution in the front, the disaster is left behind.
Besides, a virtuous father is a man who understands his son, and a wise king is a man who understands his ministers. If the son is unfaithful, the family will be destroyed, and if the minister is unfaithful, the country will be in chaos. If the country is in chaos, it will be difficult to restore peace, and if the family is destroyed, it will never be restored.
Therefore, a gentleman is on guard against the beginning of disaster, and a sage is aware of the beginning of chaos.
However, Shizu was confused by Xun Xu's treacherous plot and Wang Hun's hypocritical strategy. His thoughts were repeated under the discussion of everyone, and affairs were not decided by his own plan.
Yuan Hai should be eliminated but not eliminated, which ultimately allowed him to disrupt the Central Plains; Emperor Hui should be abolished but not abolished, which ultimately led to the overthrow of the great cause.
Being able to save one person is a small virtue, saving the world is a great merit, abandoning one is a small forbearance, and stabilizing the country is a great filial piety; not to mention that a great achievement can be achieved by relying on three lives, but losing it by continuing two evils. This is what is said to seek light virtue and abandon great achievements, and to fear small forbearance and forget great filial piety.
Is this the way of sages?
Although it has a good beginning, it deviates from the perfect ending. Paying attention to history cannot help but be filled with emotion.
