Emperor Xiaowu Liu Che was the second son of Emperor Jing. His mother was Wang Meiren, who was made King of Jiaodong when she was four years old.
At the age of seven, he was made crown prince, and his mother was made queen.
At the age of sixteen, in the first month of the third year after Emperor Jing, Emperor Jing died.
On the twenty-seventh day of the first lunar month, the prince succeeded to the throne of the emperor, and the empress dowager Dou was honored as the empress dowager, and the empress was the empress dowager.
In March, the Empress Dowager and her brothers Tian Chongfen and Tian Sheng were made marquises.
In the tenth month of the winter of the first year of Jianyuan, the prime minister, censors, princes, and princes were ordered to recommend virtuous and upright people who can give the most honest advice.
Prime Minister Wei Wan reported: If any of the recommended virtuous people make remarks about Shen Buhai, Shang Yang, Han Fei, Su Qin, or Zhang Yi, which would confuse the state affairs, please stop them.
The emperor agreed.
In the second month of spring, the world will be pardoned and the people will be rewarded with one level of nobility.
Those who are over eighty years old are exempted from taxes for two members of the family, and those who are over ninety years old are exempted from taxes for the whole family.
Issue three baht coins.
On the ninth day of April in the summer of the first year of Jianyuan, an edict was issued saying: According to the ancient rules, age is the most important thing in the countryside, and title is the most important thing in the court. In governing the country and educating the people, virtue must be given a prominent position.
It can be said that respecting the elders and caring for the elderly in the countryside has been a principle since ancient times.
Today, filial sons and grandsons in the world are willing to do their best to support their elders. However, they are forced by external affairs and lack of financial resources internally. Therefore, it seems that filial piety is missing. I deeply sympathize with them.
When people are over ninety years old, the court has a system of making porridge and rice with rice and millet. Now it is added that his sons or grandsons are exempted from corvee service, so that they can lead their wives to fulfill their responsibility of supporting the elderly.
In the fifth month, an edict was issued saying: The rivers and seas moisten thousands of miles, and the ancestral officials can be ordered to build ancestral temples in the mountains and rivers. It is normal to offer sacrifices every year, and the sacrifices should also be improved.
The first offender in the Seven Kingdoms Rebellion was pardoned for his crime of confiscating his wife as a servant of the official family, and was deported.
In the seventh month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: The palace guards will go to the old place to set up a new one, numbering 20,000, and save 10,000.
The court's horse-breeding gardens were opened to the poor to graze and collect wood.
It was agreed to establish a Mingtang where the emperor declared his political and religious affairs.
An envoy was sent to summon Lu Shen Gong in a safe and comfortable vehicle with cloth and jade.
In the winter of October of the second year, Zhao Wan, the imperial censor, committed the crime of not reporting to the Empress Dowager. He and his doctor ordered Wang Zang to be imprisoned and committed suicide.
Prime Minister Dou Ying and Taiwei Tian Chong were dismissed from their posts.
On the first day of February in spring, there is a partial solar eclipse. On April 24th in summer, the night was like day.
The establishment of Maoling-eup began.
In the spring of the third year, the Yellow River flooded the plains, causing a great famine and causing people to eat each other.
The residents who moved to Maoling were given 200,000 yuan and two hectares of land.
Build the Benmen Bridge across the Weishui River from Chang'an to Maoling.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the northwest.
King Liu Ming of Jichuan committed the crime of killing Taifu and Zhongfu and was deposed and moved to Fangling.
The Fujian and Yue soldiers besieged Dong Ou, and Dong Ou asked the Han court for help. The emperor sent Yan, a senior official, to assist him and mobilize the troops stationed in Kuaiji to float to the sea to rescue Dong Ou. Before the soldiers arrived, Minyue retreated. September 2nd, partial solar eclipse. In the summer of the fourth year, a wind blew up the red dust, which was as red as blood.
In June, there was a severe drought, and in autumn and September, comets appeared in the northeast.
In the spring of the fifth year, three baht coins were abolished and half a liang coin was issued.
Set up Doctor of the Five Classics.
In April of summer, the emperor's grandmother Pingyuan Jun passed away.
In May, a major locust plague occurred.
In the eighth month of autumn, King Liu Yue of Guangchuan and King Liu Cheng of Qinghe both died.
On the third day of February in the sixth year of spring, there was a fire in the Gaozu Temple in Liaodong.
On April 21st in the summer, a fire broke out in the Gaoyuan Bedroom.
The emperor wore plain clothes and blamed himself for five days.
On May 26, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In autumn and August, the comet appears in the east for a long time.
When King Ying of Minyue attacked South Vietnam, the imperial court sent Daxing Wang Hui to lead troops out of Yuzhang, and Da Sinong Han Anguo to lead troops out of Kuaiji to prepare for a counterattack. Before the soldiers arrived, the Yue people killed Ying and surrendered. Wang, Han and others withdrew their troops.
In the winter and November of the first year of Yuanguang, the county began to recommend one person each for Xiao and Lian.
Wei Lieutenant Li Guang stationed troops at Yunzhong as General Chao Cavalry, and Lieutenant Cheng Bushi stationed troops at Yanmen as General Chao Cavalry. They withdrew their troops in June.
In the fourth month of summer, he pardoned the world, rewarded the chief minister with the first level of viscount, and restored the clan status of the clans of the seven kingdoms that had been extinguished due to the crime of rebellion by the seven kingdoms.
In May, the imperial edict Xianliang said: I heard that in the old days of Tang and Yu, only sin robes were used to symbolize the five punishments, but the people could not break the law. Everyone obeyed the sun and the moon.
During the reign of King Cheng and King Kang of the Zhou Dynasty, criminal laws were put aside, virtues extended to birds and beasts, and education spread all over the world. When Su Shen from abroad came to the court, the northern canals were searched for service, and the Di and Qiang surrendered; the stars did not comet, the sun and the moon did not eclipse, the mountains did not collapse, and the rivers and valleys were not blocked; unicorns and phoenixes roamed the countryside, and books appeared in the Yellow River and Luoshui.
hehe! Only Pushi Deze can have such a prosperous time!
Today I have the honor to inherit the great authority. I get up early to seek and stay quiet at night to think. If I look at the ocean and sigh, I don't know how to reach the other shore.
Beautiful! How great!
Through those actions, the great cause and virtues of the late emperor were carried forward, and he was worthy of Yao and Shun at the top and the three kings at the bottom.
My nature is dull and my virtue cannot reach far. This is well known to all the doctors. Wise men understand the rise and fall of kings in ancient and modern times, and receive advice and inquiries. Please write them down in writing and compile them into a volume for my reading.
So Dong Zhongshu, Gongsun Hong and others stood out.
On July 30th in autumn, there will be a partial eclipse of the sun.
In the winter and tenth month of the second year, the emperor went to Yongdi to worship the Five Emperors.
In the spring, I issued an edict and asked the ministers: "I once decorated beautiful women to match the Xiongnu Chanyu, and rewarded them generously with gold coins, embroidery, and embroidery. However, after accepting the imperial edict, the Chanyu became arrogant and invaded endlessly."
I am deeply disturbed by the murders at the border.
Now I want to send troops to attack, what do you think?
Daxing Wang Hui suggested that we should attack.
In the sixth month of the summer, Han Anguo, the imperial censor, was appointed as the guard general, Weiwei Li Guang was the heroic cavalry general, Sun He, the great servant, was the light chariot general, Daxing Wang Hui was the general general, and the great official Li Xi was the caiguan general. They stationed 300,000 people in the valley of Mayi. They wanted to lure Shan Yu into the fortress and launched an attack unexpectedly.
After Shanyu entered the fortress, he immediately exited when he noticed something strange.
In June, withdraw troops.
General Wang Hui committed the crime of "not advancing the plan" and was imprisoned and died.
In the ninth month of autumn, the whole country was ordered to drink alcohol for five days to comfort the farmers.
In the spring of the third year, the Yellow River moved and flowed from the southeast of Dunqiu into the Bohai Sea.
In the fifth month of summer, five of Gaozu's meritorious officials were granted the title of marquis.
The Yellow River burst in Puyang and flooded sixteen counties. One hundred thousand soldiers were mobilized to block the floods for disaster relief, and Longyuan Palace was built.
In the winter of the fourth year, Wei Qihou Dou Ying was found guilty and his head was hung in public.
On the seventeenth day of the third lunar month in the spring, Prime Minister Chong died.
In April of summer, severe frost damaged crops.
In May, there was an earthquake and the world was forgiven.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, Wang De of Hejian passed away.
In the summer, corvees from Bashu were recruited to build Nanyi Avenue, and tens of thousands of soldiers were mobilized to build Yanmen Pass.
In autumn and July, strong wind uproots trees.
On July 14, Queen Chen was deposed, and the witches who incited people and disrupted the court were arrested and beheaded.
August, plague of borers.
Among the officials and people, those who understood the affairs of the time and the art of the sages were recruited to Kyoto to take countermeasures, and the towns and counties along the way were provided with food expenses.
Order the envoys from each county to be the leader of their team when they come to Beijing. In the winter of the sixth year, taxes began to be levied on merchants' vehicles and ships.
In spring, a canal for transporting grain was excavated and connected to the Wei River.
The Xiongnu invaded the Shang Valley and plundered the people. The emperor sent the cavalry general Wei Qingbing out of the Shang Valley, the cavalry general Gongsun Aobing to come out, the light cavalry general Gongsun He out of Yunzhong, and the brave cavalry general Li Guang out of Yanmen.
Wei Qing went to Longcheng and captured 700 enemy heads.
Gongsun Ao and Li Guang were defeated due to command errors and returned home.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Yi and Di have been treacherous for a long time. In the past, the Xiongnu invaded the border many times, so generals were sent to command the frontline soldiers to meet the enemy. The ancient military law is to control the army when going out, and to strengthen the brigade when entering.
Due to the sudden invasion of the Xiongnu this time, our army's officers and men had a new meeting, and there was no coordination between the top and bottom. The generals Gongsun Ao who sent the troops out of Daijun, and Li Guang who sent the troops out of Yanmen were of low quality. The captain also acted blindly against orders, so that he abandoned the army and fled, and the petty officials violated the ban.
It is the fault of the general to not pay attention to strengthening combat readiness and improving morale in the use of troops; it is the fault of the soldiers to fail to fight with all their strength despite repeated orders.
The general has been handed over to the court captain, and the crime is judged according to the law. If the general soldiers are also subject to military law, and the general and the soldiers are punished at the same time, it is not the heart of benevolence and sage.
I sympathize with the ordinary soldiers who have been implicated. If they want to make atonement and kill the enemy and defend the country again, there will be no conditions and opportunities.
Therefore, soldiers in the Yanmen and Daijun armies who committed common disciplinary violations were pardoned.
In summer, there was a severe drought and locust plague.
In June, I visited Yongdi.
In autumn, the Xiongnu plundered the border, and the emperor sent General Han Anguo to station troops in Yuyang.
In the eleventh month of the winter of the first year of Shuo, an edict was issued saying: The mission of the officials is to formulate policies and strategies, unify action measures, promote the court's virtues and policies, and change the social atmosphere.
Based on benevolence and righteousness, we praise virtuous people, use virtuous people, encourage good behavior, and punish lawless behavior. This is the experience that makes the Five Emperors and Three Kings prosper.
I long for it and hope to walk this broad road together with people with lofty ideals from all over the world.
Therefore, we benefited the elderly, gave preferential treatment to filial brothers, selected heroes, taught literature, and discussed the country's founding plan together, praying to meet the popular expectations. We issued many edicts to the officials in charge, advocated filial piety and integrity, and even made it a common practice to inherit the good legacy of the Five Emperors and Three Kings.
In a city with ten houses, there must be loyalty; if three people walk together, there must be my teacher.
Today, there is not a single virtuous person recommended to the imperial court in the entire county. This is because the imperial court's education has not been thoroughly implemented, and the conduct of gentlemen with filial piety and integrity has been buried.
Erqian Shiguan is in charge of the implementation of imperial edicts and the selection of talents. How can they help me understand the situation, care about the people, inspire the people, and establish a social atmosphere of respecting the elderly and valuing the virtuous?
What's more, it is an ancient principle that those who advance the virtuous will be rewarded and those who hide the virtuous will be punished.
I asked Zhong Erqianshi, the ceremonial officer, and the doctor to discuss what crimes should be punished for county officials who do not promote virtuous people?
The official report said: In ancient times, when princes presented talents to the court, they were praised as virtuous for the first time, wise for the second time, and meritorious for the third time. The court rewarded them loftily. If the princes did not pay tribute to the court, they would be demoted for the first time, land for the second time, and land for the third time.
Those who collude with subordinates and deceive the superiors are put to death; those who flatter those above and deceive the subjects are punished; those who participate in state affairs but fail to benefit the people are expelled; those who are in important positions but cannot recommend talented people are abdicated. These are measures to encourage good and depreciate evil.
Today's edict requires that the tradition of selecting talents be carried forward by the emperors of the past generations, and the governors and magistrates are ordered to recommend filial and honest talents in order to educate the people and change customs.
Those officials who turn a deaf ear to the edict to promote talents should be regarded as disobedient.
Those who cannot cultivate and discover talented people are incompetent for their duties and should be dismissed.
This memorial was adopted.
In December, Liu Fei, King of Jiangdu, passed away.
On March 13th in the spring, Queen Wei was established.
The edict was issued: I have heard that if the heaven and earth do not change, transformation will not be possible; if the yin and yang do not change, things will not flourish.
"Yi" says: Only by adapting to the situation can the people's spirit be lifted up.
"Poetry" says: Understand the changes of heaven and earth without losing the way, choose the good and follow it.
I appreciate the Tang, Yu, and Yin and Zhou dynasties, and am willing to learn from historical experiences and lessons.
Now the world is amnesty and the people are reformed.
Some were prosecuted for committing crimes and fleeing in fear of crime or owing official property for a long time. Those who committed the crime three years ago before Emperor Xiaojing were exempted from prosecution.
In the autumn of the first year of Yuanshuo, the Huns invaded western Liaoning and killed the prefect of western Liaoning. They also invaded Yuyang and Yanmen, defeated the captains, and killed and plundered more than 3,000 people.
General Wei Qing was sent out of Yanmen, and General Li Xi was sent to replace him, and he captured thousands of enemy heads.
Nanlu, Huijun of Dongyi, and others led 280,000 subjects to submit to the Han and established Canghai County.
King Liu Yu of Lu and King Liu Fa of Changsha both died.
In the winter of the second year, King Huainan and King Sichuan were given a few sticks to avoid going to court.
In the first month of spring, an edict was issued saying: The king of Liang and the king of Chengyang are my brothers. I would like to grant my second brother a title of food. Please accept it. When the princes and kings ask for a seat for their children, I will personally review the list and ensure that they have the title of prince.
So the original vassal state was divided into some food towns, and all the princes and brothers were granted the title of marquis.
The Xiongnu entered Shanggu and Yuyang, killing and plundering more than a thousand officials and people.
The imperial court sent generals Wei Qing and Li Xi out of Yunzhong to Gaoque, and then to Fuli. They captured thousands of enemy heads, recovered Henan, and established Shuofang and Wuyuan counties.
On March 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the summer, 100,000 people were recruited to migrate to Shuofang County.
They also moved the upper-class people of the county and households with assets of more than three million to Maoling.
In the autumn, King Yan committed suicide because he was guilty of the crime.
In the spring of the third year, the organizational structure of Canghai County was abolished.
In March, an edict was issued saying: Punishment is used to prevent adultery, and respect for virtue is to show the importance of talent. Today's people have not been cultivated in education, and I am happy to work with the scholar-bureaucrats to renew the Han Dynasty's imperial career, and to be respectful and unremitting.
Can forgive the world.
In summer, the Xiongnu invaded Dai and killed the prefect. Invading Yanmen, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.
On the second day of June, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In autumn, the conquest of the southwestern barbarians was exempted and Shuofang City was built.
The people of the country were ordered to drink alcohol for five days to comfort the people.
In the winter of the fourth year, I visited Ganquan.
In the summer, the Huns came to Dai, Dingxiang and Shangjun, killing and plundering thousands of people.
In the spring of the fifth year, a severe drought occurred.
General Wei Qing led six generals and more than 100,000 soldiers to set out at Shuofang and Gaoque, and captured more than 15,000 Xiongnu heads.
In the sixth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: I once heard that people were taught to use etiquette and cultivated people to enjoy music. Nowadays, etiquette has become corrupted and music has collapsed. I am very sorry.
Therefore, the erudite and virtuous people gathered in Kyoto, and the ceremonial officials gave lectures. They collected and cited erudite texts, cited omitted articles, and promoted or destroyed rites, setting them as an example for the world.
The Taichang official should consider setting up the virtuous people who participated in this academic ceremony as doctoral disciples. This can not only promote education in the countryside, but also reward talents.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hongzou asked the doctor to set up disciples, and more and more people learned etiquette.
In autumn, the Xiongnu came to power and killed the captain.
In the spring and February of that year, General Wei Qing led six generals and more than 100,000 soldiers to ride out of Dingxiang and beheaded more than 3,000 enemies.
After returning to the division, the troops and horses rested and reorganized in Dingxiang, Yunzhong, Yanmen and other places.
Forgive the world.
In April of summer, Wei Qing once again led six generals and soldiers to the desert at the southern border of the Xiongnu and won a complete victory.
Former general Zhao Xin was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
The right general Su Jian's troops collapsed and he fled back alone to redeem himself as a civilian.
In June, he issued an edict saying: I heard that the five emperors did not follow the old rules of the past, and the three generations did not follow the laws of the previous generation. The historical era in which they lived had changed, but the moral policies they established were consistent.
In the past, Confucius treated Duke Ding of Lu as a person who wanted to please those who were far away, and Duke Ai of Lu, who focused on political governance and saving money. This was not because the requirements were different, but that the specific situation determined the top priority.
Today China is unified but the north is unrest. I miss you very much.
At that time, the general Wei Qing patrolled Shuofang, conquered the Xiongnu, and beheaded 18,000 enemies. Some imprisoned people and those who had committed crimes were rewarded with victory on the front line, and were exempted from crime.
Now the general has once again achieved brilliant results, beheading 19,000 enemies. This time he took the initiative to receive the reward and wanted to sell it. If he does not comply with the order, he will not be allowed to do so.
Regulations can be formulated accordingly.
Officials in charge of martial arts requested the emperor to set up martial arts reward officers to reward warriors.
In the winter and tenth month of the first year of Yuanshou, he went to Yong to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors. He obtained a white unicorn and wrote "The Song of Bailin".
In November, Liu An, the king of Huainan, and Liu Ci, the king of Hengshan, rebelled and were executed.
Tens of thousands of party members were executed.
In December, there was heavy rain and snow, and civilians froze to death.
In the fourth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
On April 21st in summer, the crown prince was established.
He was given a title of two thousand stones, the right concubine's eldest son, and the first rank of title to the person who succeeded his father as the head of the family.
The edict was issued: I heard that Gao Tao's advice to Yu was to know people first. Only those who can know people are sages. Emperor Yao thought it was very difficult to know people.
Generally speaking, the king is the heart, and the people are like the limbs. When a limb is injured, the heart mourns.
In the past, the king of Huainan and the king of Hengshan cultivated literature and exchanged currency. The two countries bordered on each other, which led them to heresy and the desire to usurp. This reflects my immorality.
"Poetry" says: Worrying about misfortune, mourning the disaster in the country.
The world has been forgiven, the remaining poison has been purged, and the old has been discarded to seek the new.
I reward filial piety, brothers and sisters, care for the elderly, orphans and widowers, and have great sympathy for those who lack food and clothing.
Special envoys are now sent to patrol the world to offer condolences and rewards.
The edict said: The emperor sent a special envoy to give five pieces of cloth to each of the three elders and filial sons in the county; two pieces of silk to each of the three village elders, those who loved children, and those who worked in the fields, and three kilograms of cotton wool; and three stones of rice to each person over eighty. If someone is wronged and loses his regular job, the envoy must report it to his superiors for resolution.
Counties and townships should reward people immediately and on the spot, and there is no need to hold formalistic gatherings and delay the reward period.
On May 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and killed hundreds of people.
On the eighth day of the third lunar month in the spring, Prime Minister Gongsun Hong passed away.
He sent General Huo Qu's sick soldiers out of Longxi to Gaolan Mountain and beheaded more than 8,000 enemies.
In summer, the horse was born in Yuwu water.
South Vietnam presented tame elephants and talking birds.
Generals Huo Qubing and Gongsun Ao marched more than 2,000 miles from the north, passed Juyan, and beheaded more than 30,000 enemies.
The Xiongnu entered Yanmen and killed and plundered hundreds of people.
He sent guard Zhang Qian and Lang Zhongling Li Guangdu to lead troops out of Youbeiping.
Li Guang killed more than 3,000 Xiongnu people, but all 4,000 of his own troops were defeated and fled back alone. He, Gongsun Ao and Zhang Qian did not arrive on time and should be executed to make atonement for their sins as common people.
Jiangdu King Liu Jian was guilty and committed suicide.
Liu Ji, King of Jiaodong, passed away.
In autumn, King Kunxie of the Xiongnu killed King Xiutu and led more than 40,000 of his men to surrender and set up five vassal states for resettlement.
Its land is Wuwei and Jiuquan counties.
In the spring of three years, a comet appeared in the east.
In the fifth month of summer, the world is forgiven.
He established Shao Ziqing, King Kang of Jiaodong, as King of Liu'an.
Xiao Qing, the great-grandson of the late Prime Minister Xiao He, was granted the title of Marquis.
In autumn, the Huns invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang, killing and plundering thousands of people.
Special envoys were sent to persuade flood-stricken counties to plant winter wheat, and a list of officials and people who could be tolerant and caring for the poor was recommended to the court.
Reduce half of the garrison troops in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun.
Officials who were punished for their crimes were sent to dig the Kunming Pool to practice water warfare.
In the winter of the fourth year, the official in charge reported that the poor people from Guandong had migrated to Longxi, totaling 725,000 people in Beidi, Xihe, Shangjun, and Kuaiji. The county magistrate wanted to provide food, clothing, and production for them, but the money was insufficient and asked for silver coins to be made into platinum coins and white deer skin coins to meet the national needs.
The system of taxing merchants and handicrafts at a rate of 20 to 40% of the value of their goods was implemented. In spring, a comet appears in the northeast.
In the summer of the fourth year of Yuanshou, a long star appeared in the northwest.
General Wei Qing led four generals out of Dingxiang, and General Huo Qubing came out, each with 50,000 cavalry.
The infantry was followed by the cavalry, followed by hundreds of thousands of people.
Wei Qing went to Mobei to besiege King Shanyu and beheaded 19,000 people. Return to the army in Tianyan Mountain.
Huo Qubing fought against King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu and beheaded more than 70,000 enemies. He carved stones in Langjuxu Mountain to commemorate his achievements and returned.
Tens of thousands of people died in the battle between the two armies.
Former general Li Guang and rear general Shi Qi both failed to arrive at the position as scheduled. Li Guang committed suicide and Shi Qi redeemed himself for the death penalty.
On March 11th in the spring of the fifth year, Prime Minister Li Cai committed suicide.
There are few horses in the world, and the price of a stallion has been raised to 200,000 yuan.
Half a tael of money was scrapped and five baht coins were issued.
Migrate the treacherous officials and people from all over the world to live in the frontiers.
In the winter and tenth month of the sixth year, rewards were given to officials ranging from the prime minister to two thousand stones of gold, and to servants ranging from one thousand stones to silk. The barbarians were given various brocades.
There is no snow or ice in winter rainfall.
On the 29th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Prince Hong was established as King of Qi, Dan as King of Yan, and Xu as King of Guangling in the ancestral temple.
He began to write the imperial edicts one by one to ennoble the princes.
In June, an edict was issued saying: In the past, the officials in charge believed that the cheap coins and high prices gave opportunities for evil and evil, and many people abandoned farming and engaged in business. In order to suppress the disparity between the rich and the poor, the currency system was reformed to check evil and mergers.
This is a monetary policy that is suitable for the present and formulated based on historical experience.
The ban on using half a tael of money has been more than a year, but people in remote areas still don't understand the meaning of the notice.
If the government is good, then the government should be good. If the government is popular, the people should follow the rules. However, the current currency system is hindered. Is it because the propaganda and guidance of local officials are not clear enough?
Or is it that the people's understanding is different, allowing those treacherous people who have placed their trust in their lives to take advantage of the opportunity to infringe on the interests of the people?
Why such a fuss!
Now we are sending six people, including a doctorate, to travel around the country, visit widows, widowers and the disabled, and provide relief to those who are unable to find a job for themselves.
The three elders and filial brothers are ordered to serve as teachers of the people, and gentlemen with high moral character are recommended to be recruited to the emperor's residence.
I respect the wise and am happy to know their situation.
It is necessary to widely publicize the principle that people with special talents and special practices can be specially recruited. This is the responsibility of practitioners.
It is necessary to investigate in detail those who were buried but not appointed, and those who were wronged and lost their regular careers. People and things that are harmful to the people due to treachery, desolate fields and harsh government should be reported to the court.
Any opinions that the county thinks can be convenient for the people should be reported to the prime minister and censor for consideration.
In the ninth month of autumn, General Huo Qubing passed away.
In the summer and fifth month of the first year of Yuanding, he pardoned the whole country and ordered the whole country to drink happily for five days to comfort the people.
Get the tripod above the Fen River.
Peng Li, the king of Jidong, was guilty and moved to Shangyong.
In the winter of November of the second year, Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
In December, Prime Minister Zhuang Qingzhai was imprisoned and died.
In the spring of the second year of Yuanding, Bailiang Terrace was built.
In March, there was heavy rain and snow.
In summer, there were floods, and thousands of people in Guandong starved to death.
In the ninth month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: It is benevolence to treat people both far and near as one, and it is righteousness not to be afraid of hardships and dangers. Although it is not a good year for the capital today, the wealth and resources of the mountains, forests, ponds and lakes should be exploited together with the people.
The current flood disaster is moving to the south of the Yangtze River, and the winter is coming. I am worried that the people in the south of the Yangtze River will be hungry and cold.
In the Jiangnan area, fire plowing and water plowing were carried out, and Bashu grain was immediately transferred to Jiangling. Doctors and middlemen were sent to various places to inspect and inform the victims that Shu grain had arrived, so as to relieve their worries.
Any officials or people who have made outstanding achievements in famine relief must report their deeds to the court in detail.
In the winter of the third year, Hangu was moved to Xin'an, and the original address was Hongnong County.
In November, it was ordered that anyone who exposed tax evasion would be rewarded with half of the amount they should pay.
In the spring of the third year of Yuanding, a fire broke out in Yanglingyuan.
In the summer of April, there was hail, and famine broke out in more than a dozen counties in Kanto, and cannibalism occurred.
When Liu Shun, the king of Changshan, passed away, his son Bo Xun succeeded him. He was found guilty and moved to Fangling.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year, I visited Yong and offered sacrifices to the Five Emperors. I was rewarded with the rank of baron, a hundred women, cattle, and some wine.
Depart from Xiayang and arrive at Fenyin.
On November 8, Hou Tu Temple was built on the east bank of Fenyin.
After the ceremony, we arrived at Xingyang.
Returning to the capital from Luoyang, he issued an edict: "The Queen's sacrifice will be carried out in Jizhou, and we will look at the Luoshui River of the Yellow River. We will inspect Yuzhou and inspect the old sites of the Zhou Dynasty. The Zhou temple has been closed for worship for a long time."
After asking the local elders, he found Ji Jia, a descendant of the Zhou Dynasty.
Now Jia is granted the title of Zhou Zinanjun to inherit Zhou's sacrifices.
In the second month of spring, Liu Sheng, the king of Zhongshan, passed away.
In the Xia Dynasty, Luan Da, a scholar of alchemy, was appointed Marquis of Letong and became a general.
In June, I got the tripod next to Houtu Temple.
In autumn, it is said that horses are born in Wowa water.
Composed the songs "Baoding" and "Tianma" to celebrate the occasion.
Prince Liu Shang of Changshan was made King of Surabaya.
In the winter of the fifth year and in the tenth month, I was lucky enough to go to Yong to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors?
Then we crossed Longshan Mountain, ascended Tongshan Mountain in the sky, and returned to the Zuli River in the west.
On the first day of November, the winter solstice, Li Tai?
In Ganquan County.
The emperor personally offered sacrifices, worshiping the sun to the east in the morning and the moon to the southwest in the evening.
The edict was issued: I used my small body to hide myself above the princes, but my virtue failed to calm the people, and the people were unable to avoid hunger and cold. Therefore, I inspected the Houtu to pray for a good harvest. I found a writing tripod next to the Houtu Temple in Jizhou, and I had to offer it to the ancestral temple.
The Wowa water comes out for my royal use.
We are wary and fearful of not being able to do our job. If we want to show the virtue of heaven and earth, we must constantly reflect on ourselves and update ourselves.
"Poetry" says: Four horses ride together to conquer unyielding territory!
When I patrol the frontiers, I must perform sacrifices wherever I go.
See Taiyi and build an astronomical altar.
On the night of November 11th, if the daylight is very bright, "Yi" says: The first A should make a new start in three days, and the second A should give instructions in three days.
I was very concerned that there would not be a full harvest this year, so I fasted seriously and held a suburban festival on Dingyou on the third day of Houjia to thank God for the light.
In April of summer, Lu Jia, the Prime Minister of Nanyue, rebelled and killed the envoys of the Han Dynasty stationed in South Vietnam, as well as the Nanyue King and the Queen Mother.
Forgive the world.
On April 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In autumn, frogs and toads fight each other.
General Fu Bo, Lu Bode, sent his troops out of Guiyang and down to the Huangshui River. General Yang Pu, the Louchuan general, left Yuzhang and went down to the Huangshui River. He returned to Yi and Yue Marquis Yan became the Yichuan general. He left Lingling and went down to the Huai River. General Jia was sent to Xialase and went down to the Cangwu River. They all led the sinners to go out. To the south of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, they sent war ships to carry 100,000 people.
The Yihou of Yue Chi bid farewell to the sinners of Bashu and conscripted the Yelang soldiers. Exit? Ke Jiang will meet in Panyu.
In the ninth month, 160 princes were demoted to civilian status for the crime of offering gold as a libation to the ancestral temple. The prime minister, Zhao Zhou, failed to correct his responsibilities and was imprisoned to death.
Luan, the Marquis of Letong, was beheaded for the crime of spreading rumors to deceive the emperor and deceive the emperor.
One hundred thousand people from the Western Qiang rebelled, made friends with the Xiongnu envoys, attacked Gu'an, and besieged four thousand counties in Mubao.
The Xiongnu also invaded Wuyuan and killed the prefect of the Han Dynasty.
In the winter and tenth month of the sixth year, 100,000 cavalrymen from Longxi, Tianshui and Anding, as well as soldiers from Weinian, Henan and Hanoi in Kyoto, were sent out. General Li Xi and Lang Zhongling were sent to Xu Ziwei to conquer and pacify the Western Qiang.
On the eastward tour, he visited Fengshi County and drove to Tongxiang, Zuoyi County. He was delighted when he heard that the South Vietnamese rebels had been defeated, so he changed the name of this place to Wenxi County.
In the spring, I drove to Xinzhong Township in Jixian County and learned that Lu Jia, the rebel prime minister of Yue, had been beheaded, so he changed the name of this place to Huojia County.
The remaining troops of Marquis Chiyi had not yet withdrawn, so the emperor immediately ordered him to move to conquer the southwestern barbarians and pacify the Yue territory.
So the territory was pacified and divided into nine counties: Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen, Rinan, Zhukui and Dan'er.
After the southwest was razed and settled, was it designated as a military capital? There are five counties: Ke, Yueyuan, Shenli and Wenshan.
In autumn, Yushan, the king of Dongyue, rebelled and attacked and killed the generals of the Han Dynasty.
The imperial court sent General Han Shuo of Henghai and Lieutenant Wang Wenshu out of Kuaiji, and General Yang Pu out of Yuzhang to attack the King of Dongyue.
They also sent Fuju General Gongsun He's troops out of Jiuyuan, and Xionghe General Zhao Ponu's troops out of Huiju. They both went on an expedition of more than 2,000 miles, but returned without seeing any Xiongnu troops.
Therefore, Dunhuang and Zhangye counties were established in Fenwu and Jiuquan areas, and people from the interior were moved to enrich the territory.
In the winter of tenth month of the first year of Yuanfeng, the emperor issued an edict saying: The rebel prime minister of South Vietnam and the rebel king of Dongou have been punished. However, the southern barbarians and northern barbarians have not yet been convinced. I am ready to patrol the border, mobilize troops to revitalize the brigade, personally observe the martial arts festival, and set up twelve generals to act as commander-in-chief.
Starting from Yunyang, passing through Shangjun, Xihe and Wuyuan in the north, exiting the Great Wall, ascending to Shanyu in the north, arriving at Shuofang, facing Beihe River.
He led an army of 180,000 cavalry, and his banners stretched for more than a thousand miles, which shocked the Xiongnu.
He sent an envoy to tell Shan Yu: The head of the rebel king of South Vietnam is hanging in the north palace of the Han Dynasty.
If the Chanyu can engage in battle, the emperor himself will lead the troops in a strong formation and be like a border court; if the Chanyu cannot fight, he should quickly surrender, why should he flee and hide in the cold and miserable area of ​​​​Mobei!
The Huns were in awe.
Returning to the army, he offered sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor at Qiao Mountain, and then returned to Ganquan.
The subjects of Dongyue killed the rebel king Yu Shan and submitted to the Han.
Emperor Wu issued an edict saying: The terrain in East Vietnam is dangerous and the population is numerous, which may cause trouble in the future. The people must be moved to the Jianghuai area to live.
So all the local residents were moved out.
In the first month of spring, I came to Fengshi County.
The edict was issued: I sacrificed sacrifices to Huashan Mountain in the West and Mount Song in the Central Mountains. Did I get a tiger-eating beast and a horse? See the stone transformed by Tushan, the mother of Xia Houqi.
The next morning I climbed Mount Song in person. The imperial censor, his entourage, and the officials at the temple all heard the sound of the mountain mingling and the valley shouting three long lives. How could I not respond to the mountain god's courtesy to me?
The ancestral officials are now ordered to expand the scale of the Taishi Temple and prohibit logging of nearby vegetation.
The three hundred households at the foot of the mountain were designated as the town of Songshan, named Gao Shang. They only provided for the needs of the temple and were exempted from other taxes and servitude.
Continue patrolling, heading east to the Bohai Sea.
On the seventh day of the fourth lunar month in summer, the emperor came down from the top of Mount Tai, set up an altar to worship Mount Tai, and went down to the Mingtang Hall in the northeast.
The edict was issued: "I inherit the position of the Supreme Being with a small body. I am deeply afraid of having little moral character and am ignorant of rituals and music, so I offer sacrifices to the gods and earth from all directions." Fortunately, given the gift of heaven and earth, I saw strange sights in Songshan Mountain, and suddenly heard the voice of "Long Live".
Shocked by this vision, he did not dare to interrupt his sacrificial activities, so he ascended Mount Tai, the first of the five mountains, and offered sacrifices to Mount Liangfu, and then built an altar in Mount Suran.
From now on, I will be inspired to make a new start and make a beautiful start with the scholar-bureaucrats. October can be regarded as the year of Yuanfeng.
All the rents and taxes owed by the people in the places they pass through, such as Bo, Fenggao, Sheqiu, Licheng, Liangfu, etc., will be exempted.
Give two pieces of cloth to each of the lonely elderly people over seventy years old.
Four counties have not paid this year’s capitation tax.
Grant the world a rank of civil nobility, and give women a certain amount of cattle and wine for every hundred households.
The emperor set off from Mount Tai, then patrolled the sea eastward and arrived at Jieshi County.
From Liaodong, pass through Jiuyuan in the north and return to Ganquan.
In autumn, a comet appeared in the Dongjing star area, and another comet appeared in the Santai star area.
King Min of Qi passed away.
Spring came to Fengshi, and then to Donglai.
In the fourth month of summer, we offer sacrifices to Mount Tai on our way home.
When he arrived at the Huzi Embankment, he inspected the breach of the Yellow River and ordered all his subordinates, including generals and subordinates, to carry straw bags and tree branches on their backs and put them into the damming project, and composed "Song of the Huzi".
He pardoned the criminals in the places he passed by, and rewarded the lonely old people with grain and rice, four stones each.
After returning to the dynasty, he built Ganquan Tongtian Tower and Chang'an Feilian Pavilion.
The king of Korea attacked and killed the Liaodong captain, so he recruited prisoners who had committed capital crimes from all over the world to attack Korea to atone for their crimes.
In June, an edict was issued saying: "Lingzhi and Ruicao are produced in Ganquan Palace, with nine stems and leaves."
The light from heaven shines all over the world, illuminating the hidden world, and bestows upon me great blessings.
Now a general amnesty has been granted to the whole world, and hundreds of households in Yunyang are rewarded with some cattle and wine.
Composed "Song of Zhifang".
In autumn, a bright hall was built at the foot of Mount Tai.
He sent generals Yang Pu and General Xun of the left to lead the conscripts to attack North Korea. He also sent generals Guo Chang and Zhonglang general Wei Guang to lead the Bashu troops to pacify the tribes in the southwestern barbarians that had not yet surrendered, and established Yizhou County here.
In the spring of the third year, everyone from three hundred miles away came to watch the show.
In the Xia Dynasty, the Korean subjects beheaded their king Youqu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han court designated the areas as Lelang, Lintun, Xuantu and Zhenfan counties.
Yang Pu, the general of the building ship, was guilty of the crime of losing many soldiers and fleeing, and was dismissed from office and became a common people. The general of the left, Xun Zhen, was guilty of the crime of relying on his merits to compete for rewards and was beheaded in public.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wang Duan of Jiaoxi passed away.
The Di people in Wudu rebelled and moved to Jiuquan County.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year, the emperor came to Yong to offer sacrifices to the five emperors.
The emperor built a road leading back to the middle. From this road, the emperor left Xiaoguan in the north, passed through Dulu and Mingze, returned to the capital from Dai, and drove east of the river.
In the third month of spring, sacrifices are made to the Queen Earth God.
The edict was issued: After I personally offered sacrifices to the earth, I saw divine light gathering on the spiritual altar, appearing three times in one night.
I am in the Zhongdu Palace, and there is a splendid splendor in the palace.
For this reason, Fenyin, Xiayang, and Zhongdu were pardoned for crimes under death, and the above three counties and Yang County were rewarded not to pay rent this year.
In summer, there was a severe drought, and many people died of heatstroke.
In autumn, he thought that the Huns were weak and could take advantage of the situation to make them submit, so he sent envoys to introduce them.
Chanyu sent an envoy and died of illness in Chang'an.
When the Xiongnu invaded the border fortress, the Han Dynasty sent General Guo Chang to garrison troops in Shuofang.
In the winter of the fifth year, I went on a hunting tour in the south. I went to Shengtang County in Nanjun County to worship Shun at Jiuyi Mountain. I climbed to Tianzhu Mountain and boarded a boat from Xunyang to patrol the river. I personally shot the dragon in the river and got the dragon.
The fleet traveled thousands of miles, departing from Fuyang County to compose "The Song of Fuyang in the Prosperous Tang Dynasty".
Then it goes north to Langyi and to the seaside. Wherever you pass, you will pay homage to the famous local mountains and rivers.
In the third month of spring, he passed through Mount Tai on his way back and sealed Mount Tai.
On March 21st, the emperor of the Han Dynasty was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of being honored in heaven. At this time, he summoned all the princes and princes to receive the plans from the prefecture and state.
In the fourth month of summer, an edict was issued: I visited Jing and Yang, offered sacrifices to Jianghuai, and gathered the energy of the sea god to reach Mount Tai.
God showed a spiritual image, and I added the ritual of sealing Zen.
Now I am pardoning the world, and the counties I pass through will not pay any taxes for this year. I will reward the widows and widowers with cloth, and give the poor people food.
So he drove to the sweet spring and worshiped the God of Mount Tai in the suburbs.
The great Sima and the great general Wei Qing passed away.
The Thirteen Prefectures of the Provincial Governor's Department began to be established.
Famous ministers were declining in civil and military affairs, and the emperor issued an edict to recruit talents: Generally, those who want to achieve extraordinary achievements must wait for extraordinary people. Therefore, some horses that are easy to kick can travel a thousand miles in a day, and some people who are ridiculed by the world can achieve great achievements.
Those recalcitrant horses and unruly people can be made to do something as long as they are controlled properly.
Now the states and counties are ordered to examine the talented people among the officials who can be candidates for generals, ministers and envoys to foreign countries.
In the winter of the sixth year, I was lucky enough to patrol back to Zhong.
In spring, make the first mountain palace.
In March, I traveled to the east of the river to offer sacrifices to Houtu.
The edict said: I pay my respects to the first mountain because the Kuntian under the mountain produces treasures, some of which are turned into gold.
After offering sacrifices to the earth, divine light appeared three times.
We now pardon Fenyin County's criminals with capital crimes and below, and reward the poor people all over the world with a piece of cloth.
Revolts broke out in Yizhou and Kunming. The emperor pardoned those who committed crimes in Kyoto and ordered them to join the army, and sent General Guo Chang to lead the army to quell the rebellion.
In the summer, the people of Kyoto watched the Jiaodian opera at Shanglin Pingle Hall.
Autumn brings severe drought and locust plague.
In the tenth month of winter in the first year of Taichu, I traveled to Mount Tai.
On the first day of November, the winter solstice, worship God in the Mingtang.
On November 23, a fire broke out in Bailiang Terrace.
In December, sacrifices are held at Mount Gaoli at the foot of Mount Tai and at the Hou Tu Temple.
It faces the Bohai Sea in the east and looks forward to offering sacrifices to Penglai.
Returning to Kyoto in the spring, he was sent to Ganquan Palace by the governors.
In February, the Zhang Palace was built.
In the fifth month of summer, the calendar was revised, using the first month as the first month of the year, using yellow as the color, using straight characters for seals, unifying official names, and harmonizing music and rhythm.
General Gongsun Ao was sent to build a city outside the fortress to accept the surrender.
In autumn and August, he patrolled Anding County and sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to recruit the criminals from all over the world who were sent into exile to guard the border and march westward to Dawan.
Locusts flew from the east to Dunhuang.
In the first month of spring of the second year, Prime Minister Shi Qing passed away.
In March, the emperor traveled to Hedong to worship the Houtu God.
The people were ordered to drink for five days to rejoice, pray for five days, and offer sacrifices in temples, the specifications of which were the same as those of the wax festival.
In the fourth month of summer, an edict was issued saying: I offered sacrifices to Jieshan and prayed for blessings on the land, and the spiritual light induced me to pardon criminals below death row in Fenyin and Anyi.
In May, the officials and people’s horses were registered to supplement the horses for carriage and riding.
Autumn, locust plague.
He sent Junji General Zhao Ponu with 20,000 cavalry out of Shuofang to attack the Xiongnu, and the entire army was wiped out.
In the winter of December, Erkuan, the imperial censor, passed away.
In the first month of spring of the third year, the emperor went eastward to patrol the sea.
In the fourth month of summer, on the way back, he built a seal on Mount Tai and offered sacrifices to Mount Shilu.
Guang Luxun and Xu Ziwei were sent to build a series of fortresses outside the Wuyuan Great Wall, northwest to Luqu Mountain, and guerrilla general Han Shuo led the troops to garrison.
Lu Bode, the captain of Qiannu, built his residence in Yancheng.
In autumn, the Xiongnu invaded Dingxiang and Yunzhong, killing and plundering thousands of people, and destroying the pavilions and barriers built by Guangluxun. They also entered Zhangye and Jiuquan and killed the captains.
In the spring of the fourth year, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, beheaded the King of Dayuan and won a horse that had sweated thousands of miles. The imperial court wrote "Song of the West Pole Pegasus" to celebrate.
In autumn, the Guangming Palace rises.
In winter, I will be lucky to return to the center.
The captain who moved to Hongnong set up a tax card at Wuguan to collect entry and exit tariffs to provide the daily needs of customs officials and guards.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Tianhan, the emperor came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to Mount Tai in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
The Huns returned the Han envoys and sent envoys to offer tribute.
In the fifth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
In autumn, the city gates were closed to search for those who violated the law and wasted money, and the criminals were assigned to guard the Wuyuan border.
In the spring of the second year, I traveled to the East China Sea and returned to China.
In the fifth month of summer, the General of the Second Division led 30,000 cavalry out of Jiuquan and fought against King Youxian of the Xiongnu in the Tianshan Mountains, beheading more than 10,000 of the enemy.
He also sent General Yin Muyu out of Xihe, and Li Ling, the Cavalry Commander, sent 5,000 infantrymen out of Yanbei to fight Shanyu and beheaded more than 10,000 enemies.
Li Ling was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
In autumn, people are prohibited from performing rituals on the roads.
Search for witchcraft.
The six countries of Quli in the Western Regions sent envoys to pay tribute.
Taishan and Langfu group bandit Xu Bo and others defended themselves in the mountains and captured the city. The roads were blocked. They sent Zhizhi envoy Suo Sheng and others in robes and armed with axes to pursue them separately. All officials below the governor's level who failed to suppress the bandits were executed.
In the eleventh month of winter, an edict was issued to Captain Guan: "Today, many powerful families and powerful people are friends with each other, and they are affiliated with the bandits from the east. We must strictly investigate people who come in and out of the customs."
In the spring and March of the third year, Wang Qing, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
For the first time, official sales of alcohol were stipulated.
In March, I traveled to Mount Tai and held a solemn sacrifice. The ceremony was held in the Mingtang, which was planned by various places.
When he returned to the court, he traveled to the north, offered sacrifices to Changshan, and buried a piece of black jade.
In April of summer, forgive the world.
Those who pass through will be exempted from land tax for one year.
In autumn, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen Pass, and the prefect of Yanmen was executed for not advancing in fear of the enemy.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, all princes and kings met with Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty at Ganquan Palace, and recruited brave men who had committed various crimes and were willing to redeem themselves. He sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to lead 60,000 cavalry and 70,000 infantry out of Shuofang. General Muyu Gongsun Ao led 10,000 cavalry and 30,000 infantry out of Yanmen Pass. He sent guerrilla general Han Yuo to lead 30,000 infantry out of Wuyuan. He sent strong crossbow general Duwei Lubode to lead more than 10,000 infantry to join forces with the general of the Second Division.
General Li Guangli fought with the Xiongnu King Shanyu for several days at the Yuwu waterfront. General Gongsun Ao lost the battle with the Xiongnu King Zuoxian and both withdrew their troops and returned to the court.
In the fourth month of summer, Prince Kun was made king of Changyi.
In the ninth month of autumn, it was ordered that the death penalty could be reduced by one degree of death if a ransom of 500,000 yuan was paid.
In the first year of Taishi, General Gongsun Ao was found guilty and had his waist cut in half.
The officials, people and heroes from the prefectures and states were moved to Maoling and Yunyang.
In the sixth month of summer, forgive the sinners in the world.
In the first month of spring of the second year, the emperor was on tour.
In March, an edict was issued saying: According to the suggestions of relevant officials, I made sacrifices to heaven in the suburbs, climbed Longshou Mountain in the west, and obtained a white unicorn to present to the ancestral temple. Pegasus appeared in the Wowa water, and natural gold appeared in Mount Tai. This should represent auspiciousness and the old method should be changed.
Today, the gold is changed into the shape of a cloud with lin feet and horseshoes to match the auspicious sign.
Therefore, the princes and kings were given the gold of Linzu and horse hoofs in order of rank. Autumn, drought.
In September, those who committed capital crimes could have their death penalty reduced by one degree by paying a ransom of 500,000 yuan.
Du Zhou, the imperial censor, passed away.
In the first month of the spring of the third year, the emperor went to Ganquan Palace and held a banquet to entertain foreign guests.
In February, the whole country was ordered to drink happily for five days.
The emperor visited the East China Sea and got a red goose, which he composed "Song of the Red Goose".
I'm lucky enough to be riding Langyan and worshiping the sun in Chengshan.
Climb Zhifu Mountain and take a boat ride on the sea. There are shouts of "Long Live" in the valleys on the shore.
In winter, every household in the place where the reward passes is 5,000 yuan, and each widow and widower is given a piece of cloth.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, the emperor visited Mount Tai.
On March 25th, Emperor Gaozu was worshiped in the Mingtang in order to be worthy of heaven. It was time to accept the records submitted by the various counties.
On the 26th, Emperor Xiaojing was worshiped in Mingtang. On the 27th, Mount Tai was built.
On the 29th, sacrifices were made to Shilu Mountain.
In April of summer, I came to Donglai County and worshiped the God of the Sea at Jiaomen Palace. I could vaguely see the image of the God sitting and worshiping in the temple in the ethereal space. The emperor composed "Song of Jiaomen".
In the fifth month of summer, they all came to Jianzhang Palace and held a banquet to pardon the sinners in the world.
In the seventh month of autumn, snakes from the Zhao area came into the city from outside the city. They fought with the snakes in the city under the temple of Emperor Xiaowen, and the snakes in the city were killed.
On October 30th in winter, there will be a partial solar eclipse. In December, the emperor came to Yongdi to worship the Five Emperors and visited Anding and Beidi in the west.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Zhenghe, the emperor returned to the capital and arrived at Jianzhang Palace.
In March, King Pengzu of Zhao passed away.
In November of winter, the three auxiliary cavalry were mobilized to search Shanglin Garden, and the gates of Chang'an were closed to search for traitors. The ban was lifted on the eleventh day.
Witchcraft happened.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Prime Minister He was imprisoned and died.
In April in summer, strong winds uproot houses and break trees.
In the leap month of the second year, Princess Zhuyi and Princess Yangshi, the daughters of Queen Wei, were both sentenced to death for being involved in the crime of witchcraft.
In summer, drive to Ganquan.
In the seventh month of autumn, according to Dao Hou Han's instructions, envoy Jiang Chong and others unearthed the puppets buried in the ground in the palace of the prince. On July 9, the prince and the queen wanted to kill Jiang Chong when they saw that Jiang Chong had taken advantage of the opportunity to frame him. The prince ordered the deployment of troops to fight with the prime minister Liu Quyou in Chang'an, and tens of thousands of people were killed on both sides.
On July 17, the prince fled and the queen committed suicide.
Soldiers began to be stationed at the capital city gate, and Huang Ya was added to the talisman to distinguish it from the prince's military talisman.
The censor, Dr. Shengzhi, was convicted of neglecting oversight. Shengzhi committed suicide and Tianren was beheaded.
On August 8, the prince committed suicide in Hu County.
August 20, earthquake.
In September, Prince Yan of Zhao Jingsu was made King Qian.
The Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and Wuyuan, killing and plundering local officials and people.
In the first month of the spring of the third year, he came to Yong and arrived in Anding and Beidi.
The Xiongnu invaded Wuyuan and Jiuquan and killed two captains.
In March, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, led 70,000 troops out of Wuyuan, Shang Qiucheng, the imperial censor, led 20,000 troops out of Xihe, and Hou Ma Tong led 40,000 cavalry out of Jiuquan.
Shangqiu formed an army and went to Junji Mountain to engage the enemy and beheaded many of them.
Ma Tong's troops reached the Tianshan Mountains, but the Huns retreated and took advantage of the situation to conquer the chariot division.
Generals Shang and Ma both withdrew their troops and returned to the court.
Li Guangli was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
In June, Prime Minister Liu Quyou was imprisoned and beheaded because his wife was involved in witchcraft.
In autumn, there was a locust plague.
In September, Gongsun Yong and Hu Qian were found guilty of treason and were executed.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Donglai and looked at the sea.
On the third day of February, a meteorite fell in Yongdi, and its sound was heard four hundred miles away.
In March, the emperor plowed the land in person.
On the way back, he climbed Mount Tai and repaired the seal.
On March 26, a sacrifice was held in Mingtang.
On the 29th, sacrifices were made to Shilu Mountain.
In June of summer, I returned to Ganquan.
On August 30th in autumn, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Hou Yuan Dynasty, he drove to Ganquan to worship the god of Mount Tai in the suburbs, and then came to Anding.
Wang Kun of Changyi passed away.
In February, an edict was issued saying: I saw a spiritual light from heaven during the festival in the suburbs. When I was patrolling to the north, I saw a group of cranes roosting. At that time, it was not the time for trapping and killing, so I did not go hunting.
When worshiping at Taishan Temple, auras and divine shadows appeared together.
Therefore forgive the sinners in the world.
In June of Xia, Shang Qiucheng, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
The servant Shemang Heluo and his younger brother Hou Matong conspired to rebel. The prince-in-law Jin Rishidan, the commander of the carriage, Huo Guang, the commander of the chariot, and Shangguan Jie, the commander of the cavalry, joined forces to conquer.
In autumn and July, there were earthquakes and magma gushes out from time to time.
In the spring of the second year and the first month of the first lunar month, all princes and kings came to the emperor in Ganquan Palace, and the emperor rewarded the clan.
In February, I came to Wuzha Palace in Zhouzhi County.
On February 12, Prince Fuling was made the crown prince.
On the 14th, Emperor Wu died in Wuzha Palace. The funeral was held in the front hall of Weiyang.
On the second day of March, he was buried in Maoling.
Ban Gu commented: The Han Dynasty was founded in a turbulent period when heroes were vying for the throne. Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty brought order to the chaos, and Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing made recuperation and recuperation his top priority. However, there was still a lack of achievements in the cultural affairs of ancient rituals.
In the early days of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he resolutely dismissed hundreds of schools of thought and advocated Confucianism alone. He also sought advice from others, recommended talented people, and gave them opportunities to make contributions.
He established Imperial College, established suburban sacrifices, corrected Shuo, established calendar numbers, and harmonious rhythms, composed poems and music, established Zen confederations, and worshiped hundreds of gods. After inheriting the Zhou Dynasty, he issued orders and articles that can be described in a new way.
Inheriting the great achievements of his ancestors, he has the style of the emperors of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
Even if Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had such a great talent and strategy, and if he did not change Wen Jing's frugality and put the common people on the throne of Renren, even the emperors praised in "Poems" and "Books" could not surpass him.
