◆The biography of Yang Zhen, named Boqi, was from Hongnong Huayin. Yang happy, the eighth generation ancestor, was granted the title of Marquis of Chiquan due to his merit during the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
His father, Yang Bao, studied Ouyang Shangshu. During the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, he did not care about worldly affairs and taught in seclusion.
In the second year of residence, he was drafted together with Gong Sheng, Gong She and Jiang Xu. However, he refused and ran away without knowing where he was.
Emperor Guangwu admired his integrity very much.
During the Jianwu period, he was specially recruited on the bus, but he died at home because he was old and sick.
Yang Zhen loved learning when he was young. He studied "Ouyang Shangshu" from Taichang Huanyu. He was proficient in classics, read a lot of books, and devoted himself to research.
At that time, Confucian scholars said: Confucius Yang Boqi in Kansai.
He lives in Hucheng and has not accepted invitations from prefectures and counties for decades. Many people said that he was old and should go out to become an official. Yang Zhen's determination not to be an official became even more determined.
Later, a crested sparrow took three fishes and flew in front of the lecture hall. The lecturer held the fish and said: Snakes are the symbol of Doctor Qing's clothes.
Three means three stations, and Mr. will be promoted from now on.
He became a state and county official only when he was fifty years old.
General Deng Zhi heard that Yang Zhen was a talented person and promoted him to Maocai. He was promoted four times to the governor of Jingzhou and the governor of Donglai.
When he went to the county and passed through Changyi, Wang Mi, the most talented person in Jingzhou whom he had recommended in the past, was serving as the county magistrate of Changyi. He went to see Yang Zhen and gave him ten pounds of gold in the evening.
Yang Zhen said: Old friends know you, why don’t you know old friends?
Wang Mi said: No one knows at night.
Yang Zhen said: God knows, God knows, I know, you know, how can you say no one knows.
Wang Mi left in shame.
Later he became the prefect of Zhuo County.
Be fair and honest, and do not accept personal requests.
His descendants lived a vegetarian diet and lived a simple life. Some of his old friends or elders wanted him to buy property for his descendants. He said: Wouldn't it be nice to let future generations call them the descendants of innocent officials? In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, he was recruited as a servant and promoted to Taichang.
Most of the previous doctorate elections were not worthy of their name. Yang Zhen recommended Chen Liu, Yang Lun and other famous scholars who were proficient in Confucian classics to teach their studies, which was praised by Confucian scholars.
In the first year of Yongning, he replaced Liu Kai as Situ.
The following year, Empress Dowager Deng passed away, and some of the concubines that Emperor An liked became arrogant.
Emperor An's nanny, Wang Sheng, was responsible for raising Emperor An. She relied on the emperor's favor and was lawless. Wang Sheng's daughter Bo Rong went in and out of the palace, taking bribes and perverting the law.
Yang Zhen went to Shu.
Said: I heard that politics relies on talents, and those pests must be removed to govern the country.
Therefore, in the era of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, when outstanding talents were in power, the four bad guys Hundun, Qiongqi, Tao, and Taotie were all exiled to remote places. Everyone was convinced and the country was at peace. Morals were depraved, and the court was filled with despicable and sycophantic people. Wang Sheng came from a humble background and met with a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to raise Sheng Gong. Although she had some merit, the reward she received far exceeded her hard work. And she was greedy to no end. Asking for help outside, disturbing the world, harming the court, and bringing discredit on the emperor's face.
The Book of Books warns hens against rooster crows, and the Book of Songs satirizes women in mourning for their country.
In the past, Zheng Yangong followed his mother's selfish desires, indulged his proud younger brother, and did whatever he wanted, almost destroying the country, and then came back to govern. "Spring and Autumn" once criticized him and thought that education was not good.
Those women and villains will be happy if you are close to her; if you stay away from her, they will resent you. It's very difficult to deal with.
"Yi" said: Don't indulge, just do it in the kitchen.
This means that women are not allowed to interfere in politics!
Wang Sheng should be allowed to leave the palace as soon as possible, let her live outside, cut off relations with Bo Rong, and not allow them to interact with each other, so that they can be kind and virtuous, both above and below.
I hope that the emperor will get rid of his personal love, eradicate his intolerance, pay attention to national affairs, carefully select his ministers, and reduce expenses and taxes.
As a result, there are outstanding talents from all over the world, and the officials of the imperial court have no regrets about being an official in troubled times. The poems in "Dadong" that satirize the troubled times cannot be used today, and the people have no complaints about "not being well-off yet."
Isn’t it good to imitate the past and share the virtues of the sages of all ages?
Emperor An showed it to his mother, Wang Sheng and others, and they all held grudges.
But Bo Rong's arrogance and promiscuity became even more serious. He hooked up with Liu Gui, the brother of Liu Hu, the former Marquis of Chaoyang. Liu Gui actually married her and took Liu Hu's title, rising to the rank of servant.
Yang Zhen was so filled with hatred that he went to Shangshu again and said: I heard that Emperor Gaozu made an appointment with his officials. It was not that meritorious officials could not be granted titles. The system of governing the country stipulates that after the father dies, the son succeeds, and after the brother dies, the younger brother succeeds, so usurpation is prevented.
Today, there is an edict to ennoble the former Chaoyang Marquis Liu Hu, and then his brother Liu Gui takes the title of Marquis of Liu Hu. Liu Hu's younger brother Liu Wei is still there.
I've heard that the emperor only confers meritorious titles, and the princes only ennoble them with virtue.
Now Liu Gui has no other merits. Just because he was married to his mother's daughter, he suddenly became both a servant and a prince. This was inconsistent with the old system and the scriptures. Passers-by were noisy and the people were uneasy.
The emperor should learn from the past and abide by the ways of being an emperor.
The emperor ignored him.
In the second year of Yanguang's reign, he replaced Liu Kai as Taiwei.
The emperor's uncle Dahong Geng Bao recommended the elder brother of Li Gui, who often served as a servant, to Yang Zhen, but Yang Zhen refused.
Geng Bao went to ask Yang Zhen and said: "Li Changshi is the most important person in the country. The emperor wants you to recommend his brother. I, Geng Bao, am just conveying the emperor's opinion."
Yang Zhen said: If the imperial court wants to have the three prefectures recommend candidates, there should be an order from the minister.
Rejecting him, Geng Bao left in anger.
The queen's brother Zhi Jinwu Yan Xian also recommended to Yang Zhen that he befriend his relatives, but Yang Zhen refused.
Sikong Liu heard the news and immediately recommended these two people, and both were promoted within ten days.
Therefore, Yang Zhen suffered even more resentment.
At that time, an edict was sent to build a house for Queen Mother. Fan Feng, the chief minister, and Zhou Guang, Xie Yun, etc., encouraged them to disturb the court.
Yang Zhen went to Shu again.
Said: I heard that in ancient times, after nine years of farming, there must be three years of savings. Therefore, floods caused disasters in Yao's time, and the people did not suffer from hunger.
Now the disaster is serious and the people are empty and unable to provide for themselves.
In addition, the locusts are causing damage, the Qiang bandits are looting, and the border areas are uneasy. The fighting has not continued until now, and the soldiers have no food and grass. The treasury of Da Sinong is empty, which is not a time for national peace.
The edict was written to build a house inside Jincheng Gate for my mother, which was combined into one, connected to the street, and decorated with carvings, which was extremely gorgeous.
It is now summer, when the soil is prosperous, and they go up to the mountains to quarry stone. The master craftsmen from Zuo School and other departments are working on dozens of places, urging each other, and spending more than hundreds of millions!
Brothers Zhou Guang and Xie Yun, who had no flesh-and-blood ties to the country, relied on a group of treacherous men to share authority and power with Fan Feng, Wang Yong and others, liaise with the prefectures and counties, and evade the ministers.
The recruitment of the prime minister was carried out in accordance with the orders from above. Corrupt people from all over the country were recruited and bribes were accepted from them. Even those who had not used the bribes were reused.
Confusing black and white, not distinguishing between pure and dirty, the whole world was in an uproar, and they all said: The wealth is in the upper reaches, which is a source of ridicule for the court.
I heard the teacher say: When the money is used up, there will be resentment; when the labor is used up, there will be rebellion.
Resentful people should not be used again. So it is said: If the people are not enough, who will be enough for you?
I hope the emperor will consider it.
Fan Feng, Xie Yun and others saw that Yang Zhen's many suggestions were not adopted, so they had no scruples. They faked an edict, mobilized the treasury's money, Gu, and master craftsmen, requisitioned timber, and built houses, gardens, and houses. The labor and expenses could not be calculated.
Yang Zhen went to the countryside again due to the earthquake.
Said: I have been favored to serve the Taiwan government, but I cannot promote politicalization and reconcile yin and yang. On December 4th last year, there was an earthquake in the capital.
I heard the teacher say: The earth belongs to the yin essence, so it should be quiet and support the yang.
The reason why I am shaking now is that my vagina is too full.
On that day, the Wu Gan Chen branch combined with the earth movement, and all three were earth. They were located in the middle palace. This is a symbol of the central minister's near-official power.
I think the emperor worked very hard because of the unrest on the border. The palace building was tilted, and only one pillar was used to support it. When civil engineering is not prosperous, I want to make people far and near know that the government is clean and honest, and the capital is solemn and majestic, regardless of the high towers and pavilions.
However, some flatterers could not agree with the emperor. They were arrogant and extravagant and exceeded the law, wasted labor, overhauled houses, and acted arrogantly.
There was a lot of talk on the road, everyone heard and saw it.
The mutation of the earthquake occurred near the capital, probably because of this.
There was no snow in the winter, and no rain during the Spring Festival. All officials were anxious, and construction continued, which was really a harbinger of drought.
"Shangshu" says: If you arrogate the sun, the minister has no authority and becomes the Duke of Fuyu.
That is to say: only the king can enjoy special blessings and delicacies. Your Majesty, please carry forward a strong and upright spirit, abandon those arrogant and extravagant people, ignore the source of the evil talk, adhere to the warning of the Emperor, and do not let your majesty and power be left behind for a long time.
Yang Zhen came forward and spoke passionately, and the emperor was already displeased with him, while Fan Feng and others looked sideways and resented him, but because he was a Confucian, they did not dare to harm him.
Soon, a man from Hejian went to the court to write a letter, describing the gains and losses of the government.
The emperor was angry and ordered his arrest and imprisonment, which was deemed as bullying and immorality.
Yang Zhen went to Shu to rescue him again and said: I heard that during the time of Yao and Shun, he was admonishing drums and slandering trees and standing in the court; the masters of sages of Shang and Zhou dynasties complained about villains, but they also checked themselves and encouraged themselves.
This is to open up channels of speech, brainstorm ideas, and make people feel better.
Now that Zhao Teng has been convicted of attacking and slandering, which is different from the crime of murder, I ask the emperor to reduce the crime, save Teng's life, and inspire the people to dare to speak. The emperor ignored him and Zhao Teng was killed. In the spring of the third year, the emperor ascended Mount Tai, and Fan Feng and others took the opportunity to compete for house repairs. Yang Zhen sent Gao Shu to summon the master craftsman Shi Shi to investigate the matter. After obtaining the false edict from Zhao Feng and others, he wrote a memorial and wanted to wait for the emperor to return before delivering it.
When Fan Feng and others heard about it, they were terrified. It happened that Taishi said that Xingbian was rebellious, so he framed Yang Zhen together and said: Since Zhao Teng's death, Yang Zhen has been deeply resentful. And he held a grudge against Deng Zhi's old subordinates.
When the emperor returned, he waited in Taixue for an auspicious day to enter the palace. In the evening, he sent an envoy with an order to collect Taiwei Yang Zhen's seal and ribbon. Yang Zhen then closed the door to exclude guests.
Fan Feng and others still hated him, so they asked General Geng Bao to report that Minister Yang Zhen refused to plead guilty and was resentful, and ordered him to be sent back to his hometown.
Yang Zhen walked to Jiyang Pavilion in the west of the city and said generously to his son and student: Death is inevitable for a person.
I am favored and occupy the position, but I hate the traitorous ministers who are cunning but cannot be punished, and the evil mistresses who are causing chaos but cannot be restrained. How can I show my face to the world?
On the day of death, a coffin of mixed wood is used, and the body is only covered with a sheet. There is no burial place or a shrine.
So he took poison and died at the age of seventy.
In response to the orders of Fan Feng and others, the prefect of Hongnong moved to Liang and sent officials to stay at Yang Zhen's funeral in Shaanxi County. They exposed the coffin beside the road and ordered Yang Zhen's disciples to post and write letters on their behalf. Everyone on the road shed tears for it.
When Emperor Shun was over, Fan Feng, Zhou Guang and others were put to death. Yang Zhen was a student of Yu Fang, and Chen Yi went to the court to complain about Yang Zhen.
The imperial court called him Yang Zhenzhong. He issued an edict to confer the title of Lang to his two sons, gave him a million yuan in money, and buried Yang Zhen in Tongting, Huayin with proper ceremony.
Ten days before the burial, a large bird with a height of more than ten feet flew to Yang Zhen's funeral. It leaned down and screamed in mourning, weeping on the wet ground. After the burial, it flew away.
The county reported the situation.
At that time, disasters occurred one after another. The emperor felt that Yang Zhen was an unjust case, and issued an edict saying: The late Taiwei Yang Zhen was an upright person, so he assisted in current affairs.
My stupidity aggravated this sin. The mountains collapsed and the pillars were broken. How dangerous I was!
Now let the prefect and prime minister use the palace to have a shrine with soul and spirit, or come and enjoy these sacrifices of mine.
So people erected a stone bird statue in front of Yang Zhen's tomb to commemorate him.
Yang Zhen was framed, Gao Shu was also convicted, and he was accused of reducing his death.
When Yang Zhen was vindicated, Gao Shu paid homage to the censor and went to Jingzhou to judge the history.
Yang Zhen has five sons.
The eldest son Yang Mu was appointed Prime Minister of Fubo.
