Jiang Yan, courtesy name Wentong, was a native of Kaocheng, Jiyang.
He was lonely and impoverished when he was young, but he was diligent, studious, calm, and rarely interacted with others.
He was first appointed to the post of Southern Xuzhou, and was transferred to the imperial court at the request of the emperor.
Song Jianping Wang Jingsu liked scholars, so Jiang Yan followed Jingsu and lived in southern Yanzhou.
Guangling ordered Guo Yanwen to be convicted for some reason, and Jiang Yan was imprisoned in the state prison.
Jiang Yan wrote a letter in prison saying: In the past, when humble ministers struck their chests to express their feelings, frost would suddenly hit Yandi; if ordinary women cried out to the sky, wind would suddenly hit Qitai.
Every time I read these words, I shed tears.
Why?
Because scholars have a firm belief, and women also have virtues that cannot be changed.
Honesty is doubted, loyalty is killed, so the heroic and the chivalrous are willing to die and never look back. This is the reason.
I heard that benevolence and kindness cannot be relied on. At first, I thought this was a lie. Only today do I understand the truth behind it.
I sincerely hope that the king will temporarily stop the affairs around him and show me some mercy and observation.
I originally lived in a simple house with a woven straw door and a mulberry tree as the door hinge. I was an unofficial person wearing linen clothes and a Wei belt around my waist. When you retreat, you don't decorate yourself with poems and books to frighten fools; when you enter, you don't buy fame from the world.
Previously, I was lucky enough to be able to walk up and down the Chengming Palace and in and out of the Jinhua Palace. How could I not restrain my figure, condense my solemnity, and walk sideways through the palace gates?
I admire the king's morality, so I became your guest. I prepared some superficial skills such as chickens, dogs, and thieves, and I also prepared the details of three or five low-level skills.
Your Majesty, your Majesty has bestowed upon me your grace and radiance, and looked at me with a cheerful look.
In fact, Qing made me feel like I was wearing a golden reward like Jing Qing. Privately, I felt like I was enjoying the status of a national scholar like Yu Rang.
I often want to tie up my hat, put my sword on my body, and die calmly, just to thank the king for his kindness in case of emergency, and to repay the king with all my heart and soul.
Unexpectedly, the villain was stubborn and despicable, so he left me slanderous and damaging words, causing my career to fall into the clear law and my body to be restricted in the cold prison.
I stepped on my own figure and felt sorry for myself. Every time I had a sore nose, it hurt to my bones.
I have heard that damaging one's reputation is the greatest shame, and damaging one's body is the second most disgraceful thing, so every time these thoughts come up, I feel as if I have lost something.
In addition, it has been a month and it is approaching the end of autumn. The sky was gloomy and there were no good views around.
My body is neither wood nor stone, but it is with the prison officials.
This is also the reason why Chen Xing looks up to the sky and sighs, beats his heart and blames himself, and the tears flow out and then bleed.
Although I lack the praise of the villagers, I have heard of the virtues of a gentleman.
The first is to hide in the shops and retreat under the rocks in the mountains and forests; the second is to wear the seal ribbon in the Golden Horse Courtyard and talk loudly on the cloud platform; the third is to capture the South Vietnamese monarch and tie the neck of the Chanyu: he can use the iron coupons written in alchemy and leave his name in history.
Should people compete for such small benefits as an inch, and compete for such small benefits as the sharp tip of a knife?
But I heard that accumulated slander can melt gold, and accumulated slander can rot bones.
In ancient times, Naosheng was suspected of stealing gold, while in modern times, Boyu was given an unjust reputation.
If two talented people like them are like this, let alone what happens to me, how can I avoid disaster?
The humiliation suffered by generals in the past can be cited as the example of Jianghou being imprisoned in prison; the humiliation suffered by famous ministers can be cited as the example of Shi Qian being sent to the silkworm room and subjected to castration. What else can I say about a situation like mine?
Lu Lian was wise and resigned his salary without any hesitation; he took over his father wisely and sang songs while traveling and forgot to return.
Wang Ling stayed in seclusion in East Vietnam, and Zhong Wei thanked guests at Dumen in Western Qin. They were understandable.
If my story is not so false and untrue, but the crime is consistent with the reality, then I should keep silent and use the dagger to kill myself. How can I face those people in Qilu who have strange moral integrity and those generous and tragic people in Yantiao?
From Lintao and Didao in the west to Feihu and Yangyuan in the north, there is no one who is not immersed in the grace of benevolence and righteousness. People look in the mirror and drink sweet wine.
However, I was in prison with deep pain and anger. Even though this incident was trivial, it was worthy of sadness.
I beg the king to look at me for a moment and find out what happened to me. If this is the case, then the innocent souls in Wuqiu will not be ashamed because their heads turned into mud in the water, and the wandering ghosts in Huting will not feel sorry because their bones rotted into ashes.
I can't bear the urgency of my heart, so I can only respectfully let you know about me through the people around the king.
My intention to leave the film has been declared, and I will die and become immortal.
After Jing Su read the letter from Bao Feng, he released Jiang Yan that day.
Soon after, Jiang Yan was promoted as a scholar in southern Xuzhou. Jiang Yan responded to the emperor's policy questions and was ranked among the best. He was transferred to the Zuo Changshi of the Baling Kingdom.
Jing Su served as the governor of Jingzhou, and Jiang Yan followed him to the town.
When a young boy ascends the throne, his words and deeds are unworthy of imperial virtue.
Jing Su specializes in arrogance and controls the upper class. People advise Jing Su to take advantage of this moment to initiate trouble.
Jiang Yan patiently advised Jingsu every time, saying: Rumors will lead to disaster, which is the reason why the two uncles died together. Resistance, resentment and narrow-mindedness led to the destruction of the seven kingdoms.
Your Highness, you do not seek the stability of the ancestral temple, but instead believe in the strategies of the left and right. Then the tragic scene of elk and frost covering Gusu Terrace will happen again.
Jing Su did not adopt his advice. When Jingsu was stationed in Beijing, Jiang Yan joined the army in the army and led the governor of Nandonghai.
At this time, Jing Su and his friends were plotting day and night. Jiang Yan knew that a disaster was about to happen, so he wrote fifteen poems and gave them to Jing Su to satirize him.
When the governor of Nandonghai, Lu Cheng, was mourning and leaving his post, Jiang Yan believed that as the county magistrate, he should handle county affairs, but Jing Su appointed Sima Liu Shilong to be in charge of county affairs.
Jiang Yan insisted on managing county affairs. Jing Su was furious and told the election department about the matter. As a result, Jiang Yan was demoted to Jian'an Wu Xingling.
Jiang Yan served in Wuxing County for three years.
At the beginning of the next year, Qi Yi assisted in the government affairs. Hearing about Jiang Yan's talents, he recruited him as a Shangshu Jiabulang and a hussar to join the military.
Soon Shen Youzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, launched a rebellion. Emperor Gao said to Jiang Yan: The world is in such chaos, what do you think we should do?
Jiang Yan replied: In the past, Xiang Yu was strong and Liu Bang was weak, Yuan Shao had many soldiers and Cao Cao had few. Although Xiang Yu ordered the princes, he finally suffered the humiliation of cutting his neck with a sword and died; Yuan Chu once occupied four states, but eventually became a defeated man.
Cultivation is called emphasizing on virtue rather than on eminence.
What are you worried about?
Emperor Gao said: I have heard this a lot, so please try to analyze it for me.
Jiang Yan said: You are majestic and brave, and have strange strategies. This is the first condition for victory; you are generous, tolerant, benevolent, loyal, and forgiving, which is the second condition for victory; all the talented people in the world are willing to do their best for you, which is the third condition for victory; you are a person who is popular with the people, which is the fourth condition for victory; you help the emperor to fight against rebellion, which is the fifth condition for victory.
Although they have sharp ambitions, they have small means, which is the first reason for their failure; they are powerful but mean and unkind, which is the second reason for their failure; their soldiers are distracted and torn apart, which is the third reason for their failure; the officials do not support them, which is the fourth reason for their failure; they go thousands of miles alone, but have no friends to help them, which is the fifth reason for their failure.
Therefore, although they have a hundred thousand wolf soldiers, they will eventually be captured by us.
Gao Di smiled and said: You have gone too far.
When dispatching, Jiang Yan was asked to draft all the military books, tables, and notes.
The Xiangguo Mansion was established, and Jiang Yan was assigned to the Jishi Office to join the military.
In the early years of the founding of the Yuan Dynasty, he served as the Hussar Yuzhang Wang Ji's Office, led Dongwu Ling, participated in the management of imperial edicts, and was in charge of compiling national history.
Soon he was moved to the post of Vice Minister of Zhongshu.
At the beginning of Yongming Dynasty, he was transferred to General Xiaoqi and was in charge of compiling the history of the country.
Later he left Beijing and served as general of Jianwu and internal history of Luling.
After serving as chief minister for three years, he returned to Beijing and served as general of cavalry and concurrently as minister Zuocheng. Soon after, he became the doctor of Guozi with his own official position.
At the beginning of the young emperor's accession to the throne, Jiang Yan concurrently served as the censor Zhongcheng with his official position.
At this time, Emperor Ming took up the post of prime minister and said to Jiang Yan: When you were in the Ministry of Finance, you would never act rashly on matters that were not public affairs. As an official, you were both tolerant and strict, and could compromise and reconcile. Now that you are appointed to the post of Nansi, it is enough to scare and purge all officials.
Jiang Yan replied: Today's matter can only be said to be done in accordance with the duties of an official. I am even more afraid that my talents are inferior and my will is weak, and that I will not be commensurate with the wise will of the Holy One.
So Jiang Yan impeached Zhongshu Ling Xie Chu, Situ Zuo Chief Shi Wang Ji, and Guard Chief Shi Yu Hongyuan, all of whom did not participate in the official affairs of the imperial mausoleum because they had been ill for a long time. He also impeached the former Yizhou Governor Liu Tong and the former Governor of Zhiye for embezzling tens of thousands of dollars in money and materials, and these people were handed over to the Tingwei for punishment.
Shen Zhaolue, the governor of Linhai, Yu Tanlong, the governor of Yongjia, as well as Erqianshi of various counties and officials of major counties, were mostly impeached and punished. As a result, the court became solemn and stable inside and outside.
Emperor Ming said to Jiang Yan: Since the Song Dynasty, there has been no strict censor Zhongcheng. You can now be regarded as unique in modern times.
After Emperor Ming came to the throne, he appointed Jiang Yan as the chief historian of the Chariot and Linhai King.
Soon after, he was appointed as Wei Qing of the Imperial Court, and was appointed as Shizhong. He was also promoted to the title of Champion Changshi, and he was also appointed as the general of the auxiliary country.
Later he left the capital and served as the prefect of Xuancheng, and still served as the general of the auxiliary country.
After serving in Xuancheng County for four years, Jiang Yan returned to the capital and served as Huangmen's minister, captain of the infantry, and soon served as secretary and supervisor.
During the Yongyuan period, Cui Huijing raised troops to surround the capital. The gentry and officials all went to submit their names, pay homage and make friends, but Jiang Yan pretended to be ill and refused to go.
When the rebellion was put down, everyone admired Jiang Yan for his foresight.
In the last years of Donghun Hou's reign, Jiang Yan served as secretary and supervisor concurrently as a guard. He insisted on resigning, but did not get permission, so he had to take up the post.
Jiang Yan once said to people: I am not qualified for the position of guard. Even passers-by know this. Let me serve as a guard concurrently, just for my false reputation.
Besides, the weather and human affairs will soon change.
Confucius said: Those who are knowledgeable about affairs must be prepared for martial arts.
If you try to plan something when it comes, what's the point of worrying?
Soon, he was appointed deputy to the leader Wang Ying.
When the righteous army arrived at Saiqiudie, Liao Zha came to join him in civilian clothes. After the birth, Shaoshu appointed Jiang Yan as the champion general, and he still served as secretary and supervisor. Soon he also served as Situ Zuo's chief historian.
In the first year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, he was transferred to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. In the second year, he was transferred to the post of Prime Minister, Youchang Shi, and he still served as the champion general.
In the first year of his imprisonment, he avoided serving as the regular servant of Sanqi and the general of Zuowei, and was named the founding uncle of Linju County, with a fief of 400 households.
Jiang Yan said to his disciples: I was originally an ordinary official who did not pursue fame and wealth, but now I am in a high position and have become wealthy.
In my life, I like to talk about knowing and being content, and now I am very complete.
Life is just about having fun, how long will you be greedy for wealth?
Now that my reputation has been established, I want to retreat to the grass.
That year, due to illness, he was transferred to the post of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu and changed his title to Liling Bo.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Jiang Zha passed away. He was sixty-two years old at this time.
Zhizu mourned Jiang Yan in plain clothes and gave him 30,000 yuan and 50 pieces of cloth for the funeral.
Jiang Yan's nickname is Xian Bo.
When Hongji was young, he was famous for his good writing. However, in his later years, his talents declined and degenerated. People at the time said that he was exhausted.
He wrote more than a hundred works in total, which he compiled into two volumes. He also wrote ten records of "History of Qi", which have been circulated in the world.
Jiang Yan's son Jiang Jian inherited the title of the feudal prince and was promoted from Danyang Yincheng to the Great Wall Order. However, he was stripped of his title because of his guilt.
In ordinary four years, in memory of Tao's achievements, Sijiang was granted the title of Chengdanbo, and the fiefdom remained as before.
Ren Fang, named Yansheng, was a native of Bochang, Le'an, and a descendant of Yao, the imperial censor of Modai.
My father's name is Yao, and he is a doctor of Zhongsan in Qi.
Ren Yao's wife was Yu Dan. She once slept during the day and dreamed of colorful flags and small bells hanging from the four corners falling from the sky. One of the bells fell into Pei's arms. Pei's heart was touched, and soon she became pregnant and gave birth to Ren Chuan.
Ren Chuo is seven feet five inches tall.
He was studious when he was young and became famous early on.
Song Danyang Yin Liu Bingzheng summoned him as the chief bookkeeper.
Ren Zuo was only sixteen years old at the time, and because of his youth and arrogance, he disobeyed Liu Bing's son.
A long time later, he took up the post requested by the imperial court and was recommended as a scholar in Yanzhou. He became an official with Dr. Taichang and moved to the north to join the army.
In the early years of the Yongming Dynasty, General Wang Jian of the Wei Dynasty led Danyang Yin, and he was appointed as the chief secretary.
Wang Qi admired Ren Dui very much and thought that no one could compare with him at that time.
Ren Fang then moved to the post of Chief of Prison and joined the military. He joined the cabinet and served as the lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace. He was transferred to the office of Situ Jingling and joined the army. He later resigned in mourning for his father's death.
Ren Fang had a very filial temperament and exercised all etiquette during mourning.
He had just taken off his mourning clothes, and then suffered the pain of losing his mother. Because he had lived in a hut next to his parents' tomb for a long time and guarded the tomb, the vegetation no longer grew in the place where he cried.
After the mourning clothes were removed, he was appointed as a defense officer and paid homage to the prince's infantry captain and secretary of Guan Dong Palace.
At the beginning, Emperor Ming of Qi had deposed King Yulin and began to serve as Shizhong, Zhongshu Supervisor, Huqi General, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, Yangzhou Governor, and Lu Shangshu. He was named the Duke of Xuancheng County and added five thousand troops.
Let the left hand prepare a draft of the music. The words of the memorial drafted by Ren Zuo are: I am a mediocre person, and my intelligence and abilities are shallow and short.
Emperor Taidanzhi deepened his love for me like a child and showed kindness to his family; Emperor Shizuwu had equal feelings for me, a commoner, with deep trust and the same spirit.
Emperor Wu is critically ill, and I will indeed obey the imperial edict.
Although people are self-aware, they will still be deceived by being close; foolish people occasionally remember to measure themselves. I really couldn't bear to be stubborn in dressing up my clothes, resisting and disobeying orders, so I accepted the care and entrustment of Emperor Gao and Emperor Wu to guide and carry forward the fate of the humble.
Although the succeeding king abandons the rules and regulations, it is because of Xuande; the royal family has no achievements, it is because of the ministers.
Why?
The one who is close to him is Dongmu, and the only one he uses is Bolu. People have no idea how to govern the country, so how can they save the ridicule of the ministers who remonstrated in Changyi.
There are discussions all over the world, why should I evade responsibility?
The soil in the tomb of the late king has not yet dried, and the oaths sworn by the late king are still in my ears. However, it is not my fault that the affairs of my family and country have reached this point, and who can bear this fault!
How will I solemnly visit the tomb of Emperor Gao and serve the tomb of Emperor Wu devoutly?
I mourned in my heart, lost my soul, could not sleep all night, and shed all my tears, and then the blood flowed.
How can I be tolerated to seek honor when my family is in disgrace, and pursue leisure and happiness when my country is in danger?
The hussar general will be the national hero, the officials of China's ceremonial and criminal laws are as important as the mountains arranged in rows, the post of Shangshu is what people call the official of the Sihui, and the post of Zhongshu actually controls the king's speech.
Moreover, I know that I can't feel at ease by pretending to be a favored person and being asked to defend myself against insults. Who can say that such a thing is appropriate.
But although my life is as light as a feather, my responsibility is heavier than a mountain. No matter whether I live or die, my purpose is the same; whether I am slandered or praised, my thoughts are consistent.
Resigning from an official position still cannot alleviate my own burden, but adding an official position has blasphemed the imperial bible.
I should care about my country and not make any pretense.
As for the merits of helping the emperor, the reward of the same thousand houses, the residence of Guangda in the suburbs of the capital, and the possession of all the kingdoms. Until the day of my death, I dare not obey orders, and I only hope that the Holy One will give me a clear warning and allow me not to go to Xuancheng County.
Niu Nuo's sincerity must be eternal, and Yongchang's resentment can be relieved, and then he can realize that the way of kings and ministers is soothing and tolerant. If it is easy for the saint to declare, then who dares to think that it is difficult to change his destiny.
Qi Danxi was disgusted that Zou Biao's words meant to reprimand him, and he was very angry. Therefore, during the entire Yuexue period, his official position was not higher than that of Lie Xiao.
Ren Zuo was very good at writing articles, especially writings such as essays, biographies, tables, memorials, etc. His talents were quick and endless. At that time, there were no petitions or memorials written by the princes and ministers without asking Ren Fang to write them.
When Ren Fang writes the article, the draft becomes a formal work and does not need to be deleted or modified.
Xuan was a great poet of his generation, but he admired Ren Cai very much.
After the collapse of the imperial examination, he was demoted from official position and moved to Zhongshu Shilang.
At the end of the Yuan Dynasty, Ren Fang was appointed Situ You as the chief historian.
Directly responsible for the capture of the capital, Bafu had just been established, and Ren Fang was appointed as the Hussar Record Office to join the army.
When Gaozu and Ren Fang met at the west residence of King Jingling, Gaozu calmly said to Ren Fang: If I ascend to the Three Palaces, I will use you as the clerk.
Ren Fang also joked to Gaozu: If I ascend to Sanshi, I will use you as a cavalryman.
It means that Gaozu was good at riding horses.
When Emperor Gaozu conquered the capital, he invited Ren Fang to join the army in the Hussar Records Office, in line with what he had said in the past.
The letter Ren Fangjing sent to Emperor Gaozu said: On this auspicious day of this month, I receive your favor and canonization, so that my moral character is noble, my achievements are elevated, my glory is all over the world, and I have a place to protect myself in my lifetime; not to mention that I have been taught by gentlemen for nearly twenty years, and I know that your coughing and spitting are all favors given to me. If you look askance at me, it will be something worthy of my praise. I am grateful, but I also know who I will die for.
Once upon a time, I was invited to a banquet by King Jingling. You entrusted me with your previous words to remind me of my feelings, but you expressed them in kind and playful words. Can you say how lucky I am? What you said has not changed.
Although my temperament is different from your previous feelings, and my deeds are corrupted by the temptation of pride, you have made me Tang Mu have no worries, and the edifice of the country has been built and rejoiced with each other.
Your morality ranks first among the two rituals, and your merits surpass those of ancient times. You will have Duke Zhou of Yi Yin hold the reins for you, and Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin support your chariot. Your miraculous achievements cannot be recorded, and what can be matched with the cultivation of all living things.
The dynasty has just been established, and talented people are marching forward with their heads held high. Only I sent people who are like fish eyes to interrupt those talented people who are like precious jade.
Considering that I can only be considered as one of the talented people, I really feel ashamed. Your kindness to me is once in a lifetime, and it is difficult for me to repay your kindness.
Even if I die, I can't repay your thoughtfulness.
After the establishment of Liangtai, most of the documents and edicts on the abdication were written by Ren Fang.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he served as a defense officer, worshiped Huangmen Shilang, and moved to the Ministry of Personnel as a doctor. Soon he also took charge of writings with his official position.
In the second year of the Tianjian reign of Emperor Wu of Liang Dynasty, Ren Fang left the capital and served as the prefect of Yixing.
When Xingluo was in office, he was clean and upright, and his children, maids, and concubines only ate wheat.
Ren Fang has a friend who is the wife of his wife, and Xingjiao's younger brother is Xingjiao. Xingjiao follows Ren Fang to travel through the mountains and rivers.
When the post of Yixing governor was replaced, Ren Fang boarded a ship and traveled far. At this time, he only had five dendrobium rice.
He had arrived in the capital but had no clothes to wear. The general of the town army, Shen Yue, sent someone to send him a shirt to welcome him.
Later, he was appointed as the official of Fang Zhongzhong and paid homage to the doctor of the Ministry of Personnel, and participated in the election affairs. However, he was incompetent for this official position.
Soon he was transferred to the post of censor Zhongcheng, secretary supervisor, and leader of the former army general.
Since Qi Yongyuan, the titles of the four volumes of Secret Pavilion books have been complicated. Ren Fang personally proofread them, so the titles were determined.
In the spring of the sixth year, Ren Fang left the capital and served as General Ningshuo and Prefect of Xin'an.
When Ren Fang was in the county, he was unkempt, dragging his cane casually and walking on foot inside and outside the county. When the common people filed lawsuits, Ren Fang made decisions on the road.
Ren Fang's administration is clean and trouble-free, and officials and the people find it very convenient.
After serving as an official for one year, he died in the official office at the age of forty-nine.
People throughout Xin'an County felt deeply sorry for him, and the common people built an ancestral hall in the south of the city.
After Emperor Gaozu heard about it, he mourned for Ren Fang that day and cried very sadly.
Ren Fang was forced to be given the title of Taichang Qing, and his nickname was Jingzi.
Ren Fang likes to make friends with others, reward and recommend scholars and friends.
Most of those who are praised by Ren Fangyan are promoted. Therefore, there is no one among the dignitaries who does not strive for public support and friendship. There are always dozens of guests sitting at Fang's house.
People at that time envied him and called him Renjun, which meant that he was like the three monarchs of Modai. Yin Yun of Chen County wrote to Gai, the prefect of Jian'an, saying: When a philosopher dies, his appearance disappears forever.
From now on, to whom will we entrust the affairs of Shi Zhan’s writings?
Who will be responsible for guiding scholars and friends?
This is how Ren Fang was praised by scholar friends.
If he failed to take care of his property, he would have no house to live in.
At that time, some people ridiculed Ren Fang for often begging for loans, but the money and goods he borrowed were later distributed to relatives and friends.
Ren Fang often sighed: Those who understand me are Shuze, and those who don't understand me are also Shuze.
Ren Fang was well-read, and there was no book of three tombs or five classics that he had not read. Although his family was poor, he had accumulated more than ten thousand volumes of books, most of which were common and different editions.
After Ren Fang's death, Emperor Gaozu sent scholars He Zong and Shen Yue to examine his family's books together. Whatever the government did not have, they took out the books from Ren Fang's family to make up for them.
The articles written by Ren Fang have hundreds of thousands of words and are widely popular in the world.
At the beginning, Ren Fang was ranked among the scholar-bureaucrats. He often rewarded the scholar-bureaucrats and promoted them. Anyone who liked him would enhance his reputation.
When Ren Fang died, his children were still young, but few people cared for them.
Pingyuan Liu Xiaobiao wrote an article on this matter and said: The guest asked the host: Is Uncle Zhu's "On Severing Diplomacy" correct?
Still not right?
The host said: Guest, why do you ask this?
The guest replied: When the grass insects whine, the katydids on the mountain will jump, and when the tiger eagles roar, the breeze will blow.
Therefore, when groups of people inspire each other, the clouds and mist will rise and surge; the cries of animals will inspire each other, causing the stars to flow away and sparkle with lightning.
Therefore, when Wang Yang ascends to the throne, the Duke of Gong is happy, and when a rare prince dies, his son is sad.
Moreover, if people's hearts are as harmonious as harps, then their words will be as fragrant as orchids and vanilla; if people's moral ideals are harmonious and unified, as gluey as lacquer, then their thoughts will be as subtle and changeable as the sounds of musical instruments.
Therefore, sages carved and engraved text on gold tablets, rocks and utensils, and also wrote engraved sentences on jade ultimatums, bells and tripods to arouse people's resonance and guide their actions.
Just as a craftsman can deftly stop the wind that has formed, so Bo Ya can stop the flowing water with the right guidance.
Fan and Zhang were relaxing in Xiaquan, while Yin and Ban were happy all night.
The comings and goings of things are constantly criss-crossing, the thick smoke and clouds, the dissipation of rain and snow, are all things that a wise and experienced person cannot know, and a scheming person cannot guess.
Therefore, Zhu Yizhou disturbed the common way and order, surpassed the strategies and teachings of his ancestors, beat upright and sincere people with sticks, cut off communication with others, regarded the common people as birds of prey like eagles and quails, and compared human ethics with jackals, tigers, and leopards. I am ignorant and cannot guess this matter. Please help me identify the doubts in it.
The host happily said: What the guest said is just like the beautiful sound produced by plucking the strings, but there will be no change in the sound caused by the humidity of the strings; opening a net in the low and humid swamp area, but not seeing the swans and geese flying high.
Probably the sage held the golden mirror in his hand and created a strong wind. The dragon's head was raised high and the inchworm was bent and stretched. There were stagnant water and high protrusions along the way.
The moon is like a pair of pearls, sighing at the grandeur of diligence and tirelessness; the colorful clouds are flying and lightning is approaching, showing the subtle meaning of the flower of the Di tree.
Just like the changes in the five notes, it can help make 90% of the wonderful music.
This is why Zhu Sheng obtained the Xuanzhu by the Chishui River, so his strategy was magical and wise and became the talk of the people.
As for organizing things of benevolence and righteousness, pondering morality, rejoicing in the happiness of others, and worrying about the decline of others.
The love is conveyed under the spiritual platform, the relics are on the rivers and lakes, the wind is fierce and the rain is strong, but the voice is not stopped, the frost and snow fall does not change the appearance, this is the true relationship between wise people, which can only be encountered after eternity.
When the atmosphere of the people of later generations deteriorates, and things of spying, falsehood, and deception arise like a storm, the valleys cannot exceed their danger, and ghosts and gods cannot explore their changes. They compete for the lightness of feathers, and run for small interests like the sharp edge of a cone.
So the simple and sincere interactions disappeared, and the snobbish and false interactions emerged. The world was in turmoil, and the birds were frightened by thunder and lightning.
However, although snobs have the same origin, their schools are different. To compare and talk about their general situation, there are five kinds of snobs as follows:
If his glory is equal to that of Dong and Shi, his power exceeds that of Liang and Dou, his carvings are made with hundreds of techniques, and all kinds of things are tempered by the fire, his spitting and coughing can cause clouds and rain, and his breath can bring down frost and dew, and his wind, smoke, and dust tower over the Jiuzhou region, and his fire, smoke and heat are superimposed on the four seas, people will all see his figure and run around in the starry night, and trample and disturb the ducks in the river to quack.
As soon as the people in the morning start to announce the dawn loudly, the car hoods will gather together to block the shadow; as soon as the tall door is opened in the morning, the cars rush forward and backward like running water. People are willing to rub themselves from the top of their heads to their heels, destroy their guts and pull out their intestines, make a pact to burn their wives and children, and vow to be like Jing Qing to bring glory to the seven clans. Creating a snobbish acquaintance is the first genre among them.
Wealth and honor are equal to those of Tao and Bai, wealth is greater than that of Cheng and Luo, mountains and tombs that produce copper are monopolized, caves that produce gold are housed in them, riders are connected when they appear on the plains, and bells are struck and music is played when they live in lanes.
Then there will be guests in the back alleys, people who work on the ropes of the urn, hoping to be illuminated by the afterglow of his candle at night, and asking for the slight rain and dew that nourishes the house. They move in a coherent manner like swimming fish, scramble like wild ducks, and meet boldly like fish scales.
They cherished the kindness given by the rich, so they expressed their sincerity to the rich, citing the green pines to express their aspirations, and pointing to the white water to boast of their honesty.
This is called money friendship, which is the second genre.
Dr. Lu held a banquet in the Western Capital, and Guo Youdao was honest and kind in Tokyo. The ministers thought that their names were very noble, and Mr. Cuo Shen envied them as if they were immortals.
So the ministers and gentry frowned or stretched their cheeks, their noses and saliva dripped, and they talked freely as if they were letting yellow horses gallop, and they were eloquent as if they were letting bluebirds cry. When they talk about the warmth, the cold canyon becomes a warm place, and when they talk about the cold and withering, the spring trees will also lose their leaves. Ascension or sinking seems to only appear between their glances and guidance, and honor and shame can be determined with just one word from them.
So the underage kings and grandsons, the richly dressed young masters, their doctrines cannot stump the knowledgeable people, and their voices are too weak to reach the cloud pavilion, but they cling to the scaly wings of the good talkers, hoping that their remaining discussions can bring some benefits to themselves, clinging to the tip of Qiji's tail, hoping to surpass the returning geese at Jieshi.
It is called drama-talking acquaintance, which is the third genre.
The warmth and brightness of the sun make people feel comfortable, while the cold and dim cloudy days make people feel miserable. This is human nature. Joys and sorrows are the eternal nature of many people and things.
So the fish foam because the springs have dried up, and the birds cry sadly because they are about to die.
The sad song on the river was composed because of sympathy for each other; only with fear can the grandness and elegance of "Valley Wind" be displayed.
To create means to become like-minded friends because they live in a low and narrow house together, and to become a sworn friend because they live in a thatched hut together.
Therefore, Wu Yuan became enlightened because of Zai Huo, and King Zhang was comforted and assisted by Chen Xiang.
The fourth school is called "unlucky acquaintances".
The custom of running and competing, the strong human ethics, all of them control the balance and uphold the delicate.
The scale is used to measure weight, and the scale can be used to follow the breath coming out of the nose.
If the scale beam cannot be lifted and the cotton wool cannot fly, then even if Yan and Ran are outstanding, Zeng and Shi are pure and beautiful in virtue, Shu and Xiang are magnificent, Qing and Yun are brilliant in literature, they should be regarded as moving dust, treated like dirt and grass, unwilling to spend half a bean for them, and few people will pull out a hair for them.
If the scale beam can measure the weight as small as a baht, and the wadding can fly in the breeze, then even if you hide evil like Gonggong, cover up benevolence like Jinduo, be domineering like Nanjing, and be cunning like Jianling, you still have to crawl for them, lick their hemorrhoids easily, use gold paste and green feathers to cater to their wishes, and even the favored ministers who wear makeup and wear Peiwei must also express their sincerity.
Therefore, the place where the car travels must not be the home of Yi or Hui; the place where the gift goes is actually the home of Zhang or Huo.
If you think before you act, you will rarely make mistakes.
This is called the friendship between measurement and measurement, and it is the fifth school among them.
All these five types of exchanges have the same meaning as doing business, so Tan Shizi uses the metaphor of market to make friends, and Lin Hui uses sweet wine as an analogy.
Winters and summers advance one after another, and the ups and downs overlap each other. Some people are glorious in the first half of their lives but suffer from hardship and illness in the second half of their lives. Some people start out very rich but end up poor. Some people are prosperous at the beginning and then decline in the end. Some people were thrifty in their ancestors but are extravagant today. The cycle repeats, as fast as the ups and downs of waves.
Therefore, people's obedience to snobbish feelings has not changed, but the way of change is different.
From this point of view, the reason why Zhang and Chen broke up on bad terms, and the reason why Xiao and Zhu had unresolved emotional rifts can be understood with a little judgment.
However, Zhai Zhenggong was guarding the door in an orderly manner to persuade the guests. How late did he realize it!
However, because of these five kinds of snobbery, three kinds of sins have arisen: corrupting morals, reducing benevolence and righteousness, and being like animals, which is the first sin; it is difficult to be stable but easy to separate, and hatred and litigation accumulate, which is the second sin; reputation is framed by greedy gluttony, making loyal and upright people feel ashamed, which is the third sin.
The ancients knew that these three sins were obstructions, and were afraid that the five kinds of snobbishness would accelerate the occurrence of sins.
So Wang Dan used twigs and thorns to teach his children, and Zhu Mu sent out kind words to show that he would avoid snobbish friends. There was a purpose!
In recent times, there was a man named Ren Fang from Le'an who was a domestic hero. He wore the official seal very early and was always highly praised by the people.
His writing style is vigorous and his words are gorgeous, which can surpass Cao and Wang. His talents and wisdom are outstanding, and he can be on par with Xu and Guo.
He cherishes guests just like Tian Wen, and likes talented people just like Zheng Zhuang.
When he sees a kind person, he will support his car, open his eyes, look straight at his wrist, and sigh; when he meets a wise man, he will hold his hand and talk with elation.
Ren Fang can refute the truth at any time, and it is up to him to judge whether it is right or wrong.
So the carriages with crowns and covers gathered like clouds, and people gathered in front of Renfang's gate like clouds. The carriages with curtains crowded and bumped into each other, and Renfang's house was always full of guests.
Stepping onto the threshold of Ren Fang's house is like ascending to the main house of Queli; entering the corner of his house is like ascending the hillside of Longmen.
As for Ren Fang, just looking at him will double his worth, praising him will make him display his talents. People who serve as officials in Yuntai are crowded with each other, and people who are running around in Danqi overlap.
There is no one who does not want to be close to Ren Fang and interact with him frequently. He hopes that Ren Fang will patronize him like Hui and Zhuang, and he hopes to be as famous as Yang and Zuo.
When Ren Fang died in Shuyue and his bones were buried in Luopu, when the general ledger was still hanging high, there were few talented and learned people mourning in front of his house; the overnight grass had not yet grown on his grave, and the countryside had been cut off from the guests who came to express their condolences in cars.
All the orphans in Renfang are still naive, and their lives are precarious. They are wandering to the south of the sea, pinning their fate in a place full of miasma.
In the past, those Yingjies who had close relationships with Ren Fang and made friends with Jinlan did not have the kindness of a sheep's tongue and how could they envy Qiu Chengzhai's kindness.
oops!
The world has become so difficult and dangerous!
Taihang Mengmen, I would rather say it is steep and high.
Therefore, the upright people, hating them for being like this, tore their clothes, wrapped their feet, galloped on their horses, and abandoned them far away.
Standing alone on the top of the mountain, happily grouping with the elk, pure and noble, cut off from the confusion and filth of the world, they are indeed ashamed of the ungrateful people, and are indeed afraid of those who are treacherous.
Ren Fang wrote 247 volumes of "Miscellaneous Biography", 252 volumes of "Diji", and 33 volumes of articles.
The fourth son is Seri. He is very like his father, and his official rank is Shangshu Waibinglang.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Official Affairs of the Chen Dynasty, said: Looking at the selection of talents in the Second Han Dynasty, Confucian classics and alchemy were generally given priority; in modern times, the standards for selecting talents are mostly judged by the quality of literature and history.
The works of Jiang Yan and Ren Fang, with their majestic and gorgeous rhetoric, were indeed at the right time.
Jiang Yan has the ability to have a calm personality, be cautious and reserved and focus on inner cultivation, and at the same time start well and end well in terms of reputation and status. This is appropriate.
If Jiang Yan hadn't relied on prior knowledge and had no old favors, then there would be no way for him to get gifts from high-ranking officials and prominent officials.
