The emperor's name is Fang Zhi, courtesy name is Huixiang, and his baby name is Fazhen. He is the ninth son of Shizu.
In the third year of Taiqing's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xingliang.
In the first year of Chengsheng's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jin'an and was granted a residence of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, he served as General Pingnan and Governor of Jiangzhou.
In November of the third year of Chengsheng, Jiangling fell. Taiwei Wang Sengbian, the governor of Yangzhou, and Chen Baxian, the governor of Xuzhou in Sikongnan, agreed to make Emperor Jing the Grand Prime Minister. In accordance with the emperor's will, they would welcome Emperor Jing back to the capital.
On February 2, the fourth year of Chengsheng's reign, he entered the imperial court from Xunyang.
Wang Sengbian, the Taiwei, was appointed as the Superintendent of Zhongshu, Lu Shangshu, General of Hussars, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces. Thirty people were appointed as Sikong Chen Baxian. Wang Zhen, the governor of Yuzhou, was appointed the governor of Jiangzhou, and the three divisions were together with him. Xiao Xun, the governor of Xiangzhou, was the Taiwei, and the three divisions were with Yitong.
In March, Qi sent Gao Huan, king of Shangdang, to send Xiao Yuanming, Marquis of Zhenyang, to be Liang's successor. When they arrived at Dongguan, they sent Pei Zhiheng, the prefect of Wuxing, to fight with him. Pei Zhiheng was defeated and died.
Taiwei Wang Sengbian led his army and was stationed in Gushu.
In April, Situ Lufa and Yi Yingzhou surrendered to Qi, and sent Jiangzhou governor Hou Wangzhen to attack him.
On July 23, Wang Sengbian took in Xiao Yuanming, the Marquis of Zhenyang, and crossed the river from Caishi.
On the 26th, he arrived in the capital and regarded Emperor Jing as the crown prince.
On September 27, Sikong Chen Baxian raised his troops, attacked and killed Wang Sengbian, and deposed Xiao Yuanming.
On the 29th, Emperor Jing officially ascended the throne.
On the 22nd day of the tenth month in the first year of Shaotai, an edict was issued: The royal family has lost its place, suffered disasters, the Western capital has been lost, the imperial court has been overthrown, the former emperor's palace has been displaced, the royal base has been overthrown, and there is no support within the borders of the country.
I was young and desolate, and when the fate of the country was in dire straits, I cried blood and pillowed on the enemy, determined to avenge my humiliation.
The great shame has not yet been revealed, and sooner or later you will be angry.
All officials and ministers should encourage each other with great righteousness, so that I can transcend ignorance and inherit the great cause.
Gu Wei's long-cherished intention was not to think about it.
Rely on the spirits of the ancestors, rely on the generals and prime ministers, defeat the evildoers, and express gratitude for the injustice.
Now that I have lost my life and put on a new life, my ancestors will be worshiped again to benefit the people. How can I be the only one!
The fourth year of Chengsheng was changed to the first year of Shaotai. The sentences of convicted criminals across the country were reduced or exempted, and the ministers of civil and military affairs at home and abroad granted them first-class titles.
He appointed Marquis Yuanming of Zhenyang as Situ, and was granted the title of Duke of Jian'an County, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
On the fifth day, he appointed Sikong Chen Baxian as Shangshu Ling, governor of all Chinese and foreign military affairs, general of chariots and cavalry, and governor of Yang and Nanxu prefectures. Sikong remained the same.
Du Gong, the governor of Zhenzhou, raised troops to attack General Xinwu at the Great Wall, and Wei Zai, the prefect of Yixing, responded to the attack.
On the 6th, Xiao Xun, the imperial eunuch, was appointed as the eunuch, the newly appointed Situ Jian'an Gong Yuanming was appointed as the eunuch, and Situ Xiaobo was appointed as the eunuch.
Wang Lin, the general of Zhennan, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
On the 11th, the respected mother Xia Guifei became the empress dowager and the princess was appointed empress.
General Zhendong and Yangzhou Governor Zhang Biaojin was named General Zhengdong.
General Zhenbei, the governor of Qiao and Qin states, Xu Sihui Jin was named General Zhengbei.
General Zhengnan, Governor of Southern Yuzhou, Ren Yuejin was named General Zhengnan.
On the 24th, the commander-in-chief Chen Ba was ordered to go eastward to attack Wei Zai.
On the 29th, Ren Yue and Xu Sihui rebelled. Taking advantage of the undefended capital, they secretly occupied Stone City.
On the 30th, Wei Zai surrendered and Yixing settled down.
Zhou Wenyu, the governor of Jinling, was sent to lead his army to reinforce the Great Wall.
On November 3, Zhai Zichong, the governor of Qi'an Prefecture, Liu Shirong, the governor of Chuzhou, and Liu Damo, the governor of Huaizhou, led their troops to defect to Ren Yue and arrived in Shitou.
On the 13th, Sikong Chen Baxian returned to the capital.
On December 4, Xu Sihui and Ren Yue arrived at Caishi successively to welcome Qi's reinforcements.
On the 10th, the fierce general Hou Andu's navy was sent to intercept him halfway in Jiangning. The rebel army was defeated. Xu Sihui, Ren Yue and others were defeated and fled to Jiangxi.
On the 14th, Zhai Zichong and others requested surrender and were allowed to return to the north.
On the second day of the first lunar month of the first year of Taiping, all sentenced criminals across the country were commuted or exempted from prison sentences, and those who conspired with Ren Yue and Xu Sihui would not be investigated.
Additional official positions were given to the sons of Emperor Jianwen.
The descendants of the late Yong'an Marquis Que were granted the title of King Shaoling and served the queen.
On the 7th, Du Gong, the general of Zhendong and the governor of Zhenzhou, surrendered. He was sentenced to death and granted amnesty to Wuxing County.
On the 23rd, Taibao and Yifenghou Xiao Xun attacked and granted the title of King of Poyang.
Zhang Biao, the governor of Dongyangzhou, surrounded Wang Huaizhen, the prefect of Linhai, at Yanyan.
On February 5, Zhou Wenyu and Chen were sent to attack Kuaiji and attack Zhang Biao.
On the 8th, Zhang Biao's chief historian Xie Qi, Sima Shentai, monarch Wu Baozhen and others all surrendered, and Zhang Biao was defeated and fled.
The general of the Central Guard, Linchuan Wang Dafian, was named Kaifu Yitong Sansi, and the Central Guards Guiyang Wang Dafeng became the general of the Guards.
On the 11th, the people of Ruoye village killed Zhang Biao, sent his head to the capital, and granted amnesty to Dongyangzhou.
On the 14th, Zhenzhou was abolished and was still called Wuxing County. On the 18th, the thieves Xu Sihui and Ren Yue attacked the Caishi garrison, arrested the garrison leader and Mingzhou governor Zhang Huaijun, and arrived in Qi.
On the 19th, because the eastern part of the country was plundered and bullied by Du Gong and Zhang Biao, an ambassador was sent to inspect it.
On March 1, Dongyangzhou was abolished and was still called Kuaiji County.
On the seventh day, an order was issued to all countries and regions to use ancient and modern coins.
On the 23rd, Qi sent general Xiao Gui to march from Zhakou towards Liangshan. Sikong Chen Baxian's army led Huang to counterattack and defeated Xiao Gui's army.
Xiao Gui was defeated and retreated to Wuhu.
The tribes of Zhou Wenyu and Hou Andu were sent to rely on Liangshan to resist.
On April 13th in the summer, Sikong Chen Ba first reported to the emperor that he went to Liangshan to appease the general.
On the 28th, Hou Andu led his rapid troops to attack Sima Gong of Qixingtai in Liyang, defeating the enemy and capturing tens of thousands of people.
On May 9th, Grand Tutor Jian'an Gong Yuanming passed away.
On the 16th, the Qi army's naval infantry entered Danyang County.
On the 22nd, we arrived at Moling Jiuzhi.
He ordered Zhou Wenyu to garrison Fangqiu, Xu Du to garrison Ma Mu, and Du Ling to garrison Dacheng.
On the 29th, the Qi army marched into Ertang, and Yu drove out of Dunzhao to build the old fence gate, imposing strict martial law inside and outside.
On June 1, Qi secretly sent troops to Longwei in Jiangshan Mountain, ran diagonally to the north of Mofu Mountain, and arrived in the northwest of Xuanwu Lake.
On the 12th, Sikong Chen Baxian adjusted and deployed all the troops, fought with the Qi army, defeated the Qi army, killed Du Fangqing, Xu Sihui, the governor of Yanzhou in northern Qi, and their younger brother Xu Sizong, captured Xu Siyan, Xiao Gui, Dongfang Lao, Wang Jingbao, Li Xiguang, Pei Yingqi, Liu Guiyi and others alive and killed them.
On the 15th, all the convicted criminals across the country were exempted from punishment or their sentences were reduced, and soldiers who died on the battlefield were buried and sacrificed. If they had no family members, they were buried on their behalf.
On the 18th, martial law was lifted.
On the third day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, General Chaoqiu and Sikong Chenba took the position of Situ first, and he was appointed as the secretary supervisor, while the rest remained the same.
On the 14th, Ren Kaifu Yi and the Third Sihou Wangzhen were appointed Sikong.
On August 7, Taibao Poyang Wang Xun passed away.
On September 1st, the reign name was changed, and the sentenced criminals were exempted or reduced their sentences. Those who were filial to their parents, respected their brothers, and worked hard in farming were given first-class titles. Those with outstanding talents and outstanding behaviors were reported to the local government. Those who suffered from hunger or disaster and fled or migrated were forced to return to their place of origin.
Jinxin eliminated Situ Chen Baxian and became prime minister, Lu Shangshushi, general of Zhenwei, and Yangzhou shepherd, and was granted the title of Duke of Yixing County.
Wang Chong, the general of Zhongquan, is the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
Wang Tong, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, was the right servant of the Minister.
On the 16th, Xu Du, the governor of Yingzhou, was appointed as the leading general.
On November 15th in winter, Yunlong and Shenhu gates were built.
On December 2, Jin Taiwei and Zhennan General Xiao Bo were appointed as Taibao and Hussar General.
He appointed Ouyang Weiye, general of the left guard, as general of Annan and governor of Hengzhou.
On the 12th, General Pingnan Liu Fayu was promoted to General Annan.
On the 24th, Liu Rui, the former Shouchang magistrate, was appointed as the king of Ruyin, and Xiao, who had previously suppressed Facao in the west and joined the army in the army, was the king of Baling. He served the second generation of Song and Qi.
On the second day of the first lunar month of the second year of Taiping, an edict was issued: The master has sent down auspicious spiritual bodies, benevolent and righteous, and allowed King Guangsu to explain the mysterious skills. Those who admire him will become taller, and those who teach him will not tire of it.
Establish loyalty and filial piety, be virtuous by the people, make rituals and make music, and be the best among all queens.
Although Mount Tai is steep and steep, the waves of Surabaya remain for thousands of years.
Since the emperor's encirclement has been blocked, the sacrifices have not been recommended. At the gate of worship, Yinzhi has been annihilated. In the place where gods are worshiped, the sacrificial vessels are lonely.
The words are loud and clear, but the truth is full of sadness.
Outside, the clans of the State of Lu can be searched for to enshrine the queen; temples can be repaired, temples can be prepared for sacrificial rituals, and ranks can be recommended in four seasons, all in compliance with the old system.
On this day, another edict was issued: Each state set up Zhongzheng respectively, and continued to visit and recommend.
Don't accept the order at any time. All must be upright and then be awarded after consideration.
Follow the official system in detail to make sure it is precise.
Although Jing, Yong, Qing, and Yan are temporarily isolated and inaccessible, many people live in Huaihai, so Sicun should not be abolished.
If the accountant cancels the state, it will still be a large county. People in Yin Kuang can find another town to live in.
As for the division of counties and counties, the new names are state and animal husbandry, and they are combined with the original town, so that they can be established without any effort.
When choosing the right one, I should ask the senior officials to learn more about them and lead them through other officials.
Wang Lin, the General of Chariots and Cavalry and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong, was appointed as the General of Sikong and Cavalry.
It is divided into five counties: Xunyang, Taiyuan, Qichang, Gaotang and Xincai, and Xijiang Prefecture is established. Even in Xunyang, it is still Chongzhou Town.
He also issued an edict: All the members of the ruling clan who established the country and inherited the family business are still called princes, and they should all obey their title.
Wang Tong was appointed as Shangshu's right servant and served as Shangshu's left servant.
On the 17th, General Zhenxi and the governor of Yizhou, Changsha Wang Shaojin, led the expedition to the south.
On February 1, the leading general Xu Du entered Dongguan.
Xiao Bo, the Taibao and Guangzhou governor, rebelled and sent puppet commanders Ouyang Weiye, Fu Tai, and Xiao Bo's nephew Xiao Zi as the front army. Yu Xiaoqing, the governor of Nanjiang Prefecture, led his troops to join them.
He ordered Pingxi General Zhou Wenyu and Pingnan General Hou Andu to lead their armies to the south to attack.
On the 19th, Xu Du arrived at Hefei and burned all 3,000 ships.
On the 24th, Zhou Wenyu captured Ouyang Weiye alive in Bashan.
On March 1, Zhou Wenyu's former army Ding Fahong captured Fu Tai alive at his mouth, while Xiao Zi and Yu Xiaoqing were defeated and fled.
In May, Wang Lin, the newly removed Sikong, was appointed as the governor of Hunan and Yingzhou.
On the 15th, Chen Fawu, the governor of Dezhou, and Tan Shiyuan, the former governor of Hengzhou, attacked and killed Xiao Bo in Shixing.
On April 5, Xia, the three prefectures of Jiang, Guang, and Heng were granted amnesty, and those arrested and persecuted by thieves within the governor's territory would not be interrogated.
On the 11th day, four pillars of money were minted, one was accurate to twenty.
Qi sent envoys to ask for peace.
On the 24th, change the four-column coin to be accurate to ten.
On the 28th, fine money was abolished.
Xiao Bo's former coach Zhi Lan Qigao attacked and killed Tan Shiyuan, but Lan Qigao was killed by Xiahou Mingche who was on the run.
Li Baobao, who was in Xiao Bo's old record room, followed Xiao Ren, the Marquis of Huai'an, and took control of Guangzhou to rebel.
On the 30th, Hou Andu marched, Yu Xiaoqing abandoned the army and fled, and Xiao Bo asked for surrender. Yuzhang was pacified.
On May 7, Pingxi General Zhou Wenjin was promoted to General Zhennan, and Hou Andu was promoted to General Zhenbei, and they shared the title of Kaifu Yi with the three divisions.
On the 8th, he appointed Xu Du, the general of the town army, as the governor of Southern Yuzhou.
On the 30th, Yu Xiaoqing sent an envoy to the Prime Minister's Mansion to beg for surrender.
On the twenty-ninth day of the eighth month in autumn, Prime Minister Chen Baxian, Huang Yue, and the eunuch were appointed as supervisors. He went up to the palace with a sword and shoes. He entered the court without any sign of praise and worship, but provided Yu Bao and advocated for him.
On September 5th, he respected the prime minister as the prime minister and took charge of the country's affairs. He named the ten counties as Chen Gong, prepared the gift of nine tins, added the seal and fur to travel far away, ranked him above the princes, and added the prime minister's green and ruthless ribbon.
Set up Chen Guobai Division.
On the third day of the tenth month in winter, Duke Chen of Jin became the king and granted ten additional counties. In addition to the previous ten counties, the number became twenty counties.
Chen Gongmian was ordered to serve as the twelve disciples, establish the Prince Banner, clear the road when entering and exiting, and prohibit others from passing. He rode a golden root chariot with six horses, equipped with a five-hour auxiliary chariot.
The orders of queens, princes and duchess are all determined by old rituals.
On the sixth day, an edict was issued:
The five fortunes are renewed and the three are iterated. Si Mu Li Shu is a sage. He can use the latitude and longitude of the world to make up the world. He protects the head of Guizhou and carries forward the great power.
The revolution is obscured by Yin, and generations are on the same track. Hundreds of kings are fighting, and Xian follows this.
Liang De was in a state of decline, and misfortunes were inevitable: at the beginning of the Qing Dynasty, he trapped a long snake; in the year of becoming a saint, he suffered from a sealing pig; when his love reached Tiancheng, he stole the artifact again and again.
The three lights are in urgent need of change, the seven temples are lacking sacrifices, Hansheng has been lost, and the fate of the tripod is falling. Our emperor's Zuo is like a dazzle, and he is still in "Tun" and "Peel", and he is alert in the evening.
King Chen of the Xiangguo State has a vertical movement from the sky, and the descending god is the mountain. The heaven and the earth are in harmony, and the sundial is bright.
Save the country from the current, and save billions of trillions from the ruins.
He killed the rebels in the east, moved the ghosts of Maoyou in the north, spread his power to all the seas, and spread his benevolence to all nations.
The music is restored and music is restored, discipline and etiquette are emphasized, Confucianism halls are established, and military pavilions are waiting in vain.
Although the great achievements were attributed to Shun, and the great achievements were made by Wei Yu, they were towering and swaying, but they were not praised for their merits.
Coming to offer a white ring is not the beginning of the reign of Emperor Yu; offering tribute of plain pheasants is not the end of the prosperous Zhou Dynasty.
Therefore, the effect is to treasure Sichuan and land, with auspicious smoke and clouds on the surface, and jade dew and sweet springs, which condense day and night. The golden harvest and auspicious grasses grow in the suburbs.
Mingming goes to heaven, the sun and the moon shine brightly, the revolution is written in Xuanxiang, the virtues of generations are revealed in prophecies, the lawsuits in prison are against the rules, the songs of love are appropriate, the calendar of heaven is really there.
Although I am mediocre and contemptuous, I have always respected the past, and I have been there for a long time. I dare not forget the legacy of the past generations. This is the only wish of people!
Now I will abdicate and leave the palace to pay homage to Chen, following the stories of Tang, Yu, Song and Qi.
King Chen Jianzuo was appointed King of Jiangyin by the emperor and passed away in his residence at the age of sixteen. He was posthumously named Emperor Jing.
Shi Chen said: The Liang Dynasty collapsed rapidly, and chaos and chaos came frequently. At this time, the days were running out, and the emperor gave way, and at the same time he was relieved of his heavy burden.
Wei Zheng, the Minister of History and the Duke of Zheng, said: Of course, Wendan was born from heaven. He is smart and knows the past. His morality is second only to those who are born with knowledge. His knowledge is to know all things, he is capable of literature and military, and he is versatile.
Born in all lives, he has a bohemian demeanor, and when it is dark and dangerous, bandits are raging, and his family is in trouble, he gathers rebels to clear up the family feud.
People say that Laos can be conquered, but now they meet unexpectedly. The dragon jumps on the alum and the hope, and the electric shock is on the marriage and the Ying. Cutting off the deviant and disloyal people is like shaking down the withered grass and trees, and capturing the single-minded thieves is like picking up supplies.
Of course, there is nothing comparable to his talent and strategy.
The head of the white flag has been hoisted, and in response to the favor of the emperor, he spreads his kindness widely, makes people near him happy and makes people far away come back, opens up a broad royal road, gets rid of the timid and upright customs, and overhauls the literature Teach, decorate with etiquette, fan mystical customs, promote the cause of Confucianism, benevolent and righteous, be able to defeat the opponent at the alliance table, become famous throughout the world, benevolence spread to remote places, and wars will cease. Decades in total.
There are many talents and wonderful political achievements. Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties, there has not been such a prosperous era.
However, Emperor Gaozu could not abandon the foundation of commercialism and promote agriculture. He replaced ornaments with simplicity, envied reputation and loved trouble, advocated glitz, despised Confucius and Mo, and lingered on Shi and Lao.
Sometimes he stays up all night, and sometimes he doesn't eat all day long. This does not promote morality to benefit all things, but only displays wisdom to frighten the ignorant.
Moreover, he has not forgotten the honor in his heart, but he just falsely places himself in the ranks of the servants; he takes off his shoes when talking loudly, but after all, he is attached to the dignity of the yellow room.
People's greatest desire is to eat, drink, and have sex. As for fancy cars, hats, and palaces, they have no immediate urgency.
Emperor Gaozu gave up his hobbies and desires, but he was attached to luxury cars and imperial hats. He achieved things that were difficult for him to achieve but stayed at things that were easy for him. It can be said that his spirit was not enlightened and his wisdom was not smooth.
When his spiritual talent gradually dried up, his moral prestige declined, he was deceived by what he heard and felt, and his power fell into the hands of treacherous villains.
Gaozu's impatience and restless mood became even worse in his later years.
Act when you see benefits, refuse to give advice and violate divination, open the door to thieves, abandon good and follow evil, disasters arise from within, disasters are generated by Rong and Jie, you die unexpectedly, disasters affect hundreds of millions of people, dignitaries die under the sharp arrows, old and young are shattered under the feet of soldiers and horses.
After watching "Maili", I deeply felt sorry for the ancestral temple of the Zhou Dynasty; I always said that "Maixiu" made me feel more sad than the Yin Xu.
Since ancient times, we have been prepared for danger in times of peace, but we have succeeded and failed, and the country has been subverted so quickly. This has never been seen in book records.
"Yi" says: The people supported by heaven are obedient people, and the people supported by people are trustworthy people.
Emperor Gaozu encountered such a difficult fate and could not die a worthy death, probably because he was prone to danger, did not seek obedience, and lost the support of heaven and people. Could he have avoided such an ending?
Taizong was smarter than ordinary people, full of energy, knowledgeable and knowledgeable, and rich in vocabulary.
However, the style of writing is gorgeous, and there are few people who can use it. The articles are flashy and unrealistic. The style of writing has exhausted its ability to be obscene and gorgeous, and the meaning of the writing is rarely smooth. The sound of sorrow and longing is overwhelming, so the customs have been changed, and this method is used to rectify the nations. Compared with Zhou Song and Mozhuang, it is different.
I was born at the wrong time and encountered many disasters. The violent and rebellious people fabricated accusations to incite rebellion, and the evil and cunning people committed heinous crimes. The disasters began with detention like in Mouli and ended with the disasters of Wangyi.
Youyou Cangtian, is it okay to ask this?
Once upon a time, the country was just having a hard time. The war was concentrated in the capital, and all the princes and kings gave up their positions and stood up to serve the king.
Emperor Yuan accepted the important task of taking charge of Shaanxi with his clan members who were as undeniable as a rock. He encountered the disaster of his princes and relatives and was the leader of the joint commander. He could not hold his sword and think about the battle while lying on his salary and taste his gall.
He was not in a hurry to kill thieves like Wang Mang and Dong Zhuo, but he started killing brothers.
He also has a very jealous and cruel personality and often does rude things.
Let his wisdom and eloquence be used to cover up mistakes, and his resentment and violence will be allowed to damage things.
Some of his right-hand men, important generals, and close advisers were imprisoned just for looking at him, and some were tortured by being minced into pieces for just one word. All the gentlemen in the court were afraid of each other.
He thinks that he is as stable as Mount Tai, and if he acts without leaving any strategy behind and is wary of heresy, he can pacify Jingchu.
Although the chief culprit was defeated and cut off, there was no peace in the country, and there were words of blame from the neighboring countries to the west. Disasters and failures soon followed.
God has sent down a clear warning. This is a fake hand on human beings. God's way and human affairs can be deceived!
Emperor Yuan was very interested in art and literature, but he abandoned his loyalty and credibility by writing frivolous and lewd words. He showed his courage and perseverance in war, but he first killed his relatives and then his enemies.
Although he can recite the Six Classics orally, understand the people with his heart, has the knowledge of Zhongni, and has the ability to take on all tasks, this is just enough to increase his arrogance and increase his disasters. It will not help the overthrow of Jinling, and it will not save the destruction of Jiangling!
Emperor Jing suffered from family failure, and following the difficult national destiny, some conquests came from his own mind, but political orders and punishments could not be controlled by himself. There were no assistant ministers like Yi and Huo at that time, how could Emperor Jing not make concessions?
