Prince Zhaoming Xiao Tong, courtesy name Deshi, was the eldest son of Emperor Wu of Liang.
The biological mother is Ding Guibi.
At first, Emperor Wu of Liang had no boys. When Emperor Wu of Liang led an uprising against the Marquis of Donghun, Xiao Tong was born in Xiangyang in September of the first year of Zhongxing in Qi.
After Emperor Wu of Liang ascended the throne, a minister submitted a letter requesting the establishment of a crown prince. Emperor Wu of Liang believed that the world had just stabilized and many systems were lacking and needed to be further improved, so he did not agree to appoint a successor to the throne.
Later, at the firm request of the ministers, in November of the first year of Tianjian, Xiao Tong was made the crown prince by Emperor Wu of Liang.
The prince was young at that time and still lived in the palace. Prince Xiao Tong was born with intelligence and cleverness. He started learning "The Classic of Filial Piety" and "The Analects of Confucius" at the age of three. By the age of five, he had learned all the Five Classics and was able to recite them.
On June 17, the fifth year, he moved out of the palace and moved into the East Palace.
Xiao Tong was kind and filial by nature. Since leaving the palace, he often missed his parents and was always in a depressed mood.
After Emperor Wu of Liang knew about this situation, he asked him to visit the court every five days, and he often stayed in Yongfu Province, sometimes for three days, sometimes for five days, before returning to the East Palace.
In September of the eighth year, Emperor Wu of Liang inspected his son's studies in Shou'an Hall and asked Xiao Tong to explain the "Book of Filial Piety". Xiao Tong's explanation was clear and clear.
After the explanation, he personally went to the Chinese Academy of Sciences to arrange a banquet to pay homage to the most holy teacher.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the 14th year, Emperor Wu of Liang met with his ministers on the platform in front of the palace and held a crowning ceremony for Prince Xiao Tong in the Taiji Palace.
In the past, it was stipulated that the prince should wear a crown of distant travel and a golden tassel of green cicadas; this time the emperor issued an order for the prince to wear a crown of Jinbo Mountain.
Xiao Tong was handsome and well behaved.
When reading, you can count the lines at a glance and be able to remember everything.
Every time there is a grand gathering of ancestral feasts, poems can be composed with dozens of rhymes.
Sometimes Emperor Wu of Liang asked him to compose dramatic rhyme poems, and he could always compose them with a little thought without any modification or modification.
Emperor Wu of Liang vigorously promoted Buddhism and personally explained Buddhist scriptures. Prince Xiao Tong also believed in the Three Jewels of Buddhism: Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha, and read many Buddhist scriptures.
And the Huiyi Hall was built in the palace as a church to explain Buddhist doctrines. It attracted famous monks and often discussed and studied Buddhist scriptures together.
Xiao Tong himself also created the Two Truths Dharmakaya Sutra, which has his own unique insights.
In April of the first year of the ordinary year, nectar fell on the Huiyi Palace. Everyone thought it was the prince's virtue that moved heaven.
In November of the seventh year, Ding Guibi, the biological mother of Prince Xiao Tong, fell ill. He returned to Yongfu Province and stayed by the hospital bed day and night to observe the condition and did not even take off his clothes when sleeping.
Later, Ding Guifei died after ineffective treatment. Xiao Tong followed the team carrying the body back to the palace on foot. When his mother's body was placed in the coffin, he did not eat a morsel of food or drink a sip of water. He was so sad that he could hardly breathe when he cried.
Emperor Wu of Liang sent Gu Xie, a member of Zhongshushe, to read out the imperial edict and said: During the period of mourning, the filial son's body will be weakened by reducing the amount of food due to sadness, but the filial son should not be allowed to starve to death because of this. This is the etiquette established by the saints.
"Book of Rites" says that due to excessive grief, a filial son becomes too weak or even dies, and cannot complete the three-year mourning mission, which is the same as not showing filial piety. I'm still alive, how could you ruin yourself like this! You should force yourself to eat and drink immediately.
Prince Xiao Tong ate a few hens of rice porridge after receiving the emperor's imperial edict.
From then until Ding Guifei was buried, she only ate one liter of rice porridge every day.
Emperor Wu of Liang issued another edict, saying, "I heard that you eat too little food every day, your body is very weak, and you are about to fall ill. Although I don't have other diseases, it is because of your current condition that I feel depressed and sick."
So you should force yourself to eat some thick porridge and don't let me worry about you all the time. But even though Xiao Tong received imperial edicts many times and no matter what the persuasion, he still insisted on eating only one rice porridge every day and not eating any vegetables, melons and fruits.
Xiao Tong's body has always been very strong. His belt used to be ten girth, but now he has lost more than half of his weight. Every time he entered the court, officials and civilians would burst into tears when they saw how thin he was.
Since the crowning ceremony of Prince Xiao Tong, Emperor Wu of Liang asked him to participate in national affairs. Memorials from various departments inside and outside the court were piled in front of him. Xiao Tong knew a lot of things among the people, and he would check out every detail. Every time he found that there were errors or omissions in the reported matters or that they were out of touch with the truth, he would analyze and identify them at the time, tell the people who reported them whether they were right or wrong, and let them gradually correct their mistakes. No one was impeached for this matter.
When sentencing prisoners and judging cases, he often pardoned and pardoned criminals, and the people praised him for his benevolence, justice and kindness.
Xiao Tong was generous by nature, friendly to others, got along well with others, and was very nurturing. He kept his emotions and sorrows deep in his heart and never showed them on his face.
Recruit people with real talents and knowledge, and highly respect and care for them, never getting tired of them.
He often studies knowledge by himself, and sometimes discusses the past or current events with some talented people. Whenever he has free time, he keeps writing poems and articles and develops a habit.
At that time, there were almost more than 30,000 volumes of books in the East Palace, and famous talents gathered there. Literary creation flourished, and there was a grand occasion unprecedented since the Jin and Song Dynasties.
Xiao Tong liked to travel in mountains and rivers. He dug and built pools in Xuanpu Garden, built stone mountains, and built pavilions and buildings. He often visited the garden with learned officials in the court or famous people in the garden to enjoy the scenery and recite poems and compose poems.
Once while rowing in the back pool of the Imperial Garden, Hou Gui of Panyu praised the elegant environment and beautiful scenery here, and said: It would be even more beautiful if there were more female musicians here.
Prince Xiao Tong did not answer his words, but just recited two sentences from Zuo Si's "Poem of Zhaoyin": Why bother with silk and bamboo? Landscapes have clear sounds.
Hou Gui felt very ashamed and said no more.
After leaving the palace for more than 20 years, she has never taken in any dancing prostitutes or singing girls.
When he was young, Emperor Wu of Liang issued an edict to give him a play called Tai Le Female Prostitute, but he didn't like it at all.
In ordinary years, the Liang Dynasty's army marched north to the Wei State, and the price of grain in the capital was very high. When Prince Xiao Tong saw this, he ordered to save food and clothing, and changed the original family banquet to an ordinary light meal.
Whenever it rains continuously or snows heavily, he will send his trusted ministers to go through the streets and alleys to check on poor families. If there are people who are homeless and living on the streets, he will often provide money and materials to help them.
He also donated the silk floss and fabrics he used to make his own robes to make short clothes and jackets, and gave them to the poor and cold in the cold winter months.
If someone dies and cannot be buried, the prince will buy a coffin for him.
As soon as he heard that people from far and near were overtaxed and worked too hard, he stopped smiling and became very unhappy.
He often feels uneasy because of the poverty and overwork of the people.
Wuxing County's agricultural harvests often failed due to river flooding. Someone wrote a letter suggesting building a large canal to discharge floodwaters from Zhejiang.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Wu of Liang issued an edict to send Wang Bianzhi Fujie, the former governor of Jiaozhou, to recruit migrant workers from Wujun, Wuxing and Yixing counties to dig the canal.
Prince Xiao Tong submitted a memorial, believing that it would disturb the people's agricultural work, and requested to suspend the corvee service. Emperor Wu of Liang issued a special edict to enlighten him.
The prince Xiao Tong was particularly cautious and filial. Every time he went to court, he would wait outside the city gate before the drum beat.
Although the East Palace where the prince lives is inside the inner hall, he always faces the southwest whether he is sitting or standing. If he is summoned to go to court at night, he will half kneel and half sit until dawn.
In March of the third year, the prince was bedridden. He was afraid of worrying Emperor Wu of Liang. Every time Emperor Wu of Liang sent someone to ask questions about political affairs, he always wrote to the emperor himself.
On the sixth day of April, Xiao Tong died of illness at the age of thirty-one. Emperor Wu of Liang came to the East Palace in person, held the prince's coffin and cried loudly.
An edict was issued to bury Xiao Tong in gong robes and mian robes.
Everyone knew that the prince was benevolent and virtuous. After his death, both the government and the public felt regretful and shocked.
Men and women from the capital went to the crown prince's palace to pay their respects, and the streets were full of weeping people. People from all over the country and soldiers guarding the territory were very sad when they heard the news of his death.
He has written twenty volumes of collected works; he has also written ancient and modern imperial edicts; he has written ten volumes of "Preface"; his better five-character poems have been collected into twenty volumes of "Wen Yinghua"; and thirty volumes of "Selected Works".
Prince Ai, named Renzong, was the eldest son of Taizong.
Ding You is usually born in May of the fourth year.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he was granted the title of Prince of Xuancheng County and was granted a land of two thousand.
Soon he was appointed as Shizhong and General of Zhongwei, and was given the first group of drum music.
In the fourth year of Datong, he was appointed envoy Chijie, governor-general of Chao, Tu of the military affairs of the two states, general of the Chinese army, and governor of Chao, and he still served as a minister.
In October of the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing attacked the area where Kyoto was located, and Shao appointed Prince Shao as the governor of Taipei.
In May of the third year, Taizong ascended the throne as emperor.
On Dinghai Day in June, he was made the crown prince.
In August of the second year of Dashi, the traitor Hou Jing deposed Taizong and was about to kill the prince. At that time, the traitor's subordinates claimed that Hou Jing had ordered the prince to be summoned. The prince was studying "Laozi" and was about to get out of bed when the executioner quietly approached.
The prince remained calm and said slowly: I knew something like this would happen a long time ago, but I still lament that it came too late.
The executioner wanted to hang him with his belt.
The prince said: You can't kill me even if you kill me.
He pointed to the rope under the bamboo poles that tied the tent and told them to take it and hang him to death. He was twenty-nine years old.
The prince was generous and easy-going by nature, coupled with his dignified and intelligent mental temperament. Under the control of traitors, he often showed an unyielding will.
At first, Hou Jing traveled westward and took the prince with him. When he returned from defeat, the troops were no longer orderly and serious, and the prince's boat was behind and could not catch up with the rebels. His confidants on the left and right advised him to go north for refuge.
The prince said: Now that my family and country have been destroyed, I don't want to survive. The Lord is in trouble, but I can't bear to take refuge.
If I run away now, it will be betraying my father, not avoiding a thief.
After saying this, he burst into tears and ordered to move forward immediately.
Because of the prince's courage and magnanimity, the traitor always feared him and worried about the trouble he would cause in the future, so he suffered first.
In April of the first year of Chengsheng's reign, he was given the title Prince Ai.
Prince Minghuai, Fang Ju, whose courtesy name was Degui, was the fourth son of Shizu.
At first, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nan'an County and followed Shizu to guard Jingcheng.
In the early years of the Taiqing Dynasty, he served as envoy Chijie, supervising the military affairs of the seven states of Hunan, Ying, Guining and Chenghe, Luo, general Zhennan, and governor of Xiangzhou.
Soon he was recruited as a servant and general of the central guard, and he was given a set of drum music.
In accordance with the emperor's will, Shizu made him the prince and changed his name to Yuanliang.
On the 11th day of the 11th year of Chengsheng's reign, he was made the crown prince.
When the army of the Western Wei Dynasty captured Jingcheng, the prince and Shizu were killed by the Wei soldiers.
The prince is smart and enlightened, and has a demeanor that is worthy of the world, but he is fierce and jealous.
Jing Tong adhered to the emperor's will and added his nickname of Prince Mihuai.
Yao Cha, Chen's Minister of Civil Affairs, said: Meng Ke gets up when he hears something, and he who does good deeds diligently is a good student of Shun.
If an ordinary citizen works as a farmer in the fields and does farm work all day long, the benefits he brings are numerous.
What's more, if the prince is in an important and prominent position and occupies an orthodox and respectable position, if he can restrain his heart and be honest and filial like Zhaoming, then how far will it be to have the virtues of Shun?
