The scriptures say: Filial piety is the foundation of virtue.
Filial piety is an important thing for the people, and it is the first thing that a king should do well!
Emperor Gaozu founded the emperor's career and practiced virtue to transform customs. The corrupt and superficial atmosphere was changed, and the rule of governing the country with filial piety was demonstrated.
Every time an edict is issued, more praise is given to those who obey filial piety.
Every family is kind and peaceful, but few people pursue the honor of deceiving the world. It has become a custom to hide one's own talents and not expose them, and everyone hides his achievements that surpass others.
Therefore, not much is seen and heard by people.
Now collect their deeds to complete the story of their disappearance. Teng Tanggong was born in Nanchang, Yuzhang.
When he was five years old, his mother, Yang, contracted a fever and wanted to eat cold melons, but they were not produced locally. Teng Tanggong searched everywhere but could not find them. He felt sad and in great pain.
Soon Teng Tangong met a monk. He was in pain and sorrow among the monks. Teng Tangong told the monk everything.
The monk said: I have two cold melons, and I will give one to you.
After Teng Tan respectfully thanked the monk, he took the melon home and presented it to his mother.
The whole family was very surprised.
Everyone was looking for the monk everywhere, but no one knew where the monk was.
After his parents died, Teng Tanggong did not eat or drink for about ten days. He cried so sadly that he vomited blood, fainted and then woke up.
Teng Tanggong did not wear cotton-padded clothes during the mid-winter season and only ate vegetables throughout his life.
Every time on the anniversary of the death of my parents, I can't bear the longing, and I cry heartbroken day and night.
There were two winter trees outside Teng Tangong's house. Suddenly a divine light appeared from the trees. Soon the image of the Buddha and the guards of honor on both sides appeared. Their appearance was clear. They walked into Teng Tangong's house from the gate. Everyone in the Teng family, big and small, bowed and worshiped the Buddha. It took a long time for the Buddha's image to disappear. Monks and people from far and near preached and performed things.
The prefect Wang Sengqian recommended Teng Tanggong to be a meritorious officer, but Teng Tanggong firmly refused to take up the post.
Wang Jian followed Wang Sengqian in the county at that time, and he called Teng Tanggong Teng Zengzi.
In the first year of Tianjian, Lu Lian was ordered to serve as an envoy to visit various places to understand the customs and conditions of the people. He reported Teng Tangong's filial piety and his response to the gods and Buddhas. Teng Tangong had three sons, all of whom were virtuous and accomplished.
At that time, there was also Xu Puji, a native of Linxiang, Changsha.
He was in mourning and the coffin had not yet been buried. A fire broke out in his neighbor's house and the fire spread to his house. Xu Puji howled and cried bitterly and leaned on the coffin, trying to cover the fire with his body.
Neighbors went to rescue him, but he was roasted until he passed out. It took many days for him to wake up.
There was a girl in Wanling, Xuancheng, who was sleeping in the same bed with her mother. Her mother was caught by a tiger. The girl screamed and grabbed the tiger, and all the tiger hairs were caught by her. After running for more than ten miles, the tiger dropped the girl's mother. The girl carried her mother home, and her mother was still alive. It took an hour before she died.
The prefect Xiao Chen presented gifts to her family to help with the funeral and reported the situation to the emperor.
Shen Chongsu, whose courtesy name is Si Zheng, was born in Wukang, Wuxing.
Shen Chongsu's father, Shen Huaiming, served as the governor of Yanzhou during the Song Dynasty.
When Shen Chongsu was six years old, his father died. During the funeral, the ceremony of crying and dancing exceeded the usual ceremony.
When he reached adulthood, he would work as a copywriter to support his mother.
In the early years of Qi Jianwu's reign, Shen Chongsu was recruited from his home to serve in court.
In the late years of Yongyuan, he moved to Situ Xing to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as the former army king of Poyang and participated in the military affairs.
In the third year of Tianjian, the prefect Liu Pang summoned Shen Chongdai to be the chief bookkeeper.
After Shen Chongsu followed Liu Pan to the county town, he went home to pick up his mother. Her mother passed away.
Shen Chongsu wanted to express his filial piety by dying because he had not been able to serve his sick mother. He couldn't get enough water and rice. He howled and cried day and night for more than ten days, and was about to die.
The brothers said to him: "The funeral ceremony has not yet been carried out. To suddenly mutilate yourself so quickly is not the way to fulfill your filial piety wholeheartedly."
Shen Chongsu then went to the place where his mother was buried. No matter whether it rained or snowed, he lay on the grave and cried bitterly.
Every night, ferocious beasts often came and looked at him from a distance, making sounds like sighs.
Because Shen Chongsu's family was poor and could not afford to rebury her, she begged others and it took a long time to rebury her mother.
Soon Shen Chongsu built a straw hut next to his mother's tomb. He thought that the funeral etiquette held at the time was incomplete, so he kept the mourning for another three years after the reburial.
For a long time, I only ate wheat crumbs, without salt or vinegar, and sat and slept on straw mats. As a result, my whole body was swollen and I couldn't move.
The county reported his extremely filial conduct.
When Emperor Gaozu heard about this situation, he sent people from Zhongshushe to comfort and encourage him. So an edict was issued saying: Shen Chongsu, a former soldier who joined the military, had been ambitious and moral since he was a child. During the period of mourning, his grief exceeded common courtesy.
The mourning for my mother was not over yet and I could not hold a grand funeral. I thought that the etiquette of the mourning was lacking because of the many years of begging. I wanted to use the long days of longing for my loved ones as the beginning of a second mourning.
Although this kind of sentiment is worthy of sympathy, it is clearly stipulated in the etiquette.
He should be asked immediately to remove his mourning clothes and be promoted to the post of prince's horse washer.
The door panel is decorated with banners to encourage this custom.
Shen Chongdai obeyed Shao's order and took off his mourning clothes, but he mourned and cried as if he was still in mourning. He resolutely refused and refused to accept the official position.
Thinking that he could not support his parents with his salary, he became even more sad when he thought about this. He could not bear the grief, so he died in Yongning County at the age of thirty-nine.
Xunjiang, also known as Wenshi, was born in Yingyin. He was the ninth generation descendant of Xun Xu, the Taibao of Jin Dynasty.
Xun Jiang's grandfather, Xun Qiong, avenged his father in the Chengdu market when he was fifteen years old, and was therefore famous for his filial piety.
In the late years of the Song and Yuan Dynasties, Xunjiang crossed the river and rushed to King Wuling to join the rebel army. He was killed by the culprit's pursuers. The imperial court awarded him the posthumous title of Yuanwai Sanqi Shilang.
Xun Fachao, the father of Xunjiang, was appointed as Anfu Ling in the late years of Zhongxing in Qi Dynasty, and died while serving.
When the bad news reached the Xun family, Xunjiang howled and cried bitterly. He passed out and his whole body was cold. He didn't wake up until night.
Not long after, Xunjiang went to mourn. Every time he stayed by the river, the business travelers who came and went couldn't bear to hear his mournful cries.
Before the mourning was over, Xun Fei, Xun Jiang's brother, was recruited from home to serve as the governor of Yulin. When he was conquering the slang bandits, he was shot by a stray arrow and died in the battle.
When the coffin was brought back, Xunjiang went to Yuzhang to greet him. He saw the boat carrying the coffin from a distance and jumped into the water. People on both sides rushed to rescue him and barely rescued him.
After the coffin arrived home, he could not be buried on time because his family was poor, so he mourned for his father and brother and did not step out of the mourning hut for four years.
After the mourning began, Xunjiang stopped combing and washing his hair, and all his hair fell out.
He cried without timing, his voice became hoarse and then he cried silently, his eye sockets were all rotten, his body was haggard and emaciated, and he was so skinny that even his family no longer recognized him.
The prefectures and counties reported this situation to the court, and Gaozu Xiashao sent Zhongshushe to remove his mourning clothes and promoted him to the Zuo Changshi of the Yuzhang Kingdom.
Although Xunjiang had removed his mourning clothes, he was even more sad and haggard.
His grandfather Sun Qian told him: Your Majesty governs the world with filial piety, and your conduct exceeds that of the ancients, so I issued an edict to remove you from obedience and promote you to this position.
Not only is your father's order irresistible, but it will also make you famous in future generations. It's not just your reputation that will be made famous!
Xunjiang then accepted the official position.
In the end, he died at home due to grief and physical damage. He died at the age of twenty-one.
Yu Qianlou's courtesy name is Zizhen, a new savage.
Yu Yi, the father of Yu Qian Lou, was recruited as the chief secretary of Situ. He refused to take office, so he was famous.
Yu Qianlou was eager to learn since he was a child. He often discussed and recited the "Book of Filial Piety" with others. He never blushed in front of others because he couldn't answer an answer. Nanyang Gaoshi Liu Qiu and Zong Chai thought he was a genius and praised him greatly.
Yu Qianlou was recruited from his home to serve as the governor of the state, and moved to Pingxi to join the army.
He was also appointed as the county magistrate and had special achievements in governing the county.
Before Zuo Moyuan took office as county magistrate, there were many incidents of tigers injuring people and animals in the county. After Yu Qianlou took office, all the tigers crossed the river to Linju County. At that time, people thought that this was caused by the influence of benevolence and righteousness.
In the early years of Yongyuan of Qi Dynasty, Yu Qianlou was appointed as the magistrate of Xiaoling County. Less than ten days after arriving in the county, Yu Qianlou fell ill at home. Qian Lou suddenly felt frightened and sweated all over. He abandoned his official position and returned home that day. Everyone in his family was surprised by his sudden return.
At that time, Yu Yi had only been ill for two days. The doctor said: If you want to know whether the patient's condition is getting better or worse, just taste the stool to see if it is bitter or sweet.
Yu Yi had diarrhea, so Yu Qianlou tasted the excrement. The smell of the excrement became sweet and smooth, and his heart became more sad and painful.
At night, Yu Qianlou often kowtowed to the North Star and prayed, asking to replace his father with his life.
Soon I heard a voice in the air saying: "Yu Zhengjun's life has expired and cannot be extended any longer. Your sincere prayer has let the gods know that Yu Fengjun's life can only be extended until the end of the month."
At the end of the month, Yu Yi died of illness. During Yu Qianlou's mourning period, his mourning behavior exceeded the common etiquette. He built a thatched cottage next to the tomb and lived in the thatched cottage to mourn.
When Emperor He ascended the throne, he was about to appoint Yu Qianlou, who was in mourning. Xiao Yingzhou, the commander of the town, wrote a letter to persuade him, but Yu Qianlou firmly refused.
After the period of mourning expired, Yu Qianlou was awarded the title of Cao Lang, the Minister of Xitai.
After the Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, Deng Yuan became the governor of Yizhou. He proposed that Yu Qianlou be appointed as the governor of the mansion and the governor of Zitong County in Brazil.
After Chengdu was pacified, the treasures in the city were piled as high as a mountain. Deng Yuanqi distributed all the treasures to his subordinates, but Yu Qianlou took none.
Deng Yuanqi felt uncomfortable with his unsociable behavior and said sternly: Why does Yu Changshi act like this alone?
In order to show that he would not disobey Deng Yuanqi's order, Yu Qianlou asked for a box of books to be distributed to him.
Soon, Yu Qianlou was appointed as the prefect of Shu County. During his tenure, he was upright and honest, and he was praised by the people.
After Deng Yuanqi died in Shu, all his subordinates dispersed. Yu Qianlou personally organized his funeral and escorted his coffin back to his hometown.
After Yu Qianlou returned to Beijing, he was appointed as Shangshu Jinbu Lang, and moved to the Central Army's Report Office to join the army.
After the establishment of the Prince's East Palace, Yu Qianlou served as the Crown Prince's attendant in his original official position, and was highly regarded. The emperor's subordinates, Shao Yu Qianlou and the Prince's concubine Yin Gou, Zhongsheren Daoqia, Guozi doctor Ming Shanbin and others took turns explaining the meaning of the Five Classics to the crown prince every day.
Yu Qianlou moved to Sanqi Shilang and Jingzhou Dazhongzheng.
He died at the age of forty-six.
Ji Feo's courtesy name is Yanxiao, and he is a native of Feng Yilianshao. His family has lived in Xiangyang for generations.
Ji Feo was very filial when he was young.
When he was eleven years old, his biological mother passed away. During the mourning period, Ji Feol was in a state of poverty, almost destroying his life due to grief. His relatives were surprised by his filial piety.
In the early years of Tianjian, Ji Min's father served as the original township magistrate of Wuxing. He was framed by treacherous officials and was arrested and handed over to Tingwei for interrogation.
Ji Feo was fifteen years old at the time. He stood on the thoroughfare and cried, begging the ministers to avenge his father's justice. The passers-by who saw this scene shed tears for him.
Ji Fol's father is theoretically innocent, but he is ashamed of being interrogated by officials, so he bears the guilt out of thin air and will be sentenced to death if convicted.
Ji Fol then rushed outside the court to beat the Dengwen drum set up for people to redress their grievances, and asked to die in his father's place.
Emperor Gaozu felt strange about the incident, and ordered Cai Fadu, the court official, to say: "Ji Feo asked to die to redeem his father's life. Although this kind of friendship is commendable, he is only a young child and may not be able to come up with this idea on his own. You can force him severely and induce him to tell the truth."
Cai Fadu accepted the order of Emperor Gaozu and returned to his own government. He laid out all the instruments of torture and asked his officials to stand in the hall. Then he asked Ji Feo in a stern tone: "You asked to die on behalf of your father. The emperor has issued an order to agree to it. You should be sentenced to death in accordance with the law. But the knife and saw are inflicted on your body and it is very painful. Can you really die? Besides, you are a child and you have not thought of such an idea in your heart. You must have been instigated by others."
Whoever is the instigator's name should be answered one by one.
If you regret it and change your mind, I will listen to you.
Ji Fol replied: Although I am a young and ignorant prisoner, don't I know that death is a scary thing?
It's just that my brothers are young, but I am the older one. I couldn't bear to see my father suffer the death penalty and survive on my own, so I made a decision in my heart, reported my thoughts to the emperor, and begged the emperor.
Now I want to sacrifice my life to save my father and abandon my body to hell. It is not a trivial matter. How can I be instigated by others?
The Emperor is wise and has written a letter to allow me to die in my father's place. To me, this is no different from allowing me to ascend to heaven and become an immortal. How can I regret it?
Cai Fadu knew that Ji Ce had a sincere heart to die on his father's behalf and could not force him to give in. So he used a kind and pleasant look to persuade Ji Feo and said: The emperor knows that your father is not guilty and will be pardoned and released soon.
Seeing that you are intelligent and beautiful, you can be regarded as an outstanding child. If you change your original situation, you will be lucky enough to be rescued together with your son. Why do you have to seek the pain of torture at this young age?
Ji Feo replied: All fish and ants still cherish their own lives, let alone humans, who would be willing to be shattered into pieces.
Just because my father was guilty of a serious crime and must be executed according to law, I thought about dying myself, hoping to prolong my father's life.
Now I close my eyes and stretch my neck, waiting for the beheading and display of the corpse. I have expressed all my feelings and have nothing more to say.
When Ji Fol was first imprisoned, the jailer put handcuffs on his legs and feet in accordance with the law. Cai Fadu took pity on him and ordered the jailer to remove his handcuffs and wear a small instrument of torture.
Ji Fol refused to comply. He said: Ji Fol asked to die on behalf of his father, who was a prisoner sentenced to death. The instruments of torture for death row prisoners should only be made heavier, how can they be made lighter?
In the end, he refused to remove the shackles.
Cai Fadu reported the whole situation to Gaozu, who then forgave Ji Fe's father.
Danyang Yin Wangzhi visited Jifu and asked him to stay in Danyang. He wanted to recommend him to the court as an outstanding person with filial piety at the beginning of the second year.
Ji Feo said: Wang Yin is so weird. Why do you think that I, Ji Feo, are so shallow?
If the father is humiliated, the son should die. Morality should be like this. If I accept Wang Yin's recommendation with a thick face and no shame, it will be to gain fame through my father. What a shame.
Ji Fei rejected Wang Zhi's request.
When Ji Fol was seventeen years old, he was called up to be the chief registrar of the state.
He was released from prison in Wannian County and served as county magistrate for one year. His education moved the people and benevolence and righteousness prevailed.
Ji Feo returned to Ying from Yong, and Liu Chen, the governor of Xiangzhou, summoned Ji Feo to take charge of the book.
Later, Pei Jian, a fellow countryman of Ji Ce, Danyang Yin Cheng Zang Dun, Yangzhou Zhongzheng Zhang Ping and others jointly recommended Ji Fe, thinking that he was filial, sincere and sincere, and he was proficient in "Yi" and "Laozi".
The emperor ordered Taichang to be commended and recommended.
At first, Ji Fol suffered from heart palpitations because his father was falsely accused of guilt, and later died of heart palpitations.
Zhen Tian, ​​courtesy name Yanyue, was born in Wuji, Zhongshan, and had lived in Jiangling for generations.
Zhen Tian's grandfather, Zhen Qinzhi, was appointed Chang Ningling.
His father selected him and Renzhou engaged in it.
Zhen Tian's father passed away when he was only a few years old. He was as sad and painful as an adult.
The family felt sorry for his young age and fed him rice with broth, but Zhen Tian refused to eat it.
When he was eight years old, he asked his mother about his biological father. He felt sorry for not remembering his father's image, so he cried sadly for several days. Suddenly, he seemed to see someone. The appearance of this person was his father. People at the time thought that this was filial piety that moved the gods.
His family is poor, but he feeds his mother with delicious dishes.
During the mourning time, a thatched cottage was built next to the tomb in the villa area. Black and yellow birds of various colors often gathered in the trees next to the thatched cottage. When Zhen Tian cries, the birds chirp, and when Zhen Tian stops crying, the chirping of the birds stops.
There was also a white sparrow perched on his thatched cottage.
Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing in the state, came to report Zhen Tian's virtue and performance.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: I admire sages with all my heart, think about my dreams all day long, and issue edicts to ministers from all over the world. I must do my best to search for, recommend and commend them.
Zhen Tian's filial piety is particularly outstanding, and her reputation is well-known in her hometown. This has many benefits for the honest and honest folk customs.
The magistrate presented the dispatches just as I saw them with my own eyes.
His whole family should be commended and he should be given a title.
Zhen Tian was appointed an official and went to Annan to join the army.
Han Huaiming, a member of the Shangdang Party, lived in Jingzhou.
When he was ten years old, Han Huaiming's mother suffered from tuberculosis, and each attack was often dangerous.
Han Huaiming was kowtowing and praying under the starry sky at night. It was very cold at that time. He suddenly smelled the fragrance. Someone in the air said to him: Little child, your mother will recover permanently in a while, and you don’t have to worry about it anymore.
Before dawn, his mother's illness had recovered.
The fellow villagers were surprised by this.
When Han Huaiming was fifteen years old, his father passed away. He was extremely sad during the funeral, almost to the point of destroying his life. He piled dirt on his back and made a grave, and did not accept any gifts or help from others.
After the mourning period expired, he and his fellow villager Guo Mo went to Nanyang to worship Liu Qiu as their teacher.
Liu Qiu once stopped teaching one day and was alone, crying sadly.
Han Huaiming secretly asked others why Liu Qiu was sad and alone. Liu Qiu's family replied: Today is the death anniversary of my grandfather's death.
Liu Qiu's mother had also died at that time.
When Han Huaiming heard about this, he stopped studying that day and went home to support his mother.
Liu Qiu sighed and said: Han Sheng no longer has the regret of not being able to support his parents like Qiu Wuzi.
Han Huaiming's family was poor, so he often tried his best to provide his mother with delicious food, and often laughed at his mother's side to make her happy. He would not leave his mother's side all day long.
When his mother was ninety-one years old, she passed away. Han Huaiming was deprived of water and food for ten days, howling and crying incessantly.
A pair of white doves built a nest on the thatched cottage where he was mourning. They laid eggs and raised small birds. They were very close to people, just like poultry. The white doves did not leave until the mourning period of Han Huaiming was over.
After the mourning period expired, Han Huaiming only ate vegetarian food for the rest of his life and did not change his clothes.
In the early years of Tianjian, Xiao Qi, the governor of Shixing, went to the court to commemorate Han Huaiming's filial piety.
Han Huaiming was called up many times by the state capital, but Han Huaiming failed to do so and died at home.
Liu Tanjing, courtesy name Yuanguang, was born in Lu County, Pengcheng.
Liu Tanjing's grandfather, Liu Yuanzhen, served as the prefect of Huainan and was convicted while serving in the county. Liu Tanjing's father, Liu Huijing, went to the court ministers to plead for mercy one by one. His feelings were sad and pitiful, and his words were very sincere, so he became famous for his filial piety.
Liu Tanjing practiced filial piety and possessed the character of his father.
Liu Tanjing first became an official and served as the Zuo Changshi of the Ancheng Kingdom. His father died in the county. He went to attend the funeral and did not eat or drink for many days. He fainted and regained consciousness many times.
Every time I cried, I cried until I vomited blood.
After the mourning period expired, he became thin and sick due to excessive grief during the mourning period.
It happened that the emperor issued the Shao Order, instructing the gentry to recommend talents according to four subjects. Liu Tanjing's uncle Liu Huifei recommended Liu Tanjing to be a filial scholar, and Gaozu appointed Liu Tanjing as the Haining Order.
Because his brother had not yet obtained the post of county magistrate, Liu Tanjing gave up the order of Haining to his brother, and the court then appointed him to join the army for the Anxi expedition.
After Liu Tanjing's father died, he served his mother with utmost sincerity and filial piety. He cooked the rice and porridge himself and did not leave the chores to others.
When his mother was sick, he took care of her day and night without taking any clothes off.
After his mother died, he went without food or water for nearly ten days.
His mother's coffin was temporarily buried at Yaowang Temple. The weather was cold at that time. Liu Tanjing, wearing single clothes, built a thatched cottage at the place where the coffin was buried to observe the mourning. He cried continuously day and night, and his grief moved everyone on the way. Within a year, Liu Tanjing himself passed away.
He Jiong, courtesy name Shiguang, was born in Dan County, Lujiang.
His father, He Huan, served as a doctor in Taizhong.
When He Jiong was fifteen years old, he followed his brother He Yin in his profession, and within one year he read through the general outline of the Five Classics.
He Jiong has fair skin and handsome appearance. His cousins ​​He Qiu and He Dian often praise him and say: "Wei Niushi has a clear mind, and Du Hongzhi has a beautiful appearance. Now when I look at the child, I seem to see Wei and Du again."
He Jiong often yearned for a quiet and retired life and was not willing to enter an official career.
He Jiongtang's uncle He Changyu said to him: "Why do you want to live in seclusion? You should not behave like this again."
Moreover, every gentleman has his own way of becoming an official and retiring from office.
When Yu Yan was nineteen years old, he became an official for the first time and held the owner's book.
He was recommended as a scholar, and was successively promoted to the royal palace to join the army, Shangshu Bing, and the second caolang of the Treasury.
He left the capital and served as Yongkang Ling, and was famous for his harmonious handling of affairs.
He returned to Beijing and served as the internal record office of Renwei Nankang King, and moved to the post of official secretary and censor.
Because his father was ill, He Jiong stayed naked for more than ten days without combing or washing his hair. He was busy serving his father. In two or three nights, his appearance suddenly changed a lot.
After his father passed away, He Jiong howled and cried constantly, sitting and lying on the ground, and sleeping with his head on the earth. As a result, his waist and kidneys were weak and his feet were swollen. Eventually, his body was destroyed by excessive grief and he died.
Yu Shami, a native of Yingyin.
The sixth generation grandson of Jin Si Kong Yubing.
His father, Yu Peiyu, served as the official governor of the state and the internal history of Changsha. During the reign of Emperor Shengming of the Song Dynasty, he was executed for being convicted of Yu Shami's affair. Yu Shami had just been born at that time.
When Yu novice was five years old, his biological mother made him a minor's dress, but he often refused to wear it. When his mother asked him why he refused to wear it, he answered with tears: Our family has suffered a tragic disaster, what's the use of sending things away!
After growing up, he wore civilian clothes and ate a vegetarian diet throughout his life.
Yu Shami was recruited from his family to serve as the Zuo Changshi of the Linchuan Kingdom, and moved to the Central Army Tian Caoxing to join the army.
When his aunt passed away and fell ill, Yu novice stayed by her side morning and evening, undressed, and sometimes needed acupuncture treatment, so Yu novice would test it on his own body first.
After his aunt's death, he had no food or drink for many days. Until the period of mourning is over, he does not take off his mourning clothes and does not leave the gate of the mourning hut. He howls and cries day and night, and the neighbors cannot bear to hear his cry.
My aunt's tomb was built in the new forest, and then there were more than a hundred unplanted pine trees growing beside the tomb.
Yu Yong, the official minister of the capital of Yushami tribe, reported Yushami's filial piety and recommended him to the subject of pure filial piety. Emperor Gaozu summoned Yushami, commended him for his filial piety, and appointed him as the replacement magistrate of She County.
After returning to Kyoto, he was given a light chariot by King Shaoling to join the military, and he followed King Shaoling in the palace of Kuaiji.
When his biological mother died again, Yu novice escorted the coffin back to the capital. When crossing Zhejiang, the ship encountered a strong wind in the center of Zhejiang and almost sank. Yu novice hugged his biological mother's coffin and howled bitterly. After a while, the wind dried up and the sea calmed down. This was probably because his filial piety moved the gods.
After the mourning period expired, Yu Shami was awarded the title of Xinwei Penal Prison and joined the army and Danyang County Koukou. He was repeatedly promoted to Ningyuan Lushi, joined the army, and was transferred to Sima.
He served as the Great Wall Order and died.
Jiang Yu, whose courtesy name is Hanjie, was born in Kaocheng, Jiyang.
His father, Jiang Bei, served as doctor Guanglu.
Jiang Bian had a filial nature since he was a child. When he was thirteen years old, his father suffered from an eye disease. Jiang Biao served his sick father for nearly a year without taking off his clothes.
He dreamed of a monk at night who said: People suffering from eye diseases will definitely be cured by drinking Eye Wisdom Water.
Jiang Pu woke up and told the story, but no one could explain the meaning of "Hui Yan Shui".
Jiang Pu's third uncle Liao Zheng had a good relationship with Master Zhizhe of Caotang Temple, so he went to consult Master Zhizhe.
Master Wise said: "The Infinite Life Sutra" says: The wise eye sees the truth and can cross to the other side.
Jiang Hao followed the inspiration of the wise master and dedicated a house in Niutun, Tongxia County, as a temple, asking God to give him a good name.
The imperial edict replied: A loyal minister and a filial son are responsive everywhere.
Yan Han of the Jin Dynasty finally saw the medicine sent from the underworld.
I met a wise man recently and learned that your second son had a dream because of his sincerity, saying that he wanted to drink the water of wisdom.
Wisdom Eye is the name of one of the five eyes. If you want to build a temple, you can use Wisdom Eye as the name of the temple.
When they built the temple, they discovered an old well with clear water, which was different from ordinary spring water.
Jiang Bei took water from the well to wash her eyes and boil medicine according to what Jiang Xia saw in her dream. She gradually felt better and her eye disease was cured.
People at that time thought this was an expression of filial piety.
The King of Nankang was the governor of Southern Xuzhou, and he summoned Pi to be the chief official.
Dou Mian is quiet by nature, likes the mystical words of "Laozi" and "Zhuangzi", is especially proficient in the essence of Buddhism, and is not willing to enter an official career.
After his father passed away, Jiang Huai built a thatched cottage next to his father's tomb, howling and crying all day long. More than a month later, Jiang Pu also passed away.
Liu Ji, courtesy name Shiju, was from Pingyuan.
His grandfather Liu Chengmin was the governor of Jizhou during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Liu Wenwei, was a member of the imperial family during the Qi Dynasty.
When Liu Ji was nine years old, he could recite "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and his relatives were surprised by his talent.
When he was fourteen years old, his father died. Liu Ji had a natural sense of filial piety and cried until he vomited blood every time.
The family was poor, so Liu Ji and his younger brothers Liu Yao and Liu Di encouraged each other and devoted themselves to study.
After growing up, Liu Ji has been involved in a wide range of subjects and is knowledgeable and talented.
During the Tianjian period, Liu Ji was recruited from his home to serve at the court's invitation. He was gradually promoted to Xuanhui and joined the army in Jin'an Palace.
He also went to Beijing and served as Minister of Host and Guest. Within a year, he was appointed as the Order of Haiyan.
Liu Ji served as magistrate of two counties. During his tenure, he was known for his harmonious handling of affairs.
When he returned to the capital, he was appointed as Jian Kangzheng, but he did not like the position. He was soon dismissed because of illness.
Soon he was awarded the Jiankang Order, but he did not accept the appointment.
Liu Ji's mother, Mingshi, fell ill. Liu Ji was already fifty years old at that time. He served his mother untiedly for seventy days and recited the "Avalokiteśvara Sutra" ten thousand times. At night, he had a dream due to emotion. In his dream, he saw a monk saying to him: My wife's life span has been exhausted. With your sincerity and sincerity, I will extend your wife's life for you.
Liu Ji's mother passed away more than sixty years later.
Liu Ji built a thatched hut next to his mother's grave to mourn. His grief exceeded common courtesy.
There is often a pair of white cranes flying docilely beside the thatched cottage.
Ruan Xiaoxu, a virgin, wrote to him to comfort and enlighten him. But Liu Ji still missed his deceased mother endlessly, and died before the mourning was over. He died at the age of fifty-two.
Liu Ji is the author of eight volumes of "Explanation of Common Sayings" and ten volumes of collected works.
The deeds of his younger brother Liu Yao are in "The Biography of Literature", and the deeds of Liu Di are in "The Biography of Chu Shi".
Chu Xiu was a native of Qiantang, Wu County.
His father, Chu Zhongdu, was proficient in "The Book of Changes" and his knowledge was the most profound at that time.
During the Tianjian period, Chu Zhongdu successively served as a doctor of "Five Classics".
Chu Xiu inherited his father's studies since he was a child. He was also proficient in "The Classic of Filial Piety" and "The Analects of Confucius". He was good at writing letters and articles.
Chu Xiu initially served as the minister of the Xiangshu Kingdom, and gradually moved to the Qingche Xiangdong Prefecture to join the army, and also served as an assistant to the emperor.
King Wuling was appointed as the governor of Laoye, and he was recommended! He was succeeded by Xuanhui and joined the army, and was limited to the internal record office.
Chou Kai was a very filial man by nature. When his father died, he grieved beyond the ordinary limits, which damaged his body and suffered from Qi reversal.
When his mother died, he couldn't eat or drink for twenty-three days, falling into unconsciousness and waking up again and again. He often howled and cried so hard that he vomited blood and eventually died from excessive physical weakness.
Xie Lin, whose courtesy name is Xiru, was born in Yangxia, Chen County.
He is the eighth generation grandson of Jin Taifu Xie An.
Xie Lin's father, Xie Jing, was appointed Beizhonglang to consult and join the army.
When Xie Lin was five years old, whenever her parents had not eaten yet, her wet nurse would ask Xie Lin to eat first. Xie Lin said, "I don't feel hungry yet."
Even if he is forced to do so, he still refuses to eat.
When his uncle Ruan Xiaoxu heard about this, he praised him and said: "If you leave your children at home, you are like Zengzi, and if you serve the king, you are like Lin Sheng."
So he was named Lin.
Gradually he was taught to read classics and history books, and Xie Lin could recite them just by looking at them.
Ruan Xiaoxu always said that Xie Lin was the Wei Yangyuan of our family.
When Xie Lin was mourning for his father, he howled and cried day and night. His body was weakened by grief, and only a skeleton was left in his body. Xie Lin's mother, Ruan, often watched over him in person, comforted and enlightened him.
After the mourning period expired, Xiao Zihao, the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, presented a memorial to Xie Lin Duhou for his filial piety, and promoted him to join the army as the royal family's Fa Caoxing. He was repeatedly promoted to join the army in the foreign military record office.
At that time, nectar fell in the Shilin Pavilion, and Xie Lin wrote an ode and presented it. Emperor Gaozu highly praised it, so he ordered Xie Lin to write the "Stele of Xiao Kai's Dezheng, the Governor of Northern Yanzhou".
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, Xie Lin moved to serve as the minister of Sanqi and the regular servant of Sanqi, and was sent as an envoy to Wei.
Just when Hou Jinglue surrendered, there was a war on the border. Xie Lin's mother was worried that Xie Lin would not be able to return and would contract the disease and die.
Xie Lin completed his appointment and returned to the country. He had an ominous dream that night, and the next morning he submitted a petition to impeach himself and hurried back.
When he rushed home, he howled and cried so much that he vomited blood. He was unconscious for a long time and couldn't eat any water or rice.
Relatives and friends were worried about his accident and cried bitterly to him, reluctantly persuading him to drink porridge and soup.
Xie Lin reluctantly accepted it at first, but in the end he couldn't eat it anymore. After more than a month, when he was crying one night, Xie Lin also passed away. He was thirty-eight years old when he died.
There are dozens of poems, poems and odes composed by Xie Lin.
Gao Chai, Zhong You, Zeng Shen, and Min Sun followed the saints and received teachings. They were pious and respectful and observed filial piety. There is no water in the mouth, and I cry and vomit blood all year round. Didn’t Zeng Shen and others understand that their parents were deeply hurt when their parents died? Didn’t they know that the feelings of filial son who cannot be raised forever and who are deeply missed like the poem "Polygonium" recited created what people said was that the ancestors established the etiquette and the sages followed it respectfully.
As for Ruqiu and Wu, they eventually lost their lives due to grief.
People like Liu Tanjing, He Jiong, Jiang Yu, and Xie Lin must have the same ambitions as Qiu and Wu!
