◆The Legend of Lang Yi
Lang Yi, courtesy name Yaguang, was born in Anqiu, Beihai.
His father, Langzong, whose courtesy name was Zhongsui, studied "Jing's Book of Changes" and was good at wind angle, astrology, and six-day and seven-minute calculations. He could tell the weather about good and bad luck, and he often sold divination to support himself.
Emperor An summoned him, and his countermeasures set an example for other Confucian scholars. Later, he became the magistrate of Wu County.
At this time, there was a sudden storm, and Lang Zong learned from divination that there was going to be a fire in the capital. He noted the time and sent someone to inquire, and it was indeed as he said.
After hearing this, all the princes went up to the table to hear the news, and the imperial court summoned him with a doctor.
Lang Zong thought it was shameful to be known for his fortune-telling. When he heard that the summons had arrived, he hung his seal and ribbon in the county court at night and fled, so he never served as an official for the rest of his life.
When he was young, Lang Yi passed on his father's studies and learned the classics. He lived in seclusion by the sea and often taught hundreds of disciples.
During the day, he studies the essence and at night, he divines the images. He meditates diligently and is tireless in the morning and evening.
The prefectures and counties appointed him to be a man of integrity and uprightness, but he did not go to the post.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, disasters occurred many times. In the first month of the second year of Yangjia, when public transport was called for, Lang Yi went to the court to pay homage and wrote a memorial: I heard that monsters descended from the sky and disaster talismans appeared on the earth, in order to condemn the masters, to punish the people, to cultivate virtues, to balance the good opportunities, and to promote the government.
"Yi Neizhuan" says: All disasters and disasters are caused by different things, and everyone has their own governance.
Change it and eliminate it, eliminate it and eliminate it.
Thinking of His Majesty personally attending to the affairs of state every day, I should review Zengzi's three self-examinations, reflect on my faults and blame, and make sure to eliminate my great regrets.
The current custom is one of luxury and licentiousness, and shallow kindness and righteousness.
To save extravagance, one must be frugal. To save the poor, it is better to be generous. To appease the superiors and straighten the people, there is nothing better than using propriety.
When it comes to cultivating etiquette and abiding by promises, only the top takes the lead; changing the rules does not matter to the bottom.
Therefore, the virtues of "Zhou Nan" and "Guan Sui" are the foundation of politics.
The root is rooted in the Tao, and when the wind moves, the grass will follow. If the source of water is clarified, the running water will be clear. If the root is muddied, the end will be turbid.
The way of heaven and earth is similar to that of drums and drums. It takes emptiness as its virtue and moves from near to far.
I have seen that in the past few years, disasters have occurred in the garden and mausoleum several times, and the fire has been very strong, alarming the gods.
"Yi Tianren Ying" said: A gentleman does not think about following the interests, so he is said to be without benefits, and his palace will be burned down by evil.
He also said: In Jun Gaotai Mansion, Yin invades Yang and causes fire.
He also said: If you are not frugal at the top and unscrupulous at the bottom, the fire will burn down your house.
Recently, Xiyuan has been managed, the Imperial College has been restored, many palaces and government buildings have been built.
In the past, Pan Geng moved to Yin to avoid luxury, that is, to be frugal. After Xia, he humbled his family and tried his best to achieve beauty.
Also, when the people of Lu were the governor, Min Ziqian said: "It's still the same, so why change it?"
I think these repairs can be done with frugality, and the warehouses can be used to help the poor, orphans and widows. This is God's will, people's happiness, the foundation of benevolence, and the essence of frugality.
How can anyone support people according to nature, be benevolent and frugal, and not bless them?
The earth belongs to the earth family, which is yin, clear and quiet. It is suitable to use the season for transformation, respect and not disturb.
Since the first month, it has been dark for days.
"Yi Neizhuan" says: "Long-term cloudiness without rain will cause disordered Qi, which is the "Bi" of "Meng".
If you are confused, the ruler and his ministers will be in trouble with each other.
He also said: Desire and virtue are unclear, and the abnormal Yin is abnormal.
The sage is the foundation of transformation, and the cloud is the embodiment of rain.
Having a wise man but not using him is like a long period of overcast weather but no rain.
In the past few months, the cold has passed its peak, and the ice has melted and condensed again.
When the cold goes, the heat comes, and when the heat goes, the cold comes. This means that the sun and the moon push each other, and the cold and heat avoid each other, so as to promote things.
Now, after the beginning of spring, the Fire hexagram is used, which is normal temperature but cold, which is contrary to the season. Since the reward will not be achieved, the punishment will be increased.
You should wait for the beginning of autumn and do the punishment according to the weather.
I am lying at my desk "Fei Hou", observing all the affairs, and believes that after the Beginning of Summer, there will be disasters caused by earthquakes and floods.
In addition, the star of Yinghuo often loses its degree, waxes and wanes, comes and goes, involves calendars and ghosts, surrounds Xuanyuan, the south of the fire spirit, and the government of Xia.
If the government is disrespectful and does not follow the summer regulations, it will lead to chaos and retrograde behavior.
From the 3rd to the 9th of the first lunar month, Sangong Gua.
The three princes went up to the steps and went down to the same steps as the head of state.
If the government loses its way, it will be so cold and negative. "Jie Bi Nanshan" was chanted in "Zhou Shi"; "Gu Gong Liang Zai" was written in "Yu Dian".
But now those who are in power strive for high and imaginary positions, get a lot of salary, but forget the worries of the world, travel leisurely, live comfortably, be promoted and given money, and then they get up again.
How do you get sick quickly and recover quickly? Can we use this to eliminate disasters and gain peace?
Today, the Mu Shou is elected and the three ministers are appointed.
If the officials are bad, they should be blamed on the states and counties. If the states and counties are at fault, shouldn't they be blamed on the people who elected them?
However, Your Majesty admires the most excellent things, but your arrogance is even worse. It is said that the big network is sparse and the small network is dense.
Sangong is not my enemy, and I am not the work of a crazy man. He is so angry that he forgets to eat and keeps pleading. What he wants is for the peace of the court, and it is not that he cannot be praised.
I grew up in the grass and fields, I don't know what is taboo, I reveal my liver and gallbladder, and I don't hesitate to write about it.
He is willing to suffer death and has no regrets.
I would like to present a memorial to Fu Que and wait until the death penalty is imposed.
In the memorial, the emperor asked Lang Yi to have a dialogue with the minister.
Lang Wei said: I heard that the Holy Lord Mingwang is easy to listen to his faults, and he is a loyal minister and a filial son who has nothing to hide.
I am a student of human ethics, hearing, hearing and so on, but I am stupid and sincere by nature and don’t know taboos, so I forget my life even if I die, please tell me more sincerely.
I want your majesty to cultivate the virtues of the universe, to open up the sun and the moon, to read pictures and books, to check the classics, to observe the affairs of the emperor, and to know the political affairs of the past.
If there are any omissions, please correct them yourself.
The work of writing and martial arts is comparable to the way of Yao and Shun, eliminating disasters, bringing blessings, and commanding the world.
This is indeed Chen Langyi's little wish. He dreams about it morning and night and does everything he can.
I would like to preface the previous chapter, clarify its purpose, state seven things, and answer them truthfully: The first thing: the cemetery is extremely important, where the Holy Spirit relies, and if a fire breaks out and burns close to the dormitory, the soul and spirit will still be shocked.
The palace and official residence were recently built in Yongping. It will not take long and they need to be renovated.
Xiyuan was also built to raise animals. Those who left the house were not permanent residents, but they had to carry out extensive construction and construction, spending hundreds of millions of financial resources.
《易内经》说： 人君奢侈，多饰宫室，其时旱，其灾火。 

Therefore, Duke Xi of Lu was hit by a drought, and he decided to reorganize the government by decree. He went to the counties of Zhonggu and stopped the officials who were renovating the government. Although he was restless, it rained heavily.
这样说来，天之应人，比影响还敏捷。

On Wuwu, the 17th day of this month, Zheng day, at Shen hour, the wind came from Yin and stopped at Chou time.
Chou, Yin, and Shen are all signs. If there is no fire, there will be drought.
May your majesty calculate the cost of repairs, remember the hard work of the people, remove the officials who will be in charge, reduce the decoration of the sculptures, damage the food in the kitchen, and give up the pleasure of private banquets.
"The Biography of Yi Zhongfu" says: The sun touches the sky and does not rotate around the sun.
Like this, if the scenery clouds descend and gather, the disaster will surely subside.
The second thing: Since last year, "Dui Gua" has been used in many ways, but it is ineffective.
"Yi Zhuan" says: A villain who has appearance but no reality, and is eloquent. A gentleman who has reality, no appearance, and a Tao.
Cold and warm are the reality, and clarity and turbidity are the appearance.
Today's three princes are hypocritical in appearance, completely submissive, stern on the outside but weak on the inside. They use lies to do things, and have no actual ability to assist the country. Therefore, purity and turbidity are effective but cold and warm are not. Therefore, yin and yang violate the message, and the ministers violate the monarch's power.
Divination says: If the sun is rising, there will be evil winds; if the sun is falling, there will be cracks in the earth.
In this way, within three years, there will be a solar eclipse, the yin will invade the yang, and the minister will invade the king, which gradually accumulates.
Around the beginning of spring, the temperature is appropriate and the edicts are generous.
Later it became cold and there was no real sense of generosity.
In a place with ten houses, there must be loyal people. Among the people in the whole territory, there are no virtuous people. I have never heard that the imperial court rewards and promotes people. This is not a way to seek good deeds and save the people.
The opinions of good ministers should be adopted to help sanctify. The third thing: I heard that the way to heaven is not far away, and I rebelled again and again.
This year, in Shaoyang's year, Dharma should be taken up. I am afraid that in the year to come, the general will be alarmed and cross the Tianmen between Li and Shuhai, causing disaster to Wuji.
There will be drought in the spring this year, and there will be floods in the summer. I can calculate it using the method of six days and seven minutes.
The arrival of disaster caused a chain reaction.
If there are shortcomings in people's behavior, then the Qi will go against the sky, and the essence will change, which will serve as a warning to others.
The king's intention is that if the harvest is not good every year, the diet will be reduced.
Over the past few years, the grain harvest has decreased, and the people are hungry and not as good as in past years.
When the people have insufficient food and clothing, how can the king have enough?
Although floods and droughts have not yet arrived, a gentleman should have the foresight to nip them in the bud.
"Laozi" said: People are hungry because of the high food tax.
Therefore, Emperor Xiaowen wore thick and smooth silk robes and leather shoes. He had no weapons and weapons, no clothes and no articles. He was frugal and collected taxes lightly, thus creating a peaceful world.
Now that His Majesty's holy virtue is reviving, we should follow the previous code and pay attention to economy, then the world will be very lucky.
"Book of Changes" says: The way of heaven has no relatives, but always associates with good people.
Therefore, Gaozong was able to enjoy blessings and Song Jinggong was able to extend his life. The fourth thing: I privately saw that the crown prince had not yet been established, and that the heir to the throne had no master. Looking up at the astronomy, the stars ahead were not clear.
The star Yinghuo was at the fifth degree of Lou sixteen days after the spring equinox last year. According to the "Three Unifications", the star Yinghuo should be at the ninth degree of the Wing Star, but now it is at the third degree of the Liuxing, which is less than fifty degrees.
On Wuchen, August 24th last year, Yinghuo Star Calendar and Ghost Star entered Xuanyuan eastward, exited to the north, went four degrees eastward, and then turned back to the north.
Xuanyuan is the harem.
Yinghuo, the essence of Zhiyang, the messenger of heaven, goes in and out of the harem, going back and forth.
"The Book of Changes" says: The sky hangs down like an image to see good or bad luck.
This meaning is very clear and visible.
According to the rites, the emperor married nine daughters, and the concubines were fully qualified.
Nowadays, there are thousands of palace attendants. Some of them have been isolated all their lives, blocked by human nature, and have pent-up energy. They feel sorry for the emperor, so they send Yinghuoxing into Xuanyuan's harem to regulate human relations. The vertical elephants show strange things to make the Lord aware.
In the past, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty entered the Yin Dynasty, released the maids of Shang Zhou, and commended Shang Rong's family to straighten out human relations and commend virtuous people. Therefore, God gave him the Holy Son to become the king one by one.
Your Majesty now raises so many maids, which is against God's will. Therefore, most of the princes died in infancy and had no heirs.
"The Book of Songs" says: Respect the anger of heaven and dare not play with it.
The current blessings are not more important than Guang Si's, and Guang Si's method should not be deeply considered?
Some palace maids should be released and allowed to get married, then heaven will bring blessings and there will be many children and grandchildren.
I hope your Majesty will think again and pay more attention to this point. Those who favor you should also think about your words to wake up your majesty. The kind words of ancient times are beneficial to today, and the kind words of Heaven are also useful to people. I hope to visit hundreds of officials. If I think that what I say is wrong, I will be punished for speaking out. The fifth thing: I privately saw that on the night of Ji Chou on the 17th day of the 10th month last year, there was white air coming from the Western Tianyuan to my left foot, and it disappeared after entering the Yujing for a few days.
"Spring and Autumn" says: There are stars in Dachen, who are they in Dachen?
Fire too.
The fire is Dachen, the cutting is Dachen, and the North Pole is also Dachen.
Therefore, one night and three nights in a row means that Beichen is the palace of the king.
If there is no integrity in the palace, chaos in politics and religion, and decline in power, then these three stars will react.
Punishment is the white tiger, which is in charge of soldiers and is located between Zhao and Wei. Changes appear in the west and are also reflected in the three auxiliaries.
Wherever the golden energy changes, it occurs during the Autumn Festival.
I am afraid that after the Beginning of Autumn, Zhao, Wei, and Guanxi will be in danger of rebellion and invasion by Qiang bandits, so I should announce the prefectures in advance and ask them to control the seasons, collect corvees lightly, and collect taxes lightly.
The responsibility for Jin Jing's change lies with his boss.
On Bingwu in the fifth month, the Taiwei should be sent to hold a shield and axe, build a well, write congratulatory messages on jade boards, draw out the differences in white energy, conduct self-examination in the western suburbs, apologize to the emperor and heaven, and eliminate evil spirits.
Because fire can defeat metal and turn disaster into blessing.
The sixth thing: I saw privately that on the 14th day of this month at Yimaosi, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
Anything with a white and pure complexion near the sun is called a rainbow. Penetrating the middle of the sun, violating the sun. Appearing in the spring, it indicates an abnormal coup.
At present, the central government and foreign affairs departments have their own examinations and impeachments. Some of the things tested are not urgent matters.
There was also the Gongling Fire. The names of those who caused the fire had not yet been determined. Many people were arrested and tortured.
Looking for fire is a warning from heaven, which makes people realize that they can obey but not disobey, be respectful but not arrogant.
Your Majesty should reflect on yourself to prevent future disasters.
Those impeachment cases are all handled in the beginning of autumn.
"Yi Zhuan" said: If the public is able to do his job, and the virtuous are promoted, there will be happiness in the future.
Otherwise, a white rainbow will appear penetrating the sun.
What appears in the east of A and B is to condemn China and Taiwan.
Since Situ came to the throne, there have been many fallacies in Yin and Yang. For a long time, there has been no strategy of emptying oneself and promoting talents. The world is talking about it, and different people are lamenting.
Moreover, since the beginning of spring, gold energy has appeared again. If metal can defeat wood, there must be military energy. Situ should be dismissed to comply with God's will.
If Your Majesty does not make arrangements in advance, you will live up to your words and cause trouble to the people.
The seventh thing: I think that I am three hundred and thirty-nine years old since the rise of Han Dynasty.
According to the "Three Bases of Poetry", Gaozu started in the second year of Haizhong and is now in the tenth year of Xuzhong.
"Shi Si Li Shu" says: Maoyou is for revolution, Wuhai is for revolution, God is at the gate of heaven, waiting to listen when he comes in and out.
That is to say, God is in Xuhai and is responsible for the rise and fall of the emperor. If he does good, he will prosper, and if he does evil, he will perish.
In "The Secret Calendar of Changing Males and Females", now is the time of sleepiness.
Whenever nine or two are trapped, all the villains want to trap and harm the gentleman together.
"Book of Sutras" says: He who is trapped but does not lose his place is the only gentleman!
It means that only a sage king, who encounters difficulties and dangers, can fatally pursue his ambition and never deviate from his path.
Your Majesty is a virtuous monarch who lives in seclusion and quietness. When he first came to the throne, the Purple Palace was in a state of alarm. As luck would have it, the time has come to an end.
But there is still a fear that the evil auspiciousness may not be over yet, so a gentleman should be aware of the danger and take precautions against it.
I believe that Xu Zhong is over. In the following year, Emperor Wen changed the legal system and abolished the crime of corporal punishment. It has been three hundred years since then.
We should take advantage of this opportunity to change the laws, official titles, and uniforms and equipment, change them from big to small, eliminate extravagance and become frugal, and change the government from complexity to simplicity.
Change the Yuan Dynasty to Gengshi, recruit secluded people, promote them to be upright, recruit people with righteousness, learn from all kinds of ideas, and open up their opinions. I am afraid of violating taboos and not being able to express my thoughts freely when I invite you to meet with Chen.
The minister asked Lang Yi: "You said that when a white rainbow shines through the sun, political coups often happen."
The imperial court operates according to the old rules, why is it called abnormality?
You also said: When the great king decrees, the official title will be changed.
Some people say that changing things from the ordinary can lead to disaster, while others say that changes in the past can eliminate differences. Why is this?
Not long after it was first built in the Youyangjia period, you wanted to change the Yuan Dynasty. What scripture was based on?
I hope you answer honestly.
Lang Qiye replied: Spring comes from the East, the beginning of Buddhism, when Yang Qi develops and nourishes all things.
The king respects the sight and hearing of heaven and obeys the weather and weather. He should respect gentleness and obey the will of heaven.
But now after the beginning of spring, there are more exams, and the policies of autumn and winter are implemented in spring and summer, so the white rainbow appears in spring, covering up the sun.
Whenever evil spirits take advantage of the sun, there will be a phenomenon of rainbow in the sun. This is caused by the haste of the ministers and deacons, and is not the original intention of the court's lenient politics.
This is a common mistake.
Nowadays, all the elected officials are in the three divisions. It is not the talents of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong, but the important task of knowing people is Zhezhi. Whenever there is a selection, they will be considered among the subordinates in advance. The alleys of the Gongfu are crowded with guests, who are sent to welcome them, and the wealth is endless.
Those who are expected to be promoted compete for recommendation and visit, and their disciples from various factions block the roads and open the door to evil and evil, creating hypocrisy. This is not what is called "following the old rules."
The Shangshu's duty is to keep secrets and balances. The palace is strictly forbidden. Private opinions cannot be passed. Favors that favor the party are of no use. As for the task of elections, it is better for the Shangshu to still hold the secrets.
The minister is indeed stupid and does not know how to compromise. This was originally the discussion of people near and far, and it is also what is announced today.
Confucius also said: In the three hundred years of the Han Dynasty, the constitution was changed through fighting.
One virtue is three hundred and four years old, five virtues are one thousand five hundred and twenty years old, and the five elements are more useful.
The king follows the will of God, which is like changing his color from blue to red from spring to summer.
It has been exactly three hundred years since Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty reduced corporal punishment, and minor prohibitions have gradually accumulated.
The king's law is like a river, which should be easy for people to avoid but difficult to violate.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says: If it is easy, it is easy to know; if it is simple, it is easy to follow; if it is simple, it is easy to understand the principles of the world.
Now let go of extravagance, start being frugal, be the first in the world, change your name, and use whatever you call me.
"The Book of Changes" says: "The way of a gentleman may come from another place, return to the same place by different paths, and have the same purpose."
This means knowing that changing from normal to good can eliminate disasters, and changing from normal to evil will inevitably lead to disaster.
This year is in the middle of the year, next year the season is in the middle, and the season is in the middle of the end. The calendar fortune has changed, so the yuan can be changed. This is the way of heaven.
I am too ignorant to answer the sage question.
Lang Yi also wrote a letter recommending Huang Qiong and Li Gu, and stated the methods to eliminate disasters: The seven things I answered correctly before are all urgent political matters, meet the current needs, and should be implemented.
Indeed, I knew that I had a foolish and shallow view, which was not in line with the emperor's holy hearing. I was a mean person and should be punished for my bad words. I was very frightened and did not know where to put my body. I heard that the purpose of carving boats and oars is to cross the rivers and seas, and to recruit talents and assistants to stabilize the world.
In ancient times, when Yao of the Tang Dynasty was in power, his ministers worked for him and cultivated virtues in civil and military affairs. The Duke of Zhou and Duke of Zhao served as assistants. Therefore, they were able to build the heaven and earth and increase the brilliance of the sun and the moon.
"The Book of Songs" says: Zhongshan is the one who will lead the illustrious king's order. If the country is not good, Zhongshan will be the one who makes it clear.
King Xuan of Zhou relied on Zhongshanfu, which led to a harmonious situation.
Since your Majesty came to the throne, you have been diligent in the administration of common people, but the positions of the Three Dukes and Nine Ministers have not been seen. Therefore, disasters have occurred one after another, and the countries in the four directions have no peace.
I have examined the canons of the country and verified what I have seen and heard. It is found that if you gain wise men, you will achieve meritorious service, and if you lose wise men, you will fail.
Moreover, whether a wise man comes out or not, he flies like a bird and then gathers, and he is given a title according to virtue, so he is unscrupulous, and then makes the gentleman feel ashamed of poverty and lowliness, but takes pleasure in wealth.
If one's virtues are not rewarded, if one's words are not rewarded, if one comes and there is no reward, and if one enters and there is no hope, then all the wise men will return to the swamp and cultivate their old ambitions.
Those who seek virtue should adhere to God's will at the top, and obey the human heart at the bottom.
Not using it would be against heaven's order and contrary to human expectations.
If it goes against the order of heaven, disaster will happen; if it goes against the wishes of others, it will be ruined.
When a disaster comes, the people below will cry out with resentment. If the weather is not good enough, the ruler will suffer losses.
The "Four Beginnings" in the "Book of Songs" were depleted and the "Five Worlds" were devastated. This is where the fault lies.
Isn’t it possible to be strong and solid, cautious and cautious, and to abide by the great cause of heavenly merit and virtue? The ministers saw Jiangxia Huangqiong, the Guanglu doctor, who was deeply in love with Taoism. He advocated purity and naturalness. He was dressed in coarse cloth and carried precious jade. He had a deep understanding of the classics, was bold in politics, and knew the art of eliminating variation and recovery.
In front of the imperial court, he was favored and extended as a distinguished guest.
Huang Qiong had not been in the dynasty for a long time, and his plans had not yet been demonstrated. Because of his illness, his ambition was fatal.
"Laozi" said: Great sound and no sound, great achievements come late.
It takes three years for good people to govern a country to achieve results.
Everyone in the world is not unhappy that there is such a good person in the court, but they also find it strange that he still does whatever he does from time to time.
Your Majesty should bestow the grace of Long Chong, fulfill the gift of nurturing talents, and call him back to the capital to comfort the people of the world.
There is also Li Gu, a scholar in Hanzhong, who is forty years old. He is proficient in the literature and art of Ziyou and Zixia, and practices the benevolence of Yan Yuan and Min Ziqian.
The purity of moral integrity is like daylight, the loyalty of conduct, and the love of integrity were not common among the ancients, and no one in the present generation can catch up with them.
A person born from the spirit of heaven, a king's auxiliary minister, this Li Gu must be specially recruited for the sake of the Holy Han, to show it to people everywhere.
If you have outstanding talents, you should not be limited to official rank.
Once upon a time, when Yanzi was eighteen years old, the whole world bowed to his benevolence; when Qi Guozi was eighteen years old, he became the governor of Ayi, and the city was greatly prospered.
If Huang Qiong is recalled, Li Gu is recruited, and entrusted with current affairs, Yi Yin and Fu say that they cannot compare with them, then a good situation can be left and auspiciousness can be created.
I don't know what people say. After hearing what everyone said, the people's return depends on the common evaluation.
I hope to extensively inquire all officials to verify their reputation and deeds. One thing is unrealistic, that is, I have committed the crime of bullying the country.
Please be careful and don't waste your words on others. I would like to write down four political events, attached to the left: The first thing: Confucius wrote "Spring and Autumn", writing on the first month, the beginning of the year.
The king takes the celestial phenomena as the law and follows the order of the seasons. He should develop virtuous titles and give titles to the wise men, so as to show generous kindness and benevolent virtues. Help the vitality of heaven and earth and nourish everyone. In this way, the sky will be civilized, the stars will appear, the five latitudes will follow the track, and the four seasons will change harmoniously.
Otherwise, the sun will not shine, the sky and the earth will be turbid, the time and energy will be disordered, and the haze will obscure the sun.
Since the beginning of spring, through Xunshuo, I have not seen any benevolent policies, and only heard the sounds of crimes, punishments and torture.
Heaven responds to people faster than shadows follow shapes and sounds follow sounds. But since the age of the year, there is always a mist, the moon does not shine, and the sun does not see its brilliance.
The sun is the sun, the symbol of the king. When politics changes below, the sun should be in the sky.
The occupation of the clear and the turbid reacts with the ups and downs of politics.
When something strange appears in the sky, it must be true.
Could it be that His Majesty is busy taking care of everything, so is there any flaw in Weiwei's administration?
Why do Tianjie appear continuously?
I hope that your majesty will carry forward the spirit of hard work, recruit talented people, and diligently seek the support of opportunities and balances to gain the benefit of working together to cut off gold.
The minister always puts the sun first in his presentation, indicating that the sun cannot stay dark for a long time and needs to be corrected urgently.
Its variation is not big, but its things are important.
Although the minister's words were simple, his meaning was broad.
I hope that Your Majesty will cherish your memory and consider your memorial. The second thing: Confucius said: The beginning of thunder begins with "Dazhuang", and the king is weak and his ministers are strong from "Jie".
From the 9th to the 14th of this month, "Dazhuang" uses the hexagram of things and news.
Within these six days, thunder will sound, and the sound will bring peace of mind and the rise of kingship.
"Book of Changes" says: Thunder comes out of the earth to stir up the wind, Yu, the ancestors of the kings used to play music and worship virtue, and the gods were recommended by Yin.
Thunder develops buds, removes yin and eliminates harm.
All things must be solved by thunder. Rely on rain to nourish the land.
Therefore, the Sutra says: Thunder moves it and rain moistens it.
The king advocates generosity and obeys the spring order, so the thunder will be launched at the right time. Otherwise, it will be launched in winter and should be shaken but not shaken.
Therefore, "Yi Zhuan" says: When there is no thunder, the sun is weak.
Now that the mist is not removed, the sun and the moon change color. This is the effect.
The sky net is vast, sparse but not lost. It advances and retreats with the seasons, and it should be based on political gains and losses.
Sir, your virtue should be in harmony with the heaven and earth, your brightness should be in harmony with the sun and the moon, and your movements should be in harmony with the sky.
Thunder is a kind of command, and its virtue is to give birth to and nourish all things.
If the order is almost invalid, it should be killed while alive, then thunder will strike in reverse, and the year will be bad.
If your Majesty wants to eliminate disasters, seek blessings, and bring peace to heaven, he should examine those who are particularly cruel and harmful to others among his ministers and remove them as soon as possible to bring peace to the people. Then the God of the East will be happy and the thunder will sound at the right time.
The third thing: On October 20th last year in Guihai, the Taibai star and the year star met the house star and the heart star.
Taibai is in the north and Suixing is in the south. They are a few inches apart and their rays of light overlap.
The house star and the heart star are the palace where the Emperor of Heaven governs his affairs.
"The Book of Filial Piety" says: The star of the year guards the heart and the grain is abundant.
"Shang Shu Hong Fan Ji" says: The moon travels on the middle road, shifting festivals to meet the season, being virtuous and blessed, and retaining the most beautiful flowers.
Chonghua means that the star of the year is in the heart.
Today, Taibai follows it and intercourse in the Mingtang. Metal and wood harm each other, but opposition and unity merge together. This is a variation of Yin and Yang, and the subordinates have exclusive power.
The house star and the heart star are in the east, and its country is dominated by Song Dynasty.
"Shishi Jing" says: When the year star appears on the left, there will be years, but when it appears on the right, there will be no years.
Now Venus and Jupiter are in the east, and the Sui star is in the south. This is the right direction. I am afraid that the grain will not grow well and the people of Song Dynasty will starve.
Your Majesty should review the situation of the Mingtang administration in detail, and then the evil will be eliminated, and the five latitudes will be able to operate in order. The fourth thing: "Yi Zhuan" says: If Yang has no virtue, there will be drought, and if Yin submerges Yang, there will be drought.
Yang has no virtue, which means that the king's kindness is not extended to the people.
The yin subsides and the yang lurks, and the salary goes to the public office, which means that the subordinates have exclusive power.
From winter to spring, there has been no Jiaze, and there have been several westerly winds, which violates the seasonal regulations.
The court worked hard, prayed widely, paid homage to the mountains and rivers, and the dragon moved to the city.
I have heard that the emperor and heaven move all things, and do not act in vain. Catastrophes respond to people. The important thing is to blame yourself.
If the rain can fall and the water can stop, then the years will not be separated and the year of peace can wait and come.
However, the disaster does not stop, it can be seen that the problem is not here.
Since the beginning of spring, I have not seen the imperial court appreciating meritorious people, commending virtuous people, caring for orphans and widows, or providing relief to the poor and weak. I have only seen Luoyang officials rushing from east to west, collecting minor crimes, and filling the prisons with prisoners.
I heard that the fire in Gongling continued to shine, indicating that it was a natural disaster and not a human fault.
Ding Chou sent out a strong wind, covering the heaven and earth.
The wind is a command, and the expression of heaven's majesty and anger is used to inspire people to be loyal and honest.
Another month without rain will harm Sumai. If there is no harvest, then three or four out of ten people will be hungry. Your Majesty should indeed be favored widely in response to your heavenly merit. If the minister's words are not adopted and the government is not reformed, there will be some rain after the beginning of summer, and there will be no hope now.
If the government is reformed but it still does not rain, then the minister is falsely accused, stupid and ignorant of his weight, and should be punished.
The book was sent up, and he was specially ordered to be appointed as a doctor. Lang Yi resigned from his illness and refused to take up his post, so he went home immediately.
In April, there was an earthquake in the capital and it fell.
There was a severe drought this summer.
In autumn, the Xianbei people invaded Mayi City and defeated the troops of Dai County.
The next year, the Western Qiang invaded Longyou.
It's all roughly as Lang Yi said.
Later, the court officials summoned him in a bus, but he refused to come out.
Sun Li, a native of the same county, was evil and violent, and liked knight-errants. People in his hometown often envied Lang Yi's reputation and wanted to be friendly with him.
Lang Yi ignored them and became enemies, so Lang Yi was killed by Sun Li.
◆Xiangkai Chuan Xiangkai was named Gongju and was from Xiyin, Pingyuan.
He is good at learning, has extensive knowledge of ancient books, and knows the art of astronomy and yin and yang.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, the eunuchs monopolized the affairs of the state, and brutal punishments were rampant. Princes also died one after another, and disasters were particularly common.
In the ninth year of Yanxi's reign, Xiangkai left home and went to the court to preach: I heard that the emperor did not speak, so he used astronomical pictograms to teach.
Although Yao and Shun were saints, they must have observed the calendar, the sun, the moon, the stars, and the positions of the five latitudes. Therefore, they could live a hundred years and become an example for all generations.
I saw privately that in May last year, the star Yinghuo invaded the Taiwei star, invaded the throne of the emperor, went out of the Duanmen, and did not move as usual.
In the leap month and Gengchen, the Taibai star invades the house star, offends the small star in the heart, and shakes the center.
Zhongyao is the King of Heaven; the little star next to him is the son of the King of Heaven.
Taiwei Tianting is the seat of the five emperors, and Venus and Mars are shining in it. According to divination, the emperor is the main evil; and they all enter the house star and the heart star, so there is no heir.
This year, Sui Xing stayed in Taiwei for a long time and traveled westward to Yemen, approaching the law enforcement.
The year is Jupiter, which means good things happen and bad things happen, but it can't stay there. The fault lies in not cultivating benevolence and virtue, and the punishments are too cruel.
In December of the first seven years, both Yinghuo and Sui entered Xuanyuan and went retrograde for more than forty days, and Queen Deng was killed.
That winter was very cold, killing birds and beasts, harming fish and turtles, and the leaves of bamboos and cypresses near the city were damaged and withered.
I heard the master say: If the cypress is damaged and the bamboo withers, within three years, the emperor will be the one to do it.
Nowadays, people in the city of Luoyang shout for no reason at night, saying that there is fire and turning around, and people startle each other, which is the same as the dead leaves of bamboo and cypress when doing divination.
Since the spring and summer, there have been continuous frosts, hail, heavy rains, thunder and lightning, which may be due to the ministers' arrogance and imminent punishment. The prefect of Taiyuan, Liu Wangzhi, and the prefect of Nanyang, Cheng Wangjin, were determined to get rid of the treacherous people. The people they killed were all in line with everyone's wishes. However, your majesty listened to the slanderous talk of eunuchs and went far away to arrest them.
The Third Duke wrote a letter asking for forgiveness from Liu Wangzhi and others, but was not investigated and was severely condemned.
The loyal ministers who are worried about the country will be silenced and silenced. I heard that if you kill innocent people and kill virtuous people, the disaster will spread to three generations.
Since your Majesty came to the throne, he has been killing people continuously. Liang Ji, Kou Rong, Sun Shou, Deng Wanshi, etc. have all been exterminated. There are also countless people involved in crimes.
Li Yun wrote a letter to the Ming Dynasty, saying that the emperor should not be taboo, and the Du people begged for death, so as to understand the Holy Dynasty, but they were not pardoned, but were killed. Everyone in the world knew that they were unjust.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, there has been no refusal to punish the virtuous, and the punishments used are too much like today. In the old code of the Yongping period, those felons were sent to winter prison, and they were asked for instructions before being tortured, in order to value human life.
In recent decades, states and counties have neglected their duties and want to avoid the trouble of having to ask the court officials for instructions on suspicious cases. They often die due to illness and often die in prison.
The chief officials had the power of life and death, and many of the deaths were not their fault. The souls and spirits were filled with grievances, and there was no place to appeal. From then on, serious sexual diseases and epidemics began.
In ancient times, King Wen of Zhou had one wife who gave birth to ten sons. Nowadays, there are thousands of maids in the palace, but none of them are known to have children.
We should cultivate virtue and avoid punishment, so as to seek the blessing of many children and grandchildren.
On the 13th day of the sixth month of the seventh year of Yanxi, a dragon died on Yewang Mountain in Hanoi. It was about dozens of feet long.
There are stars in Fufeng that have fallen into stone, and the sound can be heard in three counties.
Dragons have different shapes, small and big, so the Book of Changes compares them to adults, and emperors think they are lucky.
Someone heard that a dragon was dying in Hanoi and mistook it for a snake.
Dragons can change, and snakes have gods, so they don't deserve to die.
Once upon a time when the Qin Dynasty was about to fall, the God of Huashan gave it to Zheng Ke with a piece of jade and said: This year the ancestor dragon will die. The First Emperor fled from it and died in the sand dunes.
In the second year of Tianfeng's reign, Wang Mang falsely claimed that there was a strange thing about a dead dragon in Huangshan Palace. Later, the Han Dynasty killed Wang Mang and revived Emperor Guangwu.
This is still true of false talk, is it true?
The stars are beautiful in the sky, just like the king of all nations.
Those below will rebel against their superiors, so the stars will rebel against the sky.
The one who rocks is safe, and the one who falls loses his power.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, five stones fell on the Song Dynasty. Later, Song Xianggong was captured by the Chu Kingdom.
When Qin fell, the stone fell on Dongjun.
Now the meteorite has fallen in Fufeng, which is close to the tomb of the late emperor. If there is no great mourning, there must be rebellion. According to the ancient emperors and the Spring and Autumn Period, there was no such thing as the clear water of the Yellow River and the self-destruction of the school.
I believe that the Yellow River symbolizes the status of princes. The clear part belongs to Yang and the turbid part belongs to Yin.
When the river is turbid but turns clear, it means that the yin wants to become yang, and the princes want to be emperor.
Taixue is the emperor's palace of education. Its doors self-destroyed for no reason, indicating that civilization and virtue will be lost and education will be weakened.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: The river water is clear and the world is peaceful.
Nowadays, the sky is hanging down, the earth is spitting out evil spirits, and people are suffering from severe epidemics. The three items appearing at the same time, plus the clear water of the Yellow River, are equivalent to the appearance of Kirin in the spring and Autumn period. Confucius wrote in the history book that it was a disaster. I previously wrote a letter saying that Langfu Palace respected and accepted the Qianji Divine Book, which was not acceptable to the Ming Lord.
I have heard that the cuckoo crows in Mengxia and the cricket chirps in early autumn. Although things are small, they are not unfaithful, and people are loyal even if they are humble.
Although I am very humble, I sincerely wish to give you some free time and do what you say.
The report was not inspected by the emperor.
More than ten days later, he wrote again: I saw Taibai Venus entering the north for a few days and then emerging from the east. According to the divination, a large army should appear. China is weak and the foreign barbarians are strong.
The minister pushed forward again, Yinghuo star should appear now but cannot lurk out, there must be a conspiracy.
All due to many unjust cases in prison, loyal ministers were killed.
This is also the reason why Dexing has been enforcing the law for a long time.
Your Majesty, in accordance with God's will, investigated the unjust imprisonment, defended the king of Liu, rectified the sins of the king and Jin Dynasty, and traced the descendants of Li Yun, Du Zhong and others. If the emperor serves the heaven unfilially, there will be eclipses of the sun and stars.
In recent years, there has been a solar eclipse in Zhengshuo. The three lights of the sun, moon and stars are unclear, and the five latitudes are wrong.
Some time ago, Gong Chong presented a sacred book, which was dedicated to the five acts of worshiping heaven and earth, and also had methods for revitalizing the country and promoting heirs.
Its text is clear and easy to understand, and it can be read from the same classics. However, Emperor Shun could not do it, so the country was not prosperous, and the two emperors, Xiao Chong and Xiao Zhi, were short-lived. I also heard that if you get the favor of the master, you are not in the right way, and the gods will be cruel to you.
Therefore, the Zhou Dynasty declined, and the princes used military conquest as the fashion. Therefore, Xia Yu, Shen Xiu, Song Wan, Peng Sheng, and Ren Bi lived in that era.
King Zhou of Yin was lustful, so Daji came out.
Ye Gong loves dragons, and real dragons swim in the courtyard.
Today, Huangmen is a regular attendant, and your Majesty treats those who have been punished by heaven with love and doubly favors them. No heirs are born. Isn't this the reason?
The stars of the heavenly officials are not in the Purple Palace but in the Heavenly City. It is clearly stated that they should be given to the envoys to take charge of the city.
Now he is in Uncle Chang's position, which is really not God's will. I also heard that the palace established a temple for Huang Lao and Fu Tu.
This Tao advocates purity and emptiness, admiring nothingness, loving life and killing evil, avoiding selfish desires, and getting rid of extravagance.
Now, your majesty will not get rid of your desires, and you will kill and punish unjustly. If you follow your own path, how can you get any blessings?
Some people say that when I entered Yi Di, I became a pagoda.
The pagoda does not spend three nights under the mulberry tree, and does not want to have a loving heart for a long time, which is extremely refined.
God sent a good girl, the pagoda said; This is just a leather bag filled with blood.
Not even looking. Only by keeping it in this way can he become enlightened.
Today, your majesty’s concubines are as gorgeous as the world’s, and they are rich and delicious. How can they want to become Huang Lao?
After writing the memorial, the emperor immediately summoned the minister to ask about the situation.
Xiang Kai said: I heard that there were no eunuchs in ancient times. In the last years of Emperor Wu, when he was already old and visited the harem several times, there were no eunuchs.
Later, I gradually met Ren, and when I arrived at Emperor Shun, there were more and more people.
Now His Majesty will give them titles, ten times more than before.
There is no prince to take over, isn't it because of liking them?
The minister relayed his words, and the edict was handed over to the department for correction.
The minister received the order and said: The official positions of eunuchs were not established in modern times.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Ze served as a great visitor and helped Jianghou kill Zhu Lu; Emperor Xiaowen sent Zhao Tan to participate in the riding, and his descendants prospered.
Xiangkai is not correct in his rhetoric, pointing out the important affairs of the country, but breaking the law with analysis, violating the classics and art, using the stars and gods, falsely entrusting gods, creating personal agendas, and slandering the Holy One for neglecting state affairs. Please hand it over to Sili, and he will be imprisoned in Luoyang Prison for the crime of Zhengkai.
The emperor believed that although Xiangkai's words were passionate, they were all astronomical and constant phenomena, so he was not killed, but was handed over to the commander of the army for deliberation.
At the beginning, during the reign of Emperor Shun, Langfu Palace Chong came to the court and presented one hundred and seventy volumes of sacred books that his master Ganji had obtained in the Quyang Spring. They were all written in white, with Zhu Jieqing's head and eyes, and they were called "Taiping Qingling Shu".
His language is based on yin and yang and the five elements, and is mostly based on shamanism and miscellaneous language.
One official reported that the book written by Gong Chong was monstrous and unreliable, so he kept it.
Later Zhang Jiao had his own writings.
When Emperor Ling came to the throne, he believed that Xiangkai's book was correct.
Grand Tutor Chen Fan appointed him as Founder, but he did not take up the post.
Whenever the governor of the village comes to take office, he always greets him with courtesy.
During the Zhongping period, both Xun Shuang and Zheng Xuan were recruited as doctors, but they did not go and died at home.
