Tingwei Zhang Shizhi was from Duyang, with the courtesy name Ji.
Lives with his brother Zhong.
Because his family had a lot of money, he became a knight and served Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty. He was not promoted within ten years and became unknown.
Zhang Shizhi said: Being a Langguan for a long time has depleted my brother's wealth and made people uneasy.
I want to resign and go home.
The lieutenant general Yuan Ang knew that he had both political integrity and talent, and regretted his departure. He asked Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty to appoint him as a visitor.
After Zhang Shizhi met with Emperor Wen, he stepped forward to state the big plans and policies that would benefit the country and the people. Emperor Wen said: Talk about things close to real life, don't talk lofty words, what you say should be implemented now.
So Zhang Shizhi talked about the Qin and Han Dynasties again, and talked for a long time about the reasons for the demise of the Qin Dynasty and the prosperity of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wen admired him very much and appointed him as an emissary.
Once, Zhang Shizhi followed Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty on a trip to the tiger enclosure. Emperor Wenwen of Han Dynasty asked about the status of various animals registered in the book. He asked more than a dozen questions. Lieutenant Shang Lin could only look here and there, but could not answer any of them.
The stingy man who was in charge of the tiger enclosure answered the questions raised by the emperor on behalf of Lieutenant Lin, and he answered them very comprehensively. I want to use this to show that I answer questions like a voice response and that I can't answer questions.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty said: Shouldn't an official be like this?
Lieutenant Shang Lin could not rely on him.
So Zhang Shizhi was ordered to let the stingy man serve as Lin Ling.
After a while, Zhang Shizhi stepped forward and said, "What kind of person does your Majesty think Jianghou Zhou Bo is?"
Emperor Wen said: He is an elder!
Asked again: What kind of person is Dongyang Hou Zhang Xiangru?
Emperor Wen once again replied: He is an elder.
Zhang Shizhi said: Both Jianghou and Dongyanghou are called elders, but these two are not good at talking when discussing things. If we do this now, will people follow this stingy man who talks endlessly and speaks sharply?
In the Qin Dynasty, officials who used dance-style tactics were reused, so the officials strived to be quick, harsh, and accountable. However, the disadvantage of this was that it only had the superficial form of official documents without the essence of compassion and sympathy.
Because of this, the king of Qin could not hear his own mistakes, and the country's power declined day by day. By the time of Qin II, the Qin country also collapsed.
Now that Your Majesty has promoted a stingy man to a higher level because of his sharp tongue, I am afraid that people all over the world will follow this trend and rush to use their rhetorical skills without pursuing reality.
Moreover, people in lower positions are influenced by those in higher positions as quickly as shadows follow the body and respond to sounds. Your Majesty must not be irrational in anything you do! Emperor Wen said: OK!
Therefore, the original plan was cancelled, and Shifu was no longer appointed as Shanglin Ling.
Emperor Wen got into the car and asked Zhang Shizhi to ride beside him. The car moved forward slowly.
Emperor Wen asked Zhang Shizhi about the shortcomings of Qin's government, and Zhang Shizhi told him truthfully. When he arrived at the palace, Emperor Wen appointed Zhang Shizhi as the bus commander.
Soon, the prince and King Liang entered the court in the same car, and they did not get off the car when they arrived at Simamen outside the palace. At that time, Zhang Shizhi stepped forward to stop the prince and King Liang from entering the palace.
They also reported to the emperor that they had committed the crime of "disrespect" by not getting out of the car outside the palace gate.
When Empress Dowager Bo learned about this, Emperor Wen took off his hat and said, "I blame my lax teaching of my son."
Empress Dowager Bo also sent envoys with her edict to pardon the sins of Prince Liang, so that Prince Liang and Prince Liang could enter the palace.
From this, Emperor Wen even more saw Zhang Shizhi's uniqueness and appointed him as a middle doctor.
After some time, Zhang Shizhi was promoted to Zhonglang General.
Following the emperor to Ba Ling, Emperor Wen of Han stood on the north side of Ba Ling and looked out.
At this time, Mrs. Shen also followed. The emperor showed her the road to Xinfeng with his hand and said: This is the road to Handan.
Then, he asked Mrs. Shen to play the harp, and Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty sang to the melody of the harp himself. He felt very miserable and sad, and turned back to the ministers and said: Alas!
Use the stone from Beishan to make a coffin, fill the gaps in the stone coffin with chopped ramie silk wadding, and then apply paint on it. How can it still be opened?
The attendants around me all said: That’s right.
Zhang Shizhi stepped forward and said: If there is something inside that can cause people to be greedy, even if the coffin is made of Nanshan, there will still be gaps; if there is nothing inside that can cause people to be greedy, even if there is no stone coffin, there will be no need to worry!
Emperor Wen praised him for speaking well.
Later he was appointed Tingwei.
Shortly thereafter, when the emperor was on patrol and passed the Zhongwei Bridge in the north of Chang'an City, a man suddenly ran out from under the bridge. The horse that the emperor was driving was frightened.
So he ordered the knights to capture the man and hand him over to Ting Wei Zhang Shizhi.
Zhang Shizhi interrogated that person.
The man said: I am a countryman from Chang'an County. I hid under the bridge when I heard the order to close the Qingdao Road.
After a long time, I thought the emperor's team had passed by, so I came out from under the bridge. I saw the emperor's motorcade and started running immediately.
Then the Tingwei reported to the emperor the punishment that the man deserved, saying that he had violated the prohibitions of Qingdao and should be fined.
Emperor Wen was angry and said: This man frightened my horse. Fortunately, my horse is tame and gentle. If it had been another horse, it might have injured me, but it was the Tingwei who sentenced him to a fine!
Zhang Shizhi said: The law is something that the emperor and the people of the world should abide by.
Now the law stipulates this, but the punishment must be increased, so the law cannot win the trust of the people.
At that time, your Majesty, you can just ask someone to kill him immediately.
Now that this person is handed over to Tingwei, who is the leader of fair law enforcement in the world, if there is a slight deviation, the law enforcers in the world will be arbitrarily light or heavy, won't the people be at a loss?
May your Majesty understand clearly.
After a long time, the emperor said: Ting Wei's sentence is correct.
Later, someone stole the jade ring in front of the throne of Gaozu Temple and was caught. Emperor Wen was angry and handed it over to Tingwei for punishment.
Zhang Shizhi reported to the emperor the crime of stealing the ancestral temple's clothing and equipment according to the law and was sentenced to death.
The emperor was furious and said: "This man has acted so lawlessly that he stole the artifacts from the temple of the late emperor. I handed him over to the Tingwei for trial and wanted to punish him with genocide, but you blindly reported the punishment to me in accordance with the provisions of the law. This is not my original intention to respect and flatter the ancestral temple."
Zhang Shizhi took off his hat, kowtowed and apologized, saying: "This punishment is enough according to the law."
Moreover, when the charges are the same, the severity of the crime must also be distinguished.
Now if he steals the artifacts from the ancestral temple, he will be punished with genocide. If a stupid person digs up a handful of earth from Changling, what punishment will your Majesty use to punish him?
After some time, Emperor Wen and Empress Dowager Bo discussed the matter and agreed to Tingwei's verdict.
At that time, Lieutenant Tiaohou Zhou Yafu and Liang Guoguo's Prime Minister Shandu Hou Wang Tiankai saw Zhang Shizhi's impartiality in enforcing the law and became close friends with him.
Zhang Shizhi was praised by people all over the world.
Later, Emperor Wen died and Emperor Jing ascended the throne. Zhang Shizhi was frightened and pretended to be sick.
He wanted to resign and leave, but he was worried that he would be executed. He wanted to apologize to Emperor Jing in person, but he didn't know what to do.
After using Wang Sheng's strategy, he finally saw Emperor Jing apologize and apologize, but Emperor Jing did not blame him.
Wang Sheng is a virgin who likes Huang Lao's theory.
Once he was called into the court, where all the three princes and nine ministers were standing. Wang Sheng, an old man, said: My garter is loose. He turned around and said to Zhang Tingwei: Kie the garter for me!
Zhang Shizhi knelt down and tied his garters.
Afterwards, someone asked Wang Sheng: Why did he humiliate Zhang Tingwei in the court and make him kneel to tie his garters?
Wang Sheng said: I am old and of low status. I expected that I would not be able to benefit Zhang Tingwei in the end.
Zhang Tingwei is a famous official in the world. I deliberately humiliated Zhang Tingwei and made him kneel down to tie his garters, hoping to use this method to strengthen his reputation.
After hearing this, all the ministers praised Wang Sheng's virtue and respected Zhang Tingwei.
Zhang Tingwei served Emperor Jing for more than a year and was demoted to the position of Prince of Huainan. This was because he had offended Emperor Jing in the past.
After some time, Zhang Shizhi died.
His son's name was Zhang Zhi, named Changgong. His official position was until he was a doctor, and he was later dismissed.
Because he could not cater to the powerful and prominent people at that time, he did not serve as an official again until his death.
Feng Tang, his grandfather was from Zhao during the Warring States Period.
His father immigrated to Daidi.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, it moved to Anling.
Feng Tang was famous for his filial piety at that time, and was recommended as the director of Zhonglang to serve Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
Once Emperor Wen passed by the official office where Feng Tang worked and asked Feng Tang: Why is this old man still working as a Langguan? Where is home?
Feng Tangdu answered truthfully.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty said: When I was in Daijun, my food supervisor Gao Qu talked to me many times about the talents of Zhao general Li Qi and told me about his fighting under Julu City.
Now every time I eat, I always think of Li Qi during the Battle of Julu.
Does the old man know this person?
Feng Tang replied: He can't compare with Lian Po and Li Mu's commanding talents.
Emperor Wen of Han said: Why do you say this?
Feng Tang said: When my grandfather was in Zhao State, he served as a soldier commander and had a good relationship with Li Mu.
My father used to be a prime minister and had a close relationship with Zhao General Li Qi, so he knew their character.
After listening to Feng Tang's story, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was very happy. He clapped his thigh and said: I can't get people like Lian Po and Li Mu as generals. If there are such generals, should I still worry about the Huns?
Feng Tang said: I am sincere and frightened. I think that even if your Majesty gets Lian Po and Li Mu, you will not use them.
Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty was furious and got up and returned to the palace.
After a long while, he summoned Feng Tang again and scolded him: Why did you insult me ​​in public? Can't you tell me in private?
Feng Tang apologized and said: I am a despicable person who doesn't know how to avoid taboos.
At this time, the Huns had recently invaded the country on a large scale and killed Sun Xin, the captain of the Northern Territory.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was worried about this, so he finally asked Feng Tang again: How do you know that I cannot appoint Lian Po and Li Mu?
Feng Tang replied: I heard that in ancient times, when kings dispatched generals, they knelt down and pushed the hub of the cart and said, I will make the decision on matters within the country's gates, and the generals will decide on matters outside the country's gates.
All matters regarding titles and rewards for meritorious service in the army were decided by the general while away from home and reported to the court upon his return.
This is not an empty boast.
My grandfather said that when Li Mu was commanding the army on the border of Zhao State, he used the taxes collected to reward his subordinates. Rewards are decided by the general outside, and the court does not interfere.
The king gave him an important task and asked him to succeed, so Li Mu was able to give full play to his talents. He dispatched 1,300 carefully selected chariots, 13,000 soldiers who were good at riding and shooting, and 100,000 soldiers who were capable of making meritorious deeds. Therefore, they were able to expel Shanyu in the north, defeat Donghu, eliminate Danlin, suppress Qin in the west, and support Han and Wei in the south.
At this time, Zhao almost became the overlord.
Later, when Zhao Wangqian came to the throne, his mother was a singing woman.
As soon as he came to the throne, he listened to Guo Kai's slander and eventually killed Li Mu and replaced him with Yan Ju.
As a result, the army was defeated and captured and destroyed by the Qin people.
Now I heard that Wei Shang was the governor of Yunzhong County. He used all the taxes from the military market to reward the soldiers. He also used his personal money to kill an ox every five days, entertain guests and military officials, and get close to the people around him. Therefore, the Huns stayed far away and did not dare to approach the border fortress of Yunzhong County.
The Huns once invaded, and Wei Shang led his army to attack and killed many enemy troops.
Those soldiers were all children of ordinary families who came from the countryside to join the army. How did they know the laws and regulations such as the ruler's registration and the five-year-old talisman?
They only know how to fight hard all day long, kill the enemy and capture prisoners, and go to the shogunate to report their merits. As long as one sentence is not consistent with the actual situation, the judge will punish them with the law.
The reward you deserve cannot be honored, but the judge will pursue it according to the law.
I foolishly thought that His Majesty's laws were too strict, the rewards too light, and the punishments too severe.
Moreover, Wei Shang, the governor of Yunzhong County, was only guilty of falsely reporting that he had killed six more enemies. Your Majesty handed him over to the judge, deprived him of his title, and sentenced him to one year in prison.
From this point of view, even if His Majesty gets Lian Po and Li Mu, he cannot reuse them.
I am indeed stupid, I have violated a taboo, I deserve the death penalty, I deserve the death penalty!
Emperor Wen was very happy and asked Feng Tang to go on a Hanjie envoy that day to pardon Wei Shang and re-appoint him as the governor of Yunzhong County. He appointed Feng Tang as the chariot and cavalry captain, in charge of the lieutenants and the chariot warriors of each county.
In the seventh year after Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty came to the throne and asked Feng Tang to be the prime minister of Chu State. He was soon dismissed.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he was looking for virtuous people, and everyone recommended Feng Tang.
Feng Tang was already over ninety years old and could no longer serve as an official, so he appointed his son Feng Sui as Lang Guan.
Feng Sui, courtesy name Wang Sun, is also an outstanding talent and is friendly to me.
Tai Shigong said: What Zhang Shizhi said about the elders, how he strictly abided by the law and did not cater to the emperor's wishes, and what Feng Gong said about appointing generals, are interesting!
Tasty!
As the saying goes: If you don't know a person well, you can tell by looking at the friends he makes.
The words of the two senior generals that they praised should be marked in the court.
"Shangshu" says: If there are no partialities and no cliques, the royal way will be smooth and broad; if there are no parties and no partialities, the royal way will be clear and clear.
Zhang Ji and Feng Gong are similar to this statement!
