◆Dou Rong's Biography: Dou Rong's courtesy name was Duke of Zhou, and he was a native of Pingling County, Fufeng County.
Dou Guangguo, the seventh generation ancestor, was the younger brother of Queen Xiaowen and was named Zhang Wuhou.
His great-great-grandfather moved from Changshan with two thousand stones as an official during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Dou Rong has been an orphan since he was a child.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he was the Sima of Wang Jun, the strong crossbow general. He attacked Zhaiyi in the east and Huaili. He was named Jianwu Nan for his military merits.
The younger sister is the younger wife of the great Sikong Wangyi.
He lived in Chang'an, visited noble families, made friends with local heroes, and was famous for his chivalry and righteousness. However, he served his mother and elder brother and raised his weak younger brother, practicing benevolence and righteousness.
In the last years of Wang Mang, bandits broke out in Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Wang Kuang, the Grand Master, asked Dou Rong to help the army and join him in the eastern expedition.
When the Han army rose, Dou Rong was defeated by Wang Yi at Kunyangxia and returned to Chang'an.
When the Han army commander entered the pass, Wang Yi recommended Dou Rong as General Bo Shui, rewarded him with a thousand catties of gold, and led his troops to Xinfeng.
When Wang Mang was defeated, Dou Rong led his army and surrendered to Zhao Meng, the commander-in-chief of Gengshi. Zhao Meng regarded Dou Rong as a school captain and thought highly of him. He recommended Dou Rong to be the prefect of Julu.
When Dou Rong saw the new establishment and the chaos in the east, he didn't want to leave the country. He remembered that his great-great-grandfather was the governor of Zhangye, his grandfather was the captain of the Qiang Guard, and his younger brother was the governor of Wuwei. They had been in Hexi for several generations and knew the local customs, so he said to his brothers alone: The safety of the world is still unknown. Hexi is rich and fertile, and the Yellow River is very strong. Zhangye's vassal state has thousands of elite soldiers and cavalry. In the event of an emergency, it will be enough to defend itself by eliminating the crossing of the Yellow River. This is a good place for us to leave to our descendants.
The brothers all agreed. Dou Rong asked to see Zhao Meng that day, resigned as Julu governor, and asked to go to Hexi.
Zhao Meng told Gengshi, and he became the captain of Zhangye's vassal state.
Dou Rong was so happy that he took his family to the northwest.
When he arrived in Zhangye, he made friends with local heroes and lived in harmony with the ethnic minorities. He was very popular with the people from all over the world, and Hexi quickly surrendered to him.
At this time, Liang Tong, the prefect of Jiuquan, Shejun, the prefect of Jincheng, Shi Bao, the captain of Zhangye, Zhu Zeng, the captain of Jiuquan, Xin Xu, the captain of Dunhuang, and all the heroes of the prefectures and counties, Dou Rong treated them kindly.
When Gengshi failed, Dou Rong and Liang Tong discussed the situation and said: "Today there is chaos in the world, I don't know what the outcome will be."
Hexi is in a dangerous position between Qiang and Hu. Without concerted efforts, we cannot defend ourselves. The power is generally great, and there is no leader.
One person should be elected as a general to ensure the security of the five counties and observe changes in the current situation. After deliberation, it was decided that Dou Rong should be the general of the five counties in Hexi.
At this time, Ma Qi, the governor of Wuwei, and Ren Zhong, the governor of Zhangye, were both isolated and had no party members, so they jointly informed them in letters, and they took off their seals and resigned.
So Liang Tong was appointed as the prefect of Wuwei, Shi Bao as the prefect of Zhangye, Zhu Zeng as the prefect of Jiuquan, Xin Xu as the prefect of Dunhuang, and Shengou as the prefect of Jincheng.
Dou Rong still lives in the vassal state, and his concurrent post as captain remains unchanged, and he is assigned to supervise the five counties.
The folk customs in Hexi are simple, and the politics of Dou Rong and others are also tolerant. They are friendly to each other, and they are safe and prosperous.
He repaired his troops and horses, practiced archery, and sounded the beacon fire alarm at the border. When Qiang and barbarians invaded the border fortress, Dou Rong often led his troops to rescue the troops together with the counties. He always arrived as scheduled and often defeated the invaders.
Later, the Huns also learned their lesson and rarely invaded again. The Qiang and Hu who were attached to the fortress were frightened by their relatives, and the homeless people who suffered from starvation in Anding, Beidi, Shangjun and other places came back in an endless stream.
When Dou Rong and others heard that Guangwu had ascended the throne, they wanted to go east to Luoyang, because the river and the west were far apart and could not be reached by themselves.
At this time, Wei Xiao first took the title of Jianwu, Dou Rong and others accepted Zhengshuo, and Wei Xiao all pretended to be his general's seal and ribbon.
Kuai Xiao looked obedient to others but harbored dissatisfaction inside. He sent the debater Yong Lian to lobby Hexi and said: Gengshi became emperor and soon fell into ruin. This is the result of a surname that cannot be revived.
Now if you identify a master and establish a relationship of dependence with him, once you are controlled by him, the power in your hands will be lost. If you encounter danger in the future, you will regret it.
Now the heroes are competing, and the outcome is undecided. They should each occupy their territory and join forces with Long and Shu. If you are high, you can become the king of a country like the Six Kingdoms, and if you are low, you can be a captain of the South China Sea like Zhao Tuo. Dou Rong summoned the heroes and prefects to discuss the matter together. The brave and wise among them all said: The Han Dynasty inherited the lineage of Yao and cultivated it for a long time.
Now the emperor's surname is found in the Hetu Chifu Fu Book. Since the ancient Taoist scholars Gu Ziyun and Xia Heliang have revealed that the Han Dynasty will receive the talisman again, it has been said a long time ago, so Liu Zijun changed his name to Liu Xiu in the hope that the talisman will be fulfilled.
In Wang Mang's last years, the Taoist priest Ximen Junhui said that Liu Xiu should be the emperor, so he prepared to establish Liu Zijun.
After the incident was discovered, Liu Zijun was killed. The people watching said: Liu Xiu is really your master.
This was exposed not long ago and is common to all wise people.
Let’s not talk about destiny, but let’s comment on human affairs: there are countless people who are now emperors, and Luoyang has the largest land, the strongest armored soldiers, and the clearest orders.
Observing fortune and personnel, he is probably incompetent for the position of emperor. The prefects of various counties each had guests, some of whom were in favor and some who were against it.
Dou Rong made a detailed comparative analysis and decided to go eastward.
In the summer of the fifth year, Liu Jun, the commander-in-chief, was sent to present a letter and horses to Guangwu.
First, the emperor heard that Hexi was complete and wealthy, bordering Long and Shu. He often wanted to recruit Dou Rong to force Kaixiao and Gongsun Shu, so he sent an envoy to write to Dou Rong. He happened to meet Liu Jun on the road, so they returned together.
The emperor was very happy to see Liu Jun, received him very politely, and asked him to go back. He gave Dou Rong a seal saying: The imperial edict is to act as the general of the five counties in Hexi Province in military affairs and the capital of the country. I wish you to guard the five frontier counties with strong soldiers and horses, abundant warehouses, and rich people. You have defeated the Qiang and Hu invasions externally, and enabled the people to live a happy life internally.
I heard about the mighty virtue, and I looked at it humbly, but the road was blocked, which made me despair!
I have received all the books and horses presented by Chang Shi, and I am fully aware of your kindness.
Today there is Gongzi Yang in Yizhou, and General Wei in Tianshui. Shu and Han are attacking each other, and the power lies in the hands of the general. You can see the importance by making a move.
From this point of view, is there a limit to a close relationship?
Everything has been seen by the long history and known by the general.
The rise of kings is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
If you want to establish the cause of Qi Huan, Jin Wen, and assist the small country, you should work hard to complete the assisting work; if you want to make three tripods, connecting horizontally and vertically, you should also depend on the time.
There is no unity in the world. You and I are not in the same region, and we are not countries annexing each other.
The current deliberation must have Ren Xiao follow Zhao Tuo's plan to control the seven counties.
The king divides the land but does not divide the people. He just handles his own affairs well.
Now I will give the general two hundred pounds of gold. Please write to me if you have time. So Dou Rong was appointed as the pastor of Liangzhou.
As soon as the seal arrived, everyone in Hexi was shocked, thinking that the emperor had seen it thousands of miles away and was trying to catch Zhang Li's feelings.
Dou Rong then sent Liu Jun to write a letter saying: Dou Rong secretly thought to himself that he was lucky enough to entrust the last relative of the late emperor to be favored as a relative, and he was given two thousand stones from generation to generation.
In my generation, he was also appointed as a captain, pretending to be a general, guarding the northwest corner.
It is easy to say that if you are entrusted to the county, it will be easy to make efforts if you are loyal to the king.
Letters are not enough to express sincerity, so Liu Jun is sent to express his sincerity to you verbally.
I showed everything inside and out, hiding nothing.
However, the seal book is said to be the two masters of Shu and Han, with three-thirds of power. Ren Xiao and Wei Tuo's plans make me sad.
Although I, Dou Rong, have no knowledge, I still know the difference between good and bad, good and bad.
How can we betray the true and old master and serve the traitor and hypocrite? Abandon the loyalty and loyalty, and go against the grain to overthrow the country. Abandon the established foundation and seek hopeless profits.
Although these three people are asking a crazy man, they still know where to go, but why do I, Dou Rongdu, care about it!
I would like to send my half-brother Dou You to Beijing to verbally explain my mere intentions. When Dou You arrived at Gaoping, Kuai Xiao rebelled and the road was blocked, so he had to return and sent Sima Xifeng to Luoyang via the trail to submit a letter.
The emperor again sent a banquet to the brothers Dou Rong and Dou You, and was very considerate in comforting and encouraging them.
Since Dou Rong was well aware of the emperor's intention, he wrote to Kai Xiao to rebuke him, saying: The general makes the country rich and the government cultivates, and the soldiers embrace it.
In a time when his family was in danger and the country was unfavorable, the general kept his integrity and served his dynasty, and his eldest son, Kai Xun, committed himself to the country. His undoubted sincerity can be seen here.
This is why Dou Rong and others readily admire the general's noble loyalty and are willing to serve him.
Later, out of temporary personal anger, the general changed his temper and planned another big event, and the emperor and his ministers fought with each other.
It would be a pity to abandon the achievements that have been achieved and create new ones that are difficult to achieve, betray the righteousness of Shandong, and plan to connect with Western Shu. The accumulated achievements of hundreds of years are destroyed once!
Is it because the people below you are greedy for credit and offer tricks that lead to this? Rong really feels sorry for it!
Today, Xizhou's terrain is cramped and its troops are scattered. It is easy to assist others but difficult to create a situation on your own.
If you don't turn back after taking the wrong path, and are still confused after hearing the truth, you will either be annexed by Gongsun Shu in the south, or you will have to join Lu Fang's group in the north. Relying on false friendship to defeat a strong opponent, relying on distant rescue and despising the powerful enemy in front of you, there is no benefit.
Rong heard that wise people do not harm others to do things, and benevolent people do not create loyalty to achieve merit.
Now, if we have a small enemy but a big one, what can we say about the safety of everyone?
What does it say about your son's righteousness if you abandon your son for meritorious service?
Moreover, when you were a minister of this dynasty and bowed to the north, you were loyal to your ministers.
Later, he sent his son to the court and said goodbye with tears, which was the kindness of a loving father.
How will the officials think of you if you throw away all the kindness of a loyal minister and a loving father?
If you have the heart to abandon your flesh and blood, how will I miss you if you call me Liuzi?
Since the beginning of the army, attacks have turned around, and the entire city has been reduced to ruins, and many people have died in the ravines. Those who survive today are either those who escaped from the knife gap, or are singles in exile.
Up to now, the injured body has not recovered, and the sound of crying is still wailing in my ears.
Fortunately, destiny has eased a little bit, but the general is going to have another disaster. This is to prevent the long-sick people from recovering, and to make the young orphans suffer from the pain of being homeless again. This is grief, especially pity and heartache, and it makes people's noses sore!
If a mediocre person can't bear it, how much more can a benevolent person do?
It is easy to blend hearing and hearing into loyalty, but it is really difficult to be loyal appropriately.
Worrying too much for others will inevitably lead to resentment based on good deeds. I know that I will offend the general with my words.
It's just a tribute, I hope the general will realize it.
Wei Xiao refused, so Dou Rong and the governor of the five counties strengthened their troops and asked Shangshu for the date of departure.
The emperor admired Dou Rong's actions very much, and gave Dou Rong a picture of his subordinates and Tai Shigong's "Five Sects", "Family of Foreign Relatives", and "Biography of Wei Qihou".
The edict reported: "Every time I remember my relatives, Emperor Xiaojing comes from the Dou family, Prince Ding, the son of Emperor Jing, and is my ancestor."
In the past, due to Wei Qi's words, the orthodoxy was inherited. The eldest king and the young king respected their masters and cultivated good virtues, which were extended to their descendants. This is the spirit of the empress dowager. God bless the Han Dynasty.
People from Tianshui wrote a letter from the general instructing Wei Xiao, which was painful to the bones.
When the traitor sees it, he or she will feel ashamed, the loyal minister will feel sore and runny when he sees it, and the righteous will be bright-eyed when he sees it. How can this be done if it is not loyalty, filial piety and sincerity?
How can a person with poor moral character endure this!
Kuai Xiao knew that without the help of Hexi, the disaster of annihilation of the clan was coming, so he wanted to sow discord and spread rumors to confuse the people, so as to explain the conspiracy and make him treacherous.
In addition, all the officials in the capital did not understand the true intentions of the country and the generals, so they often resorted to hypocrisy, exaggerated nonsense, disappointed loyalty and filial piety, and made rumors untrue.
Reputation and reputation are not accidental and must be considered.
Now that the thieves in Guandong have been pacified, the entire army should now head west. The general invites fresh horses and strong troops to wait for the rendezvous. After Dou Rong received the edict, he led his troops into Jincheng with the governors.
At first, during the Gengshi period, Xianling Qiang Feng He Zhuzhong killed the prefect of Jincheng and occupied Jincheng. Kuai Xiao sent envoys to bribe Feng He and form an alliance with him, preparing to use his tribe.
Dou Rong and others therefore sent troops to attack Fenghe, defeated his army, beheaded more than a thousand people, obtained tens of thousands of cattle, horses and sheep, and tens of thousands of grains, so they showed off their power according to the Yellow River, waiting for the arrival of Guangwu.
Later, because the soldiers did not advance, Dou Rong returned.
The emperor further rewarded Dou Rong for doing what he said, and ordered You Fufeng to repair Dou Rong's father's tomb and use a large prison to worship him.
He sent Qingqi back and forth several times and presented delicious food to all directions. Liang Tong ordered someone to assassinate Zhang Xuan, so he was cut off from Kai Xiao, and both of them took off their fake general seals.
In the summer of the seventh year, Zhu Zeng, the prefect of Jiuquan, left the county because his younger brother had committed murder. Dou Rong followed the emperor's wishes and worshiped Zeng Zhu as General Wu Feng, and replaced Zhu Zeng with Xin Wen as the prefect of Jiuquan.
In autumn, Wei Xiao sent troops to invade Anding. The emperor was preparing to personally march westward, so he first warned Dou Rong about the date of sending troops.
It happened to be raining, the road was blocked, and Kaixiao's soldiers had retreated, so they stopped.
Dou Rong arrived in Guzang and was ordered to leave.
Dou Rong was afraid that the troops would be delayed for a long time, so he wrote a letter saying: "Kai Xiao heard that you will lead the army to the west. Dou Rong sent troops to the east. The soldiers were in a commotion and decided not to resist."
Weixiao general Gao Jun and others wanted to welcome the army. Later, they heard that the army had retreated, and Gao Jun and others became suspicious again.
Wei Xiao threatened that there was a change in the east, so the heroes of Xizhou went to join Wei Xiao. Wei Xiao also invited General Gongsun Shu and ordered them to guard the city gate.
Dou Rong is lonely and weak, between Long and Shu. Although His Majesty has the power and spirit, he must be rescued as soon as possible.
The country is in front, and Dou Rong's troops are behind him. The priorities are intertwined, and the head and tail are taking care of each other. Wei Xiao is in a tight situation and cannot advance or retreat, so he will definitely be defeated.
If the army does not advance early and suspicions arise for a long time, then the foreign minister will be jealous and internally distressed and weak, and the slanderous evil will have an opportunity to take advantage of it. I am really worried, and I ask for your mercy.
The emperor expressed his deep praise.
In the summer of the eighth year, Guangwu personally marched westward to Kaihuo. Dou Rong led the five prefects, the Qiang captives, the Xiaoyue clan, etc., with tens of thousands of troops on foot and more than 5,000 vehicles of baggage. They met with the army at the first city of Gaoping. Dou Rong first sent an envoy to ask about the etiquette of the meeting. At this time, the army was changing, and the generals were on the wrong side of the road with the three princes, and some were whispering behind the back of the envoy.
The emperor was very happy when he heard that Dou Rong asked about etiquette first, so he announced it to all officials.
So a grand banquet was held and Dou Rong and others were introduced and treated with special etiquette.
He worshiped his younger brother Dou You as the captain of Fengche, and his younger brother Dou Shi as the doctor of Taizhong.
So they marched together, and the Kuihuo tribe was defeated, and all the cities surrendered.
In recognition of Dou Rong's meritorious service, the emperor issued an edict to confer Dou Rong as the Marquis of Anfeng in the four counties of Anfeng, Yangquan, Liao and Anfeng, and his younger brother Dou You as the Xianqinhou.
He named the generals in turn: General Zhu Zeng of Wufeng was the Marquis of Zhuyi, Wuwei Prefect Liang Tong was the Marquis of Chengyi, Zhangye Prefect Shi Bao was the Marquis of Baoyi, Jincheng Prefect Shejun was the Marquis of Fuyi, and Jiuquan Prefect Xin Xu was the Marquis of Fuyi.
After the knighthood was completed, Guangwu returned to the east and sent Dou Rong and other officials to the west to control Fuyuan County.
Dou Rong received a title as his brother and had been in the northwest for a long time. He was afraid and couldn't calm down. He wrote several times to ask for someone to replace him.
The edict replied: "The general and I are like right and left hands. You have asked to abdicate several times. Why are you not satisfied?"
I hope you will encourage the religious people not to leave the army without permission.
When Long and Shu were pacified, Dou Rong and the five prefects were ordered to come to the capital to report. They were accompanied by officials and guests, more than a thousand cars, and horses, cattle, and sheep everywhere.
Dou Rong arrived at the gate of Luoyang City and presented the seals and ribbons of the Mu of Liangzhou, the Captain of Zhangye County, and the Marquis of Anfeng. The emperor ordered the envoys to return the seals and ribbons of the Marquis.
After the introduction, he was given the title of prince, and he was given more favors and favors, which moved the capital.
A few months later, he was promoted to Jizhou Mu, and after more than ten days, he was promoted to Da Sikong.
Dou Rong thought that he was not an old minister. Once he entered the court, he would be ranked above the meritorious ministers. Every time he came to the meeting, his appearance and tone of voice were extremely humble, so the emperor became closer to him and loved him more.
Dou Rong was cautious and could not keep himself at ease. He resigned his title several times and asked Jin Qian, his servant, to convey his sincerity.
Another Shangshu said: Dou Rong was fifty-three years old and had a son who was fifteen years old and had a naughty and blunt character. Rong taught him the arts day and night, and did not allow him to watch astronomy or read prophecies. The purpose was to make him respectful, serious, not trouble-free, and able to follow the rules and follow the right path. He did not want him to have talents, let alone pass him to Liancheng Guangshi, so that he could enjoy the special treatment of the princes and kingdoms? So he once again asked to see him at his leisure, but the emperor refused.
Later, after the court affairs were over, Dou Rong carefully retreated to his seat. The emperor knew that Dou Rong wanted to resign again, so he ordered him to pass out.
When we meet tomorrow, we welcome Dou Rong and say: A few days ago, the official wanted to resign and return to his hometown, so I asked you to go home and rest on your own in the hot summer.
When we meet today, it is appropriate to discuss other matters and not talk about resignation. Dou Rong therefore did not dare to submit any further invitations.
In the 20th year, the great Situ Daishe was imprisoned for stealing gold by someone he recommended. The emperor asked the three ministers to participate in the ministry, so he had to avoid being suspected and resigned from the post of Dou Rong, the great minister.
In the second year, extra seats were added.
In the twenty-third year, Dai Yin Xingxing was engaged in the work of Weiwei, and he continued to advance as before, and he also led generals as great craftsmen.
His younger brother Dou You is the captain of the city gate school, and his brothers are also in charge of the forbidden troops.
Dou Rong once again asked to resign and return to his hometown. The emperor often rewarded him with money and silk, and the eunuch in charge of the royal diet often sent rare foods.
After Dou's friend died, the emperor took pity on Dou Rong's old age and frailty, and sent his regular attendants and ministers to Dou Rong's bedroom to force him to drink and eat.
Dou Rong's eldest son, Dou Mu, married Princess Neihuang and became the city gate captain on behalf of Dou You.
Dou Mu's son Dou Xun married Princess Pubiyang, the strong daughter of King Gong of the East China Sea, and Dou You's son Dou Gu also married Princess Nieyang, the daughter of Guangwu.
Xianzong ascended the throne and appointed Dou Lin, the son of Dou Rong's elder brother, as the Colonel Protecting Qiang. The Dou family has the special favor of one prince, two princes, three princesses, and four or two thousand stones, all at the same time.
From ancestors to grandsons, they have lived in the official residence of the capital and have thousands of slaves and maids. Among the many relatives and heroes, no one can compare with him.
In the second year of Yongping, Dou Lin, the son of Dou Rong's brother, was killed for committing a crime.
The emperor then issued several edicts to censure Dou Rong, citing the historical fact that Dou Ying and Tian Chong were responsible for the defeat.
Dou Rong was frightened and asked to return to his hometown, so he ordered him to return to his mansion to recuperate.
When he was more than a year old, he received Dou Rong's seal and ribbon from the imperial guard, and was given cattle and bottles of wine.
Dou Rong had been in Suwei for more than ten years. He was getting old, and his descendants were indulgent and lawless.
Dou Mu and others interacted with some frivolous people, and they were entrusted to the county to interfere with political affairs.
Because he was enfeoffed in Anfeng and wanted all his in-laws to occupy the original Liu'an kingdom, he asked the Queen Mother of Yin to order Liu Xu, the Marquis of Liu'an, to divorce his wife and marry his daughter to Liu Xu.
In the fifth year, Liu Xu was abandoned and his wife's family wrote a letter to report the situation. The emperor was furious and dismissed Dou Mu and others from their official positions. All the ministers in Dou took their families back to their hometowns in the countryside. Only Dou Rong stayed in the capital.
Dou Mu and others went west to Hangu Pass, and there was an imperial edict to recover them all.
When Dou Rong died at the age of seventy-eight, he was given the posthumous title of Marquis of Dai. He sent a lot of money to help with the funeral.
The emperor thought that Dou Mu could not cultivate himself and had a lot of wealth, so he often ordered Ye to guard his family alone.
The audience reported that Dou Mu and his son had complained several times since they lost power, and the emperor ordered him to take his family back to the original county. Only Dou Xun, the son-in-law of Princess Biyang, was able to stay in the capital.
Dou Mu was arrested and brought to justice by the county for bribing minor officials. Both Dou Mu and his son Dou Xuan died in Pingling Prison, and Dou Xun also died in Luoyang Prison.
A long time later, the imperial edict was issued to bring back Mrs. Dou Jia and a young grandson to their residence in Luoyang.
In the fourteenth year, Dou Rong, Dou Xun's younger brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Anfeng, with a settlement of 2,000 households, and was succeeded by Dou Rong's descendants.
At the beginning of Emperor He's reign, he was the Shaofu.
When Dou Xunzi, General Dou Xian was killed, he was spared from the country.
Dou Jia died and was succeeded by his son Dou Wanquan.
After Wanquan died, his son Huizong succeeded him.
Dou Wu, a disciple of Dou Wanquan, has a unique legend.
The historian commented: Dou Rong began to be known as a heroic hero, standing tall in the dust, and then emerged from the prince's position during the break, and finally won the title of minister. This is really a man who has a tendency to achieve merit.
When his title is high and perfect, he can put aside his power and favors, fearing as if he has no choice. How smart is this!
I once savored this man's demeanor in detail. Although his talents in the latitude and longitude of the country are not enough to talk about, the etiquette of advancing and retreating is worth talking about.
