Emperor Xiaowen was the eldest son of Emperor Gaozu.
In the spring of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Chen Xi's army was defeated and Dai was pacified. Emperor Xiaowen was made King of Dai and his capital was Zhongdu.
He is the son of Queen Mother Bo.
In the seventeenth year of his reign as King of Dai, it was the eighth year of the reign of Emperor Gao. In July of this year, Queen Gao passed away.
In September, Lu Chan and others from Empress Lu's family wanted to rebel and overthrow the Liu family's regime. The ministers annihilated the Lu family together and discussed summoning the king to come to the capital and establish him as emperor. This incident is recorded in "The Chronicles of Empress Dowager Lu".
Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Zhou Bo and others sent people to greet the king.
The king asked his ministers, Lang Zhongling, Zhang Wu and others for their opinions.
Zhang Wu and others suggested: The ministers in the Han Dynasty were all generals from the time of Emperor Gao. They were familiar with military affairs and were scheming and deceitful. Their real intention was not just that, they were just afraid of the power of Emperor Gao and Empress Dowager Lu.
Now that the Lu family has been annihilated and the capital has been bloodbathed, they are here to greet the king in name, but in fact they cannot be trusted.
I hope that the king will pretend to be ill, not go to the capital, and sit back and watch the situation change.
Lieutenant Song Chang said: The opinions of the ministers are all wrong.
When the corruption of the Qin Dynasty collapsed, the princes and heroes rose up at the same time, thinking that they could conquer the world. There were tens of thousands of people. However, it was the Liu family who finally ascended to the position of emperor. Those who competed in the world cut off the hope of becoming emperor. This is the first point.
Emperor Gao made his children kings, and the territories of the kingdoms were intertwined. This is what people call a clan that is as solid as a rock. Everyone in the world succumbed to the strength of the Liu family. This is the second point.
The rise of the Han Dynasty abolished the harsh decrees of the Qin Dynasty, simplified the laws, and benefited the people. Everyone lived peacefully and unshakably. This is the third point.
With the majesty of the Empress Dowager Lu, she established three of Lu's children as kings, who excelled in power and autocratic power. However, the Taiwei entered the Northern Army with integrity. When he called out, the soldiers all bared their left arms to support the Liu family and betrayed the Lu family. As a result, the Lu family was wiped out.
This is a gift from God and cannot be achieved by human beings.
Now even if the ministers want to rebel, the people are unwilling to be driven by them. Can their party members unite together wholeheartedly?
Today, there are relatives like Zhu Xuhou and Dongmuhou in the capital, and outside the capital there are people who are afraid of the power of the King of Wu, the King of Chu, the King of Huainan, the King of Langxie, the King of Qi, and the King of Dai.
At present, the only sons of Emperor Gao are the King of Huainan and the Great King. The Great King is older, famous for his virtuousness, saintliness, benevolence, and filial piety. Therefore, the ministers comply with the wishes of the people in the world and want to welcome the Great King as the emperor. The Great King has no doubts.
The king reported to the queen mother and held consultations, but he hesitated and did not make up his mind.
Use tortoise shells for divination, and the omens of the hexagrams will be great.
The omen said: Daheng heralds a change. I will become the king of heaven and carry forward the cause of the late emperor like Xia Qi.
Dai Wang said: I am already the king of vassals, what else do I want to be?
The fortune teller said: The king in question is the Son of Heaven.
So King Dai sent Bo Zhao, the younger brother of the Queen Mother, to the capital to meet with Jianghou. Jianghou and others told Bo Zhao all about their intention to welcome King Dai.
Bo Zhao came back and reported: The situation is real and there is nothing to doubt.
King Dai then smiled and said to Song Chang, "It's exactly what you said."
Song Chang was asked to ride on the right side of the car, and Zhang Wu and six other people took the transfer car to Chang'an.
After arriving at Gaoling, they stopped and sent Song Chang to drive to Chang'an to observe the changes in the situation.
When Song Chang arrived at Weiqiao, officials at all levels below the prime minister came to greet him.
Song Chang came back and reported to King Dai.
King Dai drove to Weiqiao, where all the ministers came to pay homage and called themselves ministers.
On behalf of the king, he got out of the car and paid his respects.
Taiwei Zhou Bo came to see him and said: I hope to talk to you alone.
Song Chang said: If what you say is official business, say it publicly.
What is said is a private matter, and the king does not accept private affairs.
The Taiwei knelt down and presented the emperor's seal and talisman.
King Dai said goodbye and said: "Go to Daiguo's official residence to discuss."
So he drove into Daiguo's official residence.
The ministers also followed them to Daiguo's official residence.
Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Zhou Bo, General Chen Wu, Yushi Zhang Cang, Zongzheng Liu Ying, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju, and Dianke Liu Jie all paid homage to Hou Jin and said: Prince Liu Hong and others are not the sons of Emperor Xiaohui and should not be emperors and be enshrined in the ancestral temple.
We discussed with the Marquis of Yin'an, Queen Qing, as well as King Langxie, the clan, ministers, princes, and officials of more than two thousand stones, and said: The king is now the eldest son of Emperor Gao, and is suitable to be the successor of Emperor Gao.
I hope your Majesty will ascend the throne and become the Emperor.
Dai Wang said: It is a very important thing to enshrine Emperor Gaodi in the ancestral temple.
I am not talented enough to serve in the ancestral temple.
I hope to ask the King of Chu to consider a suitable person. I dare not take on this important task.
The ministers all prostrated themselves on the ground and made a firm request.
The king of Dai surrendered three times while facing the west and twice more while facing the south.
Prime Minister Chen Ping and others said: "We have discussed below that it is most appropriate for the king to worship Gaodi in the ancestral temple. Even the princes and people of the world think it is appropriate."
We consider the ancestral temple and the country and dare not neglect our work.
I hope your Majesty will listen to our advice.
We solemnly and respectfully present the emperor's seal and talismans.
Dai Wang said: The clan, generals, kings, and princes all think that there is no more suitable candidate than me, so I dare not refuse any more.
So he ascended the throne as emperor.
The ministers served according to the etiquette and rank.
He sent his servants Xia Houying and Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju to clear the palace and use the Emperor's Dharma to greet the emperor at his residence.
The emperor entered Weiyang Palace that night.
At night, Song Chang was appointed as General of the Guard to subdue and organize the Northern and Southern armies.
Zhang Wu was appointed as the commander-in-chief and patrolled the palace.
The emperor returned to the front hall to sit in court.
So that night an edict was issued saying: Recently, the descendants of the Lu family have been monopolizing power, plotting rebellion, and trying to endanger the Liu family's ancestral temple. Fortunately, the generals, princes, clans, and ministers have eliminated them, and they have all received the punishment they deserve.
I had just ascended the throne and granted a general amnesty to the people. I granted the male heads of households among the common people a rank of nobility, and the female heads of households were given cattle and wine for every 100 households, and were allowed to gather and feast for five days.
On October 1, the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Liu Ze, the original king of Langxie, was granted the title of King of Yan.
On the second day, the emperor ascended the throne and paid homage to the Gaomiao.
The right prime minister Chen Ping moved to the left as the prime minister, the Taiwei Zhou Bo became the right prime minister, and the general Guan Ying became the Taiwei.
The old lands of Qi and Chu that Lu had captured were all returned to Qi and Chu.
On the third day, the cavalry general Bo Zhao was sent to Dai State to greet the Empress Dowager.
The emperor said: Lu Chan appointed himself Prime Minister, and Lu Lu appointed himself General. They sent General Guan Ying to lead the army to attack Qi State without authorization, in order to replace Liu. Guan Ying stayed in Xingyang, held his troops inactive, and conspired with the princes to kill the Lu family.
Lu Chan attempted to launch a rebellion, and Prime Minister Chen Ping and Taiwei Zhou Bo used tactics to seize the military power of Lu Chan and others.
Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang first captured Lu Chan and others.
The Taiwei personally led Xiangping Hou Jitong to join the Northern Army in accordance with the imperial edict.
Dianke Liu Jie personally took the seal of King Zhao Lu Lu.
Taiwei Zhou Bo was granted the title of 10,000 households and received five thousand catties of gold.
The prime minister Chen Ping and the general Guan Ying were granted the title of three thousand households each, and were given two thousand catties of gold.
The titles of Zhuxuhou Liu Zhang, Xiangpinghou Jitong, and Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju were granted to each of them with 2,000 households and a limit of 1,000 kilograms of gold.
The Dianke Liu Jie was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxin and his son was given a thousand catties of gold.
In December, the emperor said: The law is the criterion for governing the country. It is used to prohibit cruelty and guide people to be good.
Now, after a person has been convicted of a crime, the innocent parents, wives, and brothers are brought together to confiscate their wives and children as slaves of the government. I strongly disagree with this approach.
Let’s discuss it.
Officials all said: The people cannot govern themselves, so they make laws to restrain them.
They sat next to each other and took their wives and children as slaves of the government, in order to restrain the people's psychology so that they would not dare to break the law easily. This practice has been around for a long time, and it is appropriate to continue the same practice as before.
The emperor said: I heard that if the law is fair, the people will be loyal, and if the crime is judged and the punishment is appropriate, the people will be obedient.
Moreover, it is the officials who manage the people and guide them to be good.
Officials are unable to guide them and use unjust laws to judge crimes. This actually harms the people and makes them commit violence and chaos. How can the law prohibit it?
I see nothing convenient about such a law. Think it over again.
The officials all said: The emperor's kindness to the people is so great and his virtue is so profound that it cannot be matched by our ministers.
Let us sincerely follow the edict and abolish the laws that prohibit one person from committing a crime, confiscate his wife as a servant of the government, and some other laws that are linked to each other.
In the first month of the year, officials came forward and said: The purpose of confirming the prince earlier is to respect the ancestral temple.
Please install a prince now.
The emperor said: I am already a man of poor virtue. The gods do not enjoy my sacrifices, and the people of the world are not satisfied.
Now that I cannot widely seek for the wise, sage and virtuous people in the world and surrender to the world, I say that I want to establish the prince in advance. This makes me even more virtuous. How should I explain it to the people of the world?
Let’s talk about it slowly later.
Officials said: To establish the prince in advance is to put the ancestral temple and the country first and not forget the world.
The emperor said: The King of Chu is my uncle. He is old and experienced. He understands many principles of the world and the general outline of the country.
King Wu is my elder brother. He is a benevolent man and likes to treat others with kindness.
King Huainan is my younger brother, and he comes to assist me with virtue. Doesn't this pre-solve the emperor's heir?
The princes, kings, clans, brothers, and meritorious ministers are all wise and virtuous people. If you recommend people with moral integrity to help and succeed me, who cannot die, this will be a blessing for the gods of the country and the people of the world.
If I don't mention it now, but I think it must be passed on to my son, people will think that I have forgotten the wise and virtuous people, and am focusing on my own son instead of thinking about the world.
I strongly disapprove of this approach.
The officials all requested resolutely: In ancient times, the Yin and Zhou dynasties established the country and brought peace and order to the world for more than a thousand years. In ancient times, no one who owned the world had a longer-term rule than Yin and Zhou. This is because Yin and Zhou adopted the method of passing on the throne to the son.
He must make his son his heir, as he did so a long time ago.
Emperor Gao personally led the soldiers and generals to pacify the world, feudal princes, and became the ancestor of all emperors.
The princes, kings and princes who initially accepted the feudal kingdom also became the ancestors of their own feudal kingdom.
The succession of descendants to the throne continues from generation to generation, which is the great justice of the world. Therefore, Emperor Gao established the system of succession to the throne to stabilize the country.
It is not Gao Di's idea to give up the candidates who should be appointed as successors and choose others from the princes and clans.
It is not appropriate to change someone else's practice.
Zi is the eldest son, he is kind and kind, please make him the prince.
The emperor agreed.
Therefore, the eldest son of the people in the world who should inherit his father's inheritance was given a rank of nobility. General Bo Zhao was granted the title of Marquis of Zhi.
In March, officials requested the title of queen.
Empress Dowager Bo said: "The princes and kings all have the same surname, so let's make the prince's mother the queen."
The queen's surname is Dou.
Because of the establishment of a queen, the emperor gave a certain amount of cloth, silk, rice, and meat to the widowed, lonely and poor people in the world, as well as the elderly over eighty years old and orphans under nine years old.
The emperor came to the capital from the state of Dai. Not long after he took the throne, he extended kindness to the people of the world and appeased the princes and ethnic minorities from all directions. They were all happy and harmonious, so they rewarded the meritorious officials who came to the capital from the state of Dai in turn.
The emperor said: When the ministers killed the descendants of the Lu family to welcome me, I was hesitant and everyone blocked me. Only Lieutenant Song Chang persuaded me so that I could serve the ancestral temple.
He already respected Song Chang as General Wei, and then named Song Chang as Zhuang Wuhou.
The six people who followed me to the capital were all promoted to the rank of Jiuqing.
The emperor said: Among the sixty-eight princes who followed Emperor Gao to Shu and Hanzhong, each of them was granted a city of 300 households. In the past, the officials who followed Emperor Gao for more than 2,000 shi, including the governor of Yingchuan County, were granted 600 households each. Ten people including Shen Tujia, the governor of Huaiyang County, were granted 500 households each. Ten people such as Wei Wei Ding were granted 400 households each.
Zhao Jian, the uncle of the King of Huainan, was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Yang, and Si Jun, the uncle of the King of Qi, was granted the title of Marquis of Guo of the Qing Dynasty.
In autumn, Cai Jian, the prime minister of the original Changshan Kingdom, was granted the title of Marquis of Fan.
Someone advised the right prime minister: You originally killed the descendants of the Lu family and welcomed the king as the emperor. Now you rely on these merits to accept the greatest rewards and are in a distinguished position. Disaster will soon come.
Zhou Bo, the right prime minister, dismissed the right prime minister on the pretext of illness, leaving Chen Ping, the left prime minister, to serve as prime minister.
In October of the second year, the prime minister Chen Ping died, and Jianghou Zhou Bo was appointed as the prime minister.
The emperor said: I heard that in ancient times, there were more than a thousand princes who established kingdoms. Each of them guarded his own territory and paid tribute to the emperor according to the prescribed time. The people did not work hard, they were happy and rejoiced, and there was no loss of morality.
Nowadays, most of the princes go to Chang'an, which is far away from the feudal towns. The officials and soldiers there provide and transport the necessary materials, which is laborious and laborious, and the princes have no way to educate and train their people.
The princes were ordered to return to the feudal state, and those who held official positions in the court and had edicts to stay were sent to send the princes to the feudal state.
On the last day of November, a solar eclipse occurs.
On December 15th, another solar eclipse occurred.
The emperor said: I heard that God gave birth to all nations and set up kings for them to raise and govern them.
If the monarch is unkind and his governance is unfair, God will show him disasters and strange phenomena to warn him that the world is not governed well.
At the end of November, there was a solar eclipse, and God showed me its condemnation. No disaster could be more serious than this.
I am able to protect the ancestral temple and stand above hundreds of millions of people and princes and kings as a small individual. I am able to control chaos in the world. I only have two or three ministers in power who can act as my right-hand man.
I am unable to govern and nurture the main spirit of all things below, and I am damaging the glory of the sun, moon, and stars above. My unkindness is really too serious.
After the edict is issued, I must think about my mistakes and the things that I know, see, and think cannot be achieved, and I ask you to tell me.
And I also recommend virtuous and upright people who can speak out and give advice to correct my mistakes.
Take this opportunity to organize your own responsibilities and strive to reduce labor and expenses to facilitate the people.
Since I couldn't carry out the mission far away, I felt very uneasy and worried that people in remote areas might do evil things. For this reason, I did not lift the military alert.
Now even though we cannot get rid of the garrison at the frontier, we have ordered the soldiers to defend us strictly and withdrawn the troops led by General Wei.
The servant's existing horses were only enough, and the rest were given to the inn.
In the first month of the first lunar month, the emperor said: Agriculture is the foundation of the country. I will reclaim the land and personally lead the cultivation to provide grain for sacrifices to the ancestral temple.
In March, officials requested that the prince be made king of the vassals.
The emperor said: King You of Zhao died in confinement. I pity him very much and have appointed his eldest son Liu Sui as King of Zhao.
Liu Sui's younger brother Liu Pijiang, as well as the sons of King Hui of Qi, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, and Dongmu Hou Liu Xingju had meritorious services and could be crowned kings.
So Liu Bijiang, the youngest son of King Zhao You, was made King of Hejian, Zhu Xuhou, an important county in Qi State, was made King of Chengyang, Hou Hou of Dongmou was made King of Jibei, Prince Liu Wu was made the acting king, Prince Liu Shen was made King of Taiyuan, and Prince Liu Yi was made King of Liang.
The emperor said: In ancient times, when the world was governed, the imperial court had flags for offering good words and wooden pillars for writing critical remarks. In order to keep the way of governing the country smooth, people who can speak out and give correct advice can come to express their opinions.
Nowadays, there is a crime of defamation and evil words in law, which prevents ministers from speaking freely, and the emperor cannot hear his own faults. How can virtuous people from far away come to the court?
This law should be repealed.
If someone among the common people curses the emperor and agrees to hide it from each other, but later deceives and exposes each other, the officials will regard it as treason. If there are other remarks, the officials will regard it as slander.
These are the ignorance of ordinary people, and I strongly disagree with the death penalty based on this.
From now on, those who commit such crimes will not be tried or punished.
In September, the bronze tiger talisman used for dispatching troops and generals and the bamboo talisman used for envoys to go out and send out conquests were given to the county guards and the prime ministers.
On October 30, three years ago, a solar eclipse occurred.
In November, the emperor said: Some time ago, an edict was issued to allow the princes to go to their own feudal states, but some made excuses not to leave.
The prime minister is someone I value highly, and he should lead the princes to the feudal country.
Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Sui, was dismissed from the post of prime minister and returned to his feudal state, with Captain Yingyin Marquis Guan Ying as the prime minister.
The official position of Taiwei was abolished and its authority was vested in the Prime Minister.
In April, Liu Zhang, king of Chengyang, passed away.
Huainan King Liu Chang and his entourage Wei Jing killed Piyanghou and tried to eat him.
In May, the Xiongnu entered Beidi County and occupied the south of the Yellow River. They plundered and caused harm.
The emperor visited Ganquan Palace for the first time.
In June, the emperor said: The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu are brothers and will not allow them to invade the border. For this reason, the gifts sent to the Xiongnu are very generous.
Now King Youxian left his country and led his troops to station in the areas south of the Yellow River that had surrendered to the Han Dynasty. He changed the original situation and went in and out of the border areas, killing officials and soldiers, expelling the barbarians in the castles and fortresses, not allowing them to live in the same place, bullying the border officials, and entering the interior to rob. He was very arrogant and unethical and violated the past agreement.
He dispatched 85,000 officials and cavalry from border areas to Gaonu, and dispatched Prime Minister Yingyinhou Guanying to attack the Xiongnu.
The Huns evacuated the frontier fortress. The lieutenant officer was dispatched to General Wei and stationed in Chang'an.
On the 27th, the emperor went from Ganquan Palace to Gaonu. He stopped by Taiyuan on the way and met with all the ministers of the former country and rewarded them all.
He also selected meritorious ministers and rewarded them separately, and the people in those villages gave them cattle and wine.
The people of Jinyang and Zhongdu were exempted from corvee service and taxes for three years.
We stayed in Taiyuan for more than ten days.
When Liu Xingju, the king of Jibei, heard that the emperor was going to Dai and preparing to attack the Xiongnu, he took the opportunity to rebel and dispatched troops to attack Xingyang.
So the emperor issued an edict to the prime minister to stop attacking the Xiongnu, and sent Chen Wu, Marquis of Jipu, as a general to lead an army of 100,000 to attack the King of Jibei.
Qihou Zanhe was made a general and stationed in Xingyang.
On July 18, when the emperor returned to Chang'an from Taiyuan, he issued an edict to the officials: The King of Jibei violated morality and rebelled against the emperor, causing trouble for the officials and the people. It was a treasonous act.
If the army has not arrived, and the officials and people of Jibei settle down first, as well as those who surrendered with the army and local cities, they will be pardoned and their original official positions and titles will be restored.
Those who rebelled and returned with Liu Xingju, King of Jibei, were also pardoned.
In August, the army of Jibei feudal state was defeated and the king of Jibei was captured.
Pardon the officials and people of the feudal state of Jibei who followed the king of Jibei and rebelled.
In the sixth year, officials reported that Huainan King Liu Chang had abandoned the decrees of the late emperor and did not obey the emperor's edicts. The palace he lived in was not in compliance with the law.
The ministers discussed it and all said that Chang Liu should be executed on the street and his body exposed to the public. The emperor could not bear to deal with King Huainan according to the law, so he pardoned his sins and deposed him from the throne.
The ministers requested that King Huainan be exiled to the Qiongdu area of ​​Yandao, Shu County, and the emperor agreed.
Liu Chang died of illness on the road before he reached the place where he was exiled. The emperor took pity on him.
Later, in the sixteenth year, he honored Liu Chang, King of Huainan, with the posthumous title of King Li, and named his three sons King of Huainan, King of Hengshan, and King of Lujiang.
In the summer of the thirteenth year, the emperor said: I heard that disasters arise from resentment, and happiness arises from virtue. This is the law of God.
I should be personally responsible for the mistakes of all officials.
Now the officials praying secretly blame the ministers below, which makes my immorality even more obvious. I strongly disapprove of this approach.
It should be abolished.
In May, Taicang of Qi State ordered Chunyu Gong to commit a crime and should be punished. He was arrested and detained in Chang'an.
The Duke of Taicang had no boys, but five daughters.
When the Duke of Taicang was arrested and leaving, he scolded his daughter and said: "Whoever gives birth to a child but does not give birth to a boy has an urgent matter and it is of no use at all!"
His youngest daughter Tiying cried sadly alone and followed her father to Chang'an. She wrote a letter saying: My father is an official, and people in Qi state praise him for being honest and fair. Now he should be punished for breaking the law.
I am saddened that the dead cannot be resurrected, and those who are under punishment cannot join their limbs together again. Although I want to change my ways, there is no way out.
I am willing to be taken into the government as a slave to atone for my father's punishment so that he can change his ways.
Tiying's petition was sent to the emperor. The emperor felt pity for her and issued an edict: I heard that during the Yu family, criminals were painted on their clothes and hats to make them different from ordinary people, in order to humiliate the criminals and the people did not violate the law.
What is the reason for this?
It's because the politics are extremely clear.
Now the law stipulates three types of corporal punishment, but evil and illegal things cannot be prohibited. Where is the fault?
Isn't it because my virtue is poor and my education is not obvious?
I am deeply ashamed of myself.
Therefore, if the method of preaching is wrong, the people will fall into ignorance. "Poetry" says that a gentleman who is approachable is the parents of the people.
Nowadays, when people make mistakes, they are punished without education. Some people want to change their ways and become good, but there is no way to do it. I pity these people very much. The punishment is so severe that it can break limbs, scratch the skin, and never recover for life. This is so painful and immoral. How does it meet the meaning of being a parent of the people!
Corporal punishment should be abolished.
The emperor said: Agriculture is the foundation of the world, and nothing is more important than this.
Nowadays, people who work hard in agricultural production have to pay taxes. This is because there is no distinction between people who work for the basics and those who pursue the future, and the method of persuading people to work in agriculture is incomplete.
Farmland should be exempted from rent and taxes.
In the winter of the 14th year, the Huns conspired to invade the border and invade the border fortress, and killed Sun Yin, the captain of Beidi County.
The emperor then sent three generals to station in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun. Lieutenant Zhou She was the general of the guard, and Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu was the general of the cavalry. They were stationed north of the Weishui River, commanding one thousand chariots and one hundred thousand cavalry.
The emperor personally comforted the soldiers, trained the troops, affirmed the teachings, and rewarded the officers and soldiers.
The emperor was preparing to personally lead troops to attack the Xiongnu. The ministers came out to dissuade him, but he refused to accept them.
The empress dowager firmly stopped the emperor, and the emperor canceled the original plan.
So with Dongyang Hou Zhang Xiangru as the general, Cheng Hou Dong Chi as the internal history, and Luan Bu as the general, they sent troops to attack the Xiongnu.
The Huns fled.
In the spring, the emperor said: It has been fourteen years since I was able to offer sacrifices to heaven and the ancestral temple with jade and silk. After a long period of time, I feel deeply ashamed that a person like me, who is neither smart nor wise, has been in charge of the world for a long time.
The sites for various kinds of sacrifices should be expanded and the amount of jade and silk used for sacrifices should be increased.
In the past, the kings of the past showed kindness without asking for repayment, held sacrifices without praying for blessings for themselves, respected the virtuous and talented, but did not value relatives, put the people before themselves, and were sage to the extreme.
Now I heard that when the officials in charge of sacrifices prayed for blessings from the gods, they only prayed for me and not for the people. I feel very ashamed.
For an immoral person like me, I enjoy the blessings of gods alone and the common people cannot share them, which aggravates my immorality.
Now I order the officials in charge of sacrifices to pay respect to the gods on time and not to pray for me.
At this time, Zhang Cang, the Marquis of Beiping, was the prime minister and was formulating the music rhythm and calendar.
Gongsunchen, a native of Lu, wrote a letter describing the theory of the beginning and end of the Five Virtues. He proposed that now is the period of Tu De, and the Yellow Dragon will appear in Tu De. The calendar, the color of official uniforms, and various systems should be changed.
The emperor handed over the matter and asked the ministers to discuss it with the prime minister.
After studying it, the prime minister thought that today is water virtue, so he began to make it clear that October is the beginning of the year and that he advocates black.
Because he believed that Gongsun Chen's letter was incorrect, he requested that Gongsun Chen's suggestions not be adopted. In the fifteenth year, Huanglong appeared in Chengji, and the emperor once again summoned Gongsun Chen from Lu and appointed him as a doctor to explain the principles of Tude today.
So the emperor issued an edict saying: A strange divine object appeared in Chengji, which is harmless to the people. There will be a good harvest this year.
I personally went to the countryside to worship the Emperor of Heaven and other gods.
The officials in charge of etiquette discuss the etiquette that should be performed, and don't be afraid that I will be tired and hide something.
Ministers and officials in charge of etiquette said: In ancient times, the emperor personally went to the suburbs in summer to worship the gods according to rituals, so it was called "Jiao".
So the emperor came to Yong County for the first time and worshiped the Five Emperors in the suburbs. The ceremony was held in April in summer.
Xinyuan Ping, a native of Zhao, came to see the emperor with the art of looking at qi, and took the opportunity to persuade the emperor to build the Five Emperors Temple in Weiyang. He also said that in order to discover the Zhou Dynasty's national treasure tripod, the essence of jade should appear.
In the 16th year, the emperor personally worshiped the Five Emperors Temple in Weiyang, held sacrifices in the summer, and decided to advocate red.
In the seventeenth year, I got a jade cup with the words "The Master Extends His Life" engraved on it.
So the emperor began to change this year to the first year of Houyuan, and ordered the people of the world to hold grand gatherings, banquets and drinks.
In the same year, Aragaki's fraud was discovered and his three clans were executed.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor said: I am not wise and cannot spread virtue far away, so the countries outside the Central Plains are unrest.
The people in the remote areas around me cannot live peacefully, and the people in the country work hard and cannot live in peace. Both of these faults are due to my lack of morality and my inability to spread my virtue far away.
Recently, the Huns have been invading the border for many years, killing many officials and people. The officials and generals in the border area cannot understand my inner thoughts, which aggravates my bad behavior.
With such long-term wars and inexplicable disasters, how can the countries inside and outside the Central Plains find peace?
Now I get up early and go to bed late, working hard on the world's major affairs, feeling sad for thousands of people, feeling worried and uneasy in my heart, and I can't forget this matter even one day. Therefore, I sent envoys, with crowns and canopies facing each other on the road and rutted roads, to explain my thoughts to the Xiongnu Chanyu.
Now the Chanyu has returned to the correct path of ancient times, considering the peace of the country, seeking the interests of millions of people, personally abandoning those small mistakes with me, uniting on the correct principles, and forming a brotherly relationship to protect the good people of the world.
The marriage has been decided and will start this year.
In the winter of AD 6, 30,000 Xiongnu entered Shangjun, and 30,000 Xiongnu entered Yunzhong.
The emperor appointed Ling Mian, a senior official in the army, as the general of chariots and cavalry, stationed at Feihu; he appointed Su Yi, the former Prime Minister of Chu, as the general, stationed at Juzhu; General Zhang Wu garrisoned the north; Zhou Yafu, the governor of Hanoi County, garrisoned at Xiliu; Zongzheng Liu Li as the general, garrisoned at Ba Shang; Zhu Zihou garrisoned at Jimen to jointly defend against the Huns.
After a few months, the Huns withdrew, and the various armies also withdrew.
There was a drought and locust infestation across the country.
The emperor favored the world, ordered the princes not to pay tribute to the court, abolished the ban on mountains, forests and lakes, reduced the emperor's clothing, utensils, and dogs and horses for play, reduced the number of ministers, opened granaries, provided relief to the poor, and the people could sell their titles to buy food.
Emperor Xiaowen came to the capital from Daiguo and reigned for twenty-three years. Nothing was added to the palaces, gardens, dogs and horses, clothing, and utensils. If there were any inconveniences to the people, they were changed to benefit the people.
I once planned to build a terrace and asked a craftsman to calculate the cost. One hundred pounds of gold was needed.
The emperor said: One hundred kilograms of gold is equivalent to the property of ten families of ordinary people. I enjoy the palace of the late emperor, and I am often worried that I will humiliate the late emperor. Why build this terrace?
The emperor often wore thick silk clothes, and his beloved Mrs. Shen was not allowed to drag her clothes to the ground, and her draperies were not allowed to have embroidery or brocade in order to show her honesty and simplicity, and to set an example for the world.
All mausoleums are built with earthenware, and gold, silver, copper, and tin are not allowed to be used for decoration. No tall tombs are built, in order to save some money and not disturb the people.
The king of Nanyue, Wei Tuo, proclaimed himself Emperor Wu, but the emperor called Wei Tuo's brother and gave high-ranking officials generous salaries in return. Wei Tuo canceled his imperial title and professed himself to the Han Dynasty.
After making peace with the Xiongnu, the Xiongnu violated the treaty and invaded the border to plunder. However, the emperor only ordered the border fortresses to strengthen their defense and did not send troops deep into the hinterland of the Xiongnu for fear of disturbing the people.
King Wu pretended to be ill and did not go to the capital to attend court. The emperor immediately rewarded him with a sitting table and a cane.
Although ministers such as Yuan An and others discussed matters sharply and urgently, the emperor often adopted their suggestions with a tolerant attitude.
Among the ministers, Zhang Wu and others accepted money bribes. When they found out, the emperor took out the money from his treasury and rewarded them, which made them feel ashamed and did not hand it over to the officials for punishment.
The emperor devoted himself wholeheartedly to educating the people with morality. Therefore, there was prosperity and a culture of paying attention to etiquette and justice in the four seas.
On June 1, the seventh year of AD, the emperor died in Weiyang Palace.
His last edict before his death was: I heard that all things in the world grow and nothing survives death.
Death is a common phenomenon in heaven and earth, a natural phenomenon of all things, so why be overly sad.
Nowadays, people in the world are fond of life and hate death. They spend a lot of money on burials, which leads to bankruptcy, and they are in mourning for a long time, which harms the body. I do not agree with these practices.
Moreover, I was immoral during my lifetime and was of no benefit to the people. Now that I am dead, I have made people mourn for a long time, experience changes in cold and heat, make fathers and sons sad, hurt the hearts of young and old, reduce my diet, and cut off sacrifices to ghosts and gods. This has aggravated my immorality. How can I be worthy of the people of the world!
I have been able to guard the ancestral temple and stand above the princes and kings of the world as a small person for more than 20 years. I rely on the gods of heaven and earth, the welfare of the country, the peace of the country, and the absence of war.
I am not very smart, and I am often worried that I will do something wrong and bring disgrace to the legacy of the late Emperor. As time goes by, I am even more afraid that I will not die well.
Now I am lucky enough to be able to support and serve my great ancestor underground. With my unwiseness and such good results, what is there to be sad about?
Issue an order to the officials and people all over the world. After the order arrives, they will mourn for three days and then all take off their mourning clothes.
Do not prohibit marrying wives and daughters, offering sacrifices to ghosts and gods, and drinking and eating meat.
Those who should be in mourning should not wear mourning clothes. The girdle should not exceed three inches. Chariots and weapons should not be covered with mourning cloth. Men and women should not be mobilized to mourn in the palace.
Those who should mourn in the palace should cry fifteen times each morning and evening, and stop after the ceremony.
It is not the time to cry in the morning or evening. Do not cry without permission.
After the burial, one should wear mourning clothes of great merit for fifteen days, mourning clothes of minor merit for fourteen days, and fine mourning clothes for seven days, and then take off the mourning clothes.
All other matters not stipulated in the will shall be carried out in accordance with this will.
Announce it to the world so that people can understand my thoughts.
The mountains and rivers in Ba Ling should remain the same and should not be changed.
At least the ladies in the harem and below were sent home.
Lieutenant Zhou Yafu was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry, Dian Guohan was appointed as the general of generals and generals, Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu was appointed as the general of restoration, and 16,000 existing soldiers from nearby counties were mobilized, and 15,000 active soldiers from the internal history were mobilized. They were under the command of general Zhang Wu, who was responsible for burying the coffins, piercing them and burying them.
On June 7, the ministers all kowtowed to the ground and honored the deceased emperor as Emperor Xiaowen.
The prince ascended the throne in Gaomiao and took the title of emperor on June 9th.
In October of the first year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he issued an edict to the imperial censor: It is said that in ancient times, emperors called themselves ancestors because they were meritorious people, and those who called themselves ancestors were virtuous people. There were certain reasons for making rituals and music.
I also heard that music and songs are used to promote morality, and dance is used to show merit.
They offer wine to the high temple and perform the dances of "Wude", "Wenzhi" and "Five Elements".
Serve wine at Xiaohui Temple and perform dances of "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements".
Emperor Xiaowen ruled the world, and his husband Sai Jinliang had unimpeded access, and he treated people both far and near equally.
Abolish the crime of defamation, remove corporal punishment, reward the elderly, adopt lonely people, and nurture all living beings.
Reduce cravings, do not accept tribute items, and do not privately possess these benefits.
He who commits a crime will not confiscate his wife and children, and he will not kill an innocent person.
Abolition of castration, release of beauties from the harem, and great emphasis on the issue of heirs.
I'm not smart enough to fully understand these things.
These things were beyond the reach of ancient emperors, but Emperor Xiaowen did it himself.
The vastness of holy virtue is like heaven and earth, and its benefits flow to the four seas, and no one is without benefit.
His holy light is like the sun and the moon, but the music and dance in the temple do not match it. I am very scared and uneasy.
"Zhao De Dance" should be produced for the Emperor Xiaowen Temple to commend his beautiful morals.
Then record the merits of the ancestors in the annals of history and spread them throughout the ages, forever and ever. I highly praise them.
The ceremonial memorial should be drafted with the prime minister, the princes, the officials with the rank of Zhong Erqian Shi, and the officials in charge of the etiquette system.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia and others said: Your Majesty always thought of honoring the late emperor and made "Zhaode Dance" to show Emperor Xiaowen's great merits. This was something that the minister Shen Tujia and others could not think of due to their ignorance.
The ministers solemnly and respectfully suggested that the merits of a generation were greater than that of Emperor Gao, and that no one's virtues were greater than that of Emperor Xiaowen. Emperor Gao's temple should become the emperor's Taizu temple, and Emperor Xiaowen's temple should become the emperor's Taizong temple.
The world should sacrifice the temples of ancestors from generation to generation.
The princes of various prefectures and states should build Taizong temples for Emperor Xiaowen.
The envoys of princes, kings and princes accompany the emperor to offer sacrifices. The emperor sacrifices sacrifices to the ancestors' temples every year. Please record these regulations in writing and announce them to the whole country.
Emperor Jing ordered: "Okay."
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said that thirty years must pass before benevolent government can succeed.
A person with good moral character who governs the country for a hundred years can defeat cruelty and abolish punishment. This is really true!
From the founding of the Han Dynasty to Emperor Xiaowen for more than 40 years, virtue flourished to its peak.
Gradually, we are getting closer to the goal of revising the calendar, determining the color of clothes, and holding a Zen ceremony. However, due to Emperor Wen's humility, it has not been completed yet. ah!
Isn't this benevolence?
When Emperor Xiaowen of the Han Dynasty was in the Dai Kingdom, he received a divination sign indicating that the emperor would ascend the throne.
Song Chang decided to serve as the emperor's policy, and Jianghou Zhou Bo came to greet him outside the city.
He could be the emperor, but he took the initiative to refuse, so everyone in the world turned to him.
He attached great importance to agriculture and worked in the fields himself; he extended kindness and stopped fighting.
He eliminates the plunder of the people and eliminates the complaints of the people; he simplifies administration and makes punishments fair and clear.
He ushered in austerity by dressing simply and stopped building terraces.
Treat Zhang Wu leniently when enforcing the law, and show mercy to Tiying when executing punishment.
Up to now, Ba Ling is still the same as before, and the voices praising Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty have continued for thousands of years.
