Empress Gao, the Lu family, gave birth to Emperor Hui, who assisted Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty to pacify the world. Her father and brother had three marquises under Emperor Gaozu.
After Emperor Hui succeeded to the throne, he honored Empress Lu as the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother made the daughter of Princess Lu Yuan, the sister of Emperor Hui, the Queen. She had no children, so she made the son of a beauty in the harem the Prince.
Emperor Hui died, and the prince was established as emperor. The emperor was young, and Empress Dowager Lu came to the court to perform the emperor's affairs and grant amnesty to the world.
Later, four of his brother's sons, Lu Tai, Lu Chan, Lu Lu, and Lu Tai's son Lu Tong were made kings, and six Zhu Lu were made princes.
The specific details can be found in "Book of Han·Biography of Wai Qi".
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Empress Lu's reign, she issued an edict saying: It turned out that Emperor Xiaohui intended to abolish the harsh laws that punished serious crimes and three clans, and regarded wrong words as evil words. He died before the resolution was resolved.
It has now been announced that it will be abolished.
In February, the people were rewarded with titles of nobility, one level for each household.
For the first time, an official with an annual salary of two thousand shi was set up to encourage the world's filial piety.
On the fourth day of May in the summer, a fire broke out in the Congtai of Zhao Palace.
Liu Qiang, the son of Emperor Xiaohui's harem, was made the King of Huaiyang, Liu Buyi was the King of Hengshan, Liu Hong was the Marquis of Xiangcheng, Liu Chao was the Marquis of Zhi, and Liu Wu was the Marquis of Huguan.
In autumn, peaches and plums bloom.
In the spring of the second year of Empress Lu's reign, she issued an edict saying: Emperor Gao unified the world and granted fiefs and feudal lordships to all the meritorious officials. All the people were safe and sound, and no one was immune from his kindness.
I consider that in the future, due to the passage of time, no one will remember his fame and honor, and will not be able to respect his great righteousness and pass it on to future generations.
Now I want to rank the status of each prince in the court according to the size of his merits. I will hide the merit book in the ancestral temple of Emperor Gao and pass it down from generation to generation. His descendants will inherit their merits and titles hereditary. Please work with the princes to submit a proposal.
Prime Minister Chen Ping reported: I have discussed with Jianghou Zhoubo, Quzhouhou Lishang, Yinhou Guanying, Anguohou Wang Ling, etc., that the princes were favored and were rewarded with rents and food. Your Majesty also extended extra favors and assigned grades based on merit. Please keep the merit book in the high temple.
Empress Lu approved this memorial.
On the 27th of the first lunar month of spring, an earthquake occurred and a landslide occurred in Wudu Road.
On June 30th in summer, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Buyi, the king of Hengshan, passed away and eight baht coins were used again.
In the summer of the third year of Empress Lu's reign, the Yangtze River and the Han River overflowed, flooding more than 4,000 houses.
In autumn, stars appear during the day.
In the summer of the fourth year of Empress Lu's reign, the young emperor secretly knew that he was not the empress's biological child, so he complained. The Empress Dowager put him under house arrest in a long alley.
The edict said: Anyone who governs the world and governs the people should have a mind that is as inclusive as heaven and as accommodating as the earth. The emperor governs the people from the perspective of caring for the people. Only when the people are sincere and sincere can they respect the emperor. Only when everyone is united can the country be peaceful and the people are safe.
Today's young emperor has been ill for a long time and has even gone insane. He is unable to inherit the throne, worship in the ancestral temple, guard the country, and assume the important responsibilities of the world.
Please suggest someone who can replace him.
All the ministers said: The Empress Dowager considers the fundamental interests of the country, which is crucial to the stability of the ancestral temple and the country.
The ministers and others bowed their heads and obeyed the edict.
On May 17, Wang Hong of Hengshan was made emperor.
In the spring of Empress Lu's fifth year, Wei Tuo, king of Nanyue, claimed to be Emperor Nanwu.
In the eighth month of autumn, Liu Qiang, king of Huainan, passed away.
In September, Hedong and Shangdang cavalry were mobilized to station in the north.
In the spring of Empress Lu's sixth year, stars appeared in the daytime.
In the fourth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
The Changling Mausoleum of Gaozu was upgraded to two thousand stones.
In June, a city was built around Changling.
The Xiongnu invaded Didao and attacked Heyang.
Exercise the nickel.
In the winter and twelfth month of the seventh year of Empress Lu, the Xiongnu invaded Didao and plundered more than 2,000 households.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month of spring, King Zhao Liu You was imprisoned in the palace and died.
On the 30th, there will be a partial solar eclipse first, and then a total solar eclipse.
Appoint Liang Wang Lu Chan as prime minister and Zhao Wang Lu Lu as general.
Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, was made King of Langya.
On the 19th day of the fifth lunar month, an edict was issued saying: Mrs. Zhaoling is the imperial concubine; Marquis Wu Ai and Mrs. Xuan are the brothers and sisters of Emperor Gao.
The posthumous title is not commensurate with the status, please suggest another posthumous title.
Prime Minister Chen Pingping asked Mrs. Zhaoling to be Queen Zhaoling, Marquis Wu Ai to be King Wu'an, and Mrs. Xuan to be Queen Zhaoai. In June, King Zhao Liu Hui committed suicide.
In the ninth month of autumn, King Liu Jian of Yan passed away.
South Vietnam invaded Changsha and sent Longluhou Zhou Zao to lead troops to drive them away.
In the spring of the eighth year of Empress Lu's reign, she made the eunuch Zhang Shiqing a marquis.
The eunuchs in the palace and the Lingcheng in charge of the eunuchs all conferred the title of Marquis of Guannei and received the taxes from their towns.
In summer, the rivers and Han Rivers flooded, destroying more than 10,000 homes.
On the 30th day of the seventh month in the autumn, the Empress Dowager and Empress Lu died in Weiyang Palace. The imperial edict gave each prince a thousand pieces of gold, and distributed them among the ministers, princes, and officials according to their rank, and offered a general amnesty to the whole world.
General Lu Lu and Prime Minister Lu Chan specialize in military and political power. He knew that if he violated Emperor Gao's rule of "no merit-based nomination", he might be harmed by ministers and princes, so he conspired to cause chaos.
At this time, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, son of King Qi Hui, was in Kyoto. He was Lu Lu's son-in-law. When he learned of the plot, he immediately sent someone to inform his brother King Qi, asking him to send troops to the west.
Liu Zhang prepared to work with Taiwei Zhou Bo and Prime Minister Chen Ping as internal correspondents to kill Zhu Lu.
The King of Qi then raised an army, and instigated King Langya and King Liu Ze to mobilize the troops of his country to join forces and march westward.
Lu Chan, Lu Lu and others sent General Guan Ying to lead the troops to stop the attack.
Guan Ying went to Xingyang, sent people to inform the King of Qi and united with him, waiting for the Lu family to launch a coup before carrying out the execution.
Taiwei Zhou Bo conspired with Prime Minister Chen Ping. He believed that Ji, the son of Li Shang, the Marquis of Qu Zhou, was closely related to Lu Lu, so he sent people to force Li Shang to order his son Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu and said: Emperor Gao and Queen Lu jointly established the world. The nine kings established by the Liu family and the three kings established by the Lu family were discussed by the ministers.
The discussions and decisions have been informed to all the princes and kings, and all the princes and princes have expressed their approval.
Today, the Queen Mother has passed away and the Emperor is young. You are not in a hurry to defend your own kingdoms, but you have gathered troops to stay in Kyoto as generals, which has aroused the suspicion of the ministers and princes.
Why not immediately return the general's seal, pass the military power to the Taiwei, ask Liang Wang Lu Chan to return the prime minister's seal, explain it clearly to the ministers, and then return to the feudal country?
In this way, the troops can retreat, the ministers can rest assured, and they can sit back and be king of a country thousands of miles away. This is the benefit of all times!
Lu Lu agreed to his plan and sent someone to tell Lu Chan and his elders.
Some feel uneasy and have different opinions without making a decision.
Lu Lu believed in Li Ji and went with him to persuade Zhu Lu. They arrived at the home of Lu Xu's sister, Empress Lu.
Lu Xunu said angrily: As a general, you gave up military power, and the Lu family will die without a burial place.
She took out all the jewels and jade and threw them in the hall. She said, "I don't have to keep these things for others!"
In August, Cao Lan, Marquis of Pingyang, served as the imperial censor and met with Prime Minister Lu Chan to discuss state affairs.
The doctor ordered Jia Shou to return Qi, so he accused Lu Chan and said: If you didn't go to your feudal country as soon as possible, can you still leave now if you want to?
Tell Lu Chan specifically about Guan Ying's alliance with Qi and Chu.
After Pingyang Hou Cao Lan heard about it, he hurriedly informed Prime Minister Chen Ping and Taiwei Zhou Bo.
Bo wanted to join the Northern Army, but failed. Marquis Jitong of Xiangping was in charge of Fujie, so he falsely sent military orders in the name of the emperor to let Zhou Bo enter the camp and take charge of the Northern Army.
Zhou Bo also sent Li Ji and Dianke Liu Jie to persuade Lu Lu. They said: The emperor sent a Taiwei to take over the Northern Army. If you want everyone to return to the feudal country, you should resign the general and leave, otherwise disaster will be imminent.
Lu Lu took off the general's seal and gave it to Liu Jie, and handed over the military power to Taiwei Zhou Bo.
Zhou Bo entered the Chinese army's tent and sent an order to the army: Support Lu's right side and Liu's left side.
The officers and men were all left-handed.
Zhou Bo then took control of the Northern Army.
However, there were still Southern troops. Prime Minister Chen Ping summoned Marquis Zhu Xu and Liu Zhang to assist Zhou Bo. Zhou Bo sent Liu Zhang to supervise the military gate and Marquis Pingyang to inform the guards not to let Prime Minister Lu Chan enter the palace gate.
Lu Chan did not know that Lu Lu had lost control of the Northern Army and wanted to enter Weiyang Palace to launch a coup.
The guards at the palace gate refused to let him in, so he wandered back and forth outside the palace.
Pingyang Hou immediately reported to Taiwei Zhou Bo. Zhou Bo was afraid that it would be difficult to win. He did not dare to publicly announce the execution of the Lu family, so he told Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang: Enter the palace quickly to defend the emperor.
Liu Zhang asked Zhou Bo to send thousands of troops to the side gate of Weiyang Palace and saw Lu Chan walking around in the court.
At noon, they attacked Lu Chan, but Lu Chan escaped.
At this time, strong winds rose sharply, and Lu Chan's entourage was in chaos. No one dared to resist.
Liu Zhang led his troops to chase Lu Chan, rushed to the official toilet of Langzhong Mansion and killed him.
Liu Zhang had killed Lu Chan, and the Han Emperor sent his attendants to hold the emperor's talisman to comfort Liu Zhang. Liu Zhang wanted to seize the festival, but the attendant refused, so Liu Zhang and his attendants rode in a car together, and rushed into Changle Palace holding the emperor's talisman to kill the Changle Palace guard Lu Gengshi.
Liu Zhang returned to the Northern Army and reported the situation to Zhou Bo.
Zhou E immediately thanked and congratulated Liu Zhang. He said: The one who fears the most is Lu Chan. Now that Lu Chan has been executed, the world will be at peace.
So he beheaded Lu Lu and flogged Lu Xunu.
They sent out men and horses to capture the men and women of Lu, and killed them all regardless of old or young.
The ministers conspired with each other. They thought that the young emperor and his three younger brothers who were kings were not the sons of Emperor Hui, so they killed them all and enthroned Emperor Wen. The story is recorded in the "Book of Han·Zhou Bo and Gao Wu Wang Biography".
Ban Gu commented: When Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty was Xiao Hui and Empress Gao, the world was freed from the pain of war, and the monarchs and ministers wanted to rule by doing nothing. Therefore, Emperor Hui bowed down to bring peace to the world, and Empress Gao used women to preside over government affairs. The world was peaceful without leaving the palace, punishments were used sparingly, and the people could only work on farming, so that they had enough food and clothing.
