Wang Hun, courtesy name Xuanchong, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
His father, Wang Chang, was Wei Sikong.
Wang Hun is deep, elegant and thoughtful.
Inheriting his father's title of Marquis of Jingling, he was recruited as a subordinate officer of General Cao Shuang.
Cao Shuang was executed and dismissed from office as usual.
He was promoted to Huailing, and was promoted to serve as the minister of Huangmen of Sanqi and the regular servant of Sanqi.
During the Xianxi period, he was appointed as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, granted Wang Hun the title of General Yanglie, and moved him to the post of governor of Xuzhou.
When there was famine and famine at that time, Wang Hun opened a warehouse to provide relief, and the people relied on him.
In the early years of Taishi, 1,800 households were added to the fiefdom.
After a period of time, he was transferred to General Dongzhonglang to supervise the military affairs in Huaibei and guard Zhuchang.
He stated the strategy of governing the country many times and was mostly adopted.
He was transferred to the post of general of conquering captives, supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, and serving as the governor of Yuzhou.
Xinggeng's jurisdiction was connected to the county border. He declared his prestige, and many people surrendered and attached themselves to him.
The armies of Wu generals Xue Ying and Lu Shu were said to be one hundred thousand. Lu Shu's army went to Yiyang, and Xue Ying's army went to the new emperor.
At that time, all the soldiers in the state were on holiday, and there was only one traveler in the army. Wang Hun used a boat to cross the border quietly, but by surprise, Ying and others did not expect the arrival of Zhijun.
Wang Hun defeated them and made Wang Hun's second son Wang Shang the Marquis of Guannei due to his meritorious service.
He was moved to the post of General Andong, Commander-in-Chief of the Yangzhou military forces, and guarded Shouchun.
The Wu people settled in Wancheng on a large scale and planned to cause harm on the border.
Wang Hun sent the governor of Yangzhou, Ying Chuo, to lead all the armies in the south to defeat them. He also defeated some other military camps and burned more than 1.8 million hu of grain, more than 4,000 hectares of rice seedlings, and more than 600 ships that the Wu people had accumulated.
Wang Yun then deployed his troops on the eastern border to understand the dangers of the terrain, watched the enemy cities one by one, and inspected the situation of the attack.
After a large-scale crusade against Wu, Wang Hun led his troops from Hengjiang and sent soldiers Chen Shen and captain Zhang Qiao to attack Xunyangse Township. He also attacked Wuya gate general Kong Zhong and defeated them all, capturing Wu general Zhou Xing and five others.
He also sent Li Chun, the protector of Wu, to occupy Gaowang City and attack Wu general Yu Gong. He defeated him, killed many of them and captured many.
Wu Liwu's general Chen Dai and Pinglu general Zhu Ming came to surrender out of fear.
Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti, General Sun Zhen and others led tens of thousands of troops towards Chengyang. Wang Hun sent Sima Sunchou and Yangzhou Governor Zhou Jun to defeat them. They killed two generals in front of the battle and beheaded 7,800 people. The Wu people were very frightened.
Sun Hao's Situ He Zhi and Jianwei General Sun Yan sent Guanyin Fujie to Wang Hun to surrender.
Later, Wang Jun broke through the stone and made Sun Hao surrender, gaining even greater prestige and fame.
The next day, Wang Hunchai crossed the river and boarded Jianye Palace to hold a banquet.
Thinking that he would occupy the river first and defeat Sun Hao's central army, he stood still and fell behind Wang Jun.
He felt very ashamed and jealous, and seemed unconvinced. He reported Wang Jun's crimes many times, and the people at the time ridiculed him.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The envoy Chijie, the governor of Yangzhou's military forces, General Andong, and the Marquis of Jingling Wang Hun led his army to advance to Moling, which made the enemy Sun Hao save his own life and defend himself, and was unable to divide his troops and rush upstream, thus achieving the success of the Western Army. He also destroyed the enemy and captured Zhang Ti, leaving Sun Hao with no choice but to tie himself up and beg to surrender.
So he pacified Moling and made outstanding achievements.
Eight more households were added to the fiefdom, he was promoted to the title of Duke, his son Wang Cheng was made Tinghou, his younger brother Wang Zhan was Guanneihou, and he was given eight thousand pieces of silk.
He was transferred to General Zhengshu and guarded Shouyang.
Wang Hun does not believe in criminal status and is fair and decisive in dealing with matters.
At that time, the Wu people had just surrendered and were very fearful.
Wang Hun comforted the strangers and sincerely comforted and accepted them. There were no empty seats in the seats and no guests lingering in front of the door.
Therefore, there are no people in Jiang Shu who are not happy to rely on him.
He was conscripted and appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
It happened that the courtiers were discussing that King Sima You of Qi should go to the vassal state. Wang Hun wrote a letter to advise: Accept the edict respectfully, follow the ancient laws, promote King Sima You of Qi to the rank of superior, uphold the etiquette towards him, and send Sima You to the vassal state.
In the past, when the Zhou family founded the country, they granted the surname Ji to shield the royal family, and they followed suit from generation to generation.
As for Gong Dan, he was the younger brother of King Yuan. He was in charge of the king's affairs and assisted in the great cause, and he was not allowed to go to the vassal state.
This shows that the close relatives have obvious moral principles and cannot stay away from the court.
Therefore, the Duke of Zhou was able to shine with his holy virtues and help the young king. His loyalty was recorded in "Jin Teng" and he followed the virtues of King Wen and Wu Renyi.
Sima You has as close a relationship with Da Jin as Ji Dan.
He should support the dynasty and participate in political affairs. He is really a loyal minister of His Majesty.
Moreover, Sima You was a noble and honest man, and he was a relative of the royal family, so he was loyal.
Now His Majesty sent Sima You to the vassal state, giving him the false title of governor, but without the actual power to mobilize troops to govern, and to stay away from the court. Do not participate in government affairs.
Injuring the decency of the closest relatives of the same mother, and damaging the morality of brotherly love and loyalty, I am afraid that Your Majesty will not be able to follow the wishes of the late Emperor and the Queen Mother Wenming in treating Sima You Pingsu.
If Sima You should be dispatched due to national concerns because of his great reputation, Sima Liang, King of Runan, can now be used to replace Sima You.
Sima Liang was the son of Emperor Xuan and the younger brother of Emperor Wen. Sima Dian and Sima Jun each had important responsibilities and were highly respected both inside and outside the court. When it came to worries about the future, they were not minor.
If Sima You is allowed to go to the feudal state, it will just encourage the disparity between closeness and distance, and damage the reputation of the monarch's kindness.
Let the world see that Your Majesty does not advocate kindness to relatives, I secretly think that His Majesty's behavior is not advisable.
If it is believed that handing over the government affairs to the concubines and relatives, there will be the danger of the Wang family losing power to the Han Dynasty, and the disaster of Lu Chan's monopoly power.
If a close relative with the same surname is appointed, there will be disasters such as the rebellion of Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms.
Throughout the ages, as long as the matter is of great importance, it may cause disaster.
You can't be suspicious of everything or worry about the disaster that will happen. You should only use the right path to search for loyalty.
If you are suspicious of others out of scheming, even your relatives will be suspected, so how can people who are not related to each other protect themselves?
Having a sense of fear in people's hearts is not a way to achieve stability. This is something that those who rule a country should deeply avoid.
I think that since the crown prince is short of security guards, Sima You should be retained in this post, and should serve as security guards together with Taiwei Runan Wang Sima Liang and Wei General Yang Jue to take care of the government affairs.
The three people have equal official positions, which is enough to support and correct each other. Furthermore, they have the benefit of assisting Na Yan to promote morality. To say the least, there is no preference for one side to compete with each other.
May Your Majesty have the grace to be kind to his relatives, and may Sima You receive the grace of benevolence and righteousness.
I am closely related to the fate of the country. I am morally required to say what I have to say, and I cannot remain silent about what is in my heart.
Privately, he admired Lu Nu's patriotic ambition and ventured to state his own opinions, thus offending Tianwei.
I want His Majesty to do everything perfectly, and I hope I can do my best.
If I don’t say it, who should? The emperor did not accept it.
In the early years of Taixi's reign, he was appointed Situ.
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he was granted the rank of servants and appointed non-commissioned officers in Jingling, just like Suiling.
After Yang Jun was killed and his old ministers were respected, Wang Hun was given a military post.
Wang Hun said that because Situ was a civilian official, he was in charge of the history of the country and did not command the army. When he commanded the army, the officials wore red clothes.
Thinking that he had been favored by chance and had the power to take charge of the army, which was inconsistent with the old regulations, he ordered everyone to wear black clothes.
Commentators praised him for his humility and general knowledge.
King Sima Zhang of Chu was about to kill Sima Liang, King of Runan, and others. Gongsun Hong advised Sima Zhang: In the past, Emperor Xuan deposed Cao Shuang and summoned Taiwei Jiang Ji to accompany him to increase his majesty.
Now that the king is doing unusual things, there should be mature and famous people to suppress everyone's hearts.
Situ Wang Hunping has a reputation and is convinced by the three armies. He can be invited to ride with him to make people rely on him.
Sima Zhang obeyed him.
Wang Hun claimed to be ill and returned to his residence, where he sent more than a thousand soldiers to resist Sima Zhang behind closed doors.
Sima Zhang did not dare to force him.
Soon Sima Zhang was killed for falsely conveying the imperial edict, and Wang Hun led his troops to take office.
The emperor once consulted Wang Hun on how to inquire about customs and customs from the county planners during the New Year's Day meeting. Wang Hun reported: Your Majesty's sage is bright, illuminating far and near. His enlightened edicts dilute the quietness, and he consults with the common people. This is like King Wen of Zhou's visit to all directions, and the shameless questioning of the emperor.
In the past three dynasties, before the New Year's Day meeting, the planners came to the front of the palace. The servants read Shao Shu, and the planners knelt down to receive the Shao script.
I think the edict has been passed down for a long time and has no new ideas. It is not in line with His Majesty’s original intention of paying attention to the vassal states in all directions.
You can ask Zhongshu to read out the Shao Shu by name, and ask about the similarities and differences in the four places, the status of talents, the admiration of customs, the situation of farming and mulberry trees, whether there are injustices and abuses in prisons, and whether there are plunders and tyranny in local palaces.
For those who are dedicated to political enlightenment to bring about benefits and eliminate harms, give them paper and pen and write down everything they know.
This shows that the Holy One cares about all directions and will no longer follow previous words.
Moreover, the literary meaning of their answers was examined to observe the actual talents of the planners.
In addition, during the reign of the late emperor, after the New Year's Day meeting in Shutang, he met with the mayor of the town, Shi Sima, the ministers of various kingdoms, and the farewell officials from various states.
If you can't see him now, you can call him to the front of the palace and send your attendants to express condolences, so as to inspect the four vassal states. This is also convenient in form.
The emperor agreed to Wang Hun's memorial.
He also issued an edict and ordered Wang Hun to record the affairs of the minister.
Wang Hun had always been famous in the positions he held, but when he became the prime minister in the palace, his reputation gradually declined.
Yuan Kang died in the seventh year of his reign at the age of seventy-five, and his name was Yuan.
The eldest son Wang Shang died early, and the second son Wang Ji succeeded him.
Wang Ji, courtesy name Wuzi.
When he was young, he had superhuman talents, was handsome and bold, and his spirit was beyond compare. He likes to bow and arrow and ride horses. His bravery is unmatched. He is good at "Yi", "Zhuang" and "Lao". His writing is beautiful and his skills are superhuman. He is famous in the world, and he is as famous as his brother-in-law He Wei and Pei Kai.
Married Princess Changshan.
At the age of twenty, he was called away from home to serve as Zhongshu Lang and resigned in mourning for his mother.
He was appointed as a general of valiant cavalry, and was gradually promoted to the rank of servant. He was in the same official rank as the servants Kong Xun, Wang Xun and Yang Ji, and became a hero of his time.
Emperor Wu once met with ministers and local governors in the Shiqian Hall. Looking at Erji and Erxun, he said to the ministers: My right and left servants can be said to be docile and respectful.
Every time the servants come to see him, they always discuss the gains and losses of people and various things.
Wang Nai was good at talking, eloquent, and sarcastic. No courtier could surpass him, and the emperor valued him more closely.
Although he was promoted quickly, those who commented did not think it was because of Weng's son-in-law. They all said that he was achieved through talent.
However, although he looks magnanimous and elegant on the outside, he is very jealous and harsh on the inside and likes to hurt others with words, so people around him despise him.
Because of his father, Wang Jun was often excluded, and the discussions at that time ridiculed him.
King Sima You of Qi was about to go to the vassal state. After Wang Ji stated his request, he repeatedly asked the princess to enter the palace with Princess Changguang, Zhen De's wife, and kowtowed and cried, begging the emperor to keep Sima You.
The emperor angrily said to his attendant Wang Rong: "Brothers have the closest relationship. Now sending the King of Qi is naturally a matter for my family." And Zhen De and Wang Ji sent women one after another to cry to death!
Due to his disobedience to the imperial edict, he was demoted to the post of Prince of the State to offer wine, but his position as a regular attendant remained unchanged.
A few years later, he entered the palace and served as a servant.
At that time, Wang Hun was a servant, and his boss sometimes handled things improperly. Wang Ji was strict by nature and punished him according to law.
Wang Jiping had always been at odds with his cousin Wang You. Wang You's party members believed that Wang Liao did not care about his father too much, so they encouraged different opinions.
He took up the post of Henan Yin, but before he took office, he was found guilty of whipping an auxiliary official in the palace and was dismissed from office. Wang Youzheng was appointed.
Shan Shan was dismissed from the court, so Wang Ji moved his family to the foot of Beimang Mountain.
Wang Ji was extravagant by nature and was very particular about food and clothing.
At that time, the land price in Luojing was very high. Wang Ji bought the land and used it as a riding and shooting track. He put the money together to pave the track. People at the time called it "Jingou".
Because Wang Kai was the emperor's uncle, he was extravagant and luxurious. He had a cow named "Eight Hundred Miles Pier", and the horns of the cow's hooves were often decorated.
Wang Ji proposed to use 10 million yuan as a bet and a cow to compete in archery.
Wang Kai thought he was capable and asked Wang Ji to shoot first.
As soon as Wang Ji hit the target, he sat on the throne and yelled at everyone to quickly get the heart of the cow. In a blink of an eye, he arrived, cut it off with a knife, and left.
He Wei was very frugal by nature and had a good plum tree at home. The emperor asked for it but only gave him dozens of it.
While Wang Ji was on duty with Wei, he led the young man to the orchard, ate together, and cut down the plum tree before leaving.
The emperor once visited Wang Ji's residence and served him a sumptuous meal, all of which was served in glassware.
Steamed gizzards tasted very good. When the emperor asked why, he replied: Steamed with human milk.
The emperor looked very unhappy and left before finishing his meal.
Wang Ji knew the temperament of horses very well. He once rode a horse that was covered with dry mud. There was water in front of it, but the horse refused to cross.
Wang Zha said: This must be because he is reluctant to give up the clay.
He was asked to let go, and the horse crossed the water.
Therefore, Du Yu said that Wang Ji had a hobby of loving horses.
The emperor once said to Qi Ku: I want to scold Wang Liao and then give him an official title. How about that?
He Wei said: Wang Ji is generous and generous, I'm afraid I can't wrong him.
The emperor then summoned Wang Ji, scolded him deeply, and then said: Do you know how ashamed you are?
Wang Ji replied: Brothers are incompatible. I am always ashamed of your majesty.
Others can alienate their relatives, but I cannot let my relatives get close. I am ashamed of Your Majesty for this.
The emperor remained silent.
The emperor once played chess with Wang Ji, and Sun Hao was beside him. The emperor said to Zhubi: Why do you like to skin people?
Sun Hao said: If you see someone who is rude to the king, skin him.
Wang Ji put his feet under the chessboard, so Sun Hao ridiculed Wang Ji.
Soon he was made a civilian and served as a servant.
At the age of forty-six, he died before Wang Yun, and was posthumously awarded the title of General of Hussars.
When it was about to be buried, all the wise men of that time came.
Sun Chu respected Wang Ji very much. He came late and cried very sadly. All the guests shed tears.
After crying, he said to the coffin: You often like me to bray like a donkey, so I will bray for you.
I learned that the shape is similar and the voice is lifelike, and the guests all laughed.
Yaochu looked back at them and said: You didn't die, but Wang Zha died!
At the beginning, Wang Ji married a princess. The princess was blind and very jealous. However, she never had children. She had two sons by his concubine.
The king, named Seixuan, inherited the title of Yuyun and paid homage to Shizhong.
The second son, Wang Lou, whose courtesy name was Jianxuan, succeeded the princess and was given the title of Qian Dancai.
Wang Zha has two younger brothers, Wang Tuo, whose courtesy name is Su, and Wang, who has a short stem. They are both good at talking, intelligent and literary, and both have held high and noble positions.
Wang Jun, courtesy name Shizhi, was from Hongnong Lake.
Someone in the family has been a prefect.
Wang Jun was well-read in ancient books and had a handsome appearance. He did not pay attention to reputation and conduct, and was not praised by the villagers.
Later, I changed my moral integrity, became open-minded and had great ambitions.
Once a house was built, dozens of steps were left in front of the door.
Someone asked him why he left too much space. Wang Jun said: I want to allow halberds and flags to be accommodated in front of the door.
Everyone laughed at him, and Wang Jun said: "Chen Sheng once said, how can the sparrow know the ambition of the swan?"
The state and county recruited him to work in Hedong.
Those who were dishonest among the officials all left on their own after hearing the news.
Xu Miao, a native of the state of Yan, the governor, had a daughter, Shu Xian, who was talented and unmarried.
Xu Miao gathered his subordinate officials in a grand ceremony and asked his daughter to watch them in their buns.
The daughter pointed at Wang Jun and told her mother, so Xu Miao married her daughter to him.
Later, when he participated in the Southern Military Campaign, Yang Hu understood and treated him favorably.
Yang Ji, the son of Yang Hu's elder brother, said to Yang Hu: Wang Jun's ambitions as a man are too excessive, his extravagance is intemperate, and he cannot be trusted too much. He should be restricted.
Yang Hu said: Wang Jun has a great talent. I will help him realize his wish and I will definitely use him.
He was transferred to the position of charioteer and knight, and knowledgeable people said that Yang Hu could recommend talented people.
He was appointed as the governor of Bajun.
Bajun is adjacent to the border with Wu State. The soldiers are hard at work and most of the boys are not supported.
Wang Jun then made the regulations strict and the corvee loose. Those who gave birth were allowed to rest and exempted from the corvee. Thousands of people survived in this way.
He was transferred to the post of governor of Guanghan and implemented benevolent and benevolent policies, and the people relied on him.
Wang Jun dreamed of three knives hanging on the beam in his bedroom at night, and then another knife was added. Wang Jun woke up with a start, hating this dream in his heart.
Li Yi, the chief registrar, paid two obeisances to congratulate him and said: "The three knives are the characters for state. One more sword has been added. I'm afraid you are going to Yizhou?"
When the thief Zhang Hong killed Huangfu Yan, the governor of Yizhou, he transferred Wang Jun to be the governor of Yizhou.
Wang Jun planned to kill Zhang Hong and others, and was named a Marquis of Guannei for their meritorious services.
To appease different customs and treat others with dignity and trust, most of the foreigners from outside the country came to submit and surrender.
He was conscripted and appointed as a right-guard general, and appointed as a minister of agriculture.
Yang Hu, the general of chariots and cavalry, knew that Wang Jun had a strange plan, so he secretly asked Wang Jun to retain him, and he was appointed governor of Yizhou.
Emperor Wu planned to attack Wu and issued an edict to Wang Jun to build boats.
Wang Jun then built large ships connected to each other, one hundred and twenty paces square, carrying more than two thousand people.
The city was built with wood, raised on a high platform, and opened gates to all directions. People could ride horses on the city.
He also painted the heads of falcons and monsters on the bows to intimidate the river god.
The scale of the boats was unprecedented since ancient times.
Wang Jun built ships in Sichuan, and the cut wood pieces covered the river and drifted downstream.
Wu Yan, the prefect of Wu Jianping, took the pieces of wood and presented them to Sun Hao, saying: Jin must have a plan to attack Wu, and Jianping's troops should be increased.
Jianping was not captured, and the Jin army finally did not dare to cross the river.
Sun Hao didn't listen.
Soon, due to rumors, Wang Jun was given the title of General Long Xiang, supervising the military affairs of Liang and Yi.
The incident is recorded in "Yang Ku Zhuan".
At that time, all the discussions in the court discouraged the attack on Wu, so Wang Jun wrote a letter saying: I have investigated the similarities and differences between Wu and Chu many times. Sun Haohuang was lewd and violent, and everyone in Jingyang, whether wise or stupid, complained.
Moreover, observing the timing and luck, we should conquer quickly.
If we don't attack now, the changes in God's will will be unpredictable.
If Sun Hao suddenly dies, a wise king is replaced, and the civil servants and generals have their proper positions, then Wu will be a strong enemy.
I have been building the ship for seven years, and it will gradually become corrupted. Besides, I am already seventy years old, and my death is not far away.
If one of these three items does not go as planned, it will be difficult to make a plan. I sincerely hope that your Majesty will not lose the opportunity.
The emperor deeply accepted his opinion.
Jia Chong and Xun Xu stated their advice and advised that Wu should not be attacked. Only Zhang Hua persisted in persuading war.
In addition to Du Yu's request, the emperor issued a letter from Shao, assigning orders to all parties to control the festival.
Wang Jun then took command of the army.
Previously, those who had preserved their fertility in Bajun were able to serve as corvees to provide for the army. Their parents warned them: "Prefect Wang has given birth to you, you must work hard and don't be reluctant to die!"
In the first month of the first year of Taikang, Wang Jun sent troops from Chengdu and led the Badong Supervisory Army and Guangwu General Tang Bin to attack Danyang of Wu State, captured Nahuo, and captured Danyang Supervisor Shengji.
The Wu people used iron locks to cut off the Yangtze River in dangerous and critical places, and made iron cones more than ten feet long, which were secretly placed in the river to block ships head-on.
Before attacking Wu, Yang Hu captured Wu spies and fully understood the situation.
Wang Jun then made dozens of large rafts, more than a hundred feet square, made of grass into human shapes, wore armor and carried weapons, and ordered people with good water skills to ride in front of the raft. When the raft encountered an iron cone, the iron cone pierced the raft and floated away.
He also made a torch, more than ten feet long, with a circumference of dozens of circumferences. Fill it with sesame oil and place it in front of the ship. When it encounters an iron lock, he lights the torch and burns it. After a while, it melts into liquid and cuts off, so there is no obstacle to the ship.
On Gengshen day in February, Wu Xiling was captured, and Wu Zhennan general Liu Xian, Zhengnan general Cheng Zhengzhi, and Yidu prefect Yu Zhong were captured.
Renxu said that he captured the two cities of Jingmen and Yidao and captured the supervisor Lu Yan.
Yichou captured Lexiang and captured Lu Jing, the naval commander.
General Pingxi Shi sent and others came to surrender.
On Yihai Day, Shaoshu promoted Wang Jun to the rank of General Pingdong, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of Yiliang's military affairs.
Since Wang Jun sent troops to Shu, the weapons have not seen blood, and there are no stubborn enemies in the siege. Xiakou and Wuchang do not support each other and resist each other.
So he paddled along the current and headed straight for the three mountains.
Sun Hao sent guerrilla general Zhang Xiang with ten thousand sailors to resist Wang Jun. Zhang Xiang's army surrendered after seeing the Jin army's battle flag.
Sun Hao heard that Wang Jun's army's flags, weapons and armor were connected to the sky, and they were all over the river. They were so powerful that everyone was frightened.
Adopting the strategy of Guang Luxun Xue Ying and Zhongshu Ling Hu Chong, they sent a surrender document to Wang Jun and said: Sun Hao of Wu County is guilty of death by kowtow.
In the past, the royal family of the Han Dynasty lost its rule and the nine states were divided. The ancestors occupied the south of the Yangtze River by virtue of the weather, so the mountains and rivers were blocked and isolated from the Wei Dynasty.
The Jin Dynasty was prosperous, and virtues spread all over the world. Wu was ignorant and ignorant of destiny.
As for today, Duoduo bothered the Sixth Army, slept in the wild, and came all the way to the small island in the middle of the river.
The whole country was shocked and frightened. They managed to survive for a while and took the liberty of climbing to the throne of heaven. They were magnanimous.
I respectfully dispatch Zhang Kui, Taichang of the Private Office, and others to present the jade seal ribbon I wear and hand over my life to you.
In Renyin, Wang Jun entered the stone.
Sun Hao then prepared the etiquette of subjugation, including white carriages and horses with bare limbs, hands tied behind their backs, jade in their mouths and sheep in their hands, the doctor wearing mourning clothes, and officials pulling the coffin in a cart. He led twenty-one people, including the pseudo-prince Sun Jin, Sun Jin's younger brother Lu Wang Sun Qian, to the gate of the military base.
Wang Jun bowed to loosen his bonds, accepted the jade and burned the coffin, and sent Sun Hao and others to the capital.
Received Wu's maps and books, sealed their treasury, and the army did not invade and occupy it.
The emperor sent an envoy to reward Wang Jun's army.
At first, Shaoshu ordered Wang Jun to capture Jianping and be controlled by Du Yu. When he arrived at Moling, he was controlled by Wang Hun.
Du Yu arrived at Jiangling and said to the generals: If Wang Jun can capture Jianping, he can drive down the river. His reputation is already obvious, so it is not appropriate for him to be controlled by me.
If Jianping cannot be conquered, there will be no way to implement Jiedu.
When the dredging arrived in Xiling, Du Yu wrote to him: You have destroyed the western barrier of Wu State, so you should go directly to capture Moling, defeat the enemy invaders who have fled for generations, and save the Wu people from the disaster.
Entering the Huaihe River from the Yangtze River, crossing the Bianshui River, and going up the Yellow River to return to the capital in triumph, this is also an unprecedented undertaking.
Wang Jun was very happy and presented Du Yu's letter to the court.
When Wang Jun was about to arrive at Moling, Wang Hun sent a letter inviting Wang Jun to go and discuss military affairs temporarily. Wang Jun sailed straight down and reported: "The wind is favorable and the ship cannot be stopped."
Wang Hun had already defeated Sun Hao's central army, killed Zhang Ti and others, and did not dare to advance.
However, Wang Jun took advantage of the victory and surrendered. Wang Hun felt ashamed and resentful, so he reported that Wang Jun had violated the imperial edict and was not subject to restraint, and sued him on fabricated charges.
The relevant officials then wanted to use a carriage to conquer Wang Jun in accordance with the law, but the emperor did not allow it. He issued an edict to blame Wang Jun, saying: "The crusade against the enemy country is of great importance, and the orders should be unified."
Previously, I had written a letter to let the general accept the command of Anton general Wang Hun. Wang Hun had a far-reaching strategy and stood still waiting for the general.
Why go forward on your own, disobey Wang Hun's orders, go against the system and have no interest in it? It is very unjust.
The general's meritorious deeds are all recorded in my heart. Everything should be carried out in accordance with the imperial edict and the king's law should be respected and fulfilled. If everyone acts arbitrarily based on merit, how can I command the world?
Wang Jun wrote a letter stating his own reasoning:
I previously accepted the "Edict of Gengxu" and said: When a soldier takes advantage of a victory and becomes more courageous, he should push forward with the current and go straight to save the fallen.
The day I accepted the edict, I started to put it in.
In addition, the book of Shao previously stated that Taiwei Jia Chong was in charge of all parties. General Sima Dian, Wang Hun, Wang Jun, Tang Bin and others were all under the control of Jia Chong. He did not order me to accept Wang Hun Jiedu's writings.
Since I arrived at Baqiu, I have been invincible. I know that Sun Hao is in trouble and has no power.
On the 14th, we arrived at Niuzhu, two hundred miles away from Moling. We stationed ourselves there and prepared for the attack.
Advancing to Sanshan, I saw Wang Hun's army on the north bank. He sent me a letter, saying that I could stay at his place for a short time and discuss matters together. He did not say that I should be controlled by him.
My navy worked hard and took advantage of the momentum to rush to the enemy city. In addition, the deployment and march were not in order, and they were unable to turn the bow of the ship to Wang Hun in the mighty river, causing the fleet to be cut off from head to tail.
In the blink of an eye, Sun Hao sent an envoy to surrender.
I immediately replied to Wang Hun's letter and copied Sun Hao's letter. I gave them to Wang Hun Yumu and asked him to come quickly. I will wait for him at Shitou.
The army arrived at Moling at noon, and at dusk they received orders from Wang Hun to accept his orders. He wanted to order me to lead all my troops back on the 16th day of the next day to surround Shitou to prevent Sun Hao from escaping.
He also asked for the names of soldiers from the Shu army and Zhennan to make an appointment to meet.
I think Sun Hao has come to Duting to avenge his crime, so there is no need to join the futile siege.
Besides, when soldiers agree to meet, they cannot be hasty, and it is not an urgent matter at the moment, so they cannot accept orders.
Shaoshu said that I ignored the system and acted arbitrarily.
After reading the stern edict, I was terrified and trembling, not knowing what my fate would be.
I am not the only one who harbors fear. All the three armies have lost their spirit.
I enjoy the grace of the country and have great responsibilities, but I am often afraid of living up to the emperor's trust and being sorry to the court. Therefore, he devoted himself to the dangerous battlefield, fought thousands of miles, received the grace of forgiveness, and had the convenience to act according to the opportunity. Therefore, he relied on his power and luck to succeed. It was all his majesty's miraculous calculations.
I followed the instructions and just followed the work of an eagle and a dog. What meritorious achievements can I make to let me indulge myself based on my merits? Do I dare to violate the imperial edict out of ignorance of my own interests?
I arrived at Moling on the 15th, and the edict was issued from Luoyang on the 16th. This period was long and not connected, so my guilt should be considered and forgiven.
If Sun Hao still has the momentum of a mantis raising his axe, and I lead my light army to attack on my own, resulting in losses and deaths, I can be punished.
More than 80,000 people under my command pursued the victory.
Sun Hao has betrayed his relatives, has no accomplices anymore, is alone, cannot protect his wife and children, and is greedy for life, just trying to survive.
However, the armies in the north of the Yangtze River did not know the reality of the Wu state, and it was a small mistake not to capture it early.
I was about to succeed, but I was even more resented by others. They said that I would wait for the enemy for a hundred days, while others got the credit. The comments were mixed and hard to listen to.
According to the principles of the Spring and Autumn Annals, when officials go out, they still have autonomy.
Although I am stupid, I believe that the morality of serving the king is to be loyal and loyal, to accept tasks according to ability, to formulate countermeasures according to ability, and to live or die as long as it is beneficial to the country.
If you are worried about incurring suspicion and avoid responsibility, this is the benefit of a disloyal minister, and it is not a blessing for a wise monarch and his court.
I am not overestimating my abilities, and regardless of my low status, I reveal my daring loyalty and tell the truth about my loyalty at the risk of my life. I hope that I can use my strength to assist the ministers and be loyal. I hope that I will be able to eliminate the fierce enemies and rebellion, unify and stabilize the world, and may the Holy World be as prosperous as Yao, Yu and Shun of Tang Dynasty.
His Majesty is generally aware of my honesty and loyalty, and also knows my sincerity in serving, so he has given me the important task of governing the country and entrusted me with the important task of conquest.
Even if Lord Yan trusts Le Yi and Han Zu trusts Xiao He, they cannot exceed your trust in me.
The kindness I received was so great that it would take my life to repay it, but I acted inappropriately due to my stubbornness and negligence.
Your Majesty is very gracious and only blames me. I am terrified and ashamed. I hope your Majesty understands my absolute loyalty.
Wang Hun wrote to Zhou Jun, saying that Wang Jun's army had obtained Wu's treasure.
Wang Jun went to the table again and said:
Following the "Edict of Renxu", I sent a letter from General Anton to Qie Qi, the governor of Qiangye, saying that the army under my command had received the physical object of chasing the pedal, and that General Li Gao of Yamen had set fire to Sun Bi's puppet palace.
He wrote an official document and submitted it to the minister, listing all the circumstances.
I also heard that Wang Hun wrote a document to file a false accusation against me.
I am dull and honest by nature, and I do it with a clear conscience, just hoping to live up to the gods.
Moling's affairs are all as I mentioned in the previous table. However, there are many people who are jealous of integrity. They deliberately fabricate and fabricate accusations, blatantly act in the holy world, and confuse right and wrong.
The sycophants are evil and harm the country. This has been the case since ancient times.
Therefore, Chu was conquered without a hammer, Chu was destroyed by a tremor in the air, and as for the eternal title and the selection of the dynasty, these were recorded in the classics and were taken as a warning by the world.
In the past, Luan Yi conquered Qi and captured seventy cities. However, he was eventually alienated by slander and ran away.
After Le Yang returned to the court in victory, the book box was filled with letters slandering him.
What's more, I am stubborn and careless, so how can I stop the mouths of those who say bad things?
However, my hope of saving my body and soul depends entirely on Your Majesty's wisdom, which makes gradual slander unworkable.
However, I was alone, with no support from my allies in the DPRK, and I was left in a remote place for a long time. I was cut off from personal relations and had enmity with a powerful sectarian family.
With my fragile body, I am under the impact of thunder; with my weak body of a newborn calf, I stand in the way of the wolf and will be devoured, how can I resist with my lips and teeth!
If you offend the king, the crime can be cured; if you offend the powerful ministers, the disaster will be unfathomable.
Therefore, Zhu Yun broke the cage, which greatly angered Emperor Cheng. Qing Ji rescued him, and Sheng Tong no longer questioned the crime.
Looking at it, Qi'an offended Huti. Although the whole court sighed, death was still inevitable.
This is what scares me.
Now Wang Hun's party members and in-laws, both inside and outside, are colluding with each other, and they are all in official positions inherited from generation to generation.
I heard that people were sent to Luozhong to collude with each other. Their slanderous words were very pleasant and confused people's hearing and hearing.
It was clear that Zeng Shen would not kill anyone. However, when the three people heard that he had killed anyone, his mother was so frightened that she dropped her weaving shuttle and ran away.
Nowadays, my credibility and character are not as outstanding as Zeng Shen's; and the slanderous talk is boiling, not just three people are talking, instigating it internally and externally, and everyone is responding.
The beast blocks the road and the unicorn is frightened, not to mention my frailty, how can I not tremble!
The kings and ministers of the fake Wu are all alive now, so they can be verified and interrogated to distinguish the true from the false.
Previously, Kong Xin, the puppet general, said that Wuchang fell in February last year and the navy was about to arrive.
When Sun Hao inspected the stone and returned to the court, the people on his left and right waved their swords and shouted: "We must fight to the death for your majesty."
Sun Hao was overjoyed and thought that it would definitely happen, so he took out all the gold and silver objects and gave them to them.
The villain was rude and ran away with it. Sun Hao was frightened and planned to surrender.
The surrendered envoys had just left, plundering property from left and right, plundering wives and concubines, and setting fire to the palace.
Sun Hao ran away desperately, fearing that he would not survive. When I got there, I sent someone who was in charge of the army to put out the fire.
Zhou Jun entered Sun Hao's palace 16 days ago. I sent the clerk to inspect the books, but Zhou Jun sent someone to arrest the clerk.
If there is treasure left behind by Qi, then Zhou Jun has obtained it first and should not leave traces to future generations in order to avoid guilt.
I previously received a letter from Zhou Jun in Sanshan, saying: Sun Hao distributed treasures to reward the soldiers, but the storehouse was plundered and empty.
And now it is said that there are tens of thousands of gold, silver and bamboo boxes, and it is suspected that my army has taken them.
The words are repeated and the whole story is no longer clear.
I went into Sun Hao's palace with military commander Zhang Mu, Runan Prime Minister Feng Shou and others to watch, but there was no place to sit.
Later, I went to see Sun Hao's boat with Zhang Mu and others. Wang Hun boarded Sun Hao's boat one day earlier than me. Everything on the boat was what Wang Hun knew and saw.
I followed him in all my patrols. If there is any treasure, Wang Hun should get it.
Besides, I have always been strict in running the army, and soldiers are not allowed to leave the unit without authorization.
The number of troops in Moling totaled 200,000.
My army arrived first and became the lord of the land.
百姓的心，都归附仰仗我，我深切告诫我所统领的部队，秋毫不犯。

Whenever there was a market transaction, several people served as witnesses and the contract was clearly abided by. A total of thirteen people who violated the contract were killed. This was known to the people of Wu.
Other troops are running around everywhere, pretending to be my subordinates, and our troops are all Shu people. Fortunately, we can distinguish ourselves. Could it be that Zhou Jun's officers and men were all Boyi and Shuqi, while all my armies were gathered together by the bandit Zhi?
At that time, there were more than 800 people looting cloth and silk along the Stone City.
My Yamen general Ma Dang immediately captured more than 20 people, wrote down the names of their governors, and handed them over to Zhou Jun so that he could deal with them according to law. However, without any news to report back, I suspected that they had all been indulged in, and the trace of the matter was cut off.
I also heard from people in Wu that during Zhang Ti’s previous battle, only two thousand people were killed, but Wang Hun and Zhou Jun spread rumors that it was enough to kill tens of thousands.
He took Yuju's son as the chief keeper, and sent Chengju to steal, hoping that Yujian would increase the number of enemies he killed.
You can ask Sun Hao and his ministers about everything, and you can know for sure in detail.
If it is true, as I heard, that Zhou Jun and others falsely reported fraud and even deceived Your Majesty, will you take pity on me?
He said that I was gathering people from Shu and did not deliver Juebi on time, so I seemed to want to rebel.
He also threatened the Wu people, saying that I would kill them all and rob their wives and children, hoping that they would cause rebellion and vent their anger.
Conspiracy and treason would be charged additionally, so other slanderous remarks are only natural.
I have to repay my little talent in the official report. I have received great favor from the country and have been promoted and appointed frequently, so I have exceeded his ability.
Wang Yun's words were the most true, and he reflected in his heart with shame and fear.
Wu was pacified this year, which was a great joy, but for me, it was a disaster.
Meng Zhili did not have the good character of whipping horses to show his lack of respect for his achievements, but also allowed slanderous people in the prosperous court to speak and behave evilly, damaging the solemn atmosphere and damaging the reputation of the emperor.
Because of my stubbornness and omission, this situation was caused. I was sweating all over my face and my speech was incoherent.
When Yuxuan arrived in the capital, the relevant officials reported to Wang Jun that he did not list the months of the seven edicts he had received before and after, but also pardoned him for violating the edicts and not being subject to chariot control, which was disrespectful and handed over to Tingwei for punishment.
The edict said: Wang Jun first received the edict and went straight to Moling, and then the edict was issued for him to be under Wang Hun's control.
If the edict was withheld and was not fulfilled, it would not be reasonable to say that this is the same as not accepting the edict.
Wang Jun was punished if he did not immediately report to Wang Hun and was ordered to do so.
Wang Jun's achievements in conquests and conquests were not enough to be covered up by a single mistake.
Relevant officials reported again that Wang Jun burned 135 enemy ships after issuing an imperial edict to pardon the state of Wu, so he should order Tingwei to be imprisoned for investigation.
The edict said not to speculate.
He worshiped Wang Jun as the general of the auxiliary country and the captain of the infantry.
In the past, the school only had five establishments. The establishment of this battalion started with Wang Jun.
Relevant officials also reported that according to the regulations, the position of assistant to the country was not considered a high official, and there was no command horse or official riding.
The edict ordered that 500 carts be given according to the position of the town, 500 additional troops should be added to assist the state, 100 personal cavalry, 10 official cavalry, and Sima.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangyang County and was granted the title of 10,000 households.
He granted his son Wang Yi the title of Tinghou of Yangxiang, granted him a settlement of 1,500 households, and granted him 10,000 bolts of silk, a set of clothes, 300,000 yuan and food.
Wang Jun believed that he had made great achievements, but was suppressed by Wang Hun, his son and other powerful men, and was impeached by the officials many times. Whenever he came to see him, he would state his achievements in attacking and conquering, as well as the situation of being wronged. Sometimes he would be so angry that he would leave without saying goodbye.
The emperor often forgave him.
Fan Tong, the guardian of Yizhou, was Wang Jun's in-law, and said to Wang Jun: Your contribution can be said to be great, but it is a pity that you failed to achieve perfection in the aspects that can make you enjoy a good reputation.
Wang Jun asked: What does this mean?
Fan Tong said: On the day of your victory, you should return home wearing a kerchief and not mention the pacification of Wu.
If there is a person in the world, say: It depends on the virtue of the sage king and the strength of the generals. How can I have any merit in this matter?
, Like this, Yan Lao's lack of respect for his achievements and Gong Sui's humble answers, how can they surpass you.
Lin Xiangru wronged himself in front of Lian Po. How could Wang Hun not be ashamed?
Wang Jun said: At first, I was afraid of things like Deng Ai's. I was afraid of disasters. I had to say it and couldn't keep it in my heart. This was because I was narrow-minded.
People at that time believed that Wang Jun's merits were great but his rewards were light. Dr. Qin Xiu, Prince Xima Meng Kang, former Wenling Li Mi and others came together to express Wang Jun's grievances.
The emperor then promoted Wang Jun to the rank of general of the town army, and appointed him as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry and a general of the rear army.
Wang Hun visited Wang Jun, and Wang Jun put up a tight guard before meeting him. This was the mutual suspicion and precaution between them.
After Wang Jun pacified the state of Wu, because of his high status, he no longer regarded himself as simple, but instead lived in jade and rich clothes. Indulge in luxury and enjoy comfort.
If anyone is recruited and recommended, most of them are from Shu, which means that they will not forget the past.
Later, he was transferred to Wang Jun as the general of the Fu army and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He was granted special promotion and his positions of regular attendant of the casual cavalry and general of the rear army remained.
He died in the sixth year of Taikang at the age of eighty, and his name was Wu.
He was buried in Baigu Mountain, and a large-scale cemetery was built. The perimeter of the cemetery is forty-five miles, with a gate on each side and lush pines and cypresses.
He was succeeded by his son Wang Ju.
Wang Ju's younger brother Wang Chang was appointed Sanqi Lang.
In the tenth year of Taikang, Emperor Wu issued an edict for Wang Cui, the son of Wang Chang, to marry Princess Yingchuan and become the prefect of Wei County.
Wang Jun had two grandsons who were not hired after moving south of the Yangtze River.
Huan Wen, the general of Anxi, who was guarding Jiangling, discussed the matter and said: I heard that advocating virtue and rewarding meritorious officials is the first thing in politics; revitalizing what has been lost and continuing what has been cut off is what emperors of all generations are engaged in.
Therefore, if virtue participates in the stability of the world, then sacrifices will continue from generation to generation; if achievements are prominent in one generation, then blessings will be forever given to future generations.
The late General Wang Jun of the Fu Army held various official positions within and outside the imperial court. He was capable of literary and military skills, could predict the enemy's victory, was wise, courageous and good at making decisions. He had national interests in mind and did not care about the accusation of specialization.
Wu Jun drove straight in with a gun and swept thousands of miles. Wu Jun, who usurped his name, tied himself behind his back and surrendered outside the palace gate. Nowadays, the emperor's favor spreads all over Jiuzhou, and the style of talking about mysteries spreads beyond the region. The title of the Marquis of Xiangyang was abandoned without anyone to inherit it; the title of Grace was lost to descendants in modern times.
I feel sad near and far, and I am secretly sad.
Wang Jun now has two grandsons who are over sixty years old. The family has nothing, and they live by the river. During the four seasons, they have no vegetable soup to offer.
In the past, Mo Gaozu established his empire and sought Le Yi's descendants; Jin Shizu commended the virtuous and appointed officials to Zhuge Liang's descendants.
Having served loyally to other dynasties and performed meritorious services in other countries, they can still perform good deeds in the world so that their achievements will not be abandoned. What's more, Wang Jun established the first achievements in that year and left auspiciousness behind him. His ancestors entrusted their descendants to southern Xinjiang. The imperial industry of the royal family was revived and rebuilt in Jiangdong. Old things can be prominent and artifacts can shine again. Isn't it because of the credit of that person!
In fact, we should show grace and a little mercy, recall past meritorious deeds, and inherit the title.
Then the grace of the holy dynasty will flow freely from heaven, and the ambitions of loyal ministers will not fall to the ground.
The above table is never considered.
Tang Bin, named Confucian, was from Zou, Leili. His father, Tangtai, was the prefect of Taishan.
Tang Bin had the magnanimity to govern the country, regardless of his moral integrity.
He was familiar with horseback riding and archery when he was young, and loved hunting. He was eight feet tall, could catch up with a running deer, and was as strong as several men.
Later, I paid more attention to my love of classics and history books, especially the "Book of Changes". I studied with teachers and taught them at home, often to hundreds of people.
At first, he was appointed as a subordinate of the county gate, and then as the chief registrar.
The governor Wang Shen summoned many of his subordinates to discuss the countermeasures against Wu and asked the officials of the nine counties.
Tang Bin and Zhang Pang, the chief registrar of Qiao County, both stated the situation in which Wu could be annexed, and Wang Chen appreciated their answers.
He also asked Tang Bin to refute those who thought that Wu could not be conquered, but those people were indifferent.
After returning home, he was promoted to meritorious service, Xiaolian was recommended, Zhou Bao called him to be the chief secretary, and he was gradually promoted to Biejia.
Tang Bin is loyal, respectful, just and open-minded, and he wholeheartedly advises and corrects others, and does not show advice just to express himself. He was also ordered to go to the Prime Minister's Mansion to discuss matters. At that time, the staff were all famous and talented people in the world. They all admired Tang Bin and were happy. They went to Emperor Wen to praise him and recommend him to be an official.
Emperor Wen asked Kong Hao, a soldier in the army, about the matter. Kong Hao was jealous of Tang Bin's talent and did not reply for a long time.
Chen Qian was present, and he restrained his wat ban and said: "Tang Bin's character is much better than mine."
Emperor Wen smiled and said: "As long as I can be like you, it is already rare. How can I surpass you?"
So Tang Bin was recruited to serve as Zhong Cao's vassal.
The emperor asked: Why were you requisitioned?
The answer is: He cultivates his studies in the simple streets and inspects the relics of the ancients. His words are spread all over the world without any mistakes, and his actions are spread all over the world without any resentment.
The emperor looked around and said: Well-deserved.
Afterwards, Emperor Wen said to Kong Hao: I saw Tang Bin recently. You have the fault of covering up the wise man.
At the beginning, when Deng Ai was executed, Emperor Wen sent Tang Bin to secretly investigate because Deng Ai had been in Longxi for a long time and was usually very popular. He was afraid that the situation at the border would be unstable once he was destroyed.
Tang Bin came back and told Emperor Wen: Deng Ai was jealous, harsh, cunning and narrow-minded by nature, boastful and arrogant. Those who were obedient were considered to be able to do things, and those who were outspoken were considered offensive.
Even if Sima, the chief historian, consulted Yamen, he would insult him if his answers were not to his liking.
If you don't pay attention to etiquette, you will be very unpopular.
He also likes to perform miscellaneous tasks and work many times.
Long Xi felt very worried and hard. He was very happy to hear that he had met with trouble and refused to work hard for him anymore.
Now that all the armies have arrived, they are enough to suppress both internal and external forces. I hope you don’t have to worry about this matter.
Soon he was appointed Minister of Water Affairs.
In the early years of Taishi's reign, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Ye Ling was left alone, Tang Bin's morals were in line with etiquette, and his education was completed in one year.
He was moved to the post of governor of Yiyang, and public bans were established to prevent it, and the people became stable.
He resigned from the palace because of his mother's funeral.
Yizhou was adjacent to the enemy invaders in Chengli, and there was a shortage of personnel for the position of military supervisor. The court discussed appointing Wuling prefects Yang Zong and Tang Bin.
Emperor Wu asked Wen Li, the regular attendant of Sanqi, about this incident. Wen Li said: "Neither Yang Zong nor Tang Bin should be lost."
However, Tang Bin has a strong desire for wealth and Yang Zong is a drunkard. Please ask your Majesty to rule.
Emperor Wu said: The desire for money can be satisfied, but it is difficult for people who are greedy to change.
So Tang Bin was appointed.
Soon after, Tang Bin was ordered to supervise the military affairs in Badong and was awarded the title of General Guangwu.
Shangshu discussed the strategy of conquering Wu, which was very much in line with the emperor's wishes.
Later, he and Wang Yi conquered the stars together, and Lu Qian occupied the main transportation road and served as the vanguard of the army.
Always set up suspicious soldiers and seize the opportunity to win. They captured Xiling and Lexiang and captured many enemies.
From the east of Danyi and Maggot, wherever the enemy troops gathered, everyone was shocked and frightened, and they all turned over and surrendered.
Tang Bin knew that the enemy was in a desperate situation and Sun Hao was about to surrender. He was 200 miles away from Jianye and stayed there claiming to be ill to show that he would not take credit.
Sure enough, those who arrived first competed for things, and those who arrived later competed for credit. All knowledgeable people at that time praised Lu Qu's move.
Yuli was pacified, Shao Shu said; Guangwu general Lu Si served on the border, resisted the Cheng bandits to the east, faced the barbarian Yue to the south, pacified and stabilized the battlefield, and had the merit of stabilizing the country and resisting the enemy.
He often makes generous speeches and aims to achieve meritorious service.
During the recent expedition, he accepted orders even though he was ill, and made prisoners and killed enemies for the vanguard of the army, which was a remarkable achievement.
Lu Yan was appointed as the right general and the military commander of Dansai.
He was conscripted into the Yi Military Academy and granted the title of Marquis of Shangyong County. He was granted a settlement of 6,000 households and was given 6,000 bolts of silk.
If the court had any problems, he would often get involved.
The enemy invaders from the north invaded and plundered Peiping, so Tang Bin was appointed as envoy Chijie, supervising Youye's military affairs, and also protecting Karasuma's captain and right general.
After Tang Ao arrived at the border town, he trained soldiers to repair weapons, expanded farmland and focused on agriculture, inspired military power to show force, publicized national laws, and showed kindness and credit.
So the two tribes of Xianbei, Damo Mo and Lao He, sent their sons to serve the emperor as hostages.
Tang Bin studied in school concurrently, taught tirelessly and spread kindness and kindness widely.
So we opened up the old borders and advanced thousands of miles.
The Qin Great Wall fortress was restored, stretching nearly three thousand miles in the valley from Wencheng to Jieshi. It was divided into garrison troops and guarded by beacon towers.
From then on, the border was peaceful, and there were no dogs barking to call the police. No general since Luo Wei could compare with him.
The Xianbei tribes were afraid, so they killed Damo Mo.
Tang Bin wanted to attack them, but he was afraid that if he waited for the report according to the procedure, the enemies would definitely flee, so he mobilized Youji chariots and cattle.
Xu Zhi, who joined the army, reported secretly and issued an imperial edict to send the imperial censor to escort Tang Bin to the imperial court. However, he was released due to unforeseen circumstances.
The people admired Tang Bin's merits and built monuments to praise him while Tang Bin was still alive.
Tang Bin first studied in Yande, Donghai. Yande had many students, but he only thought that Tang Bin had the ability to serve as an official in the court.
When Tang Bin became an official and Yan De was dead, a monument was erected for Yan De.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, former general, Xirong school captain, and Yongzhou governor.
Issued a decree saying: This state is a famous big city where scholars gather.
Those who lived in seclusion and did not serve as officials, such as Huangfu Shenshu, Ti Zhuikang, Jiang Maoshi, Liang Ziyuan and others, all had noble moral integrity and noble conduct.
As soon as I set foot on this land, I heard about their reputation. I humbly wanted to invite them to come and receive them without following the official etiquette.
They meet each other dressed as civilians and just talk about scriptures. How can they be wronged and pollute their noble principles because of their official positions.
The prefectures and states prepare and send gifts to satisfy the wishes of the cities and towns.
So the four people arrived, and Tang Bin treated them respectfully.
Yuankang died in office in the fourth year of his reign at the age of sixty. He was given the title of Xiang and was given two hundred pieces of silk and two hundred thousand money.
The eldest son succeeded him and became the prefect of Guangling.
The youngest son Tang Qi was appointed Sima of Zhenglu.
Shi Chen said: The Sun family relied on the barrier of mountains and rivers and the demonic aura of Niudou Xingxu to occupy the water towns and compete with the Jin Kingdom.
Wang Hun and Wang Jun were in the army and were ordered to go out quickly. After Wang Hun's victory at Hengjiang, Wang Yi also conquered Jiansu.
The crusade at that time: In the battle of the main country, although there were many generals, the greatest contribution was made in pacifying Wu.
If you admire Father Lian's meritorious service, you can admire Yajiang's meritorious service. It is said that those above take orders from the imperial court, while those below rely on the soldiers.
Isn’t he a man of great merit and virtue who starts well and ends well?
There is no such spirit, but it is pursued on the other side.
Either he works hard to control his energy, or he uses his power to frame others and fabricate accusations.
So it polluted the air in the palace, corrupted and messed up the laws and regulations, not only made the heroes a warning, but also attracted the ridicule of public opinion. Isn't it a pity!
Wang Jishun complied with the narrow-mindedness of his arrogant father and violated the moral principles of the son's admonishment in front of his father. Although superman has many talents, what's the use?
Lu Que was afraid of and avoided competing with each other. He stayed away due to illness and gave in. His demeanor was much more virtuous than Wang Yun Wang's.
The biography says that he was not limited in his conduct. Where did he get the conduct of an elder?
Zan said: The two kings commanded the army, and they were unified when they entered the sea.
Wang Lun hurts good people, but Wang Zha boasts about his achievements.
Wang Ji is a hero, and he is among the courtiers.
The heart of an ox is dug out to show luxury, and the wall of riding and shooting is built to express one's state of mind.
Luqian knows how to give in, avoid fame and preserve his moral integrity.
