Li Guang, a native of Shengqi, Longxi County.
His ancestor Li Zhi was a general in the Qin Dynasty and once hunted down Prince Dan of Yan State.
Li Guang's family has been learning archery for generations.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Huns invaded Xiaoguan in large numbers. Li Guang joined the army to fight against the Huns as a son of a good family. Because he was good at archery, he killed and captured many enemies. He became a Langguan of the Han Dynasty and served as a riding attendant.
Li Guang often went hunting with Emperor Wen and killed fierce beasts, so Emperor Wen said: It's a pity that you didn't get the chance; if you were in the era of Emperor Gao, it wouldn't be a problem to be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households!
Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne, and Li Guang was appointed Cavalry General.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Li Guang served as the commander of Xiaoqi. He followed Taiwei Zhou Yafu to attack Wu and Chu, and made outstanding achievements in Changyi City.
Because the King of Liang privately awarded General Li Guang the seal, he did not receive the reward after returning to the court.
He was transferred to the prefect of Shanggu and fought many battles with the Xiongnu.
Sun Kunxie, the Duke of Dian, said to the emperor with tears in his eyes: "Li Guang's talent is unparalleled in the world." He relied on his own ability and fought against the enemy many times, fearing that he would be sacrificed.
So he was transferred to the prefecture of Shangjun.
The Huns invaded Shangjun, and the emperor sent noble men to follow Li Guang and lead his own troops to fight against the Huns.
The noble man galloped with dozens of cavalry, met three Huns, and fought with them.
The three Huns turned around and fired arrows, wounding the noble man and killing almost all the cavalry he had brought with him.
The noble man ran to Li Guang. Li Guang said: This must be the Condor Shooter.
Li Guang then led a hundred cavalry to chase the three men.
The three men walked dozens of miles without riding horses.
Li Guang ordered his cavalry to disperse to the left and right, and Li Guang shot the three men himself, killing two and capturing one alive. It turned out to be the Huns' eagle shooter.
As soon as they tied up the man and went up the mountain, they saw thousands of Xiongnu cavalry. They saw Li Guang and thought it was the cavalry who was seducing them. They were all surprised and went up the mountain to get ready.
Li Guang's one hundred cavalry were frightened and wanted to run back quickly.
Li Guang said: We are dozens of miles away from the main army. If we run away with a hundred cavalry like this, if the Huns chase and shoot us, we will all die immediately.
Now that we stop, the Xiongnu must think that we are decoys of the army and will not dare to attack us.
Li Guang ordered: Forward!
After entering about two miles away from the Huns' position, they stopped and ordered: "Everyone, dismount and unsaddle!"
His cavalry said: There are many enemies and they are close. What if there is an emergency after unsaddled?
Li Guang said: Those enemies thought that we would escape, and now they took off their saddles to show that they would not leave. They used this method to confirm their suspicions.
So the Huns' cavalry finally did not dare to attack.
A general on a white horse came out to guard his soldiers. Li Guang mounted his horse, galloped over with more than a dozen cavalry, and shot the Xiongnu general on a white horse to death. Then he returned to his cavalry, took off the saddle, and ordered the soldiers to let go of their horses and lie down.
It was almost dusk on this beautiful day, and the Huns soldiers were always uncertain and did not dare to attack.
In the middle of the night, the Huns also thought that the Han army had an ambush nearby and would attack them at night, so the Huns all retreated.
Early the next morning, Li Guangcai returned to his main army.
Later, he successively served as the prefect of Longxi, Beidi, Yanmen and Yunzhong.
When Emperor Wu came to the throne, his ministers said that Li Guang was a famous general, so Li Guang was transferred to the Weiyang Palace Guards, while Cheng Bushi also served as the Changle Palace Guards at that time.
In the past, Cheng Bushi and Li Guang both led the army as governors of border counties and stationed fields to guard the border.
When he sent out troops to attack the Huns, Li Guang's army did not have strict organization, queues or formations. They stationed themselves near good water sources and grasslands, and stayed and stayed at their own convenience. They did not patrol or patrol at night to defend themselves. The military's documents and books were kept simple, but reconnaissance posts were also set up in the distance, so they did not encounter any danger.
Cheng Bushi strictly required the establishment, formation and formation, and patrolled at night, and the officers processed military documents until dawn, and the troops were not allowed to do what they wanted.
Cheng Bushi said: Li Guang's troops were very casual, but when the enemy suddenly attacked them, they were unable to parry them; and his soldiers were comfortable and happy, and they were all willing to die for him.
Although my troops are busy and busy, the enemy does not dare to invade us.
At that time, Li Guang and Cheng Bushi, the prefects of border counties in the Han Dynasty, were famous generals. However, the Huns were afraid of Li Guang's strategy, and the soldiers mostly liked to follow Li Guang but were reluctant to follow Cheng Bushi.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Cheng Bushi was appointed Taizhong doctor because of his repeated outspoken advice. He is an honest man and obeys the law.
Later, the Han Dynasty used the city of Mayi to lure Chanyu. A large army was sent to ambush in the valley near Mayi. Li Guang served as the general of the cavalry and was controlled by the guard general Han Anguo.
At that time, Shanyu noticed this situation and retreated, leaving the Han army with no military exploits.
Four years later, Li Guang was transferred from a guard to a general and attacked the Huns from Yanmen County.
The Huns had more soldiers and defeated Li Guang's army and captured Li Guang alive.
Shan Yu always heard that Li Guang was talented and issued an order: If Li Guang is captured, he must be delivered alive.
The Huns cavalry captured Li Guang, who was injured at the time. They placed Li Guang between the two horses and used ropes to form a net bag for Li Guang to lie down.
After walking for more than ten miles, Li Guang pretended to be dead and squinted at a Hun boy riding a good horse next to him. Li Guang suddenly jumped up, climbed on the Hun boy's horse, held the boy in his arms and rode south for dozens of miles, and gathered the remaining troops of him.
Hundreds of Xiongnu cavalry chased him. As he ran, Li Guang picked up the bow and arrow of the Xiongnu boy and shot the chasing cavalry to death, thus escaping.
So he returned to the Han capital, and the Han court handed Li Guang over to the judge.
The judge ruled that Li Guang had lost many men and horses and was captured alive by the enemy. He should be beheaded and use money to atone and become a civilian.
A few years later, Li Guang and Guan Qiang, the grandson of the former Yingyin Marquis who had retired to Lantian County, often went hunting in the Nanshan Mountains.
One night, I went out with a cavalryman and drank with others in the fields.
Returning to Ba Ling Pavilion, Ba Lingwei was drunk and yelled at Li Guang to stop him. Li Guang's subordinates said: This is the former General Li.
Tingwei said: The current general cannot pass at night, let alone his predecessor!
Li Guang was detained and lodged under Baling Pavilion.
Soon after, the Xiongnu invaded and killed the governor of Liaoxi and defeated General Han.
Later, General Han was transferred to Youbeiping and died.
So the emperor recruited and appointed Li Guang as the right governor of Beiping.
Li Guang then asked to send Lieutenant Ba Ling to go with him and kill him when he arrived in the army. Then he wrote a letter to apologize.
The emperor replied: Generals are the backbone of the country's defense.
The Art of War in "Sima Fa" says: There is no need to salute when boarding a chariot, and there is no need to wear mourning clothes when encountering a funeral. Reorganize and appease the army to conquer rebellion; unify the will of the three armies and stimulate the combat effectiveness of the soldiers. Therefore, showing anger can shock thousands of miles, and showing majesty can surrender. All things; therefore, the prestige is applied to the minority areas, and the power of the gods frightens the neighboring countries. He uses his anger to eradicate the harm and makes them give up cruelty and massacre. This is exactly what I want the general to do; if he takes off his hat, barefoot and kowtows to apologize, it is not my will!
The general should lead his army to consolidate the army and stabilize the frontiers to welcome the battle in the golden autumn of Youbeiping.
When Li Guang was in the border county, the Huns gave him the title of "Han Fei General", and they avoided Li Guang and did not enter the border for several years.
Li Guang went out hunting and saw a stone in the grass. He thought it was a tiger and shot an arrow. The arrow penetrated the stone. When he got closer, he saw that it was a stone. Then I tried to ejaculate again, but I couldn't ejaculate anymore.
In the county where Li Guang was located, when he heard that there was a tiger, he often went to shoot it himself.
When he was stationed in Youbei, he shot a tiger once. The tiger jumped up and wounded Li Guang. Li Guang also shot the tiger to death.
Lang Zhongling Shi Jian passed away, so the emperor recruited Li Guang to replace Shi Jian as Lang Zhongling.
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Li Guang was transferred to the rank of general and followed the general's army to attack the Huns from Dingxiang County.
Many of the generals were awarded the title of Marquis for their meritorious service for killing and capturing the enemy, but Li Guang's troops had no merit.
Three years later, Li Guang, as Lang Zhongling, led four thousand cavalry from Youbeiping. Bowang Hou Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry and went with Li Guang in two directions.
After walking for several hundred miles, King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led 40,000 cavalry to surround Li Guang. Li Guang's soldiers were frightened, so Li Guang sent his son Li Gan to attack the enemy with a fast horse.
Li Gan galloped away with dozens of cavalry alone, passed through the encirclement of the Huns' cavalry, picked out the enemy's left and right wings, and returned, reporting to Li Guang: "The Huns are easy to deal with."
The soldiers finally settled down.
Li Guang formed a circular formation, facing the outside world. The Huns attacked them fiercely, raining down arrows.
More than half of the Han soldiers died, and the Han army was almost running out of arrows.
Li Guang ordered the soldiers to draw their bows and not to release arrows. Li Guang personally used the big yellow crossbow to shoot at the enemy's lieutenants, killing several of them, and the Huns gradually relaxed.
It happened to be dark, and the officers and soldiers were pale, but Li Guang looked as usual and commanded the army more energetically.
The soldiers in the army admired his courage.
The next day, they continued to fight hard, and Bowang Hou's army also arrived, and the Huns army finally relieved the siege.
The Han army was tired and could not pursue him.
At this time, Li Guang's army was almost wiped out and he had to withdraw his troops.
According to the laws of the Han Dynasty, Bowang Hou delayed the scheduled date and was sentenced to death. He paid for his sins and was reduced to a commoner.
Li Guang's military merit was equal to his criminal responsibility, so he was not rewarded.
At the beginning, Li Guang and his cousin Li Cai were both appointed as Langguan and served Emperor Xiaowen together.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Li Cai received a salary of two thousand stone levels for his accumulated merit.
During the Yuanshuo period of Emperor Xiaowu, he served as General of Qingchao and followed the general to attack King Youxian. His meritorious service reached the standard of reward and he was named Marquis of Le'an.
In the second year of Yuanshou, he replaced Gongsun Hong as prime minister.
Li Cai's character was among the lowest, and his reputation was far below that of Li Guang. However, Li Guang did not receive a title or fief, and his official position did not exceed Jiuqing.
Many of Li Guang's officers and soldiers were awarded the title of Marquis.
Li Guang once chatted with Wang Shuo, a Wangqi master, and said: Ever since the Han Dynasty attacked the Huns, I have never been absent from them. However, the talents of each army commander and below are not average enough. However, there are dozens of people who have obtained marquises because of their military exploits in attacking the Huns. However, I did not fall behind others, but I did not have a small amount of merit to obtain a fief. What is the reason?
Shouldn’t my life be granted a title of marquis?
Wang Shuo said: General, think about it yourself, has there ever been any regret?
Li Guang said: I was once the governor of Longxi. The Qiang people rebelled. I lured them to surrender. More than 800 people surrendered. I used deception to kill them on the same day. So far, my biggest regret is only this incident.
Wang Shuo said: There is no greater sin than killing someone who has surrendered. This is why the general cannot be granted the title of marquis.
Li Guang served as the governor of seven counties for more than 40 years. After receiving rewards, he immediately distributed them to his subordinates, and shared his food and drink with the soldiers.
There is no extra property in the family, and I have never talked about buying property in my life.
Li Guang was tall, long-armed, and talented in archery. Even if his descendants and others learned archery from him, they could not catch up with him.
Li Guang was arrogant and did not talk much to others. He lived with others and drew battle formations on the ground. He shot arrows wider and narrower than the area he shot. If he lost, he drank wine as a penalty.
Specialized in archery as a game.
When leading troops on the march, they encounter a shortage of food and water. When they see water, not all the soldiers drink the water. He does not go near the water. Not all the soldiers have food. He does not taste the food. He treats soldiers generously and carefully, so soldiers like to work for him.
When he shoots an arrow and sees an enemy within a few dozen steps, he probably won't hit the target and will fall to the ground as soon as he shoots.
Therefore, he led his troops in battle and was besieged by the enemy many times. He even shot wild beasts and was injured several times.
In the fourth year of Yuanshou, the generals and hussar generals sent out large-scale troops to attack the Xiongnu. Li Guang took the initiative to request to go several times.
The emperor thought he was old and did not allow him. After a long time, he finally allowed him and sent him to serve as a former general.
General Wei Qing left the border fortress, captured prisoners, and learned where Shan Yu lived. He personally led his elite troops to attack, and ordered Li Guang's troops to merge with General Right's troops to attack from the east.
The east road is a little circuitous, and the large army is traveling through a place with few water and grass, so it is unable to gather and march.
Li Guang personally requested: "I am a former general of the army, but now the general has asked me to send troops from the east route. Besides, I have been fighting against the Xiongnu since I was young. Today is the first time I have to fight against the Shanyu. I am willing to be the vanguard and fight the Shanyu to the death first."
General Wei Qing was secretly instructed by the emperor, thinking that Li Guang was old and had suffered many embarrassments, so he should not be allowed to confront Shanyu head-on, as he might not be able to realize his wish.
At this time, Gongsun Ao had recently lost a marquis and was serving as lieutenant general. The general also wanted Gongsun Ao to fight against Shanyu with him, so he transferred former general Li Guang.
Li Guang knew this situation at the time and resolutely refused to be transferred to the general.
The general refused to listen and ordered the chief historian to send a document to Li Guang's shogunate, saying: Go to the military headquarters where you are and do as the document says.
Li Guang set out without saying goodbye to the general. He went to the military headquarters in anger, led his soldiers and the right general to the place where they joined forces, and set off from the east road.
He lost his way and fell behind the general.
The general fought with Shanyu, but Shanyu fled and returned without any victory.
The army crossed the desert southward before meeting the former general and the right general.
After Li Guang met with the general, he returned to his army.
The general sent Chang Shi to bring wine and food to Li Guang, and asked Li Guang and Zhao Shiqi how they had lost their way, and said: "Wei Qing wants to write a letter to report the twists and turns in the emperor's army."
Li Guang didn't answer.
General Shi ordered Li Guang's shogunate staff to write a report and go to the hearing.
Li Guang said: "The captains are not guilty. It was me who lost my way. Now I will give a confession in person and wait for interrogation."
Returning to his shogunate, Li Guang said to his subordinates: I have experienced more than seventy battles with the Xiongnu since I was young. This time I had the honor to follow the general to fight against Shanyu's direct troops. However, the general sent my troops to take a circuitous and distant road, and they lost their way again. Isn't it God's will?
Besides, I am over sixty years old, and after all, I can no longer deal with the insults of interrogators.
Then he took out his knife and killed himself.
When the people heard this, whether they knew him or not, whether they were old or young, they all shed tears for him.
The right general Zhao Shiqi was sent to the judge alone and sentenced to death. He paid for his sins and was reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang had three sons, named Li Danghu, Li Jiao, and Li Gan, all of whom served as Lang Guan.
One time the emperor was playing with Han Yan, and Han Yan was a little rude. Li Danghu hit Han Yan, and Han Yan ran away, so the emperor thought Li Danghu was brave.
Li Danghu died early, and the emperor appointed Li Jiao as the prefect of Daijun, both of whom died before Li Guang.
When Li Guang died in the army, Li Gan was following the hussar general.
In the second year after Li Guang's death, Li Cai became the prime minister. He should be punished by the judge for occupying the open space of Emperor Xiaojing's Yangling Mausoleum. The open space given to him at that time was only 20 acres, and Li Cai occupied three hectares. After selling the land, he received more than 400,000 yuan. He also occupied an acre of land outside the Shinto as a cemetery. He was sentenced to prison, so Li Cai also committed suicide.
As a school captain, Li Gan followed the hussar general to attack King Zuoxian of the Huns. He fought hard and captured King Zuoxian's war drum and flag. He beheaded many of the enemies. He was awarded the title of Marquis of Dingguannei and enjoyed the title of 200 households. He succeeded Li Guang as the doctor's order.
Soon, Li Gan resented the general Wei Qing for causing his father to die out of hatred, so he wounded the general, but the general concealed the incident.
Not long after, Li Gan accompanied the emperor to Yongzhou Ganquan Palace for hunting. General Huo Qubing resented Li Gan for injuring Wei Qing and shot Li Gan to death.
Huo Qubing was favored by the nobles at that time, but the emperor concealed the truth and said that a wild deer killed him.
More than a year later, Huo Qubing died.
Li Gan had a daughter who was the prince's maid and was favored.
Li Gan's son Li Yu was also favored by the prince, but he was fond of wealth and had courage.
He once drank with a nobleman in his attendants and insulted him, but the nobleman did not dare to say anything.
Later, he told the emperor. The emperor summoned Li Yu and asked him to stab the tiger. He hung down to the tiger enclosure, but before he reached the ground, he ordered Li Yu to be pulled up.
Li Yu cut the rope from the net and wanted to stab the tiger.
The emperor thought he was brave, so he rescued him and stopped him from stabbing the tiger.
Li Danghu had a posthumous son named Li Ling, who led an army to attack the Huns. He was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
Later, someone accused Li Yu of trying to follow Li Ling and was executed.
Li Ling, whose courtesy name is Shaoqing, was appointed as the Jian Zhang Supervisor of the Imperial Palace when he was young.
He is good at riding and shooting, loves and cares for others, and is humble to his subordinates. He has a good reputation.
Emperor Wu felt that he had Li Guang's demeanor, so he asked him to lead 800 cavalry and penetrated more than 2,000 miles into the Huns' territory. He passed through the Juyan area and inspected the terrain. When the Huns were not seen, he returned.
He worshiped the official Cavalry Captain and led 5,000 warriors to teach archery in Jiuquan and Zhangye areas to prevent the Huns from invading.
A few years later, the Han Dynasty sent the general of the Second Division to attack Dawan, and sent Li Ling to lead five schools of troops to follow.
When marching to the frontier fortress, he met the general of the Second Division returning.
The emperor gave Li Ling a letter, and Li Ling left his officers and soldiers behind. He left Dunhuang with 500 light cavalry and went to Yanyan to welcome the return of the general of the second division, and then stationed at Zhangye.
In the second year of Tianhan, the general of the Second Division led 30,000 cavalry to Jiuquan to attack King Youxian of the Xiongnu in the Tianshan Mountains.
The emperor summoned Li Ling and wanted him to serve as the general's baggage transporter.
Li Ling was summoned at Wutai, kowtowed and said: "The border soldiers led by me are all brave and talented swordsmen from Jingchu. They are strong enough to choke tigers and can hit the target with arrows. I hope to lead a group independently to the south of Langan Mountain to attract Shan Yu's troops and prevent the Huns from concentrating their forces to attack the general of the Second Division."
The emperor said: Where can I allocate your troops?
I have sent many troops, but I have no cavalry left for you.
Li Ling replied: There is no need to send cavalry. I am willing to attack the masses with a small number. Five thousand infantry can march into the court of Shan Yu.
The emperor thought he was brave and agreed, so he ordered Lu Bode, the captain of Qiannu, to lead his troops to meet Li Ling's army on the way.
Lu Bode was originally General Fubo, and he was ashamed to be Li Ling's rear guard. He wrote in a memorial: "In the autumn when the Xiongnu horses are fat, we must not fight with them. I am willing to keep Li Ling until spring. At the same time, I will lead the Jiuquan and Zhangye cavalry of 5,000 men each to attack the east and west to dredge Ji. I will definitely capture the Chanyu."
After the letter was written, the emperor was furious. He suspected that Li Ling regretted not sending troops, so he asked Lu Bode to write the letter. He then issued an edict to Lu Bode and said: I want to send Li Ling cavalry. He said that he wants to attack the masses with a small number. Now that the Huns have entered the Xihe River, our army should lead the troops to the Xihe River. You should go to Hook Camp to stop the enemy.
He also issued an edict to Li Ling: Starting in September, we will send troops to cover the captives and go to the Longle River in the south of Shujunji Mountain. We will go back and forth to look for the Xiongnu. If no enemy troops are found, we will go to the old road of Ponu through the Zhaoye Marquis to receive the soldiers who surrendered to the city to rest and rest according to the arrangements of the cavalry post.
Whatever I said to Lu Bod, I wrote everything down and reported it.
So Li Ling led five thousand infantrymen from Juyan, marched north for thirty years, and stationed at Junji Mountain. He mapped out all the terrain of the mountains and rivers he passed, and sent his subordinates, the cavalry general Chen Bule, to report to the court.
Chen Bule was summoned and stated Li Ling's ability as a general to obtain the service of soldiers. The emperor was very happy and worshiped Chen Bule as his husband.
Li Ling went to Junji Mountain and encountered Shanyu. Li Ling's army was surrounded by 30,000 cavalry.
Li Ling's army was camped with carts between the two mountains.
Li Ling led his soldiers out of the camp to form a battle formation, holding halberds and shields in the front, and bows and crossbows in the rear. He gave the order: "Advance when you hear the sound of drums, and stop when you hear the sound of buttons."
When the Xiongnu saw that there were few Han soldiers, they rushed straight to the front of the camp. Li Ling fought and attacked each other. Thousands of crossbows were fired in unison, and the enemy troops fell down in response.
The Xiongnu retreated up the mountain, and the desert army attacked, killing thousands of enemy soldiers.
Chanyu was shocked and summoned more than 80,000 infantry and cavalry men to attack Li Ling.
Kui Tong fought and retreated, heading south for several times, and reached the valley.
During the continuous fighting, the soldiers were injured by arrows. Three of them were wounded lying in the car, two were injured while driving, and one was injured while holding a weapon while fighting.
Li Ling said: What is the reason why our army's morale has declined and cannot be boosted?
Are there women in the army?
When the troops began to be sent out, the wives of the bandits from Guandong who moved to the border followed the army and became soldiers' wives, hiding deep in the cars.
Langlu searched them out and killed them all.
They fought again the next day and killed more than 3,000 enemy soldiers.
He led his army to march southeast, marching along the old Longcheng road, and arrived in Jiaweizhong, Daze, in four or five days. The Huns set fire to it from the upper wind, and Li Ling also asked the army to set fire to the isolation zone to save himself.
Traveling south to the foot of the mountain, Shanyu was on Nanshan and sent his son to lead the cavalry to attack Li Ling.
Li Ling's army fought in the woods and killed thousands of enemy troops. He shot Shanyu with repeating crossbows, and Shanyu retreated down the mountain.
On this day, they captured prisoners and confessed: Shan Yu said: These are elite soldiers of the Han Dynasty. Attacking cannot win. They lure me south to the border day and night. Will there be an ambush?
The rulers of each tribe said: The Shanyu personally led tens of thousands of cavalry and could not destroy thousands of Han soldiers. He would no longer be able to send people to the border in the future, which would make the Han Dynasty despise the Huns even more.
Then fight in the valley, and there are still forty or fifty miles before reaching the level ground. If you can't defeat them, you will retreat.
At that time, Li Ling's army was even more critical. There were many Huns cavalry. They fought dozens of rounds a day and killed more than 2,000 enemy troops.
The Huns were at a disadvantage and wanted to retreat. When they met Li Ling's army, the captain dared to be humiliated by the captain and fled to surrender to the Huns. He told the situation of the Han army and said that Li Ling's army had no backup and was about to run out of arrows. He led his subordinates and the Cheng'anhou schoolmaster each as a forward force of 800 people. They used yellow and white flags and should use elite cavalry to shoot arrows to destroy the Han army.
The Marquis of Cheng'an was a native of Yingchuan. His father, Han Qianqiu, was originally the prime minister of Jinan. He died in battle during the expedition against South Vietnam. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty made his son Yannian a Marquis and accompanied Li Ling on the expedition as a school captain.
Shanyu was overjoyed after getting Guan Gan, and sent cavalry to attack the desert army, shouting: Li Ling and Han Yannian surrender quickly!
So he blocked the road and attacked Li Ling.
The Han army is in the valley and the Huns are on the mountain. Arrows are raining down from all sides.
The Han army went south and did not reach the Tahan Mountains. It consumed 500,000 arrows in one day and immediately abandoned its chariots and retreated.
There were more than 3,000 soldiers, who just cut off the spokes of the vehicles and used them as weapons. The officers held short swords and went deep into the canyon.
Chanyu cut off the Han army's retreat and threw rocks into the mountains. The soldiers suffered heavy casualties and were unable to march.
After dusk, Li Ling walked out of the camp alone in plainclothes, stopped his entourage and said: "Don't follow me, the man can just catch the Shanyu alone!"
It's been a long time. Li Ling came back and sighed and said: If the army is defeated, then die!
Some military officials said: The general is so powerful that the Xiongnu cannot fulfill his destiny. If he finds a way back in the future, he will be captured and escape like the Marquis of Zunye. The emperor will still treat him with courtesy, let alone the general!
Li Ling said: "Don't say that. If I don't die, I am not a strong man."
So he cut off all the flags and buried the treasures. Li Ling sighed and said: "With dozens of arrows, we can escape."
We don’t have any weapons to fight today, and we will wait to be captured at dawn!
Everyone runs away for their own lives, and there will be people who escape and repay the emperor.
The sergeants were ordered to bring two liters of grain and a large piece of ice each, and agreed to wait at Zheluzhang.
At midnight, we started beating the drums, but they didn't sound.
Li Ling and Han Yannian both mounted their horses, followed by more than a dozen strong men.
Thousands of cavalrymen pursued him, and Han Yannian died in the battle.
Li Xu said: I have no face to report to His Majesty!
So he surrendered.
The soldiers scattered and fled, and more than 400 people fled to the border fortress.
The place where Li Ling failed was more than a hundred miles away from the frontier fortress, and the frontier fortress reported the news.
The emperor hoped that Li Ling would fight to the death, so he summoned Li Ling's mother and wife and asked the fortune tellers to observe that there was no sign of mourning.
Later, when he heard that Li Ling had surrendered, the emperor was very angry and blamed Chen Bule, who committed suicide.
All the ministers blamed Li Ling. The emperor asked Taishi Ling Sima Qian for his opinion on the matter. Sima Qian strongly said: Li Ling was filial to his relatives and honest to his scholars. He often risked his own life to save the country from danger.
Judging from his consistent performance, he has the style of a national scholar.
Today he did an unfortunate thing. Those ministers who were greedy for life and feared death and only cared about protecting the lives of their families, arbitrarily framed and exaggerated their crimes, which is heartbreaking!
Moreover, Li Ling only led less than 5,000 infantrymen and marched straight into the hinterland of the Xiongnu. Faced with tens of thousands of enemy troops, the Xiongnu failed to care for the wounded and rescued the dead, so they invited all the people who could archery to besiege Li Ling.
Li Ling fought thousands of miles, and the arrows were all over the place. The soldiers pulled empty crossbows and braved the rain of white-edged arrows, but they still fought desperately with the enemy. He could get the soldiers' desperate strength, and even the famous generals in ancient times could not surpass him.
Although he failed and was captured, his record of defeating the enemy was enough to shine in the world.
The reason why Li Ling did not die was because he wanted to serve the Han Dynasty at the appropriate time.
At the beginning, the emperor sent the generals of the Second Division to the expedition, and Li Ling was just an assisting soldier. When Li Ling encountered Shanyu, the Second Division had little military success.
The emperor accused Sima Qian of falsely accusing and slandering the second master and lobbying for Li Ling, and sentenced him to corruption.
After a long time, the emperor regretted not rescuing Li Ling in time and said: When Li Ling leaves the fortress, Captain Qiannu should be there to greet him.
After the imperial court issued an edict, veteran general Lu Bode became treacherous and annihilated Li Ling's army.
So he sent an envoy to comfort and reward the soldiers who escaped from Li Ling's army.
Li Ling had been with the Xiongnu for more than a year, and the emperor sent Yinjue General Gongsun Ao to lead his army deep into the Xiongnu to meet Li Ling.
Gongsun Ao's army returned without success and said: The captured prisoners said: Li Ling taught the Chanyu to use troops to defend against the Han army, so I gained nothing.
When the emperor heard the report, he exterminated the Li Lu family. His mother, younger brother, wife and son were all killed.
The literati in Longxi were ashamed of Kuiya's annihilation of their clan.
Later, when the Han sent an envoy to the Xiongnu, Li Ling questioned the envoy: I led 5,000 infantrymen to sweep Lisu for the Han, but failed because there were no reinforcements to support me. How could I be so sorry to Lianshi and want to kill my whole family?
The envoy said: The Han Dynasty heard that Li Shaoqing taught how to use plastic bags and soldiers.
Li Xu said: It's Kui Ao, not me.
It turned out that Kui Xu was the captain outside the Great Wall and stationed in Shengbi. Yu Ku attacked and Kui Zhong surrendered.
Li Ling hated that his family was exterminated because of Li Xu, so he sent people to assassinate Li Xu.
The Daban clan wanted to kill Li Ling, so the Chanyu hid him in the north. He did not return until Dapi clan died.
Shanyu believed that Li Ling was brave and brave, so he married his daughter to Li Ling and made him the king of Youxiao, and Wei Lu was the king of Ding Ling. They were both respected and used in important positions.
Wei Lu's father was originally from Changshui.
Wei Lu grew up in Chui, and was friendly with Kui Yannian, the captain of Xie Lu. Kui Dan locust recommended Weasel to Lisu as an envoy.
When he returned, he encountered Kui Yannian's house being ransacked. Jie Jian was afraid of being killed, so he fled and surrendered to the Huns.
The Xiongnu loved him and always stayed by Shanyu's side.
Kuitong lived in the outer court. When there were important matters, he went inside to discuss matters.
Emperor Zhao was established as emperor, and General Huo Guang and Zuo General Shangguan Jie assisted in the administration. They had always been friendly with Li Ling. They sent Li Ling's old friend Ren Jiesheng from Longxi and three other people to Baosu to recruit Li Xu.
When Ren Lidi and others arrived at Baocu, Chanyu served wine to the envoy. Kui Lu and Dianlu were both present.
When Ren Lidi and others saw Li Xu, they had no chance to whisper, so they looked at Li Lu, touched the ring on the saber many times, felt Li Ling's feet, and hinted that he could return to the lotus.
Later, Kui Lu and Dean Qian both treated the envoys with beef and wine, and drank from different cups. Both of them wore Hu clothes and tied their hair in buns.
Ren Lizheng said loudly: The Han Dynasty has been granted amnesty, the Central Plains are peaceful and happy, the Lord is young, Huo Ziyi and Shangguan Shaoshu are in power.
Use these words to impress Li Ling first.
Li Ling remained silent, always looking at and stroking his hair, and replied: I have already put on Hufu!
After a while, Wei Lu got up to change his clothes, and Ren Lizheng said: Hey, sir, thank you for your hard work!
Huo Zimeng and Young Uncle Shangguan say hello to you.
Li Ling said: Are Huo and Shangguan okay?
Ren Lizheng said: Please return to your hometown, Shaoqing, and don't worry about wealth.
Li Ling called Ren Lizheng's name and said, "Young Master, it's easy to go back. I'm afraid I'll be humiliated again. What should I do?"
Before he finished speaking, Wei Lu returned and heard the lingering voice, so he continued: Li Shaoqing is a wise man who does not just live in one country.
Fan Li traveled all over the world, and Yu Yu left Xirong and went to Qin. Why are we talking so intimately today!
Then the banquet was removed.
Ren Lizheng immediately asked Li Ling: "Do you also intend to go back?"
Li Ling said: A true man cannot be humiliated a second time.
Li Ling stayed with the Xiongnu for more than 20 years and died of illness in the first year of Han Yuanping.
Su Jian was from Duling.
As a lieutenant, he followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns and was named Pinglinghou.
He also built Shuofang City as a general.
Later, he served as a guerrilla general as a guard and followed the general to send troops to Shuofang.
A year later, as the right general, he once again followed the general to send troops to Dingxiang. He lost his troops and lost his generals. His general, Xihou Tuxin, fled and surrendered to the Huns. He lost his troops and should be executed on questioning. He was spared the death penalty for the civilians.
Later, he served as the prefect of Daijun and died in office.
He has three sons: Su Jia is the Captain of Fengche, Su Xian is the Captain of Cavalry, and the second son Su Wu is the most famous.
Su Wu, also known as Ziqing, was appointed as a Lang along with his brothers when he was young because his father Su Jian had made great contributions to the country. Su Wu was later gradually promoted to the supervisor of the Zhongzhong Stable.
At that time, the Han Dynasty continued to attack the Xiongnu. Both sides sent envoys to secretly observe the situation of the other side. The Xiongnu successively detained more than ten batches of Han envoys, including Guo Ji and Lu Chongguo.
When the Xiongnu envoys arrived, the Han Dynasty also detained them to compensate.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Shanyu, the marquis of Tartar, had just ascended the throne and was afraid of the Han Dynasty's attack, so he said: The emperor of the Han Dynasty is my elder.
Return all the detained Han Dynasty envoys such as Lu Chongguo and others.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty praised him for his righteousness, so he sent Su Wu as a Zhonglang general to escort the Huns envoys who were detained in the Han Dynasty with the Han Dynasty talisman, and presented Shanyu with many properties to repay his kindness.
Su Wu, his deputy envoy Han Zhonglang, Zhang Sheng, and Chang Hui, who temporarily served as the envoy's subordinates, recruited more than 100 soldiers and scouts to go to the Xiongnu.
After arriving at the Xiongnu, he arranged his belongings and presented them to Dan Ding.
Dan Ding was even more arrogant and not at all what the Han Dynasty expected.
Shan Yu was about to send an envoy to escort Su Wu and others back, when he caught up with King Feng and Changshui Yu Chang who were planning to rebel against the Xiongnu.
King Tan was the son of King Kunxie's sister. He surrendered to the Han Dynasty together with King Kunxie, and later accompanied Mozun Yehou to attack the Xiongnu, but was defeated and surrendered.
They and those who followed Wei Lu to surrender secretly planned to kidnap Shan Yu's mother Ban and return to the Han Dynasty. It happened that Su Wu and others were on an envoy to the Huns.
When Yu Chang was in the Han Dynasty, he had always had a good relationship with his deputy Zhang Sheng, so he secretly visited Zhang Sheng and said, "I heard that the emperor of the Han Dynasty was very resentful of Wei Lu. I can secretly set up a crossbow to kill him for the Han Dynasty."
My mother and younger brother are in the Han Dynasty, and I hope they can be rewarded for my meritorious service to the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Sheng agreed and gave Yu Chang some belongings.
More than a month later, Shanyu went out hunting, and only Ban and his attendants were at home.
Yu Chang and others prepared to attack more than ten people, but one of them escaped at night and reported to Shan Yu. Shan Yu and his men sent troops to fight Yu Chang and others in a fierce battle. King Feng and others were killed in the battle. Yu Chang was captured alive.
Shanyu appointed Wei Lv to review the incident.
When Zhang Sheng heard the news, he was afraid that his previous conspiracy with Yu Chang would be leaked, so he told Su Wu the situation.
Su Wu said: Now that things have developed to this point, I will definitely be involved.
To die after being insulted would be a greater disservice to the country.
So he wanted to commit suicide, but Zhang Sheng and Chang Hui persuaded him to stop him.
As expected, Yu Chang confessed to Zhang Sheng.
Chanyu was furious and summoned the Xiongnu nobles to discuss killing the Han envoys.
Zuo Yi Zhizi said: If someone murders Shanyu, how should the punishment be increased?
It's better to let them all surrender.
Chan Yu then sent Wei Lu to summon Su Wu for interrogation. Su Wu said to Chang Hui and others: If you humiliate your integrity and the country's mission, even if you don't die, how can you have the face to return to the court?
He pulled out his sword and committed suicide.
Wei Lu was so shocked that he hugged Fu Wu personally and sent people to ride horses to find the doctor.
The doctor dug a hole in the ground, put in the fire, made Su Wu lie down on the fire pit, and tapped his back with his hand to make the blood flow out from the wound.
Su Wu fainted and took a long time to wake up.
Chang Hui and others carried him back to the camp in tears.
Chanyu admired his integrity very much, and sent people to inquire about his condition morning and night, and arrested Zhang Sheng.
Su Wu's injuries gradually improved. Shan Yu sent envoys to persuade him to surrender, and jointly tried Yu Chang, hoping to take this opportunity to force Su Wu to surrender.
After killing Yu Chang with a sword, Wei Lu said: Zhang Sheng, the envoy of the Han Dynasty, murdered the ministers close to Shanyu, and his crime should be executed. However, Shanyu recruited surrendered people and pardoned his crime.
He raised his sword to kill Zhang Sheng, but Zhang Sheng asked for surrender.
Wei Lu then said to Su Wu: The deputy envoy is guilty and you should sit with him.
Su Wu said: I didn't participate in the conspiracy, and I'm not his relative. Why should I join him?
Wei Lu gestured with his sword to stab Su Wu, but Su Wu did not waver.
Wei Lu said: Mr. Su, I, Wei Lu, betrayed the Han Dynasty and surrendered to the Xiongnu. Fortunately, thanks to the kindness of Shan Zi, I was given the title of king, so that I have tens of thousands of followers, horses and livestock all over the mountain, and I am so rich.
If you surrender today, you will do the same tomorrow.
Otherwise, you will be killed and buried in the wilderness in vain. Who knows that you died for the Han Dynasty?
Su Wu ignored it.
Wei Lu said again: If you surrender with the help of me, I will become your brother. If you don't listen to me today, will you still want to see me again in the future?
Su Wu scolded Wei Lu and said: As a subject of the Han Dynasty, you betrayed the emperor and your relatives and surrendered to the barbarians, regardless of your kindness, justice and shame. Why should I see you?
Moreover, Shanyu trusted you and asked you to judge people's life and death, but you did not act out of public interest and uphold justice. Instead, you made the two leaders fight each other and watched the chaos caused by the melee between the two sides.
South Vietnam killed the Han envoys and was razed into nine counties of the Han Dynasty; King Dayuan killed the Han envoys, and his head was hung in the north palace of the Han Palace; North Korea killed the Han envoys and was immediately punished by having his head reduced.
Only the Huns did not have this happen.
You know that I will not surrender. If you want the two countries to attack each other, the Xiongnu's defeat will begin with killing me.
Wei Lu knew that he could not threaten Su Wu to surrender in the end, so he reported the situation to Shan Yu.
The Chanyu wanted Su Wu to surrender more and more, so he imprisoned him in Dajiaoxiang and cut off food and drink from him.
It snowed heavily, so Su Wu lay down on the ground and ate snow balls and felt wool, so that many of them did not starve to death.
The Xiongnu thought he was a man of God, so they moved him to an uninhabited place in the North Sea and let him herd rams. He was not allowed to come back until the rams gave birth to babies. They separated him from his subordinates Chang Hui and others and placed him in different places.
After Su Wu was exiled to Beihai, the Huns did not provide him with food, so he had to dig grass seeds stored by wild rats to satisfy his hunger.
He used Han Chao Jie to shepherd sheep and carried Han Chao Jie with him all the time, so that the shackles on the Han Chao Jie fell off.
Five or six years later, Shan Yu's younger brother, King Yu Xuan, went to the sea to hunt. Because Su Wu knew how to make hunting nets and arrows, and calibrate bows and crossbows, King Yu Xuan liked him very much and gave him clothes and food.
More than three years later, King Yu Xuan fell ill, so he presented Su Wu with livestock, wine and cheese utensils, and felt tents.
After King Yu Xuan died, his followers also left.
That winter, Ding Ren stole Su Wu's cattle and sheep, and Su Wu was once again in trouble.
At first, Su Wu and Li Ling were serving as ministers in the Han Dynasty. In the second year after Su Wu went to the Huns as an envoy, Li Ling surrendered to the Huns and did not dare to see Su Wu.
After a long time, the Chanyu sent Li Ling to the sea to hold a banquet for Su Wu, with music and dancing. He took the opportunity to say to Su Wu: The Chanyu heard that I have a close relationship with you, so he sent me to persuade you. The Chanyu will treat you sincerely.
After all, you can't go back to the Han Dynasty and suffer in vain in this no-man's land. Who can see your faith?
Once upon a time, your brother Su Jiaren was the captain of the Fengcha. He accompanied the emperor to the Jiuyang Palace in Yongcheng. He helped the chariot down the steps of the palace, but the chariot hit a pillar and broke the shaft. He was impeached for lese majeste and committed suicide with his sword. The emperor gave him two million yuan for burial expenses.
Your brother Su Xian went with the emperor to worship the god in Hedong County. The eunuch and Huangmen's consort were fighting for a boat. The consort was pushed into the river and drowned. The eunuch escaped. The emperor ordered Su Xian to hunt down the eunuch, but failed to catch him. Su Xian was worried and frightened, so he committed suicide by drinking medicine.
When I led the troops to leave Chang'an, your mother unfortunately passed away, and I sent her to Yangling for burial.
Your wife is young and I heard she has remarried.
There are only two sisters, two daughters and one son left. It has been more than ten years now, and I don’t know whether they are dead or alive.
Life is as short as morning dew, why torture yourself for so long!
When I began to surrender, I was in a trance, as crazy as I was, and felt sad for betraying the Han Dynasty. In addition, my old mother was imprisoned in Baogong. How could you be more reluctant to surrender than me?
Moreover, the emperor is old, the laws are inconsistent, dozens of ministers have been punished for their crimes, and the safety is unpredictable, who else are you going to keep?
I hope you will follow my advice and say nothing.
Su Wu said: We, father and son, have neither merit nor virtue. We were promoted to the rank of general and to the rank of Tonghou because of the emperor's promotion. The three brothers are all close ministers of the emperor, and they are often willing to do nothing for it.
Now, if I can sacrifice myself and serve the country, I will be willing to do so even if I am punished with ax and cymbal or soup and wok.
A minister serves the monarch as a son serves his father, and a son dies for his father without any resentment.
I hope you won't say any more.
After having a banquet with Su Wu for several days, Li Ling advised Su Wu: You must listen to me.
Su Wu said: I have long been willing to die. You must make me surrender. Please end today's feast and let me die in front of you!
Seeing how loyal he was to the Han Dynasty, Li Ling sighed and said, "Oh, what a righteous man!"
Wei Lu and I’s sins are higher than the sky!
Then tears fell like rain, soaking his clothes, and he said goodbye to Su Wu and left.
Li Ling was too shy to give Su Wu his belongings in person, so he sent his wife to send some cattle and sheep to Su Wu.
Later, Li Ling went to Beihai and told Su Wu: The Xiongnu frontier post captured Han Chinese in Yunzhong alive, saying that everyone from the prefect to the common people were wearing white mourning clothes, and that the emperor was dead.
When Su Wu heard the news, he faced the south and cried so hard that he vomited blood. He cried in mourning for Emperor Wu every morning and night. A few months later, Emperor Zhao ascended the throne.
After a few years, the Xiongnu and the Han Dynasty reconciled.
The Han Dynasty sought Su Wu and others, but the Huns falsely claimed that Su Wu was dead.
Later, the Mo envoy came to the Xiongnu again. Chang Hui asked his guard to go with him to see the Mo envoy at night. He described what happened in detail. He also told the Han envoy to tell Shanyu that the Han emperor was hunting in Shanglin Garden and shot down a wild goose. There was a silk letter tied to his foot, saying that Su Wu was in a certain big swamp.
The Han envoy was very happy and asked the Chanyu as Chang Hui said.
Chanyu looked around, secretly surprised, and had to apologize to the Han envoy and said: Su Wu is indeed alive.
At this time, Li Ling held a banquet to celebrate Su Wu and said: "When you go back today, your reputation will be praised by the Xiongnu and your achievements will be made famous by the Han Dynasty. Even if it is recorded in ancient history books and depicted in pictures, who can be better than you!"
Although I, Li Ling, am incompetent and cowardly, if the Han Dynasty temporarily forgives my sins and protects my old mother, so that I can display my long-cherished ambition due to the humiliation of surrendering to the Huns, I may be able to find opportunities to make atonement like Cao Mo did. This is something I have never forgotten.
The emperor arrested and killed my whole family. This is the greatest insult in the world. What else can I miss?
Forget it!
I'm just letting you know how I feel.
You and I are in different countries, and we will never see each other again after this separation!
Li Ling stood up, danced, and sang: Galloping thousands of miles across the desert, leading troops for the emperor to fight against the Huns.
Trapped in a narrow ravine, all my arrows were cut off, my soldiers died in battle, my reputation was ruined. My mother is dead, even if I want to repay my kindness, where can I go?
Li Ling communicated with tears and said goodbye to Su Wu.
Chanyu summoned Su Wu's subordinates, excluding those who had surrendered and those who died, there were a total of nine people who returned with Su Wu.
Su Wu returned to the capital Chang'an in the spring of the sixth year of Emperor Zhao's reign.
Emperor Zhao ordered him to offer cattle, sheep, and hogs to Emperor Wu's mausoleum, and also granted him the title of vassal of the state, with an official rank of Zhongerganshi, and a reward of two million yuan, two hectares of public land, and a homestead.
Chang Hui, Xu Sheng, and Zhao Zhonggen were all awarded the position of Zhonglang, and each received a reward of 200 pieces of silk.
The remaining six returned home in old age, and each received a reward of one hundred thousand coins and was exempted from lifelong corvee service.
Chang Hui later rose to the rank of General You, and was granted the title of Marquis. There is a biography of him in the "Book of Han".
Su Wu was detained by the Xiongnu for nineteen years. He was in the prime of life when he went on the mission, but when he returned, his beard and hair were all white.
In the second year after Su Wu returned, Shangguan Jie's son Shangguan An conspired with Sang Hongyang, King Yan and Lord Gai to rebel.
Su Wu's son Su Yuan conspired with Shangguan An and was killed for the crime.
At first, Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An fought for power with the general Huo Guang. They recorded Huo Guang's faults item by item many times and sent them to King Yan, who asked him to write to Emperor Zhao to report Huo Guang.
He also threatened that Su Wu was only granted the title of Dianguo after returning from a mission to the Xiongnu for twenty years without surrendering. Huo Guang's chief historian, Yang Chang, had no merit but was appointed as the captain of Sosu. Huo Guang had exclusive power and acted arbitrarily.
When the king of Yan and others were killed for treason, they searched for those who were accomplices. Su Wu had always been friends with Shangguan Jie and Sang Hongyang. The King of Yan had complained to the emperor many times about Su Wu's meritorious service to the country. Su Wu's son also participated in the rebellion, so the imperial officer petitioned to arrest Su Wu.
Huo Guang suppressed this memorial and only relieved Su Wu from his official position.
A few years later, Emperor Zhao died. Su Wu was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and the food of 300 households because he had participated in the courtiers' plan to welcome Emperor Xuan as the winner of two thousand stones.
After a long time, General Wei Zhang Anshi recommended Su Wu to be familiar with the laws and regulations of the past, and to fulfill his mission when he was ordered to go on missions. Emperor Zhao often mentioned this during his lifetime.
Emperor Xuan immediately summoned Su Wu to wait for orders in the eunuch's office. Su Wu visited Emperor Xuan many times and appointed You Cao Dian as a vassal of the country.
Because Su Wu was a veteran minister who was famous for his integrity, Emperor Xuan ordered him to enter the court on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month and give him the title of "sacrificial wine". He was very graceful and favored him.
All the rewards and gifts Su Wu received were given to his brothers and old friends, and no property was accumulated at home.
The queen's father, Ping'enhou Xu Bo, Emperor Xuan's uncle, Changhou Wang Wuyou and Leluhou Wangwu, the chariot general Han Zeng, the prime minister Wei Xiang, and the imperial censor Bingji all respected Su Wu.
Su Wu was old, and his son Su Yuan committed a crime and was killed. Emperor Xuan felt pity for him and asked his ministers: "Su Wu has been in the Huns for so long. Didn't he have any children?"
Su Wu stated to Emperor Xuan through Marquis Ping'en: When I returned from the Huns, my Huns wife happened to give birth to a son named Su Tongguo. There happened to be news that I could redeem him with property through the messenger.
Emperor Xuan agreed.
Later, Su Tongguo came back with the envoy, and Emperor Xuan appointed him as Lang.
He also appointed Su Wu's nephew as Youcao.
Su Wu was in his eighties and died of illness in the second year of Emperor Xuan's reign.
In the third year of Emperor Xuan's reign, Chanyu began to enter the fortress to pay homage to the Han emperor.
Emperor Xuan missed the virtues of the ministers who assisted him, so he had their physical appearance painted on the Qilin Pavilion, and marked their respective official positions, titles and names. Only Huo Guang did not note their names to show his respect, and they were called the Great Sima, the Great General, the Marquis of Bolu, and the Huo family. The following are: : General Wei Fupinghou Zhang Anshi, Chariot General Long'ehou Han Zeng, Houjun Yingpinghou Zhao Chongguo, Prime Minister Gaopinghou Wei Xiang, Prime Minister Boyang Hou Bingji, Yu Shi Dafu Jianping Hou Du Yannian, Zong Zhengyangcheng Hou Liu De, Shaofu Liang Qiuhe, Prince Taifu Dong Wangzhi, Dian Guo Su Wu.
These people were well-known to the world for their outstanding achievements and noble moral character. Therefore, famous officials were painted to commend them, clearly indicating that they were the assistant ministers of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty Zhongxing, comparable to the famous ministers Fang Shu, Zhao Hu and Zhongshanfu who assisted King Xuan of Zhou Zhongxing.
There are eleven people in total, each of whom has a biography in "Hanshu".
From Prime Minister Huang Ba, Tingwei Yu Dingguo, Da Sinong Zhuyi, Jingzhao Yin Zhangchang, You Fufeng Yin Wenggui to the famous scholar Xia Housheng, etc., they all started well and ended well, and became famous in the reign of Emperor Xuan, but they were not listed in the map of famous ministers. From this, we can know the selection criteria of assistant ministers.
Praise said: General Li was as honest as a vulgar person, and he was not good at words. On the day of his death, everyone in the world, both those who knew him and those who did not know him, shed tears for him, which shows that he was loyal and honest to the scholar-bureaucrats.
The proverb says: The peach tree does not attract people, but because it has flowers and fruits, people walk around underneath it and unknowingly walk out of a path underneath.
Although this is a small matter, it can also be said to be a big deal.
However, the generals of the third generation of the Li family were taboo to Taoists. From Li Guang to Li Ling, the clan members were exterminated. How sad!
Confucius said that a man with lofty ideals and benevolence should sacrifice his life to achieve benevolence, and do not seek to survive in order to harm benevolence. He can serve in all directions and do not disgrace the king's orders. These moral standards of life are all reflected in Su Wu.
