Wuyang Hou Fan Kuai was a native of Peixian County. He made a living by killing dogs and selling their meat. He once hid in the countryside with Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
At first, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu and raised troops in Fengyi and captured Peixian County.
When Emperor Gaozu was the Duke of Pei, he used Fan Kuai as his servant.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Huling and Fangyu, then returned to guard Fengyi. He attacked the army of the Sishui County Supervisor in Fengyi and defeated them.
Then he went east to pacify Peixian County, and defeated the army of Sishui County Governor to the west of Xue County.
Fighting with Sima in the east of Dang County, he defeated the enemy and beheaded fifteen people. Pei Gong granted him the title of a senior official in other countries.
Pei Gong attacked Zhang Han's army in Puyang. When he attacked the city, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city and beheaded twenty-three Qin soldiers. Pei Gong also gave him the title of Duke Dafu.
After that, he often followed Pei Gong. When he attacked Chengyang, he took the lead in ascending the city and captured Hufu. He defeated Li You's army, beheaded sixteen people, and was awarded the title of Shangjian.
When the follower Pei Gong besieged the governor of Dongjun in Chengwu, he repulsed the enemy, beheaded fourteen people, captured eleven people, and granted the title of five great officials.
Following Pei Gong, he attacked the Qin army and passed south of Boyi.
The troops of the governor of Hejian were in the camp, and Fan Kuai defeated them.
They also defeated Zhao Bi's army in the north of Kaifeng. Fan Kuai defeated the enemy and took the lead in ascending the city. He beheaded one of the military commanders, beheaded 68 people and captured 27 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of Qing.
Following Pei Gong, he defeated Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
When attacking Wanling, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city, beheaded eight people and captured 44 people. Peigong gave him the title of Xian Chengjun.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe and Sheyuan, blockaded the Yellow River ferry, went east to attack the Qin army in Shixiang, and went south to attack the Qin army in Taoyi.
Defeat Lu , the governor of Nanyang County, in Yangcheng. When attacking Wancheng to the east, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city.
Arriving at Li County in the west, Fan Kuai repelled the enemy, beheaded 24 of them and captured 40, and was rewarded by Pei Gong with an increase in rank and salary.
Attacked Wuguan, and when they reached Bashang, they killed one captain, beheaded ten people, captured 146 people, and surrendered 2,900 enemy soldiers.
Xiang Yu garrisoned under the stage and prepared to attack Peigong.
Pei Gong sent more than a hundred cavalry with him to meet Xiang Yu through Xiang Bo, and stated that he had not blocked the pass.
Xiang Yu held a banquet in honor of the army lieutenants. While they were drinking heavily, Yafu wanted to murder Pei Gong. He sent Xiang Zhuang to draw his sword and perform a dance in front of the banquet, hoping to take the opportunity to assassinate Pei Gong. However, Xiang Bo repeatedly protected Pei Gong.
At that time, only Pei Gong and Zhang Liang could enter the camp and sit down. Fan Kuai stayed outside the camp. Hearing that Pei Gong's situation was urgent, he entered the camp with an iron shield.
The guards of the military camp stopped Fan Kuai, but Fan Kuai ran straight in and stood under the tent.
Xiang Yu looked at him with his eyes and asked him who he was.
Zhang Liang said: "It's Fan Kuai who is accompanying Duke Pei."
Xiang Yu said: Strong man!
He gave him a cup of wine and a pig's leg.
After Fan Kuai drank the wine, he drew his sword, cut the meat, and ate it all.
Xiang Yu asked: Can I drink again?
Fan Kuai said: If I die, I will not refuse, let alone just drink a glass of wine!
Besides, Pei Gong first entered the Pass to pacify Xianyang and camped in Bashang to wait for the king.
As soon as the king arrived today, he listened to the villain's slander and had a problem with Pei Gong. I am worried that the world will be divided and the people will doubt the king.
Xiang Yu remained silent.
Pei Gong went to the toilet and called Fan Kuai out.
After coming out, Pei Gong left behind his carriage and rode only one horse. He followed Fan Kuai and four other men on foot and took a small path down the mountain to escape back to Bashang's military camp, leaving Zhang Liang to say goodbye to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu also had his way, so he had no intention of killing Pei Gong.
On this day, if Fan Kuai hadn't broken into the camp and condemned Xiang Yu, Pei Gong's situation would have been in danger.
The next day, Xiang Yu entered the city and bloodbathed Xianyang, and made Peigong the king of Han. The king of Han also made Fan Kuai a prince, called Linwuhou.
Later he was promoted to doctor and followed the King of Han into Hanzhong.
When the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, Fan Kuai led another army to attack the army of the county magistrate of Xi County to the north of Baishui, and to the south of Yong County to attack King Yong's light cavalry troops and defeated them.
Following the king of Han, he attacked the two cities of Yong and Zhe, and was the first to ascend the city. When attacking Zhang Ping's army in Hao'an, he took the lead in ascending the city and rushed into the enemy's formation. He killed one county magistrate and one county magistrate each, beheaded 11 people and captured 20 people. He was promoted to the rank of Cavalry Commander.
Following the King of Han, he attacked the Qin army's chariots and cavalry in the east of Rang Township and repulsed the enemy. He was promoted to general.
He made the greatest contribution in attacking Zhao Bi and occupying Yixian, Huaili, Liuzhong, Xianyang and other places. He also made the greatest contribution by diverting water to irrigate waste hills.
When they arrived at Yueyang, the king of Han granted Fan Xiang, who was enfeoffed to Du Ling, as Fan Kuai's food town.
He followed the king of Han to attack Xiang Ji, washed the dates with blood and boiled them.
Defeated the armies of Wang Wu and Cheng Chu in Waihuang.
Capture Zouxian, Luxian, Xiaqiu and Xuexian.
Xiang Yu defeated the King of Han in Pengcheng and regained all the lands of Lu and Liang.
When Fan Kuai returned to Xingyang, the king of Han added 2,000 households in Pingyin as his settlement, and asked him to guard Guangwu as a general.
A year later, Xiang Yu led his troops eastward, and Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to attack Xiang Ji, occupy Yangxia, and captured 4,000 soldiers of General Zhou of Chu. They surrounded Xiang Ji in Chen County and defeated him.
Bloodbath in Hu Ling.
After Xiang Yu's death, the King of Han became the emperor. Because of Fan Kuai's meritorious service in holding on to the city and attacking in battles, he granted 800 households a new enfeoffment.
Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to attack the rebellious King of Yan Zang Tu, captured Zang Tu, and pacified the Yan territory.
King Han Xin of Chu launched a rebellion. Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to Chen County, arrested Han Xin, and pacified Chu.
Emperor Gaozu changed Fan Kuai's title to that of a noble prince and established a trustworthy relationship with the princes, so that they could be passed down from generation to generation. Emperor Gaozu removed Fan Kuai's former food town and gave him food in Wuyang, naming him Marquis of Wuyang.
Later, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to Daidi as a general to attack the rebellious King Xin of Han.
From the Huo people to Yunzhong, Fan Kuai, Jianghou Zhoubo and others jointly pacified it, so an additional 1,500 households were added.
Later, Fan Kuai led his troops to attack the armies of the rebels Chen Xi and Manqiuchen, and fought in Xiangguo. When he captured Bairen County, he took the lead in ascending the city. He also surrendered and pacified twenty-seven counties in Qinghe and Changshan counties, and destroyed Dongyuan County. He was promoted to Prime Minister Zuo for his merits.
In Wujing and Guangchang, he defeated the armies of Qi Wuyan and Yin Pan and captured them alive.
In the south of Daidi, the army led by the Hu general Wang Huang under Chen Xi was defeated. Then, he marched to join forces and attacked Han Wangxin's army. Fan Kuai's men killed Han Wangxin.
In Henggu, Chen Xi's Hu cavalry troops were defeated, general Zhao Ji was killed, and ten people including the Prime Minister Han Liang, the governor Sun Fen, the general Wang Huang, Tai Pu Xie and the general were captured.
Together with the generals, he pacified seventy-three villages and towns in Dai.
After that, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled. Fan Kuai led the army to attack Lu Wan as prime minister, defeated the army led by Prime Minister Lu Wan in the south of Jixian County, and pacified a total of 18 counties and 51 townships in Yan.
So Emperor Gaozu gave Fan Kuai an additional 1,300 households, confirming that he would be the Marquis of Wuyang with a total of 5,400 households.
When Fan Kuai followed Gaozu in the battle, he beheaded 176 enemies and captured 188 enemy soldiers.
He led the troops to fight alone, defeated seven enemy armies, captured five cities, pacified six counties and fifty-two counties, and captured one enemy prime minister, 12 generals, and 11 officials ranging from 2,000 to 300 shi.
Because Fan Kuai married Empress Lu's sister Lu Xu and gave birth to a son, Mr. and Mrs. Fan, Gaozu was closer to Fan Kuai than other generals.
During the Yingbu rebellion, Gaozu was very ill and hated seeing people. He lay in the palace confinement and ordered the gatekeepers not to let the officials in to see him.
Among the officials, such as Jianghou Zhou Bo, Guan Ying and others did not dare to enter the palace.
After more than ten days of this, Fan Kuai once pushed open the palace door and rushed in, followed closely by the officials.
I saw Gaozu lying alone with a eunuch on his pillow.
After Fan Kuai and others saw the emperor, they cried bitterly and said: I think your majesty joined us in raising troops from Fengpei to pacify the world. What a feat it was!
And now that the world has settled down, how exhausted you are!
Besides, you are seriously ill, the ministers are panicking, and you are unwilling to meet us to discuss state affairs. Do you just want to decide with a eunuch?
Besides, haven't you seen anything about Zhao Gao?
After hearing this, Emperor Gaozu smiled and got up from the bed.
Later, Lu Wan rebelled, and Gaozu ordered Fan Kuai to attack Yan as prime minister.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu was very ill again. Some people slandered Fan Kuai and the Lu family for forming a party. If the emperor died one day, Fan Kuai would lead his troops to kill Madam Qi and King Zhao Ruyi.
When Emperor Gaozu heard about it, he became furious and immediately ordered Chen Ping to drive Jianghou Zhou Bo in a chariot to replace Fan Kuai, and immediately beheaded Fan Kuai in the army.
Because Chen Ping was afraid of Empress Lu, he did not carry out Gaozu's order, but sent Fan Kuai to Chang'an.
When they arrived in Chang'an, Gaozu had passed away, so Empress Lu released Fan Kuai and restored his title and fiefdom.
In the sixth year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, Fan Kuai passed away, and his posthumous title was Marquis Wu.
His son Mr. and Mrs. Fan replaced him as marquis.
Fan's mother, Lu Xu, was also named Linguang Hou. When Gao Hou was in power, Lu Xu was also in charge of political affairs and was very arbitrary. All ministers were afraid of her.
In the ninth year when Fan and his wife were the Marquis of Wuyang, Empress Gao passed away.
The ministers killed the Lu family and Lu Xu's relatives, and then killed Fan and his wife.
The title of Marquis of Wuyang was suspended for several months.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Fan Shi, the son of Fan Kuai's concubine, was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang, and his original title and fiefdom were restored.
Fan Shi died after reigning for twenty-nine years, and his posthumous title was Huanghou.
His son Fan Taguang succeeded to the throne.
Six years later, some members of Wuyanghou's family offended Fan Taguang and resented him very much. So he wrote a letter saying: A man in Huanghou City lost his fertility because of illness, so he let his wife have fornication with his brother and gave birth to him. In fact, he is not the son of Huang Hou, so he should not inherit the throne.
The emperor ordered the matter to be handed over to officials for trial.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Fan Taguang's title was abolished, he was demoted to a commoner, and the feudal state and food towns were also removed.
Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, was from Gaoyang.
When Chen Sheng rebelled against Qin, he gathered a group of young people and recruited thousands of people.
Peigong attacked the city and captured the territory and came to Chenliu. More than six months later, Li Shang led more than 4,000 soldiers to Qitou and returned to Peigong.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe and took the lead in ascending the city. Pei Gong conferred a title on him and named him Xinchengjun.
Following Pei Gong, he attacked the Feng family, blocked the Yellow River ferry, and defeated the Qin army east of Luoyang.
Following Pei Gong, he captured Wan and Rang, and also pacified seventeen counties.
He led an army to attack Xunwu alone and pacified Hanzhong.
After Xiang Yu destroyed Qin, he established Peigong as King of Han.
The King of Han bestowed upon Li Shangxin the title of Lord and made him the Captain of Longxi with the rank of general.
Li Shang led his army alone to pacify Beidi and Shangjun.
They defeated the army led by King Yong Zhanghan at Yanshi, defeated the army led by Zhou Lei at Yiyi, and defeated the army led by Su Zao at Niyang.
So the king of Han gave Li Shang 6,000 households in Wucheng County as his food town.
As the captain of Longxi, he followed the Duke of Pei to attack Xiang Yu's army for five months. He sent troops to Juye and fought with Zhong Limei. For his meritorious service in the fierce battle, the Duke of Pei granted him the seal of Liang Guoxiang and granted him 4,000 additional households.
During the battle of Longtuo, Li Shang charged into the battle, took the lead in ascending the city, and defeated Zang Tu's army in Yixia.
Because of his meritorious service in killing the enemy, he was promoted to the right prime minister, and was given the title of a lord. Like other princes, he cut the talisman as a letter, and it will never be extinguished from generation to generation. He took the five thousand households in Zhuoyi as his food town and was titled Zhuohou. As prime minister on the right, he led troops to pacify Shanggu alone, and then attacked Dai. Gaozu granted him the seal of the prime minister of Zhao.
As the Prime Minister of the Right and the Prime Minister of the State of Zhao, he led his troops, together with Jianghou Zhou Bo and others, to pacify Dai Heyanmen, and captured alive the Prime Minister of Dai Cheng Zong, the Prime Minister Guo Tong, and a total of 19 officials ranging from generals to 600 shi.
After the victory, he served as the bodyguard of the Supreme Emperor as a general for one year and seven months.
Then he used his position as Prime Minister You to attack Chen Xi and destroy the Dongyuan city wall.
As Prime Minister of the Right, he followed Emperor Gao to attack the rebellious Yingbu. Li Shang led his troops to storm the enemy's forward positions and captured two positions, allowing the Han army to defeat Yingbu's army. Emperor Gao changed his fiefdom to Quzhou, increasing it to 5,100 households, and took back the food fiefdoms he had previously granted. In total, Li Shang defeated three enemy armies, surrendered and pacified six counties and seventy-three counties, and captured the prime minister, the prime minister, one general each, two junior generals, and nineteen officials ranging from 2,000 shi to 600 shi.
Li Shang was serving Xiaohui. When he was a queen, he was unable to take care of political affairs due to poor health.
His son Li Ji was very close to Lu Lu.
In this year, Li Shang passed away, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
His son Li Ji succeeded to the throne, and everyone in the world said that he had betrayed his friends.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the vassal states of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao jointly rebelled. The emperor appointed Li Ji as general and besieged Zhao City, but it was not conquered for ten months.
After Yu Hou Luanbu pacified the Qi State and came to help in the war, he took the city of Zhao and wiped out the Zhao State. King Liu Sui of Zhao committed suicide and the feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, Li Ji planned to marry Pingyuan Jun, the mother of Emperor Jing and his wife. Emperor Jing was furious and handed Li Ji over to judicial officials for trial. He was found guilty and deprived of his title of marquis.
Emperor Jing named Li Shang's other son Li Jian the Marquis of Mu to continue the Li family's descendants.
After the death of Miao Jinghou Li Jian, his son Kanghou Li Suicheng succeeded to the throne.
After Li Suicheng died, his son Huaihou Li Shizong succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Li Shizong, his son Li Zhonggen inherited the throne and served as Taichang. Later, the feudal state was revoked because of breaking the law.
Xia Houying, Marquis of Ruyin, was from Peixian County.
He began to take charge of horse breeding and driving in the stable of Peixian County.
Whenever he drove back after seeing off envoys or guests, he would go to Sishang Pavilion in Peixian County to chat with Gaozu, and they would chat for most of the day.
Later, Xia Houying served as a probationary county official and became closer to Gao Zu.
Once, Gaozu accidentally injured Xia Houying because of a joke, and was reported to the government.
At that time, Gaozu was the chief of the pavilion, and he had to be severely punished if he hurt someone. Therefore, Gaozu complained that he had not harmed Xia Houying, and Xia Houying also proved that he had not been harmed.
Later, the case was reversed. Xia Houying was imprisoned for more than a year because of Gao Zu's involvement, and received hundreds of slaps. However, Gao Zu was eventually exempted from punishment.
When Gaozu led his disciples to attack Pei County, Xia Houying contacted Gaozu as a subordinate official of the county magistrate.
On the day Gaozu surrendered to Peixian County, Gaozu made him Duke of Pei, gave Xia Houying the title of Seventh Doctor, and appointed him as his imperial servant.
When following Gaozu to attack Hu Ling, Xia Houying and Xiao He surrendered to Sishui County Supervisor Ping. Ping handed over Hu Ling and surrendered. Gaozu gave Xia Houying the title of fifth doctor.
He followed Gaozu to attack the Qin army east of Dang County, attacked Jiyang, captured Hufu, and defeated Li You's army in the Yongqiu area. During the battle, he drove a chariot to attack quickly and fought bravely. Gaozu gave him the title of silk guard.
Xia Houying also used his position as a servant to command chariots and follow Gaozu to attack Zhang Han in Dong'a and Puyang. During the battle, he drove chariots to attack Zhang Han quickly. He fought bravely and defeated the Qin army. Gaozu gave him the title of Zhigui.
He also commanded military chariots to follow Emperor Gaozu in attacking Zhao Ben's army in Kaifeng, and in Quyu he attacked Yang Xiong's army.
During the battle, Xia Houying captured 68 people, surrendered 850 soldiers, and seized a box of gold seals.
Then he commanded military chariots to follow Gaozu to attack the Qin army east of Luoyang. He drove into the battle and fought hard, and Gao Zu granted him the title of Duke Teng.
Then he commanded the chariots to follow Gaozu to attack Nanyang. In the battles at Lantian and Zhiyang, he drove the chariots to fight bravely and fought bravely until he reached Bashang.
After Xiang Yu entered the Pass, he destroyed the Qin Dynasty and made Peigong King of Han.
The King of Han bestowed upon Xiahou Ying the title of Marquis of Zhaoping. He also took the position of Taiwen and followed the King of Han into the Shu and Han regions.
Later, the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and Xia Houying followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu's army.
Marching into Pengcheng, the Han army was severely defeated by Xiang Yu.
The king of Han was defeated and fled quickly on his chariot and horse.
Xia Houying drove the car, walking slowly at first, and then drove quickly after the two frightened children hugged his neck tightly. The King of Han was very angry about this and wanted to kill Xia Houying more than ten times, but he finally escaped from danger and sent Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan to Fengyi safe and sound.
After the King of Han arrived at Xingyang, he collected the defeated army and regained its military power. The King of Han gave Qiyang to Xiahou Ying as a food town.
After that, Xia Houying commanded the chariots to follow the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu, pursuing them all the way to Chen County, and finally pacified Chu. When he reached the land of Lu, the king of Han added another county of Zishi to him as a food town.
In the autumn of the year when the king of Han became emperor, Zang Tu, the king of Yan, rebelled. Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao as a servant to attack Zang Tu.
The next year, he followed Emperor Gao to Chen County and arrested King Han Xin of Chu.
Emperor Gao changed the title of Xia Houying's food to Ruyin and cut the talisman into a letter so that the title could be passed down from generation to generation.
He also used his position as a servant to follow Emperor Gao to attack Daidi, and fought as far as Wuquan and Yunzhong. Emperor Gao gave him an additional 1,000 households.
Then he followed the King of Han to the vicinity of Jinyang and defeated the Huns cavalry belonging to Han Xin.
When chasing the defeated troops to Pingcheng, they were surrounded by Huns cavalry and were trapped for seven days without being able to escape.
Later, Emperor Gao sent people to give many gifts to the Queen of the Xiongnu King Maodun, and then the Xiongnu King Modu opened a corner of the encirclement.
As soon as Gaodi escaped from the siege and came out of Pingcheng, he wanted to drive away quickly. Xia Houying resolutely stopped the carriage and horses and walked slowly, ordering the archers to draw their bows fully and draw outwards. Finally, they were out of danger.
With this merit, Emperor Gao granted Xiahou Ying a title to a thousand households in Xiyang as a food town.
He also followed Emperor Gao as a servant to attack the Huns cavalry in the area north of Gouzhu Mountain and won a great victory.
As a servant, he attacked the Huns cavalry in the south of Pingcheng and broke through the enemy's formation many times. He made the most contributions. Emperor Gao gave him 500 households in the captured city as food.
He also used his position as a servant to attack the rebel armies of Chen Xun and Yingbu. He charged into battle and repelled the enemy troops. He also granted a settlement to a thousand households. Finally, the emperor designated Xia Houying's food town in Ruyin, with a total of 6,900 households, and revoked other food towns that had been sealed before.
Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao to raise troops in Peixian County and served as a servant for a long time until Emperor Gao's death.
Later, he served Emperor Xiaohui as a royal servant.
Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu were very grateful to Xia Houying for rescuing Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan on the road to Xiayi, so they gave him a first-class mansion close to the north of the palace, named "near me", which meant that he could be closest to me, and expressed their special respect for Xia Houying.
After the death of Emperor Xiaohui, he served the Empress Gao as a servant.
When Empress Gao passed away and King Dai came to the capital, Xia Houying went to the palace as a servant to clean up the palace together with Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju, deposed the young emperor, and used the emperor's method to drive to the palace of King Dai to welcome King Dai. Together with the ministers, he established King Dai as Emperor Xiaowen.
He died eight years later and was given the posthumous title Wenhou.
His son Yihou Xiahou Zao succeeded to the throne and died seven years later.
His son, Gonghou Xiahouci, inherited the title and died thirty-one years later.
His son Xia Houpo married Princess Pingyang. In the 19th year after he inherited the throne, that is, the second year of Yuanding, he committed adultery with his father's maid and committed suicide in fear of crime. The feudal state was also revoked.
Yingyinhou Guanying was originally a small businessman selling silk silk in Suiyang.
When Emperor Gaozu had just raised an army to rebel against Qin and established himself as Pei Gong, he conquered the city and came to Yongqiu City. Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang and killed him. The Duke of Pei also retreated to the Dang County area. Guan Ying followed the Duke of Pei as the official in charge of the chamberlain. He defeated the army of the Dongjun prefect in Chengwu and the Qin army stationed in Gangli. Because of his bravery in killing the enemy, he was awarded the title of Seventh Doctor.
Later, he followed Pei Gong to fight the Qin army in the south of Bo County, Kaifeng and Quyu. Because of his hard fighting, he was given the title of Zhibo and was named Xuanling Lord.
He then followed Pei Gong to fight the Qin army from the west of Yangwu to Luoyang, defeated the Qin army in the area north of Xixiang, and then cut off the Yellow River ferry to the north. Then he led his troops southward and defeated the army of Nanyang County Governor Lu  east of Nanyang County, thus pacifying Nanyang County.
Going further west, he entered Wuguan and fought with the Qin army in Lantian. Because of his bravery and fighting, he fought all the way to Ba Shang, and was given the title of Zhigui and was named Changwenjun.
After Pei Gong was named King of Han, the King of Han worshiped Guan Ying as a doctor. He followed the King of Han to march into Hanzhong, and in October, he was appointed as the Visitor of the Middle Kingdom.
Following the King of Han, he returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, captured Yueyang, and surrendered to the King of Sai, Sima Xin.
The returning army surrounded Zhang Han again at Feiqiu, but failed to capture it.
Later, he followed the King of Han eastward to Linjin Pass, surrendered to King Dong Yi of Yin, and pacified the area under his jurisdiction.
In the area south of Dingtao, he fought with Xiang Yu's subordinate Long Qie and Wei Prime Minister Xiang Ta's army. After a fierce struggle, he finally defeated the enemy.
Due to his meritorious service, he was given the title of Marquis of the Marquis and was named Marquis of Changwen. Pingxiang in Du County was granted the title of his food town.
Later, as a visitor, he followed the King of Han to capture Dang County and marched into Pengcheng.
Xiang Yu led the army to attack and defeated the king of Han.
The King of Han fled westward, and Guan Ying retreated with the King of Han and stationed himself at Yongqiu.
Wang Wu and Wei Gong Shen Tu rebelled, and Guan Ying followed the King of Han to attack and defeated them.
After conquering Waihuang, he recruited soldiers to the west and stationed himself in Xingyang.
Xiang Yu's army came to attack again, and there were many cavalry among them. The king of Han selected people in the army who could serve as cavalry generals. Everyone recommended Li Bi and Luo Jia from Chongquan, the former knights of the Qin Dynasty.
The King of Han was about to appoint them, but the two of them said: We are originally Qin people, and I am afraid that the army sergeants think we are unreliable, so please appoint someone who is always by your side and is good at riding and shooting as our leader.
Although Guan Ying was young at that time, he fought bravely in many battles, so he was appointed as the middle doctor, and Li Bi and Luo Jia were appointed as the left and right captains. He led the Langzhong cavalry to fight the Chu cavalry east of Xingyang, and defeated the Chu army.
On the order of the King of Han, he led an army alone to attack the rear of the Chu army, cutting off the Chu army's food supply line from Yangwu to Xiangyi.
In the area of ​​​​the Lu State, they defeated the army of General Xiang Guan of Xiang Yu. His soldiers killed the Chu Army's You Sima and one of his cavalry officers.
After defeating Duke Zhe and Wang Wu, the army was stationed in the western area of ​​​​Yan State. The soldiers under his command killed five generals from Lou Fan and one from Lian Yin.
Near Baima, Wang Wu's general Huan Ying was defeated, and the soldiers under his command killed one of the captains.
He also led the cavalry to cross the Yellow River south and escorted the King of Han to Luoyang. Then the King of Han sent Guan Ying to Handan to meet the troops of the Prime Minister Han Xin.
When he returned to Aocang, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Guan Ying obtained the Shiyi Ping Township of Du County with the title of Liehou.
Later, as a royal censor, he led the Langzhong cavalry, subordinate to the prime minister Han Xin, and defeated the Qi army in Lixia. The soldiers he led captured the chariot general Hua Wu and injured 46 generals.
He forced the enemy soldiers to surrender, captured Linyi, and captured Qi's defense minister Tian Guang alive.
He also pursued the Qi State Prime Minister Guotian Heng to Ying and Bo, defeated the Qi State cavalry, and the soldiers he led beheaded one Qi State cavalry general and captured four of the Qi State cavalry generals alive.
He conquered Ying and Bo, and defeated Qi general Tian Sui in Qiancheng. His soldiers beheaded Tian Sui.
Then he followed Han Xin and led his troops eastward, attacking Long Qie and Liu Gongxuan's troops in Gaomi. The soldiers they led beheaded Long Qie, captured You Sima alive, one person each from Lian Yin, and ten generals from Lou Fan. He himself captured Zhou Lan alive.
After Qi was pacified, Han Xin proclaimed himself King of Qi and sent Guan Ying to lead an army alone to the north of Lu to attack Chu General Gong Gao's army and achieved a complete victory.
Guan Ying sent his troops south, defeated the army led by the Xue County Sheriff, and personally captured one of the cavalrymen.
Then they attacked Fu Yang, marched to Tongcheng southeast of Xiangxiang, and took the area around Li and Xucheng.
After crossing the Huaihe River, they conquered all the cities in Huainan and then arrived at Guangling.
Later, Xiang Yu sent Xiang Sheng, Duke Xue and Duke Tan to regain Huaibei.
So Guan Ying crossed the Huaihe River and went north, defeated Xiang Sheng and Tan Gong in Xiapi, beheaded Xue Gong, and captured Xiapi. Defeated the Chu cavalry at Pingyang, then surrendered Pengcheng, captured Xiang Tuo, the pillar state of Chu, and surrendered the counties of Liu, Xue, Pei, Feng, Xiao, and Peng.
Attacked Kuxian and Qiaoxian, and captured the general Zhou Lan again.
Then he met the King of Han in Yixiang.
Following the King of Han, he defeated Xiang Yu's army in Chen County. The soldiers he led killed two generals and captured eight generals.
The king of Han gave 2,500 additional households to the infants.
Xiang Yu was defeated at Gaixia, and then broke out and escaped. At this time, Guan Ying, as a censor, was ordered by the King of Han to lead the cavalry troops to pursue Xiang Yu and completely defeated him in the east city.
The five soldiers he led jointly killed Xiang Yu, and they were all named princes.
He also surrendered one man each from the left and right sima, and 12,000 soldiers, and captured all the generals and officials in Xiang Yu's army.
Then, they captured Dongcheng and Liyang, crossed the Yangtze River, defeated the army led by the Wu County Sheriff in the Wu County area, and captured the Wu County Sheriff. In this way, the three counties of Wu, Yuzhang and Kuaiji were pacified.
Then he returned to the army and pacified the Huaibei area, a total of fifty-two counties.
After the King of Han established him as emperor, he granted Guan Ying three thousand households a new settlement.
In the autumn of this year, he followed Emperor Gao as a chariot general and defeated the army of King Zang Tu of Yan.
The next year, he followed Emperor Gao to Chen County and arrested King Han Xin of Chu.
After returning to the dynasty, Emperor Gao cut the talisman into a letter and made it immortal from generation to generation. He granted the 2,500 households in Yingyin to Guanying as a food town and named him the Marquis of Yingyin.
After that, Guan Ying followed Emperor Gao to Dai as a cavalry general to attack the rebel King Xin of Han. When he arrived in Mayi, he was ordered by the emperor to lead his army to surrender the six counties north of Loufan, beheaded the Prime Minister Zuo of Dai, and defeated the Huns cavalry north of Wuquan.
He also followed Emperor Gao to attack the Xiongnu cavalry belonging to King Xin of Han in the Jinyang area. The soldiers he commanded killed one of the Xiongnu general Bai Ti.
Emperor Qin ordered the cavalry troops from Yan, Zhao, Qi, Liang, Chu and other countries to be led together, and defeated the Xiongnu cavalry at Qianshi.
When they arrived at Pingcheng, they were surrounded by a large army of Huns. They followed Emperor Gao back to Dongyuan.
When following Emperor Gao to attack Chen Xi, Guan Ying received the emperor's order to attack Chen Xi's Prime Minister Hou Chang's army alone in the Quni area, and defeated the enemy. The soldiers he led killed Hou Chang and five special generals.
Qu Ni, Lu Nu, Shang Quyang were surrendered, Anguo and Anping were conquered, and Dongyuan was conquered.
When Yingbu rebelled, Guan Ying led his army as a general of chariots and cavalry. In Xiangxian County, he defeated the army of general Yingbu and killed three generals, Yajiang and Loufan.
Then he marched to attack the army of Zhuguo in Yingbu and the army of Da Sima.
He then marched and defeated the army of Ying Bubie general Feizhu. Guan Ying personally captured Zuo Sima alive, and led his soldiers to kill ten of his junior generals. He pursued the enemy's defeated general's remnants all the way to the banks of the Huaihe River.
Therefore, the emperor gave him another 2,500 households.
After the Taing Bu was pacified, Emperor Gaozu returned to the court and determined that Guanying's food towns in Yingyin totaled 5,000 households, and revoked the food towns previously sealed.
In all the previous battles, Guan Ying accompanied Gaodi to capture two officials worth two thousand stone. In addition, he led his troops to defeat sixteen enemy armies, surrendered forty-six cities, pacified one vassal state, two commanderies, and fifty-two counties. He captured two generals, one each from the Zhu State and the Prime Minister, and ten officials worth two thousand stone.
When Guan Ying defeated Ying Bu and returned to the capital, Emperor Gao died. Guan Ying served Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Dowager Lu as a marquis.
After the death of the Queen Mother, Lu Lu and others appointed themselves generals as King Zhao and garrisoned Chang'an in an attempt to launch a rebellion.
After Liu Xiang, King Ai of Qi, learned of this, he sent troops westward to the capital, saying that he would kill those who should not be kings.
After General Lu Lu and others heard about it, they sent Guan Ying as a general to lead the army to stop the attack.
When Guan Ying came to Xingyang, he discussed with Jianghou Zhou Bo and others and decided to temporarily station the army in Xingyang. He secretly signaled to King Ai of Qi that he was ready to kill Lu, so the Qi soldiers stopped advancing.
After Jianghou Zhou Bo and others killed Zhu Lu, the King of Qi withdrew his troops and returned to his fiefdom. Guan Ying also withdrew his troops from Xingyang and returned to the capital. Together with Zhou Bo and Chen Ping, he established Dai Wang as Emperor Xiaowen.
Emperor Xiaowen then granted Guan Ying a land of 3,000 households, gave him a thousand catties of gold, and appointed him as Taiwei.
Three years later, Jianghou Zhou Bo was relieved of his position as prime minister and returned to his own fiefdom. Guan Ying became prime minister and revoked the position of Taiwei.
This year, the Huns invaded Beidi and Shangjun in a large scale. The emperor ordered Prime Minister Guan Ying to lead 85,000 cavalry to attack the Huns.
After the Xiongnu fled, King Liu Xingju of Jibei rebelled, and the emperor ordered Guan Ying to withdraw his troops and return to Beijing.
More than a year later, Guan Ying died while serving as prime minister, and his posthumous title was Yihou.
His son Pinghou Guuan'a inherited the title.
He died twenty-eight years later, and his son Guan Qiang succeeded to the throne.
Thirteen years later, because of the crime of rape, the title was suspended for two years.
In the third year of Yuanguang, the emperor made Guan Ying's grandson Guan Xian the Marquis of Linru and made him the successor of Guan Ying. Eight years later, Guan Xian was found guilty of bribery and his feudal status was revoked.
Tai Shigong said: I once visited Fengfei, visited the local elders, looked at the place where Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai and Teng Gong originally lived, and asked about their relevant stories back then. What I heard was really amazing!
When they kill dogs or sell silk silk, do they know that they will be able to attach themselves to Jiwei, be named in the Han Dynasty, and pass on their virtues to their descendants?
I have had a relationship with Fan Kuai's grandson Fan Taguang. The stories he told me about the great ancestors' deeds when they started their business are exactly what I have described above.
