Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, whose courtesy name was Shiqian, was the second son of Emperor Gaozu.
In the third year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of Prince of Yuzhang County and was granted a residence of 2,000 households.
In the fifth year of Tianjian, he left the capital as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in South Xuzhou, general Renwei, and governor of South Xuzhou. Soon he was promoted to the title of Beizhonglang General.
In the tenth year of Tianjian's reign, he was transferred to the governorship of Yingsi, Huo Sanzhou Zhujun, General Yunhui, and Yingzhou governor.
In the 13th year of Tianjian, he was promoted to General Anyou and led the stone garrison army.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, he was moved to the post of General Xizhonglang and General of the Guard Army, and then moved to General Anqian and Danyang Yin.
In the 16th year of Tianjian's reign, he was appointed as Beizhong Langjiang and South Xuzhou Governor.
In the second year of ordinary life, he entered the court as Shizhong and Zhenyou General, and his subordinates began to set up assistant historians.
At first, his mother Wu Shuyuan was the concubine of the Marquis of Shuhun of Qi. She was favored by Emperor Gaozu and gave birth to Xiao Zong seven months later. Therefore, many people in the palace suspected that she was not Gaozu's biological son. When Wu Shuyuan's favor faded and she became dissatisfied, people in the palace reported their suspicions to Xiao Zong, so Xiao Zong kept the affair in mind.
When he grew up, he was talented and knowledgeable, and was good at writing articles.
Gaozu used etiquette to discipline his children, and his sons did not see him often. Therefore, Xiao Zong often complained that Gaozu did not understand him.
Every time Xiao Zong went to a feudal town, Wu Shuyuan would always go with him.
When Xiao Rong was fifteen or sixteen years old, he was still naked and playing in front of Wu Shuyuan. There was no difference between day and night. This scandal was discussed both inside and outside the palace.
When Xiao Zong was in Xuzhou, his decrees and punishments were very cruel.
Xiao Zong was strong and could subdue a galloping horse with his bare hands.
He often went out at night wearing casual clothes to conceal his identity, and was unrestrained.
Whenever Emperor Gaozu's appointment came, he would always show resentment, and no one among the ministers would dare to advise him.
Xiao Zong built the Qi family's seven temples in a special house and often went to worship. He also wore casual clothes to kneel down at the mausoleum of Emperor Ming in Qu'aqi.
However, he still couldn't convince himself that he was the son of Houhun Hou of Qi Dong. He heard the saying that if the blood of a living person is dripped on the bones of a dead person, and the blood seeps in, it means that there is a father-son relationship.
Xiao Zong secretly dug up Qi Shuhunhou's grave, took out the bones, and dripped blood from his own arm on the bones for testing. At the same time, he killed one of his own sons and took his bones for blood testing. The results could be verified. From then on, Xiao Zong often harbored thoughts of rebellion.
In ordinary four years, Xiao Zong went out of the capital to serve as envoy Chijie, governor of the military affairs of the five states of Nanyan, Yan, Xu, Qing, and Ji, general of Pingbei, and governor of South Yanzhou. Emperor Gaozu gave him a propaganda department.
Xiao Zong heard that Xiao Shiyin, King of Qi Jian'an, was in Wei, so he sent people to Wei to get acquainted with Xiao Baoyin, called Xiao Shiyin his uncle, and promised to lead his territory to submit to Wei.
At the time when Emperor Gaozu was launching his Northern Expedition, in the sixth year of Pengcheng, Wei general Yuan Faseng surrendered to Emperor Gaozu in Pengcheng. Emperor Gaozu ordered General Xiao Zong to lead the army and defend Pengcheng City to confront Wei general Anfeng and Wang Yuanyanming.
Later, Emperor Gaozu thought that the continuous war had lasted for a long time and was worried about chaos, so he ordered Xiao Zong to withdraw his troops.
Xiao Zong was afraid that he would never have a chance to see Xiao Shiyin after returning to the south, so he and Fu Qi fled to Yuan Yanming at night and surrendered to Wei. Wei appointed him as Shizhong, Taiwei, Gaoping Gong, and Danyang King.
Xiao Zong changed his name to Xiao Zuan, with the courtesy name Dewen, in memory of the deposed Emperor Shuhunhou of Qi Dynasty. He also wore mourning clothes for him according to the etiquette of treating his father.
So some ministers petitioned Emperor Gaozu to remove his title and fiefdom, expel him from his name, and change his surname to Ni.
Soon, Shao Ming restored his name and made his son Xiao Zhi the Marquis of Yongxin, granting him a land of thousands of households.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Baoyin occupied Chang'an in Wei and rebelled against Wei. Xiao Zong fled north from Luoyang and was about to flee to Chang'an. He was caught by Jin officials and Wei people killed him. He was forty-nine years old when he died.
At first, when Xiao Zong was frustrated, he wrote "Listening to the Ringing of the Bell" and "Sad Poems on Falling Leaves" to express his thoughts and feelings.
The summary says: When you hear the bell ringing, you know you are in the imperial city.
It is difficult to have a fixed solution to the changes in the world. When we experience war and chaos, all kinds of sorrows arise.
The sound of the bell sounded deep and far away, and the sound of the bell whirled rapidly.
Pity the person who tells the time, he has been working hard all year round to build the chapter platform.
Listen to the sound of the bell, listen to the sound of the bell in not one place.
I have virtues and talents, but they are abandoned. Who can let me show my talents?
Former friends and loved ones now have their own things and can no longer be together like fallen leaves.
I am like a wandering solitary goose, where can I find shelter? I am like a white crane that is separated from its eagles, crying mournfully in the middle of the night.
Listen to the ringing of the bell, listen to how endless the sound of the bell is.
For more than twenty years, I was stranded in Beijing.
Looking in the mirror, I saw a tired and sad face, and my sad mood was as low as the sea of ​​clouds. His "Sad Fallen Leaves" said:
Lamenting the fallen leaves, the leaves fall continuously, layer upon layer.
The leaves fall and fly, sometimes flying horizontally and never to return.
Lamenting the fallen leaves, how sad are the fallen leaves? Life is like the fallen leaves, falling and withering cannot last forever.
Lamenting the fallen leaves, when will the fallen leaves return?
They were all born from the same foundation in the past, but now they are no longer related to each other.
No one who read his poems at that time did not feel sad.
King Lan Ji of Wuling, courtesy name Shixun, was the eighth son of Emperor Gaozu.
He has been diligent and studious since he was a child, and is very talented in literature. He does not like to be frivolous and extravagant when writing articles, but pays attention to profound and touching things.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian, he was named King Li of Wulu and had 2,000 households in the city.
He successively served as General Ningyuan, Grand Administrator of Langye and Pengyuan County, General Qingche, and Danyang Yin.
Later he left the capital and served as the prefect of Kuaiji. Soon after Kuaiji County was renamed Dongyangzhou, he took over as the governor of Dongyangzhou and appointed generals Chijie and Dongzhonglang as envoys.
Later, the imperial court recruited him as a servant to lead the army.
Later he left Beijing and served as general Xuanhui and governor of Jiangzhou.
The imperial court also called him as envoy Chijie, general Xuanhui, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yangnan and Xuzhou, and governor of Yangzhou.
Soon after, he was awarded the titles of Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Yiliang and other thirteen states' military affairs, General of Anxi, and Governor of Yisu, and he was also given the title of Advocate.
In the eleventh year of Datong, the imperial court awarded him the titles of Changshi of Sanqi, General of the Expedition to the West, and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
In the past, during the Tianjian period, lightning struck the Sun Gate, and the traces of the lightning strike formed the character "Shaozong Liang Weiwang". The interpreter believed that King Wu referred to King Wuling, so people inside and outside the court turned to him.
During the Taiqian period, Hou Jing rebelled and did not send troops to reinforce the capital.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, he proclaimed himself emperor in Shu. He changed his reign name to Tianzheng.
Lizi's son Yuanzhao was the crown prince, Yuanzheng was the king of Xiyang, Yuanman was the king of Jingling, Yuanpu was the king of Nanqiao, and Yuansu was the king of Yidu.
Xiao Jie, Marquis of Yongfeng, the prefect of Brazil and Zitong counties, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the west, the governor of Yizhou, and the title of King of Qin County.
Sima Wang Seng Lue and Zhi Bing joined the army Xu Tong repeatedly warned him. Xiao Ji thought they had second thoughts about him and killed them.
Xiao She, the Marquis of Yongfeng, sighed and said: King Wuling cannot avoid defeat!
Good people are the foundation of a country, but now King Wuling is killing them. If they don't die, what are you waiting for!
He also told people close to him: In the past, when Huanxuan was a great tycoon, knowledgeable people said it was February, and Huanxuan's defeat was indeed in February.
This year King Wuling named his reign Tianzheng, and the correct character is Yi Zhi. Can he last long?
In the summer and April of the fifth year of the Taiqing Dynasty, Xiao Ji led his army down the river to Bajun, in the name of attacking Hou Jing, and planned to capture Jingshan and Shaanxi.
Xiao Ji heard that the Western Wei Dynasty had invaded Shu, so he sent his general Qiao Yan, the governor of Nanliang Province, to lead his army back to Shu for reinforcements.
On Jiaxu Day in May, General Wei Chijun of the Western Wei Dynasty led his army towards Fulishui. Yang Qianyun, the governor of Tongzhou, led the city to surrender to Yuchijiong. Yuchijiong divided his troops to defend Tongzhou, and he immediately led his army to Chengdu.
On Ding Chou day, Xiao Ji's army was stationed in Xiling. The ships covered the entire river, the flags and armor were shining, and the morale of the army was very strong.
Shizu ordered the guard general Lu Fahe to build two defensive fortresses on both sides of Xikou to block the river to deter Xiao Ji's army.
At the time of dispatch, the Lu Na rebellion had not yet been quelled, and the Shu army was advancing again. People were frightened and panicked, and Shizu was very worried about this.
Lu Fahe was in emergency several times within ten days.
Shizu then promoted Ren Yue, who was in prison, to be King Sima of Jin'an, withdrew his own soldiers to lead him, and sent General Xuanmeng Liu Fen and Ren Yue to the west to reinforce Lu Fahe.
In June, Xiao Ji built a connecting city and broke through the iron chain across the river.
Shizu also promoted Xie Daren, who was in prison, to the rank of infantry captain, assigned him a brigade of troops, and sent him up the river to reinforce Lu Fahe.
Shizu wrote to Xiao Jishao: The emperor paid tribute to the fake yellow cymbal Taiwei King Wuling: Since Jiuli invaded and attacked, and Sanmiao plundered and harassed, the world has been suffering from death and disaster for many years.
My heart is military, I cannot sleep peacefully, I lie on my pillow, look east to the capital, weep with sorrow, and march west to fight against thieves. My eldest son died in Huzhou in battle, and my youngest son died in the Western Wei Dynasty as a hostage. I do not have the military strength of eight hundred princes like King Wu of Zhou, but I can charge into battle wearing armor, and fight bravely like Zhang Jie of Jin, even after a random arrow shot through his hand.
Soon, I suffered from the tragic loss of both my parents and being unable to support them. I harbored thousands of hatreds, mourned for my parents, and gathered hundreds of sorrows. I beat my chest and drank my guts. I was so sad and angry that I vowed to annihilate the traitors, regardless of the safety of my own life.
However, because the ancestral temple and the country were held hostage by the rebels, and the ferocious enemies were not eliminated, I had no choice but to work hard, stay on guard, and respectfully follow the emperor's orders to punish the traitors. I only used the wise men from all over to command and control them safely.
Even so, I rebuilt the altar to worship generals, raised the curtain to recruit scholars, and resisted Cao's army in Chibi. I didn't ask Lu Su for advice, burned Wu Xing's grain and grass, and didn't ask Gou You for advice. My talents were about to be exhausted, my money was almost exhausted, and there was no help at all. I went through countless hardships and obstacles before I could behead Chang Di at Jumen and defeat Chi You at Fenglin.
The grudge has been avenged, the shame has been eliminated, the world is at peace, everyone is working together on the construction plan, and I am sharing this peaceful life of peace and quiet with the pastors of the twelve states of Siyue.
In the hot summer season, the sun is scorching like fire. How are you doing lately?
Civil and military officials should be exhausted from hard work.
Now I have sent the regular attendant of Sanqi and the governor of Guangzhou, Zheng Anzhong, to declare my intention.
He also ordered Zheng Anzhong to express his thoughts to Xiao Ji and promised to let him return to Shu and control Minfang exclusively.
Xiao Ji disobeyed Shidan's edict and only responded to Shizu's letter according to family etiquette.
On Gengshen Day, Lu Qi's general Chi led his troops along the mountain to plan an attack. Yu Mian and Xie Da Ren fought with him and defeated Mi.
Then, Lu Qu was pacified, and all the armies of the imperial court marched west together. Shi Dan wrote to Xiao Qi again and said: Lord Feng, you have worked too hard!
In the summer of June, the weather is extremely hot, gold and stone are melting, mosquitoes gather, the sound is like thunder, and foxes come and go thousands of miles to harm people. With your noble body, you march hard and line up. I care about you very much. How can you bear such hard work?
Since Maohu invaded and Jiehu became tyrannical and domineering, I am older than you, and I have contributed to the suppression of the rebels. Therefore, I have been supported by everyone and ascended the throne. After the world is peaceful, I should give up the throne to the person destined by destiny.
It would indeed be too late to send an envoy. If this is not good, I will put down my pen.
The friendship between brothers is separated in body but connected in breath.
Brothers with different identities can no longer replace each other; the joy of brotherly friendship has not been enjoyed for a long time.
There is silence all around in the forest, and only the whining of four birds flying apart can be heard; in the map of Khotan in the Xuan room, I lament the loss of brotherhood.
My heart is filled with friendship for you, and letters cannot express my feelings fully.
Dazhi is another word for Xiao Ji.
Lan Qi sent his appointed Duzhi Shangshu Le Fengye to Jianglu to discuss the plan of harmonious cooperation and requested to return to Shu in accordance with the last letter.
Shidan knew that Jiaoqi would definitely be defeated, so he refused to agree to him.
In Bingxu, Fu Sheng, Xu Zichu and others from Basu killed Xiao Ji's lord Gongsun Huang of Xiaokou City and surrendered to the imperial army.
Wang Lin, Song Peng, Ren Yue, Xie Dayen and others took the opportunity to attack Hou Shu and captured three of his fortresses, so more than ten cities on both sides of the Taiwan Strait surrendered.
General Fan Meng captured Xiao Ji and his third son Yuanyuan and killed them both at Kip Kou. Xiao Ji was forty-six years old when he died.
A petitioner petitioned him to expunge his family name, and Shizu agreed to do so, giving him the surname Taotie.
At the beginning, when Xiao Ji was about to usurp and proclaim himself emperor, more than one strange and strange thing happened. The strangest one was that flowers grew out of the brackets surrounding the pillars of the Cypress Palace in the palace. It had forty-six stems, thin and cute, and looked like a lotus.
A knowledgeable person said: It is not a good thing to have flowers growing on Wang Dun's ceremonial guard.
Xiao's reign name is Tianzheng, which is the same as Xiao Dong's. People say that Tianzheng's Tianzi is Erren, and Zhengzi is Yizhi.
Xiao Dong and Xiao Ji pretended to be emperors, but each only lasted a year before being eliminated.
King Xiao Zhengde of Linhe, also known as Gonghe, was the third son of King Jinghui of Linchuan.
When he was young, he was rough, evil, and disrespectful of etiquette.
At first, when Gaozu had no sons, he adopted him as his son. When Gaozu ascended the throne, Xiao Zhengde hoped to make himself the prince. Later, Gaozu established Prince Zhaoming and named Xiao Zhengde the Marquis of Xifeng, with a settlement of 500 households.
From then on, Xiao Zhengde became dissatisfied. He often harbored ulterior motives and coveted the throne of the emperor, hoping that disaster would happen by chance.
In ordinary six years, he appointed Huangmen Shilang as Qingche General and appointed an assistant historian.
Soon, he fled to Wei, and a minister asked Gaozu to remove the officials he had granted.
In ordinary seven years, Xiao Zhengde escaped from Wei again. Emperor Gaozu did not blame him, restored his title, and then appointed him as the general to conquer the captives.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, Xiao Zhengde was appointed General Xinwu and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
Later, the imperial court recruited him as a servant, a general of the Fu army, and appointed him as an assistant historian. He was also named the king of Linhe County, with a settlement of 2,000 households, and he was also made a general of the left guard.
But he became increasingly violent and recruited desperadoes.
Hou Jing knew that he had a treacherous plot, so he secretly sent people to seduce and lobby him, and they had close contacts with him and colluded with each other.
Hou Jing sent a letter to Xiao Zhengde saying: Now that the emperor is old, the treacherous ministers are disrupting the country, the rules and regulations are disordered, and the political orders are reversed, in my opinion, Gaozu will definitely be defeated.
Besides, you were supposed to be crown prince, but you were abandoned in the middle. All the righteous people in the world are very sad in private. Although I, Hou Jing, are foolish and loyal, I can't help feeling resentful about this.
Now that the world is in turmoil and people's hearts are turning to you, how can you only care about the personal relationship between father and son and abandon these hundreds of millions of people?
Although I don't have the ability, I really want to work hard.
I hope you will obey the wishes of the people of the world and understand my sincerity. Xiao Zhengde was very happy after reading Hou Jing's letter and said: Hou Jing's meaning coincides with mine. This is God's support for me.
Then he agreed to Hou Jing's request.
When Hou Jing arrived at the river, Xiao Zhengde secretly brought an empty boat, pretending to load it with reeds, but actually using it to carry Hou Jing across the river.
The imperial court did not know Xiao Zhengde's conspiracy and sent him to guard Zhuquehang.
When Hou Jing arrived at Zhuquehang, Xiao Zhengde led his army to attack the capital together with Hou Jing. Hou Jing supported Xiao Zhengde as emperor, changed the year to the first year of Zhengping, and Hou Jing became prime minister.
After the capture of Taicheng, Hou Jing restored the Taiqing era title and demoted Xiao Zhengde to Grand Sima.
Xiao Zhengde had a complaint. When Hou Jing found out about it, he was worried that he would rebel, so he falsely conveyed the imperial edict and killed him.
The great-grandson of Xiao Yu, King of Hedong, was the second son of Prince Zhaoming.
In ordinary two years, he was named the Duke of Zhijiang County.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu changed his title to the king of Hedong County, with a settlement of 2,000 households.
And appointed him as General Ningyuan and Shitou garrison.
Later, he was transferred out of the capital to serve as the prefect of Langxie and Pengcheng counties.
Later, he was transferred back to the capital and served as Shizhong and Qingche General, and was appointed as an assistant historian.
Later, he was transferred to Nanzhong Langjiang and Xiangzhou Governor.
Soon, Hou Jing invaded the capital, and Xiao Yu led the army to come for reinforcements. When the army arrived at Qingcao Lake, Taicheng had fallen. An order was issued to withdraw the troops and turn back. Luo Yu led the army back to Xiangzhou to defend it.
At that time, Shizu led his army and was stationed there. Zhang Zuan, the newly appointed governor of Yongzhou, reported secretly to Shizu: "Kou Yu is recruiting troops to start a rebellion in Hedong and gathering food and grass in Yueyang. These are all illegal things. They plan to attack Jiangling."
Shidan was very frightened after hearing this, so he walked back to Jiangling by a small road, and sent Zhou Hong to consult with Xiao Yu's naxiang to supervise Xiao Yu's grain and army.
Xiao Yu said: We are all governors, why do we suddenly want to be subordinate to others?
Shizu sent people there three times, but Xiao Yu refused to obey Shizu.
Shi Dan was furious and sent his son Lu Chabi to conquer him, but his friends were defeated and killed by Lu Yu.
Shizu also ordered Bao Quan, the governor of Xinzhou, to attack Xiao Yu, and wrote a letter to Chen, pointing out the blessings and misfortunes, and allowing him to change his ways and do good.
Xiao Yu did not reply, so he strengthened the city wall and deepened the moat in order to resist defense. Xiao Yu said to Bao Quan: What qualifications does a defeated general have to talk about bravery?
If you want to hit, just hit forward, no need to say anything.
Bao Quan's army was stationed at Shiceng Temple. Xiao Yu led all the troops to attack him. Xiao Yu failed to capture Bao Quan's military camp and retreated.
Bao Quan marched to Juzhou again, and Xiao Yu sent out all his elite troops to attack him, but failed to win.
When he was dispatched, it was sunset and the soldiers were exhausted. Bao Quan took the opportunity to attack and defeated Xiao Yu. He beheaded three thousand people and drowned more than ten thousand people in the water.
Xiao Yu therefore burned the outer city of Changsha and drove the residents into the city. Bao Quan mobilized troops to surround Changsha City.
Xiao Yu was brave and courageous when he was young. He was able to appease the soldiers and was very popular among the soldiers.
After being besieged for a long time, although the inside and outside were cut off, the defense was still very strong.
Later, Shizu sent the leading general Wang Tanluan to attack Ludeng instead of Baose. Wang only avoided building earth mountains and stayed close to the city. He attacked hard day and night. Arrows and stones were like rain, and more than half of the soldiers in the city were killed or injured.
Xiao Yu was very embarrassed and anxious, so he secretly equipped a large ship and prepared to break out.
Just as Xiao Yu's general Murong Hua was leading Wang Shidao into the city, Lu Deng looked around and saw that all the people close to him were scattered, so he was captured.
Xiao Yu said to his guard: "Don't kill me. I want to meet Shizu. I want to rebuke this thief who slandered others. I will die without regret."
The person in charge of guarding him said: I was ordered not to allow it.
So he beheaded him and sent his head to Jingzhen. Shizu sent his head back and buried him.
At first, when Xiao Yu was about to fail, he secretly looked at his face in the mirror, but his head was not visible. He also saw a tall man lying on the house, with his hands on the ground looking down at his navel. He also saw a white dog as big as a donkey, running out of the city and gone somewhere.
Xiao Yu hated this phenomenon, and soon the city was captured.
Shi Chen said: Xiao Zong and Xiao Zhengde were both rebellious and wanted to do as they pleased, so it was right for them to bring about their own destruction.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing rebelled and invaded the capital. Xiao Ji took advantage of the rich resources of Yong and Shu, but did not lead his army to rescue the court in danger, which showed his integrity. When the rebel Hou Jing was killed, he began to raise troops, and his troops were unknown, which caused a disaster.
Alas!
He was punished like Guan Shu and Cai Shu, the ministers who caused chaos in the Western Zhou Dynasty. The disaster was brought about by himself.
