King Han Xin of Han was the concubine grandson of the original King Xiang of Han. He was eight feet five inches tall.
When Xiang Liang supported King Chu Huai, the descendant of King Chu, Yan, Qi, Zhao, and Wei had already established their own kings. Only South Korea had no successor, so Hancheng, Lord Hengyang among the Korean princes, was made King of Han, hoping to appease the land of the original South Korea.
Xiang Liang was defeated and died in Dingtao, and Han Cheng defected to King Huai of Chu.
When Pei Gong led the army to attack Yangcheng, he ordered Zhang Liang to surrender the original territory of South Korea as the Korean Situ. He obtained Han Xin and appointed him as the general of South Korea. He led his army to follow Pei Gong into Wuguan.
Pei Gong was appointed as the king of Han. Han Xin followed Pei Gong into Hanzhong and persuaded the king of Han: "Xiang Yu has sealed all his subordinates in the areas near the Central Plains, but you, the king, are in this far away place. This is tantamount to demotion!"
The soldiers under your command are all from the east of Mount Laoshan. They stand on tiptoe, eager to return to their hometown, so that while they are strong and strong, they can march eastward and compete for the world.
When the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, he agreed to make Han Xin the King of Han. He first appointed him as Taiwei Han to lead troops to capture the old land of Korea.
The princes and kings granted by Xiang Yu all went to their respective fiefdoms. King Han Cheng of Han did not follow Xiang Yu in the battle and had no military exploits, so he was not sent to the fiefdom and instead made him a prince.
When he heard that the king of Han sent Han Xin to attack Han, he ordered Zheng Chang, the magistrate of Wu County when he was traveling in Wu, to be the king of Han to resist the Han army.
In the second year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin pacified more than a dozen cities in Korea.
When the King of Han arrived in Henan, Han Xin violently attacked King Zheng Chang of Han in Yangcheng.
When Zheng Chang surrendered, the King of Han made Han Xin the King of Han, and he often led the Korean army to follow the King of Han.
In the third year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han withdrew from Xingyang, and King Han Xin, Zhou Ke and others guarded Xingyang.
When the Chu army conquered Xingyang, Han Xin surrendered to the Chu army, escaped soon, and surrendered to the King of Han. The King of Han again made him King of Han, and finally followed the King of Han to defeat Xiang Yu and pacify the world.
In the spring of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty cut the talisman with Han Xin as a letter and officially named him King of Han, with the fiefdom in Yingchuan.
In the spring of the next year, Emperor Gaozu thought that Han Xin was strong and brave, and his fief Yingchuan was close to Gongxian and Luoyang in the north, Wanxian and Yexian in the south, and the important town of Huaiyang in the east. These were all strategic places in the world, so he issued an edict and ordered Han Xin, the king of Han, to move to the north of Taiyuan to prepare for resistance to the Xiongnu and establish Jinyang as his capital.
Han Xin wrote: "My kingdom is close to the border. The Huns have invaded many times. Jinyang is far from the border. Please allow me to establish Mayi as the capital."
The emperor agreed, and Han Xin moved the capital to Mayi.
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu Maodun Shanyu surrounded Han Xin heavily. Han Xin sent envoys to the Xiongnu many times to sue for peace.
The Han Dynasty sent people to lead troops to rescue, but they suspected that Han Xin had sent envoys privately many times and had the intention of betraying the Han Dynasty, so he sent people to blame Han Xin.
Han Xin was afraid of being killed, so he made an agreement with the Xiongnu to jointly attack the Han Dynasty, raised an army to rebel, surrendered the capital of Mayi to the Xiongnu, and led his army to attack Taiyuan.
In the winter of the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the emperor personally led an army to attack Han Xin, defeated Han Xin's army in Tongdan, and beheaded his general Wang Xi.
Han Xin fled and defected to the Huns. His generals Manqichuchen, Wang Huang and others from the Bai Tu people supported Zhao Li, a descendant of King Zhao, as king. They also gathered Han Xin's defeated and fled army, and negotiated with Han Xin and the Xiongnu Maodun Shanyu to attack the Han Dynasty.
The Xiongnu sent the right and left wise kings to lead more than 10,000 cavalry and Wang Huang and others to station in the area south of Guangwu. When they arrived in Jinyang, they fought with the Han army. The Han army defeated them. They took advantage of the victory and pursued them to Lishi, where they were defeated again.
The Xiongnu again gathered troops in the Xijiang area of ​​Loufan, and Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty ordered chariot troops and cavalry to defeat them.
The Xiongnu were always defeated and fled, and the Han army took advantage of the victory to pursue the defeated troops. I heard that Maodun Shanyu was stationed in Daigu. Han Emperor Gaozu was in Jinyang at the time and sent people to scout Maodun. The scouts came back and reported that they could attack.
The emperor also arrived at Pingcheng.
When the emperor left the city and climbed Baishan Mountain, he was surrounded by the Huns' cavalry. The emperor sent people to give many gifts to the Queen of the Huns.
The Yan family then advised Maodun Shanyu, saying: Now that the land of the Han Dynasty has been captured, it is still impossible to live there; let alone the monarchs of the two countries do not besiege each other.
After seven days, the Huns cavalry gradually dispersed.
At that time, heavy fog fell from the sky, and the Han Dynasty sent people to travel between Baishan Mountain and Heping City. The Xiongnu did not notice at all.
Chen Ping, the lieutenant of the guard, said to the emperor: The Huns all use long spears and bows. Please order the soldiers to shoot two sharp arrows outwards with each strong crossbow, and slowly withdraw from the encirclement.
After retreating into Pingcheng, reinforcements from the Han Dynasty also arrived, and the Huns' cavalry finally relieved the siege and left.
The Han Dynasty also withdrew its troops and returned.
Han Xin led troops for the Huns to attack the Han army along the border.
In the tenth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin ordered Wang Huang and others to persuade Chen Xi, causing him to misbelieve and rebel.
In the spring of the eleventh year, Han Xin, the former king of Han, invaded Shenhe together with the Huns cavalry to fight against the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent General Chai to lead troops to attack. General Chai first wrote to Han Xin: Your Majesty the Emperor is generous and kind. Although some princes rebelled and fled, when they returned to submission again, they always restored their original titles and titles and did not execute them.
These are all things you know, Your Majesty.
Now you fled to the Huns because of their defeat. There is no serious crime. You should come and submit as soon as possible!
King Han Xin of Han wrote back: The emperor promoted me from a commoner in the lanes and made me king in the south. This is a great honor for me.
In the battle to defend Xingyang, I could not die to be loyal to him, so I was imprisoned by Xiang Yu. This is my first crime.
When the Xiongnu invaded Mayi, I could not hold on to the city and surrendered. This is my second crime.
Now instead, he leads troops for the enemy, fights with the general, and fights for life in the blink of an eye.
This is my third crime. Wen Zhong and Fan Li did not have a single crime, but after they succeeded, one was killed and the other fled; now I have committed three crimes against the emperor, and I still want to survive in the world. This is the reason why Wu Zixu was killed in Wu State.
Now I am running for my life and hiding in the valley, living by begging from the barbarians every day. My desire to return is just like a paralyzed person who never forgets to walk upright, or a blind person who never forgets to open his eyes to see, but the situation does not allow it.
So the two armies fought, and General Chai Tu Ping joined the city and killed King Han Xin of Han.
When Han Xin took refuge with the Xiongnu, he went with his prince. When they arrived at the city of Dandang, they gave birth to another son, named him Dandang.
Prince Han also gave birth to a son, named Ying.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Han Daidang and Han Ying led their men to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
In the Han Dynasty, Han Daidang was granted the title of Marquis of Gonggao, and Han Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangcheng.
When quelling the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms of Wu and Chu, Gong Gaohou's military merit exceeded that of other generals.
The title was passed from son to grandson, and his grandson had no sons, so the marquis was cancelled.
Han Ying's grandson was dismissed as a marquis for being guilty of disrespect.
Han Yan, the grandson of Han Dai who was born as a concubine, had a distinguished status and was very favored by the emperor. His fame and wealth were both prominent in the world.
His younger brother Han Yue was once again granted the title of Marquis, and was appointed as a general several times, and was finally granted the title of Case Daohou.
The son inherited the title of marquis and was executed for breaking the law more than a year later.
More than a year later, Han Shuo's grandson Han Zeng was named Long'ehou and inherited Han Shuo's title.
Lu Wan was from Fengyi, the same hometown as Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Lu Wan's father and Gaozu's father were very close, and when it came time to give birth to a son, Han Gaozu and Lu Wan were born on the same day. The villagers brought sheep wine to the two families to congratulate them. When Gaozu and Lu Wan grew up, they studied together and became very close.
The villagers saw that the fathers of the two families were very close friends. Their sons were born on the same day and became very close when they grew up. They once again came to congratulate them with sheep wine.
When Emperor Gaozu was a commoner, he was chased by officials and needed to hide. Lu Wan always accompanied him, running around. When Emperor Gaozu raised troops from Pei County, Lu Wan accompanied him as a guest. After arriving in Hanzhong, he served as a general and was always by his side.
When he followed Gaozu to attack Xiang Yu in the east, he had the status of Taiwei and could go in and out of Gaozu's bedroom. He was given generous rewards in terms of clothing, clothing and food. No other minister could match him. Even Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were only treated politely because of their merits. As for being favored by people, no one could match Lu Wan.
Lu Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an.
Chang'an is the original Xianyang.
In the winter of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu had been defeated, so he sent Lu Wan to lead another army to attack Linjiang King Gongwei together with Liu Jia, and defeated him.
In July, he returned triumphantly and followed the emperor to attack Yan King Zang Tu, who surrendered.
After Emperor Gaozu brought peace to the world, there were seven princes who were not named Liu but were granted the title of king.
Emperor Gaozu originally wanted to make Lu Wan king, but he was afraid that the officials would be resentful and dissatisfied.
After capturing Zang Tu, he issued an edict to confer the title of marquis on the generals and ministers, and selected meritorious officials among the ministers to confer the title of King of Yan.
All the civil and military officials knew that the emperor wanted to make Lu Wan king, so they all said in unison: Lu Wan, the Taiwei Marquis of Chang'an, often followed the emperor to bring peace to the world, and he made the most contributions, so he can be named King of Yan.
The emperor issued an edict and approved it.
In August of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Lu Wan was appointed King of Yan. No one among the princes and kings was as favored as King Yan.
In the autumn of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled in Dai. Emperor Gaozu went to Handan to attack Chen Xi's army. King Lu Wan of Yan also led an army to attack Chen Xi's northeast.
At this time, Chen Xi sent Wang Huang to ask for help from the Xiongnu.
King Lu Wan of Yan also sent his subordinate Zhang Sheng to envoy the Xiongnu, claiming that the troops of Chen Xi and others had been defeated.
After Zhang Sheng arrived in the Xiongnu, Zang Yan, the son of Zang Tu, the former king of Yan, fled to the Xiongnu. When he saw Zhang Sheng, he said: "The reason why you are in important positions in Yan is because you are familiar with Xiongnu affairs."
The reason why the Yan State was able to exist for a long time was because the princes rebelled many times and wars continued year after year.
Now you want to eliminate Chen Xi and others as soon as possible for the Yan State, but after Chen Xi and others are eliminated, it will be the turn of the Yan State, and your group will also become prisoners.
Why don't you let Yan postpone the attack on Chen Xi and make peace with the Xiongnu?
The postponement of the war allowed Lu Wan to remain King of Yan for a long time. If there was an emergency in the Han Dynasty, it could also be used to stabilize the country.
Zhang Sheng believed that what he said was right, so he secretly asked the Xiongnu to help Chen Xi attack Yan.
King Lu Wan of Yan suspected that Zhang Sheng was colluding with the Xiongnu to rebel, so he wrote to the emperor requesting that Zhang Sheng's entire family be executed.
Zhang Sheng returned and told Lu Wan all the reasons for doing this.
When Lu Wan came to his senses, he found some substitutes and executed them, freed Zhang Sheng's family members and made Zhang Sheng a spy for the Huns. He also secretly sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi's place, hoping to make him defect away for a long time, so that the war would continue year after year.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, during the Eastern Campaign against Yingbu, Chen Kuai often led his troops to station in Dai. The Han Dynasty sent Fan Kuai to attack Chen Kuai and kill him.
One of his lieutenants surrendered and said that King Lu Wan of Yan sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi to exchange information and discuss plans.
Emperor Gaozu sent an envoy to summon Lu Wan to Beijing, but Lu Wan refused to go because he was ill.
The emperor also sent the Marquis of Piyang to review the food, and Zhao Yao, the imperial censor, went to greet King Yan, and also questioned King Yan's ministers.
Lu Wan was even more frightened and couldn't hide behind closed doors. He said to his favorite ministers: The only ones who were named kings without the surname Liu are me, Lu Wan, and Wu Rui, the king of Changsha.
Last spring, the Han Dynasty executed the entire family of Huaiyin Marquis Han Xin, and in the summer, they killed Peng Yue. This was Empress Lu's plan.
Now the emperor was seriously ill and handed over all state affairs to Queen Lu.
And Queen Lu was a woman who always wanted to find an excuse to kill princes, kings with different surnames and ministers with high achievements.
So Lu Wan still refused to go to Beijing, claiming to be ill.
Lu Wan's subordinates and ministers all fled and hid.
But some of Lu Wan's words leaked out. Marquis Piyang heard about it and reported all this to the emperor, who became even more angry.
Later, the Han Dynasty got some surrendered Huns and said that Zhang Sheng had fled to the Huns and was the envoy of King Yan.
So the emperor said: Lu Wan has really rebelled!
He sent Fan Kuai to attack Yan.
King Lu Wan of Yan settled all his family members and thousands of cavalry under the Great Wall, waiting for an opportunity, hoping that after the emperor recovered from his illness, he would come to Beijing to apologize in person.
In April, Emperor Gaozu passed away, and Lu Wan led his men to flee to the Huns, who named him King of Donghulu.
Lu Wan was invaded and plundered by the Huns, and always wanted to return to the Han Dynasty.
More than a year later, Lu Wan died in Xiongnu.
When he was the Queen of Gao, Lu Wan's wife and children escaped from the Xiongnu and returned to the Han Dynasty. Just as the Queen of Gao was seriously ill and could not see each other, they lived in King Yan's palace in Beijing and planned to hold a banquet to see each other after they recovered from the illness.
But Empress Gao passed away unexpectedly and could not meet.
Lu Wan's wife also died of illness.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Lu Tazhi, the grandson of Lu Wan, surrendered to the Han Dynasty as King of Donghu and was named Marquis of Yagu.
Chen Xi was from Wanqu, and he didn't know why he followed Gaozu in the first place.
In the winter of the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu, King Han Xin of Han rebelled and fled to the Xiongnu. The emperor returned to Pingcheng and made Chen Xi a marquis. As the prime minister of Zhao State, he led the border defense troops of Zhao State and Dai State. The troops guarding the border in this area were under his jurisdiction.
Chen Xi once asked for leave to return home. When passing through the State of Zhao, Zhou Chang, the Prime Minister of Zhao State, saw that Chen Xi's accompanying guests had more than a thousand cars and filled all the official residences in Handan.
Chen Xi treated his guests with the same etiquette among common people, and he was always humble and respectful, and he treated others with humility.
When Chen Xi returned to Dai, Zhou Chang asked to come to Beijing to see him.
After meeting the emperor, he told the whole story that Chen Xi had many guests and had been in sole control of the military for several years. He was afraid that something might happen.
The emperor ordered people to investigate Chen Xi's guests for their violations of laws and regulations regarding property and property, many of which implicated Chen Xi.
Chen Xi was very frightened and secretly sent guests to Wang Huang and Manqiu Chen to inform them.
In July of the tenth year of Emperor Gaozu, the Supreme Emperor passed away. The emperor sent someone to summon Chen Wei to Beijing, but Chen Wei said that his condition was serious.
In September, he rebelled with Wang Huang and others, proclaimed himself the king of Dai, and plundered Zhao and Dai two places.
After the emperor heard about it, he pardoned all Zhao and Dai officials who were implicated by Chen Xi and committed plunder. The emperor went there in person and said happily after arriving at Handan: "Chen Xi will not occupy Zhangshui in the south and guard Handan in the north. From this we know that he will not do anything."
Zhao Xiangguo submitted a memorial requesting that the governors and lieutenants of Changshan be beheaded, saying: Changshan had a total of twenty-five cities, but Chen Xi rebelled and lost twenty of them.
The emperor asked: Have the county guards and county lieutenants rebelled?
Zhao Xiangguo replied: No rebellion.
The emperor said: This is because of insufficient troops.
They were pardoned and their duties as captains were restored.
The emperor asked Zhou Chang: Does Zhao still have generals who can lead troops to fight?
Zhou Chang replied: There are four people.
Then these four people were asked to meet the emperor. When the emperor saw it, he cursed: Can you boys lead troops to fight?
The four people lay on the ground in shame.
However, the emperor still granted each of them a thousand households and appointed them as generals.
The ministers admonished and advised: "Many people followed you into Shu County and Hanzhong, and then conquered Western Chu. They had meritorious service but were not generally rewarded. What merits do these people have now and why should they be rewarded?"
The emperor said: This is beyond what you can understand!
Chen Xi rebelled and occupied everything north of Handan. I sent an emergency proclamation to recruit troops from various places, but no one has arrived yet. The only troops available now are from Handan.
Why should I begrudge the four thousand households granted to four people and not use it to appease the young people of Zhao! All the ministers on the left and right said, "Okay."
So the emperor asked again: Who are Chen Xi's generals?
The left and right people replied: Wang Huang and Manqiu Chen were both merchants in the past. The emperor said: I understand.
So each offered a thousand gold rewards to buy the heads of Wang Huang, Manchuchen and others.
In the winter of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the Han army attacked and killed Chen Xi's generals Hou Chang and Wang Huang at Quni City. They also defeated Chen Xi's general Zhang Chun in Liaocheng, killing more than 10,000 people.
Taiwei Zhou Bo marched and pacified Taiyuan and Daijun.
In December, the emperor personally led an army to attack Dongyuan, but failed to capture it. The rebel soldiers insulted the emperor. Soon Dongyuan surrendered. All soldiers who insulted the emperor were beheaded, and other soldiers who did not insult were sentenced to tattoos and tattoos on their foreheads.
Change Dongyuan's name to Zhending.
All Wang Huang and Manqiuchen's men who were offered rewards were captured alive, so Chen Xi's army was completely defeated.
The emperor returned to Luoyang.
The emperor said: Daijun is located to the north of Changshan Mountain, but Zhao Guo controls it from the south of the mountain. It is too far away.
So he named his son Liu Yuan the king of Dai, made Zhongdu the capital, and Daijun and Yanmen were all subordinate to Daiguo.
In the winter of the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Fan Kuai's soldiers chased Chen Kuai to Lingqiu and beheaded him.
Tai Shigong said: Han Xin and Lu Wan were not a family that had always accumulated good deeds. Instead, they were lucky enough to improvise and succeeded through deception and violence. Just as the Han Dynasty was just established, they were able to divide the territory and make the south the king.
Internally, it was suspected because of its strong power, and externally, it relied on foreigners for assistance. Therefore, he was increasingly alienated by the emperor, found himself in danger, had no choice but to surrender to the Huns. Isn't it sad?
Chen Xi was a native of Liang. When he was young, he always praised and admired Wei Gongzi Xinlingjun. Later, he led the army to guard the border, gathered guests, and treated virtuous corporals, and his reputation exceeded his actual status.
Zhou Chang doubted him, and many mistakes occurred from here. Fearing that disaster would come, the treacherous villain took the opportunity to speak again, and finally fell into a treasonous situation.
Oh, how sad!
It can be seen from this that the maturity and success or failure of the plan have a profound impact on a person!
