Changsha's successor Xiao Ye, whose courtesy name was Jingkuang, was the son of Gaozu's eldest brother Xiao Yi.
Xiao Yi was named Yuanda and had a good reputation when he was young.
He became an official and joined the army under the command of Prince Shaoling of Annan. He inherited the title of Duoxiang County Fort.
He was also moved to Prince Sheren, Xima, and King You of Jian'an.
After taking office as the Medical Administrator of Jin, within a month, the lawsuits were sorted out, everyone was calm, and he was called good governance.
Later, he was called to serve as the Minister of Zhongshu.
During the next year of Cheng's reign, Xiao Yi was awarded the title of Chijie, the governor of Liangzhou, Southern Qinzhou, Northern Qinzhou, and the military affairs of the four prefectures, the captain of Xirong, the governor of Zhuzhou and Nanqinzhou, and the champion general.
This year, the Wei army invaded Hanzhong and then surrounded Nanzheng.
Xiao Yi responded accordingly, blocked the Wei army, and killed many enemies. The Wei army then dispersed the encirclement and quietly withdrew.
Xiao Yi then sent the Di commander Yang Yuanxiu to attack Wei Chao's six garrison posts, including Licheng, Gaolan, Luogu, and Kengchi, and captured these garrison posts. The Wei people were shocked and frightened, and the border was peaceful.
Xiao Yi was promoted to the title of General of the Conqueror, granted 300 additional households in the city, and moved to the military governorship of Yizhou and Ningzhou, and the governor of Yizhou.
He was also summoned to serve as the crown prince's right guard leader, minister of official affairs, and Weiweiqing.
In the second year of Yongyuan, Uncle Pei occupied Yuzhou and rebelled. Xiao Yi was awarded the title of Chijie, general of conquering captives, supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, governor of Yuzhou, and concurrently serving as the governor of Libao and Luzhan counties.
Soon, Pingxi General Cui Huijing invaded the capital and followed Jiangxia King Xiao Yinxuan to surround Taicheng. The Qi Dynasty was in chaos, and the emperor ordered to summon Xiao Yi.
Xiao Yi was eating at the time. When he received the order, he immediately threw away his chopsticks, stood up, and led 3,000 elite soldiers to rescue the capital.
Cui Huijing sent his son Cui Jue to resist Lu Mo. Lu Kui led his army to attack and defeated Ju Jue, and Cui Jue escaped on horseback alone.
Xiao Han's army took advantage of the victory and pursued Cui Huijing's army. Xiao Yi caught up with Cui Huijing and killed him.
Xiao Yi was awarded the title of Shizhong and Shangshu Right Servant. Before he could become an official, he was moved to Shangshu Ling and Commander-in-Chief to conquer all land and water armies. He still held the post of Chief Officer and General, and added 2,500 households in the city.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun was in court, and he was brutal and indulgent. Ru Fazhen, Wang Xinzhi and others were in charge of the government. The old ministers and generals of the previous dynasty were killed one by one by the Yi tribe. After Xiao Yi established his merits, he alone occupied a high position in the court. Deeply feared by Ru Fazhen and others, they advised Donghunhou: Xiao Yi will repeat the story of the Longchang period, and your Majesty's life is in danger.
Marquis Shuhun believed their words and wanted to kill Xiao Yi. When people close to Xiao Yi learned about this plan, they secretly prepared a boat and placed it on the riverside, and persuaded Xiao Yi to escape westward by boat.
Xiao Zhu said: Since ancient times, there has been a matter of death festival. Is there anyone who has ordered the minister to defect?
So Xiao Yi was killed.
In the first year of Qi Zhongxing's reign, he was posthumously given the titles of Shizhong, Zhongshujian and Situ.
When the Empress Dowager Xuande came to power, she gave Xiao Yi the title of Taifu.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xiao Yi was promoted as prime minister, and he was granted the title of Prince of Changsha, with the title of Xuanwu.
Presented to the Jiuqi Banner, the Emperor Luan's car, the funeral car of Yunjing, the huangzhen car cover and the flag hanging on the left side of the car scale, Yubao drums at the front and rear, two elegy parts, and a hundred swordsmen with tiger swords. The funeral was carried out completely in accordance with the style of King Anping of Jin Dynasty.
Xiao Ye was smart and alert at a young age, and his knowledge and tolerance exceeded ordinary people.
He entered the Qi Dynasty as an official and served as a scholar and prince.
After the Xuanwu Incident, he fled and hid with his two younger brothers, Xiao Zao and Xiao Xiang.
After Gaozu arrived, he joined Gaozu's army, and Gaozu appointed Lu Tomb as General Ningshuo.
In the second year of Zhongxing Dynasty, Xiao Ye was appointed as the general of Fuguo and the prefect of Nanlangxie and Qinghe counties.
In the second year of Tianjian, he attacked the king of Changsha and was called to serve as the champion general.
Four years later, he was appointed as a minister.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi and the commander of the prince's right guard. He was moved to the position of general of Zuo Xiaoqi. Soon he was appointed as the central guard and also served as the stone garrison.
In the seventh year, he served as envoy Chijie, governor of Nanyancong, Chazhou, Tuye, Zhiye and Jiye, general Renwei, and governor of Nanyanzhou.
In eight years, he was called into the army.
In the ninth year, he was appointed Zhongshu Ling, and was later appointed as General Anhou, guarding the two counties of Langye and Pengcheng, and concurrently serving as the prefect of Nanlangye County.
In ten years, he was called up to serve as General Anyou and regular attendant of Sanqi.
In the fourteenth year, he was appointed as the guard of the army, and concurrently as the chief of Nanlangye and Pengcheng, and controlled Langye.
Later, he was called to serve as Zhongshu Ling and served as general of light vehicles and governor of Xiangzhou.
Xiao Ye has an honest and honest nature, leaving kindness wherever he goes.
He firmly believed in karma and retribution, and served the Dharma devoutly. Shenzhen often praised him.
In the third year of Xuantong, he was called up to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of the army.
Four years later, he was appointed as Shizhong and Doctor Jin Ziguanglu.
Seven years later, Lu Tomb died at the age of forty-eight.
Mi number five.
His collected works are popular all over the world.
His son, Jiaochengbao, succeeded him.
Xiaoyan, whose courtesy name is Xizhuang, is intelligent and talented.
In the shooting test to select officials, he passed Section A and was appointed Secretary Lang and Prince Sheren.
He followed the emperor to Hualin Garden and presented eulogies such as "Xiangfengwu", "Huaguang Hall" and "Jingyang Mountain" at the seat. The article was very beautiful. Emperor Gaozu deeply appreciated it and thought it was a wonderful article.
In the first year of Xuantong, Dong Baobao passed away at the age of twenty-three.
Mi Hao Zhang.
His son Xiao Shen succeeded him.
Dong Jiang, courtesy name Jingyi, was the younger brother of King Yuan.
He established a good reputation and image when he was young, and his ambition and conduct were elegant and noble.
In the early years of Qi Yongyuan, he became an official and served as Zuo Lang.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xiao Zao was granted the title of Marquis of Xichang County and was granted the title of 500 households.
He served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs of Yizhou and Ningzhou, Champion General, and Governor of Yizhou.
At that time, the country had just been established and the borders were not yet stable. Jiao Senghu, a native of Yizhou, gathered tens of thousands of people and occupied Li and Fan counties and then rebelled.
Lu Lian was not yet ten years old at this time, so he summoned his staff to discuss it, and wanted to personally attack Jiao Senghu.
Someone thought that this was not allowed. Lu Lian was furious and killed the person beside the steps.
So Xiao Zao took a flat-shouldered cart and patrolled outside the camp occupied by the rebels.
The thieves fired their bows and arrows at random, and the arrows rained down on Xiao Zao. The soldiers who followed raised their shields to block the incoming arrows, and Xiao Zao ordered them to be removed. Therefore, people's hearts were at peace.
The rebels slipped away quietly at night. Xiao Zao ordered the cavalry to pursue the rebels and killed thousands of them, thus leveling the rebel army.
Xiao Jiangjin was titled General Xinwei. In the ninth year, he was called to serve as the crown prince's concubine.
In ten years, he served as General Zuo Xiaoqi and concurrently as the governor of Nanlangxie County.
He was also called to serve as a servant.
Dong Jiang has a humble character and does not seek to be famous.
He is good at composition and poetry, and is especially fond of ancient poetry. However, unless he is composing poetry at a public banquet, he never writes anything rashly, even if he writes a small article. Once completed, throw away the manuscript.
In the eleventh year, Xiao Zao served as envoy Chijie, governor of Yong, Liang, Qin three prefectures and Jingling prefecture, Sui two prefectures of military affairs, general Renwei, Ningman captain, and governor of Yong prefecture.
In the twelfth year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the five states of Nanyanzhou, Yanzhou, Xuzhou, Qingzhou, and Jizhou, and governor of Yanzhou. The military title remained as before.
He visited several towns frequently, and the people and officials praised him very much.
He recommended kindness to his servants, but often it seemed that he did not do enough.
He was also called to serve as Prince Zhan.
In ordinary three years, he was moved to the position of leading general and added to the rank of Shizhong.
In the sixth year, he served as military advisor general, and together with Xifenghou Zhengxi, he went on the northern expedition to Guoyang. He soon returned to Beijing and was reported by relevant officials to remove him from his official position and reduce his title.
Seven years. Lu Peng was appointed as Zong Zhengqing.
In the eighth year, he regained his title. Soon after, he was awarded the title of General Zuowei and concurrently served as an infantry captain.
In the first year of Datong, he moved to serve as the official in charge of the Central Military Commission and the Central Protector of the Army.
At that time, Guoyang had just surrendered, and Lu Peng was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of the northern expedition, and general of the northern expedition to guard it.
In the third year of his reign, Gai Jie was appointed General Zhongquan and Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, appointed assistant historian, and served as minister.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, Xiao Zao moved to the post of general of the army guard and still held the position of Zhongquan.
In three years, he was appointed as the general of the Chinese army, the prince Zhan Shi, and the Danyang Yin.
Emperor Gaozu often praised and said: If all my disciples could be like Kassapa, what would I have to worry about?
It is the nickname of Lu Peng.
Lu Jie was again summoned to serve as General Anzuo and Shangshu Zuopushe, and as a servant. Xiao Zao resolutely resigned and refused to accept the appointment. The emperor ordered him not to refuse.
In the fifth year of Datong, he moved to the post of General of Zhongwei, Kaifu Yitong Third Division, Zhongshu Ling, and still held the position of Shizhong.
Dong Jiang had a quiet temperament. He lived alone in a room. The bed he often sat on was scratched by his knees. No one in the clan, including officials and officials, did not regard him as a role model.
He often thought that the title and salary he received were too high, so he wanted to retire. Therefore, he was idle and lonely in the inner courtyard, and rarely interacted with guests. Therefore, Cese especially respected and loved Lu Lian.
After suffering a family disaster, Xiao Zao wore cloth clothes and mats all year round. He did not eat fresh fish or live poultry. He did not listen to music unless he was in public places. Gao Dan often praised him for this.
Lu Lian was appointed as envoy Chijie and governor of Xuzhou in the south.
After the Chu Rebellion broke out, Lu Yu sent his eldest son Lu Sheng to lead soldiers into the capital for reinforcements. After the city gate was liberated, Xiao Zao was appointed as a regular attendant and general of the scattered cavalry.
Hou Jing sent his Yi Tong Xiao Yong to replace him. When he was occupying Saidan, Lu Lian contracted an epidemic, but he did not treat it himself.
Someone advised him to defect to Jiangbei. Xiao Zao said: I am an important minister of the country and my position is very important. Since I cannot kill and cut off the traitors, I should participate in the imperial court and share life and death. How can I sell myself to a foreigner and save my own life?
So he didn't eat for several days.
In the third year of Taiqing, Xiao Zao passed away at the age of sixty-seven.
Xiao Boyou, the successor of Yongyang, also named Shiren, was the son of Xiao Fu, the second brother of Emperor Gaozu.
The character of Luqian was Chuda. He became an official and became a military officer. He served as a conscript in the rear army and joined the army. He was transferred to the prince's house, washed his horse, and moved to Danyang Yincheng.
Later, he was called to serve as Prince Zhongsheren, and was awarded the title of General Jianwei and Sui County Internal History.
Xiao Fu was able to recruit and care for people near and far, and the people lived and worked in peace and contentment. He thought that the political achievements of previous officials could not compare with him.
Xiao Fujin was given the title of General Ningshuo and was recruited to join the army as a consultant to the King of Luling.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Kochi died.
After Zhidan ascended the throne, he posthumously gave Gaifu to Shizhong and Sikong, and was granted the title of Prince of Yongyang County, with the title of Mi Zhao.
Xiao Boyou has a graceful demeanor and handsome expression, and is good at explaining mysteries.
In April of the first year of the year, the emperor went down to Shao and said: My brother's son is on a tour. Although he is not old and has not much experience, I think it is okay to come.
The remote mountainous areas in the fortress also need someone to manage them. Boyou can supervise the military affairs of the five counties of Heshan, Saimo, Saitong, Chengtai, and Zuoduo, as well as the generals who assist the country and the prefect of Heshan.
In the second year, Kou Zhi went on a raid and granted the title of Prince of Chengyang County.
Five years later, Lu Zhiyou died at the age of twenty-three.
Mi Hao Gong.
Hengyang heir Wang Yuanjian, courtesy name Xiyuan, was the son of Xiao Chang, the fourth brother of Emperor Gaozu.
Xiao Chang served as an official in Zhiman until Taichang, and was granted the title of Marquis of Jiangling County. He later died.
In the first year of his imprisonment, he was forced to be given the title of Shizhong, Hussar General, and Kaifu Yitong.
He was granted the title of Prince of Hengyang County.
Mi Hao announced.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, he was awarded the title of Zhongshu Lang and was appointed as the prefect of Huishan Li.
In the thirteenth year, he was called to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, and served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs of Guangzhou, Jiaozhou and Yuezhou, Pingyue Zhonglang General, and Guangzhou Governor.
He was moved to the position of concubine among the crown princes. He was then moved to the post of envoy Chijie, governor of Yingzhou, Sizhou, and Huozhou military affairs, general Xinwu, and governor of Yingzhou.
In the first month of the eighteenth year, Xiao Yuanjian died in office.
Mi Hao Xiao.
His son Xiao Jun succeeded him.
Xiao Xiang, the successor king of Guiyang, named Shiyi, was the ninth son of King Xuanwu of Changsha.
At first, his uncle Lu Rong served as an official in Human and became the prince's horse washer.
In the fifth year of Cheng's reign, Lu Rong was killed in the Xuanwu Incident.
After Chandan pacified the capital, he was forced to give Lu Rong to serve as the minister of Huangmen.
In the first year of Yujian's reign, he was given the title of Changshi of Sanqi and the general of Fujun, and was granted the title of Prince of Guiyang.
Mi Hao Jian.
Xiao Rong had no sons, so the emperor went to Shao to let Xiao Xiang succeed him and grant him a title.
Xiao Xiang is elegant in appearance and manners, and is good at making friends. He is very filial in serving his biological mother, so he is famous far and wide.
He left home to become an official, serving as General Ningyuan and Danyang Yin.
Shortly after taking office, Xiao Xiang resigned due to the death of Princess Jian.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the titles of General Mingwei and Danyang Yin.
Xiao Xiang grew up in a deep palace. From the beginning, he personally carried out political affairs, and his actions were not immoral. Everyone in the court praised him.
Later he served as Chijie, governor of Sizhou, Huozhou and Yingzhou, military general of Zhengzhou, and governor of Yingzhou.
Soon he moved to Xiangzhou and Hengzhou to serve as military officers, generals of light vehicles, and governor of Xiangzhou.
There used to be a lot of tigers in Qianzhou, which often hurt people and animals. When Xiao Xiang was appointed governor, the tiger harm stopped. The old people said that this was Xiao Xiang's virtues that moved the tigers.
Xiao Xiang was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu. Soon, he used his original official position to carry out the military affairs of Shitou garrison, and was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen and the leader of the army. He also served as Zong Zhengqing in his own capacity.
Soon he was moved to the post of Shizhong and Prince Zhanshi. Before he could become an official, he was appointed as Chijie, Supervisor of all military affairs in Liao Dynasty, General Xinwu, and Governor.
Dismissed due to illness.
Soon after, he was appointed as Taichang Qing, and was promoted to secretary-supervisor and infantry school captain.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Xiang died and Mi was named Dun.
His son Xiao Cao succeeded him.
Shi Chen said: All the successor kings of the Changsha King inherited the land and houses and owned vast fiefs.
King Xiao Xiang of Guiyang was famous for his filial piety. When he was herding in Adam Prefecture in Laos, the tigers stopped their brutal behavior. This was probably due to his kindness and kindness.
Nothing can surpass him in terms of good governance in the past.
