Jun Buyi's courtesy name is Manqian, a native of Bohai County.
Proficient in "Spring and Autumn", he served as county literary official. His words and deeds must follow etiquette standards, and he was famous in the state and county.
In the last years of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, thieves and thieves appeared in droves across the country. Baoshengzhi was appointed as the Zhizhi envoy. He wore bright embroidered clothes and held a sharp axe. He went to various places to suppress thieves and supervise the administration of county and state officials. His law enforcement scope reached as far as the coast of Shubu.
Those who disobey his orders will be punished with severe military laws, and his reputation shocked all states and counties.
Baosheng had long heard that Jun Buyi was very virtuous, so after he inspected Bohai County, he sent his entourage to invite Jun Buyi to come and meet him. Jun Buyi wore a Jinxian crown on his head, a sword decorated with beautiful jade and wood carving patterns on his waist, a jade pendant such as a ring and block on his body, a wide robe and wide robes, and went to pay homage to Baosheng's residence in full attire.
When they arrived at the gate of Baofu, the guard wanted Juan Buyi to take off his sword. Jun Buyi said, "The sword is a gentleman's weapon and equipment. It is used to protect one's body. It cannot be taken off casually."
If you insist that I take off my sword before letting me enter the riot, then please allow me to take my leave now.
The guard informed Baoshengzhi of the situation.
Baoshengzhi opened the door and invited Jun Buyi into the house. Seeing Jun Buyi's serious face, confident demeanor and neat and solemn clothes, Baoshengzhi hurriedly left his seat and stood up to greet him with his shoes on.
When the guests and hosts arrived and sat down in the hall, Jun Buyi straightened his waist and knelt down on the ground and said: I live in a remote coastal area and have heard of your reputation, Mr. Bao, for a long time, but I have never had the honor to meet and talk with you until today.
Generally speaking, as an official, if you are too firm, you will easily suffer setbacks, and if you are too weak, you will easily neglect government affairs. Therefore, the best way is to exercise dignity while giving favors, so that you can make achievements and keep your position forever.
Baoshengzhi knew that Jun Buyi was not an ordinary person, so he respectfully accepted his warning, received him with high etiquette, and asked him what measures and means should be adopted to govern under the current situation.
The staff of the tyrant government were all outstanding talents selected from the officials of various states and counties. They listened to Jun Buyi's conversation and were all shocked and impressed.
It wasn't until late at night that Jun Buyi left the house.
So after the sudden victory, he recommended Buyi to the imperial court. The emperor summoned Buyi to the public transportation department and worshiped him as the governor of Qingzhou.
After a long time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty passed away and Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty came to the throne. At this time, Liu Ze, the grandson of King Xiao of Qi, colluded with the heroes of the county and country to conspire to rebel. They planned to assassinate the governor of Qingzhou first.
Jun Buyi discovered the conspiracy of Liu Ze and others in time and arrested them all. Liu Ze and others all confessed to the crime.
Bu Juan was promoted to Jing Zhaoyin and was given millions of dollars.
The officials and people in the capital respected his authority.
Every time he returned to the capital after visiting local prefectures and counties to examine the crimes of prisoners, his mother would always ask him: Have any prisoners been rehabilitated? How many people have you saved from unjust death?
If he learns that many of the prisoners have been rehabilitated, his mother will be happy and even eat and drink differently than usual; if he learns that Bujie has not been able to rehabilitate the prisoners, his mother will be very angry and will not eat.
Therefore, Juan is an official without any doubt, he is dignified but not cruel.
In the fifth year of the reign of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, a man rode a yellow calf carriage, carried a yellow flag with a pattern of turtles and snakes, wore a long yellow coat and a yellow hat, and came to the north gate of the palace, claiming to be Prince Wei.
The public transport order reported this matter to the emperor, and the emperor issued an edict to ask the public minister, general Zhong Erqianshi and other officials to identify the authenticity.
Tens of thousands of officials and people from Chang'an watched the event.
The general on the right led his army to the palace city to prepare for unexpected situations.
The Prime Minister and Censor Zhong Erqianshi and other officials who came to identify him did not dare to express their opinions.
Jingzhao Yin Junbusui arrived later. After he arrived, he immediately ordered his subordinates to arrest the man.
Someone advised him: It's not clear yet whether this person is Prince Wei, so let's wait a little longer.
Jun Buyi said: Why should you be afraid of Prince Wei?
Confucius affirmed Kuai Yu's approach in his book "Spring and Autumn". Now this Prince Wei also offended the late Emperor. He fled without being executed, and now he has come by himself. He is the sinner of our dynasty.
So the man was sent to the royal prison.
Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty and General Huo Guang were very impressed when they heard about this incident and said: "The ministers should know how to use classics to uphold justice."
After causing trouble, he became famous in the court, and the officials in the court felt ashamed.
General Huo Guang wanted to marry his daughter to him, but he refused firmly and refused to accept it.
After a long time, he was dismissed due to illness and finally died at home.
People in Kyoto and Chang'an miss him.
Later, when Zhao Guanghan became the Zhaoyin of Jing, he once said to people: I am far inferior to Jun Buyi in prohibiting evil, handling affairs of the people, and even handling major court affairs.
Tingwei examined the person who pretended to be Prince Wei and found out that he was indeed a liar.
This man was originally from Xiayang, named Cheng Fangsui. He lived in Hu County and made a living by divination.
An attendant of the former Crown Prince of Wei once asked Fang Sui for divination. When he saw Fang Sui, he said: You look very much like Prince Wei.
After hearing this, Fang Sui had the intention of pretending to be Prince Wei in order to gain wealth and honor, so he pretended to be Prince Wei and went outside the gate. Tingwei summoned Zhang Zonglu and others who knew him in the village to come and testify. Fang Sui was beheaded in Shushi for the crime of deception.
It is said that the imposter's surname is Zhang Yannian.
Shuguang, courtesy name Zhongweng, was born in Lanling County, Shuhai County.
He was eager to learn since he was a child, and he was proficient in "Spring and Autumn". He taught at home, and some of the people who studied with him came from far away.
Later, Shuguang was recruited as Doctor Taizhong.
In the third year of the Dijie period of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, he appointed the crown prince, Bingji as Taifu, and Shu Guang as Shaofu. A few months later, Bingji was promoted to imperial censor, and Shuguang was promoted to Taifu.
Shuguang's elder brother's son Shushou, named Gongzi, was also elected as the prince's family magistrate because of his virtuous character.
Shushou values ​​etiquette, is humble and prudent, has quick thinking and is good at speaking.
Once, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty came to Prince Shu's palace, paid homage to him and answered Emperor Xuan's questions. He also arranged a banquet and toasted Emperor Xuan's birthday during the banquet. His words were etiquette, elegant and graceful, and Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty was very happy.
Soon, he worshiped Shushou as the prince's young master.
The prince's maternal grandfather, Tejin Ping Enhou Xu Bo, thought that the prince was young and asked Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty to let his younger brother Zhonglang General Xu Shun supervise the prince's family.
Emperor Xuan summoned Shu Guang about this matter, and Shu Guang replied: The prince is the crown prince of the country, and his teachers and friends must choose outstanding people in the world. He should not just be close to his relatives, the Xu family. Moreover, the prince already has a tutor and a young master as his assistant, and the palace setting is complete. Now Xu Shun is asked to supervise the prince's family. This kind of knowledge is really crude and is not conducive to showing the prince's kindness to the people of the world.
Emperor Yi agreed with Shu Guang's view and told the Prime Minister Wei Xiang about the matter. After hearing this, Xiang Wei took off his hat and apologized and said: Shu Guang's foresight and foresight cannot be matched by us ministers.
As a result, Shuguang won the respect of Emperor Xuan and received many awards and gifts.
Every time the prince went to court to see Emperor Xuan, he would always have the Taifu in front and the Young Fu behind him.
Shuguang and Shushou's uncles and nephews were both the prince's masters, and they were honored by everyone in the court.
Shu Guang served as the crown prince's tutor for five years. The crown prince reached the age of twelve and was already proficient in the Analects of Confucius and the Classic of Filial Piety.
Shuguang said to Shushou: I heard that people who are content will not suffer humiliation, people who know enough is enough will not be in danger, and they will retire after success, which is in line with the laws of heaven.
Now our uncle and nephew are officials, with a rank of two thousand shi, which can be said to be successful and famous. If we stop resigning now that it is not enough, I am afraid we will regret it in the future. Wouldn't it be nice for us, uncles and nephews, to resign together and return to our hometowns to support us in our old age?
Shushou kowtowed and said: "I will follow your old man's arrangements."
That day, both uncle and nephew wrote letters claiming to be ill.
Three months later, Emperor Xuan granted him an extension of leave, so Shuguang claimed that he was seriously ill. Shangshu asked to retire and return to his hometown. Since he was indeed old, the emperor agreed to their request and gave him twenty kilograms of gold, and the crown prince also gave fifty kilograms of gold.
The old relatives and friends of the ministers and officials of the DPRK, as well as people from the capital, held a farewell banquet for them outside the Dongdu Gate of Chang'an. There were hundreds of cars to see them off, and the uncle and nephew said goodbye one by one. The onlookers on the roadside praised them and said: "You are so good, these two doctors!"
Some people sighed and shed tears.
After Shuguang returned to his hometown, he asked his family to buy food and wine every day, and invited his clan members and old guests to have fun together.
He asked many times how much gold was left at home, and urged his family to exchange the gold for daily food and drinks.
More than a year later, Shuguang's descendants privately said to an old man among Shuguang's brothers who was close and trusted by Shuguang: We, the descendants, hope to buy some land and property during his lifetime.
Nowadays, there are banquets at home every day, and all the money the old man brought back is almost spent.
We would like to ask you to take our above ideas as your own and persuade him to purchase some land and real estate. The old man revealed this meaning to Shuguang during a casual chat. Shuguang said: Am I really an old fool and don't know how to think about my descendants?
I am considering some of the old properties and houses that they have in their own homes. Assuming that the descendants work hard and diligently to manage it, it will be enough to provide them with food and clothing, so that they can live like ordinary people.
If more industries are added now to give them a considerable income surplus, it will only lead to laziness among the descendants.
Being virtuous and rich will weaken his will; being ignorant and rich will increase his faults.
Moreover, rich and noble people often become the object of everyone's jealousy. I have nothing to teach my descendants, and I don't want to increase their faults and make them resentful.
Besides, this money was given to me by the Holy Spirit to support me in my old age, so I am happy to share the Holy Spirit’s gift with my fellow villagers and clans and spend the rest of my life in this way, isn’t it great!
After hearing Shuguang's words, the tribesmen were convinced by him.
In the end, Shuguang and Shushou, both uncles and nephews, died.
Yu Ding, whose courtesy name is Manqian, was born in Tan County, Donghai County.
His father, Yu Gong, once served as county prison history, county judge, and other official positions. He judged cases fairly. No one who violated the law and was sentenced by Yu Gong in accordance with the law had any resentment because of disobedience.
The people in the county built a shrine for him, called Yu Gongdan.
There was a filial woman in Donghai County who was young and widowed and had no children. She respectfully supported her mother-in-law. Her mother-in-law wanted her to remarry, but she never agreed.
Her mother-in-law said to her neighbor: My filial daughter-in-law serves me very hard and I pity her for being a young widow and having no heirs.
I am old, but I have been dragging down young people for such a long time. What a good thing!
Later, the old lady committed suicide in order not to be a burden to her daughter-in-law anymore. The old lady's daughter complained to the county magistrate: My daughter-in-law killed my mother.
The county officials arrested the dutiful woman, who argued that she did not kill her mother-in-law.
However, under the severe torture of the county officials to extract a confession, the filial woman finally surrendered.
The case was reported to the county magistrate's office, and Yu recognized that this woman had supported her mother-in-law for more than ten years and was well-known in the village for her filial piety. She must not have killed her mother-in-law.
The prefect did not agree with Yu Gong's analysis. Yu Gong tried his best to argue, but in the end he failed to convince the prefect, so he cried loudly in the county cao's house holding the verdict, and left the county cao's house on the pretext of being ill.
The eunuch finally sentenced the filial woman to death for murdering her mother-in-law.
After the filial wife died unjustly, there was a severe drought in the county for three years.
Later, when the new eunuch took office, he divined the cause of the drought. Yu Gong said: The filial woman did not deserve to die. The previous eunuch insisted on forcing a decision, and the disaster may have resulted from this. So the eunuch killed a cow, went to the filial woman's grave in person to pay homage, and erected a tombstone for her to commend her filial piety. Sure enough, heavy rain fell from the sky immediately, and the county had a bumper harvest that year.
As a result, the people in the county respected the public even more.
Yu Dingguo studied law with his father since he was a child. After his father's death, Dingguo also held official positions such as Prison History, County Judgment Cao, etc., and later supplemented the position of Court Weishi, and was selected to work with Yushi Zhongcheng to handle the prison cases of those who reversed the case. Because of his outstanding intelligence and ability in handling cases, he was promoted to Shi Yushi, and then to Yushi Zhongcheng.
When Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty passed away, King Changyi was summoned to succeed him. He behaved in an obscene manner and wrote a letter of remonstrance to Dingguo.
Later, King Changyi was deposed and Emperor Moxuan came to the throne. General Huo Guang took charge of the ministerial affairs. He wrote to the emperor in separate letters. All the ministers who had admonished King Changyi at that time were promoted in an unusual way.
As a result, Yu Dingguo was promoted to the official position of Guanglu. He was a minister of calligraphy and was very important.
A few years later, he was appointed Captain of Shuiheng and was promoted to Lieutenant of Ting.
Yu Dingguo then became a disciple and studied the "Spring and Autumn Annals". He held the scriptures in his hand and faced the north to perform the rituals of a disciple.
He was humble and respectful, and especially respected scholars who were proficient in classics. Even those who came to visit on foot were of low status, Dingguo treated them with equal etiquette, took good care of them, and treated them with utmost respect. Therefore, he was generally praised by scholars.
Yu Dingguo judges cases fairly and is as considerate as possible to widowers and lonely people. For crimes that are not particularly certain, he tries to be given a lighter sentence and pays special attention to maintaining a cautious attitude.
Everyone in the court praised him and said: "When Zhang Shizhi was appointed as a court officer, no one in the world was wronged; when he was appointed as a court officer in Dingguo, the people thought they were not unjust."
Yu Dingguo was a good drinker, and he could drink several stones without getting drunk. In the late winter, he was asked to handle cases and crimes, and he became more savvy after drinking.
After serving as a court lieutenant for eighteen years, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
During the Ganlu period, Dingguo replaced Huang Ba as prime minister and was named Xipinghou.
Three years later, Emperor Xuan died and Emperor Yuan ascended the throne. Because Dingguo was an old minister of the previous emperor in office, Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty respected him very much.
At that time, Chen Wannian was appointed as the imperial censor and worked with Dingguo for eight years. There was no conflict between the two when discussing political affairs.
Later, Gong Yu replaced Chen Wannian as the imperial censor, and he often disagreed with Dingguo's political opinions. Since Dingguo was more knowledgeable and familiar with political affairs, Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty often agreed with Dingguo's opinions on many issues.
However, not long after Emperor Yuan came to the throne, Guandong suffered from successive disasters. People were displaced and flooded into the Guan. Someone wrote to the emperor and put the responsibility on the ministers in charge.
Emperor Yuan then summoned the prime minister and censor many times on the day of hearing the court, went into the palace to receive the imperial edict, and reprimanded them one by one with their duties, saying: The cunning and disloyal local officials were afraid of being punished for failing to catch thieves, so they arbitrarily harmed good people with suspicion, and even caused innocent people to die unjustly. Some officials did not immediately pursue the thieves after discovering them, but instead detained the families who had lost their property. As a result, the people later did not dare to report to the government if they were robbed by thieves. Therefore, disasters and bad habits gradually grew and expanded.
The common people had many grievances, but the state and county officials did not deal with them. People who complained of grievances continued to come to the capital.
Because the names of the subordinate officials elected by the officials of Erqian Shi were not consistent with the reality, many of the officials in office were incompetent.
When farmland suffers disasters, officials refuse to reduce or reduce taxes on the farmland. Instead, they demand rent, which worsens the poverty of the people.
The refugees in Guandong are suffering from hunger and cold, and diseases are prevalent. I have ordered the officials to transfer grain, open warehouses, take out the stored goods, provide relief to the victims, and distribute winter clothes to the victims. These measures may not be enough until spring.
Now, Prime Minister and Censor, how do you plan to make up for these mistakes?
You must all carefully list the circumstances and state my faults.
Dingguo then wrote a letter to apologize.
In the first year of Yongguang, the spring was frosty, the summer was cold, and the sun was dark and without light. Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty sent another scolding to Shao: A Langguan from Shubu said that the common people in Nabo were unable to protect each other due to famine.
Why did you, the Prime Minister and the Censor, and the ministers in charge conceal these situations and did not report them?
Or did the official from Shubu exaggerate?
Why is there such a big difference between the two situations? I hope to know the real situation.
This year's harvest is still difficult to predict. If there is a flood or drought, the consequences will be very worrying.
My dear ministers, do you have any way to prevent trouble before it happens, or to save the trouble before it happens?
Please tell the truth and don't hide anything.
Dingguo was frightened when he saw this edict, so he wrote a letter to blame himself, returned the seal to Hou, and begged to return to his hometown in old age.
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty responded to his request and said: You assist me in governing the world and do not dare to slack off for a moment. You are in charge of all political affairs of the country.
No one is a saint, and no one can make mistakes.
Nowadays, our Han Dynasty has inherited the situation of poverty and decline since Zhou and Qin. Folk customs and education have declined, people lack etiquette, yin and yang are imbalanced, and disasters are not caused by a single reason. By analogy and looking at the words and deeds of saints recorded in ancient times, we dare not bear the blame alone, let alone ordinary people!
I think about it day and night, but I still can't fully figure out what caused these disasters.
The scriptures say: If there are faults in the world, then all faults should be attributed to me, the leader of the country.
Although you hold an important position, why should you bear sole responsibility?
Continue to work hard to supervise local officials such as county and state governors, and do not let those who are incompetent continue to be in office and oppress the people.
Please continue to preside over the country's affairs and strive to use your intelligence and wisdom. You should also eat hard and take good care of your body.
Dingguo then wrote another letter saying that his condition was getting worse and he insisted on resigning and returning home. Emperor Yuan gave him a four-horse chariot and sixty kilograms of gold, and he resigned and returned home.
A few years later, Dingguo died when he was more than seventy years old, and Mi was given the title Anhou.
After Yu Dingguo's death, his son Yu Yongyin assumed his title.
When he was young, Yu Yong made many mistakes due to his addiction to alcohol. When he was nearly thirty, he changed his integrity and moral character, and relied on his father's influence to serve as a lieutenant general and a captain in Changshui.
When Yu Dingguo passed away, he followed the etiquette and mourned at home, and was famous for his filial piety.
So he was awarded the rank of Sanqi Guangluxun as a lieutenant, and he was promoted to the imperial censor.
He also married Princess Liu Shi of Guantao.
Liu Shi was the eldest daughter of Emperor Moxuan and the aunt of Emperor Cheng of Han Dynasty. She was virtuous and virtuous. Yu Yong was also selected as the consort because of his virtuous nature.
When the emperor was about to worship Yu Yong as prime minister, Yu Yong died.
Yu Yong's son Yu Tianyin succeeded him.
Yu Tian is not as virtuous as his father and ancestors, and has no commendable behavior.
When Yu Dingguo's father Yu Gong was still alive, the gate in his hometown was broken. The elders from the same village wanted to repair the gate together. Yu Gong said to them: Make the gate slightly larger so that it can pass a high-covered cart drawn by four horses.
I have accumulated a lot of virtue in managing litigation and have never caused any injustice, so my descendants will surely prosper.
Later, in Dingguo, he was promoted to prime minister, and in Yongye, he was promoted to imperial censor, and was granted the title of marquis.
Xue Guangde, whose courtesy name is Changqing, was born in Xiang County, Pei County.
In the State of Chu, he taught the Book of Songs by Shen Peigong of Lu. Brothers Gong Sheng and Gong She both studied under him.
When Xiao Wangzhi was the imperial censor, he worshiped Guangde as his subordinate official. He talked and discussed with him many times, and he thought highly of him. He recommended to the emperor that Guangde was proficient in classics and behaved well, so he was suitable to serve in the imperial court.
As a result, Guangde was recruited as a doctor, participated in lectures at Shiqu Pavilion, and was later promoted to the post of admonishing doctor, and then replaced Gong Yu as Changxin Shaofu and censor doctor.
Xue Guangde is gentle, tolerant and reserved.
When he reached a high official position, he dared to speak out and give advice.
He had just been appointed as the imperial censor for about ten days, when the emperor was visiting Ganquan Palace and offering sacrifices in the countryside. After the ceremony, the emperor still stayed to hunt.
Guangde wrote a letter saying: I see that the poverty in Guandong is extremely poor and the people are displaced.
Your Majesty, you ring the chimes of the fallen Qin Dynasty every day and enjoy the music of Zheng and Wei. I really feel sad for you.
Now that the soldiers escorting you are exposed to the weather, and the ministers accompanying you are also exhausted, I hope that your majesty will return to the palace as soon as possible and consider sharing the worries and joys of the people, which will be a great blessing to the people of the world.
The emperor returned to the palace that day.
In the autumn of this year, the emperor offered wine to the ancestral temple. After coming out of the gate, he was about to transfer to a boat to cross the river.
The emperor said: Please put on your hat.
Guangde insisted: Your Majesty, if you don't listen to my advice, I will commit suicide in front of you and let my blood stain your wheels so that you can't enter the ancestral temple!
The emperor was very unhappy.
At this time, Zhang Mengjin, the Guanglu doctor who was walking in front to clear the way, said: I heard that the Lord is wise, and only then can I dare to give direct advice.
Crossing the river by boat is dangerous, but it is safer to cross the bridge. A wise king will not choose a dangerous path.
The advice of the imperial censor can be adopted.
The emperor said: Shouldn't the ministers advise like Zhang Meng?
So I accepted the suggestion and took a car across the bridge.
More than a month later, due to poor youth, a large number of people were displaced. Xue Guangde, Prime Minister Yu Dingguo, and General Shi Gao asked to resign and return home. They were all generously gifted by the emperor with a four-horse carriage, sixty kilograms of gold, and were relieved of their duties.
Xue Guangde served as the imperial censor for ten months and then was dismissed.
When he returned to his hometown of Pei County, the prefect of the county personally went to the border to greet him.
Peijun was proud of him and hung up the carriage given to him by the emperor to pass down to future generations.
Pingdang, named Zisi, his grandfather moved from Xiayi County to Pingling County because he had a millionaire.
When he was young, Pingdang served as the Li Cheng of Daxing. Because of his meritorious service, he was appointed as Dahonglu Literature. He was elected as the Chief of Shunyang and the Governor of Kuyi successively because of his integrity. He was recruited as a doctor because of his proficiency in Confucian classics. The ministers recommended Pingdang to be a minister because he was proficient in Confucian classics and his discussions were clear and transparent.
Whenever a disaster or disaster occurred in the country, Pingdang would discuss the gains and losses based on the classics.
Although the elegance of his words and diction is not as good as that of Xiao Wangzhi and Kuang Heng, the meaning is roughly the same.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty, Wei Xuancheng was appointed prime minister and petitioned to abolish the mausoleum and temple gardens of the Supreme Emperor. Ping Dang wrote a letter saying: I heard that Confucius once said: If a king rises to rule the world, benevolence will be achieved in thirty years.
Within thirty years, morals were harmonious, ritual and music systems were complete, disasters were avoided, and troubles could not be tolerated.
Today, my sacred Han Dynasty has been governed by the mandate of heaven and has inherited the foundation left by the previous generation for more than two hundred years. It is diligent and does not dare to slack off, and its policies are clear and clear.
However, customs have not yet been harmonized, yin and yang have not yet been reconciled, and disasters have occurred frequently. I wonder if there is something important and fundamental that has not yet been established?
Otherwise, why have there been no auspicious signs of moral education for a long time?
Misfortunes and blessings do not appear without reason, they must occur due to some reason.
We should deeply explore its reasons and laws, and cultivate the fundamentals accordingly.
In the past, when Emperor Yao was the king and governed the world, he first appointed virtuous people of his own clan and placed them in prominent positions, so as to bring harmony to the nine clans and then to the neighboring states of the world. "The Classic of Filial Piety" says: Life in heaven and earth is precious to human beings. There is nothing more important in human behavior than practicing filial piety. The most important thing in practicing filial piety is to respect the father. To respect the father, there is nothing better than to share the benefits of fathers and ancestors when offering sacrifices to heaven. The Duke of Zhou is a person who can do this.
A filial son is good at following the aspirations of his ancestors. The Duke of Zhou completed the work started by King Wen and King Wu and formulated the system of rituals and music, and established the system of respecting fathers and sharing benefits. He understood that King Wen did not want to be the son of a man and reign over his father, so he traced the ancestral arrangement upwards to the first ancestor Houji, and later Ji matched heaven.
Creation is the virtue of a saint and is the greatest and most important filial piety.
I, Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, was entrusted with heaven because of my holy virtues, possessing the world, and respect the Supreme Emperor, just as King Wen and King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty respected the Supreme King and Wang Ji.
The Supreme Emperor is the founder of the Han Dynasty, and future generations should respect him in order to promote Shan's kindness. This is the most important thing in filial piety.
"Shang Shu" says: If you can correctly examine the past history and use it to make meritorious deeds, you can enjoy eternal life, and the country can be passed down to descendants for generations and infinitely.
The emperor adopted his opinion and issued an edict to restore the emperor's mausoleum and temple garden.
Soon, the envoy went to Youzhou to inspect the situation of the refugees. He recommended those governors and officials with two thousand stones who could do their best to appease and attract the people. He also suggested that the ban on the state monopoly of the Bohai Sea salt ponds be temporarily lifted, allowing the refugees to boil salt to survive, so as to relieve the people's urgent needs.
Wherever he went, he was praised by the people. He was the most accomplished person among the eleven officials on diplomatic missions, and was promoted to Prime Minister Sizhi.
Later, he was demoted to the governor of Shuofang due to breaking the law. Soon he was recruited into the court and appointed as Taizhong doctor to Shizhong. His officials were Xin Shaofu, Dahonglu and Guangluxun.
Prior to this, Wei Wei Chunyu Changjin, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, said that Changling could no longer be built, and the emperor passed his opinions to the relevant departments for discussion.
Pingdang believed that Changling had been built for several years and it was better to continue the construction and complete it than to give up halfway.
Later, the emperor decided to stop the construction of Changling, and because it was Chun Yuchang who first proposed this suggestion, he issued an edict to ask the ministers to discuss the matter of knighting Chun Yuchang.
Pingdang also pointed out that although Chun Yuchang made good suggestions, he did not meet the conditions for knighthood.
Therefore, the emperor demoted Pingdang to Julu Prefect on the grounds that Pingdang had put forward incorrect opinions when discussing whether to stop the construction of Changling. Later, the emperor named Chunyu Chang.
Because Pingdang was proficient in the classic "Yu Gong", he was sent as an envoy to inspect the Yellow River, and was appointed as the cavalry captain and also in charge of the Yellow River embankment affairs.
After Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he recruited Pingdang to serve as Guanglu doctor and various officials as scattered cavalry. He was successively appointed as Guangluxun, Yushi doctor, and became prime minister.
Because it was the winter month, it was not the time to ennoble a marquis, so Emperor Ai first granted Ping the title of Marquis of Guannei.
In the spring of the next year, Emperor Ai sent an envoy to Zhao Pingdang to enter the court, preparing to make him a marquis.
Ping Dang is seriously ill and cannot answer the call.
Someone at home said to him: For the sake of your descendants, can't you force yourself to be sick and accept the title of marquis?
Pingdang replied: Now that I am in a high position, I have been criticized for not having merit and salary. Now I am forced to accept the title of Marquis, and then I lie down and die. I am guilty of death.
I am not accepting the title of Marquis now because I am thinking about my descendants!
So he wrote a letter requesting to retire and return to his hometown.
Emperor Ai gave instructions: I selected you from among the ministers and appointed you as prime minister. You have not been assisting me in governing the affairs of the country for a long time. Now the yin and yang in the world are not harmonious, there is no heavy snowfall in winter, and there are droughts and disasters. This is all caused by my lack of virtue. How can I blame you?
Why do you have doubts and write a letter asking to retire and return to your hometown, and return the title and fiefdom of Guannei Marquis?
I asked Shangshu Lingtan to send you a cow and ten stones of good wine.
You should actively seek medical advice and take care of yourself.
More than a month later, Pingdang passed away.
His son Pingyan rose to the rank of Da Situ because he was proficient in classics and principles, and was named the Marquis of Fangxiang.
Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, only Wei Xianhe and his son, both father and son, have held the position of prime minister.
Peng Xuan, courtesy name Zipei, was born in Yangxia, Huaiyang.
He studied the "Book of Changes" and studied under Zhang Yu. He was elected as a doctor and then appointed as the Taifu of Shuping Kingdom.
Zhang Yu was respected and trusted because he was the teacher of Emperor Mo Cheng. He recommended to the emperor that Peng Xuan was proficient in classics, steady and prestigious, and could serve as a court official. So Peng Xuan entered the court as You Fufeng, and soon moved to Tingwei. Later, because the early Han Dynasty stipulated that people from various vassal kingdoms were not allowed to serve as officials in the capital, he became the prefect of Taiyuan County.
A few years later, he entered the capital and served as Da Sinong, Guang Luxun, and General You.
After Emperor Ai of Han came to the throne, he was appointed General Zuo.
More than a year later, Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty planned to appoint his relatives, Ding and Fu, to be in charge of the royal guards, so he wrote to Peng Xuan: Relevant departments have reported many times that people from the princely kingdoms cannot serve as royal guards. General, because you are from the kingdom, you are not suitable to be in charge of the army and hold a high position.
I consider that General, you have the important task of being a general of the Han Dynasty, and your son has previously married the daughter of the King of Huaiyang. There is a marriage relationship between your family and the kingdom, but you are an official in Beijing. This is not in line with the national system.
I asked Dr. Guanglu Man to reward you with fifty kilograms of gold and a four-horse carriage. You can return General Zuo's seal and ribbon and return to your hometown as the Marquis of Guannei.
In the years after Peng Xuan was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown, Bao Xuan, the remonstrating doctor, wrote many times to recommend him.
It happened that there was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first month of the first year of Yuanshou, and Bao Xuan recommended him again. Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty summoned Peng Xuan to the court as Guanglu doctor, and was promoted to Yushi doctor, and later to Da Sikong, and was granted the title of Marquis of Changping.
When Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty passed away, Wang Mang, the lord of the new capital, became the Grand Sima and took over the power of the government.
Peng Xuan wrote a letter saying: The three princes are like the three legs of a tripod, supporting the monarch together. If one of the legs is incompetent, there is a danger of overturning the delicious food in the tripod.
I have little talent, am old, faint, frail and sick, and my memory is failing. I hope that I can be allowed to hand over the seals and ribbons of Da Sikong and Changping Marquis and return to my hometown to spend my remaining years.
Wang Mang reported the matter to the Queen Mother, who issued a policy letter to Peng Xuan, saying: You have not been in charge of political affairs for a long time and have not yet established outstanding merits. However, due to old age and confusion, you are unable to assist the country and stabilize the country.
I have asked Guang Luxun to issue an edict to you. Please present the seal and ribbon of Da Sikong and return to your feudal country.
Wang Mang resented Peng Xuan for resigning and returning home when he was specialized in government affairs, so he did not give Peng Xuan gold, carriages and horses as usual.
Peng Xuan died a few years after returning to the feudal state, and was given the title of Marquis of Qing.
His title was passed down to his sons and grandsons. After Wang Mang failed to usurp power, the title was abolished.
Praise: Jun Buyi participated in government affairs as a well-educated person, was not confused when encountering difficulties, had outstanding achievements, and started well and ended well.
It is also advisable to retreat from the rapids to avoid humiliation and danger.
Yu Dingguo's father and son sympathized with the widowers and understood the situation in prison, so they were competent ministers.
Xue Guangde retained the glory of Xuanchao, Ping Dang had the sense of shame to retreat, and Peng Xuan resigned resolutely when he saw the dangerous situation. They are different from those villains who can do any treacherous thing because they are afraid of losing their vested interests.
