◆Biography of Zhang Heng, named Pingzi, a native of Xi'e County, Nanyang.
It is a common surname in the world.
His grandfather, Zhang Kan, once served as the prefect of Shu County.
Zhang Heng was good at writing articles when he was young. He once studied in Sanfu. After entering the capital, he studied Taixue and became proficient in the Five Classics and Six Arts.
Although his talent is above the world, he has no pride.
He is usually calm and indifferent, and does not like to interact with the common people.
During the Yongyuan period of Emperor He, he was elected as Xiaolian, but if he didn't go, he could not be recruited several times by the government.
At that time, the country had been at peace for a long time, and everyone from the princes on down was not extravagant.
Zhang Heng then studied Ban Gu's "Two Capitals" and wrote "Ode to Two Capitals" as a satire and admonishment.
It took ten years of hard work to complete.
There are many articles, so I won’t write them here.
General Deng Zhi admired his talent and called him up many times, but he did not answer.
Zhang Heng was good at mechanics, especially astronomy, yin and yang, and calendar calculation.
I usually love Yang Xiong's "Tai Xuan Jing" and said to Cui Yuan: "I read "Tai Xuan" and then I realized that Ziyun's wonderful Taoist number can be compared with the "Five Classics". It is not just a biography that allows people to debate the affairs of yin and yang. The Han Dynasty has won the world's two hundred years of books."
In another two hundred years, will the "Tai Xuan Jing" decline?
Because the author's destiny will be revealed forever, this is a natural sign.
During the 400th year of the Han Dynasty, the study of "Xuan" was still on the rise.
Emperor An had long heard that Zhang Heng was good at martial arts, and he worshiped him as a doctor, and then he was promoted to Taishi Ling.
So he studied yin and yang, became proficient in astronomy and calendar, made an armillary sphere, and wrote "Lingxian" and "Suanwang Lun", which were very detailed and clear.
In the early years of the emperor's reign, he was transferred again and became the Taishi Order. Zhang Heng did not envy the fame and wealth of his time, and the official positions he held were often not promoted for many years.
He left his post as historian and returned to his original post five years ago. So he set up an objective question and wrote "Yingwen" to express his thoughts. In the first year of Yangjia, another wind and earth motion instrument was created.
It is made of fine copper, with a diameter of eight feet, a protruding top cover, shaped like a wine bottle, and decorated with images of turtles, birds and beasts in seal script.
There is a big pillar in the middle, with eight paths running beside it, which is used to shut down the engine.
There are eight dragons outside, each holding a copper pill in its mouth, and a toad underneath, opening its mouth to receive the pill.
The teeth are ingeniously made and are hidden in the bottle, covering them thoroughly and without gaps.
If the earth moves, the bottle will cause the dragon to shake, and the dragon will spit out pills, which will go into the toad's mouth and make an exciting sound, so the guardian will know that the ground is shaking.
Although one dragon is moving, but the heads of the other seven dragons are motionless, if you find the place where the dragon is moving, you will know the direction of the earthquake.
After testing, it was in accordance with the established system, and it was as good as God. This has never happened since there were records in books.
Once upon a time, a dragon's plan came out and the earth did not move, and the scholars in the capital blamed it for not believing it. A few days later, the messenger came, and sure enough, there was an earthquake in Longxi, so they all admired its miracle.
From then on, historians were ordered to record the place where the earthquake occurred.
At that time, political affairs were gradually declining and power was controlled by subordinates. Zhang Heng then went to the court to explain the matter.
Said: The emperor is smart and wise, and he upholds the destiny. Unfortunately, when he became the prince, he was deposed as the king of Jiyin and his virtue was not promoted.
Now riding on the clouds, if you don't enter the heavenly throne, it is really said that before you ascend to the great throne, you must first be poor.
Those who have gone through hardships personally understand the situation; those who have experienced dangers and hardships understand the authenticity of things.
Therefore, it can handle all situations without any doubts. The measures are appropriate and all walks of life are coordinated. They should be blessed by the gods and loved by the common people.
When Yin and Yang are not in harmony, disasters occur frequently. Although the gods are far-reaching, they watch secretly.
Benevolence brings blessing, immorality brings misfortune, just like the shadow follows the shape and the sound responds. Good deeds are brought about by virtue, and sins are obtained by losses. Although the way of heaven is far away, good and bad luck can be seen. In modern times, Zheng Zhong, Cai Lun, Jiang Jing, Fan Feng, Zhou Guang, and Wang Sheng are all obvious examples.
Therefore, if you are careful and careful, you will definitely get blessings. If you are arrogant, extravagant and flattering, you will rarely be killed. Not forgetting the past is the teacher of the future.
As for love overcoming one's nature and following the trend and forgetting to rebel, this is not only true for unscrupulous people, but also for talented people.
If you are not a great sage, you will not be able to see Siyi, so you will become a sin by accumulating evil, and your sin will be inevitable.
If you can look forward and backward and learn from the past, how can you suffer disaster?
A favored minister is in the public eye, and everyone above and below knows his sins.
Reward the good and punish the evil, everyone agrees with this. Therefore, if resentment is full, the gods will bring down evil.
In recent years, the rain has often been insufficient, and what we have missed is that "Hong Fan" said that if the king's behavior is wrong, then the sun will follow, and there will be drought in the sun.
We must be wary of officials who are extravagant, do not abide by the rules, push themselves from below, and accelerate the arrival of signs of guilt.
The year before last, there was an earthquake in the capital and the soil cracked. Cracking means power, and earthquake means someone is causing trouble.
If the king sings quietly, the ministers will move to harmonize with it. Power comes from above, not from below. This is the system of the country.
I am worried that the emperor is afraid of trouble, does not control the government orders by himself, cannot bear to give up his love, and shares the authority with others.
Power cannot be divided, virtue cannot be shared.
"Hong Fan" says: If a minister has the authority to bring blessings and food, it will harm his family and his country.
God can see it clearly, even though it is far away.
Disasters have occurred several times, but no reform has been seen. People regret the past. People are not saints and cannot be without faults.
I hope that the emperor will follow the past in archeology and not use the eight handles of punishment and virtue, which are not up to the emperor.
If kindness is given from top to bottom, things are done according to the etiquette system, the etiquette system is complete, extravagance and deviant things are stopped, and everything is handled appropriately, there will be no guilt or evil.
Then all the wishes of the gods are fulfilled, and the disasters are eliminated.
At first, Guangwu was very prophetic. Xianzong and Suzong inherited the ancestral theory.
Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, Confucian scholars have been striving to learn more and add more evil words to it.
Zhang Heng believed that the plan was illusory and not the way of a sage. So Shangshu.
Said: I heard that the sage clearly analyzed the astronomical calendar to determine good and bad luck, used it for divination, used the nine palaces, measured the celestial phenomena, and tested the truth, all in this.
Some looked at the direction of the stars and the causes of cold and heat; some looked at Gu Ce's divination. Wu Jinzhi said that they relied on more than one technique.
What was said before is confirmed later, so smart people value this. It's called a prophecy.
The prophecies became popular, but not many people knew about them.
Since the Han Dynasty replaced the Qin Dynasty, it can be said that it is a great event to use military force to fight and achieve great success. At this time, no one was predicting.
For example, Xia Housheng, Mu Meng, etc. were famous for their Taoism, but there are no prophecies in their writings.
Liu Xiang and his son were the school secretaries, and they approved the ninth stream, but there was no record of the prophecy.
It was only after Cheng and Ai that people began to hear about prophecies.
"Shangshu" records that Yao sent Gun to control the flood, but after nine years of failure, Gun was executed and Yu succeeded him.
And "Spring and Autumn Prophecy" says: Gonggong regulates water.
All prophecies say that the Yellow Emperor attacked Chiyou, but "Poetic Prophecies" only states that Chiyou was defeated, and then Yao was ordered to do so.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" contains Gongshu Ban and Mo Zhai. The events happened in the Warring States Period, not the Spring and Autumn Period.
He also said, "Don't worry about Yizhou."
When Yizhou was established during Emperor Wu's reign, its name was Sanfu Zhuling, which can be known from generation to generation.
As for the prophecy, it ended with Emperor Cheng.
In a book, several things are different from each other, but the words of a sage will not be like this. They are probably hypocrites who are seeking to gain wealth through this.
In the past, the servant Jia Kui pointed out that the prophecies contradicted each other for more than thirty things, and a group of prophecies could not explain them.
As for Wang Mang's usurpation of the throne, this was a great disaster for the Han Dynasty. Why not stop it in Chapter 80?
This shows that the prophecy was made in the time of Aiping!
Moreover, the titles of "Rivers" and "Six Arts" have been determined, and future generations are forced to follow them, and no unnecessary additions are allowed.
In the Yongyuan Dynasty, Song Jing, a native of Qinghe, used historical records to deduce floods, and pretended to use holes to see what he saw on jade tablets.
Some people even abandoned their family business and went into the mountains and forests, but it didn't work in the end, so they collected the achievements of their previous lives as verification.
Until Emperor Shun was deposed and restored, I don't know.
This is all deceiving the world and deceiving the world. Their feelings are hypocritical and clear, but no one corrects them.
The laws, calendars, hexagrams, nine palaces, and wind horns have been effective many times, but no one has learned them, and they are vying for the book of prophecies.
For example, a painter hates painting dogs and horses, but likes to paint ghosts. This is because specific things are difficult to describe, and ghosts are hypocritical and invisible, so they are easy to paint.
Prophecies should be collected and not popular, so that there will be no confusion between right and wrong, and there will be no bad books.
After he was promoted to a servant, the emperor led him into the palace and satirized him.
I once asked Zhang Heng what the world hates.
At the beginning of Emperor Shun's Yonghe reign, he came out as the Prime Minister of Hejian.
At that time, the king of Hejian was arrogant and extravagant and did not abide by the law. There were also many powerful people who gathered together to cause trouble.
When Zhang Heng took office, he established his authority, rectified the laws, secretly found out the names of traitors, and arrested them at once. He was awe-inspiring from top to bottom, and he was known for his political integrity.
After serving for three years, he submitted a letter requesting to retire and return home. Ask for help from the minister.
He died in the fourth year of Yonghe's reign at the age of sixty-two.
Cui Yuan, who wrote "Exegesis of Zhou Officials", believed that there was no difference between him and other Confucian scholars.
He also wanted to follow Confucius's "Yi" to correct the defects of "彖" and "Xiang", but it was never completed.
He has written poems, fu, inscriptions, seven words, "Lingxian", "Yingjian", "Qibian", "Xungao" and "Xuantu", a total of thirty-two articles.
In An Diyong Junior High School, the visitor Pushe Liu Zhen, the school secretary Liu Mayu and others wrote Dongguan and compiled the "Han Ji". In order to determine the etiquette of the Han family, Zhang Heng was invited to participate in the discussion. When Liu Zhen and Liu Mayu passed away, Zhang Heng sighed and wanted to complete the matter.
As a servant, Shangshu asked him to go to Dongguan to collect and inspect the remaining documents and make every effort to repair them.
There are also more than ten things recorded by the superiors Ma Qian and Ban Gu that are inconsistent with the classics.
He also believed that the original biography of Wang Mang should only record the usurpation of the throne. As for chronicling the years and recording disasters and auspiciousness, it should be compiled into the "Benji of the Empress of the Yuan Dynasty".
He was appointed again, and the people had no objections.
Guangwu was his general at the beginning, and he came to the throne later. The title of Gengshi should be built before Guangwu.
I submitted the letter several times, but it was not accepted.
Later writings were mostly unknown in classics, which was a pity for the people at the time.
The historian commented: Cui Yuan praised Pingzi and said: The art of numerology explores the mysteries of heaven and earth, and the craftsmanship works together with nature.
Can you talk about this kind of attainment?
When it comes to his study of heaven and earth, the spiritual energy of heaven and earth is immeasurable; if he is mechanically diligent, no one can match his wisdom.
Therefore, people's profound thoughts have reached the pinnacle of intellectual thinking. "Book of Rites" says: Virtue comes first, and skill comes down.
Considering his intelligence, can it be said that it is just an artistic skill? What harm does it do to virtue?
