Among the rulers of Nanyi, Yelang is the largest. To the west, Mimo is the largest, and Dian is the largest. From Dian to the north, Qiongdu is the largest. People in these countries wear cone-shaped buns, cultivate fields, and have their own small towns and villages. In addition, from Tongshi in the west to Yeyu in the north, they are named Lun and Kunming. They have braided hair and move with grazing livestock, with no fixed residence or ruler, ranging over several thousand miles. From Song to the northeast, the king's length is calculated by ten, and the migration and extraction are the largest. From Judu to the northeast, the ruler's length is calculated by ten, and Ran Xiao is the largest. Among the customs there, some are settled and some are migrating. To the west of Shu County, from Ranji to the northeast, the king's length is calculated by ten, and the white horse is the largest. These are all Di tribe. The above are all barbarians outside the southwest of Bajun and Shujun.

At first, King Chu Wei sent General Zhuang Cuo to lead his army up the Yangtze River and captured the area west of Bajun and Qianzhong County. Zhuang Qi, a descendant of King Zhuang of Chu, arrived at Dianchi Lake, which has a radius of three hundred miles, with flat and fertile land beside it. Zhuang Zhen relied on his army to pacify this area and make it belong to Chu. He planned to return to Chu to report, but the Qin State attacked Chu, capturing Bajun and Qianzhong County, blocking the road. He then became king in Yunnan, changing his clothes to follow the customs of Nabu to rule the barbarians. During the Qin Dynasty, this area was captured, the Five Feet Road was roughly opened, and officials were appointed for some countries. After more than ten years, the Qin Dynasty perished. By the rise of the Han Dynasty, all these countries were abandoned, and the original borders of Shu were used as passersby. Some people from Bajun and Shujun secretly did business in this area, exchanging for horses, slaves, and yaks, making Bajun and Shujun prosperous.

In the sixth year of the founding of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wang Hui was ordered to attack Shuyue. The Shuyue people killed King Ying of Dongyue and then told Wang Hui. Taking advantage of his military power, Wang Hui sent Pan Yang to order Tang Meng to inform Nanyue of the Han Dynasty's intention to launch an army. The people of southern Guangdong entertained Tang Meng with wolfberry sauce from Shu. Tang Meng asked about its origin and learned it was brought from Pangkejiang, which is several miles wide and flows under Panyu City. Tang Meng returned to Chang'an and asked businessmen in Shu, learning that only Shu produced wolfberry sauce, and many Shu people secretly sold it to Yelang. Yelang is close to the Pangke River, which is more than a hundred paces wide and can be used for boats. The people of Nanyue used their property to make Yelang surrender, but they still could not use Yelang like a vassal.

Tang Meng then wrote to Emperor Mowu, saying that the king of Nanyue occupied a territory of more than 10,000 miles from east to west, in name a vassal but in fact a lord. He suggested using Yelang's elite troops, perhaps numbering 100,000, to sail down the Yangke River to catch Nanyue by surprise. The emperor agreed, appointing Tang Meng as Lieutenant General Lang, leading a thousand soldiers and more than 10,000 servants carrying food and baggage. Entering Yelang from Baduguan, Tang Meng rewarded Yelang Hou Duotong heavily, agreeing to appoint officials to Yelang and let Duotong's son hold an official position. The small countries near Yelang, coveting the Han Dynasty's silk and believing the road was difficult and dangerous, temporarily accepted the alliance. Tang Meng reported to the court, which designated the location of Yelang and these small countries as Jianwei County. The Han Dynasty recruited infantrymen from Bajun and Shujun to build roads from Fendao to the Yangke River.

Sima Xiangru, a native of Shu County, also wrote a letter saying that counties could be established in the Qiongdu and Jiadu areas of Xiyi. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Sima Xiangru to go to the Xiyi area as a lieutenant general and inform the Xiyi people of the court's intentions. The imperial court appointed a county captain to Nahuo and established more than ten counties under the management of Shu County. At this time, the four counties of Ba, Shu, Guangmo, and Hanzhong were building roads leading to the southwestern Yi region, and the transportation of grain and wages was difficult. After several years, the road was not repaired, and many soldiers died due to fatigue, hunger, and heat and humidity. There were many rebellions in the southwestern barbarians, and mobilizing troops to attack them spent money and resources without results. The emperor sent Gongsun Hong to inspect, and he reported that there was no benefit in setting up county officials there. When Gongsun Hong served as the censor, the imperial court was building Shuofang County and driving out the Xiongnu. Gongsun Hong and others stated the damage caused by the campaign against the southwestern barbarians and believed it could be temporarily suspended to concentrate on dealing with the Xiongnu. The emperor agreed, abolishing the officials in the Xiyi area and only establishing two counties and one captain in the Nanyi area, allowing Jianwei County to protect itself.

In the first year of Yuanshou, Zhang Qian, the Marquis of Bowang, said that when he was on a mission to Daxia, he saw bundles of cloth produced in Shu and bamboo sticks from Qiong Mountain. He learned they came from Shendu country, about several thousand miles away, bought from Shu merchants. He also heard of a country about two thousand miles west of Qiong Mountain. Zhang Qian declared that Daxia was located to the southwest of the Han Dynasty, envied China, and suffered from the Xiongnu blocking communication. If the road to Shu could be opened, it would be convenient for Shendu to communicate with the Han Dynasty. Therefore, the emperor ordered Wang Ranyu, Bai Shichang, Lu Yueren, and more than ten people to search for a small road from the southwestern Yi area to find Shendu. When they arrived in the Dian Kingdom, they were retained by Dang Qiang, the king of Dian, who sent people to the west to find a way for them. After more than four years, all the explorers were blocked by Kunming Yi, and no one could pass. The King of Dian asked the Han Dynasty envoy which was bigger, the Han Dynasty or Dian. When the Han Dynasty envoy arrived at Yelang, the Marquis of Yelang also asked the same question. These princes had no idea of the vast territory of the Han Dynasty. After the envoy came back, he declared that Dian was a great country in Nabo and could definitely attract its attachment. The emperor also paid attention to this matter.

When the Southern Guangdong rebellion came, the emperor ordered Chiyihou to recruit the Nanyi army through Jianwei County. The leader of Qielan, worried that his army would go away during the expedition and nearby countries would plunder their old and weak, launched a rebellion and killed the Han Dynasty envoys and the governor of Jianwei County. The Han Dynasty dispatched criminals from Bajun and Shujun, who were supposed to attack southern Guangdong, and the Eighth School Lieutenant to attack Qielan. Just in time for the defeat of South Vietnam, the eight lieutenants did not go down the Yangke River as planned. Zhonglang generals Guo Chang and Wei Guang led their troops back and punished Qielan, killing tens of thousands, then pacified Nanyi and used the land as Yangke County. Yelanghou relied on Nanyue at first, but after its fall, he went to Beijing to see the emperor, who named him King Yelang. After the fall of Southern Guangdong, the Han Dynasty killed Qielan and Qiongdu Lord, and also killed the Lord of Zhadu. The leaders of Ran Xiaoyi were shocked and asked to submit to the Han Dynasty. Therefore, the Han Dynasty designated the residence of Qiongdu Yi as Guangdong County, Zhadu Yi as Shenli County, Ran Xiaoyi as Wenshan County, and Baima Yi as Wudu County.

The emperor ordered Wang Ranyu to persuade the Dian king to join the dynasty with the military situation of destroying Eastern Guangdong and conquering the southern barbarians. The King of Dian had tens of thousands of tribesmen, and in the northeast there were Laoshen and Mimo, who had the same surname as Dian and relied on each other. They did not listen to the advice about the King of Dian entering the dynasty. Lao Shen and Mi Mo repeatedly offended the envoys, officials, and soldiers of the Han Dynasty. In the second year of Yuanfeng, the emperor mobilized troops from Bajun and Shujun to attack Laoshen and Mimo. The troops came to Dian Kingdom. Since the King of Dian was originally friendly with the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty did not execute him. The King of Dian broke away from the Western Yi, and the whole country surrendered to the Han Dynasty, asking the Han Dynasty to appoint officials and go to Beijing to see the emperor. So the Han Dynasty made Nahuo a Yizhou county and gave the king of Dian the royal seal so that he could still rule his people. There were hundreds of leaders of the southwestern barbarians, but only the leaders of Yelang and Dian received the royal seal. Dian is a small country that was most favored by the Han Dynasty.

Twenty-three years later, in the first year of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, the people of Liantou and Guzhen in Yizhou rebelled and killed the chief officials. More than 30,000 people from 24 countries including Pang Ke, Tan Zhi, and Tong Bing also rebelled. The Han Dynasty sent Captain Shuiheng to mobilize more than 10,000 soldiers from Shu and Jianwei counties to attack Qunke and completely defeat the rebels. Three years later, Guzhen and Ye Yu rebelled again. The Han Dynasty sent Shuiheng Captain Lu Pihu to lead county troops to attack the rebels. Before Lu Pihu's army could advance to Yeyu and Guzhen, the barbarians killed the prefect of Yizhou and took advantage of the victory to fight Lu Pihu. More than 4,000 Han soldiers died in battle or drowned. The next year, he sent troops such as Wang Ping and Dahong Tian Guangming to attack, completely defeating the rebels in Yizhou, capturing and killing more than 50,000 people, and capturing more than 100,000 livestock. The Emperor said: Gou Ding Hou Neng Bo led the leaders and people of the small country under his jurisdiction to attack the rebels. He captured and killed them with meritorious service, and established Nang Bo as the King of Xuan Ding. Dahonglu Tian Guangming was rewarded with the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 300 households. A year later, the Di people in Wudu County rebelled. The imperial court dispatched Jinwu Ma Shijian, Long'ehou Han Zeng, and Dahonglu Tian Guangming to lead troops to attack the rebels.

During the reign of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty in Heping, Wang Xing of Yelang, Wang Yu of Gouding, and Hou Yu of Luwo raised their troops to attack each other. The governor of Yangke requested to attack Yelang Wang Xing and others. Those who discussed troop deployment believed that the road was too far to attack, so the imperial court sent Zhang Kuangchijie, a Taizhong doctor from Shu County, to reconcile the conflicts between the barbarian princes. Yelang, Wang Xing, and others did not obey the orders of the Han Dynasty officials. They carved wooden figures that looked like Han Dynasty officials and stood on the roadside to shoot. Du Qin said to General Wang Feng: Taizhong official Zhang Kuang sent an envoy to reconcile the disputes between the barbarian princes. The princes accepted the Shao Order of the Han Dynasty, but further attacked each other, despised the Han Dynasty envoys, and were not afraid of the country's power. This shows the effect of reconciliation. Worried that the people who discussed sending troops were weak and insisted on reconciliation, the prefect observed the movements of the barbarians and reported to the police only when something happened. Like this, it will take a few more months for the barbarian princes to organize their tribes and stubbornly adhere to their own strategies. They have many followers and are extremely angry, and they will definitely kill each other and eliminate them. If he knows that he has committed a crime, he will suddenly become mad and rebellious and kill the prefect or captain. Traveling far and deep into hot, humid and poisonous weeds areas, even if there are generals like Sun Wu and Wu Qi, and warriors like Meng Ben and Xia Yu, is equivalent to being plunged into fire and water. If you go there, you will definitely be scorched and submerged, and you will not be able to use your wisdom and courage. It would be too expensive to defend them in the field. They should take advantage of the fact that their crimes have not yet been committed and there is no doubt that the Han Dynasty is going to attack them. They should secretly order the governors and captains of nearby counties to select soldiers and war horses. Da Sinong will allocate grain to key places in advance and select competent governors to go there. In the cool autumn, they will enter the area and kill the most unruly princes. If you think that sage kings will not tire China with barren land and useless people, you should abolish the establishment of Naguo County, abandon the people of Naguo, sever relations with the princes of Naguo, and no longer have contact with them. If the achievements made by the late emperor cannot be destroyed, we should eradicate the disaster when it is budding. Wait until the disaster has already occurred, and then go out to attack, hundreds of millions of people will suffer.

At this time, General Wang Feng recommended Chen Li, Sima of Jincheng, as the prefect of Yangke County. Chen Li was a native of Linqiong. He had previously served as the magistrate of Lianran County and the magistrate of Buwei County. The barbarians were afraid of him. When Chen Li arrived at Qunke, he informed Yelang Wang Xing of the court's intentions, but Xing did not obey the order. Chen Li requested to attack him. Before receiving approval, Chen Li accompanied dozens of officials to the lower counties. When they arrived at Qie Tong Pavilion of Yelang Kingdom, they summoned Yelang Wang Xing. Yelang Wang Xing led thousands of people there. When they arrived at Qie Tong Pavilion, Yelang Wang Xing and dozens of Yijuns went in to see Chen Li. Chen Li condemned and scolded them, and took the opportunity to kill King Yelang. The princes who followed Yelang King said: The general killed the rude people who did not abide by the law and eliminated harm for the people. They hope to show Yelang King Xing's head to the public. The head of King Yelang Xing was displayed to the public, and all the people of King Yelang laid down their weapons and surrendered. King Yu of Gouding and Hou Yu of Luwo were frightened, so they paid a thousand bushels of dendrobium and some cattle and sheep to reward the officers and soldiers of the Han Dynasty. When Chen Li returned to Pangke County, Yelang Wang Xing's father-in-law Weng Zhi and his son Zie Wu gathered up the remaining soldiers and forced twenty-two nearby cities to rebel. In winter, Chen Li asked to recruit all the barbarians, and he would lead an army to attack Wengzhi and others separately from the captain and Chang Shi. Weng Zhi relied on the steep terrain as a fortress. Chen Li used extraordinary troops to cut off Weng Zhi's route of transporting food and wages, and sent out questioners to seduce Weng Zhi's tribe. Captain Wannian said: The army has not fought decisively for a long time, and the cost and supply cannot keep up. So he led his army to attack alone. The attack failed and he fled to Chen Li's military camp. Chen Li was angry and reprimanded Wan Nian under the banner of the general and ordered him to resist the enemy. Captain Wannian returned to fight again, and Chen Li led his army to rescue him. At this time, there was a severe drought, and Chen Li attacked to cut off the water channel. So the barbarians beheaded Weng Zhi together and came out with Weng Zhi's head to surrender. Chen Li had already pacified Xiyi, and the emperor summoned them to the capital. When he caught up with thieves in Bajun, he appointed Chen Li as the prefect of Bajun, with Zhong Two Thousand Stones in his official position. The court rewarded him with the title of Zuo Shu Zhang. Later, he was appointed as the prefect of Tianshui County. He encouraged the people to devote themselves to farming and mulberry trees, and he was the most outstanding in the world. The court rewarded him with forty pounds of gold. He entered the court and served as General Zuo Cao Wei and Captain of the Guards. He died in office.

Wang Mang usurped the throne, changed the system of the Han Dynasty, and demoted King Gouding to the title of Marquis of Gouding. Wang Han of Gouching was resentful, and Zhou Qin, the great Yin of Yangke County, killed Han by deceitful means. Hand's brother Cheng then attacked and killed Zhou Qin, and the prefectures and counties sent troops to fight back against the Gouding barbarians, but they could not subdue them. The barbarians on the three sides were worried about the invasion, so they all rebelled and killed Chenglong, the great Yin of Yizhou County. Wang Mang sent Pingman general Feng Mao to mobilize officials and soldiers from Bajun, Shujun, and Qianweijun. Collect enough taxes from the people to attack the Yizhou barbarians. Three years after the expedition, seven out of ten people died of disease and plague, causing unrest in Bajun and Shujun. Wang Mang summoned Feng Mao to kill him. Ningshi General Lian Danyuyong was reassigned to Mu Shixiong, and he mobilized cavalry from Tianshui and Longxi counties and 100,000 officials and civilians from Guangmo, Ba, Shu, and Jianwei counties, plus 200,000 people transporting military supplies, to attack the rebels. When they first arrived, they killed thousands of people. Later, the transportation of military supplies could not keep up, and the soldiers became hungry and sick. Tens of thousands of people died in three years. Moreover, Ren Gui, a barbarian from Jun County, Guangdong, killed the prefect Mei Gen and established himself as the king of Qiong Valley. After Wang Mang failed to catch up with him, Han Guangwu Zhongxing killed Ren Gui and restored his original title.

Zhao Tuo, King of Southern Guangdong, was a native of Zhending County. After Qin unified the world, it pacified Yangyue, established Guilin County, Nanhai County, and Xiang County, and moved the people who were punished to Nahuo to live together with the Cantonese people. Thirteen years later, during the reign of Qin II, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai County, fell ill and was about to die. He summoned the magistrate of Long County, Tuo Tuo, and said to him: I heard that Chen Sheng and others started an army to rebel, and the heroes rebelled against Qin and established themselves as kings. Nanhai County is in a remote place, and I am afraid that the bandit army will capture it. I wanted to send troops to cut off the new road, defend myself, and observe the movements of the princes, but unfortunately I fell seriously ill. The Panyu area is backed by mountains, the terrain is difficult, and it is thousands of miles in radius. With the help of many Central Plains people, it can also become the lord of a state and establish a country. There is no one among the officials in the county who is worthy of my seeking advice, so I have invited you here to tell you what I think. The relevant documents were immediately issued to Tuo Tuo, and he was asked to act as Nanhai County Lieutenant. After Ren Xiao's death, Tu Tuo immediately issued a message, notifying Hengpu, Yangshan, Huangxiguan, and others: The bandits' army is about to attack. Please cut off the passage immediately and gather troops to defend yourself! So he used legal means to gradually kill the officials appointed by the Qin Dynasty, and appointed his cronies to perform their duties. After the fall of the Qin Dynasty, Tuo Tuo attacked and annexed Guilin County and Xiang County, and established himself as King Wu of Southern Guangdong.

After Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty pacified the world, due to the continuous wars in the Central Plains and the hard work of the people, he spared Zhao Tuo and refused to punish him. In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the Han Dynasty sent Lu Mai to establish Zhao Tuo as the king of southern Guangdong. He made a talisman with him and asked him to coordinate the security and control of Guangdong and avoid causing trouble on the southern border. Southern Guangdong borders the Changsha Kingdom of the Han Dynasty. During the reign of Emperor Gao, officials from relevant departments petitioned to prohibit the Southern Guangdong Kingdom from purchasing ironware in the Guan market. Tu Tuo said: Emperor Gao made me the king of Nanyue, and the two sides exchanged envoys and goods. Now Gaohou listens to the slanderous ministers, regards the barbarians as aliens, and cuts off the circulation of artifacts. This must be the strategy of King Changsha. He wants to rely on the Han Dynasty to destroy Nanyue, swallow up Nanhai County, and rule together for his own benefit. Therefore, Zhao Tuo proclaimed himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue and sent troops to attack the border areas of Changsha and defeated several counties. Empress Gao sent General Long Luhou Zhou Zao to fight back. It was a hot and rainy day. Many soldiers were infected with the plague and the army could not cross the mountains. More than a year later, Queen Gao died, and the Han Dynasty stopped military operations. Tu Tuo took the opportunity to threaten Minyue and Xiouluo with force and bribe them with property, thereby enslaving them and making them belong to Nanyue. In this way, the south of Guangdong reaches more than 10,000 miles from east to west. Tu Tuo then rode in Zuohuan of Huangwu, proclaimed himself emperor, and competed with the emperor of Han Dynasty.

In the first year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, when the emperor had just begun to rule the world, he sent envoys to all the princes and foreign princes to inform them of his plans after entering the imperial court from Daiguo and becoming emperor, so that everyone would know about the emperor's holiness. Therefore, a tomb guard house was set up for the tomb of Zhao Tuo's parents in Zhending, and sacrifices were made on time. He summoned Zhao Tuo's cousins and won them over with official posts and rewards. He also issued an edict and ordered Prime Minister Chen Ping to recommend people who could be sent as envoys to Southern Guangdong. Chen Ping said that Lu Jia had been on an envoy to Southern Guangdong during the reign of Emperor Gao. Emperor Wen summoned Lu Jia, appointed him Taizhong doctor, and appointed an emissary as deputy envoy. Emperor Wen's letter to Zhao Tuo said: The emperor respectfully greets the King of Nanyue with the most sincere heart. I was not the legitimate son of Emperor Gao, but was sent to govern the country of Dai in the north. Due to the long distance and my own isolation and ignorance, I never exchanged envoys with southern Guangdong. Emperor Gao passed away and left his ministers. Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne. Empress Gao personally took charge of the government. Unfortunately, she fell ill and her illness became increasingly serious. Therefore, the politics were harsh and unconventional. The Lu family rebelled and deliberately violated laws and regulations. They could not rule alone, so they regarded other people's children as the heirs of Emperor Xiaohui and implemented puppet politics. Relying on the blessing of the gods of the ancestral temple and the efforts of the heroes, the Lu family has now been exterminated. I have repeatedly abdicated the throne, but the ministers did not allow it, so I had to establish myself as emperor, and now I have ascended the throne. I once heard that you wrote to General Longluhou Zhouzao, requesting that your brothers in Zhending be found and that the two generals in Changsha be withdrawn. In accordance with the request in your letter, I have withdrawn General Boyang Hou Chen Bi, your brother in Zhending, and I have also sent people to comfort and repair the tombs of your ancestors. I heard before that you sent troops to attack the border and continued to cause trouble. At that time, Changsha State suffered a disaster, and Nanjun suffered even more. Even your Nanyue State could only benefit? We must sacrifice a large number of soldiers, harm excellent generals and officials, and cause the common people's wives to lose their husbands, their sons to lose their fathers, and their parents to lose their sons. This is what I cannot bear to do. I wanted to add the intersecting border between Han and Southern Guangdong to Southern Guangdong, so I asked the relevant officials. The officials said that the boundary line was created by Emperor Gao to demarcate the land of Changsha, so I could not change it without authorization. The officials said: The land obtained by the King of Nanyue is not enough to make the Han Dynasty large, and the wealth obtained by the King of Nanyue is not enough to make the Han Dynasty rich. The south of the country is ruled by the King of Nanyue. Despite this, you are called the emperor, and the two emperors stand side by side, but you did not send an envoy's car. This is a competition for position; fighting without humility is what virtuous people do not do. I hope that we can put aside our past grievances and that from now on and forever, the two sides will communicate with each other as before. Therefore, I sent Lu Mai to quickly express my thoughts to you. I hope you will accept my opinion and stop creating border troubles. Now I present fifty pieces of thick cotton clothes, thirty pieces of medium cotton clothes, and twenty pieces of thin cotton clothes as a gift to you. I hope you will enjoy more music and dance to entertain yourself, relieve your sorrow, and soothe neighboring countries such as Fujian, Guangdong, and Ouluo.

When Lu Jia arrived in Nanyue, the King of Nanyue was very frightened, so he kowtowed and apologized, willing to obey the order of the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, to be a vassal of the Han Dynasty forever, and to perform the tribute duty. At the same time, he ordered the people in the country to say: I heard that two heroes cannot stand together, and two sages cannot coexist in the world. The emperor of the Han Dynasty was a wise emperor. From now on, the Southern Guangdong Kingdom abolishes the imperial title and Huangwu Zuohu. He also wrote to Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty and said: After the death of the barbarian chief and old minister Tuo Mei, he paid homage and wrote to His Majesty the Emperor: I was an official in the past in Guangdong. Emperor Gao fortunately gave me his seal and made me the king of southern Guangdong, so that I could serve as a minister abroad and pay tribute on time. Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne, and he could not bear to abandon me because of his benevolence and righteousness, so he rewarded me very generously. After Gaohou personally took charge of the country's affairs, he got close to the villains, listened to the words of the slanderous officials, and regarded the barbarians as aliens. He issued an order saying: Iron tools and other metal farm tools such as iron tools are not given to the barbarians in southern Guangdong. If horses, cattle, and sheep are given, only male ones will be given, not females. I lived in a remote place, and my horses, cattle, and sheep were all old. I knew that not performing sacrifices would be a capital crime, so I sent Nei Shifan, Lieutenant Gao, and Yu Shiping to send letters of thanks three times, but there was no response. I also heard rumors that my parents' tombs had been destroyed, and that my brothers and clan had been convicted and executed. The officials discussed with each other and said: Now you cannot rise up in the Han Dynasty in the interior, and there is nothing to show your superiority outside, so I changed my title to emperor, but I will only proclaim myself emperor in southern Guangdong and dare not harm the world. When Empress Gao heard that I had changed my title to emperor, she was very angry. She expelled Nanyue from her vassal status and cut off the communication between envoys from both sides. I secretly suspected that the king of Changsha was slandering me, so I dared to send troops to attack the border of Changsha. Moreover, the south is low and humid. Among the barbarians, there is Xiou in the west. The half-naked people are actually called kings in the south. Fujian and Guangdong in the east have only a few thousand people, and they are also called kings. Half of the people in Changsha in the northwest are barbarians, and they are also called kings. So I dare to steal the emperor's title arrogantly and enjoy myself. I personally pacified hundreds of cities, with a radius of thousands of miles, and more than a million soldiers, but why did I declare myself a vassal to the Han Dynasty? Because I dare not disobey my ancestors. I have been in Guangdong for forty-nine years, and now I have a grandson. However, I get up early and lie down late, sleep poorly, eat poorly, my eyes dare not look at the gorgeous colors, and my ears dare not listen to the sound of bells and drums. All these are caused by my inability to serve the Han Dynasty. Now the Emperor has taken pity on me and restored my original royal title, so that I can communicate with the Han Dynasty as before. I will die in peace. From now on, I will change my title and never dare to call myself emperor again! I respectfully presented a pair of white jade stones, a thousand kingfishers, ten rhinoceros horns, five hundred purple clams, a bottle of cinnamon beetles, forty pairs of emeralds, and two pairs of peacocks through the envoy. I will worship again after my death and express my feelings to His Majesty the Emperor. Lu Jia came back to report, and Emperor Wen was very happy.

Until the time of Emperor Xiaojing, Tuo Tuo proclaimed himself a minister and sent envoys to pay homage to the emperor on time. However, the King of Nanyue continued to use the title of emperor in his own country; he only proclaimed himself king when envoys paid homage to the emperor, and accepted the emperor's orders like other princes and kings. In the fourth year of the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Hu, the grandson of Tu Tuo, became the king of Southern Guangdong. In the third year, Ying, the king of Fujian and Guangdong, raised his troops to attack the cities on the border of southern Guangdong. The King of Nanyue sent a letter to the Han Dynasty saying: Nanyue and Minyue are both vassals of the emperor, and they cannot send troops to attack each other without permission. Now Shu Yue is raising troops to attack Nan Yue without authorization. I dare not send troops, so I ask the emperor to issue an edict. So Emperor Wu praised Nan Yue for his loyalty, abiding by his duties and not breaking the rules, so he sent troops for it and sent two generals to attack Fujian and Guangdong. Before the Han army could cross the mountains, Yu Shan, the younger brother of the King of Fujian and Guangdong, killed Ying and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, so the two generals stopped their troops. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Yan Zhu to explain the imperial intention to the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue, Zhao Hu, kowtowed and said: How could the emperor send troops to conquer Fujian and Guangdong for me? Even if I die, I will not be able to repay the emperor's kindness! Send the prince to the imperial guard together with the infant. Zaihu said to Yanzhu: The country of Southern Guangdong has been attacked by invaders. Your envoy, please go ahead. I am getting ready day and night to go to court to see the emperor. After Yan Zhu left, the ministers of Southern Guangdong advised Zhao Hu and said: The Han Dynasty sent troops to attack Fujian and Guangdong, and also used this to intimidate Southern Guangdong. Moreover, the late king once said that when serving the emperor, one only needs to be courteous. The most important thing is not to be deceived by the good words of the Han Dynasty envoys and enter the court to pay homage to the emperor. Once you enter the court to pay homage to the emperor, you will not be able to come back again. This is a situation of national subjugation. So Zhao Hu pretended to be ill and did not go to the court to pay homage to the emperor. More than ten years later, Tread Hu did become seriously ill, and Prince Tread Yingqi asked to return to the country. After Zai Hu died, he was given the title King Wen.

When Zhao Yingqi succeeded to the throne of Nanyue, he collected the seals of his ancestors who had pretended to be Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen. When Te Yingqi was in Chang'an, he married a woman named Do from Handan and gave birth to his son Te Xing. After he ascended the throne, he sent a letter to the Han Dynasty, requesting that a woman surnamed Zhu be the queen and Zhao Xing be the heir to the throne. The Han Dynasty sent envoys many times to tactfully persuade Chang Yingqi to go to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but he still liked to monopolize the power of life and death and do whatever he wanted. He was afraid that after going to the court to pay homage to the emperor, he would be bound by the laws of the Han Dynasty like the princes in the mainland, so he insisted on pretending that he was ill. He has always refused to go to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but sent his son Zhao Cigong to serve as a guard in the court. After Zhao Yingqi's death, he was given the title of King Ming. Prince Zhao Xing ascended the throne, and his mother Zhu became the queen mother. Before Queen Mother Kill became Tang Yingqi's wife, she had an affair with An Guo Shaoji from Baling County. After the death of Zhao Yingqi, in the fourth year of Yuanding, the Han Dynasty sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother to enter the court to pay homage to the emperor. They also sent debaters, admonishing doctor Zhongjun and others to state their case. The warrior Wei Chen and others assisted in decision-making. Weiwei Lu Bode led his troops to station in Guiyang County to wait for the envoy. The King of Southern Guangdong, Zhao Xing, was young, and the Queen Mother Zhu was from the Central Plains. An Guo Shaoji was on an envoy this time and had an affair with the Queen Mother. People in South Guangdong knew about this, and most of them did not rely on the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother was afraid that something might happen, so she wanted to rely on the power of the Han Dynasty to persuade the King of Nanyue and his favored ministers to request that the country belong to the Han Dynasty. So he sent a letter through an envoy, requesting that the princes in the mainland should go to the court to pay homage to the emperor once every three years, and that the border defenses should be removed. At that time, the emperor approved the request and gave Nanyue Prime Minister Lu Jia the silver seal, as well as the internal history, lieutenant, and Taifu seals. Nanyue could choose the other official positions by himself, and the Han Dynasty did not grant seals and ribbons. The original corporal punishments of tattooing, tattooing, etc. in Southern Guangdong were abolished and the laws of the Han Dynasty were adopted instead. The envoys of the Han Dynasty stayed to control southern Guangdong. The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother packed their belongings and valuable gifts in preparation for entering the court.

Prime Minister Lu Jia is very old. He has served as prime minister to three generations of kings. There are more than 70 people in the clan holding important positions. The men of the Lu family all marry the princess's daughters, and the women all marry the royal children and are married to King Cangwu of Qin. Lu Jia was very powerful in the Nanyue Kingdom. The people of Guangdong trusted him and mostly acted as their eyes and ears. He was more popular than the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue sent a letter to the Han Dynasty. Lu Jiaduo tried to dissuade him, but the king did not listen. Lu Jia then felt rebellious and repeatedly excused himself from seeing Han envoys because of illness. The envoys all watched Lu Jia, but the situation was not conducive to kill him. The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were also afraid that Lu Jia and others would attack first, and wanted to murder Lu Jia and others through the authority of the Han Dynasty envoys. So a banquet was held to invite the envoys of the Han Dynasty, and all the ministers from southern Guangdong sat and drank with them. Lu Jia's younger brother was a general and led the army to wait outside the palace. After