Taibo Wu and his younger brother Zhong Yong were both sons of Gu Gong Danfu, King Tai of Zhou, and brothers of Ji Li, King of Zhou.
Ji Li was very virtuous and had a virtuous son Chang. The Taiwang wanted to establish Ji Li in order to pass the throne to Chang, so Tai Bo and Zhong Yong went to the land of Jingman. Like the local barbarians, they covered their bodies with tattoos and cut their hair to show that they could no longer inherit the throne, so as to avoid Ji Li.
Ji Li succeeded to the throne as Wang Ji, and Chang later became King Wen.
After Taibo fled to Jingman, he called himself Wu Ju.
The Jingman people believed that he was very righteous, and more than a thousand households followed him and respected him as Taibo Wu.
Taibo died without a son, and his younger brother Zhongyong succeeded him; he was Wu Zhongyong.
Zhongyong died and his son Ji Jian succeeded to the throne.
Ji Jian died and his son Shuda succeeded him.
Shuda died and his son Zhou Zhang succeeded to the throne.
At that time, King Wu defeated Yin Zhou and was looking for the descendants of Tai Bo and Zhong Yong, and found Zhou Zhang.
Zhou Zhang was already the monarch of Wu, so King Wu officially granted him the land of Wu.
He also enfeoffed Zhou Zhang's younger brother Yu Zhong to the former site of the Xia capital in the north of Zhou Dynasty. He was named Yu Zhong and ranked among the princes.
Zhou Zhang died and his son Xiong Sui succeeded to the throne.
Xiong Sui died, and his son Ke succeeded him.
Ke Xiang died and his son Qiang Jiuyi succeeded to the throne.
Qiang Jiuyi died, and his son Yu Qiaoxinwu succeeded to the throne.
Yu Qiao Xinwu died, and his son Ke Lu succeeded to the throne.
Ke Lu died and his son Zhou Yao succeeded him.
Zhou Yao died and his son Qu Yu succeeded him.
Qu Yu died and his son Yi Wu succeeded him.
Yiwu died and his son Qinchu succeeded him.
Qin Chu died and his son succeeded him.
After his death, his son Po Gao succeeded him.
Po Gao died and his son Goubei succeeded him.
At this time, Duke Xian of Jin destroyed Duke Yu who was north of the Zhou Dynasty, because Duke Yu lent a road to the Jin State, allowing the Jin army to destroy the Guo State.
Goubei died, and his son went to Qi to succeed him.
Qu Qi died, and his son Shou Meng succeeded to the throne.
After Shou Meng succeeded to the throne, the Kingdom of Wu began to become stronger, and Shou Meng called himself the king.
Counting from Taibo's founding of the Kingdom of Wu to the fifth generation, King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty and named his descendants two kingdoms: one was the Kingdom of Yu, in the Central Plains, and the other was the Kingdom of Wu, in the barbarian zone.
By the twelfth generation, the Jin State destroyed the Yu State in the Central Plains.
Two more generations later, the state of Wu in the barbarian region became prosperous.
In total, it has been passed down to nineteen generations from Taibo to Shoumeng.
In the second year of King Shoumeng of Wu, the exiled official Shen Gong Wuchen of the Chu State defected to the Jin State because he was resentful of the generals of the Chu State.
Later, Wu State began to send troops to conquer Chu State.
In the 16th year, the king of the Communist Party of Chu conquered the state of Wu and reached Mount Heng.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Wu Shoumeng passed away.
Shoumeng had four sons: the eldest son was named Zhufan, the second son was named Yuji, the third son was named Yumei, and the fourth son was named Jizha.
Ji Zha was a virtuous man, and Shou Meng wanted him to succeed him during his lifetime, but Ji Zha evaded and refused to agree, so he let his eldest son Zhufan succeed him, prime minister of various affairs, and take charge of state affairs on his behalf.
In the first year of King Zhufan of Wu, Zhufan removed his mourning clothes after the period of mourning and wanted to give up the throne to Jizha.
Ji Zha declined and said: When Cao Xuangong passed away, the princes of various countries and the people of Cao State thought that the newly established Lord Cao was unjust, and wanted to make Zang Zang the Lord of Cao. Zizang left the State of Cao so that Lord Cao could continue to reign. The gentleman commented on Zizang that he was able to observe integrity.
As the eldest son, you are the legitimate successor. Who dares to offend you?
Being a king is not what I should be doing.
Although I have no talent, I am still willing to imitate Zizang’s righteous deeds.
The people of Wu insisted on establishing Jizha, but instead he abandoned his family and property to become a farmer. The people of Wu had to give up their plan to support him. In autumn, Wu attacked Chu again, and Chu defeated Wu's army.
In the fourth year, Duke Ping of Jin succeeded to the throne.
In the thirteenth year, King Zhufan of Wu died.
The purpose of leaving a will to pass the throne to his younger brother Yuji was to pass it on from brother to brother in order, and the throne must be passed on to Ji Zha to fulfill the last wish of the late king Shoumeng. And because the brothers all admired Jizha's noble character in relinquishing the country, everyone wanted to give up the position of king to others, so that it could gradually be passed on to Jizha.
Jizha was sealed in Yanling, so he was named Yanling Jizi.
In the third year of Wang Yuji's reign, Xiang Qing of Qi was convicted of a crime in Qi, and he fled from Qi to Wu.
The King of Wu rewarded him with Zhufang County as a city, and married the princess to Qingfeng. As a result, Qingfeng became richer than before in Qi.
In the fourth year, King Wu sent Jizha to visit the state of Lu. Jizha asked to see the Zhou Dynasty rituals and music preserved in the state of Lu.
Musicians from the state of Lu sang "Zhou Nan" and "Zhao Nan" for Jizha.
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful. It lays a solid foundation at the beginning, but it still does not reach the level of perfection. However, it sings the feelings of the people who are diligent in the king's affairs without complaining.
The musicians sang "Bei Feng", "阘风" and "Wei Feng" again.
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful, with a deep melody and a sense of urgency without confusing people.
I heard that the virtues of Uncle Wei Kang and Duke Wu were like this. Is this probably "Wei Feng"?
The musicians sang "Wang Feng" again.
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful, it is thoughtful but not fearful. This is probably the music after the Zhou royal family moved eastward, right?
The musicians sang "Zheng Feng" again.
Jizha said: The mood of this piece of music is too weak, reflecting that the people cannot bear the cumbersome government orders. This is probably a harbinger of the demise of the Zheng Kingdom, right? The musicians sang "Qi Feng".
Jizha said: The music is so beautiful, it is magnificent and has the demeanor of a great country.
Like the vast East China Sea, this is probably the legacy of Jiang Taigong, right?
The future of this country is limitless.
The musicians sang "Bin Feng".
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful, the momentum is broad and majestic, cheerful but not excessive. This is probably the music that reflects Zhou Gong's eastern expedition, right?
The musicians sang "Qin Feng".
Jizha said: This is the so-called voice of China.
Being able to admire China will lead to greatness, which is the ultimate in greatness. This is probably the music of the old land of the Zhou royal family, right? The musicians sang "Wei Feng".
Ji Zha said: The music is so beautiful. The music is melodious and melodious. The momentum is grand and broad. It is economical and easy to perform. With the help of moral education, you can be the leader of the alliance.
The musicians sang "Tang Feng".
Jizha said: "You are thoughtful. Isn't this the legacy of Tao Tang's family?"
Otherwise, why is the sense of worry so heavy?
Who could be like this if not the empress of the late king who possesses great virtue!
The musician sang "Chen Feng" again.
Jizha said: How can a country last long without a wise monarch?
The next thing the musicians sang was "Haifeng". From this point on, Ji Zha gave no more comments. The musicians sang "Xiaoya".
Jizha said: The music is so beautiful. There is a sense of worry but no second thoughts, and there is resentment but no words are expressed. This may be a sign of Zhou De's decline, right?
But there are still some customs left by the people of the previous kings.
The musicians sang "Daya" again.
Jizha said: This piece of music is really broad and majestic, harmonious and joyful, gentle and gentle yet upright and strong. This may reflect the great virtue of King Wen of Zhou, right? The musicians sang "Ode" again.
Jizha said: It is extremely beautiful. The melody is strong but not arrogant, gentle but not abject, close but not urgent, slow but not lax, the rhythm is changeable but not chaotic, the melody is repetitive but not boring, sad but not sad, joyful but not absurd, uses wisdom widely but not lacking, broad-minded but not ostentatious, benevolent but not wasteful, seeking but not greedy, the music stops but the lingering sound is still echoing, the music changes but does not follow the trend.
The five tones are in harmony, the eight tones are harmonious, the rhythm follows the law, and the melody conforms to the rules, just like a virtuous person.
Jizha watched the dances "Xiang Feng" and "Nan Xun" again, and then said: "The dance is so beautiful, but there are still some regrets."
Ji Zha watched the "Da Wu" dance again and said: "The dance is so beautiful. Isn't this the virtue of the Zhou Dynasty?"
He watched the "Shaohu" dance again and said: "The saint is so great, but he still feels ashamed of his own virtue. It shows that it is really difficult to become a saint!"
Ji Zha watched the "Da Xia" dance again and said: "The dance is so beautiful. You are diligent in civil affairs and don't take credit for it!"
Who else but Dayu could do it?
He watched the "Zhao Feng" dance again and said: The practice of virtue can be said to be at its peak. It is so great. Just like heaven, there is no place that cannot be covered. Just like the earth, there is nothing that cannot be carried. The virtue has reached its peak and cannot be added to it.
I am satisfied with watching the ritual music. Even if there are other rituals and music, I don’t dare to ask to watch it anymore.
Jizha left the state of Lu and went as an envoy to the state of Qi.
He persuaded Yan Pingzhong and said: Please hand over your fief and official position as soon as possible.
Without these two things, you will be safe from disaster.
齐国的政权快要易手了，在不能确定归入谁手之前，国家祸乱四不会平息的。 

Therefore, Yanzi handed over his fiefdom and official position through Chen Huanzi, so he survived the disaster of the Luan and Gao clans attacking each other.
Jizha left Qi and went as an envoy to Zheng. When he saw Zichan, it was like seeing an old friend.
He said to Zichan: The people who hold power in the state of Zheng are licentious and extravagant. A disaster is coming, and the power will fall on you.
When you are in power, you must be careful to govern the country with etiquette, otherwise the country of Zheng will decline!
After leaving the state of Zheng, Jizha went to the state of Wei.
He admired Qu Yuan, Shi Gou, Shi Loach, Gongzi Jing, Gongshu Fa, and Gongzi Chao very much, and said: There are many gentlemen in the defense of the country, so the country is safe.
When Jizha arrived in Jin from the state of Wei, he was about to stay in Suyi. When he heard the sound of drums and bells making music, he said: "Strange!"
I heard that if you have talent but no virtue, you will definitely be killed.
Sun Wenzi has offended the king and still lives here. He may not be careful enough. Can he still have fun?
Sun Wenzi's place here is as dangerous as a swallow's nest above the curtain.
Moreover, the king is still in the coffin and has not yet been buried. Is it difficult for him to have fun?
So he left.
Sun Wenzi heard Jizha's words and stopped listening to music for the rest of his life.
Jizha went to Jin, admired Zhao Wenzi, Han Xuanzi, and Wei Xianzi, and said: The power of Jin will fall into the hands of you three families.
Before he left Jin, he said to Shuxiang: You must do your best!
The king of Jin is extravagant and indulgent, but he has many good ministers and rich officials. The political power will fall to the three families of Han, Zhao and Wei.
You are an upright person and must think carefully about how to avoid disaster.
When Ji Zhagang was on his mission, he visited the king of Xu State on his way north.
Xu Jun liked Ji Zha's sword, but he didn't dare to say it. Ji Zha also understood Xu Jun's intention in his heart, but because he had to go to various countries in the Central Plains as an envoy, he did not present the sword to Xu Jun.
After returning from his mission, he passed through the state of Xu. Xu Jun had passed away. Jizha took off his sword and hung it on the tree in Xu Jun's tomb before leaving.
The entourage said: Mr. Xu has passed away, who should give the sword back to him!
Ji Zi said: No, I had promised him in my heart at the beginning. How could I go against my own wish just because of Xu Jun's death?
In the seventh year, the prince of Chu killed Chu King Jia Ao and proclaimed himself king, namely King Ling of Chu.
In the tenth year, King Ling of Chu formed an alliance with the princes to conquer Zhufang County of Wu State, in order to punish the original prime minister of Qi State, Guo Qingfeng.
The state of Wu also attacked the state of Chu, occupied three cities of the state of Chu, and then left.
In the eleventh year, the Chu State sent troops to attack the Wu State and fought all the way to Yu Lou.
In the twelfth year, Chu State again attacked Wu State and stationed troops in Ganxi for several days, but was finally defeated.
In the seventeenth year, Wang Yuji died and his younger brother Yu Mei succeeded to the throne.
The year before last, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed King Ling of Chu, and made himself king on his behalf.
In the fourth year, Wang Yumei died and wanted to pass it on to his younger brother Jizha.
Jizha avoided the situation and fled away.
So the people of Wu said: According to the decree of the late king, if a brother dies and a brother succeeds to the throne, the kingdom must be passed on to Ji Zi.
Ji Zi now escaped from the throne, and Wang Yumei became the last of his brothers to become king.
Now that he is dead, his son should be king in his stead.
So he established Yu Mei's son Liao as King of Wu.
In the second year of King Liao's reign, Prince Guang led an army to conquer Chu, but was defeated and lost the ship of King Wu.
Prince Guang was afraid of being punished for this, so he attacked the Chu army secretly and recaptured Wang Zhou before returning to the army.
In the fifth year, Wu Zixu, an exiled minister of Chu State, fled to Wu State. The young master treated him as a guest.
Prince Guang was the son of King Zhufan of Wu.
He has always believed that my father and four brothers should be passed on to the Jizi.
Now Ji Zi is no longer the king, but my father is the first to be the king.
Since the kingdom is not passed on to Ji Zi, I should succeed my father as the king.
So he secretly recruited the Magi, hoping to use them to attack King Liao.
In the eighth year, the King of Wu sent his son Guang to conquer the Chu State, defeated the Chu army, and brought the mother of the former Chu Crown Prince Jian back to the State of Wu from Juchao.
Taking advantage of the Northern Expedition, he defeated Chen and Cai's armies.
The year before last, Prince Guang conquered Chu State again and captured the two cities of Juchao and Zhongli.
At the beginning, a girl from the Beiliang clan in the border town of Chu State competed with a woman from Wu border town to pick mulberry leaves. The families of the two women were angry and attacked each other. When the officials of the two border towns heard about it, they attacked each other in anger, and the border town of Wu State was destroyed.
The State of Wu was furious upon hearing this, so it attacked the State of Chu, captured the two cities of Juchao and Zhongli, and returned.
When Wu Zixu fled to Wu, he told King Liao of Wu about the benefits of attacking Chu.
Prince Guang said: Zixu's father and brother were killed by the King of Chu. He advised you to attack Chu to avenge your own personal revenge. Attacking Chu will not be beneficial to Wu.
Wu Zixu then understood that Gongzi Guang had an ulterior motive. Zixu found a warrior named Zhuan Zhu and introduced him to Gongzi Guang.
Prince Guang was very happy and treated Wu Zixu with courtesy.
Zixu retreated to the countryside to earn a living, waiting for Zhuanzhu to take action.
In the winter of the twelfth year, King Ping of Chu passed away.
In the spring of the year before last, the King of Wu wanted to take advantage of the state mourning in Chu to attack Chu. He sent his sons Gaiyu and Zhuyong to lead troops to surround Chu's Liu and Hao towns, and sent Ji Zha as an envoy to Jin to observe the movements of the princes.
Unexpectedly, the Chu State sent a surprise army to cut off its retreat, and the Wu soldiers were prevented from returning home.
At this time, Prince Guang of Wu State said: This opportunity cannot be lost.
Tell Zhuan Zhu: If you don't take action, you won't get anything.
I am the true heir to the throne and should be made king. This is what I want to pursue.
Even if Ji Zi comes back, he will not oppose me.
Zhuan Zhu said: The conditions for killing Wang Liao have been met. There are only his mother and young son in the country, but his two younger brothers led troops to attack Chu and were blocked from returning.
Now King Wu is besieged by the State of Chu outside the country, and there are no upright and loyal ministers in the country. No one can stop us.
Gongzi Guang said: My body is your body, sharing weal and woe.
On the day Bingzi of the fourth month, Prince Guang ambushed the soldiers in the basement, and then invited King Liao to a banquet.
King Liao sent troops to line up along the road. From the palace to Prince Guang's house, to the gate, steps, door and seats of Guang's house, they were all covered with King Liao's personal soldiers, each holding a sharp sword.
After King Liao arrived, Prince Guang pretended to have a pain in his feet and hid in the basement. He sent Zhuanzhu to hide the dagger in the belly of the whole roasted fish and pretend to serve it.
When Zhuan Zhu brought the fish to King Liao, he took out a dagger from the fish's belly and stabbed Wang Liao. The guards on the left and right hurriedly stabbed Zhuan Zhu's chest with their swords, but Wang Liao was already killed.
Prince Guang was indeed appointed King of Wu on his behalf, and he became the King of Wu's house.
Helu appointed Zhuanzhu's son as minister.
Jizha returned to the state of Wu and said: As long as the sacrifices to the ancestors are not abolished, the people will not be without a king, and the god of the country is enshrined, then he will be my king.
Who can I blame?
I can only mourn the dead and serve the living to deal with the destiny arrangements.
If you do not create trouble yourself, you should obey the newly established king. This is the principle of our ancestors.
So Jizha went to King Liao's tomb, reported how he completed his diplomatic mission, cried bitterly to King Liao, and then returned to his place in the court to wait for the new king's orders. Prince Gaiyu and Zhu Yong of the State of Wu were besieged by the Chu army with their troops. When they heard that Prince Guang had killed King Liao and proclaimed himself king, they led their troops to surrender to the State of Chu. The King of Chu sealed them in Shu.
In the first year of the reign of King Wu of Helu, Wu Zixu was appointed as an official of Xingren and participated in state affairs.
The King of Chu killed Bo Zhouli, and his grandson Bo Pei fled to the State of Wu. The King of Wu appointed him as a doctor.
In the third year, King Helu of Wu, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei led an army to conquer Chu, captured Shuyi, and killed Gaiyu and Zhuyong, the young masters of Wu who had fled.
Helu planned to attack Ying, the capital of Chu State. General Sun Wu said: The army and the people are very tired from fighting. We cannot attack the capital of Ying now. We must wait for the time to mature.
In the fourth year, Wu attacked Chu again and captured Liuyi and Yayi.
In five years, the state of Wu attacked the state of Yue and defeated the Yue army.
In the sixth year, the state of Chu sent his son Chang Nangwa to conquer the state of Wu. Wu Jun sent troops to fight and defeated the Chu army in Yuzhang. He captured Juchao of Chu state and returned to Wu with his troops.
In the ninth year, King Wu Helu asked Wu Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said you could not attack Yingdu, what is the situation now?
The two men replied: The general of Chu State is often greedy, and both Tang and Cai States hate him.
If your Majesty is determined to attack Chu on a large scale, you must unite Tang and Cai to succeed.
Helu obeyed them, dispatched all the troops, and marched westward with Cai State of Tang Dynasty to attack Chu, and came to the edge of Han River.
Chu State also sent troops to resist, and the two sides formed formations across the water.
King Wu's younger brother Fugai wanted to fight, but Helu wouldn't allow it.
Fugai said: Your Majesty has entrusted me with the army. The best way to fight is to seize the favorable opportunity. What are you waiting for!
So he led his five thousand men to attack the Chu army. The Chu army was defeated and fled.
King Wu sent troops to pursue him.
When they arrived at Yingdu, they fought five times in total, and the Chu soldiers were defeated five times.
King Zhao of Chu escaped from Yingdu and ran to Yun County.
Duke Yun's brother wanted to kill King Zhao, but King Zhao fled to Sui with Duke Yun.
Wu soldiers entered the capital of Ying.
Wu Zixu and Bo Pei dug up the body of King Chu Ping from the tomb and whipped it to avenge their father's murder.
In the spring of ten years, the king of Yue heard that the king of Wu was stationed in Yingdu and that the country was empty, so he raised his troops to attack Wu.
Wu State sent another army to fight against the Vietnamese soldiers.
The State of Chu appealed to the State of Qin, and the State of Qin sent troops to rescue Chu and attack Wu. The Wu army was defeated.
Helu's younger brother Fugai saw that the Qin soldiers and the Yue soldiers defeated the Wu soldiers at the same time, and the king of Wu stayed in the Chu state and did not return. Fugai ran back to the state of Wu and proclaimed himself the king of Wu.
After Helu heard about it, he led his troops back to Wu and attacked Fugai.
Fugai was defeated and fled to Chu.
King Zhao of Chu was able to return to Yingdu in September, and sealed Fugai in Tangxi, where he became the Tangxi clan.
The year before last, King Wu ordered Prince Fucha to attack Chu and capture Panyi.
The king of Chu was afraid and moved the capital from Ying to Bo.
In the fifteenth year, Confucius photographed the affairs of the State of Lu.
In the summer of the 19th year, the state of Wu sent troops to attack the state of Yue, and King Goujian of Yue led his troops to fight against Li.
The Vietnamese soldiers sent death squads to challenge the Wu army. They lined up in three lines and rushed towards the Wu army, chanting slogans and committing suicide in front of the formation.
The Wu soldiers just watched this strange situation and relaxed their guard. The Yue soldiers took advantage of the situation to attack and defeated the Wu soldiers in Gusu. King Wu's toe was wounded by the Vietnamese army, and the army retreated seven miles.
Later, King Wu died of trauma in Helu. Before his death, King Wu ordered the crown prince Fu Chai to be king, and said to Fu Chai, "Can you forget that Gou Jian killed your father?"
Fu Chai replied: "I dare not forget!"
After three years, Wu finally took revenge on Yue.
The year before last, the doctor Bo Pei was appointed as Dazai.
King Wu insisted on training his army and always aimed to take revenge on Yue.
The year before last, King Wu Fu Chai dispatched all his elite troops to attack Vietnam and defeated the Vietnamese army in Fujiao, finally avenging the defeat of Gusu.
King Gou Jian of Yue had no choice but to hide in Kuaiji Mountain with 5,000 armored soldiers, and sent the official Wen Zhong to seek peace through Bo Pe, the Grand Prime Minister of Wu State, and was willing to use Yue State as a slave state of Wu State.
The King of Wu wanted to allow it, but Wu Zixu advised him: "In the past, the Guo family killed the Zhen Guan family and then conquered the Zhen Xun family, killing the empress of Xia.
Hou Min, the wife of the emperor's prime minister, was pregnant and fled to Youzhang to give birth to Shaokang.
Shaokang became the official of Mu Zheng in You still country.
The Youguo family wanted to kill Shaokang again, so Shaokang fled to the Youyu state. The Youyu family missed Xia Zhi's kindness, so they married their two daughters to Shaokang and granted him Lunyi. At that time, Shaokang only had a land of ten miles and only 500 subordinates.
But later Shaokang gathered the remnants of Xia and rectified the official system.
They sent people to penetrate into the Youguo clan, finally eliminated the Youguo clan, restored Xia Yu's achievements, and worshiped the Xia ancestor as the emperor of heaven. All the relics of the Xia Dynasty were restored as before.
Now the state of Wu is not as powerful as it used to be with the Guo clan, and Gou Jian's strength is greater than that of Shaokang.
Instead of taking this opportunity to completely eliminate the Yue forces now, we must forgive them. This is setting up trouble for the future!
Moreover, Gou Jian was a man who was tenacious and endured hardships. If he is not eliminated now, he will regret it in the future.
The King of Wu did not listen to Zixu's plan, but listened to Dazai Pei's words, and finally ceased war with the State of Yue. After the two countries signed a peace treaty, the State of Wu withdrew its troops and returned home.
The year before last, King Fu Chai of Wu heard that ministers were vying for power after the death of Qi Jinggong, and that the new king was young and powerless, so he launched an army to attack Qi State in the north.
Wu Zixu advised him: King Gou Jian of Yue did not eat more than two kinds of dishes, and did not wear more than two colors. He mourned the dead and comforted the sick. This was because he wanted to use the people to take revenge on Wu.
If Gou Jian does not die, he will definitely be a great trouble to the state of Wu.
Now the country of Yue is a serious problem for our country, but you don't pay attention to it and instead use your strength to the country of Qi. Isn't it a big mistake?
The King of Wu refused to listen and went north to attack Qi and defeated the Qi army in Ailing.
When the troops arrived at Zhuanyi, they summoned Duke Ai of Lu and asked for a hundred prisons.
Ji Kangzi sent Zigong to list the Zhou rites to persuade Dazai Pei, and King Wu stopped.
So King Wu stayed to seize the southern territories of Qi and Lu.
In the ninth year, he crusaded against Lu for Zuo and arrived in Lu. He made an alliance with Lu and left.
The year before last, he took advantage of the situation to attack Qi and return.
The year before last, there was another northern expedition to Qi.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his ministers to pay homage to the King of Wu and presented him with generous tributes. The King of Wu was overjoyed.
Only Wu Zixu was afraid and said: The Kingdom of Wu is going to be abandoned.
So he admonished the King of Wu and said: The Yue Kingdom is close to its heart. Although our country can defeat Qi now, it is like a field of stones, which is of no use.
Moreover, "Pangeng's Edict" said that the Shang Dynasty can only prosper if the chaotic and arrogant people are eliminated.
The King of Wu refused to listen and sent Wu Zixu as an envoy to Qi. Zixu entrusted his son to the Bao family of Qi to repay the King of Wu.
When the king of Wu heard about it, he was furious and gave Zixu a sword to commit suicide.
When Zixu was about to die, he said: If you plant catalpa trees on my grave and let them grow enough to make utensils, the Kingdom of Wu will be destroyed.
Plug out my eyes and place them on the east gate of the capital of Wu, so that I can see how the Yue Kingdom destroyed the Wu Kingdom.
Later, the official of Qi State, Bao Shi, killed Qi Daugong.
When King Wu found out, he cried bitterly outside the military gate for three days and then led his army to attack Qi from the sea.
The Qi army defeated the Wu army, and the king of Wu had no choice but to lead the defeated troops back home.
The year before last, King Wu convened the kings of Lu and Wei for an alliance meeting in Lugao.
In the spring of the year before last, King Wu went north to meet with the princes in Huangchi, hoping to dominate the Central Plains and protect the Zhou Dynasty.
In the sixth month of the sixth month, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked Wu.
On Yiyou day, five thousand Yue soldiers fought against Wu soldiers.
Bingxu, captured the prince friend of Wu.
In Dinghai, the Vietnamese army entered the state of Wu.
The Wu people reported the news of their failure to Fu Chai. The King of Wu was afraid that someone would leak the news and let the alliance princes hear the news, so he furiously killed seven people in front of the tent.
In the seventh month of Xinchou, the King of Wu and Duke Ding of Jin competed for the position of leader of the alliance.
King Wu said: My ancestor is the largest among the Zhou clan.
Jin Dinggong said: Among the countries named Ji, only our country of Jin has ever been the overlord.
Zhao Yang, the official of the Jin Dynasty, was angry and wanted to attack the king of Wu, so he made Jin Dinggong the leader of the alliance.
The King of Wu's alliance had concluded, and he separated from Jin Dinggong and wanted to attack the Song Dynasty.
Dazai Pei said: You can defeat the Song Kingdom, but you cannot stay and occupy it.
So he led his troops back home.
Wu State had no crown prince and the country was empty. The King of Wu had been away for a long time and his soldiers were tired, so he sent envoys with generous gifts to negotiate peace with Yue State.
The year before last, Qi doctor Tian Chang killed Qi Jiangong.
The year before last, the country of Yue had become stronger.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his troops to attack Wu and defeated the Wu soldiers in Lize.
Chu State destroyed Chen State.
The year before last, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked Wu again.
The year before last, Vietnamese soldiers besieged the state of Wu.
On Dingmao in November of the previous year, the Yue State defeated the Wu State.
King Gou Jian of Yue wanted to exile King Wu Fu Chai to Yongdong and give him a hundred households to live there.
The King of Wu said: I am old and can no longer serve the King of Yue.
I regret not listening to Zixu's words and letting myself fall into this situation.
So he committed suicide and died.
The King of Yue destroyed the Kingdom of Wu and killed Dazai Pi because he was not loyal to his lord, and then led his troops back to the country.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said that Taibo can be said to be the pinnacle of morality. He gave up the world to others three times, and the people could not find words to praise him.
I read the ancient text "Spring and Autumn" and realized that Yu in the Central Plains and Juwu in Jingman were brothers.
The benevolent heart of Yanling Jizi persisted in admiring morality and righteousness throughout his life, and he was able to distinguish the pure from the turbid by seeing the subtle things.
Ah, what a well-informed and knowledgeable gentleman!
