On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wang Mang led the princes and ministers to present the newly made Imperial Seal of the Empress Dowager to her, thereby removing the name of the Han Dynasty. Wang Mang had married the daughter of the Wang family of the Marquis of Yichun as his queen, who bore him four sons: Wang Zi, Wang Huo, Wang An, and Wang Lin. Two of his sons had been executed earlier. Due to Wang An's confusion, Wang Lin was made crown prince, and Wang An was given a new title. Six sons were granted the title of king. An amnesty was announced for the whole world. Wang Mang then wrote a policy letter ordering the boy Liu Ying to step down, granting him the title of Ding'an Gong and making him a guest of the new dynasty. Queen Xiaoqian was named the Queen Mother of Ding'an. After reading the policy, Wang Mang personally held the boy's hand, sighed with tears, and expressed his sorrow. The middle master took the boy down to the palace, and the boy faced north, calling himself a minister. Hundreds of officials accompanied him, and no one was unmoved.

According to the instructions on the gold cabinet, the auxiliary ministers held appointment ceremonies. The Taifu, Zuo Fu, and Husband General Anyang Hou Wang Shun were appointed as the Grand Master and granted the title of An Xingong; the Great Situ Juudehou Pingyan was appointed as the Grand Tutor and granted the title of Xingong; Shao'a, Xihe, and Jingzhao Yin Hongxiu Hou Liu Xin were appointed as the Imperial Preceptors and granted the title of Jiaxin Gong; Aizhang, a native of Zitong County in Guanghan County, was appointed as the State General and granted the title of Mei Xingong. These were the fourth assistants, ranking in the rank of Grand Duke. The Taibao and later Chengyang Marquis Zhen Han was appointed as the Great Sima and granted the title of New Gong; the Marquis of Pi Jin, Wang Xun, was granted the title of the Great Situ and granted the title of the New Duke; the infantry general, the Marquis of Chengdu, was granted the title of the Grand Sikong and granted the title of Long Xingong. These were the three Dukes. Da'a, Youfu, Da Sikong, and Wei generals Guangyang Hou Zhenfeng were appointed as Gengshi generals and granted the title of Guangxin Gong; Wang Xing from Jingzhao Yin was appointed as the Wei general and granted the title of Xingong; General Qingche Cheng Wuhou Sun Jian was appointed as the founding general and granted the title of Xingong; Wang Sheng from Jingzhao Yin was appointed as the former general and granted the title of Chongxin Gong. These were the four generals. Eleven males in total. Wang Xing was the original official of the city gate, and Wang Sheng was a cake seller. Wang Mang found more than ten people with such names according to the talisman, and they were directly recruited from civilians to show their magic. Others with the same name were awarded the title of Langguan. On this day, a total of several hundred people were awarded the official positions of minister, minister, and minister. Members of the royal family surnamed Liu who served as county governors were all transferred to admonish the officials. Mingguang Palace was changed to Ding'an Pavilion, and Queen Mother Ding'an was allowed to live there. The former Dahonglu official residence was used as a public residence in Ding'an, with guards and envoys set up to monitor and manage it. The nursery staff and nanny were warned not to talk to him, and he was allowed to stay in a small room surrounded by four walls. Later, Wang Ling married his granddaughter Wang Yu's daughter to him.

Wang Mang issued a policy document stipulating the responsibilities of the officials, linking them to the five planets and the moon, sun, and Beidou. Other officials made regulations according to their duties. There were appointed Grand Sima Siyun, Grand Situ Sizhi, and Grand Situ Kong Siruo, all of whom were appointed as Guqing. Da Sinong was renamed Xihe, and later Nayan, Dali was renamed Zuoshi, Taichang was renamed Zhizhong, Dahonglu was renamed Dianle, the Shaofu was renamed Gonggong, and the Shuiheng Duwei was renamed Yuyu. In addition, the three company ministers were renamed nine ministers in total, and they were placed under the jurisdiction of the three princes. There were three officials under each minister, and three officials under each official. A total of twenty-seven officials and eighty-one officials were in charge of all the duties of various government offices in the capital. Guang Luxun was renamed Sizhong, the imperial servant was renamed Taiyu, the Weiwei was renamed Taiwei, Zhijinwu was renamed Fenwu, the lieutenant was renamed Junzheng, and a large official was set up to be in charge of the emperor's vehicles, clothes and utensils, and later in charge of military supplies. The positions were all senior ministers, called the Sixth Supervisor. The prefect of the county was renamed Taiyin, the captain was renamed Taiwei, the county magistrate and magistrate were renamed Zai, the censor was renamed Enforcement, the carriage driver was renamed Wanglu Simen, Changle Palace was renamed Changleshi, Weiyang Palace was renamed Shouchengshi, the front hall was renamed Wanglutang, and Chang'an was renamed Chang'an. The people with a salary of 100 stones were renamed common people, those with a salary of 300 stones were renamed corporals, those with a salary of 400 stones were renamed sergeants, those with a salary of 500 stones were renamed Mingshi, those with a salary of 600 stones were renamed yuanshi, those with a thousand stones were renamed xiaodafu, those with 2000 stones were renamed middle doctors, 2000 stones were renamed shangdafu, and those with 2000 stones were renamed qing. The carriages, horses, dresses, and hats they use all have different levels. Doctors Sigong, Situ, Siming, Sicong, Sizhong, poetry reciters, and Che Shanzai were also appointed to detect faults.

Wang Mang issued a policy letter saying that there are no two suns in the sky, and there are no two kings on the earth. Some of the princes of the Han Dynasty were called kings, until foreigners from all over the world also imitated the title of king, which violated the ancient system and deviated from the principle of unification. It should be ensured that the names of princes and kings are all called Gong, and that the names of foreigners from all over the world who steal their names and call themselves kings are changed to Hou. He also said that the emperor's lineage should be inherited, developed and integrated; the lineage with noble virtues should enjoy sacrifices for a long time. He thought that Huangdi, Shaohao, Zhuanxu, Diru, Yao of Tang, Yushun, Xia Yu, Gaotao and Yiyin all had sage virtues. He admired them, sought their descendants, and intended to continue their sacrifices. He believed that the surname Wang was a descendant of Yu Shun and came from imperial learning; the surname Liu was a descendant of Tang Yao and came from Zhuan Xu. So Yao Xun was granted the title of Marquis of Chumu, the descendant of the Yellow Emperor; Liang Hu was the descendant of Xiu Yuanbo, the descendant of Shaowu; the grandson of the emperor Gonglong Gongwang Qian was the descendant of the emperor; Liu Xin was the descendant of Qi Liebo, the descendant of Zhuan Xu; the country Liu Xin's son Liu Die was Yixiuhou and inherited the descendants of Tang Yao; Machang was Shimuhou and inherited the descendants of Yu Shun; Shan Zun was Baomou's son and inherited Gaotao's descendants; Yixuan was Baohengzi and inherited Yiyin's descendants. Liu Ying, the descendant of the Han Dynasty, Ding'an Gong, was a state guest. Ji Dang, a descendant of Duke Wei of the Zhou Dynasty, was renamed Duke Zhang Ping and was also a state guest. Song Gong Kong Hong, a descendant of the Yin Dynasty, had his fortune changed and his position moved. He was renamed Zhang Zhaohou and his status was that of a distinguished guest. Si Feng, a descendant of the Xia Dynasty from Liaoxi County, was granted the title of Zhang Gonghou and was also an honored guest. The ancestors of the Xia, Yin, Zhou, and Han dynasties were worshiped together in the Mingtang, and they were allowed to follow the great imperial ancestor Yu Shun to share. The descendants of Zhou Gong praised Lu Zi Ji Ji, and the descendants of Confucius praised Cheng Zi Ji Gou. It has been determined before.

Wang Mang continued that when he was the regent, he built suburban sacrificial altar sites, established ancestral temples, and set up Tugu Shrine. The gods repaid him with brilliance from above covering the bottom, flowing down and turning into old crows, and yellow air rising and shining brightly to highlight the afterglow of Huangdi and Yushun. From the Yellow Emperor to King Bo of Jinan, there were five surnames of our ancestors. Huangdi had twenty-five sons and gave them twelve surnames. The surname accepted by the ancestors of Yu and Shun was Yao. In the Tao and Tang Dynasties, the surname was Yu, in the Zhou Dynasty, the surname was Chen, in Qi State, the surname was Tian, ​​and in Jinan, the surname was Wang. He prostrated himself in memory of the great emperor Kao Huangdi, and the great emperor Kao Yushun. They have been worshiped together in the Mingtang, and they should also be included in the ancestors' temples. Five ancestral temples and four ancestral temples should be built, and their queens or wives should all enjoy them. When offering sacrifices to heaven and earth, let the Yellow Emperor share with the sky, and let the Yellow Queen share with the earth. The east residence of Xin Duhou was used as the Ancestral Temple, and sacrifices were made on time every two years. The ancestors respected by the people should also be worshiped from generation to generation. The imperial court has set an example for the whole country. People with the five surnames of Yao, Ma, Chen, Tian, ​​and Wang are all descendants of Huangdi and Yushun, and they all belong to my clan. Didn’t the Book of Books say it? In order to promote love and harmony among the nine clans, all parts of the country should be ordered to report the names of these five surnames to the Zhizong clan and treat them as royal clans. Grant them immunity from taxation and labor for generations to come, and have nothing to do with it. Among them, the Wang surname in Yuancheng County is not allowed to marry each other with the surnames Yao, Yan, Chen, and Tian, ​​so as to distinguish clans and separate relatives. Chen Chong was granted the title of Tongmuhou to inherit the descendants of King Hu; Tian Feng was granted the title of Shimuhou to inherit the descendants of King Jing. Because of the rebellion of Zhai Yi, Tang Ming and others in the past, the state pastors and county governors across the country were able to occupy their states and counties. They were loyal and filial, and granted the governors the title of baron and the governor the title of annexed city. He also granted the title of baron to the sons of his old benefactors Dai Chong, Jin She, Ji Hong and Yang Bing. They sent Weixiao and others from Qidu to repair the Yellow Emperor's tomb in Shangdu Bridge, Yu Shun's tomb in Jiuyi, Lingling County, King Hu's tomb in Chen County, Huaiyang County, King Jing's tomb in Linzi County, Qi County, King Min's tomb in Ju County, Chengyang State, King Bo's tomb in Shupingling County, Jinan County, and King Ru's tomb in Yuancheng County, Wei County, and envoys were sent to offer sacrifices according to the seasons. Their ancestral temple should be built, because the country has just been pacified, and for the time being, joint sacrifices will be held in the Mingtang Ancestral Temple. Take Han Gaodi Temple as Wenzu Temple. Wang Mang said that his great emperor Kao Yushun accepted the ceded political power from Tang Yao. The early ancestor of the Han Dynasty was Tang Yao. He wanted to praise and treat the previous dynasty, how could he forget it? There were seven ancestors of the Han Dynasty, and ancestral temples should be built in Ding'an State according to etiquette. The temples attached to their cemeteries in the capital should not be abolished, and the sacrifices should continue as before. He would personally go to the ancestral temples of Emperor Gao, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, and Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty to offer sacrifices in September in autumn. The names of the royal families surnamed Liu were transferred to the management of Jingzhao Dayin. Their privileges of exemption from taxes and labor should not be revoked. They should be limited to themselves. The state pastor should often go to condolences and prevent them from being wronged and persecuted.