The ancestors of the Wei family are descendants of Bi Gonggao.
Bi Gonggao has the same surname as Emperor Zhou.
After King Wu defeated Zhou, Gao was granted the title Bi, so he took Bi as his surname.
His descendants had their titles discontinued and became commoners, some living in the Central Plains and some living in Yi and Di.
One of his descendants was named Bi Wan, who served Duke Xiang of Jin.
In the sixteenth year of Duke Xiang of Jin, Zhao Su drove a chariot with Bi Wan as the right guard to conquer Huo, Geng, and Wei, and destroyed them all.
Duke Xian granted Geng to Zhao Su and Wei to Bi Wan, and both of them became high officials.
Bu Yan, who was in charge of divination, said: Bi Wan's descendants must be very prosperous. Wan is the full number; Wei is the name of tall people.
Starting a reward with such a name is God's sponsorship for him. What the emperor rules is called Zhaomin, and what the princes rule is called Wanmin.
Now that his name is Da, followed by the full number, he will definitely have the people.
At the beginning, Bi Wan divined the good and bad fortune of serving Jin Jun, and obtained the tunzhūn, and the Yin Ping Zhun hexagram became the Bi hexagram.
Xin Liao concluded: Good luck.
Tun Gua symbolizes solidity and Bi Gua symbolizes entry. What could be more auspicious than this? It will be prosperous and prosperous in the future.
Eleven years after Bi Wan was granted the title, Duke Xiang of Jin died. His four sons competed with each other for the throne, and Jin was in civil strife.
There were more and more descendants of Bi Wan, and the country was named Wei after them.
Bi Wan gave birth to Wu Zi.
Wei Wuzi served Jin Gongzi Chong'er as a member of the Wei family.
In the 21st year of Duke Xiang of Jin, Wei Wuzi followed Chong'er into exile. Nineteen years later, when he returned to China, Chong'er ascended the throne as Duke Wen of Jin, allowing Wei Wuzi to inherit the titles of the descendants of the Wei family and rise to the status of a high official. His official residence was located in Wei Yi.
Wei Wuzi gave birth to a son.
Wei Daozi moved the government office to Huoyi.
He gave birth to Wei Jiang.
Wei Jiang served Duke Ao of Jin.
In the third year of mourning for the Duke, he made an alliance with the princes.
Yang Qian, the younger brother of the duke, caused chaos in the queue, and Wei Jiang killed Yang Qian's servants to humiliate him.
Duke Mourning said angrily: "I am proud of joining the princes, but now I am insulting my brother!"
Wei Jiang will be killed.
Some people tried to persuade him to mourn, but he gave up.
Later, Wei Jiang was finally appointed to be in power, and he was sent to repair with Rong and Di. From then on, Rong and Di became close and attached to Jin.
In the eleventh year of the reign of Duke Mourning, Duke Mourning said: Since I appointed Wei Jiang, in eight years, I have met with the princes nine times, and Rong and Di have made peace with us. This is all due to your efforts!
Wei Jiang was given musical instruments and a band, but Wei Jiang declined three times before accepting.
Wei Jiang moved his government to Anyi.
After Wei Jiang's death, his posthumous title was Zhaozi.
He gave birth to Wei Ying, and Wei Ying gave birth to Wei Xianzi.
Wei Xianzi served Duke Zhao of Jin.
After the death of Duke Zhao, the six ministers of Jin became stronger and stronger, while the official family declined.
In the twelfth year of Jin Qinggong's reign, Han Xuanzi became old and Wei Xianzi took charge of state affairs.
The Qi clan and the Yangyu clan of the Jin State slandered each other. The Six Qing Dynasties killed them, took back all their fiefdoms and divided them into ten counties. The Six Qing Dynasties sent their sons to serve as officials in the ten counties.
Wei Xianzi, Zhao Jianzi, Zhongxing Wenzi, and Fan Xianzi were all ministers of Jin.
For the next fourteen years, Confucius served as acting prime minister of the State of Lu.
Four years later, due to the Jinyang Rebellion, Zhao Jianzi, together with the Han family and the Wei family, attacked the Fan family and the Zhonghang family.
Wei Xianzi gave birth to Wei Chi, who together with Zhao Yang attacked the Fan family and the Zhongxing family.
Wei Chi's grandson was Wei Huanzi. He, Han Kangzi and Zhao Xiangzi joined forces to defeat Zhibo and divide his territory.
Huanzi's grandson was Wenhou Weisi.
The first year of Wei Wenhou was the first year of Qin Ling.
Wei Wenhou was at the same time as Han Wuzi, Zhao Huanzi, and Zhou Weilie.
In the sixth year of Marquis Wen's reign, he built a city in Shaoliang.
In the thirteenth year, he sent his subordinates to attack Fan and Pang and move out the people there.
In the 16th year, he attacked Qin and built cities in Linjin and Yuanli.
In the seventeenth year of Marquis Wen's reign, he attacked and destroyed the Zhongshan Kingdom, and sent Ziqi to garrison there, asking Zhao Cangtang to assist him.
Zicheng met Wenhou's teacher Tian Zifang in Chaoge. He stepped back from his car to make way, and got out of the car to pay his respects.
Tian Zifang did not return the favor.
Zijing asked him, "Are rich people arrogant to others, or are poor people arrogant to others?"
Tian Zifang said: It's just that poor and humble people are arrogant towards others.
If a prince is arrogant to others, he will lose his feudal kingdom; if a great official is arrogant to others, he will lose his family.
If the poor and humble people do not agree with their behavior and their opinions are not accepted, they will leave here and go to Chu and Yue, just like taking off their straw sandals. How can they be the same as the rich and noble people!
Zicheng left unhappy.
He attacked the Qin State to the west, returned to the Zheng State, and built cities in Luoyin and Heyang.
In the 22nd year of Marquis Wen, Wei, Zhao and Han were recognized as princes.
In the twenty-fourth year of Marquis Wen's reign, the Qin army attacked Wei and reached Yanghu.
In the twenty-fifth year of Marquis Wen's reign, his son gave birth to a son.
Marquis Wen studied the Confucian classics under Zixia and treated Duan Qianmu as a guest. When he passed through his hometown, he never failed to pay tribute to Ping Shi.
Qin once wanted to attack Wei. Some people say: The king of Wei has special respect for wise men. People in Wei praise his benevolence and he is harmonious and united, so he cannot have any intentions against him.
As a result, Marquis Wen received praise from the princes.
Ximen Bao was appointed as the governor of Ye County, so Hanoi was known as peaceful and stable.
Marquis Wen of Wei said to Li Ke: My husband once taught me: If your family is poor, you want a good wife; if your country is in chaos, you want a wise prime minister.
Now we have to appoint a prime minister, either Chengzi or Zhai Huang. What do you think of these two people?
Li Ke replied: I have heard that humble people do not plan for noble people, and distant people do not plan for those who are close to them.
My responsibilities lie outside the palace, and I dare not take on this mission.
Marquis Wen said: Sir, don't refuse when faced with this matter.
Li Ke said: This is because you did not pay attention to inspection.
Look at who he is close to in normal times, who he associates with when he is rich, who he recommends when he is powerful, what he does not do when he is frustrated, and what he does not want when he is poor. With these five things, you can decide who will be the prime minister. Why wait for me, Li Ke!
Marquis Wen said: Sir, please go home, my prime minister has decided.
Li Ke walked out quickly and visited Zhai Huang at his home.
Zhai Huang said: Today I heard that the monarch summoned Mr. to choose the prime minister. Who will be the prime minister?
Li Ke said: Wei Chengzi has become prime minister.
Zhai Huang's face changed with anger, and he said: Based on what I saw and heard with my ears and eyes, in what way am I worse than Wei Chengzi?
The defender of Xihe is my recommendation.
The monarch is most worried about Yejun in the mainland, so I recommended Ximen Bao.
The monarch planned to attack Zhongshan Kingdom, and I recommended Le Yang.
After Zhongshan was conquered and no one could be sent to guard it, I recommended Mr.
The monarch's son had no master, so I recommended Quhou Yu.
In what way am I worse than Wei Chengzi!
Li Ke said: Is your purpose of recommending me to your monarch to form a party for personal gain and seek to become a high official?
The monarch asked to arrange for the prime minister to be either Chengzi or Zhai Huang. What about the two of them?
I replied: This is because you did not pay attention to the investigation.
Look at the people he is close to in ordinary times, look at the people he recommends when he is powerful, look at the things he does not do when he is frustrated, and look at the things he does not want when he is poor. These five points are enough to make the decision. Why do I need Li Ke?
Therefore, we knew that Wei Chengzi was going to be the prime minister.
How can you compare with Wei Chengzi?
Wei Chengzi had a thousand-minute salary, nine-tenths of which were spent outside and one-tenth at home, so he hired Bu Zixia, Tian Zifang, and Duan Qianmu from the east.
These three people, the monarch regarded them as teachers.
The king has appointed the five people you recommended as his ministers.
How can you compare with Wei Chengzi?
Zhai Huang hesitated and then bowed and said, "I, Zhai Huang, am a shallow person and speak inappropriately. I am willing to be your disciple for life."
In the twenty-sixth year of Marquis Wen's reign, Guoshan Mountain collapsed and blocked the Yellow River.
In the 32nd year of Marquis Wen, the Wei army attacked Zheng Guo.
Build a city in jujube.
Defeat the Qin army in Zhucheng.
In the thirty-fifth year, the Qi army captured Xiangling of Wei State.
In the thirty-sixth year, the Qin army invaded the Yin and Jin Dynasties of Wei.
In the thirty-eighth year of Marquis Wen, the Wei army attacked Qin and was defeated by Wu Xia. Wei captured Qin General Shi.
In this year, Marquis Wen died and Zicheng ascended the throne, becoming Marquis Wu.
In the first year of Wei Wuhou, Zhao Jinghou had just ascended the throne. Young Master Shuo rebelled, but failed. He fled to the Wei State and attacked Handan with the Wei Army. The Wei Army withdrew after its failure.
In the second year of Wuhou's reign, he built cities in Anyi and Wangyuan.
In the seventh year of Marquis Wu, the Wei army attacked Qi and reached Sangqiu.
In the ninth year, the Di people defeated the Wei army at Huishui.
The Marquis of Wei sent Wu Qi to attack Qi and reached Lingqiu.
King Qi Wei has just ascended the throne.
In the eleventh year of Wuhou's reign, Wei, Han, and Zhao divided the territory of Jin and eliminated its descendants.
In the thirteenth year of Marquis Wu's reign, Duke Xian of Qin moved his capital to Yueyang.
In the fifteenth year, the Wei army defeated the Zhao army in Beilin.
In the 16th year of Marquis Wu, the Wei army attacked Chu and occupied Luyang. Marquis Wu died and Ziyi came to the throne. This was King Hui.
The first year of King Hui. At first, when Marquis Wu died, Ziyi and Gong Zhongxu vied for the title of crown prince.
Gongsun Qi went from Song to Zhao, and then from Zhao to South Korea, and said to Han Yihou: "Wei Wei is competing with Gongzhong Xu to be the crown prince. Have you heard about this?"
Now that Wei Wei has been assisted by Wang Cuo and has Shangdang, he can count as half of the country.
Take advantage of this opportunity to get rid of him and defeat Wei. This opportunity must not be lost.
Marquis Yi was very happy, so he joined forces with Marquis Zhao Cheng to attack the state of Wei. They fought at Zhuoze. The state of Wei was defeated and the king of Wei was besieged.
The Marquis of Zhao said to the Marquis of Han: It will be in our interest to get rid of the king of Wei, let the Duke ascend to the throne slowly, and withdraw the troops after the territory is ceded.
Han Hou said: This cannot be done.
If we kill Wei Jun, people will definitely accuse us of cruelty; if we cede territory and retreat, people will definitely accuse us of greed.
It is better to divide the Wei State into two halves. The Wei State is divided into two countries, which will not be stronger than the Song State and the Wei State. Then we will never have the disasters of the Wei State.
Zhao Hou refused to listen.
The Marquis of Han was unhappy and led some of his troops to leave overnight.
The reason why King Hui of Wei did not die and the Wei State was not divided was because the two families of Han and Zhao had different opinions. If the opinions of one family were followed, the Wei State would definitely be divided.
Therefore, if the monarch dies without a legitimate son to succeed him, the country may be conquered.
In the second year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army defeated the Han army in Maling and the Zhao army in Huaiyi.
In three years, the Qi army defeated the Wei army in Guancheng.
In the fifth year, the King of Wei and the Marquis of Han met in Zhaiyang.
Build weapons to block the city.
The Wei army was defeated by the Qin army.
In six years, he captured the Yitai of Song Dynasty.
In the ninth year, he attacked and defeated the Korean army in Huishui.
The Wei army fought with the Qin army in Shaoliang. The Qin army captured Wei general Gongsun Cuo and captured Pangcheng.
Duke Xiang of Qin passed away, and his son Duke Xiao came to the throne.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army captured Zhao's Pi Lao.
A comet appears.
Twelve years ago, a meteorite fell during the day and there was a sound.
In the fourteenth year of King Hui, King Wei and Marquis Zhao met in Haoyi.
In the fifteenth year, the monarchs of Lu, Wei, Song and Zheng came to see King Wei Hui.
In the sixteenth year, King Hui of Wei and Duke Xiao of Qin met in Duping.
He invaded Huangchi of the Song Dynasty, and the Song Dynasty took it back.
In the seventeenth year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army and the Qin army fought in Yuanli, and the Qin army captured Wei's Shaoliang.
The Wei army surrounded Handan of Zhao State.
In the eighteenth year, the Wei army captured Handan.
Zhao State asked Qi State for reinforcements. Qi State sent Tian Ji and Sun Bin to rescue Zhao and defeated the Wei army in Guiling.
In the nineteenth year of King Hui, the princes united to surround Xiangling of Wei State.
The Great Wall was built and Guyang became a fortress.
In the 20th year of King Hui's reign, the State of Wei returned Handan to the State of Zhao. The King of Wei and the Marquis of Zhao met at the bank of the Zhang River for an alliance.
In the twenty-first year, I met Qin Jun in Tong.
Zhao Chenghou passed away.
In the twenty-eighth year, King Qi Wei passed away.
Zhongshan Jun was appointed as the prime minister of Wei.
In the 30th year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army attacked the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao asked Qi for help.
King Xuan of Qi used Sun Tzu's strategy to attack Wei and rescue Zhao.
Wei then sent a large number of troops, led by Pang Juan, and made Prince Shen the general.
When the Wei army passed by Waihuang, Xuzi said to Prince Shen: I have a way to win every battle.
The prince said: Can you let me hear it?
Xu Zi said: I originally wanted to present it to you.
He went on to say: The prince personally leads the troops to attack Qi. Even if he wins a great victory and captures the land of Ju, his wealth will only be that of owning the Kingdom of Wei, and his wealth will only be that of being the king of Wei.
If we cannot defeat Qi, our descendants will not be able to capture Wei for eternity.
This is my winning formula.
Prince Shen said: Well, I will definitely follow your advice and return to China.
Xu Zi said: Although the prince wants to go back, it is no longer possible.
There are too many people who persuade the prince to fight and want to benefit from it.
Although the prince wants to go back, I'm afraid it's impossible.
The prince then wanted to go back, but his driver said: "Going back as soon as the general leads the troops is the same as losing the battle."
As expected, Prince Shen fought against the Qi army and was defeated at Maling.
The Qi army captured Wei Prince Shen and killed general Pang Juan. The Wei army was finally defeated.
In the 31st year of King Hui, Qin, Zhao, and Qi attacked Wei together. Qin general Shang Yang defrauded and captured Wei general Gongzi Yan, and then attacked and captured his army, defeating the Wei army.
Qin appointed Shang Yang, and the territory to the east reached the Yellow River. Qi and Zhao defeated Wei many times, and Anyi was close to Qin, so Wei moved its capital to Daliang.
Prince He was made the crown prince.
In the thirty-third year of King Hui, Duke Xiao of Qin passed away. Shang Yang fled from Qin and went to Wei. The people of Wei were angry and did not take him in.
In the thirty-fifth year, King Wei and King Xuan of Qi met in the south of Pingyang.
King Hui suffered repeated military defeats, so he used courteous etiquette and generous gifts to recruit wise men. Zou Yan, Chunyu Kun, and Meng Ke all came to Wei.
King Hui of Liang said: I have no talent, my army suffered setbacks abroad three times, the prince was captured, the general died in battle, the country was empty, and the ancestral temple and the country were humiliated, and I was very ashamed. The old gentleman condescended to visit the court of our country in person. How will he benefit our country?
Meng Ke said: A monarch cannot talk about interests like this.
If the monarch wants to make a profit, then the officials also want to make a profit; if the officials want to make a profit, then the people also want to make a profit. If everyone from top to bottom strives for profit, the country will be in danger.
As a monarch of a country, it is enough to be benevolent and righteous. Why should we be concerned about profit?
In the thirty-sixth year of King Hui's reign, he met King Qi again in Zhenyi.
In this year, King Hui died and his son King Xiang came to the throne.
In the first year of King Xiang, King Wei and the princes met in Xuzhou to proclaim each other king.
King Xiang pursued and honored his father, King Hui, as king.
In the fifth year of King Xiang, the Qin army defeated the 45,000-strong army led by Long Jia of Wei State in Diaoyin, and besieged Jiaocheng and Quwo of Wei State.
Wei State ceded the land west of Hexi to Qin State.
In the sixth year of King Xiang, King Wei and King Qin met in Yingcheng.
The Qin army captured Wei's Fenyin, Pishi and Jiaocheng.
The Wei army conquered Chu and defeated the Chu army at Xingshan.
In seven years, the State of Wei gave all Shangjun to the State of Qin.
The Qin army occupied Puyang in the Wei state.
In the eighth year, Qin returned Jiaocheng and Quwo to Wei.
In the twelfth year of King Xiang, the Chu army defeated the Wei army in Xiangling.
The ruling ministers of the various vassal states met with Qin Prime Minister Zhang Yi at Zhisang.
In the thirteenth year, Zhang Yi was appointed prime minister of Wei.
A woman in Wei State turned into a man.
The Qin army captured Quwo and Pingzhou in Wei.
In the sixteenth year of King Xiang, King Xiang died, and his son King Ai came to the throne.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin.
In the first year of King Ai, the five kingdoms jointly attacked Qin, but they withdrew their troops without victory.
In the second year of King Ai's reign, the Qi army defeated the Wei army in Guanjin.
In the fifth year, the State of Qin sent Chuilizi to attack Quwo of the State of Wei, and drove away Gongsun Yan, the rhinoceros leader, at Anmen.
In the sixth year, the state of Qin sent people to the state of Wei to establish Wei Gongzi Zheng as the crown prince.
The King of Wei and the King of Qin met in Linjin.
In the seventh year, the Wei army attacked Qi.
Together with the Qin army, he conquered the State of Yan.
In the eighth year of King Ai's reign, the Wei army attacked Weiguo and captured two cities.
The King of Wei was very worried. The official of Wei, Ru Er, went to see King Wei and said, "Is it okay for me to make Wei withdraw its troops and remove King Chengling?"
Wei Jun said: If you really can do it, I am willing to serve you with the defense of the country from generation to generation.
Ru'er saw Chenglingjun and said: In the past, the Wei army attacked Zhao, cut off the Yangchang Ban, captured Yanyu, and prepared to split the Zhao State into two halves. However, the reason why the Zhao State did not perish was because the Wei State was the leader of the alliance.
Now that Wei is on the verge of destruction, it will ask the west to serve Qin.
Rather than letting Qin rescue Wei, it is better for Wei to release Wei. In this way, Wei will always be grateful for Wei's kindness. Cheng Lingjun said: Yes.
Ru'er went to see King Wei again and said: "I once went to see Lord Wei."
Weiguo was originally a branch of the Zhou royal family. Although it was known as a small country, it had many treasures.
Now that the country is in danger, but the treasures have not been donated, the reason is that they believe that it is not up to the king to attack the Weiguo or release the Weiguo, so even if the treasures are offered, they will definitely not reach the hands of the king.
The minister secretly guessed that the person who first proposed to release Wei Guo must be the person who accepted Wei Guo's bribe.
After Ru'er went out, Lord Chengling came in and paid homage to King Wei as Ru'er said.
The King of Wei listened to his opinion and withdrew the Wei army. At the same time, he was relieved of his position as Lord Chengling and never saw him again for life.
In the ninth year of King Ai's reign, King Wei and King Qin met in Linjin.
Zhang Yi and Wei Zhang both surrendered to Wei.
Wei's prime minister Tian Xian died, and Chu was afraid that Zhang Yi, Xishou or Xue Gong would become Wei's prime minister.
Zhao Yu, the prime minister of Chu, said to Su Dai: Tian Xian is dead, I'm afraid one of Zhang Yi, Xishou and Xue Gong will become the prime minister of Wei.
Su Dai said: Then who is the prime minister who is beneficial to you?
Zhaoyu said: I want the crown prince of Wei to be the prime minister himself.
Su Dai said: Please allow me to go north for you, and I will definitely make him prime minister. Zhaoyu said: What should I do?
Su Dai replied: "You are the King of Liang, please let me lobby the King of Liang." Zhaoyu said: What did you say?
Su Dai replied: I came from the state of Chu. Zhaoyu was very worried. He said: Tian Xian has passed away. I am afraid that one of Zhang Yi, Xishou and Xue Gong will become the prime minister of Wei.
I said: The King of Liang is a wise king and will definitely not let Zhang Yi become prime minister.
If Zhang Yi becomes prime minister, he will definitely favor Qin and not help Wei.
If Xishou became prime minister, he would definitely favor South Korea and not help Wei.
When Duke Xue became prime minister, he would definitely favor Qi and not help Wei.
The King of Liang was a wise king and he must have known that this was not good for Wei.
King Wei would say: So who should I make as prime minister?
I said: It is better to let the prince be the prime minister himself.
If the prince himself becomes prime minister, these three people will think that the prince is not prime minister for a long time, and they will try their best to make their original country serve Wei, hoping to gain the status of prime minister.
With the strength of Wei State and the assistance of the three major powers, Wei State will definitely be stable.
So it is better to let the prince be the prime minister himself.
So he went north to see the King of Wei and told him these words.
As expected, the crown prince of Wei became prime minister.
In the tenth year of King Ai's reign, Zhang Yi passed away.
In the eleventh year, King Wei and King Wu of Qin met in Yingcheng.
In the twelfth year, the prince of Wei went to Qin to pay homage.
The Qin army came to attack the Pi family of Wei, but they withdrew without conquering.
In the fourteenth year, the State of Qin sent King Qin Wu and Queen Wu back to the State of Wei.
In the 16th year, the Qin army captured Pufan, Yangjin and Fenling in Wei.
In the seventeenth year, King Wei and King Qin met in Linjin.
The State of Qin returned Pu Fan to the State of Wei.
In the eighteenth year, Wei and Qin jointly attacked Chu.
In the 21st year, the Wei army, Qi army, and Han army jointly defeated the Qin army at Hanguguan.
In the twenty-third year of King Ai's reign, Qin returned the land beyond the river and the tombs to Wei and made peace with Wei.
King Ai died and his son King Zhao came to the throne.
In the first year of King Zhao, the Qin army captured Xiangcheng of Wei State.
In the second year, the Wei army fought with the Qin army, and the Wei army lost.
In three years, Wei helped South Korea attack Qin, and Qin general Bai Qi defeated 240,000 Korean and Wei troops in Yique.
In the sixth year, the state of Wei ceded four hundred miles of land east of the river to the state of Qin.
Mang Mao was reused by Wei State because of his good use of deceitful tactics.
In seven years, the Qin army captured 61 large and small cities in Wei.
In the eighth year, King Zhao of Qin personally proclaimed himself the Western Emperor, and King Qi Min proclaimed himself the Eastern Emperor. After more than a month, they both proclaimed themselves kings again and took back their imperial titles.
In the ninth year, the Qin army captured the two cities of Wei Guo, Xinyuan and Quyang.
In the tenth year of King Zhao, the State of Qi destroyed the State of Song, and the King of Song died in Wenyi, the State of Wei.
In the twelfth year, Wei, Qin, Zhao, Han, and Yan jointly attacked Qi and defeated the Qi army in Jixi. King Min of Qi fled.
The Yan army entered Linzi alone.
The king of Wei and the king of Qin met in the Western Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirteenth year of King Zhao, the Qin army captured Wei's Ancheng.
The army arrived at Daliang and withdrew again.
In the eighteenth year, the Qin army captured the capital of Chu State, Ying, and the king of Chu moved the capital to Chencheng.
In the nineteenth year of King Zhao, King Zhao passed away and his son King Anli came to the throne.
In the first year of King Anli, the Qin army captured two cities in Wei.
In the second year, two more cities of the Wei State were captured, and Chen Bing was under Daliang City. South Korea sent troops to rescue and gave Wenyi to Qin to seek peace.
In three years, the Qin army captured four cities in Wei and killed 40,000 people.
In four years, the Qin army defeated the Wei army, Han army, and Zhao army, killed 150,000 people, and drove away the Wei general Mangmao.
Wei general Duan Qianzi requested that Nanyang be surrendered to Qin for peace.
Su Dai said to the King of Wei: Duan Qianzi is the one who wants to be promoted, and Qin is the one who wants the land.
Now the king lets those who want land control the official seal, and lets those who want promotion control the land. Wei will not end until all its land is given away.
Besides, using the land to serve Qin is like holding dry sticks to put out a fire. The fire will not be extinguished until the sticks are burned out.
King Wei said: Of course, even so, things have already been implemented and cannot be changed.
Su Dai replied: Your Majesty has never seen anyone playing gambling, so he pays special attention to the owl, because if it is profitable, he can take the opponent's piece, and if it is unprofitable, he can stop.
Now that the king has said that things have begun to be implemented and cannot be changed, why is the king's use of wisdom inferior to the use of owl in gambling?
In the ninth year of King Anli's reign, the Qin army captured Wei's Huaiyi. In the tenth year, the prince of Qin who was a hostage in Wei died.
In the eleventh year, the Qin army captured Wei Qiu.
King Zhao of Qin said to his ministers: In which stage are Han and Wei stronger now than when they first started?
He replied: It is not as strong as when you first started.
The King of Qin said: "Compared with Ru'er and Wei Qi now, and Mengchang Lord and Mangmao in the past, who is more worthy?"
He replied: Ru'er and Wei Qi are not as good as Mengchangjun and Mangmao.
The King of Qin said: With the talents of Lord Mengchang and Mangmao, they led the strong troops of Han and Wei to attack Qin, but they still failed to do anything to me.
Now that the weak Han and Wei armies are led by the incompetent Ru'er and Wei Qi to attack Qin, it is obvious that they cannot do anything to me.
The courtiers on the left and right said: That's so right.
Zhongqi leaned on his qin and replied: Your Majesty's estimate of the world's situation was wrong.
When the Six Ministers of the Jin Dynasty were in power, the Zhi family was the strongest. They destroyed the Fan family and the Zhonghang family. They also led the troops of Han and Wei to besiege Zhao Xiangzi in Jinyang. They opened up the Jin River and flooded the Jinyang city, leaving only three levels high.
Zhibo inspected the water situation, Wei Huanzi drove the car, and Han Kangzi accompanied him on the right side of the car.
Zhibo said: At first I didn't know that water can destroy other people's countries, but now I know.
Since the Jin River can flood Jinyang, the Fen River can naturally flood Anyi, the capital of Wei, and the Jiang River can also flood Pingyang, the capital of Han.
So Wei Huanzi touched Han Kangzi with his elbow, and Han Kangzi also touched Wei Huanzi with his foot. The two made secret gestures with their elbows and feet in the car. As a result, Zhishi's territory was divided, Zhibo died and his country was destroyed, and he was laughed at by the people of the world.
Although the Qin soldiers are stronger now, they will not surpass Zhishi; although Han and Wei are weaker, they are still better than when they were under Jinyang City.
Now is the time for them to secretly unite with each other with their elbows and feet. I hope the king will not take the situation too simply!
So King Qin was a little frightened.
Qi and Chu united to attack Wei. Wei sent people to Qin to ask for help. There was an endless stream of envoys, but Qin's reinforcements did not come.
There was a man named Tang Sui in the State of Wei who was over ninety years old. He said to the King of Wei: The old minister requested to go to the west to lobby the King of Qin, and I must let the Qin army set off before I leave Qin.
When the king of Wei paid his respects again, he prepared his chariot and sent him there.
Tang Sui went to the Qin State and went to the palace to pay homage to the King of Qin.
The King of Qin said: It is so hard for the old man to come all the way to Qin State, exhausted!
Wei Guo has come to ask for help many times, and I know Wei Guo's crisis.
Tang Sui replied: Since the king already knew the crisis of Wei State but did not send reinforcements, I privately thought that the minister who made the plans was incompetent.
Wei was a big country with tens of thousands of chariots. The reason why Wei served Qin to the west, was called the Eastern vassal, accepted the clothes and crowns given by Qin, and sent sacrifices to Qin in spring and autumn, was because Qin was strong enough to become an ally.
Now the armies of Qi and Chu have gathered on the outskirts of Wei's capital, but Qin has not yet sent reinforcements, which means it is not too critical to rely on Wei.
If it comes to a particularly critical moment and it wants to cede territory to join the Hezong Group, what else are you going to save, Your Majesty?
You must wait until it is in danger before you save it. This means losing a Wei vassal in the east and strengthening the two enemy countries of Qi and Chu. So what benefits do you have, my king?
So King Zhao of Qin immediately sent troops to rescue Wei State, and Wei State restored stability.
The State of Zhao sent people to say to King Wei: "Kill Fan Cuo for me, and we are willing to give up seventy miles of land."
King Wei said: OK.
So he sent officials to arrest Fan Cuo and surrounded his home but did not kill him.
Fan Cuo then went up to the roof and rode on the ridge, and said to the envoy: It is better to trade with Fan Cuo alive than to trade with dead Fan Cuo.
If I, Fan Cuo, are killed but the State of Zhao does not give the king any land, what will the king do?
So it is better to demarcate the ceded land with Zhao Guo first, and then kill me. King Wei said: Very good.
Fan Cuo then wrote to Lord Xinling, saying: Fan Cuo was the prime minister who was dismissed from the Wei State in the past. The State of Zhao demanded that I be killed in exchange for ceding territory, but the King of Wei actually obeyed. If Qiang Qin follows the same method as the State of Zhao to treat you, what will you do?
Fan Cuo was released after Lord Xinling remonstrated with King Zhao.
Because Qin had rescued King Wei, he wanted to get close to Qin and attack South Korea in order to regain his original land.
Lord Xinling Wuji said to King Wei:
The people of Qin and Di Rong have the same customs. They are like tigers and wolves, greedy and vicious, greedy for profit but not trustworthy, and do not understand etiquette, justice and virtue.
If it is beneficial, they will not even care about their relatives and brothers, just like animals. Everyone in the world knows this, and they have never shown kindness or accumulated great virtues.
Therefore, the Queen Mother was originally the mother of the King of Qin, but she died of sorrow; Ranghou was the uncle of the King of Qin and had no greater merit than him, but she expelled him; the two younger brothers of the King of Qin were not guilty, but they were deprived of their fiefdoms again and again.
If this is true for relatives, how much more for the country of enemies?
Now that the king and Qin jointly attack South Korea, they will be closer to Qin's disaster. I am particularly confused.
Your Majesty, if you don't understand this principle, you are ignorant. If your monarch and ministers do not come to report this principle to you, they are disloyal.
Nowadays, Korea relies on a woman to assist a young and weak monarch. There is great chaos in the country, and there is a battle with the strong troops of Qin and Wei outside. Does the king think it will survive?
After the fall of Korea, the State of Qin will occupy the land of the original State of Zheng, adjacent to Daliang. Does the king think there will be peace?
If the king wants to get the original land, he must rely on his closeness to the powerful Qin. Does the king think this will be beneficial?
The Qin State is not a peaceful country. After the fall of South Korea, there will be another trouble. If another trouble occurs, it must find an easy and beneficial target. If you look for an easy and beneficial target, you must not go to Chu and Zhao.
Why is this?
If you cross the Yellow River across the mountains and pass through Shangdang in South Korea to attack the powerful Zhao State, it will be a repeat of the defeat of Yan Yu. Qin will definitely not do this.
If we go through Hanoi, turn our backs to Yecheng and Chaoge, cross the Zhang River and Fu River, and fight the Zhao army on the outskirts of Handan, we will encounter the same disaster as Zhibo, and Qin dare not do this.
To attack the Chu State, one has to go through Shibuya and march three thousand miles to attack the Ming'e Pass. The road is too far and the place to attack is too difficult, and Qin State will not do this.
If we take the route outside the river, with our back to Daliang, and Shangcai and Zhaoling on our right, we will have a decisive battle with the Chu army on the outskirts of Chencheng, but Qin will not dare.
Therefore, Qin will definitely not attack Chu and Zhao, let alone Wei and Qi.
After the fall of Korea, when Qin sent troops, there was no one to attack except Wei.
The Qin State already occupied Huaiyi, Maoyi, and Xingqiu. If it built a city at Qinjin and approached Hanoi, Gongcheng and Jiyi in Hanoi would be in danger; the Qin State occupied Zheng's homeland, gained Yuanyong City, and cut off Yingze. Flooding Daliang would definitely cause it to fall.
It was a mistake for the king's envoy to go to Qin, and he slandered the Anling family in Qin. Qin had long wanted to kill it.
Yeyang and Kunyang of the Qin State are adjacent to Wuyang of the Wei State. If the envoys are allowed to slander the Anling family and the Anling family is destroyed, the Qin army will bypass the north of Wuyang and approach Xu's homeland from the east. In this way, the south will be in danger. Is this harmful to the Wei state?
It is okay to hate Korea and dislike the Anling family, but it would be wrong not to worry that Qin does not love the south.
In the past, the State of Qin was in the hometown of the State of Jin in Hexi, thousands of miles away from Daliang. It was blocked by the Yellow River and high mountains, and separated by Zhou and Han.
Since the battle of Linxiang to the present, Qin has attacked Wei seven times and invaded Qinzhong five times. All the border cities have been captured, Wentai has been destroyed, Chuidu has been burned, the trees have been cut down, the elk have been hunted down, and the capital has been besieged.
The Qin army then drove to the north of Daliang, hitting the outskirts of Tao and Wei cities in the east, and hitting Pingjian in the north.
What was lost to the Qin State were the mountains south and north, the rivers outside and inside the rivers, dozens of large counties, and hundreds of famous capitals.
When the State of Qin was still in the hometown of the State of Jin in Hexi, a thousand miles away from Daliang, the disaster was already like this. What's more, let Qin destroy South Korea and occupy the homeland of Zheng. There is no Yellow River mountain to block it, no Zhou and Han to separate it, and it is only a hundred miles away from Daliang. The disaster is bound to start here.
In the past, the success of uniting Han Dynasty was because Chu and Wei were suspicious of each other, and it was impossible for South Korea to join the alliance.
Now South Korea has been suffering from war for three years. The state of Qin made it submit and make peace with it. South Korea knew that it was going to perish but refused to obey. Instead, it sent hostages to the state of Zhao, expressing its willingness to be the vanguard of the princes of the world and fight to the death with Qin. Chu and Zhao must gather their troops. They all know that Qin's greed is endless and will never give up unless all the princes and states in the world are completely destroyed and all the people in the sea submit to Qin.
Opening a road from Gongcheng and Ningyi to South Korea's Shangdang, and letting this road pass through Ancheng, and merchants entering and leaving must pay taxes, which is equivalent to Wei Guo using South Korea's Shangdang as a mortgage.
If there are these taxes, it will be enough to make the country rich. South Korea must be grateful to Wei, love Wei, respect Wei, honor Wei, and fear Wei. South Korea must not dare to rebel against Wei. In this way, South Korea will become a county of Wei.
If the Wei State gets South Korea as a county, Wei, Daliang, and Hewai will definitely be able to stabilize.
If Korea is not preserved, the East and West Zhou and Anling will be in danger. After the defeat of Chu and Zhao, Wei and Qi are very afraid. The days when all the princes in the world rush west to Qin to pay homage to Qin are not long.
In the 20th year of King Anli's reign, the Qin army besieged Handan. Wuji, the king of Xinling, falsely conveyed the king's order to seize the army of General Jin Bi to rescue the Zhao State. The Zhao State was preserved, and Wuji therefore stayed in the Zhao State.
In the twenty-sixth year, King Zhao of Qin passed away.
In the 30th year of King Anli, Wuji returned to Wei and led the armies of the five countries to attack Qin. He defeated the Qin army outside the river and drove away Qin general Meng Ao.
At that time, Prince Zeng of Wei State was a hostage in Qin State. The King of Qin was angry and wanted to imprison Prince Zeng of Wei State.
Someone said to the King of Qin on behalf of Prince Zeng: Gongsun Xi originally said to the Prime Minister of Wei: Please use the Wei army to attack Qin quickly. When the King of Qin is angry, he will definitely imprison Prince Zeng.
This will make King Wei angry and attack Qin again. Qin will definitely hurt Prince Zeng.
Now the king wants to imprison Prince Zeng. This is Gongsun happy's plan.
Therefore, it is better to treat Prince Zeng favorably and have good relations with Wei, and let Qi and South Korea doubt Wei.
Only then did King Qin cancel his plan to imprison Prince Zeng.
In the thirty-first year of King Anli's reign, King Qin began to ascend the throne.
In the thirty-fourth year of King Anli, King Anli died, and Prince Zeng ascended the throne. This was King Jingmin.
Xinlingjun Wuji passed away.
In the first year of King Jingmin, the Qin army captured 20 cities in the Wei State and established them as the East Commandery of the Qin State.
In the second year, the Qin army captured Chaoge of Wei State.
Weiguo moved to Yewang.
In three years, the Qin army captured Jiyi in the state of Wei.
In five years, the Qin army captured Wei's Yuandi, Puyang, and Yanyi.
In the fifteenth year, King Jingmin died, and his son King Wei assumed the throne.
In the first year of King Wei's holiday, Prince Dan of Yan sent Jing Ke to assassinate King Qin, but King Qin discovered it.
Three years after King Jie of Wei, the Qin army flooded Daliang and captured King Jie of Wei. Finally, the state of Wei was destroyed and established as prefectures and counties.
Tai Shigong said: I have been to the old city site of Daliang. The people there said: The Qin army conquered Daliang by diverting water from the chasm to flood Daliang. After three months, the city was destroyed, and the King of Wei asked for surrender, thus destroying the Wei state.
Those who discussed it all said that because King Wei did not reuse Lord Xinling, the country was weakened and even destroyed. I don't think so.
God's will is for the Qin State to pacify the sea, but its achievements have not yet been completed. Even if the Wei State is assisted by wise ministers like A Heng, what is the use?
