Chen Sheng, a native of Yangcheng, was named She.
Wu Guang, a native of Yangxia, was given the courtesy name Uncle.
When Chen She was young, he was hired to plow the fields with others. Once when he stopped plowing and went to rest on the ridge of the field, he lamented and resented for a long time and said, "If anyone becomes rich in the future, let's not forget each other."
The companions who were employed with him smiled and replied: You are hired to plow the fields, how can you be rich? Chen She sighed and said: Alas!
How can small birds such as swallows and sparrows understand the lofty aspirations of geese and swans!
In July of the first year of Qin II, the poor living on the left side of the lane were recruited to defend Yuyang. A total of 900 people were stationed in Daze Township.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang both joined the ranks of this expedition and became village commanders.
It happened to be raining heavily and the roads were blocked. They probably missed the deadline to reach Yuyang.
After the prescribed time limit, everyone should be beheaded according to the law.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang discussed it and said: Now it is death to escape, and it is death to rise up and do a great cause. It is also death. Is it good to die for national affairs?
Chen Sheng said: The world has been suffering from the rule of the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
I heard that the second emperor was the youngest son of the first emperor. He should not succeed to the throne. The one who should succeed was the young master Fusu.
Because Fusu repeatedly advised the emperor, the emperor sent him to lead troops to station in other places.
Now some people heard that he was not guilty of any crime, but was killed by the second emperor.
The common people heard that he was very virtuous, but they didn't know that he was dead.
Xiang Yan was originally a general of the Chu State. He had made many meritorious deeds and loved his soldiers. The people of Chu State loved him.
Some people thought he was dead, others thought he was on the run and hiding.
Now, if we use the names of Princes Fusu and Xiang Yan to call for uprising to the people of the world, many people will respond.
Wu Guang thinks it is right.
So he went to divine good and bad luck. The fortune teller knew their intentions and said: "You can succeed in everything and make achievements."
But have you ever asked ghosts and gods about good or bad luck?
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang were very happy. They tried to figure out what the fortune teller meant by asking ghosts and gods about good or bad luck, and said, "This is to teach us to establish prestige among others first."
So he wrote the words "King Chen Sheng" on a piece of white silk with cinnabar, and stuffed it into the belly of the fish caught by others in a net.
The garrison soldier bought the fish and cooked it. He found the silk book in the fish belly and naturally felt very strange about it. Chen Sheng also secretly sent Wu Guang to an ancient temple overgrown with vegetation near the station, lit a bonfire at night, and imitated the voice of a fox and shouted: "Great Chu Xing, King Chen Sheng." The garrison soldiers were frightened when they heard this cry in the middle of the night.
The next morning, there was a lot of discussion among the garrison troops, and everyone was pointing and looking at Chen Sheng.
Wu Guang has always cared about others, and many people were willing to serve him.
Once, the county captain escorting the team was drunk. Wu Guang deliberately threatened to escape many times to anger the county captain, provoke him to humiliate him in public, and anger everyone.
As expected, the county lieutenant whipped Wu Guang, and the county lieutenant drew his sword again. Wu Guang rose up, grabbed the sword, and killed the county lieutenant.
Chen Sheng assisted Wu Guang and killed two county captains together.
Then he summoned his subordinates and said: "Everyone has encountered heavy rain here. Everyone has missed the deadline to go to Yuyang. If you miss the deadline, you will be beheaded according to regulations."
Even if they are not beheaded, six out of ten people will definitely die while guarding the border in the future.
Besides, as long as a man dies, he must be famous for future generations. Are princes, generals and ministers all born noble?
After hearing this, all the subordinates said in unison: We are willing to obey the orders.
So Chen Sheng and others staged an uprising in the name of Prince Fusu and Chu general Xiang Yan to comply with the people's wishes.
Everyone showed their right arms as a sign, under the banner of "Great Chu".
They also built a high platform to take the oath and used the general's head as a sacrifice.
Chen Sheng appointed himself as general and Wu Guang as captain.
First they attacked Daze Township, and after that they attacked Qixian County.
After Qixian was captured, he sent Ge Ying from Fuli to lead his troops to capture the area east of Qixian.
They attacked Qi, Feng, Kuzhe and Qiao in succession and captured them all.
As they marched, they continued to replenish their troops and expand their ranks. By the time they reached Chen County, they had six to seven hundred chariots, more than a thousand cavalry, and tens of thousands of infantry.
When Chen County was attacked, the county guards and magistrates there were not in the city. Only the county magistrate who stayed behind led the troops and fought with the rebels under the city gate.
As a result, the county magistrate was defeated and died, so the rebel army entered the city and occupied Chen County.
A few days later, Chen Sheng ordered the three elders in charge of education and local heroes to be summoned for a meeting.
Everyone present said: General, you are wearing armor and holding sharp weapons. You have attacked the unprincipled king, destroyed the tyrannical Qin Dynasty, and re-established the Chu State. In terms of merit, you should be called the king. Chen She then proclaimed himself king and named his country Zhang Chu.
At this time, the people in various counties and counties who suffered due to the governance of the officials of the Qin Dynasty responded to Chen She by hijacking the officials to judge their crimes and killing them.
So Wu Guang was appointed as the acting king and led the generals to attack Xingyang westward.
He ordered Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu from Chen County to capture the original jurisdiction of Zhao, and ordered Deng Zong from Ruyin to capture Jiujiang County.
At this time, thousands of rebels from the Chu region gathered together, too many to count.
Ge Ying arrived at Dongcheng and established Xiang Qiang as King of Chu.
Ge Ying later heard that Chen Sheng had proclaimed himself king, so he killed Xiang Qiang and reported back to Chen Sheng.
As soon as he arrived in Chen County, Chen Sheng killed Ge Ying.
Chen Sheng ordered Wei people Zhou Shi to go north to capture the places that originally belonged to the Wei state.
Wu Guang surrounded Xingyang.
Li You was appointed as the governor of Sanchuan County to defend Xingyang, but Wu Guang could not attack it for a long time.
Chen Sheng summoned the heroes of the country to discuss countermeasures and appointed Cai Ci, the Lord of Shangcai Renfang, as the Shangzhu Kingdom.
Zhou Wen was a well-known sage in Chen County. He was once an official in Xiang Yan's army who divined good and bad times, and also served under Huang Xie, Prime Minister of Chu Chunshen. He claimed to be familiar with military affairs, so King Chen awarded him the seal of general and ordered him to lead troops west to attack the Qin army.
He gathered troops and horses as he walked along the way. When he arrived at Hangu Pass, there were thousands of chariots and hundreds of thousands of soldiers. When they arrived at the theater, they stationed themselves.
The Qin Dynasty sent Shaofu Zhang Han to pardon those who had committed crimes and served in Lishan Mountain, as well as the sons of domestic slaves, and recruited them all to attack Zhang Chu's army and defeated all the Chu army. After Zhou Wen failed, he escaped from Hangu Pass and stayed in Caoyang for two or three months.
Zhang Han chased him again and defeated him. Zhou Wen fled to Mianchi and stayed there for more than ten days.
Zhang Han came to pursue him again and defeated him miserably.
Zhou Wen committed suicide, and his army could no longer fight.
When the military minister arrived at Handan, he proclaimed himself King of Zhao, Chen Yu became the general, and Zhang Er and Zhao Sao became the prime ministers of the left and right.
King Chen was very angry when he found out, so he arrested and imprisoned the family members of Wu Chen and others, intending to kill them.
Cai Ci of the Shangzhu State said: Killing the family members of King Zhao, generals and ministers before the Qin Dynasty was destroyed, this is tantamount to giving birth to another Qin State that is our enemy.
It is better to take this opportunity to make him the king of Zhao.
King Chen then sent envoys to the State of Zhao to congratulate him. At the same time, he moved the family members of the military officials and others to the palace and placed them under house arrest. He also made Zhang Er's son Zhang Ao the king of Chengdu, and urged the Zhao army to march to Hangu Pass as soon as possible.
The generals and ministers of King Zhao's military officials discussed and said: Your Majesty, it is not Chu's original intention to proclaim yourself king in the land of Zhao.
After Chu defeats Qin, he will definitely attack Zhao.
The best way is not to send troops to march westward, but to send people northward to capture the original jurisdiction of Yan State to expand our own territory.
Zhao State is surrounded by the natural dangers of the Yellow River to the south, and the vast lands of Yan and Dai are to the north. Even if Chu State defeated Qin State, it would not dare to suppress Zhao State.
If Chu could not defeat Qin, it would definitely rely on Zhao.
At that time, Zhao State will be able to realize its ambition to rule the world by taking advantage of Qin State's weakness.
King Zhao thought it was reasonable, so he did not send troops westward. Instead, he sent Han Guang, a former soldier of Shanggu County, to lead troops north to capture Yan.
The former aristocratic heroes of Yan State advised Han Guang: Chu State has established a king, and Zhao State has also established a king.
Although the Yan State is small, it used to be a country with tens of thousands of military chariots. I hope that you, general, will become the king of Yan on your own.
Han Guang replied: My mother is still in Zhao State and cannot do this.
The people of Yan said: Zhao is worried about Qin to the west and Chu to the south. Its power cannot restrain us.
Moreover, the state of Chu was so powerful that it did not dare to kill the family members of the king of Zhao, generals and ministers. How could the state of Zhao dare to kill the family members of your general? Han Guang thought what they said was reasonable, so he became King of Yan on his own.
After a few months, the State of Zhao sent people to escort the mother of King Yan and her family to the State of Yan.
At this time, countless generals went to various places to attack cities and occupy territory.
Zhou Shi went north to capture the city and reached Di County. Tian Dan, a native of Di County, killed the magistrate of Di County and proclaimed himself the king of Qi. He relied on the power of Qi to counterattack Zhou Shi.
Zhou Shi's army was defeated and retreated to Wei, intending to make Ningling Junjiu, a descendant of King Wei, king of Wei.
At that time, Jiu was with King Chen and could not return to Wei.
After Wei was pacified, everyone wanted to support Zhou Shi as King of Wei, but Zhou Shi refused to accept it.
The envoys went back and forth between King Chen and Zhou City five times. King Chen agreed to make Ningling Jun Jiu the king of Wei and sent him back to Wei.
Zhou Shi finally became the prime minister of Wei.
General Tian Zang and others jointly planned and said: Zhou Zhang's army has been defeated, and the Qin Dynasty's army will arrive sooner or later. Our army surrounds Xingyang City and cannot conquer it. If the Qin army comes, it will be defeated.
It is better to leave less troops, enough to surround Xingyang, and lead all the elite troops to meet the Qin army.
Now the false king Wu Guang is arrogant and rude, and does not know the tactics of using troops to fight. We cannot discuss with him. If we don't kill him, the matter may fail.
Therefore, they falsely reported that King Chen had ordered Uncle Wu to be killed and his head was dedicated to King Chen.
King Chen sent an envoy to give Tian Zang the official seal of Ling Yin of Chu State and appointed him as the general.
Tian Zang sent his general Li Gui and others to surround Xingyang City, and he led his elite troops westward to Aocang to meet the Qin army.
Fighting with the Qin army, Tian Zang died in the battle and the army was defeated.
Zhang Han marched to Xingyang City to attack Li Gui and others, defeated them, and Li Gui and others died in the battle.
Deng Yue, a native of Yangcheng, led his troops to station in Jiacheng, but was defeated by a force led by Zhang Han's general. Deng Yue led his army to flee to Chen County.
Wu Xu, a Zhi man, led his troops to station in Xu County, but Zhang Han's army defeated him. Wu Xu's army broke up and fled to Chen County.
King Chen killed Deng and said.
When Chen Sheng first became king, Qin Jia from Ling County, Dong Jie from Zhi County, Zhu Jishi from Fuli, Zheng Bu from Qilu, and Ding Ji from Xu County all formed an army to rebel against Qin. They led their troops and besieged the governor of Donghai County named Qing in Tancheng.
After King Chen heard about it, he sent Wu Pingjun as a general to supervise and lead all the armies under Tan City.
Qin Jia refused to accept this order and established himself as Grand Sima, not wanting to be subordinate to Lord Wuping.
Then he told his military officials: Mr. Wu Ping is young and does not understand military affairs. Don't listen to him!
Then he killed Wu Pingpan under the pretense of King Chen's order.
After Zhang Han defeated Wu Xu, he then attacked Chen County. Cai Ci, the king of Chen's state, was killed in the battle.
Zhang Han then led troops to attack Zhang He's troops stationed in the west of Chen County.
King Chen personally came out to supervise the battle, but the Chu army was still defeated and Zhang He was killed.
In December, King Chen retreated to Ruyin. When he returned to Xiachengfu, his coachman Zhuang Jia killed him and surrendered to the Qin army.
After Chen Sheng's death, he was buried in Dang County, and his posthumous title was King Yin.
General Lu Chen, a former minister of King Chen, organized a "Cangtou Army" with their heads wrapped in green scarves. They attacked Chen County from Xinyang. After conquering, they killed Zhuang Jia and made Chen County the capital of Chu.
At first, when King Chen first arrived in Chen County, he ordered Song Liu, a native of Zhi County, to lead troops to pacify Nanyang and then march to Wuguan.
After Song Liu captured Nanyang, news came that King Chen had been killed, so Nanyang was taken back by the Qin army.
Song Liu could not enter Wuguan, so he went east to Xincai. Unexpectedly, he encountered the Qin army again. Song Liu led his troops and surrendered to the Qin army.
The Qin army escorted Song Liu to Xianyang and dismantled his car to show the public.
When Qin Jia and others heard that King Chen's army had been defeated and fled, they made Jing Ju king of Chu and led their troops to Fangyu, preparing to attack the Qin army near Dingtao.
So he sent Gongsun Qing as an envoy to Qi State to meet with Qi King Tian Dan, hoping to unite with him to march together.
King Qi said: I heard that King Chen was defeated and his life and death are still unknown. How could the State of Chu declare itself king without coming to me for instructions?
Gongsun Qing said: Qi established a king without asking Chu for instructions. Why did Chu ask Qi for instructions before establishing a king?
What's more, Chu was the first to revolt against Qin, so he should give orders to the world.
Tian Dan killed Gongsun Qing.
The left and right captains of the Qin army led their troops to attack Chen County again and occupied it.
After General Lu Chen failed to escape, he regrouped his troops.
He joined forces with the army led by Yingbu, who had been a thief in Poyang and was named Dangyang Lord, and attacked the army of Qin's left and right captains again, defeated them at Qingbo, and once again made Chen County the capital of Chu.
Just when Xiang Liang supported King Huai of Chu, his grandson Xin became King of Chu.
Chen Sheng was king for a total of six months.
After becoming king, Chen County was made the capital.
Once upon a time, a fellow who had been hired to plow fields with him heard that he had become king. He came to Chen County, knocked on the palace door and said, "I want to see Chen She."
The officer guarding the palace gate wanted to tie him up.
After he repeatedly explained, he was released, but still refused to inform him.
When King Chen went out, he blocked the road and called Chen She's name.
After hearing this, King Chen summoned him and took a carriage back to the palace with him.
After walking into the palace and seeing the halls, houses and curtains, the guest said: Hello!
King Chen She's palace is so tall and profound!
The people of Chu called Duo Huo She the king, so the saying that Huo She was the king started from Chen She.
This guest came and went in and out of the palace more and more freely, and often told people about Chen She's past events.
Someone said to King Chen: Your guest is ignorant and talks nonsense, which is detrimental to your majesty.
King Chen killed the visitor.
From then on, all the old and close friends of King Chen left voluntarily, and no one was close to King Chen anymore.
King Chen appointed Zhu Fang to be the Zhongzheng and Hu Wu to be the Supervisor of Supervision to supervise the faults of the ministers.
The generals captured the place and returned to Chen County. If they disobeyed the orders, they would arrest and punish them, and they would harshly seek the faults of the officials as a sign of loyalty to King Chen.
Anyone they don't like, once they make a mistake, they will punish them without giving it to the officials in charge of justice. King Chen trusted them very much.
Because of these reasons, the generals no longer stayed close to him. This is the reason why King Chen failed.
Although Chen Sheng was dead, the princes and generals he appointed and sent finally destroyed the Qin Dynasty. This was due to Chen She's first uprising against Qin.
During the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, thirty families were placed in Dang County to guard Chen She's tomb, and they still kill animals on time to offer sacrifices to him.
Mr. Chu said: The terrain is dangerous and difficult to traverse in order to consolidate defense; the military reform of weapons and criminal law system is in order to rule the country.
These are still insufficient to rely on.
The former kings regarded benevolence and righteousness as the foundation for governing the country, but regarded strong fortresses and legal provisions as trivial matters. Isn't it right?
I heard Jia Sheng once said:
Qin Xiaogong occupies the dangerous terrain of Xiaoshan and Hangu, and owns the entire Yongzhou area. The monarchs and ministers are firmly guarding it, and they can always spy on the Zhou Dynasty's regime.
At that time, Shang Yang assisted Qin Xiaogong, established a legal system internally, devoted himself to farming and weaving, improved offensive and defensive weapons, and used the strategy of liaison and hegemony externally to make the princes fight against each other.
So Qin State easily and effortlessly acquired a large area of ​​land west of the Yellow River, just like two hands joined together.
After the death of Duke Xiao of Qin, King Huiwen, King Wu, and King Zhaoxiang of Qin took over the governance of Qin Xiaogong. Following the strategies left by their ancestors, they captured Hanzhong to the south, Bashu to the southwest, fertile land to the east, and strategic and dangerous counties to the north.
The princes were frightened and panicked because of this, and they met to form an alliance to discuss countermeasures to weaken Qin.
They spare no effort in precious treasures and fertile land to recruit talents from all over the world.
Adopt a cooperative strategy to form an alliance, support each other, and become one body.
At this time, the state of Qi has Lord Mengchang, the state of Zhao has Lord Pingyuan, the state of Chu has Lord Chunshen, and the state of Wei has Lord Xinling: these four princes are all wise, loyal and trustworthy, generous and kind-hearted and cherish talents, respect the wise and value scholars.
They agreed with each other to implement a joint vertical alliance to resist Qin and destroy Qin's alliance and horizontal strategy, and to unite relevant people from Han, Wei, Yan, Chu, Qi, Zhao, Song, Wei, Zhongshan and other countries.
So the talents of the Six Kingdoms included Ning Yue, Xu Shang, Su Qin, and Du He to plan for them; Qi Ming, Zhou Zui, Chen Zhen, Shao Hua, Lou Su, Zhai Jing, Su Li, and Leyi communicated their opinions; Wu Qi, Sun Bin, Dai Tuo, Ni Liang, Wang Liao, Tian Ji, Lian Po, and Zhao She commanded their armies.
The princes used ten times the land of Qin and an army of millions to attack Hangu Pass and attack Qin.
Qin opened the door to meet the enemy, but the armies of the nine kingdoms fled and did not dare to advance.
Qin did not waste a single arrow, but the princes in the world were exhausted.
So the alliance was dissolved, the alliance was broken, and each of them competed to cede territory to bribe Qin.
The Qin State had enough power to take advantage of the weaknesses of the princes, chase the fleeing enemies, and kill millions of their corpses, and the blood would float the big shields. The Qin State took advantage of the favorable situation and the convenient opportunity to divide the land, mountains and rivers, so the strong countries asked for submission, and the weak countries came to worship and profess their surrender.
It lasted until King Xiaowen and King Zhuang Xiang of Qin. Their reign was short and no major events happened in the country.
As far as Qin Shihuang, he carried forward the achievements passed down from six generations, whipped the princes like a chariot, annexed the two small kingdoms of Eastern Zhou and Western Zhou, annihilated the princes of the six countries, ascended the throne of emperor and controlled the world, whipped the people of the world with a cane, and frightened the world with his majesty.
They seized the land of Baiyue in the south and made it Guilin County and Xiang County. The princes of Baiyue lowered their heads, tied their necks with ropes to surrender, and put their lives in the hands of the lower-level officials of the Qin Dynasty.
So he sent Meng Tian to the north to build the Great Wall as a barrier to defend the border, and drove the Huns more than 700 miles north. The Huns did not dare to go south to herd horses, and the soldiers did not dare to set up their bows and arrows to take revenge.
So he abolished the way of governing the country and burned the works of various scholars in order to make the people ignorant. He also destroyed famous cities in various places, killed heroes, collected all the weapons in the world and concentrated them in Xianyang, melted swords and arrows, and cast them into twelve metal statues to weaken the resistance of the people of the world.
Then rely on Huashan Mountain as a city wall, rely on the Yellow River as a moat, rely on Huashan Mountain hundreds of millions of feet high, and guard the unpredictable Yellow River as a dangerous place to guard.
Good generals hold strong bows to defend important places; reliable ministers lead capable soldiers, arrayed with sharp weapons, and strictly check who is passing by.
The world was at peace, and Qin Shihuang thought that the Guanzhong was strong, like a thousand-mile golden city, which could serve as the foundation for his descendants to be emperors for eternity.
After Qin Shihuang died, his remaining power still shocked people from afar.
However, Chen She was a son of a poor family who used broken urns as windows and tied the door shafts with straw ropes. He was a farmer, a servant, and a conscripted guard on the border.
His talents are not comparable to those of ordinary people. He is not as wise as Confucius and Mozi, nor as rich as Tao Zhu and Yidun. He is among the ranks of the garrison, rising up in the countryside, leading the tired and scattered garrison soldiers. He commanded hundreds of people and turned around to attack Qin, cutting down wooden sticks as weapons and holding high bamboo poles as flags. The people of the world gathered together quickly like wind and clouds, rose up like echoes, carried grains, and followed him like a shadow. The heroes from the east of Hangu Pass in Xiaoshan rose up together and overthrew the Qin Dynasty.
Besides, the Qin Dynasty's world has not been reduced or weakened; the land of Yongzhou and the danger of Hangu Pass in Xiaoshan are still as strong as before.
Chen She's status was no more noble than that of the kings of Qi, Chu, Yan, Zhao, Han, Song, Wei, and Zhongshan; the handles of his hoes and halberds were no sharper than those of hooked halberds and spears; the people who were recruited to guard the borders were no more powerful than the armies of the Nine Kingdoms; and his foresight, marching, and combat command skills were not as good as those of the talented men of the previous six kingdoms.
But success and failure are completely different; merit is completely opposite. What is the reason?
If the princes from various countries east of Mount Wei and Hangu Pass were compared with Chen She to measure their length, compare their size, compare their authority, and measure their strength, they would simply not be of the same age or be compared to each other.
However, Qin State relied on a small area to develop into a powerful state with tens of thousands of chariots, and then controlled the other eight states, causing other vassal states with the same status to come to pay homage to Qin State. This has a history of more than a hundred years.
Then regard the four directions of heaven and earth as your home, and regard Mount Wei and Hanguguan as the palace walls.
But Chen She initiated the uprising alone, and the seventh generation ancestral temple of the Qin Dynasty was destroyed. Even the prince of Qin died in the hands of others and was ridiculed by everyone in the world. What is the reason?
This is because the situation of conquering the world without practicing benevolent government is different from that of defending the world later.
