Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, sycophants and favored ministers who flattered the emperor and gained favor continued to appear. There were famous registered children in the Emperor Gaozu's dynasty, and there were Hong children in the Emperor Xiaohui's dynasty.
These two people have no outstanding talents. They just blindly flatter and please the emperor and gain wealth and favor. They follow the emperor closely, go out and go in together, and have a very close relationship. Even the ministers use them to express themselves in front of the emperor. They had a great influence at that time because of their good words for themselves. Therefore, Emperor Hui's ministers and ministers all decorated their hats with delicate feathers, decorated their belts with sea shells, and applied makeup and powder. This custom was caused by the influence of people like boudoir and jiru.
Both of them became rich and noble during their lifetime and moved to Anling.
Later favorites included the scholar Deng Tong, the eunuch Zhao Tan, and Beigong Bozi during the reign of Emperor Wen; the scholar Han Yan and the eunuch Li Yannian during the reign of Emperor Wu; the eunuchs Hong Gong and Shi Xian during the Yuan Emperor; the scholars Zhang Fang and Chun Yuchang during the Cheng Emperor; and Dong Xian during the Emperor Ai's reign.
Emperor Jing, Emperor Zhao, and Emperor Xuan all had no favorite ministers.
If calculated broadly, during the reign of Emperor Jing, only Lang Zhongling Zhou Ren was a favored minister; during the reign of Emperor Zhao, the prince-in-law Duwei surprised Hou Jinshang and inherited the title of marquis from his father, the chariot general Jin Chan. Although the two of them were more favored than ordinary people, they were not particularly favored; Emperor Xuan, who had not yet become the emperor, studied poetry and books at the same table. When Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Peng Zu was named Marquis of Yangdu by the emperor based on his friendship at that time. He often served as a guard when he went out and was known as the emperor's favorite. This man was relatively cautious and strict, and did not do anything harmful to others. In the end, he was poisoned by his concubine, and his feudal kingdom was abolished.
Deng Tong, a native of Nan'an, Shu County, was known as Huangtoulang because he could hold a table, sail a boat and wear a yellow hat.
The master boy once had a dream, in which he wanted to ascend to heaven, but could not. Suddenly a yellow-headed man pushed him hard, and he finally ascended to heaven. He turned around and saw that the man who pushed him had his jacket on under the leather belt on his buttocks, which was very unusual.
After Emperor Wen woke up, he went to Jiantai and looked for the Huangtou man dressed in rowing clothes based on what he saw in his dream. He suddenly saw Deng Tong. His clothes were worn from behind, just like the man he saw in his dream.
So he was summoned and asked his name. Deng Tong said his surname was Deng Mingtong.
The pronunciations of Deng and Deng are similar. Emperor Wen was very happy and favored Deng Tong very much, saying that he was very happy.
Deng Tong was very attentive and solemn in character and did not like to interact with outsiders. Even if the emperor rewarded him with a bathing vacation, he would not go out.
Therefore, Emperor Wen rewarded Deng Tong with tens of thousands of dollars, more than a dozen times, and Deng Tong became a high official.
Emperor Wen sometimes went to Deng Tong's house to play games in private, but Deng Tong had no other special acting talents and could not show them to the emperor. He was just cautious to please the emperor.
The emperor once sent a fortune teller who was good at reading Deng Tong's fortune. The fortune teller said: "He will definitely die of poverty and hunger in the future."
The emperor said: I am the one who can make Deng Tong rich. As the king of a country, how can I say that Deng Tong will be poor?
So the emperor rewarded Deng Tong with the Tongshan Mountain in Yandao, Shu County, and asked him to mint coins for use. As a result, the coins minted by Deng Tong spread all over the world, and he became so rich.
Emperor Wen once had abscesses on his body, and Deng often used his own mouth to suck the abscesses for the emperor.
The emperor was unhappy and asked Deng Tong calmly: Who in the world do you think loves me the most and cares about me the most?
Deng Tong said: There should be no one who can surpass the prince.
The prince came in to greet the emperor, and the emperor asked the prince to suck the sore. Although the prince sucked it, he could see that he was very uncomfortable.
Later, the prince heard that Deng Tong had been very active in sucking the emperor's sores. The prince was very ashamed, and the prince secretly hated Deng Tong in his heart.
When Emperor Wen died and Emperor Jing came to the throne, Deng Tong was dismissed and returned home to live.
Not long after returning home, someone reported that Deng Tong had gone out to the southwest to mint money, so Emperor Jing sent officials to investigate the matter. There was considerable evidence, so he was convicted and everything was confiscated. In addition, Deng Tong's family also owed tens of millions.
The officials confiscated all the money given to Deng Tong by the eldest princess, and did not even leave him a hairpin to wear. So the eldest princess asked someone to lend him clothes and food.
Deng Tong was penniless and ended up living in someone else's home and died.
Zhao Tan was favored by his observation of stars and weather; Beigong Bozi treated others with the generosity and compassion of an elder, so the emperor got close to him, but neither of them could compare with Dian Tong.
Han Yan, courtesy name Wangsun, is the grandson of Gonggaohou Qidang.
When Emperor Wu was the king of Jiaodong, Han Yan and Emperor Wu studied poetry and calligraphy together. They were friendly to each other and had a friendly relationship.
When Emperor Wu became the prince, Emperor Wu became closer to Han Yan.
Han Yan is good at horseback riding and archery, and is smart and wise.
After Emperor Wu became emperor, he wanted to attack the northern minorities. Since Han Yan had studied military affairs before, Emperor Wu favored him more and Han Yan became more noble. Han Yan later became a high official, and the rewards he received were comparable to Deng Tong.
At first, Han Yan often slept and got up with Emperor Wu.
Once, King Jiangdu came to see the emperor and went hunting with Emperor Wu in Shanglin Garden. Before the emperor's carriage set off, he sent Han Yan to take a auxiliary carriage and lead nearly a hundred knights to check out the wild beasts.
At that time, King Jiangdu saw it from a distance and thought that the emperor had arrived. He avoided the people who followed Han Yan and knelt down by the roadside. Unexpectedly, Han Yan did not see him and rushed over. King Jiangdu was furious and cried to the empress dowager. He demanded that the title be returned to the emperor and that he also serve as a palace guard to compete with Han Yan.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she hated Han Yan ever since.
Han Yan served the emperor and had no hindrance in entering and leaving the palace. When the news of adultery reached the ears of the Queen Mother, the Queen Mother was furious and sent someone to kill Han Yan.
The emperor personally interceded for Han Yan, but the Queen Mother had already made up her mind and finally refused to change her mind, and Han Yan died.
Han Yan's younger brother Han Shuo was also favored by Emperor Wu. He was named a Case Daohou for his military exploits. In the last years of Emperor Wu, he was killed by the ruthless prince during the witchcraft disaster. Han Shuo's son Han Zeng was later named Long Luohou and Da Sima Cavalry General. There is another biography of him.
Li Yannian is from Zhongshan. He and his parents and brothers are all music lovers.
Li Yannian suffered corruption and was in charge of the emperor's dog; his sister was favored by the emperor and was named Mrs. Li. Her biography is in "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Li Yannian is good at singing, and he sings emerging tunes.
At that time, Emperor Wu was building various temples to worship heaven and earth. When he wanted to create music, he asked Sima Xiangru and others to write poems to praise it.
Li Yannian always adhered to Emperor Wu's orders and composed and sang these poems into new variations.
Li Yannian's sister was adopted by Emperor Wu as his wife and gave birth to the King of Changyi. As a result, Li Yannian's worth doubled, from humble to noble. He became the captain of Xielu, wore a two thousand stone seal ribbon, and lived with the emperor. The favor he received was equal to that of Han Yan.
As time went by, Li Yannian's younger brother Li Ji became promiscuous with the palace officials and became arrogant and domineering.
After Mrs. Li's death, the two brothers could no longer be favored by Emperor Wu, so Emperor Wu killed the Li Yannian brothers and their clan.
From then on, the favored ministers were basically relatives.
Although Wei Qing and Huo Qubing were favored by the emperor, they were promoted based on their true military achievements and talents.
Shi Xian, courtesy name Junfang, was from Jinan; Hong Gong was from Peidi. They both suffered corruption when they were young, and later served as officials in Zhonghuangmen and were elected as Zhongshangshu.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Honggong served as the Secretary of the Central Committee. He was familiar with old laws and regulations, and was good at requesting and submitting reports. His talents were sufficient for his position.
Hong Gong was appointed as Zhongshu Ling, and Shi Xian was appointed as Pu She.
A few years after Emperor Yuan came to the throne, Hong Gong died and was replaced by Shi Xian as Zhongshu Ling.
At that time, Emperor Yuan was ill and unable to take care of the government affairs personally. He was also passionate about music. Because Shi Xian had been in this position for a long time and had no outside connections in the palace, he was focused and trustworthy, so Emperor Yuan entrusted Shi Xian with all kinds of government affairs.
All political affairs, big or small, were decided based on Shi Xian's words; Shi Xian's dignity and favor dominated the court, and all officials served Shi Xian respectfully.
Shi Xian was clever and clever, and could understand the emperor's thoughts. He was extremely cunning, and often used various inexplicable reasons to secretly attack others. He would treat people with strict laws for the smallest things.
During the early Yuan Dynasty, former general Xiao Wangzhi and Guanglu doctor Zhou Kan and Zongzheng Liu Gengsheng were all responsible for the work.
Xiao Wangzhi took charge of the affairs of the Secretariat. He knew that Shi Xian was monopolizing power and was evil, so he stated his opinion: "The Secretariat is the foundation of all officials and the key to national power. Fair and transparent people should be allowed to hold this position."
Emperor Wu traveled and feasted in the harem day and night, so he reused eunuchs, which was not in line with the old regulations.
Eunuchs should not be allowed to serve as Zhongshu, in response to ancient etiquette, and people who are still serving their sentences should not be allowed to approach the emperor.
Emperor Yuan did not adopt Xiao Wangzhi's suggestion, so Xiao Wangzhi made Shi Xian very angry.
Later, Xiao Wangzhi and others were persecuted by Shi Xian. Xiao Wangzhi was forced to commit suicide and died. Zhou Kan and Liu Gengsheng were deposed and imprisoned and were no longer appointed. These contents can be found in "The Biography of Wang".
Later, Taizhong doctor Zhang Meng, Wei Jun's prefect Jingfang, Yushi Zhongcheng Chen Xian, Dai Shaojia Gianzhi and others all secretly wrote memorials, often exposing Shi Xian's shortcomings when summoned by the emperor.
Shi Xian sent people to inquire about him and convicted him. The house in Beijing and the house he bought for donation were abandoned on the market. Zhang Meng committed suicide in the bus station. Chen Xian was the one to answer the crime and had his hair shaved off and served the sentence of Cheng Dan.
Later, Su Jian, the governor of Zheng District, obtained Shi Xian's private message and reported it to the emperor. Shi Xian later sentenced him to death for other reasons.
From then on, ministers and officials below the Duke were very afraid of Shi Xian and did not dare to act rashly.
Shi Xian also formed a party with Zhongshu Pu Shelaoliang and Shaofu Wulu Chongzong. Those who attached to them could obtain high-ranking officials.
A folk song goes: Lao Liang and Shi Xian are all frequent visitors to the Wulu Chong family!
How many official seals are in their hands! How long are the ribbons they wear!
This folk song tells the story of their official position and great power.
Shi Xian saw that General Zuo Feng Fengshi and his son were very prestigious as ministers, and Feng Fengshi's daughter was Zhaoyi in the emperor's inner palace, so he wanted to attach himself to him, so Shi Xian recommended Zhaoyi's brother Feng Kui to the emperor, saying that Feng Kui had a strict temperament and could serve in the palace.
Therefore, the emperor summoned Feng Kui and wanted to appoint him as a minister. Feng Kui took the opportunity and asked to tell the emperor something secretly.
When the emperor heard that Feng Kui said that Shi Xian had monopoly power, he was very angry and immediately dismissed Feng Kui from his position and became a Langguan.
Later, when the position of the imperial censor became vacant, all the ministers recommended Feng Kui's brother, Da Honglu, Ye Wang, for his unparalleled character and talent. The emperor asked Shi Xian about this, and Shi Xian said: "No one among the nine ministers is more qualified for this position than Ye Wang."
However, Ye Wang is Zhaoyi's brother. I am worried that future generations will think that Your Majesty does not need many talented people to get close to the relatives of the harem and concubines and let them hold the position of the three princes.
The Emperor said: Well, I don't see that.
So an edict was issued to praise the Ye King, but in fact he was discarded and not reused. This situation can be found in "The Biography of the Ye King".
Shi Xian knew that his expertise in authority was widely known, and he was worried that once the emperor's subordinates would detect his situation, he often took the initiative to confess his faults to the emperor and show himself, and took a letter as verification.
Shi Xian once left the palace to go to the government office to requisition people's property. Shi Xian explained to the emperor in advance that he was worried that the palace gate would be closed and he would not be able to come in after returning late, so he asked the emperor to send someone to send an edict to let the gatekeepers open the door at that time.
The emperor agreed.
Shi Xian deliberately returned late at night, claiming that the emperor had ordered someone to open the door and enter.
As expected, someone later wrote a letter accusing Shi Xian of monopolizing power, forging the emperor's edict, and opening palace doors privately. When the emperor heard about it, he smiled and showed the letter to Shi Xian.
Shi Xian took the opportunity to cry and said: Your Majesty is very fond of me, the villain, and leaves political affairs to me. All the ministers below are jealous. They always want to frame me. There must be more than one thing that harms me by writing letters like this. I hope that you, the wise emperor, will understand my loyalty and situation.
I am humble and humble, and I really do not have the ability to make everyone happy, nor can I bear the anger of the people in the world. I demand that the important official position of Cardinal in charge of the country be returned, and I accept the job of cleaning the steps in the harem, and die without regrets! I hope your majesty will have mercy on me so that I can live in peace.
The emperor believed that what he said was true and sympathized with him. He comforted and encouraged Shi Xian many times and even increased his rewards. In this way, Shi Xian received as many as ten million in rewards and gifts from courtiers to please him.
At first, Shi Xian heard people talking about him killing former general Xiao Wangzhi.
Xiao Wangzhi was a great scholar in the world and very influential; Shi Xian was afraid that the learned people in the world would ridicule him, so how to deal with this matter has always been his concern.
At that time, Langye Gongyu, a scholar in the Ming Dynasty, served as an admonishment official. Shi Xian took the opportunity to send someone to say hello to Gongyu and wanted to win over Gongyu.
Shi Xian recommended Gong Yu to the emperor, bypassed the nine ministers, and directly became the imperial censor, with very complete etiquette.
People who like to comment praise Shi Xian for this, thinking that Shi Xian is not jealous and speaks ill of Xiao Wangzhi.
This is how Shi Xian deliberately played tricks to escape disaster and win the trust of the emperor. Emperor Yuan was ill in his later years. Prince Dingtao Gong was very favored by Emperor Yuan at that time, but Shi Xian supported the crown prince very actively and forcefully.
After Emperor Yuan died and Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he transferred Shi Xian to Changxin Palace as a servant with an official salary of two thousand dan.
After Shi Xian lost his support and within a few months of losing power, the prime minister and censor listed Shi Xian's previous crimes to the emperor, and his accomplices Lao Liang and Chen Shun were dismissed from office.
Shi Xian, his wife and son returned to their hometown. They were worried and unable to eat, and died on the road.
Those who used to flatter Shi Xian and obtain official positions were all dismissed.
Wulu Chongzong of the Shaofu was demoted to be the prefect of Xuantu, and Yijia, the censor Zhongcheng, was demoted to the captain of Yanmen.
A new ballad circulated in Chang'an, saying: The geese migrate when the birds migrate, and the dodders migrate when the deer migrate, so we can go to the prison to be with Chen Shiwujia.
Chun Yuchang, courtesy name Ziru, was a native of Yuancheng, Wei County.
When he was a child, he served as a Huang Menglang because he was the son of the Empress Dowager's sister, but he was not promoted to an official position and was not favored.
It happened that General Wang Feng fell ill, and Chun Yuchang served Wang Feng very seriously. He helped Wang Feng morning and night, and he became a nephew and uncle.
Before Wang Feng died, he entrusted Chunyu Chang to the Queen Mother and the Emperor.
The emperor commended Chun Yuchang for his loyalty and worshiped him as Lieutenant of Lieutenants and Zhucao. He later moved to Shuihengdu Weishizhong, and later to Weiwei Jiuqing.
After some time, Feiyan was deeply favored by the emperor, who wanted to make her his queen. However, the queen mother saw that she was of low origin and opposed making Feiyan his queen.
Chunyu Chang specially sent a message on behalf of the emperor to Shu Palace where the Queen Mother was. More than a year later, Tong Feiyan was made empress. The emperor was very excited about Chun Yuchang's efforts, so the emperor commended Chun Yuchang for his previous contributions. I conveyed Chunyu Chang's words to the ministers for discussion, and everyone agreed with Chun Yuchang's strategy.
Chunyu Chang proposed a good strategy from the beginning, so the people were relieved from toil and gained peace.
Therefore, Chunyu Chang was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Later, Chunyu Chang was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling. He was trusted and reused by the emperor. Chun Yuchang's wealth exceeded that of the ministers at that time.
Chunyu Chang made friends with princes, herders, and guards outside. The rewards he received from the emperor and the money given to him by princes, herders, and guards to please him totaled tens of millions.
He married many beautiful wives and concubines, Shen? In the face of sexual pleasure, they do not abide by the laws and regulations of the country and do whatever they want.
At the beginning, Queen Xu committed a crime because she believed in witchcraft and was deposed as queen and thrown into Changding Palace. At that time, Queen Xu's sister Xu Wei was the wife of Long'e Sihou. Long'e Sihou was dead and was living as a widow at home.
Chunyu Chang took the opportunity to have an affair with Xu Marry and married her as a side wife.
Empress Xu saw that Chun Yuchang was favored by the emperor, so she bribed Chun Yuchang through her sister Xu Ma, hoping that Chun Yuchang would say a few good words for her in front of the emperor, so that she could step out of the cold palace and return to the harem as Jieyu. Chunyu Chang accepted the money, carriages, horses, clothing for riding in the carriage, and tools for driving, etc. from Empress Xu, which amounted to tens of thousands of dollars. Chunyu Chang deceived Empress Xu and said that he would explain to the emperor that he would re-establish her as the Zuo Empress.
Every time Marry Xu went to Changding Palace, Chunyu Chang would write letters to Aunt Xu, teasing and insulting Queen Xu, and saying all kinds of profane and contemptuous words.
Empress Xu and Chun Yuchang exchange letters with each other. Empress Xu bribes Chun Yuchang every year?
At this time, the emperor's uncle Wanggen, Marquis of Quyang, was serving as the Grand Sima Hussar General and had been assisting the government for several years. He had been ill for a long time, so he repeatedly asked the emperor to resign and retire.
Chunyu Chang held the official position of Jiuqing by virtue of his status as a relative of the emperor; in order, Chunyu Chang could hold the position.
Wang Mang, the son of Wang Gen's brother, the Marquis of Xindu, was worried that Chunyu Chang would be favored. He heard privately that Chunyu Chang had married Xu Marry as his mistress, and had taken a large amount of bribes from Queen Xu, who had been banished to Changding Palace.
Wang Mang was serving Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, who was ill, so he took the opportunity to say: Chunyu Chang was secretly happy when he saw you were sick, thinking that as soon as you die, he can take your place and assist in the government; he has even arranged for someone to serve as a certain official at home.
Wang Mang tried his best to expose Chun Yuchang's crimes to Wang Genlinwei.
After Wang Gen heard this, he became furious and said: Since Chunyu Chang is such a bad guy, why didn't you tell me clearly earlier?
Wang Mang said: I don't know what the general wants, so I dare not tell him.
Wang Gen said: Go to the Empress Dowager quickly and report to her to make a decision.
Wang Mang immediately went to see the Empress Dowager and exposed Chun Yuchang's various crimes. He was arrogant and lewd. He tried to replace Wang Gen in assisting the government. He got into the car in front of his aunt, was extremely rude, committed adultery with Empress Xu in private, and accepted Empress Xu's property.
After hearing this, the Queen Mother became furious and said: My nephew is so bad!
Go and report to the emperor truthfully.
Wang Mang also recounted Chunyu Chang's sins to the emperor. After hearing this, the emperor removed Chunyu Chang from his official position and sent him to other princely states.
At the beginning, Chunyu Chang served as a servant and acted as an envoy to convey messages between the emperor and the queen mother, and he was very close to them.
Hongyang Houli could not hold the post of Grand Sima and assist in government affairs, so he suspected that Chunyu Chang was obstructing him and slandering him in front of the emperor. Therefore, Hongyang Houli always felt resentful towards Chunyu Chang.
The emperor knew these circumstances.
When Chunyu Chang was sent away for his crime, Hongyang Houli's eldest son Rong followed Chunyu Chang and asked for a ride. Chunyu Chang bribed Hongyang Houli with rare treasures through Hongyang Houli's son Rong, and Hongyang Houli in turn spoke for Chunyu Chang.
The emperor saw the great change in Hongyang Houli's attitude and knew that there must be something fishy, ​​so he sent relevant departments to investigate the matter.
Officials captured Rong, and Hongyang Houli forced Rong to commit suicide.
The emperor became more suspicious that there must be serious treachery involved, so he ordered Chun Yu to be arrested and handed over to Shao Prison in Luoyang for investigation into the case.
Chunyu Chang truthfully confessed that he was teasing Queen Xu of Changding Palace and wanted to re-establish Queen Zuo. Chunyu Chang rebelled and died in prison.
Chunyuchang's wife and son were punished and exiled to Hepu. If his mother is sent back to her hometown.
Hongyang Houli was also deported from Kyoto to the vassal states.
Because Chun Yuchang lost power, dozens of generals, ministers, officials, and county guards related to him in the court were dismissed from office.
Wang Mang then replaced Wang Gen as the Grand Sima.
Not long after, Chun Yuchang's mother and her son Chun Yuchou were moved back to Chang'an. Later, Chun Yuchou committed a crime, and Wang Mang killed him and sent his family members home.
At first, Chunyu Chang was close to the emperor because of his status as a relative, but he was not as favored as Fuping Hou Zhang Fang.
Zhang Fang often went out and lived together with the emperor. He changed his clothes and went in and out together with the emperor.
Dong Xian, courtesy name Shengqing, was born in Yunyang.
His father's name was Gong, who served as censor, and Dong Xian served as the prince's minister.
Emperor Ai succeeded to the throne, and Dong Xian was promoted from Prince Subordinate to Lang Guan.
More than two years later, Dong Xian reported the time to His Highness. He was handsome and pleasant. When Emperor Ai saw him, he liked his appearance. He looked at him and asked: "Are you Dong Xian, the prince's servant?"
So he was summoned to the palace to talk, and he was appointed Huang Menlang, and he began to be favored from then on.
When asked, he learned that his father was Yunzhonghou, who should be promoted to Baling County Magistrate, and then to Guanglu Doctor.
Dong Xian was favored for a day and served as the prince's consort, the captain's attendant. He would ride with him in the carriage when he went out, and would serve around him when he entered the court. He was rewarded tens of millions in total in ten days, and his noble status shocked the court.
He often stood up and slept with Aizha.
Once when he was sleeping during the day, his body pressed against Emperor Ai's sleeve. Emperor Ai remembered that Dong Xian was not awake yet. Emperor Ai did not want to wake Dong Zhi, so he cut off his sleeve and stood up.
Such was the favor he received.
Dong Xian is also very gentle in temperament, yet eccentric and dishonest. He is good at flattering and gaining favor to gain a foothold.
Whenever he was given leave to take a bath, he refused to go out and often stayed with the emperor to take care of medicine.
Because Dong Xian rarely came home, the emperor ordered Dong Xian to take his wife to live temporarily in the palace, sleeping in Dong Xian's resting place, just like the wives of officials living in official dormitories.
He also called Dong Xianmei Zhaoyi, whose status was second only to the queen, and renamed her house Jiao Feng to match the queen's Jiao Fang.
Zhaoyi, Dong Xian and his wife went to the palace in the morning and evening and served the emperor at the same time.
The rewards given to Zhaoyi and Dong Xian's wife were tens of millions of dollars each.
Then Dong Xian's father was promoted to the rank of Shaofu, given the title of Marquis in Guannei, rewarded with fiefs, and soon he was transferred to the rank of Weiwei.
Later, Dong Chi's father-in-law was appointed as a general and master craftsman, and his younger brother was appointed as Jinwu.
An imperial edict was issued to a master craftsman to build a huge house for Dong Xian next to the North Tower, with a double hall and cave doors. The earth and wood were carved with great skill, and the pillars and sills were all covered with brocade.
Down to the slaves of Dong Xian's family, all received high-quality rewards. Even the weapons in the arsenal and the emperor's royal treasures were among the rewards.
Among various tribute items, the first-class items belong to the Dong family, while the second-class items are used by the emperor and the royal family.
There were also coffins from Shuyuan's warehouse, short clothes made of beads, jade clothes for burial, and other things after his death. They were all given to him in advance. He had everything he wanted.
He also ordered a master craftsman to build a tomb for Dong Xian next to the Yiling Mausoleum, and wrap it up to build a comfortable house for resting. The roof was made of solid cypress wood into a spire shape.
Emperor Ai wanted to make Dong Xian a marquis, but he had no excuse.
When the imperial edict, Tuan Chong, Xi Fu Gong and others reported the curses made by the medical queen of King Shu of the Sai Sui Dynasty when she paid a visit to the sacrifice, they were handed over to the court officials for trial, and they all confessed.
Emperor Ai then asked Sun Chong and Xifu Gong to say that it was Dong Xian who reported to King Shuhu, and he issued an edict to confer Dong Xian as the Marquis of Gao'an, Xifu Gong as the Marquis of Yiling, and Sun Chong as the Marquis of Fangyang for his meritorious service in prison management.
Soon, an additional 2,000 households were awarded to Dong Xian.
Prime Minister Wang Jia suspected that the incident of King Dongping was an unjust case, and was very disgusted with Xi Fu Gong, Sun Chong and others. He repeatedly admonished Jing, believing that Dong Xian was destroying the national system. Wang Jia was actually convicted of admonishing Jing and was imprisoned and died.
When Emperor Ai first came to the throne, his grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu, and his mother, the Empress Dowager Ding, were both still alive. The Fu and Ding families were honored first.
Empress Dowager Fu's cousin Fu happy was originally a Grand Sima, assisting in government affairs. He repeatedly advised and disobeyed the Empress Dowager's wishes and was dismissed from office.
Emperor Ai's uncle Ding Ming took over the post of Chief Sima. After taking office, he resented Dong Xian's favor. When Prime Minister Wang Jia died, Ding Ming sympathized with him.
Emperor Ai gradually valued Dong Xian and planned to give him the highest official position, but he hated Ding Ming for getting in the way, so he wrote a book to remove Ding Ming from the official position. The book said: In the past, King Dongping Liu Yun coveted the throne and cursed the emperor during sacrifices. Wu Hong, the uncle of Queen Liu Yun, relied on his medical skills to serve in the imperial edict, and colluded with the school secretary Lang Yang Hong to rebel, causing serious harm.
Thanks to the protection of the gods of the ancestral temple, Dong Xian and others reported the matter, and everyone confessed.
Ding Wu, the cousin of General Ding, and the captain of the cavalry school in Zuocao, Ding Xuan, both knew that Wu Hong was close to Xu Dan, and Ding Xuan appointed Xu Dan as his imperial subordinate.
Because Wu Hong relied on Ding Wu, he was able to display his sinister intentions. He was promoted based on his medical skills and almost disrupted the state affairs. Because Queen Gong is a close relative, I cannot bear to take punishment measures.
General Ding has a high status and an important position. Since he cannot show his majesty to establish justice and eliminate unexpected disasters, and does not blame Liu Yun and Wu Hong for their crimes, he blames the king in his heart and pleases Ding Xuan and Ding Wu. He deeply feels sorry for Liu Yun and others.
So jealous of loyalty and slandering meritorious ministers, alas!
How heartbreaking! As the saying goes, if there is no one around the monarch who is about to rebel, if there is anyone who is about to rebel, he should be killed.
Therefore, Lu doctor Ji You poisoned his uncle Ya who supported Qing's father, and the "Spring and Autumn Annals" praised him; Jin doctor Zhao Dun returned from the border to meet Zaochuan and attacked Linggong instead of attacking the rebellious minister. Shi Chen said that Zhao Dun killed the king.
I pity that General Ding will be severely punished, so I am writing this letter to warn you.
The general persisted in not correcting his mistakes, and colluded with Prime Minister Wang Jia to make Wang Jia feel confident and dare to look down upon the emperor.
The imperial officials want to send General Ding to prison in accordance with the law. I can't bear to impose the penalty out of consideration for my relatives. You should hand over the seal and ribbon of General Ding, dismiss from office and go home.
So Dong Xian was asked to replace Ding Ming as the general of Sima Wei. The second book said: I rely on God's will and imitate the ancient system to promote you to the position of three princes and become the assistant minister of Moshi.
We must always do our best to lead the monarch's people to resist foreign aggression and stabilize the distant lands, set things right, and act impartially.
The people of the world are governed by me, with generals as the commander-in-chief, and soldiers as the mighty force. How can they not be cautious?
At this time, Dong Xian was only twenty-two years old. Although he was in the position of the Three Dukes, he always worked in the palace and handled affairs.
Because his father Dong Gong was not suitable for the position of minister, he was transferred to the position of Guanglu doctor, with a rank of two thousand stones.
His younger brother Dong Kuanxin succeeded Dong Xian as the Prince Consort.
The relatives of the Dong family all became officials of the Cao family and were invited by the court. They were favored above the Ding and Fu families.
The next year, the Xiongnu Chanyu came to court and held a banquet in which all the ministers were present.
The Chanyu was surprised that Dong Xian was so young, so he asked the translator. Emperor Ai asked the translator to report: "Da Sima was young and was promoted to a high position because of the great Xian."
Chanyu then stood up to thank him and congratulate the Han Dynasty on getting a wise minister.
At the beginning, when Prime Minister Kong Guang was appointed as the imperial censor, Dong Xian's father, Dong Gong, was still the censor and was a subordinate of Kong Guang.
When Dong Xian was appointed Grand Sima, he and Kong Guang became the third Duke. Emperor Ai intended to let Dong Xian pay a private visit to Kong Guang.
Kong Guang was elegant and respectful, knowing that Emperor Ai wanted to honor Dong Xian. When he heard that Dong Xian was coming to visit, Kong Guang put up a guard and dressed neatly and went out to wait. When he saw Dong Xian's cavalry, he retreated.
When Dong Xian arrived at the middle gate, Kong Guang retreated into the pavilion. After getting off the car, he came out to greet Dong Xian. He was very cautious in greeting him and did not dare to greet him with the same etiquette as ordinary guests.
When Dong Xian returned, Emperor Ai was very happy and immediately appointed the sons of Kong Guang's two brothers as regular attendants to advise the officials.
From then on, Dong Xian's power was equal to that of the monarch.
At this time, the Wang family of Emperor Cheng's mother-in-law lost power, and only Wang Quji, the son of Ping'ahou Wang Tan, was favored because he was an old minister of Emperor Ai when he was the crown prince. After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he became the captain of the cavalry in the palace.
When Emperor Ai saw that the Wang family had no official position, he became close to Qu Ji because of this old relationship, and promoted his younger brother Wang Hong to the rank of regular attendant. Wang Hong's wife's father, Xiao Xian, was the son of former general Xiao Wangzhi. He had been the prefect of the county for a long time. He was dismissed due to illness and was appointed Zhonglang General.
The brothers were both officials. Dong Xian's father, Dong Gong, admired the two and planned to marry them.
Wang Hong proposed to Xiao Xian's daughter on behalf of Dong Xian's brother-in-law, Captain Dong Kuanxin. Xiao Xian was afraid that he would not accept it, so he said to Wang Hong in private: "Dong Gong is the Grand Sima, and the book says that he must adhere to the impartial and upright way. This is the words of Yao when he gave way to Shun, and it is not the code of the Three Dukes. When the elders heard about it, they were all afraid."
Isn't this what a common man can do?
Wang Hong was resourceful by nature, and he understood what Xiao Xian said. Then he replied to Dong Gong and conveyed Xiao Xian's humble intention in detail.
Dong Gong sighed and said: What can my family do to the world that makes people fear it so much?
Feeling unhappy.
Later, Emperor Ai held a banquet in the Qilin Hall. Dong Xian's father and son's relatives were invited to drink. Wang Hong's brothers and other attendants were all nearby.
After Emperor Ai drank his wine, he looked at Dong Xian and said with a smile: "I want to follow the example of Yao and give way to Shun. How about that?"
Wang Hong dissuaded him and said: "The world belongs to Emperor Gao, not His Majesty's private property."
Your Majesty has inherited the authority of worship in Liu's ancestral temple and should pass it down to endless descendants.
The great cause of imperial unification is of vital importance, and the emperor has no joke!
Emperor Ai was silent and unhappy, and everyone on the left and right were frightened.
So Wang Hong was kicked out and could no longer attend the banquet.
Dong Xian's house was newly built and very solidly built, but the outer gate was damaged for no reason. Dong Xian was very disgusted.
A few months later, Emperor Ai died.
The Empress Dowager summoned Chief Sima Dong Xian to introduce him in Shuxiang Hall and inquire about the arrangements for the funeral.
Dong Xian felt uneasy and couldn't answer correctly, so he went to the crown to apologize.
The Queen Mother said: Wang Mang, the lord of Xindu, used to attend the funeral of the late emperor as the Grand Sima and was familiar with the rituals. I ordered Wang Mang to assist you.
Dong Xian kowtowed in thanks.
The Queen Mother sent an envoy to summon Wang Mang.
As soon as Wang Mang arrived, he asked the Minister to impeach Dong Xian in the name of the Queen Mother for not taking the medicine himself when Emperor Ai was ill, and banned Dong Xian from entering the palace and Sima's official office again.
Dong Xian was at a loss and went to the palace to apologize for his crime.
Wang Mang sent an audience with the Queen Mother's edict to write in the palace: Recently, the yin and yang have been out of balance, disasters have occurred at the same time, and the people have suffered.
The three princes are the ministers who are supporting the tripod. Dong Xian, the Marquis of Gao'an, is ignorant of the principles. As a great commander, he is not in line with the public opinion and fails to fulfill the important task of resisting foreign aggression and stabilizing the distant country.
The Grand Sima seal should be taken back, dismissed from office and returned home.
When Dong Xian and his wife both committed suicide, their family members panicked and buried them overnight.
Wang Mang suspected that he had faked his death, so the deacon officials asked him to send the coffin and go to the prison to inspect it.
Wang Mang also hinted that the great Situ Kong Guang had written a letter, saying that Dong Xian's character was cunning and flattering, and he was granted a title by virtue of his treachery. His father and son were good at government affairs, and his brothers were favored at the same time, and received many rewards.
The father and son were arrogant and foolish. They did not receive the emperor's envoys with courtesy and did not thank them when receiving rewards. Their sins were obvious.
Dong Xian committed suicide to plead guilty. After his death, his father Dong Gong and others showed no remorse. They also painted the coffin with the colors of the four seasons with cinnabar, with a green dragon on the left and a white tiger on the right. Pictures of gold, silver, sun and moon were painted on the top, and jade robes, pearls and jade were placed in the coffin. The Supreme Being could not add more to it.
董恭等侥幸得免于一死，不应在都城居住。

Please confiscate the property and return it to the public. Everyone who was promoted to an official position because of Dong Xian was dismissed.
His father Dong Gong, brother Dong Kuanxin and their families moved to Hepu, while his mother returned to her hometown Julu.
The small and medium-sized people in Chang'an were in an uproar and went to Dong's house to mourn, trying to take the opportunity to steal property.
The government sold off the Dong family's property for 4.3 billion yuan.
Dong Xian's grave was dug, his body was examined naked, and he was immediately buried in prison.
The official Zhu Xiang of Peijun, whom Dong Xian loved, impeached himself and left Da Sima's mansion. He bought coffins and clothes to bury Dong Xian's body.
Wang Mang was furious when he heard about it and killed Zhu Yi on other charges.
His son Zhu Fu was a prominent figure during the Jianwu period of Emperor Guangwu, and he rose to the rank of Grand Sima, Sikong, and Marquis.
Wang Hong was the prefect during Wang Mang's time, and his political performance was commendable. After Wang Mang's defeat, he resigned to serve the people.
Shizu issued an edict: King Wu destroyed the Shang Dynasty and went to commend Shang Rong among the sages of the Shang Dynasty. Wang Hong cultivated his virtues and strictly regulated his conduct. After the war broke out, the officials and the people did not fight for his head.
Let Wang Hong's son be an official today.
His womb reached the magistrate of a county and died in office. He was Xiao Xian's grandson.
Praise: Being gentle, charming, and considerate is not just for women, a man's attachment is equally attractive.
Ju Ru, Hong Ru, Deng Tong and Han Yan were favored in different ways, but Dong Xian was favored the most. Dong Xian and his son were both ministers. It can be said that the wealth and importance they received were unparalleled among the ministers.
However, these people did not achieve their fortunes by relying on holy ways and conventions. Their social status far exceeded their positions and abilities, and they all did not end well. Tao's pampering of them just harmed them.
Throughout the Western Han Dynasty, under Emperors Yuan and Cheng, the country began to decline. Under Emperors Ai and Ping, various conflicts broke out, and the trend of collapse was like overwhelming water.
The emperor was ill and childless, and there was no one to pass on the throne. The petty ministers in the palace took the opportunity to rise to the position of auxiliary to the country and specialized in government affairs.
Once the emperor died, treacherous ministers took over the power of the court, Dong Xian was forced to hang himself, Ding Ming and Fu happy were exiled, and the disaster was implicated on the empress dowager, who was demoted and abdicated. The mistake that caused this unmanageable situation was basically that the relatives were not human and the people appointed were not virtuous.
That’s why Confucius said that there are three kinds of friends who harm people. As the emperor, the emperor and the king cannot appoint people to officials based on personal feelings. This is probably the reason.
