Yang Xiong, courtesy name Ziyun, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
His ancestors were descendants of Zhou Boqiao. As a side branch of the common people, they took Yang of Jin as their food town and took it as their surname. It is not known which branch of Zhou Boqiao belonged to.
Yang is located between He and Fen. After the decline of Zhou Dynasty, some people in the Yang family were called marquises and were known as Yanghou.
When the six ministers of the Jin Dynasty struggled for power, Han, Wei, and Zhao rose, while Fan, Zhongxing, and Zhibo declined.
At this time, Yang Hou was forced to flee to Chuwu Mountain and settled there.
When the Chu and Han Dynasties arose, the Yang family traveled up the river and lived in Bajiang Prefecture.
Yang Jiguan became the prefect of Lujiang.
In the Dingjian of Han Dynasty, he avoided his enemies and went upriver. He lived in Pi, south of Mount Laoshan, where he had a farm and a house. He had been farming and raising silkworms for generations.
From Ji to Xiong, there was only one son in the Five Dynasties, so Yang Xiong had no other Yang clan in Shu.
Yang Xiong was eager to learn when he was a child. He did not study chapters and sentences. He only knew the explanations of words. He was well-read and read everything.
He is easy-going and tolerant, stutters and cannot speak quickly, is silent and contemplative, is quiet and inactive, has no hobbies and desires, does not pursue wealth, does not worry about poverty, and does not deliberately cultivate his character to gain fame in the world.
The family property does not exceed ten pieces of gold, and he is so poor that he does not have a stone to spare, but he is very safe.
If you have a broad mind, you won't like the books of sages; if they don't suit your own needs, you won't do them even if you can get rich and powerful.
But I like Ci Fu very much.
Previously, there was Sima Xiangru in Shu, and his poems were magnificent and elegant. Yang Zhongzhi admired him, and often used him as an example to imitate every time he wrote poems.
I was also surprised that Qu Yuan's writing was more talented than Xiangru, but he was not accepted. He wrote "Li Sao" and threw himself into the river to die. I felt sad for his article, and everyone read it without crying.
I believe that a gentleman can accomplish much when the times are going well, but when the times are not going well, he is just like a dragon and a snake dormant, and whether the opportunities are good or not depends on his destiny, so why bother throwing yourself into the water!
So he wrote an article, often excerpting sentences from "Li Sao" to refute it, and threw himself from Shushan into the river to mourn Qu Yuan, which was called "Reverse Lisao";
There are many texts in "Ban Lao Chou" and "Guang Sao" that do not record it. They only record "Anti Lisao", which says:
It is related to the Zhou family, which originated from Fenpan. The descendants of the gods began to write genealogies from Boqiao and developed to the last generation of Yanghou.
After experiencing the great turbulence of the river, he received the beauty of Zhou and Chu. He dropped memorials along the riverside to mourn the innocent dead ministers of Chu and Xiang. The road to heaven is impassable, so why are the innocent beings in trouble?
Dirty and unclear things are mixed and confused. In the tenth generation of the Han Dynasty, Yangshuo was reached, and the time of the swagger was the first month of Zhou Dynasty, which was based on the Qingming Festival of the emperor and the Zhouzheng of the earth.
After thinking that you are a noble, I also see your beautiful words, wearing rules and scales, and walking in the footsteps of the demon star.
She usually wears beautiful clothes, but why is her literary talent so narrow-minded?
She had Kunwa's beautiful hair, but she sold it to Jiurong for profit.
The phoenix is ​​flying on the wall, but it can't be caught by a goose!
Yiliu ran through twists and turns and had difficulty keeping up with the donkeys and mules.
Zhijiji is dirty and messy, and Yuan Hang is too worried to go down. Since King Chu believed Tan and Yan’s slander, why didn’t you notice it earlier? Wearing green clothes of lettuce and red clothes of hibiscus, the fragrance is so strong that no one can find it in this world, so it is better to fold it up and put it in another room.
The women compete with each other with their graceful looks, competing with each other in beauty. You know how jealous the beauties are, why do you frown?
The beautiful dragon lurks in the abyss, waiting for the clouds to rise and take off. Without the spring breeze, who knows where the dragon is?
It's a pity that your fragrant fragrance, the fragrant lings that floated in full bloom, were hit by the cold frost of the summer, died young and lost their beauty.
Cross the Hengjiang and Xiangjiang rivers and go south to Cangwu, riding the waves of Liaotan to seek justice from Chonghua.
Telling the troubles in my heart, I am afraid that Chonghua will not turn to you. If I ride on the white waves of Yanghou, will I only praise you?
Jingqiongmi and Qiuju should be used to enjoy life for a long time. They will sink themselves in the face of difficulties and are afraid of the sunset. Untie the bridle of Fusang's car and let it run wildly. Even Luanhuang's soaring speed can't keep up. It's not just Yingqing and Nuomian!
Roll up the rhizome and ruohui and throw them into the bottom of Hunan; a lot of pepper and fungus are drowned in the rivers and lakes. He used pepper paste to pray to the gods, and found a lot of Qiongmao. He did not listen to the spirit's divination, but he drowned by the river!
Since you admire what Fu said, why don't you really put it into practice?
It is in vain to worry that the doves will crow, but there will be no fragrance before the herbs!
It turns out that you abandoned your virgin concubine, and you wanted the beauties from Yaotai, so you asked the male concubine to be your matchmaker. Why did you leave so many times and not even one was worthy of you?
Riding on the beautiful clouds, traveling around Kenhe, looking around and feeling sentimental, why do you have to be an official in Gaoqiu?
If you don't have a magnificent chariot, how can you drive the eight dragons? Wiping tears by the riverside, how can there be "Nine Moves" and "Nine Songs"?
What happened to the sage was a matter of time and fate. Even though you often lament, I am afraid that your spiritual practice will not change because of you.
Once upon a time, Zhongni left Lu and traveled around, and finally returned to his old country. Why would he have to join the rapids at the bottom of Hunan!
Thinking that the fisherman was polluted by eating bad food and drinking pickled food, he shook off his clothes after taking a bath to be pure and pure, throwing away what was cherished by his pride and pride, and made the same mistake as Peng Xian!
When Xiao became emperor, a retainer recommended Yang Xiong's article as Dan Ying. The emperor spent three hours cultivating the ancestral temple in the outskirts of the city, and came to ask for an heir. He summoned Yang Xiong to wait for the imperial edict in Cheng Long's court.
In the first month of the first lunar month, he went up to Juxing and came back to play "Ode to Sweet Springs" as a satirical remonstrance.
The words said:
When selecting the tenth generation, one should worship Shangxuan in the suburbs, offer sacrifices to Sanmu, seek blessings from gods, honor the name, be in harmony with the three emperors, imitate the five emperors, worry about future generations, bless them, and open up the line of succession.
So he ordered all the officials to choose the auspicious and favorable timing, just like the distribution and movement of the stars in the sky.
He ordered Zhao Yao and Tai Yin, and asked Gou Chen to lead his troops, connecting heaven and earth as a barrier to attack Kui Jie and You Kuang.
The eight gods were running back and forth, their military uniforms were magnificent; Chiyou's men, with their generals and their jade relatives, ran away in a messy manner.
They all gathered together and ran wildly, but scattered halfway; they were intertwined and arranged like fish scales, jagged and jagged, flipping up and down like fish and birds; they opened and closed like mist, gathered and dispersed, and the light was scattered and brilliant. So the chariot was decorated with phoenixes, covered with huazhi, four green chili and six plain qiu. The qiu flew vigorously, and the car was beautifully decorated.
The yin and yang open and close, gather and disperse, rise in the clear sky and cross the floating shadows, how prosperous the flags stand! The decorations are like meteors and electric candles, and they are all Cuigai Luan flags.
Tens of thousands of horses gathered in the camp, and thousands of jade chariots were lined up.
The roar of the car was uneven, and the light car was faster than the thundering wind. The heights are uneven, the twists and turns are clear.
Climb the rafters to the Tianmen, and gallop through the Tianmen to the cold place.
At this time, we have not reached Ganquan, and we can see the continuous sky in the distance.
It's cold and low below, and it's all mixed up above; it's so high that it reaches the sky, and it's immeasurable.
The plains are open and wide, and the forests are thick with grass and are lined with new trees and pheasants; they gather and intersperse with trees, and are scattered endlessly.
The hills are tall and the ravines are deep and dangerous; the connected palaces shine everywhere, and the mountains and stone passes are connected continuously. So the building is like clouds and waves, and Cui Wei becomes a viewing tower. Looking up, I feel dizzy and unable to see. Appreciating its height and pointing out its length, my mind is confused and confused.
Holding the Xuan Ling and looking around, I saw endless reflections in the distance. The jade trees are green and green, and the agate and rhinoceros horns decorate the walls brilliantly.
The brave golden man carries Zhong Yu on his back, the dragon scale rock is spread out, holding a bright torch, riding the brilliance of the sun, comparable to the county garden where the Emperor of Heaven lives, like the god Taiyi.
The high platform stands out steeply, reaching as far as the North Pole. The stars extend to the wings of the house. The sun and moon pass through the center of the house. Thunder roars in the depths and lightning flashes between the walls.
The ghosts could not reach it and fell halfway.
Walking along the pontoon along the reflection, mosquitoes can float into the sky.
On the left is the spear, on the right is Xuanming, in front is the prostitution palace and in the back is the Yingmen; the west sea and Youdu are shaded, and the Li spring gushes out to form a river.
The dragon curls up on the east bank, and the white tiger roars in Kunlun. Watch the twists and turns of the highlights and wander around in the quiet space of the west wing.
In the front hall, Cui Wei, a member of the He family, is exquisitely shining, with floating pillars and flying rafters, supported by gods in the dark. The high gate is empty and grand, as deep as a purple palace.
Interlaced and stretched, Cui Wei surrounds each other. Climb up and down the clouds, intertwined and deeply connected with nature. The red color is wandering and the green air is winding.
The Jiexuan Room and the Qing Palace are like climbing a high place to look far away, facing the abyss with solemnity.
The returning wind blows up, moving the trees, and the cinnamon peppers scatter and the poplars gather together.
The fragrance floats high and is sent to the wing pillars of the house. The sound vibrated the tree roots to move together, the roar was transmitted into the bell, and the Yuhu gold shop was opened, exuding the fragrance of orchids.
The wind blows in the curtains, and it is quiet and quiet. The clear and turbid yin and yang are in harmony with each other, just like Kui and Ya tuning the harp. Ban and Chui threw away their knives and chisels, and Wang Er threw away his hook and rope.
Even if recruiting overseas Chinese and hiring people go hand in hand, it seems like they are in a dream.
Then things change, shocking people. It is the solemn appearance of the emperor in the deep and wide palace with jade-decorated rafters in Zhentai Xianguan. He can calm his mind, store his essence and think deeply, move the heaven and earth, and pray to the three gods.
Then they looked for people who could rival Gao and Yi, who were talented and outstanding, possessed the virtues of Gantang, and had the will of Shuzheng, and gathered together in the Palace of Yangling.
Weaving beetles and lychees to make mats, folding qiong branches into fragrant flowers, sucking in the clear clouds and clear clouds, drinking the dew that blooms like trees, gathering in the garden of the God of Ceremony, climbing up to the main hall to sing the praises of the Earth God.
The seven-bright long canopy is erected, and the canopy is majestic. Climb the Xuanji and look around, looking around the three dangers. There are many cars displayed in Donggang. The idle horses are running downwards. They float across the Longyuan and return to a few layers. They have a glimpse of the underground and then return to the top.
The wind was galloping to support the emperor, and the luan and the phoenix held the tassels in their mouths, crossing the weak water as if it was very shallow, and easily crossed the rough water. I thought that the Queen Mother of the West was happily celebrating her birthday, and asked the jade girl and the virgin concubine to avoid it.
A jade girl cannot show her clear pupils, and a virgin concubine cannot show her eyebrows.
He possesses moral integrity and has the same qualifications as the gods. So he respectfully piled up firewood to seek blessings.
Burning the emperor's sky, swaggering.
Raise Hong Yi and raise the Nie flag.
The firewood and hemp stalks are burned together, and the righteousness is scattered in all directions, shining on the blue sea, shining on the quicksand in the west, swaying Youdu in the north, and suppressing the heat in the south. The cupboard in Xuan Zan is full and filled with fragrance.
The light of fire moved the Yellow Dragon, and the fire flew into the sky and turned into a great lin. He sent Wu Xian to call the Heavenly Gate and open the Heavenly Court to invite the gods.
The best friend's divine shadow descended on the clear altar, and the auspiciousness accumulated like a mountain.
So when the work was done, I changed my car and returned, passing through Sanman, resting in the fortress, where did I go?
The gates of heaven and the earth are opened, and the eight wastelands are harmonious with all nations.
The king of the land reclamation beats the thunder drum, the sound is loud and the ten brave men rise up, the clouds are flying and the rain is pouring, it is said that virtue shines on the world. Luan said: The high circular hills, the high and far sky, rise and fall, and circle around. The palaces are staggered, tall and connected, and the layers are deep and boundless. The things of heaven are high and swift, the Holy Emperor is beautiful, and they are in harmony with heaven and earth.
Come to the suburbs to offer sacrifices, the gods are attached to you, wandering and swaying, relaxed and relaxed.
The brilliance is dazzling, and the blessings are brought down, and the descendants will be endless forever.
Ganquan was originally built on the basis of Qin Li Palace. It was already very luxurious and gorgeous. Emperor Wu also added a towering, high-gloss, and wind-facing building.
Outside the palace are Hongya, Panghuang, Chuxu, and Nulu in the distance, and in the distance are Shiguan, Fengluan, Zhique, Luhan, Tangli, and Shide. The tour is magnificent and majestic. There are no wooden vessels that are not carved, and there are no walls that are not painted.
And it was a long time ago and was not built by Emperor Cheng. Yang Xiong wanted to remonstrate but felt it was not the right time. He wanted to be silent but couldn't do it himself, so he praised it and compared it to the Purple Palace of the imperial family, as if it was not built by human power. It would be okay if it was built by ghosts and gods.
At this time, Zhaoyi was being favored. Whenever he went to Ganquan, he would always let her follow him according to etiquette and sit in the leopard's tail of the carriage.
Therefore, Yang Xiong tries his best to describe the chariots as numerous and beautiful, but they cannot be used to move heaven and earth and pray for blessings from the three gods.
He also said that he would repel jade girls and worry about concubines to tactfully exhort him to be pious.
The emperor was very surprised when the poem was completed.
In March of that year, when he wanted to offer sacrifices to his queen, the emperor led his ministers across the river and arrived at Fenyin.
After the sacrifice, we visited Jieshan on the road, bypassed Anyi, visited Longmen, Yanchi, climbed to the Li Temple, went up to the Huashan Mountains and looked at the eight wastelands, walked on the site of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, looked far away and missed the wind of Tang and Yu.
Yang Xiong thought that it would be better for the fish in Linchuan to retreat and build a net. After returning, he offered "Hedong Fu" to satirize and admonish him. The poem said:
In the late spring of this year, I wanted to offer sacrifices to my ancestors and worship the spirits. I went to Fenyin in the suburbs of Shu, where I carved my honorary name, passed down my great deeds, brought good fortune and brought blessings, and respected and obeyed the gods. It was so magnificent that I can’t finish the book! Then he ordered the ministers to dress up their legal uniforms and spiritual flags, carry a chariot decorated with emerald phoenixes, ride on six swift horses, turn around and run on a star-like flow, opening up the majestic arc of the Sirius.
Open the Xuanyuan that shines in the sun, raise the left 纛, and cover it with clouds.
Raise the electric whip, drive the thunder chariot, ring the bell, and raise the five flags.
Xihe is in charge of the sun, Yan Lun is driving, the wind is blowing, gods and ghosts are galloping; thousands of chariots and cavalry are vigorous and vigorous, and they are contented and contented, and the heaven and earth are shaken.
Jump over hills and mountains, jump over Jingwei rivers.
The god of Qin jumps in fear, and his soul leans on the embankment; the spirit of the river is startled, and his palms are in China, and his feet are falling.
Then he arrived at the Yin Palace, solemn and solemn, and his actions were measured.
The spirit has arrived, the order of the gods of the five directions has been determined, the sky is mysterious and the earth is yellow, and the great prosperity will follow.
So Lingyu stabilized his position and traveled around Anyu. Visit the company.
Sighing at Se Gong, he became a hero and felt sad. He mourned Yu the Great in the ridges, dug ditches to divert the floods, and spread the nine rivers along the coast of the East China Sea.
Climb the calendar to look far away and plan your travels. Appreciate the wind of the past, and like the land where the Yu family cultivated.
I saw the height of Emperor Tang and the tranquility of Sheng Zhou.
I couldn't leave because I wanted to see Peixia and Pengcheng. I hate the ruggedness of Nanchao, but I love the Guangping of Binqi.
Cross the river on a green dragon and climb the majestic Mount Huashan. The clouds floated in to greet me, the rain and dew fell, the silence was deep and the clouds lingered.
Encourage the gods to set an example and praise the Six Classics to express their aspirations. To be virtuous is too Zhou; to imitate the Three Emperors is better than the Five Emperors.
Starting from Pinglu, who said we can't follow if we have a long way to go? In December of this year, Yu hunted and Yang Xiong followed.
It is believed that during the time of the second emperor and the third king in ancient times, the products of the palaces, pavilions, marshes, ponds, gardens, woods, and deep lakes were enough to serve suburban temples, receive guests, and fill the kitchen, without robbing the people of their fertile grain fields and land for growing mulberry trees.
Women have surplus cloth, men have surplus grain, the country is rich and abundant, so the dew falls in the garden, the sweet spring gushes out from the pond, the phoenix builds its nest in the tree, the yellow dragon swims in the pond, the unicorn comes to the garden, and the divine sparrow roosts in the forest.
In the past, Yu appointed Yi to be in charge of the mountains and rivers, which were harmonious and luxuriant. Chengtang loved hunting in the fields and the world had sufficient wealth. King Wen's garden was a hundred miles long, but the people still thought it was too small. King Xuan of Qi's garden was forty miles long, but the people thought it was too big. This is the difference between making the people rich and robbing them of their wealth.
Emperor Wu expanded Shanglin to Yichun, Dinghu, Yusu, and Kunwu in the south, Nanshan Mountain in the west, Changyang and Wuzha, Huangshan Mountain in the north, and Weishui River in the east, with a circumference of several hundred miles. Following the example of the Dian River, the Kunming Pool was excavated to build Jianzhang, Fengque, Shenming, Yusuo, Jiantai, Taiye and Xiangxiang seawater to surround Fangzhang, Yingzhou and Penglai.
The sightseeing is luxurious and wonderful.
Although a lot of the three sides of Shanglin Garden were cut off for the common people, the construction of palace walls for hunting fields, chariots, horses, and equipment was still too extravagant and flashy, which was not the original intention of Yao, Shun, Cheng Tang, and King Wen.
Yang Xiong was also afraid that his descendants would add more repairs due to hobbies, so he did not take Quantai as a lesson, so he used "Xiao Xie Fu" to satirize and admonish him, saying in his speech:
Some people praise Xi Nong, but are future emperors more decorated?
The commentators said no, each one should adapt to the circumstances, so why should we follow one standard?
Otherwise, how could there be seventy-two rituals for sealing Mount Tai?
Therefore, those who start a business are not wrong. Who knows what is right or wrong among the Five Emperors and Three Kings near and far?
So he sang a poem: It is sacred and magnificent, living in Xuan Palace, as rich as the earth, as noble as the sky.
Qi Huan is not worthy to support the chariot, and Chu Yan is not worthy to drive the horse; break through the remoteness of the three kings and stride forward; be as grand as the five emperors, as high as the three emperors; use morality as a teacher, and make friends with benevolence and righteousness.
So in the last month of Yanyan, when the Yin Qi is strong, everything is born inside and dies outside. The emperor wants to go hunting in Lingde's garden, open up the north, and brave the northwest wind to inherit the legacy of Zhuanxu and Xuanming.
The people of Yu were ordered to take charge of the lake, and it was sent to Kunbian and to Guihe in the west.
Reserves are on standby, garrison soldiers stand by the road, clearing away thorns and weeds, banning travel in Yi and Wei, and regulating Feng and Dy. The surrounding area is vast, with the moon rising and setting in it, and the sky and earth seem far away.
In the third phase, Jian Huluo served as the Sima Gate, and its diameter of a hundred miles served as the palace gate.
Outside, it faces the sea due south and Yuyuan on the left. The mountains are independent and vast.
The joint venture conference was first set up south of Baiyang and east of Kunming Meihu.
Bi Yu and others, carrying shields and feathers on their backs, held Moye to intercept tens of thousands of beasts. The others carried the hanging outline on their backs, stretched out their covered carriages, put down the red pole of the sun and moon flag, and raised the flying comet flag.
Blue clouds form a trail, and rainbows form a network, dotting the Kunlun Valley, scattered like stars, and as vast as rolling waves, coming and going, blocking the front and back.
The comet serves as a fortress, the bright moon serves as a watchtower, and Yinghuo serves as a commanding officer. It is launched with a sky arc, brisk and jumbled, and the road is majestic.
The Huizhou chariots are agile, galloping in order, majestic and majestic, climbing uphill and far away, juxtaposed on the plateau; feathered cavalry are circling, with distinct costumes, and there is an endless stream, looming, distributed under the green forest.
So the emperor came out of Xuan Palace after sunrise, rang the big bell, and there were nine beautiful trees and six white tigers pulling the hearse. Chiyou drove alongside, and Meng Gong served as the pioneer.
The banner of Xiangtian is set up; the banner of flying stars is raised, thunder and lightning flash, spitting fire and whipping.
The gathering is grand, free-spirited and broad-minded, commanding the switches of the eight towns; Fei Lian and Yunshi are panting and bleak, arranged like fish scales, and gathered together like dragon feathers.
Chirping, chirping, choking, entering the West Garden, getting close to the divine light; looking at Pingle from afar, walking through the bamboo forest, stepping on the Hui Garden, and stepping on the orchid slope.
The beacon is lit, the driver shows off his skills, thousands of horses are driven together, and tens of thousands of troops are trained. Roaring tigers marched in formation, criss-crossing each other, roaring and thundering, with such force that the sky shook and the earth shook.
Scattered and spread tens of millions of miles away.
As for the strong men who are generous and have different interests, they can travel east, west, north and south as they please.
Pull the wild pig, strangle the rhinoceros, and kick the floating elk.
Kill Da Ting, fight Xuan Yuan, leap into the sky, and uproot the curved tree.
As you walk through the crooked branches and play at the gate of the stream, dust rises, the valley becomes violently windy, and the jungle becomes dusty.
As for those who can capture Yi Di, they can kick pines and cypresses with their feet and hit thistles with their palms; they can hunt in dense vegetation and crush birds; they can step on tigers and leopards and pull out long snakes; they can kill red leopards with hooks and lead elephants and rhinoceros; they can climb mountains and cross ponds.
The chariots and riders are like clouds, and it is difficult to tell the upper and lower sides. They are decorated with Thai flowers and bear ears.
The trees turn over the mountains, spread out across the sky, stroll by the water, and nomadic in the territory. Then the sky was clear and cloudless, and Dong opened his eyes and drew his bow. The imperial carriages came one after another, illuminating the sky and the earth. Wang Li took the reins and slowly arrived at Shangyan.
The formation changes, gathers slightly, twists and turns overlap, each marching in line.
The barriers circled and struck like lightning. They shattered when touched and broke when approached. Birds had no time to fly, wild beasts could not pass through, and the army was horrified and swept the field.
When the rare chariot is galloping, the cavalry is swift and fierce, stepping on the flying leopard to catch the noisy sun; chasing the Tianbao, coming out from one side; responding to the sound of the suddenness, supporting the flowing light.
The mountains and fields are exhausted, and all animals, both male and female, are found. There are many animals in the wild, and they are showing off in the vertical net.
The three armies were in great numbers, chasing the running beasts and intercepting them. They saw birds being tied up, rhinoceros clashing with each other, bears fighting fiercely, tigers and leopards frightened, their horns meeting their foreheads in vain, trembling in horror, their souls flying to pieces, and their heads and necks broken when they touched the spokes of the car.
Arrows fired at random can hit them, and they can be stepped on when advancing or retreating. The beasts are injured more than the wheels, and they are piled up like hills.
So the birds died, and they gathered together in the deep leisure hall, facing the precious pond.
The water of Yinqi Liang and the rivers are shining at the extreme sun and boundless west. They are shining on the slope with Zhu Heshi.
The jade is high and pointed, the blue light is dazzling, the man and woman are diving, the monster is dark, and its appearance cannot be exhausted.
Xuanluan peacock, emerald streamer, Wangju Pass, swan geese are playing among them, croaking and singing; grunts and herons are flying, bumping up and down, making a sound like thunder.
They asked the tattoo technicians to enter the water to fight with fish and insects, break through the ice, enter the abyss, climb rocks to support the shore, force out the dragons, step on the otters, catch the turtles, and catch the spiritual octopuses.
Entering the cave, coming out of the canopy, riding a big fish, riding a giant whale.
Floating Peng Li, visiting Youyu. He struck the luminous glass on his spine, opened the moon-like belly, whipped the virgin concubine of Luoshui, and entertained Qu Yuan and Peng Xu.
Then the great Confucian appeared, wearing a high chariot crown and colorful clothes, revising the Tang Code, correcting "Ya" and "Song", and saluted in front of him.
The light shines brightly and the sound is like a god. It benefits Beidi mercifully and fights righteous wars in the south.
Therefore, the king in Zhanqiu and the officials of Hu raccoon dog were sent to the court, raised their hands and proclaimed themselves ministers. The front entered Weichuan, and the rear troops were sent to Lushan.
The ministers Chang Bo Yang Zhu and Mo Zhai sighed and said: "The morals are so high. Even with the prosperity of Tang, Yu, Daxia and Chengzhou, how can it surpass it!"
The ancient pilgrimage to Shuyue was at the foot of Mount Liang. If it were not for this life, who could do it?
The emperor still humbly said otherwise, he would hunt for the stream of three spirits from above, open the water of Liquan below, open the Huanglong Cave, peek into the Phoenix Nest, face the Qilin Garden, and go to the forest of divine birds; shrink Yunmeng and Mengzhu, precept Zhanghua, serve the spirit platform, and visit the palace as little as possible, without decorating the building, without carving wooden utensils, and encouraging the people to farm and cultivate mulberry trees. Don't slack off, make men and women match each other in marriage; fear that the poor will not get rich benefits, open the emperor's forest garden, distribute the public grain reserves, create a moral garden, a broad and benevolent Yuze, run in the gods' gardens, observe the gains and losses of the officials; let go of the pheasants and toads, put away the rice harvesters, the elk and firewood are shared with the people, this is probably the point.
Therefore, great virtues and mellow virtues, good laws in prosperous times, comforting the three emperors, and encouraging the five emperors are also very grand!
So he respected the people of Yi, upheld the integrity of the monarch and his ministers, respected the merits of the saints, and had no time for the beautiful gardens and the luxury of hunting. So he turned the car away from Afang and returned to Weiyang.
