Tai Shigong said: When I read "Mencius", whenever I read that King Hui of Liang asked how to make profits for our country, I couldn't help but put down the book and sigh.
Said: Alas, seeking profit is really the beginning of all troubles!
Confucius rarely talked about the issue of profit. The reason was that he wanted to fundamentally prevent this source of trouble.
So he said that acting based on personal interests will lead to a lot of resentment.
From the emperor down to the common people, the disadvantages of being greedy for profit exist. What's the difference?
Meng Ke was from the state of Zou.
He once studied with Zisi's disciples.
After he became proficient in his studies, he went to lobby King Xuan of Qi, but King Xuan of Qi did not appoint him.
So when he arrived in Wei State, King Hui of Liang not only did not listen to his ideas, but also believed that his ideas were unrealistic and far from reality.
At that time, all the vassal states were implementing reforms. Qin appointed Shang Yang, which made the country rich and powerful; Chu and Wei also appointed Wu Qi, who defeated some countries and weakened powerful enemies; King Wei and Xuan of Qi appointed Sun Bin and Tian Ji, etc., so that the country was strong, and all the vassal states came east to pay homage to Qi.
When the vassal states were working on the offensive strategy of "joining vertical and horizontal lines" and regarded those who were good at attacking as virtuous, Mencius praised the virtues of Tang Yao, Yu Shun, and the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. Therefore, it did not meet the needs of the countries he traveled around.
So he returned to his hometown and worked with Wan Zhang and others to sort out the Classics and Shujing, elucidate Confucius' thoughts and doctrines, and write a book called "Mencius", a total of seven chapters.
After him, scholars Zou Zi and others appeared.
There are three Zouzi in the state of Qi.
The earliest one was named Zou Ji. He used his piano playing skills to seek an audience with King Qi Wei. He then participated in state affairs, was named Chenghou, accepted the seal of the prime minister, and became prime minister. He lived in an era earlier than Mencius.
The second one is Zou Yan, who lived after Mencius.
Zou Yan witnessed that the princes who held the power of a country became more and more dissolute and extravagant, and could not advocate virtue and governance. They did not clean themselves up first and then extend it to the people as required in the "Book of Songs".
So he deeply observed the ebb and flow of yin and yang of all things, and recorded the strange and mysterious changes, such as "The End and the Beginning" and "The Great Sage", totaling more than 100,000 words.
His words are grand, vast, absurd and unreasonable. We must start by verifying small things, and then generalize to big things, and even reach infinity.
His theory starts from the present day and then goes forward to the Yellow Emperor's era, which is discussed by scholars. Then, it generally follows the rise and fall of the generations, recording the bad and bad systems of different generations, and then pushes forward from the Yellow Emperor's era to far, far away, until the heaven and earth have not yet been formed. It is really profound and mysterious and cannot be investigated, but it is necessary to trace its origin.
He first listed China's famous mountains and rivers, deep valleys, animals, water and soil vegetation, and precious species, and then promoted it to overseas countries where people could not even see it.
He stated that since the beginning of the world, the five virtues of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth have been mutually reinforcing and restraining each other, and the replacement of emperors in the past dynasties has coincided with them.
This is how auspiciousness from heaven corresponds to human affairs. He believes that China as mentioned by Confucianism is only one eighty-one percent of the world.
It is called Chixian Shenzhou in China.
There are nine states within Chixian Shenzhou, which are the nine states arranged by Xia Yu in order, but they cannot be counted as the full number of states.
Outside of China, there are nine other places like Chixian Shenzhou. This is the so-called Kyushu.
There are small seas surrounding this place. People and animals cannot communicate with other states. It is like an independent area. This is one state.
There are nine states like this, and the sea surrounds it, which means it reaches the edge of heaven and earth.
Zou Yan's theories are all of this type of statement.
However, to sum up its essence, it must all boil down to benevolence, righteousness, frugality, and be implemented among the king, his ministers, and their relatives. However, the description at the beginning is indeed too rambling.
When princes and princes first saw his teachings, they were surprised and thought about it. They were inspired to learn it, but in the end they could not put it into practice.
Therefore, Zou Yan was respected in Qi State.
When he arrived in Wei State, King Hui of Liang met Gao Ying from afar and performed the courtesy of guest and host with him.
When he arrived at the State of Zhao, Lord Pingyuan accompanied him and personally brushed his seat for him.
When he arrived in Yan State, King Zhao of Yan took a broom to clear the road as a guide for him, and asked to sit on the disciple's seat to learn from him. He also built a Jieshi Palace for him and went to worship him as his teacher in person. He wrote the chapter "Main Movement".
Zou Yan traveled to various countries and received such courtesy and respect. How can this be the same as Confucius and Chen Cai who were starving when they had no food supplies, and Meng Ke was in trouble in Qi and Liang? How can it be the same?
In the past, King Wu of Zhou used benevolence and righteousness to defeat King Zhou of Yin and became the king of the world. Boyi would rather starve to death than eat the food of the Zhou Dynasty; Duke Ling of Wei asked about the battle formation, but Confucius did not answer; King Hui of Liang wanted to attack Zhao, but Meng Ke praised the king for leaving Pidi.
Are the actions of these famous figures just to cater to the world and please their masters?
If you hold a square tenon but have to insert a round mortise, how can you fit it in?
Some people say that Yi Yin carried a cauldron on his back to cook for Tang, but he encouraged Tang to behave in a royal way, and Tang unified the world; Baili Xi was feeding cattle under the cart, but Duke Mu of Qin appointed him, and thus dominated the princes. Their approach is to first cater to the owner's wishes, and then guide the owner onto the upright path.
Although Zou Yan's words are unreasonable, maybe they have the meaning of Yi Yin carrying the tripod and Baili Xifanniu?
From Zou Yan to Qi Guoji, many scholars, such as Chunyu Kun, Shen Dao, Huanyuan, Jiezi, Tian Pian, Zou Shi, etc., each wrote books and talked about the rise and fall of the country and the chaos, and used it to gain the trust of the monarch. How can they say all this?
Chunyu Kun was a native of Qi.
He is knowledgeable and strong in memory, and he is not an expert in his studies.
Judging from his words of persuasion to the king, it seems that he admires Yan Ying's outspokenness and courage to admonish, but in fact he specializes in observing words and emotions and trying to figure out the master's mind.
Once, a guest recommended Chunyu Kun to King Hui of Liang. King Hui dismissed his attendants and sat alone to receive him twice, but he never said a word.
King Hui felt very strange, so he scolded the guest and said, "You praised Mr. Chunyu and said that even Guan Zhong and Yan Ying could not catch up with him. When he saw me, I gained nothing."
Am I not worthy of talking to him?
What is the reason?
The guest told Chunyu Kun what King Hui had said.
Chunyu Kun said: "That's right."
The last time I saw the king, the king's mind was entirely on the horse; the next time I saw the king, the king's mind was on his looks and sounds, so I remained silent.
The guest reported all what Chunyu Kun said to King Hui. King Hui was greatly surprised and said, "Oh, Mr. Chunyu Kun is such a saint!"
When Mr. Chunyu came last time, someone presented a fine horse. Before I could take a look at it, Mr. Chunyu happened to come.
The last time I came here, another person offered me a karaoke. Before I had a chance to try it out, I met Mr. Chunyu.
When I met Mr. Chunyu, although I shouted and dismissed the attendants around me, I was thinking about horses and singers. This is what happened.
Later, Chunyu Kun met King Hui, and the two talked intently for three days and three nights without getting tired.
King Hui planned to grant Chunyu Kun the position of prime minister, but Chunyu Kun politely declined and left.
At that time, King Hui gave him an exquisite carriage with four horses, five pieces of silk and jade, and a hundred yi of gold.
Chunyu Kun never held an official position throughout his life.
Be careful, he is from Zhao.
Tian Pian and Jiezi were from Qi State.
Huanyuan is from the Chu state.
They all specialize in the moral theories of Huangdi and Laozi, and elaborate on the meaning of Huangdi's theory.
Therefore, they all wrote. Shen Dao wrote twelve treatises, Huan Yuan wrote the first and second chapters, and Tian Pian and Jie Zi also wrote treatises.
Zou Shi was one of several Zou disciples in Qi State. He used Zou Yan's theories to write articles.
At that time, the King of Qi admired these scholars very much, and appointed everyone from Chunyu Kun to the next to be senior officials. He built residences for them along the thoroughfares with high gates and high gates, to show his respect and preference for them.
In this way, we can attract guests from various vassal states and promote Qi as the best country to attract talented people from all over the world.
Xunqing is from the state of Zhao.
When he was fifty years old, he came to Qi to lobby and give lectures.
Zou Yan's teachings were tortuous, exaggerated and full of empty arguments; Zou Shi's articles were complete and thorough but difficult to implement; Chunyu Kun, if you stayed with him for a long time, you would often learn some penetrating remarks.
Therefore, the people of Qi praised them and said: "Zou Yan is the one who talks eloquently, Zou Shi is the one who is exquisite in craftsmanship, he is wise and eloquent, and Chunyu Kun is the one who talks endlessly."
Tian Pian and others all died during the reign of King Xiang of Qi. At this time, Xunqing was the oldest and most senior master.
At that time, the state of Qi was still filling the vacancy of the senior officials. Xun Qing served as the master of the Jixia bachelor's ceremony three times.
Later, someone in Qi State slandered Xun Qing, so Xun Qing went to Chu State, and Lord Chun Shen appointed him as the Lanling Order.
After the death of Lord Chun Shen, Xun Qing was dismissed from office and settled in Lanling.
Li Si was once his student and later served as prime minister in the Qin Dynasty.
Xun Qing hated the dark politics of the troubled times, and the chaotic monarchs appeared one after another. They did not understand the common sense and right ways, but were deceived by the witches who pretended to be gods.
After his death, he was buried in Lanling.
At that time, the State of Zhao also had Gongsun Long, who argued with Hui Shi's theory of "Li Jian Bai" and "Contracts and Variations", as well as the writings of Juzi; the State of Wei once had Li Kui, who proposed the idea of ​​encouraging farming to maximize the power of the land; the State of Chu once had Xizi and Changlu, and there was a Xuzi in Dong'e of Qi State.
From Mencius to Xuzi, many of their works have been circulated in the world, so I will not go into detail about the contents of these works.
Mo Zhai was a senior official in the Song Dynasty. He was good at guarding and defensive tactics and tried his best to advocate cost-saving.
Some people say that he was a contemporary of Confucius, while others say that he lived after Confucius.
