Confucius said: The Six Classics have the same role in governing the country.
"Li" is used to regulate people's words and deeds, "Music" is used to promote people's harmony, "Book" is used to record past deeds and regulations, "Poetry" is used to express emotions, "Yi" is used to spy on the magical changes of heaven and earth, and "Spring and Autumn" is used to understand the meaning of subtle words and weigh the right and wrong.
Tai Shigong said: The truth in the world is vast and boundless, isn't it great!
If the words can be slightly to the point, it can also resolve a lot of troubles.
Chunyu Kun was a son-in-law of Qi State.
Less than seven feet tall, he is funny and eloquent. He has been on many missions to the princes and has never been humiliated.
When King Wei of Qi was in power, he liked to talk in argot, feast all night long, indulge in excessive drinking, ignored state affairs, and entrusted political affairs to the officials.
The civil and military officials are dissolute and indulgent, and the princes and countries invade and invade. The country is in danger and is in danger in a matter of seconds. None of the ministers around King Qi dared to give advice.
Chunyu Kun used argot to admonish and admonish King Wei of Qi, saying: There is a big bird in the capital that landed in the king's courtyard. It has not flown or screamed for three years. Does the king know what happened to this bird?
King Wei of Qi said: If this bird does not fly, it will go straight to the sky; if it does not scream, it will amaze people.
So he ordered all the chiefs of the seventy-two counties in the country to come to the court to report. They rewarded one person and killed another. They also sent troops to defend against the enemy. The princes and states were shocked and returned the occupied land to Qi.
Qi's prestige lasted for thirty-six years.
All these things are recorded in "Tian Wan Family".
In the eighth year of King Wei of Qi's reign, the State of Chu sent a large army to invade its borders.
The King of Qi sent Chunyu Kun as an envoy to the State of Zhao to request reinforcements, and asked him to carry a gift of a hundred catties of gold and ten four-horse carriages.
Chunyu Kun looked up to the sky and laughed so hard that the string holding his hat broke.
King Wei said: Sir, do you think the gift is too little?
Chunyu Kun said: How dare you think too little!
King Wei said: Then you laugh, do you have any excuse?
Chunyu Kun said: Today I came from the east and saw a man worshiping the God of the Fields by the roadside. He held a pig's trotter and a glass of wine and prayed: "The grain harvested in the highlands fills the bonnet, and the crops harvested in the low fields fill the vehicles; the grains are lush and ripe, and the rice grains are piled up in the warehouse."
I saw that he brought few sacrifices and prayed for many things, so I laughed at him.
So King Wei of Qi increased the gifts to a thousand pieces of gold, ten pairs of white jade stones, and a hundred four-horse carriages.
Chunyu Kun said goodbye and set off for the Kingdom of Zhao.
King Zhao allocated him 100,000 elite soldiers and 1,000 leather-wrapped chariots.
When the Chu State heard the news, they withdrew their troops overnight.
King Qi Wei was very happy. He set up wine and food in the harem, summoned Chunyu Kun and gave him wine to drink.
Ask him: How much wine can you drink before you get drunk?
Chunyu Kun replied: I can get drunk even if I drink a dou of wine, and I can get drunk even if I drink a stone of wine.
King Wei said: "Sir, you will get drunk after drinking one measure. How can you drink one stone?"
Can you tell me this truth?
Chunyu Kun said: The king gave me wine in front of me, with the law enforcement officer standing beside me and the censor standing behind me. I was frightened, bowed my head and drank on the ground. I was drunk after not even one bucket.
If my parents have distinguished guests, I roll up my sleeves, sit down on my knees, and serve wine to the guests. The guests reward me with residual wine from time to time, and I raise my glass to toast many times to socialize, and I get drunk after less than two cups.
If friends are traveling together, they have not seen each other for a long time, and suddenly they meet again. They happily reminisce about the past and talk about their hearts. They will become drunk after drinking about five or six buckets.
As for gatherings in the countryside, men and women sit together, toast each other, and there is no time limit. They also play games such as Liubo and Hu Tou. They call friends and invite pairs. Shaking hands and talking happily are not punished, and flirting is not prohibited. There are fallen earrings in front of me and lost hairpins behind my back. At this time, I am happiest. I can drink eight measures of wine, and I am only two or three points drunk.
It was getting dark and the wine was almost finished. We put the remaining wine together and everyone sat down together, men and women sharing the same table. Shoes and clogs were mixed together. Cups and plates were in a mess. The candles in the main room had been extinguished.
Therefore, if you drink too much, you will easily get into trouble, and if you are extremely happy, something sad will happen. This is true of all things. This statement means that no matter what happens, it should not be taken to extremes. If it reaches extremes, it will decline.
Chunyu Kun used this to tactfully persuade King Qi Wei.
King Wei said: OK.
So King Wei stopped drinking and drinking every night, and appointed Chunyu Kun as the guest official to receive guests from the princes.
The royal family of the King of Qi held banquets, and Chunyu Kun often accompanied them.
More than a hundred years after Chunyu Kun, Yu Meng came out of the Chu State.
You Meng was originally a singing and dancing artist from Chu State.
He was eight feet tall and very eloquent. He often used jokes to persuade the king of Chu.
During the reign of King Zhuang of Chu, he had a favorite horse. He dressed it in brocade clothes, kept it in a magnificent house, slept on a bed without a curtain, and fed it candied dried dates.
The horse became ill and died because of obesity. King Zhuang of Chu sent his ministers to hold a funeral for the horse. They wanted to bury it in a coffin and bury it according to the etiquette of a doctor.
King Zhuang's ministers on the left and right quarreled with each other to advise him on this matter, thinking that it should not be done.
King Zhuang issued an order: Anyone who dares to remonstrate with the matter of burying a horse will be sentenced to death.
When Youmeng heard this, he walked into the palace gate and cried to the sky.
King Zhuang was surprised and asked him why he was crying.
Youmeng said: "The horse is the king's favorite thing. With a country as powerful as Chu, there is nothing that can't be done, but burying it with the etiquette of a doctor is too rude. Please bury it with the etiquette of a king."
King Zhuang asked: What should we do?
You Meng replied: I requested that the coffin be made of beautiful jade with carved patterns, the cover of fine catalpa wood, and the coffin blocks made of valuable woods such as urin, maple, hemp, and camphor. I sent soldiers to dig a grave for it, and asked the elderly and children to carry earth to build the tomb.
When the princes heard this, they all knew that the king despised people and valued horses.
King Zhuang said: "Has my fault reached this level?"
What to do about it?
Umeng said: Please allow me to bury it in the same way as an animal: pile an earth stove on the ground as a set, use a large copper pot as a coffin, use ginger and dates to season, use spices to relieve the smell, use rice as a sacrifice, use fire as clothes, and bury it in the human belly.
So King Zhuang sent someone to give the horse to the eunuch in charge of the palace's meals, so that the people in the world would not spread the matter for a long time.
Sun Shuao, the prime minister of Chu, knew that Youmeng was a wise man and treated him well.
When Sun Shuao was seriously ill and about to die, he told his son: After I die, you will definitely be poor.
At that time, you go to see Youmeng and say that I am Sun Shuao's son.
A few years later, Sun Shuao's son was indeed so poor that he had to rely on firewood to survive. Once I met Youmeng on the road, he said to Youmeng: I am Sun Shuao's son.
Before my father died, he asked me to go see Youmeng when I was in poverty.
Youmeng said: Don't go far away.
So, he immediately sewed clothes and hats similar to Sun Shuao's and wore them, imitating Sun Shuao's speech, behavior, voice and smile.
After more than a year, he imitated Sun Shuao so much that even the officials around King Zhuang of Chu could not tell him apart.
King Zhuang of Chu held a banquet, and Youmeng came forward to toast and bless King Zhuang. King Zhuang was shocked, thinking that Sun Shuao had come back to life again, and wanted to make him Prime Minister of Chu.
Youmeng said: "Please allow me to go back and discuss this matter with my wife, and come back in three days to take up the post of Prime Minister of Chu."
King Zhuang agreed to him.
Three days later, Youmeng came to see King Zhuang again.
King Zhuang asked: What did your wife say?
Youmeng said: My wife told me not to do it. It is not worthy to be the prime minister of Chu State.
Like Sun Shuao, who was the prime minister of the Chu State and governed the Chu State with loyalty and integrity, the king of Chu was able to dominate.
Now that he is dead, his son has no place to stand and is so poor that he has to carry firewood to make a living every day.
If you want to be the prime minister of Chu like Sun Shuao, you might as well commit suicide.
Umeng then sang: Living in the mountains and fields, it is difficult to live in the fields and suffer hardships.
Those who go out to serve as officials, are themselves corrupt and despicable, accumulate excess wealth, and have no regard for their integrity.
After his death, although his family was wealthy, he was afraid of corruption, bending the law, doing illegal things, and committing serious crimes. He was killed and his family was also destroyed.
What can a corrupt official do?
I want to be an upright official, abide by the law, be loyal to my duties, and never dare to do anything illegal until my death.
Alas, what can an upright official do?
For example, Sun Shuao, Prime Minister of Chu, insisted on integrity throughout his life, but now his wife, children and children are so poor that they have to collect firewood for a living.
It’s really not worth being an upright official! So King Zhuang expressed his apology to You Meng, and immediately summoned Sun Shuao's son and granted him the city of Qiuqiu with 400 households for the purpose of worshiping Sun Shuao.
Since then, there has been no interruption for ten generations.
It can be said that Youmeng's intelligence was just right and he seized the opportunity to display it.
More than two hundred years after You Meng, Qin State gave birth to You Zhan.
Youzhan is a singing and dancing artist from the Qin State. He is very short.
He is good at telling jokes, but they all make sense. During the reign of Qin Shihuang, a banquet was held in the palace. It was raining, and the guards standing guard under the palace steps were all wet with rain and cold.
When Youzhan saw them, he felt very sorry for them and said to them: "Do you want to rest?"
The guards all said: Very much so.
Youzhan said: If I call you, you must answer me quickly.
After a while, people in the palace toasted Qin Shihuang and shouted long live the emperor.
Youzhan approached the railing and shouted loudly: Guard!
The guard replied: Yes.
Youzhan said: Although you are tall, what good is it?
I was lucky enough to stand in the open air and get soaked in the rain. Although I am short, I am lucky enough to rest here.
Therefore, Qin Shihuang allowed the guards to reduce their duty by half and take over in turns.
Qin Shihuang once planned to expand the hunting area to Hangu Pass in the east and Yong County and Chencang in the west.
Youzhan said: OK.
Keep more animals inside. If the enemy invades from the east, it will be enough to let the elk use their horns to resist them.
After hearing this, Qin Shihuang stopped his plan to expand the hunting grounds.
Emperor Qin II came to the throne and wanted to paint the city walls with paint.
Youzhan said: OK.
Even if your Majesty did not say it, I would have asked you to do so.
Although the lacquered city wall brings sorrow and expense to the people, it is beautiful!
The walls were painted so slippery that enemies could not climb up even if they came.
To accomplish this, it is easy to paint, but what is difficult is to find a big house, put the painted city wall in it, and let it dry in the shade.
The second emperor laughed and canceled the plan.
Soon, the second emperor was killed, Youzhan surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and died a few years later.
Tai Shigong said: Chunyu Kun looked up to the sky and laughed, and King Wei of Qi followed his example throughout the world.
You Meng shook his head and sang, and those who carried firewood for a living were rewarded.
Youzhan leaned on the railing and shouted, so the guards holding shields under the palace steps were able to reduce their duty by half and take turns to rest.
Aren’t these all great and praiseworthy!
Mr. Chu Shaosun said: I am fortunate to be a doctor because I am proficient in Confucian classics. I also like to read historical biographies other than the Six Classics.
I couldn't be humble and conceding, so I wrote six more chapters of funny stories and compiled them at the back of Tai Shigong's original work.
It can be read and expanded, so that it can be passed on to future generations who are not afraid of troubles to read, so as to relax their minds and alert them to listen. It is specially attached to the back of the three funny stories of Tai Shigong above.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, there was a favored artist named Guo. Although his speeches were not reasonable, he could make the emperor feel happy after listening to them.
When Emperor Wu was young, the mother of Marquis Dongwu nursed him. When Emperor Wu grew up, he called her the "Big Wet Nurse".
I visit the DPRK about twice a month.
Every time the notification of entering the court was sent in, the imperial edict would send the favored minister Ma Youqing to reward the wet nurse with fifty pieces of silk and prepare food to support her.
The wet nurse wrote: There is a piece of public land somewhere, and I hope to lend it to me.
Emperor Wu said: "Does the wet nurse want it?"
So he gave her the public land.
The wet nurse did not listen to anything she said.
It was also decreed that the carriages used by wet nurses could travel on the imperial road.
At this time, all the ministers respected the wet nurse.
The slaves and descendants of the wet nurse's family ran rampant in Chang'an City, intercepting people's carriages and horses, and snatching other people's clothes.
When the news reached the court, Emperor Wu could not bear to use the law to punish the wet nurse.
The official in charge asked the wet nurse and her family to move to the border.
Emperor Wu approved it.
The wet nurse should enter the palace and say goodbye in front of Emperor Wu.
The wet nurse first met Guo Sheren and shed tears for this.
Guo Sheren said: Go in immediately to see and say goodbye, exit quickly, and turn around to see the emperor several times.
The wet nurse did as he asked. When she saw Emperor Wu to say goodbye, she quickly left and turned around to look at Emperor Wu.
Guo Sheren scolded the wet nurse loudly and said: Sigh!
Old lady, why don’t you leave quickly!
The emperor has grown up, does he have to wait for you to breastfeed him to survive? What are you looking at?
So Emperor Wu felt sorry for her and couldn't help but feel sad. He ordered to stop the move and not allow the wet nurse's family to be moved. He also punished those who spoke ill of the wet nurse.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, there was a man named Dongfang Shuo in Qi. Because he liked books handed down from ancient times and Confucian classics, he read extensively the books of hundreds of schools of thought.
When Dongfang Shuo first arrived in Chang'an, he went to Gongche Mansion to submit a letter to the emperor, using a total of three thousand wooden slips.
The bus office sent two people to carry his memorial together, and they were just able to lift it.
Emperor Wu was reading Dongfang Shuo's memorial in the palace. When he needed to stop reading, he made a mark there and read it for two months before finishing it.
Emperor Wu ordered Dongfang Shuo to be appointed Langguan, and he often served the emperor.
Emperor Wu was never unhappy when he was called to talk to him many times.
Emperor Wu often issued edicts to give him meals in front of the emperor.
After the meal, he put all the remaining meat in his arms and took it away, staining his clothes.
The emperor gave him silk and silk many times, but he always took it away, carrying it on his shoulder.
He used the money and silk given to him to marry a beautiful young woman from Chang'an city.
Most of them get married within a year and then abandon them to marry another one.
The money rewarded by the emperor was entirely spent on women.
Half of the emperor's courtiers called him "madman."
Emperor Wu heard this and said: If Dongfang Shuo didn't do these ridiculous things when he was an official, how could you compare to him?
Dongfang Shuo recommended his son to be a Langguan, and he was promoted to an emissary among the servants. He was often ordered to serve on envoys and go on official business.
One day Dongfang Shuo passed by the palace, and the officials said to him: "People think that Mr. Shuo is a madman."
Dongfang Shuo said: People like me are the so-called people who live in seclusion in the court.
People in ancient times lived in seclusion in the mountains.
He often sat at banquets, and when he drank to his heart's content, he would crawl on the ground and sing: Live in seclusion in the world, and hide from the world at the Golden Horse Gate.
Why live in seclusion in the mountains or in a hut when you can live in seclusion in the palace and protect yourself.
The so-called Golden Horse Gate is the gate of the eunuch's office. There is a bronze horse next to the gate, so it is called the Golden Horse Gate.
At that time, the imperial court convened the doctors and gentlemen in the academy to participate in the discussion. They all criticized Dongfang Shuo and said: Su Qin and Zhang Yi accidentally met the monarch of a big country, and they could occupy the position of prime minister, and their kindness would be passed down to future generations.
Now you, the old man, have studied the methods of the former kings in governing the country, admired the principles of the saints, and are familiar with the "Poems" and "Books" and the opinions of hundreds of schools of thought. I cannot give examples one by one.
There are also articles and writings, and they think that they are unparalleled in the world, so they can be said to be well-informed, intelligent and able to argue.
However, you have served the sage emperor with all your strength and loyalty for a long time and accumulated for decades. Your official title is only that of a minister and your position is that of a guard. It seems that you have not behaved well enough?
What is the reason for this?
Dongfang Shuo said: This is not something you can fully understand.
That was one era and now is another era. How can they be compared?
In the era of Zhang Yi and Su Qin, the Zhou Dynasty was in great decline. The princes did not go to court to see the emperor of Zhou. They used force to conquer power and invaded each other with military means. The world was merged into twelve vassal states, with equal power. Those who gained scholars became powerful, and those who lost scholars perished. Therefore, they listened to the advice of scholars, placed them in high positions, passed down their kindness to future generations, and their descendants enjoyed long-lasting glory.
Not so today.
The sage emperor is in charge of the government, his favor spreads all over the world, the princes submit and obey, and his power intimidates all directions. He connects the territories beyond the four seas into a paradise like a seat, which is more stable than an inverted bowl. The world is unified and integrated, and all actions are as easy as turning in the palm of the hand.
How to distinguish between virtuous and unvirtuous people?
Nowadays, because the world is vast and there are many scholars and people, they are trying their best to lobby, just like the spokes are gathered to the hub of a car, there are countless people who are competing to gather in the capital to offer suggestions to the court.
Although they try their best to uphold morality and justice, they are still trapped by food and clothing, and some even cannot find a way out.
If Zhang Yi, Su Qin and I were born in the same era, how could they dare to expect to be a regular minister if they couldn't even get a small official in charge of the old system and old rules?
Ancient books say: If there is no disaster in the world, even if there is a saint, there will be no place to display his talents; if the monarch and his ministers are in harmony, even if there is a wise man, there will be no place to build his achievements.
So, as times change, things will change accordingly.
Despite this, how can we not work hard to cultivate ourselves?
"Poetry" says: If you ring a bell in the palace, the sound can be heard outside.
Cranes chirp far away in the depths of the swamp, and the sound can be heard in the sky.
If you can cultivate yourself, why worry about not getting glory!
Taigong of Qi personally practiced benevolence and righteousness for seventy-two years. Only when he met King Wen of Zhou did he implement his ideas and enfeoffed him in the state of Qi. The influence of his thoughts has been passed down for seven hundred years without being extinguished.
This is the reason why scholars work tirelessly day and night to study knowledge and implement their own ideas without daring to stop.
The hermits in the world today, although they are not employed for a while, can be detached and self-reliant, living alone, looking at Xu You from a distance, and Jie Yu at close range. They are as resourceful as Fan Li, and their loyalty is comparable to Wu Zixu.
Why do you have doubts about me?
So the gentlemen were silent and had no words to answer.
An animal ran out from the double railings of the back pavilion of Jianzhang Palace. It was shaped like an elk.
The news reached the palace, and Emperor Wu personally went there to watch.
When I asked the officials around me who were familiar with things and well versed in classics, no one could tell what kind of animal it was.
An edict was issued to ask Dongfang Shuo to come and see it.
Dongfang Shuo said: I know this thing, please give me good wine and food so that I can have a full meal, then I will say it. Emperor Wu said: Yes.
After dinner, Dongfang Shuo said again: There are several hectares of public land, fish ponds and reed ponds somewhere. Your Majesty rewarded me, so I will tell you.
Emperor Wu said: Yes.
Then Dongfang Shuo was willing to say: This is an animal called Zou Ya.
There should be people coming to surrender from far away, so Zou Ya appears first.
Its teeth are the same from front to back and are equal in size without big teeth, so it is called Zou fang.
About a year later, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu came and surrendered to the Han Dynasty with 100,000 people.
Emperor Wu then rewarded Dongfang Shuo with a lot of money. In old age.
When Dongfang Shuo was dying, he advised Emperor Wu: "The Book of Songs" says that flies flying around will fall on the fence.
Kind and kind gentleman, don't listen to slander.
There is no end to the slander, and there is no peace for neighboring countries on all sides.
I hope that your Majesty will stay away from those who flatter people with clever words and rebuke their slander.
Emperor Wu said: Why do Dongfang Shuo mostly make good remarks today?
Be amazed by this.
Soon after, Dongfang Shuo died of illness.
Ancient books say: When a bird is dying, its cry is particularly sad; when a person is dying, its words are very kind.
That's what I mean.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, General Wei Qing was the elder brother of Queen Wei and was granted the title of Marquis of Changping.
He led the army to attack the Xiongnu and chased them to the Yuwu River before returning. He killed a large number of enemy soldiers and captured many prisoners. He made great achievements in battle and returned victorious. Emperor Wu ordered a reward of a thousand catties of gold.
When the general came out of the palace gate, Mr. Dong Guo, a native of Qi, was waiting at the carriage house as an alchemist. He stopped General Wei's carriage and horse on the road, paid homage and said: "I have something to report to the general."
General Wei stopped in front of the car, and Mr. Dong Guo said beside the car: Mrs. Wang has recently been favored by the emperor, and her family is poor.
Now that the general has received a thousand catties of gold, if he uses half of it to give to Mrs. Wang's parents, the emperor will be very happy to know it.
This is what is called a clever and convenient strategy.
General Wei thanked him and said: Fortunately, sir, you told me this convenient strategy. I will definitely follow the advice.
So General Wei used five hundred kilograms of gold as a gift to Mrs. Wang's parents.
Mrs. Wang told Emperor Wu about this.
Emperor Wu said: The general does not know how to do this.
When Wei Qing was asked where he got the strategy, he replied: "I got it from Mr. Dongguo who was on duty."
So he ordered Mr. Dongguo to be summoned and appointed him as the county captain.
Mr. Dongguo has been waiting for work at the bus station for a long time. He is poor, hungry and cold. His clothes are shabby and his shoes are not intact.
When walking in the snow, the shoes have sides but no soles, and the feet are all on the ground.
The passers-by laughed at him, and Mr. Dongguo answered them: Who can wear shoes and walk in the snow, and let people see that the top of the shoe is a shoe, and the bottom of the shoe looks like a human foot?
When he was appointed as an official with a salary of two thousand dan, wore a green ribbon, walked out of the palace gate to say goodbye to his master, all those who had been waiting with him in the past came to bid farewell to him in batches on the outskirts of the capital.
Glorious and glorious all the way, famous in the contemporary era.
This is what is called a man wearing coarse clothes but carrying a treasure in his arms.
When he was poor, everyone ignored him; when he became famous, everyone rushed to depend on him.
As the saying goes: A fortune teller misses a good horse because of his skinny appearance, and a fortune teller misses a talented person because of his poor appearance.
Is this the scenario you are talking about?
Mrs. Wang was seriously ill, and the emperor visited her in person and asked her: Your son should be crowned king. Where do you want to crown him?
He replied: I hope to be sealed in Luoyang.
The emperor said: No.
Luoyang has arsenals, large granaries, and is located at a transportation junction. It is the choke point of the world.
Since the late emperor, it is said that no king has been granted the title of king in Luoyang.
However, none of the feudal states in the Guandong area is larger than Qi, so he can be crowned King of Qi.
Mrs. Wang patted her head with her hands and exclaimed: So lucky.
After the death of Mrs. Wang, it was called the death of the Queen Mother of Qi.
Once upon a time, the King of Qi sent Chunyu Kun to the State of Chu to offer yellow swans.
After leaving the capital gate, the yellow swan flew away on the way. He had no choice but to hold the empty cage, fabricate a lie, and go to see the king of Chu, saying: The king of Qi sent me to offer the yellow swan. When he passed by the water, he couldn't bear the yellow swan to dry up, so he let it drink water. Unexpectedly, it left me and flew away.
I want to stab the abdomen or strangle the neck to death, but I am also worried that others will criticize the king for causing the scholars to commit suicide because of birds and beasts.
Yellow swans are feathered things that are very similar. I want to buy a similar one to replace it. This is dishonest and deceives the king.
He wanted to flee to other countries, but he was also sad that the communication between the monarchs of Qi and Chu was cut off.
So I came to plead guilty, kowtow to the king, and ask for punishment.
The king of Chu said: "It's great that the king of Qi has such a loyal person."
He rewarded Chunyu Kun with generous gifts, and his wealth was twice as much as that offered to Huang Hu.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the prefect of Beihai County was summoned to the emperor's palace.
Mr. Wang, a government official in charge of documents, took the initiative to ask to go with the prefect, saying: I will be good to you.
The prefect agreed to him. Many officials and meritorious officials in the prefecture reported: Mr. Wang likes to drink, talks a lot, and is less practical. I'm afraid he is not suitable for traveling together.
The prefect said: Mr. Wang wants to go, so it is not good to go against his wishes.
So he went with him.
Come to the palace gate and wait for orders at the palace gate.
Mr. Wang only took money to buy wine and drank with the captain of the guard. He was drunk all day long and did not visit the prefect.
The prefect entered the palace to pay homage to the emperor.
Mr. Wang said to the gatekeeper: Please call our prefect to come to the palace gate for me and speak to him from a distance.
The gatekeeper went to call the prefect on his behalf.
The prefect came out and saw Mr. Wang.
Mr. Wang said: If the emperor asked you how to govern Beihai County so that there are no thieves there, what would you answer?
The prefect replied: Choose talented people and appoint them according to their abilities. Reward those with outstanding talents and punish those who are not motivated.
Mr. Wang said: This kind of response is to praise yourself and show off your achievements, which is not acceptable.
I hope you will answer: It is not the power of the minister, but the effect of the majesty of the gods. The prefect said: OK.
The prefect was summoned into the palace and walked up to His Highness. He received an edict and asked him: "How do you govern Beihai County so that thieves do not dare to appear?"
The prefect kowtowed and replied: This is not the power of the minister, but entirely the result of the majesty of your majesty.
Emperor Wu laughed and said: Ah!
Where can I learn the words of the elders and praise them?
Where did you hear it?
The prefect replied: "It was taught by Literary Master Shi."
Emperor Wu said: Where is he now?
The prefect replied: Outside the palace gate.
Emperor Wu issued an edict to summon Mr. Wang and appointed him as Shuiheng Cheng, and Beihai Prefect as Shuiheng Duwei.
An ancient book says: Beautiful words can betray you, and noble conduct can make you superhuman.
Gentlemen give gifts with kind words, while villains give gifts with money.
During the reign of Wei Wenhou, Ximen Bao served as the magistrate of Ye County.
Ximen Bao arrived in Ye County and summoned senior and famous people to ask about the painful things among the people.
Those people replied: It is hard to find a wife for the river god, and for this reason he is poor.
Ximen Bao asked the reason and replied: The three elders and court officials in Yedi collected taxes from the people all the year round, and collected millions of their money. They used two to three hundred thousand to find a wife for the river god, and then divided the remaining money with the temple blessings and witches and took them home.
During that period, the witch patrolled around and when she saw a beautiful daughter from a poor family, she said that she should be the daughter-in-law of the river god, and immediately gave a betrothal gift to marry her off.
He bathed her, sewed new silk clothes for her, lived alone, cultivated her character, and built a house for her by the river, hung up a thick red silk tent, and let the girl live in it.
He also slaughtered cows to make wine and prepared meals for her, which lasted for more than ten days.
When the time comes, everyone will decorate the floating equipment together, like a bed tent and pillow mat for a married daughter, let the girl sit on it, and let it float in the river.
It floated on the water at first, then sank after drifting for dozens of miles.
Families with beautiful women were afraid that the big witch would marry their daughters for the river god, so most of them took their daughters and fled far away.
So the city is becoming more and more empty, with fewer and fewer people and more poverty. This has been the case for a long time.
As the folk saying goes: If you don't marry the river god, the river will flood your fields and drown the people.
Ximen Bao said: When it is time to marry the River God, please invite the three elders, witches and elders to go to the river to see off the bride. You also want to come and tell me that I am going to see off the bride too.
Everyone said: Yes.
On that day, Ximen Bao went to the river to meet everyone.
The three elders, officials, gentry and fathers from the countryside all arrived, together with the people watching, a total of two to three thousand people.
The big witch was an old woman, seventy years old.
There were more than a dozen female disciples accompanying her, all wearing silk single clothes, standing behind the big witch.
Ximen Bao said: Call the wife of the river god to come over and see if she is beautiful.
The witches helped the bride out of the tent and came to Simon Leopard.
Ximen Leopard looked at it, then turned around and said to the three elders, the temple priest, the witch and the elders: This girl is not beautiful. I asked the big witch to go to the river and tell the river god that a beautiful girl needs to be replaced. She will be sent the day after tomorrow.
Let the soldiers pick up the big witch and throw her into the river.
After a while, Ximen Bao said: "Why has the big witch not come back after being gone for so long?"
The apprentice went to urge her.
Another disciple was thrown into the river.
After a while, he said again: "Why did my apprentice not come back for so long?"
Send another person to urge them!
Another disciple was thrown into the river.
A total of three apprentices were thrown into the river.
Ximen Leopard said: The witch and the apprentice are women and cannot report the matter. Please help me go in and report the matter to the river god.
Then he threw the three elders into the river.
Ximen Leopard stood with a pen on his head, bent over, facing the river and waited for a long time.
Elders, officials and onlookers were all very frightened.
Ximen Bao turned around and said, "What should I do if the witch and the three elders don't come back?"
I want to send Ting Yu and a wealthy gentleman in to urge them.
Ting Yu and the noble gentry all knelt on the ground and kowtowed, their heads were smashed, blood was flowing on the ground, and their faces were ashen.
Ximen Bao said: Well, wait for a while.
After staying for a while, Ximen Bao said: "Let's get up."
It depends on the situation. The river god has been a guest for too long. You all should leave here and go home.
The officials and people in Ye County were very afraid. From now on, they did not dare to marry the river god again.
Ximen Bao enlisted the people to dig twelve channels to divert water from the Zhang River to irrigate the farmland, and all the farmland was irrigated.
When digging canals, it is somewhat laborious for the common people to dig canals, and they are not very willing to do it.
Ximen Bao said: The people can enjoy their success with them, but they cannot plan to start a career with them.
Although my fathers and sons now think that I have brought hardship to them, a hundred years from now, I hope that my fathers and sons will think about what I said again.
Until now, the people there have benefited from the river water, and the people have become rich.
Twelve canals cross the imperial road. When the Han Dynasty was established, local officials believed that the bridges on the twelve canals cut off the imperial road and were very close to each other.
I want to merge the canals and merge the three canals into one section that flows through the Royal Road, and only build one bridge.
The people in Ye refused to listen to the opinions of local officials, believing that those channels were planned and dug by Mr. Ximen, and the laws and regulations of the virtuous chief could not be changed.
The local governor finally listened to everyone's opinions and gave up the plan to merge the canals.
Therefore, as Ximen Bao is the magistrate of Ye County, he is famous all over the world, and his kindness is passed down to future generations. Can we say that he is not a virtuous doctor?
Ancient books say: When Zi Chan governs the state of Zheng, the people cannot deceive him; when the son governs Shan father, the people cannot bear to deceive him; when Ximen Bao governs Ye County, the people dare not deceive him.
Who among the three of them has the best talents?
Those who study governance will be able to tell the difference.
