Ji Bu, a native of Chu, was famous for his chivalry.
Xiang Yu asked him to lead troops, which put the king of Han in difficulty several times.
After Xiang Yu was wiped out, Emperor Gaozu spent a thousand taels of gold to purchase Ji Bu. Anyone who dared to harbor Ji Bu would be punished by the three tribes.
Ji Bu hid in Zhou's house in Puyang. Zhou said: The Han Dynasty is anxious to find the general and will come to my house to look for him soon. If you can listen to me, I will dare to find a way for you; if you can't listen to me, I am willing to commit suicide first.
Ji Bu agreed.
So he treated Ji Bu as a criminal, shaved off his hair, tied his neck with an iron ring, put on the prisoner's coarse cloth, and put him in a funeral car. Together with dozens of his slaves, he went to the Zhu family's home in Ludi and wanted to sell them.
Zhu Jiaxin knew that he was Ji Bu, so he bought it and placed it in a house in the countryside.
He himself went to Luoyang to see Xia Houying, the Marquis of Ruyin, and asked, "What crime did Ji Bu commit?"
As ministers, they were their own masters at the beginning and were in charge of their duties. Should all Xiang Yu's ministers be executed?
Now, the emperor has just brought peace to the world, and if he rewards a person with a thousand pieces of gold for his personal grudge, doesn't it show that he is not broad-minded?
Moreover, given Ji Bu's talents, the Han Dynasty captured him so quickly. Didn't this force him to flee north to the Huns and south to South Vietnam?
To hate strong men and force them to go to the enemy's country is not the lesson of Wu Zixu who helped Wu destroy Chu and dug up the tomb of King Ping of Chu and whipped his corpse.
Why don't you speak to the Emperor in a gentle manner?
Xiahou Ying knew in his heart that the Zhu family were famous chivalrous people, and guessed that Ji Bu was hiding in the Zhu family's home, so he agreed.
While serving Tian Guang, he indeed told the emperor what the Zhu family said.
Liu Bang then pardoned Ji Bu.
At that time, some elders in the society praised Ji Bu for his ability to turn toughness into softness, and the Zhu family became famous all over the world because of this incident.
Ji Bu was summoned by the emperor. Ji Bu expressed his gratitude and confessed his crime, and the emperor appointed him as a doctor.
During the reign of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, Jibu Guan rose to Zhonglang General.
The Xiongnu Chanyu once wrote a letter to insult the Queen Mother Lu. The Queen Mother was very angry and summoned the generals to discuss countermeasures.
General Fan Kuai said: I am willing to lead an army of 100,000 to sweep across the Xiongnu.
The generals all obeyed Empress Lu's will and believed that Fan Kuai's statement was correct. Ji Bu said: Fan Kuai should be beheaded.
In the past, Emperor Gao led more than 300,000 soldiers and was surrounded by the Xiongnu in Pingcheng. At that time, Fan Kuai was also surrounded and surrounded.
How could Fan Sha be able to sweep away the Xiongnu with more than 100,000 men now? This is a lie to his face.
Moreover, the Qin Dynasty's use of troops against the Xiongnu led to an uprising by Chen Sheng and others.
A few days ago, the wounds of the war had not yet been healed, and Fan Kuai flattered him in person, hoping to shake the world.
At that time, everyone in the palace was frightened, and the Queen Mother immediately withdrew from the court and never discussed the attack on the Xiongnu again.
Later, Ji Bu became the governor of Hedong County.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, someone told Emperor Wen that Ji Bu was talented and virtuous, and Emperor Wen wanted to summon him to the capital to serve as a censor.
Others said that Ji Bu was very brave, but he drank too much and was willful, so he was not suitable for being a close minister.
Jibu arrived in the capital and stayed in a guest house for a month. After being summoned, he was sent back to his original county.
Ji Bu then advanced and said: "I am in Hedong, fearing that I will be punished for not doing my job well. Your Majesty summoned me to the capital for no reason. Someone must have falsely praised me and deceived Your Majesty."
Now that I have come, your Majesty has not given me any ministry, and has asked me to return to my original county. Someone must be slandering me.
Your Majesty summoned me because someone praised me, and sent me back because someone slandered me. I am worried that the knowledgeable people in the world will know the depth of your Majesty after hearing about this incident.
Emperor Wen was silent after hearing this, and said with shame: Hedong County is a county that I rely on as much as my thighs, so I specially summoned you!
Ji Bu resigned and returned to his original post as governor of Hedong County.
Cao Qiusheng, who was good at rhetoric, repeatedly sought power and was entrusted by others to collect money from the entrusters. He served the eunuch Tantan and others, and was friendly with Baochangjun, the uncle of Emperor Jing.
Ji Bu knew about it and wrote a letter to advise Baochangjun, saying: "I heard that Cao Qiusheng is not an honest and honest person. Don't associate with him."
Later, when Cao Qiusheng returned to his hometown, he wanted to ask Bao Changjun to write a letter to introduce him to Ji Bu.
Mr. Chang said: "General Ji doesn't like you, so don't go."
Keep asking for letters, and then hit the road.
Cao Qiusheng sent someone to deliver the letter first. Ji Bu was really angry and waited for Cao Qiusheng to come.
When Cao Qiusheng arrived, he bowed to Ji Bu and said, "There is a proverb in the Chu region: It is better to get Ji Bu's promise than to get a hundred catties of gold. How did you get such a good reputation in the Liang and Chu areas?"
Besides, you and I are both from Chu. Wouldn’t it be great if I could make your name known to the world?
Why are you so distant from me?
Ji Bu was very happy to hear this, and welcomed him into the inner room, where he stayed for several months and was treated like a distinguished guest. Before leaving, I prepared a generous gift for him.
The reason why Ji Bu's reputation grew bigger and bigger was because Cao Qiusheng promoted it to him.
Ji Bu's younger brother Ji Xin was the most brave in Guanzhong. He was respectful and cautious to others, and he was a chivalrous and righteous man. Scholars from thousands of miles around rushed to work for him.
Because he killed someone, he fled to the state of Wu and hid in Yuan Ang's house. He served Yuan Ang as an elder brother and regarded Guan Fu, Ji Fu and others as brothers.
Lieutenant Zhi did not dare to treat him disrespectfully as he was a Sima who was subordinate to the lieutenant.
Some young people often use his name to do things.
At that time, Ji Xin was famous for his bravery and Ji Bu for his promise.
Ji Bu's half-brother Ding Gong served as Xiang Yu's general. He once pursued Han Emperor Gaozu and trapped him west of Pengcheng.
During the hand-to-hand fight, the king of Han was in danger and turned back to Ding Gong and said: Are two wise men going to persecute each other?
Ding Gong then led his troops to withdraw, and the king of Han was able to escape.
After Xiang Yu's death, Duke Ding went to pay homage to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu asked him to be paraded in the military camp and said: Duke Chang was disloyal because he was a subject of Xiang Yu, and he was the one who caused King Xiang to lose the world.
So he beheaded Duke Ding and said: "I want all future ministers not to imitate Duke Ding!" Luan Bu was from Liang.
When Peng Yue was still a civilian, he had a relationship with Le Bu. Because of poverty, he worked as a laborer in Qi and was employed by Qi Diyi. hotel.
He left a few years later and was kidnapped and sold as a slave to the State of Yan.
He avenged his master and was elected as the captain by Yan general Zang Tu.
Later Zang Tu became king of Yan, and Lebu was appointed as a general.
When Zang Tu rebelled, the Han army attacked Yan and captured Le Bu.
The king of Liang, Peng Yue, found out about this and interceded with the Emperor of Han, asking for Le Bu to atone for his sins and let him be appointed as the official of the Liang Kingdom.
Peng Yue sent him as an envoy to Qi, but before he returned, the Han court summoned Peng Yue, accused him of treason, and killed all members of the Pengyue clan. Peng Yue's head was hung under the gate of Luoyang City for public display. He also issued an order from Shao: Anyone who cries or cares for Peng Yue's head will be arrested immediately.
Lebu returned from Qi and reported under Peng Yue's head. While offering sacrifices, he cried bitterly.
The messenger arrested Le Bu and reported it to the emperor.
The emperor summoned Le Bu and scolded him: Are you plotting rebellion with Peng Yue?
I forbid people to collect or see his head, but you still go to sacrifice and cry bitterly, which shows that you are conspiring with Peng Yue, and I will cook you to death as soon as possible.
Just as he was about to lift Lebu closer to the oil pan, Lebu turned around and said: I want to say something before I die. The emperor said: What did you say?
Le Bu said: When you were trapped in Pengcheng and defeated Rongyang and Chenggao, the reason why King Xiang could not successfully attack to the west was because King Peng was guarding Liang and united with Han to trouble the Chu army.
At that time, King Peng was a little sidelined. If he united with Chu, Han would be defeated. If he united with Mo, Chu would be defeated.
Moreover, in the siege of Gaixia, without King Peng, Xiang Yu would not have perished.
Now that the world has been peaceful, King Peng accepted the court's letter and became king, hoping to pass it on to his descendants for generations to come.
Now the imperial court is recruiting troops from the Liang Kingdom. King Peng is ill and cannot come, so he is suspected of treason.
I didn't see the fact that he wanted to rebel, but I punished him for trivial matters. I'm worried that all the meritorious officials will be in danger.
Now that King Peng is dead, it would be better for me to be alive than to be dead. Please cook it immediately.
So the emperor released him and worshiped him as captain.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Lebu was the prime minister of Yan State, and his official rank was general.
He publicly declared: If poverty fails to lower one's ambitions and humiliate one's body, one is not a good man; if wealth fails to bring comfort, one is not a wise man.
Therefore, he will give generous rewards to those who have been kind to him; he will definitely try to destroy those who have hatred towards him.
When Wu Chu rebelled, Lebu was named Langhou for his meritorious service. Once again, he was the prime minister of Yan State.
Ancestral temples were built for him in Yan and Qi areas, known as Le Commune.
After Luan Bu's death, his son Le Bi succeeded him as marquis. During the reign of Emperor Mowu, he was appointed Taichang; because the livestock used in the sacrifices were illegal according to the regulations of the law, the vassal state was abolished.
Uncle Tian was a native of Xingcheng, Zhao State, and his ancestor was the Tian family of Qi State.
He loved sword dancing and learned the art of Huang Lao under Le Jugong. He is an upright, upright and chivalrous person, and often socializes with local leaders.
Someone recommended him to Prime Minister Chang Wu, and Chang Wu was introduced to Chang Wang Zhang Ao, and he was appointed as a doctor.
A few years later, Tong Gong thought he was talented and had not had time to promote him.
It happened that Zhao Wu, Guan Gao and others were surrounding and plotting to assassinate the emperor. They were discovered and the emperor issued an order to arrest the king and the ministers who followed him in the rebellion.
Those who follow the king to rebel will be guilty of the three clans.
Only Uncle Tian, ​​Meng Shu and more than ten people, wearing reddish-brown prison clothes, shaved their heads, and tied their necks with iron rings, followed the king to Chang'an.
Later, the affairs of Chang Wang Zhang Ao were clarified and he was released, but was demoted to the title of Marquis of Xuan Ping. Zhang Ao reported to the emperor that Uncle Tian and other ten people were there.
The emperor summoned them and after talking with them, he felt that no official in the Han Dynasty could surpass them.
The emperor was very happy and appointed them all as county guards or prime ministers of vassal states.
Therefore, Uncle Tian served as the county guard in Hanzhong County for more than ten years.
When Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, he summoned Uncle Tian and asked: Do you know any honest and honest people in the world?
Uncle Tian replied: How can I know?
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty said: You are an honest and honest person, so you should know.
Uncle Tian kowtowed and said: Meng Shu, the former governor of Yunzhong County, was a man of integrity and sincerity.
At that time, Meng Shuzheng was blamed for the large-scale invasion of the Huns and was relieved of his post as county guard.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty said: The late Emperor appointed Meng Shu as the governor of Yunzhong County for more than ten years. Once the Xiongnu invaded, he could not hold on and hundreds of soldiers died in battle for no reason.
Is it true that people with integrity will kill people?
Uncle Tian kowtowed and said: Back then, when Guan Gao and others planned to kill the emperor, the emperor issued an edict that anyone who dared to follow the king in the country would be punished.
However, Meng Shu shaved off his hair, tied his neck with an iron hoop, and followed the king to kill him. How did you know you would be the governor of Yunzhong County later?
When Han and Chu faced each other, the soldiers were exhausted. However, the Xiongnu Maodun Shanyu had recently surrendered to the northern ethnic minorities and was in full force to invade the border. Menshu knew that the soldiers were very tired and could not bear to send them out to fight. However, the soldiers rushed out of the city to kill the enemy, just like sons fighting for their fathers, and hundreds of them died.
But it was not Meng Shu who drove them to fight and die!
The result was that Meng Shu was honest and sincere, and had people working for him. Emperor Wen of Han then praised: Meng Shu. O wise man!
He also appointed Meng Shu as the governor of Yunzhong County.
A few years later, Uncle Tian lost his official position for breaking the law.
Emperor Jing's brother Liang Xiaowang Liu Wu sent people to assassinate Yuan Ang, the minister in charge of discussing political affairs in the Han Dynasty. Emperor Jing summoned Uncle Tian to investigate the matter and fully grasped the facts.
After he came back, he reported it to Emperor Jing. Emperor Jing said: "Did King Xiao of Liang do this?" He replied: "It is true."
Emperor Jing asked: What is the specific situation?
Uncle Tian said: Your Majesty, it is best not to ask about King Liang Xiao's affair.
Now the King of Liang is being punished for not obeying the law, but for abandoning the laws of the Han Dynasty. If he is sentenced to death according to the law, the Queen Mother will not be able to eat well or sleep well, and Your Majesty will also be worried about it.
So Emperor Jing thought Uncle Tian was very virtuous and appointed him prime minister of Lu.
Uncle Tian was the prime minister of Lu. When he first took office, more than a hundred people reported to King Lu that he had taken away their property.
Uncle Tian caught the twenty leaders and whipped them, and said angrily: "Isn't King Lu your master?"
How dare you sue the master!
King Lu was deeply ashamed when he heard this. He took the money out of the treasury and asked Uncle Tian to pay it back to the people.
Uncle Tian said: King Lu will send someone to repay it himself. Otherwise, you become the bad guy and I become the good guy.
King Lu loved hunting, and Uncle Tian often followed him into the gardens. King Lu immediately stopped him and asked him to rest in the garden.
But Uncle Tian often sat outside his room to wrap himself in the open air, and never went into the house to rest. He said: "The king of Lu is wrapping his clothes in the open air, how can I wrap myself in the house alone?"
For this reason, King Lu did not go out much for hunting.
A few years later, Uncle Tian died in office. The State of Lu offered a hundred catties of gold as a sacrifice, but his youngest son Tian Ren refused to accept it, saying: Morally, the honor of his father cannot be harmed.
Because Tian Ren was strong and brave, he became a household official of General Wei Qing. He followed Wei Qing to attack the Xiongnu several times.
General Wei recommended him to Emperor Mowu, and he was appointed as a doctor. He was transferred to Erqianshi and served as prime minister for a long time. Later, he was dismissed due to some affairs.
Later, he was appointed as the governor of Sanhe County. When he returned to Beijing to report his affairs, he was in line with Emperor Wu's wishes and was appointed as the capital of Jingfu.
More than a month later, he was promoted to Prime Minister Sizhi.
A few years later, Liu Zheng, the crown prince of Emperor Wu, raised an army due to an incident. At that time, Tian Ren was in charge of opening and closing the city gates. He asked the prince to flee the city. He was exterminated for indulging the rebels.
Praise said: While Xiang Yu was heroic, Ji Bu was famous for his bravery in Chu State. He defeated the enemy many times and took up his banner. He can be called a hero!
Even when he was in trouble and became a slave, he still lived quietly without changing. What is the reason?
It's because he is conceited of his talents. Being insulted without feeling ashamed is to hone some of your deficient qualities. As a result, Ji Bu finally became a famous general in the early Han Dynasty.
A virtuous person attaches great importance to the value of his own death.
However, ordinary slaves, wives, concubines and other lowly people would commit suicide due to some emotion. This is not only not brave, but the idea is boring to the extreme.
Lebu cried and offered sacrifices to Peng Yue, and Uncle Tian followed Zhang Ao. They all regarded death as homecoming, because they knew that doing so was due to their faith and their death was worthwhile.
