Yao Qi, whose courtesy name is Ci Kuang, was born in Jiaxian County, Yingchuan County.
He is eight feet two inches long, has a very strange appearance, is solemn and majestic.
His father, Yao Meng, was the governor of Guiyang. After his death, Yao spent three years in mourning for him, and everyone in the village praised him.
Guangwu raided Yingchuan. Hearing that Yao Qi was very ambitious, he summoned the thief Cao Yu to follow him and attack Ji.
At that time Wang Lang sent a message to Ji, and Ji Zhong raised troops to respond to Wang Lang.
Guangwu's chariots drove out, and the people gathered to watch. The roads were crowded with noise and chariots could not pass. Yaoqi rode on horseback and raised his halberd, glaring angrily and shouting "guards" to the left and right, and the spectators retreated one after another.
When they arrived at the city gate, the gate was closed, so they broke through the city gate and left.
When he arrived at Xindu, he took Zhao Qi as his assistant general. He, Fu Kuan and Lu Yan all belonged to Deng Yu.
After attacking a nearby county, he also sent out soldiers. Deng Yu thought that Yao Qi was capable, so he paid homage to the partial generals alone and awarded him 2,000 soldiers, including several hundred soldiers each to Fu Kuan and Lu Yan.
After returning, he reported the situation to Guangwu, who was very complimentary.
He sent Yaoqi to attack Zhending Songzi and captured the counties of Leyang, Gaohe and Fei.
Following Deng Yu, he attacked Wang Lang's generals Erhong and Liu Feng under a huge deer. Yaoqi took the lead and captured the enemy's formation. He killed more than fifty people with his own hands and was wounded in the forehead. He tied the wound with a turban and fought again, thus defeating the enemy.
After Wang Lang was killed, he worshiped Yao Qi as General Huya.
So he took the opportunity and said to Guangwu: "In the land of Hebei, which borders the border fortress, people practice military warfare and are known as elite and brave people."
Now that the reform has failed, the unification of the Han Dynasty is in crisis, and there is no way to return to the country.
The Ming Dynasty took control of the mountains and rivers of Hebei, supported the elite people, and obeyed the hearts of thousands of people who longed for the Han Dynasty. Who in the world would dare not to obey? Guangwu smiled and said: Do you want to call the police like before? At that time, hundreds of thousands of bronze horses entered Qingyang and Boping. Yaoqi and his generals attacked them. The battle was unfavorable. Yaoqi fought against the water even more, killing many enemies.
It happened that Guangwu's reinforcements arrived, so they defeated the enemy and chased them to Guantao, where all the bronze horses surrendered.
Following Ji Qing Du and Chi Mei Yu She Dog, the bandits attacked Yao Qi's baggage. Yao Qi fought back, killing dozens of people with his own hands and being wounded in three places on his body. However, he continued to fight hard, defeated the enemy and drove them away.
Guangwu ascended the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng, with a settlement of 5,000 households.
At that time, Tanxiang and Wulou thieves entered Fanyang, Neihuang, and the Wei capital several times, and Gengshi general Zhuo Jing was planning to lead a rebellion in Yecheng. The emperor appointed Yaoqi as the prefect of Wei County to perform the affairs of the general.
Yao Qi sent county soldiers to attack Zhuo Jing, defeated him, and beheaded more than 600 people.
Zhuo Jing rushed to the mountains, and Yao Qi chased and killed dozens of his generals and captured Zhuo Jing's wife and children.
They also attacked Fanyang and Neihuang, and beheaded hundreds of people, and the county boundaries were peaceful.
The thief Li Xiong is a strong man in Ye. Li Xiong's younger brother Li Lu wants to plot a rebellion in the city to welcome Tanxiang.
Some people reported to Yaoqi, but Yaoqi did not respond. They complained three or four times, and Yaoqi summoned Li Xiong for questioning.
Li Xiong kowtowed and surrendered, willing to die with his mother.
Yao Qi said: If being an official is not as happy as being a thief, you can go back to Li Lu's place with your mother. Send officials to escort him out of the city.
Li Xiong left to see Li Lu and was about to arrive at the west gate of Yecheng.
Li Lu was so ashamed and grateful that he committed suicide to thank Yaoqi.
Yaoqi sighed, buried him with ceremony, and restored Li Xiong to his original position.
So everyone in Weijun was convinced of his authority.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu traveled to Wei County and appointed Yaoqi as Taizhong doctor.
He followed Guangwu back to Luoyang and paid homage to the Weiwei.
Yaoqi is more important than faith. Since he became a general, he often sent troops to the city, but he never captured the people.
Serving in the imperial court, caring about the country and loving the Lord, and if there is anything that has to be remonstrated, it must be a crime to remonstrate.
The emperor once made light of himself to go in and out of Qi's gate. Yao Qi kowtowed in front of his chariot and said: I have heard the warnings of ancient and modern times, things often happen unexpectedly, and I really don't want your Majesty to reveal them in detail. The emperor returned the car for him.
In the tenth year of Jianwu's death, the emperor came in person to present the deceased with clothes, as well as the seals and ribbons of Weiwei and Anchenghou, and was given the posthumous title of Zhonghou.
Zi Yaodan succeeded to the throne.
He also granted the title of Marquis of Jianping to his brother Yaotong.
Later, Yao Dan was granted the title of Marquis of Ge Ling.
Yao Dan passed away, and his son Yao Shu succeeded him.
Yaoshu passed away and was succeeded by his son Yaoyu.
Yao Yu passed away and was succeeded by his son Yao Cai Si.
Wang Ba, whose courtesy name was Yuan Bo, was from Yingyang, Yingchuan.
He has been fond of the legal system for generations. His father was a county magistrate, and Ba himself was a jailer when he was young.
He often lamented that he was not happy with his official position. His father felt strange and sent him west to Chang'an to study.
When the Han soldiers rose up and Guangwu passed through Yingyang, Wang Ba led his guests to meet him and said: "The general is raising righteous soldiers. I don't know what I think. I am greedy for the general's power and virtue, and I am willing to join the army." Guangwu said: I dream of wise men to achieve success together, how can it be different! So Cong Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi in Kunyang, and then rested in the countryside.
When Guangwu became the captain of Sili school and passed through Yingyang, Wang Ba asked his father for instructions, hoping to follow Guangwu.
His father said: I am old and not qualified for military service. You go and do your best! Wang Ba and Guangwu went to Luoyang.
When Guangwu became the Grand Sima, he took Wang Ba as his meritorious officer and ordered him to cross Hebei.
The guests followed Wang Ba's dozens of people and gradually left.
Guangwu said to Wang Ba: All the people who followed me in Yingchuan have left, but you are left alone.
effort!
The strong wind knows the strong grass.
When Wang Lang raised his troops, Guangwu was at Ji. Wang Lang sent a letter offering a reward for Guangwu's capture.
Guangwu ordered Wang Ba to go to the city to recruit people and prepare to attack Wang Lang.
The people in the city laughed and raised their hands to tease and ridicule. The king was ashamed and cowardly and returned.
Guangwu immediately galloped south to Xiaquyang.
It was rumored that Wang Lang's soldiers were behind him, and everyone who followed him was afraid.
When we arrived at the Hutuo River, the reconnaissance officials came back and reported that the river was filled with ice and could not be crossed without a boat.
The officials were greatly frightened when they heard this.
Guangwu ordered Wang Ba to go and have a look.
Wang Ba probably frightened everyone and wanted to cross the river, but was blocked by the water. When he came back, he falsely claimed that the ice was strong and could be crossed. The officials and their families were all happy.
Guangwu smiled and said, "The detective officials are indeed lying."
So move forward. When they arrived at the river, the ice had closed up, so they ordered Wang Ba to protect them across the river. There were still a few riders left to cross the river, but the ice thawed.
Guangwu said to Wang Ba: "It's your credit that stabilized the troops and enabled the army to cross the river safely." Wang Ba thanked him and said: This is the supreme virtue of Ming Gong and the protection of the gods. Even if it is the induction of Wu Wang Baiyu, it cannot compare with it. Guangwu said to his officials: "It is a blessing from heaven that Wang Ba defrauded others because of his power." With Wang Ba as military commander, he was given the title of Marquis of Guan Nei.
After arriving at Xindu, he sent troops to attack Handan.
Wang Ba chased Wang Lang, got Wang Lang's seal and ribbon, and was named Wangxianghou.
Following the pacification of Hebei, he often camped with Zang Gong and Fu Jun. Wang Ba alone was good at comforting the soldiers. When the soldiers died, they took off their own clothes to bury them, and when they were injured, he personally healed their wounds.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he believed that the king knew military affairs, loved the soldiers, and could serve alone, so he was worshiped as a partial general and led the troops of Zang Gong and Chen Jun, while Zang Gong and Chen Jun were appointed as cavalry captains.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Wang Ba was granted the title Fubohou.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu drove Qiao, and Wang Ba and the captured general Ma Wudong discussed Zhou Jianyu Chuihui.
Su Mao led more than 4,000 soldiers from five schools to rescue Zhou Jian, and first sent elite cavalry to cover Ma Wu's supplies, and Ma Wu went to rescue him.
Zhou Jian sent troops from the city to attack Ma Wu. Ma Wu relied on Wang Ba's assistance and did not make much effort in the battle. He was defeated by Su Mao and Zhou Jian.
Ma Wujun ran through Wangba's camp and shouted for help.
Wang Ba said: The thieves are strong, and they will lose both sides in battle. Just work hard. So he closed the camp gate and stood firm.
All the soldiers rushed to fight.
Wang Ba said: "Su Mao's soldiers are elite and numerous. Our officers and soldiers are afraid. However, the captive general and our army rely on each other. The two armies are inconsistent. This is a path to failure."
Now that the camp is closed and the enemy is not willing to come to rescue, the traitors will surely take advantage of the victory and advance easily. The captor general will fight harder when he sees that there is no rescue.
In this way, when the troops of Sumao and Mao are tired, we can defeat them by attacking their fatigue. Sure enough, Su Mao and Zhou Jian concentrated their forces to attack Ma Wu, and the battle lasted for a long time. Dozens of people including Lu Run, a strong man in Wang Ba's army, cut off their hair to invite the battle.
Wang Ba knew that his soldiers were eager, so he opened the back door of the camp and sent out his elite cavalry to attack behind them.
Su Mao and Zhou Jian were attacked successively and fled in panic. Wang Ba and Ma Wu each returned to their camps.
The thieves gathered again to challenge him, but Wang Ba was unable to get out of the wall and was enjoying a song and dance party with his soldiers.
Su Mao fired arrows like raindrops into the camp, hitting the wine bottle in front of Wang Ba. Wang Ba sat still.
The soldiers all said: Sumao was defeated the day before yesterday, but now it is easy to defeat him.
Wang Ba said: Otherwise, Su Mao's soldiers came from far away and there was insufficient food, so he challenged him several times in order to win by chance.
I am closing the camp and resting my soldiers. As the saying goes, it is to conquer the enemy without fighting. This is the best tactic. Su Mao and Zhou Jian were unable to fight, so they led their troops back to camp.
That night, Zhou Jian's nephew Zhou Songzao closed the city gates and resisted. Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled, and Zhou Song surrendered to the king.
In the spring of the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor sent Taizhong, a senior official, to hold a talisman to worship Wang Ba as a general against captives.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Xin'an was established.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, he stationed at Hangu Pass and defeated the bandits in Xingyang and Zhongmou.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, more than 50,000 people including Wang Ba, Wu Han, Hengye general Wang Chang, Jianyi general Zhu You, and traitor-breaking general Hou Jin attacked Lu Fang generals Jia Lan and Min Kan at Gaoliu.
The Xiongnu sent cavalry to assist Lu Fang, but the Han army encountered rain and the battle was at a disadvantage.
Wu Han returned to Luoyang and ordered Zhu You to garrison Changshan, Wang Chang to garrison Zhuojun, and Hou Jin to garrison Yuyang.
Xishu worshiped Wang Ba as the prefect of Shanggu, and led the troops as in the past, hunting barbarians without being restricted by county boundaries.
The next year, Wang Ba and Wu Han and other four generals sent out 60,000 men to Gaoliu to attack Jia Lan. Wang Ba and Yuyang Governor Chen Yujin were ordered to lead the army as the vanguard.
General Zuonan of the Xiongnu led thousands of cavalry to rescue Jia Lan. Wang Ba and others fought with him at the foot of Pingcheng, defeated the enemy troops, pursued him out of the fortress, and beheaded hundreds of people.
Wang Ba and other generals returned to Yanmen and joined forces with General Du Mao to attack Lu Fang General Yin Yuguo County and Fan County, but failed to win.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the number of households in the city was increased, and Wang Ba was granted the title of Xianghou.
At this time, Lu Fang, together with the Xiongnu and Wuhuan soldiers, invaded and plundered more frequently, making the borderland miserable.
Wang Ba was ordered to lead more than 6,000 prisoners who were freed from their shackles, and he and Du Mao managed Feigu Road, piled stones and earth, built pavilions and barriers, and traveled more than 300 miles to Pingcheng.
Wang Ba fought hundreds of battles with the Xiongnu and Wuhuan, large and small, and was well versed in border defense affairs. He wrote several times that it was advisable to make peace with the Xiongnu, and also suggested that transportation could be carried out by warm water canal to save the labor of land transportation. These were all accepted.
Later Nan Danyu and Wuhuan surrendered. The north side is quiet and uneventful.
Wang Ba has been in Shanggu for more than 20 years.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Huailing.
In the second year of Yongping. He was dismissed due to illness and died a few months later.
Ziwang Fu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Yihou.
When Wang Fu died, his son Wangdu succeeded him.
Wang Du married Princess Junyi, the daughter of the prominent clan, and became Huangmenlang.
Wang Du died, and his son Wang Xin succeeded to the throne.
Ji Zun's younger brother Sun was a native of Yingyang, Yingchuan.
When I was young, I loved scriptures.
The family is wealthy, but Ji Zun is respectful, frugal and doesn't like to wear fancy clothes.
After her mother died, she carried the earth to her grave.
Once bullied by government officials, Ji Zun befriended guests and killed the government officials.
At first, the county thought he was weak, but later became afraid of him.
Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and others and returned to Yingyang. Ji Zun visited him several times as a county official. Guangwu liked his appearance and made him a subordinate for a while.
From Hebei, he was ordered to serve as a military commander.
The son in the house broke the law, so Ji Zun killed him.
Guangwu was angry and ordered Ji Zun to be arrested.
At this time, the chief registrar, Deputy Chen, advised him: "Ming Gong always wants the army to be in order. Now he can obey the law and not avoid the power. This is what is needed to educate the law." Guangwu pardoned him and made him an assassin and traitor general.
To the generals: Be more careful with Ji Zun!
He will still kill my son if he breaks the law, and he will never show any favoritism to you. Soon after, he paid homage to the partial general, followed him to pacify Hebei, and was granted the title of lord for his merits.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed General of the Conquering Capture Army and granted the title of Marquis of Yingyang.
He entered Jiguan with the hussar general Jing Dan, the Jianyi general Zhu You, the Han loyal general Wang Chang, the cavalry captain Wang Liang, Zang Gong and others, and attacked the Hongnong, Yanxin and Baihua barbarians in the south.
Ji Zun was hit by a crossbow arrow and his wound was bleeding. When everyone saw that Ji Zun was injured, they gradually retreated. Ji Zun kept shouting and scolding, and the soldiers fought harder and harder, thus defeating the enemy.
At that time, Zhang Man, a bandit among the Xincheng barbarians, gathered soldiers in dangerous places to harm the people. He ordered Ji Zun to attack, but Ji Zun cut off Zhang Man's food route. Zhang Man challenged him several times, but Ji Zun held on to the barrier and could not leave.
The remnants of Yanxin and Baihua reunited with Zhang Man and captured Huoyangju. Ji Zun then divided his troops to defeat them and force him to surrender.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, Zhang Man was hungry and sleepy. Ji Zun attacked his city and captured Zhang Man alive.
At first, Zhang Man offered sacrifices to heaven and earth, saying that he should be the king. When he was caught, he sighed: The prophecy was wrong to me! So he, his wife, and his children were beheaded.
Ji Zun led his troops south to attack Deng Feng's brother, Du Yan, and finally defeated him.
At this time, Zhang Feng, the governor of Zhuo County, caught the envoy and raised his troops to rebel. He claimed to be the supreme general and joined forces with Peng Chong.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Ji Zun, Zhu You, Jianwei General Geng Yan, and Xiaoqi General Liu happy jointly attacked Zhang Feng.
Ji Zun's soldiers arrived first and attacked Zhang Feng in a hurry. Zhang Feng's hero Cao Meng captured Zhang Feng and surrendered.
At first, Zhang Feng was fond of alchemy. A Taoist priest said that Zhang Feng was regarded as the emperor. He wrapped a stone in a colorful bag and tied it to Zhang Feng's elbow, saying that there was a jade seal in the stone.
Zhang Feng believed it and rebelled.
After being caught and beheaded, he also said: There is a jade seal on his elbow. Ji Zun broke his stone vertebrae, and Zhang Feng realized that he had been deceived by the Taoist priest. He looked up to the sky and sighed: "I will die without regrets!" All the generals were led back, and Ji Zun was ordered to stay in Liangxiang to resist Peng Chong.
Therefore, he sent the guard Fu Xuan to attack Peng Chong's general Li Hao and Yu Lu, and defeated his army, beheading more than a thousand people.
They resisted each other for more than a year and were defeated several times. Many of Peng Chong's followers surrendered.
When Peng Chong died, Ji Zun marched to pacify his territory.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, he ordered Ji Zun and Jianwei General Geng Yan, Huya General Gai Yan, Han Zhong General Wang Chang, Capture General Ma Wu, Xiaoqi General Liu Xin, Wuwei General Liu Shang and others to attack Gongsun Shu from Tianshui.
The army stopped in Chang'an, and Guangwu's chariots also arrived, but Kaixiao did not want the Han soldiers to go to Long, so he excused himself.
Guangwu summoned the generals to discuss. They all say: You can temporarily delay the period of the sun and the moon of Wei Xiao, and add titles to his generals to promote their dispersion and disintegration. Ji Zun said: Kui Xiao has been plotting for a long time.
If he stands still and procrastinates for a while now, it will prompt him to deepen his deception and make Gongsun Shu increase his security, so it is better to march directly. Guangwu obeyed and sent Ji Zun as the vanguard.
Kaixiao sent his general Wang Yuan to stay at Longdi, and Ji Zun attacked, defeated Wang Yuan's army, and pursued him to Xinguan.
When the generals arrived, they fought with Kai Xiao but failed, so they retreated to Long.
Guangwu ordered Ji Zun to garrison troops in Qi, ordered Geng Yan to garrison troops in Qi, ordered General Feng Yi to garrison troops in the city, and ordered Grand Sima Wu Han and others to return to Chang'an.
Since then, Ji Zun has defeated Kuai Xiao several times.
See "Feng Yi Zhuan" for details.
In the autumn of the eighth year of Jianwu, he went up to Long from Guangwu.
When Kuai Xiao was destroyed, Guang Wu returned eastward and passed through Qian. He went to the Ji Zun military camp, comforted and fed the soldiers, and performed Huangmen martial arts, which stopped late at night.
At this time, Ji Zun was ill and was given a thick mattress to sit on, which was covered with the emperor's royal canopy.
Then let him march to Longxia.
When Gongsun Shu sent troops to rescue Wei Xiao, Wu Han, Geng Yan and others all fled back, except for Ji Zun who remained.
In the spring of the ninth year of Jianwu, he died in the army.
Ji Zun was an honest, conscientious, careful, self-denial, and dedicated to the public service. He always gave all the rewards he received to his soldiers. He had no private property at home. He wore a Wei belt, a quilt, and a quilt, and his wife's clothes were not colorful. Therefore, the emperor valued him.
After his death, sympathy and mourning were especially intense.
When the coffin arrived in Henan County, the emperor sent hundreds of officials to gather at the funeral site. Guangwu came in white mourning clothes and looked at the coffin in mourning.
When I walked back through the city gate and saw the funeral car, I couldn't help crying.
After the funeral ceremony was completed, he personally offered sacrifices with Tailao ceremony, just like Emperor Xuan performed Huo Guang's funeral.
Da Changqiu, Yezhe, and Henan Yin were ordered to carry out funeral arrangements, and Da Si Nong was responsible for the expenses.
Dr. Fan Shengshangshu, who was posthumously named Ji Zun, said: I heard about the noble virtues of the late king, respected the good, and rejected the ugly.
In the past, the great sage, the Great Ancestor, had far-sightedness, divided up nobility and territory, and divided the merits with his subordinates. He recorded the deeds of the heroes in books and praised their virtues.
During the lifetime, special etiquette is used to show favor. There is no need to sign up for events, and there is no need to leave in a hurry when entering the house.
After his death, he was granted a title so that he would have no heirs, and a deed was given to him to enjoy privileges from generation to generation, so that his favor would be passed on to eternity.
This is a long-lasting kindness bestowed by our great Han Dynasty to the descendants of heroes, so it has affected more than ten generations and lasted for more than two hundred years. It was abolished and revived, and it was extinct and continued.
Your Majesty is entrusted with the task of being extremely virtuous, promoting the ways of the ancestors, commending assistants in turn, and rewarding meritorious ministers, in line with the laws of the ancestors.
The marquis of Yingyang, Ji Zun, the conquering general, unfortunately died young.
Your Majesty is so kind and grieved that he welcomes you from afar to Henan. Sorrow and mourning are expressed in holy bows, funeral expenses are donated by the state, and wives and children are given to them in countless ways.
It is given to the deceased to benefit the living, and to provide kindness to the deceased to comfort relatives, to correct the world, to encourage education, and to be as high as the sun and the moon.
In ancient times, when a minister was ill, the king came to visit him, and when a minister died, the king came to mourn him. This was a profound virtue.
But this kind of gentlemanly virtue has been destroyed for a long time.
His Majesty restored this kind of etiquette, and all his ministers were moved by it, and they all encouraged themselves.
The minister privately saw that Ji Zun had accumulated good deeds and was loyal to the country. He went north to pacify Yuyang, and went west to resist Long and Shu. He ascended Longdi first and captured Lueyang deeply.
All the soldiers and horses retreated, but he remained alone.
He can control and control the soldiers so that they do not exceed the law.
The officials and people where his army was located were unaware of its existence.
The reputation of purity spreads throughout the country, and the reputation of honesty and innocence is known throughout the world.
He often distributed all the rewards he received to officials. He wore no expensive clothes and had no private property at home.
The brother of the same mother, Ji Wu, thought that he had no children, so he took a concubine for him and gave it to him. Ji Zun refused to accept it, thinking that he was in charge of state affairs, and did not dare to covet life and consider the private affairs of his heirs.
Before he died, he also ordered in his will to carry his coffin in an oxcart and bury him sparingly in Luoyang.
I asked him about his family affairs, but he always said nothing.
There is a long way to go, and death is the end of it.
When Ji Zun is a general, he uses Confucianism to select talents. When drinking and playing, he must sing elegant poems and throw pots.
After he built a temple for Confucius, he appointed a doctor of the Five Classics.
Although he is in the military, he does not forget to perform sacrifices. He can be said to be a person who obeys etiquette, enjoys rituals and music, and adheres to the good way.
Ritual, you have a title when you are alive, and you should be given a posthumous title after death. The title is used to distinguish between superior and inferior, and the posthumous title is used to understand good and evil.
I think that after Ji Zun's death, he should discuss his many achievements, follow the posthumous law in detail, and complete it with ancient rituals.
To show that the country abides by ancient rules and regulations and establishes heirs for future generations. The emperor then showed Fan Sheng's memorial to the minister.
After the burial, the emperor's chariot driver came again in person, presented the seals and ribbons of the generals and marquises, and carried them in a cart with red painted wheels. The warriors lined up in a military formation for the funeral, and he was given the posthumous title of Marquis Cheng.
After the burial was completed, Guangwu visited his grave again and properly placed his wife's family.
Later, during the court meeting, the emperor often sighed: How can we get ministers like Ji Zun who care about the country and serve the public? Ji Zunzhi sees and thinks about Guangwu so deeply.
Without children, the feudal state was abolished.
My brother offered sacrifices at noon, and he was promoted to the prefect of Jiuquan.
