Chen Qian’s son, Pei Xiuzi, and his younger brother Kaikai Zixian
Chen Qian was a native of Shuyang, Linhuai.
His father, Chen Jiao, was a Situ of Wei.
Chen Jiao was originally from the Liu family in Guangling, and was raised by his maternal grandfather Chen, so he changed his surname.
Chen Qian is deep and resourceful.
At the beginning, Chen Jiao was appointed as Shangshu Ling, and his attendant Liu Ye was favored by Emperor Wei Ming, who falsely accused Chen Jiao of monopolizing power.
Chen Jiao was worried and fearful, so he asked Chen Qian.
Chen Qian said: The emperor is wise and his father is a minister. If things don't go as planned, it's just not doing justice.
Later, the emperor's doubts were indeed eliminated. When Chen Qian was a boy, he was insulted by Xia Houxuan, but he looked calm, so Xia Houxuan thought he was unusual.
He initially served as an official as Shangshu Lang, and later became the Grand Administrator of Zhongshan and Anping, both of which had remarkable achievements.
He was promoted to Sima, Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng of the Prime Minister. He was promoted to Shangshu and was granted the title of Tinghou of Anguo.
When the Shu Kingdom invaded Longyou, Chen Qian used the title of Shangshu Zhijie and conquered the Shu generals on his behalf, defeated the enemy and returned to the dynasty.
Coinciding with the Zhuge Dan Rebellion, he also acted as Minister of General Anshu.
Shouchun was pacified, and he paid homage to the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Huaibei, and the general Andong, and his title was promoted to Marquis of Guangling.
He was transferred to the governorship of Yuzhou's military affairs and the governor of Yuzhou, but his positions of Chijie and general remained.
He was also transferred to be the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in the south of the Yangtze River, the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Jingzhou, the General of the Conquest of the South, and was granted the title of Marquis of Tan.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, and Chen Qian was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry for his merits in assisting Tianming. He was granted the title of Duke of Gaoping County, promoted to the rank of Shizhong, Grand General, and served as the Commander-in-Chief of Yangzhou's military affairs. The rest of his official positions remained the same, with the fake Huangyue.
He captured the city of Zhili in the state of Wu, defeated Tu Zhong's troops, and granted Chen Qian's brother's son, Chen Kui, the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the early years of Xianning, he was promoted to Taiwei and transferred to Grand Sima.
Chen Qian took the opportunity to enter the court and said to the emperor: Hu Lie and Qian Hong are both brave and overconfident. They are not capable of stabilizing border defense and will bring shame to the country.
I hope your Majesty will take a closer look.
At that time, Qian Hong was appointed governor of Yangzhou and did not obey Chen Qian's orders.
The emperor thought that the two men were at odds with each other, so he recruited Qian Hong. After his arrival, he soon became the governor of Liangzhou.
Chen Qian sighed privately, thinking that this move would definitely lead to failure.
The two men later lost their peace with the Qiang Rong, and both died at the hands of enemy invaders. After years of conquests, they could only achieve peace, and the emperor regretted it very much.
Chen Qian was magnanimous, tolerant and generous when he was young, and had achievements in any position.
He, Maichong, Shi Bao, Pei Xiu and others were all assistant ministers, but Chen Qian was superior to them in resourcefulness, and Maichong and others thought they were not as good as him.
He held important responsibilities many times and was remembered by scholars and common people.
After reaching the highest official rank, he exceeds the retirement age and plans to retire.
In the third year of Xianning, he asked to enter the court, so he begged to be dismissed from office.
He was given the title of Gunmian and issued an edict saying: "Chen Qian has great merits and virtues in governing the east, carrying forward great achievements, and unifying Wuhui. However, the hard work he has done has not been eliminated, and he speaks sincerely every time."
The affairs of one party are tiring and tiring, and now he is allowed to stay in the capital. The former Taiwei's Mansion is the Grand Sima's Mansion, and two more wine-sacrifice men are added. The commanders, official cavalry, carts, and propaganda are all the same. One hundred soldiers, ten hectares of kitchen land, fifty acres of kitchen garden, ten cooks, and utensils and supplies are all left to the Grand Sima's Mansion.
He also encouraged people to ride in chariots and enter and leave the palace, just like the case of Lu Tan in the Han Dynasty.
Su Hua repeatedly complained of illness and resigned from office, and the edict said: "I am the assistant in Su Su's practice of virtue and ethics."
We are relying on his strategies to promote our achievements and should manage government affairs.
You can send casual knights to explain your will.
Chen Qian returned home, and the imperial edict sent a servant to urge Chen Qian to return to the government.
So he made a firm request, and the emperor agreed to him. His official position was like that of a protector, above the three divisions. He was given several cases of walking sticks, so that he did not have to go to court. He was given a carriage and four horses, and he returned home as Gao Pinggong.
The emperor was very respectful to him because of his meritorious service and his advanced age.
And because Chen Qian was ill, he was allowed to go to the palace in a sedan chair.
Chen Qian had never been upright and dared to speak out, but he spoke arrogantly to the emperor. When he met the crown prince, he was very respectful. People at the time thought he was flattering.
His younger brother Chen Zhi had an angry quarrel with Chen Qian's son Chen Yu, so Chen Qian complained about the filthy behavior of Chen Qian's children, and Chen Qian moved his younger brother away, for which he was ridiculed by the world.
Yuankang died in the second year of his reign at the age of eighty-one. Jia Gong was buried in the clothes, presented to the Taifu, and Mi was named Wu.
During the burial, the emperor attended the funeral in person at Da Sima Gate and shed tears looking at the coffin. The funeral ceremony followed the precedent of Da Sima Shibao.
His son Chen Yu succeeded him.
In the early days of Chen Yu's reign, he served as Minister of Sanqi and Ling of Luoyang, and was promoted to Minister of Huangmen. He successively served as General Zuojun, Da Si Nong, and Shi Zhong.
Because he was not at peace with his uncle, he became the governor of Hanoi.
Although Chen Yu had no moral integrity, he was diligent in his work.
He died soon after, and his son Chen Zhi, courtesy name Hongxian, succeeded him.
After his death, his son Chen Cui succeeded him. He was killed during the Yongjia period. Emperor Xiaowu let Chen Qian's great-great-grandson inherit the title.
After his death, his younger brother's son Haozhi succeeded him.
When Song Dynasty accepted the abdication, the fiefdom was cancelled.
Pei Xiu, whose courtesy name was Ji Yan, was a Wenxi person from Hedong.
His grandfather Pei Mao was a minister of the Han Dynasty.
His father, Pei Qian, was the minister of Wei.
When he was young, Pei Xiu was eager to learn and had good manners. He was able to write articles at the age of eight.
Uncle Pei Hui was famous and had many guests.
When Pei Xiu was more than ten years old, someone visited Pei Hui and met Pei Xiu on his way out.
However, Pei Xiu's biological mother was humble, and her aunt, Xuan, was rude to her. She once asked her to serve food to guests, and everyone who saw her stood up for her.
Pei Xiu's biological mother said: I am so lowly because of my youngest son.
After Xuan learned about this, he would never do that again.
People at that time said: The leader of the younger generation is Pei Xiu.
Tan Qiu Jian, the general who crossed the Liao Dynasty, once recommended Pei Xiu to General Cao Shuang, saying: Pei Xiu was born smart and followed nature; he was quiet in his thoughts and adhered to the right path; he was erudite and memorized, and he was proficient in articles; his filial piety and friendliness were well-known in the countryside, and his good reputation was known far and near.
In fact, we should assist in strategy, assist in government affairs, support your government, and promote enlightenment.
Pei Xiu is not only a character like Zi Qi and Gan Luo, he has the virtues of Yan, Ran, You and Xia.
Cao Shuang then recruited him as a subordinate official, inherited his father's title of Qingyang Tinghou, and was promoted to Huangmen Shilang.
Cao Shuang was killed and dismissed as an old official.
Soon after, he was appointed Tingweizheng, and successively served as Emperor Wen An Shu and General Wei Sima. Most of the national and military policies proposed were adopted.
He was promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi.
When the emperor crusaded against Zhuge Dan, Pei Xiu, Shangshu Pushe Chen Tai, and Huangmen Shilang Zhong Hui accompanied him to the stage and participated in the strategy.
Zhuge Dan was pacified, transferred to the position of Minister, and granted the title of Marquis of Luyang Township, adding a thousand households to the city.
Changdao Township Duke succeeded to the throne. Because of his participation in the establishment of the throne, Pei Xiu was promoted to the title of County Marquis, increased the number of households by 700, and was promoted to the position of Minister of Public Affairs.
In the early years of Wei Xianxi's reign, the Xiansi was reformed.
At that time, Xun Zhuan revised the etiquette, Mai Chong revised the law, and Pei Xiu changed the official system.
Pei Xiu proposed the fifth-class title, and more than 600 people from the riding governor level and above were awarded the title.
So Pei Xiu was granted the title of Marquis of Jichuan, with a land area of ​​60 miles, a settlement of 1,400 households, and the Jichuan Ruins of Gaoyuan County as the marquis state.
At the beginning, Emperor Wen had not yet determined his successor, but he intended to establish Sima You, Marquis of Wuyang.
Emperor Wu was afraid that he would not be able to establish himself, so he asked Pei Xiu: Is there any theory of appearance?
So he said that he looked strange.
Pei Xiu later told Emperor Wen: "The Zhongfu Army has a high reputation and has the appearance of an emperor. It is definitely not the appearance of a minister."
This determines the heir apparent.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, Pei Xiuguan paid homage to Shangshu Ling and Dr. You Guanglu, as well as Dr. Wang Shen, the imperial censor, and General Jia Chong of the Wei Dynasty.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and granted him the title of Doctor Zuo Guanglu, the title of Duke of Julu County, and the title of 3,000 households in the city.
At that time, Anyuan Guardsman Hao Xiang wrote to a friend: I and Shangshu Ling Pei Xiu knew each other well, and I saw him seeking personal gain.
Regarding the officials' petition to remove Pei Xiu from his official position, the emperor wrote to Shao: "It is impossible to prevent and avoid adding sinners. This is difficult for the ancients."
Collusion is Hao Xiang's crime. Isn't it something that Shangshu Ling can prevent!
Don't ask about it.
Li Yi, the captain of the Sili school, said again that Liu Shang, the captain of the cavalry, ordered Pei Xiu to invade the public rice fields and requested to restrict Pei Xiu's freedom of movement.
The edict also said that Pei Xiu assisted in government affairs and had meritorious service to the royal family. Small shortcomings could not cover up his great virtues. He sent people to investigate Liu Shang's guilt and lifted the restrictions on Pei Xiu.
A long time later, the emperor issued an edict saying: The responsibility of the three divisions is to assist the royal family and assist in royal affairs.
Therefore, the governance of the country depends on their wisdom. If the people are not employed properly, the official position will be in vain.
Pei Xiu, the official of Shangshu Ling and Zuo Guanglu, was a man of great wisdom and far-reaching intentions. When the late emperor ascended the throne, he assisted the previous dynasty.
I accept the destiny, he assists in great undertakings, has great merits and morals, and is really an important minister of the court.
It should be consistent with the name and reality to praise his achievements.
Take Pei Xiu as Sikong.
Pei Xiu was knowledgeable and paid attention to political affairs. During the Zen Dynasty, he was in charge of the etiquette of the Zen dynasty. The matters he ruled did not violate etiquette.
And because he was a local official, he believed that the names of mountains and rivers in "Yugong" have a long history and have changed a lot.
Some of the explanations given by later generations were far-fetched and thus gradually became confusing.
So I screened and selected old documents, and ignored any doubtful ones. For place names that existed in ancient times but did not exist today, I made annotations as appropriate. I wrote eighteen chapters of "Yugong Regional Circle", reported it, and kept it in the Secret Mansion.
The preface says:
The writing of books has a long history.
Since ancient times, imitating the image drawing and customization of all things, all rely on books.
Relevant officials were set up in the Three Dynasties, and the National History was in charge of this position.
When they arrived in the desert to attack Xianyang, Prime Minister Xiao He collected all Qin's books.
Today, the collection of books in the palace contains neither ancient maps nor books collected by Xiao He. There are only miscellaneous maps such as "Yu Di" and "Kuo Di" of the Han Dynasty.
These maps neither have a uniform proportion nor verify their orientation, and the records of famous mountains and rivers are incomplete.
Although there are rough shapes, they are not precise and cannot be used as a basis.
Some ridiculous records about remote areas are inconsistent with the facts and have no merit.
The Jin Dynasty rose up to unify the world and clean up the universe. Starting from Yongshu, it became even more dangerous.
Emperor Wen then ordered relevant officials to compile a map of Wu and Shu.
After the Shu Kingdom was pacified, the map records of the places passed by the six armies, the distance of the region, the dangers of the mountains and rivers, and the length of the journey were verified and there were no errors.
Nowadays, the mountains, seas, streams, plains, depressions, ponds and swamps recorded in "Yu Gong", the ancient Kyushu, and the modern sixteen states, prefectures, counties, border villages, and the old place names of the ancient League of Nations, water and land routes are drawn and compiled into eighteen chapters of the map.
There are six ways to compile a map.
The first is the ratio, that is, reducing the painting square according to a uniform proportion.
The second is accurate observation, that is, correcting the geographical position between each other.
The third is road, that is, the road is separated from each other.
The fourth is high and low, the fifth is Fang Xie, and the sixth is roundabout. These three are adapted to local conditions, and respectively represent the difference between flat, dangerous and twists and turns.
If there is an image but no scale, there is no way to distinguish the difference between near and far; if there is a scale but no accurate sight, although it is accurate in one place, it must be wrong in other places; if there is a clear sight but no road, it is used in places isolated by mountains and seas, and there is no communication; if there is a road but no high and low, wrong, and roundabout corrections, the road alignment must be contrary to the reality of far and near, and the accuracy of the geographical position will be lost. Therefore, these six points must be used to verify each other.
Then the real number of distance is determined by the ratio, the actual distance between each other is determined by the accuracy, the actual distance of the road is determined by the road, and the actual difficulty of the road is determined by the calculation of high and low, square and roundabout.
Therefore, despite the obstacles of mountains and seas, the remoteness of a foreign land isolated from the rest of the world, and the reasons for circuitous climbs and descents, it can all be determined according to the map.
After the method of accurate prediction is determined, the right and wrong will become clear.
Pei Xiu founded and formulated court etiquette and extensively stated criminal laws and decrees, which were mostly followed and adopted by the court as precedents.
He reigned for four years and was a famous minister at that time.
Pei Xiu was poorly dressed and did not eat on time. He drank cold wine when he should drink hot wine. He died in the seventh year of Taishi at the age of forty-eight.
The edict said: Sikong was wise, virtuous, and behaved elegantly. He assisted the emperor and supported the dynasty, and his merits and deeds were great.
Just when I was about to make a difference to amend the country's legal system, as a great master and model in the world, he unfortunately passed away. I was very sad.
Give him a noble coffin, a set of court robes, a piece of clothing, three hundred thousand dollars, and a hundred pieces of cloth.
Mi Hao Yuan.
At the beginning, Pei Xiu believed that the management of the thirty-six departments of Shangshu was not clear and that ministers should be allowed to serve. He would die before he could submit a memorial in the future.
His friend sorted out his manuscripts and found the draft above, which discussed the pacification of Wu. It said: Sun Hao is cruel and tyrannical. If he does not take advantage of the wise king to rule the country, he annexes the weak and attacks the ignorant, and leaves it to his descendants. He will not be able to make the enemy surrender. There are good and bad times in the world, and it is not always smooth.
Although I have said it many times, I have not written it into a memorial.
Now that I am seriously ill, I respectfully state it again.
May your Majesty implement it in due course.
Then he sealed the table and played it.
The edict replied: Sikong passed away, and the deep sorrow cannot be erased from my heart.
I also got the draft of the memorial. Although I was seriously ill, I did not forget the royal family and served the country with all my heart.
The more I read, the sadder I became, so I discussed it with all the wise ministers.
In the early years of Xianning, Shi Bao and others were princes and worthy of enjoying the imperial temple.
He has two sons: Pei Jun and Pei Po.
Pei Jun was the heir, and he often served as an official, but he died early.
Pei Jun's concubine Pei Jing was not smart, so he was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang Ting, and Pei Jun's younger brother Pei Dian succeeded him.
Pei Yuan's courtesy name is Yimin.
He is very elegant and far-sighted, has extensive knowledge and studied ancient affairs, and has been famous since he was a child.
Zhou Bi, the censor Zhongcheng, saw him and said with emotion: Pei Po is like an arsenal with all kinds of weapons. He is a hero for a while.
Jia Chong is the husband of Pei Dian's aunt. The above table says that Pei Xiu had the merits of assisting the emperor. Unfortunately, his eldest son died, leaving him orphaned and weak.
Pei Po has both talent and virtue, enough to be prosperous and granted a title.
Xia Shao asked Pei Po to inherit the title, but Pei Dian firmly refused, but the emperor refused.
In the second year of Taikang's reign, Pei Dian was conscripted as the crown prince's concubine and promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was transferred to the post of Guozi Jijiu and general of the right army.
At the beginning, Pei Jing, the son of Pei Yuan's elder brother, did not serve as an official. Pei Yuan discussed the merits of the generations, and Pei Jing was given the title of Marquis of Gaoyang Ting.
When Yang Jun was about to be killed, Yang Jun's ally Liu Yu, the general of the left army, was displaying soldiers at the gate. He met Pei Yi and asked where the tutor was.
Pei Xian lied to him and said: He met the Taifu near Xiyemen in a plain chariot and followed the two of them out to the west.
Liu Yu said: Where should I go?
Pei Yuan said: "We should go to Tingwei's place."
Liu Yu listened to Pei Hao's words, gave up resistance and left.
Soon the imperial edict ordered Pei Han to replace Liu Yu and serve as the general of the Zuo Army and station troops at Wanchunmen.
When Yang Jun was killed, Pei Shou should be granted the title of Marquis of Wuchang for his meritorious service. Pei Gu requested that the title be granted to Pei Jing, and the emperor finally granted the title to Pei Shou's second son, Pei Gai.
Pei Jing repeatedly stated that Pei Jing was his direct descendant and should inherit the title of Julu County Duke. The late emperor had given me the favor and decree, and I couldn't refuse.
I deserve the grant from Wuchang, and I hereby request that it be bestowed upon Pei Jing.
Pei Gai was related by marriage to the emperor at the time, so the emperor did not listen to Pei Gai's request.
He was promoted to the rank of Attendant many times.
At that time, the world was temporarily peaceful, and Pei Dian asked Jiang to study the state of China and carve stones to write scriptures.
The crown prince began to study, offered sacrifices to Confucius, and had banquets with Shehou, all in a very ceremonial and orderly manner.
He also ordered Gou Fan to fulfill his father Xun Xu's ambition and cast bells and chimes to use them in suburban temples for worship and banquets.
Pei Dian was knowledgeable and knowledgeable in medicine.
When Xunxu was revising the rules and regulations, he found that the ancient ruler was more than four minutes shorter than the contemporary ruler.
Pei Dian Shangshu said: All kinds of weights and measures should be corrected.
If you can't completely change it, you can change the imperial physician's measuring instruments first.
If there is any error in these measuring instruments, then the regulations of Shen Nong and Qi Bo will be lost.
The difference in the weight and weight of the medicine results in different properties, which can cause injury or death, causing even greater harm.
The reason why people in ancient times lived long lives but today people live short lives and die young may not be due to this reason.
It was ultimately not adopted.
Yue Guang once had a chat with Pei Po, trying to convince him with reason, but Pei Po was eloquent in reasoning, and Yue Guang smiled and said nothing.
People at that time said that Pei Yuan was rich in conversation and knowledgeable about everything.
Because Pei Xian didn't like the prince after buying it, he expressed his request to increase the status of the prince's biological mother, Concubine Xie Shu, and repeatedly stated that the number of guard officials should be increased and given to 3,000 soldiers, so the number of guards in the palace was increased to 10,000.
Pei Yi was promoted to minister, but his position as servant remained unchanged, and he was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor.
Every time he was given a position, he never gave it up without sincerity and resoluteness. He listed it more than ten times and widely quoted ancient and modern successes and failures as arguments. No one who read it was not wary.
Pei Dian was very worried that Empress Jia would disturb the state affairs, so he discussed with Sikong Zhanghua and Jia Mo to abolish Empress Jia and establish Concubine Xie Shu.
Zhang Hua and Jia Mo both said: The emperor has no intention of deposing her. If we people do it on our own initiative, the emperor does not think it is right.
Moreover, if the kings are powerful and their factions have different opinions, I am afraid that disaster will be like a crossbow waiting to be fired. It will cost the country one's life and the country will be in danger, which will not benefit the country.
Pei Po said: It is indeed as you feared.
But stupid and cruel people have no scruples, and trouble is about to come. How will they deal with it?
Zhang Hua said: You two are still trusted and often give warnings about good and bad fortune to the emperor. I hope there will be no great rebellion.
Fortunately, the world is still peaceful, and I can almost die in peace.
After deposing Jia, the strategy was shelved.
Pei Po persuaded his aunt Guangcheng Jun every day to tell her to treat the prince well after buying him.
Someone said to Pei Yuan: I hope to have a clear talk with both inside and outside the harem. If what I say doesn't work, I will resign and retire on the grounds of illness.
If you can't do two of them, even if you go to the table ten times, it will still be inevitable.
Pei Fan sighed for a long time, but in the end he failed to do it.
He was promoted to Shangshu Zuopushe, but his position as servant remained unchanged.
Although Pei Hao is a relative of the queen, his reputation has always been very good. People all over the country do not think that he was promoted because of his relatives, and they are afraid that he will not hold a high position.
Soon Pei Po was asked to take charge of his duties, but he firmly declined, but the emperor did not allow it.
Pei Po Shangshu said: Jia Mo had just passed away, so he asked me to replace him, which expanded the reputation of my relative and became a selfish move.
How can the Queen's people always protect themselves? They all know that no relatives who are favored can escape disaster.
However, among the twenty-four emperors of the Mo Dynasty, only Emperors Xiaowen, Guangwu, and Ming paid no attention to their relatives, and those relatives preserved their clans. I not only wanted to gain a good reputation for myself, but also because I wanted to be at peace with the Tao.
In the past, Mu Zheng did not accept banquets that went beyond etiquette, and I did not dare to hear unusual edicts.
The above table also says: Jiu Yao planned for Shun, Yi Yin assisted Shang, Lu Wang assisted Zhou, and Xiao Zhang assisted Han. They all spread merit and enlightenment, and their light spread to all directions.
When the kings of each dynasty succeeded to the throne, Jiu Shan, Fu Shuo, Zu Ji, and Fan Zhong also made the country prosperous.
Some of them had a humble status before becoming famous, and some were from common people. Isn't this an act of advocating virtue and achieving a state of goodness and beauty?
Observing modern times, we cannot admire the ancients and indulge in those who are close to us. We often use relatives of the queen, which makes the country uneasy.
In the past, Su Chen warned the prince not to appoint his uncle as an official. In his previous life, he thought it was a sign of propriety.
Moreover, why should the imperial court appoint relatives whose moral character and talents are equal? ​​They should first appoint people with whom they are estranged to show fairness.
This is why King Feng Ye was not appointed in the Han Dynasty.
When I presented the form, I was always encouraged and enlightened by the emperor's kind words.
At that time, Chen Zhun's son Chen Kuang and Han Wei's son Han Song were appointed to serve the prince together. Pei Po advised: "The establishment of Shu Palace is to prepare the heir to the throne."
Those who associate with the prince must choose handsome talents and people with complete virtues.
Chen Kuang and Han Song were immature and did not know the principles of life and integrity.
The Prince of the East Palace has a precocious appearance, but now he has the tone of a boy's attendant, which is not in line with Everbright's future career.
When Prince Minhuai was deposed, Pei Dian argued hard with Zhang Hua but was not listened to. The incident was recorded in the "Biography of Zhang Hua".
Pei Han was very worried about the dissolute customs at that time and did not respect Confucianism. He Yan and Ruan Ji had always had a prominent reputation. They talked exaggeratedly and illusoryly, did not follow etiquette and laws, received empty salaries, indulged in favors, and did nothing when they were officials. As for people like Wang Yan, whose reputation was too great, whose status was high and powerful, they did not restrain themselves by engaging in government affairs, so they imitated each other, and their customs and education declined, so they wrote the theory of advocating something and opposing the theory of valuing nothing:
The root of all things is the supreme way.
To limit things by the differences in their types is to evaluate all things.
The images are clearly distinct and are living objects.
The complex effects of change are the basis for exploring the truth.
Distinguishing groups through evaluation often relies on biases that are so biased that they cannot satisfy themselves, so they have to rely on external help.
Therefore, as soon as things happen, there are traces to be found, and creation is the so-called principle.
What is understood and understood is what is called existence.
Having something necessary is called capital.
The coordination of resources and resources is what is called appropriateness.
Choosing this kind of choice is called love.
After people gain knowledge, although they may enter or retire in different positions, or have different ways of keeping silent or speaking, they are all in order to cherish life and preserve it appropriately. This sentiment is the same.
Various things exist at the same time without harm, thus showing the nobility and baseness.
Gains and losses lie in the difference between high and low, so there are signs of good and bad.
Therefore, wise men and gentlemen know that desires cannot be cut off, so they have time to make friends with others.
Observe the interactions and decide how to act.
We can only adapt to the right time and place, do our best, work hard and then enjoy.
Adhere to be benevolent and obedient in dealing with things, insist on respect and frugality, act based on loyalty and trustworthiness, and act on the basis of humility and concessions. Determine not to seek too much, and do not act too high, so that you can achieve success.
Therefore, we strive to achieve the ultimate goal, appease and govern the people, and obey the principles of things to leave an example for future generations. This is the way for saints to govern.
If bullying is rampant and unbridled, harm will ensue.
Therefore, the spread of desire will accelerate disasters, uncontrolled emotions will increase the number of resentments, arbitrary indulgence will lead to attacks, and monopolization of interests will attract enemies. It can be said that trying to make life rich is counterproductive.
Vulgar people are afraid of such disputes, so they look for reasons for them.
Seeing the bias, he blamed Chongyou, and seeing the benefits of simplicity, he elaborated on the argument of valuing nothing, and then put forward the argument of devaluing something.
To belittle and admire something must have external manifestations, and the external manifestation must be to abandon regulations. If regulations are abandoned, precautions must be ignored. If precautions are ignored, etiquette must be forgotten.
If etiquette does not exist, it will be impossible to govern.
People obey those with high status like water in a vessel.
Therefore, the people's temperament is to believe what they are accustomed to; they are accustomed to be content with their jobs, and if they are content with their jobs, they take it for granted.
Therefore, the rulers must be careful to educate, promulgate political decrees, criminal laws and other matters, and let different people engage in agriculture, industry and commerce, so that those who accept the orders can be calm and not severe, forget heresy in a short period of time, and have no thoughts of change.
How much more is it based on the noble status of the king, master, and father, and the feelings of respect in the heart, as an instruction!
This is the difference between stupidity and sage, and we must be cautious.
The desire for wealth can be reduced but cannot be cut off; excessive material enjoyment can be saved, but it cannot be said that there is no wealth.
Those who talk eloquently list the shortcomings of worshiping something and praise the beauty of nothingness.
Utensils have appearance characteristics, but empty meanings are difficult to test. Eloquent and clever words can make people happy, and seemingly true words can make people confused. People's hearing and hearing are confused, and they are addicted to the formed opinions.
Even if there are different opinions, the speech is not accepted, and it is wronged by what one likes, so the theory of nothingness cannot be covered up.
There is singing and harmony, and there is no return on the road of nothingness, so governance is belittled, utilitarianism is belittled, frivolous and wandering behavior is promoted, and pragmatic and capable people are belittled.
What favors pursue is actually fame and fortune.
So those who are good at writing exaggerate and those who are not good at eloquence praise their views, thus infecting the people.
Therefore, making an argument based on nothingness is called mysterious; being an official and not caring about his duties is called elegant and refined; being a person who is not honest and self-disciplined is called broad-minded.
As a result, the culture of hard work declined even more.
Because of the nihilistic world customs, some wild people violate the etiquette of good and bad things, neglect their manners and appearance, despise the etiquette between the elderly and the young, and disrupt the hierarchy of noble and inferior.
The most egregious among them even went naked, joked and laughed regardless of the time, and regarded being reckless as open-minded, and the moral character of the scholar-bureaucrats was damaged again.
Lao Tzu wrote an article of 5,000 words, clearly stating the shortcomings of filth and complexity, and clearly enumerating the principles of tranquility and single-mindedness.
However, being quiet and devoted to one's duties does not mean anything nihilistic. The categories "Shu" and "Gen" are probably just a kind of morality of a gentleman, not the original intention of "Yi".
Although Lao Tzu's works are extensive and eloquent, he says that "things are born from nothingness" and focus on emptiness, which is different from the theory of everyone establishing their own theory. I'm afraid there is a reason!
After a person is born, preservation of life is the first priority. The most important thing to preserve life is to obey one's own feelings.
If the purpose is close to harming the cause, then the signs of addiction begin; if one forgets his roots and forgets his roots, then the natural principles will also disappear.
Therefore, alternating actions before and after is related to the chance of survival.
To deny being when we admire existence is to deny existence when we value nothingness; to deny nothingness when we value nothingness is to deny existence when we admire existence.
Therefore, the disadvantages of indulgence are stated, and writing is valuable regardless of it.
He will eliminate the fallacies he denies, preserve the great goodness and conform to the law, end excessive dissipation, and return to tranquility and uprightness in his heart.
It is suitable for the theory of valuing nothing, and the main purpose is to admire existence, so there are words such as "it is not enough to succeed".
If this is the case, it is just a doctrine expressed.
It would be biased and inappropriate to think that the ultimate principle is based on nothingness.
The sages in ancient times were knowledgeable, not restrained, and made profound remarks.
Only Ban Gu's works are difficult and difficult to judge his views.
Sun Qing and Yang Xiong were generally depressed and indifferent, but they still expressed some praise.
And the theory of nihilism spreads day by day, and various schools of thought are instigated to launch their own theories.
From nature to everything, there is nothing that is not valuable, and everything remains the same.
Human feelings are stubborn due to the large number of people, so anyone who upholds the truth will be devalued and despised in moral terms.
Debate on human ethics and the doctrines of classics and meanings, so they all changed their doors.
Pei Po was frightened by this and expressed his thoughts. Many people attacked me.
Some people think this is a temporary remark.
Someone saw me and accused me of writing an article and selecting examples that were unfounded and biased.
If everything cannot be explained and corrected, then the theory of nobleness and nothingness cannot be overturned.
After I stepped back, I thought about it. Although a gentleman obeys human sentiments and does not seek to be prominent, when it comes to making an argument, he must express his own ideas.
However, it has been a long time since the age of saints, and different opinions are entangled. If there is a slight similarity, it can promote the classics of the ancestors, help the great cause, and be beneficial to the times. I am afraid that my remarks will not meet the requirements. How can I remain silent? As for the failure to cite examples, it is because I just briefly express what I think in my heart!
Extreme nobility cannot exist and thus begins to appear spontaneously.
Since it is born, it must tolerate and admire you, and if you abandon you, you will be harmed.
Once there is a distinction between advocating existence and valuing nothingness, then nothingness is just what Chongyou calls leaving and staying.
Therefore, in the final analysis, nourishment is transformed into existence, which cannot be accommodated by the theory of futility; reason is the aggregation of existence, which cannot be accommodated by inaction.
The mind is not a thing, and doing things must be based on thinking. However, we cannot say that doing things is not a thing, and think that the mind is nothing.
Craftsmen are not vessels, and craftsmen must be relied upon to make vessels. However, it cannot be said that the vessels made are not vessels, because there are no craftsmen.
Therefore, if you want to catch fish and dragons in the abyss, you can't just lie down; if you want to knock down birds on the high wall, you can't do it with your hands calmly; if you want to draw the bow string carefully, you can't do it by ignorance.
From this point of view, there are those who admire existence. What good does nothingness do to the people who already exist!
Attacks and accusations from people like Wang Yan came one after another, but they could not make him surrender.
He also wrote "Liancai Lun", which distinguished and explained the essence of ancient and modern principles, but he encountered disaster before he could complete it.
At first, when King Sima Lun of Zhao flattered Queen Jia, Pei Yu hated him very much. Sima Lun asked for an official position several times, but Pei Yu and Zhang Hua firmly opposed it many times, so they were deeply resented by Sima Lun.
Ou Jian, the king of Zhao, secretly wanted to usurp power and rebel. He wanted to get rid of the prestigious people in the court first, and took advantage of the opportunity of deposing the post-buyer to kill Pei Qing. He was thirty-four years old that year.
His two sons, Song and Gai, and King Sima Lun of Zhao also wanted to kill them.
King Xu of Liang and King Sima Yue of Donghai said that Pei Xiu, Pei Xiu's father, had made great contributions to the royal family and deserved to be in the Ancestral Temple, so it was not appropriate to exterminate his descendants. Therefore, he was spared death and was exiled to Yingshi. Emperor Sai was re-established, and he posthumously recognized Pei Han as his former official. He was reburied according to the etiquette of the minister, and the title of Mi was completed.
Let Pei Song inherit the title and serve as the Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu.
After Zhanxi left the capital, he followed his uncle Pei Hung and served as a regular attendant on Sanqi. They were all killed by the wandering bandit Chen Wu.
Pei Kai's courtesy name is Shuze.
His father, Pei Hui, served as the governor of Jizhou in Wei.
Smart and knowledgeable, he became famous at the age of twenty. He was especially proficient in "Laokan" and "Yijing". He had the same reputation as Wang Rong when he was young.
Zhong Hui recommended him to Emperor Wen, appointed him as Prime Minister, and promoted him to Shangshu Lang.
He revised the laws and regulations and appointed Pei Kai as Ding Kelang.
After the matter was completed, Pei Kai was ordered to read the memorial in front of the emperor and comment on whether the memorial was appropriate.
Zhanji is good at making remarks and looking around, making the listeners forget their tiredness.
When Gen Tong was in charge of the Fu Army, he selected his colleagues and appointed Hong Chong as a member of the military.
There was a shortage of officials, so the workers asked the bell box who would be suitable.
The clock box said: Pei Kai is shrewd and understanding, and Wang Rong is simple in his work. They are both suitable candidates.
So Pei Kai was appointed as the official.
Pei Kai was elegant, handsome, well-read, and particularly proficient in theory and theory. People at the time called him the "Jade Man" and said that "seeing Uncle Pei was like approaching Jade Mountain, radiant and radiant."
He was transferred to Zhongshu Lang and went in and out of the palace. Everyone who saw him was in awe.
When Genyou first ascended the throne, he used the method of picking out simple policies to divine how many years he would be in power. What he found was one, and the emperor was not happy. The ministers were nervous and no one spoke.
Pei Kai adjusted his appearance, made his voice pleasant, and calmly stepped forward and said: I heard that the sky will be clear when one is received, the earth will be peaceful when one is received, and the princes and princes will be loyal if one is received.
Emperor Wu was very happy, and all the ministers shouted long live.
Soon he became the Minister of Sanqi, and gradually rose to the rank of Changshi of Sanqi, and the prefect of Hanoi. He entered the capital and served as the captain of the Tunqi School, the general of the right army, and then transferred to the position of Minister.
Because Shi Chong was the descendant of a meritorious official and was talented, he had different interests from Pei Ji and did not associate with Cha Zhi.
Captain Changshui Zhongzhong once had a drink with Hu Sai and was too arrogant. Shi Sai wanted to go to court to remove him.
When Li Ji heard about it, he said to Shi Chong: "Isn't it a bit contradictory to ask people to drink crazy medicine and also ask others to observe etiquette?"
Shi Chong then gave up.
Pei Kai was generous by nature and had no grudges against others.
He does not advocate simplicity. Whenever he goes to a prosperous and wealthy place, he takes away other people's treasures and antiques.
Even carriages, horses, equipment and clothing were given to the poor in a short time.
He once ran a villa. His cousin Pei Yan liked it after seeing it, so Pei Kai gave the house to Pei Yan.
The two kings of Liang and Tang were close relatives of the monarch and had a prominent position at that time. Pei Kai asked two feudal lords to rent millions of dollars every year and distributed them to his relatives.
Someone ridiculed Pei Kai, and Pei Kui said: "It is the way of heaven to make up for the losses."
Not caring about other people's slander and doing what you want to do are all such situations.
Pei Kai, Shan Tao, and He Xuan were all officials with good moral character. The emperor once asked: I follow the heavens and the times, and the public opinion in the world will gain and lose by talking about it.
Pei Kai replied: Your Majesty accepts the destiny, and the world responds. The reason why he cannot compare with Yao and Shun in terms of virtue and governance is because people like Jia Chong are still in the court.
It is the right time to attract the wise men of the world and promote the right path, and it is not appropriate to show personal feelings to people.
At that time, Wang Kai and Zuo Zhong also commented on Jia Li in this way, and the emperor appointed Zhi Shi as the governor of Yizhong.
Zhitong offered his daughter to the prince and then stayed.
After pacifying the county, the emperor began to strive for peace in the world and often invited ministers to discuss political affairs with them.
Pei Kai described the styles of the Three Kings and Five Emperors, and then described the reasons for the rise and fall of the Han and Wei dynasties.
The emperor applauded, and everyone present was impressed.
Pei Kai's son Pei Zan married Yang Jun's daughter. However, Pei Kai always looked down on Yang Jun and had a bad relationship with him.
After Yang Jun came to power, Tomb Wall was transferred to Weiwei and then to Prince's Young Master. He was free and quiet, silent and seldom talked.
After Gui Gao was killed, he reported that his in-laws were arrested and handed over to Tingwei, who was about to be punished.
Things happened in a hurry that day, killings were everywhere, and everyone was terrified.
Pei Kai's expression remained unchanged and he moved freely. He asked for paper and pen to write letters to relatives and friends.
Fortunately, Fu Zhi, the attendant, saved him from death, but he was still convicted and dismissed from office.
Taibao Cui and Taizai Sima Kui praised Tomb's loyalty, integrity and non-flattery, and deserved to be granted a fief, so he was named Linhai Marquis with a settlement of 2,000 households.
He replaced King Si Wuli of Chu and was appointed as the middle marquis of the Northern Army, and was appointed as a regular attendant on the cavalry.
Sima Zhang resented Wei Ji and Sima Liang for rejecting him and appointing Ge Cuan. After hearing about it, Ge Chu did not dare to accept the appointment and was transferred to Shangshu.
Pei Kai's eldest son Pei Yu first married Liang's daughter, and the daughter he had found married Wei Cui's son. Considering that the civil strife had not subsided, Pei Kai requested to be appointed out of the capital and was appointed General Annan, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of the Jingzhou Army. As expected, Sima Zhang was about to set out and executed Dan Wukui under the pretense of an imperial edict. Because Dong Zhi had previously seized his position as lieutenant general and was related by marriage to Sima Liang and Wei Jin, he secretly sent people to attack Pei Kai.
Pei Kai always knew that Sima Zhang was resentful of him. When he heard that something had happened, he drove into the city alone and hid in his father-in-law Wang Yun's house. He changed residences with Sima Hao's youngest son eight times a night, thus avoiding disaster.
After Sima Zhang was executed, he appointed Pei Kai as the Secretary of the Zhongshu Ling, and as a servant of the Zhongshu, jointly managing the affairs of the Zhongshu with Zhang Hua and Wang Rong.
Pei Kai had the problem of longing for power and was dissatisfied with his official position.
Wang Hun pleads for Pei Kai, saying: Pei Kai was favored by the promotion of the previous emperor, and was favored by your majesty. It was the autumn of his utmost loyalty.
However, Pei Kai was not good at competition by nature. He used to be a regular servant and asked to be appointed as the governor of Hanoi. Later he was appointed as the servant and asked to be appointed as the Yin of Henan. He had a disagreement with Yang Jun and asked to be appointed as a guard. When he was transferred to Shu Palace, his position was lower than that of his peers at that time. However, he was content to retire indifferently. People with knowledge can see his thoughts.
I am deeply worried that Pei Kai is not cheering up now.
Guang Luxun is short of personnel, I think he can be appointed.
Now that Zhang Hua is in Zhongshu and Wang Rong is in Shangshu, they are enough to control the documents. There is no need for Pei Kai to intervene. There are not many famous officials, so they should be supported and not go against their wishes for long-term benefits.
If he is not accepted, he will be appointed as Guanglu Doctor and Kaifu Yitong.
When he became seriously ill, he issued an edict to send Huangmenlang Wang Yan to visit him. Pei Kai looked back at him and said, "I have never seen him before."
Wang Yan was deeply impressed by his superior intelligence.
Pei Kai was good at identifying talents. At first in Henan, Yue Guang was living in the county and had no reputation. When Pei Kai saw him, he thought he was a strange person and introduced him to the Zaifu.
I once read Xia Houxuan's words: "It's like walking into the ancestral temple respectfully, only seeing the ritual instruments; seeing Zhong Hui said, it's like seeing an armory, only seeing the spears and halberds in front of me; seeing Fu Gu, saying that the ocean is omnipresent; seeing the mountain waves, it's like looking down from a mountain, deep and quiet."
At first, when Pei Kai's family was cooking, some of the yellow rice in the pot became like fists, some like blood, and some like turnip seeds.
Pei Kai died in the year of Zao, at the age of fifty-five, and his title was Yuan.
He has five sons: Pei Yu, Pei Zan, Pei Xian, Pei Li, and Pei Xun.
Pei Yu's courtesy name was Zuming.
He inherited his father's title when he was young, and he rose to the rank of Sanqi Shilang. After his death, he was given the nickname Mi Jian.
Pei Zan, also known as National Treasure, served as Zhongshu Lang. He was very talented and respected by everyone who saw him.
He was especially valued by Wang Sui and often traveled with him.
Wang Sui's father Wang Rong said to him: The national treasure didn't come at first, but you went to him many times. Why?
He replied: Although the national treasure does not understand Wang Sui, Wang Sui himself understands the national treasure.
During the Yang Jun Rebellion, he was killed by the rebels.
Pei Xian's courtesy name is Jingsi.
Young and smart, he likes to make friends.
When he was twenty years old, he completely changed his daily ambitions and advocated Confucianism. He was unable to produce anything for several years.
Xie Kun of Chen County and Yu Gu of Yingchuan were both talented people. They were surprised to see Pei Xian and said to each other: Pei Xian is upright and open-minded. He knows the situation well and is better than his father. As for his deep innocence and not bothering himself with worldly things, he is probably better than his father.
At first, he served as a minister in the East Palace, and successively served as a minister and minister in Huangmen.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, appointed him as the governor of Yuzhou, the general of Beizhong Lang, and the governor of Jiajie.
Wang Jun took power and appointed Pei Xian as minister.
In the last years of Yongjia, Wang Jun was defeated by Shi Le. Zaosong and others all went to the military gate to apologize. People who paid tribute and bribed people came and went, but only Hu and Bao Wei stayed at home safely.
Shi Leping knew their reputation, so he summoned them and said to them: "Wang Jun is tyrannical in Youzhou, and both humans and ghosts hate him."
I personally follow the way of heaven and save the people. Those who are in distress are happy, and the roads are filled with celebrations and thanksgivings.
Both of you hate lustful power, block integrity, and who will be blamed for such killings like Fangfeng?
Pei Xian looked calm and cried and replied: "We have enjoyed the glory of Jin for generations, and the grace ceremony was grand."
Wang Jun was ferocious and brutal, but he was still a vassal state left by the Jin Dynasty.
Although I rejoice in the teachings of the Holy Ming, righteousness hinders my sincerity.
Besides, King Wu conquered Zhou and modified Shang Rong's door. I didn't hear that Shang Rong participated in the rebellion against Shang.
Since the king is unwilling to use Tao to influence all things, he must use cruelty as a means of governance. It is my responsibility to kill like Fang Feng. Please hand me over to the officials to deal with it according to law.
If it doesn't work, then bow out.
Shi Le praised him very much and treated him with the courtesy of a guest.
Shi Le then registered the properties of Wang Jun's officials and relatives, all of whom had tens of thousands of wealth. Only the families of Pei Xian and Xun Chuo had more than a hundred letters and only a dozen bushels of salt and rice each.
When Shi Le heard about this, he said to his chief historian Zhang Bin: "The reputation is well-deserved."
I was not happy to get Youzhou. What I was happy about was that I got to send two people.
Acted as a lieutenant and served as the prefect of Changle.
When Shi Le usurped his title, it was too late to take into account the system. Pei Xianyu and Wang Bo wrote court etiquette for him, so he chartered cultural relics and compared them to the emperor.
Shi Le was very happy and appointed him as acting Taizhong doctor and promoted him to Situ.
During Jilong's era, he was even more polite and respected.
Pei Xian had two sons: Pei Yi and Pei Yu, both of whom were famous for their literary talents.
Pei Yi was appointed as the concubine of Prince Jilong and a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Pei Yi and Pei Yu were both bold and chivalrous, indulged in drinking, and liked to praise and criticize people.
There was a conflict with Xing Yu in Hejian. Xing Yu secretly rode Pei Yu's horse to Duan Liao and was caught. Xing Yu lied that Pei Yu sent him because Ji Long wanted to attack Xianbei and told them to be prepared.
At that time, Ji Long was planning to attack Duan Liao, which coincided with Xing Yu's words.
Ji Long killed Pei Yi and Pei Yu, and Pei Xian was also convicted and dismissed from office.
Soon, he was appointed Dr. Youguanglu, Situ, and Taifu, and was granted the title of Duke of Anding County.
Pei Xian had never been in an official position and had no reputation for performance. However, he was silent in the court and never took official affairs to heart.
But because of his high moral character, every move he makes is treated with respect and courtesy.
Eventually he died in the hands of the Shi family, and Pei Mai, the son of his tribe member Pei Zhi, was used as his descendant.
Pei Kai's eldest brother Pei Li and second brother Pei Kang are both well-known.
Pei Kang's son Pei Dun held prominent official positions successively when he was young.
During the Yongjia period, he served as the governor of Xuzhou and appointed the chief historian Sima Ao.
Sima Ao advised Pei Dun to use punishment and execution to establish his prestige, recruit civilians as soldiers on a large scale, and sentence those who did not abide by the law to death.
After three years in office, the people were resentful.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, was Pei Dun's brother-in-law.
After Sima Yue died, Riding Governor Man Heng led the civilians he had collected to return him.
Soon Liu Yuanhai sent generals Wang Sang and Tang Gu to send troops to Pengcheng. The vanguard arrived at Xiapi. The civil and military officials could not stand the harsh rule and all fled. Pei Dun and Sima Ao fled to Huaiyin, but their wives and children were captured by bandits.
Sima Ao also persuaded Pei Dun to surrender to Zhao Gu.
Zhao Gu's wife was Pei Dun's daughter and she was favored. Pei Dun cried to her daughter, so Zhao Gu killed Pei Dun.
Pei Dun's younger brother Pei Shao, named Daoqi.
When Emperor Yuan was General Anton, he appointed Pei Shao as the chief historian and Wang Dao as the Sima. The two had a close friendship.
Pei Shao was conscripted as the concubine of the crown prince, and was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi. He envoy Chijie, the governor of Yangzhou, Jiangxi and Huaibei military affairs, and Shuzhonglang general, followed Sima Yue to Xiangxiang, and died in the army.
When Director Wang became Sikong and took office, he sighed and said: "If Pei Daoqi and Liu Wangqiao are here, I can't hold this official position alone."
Director Wang's son Zhongyu had the same name as Pei Kang. Director Wang missed his old friend, so he changed his name to Jingyu.
Pei Kai's younger brother Pei Chuo, also known as Ji Shu, had a broad mind and served as the Minister of Huangmen and the Captain of Changshui.
Pei Chuo's son Pei Xia was good at talking about mysteries, his words were fluent, and he was as clear as the harp.
I once discussed it with Guo Xiang of Henan, and everyone in the room admired him.
He also played Go with others at Pingshu General Zhou Fu's place.
Zhou Fu's Sima persuaded Pei Xia to drink wine, but Pei Xia did not drink immediately. Sima got drunk and became angry, so he pulled Pei Xia to the ground.
Pei Xia slowly got up and returned to his seat, his expression unchanged, playing chess as before.
His character is so modest and peaceful.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, asked him to be the chief registrar, but he was later killed by Sima Yue's son Sima Bi.
At that time, the two families of Pei and Wang were very prosperous in the Wei and Jin Dynasties. People at that time believed that the eight surnames Pei were just like the eight surnames Wang: Pei Hui was better than Wang Xiang, Pei Kai was better than Wang Yan, Pei Kang was better than Wang Sui, Pei Chuo was better than Wang Cheng, Pei Zan was better than Wang Dun, Pei Xia was better than Wang Dao, Pei Yuan was better than Wang Rong, and Pei Miao was better than Wang Xuan.
Shi Chen said: The Zhou Dynasty was considered to have many scholars, and the Han Dynasty was said to have gained sages. They used the astrological analogy to correspond to the destiny.
There was a lack of celebrities at that time, and most people used the term "backbone" to praise him. His family was shining brightly on the country. Could it be that he was talking about Chen Qian?
Pei Xiu's reputation surpassed that of his colleagues and he was called a leader.
When he was young, Pei Kai was very resourceful and knowledgeable.
They are all famous officials of the Jin Dynasty, it is true!
Praise says: In troubled times, talents emerge, and talents gather together to make the world peaceful.
Gao Pinggong was calm and intelligent, and eventually became a great person.
Pei, the Duke of Julu County, was naturally handsome and knowledgeable in Confucian classics.
Emperor Wa made stones to mend the sky, and the Jin Dynasty books revealed the secrets.
Pei Dian followed the rules and was loved for inheriting the family business.
