The Prime Minister of Wei, whose courtesy name is Wenweng, was born in Dingtao, Jiyin, and later moved to Pingling.
When Wei Xiang was young, he studied the Book of Changes and became the governor of the county. He was praised as a virtuous person. Because he ranked first in answering policy questions, he became the magistrate of Maoling County.
Soon, the guests of Censor Da Sang Hongyang came to Maoling and falsely claimed that Sang Hongyang was coming to the guest house.
The county magistrate did not go to see the guest on time, so he tied up the county magistrate. Prime Minister Wei suspected that the guest was causing trouble, arrested him, tortured him and learned about his crime, and sentenced the guest to be executed in the street. Therefore, Maoling is managed very well.
Later, the prime minister of Wei was promoted to the governor of Henan, where he prohibited bad people from doing evil things, and the local powerful were very afraid of him.
It happened that the prime minister Che Qianqiu died at the time. Che Qianqiu's son had been the commander of the Luoyang Armory. He saw that his father was dead, and the Wei Prime Minister was very strict in managing the affairs of the county. He was afraid that he would be blamed for it in the long run, so he resigned from the official position.
Prime Minister Wei sent Sasuke's own deputies to chase him and call him back, but he finally did not come back.
Prime Minister Wei himself sighed regretfully: When the general resigned after hearing this arsenal order, he would definitely think that I was disrespectful to his son because the prime minister was dead.
It will also make those powerful people in the world blame me. It’s dangerous!
When Che Qianqiu, the son of an arsenal commander, arrived in Chang'an, General Huo Guang scolded Prime Minister Wei for this: The young new emperor had just ascended the throne and believed that Hangu Pass was the strongest place to defend the capital and the weapons depot was a place where sophisticated weapons were stored, so he made the prime minister's brother the captain of Hangu Pass and the prime minister's son the commander of the weapons depot.
Now the governor of Henan, Wei Xiang, did not think deeply about the country's plans, but just dismissed the prime minister's son when he saw his death. How shallow is this!
Later, someone accused Prime Minister Wei of killing an innocent person, and the matter was brought to the competent government office.
There were two to three thousand officers from the Henan garrison who stopped the general Huo Guang and said they were willing to stay for another year to atone for the sin of the prefect Wei Xiang.
More than 10,000 old and weak people in Henan guarded Hangu Pass and asked to enter the pass to write to the emperor. The officials guarding the pass reported the matter.
General Huo Guang handed Wei Prime Minister to Tingwei for punishment because of the arsenal order.
Prime Minister Wei was imprisoned for a long time. After the winter, it happened that the imperial court pardoned the prisoners.
There was also an edict ordering Prime Minister Wei to serve as the magistrate of Maoling County again and promote him to the governor of Yangzhou.
Later, the imperial court inspected the ministers of the county and state, and many of them were demoted.
Prime Minister Wei and Bing Ji were close. At that time, Bing Ji's official position was Doctor Guanglu. He wrote to Prime Minister Wei and said: The imperial court has a deep understanding of your achievements and behavior and will appoint you.
I hope you will be cautious and self-respecting in everything you do and cultivate your talents.
Prime Minister Wei thought Bingji's words were right, so he restrained his dignity.
After serving as governor for two years, he was recruited as an admonishing official and then became the governor of Henan.
A few years later, Emperor Xuan ascended the throne and recruited Wei Xiang to join the imperial court as chief minister of agriculture, and was later promoted to imperial censor.
Four years later, the general Huo Guang died. The emperor missed his merits and virtues and made his son Huo Yu the right general. Huo Guang's nephew Huoshan, the Hou of Leping, was in charge of the affairs of the Shangshu Province.
Prime Minister Wei wrote to the emperor through Ping'en Hou Xu Bo, saying: "Spring and Autumn" ridicules people who have been ministers for generations, hates that all the three generations of Song Dynasty were officials, and even Lu Jisun's autocratic rule has put the country in danger and chaos.
Since the first year of Emperor Wu's reign, the royal family's children could receive salaries, but the country's political affairs had to be decided by Tsukasa.
Now that Huo Guang is dead, his son has become a general again, his brother's son has become a minister and holds political positions, and his brothers and sons-in-law have military power and are very powerful.
Huo Guang's wife Xian and their female relatives are all registered in Changxin Palace and can come and go freely. Sometimes they go in and out through the forbidden gate at night. They are arrogant, extravagant, and uninhibited. I am afraid that they will gradually lose control in the future.
We should try to weaken their power and dispel their conspiracy, so as to strengthen the foundation of the Han Dynasty for generations and preserve the reputation of the hero Huo Guang.
In addition, according to past regulations, anyone who wrote a letter to the emperor must make two copies of the memorial, one of which was a copy. The official in charge of the affairs of the Shangshu Province would read the copy first. If the content of the memorial was inappropriate, it would be shelved and not reported to the emperor.
Prime Minister Wei used Uncle Xu to remove the copy to avoid being blocked by Huo's people.
Emperor Xuan read the memorial of Prime Minister Ding and Wei and thought it was very good. He issued an edict to confer Prime Minister Wei on the throne and fully adopted Prime Minister Wei's memorial.
Only then did the emperor find out about Huo's murder of Queen Mother Xu.
So Huo Yu, Huo Yun, and Huo Shan were deposed from their titles and ordered to return to their mansions. Their relatives were moved out to serve as officials.
At this time, Wei Xian was dismissed from the post of prime minister because of old age and illness. Wei Xian then became prime minister in Wei Xian's place, and was named Gaopinghou and granted food to 800 households in the city.
Later, the people of the Huo family resented Prime Minister Wei and were afraid of him. They planned to pretend that the Queen Mother had an edict, summon Prime Minister Wei to kill him, and then depose the emperor.
The matter was discovered and Huo's people were killed.
Only then did Emperor Xuan begin to personally handle the political affairs of the court, working hard to govern, selecting good ministers, and assessing their reputation. As prime minister, Wei Xiang was in charge of the affairs of various government offices, which was very popular with the emperor.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Xuan, the Xiongnu sent troops to attack the Han army stationed in Cheshi, but they failed to capture it.
Emperor Xuan discussed with General Tang Chongguo and others, planning to take advantage of the Xiongnu's weakness to send troops to attack the area on their right, so that the Xiongnu would not dare to harass the western regions again.
Prime Minister Wei wrote a letter of remonstrance to the emperor: I have heard that those who save danger and put an end to violence are called righteous soldiers. The troops of benevolence and righteousness are invincible. When the enemy comes to attack you and you have no choice but to rise up and resist, you are called Ying soldiers. The army that resists the invasion will definitely win. Those who fight for victory in small things and cannot restrain their anger are called wrathful soldiers. An army that fights with anger will fail. Those whose land and treasures are profitable are called greedy soldiers, and the greedy army will definitely be defeated; those who rely on the country's large area and boast of its large population, and want to show their majesty to the enemy, are called arrogant soldiers, and the arrogant army will be destroyed: these five aspects are not only determined by personnel, but also by heaven.
Not long ago, the Xiongnu showed goodwill to us. The Han people they captured were always sent back well and did not violate our borders. Although this time they are fighting for our Cheshi City, don't take it too seriously.
Now I heard that the generals wanted to invade the Xiongnu territory. I don't know what the name of such an army should be.
Nowadays, the states and counties on the border are very poor. The father and his son wear a sheepskin jacket together and eat the fruits of fluffy grass. They often worry that they will not survive and will no longer be able to withstand the turmoil of war. After the war, there will definitely be a year of disaster. It means that people will have sorrow and resentment, which will destroy the peace between Yin and Yang.
Even if we send troops to win, there will still be troubles in the future. I am afraid that disasters and accidents will occur as a result. Nowadays, most of the prefects of prefectures and counties and the prime ministers of feudal countries are unworthy, their customs are shallow, and they are unpredictable.
After examining this year's statistics, there were 222 cases of sons killing their fathers, brothers killing their brothers, and wives killing their husbands. Yu Chen believed that this was no small incident.
Now the ministers around you are not worried about this, but they want to send troops to attack the remote ethnic minorities to avenge Xianjie's small vendetta. This is probably what Confucius said. I'm afraid Jisun's worry does not lie with Zhuanyu but within the palace wall.
I hope your majesty will discuss this matter carefully with the Marquis of Pingchang, Marquis of Lechang, Marquis of Ping'en and the far-sighted ministers.
Emperor Xuan followed the advice of Prime Minister Wei and did not send troops.
Prime Minister Wei is familiar with the "Book of Changes" and has authentic learning methods. He likes to watch the old events of the Han Dynasty and the memorials of ministers answering questions. He believes that the current system is different from the past, and now we just have to follow the past methods and systems.
Therefore, he repeatedly stated the proper way to deal with things since the founding of the Han Dynasty, as well as the words of the virtuous ministers Jia Yi, Chao Cuo, Dong Zhongshu and others, and asked the emperor to implement them, saying: I heard that there are sage monarchs above, and virtuous ministers below to assist Bi. Only in this way can the monarch be happy and worry-free, and the people be harmonious and happy.
I was fortunate enough to be the prime minister in the court, but I could not abide by the sage system of my ancestors, educate the people extensively, govern the world well, and demonstrate the emperor's sage and benevolence.
As a result, many people among the people abandoned their roots in farming and went to work as merchants. Some people looked hungry and cold, which worried Your Majesty. I, Prime Minister Wei, deserve to die. I am not very intelligent and capable. I cannot clearly understand the country's affairs, propose appropriate methods at the moment, and think about people's motives and purposes for doing things. I cannot fully understand them.
Privately, I read the previous records with respect and learned how saintly, benevolent and benevolent the late emperor was. The former emperor worked hard to govern the world, cared about the people, worried about floods and droughts, opened warehouses and distributed relief grains to the poor and hungry people, sent admonishing doctors and doctors to patrol the world, observed the good and bad customs, recommended virtuous people, and redressed unjust cases. Officials who handled these matters came and went, and they were constantly on the road. Saving various expenses, reducing rent and taxes, opening up mountains, forests, lakes and lakes for people to fish and hunt, prohibiting the use of grain to feed horses, using grain to make wine, and private settlements: all of these are to help the needy people, appease the people, and provide convenient methods for the people.
Your Majesty, Prime Minister Wei, cannot express them one by one, so I will risk my life to report to you a total of twenty-three items in the late Emperor's edict to deal with old affairs.
The result of my examination of the methods of the former kings is that they must be based on agriculture, pay attention to the accumulation of grain, and live within their means to prepare for disaster years. The country does not have six years of accumulation. It's called a critical situation.
In the second year of Emperor Wu's reign, Pingyuan County, Bohai County, Taishan County, and Shu County were all hit by disasters, and the people starved to death on the way to escape famine.
Er Qianshi and other ministers could not have considered in advance that such a disaster would happen, which led to this situation. Fortunately, the emperor issued an edict and ordered relief, and the people found a way to survive.
The weather this year has been bad, and grain prices have soared. People who are still short of food and clothing during the autumn harvest season will probably be even worse in the spring, with not much food available for relief.
Xiqiang has not yet been pacified, and the army is still on expedition, with frequent wars. I am very worried and hope that the emperor will consider emergency measures as soon as possible.
I hope that your Majesty will care for the people and follow the story of the late emperor's benevolence to appease the people.
The emperor listened to Wei Xiang's advice and implemented it.
Prime Minister Wei repeatedly selected chapters from "Yi Yin Yang" and "Ming Tang Yue Ling" and presented them to the emperor, saying:
The minister Wei Xiang was lucky enough to be an official in the court, but he failed to fulfill his duties well and failed to educate the people extensively.
The qi of yin and yang cannot be reconciled, and disasters continue, and the fault lies with us ministers.
I heard it said in the Book of Changes: The heaven and earth move according to the laws of nature, so the sun and the moon do not pass each other, and there are no mistakes in the four seasons; a sage monarch acts according to the laws of things, so rewards and punishments are clear, and the people respect him.
With the four seasons of winter and summer, there is the order of the winds in all directions, and the characteristics of all things are formed. Each has its own fixed responsibilities and cannot infringe on each other.
The god in the east is called Tai Wu, who drives "Zhen" and holds the rules to control spring; the god in the south is called Yandi, drives "Li" and holds a balance to control summer; the god in the west is called Shaowu, drives "Dui" and holds a moment to control autumn; the god in the north is called Zhuanxu, drives "Kan" and holds power to control winter; the central god is called Huangdi, drives "Kun" and "Gen" and holds ropes to control the earth.
Everything controlled by these five gods has its own season.
The gods sitting in the eastern hexagram position cannot rule the west, and the gods sitting in the southern hexagram position cannot rule the north.
When spring comes, if the God of Si Qiu in the position of "Dui" governs, there will be famine; when autumn comes, if the God of Si Chun in the position of "Zhen" governs, it will be gaudy; when winter comes, if the god of Si Xia in the position of "Li" governs, the air of heaven and earth will leak; in summer, if the god of Si Dong in the position of "Kan" governs, there will be hail.
A sage monarch carefully obeys the will of heaven and carefully cares for the people, so he allows officials with gentle nature and benevolence to take charge of the four seasons and tell people what to do according to the solar terms.
The monarch acts and rests according to the laws of heaven and obeys the harmony of yin and yang. Only in this way will the sun and moon shine, wind and rain will follow the seasonal solar terms, and the cold and heat will be even and moderate.
Only when these three things are done smoothly can natural disasters be avoided. Grains will be plentiful, silk and hemp will be mature, vegetation will be luxuriant, and birds and beasts will multiply. Only then will the people be free from disasters and diseases and have adequate food and clothing.
If this can be done, the king will be dignified, the people will be happy, superiors and subordinates will not blame each other, political education will be smooth, and courtesy and benevolence will flourish.
If wind and rain fall out of season, crops will be destroyed; if agriculture is destroyed, people will suffer from hunger and cold; if people suffer from hunger, they will show no regard for their integrity. This is the root cause of troubles caused by bandits and thieves.
The foolish minister believed that the Tao of Yin and Yang was the foundation of national affairs and the lifeblood of the people. Since ancient times, all wise men and gentlemen have followed it.
When an emperor governs the world, the most important thing is to conscientiously abide by the laws of nature and learn from the experiences of the sages and sages.
The "Eighth Submission of the Emperor", which records the words and deeds of Emperor Gao, says: The great emissary, Chen Xiangzhang, received the edict in Changle Palace. Emperor Gao said: He ordered the ministers to discuss what kind of clothes the emperor should wear to stabilize and govern the world.
Prime Minister Xiao He, imperial censor Zhou Chang, General Wang Ling, Prince Tai Fu Shu Sun Tong and other ministers discussed and said: The clothes the emperor should wear in spring, summer, autumn and winter should imitate the etiquette of heaven and earth, which embodies the harmony of entrance and exit.
Therefore, from the emperor, the princes and the monarchs with fiefdoms, down to the hundreds of millions of people, if they can imitate the heaven and earth, comply with the changes of the four seasons, and govern the country, they will avoid disasters and live long. This is an important ritual system for supporting the ancestral temple and stabilizing the world. I ask the emperor to imitate it.
Zhao Yao, the visitor, was in charge of the emperor's spring activities, Li Shun was in charge of summer, Er Tang was in charge of autumn, Gong Yu was in charge of winter, and each of the four was in charge of a season.
The great visitor Xiangzhang asked the emperor, and Emperor Gao issued an edict saying: "Yes."
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he extended favors to the world in February, rewarding filial people, those who worked hard in the fields, and tired and sick soldiers, and offering sacrifices to those who died for the country. The time for doing these things was very inconsistent with the season.
Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, was the prince's family order at that time and wrote a letter to Emperor Xiaowen explaining this.
Your Majesty, Prime Minister Wei, I respectfully consider that your majesty has shown great kindness to the people, but the disasters have not stopped. I privately think that your edict may be out of season.
I hope that your majesty will select four ministers who understand the meaning of the scriptures and are familiar with the Tao of Yin and Yang. They will be in charge of the affairs of a season. When the season comes, they will clearly report the government affairs that the emperor in charge should do to comply with the Tao of Yin and Yang. That will be a great blessing for the people of the world!
Prime Minister Wei wrote many times stating what should be done, and the emperor adopted and implemented his suggestions.
The Prime Minister of Wei ordered his commissioners to inspect the affairs of various counties and states, and when he returned to the government from home, he would report strange things. Sometimes there would be rebel bandits or natural disasters, but the county guards would not report them, so the Prime Minister of Wei would always report the situation to the emperor.
At that time, Bingji was the imperial censor, and he and Wei Tong were committed to assisting the emperor. The emperor valued them very much.
Prime Minister Wei has a severe and resolute temperament, not as tolerant as Bingji.
Wei Xiang was in power for nine years, Shenjue died in three years, and Mi was named Xianhou.
Wei Hong, the son of Prime Minister Wei, inherited the title. In the middle of Ganlu's reign, he was demoted to the title of Marquis of Guannei due to a crime.
Bingji, courtesy name Shaoqing, was from the state of Lu.
He studied the laws and regulations and made the prison history of the state of Lu.
Bingji accumulated merit and was gradually promoted to the right prisoner of Tingwei.
Later, he lost his official position due to breaking the law and returned to work in the state.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, a case of witchcraft and poison occurred. Bingji was recruited to the capital as a former imperial prisoner. Emperor Wu ordered Bingji to go to the county prison to investigate the case of witchcraft.
At that time, Emperor Xuan Liu Xun was just a few months old and was imprisoned because he was the grandson of Prince Wei. Bingji felt pitiful after seeing this.
Xinbao knew that there was no real truth about Prince Wei's crime, so he was even more sad that the emperor's great-grandson was innocently imprisoned. So Bingji selected a few cautious and kind female prisoners, ordered them to protect and raise the emperor's great-grandson, and asked them to live in a spacious and dry place with the emperor's great-grandson.
Bingji pursued the case of witchcraft, but there was no verdict for several years.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Wu fell ill and traveled between the Changyang and Wuzha palaces. The observers said that there was an emperor's spirit in Chang'an Prison, so Emperor Mowu sent envoys to record the prisoners in Guanshao Prison in Zhongdu one by one, and killed them regardless of the severity of their crimes.
The visitor ordered Guo Zhen to rush to the county prison overnight, but Bingji closed the door tightly and refused to let the envoy in. He said, "The emperor's great-grandson is here."
No one else is allowed to be killed without guilt, and besides, he is the emperor’s great-grandson!
After being guarded until dawn and not allowed to enter, Guo Chen had no choice but to go back and report to Emperor Mowu, and took the opportunity to impeach Bingji.
At this time, Emperor Wu also understood that this was wrong, so he said: This is what God ordered to do.
So the whole world was granted amnesty. The prisoners in the county jail were able to survive only because of Bingji, and they were favored all over the world. Later, the emperor's great-grandson fell ill and faced death many times. Bingji repeatedly ordered the wet nurse who took care of the emperor's grandson to seek medical treatment. He treated the emperor's grandson very kindly, gave him his belongings, and provided him with food and clothing.
Later, Bingji became the general of chariots and cavalry, and was promoted to the rank of general and commander of history. Huo Guang valued him very much, and he entered the court and became the doctor of Guanglu.
After the death of Emperor Zhao, there was no heir, so the general Huo Guang sent Bingji to welcome Liu He, the king of Changyi.
After Liu He became emperor, he was deposed for his lewdness. Huo Guang discussed with the chariot general Zhang Anshi and other ministers who should be emperor, but they have not yet decided.
Bingji wrote to Huo Guang: General, you serve Emperor Xiaowu and are entrusted with the responsibility of the whole world. Emperor Xiaozhao died early and had no heir. Everyone in the world is worried and afraid, and they all want to know who will be the successor emperor quickly. On the day of the funeral, Liu He was made heir because of Gu Dayi, who had people serving in the ancestral temple of the Han Dynasty. The man who was appointed emperor failed to live up to expectations, and he was deposed because of Gu Dayi. Everyone in the world was unfaithful.
Now the fate of the country and the safety of the people depend on the general's hands.
I privately interviewed people's discussions and scrutinized what they said. I learned that the clan princes who are now officials have little reputation among the people.
The great-grandson of the sick Emperor Wu, who was supported in accordance with the imperial edict, is still living in the common people's homes outside the palace. I used to let him live in the county official residence when I saw him as a young man. Now he is eighteen or nineteen years old. He is proficient in the classics and has high talents. He behaves calmly and has a peaceful manner.
I hope the general will discuss this matter carefully and refer to the results of divination. If it is not convenient to make him noble, he can be allowed to enter the palace to serve the empress dowager first, so that the people of the world will clearly know his benefits, and then make important decisions. The people of the world will be very lucky and grateful!
Huo Guang read Bingji's memorial, so he respected the emperor's great-grandson Liu Xun, and sent Zongzheng Liu De and Bingji to welcome Liu Xun in Yeting, where the concubines lived.
When Liu Xungang became emperor, he granted Bingji the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Bingji is a generous person and doesn't like to show off the good deeds he has done.
Since Liu Xun became emperor, Bingji never mentioned that he had rescued Liu Xun before and was kind to him, so no one in the court knew about his contribution.
In the third year of Dijie, Emperor Xuan Liu Xun established the crown prince, and Bingji became the crown prince and tutor. A few months later, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
After Huo was punished for committing a crime, the emperor personally handled government affairs, eliminating the need for the minister to read the memorial first.
At that time, a maid named Ze who served the concubines in Ye Ting asked her former civilian husband to write to the emperor, claiming that she had protected Liu Xun.
The emperor sent the memorial to Ye Tingling and asked him to investigate and inquire about the matter. The palace maid named Ze said in her confession that the former envoy Bingji knew what was going on.
Ye Tingling then took the maid to the Yushi doctor's house to let Bingji see if it was true.
Bingji knew the maidservant and said to her: You were once punished for being whipped for being careless in raising the great-grandson of the emperor. How can you be said to have merit?
Only Hu Zu of Weicheng and Guo Zhengqing of Huaiyang had credit.
Bingji then wrote to the emperor separately and told how hard it was for Hu Zu and others to support the emperor in the past.
Emperor Shao ordered Bingji to search for Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing. Both of them were dead, but only their descendants were still alive, and they were all heavily rewarded.
The imperial edict pardoned a maid named Ze as a commoner and rewarded her with one hundred thousand yuan.
The emperor personally inquired about the matter, and then found out that Bingji had been kind to him in the past, but had never said anything about it.
The emperor was very grateful and thought that Bingji was really a great sage. He wrote an edict to Prime Minister Wei, saying: Before I was a nobleman, Bingji, the imperial censor, was kind to me. His virtues are so beautiful.
Isn’t it said in the Book of Songs? There is nothing virtuous to me that will not be repaid.
I have granted Bingji the title of Marquis of Boyang, with a settlement of 1,300 households.
When it was time to be granted the title, west Xuan fell ill. The emperor was afraid that Xi Li would die and could not be granted the title, so he wanted to rush to the time when Xi Ji was still alive and send someone with the seal to grant him the title. The emperor was worried that Bingji's illness would not recover, so Xiahou Sheng, the crown prince and Taifu, told the emperor: He will not die.
I heard that people who accumulate yin virtue will definitely enjoy the joy brought by that yin virtue, which will also be extended to their descendants.
Now that Room C's kindness has not been repaid, he is so sick that it is not a fatal disease.
Later, Bingji's illness was indeed cured.
Binggu wrote to the emperor and firmly refused, saying that he should not receive rewards and titles based on this empty name.
The emperor wrote back and said: I don't make you a marquis in an empty name, but if you write a letter and send it back to the marquis, it will show that I have no virtue and no righteousness, and I know that I will not repay my kindness.
There is nothing chaotic in the world now. I hope you can concentrate, think less about things, pay more attention to medicine, and take good care of yourself.
Five years later, Bingji replaced Wei Xiang as prime minister.
Bingji was born as a minor official in charge of prison cases. He later studied the Book of Songs and the Rites and understood their great meaning.
After he became the prime minister, he advocated magnanimity and courtesy to others.
When there were criminal cases or incompetence among the officials, Bingji always gave them long vacations and asked them to resign voluntarily. There was never any investigation.
Some guests said to Xitong: "You became the prime minister of Lian Dynasty and were very generous. However, the treacherous officials took advantage of the opportunity to seek personal gain and did bad things, but you did not punish them."
Bingji said: "I feel so embarrassed that I, the duke, have a great power, but I go to investigate and deal with the minor officials."
Later, the people who replaced Bingji regarded this as a routine. If the Duke's mansion did not investigate and deal with minor officials, they would start with Bingji.
When dealing with his own officials and businessmen, Bingji always covers up for them and promotes good deeds.
There was a driving official in Xixuan who loved to drink and neglected his duties many times. Once when he went out with Bingji, he vomited in the prime minister's car because he was drunk.
The chief official of Xicao told Bingji that he wanted to drive away this official. Bingji said: "If you drive him away just because of his fault of being drunk and vomiting in the prime minister's car, how will this person live in the world in the future?"
Just be patient and let him go. This is just soiling the mat on my car.
In the end, I didn't drive him away.
This official is from the border county and is familiar with border fortress alarm and security matters. Once when I went out, I happened to see Yiqi holding a red and white letter bag. It was a letter from the border county reporting the enemy's invasion.
The official followed the post rider to the bus to inquire about the news, and learned that the enemy had invaded Yunzhong County and Dai County. He immediately rushed back to the Prime Minister's Mansion to report the situation to Bingji, and suggested: I am afraid that in the border counties invaded by the Hulu, some of the officials with two thousand stones are old and sick and cannot withstand the war, so they should investigate in advance.
Bingji thought what he said made sense, so he asked Shu Cao to visit the officials in the border counties and record their life experiences and other situations in detail.
Before this matter was finished, the emperor went down to Shao to summon the prime minister and censor, and asked the officials of the border counties invaded by the Hulu. Bingji gave detailed answers.
The imperial censor was in a hurry but could not answer quickly, so he was scolded by the emperor.
Therefore, Bingji was regarded by the emperor as a good prime minister who was worried about border defense, fulfilled his duties, and was very effective in managing his subordinate officials.
Bingji then sighed: "There is no intolerable person among scholars. They all have their own talents."
How could I have been praised for my hard work if I had not heard the advice of the governor first?
When the ministers heard this, they admired Bingji even more.
Bingji once went out and encountered a fight between people cleaning the road. There were many dead and injured people lying on the road. Bingji passed by but ignored him. The minister next to him felt strange.
Bingji and others walked forward again and met someone driving a cow. The cow was panting and sticking out its tongue. Bing Ji stopped the car and asked the horseman to ask: "How many miles have you driven the cattle?"
The minister was very surprised that the prime minister did not ask about things that should be asked, but asked about things that should not be asked. Some even ridiculed Bingji. Bingji explained: The people fought with each other and killed and injured people. This is something that should be prohibited by the Chang'an Order and Jing Zhaoyin. At the end of the year, I will be the prime minister to inspect their political achievements and merits, report the situation to the emperor, and give rewards and punishments.
If the prime minister does not handle small matters personally, he should not ask questions on the road.
It is the spring season, Shaoyang adheres to the climate of heaven and earth, and there should be no very hot weather. I am afraid that the cow being chased cannot go far because it is panting and spitting out its tongue because it is too hot. As a result, the seasonal solar terms are out of balance, and there may be great disasters.
As the prime minister of the Three Lords, I should be worried about the important matter of balancing yin and yang, so I asked about Niu Chuan.
The ministers all admired him and thought that Bingji was a person who knew the general situation.
In the spring of the third year of Wufeng's reign, Bingji's illness became serious.
The emperor personally went to the bedside to greet Bingji and said: If you unfortunately die, who can take your place?
Bingji thanked him and said: You, the wise monarch, know best the behavioral talents of the ministers, but I don't know much about the foolish ministers.
The emperor insisted on asking, but Bingji had no choice but to pause and say: Du Yannian, the governor of Xihe, knows the law well and knows the country's old practices. He used to be an official of the Nine Ministers for more than ten years. Now he has made great achievements in Xihe County and has a good reputation.
Ting Wei enforces the law fairly in Dingguo, and everyone in the world who is judged by him feels that they are not unjust.
The servant Chen Wannian served his stepmother very filially and was fair and kind in everything he did.
These three people are all more talented than me. I hope the emperor will pay attention and investigate.
The emperor thought Bingji's words were correct and agreed.
After Bingji's death, the imperial censor Huang Ba became the prime minister and recruited Du Yannian, the prefect of Xihe County, to join the court as the censor. It happened that Du Yannian resigned due to old age and was relieved of his official position due to illness.
Ting Wei Yu Dingguo was appointed to replace Du Yannian as the imperial censor.
Later, Huang Ba died and Yu Dingguo became the prime minister. He appointed the servant Chen Wannian to replace Yu Dingguo as the imperial censor. These people were all very qualified, and the emperor believed that Bingji was knowledgeable and knowledgeable.
After Bingji's death, Mi was given the title of Dinghou.
His son Bingxian inherited the title. During the Ganlu period, he was demoted to the title of Marquis of Guannei due to crimes, and his official position was as high as the Taipu of Weiwei.
When Bingxian was young, he was a small official in the government. He followed the emperor to the high temple to offer sacrifices. On the day of sacrifice, he sent someone out to get fasting clothes.
Prime Minister Bingji was furious and said to his wife: The ancestral temple is the most solemn place in the country, but Bingxian showed disrespect and carelessness. It will definitely be Bingxian who loses my title in the future.
Mrs. Bingji said a lot of good things for her son before she spared Bingxian.
Bingji's second son Bingyu served as the captain of Shuiheng, and his youngest son Binggao served as the captain of the middle base.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, a soldier named Zun from Chang'an wrote to the emperor, saying: My lord, when I was young, I was a minor official in the county, and I saw Emperor Xiaoxuan imprisoned in the county prison as the emperor's great-grandson.
Bingji, the envoy who investigated the case for the emperor at that time, was not only deeply moved by his benevolence but also very sad when he saw the emperor's great-grandson innocently suffering. So the female prisoner Hu was selected to raise the emperor's grandson, and Bingji often took care of him together.
Your Majesty, I served the emperor's grandson many times in the county court.
Later, when faced with an order to kill all the prisoners who entered the prison, Bingji refused to open the door, resisted the catastrophe, and did not avoid severe punishments, finally saving the emperor's grandson.
Later, during the amnesty, Bingji told the prime minister who ordered that the emperor's grandson should no longer be imprisoned in the official prison, and asked him to write a letter to Jing Zhaoyin in the form of an official document. At the same time, he sent the emperor's grandson and Hu Zu to Jing Zhaoyin's package. Jing Zhaoyin did not accept it and sent it back.
When Hu Zu's employment was full, it was time to go home. The emperor's grandson was reluctant to leave because she had been with her for a long time, so Bingji used his own money to hire Hu Zu and asked her to stay and raise the emperor's grandson with Guo Zhengqing for a few months before letting her go home.
Later, the official Shao Nei Shifu who was in charge of the Yeting Prefecture said to Bingji: I want to provide superior supplies to the emperor's grandson, but there is no edict, tide can find a way.
At that time, Bingji could eat rice and meat, so he used his monthly salary to provide for the emperor and his grandson.
Bingji was sometimes ill, and would always ask me to check on the emperor and grandson regardless of morning or evening, and check whether the bedding was wet or dry.
He also often warned Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing not to leave the emperor and grandson early or late to play, and offered delicious and crispy food to the emperor and grandson many times.
Therefore, it ensured that Emperor Xiaoxuan was in a happy spirit and grew up healthily, which can be said to be a great merit.
At that time, how could Bingji have expected that his grandson would become emperor?
How can I think of seeking retribution for my merits in the future?
In fact, it is a natural manifestation of his honest heart, benevolence and kindness.
Even Jie Zitui's behavior of cutting his own flesh for the monarch to eat in order to keep the monarch alive cannot be compared with this. When Emperor Xiaoxuan was there, I wrote a letter explaining the situation at that time. Fortunately, the letter was delivered to Bingji. Bingji was very modest and did not show off to himself. He deleted the words about him in my letter and attributed all the benefits to Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing. Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing were rewarded with houses and money, and Bingji was named Boyang Marquis. I cannot be compared with Hu Zu or Guo Zhengqing.
I am old, living in poverty, and I don’t know when I will die. I want to keep it secret, but I am afraid that I will bury it in the name of someone who has no merit.
Bingji's son Bingxian was deprived of his title for committing a minor crime and was made Marquis of Guannei. The minister foolishly believed that his original title and fiefdom should be restored in order to repay his father's merits.
Before that, Bingxian had been a servant for more than ten years. He and his subordinates committed bad crimes, exploited gold and silver, and hid tens of millions in money at home. Weichang, the commander of the Sili School, impeached Bingxian. The crime was considered to be treason, and he petitioned the emperor to arrest him.
Emperor Yuan said: The late Prime Minister Bingji had an old debt to Emperor Xiaoxuan, and I could not bear to kill his son.
So he only removed Bingxian from his official position and cut off 400 households in the city.
Later, he was made the city gate captain.
After Bingxian's death, his son Bingchang assumed the title of Marquis of Guannei.
When the Emperor of the Han Dynasty became emperor, he rebuilt the abandoned achievements. Because Bingji had been particularly benevolent to the Han Dynasty in the past, so in the first year of Emperor Hongjia's reign, he sent a letter to the prime minister and the imperial censor in Shao, saying: I heard that praising meritorious and virtuous people and restoring the successors to the heroes who have no descendants is a good way to respect the ancestral temple, the country, and open the way to sages.
The late Boyang Hou Bingji was named a marquis because of his kindness to the late emperor. Now his descendants have become extinct. I feel very pitiful.
It is a common principle in ancient times that the most kind and beautiful behavior will be extended to descendants. I conferred Bingji’s grandson Zhonglang General Guannei Marquis Bingchang as Boyang Marquis to enshrine Bingji’s descendants.
Bingji's feudal state was continued thirty-two years later.
Bingchang passed the title to his sons and grandsons, and it was not until Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty that it was extinct.
Zan said: When the ancients made names, they must start from symbolizing similar things, looking for distant things from things, and looking for near things from themselves.
Therefore, the scriptures say that the king is likened to the human mind, and the ministers are like the legs and arms of a human being, indicating that the king and the ministers are likened to the entire human body, and they complement each other.
Therefore, it is a common practice throughout the ages for monarchs and ministers to assist each other. It is natural and inevitable.
Looking at the prime ministers of the Han Dynasty recently, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty established the foundation, Xiao He and Cao Shen were the top ministers, Emperor Xiaoxuan was the master of Zhongxing, and Prime Ministers Bingji and Wei also had good reputations.
At that time, officials were promoted and demoted in a reasonable manner, their responsibilities were clear, most ministers were competent and competent, and people at home treated each other with courtesy.
Observing their behavior and deeds, is it just a false name?
