Confucius said: There are seventy-seven disciples who have studied with me and become proficient in the six arts. They are all people with extraordinary talents.
Outstanding in virtue: Yan Yuan, Min Ziqian, Ran Boniu, Zhong Gong.
Those who are good at handling political affairs: Ran You, Ji Lu.
In terms of language: Zaiwo, Zigong.
Articles on erudition: Ziyou, Zixia.
Master Zhuan Sun was extreme, Zeng Shen was slow, Gao Chai was stupid, Zhong You was rude, and Yan Hui was often poor and had nothing.
Duanmuci did not accept the mercy of fate and went into business, but his predictions on the market were often accurate.
The people whom Confucius respected: in the Zhou Dynasty, it was Laozi; in the Wei Kingdom, it was Zang Boyu; in the Qi Kingdom, it was Yan Zhongping; in the Chu Kingdom, it was Laolaizi; in the Zheng Kingdom, it was Zichan; in the Lu Kingdom, it was Meng Gongchuo.
He also often praised Zang Wenzhong, Liu Xiahui, Tongtan Bohua, and Jieshan Ziran. Confucius was born later than them and was not of the same era.
Yan Hui was from the state of Lu, his courtesy name was Ziyuan.
Thirty years younger than Confucius.
Yan Yuan asked what benevolence was, and Confucius said: Restrain yourself and make your words and deeds conform to etiquette, and people in the world will praise you as a virtuous person.
Confucius said: Yan Hui! What a virtuous person!
He ate a small bamboo basket of rice, drank a ladle of water, and lived in a simple alley. Most people couldn't bear this kind of hardship, but Yan Hui didn't change his joy.
When he was listening to my teachings, Yan Hui seemed like a stupid person. After class, I examined his private conversations and showed that he was able to express himself deliberately. Yan Hui was really not stupid.
When you are employed, you will save the world; when you are not employed, you will hide your secrets. Only you and I have such an attitude towards life!
Yan Hui was only twenty-nine years old, his hair turned completely white, and he died prematurely.
Confucius cried very sadly and said: Since I had Yan Hui, the students have become closer and closer to me.
Duke Ai of Lu asked: Who among the students is the best at learning?
Confucius replied: There is a man named Yan Hui who had better learn from others and never transfer his anger to others and never make the same mistake again.
Unfortunately, life was short, and after death, there are no such people anymore.
Min Sun, also known as Ziqian, was fifteen years younger than Confucius.
Confucius said: Min Ziqian is too filial!
He serves his parents and obeys his brothers. Others praise him without any criticism.
He does not want to be a retainer of a high official, and he does not want to receive a salary from an emperor. So he said: If someone calls me again, I will definitely flee to the north of Wenshui River.
Ran Geng, courtesy name Boniu.
Confucius thought he was virtuous.
Boniu was suffering from an incurable disease. Confucius went to greet him, shook his hand from the window, and said: This is life!
Such a good person got such a disease, what a fate! Ran Yong, courtesy name Zhong Gong.
Zhong Gong asked how to handle political affairs. Confucius said: When going out to do things, be as courteous and courteous as receiving distinguished guests, and use the people as piously and cautiously as hosting a grand ceremony.
In this way, no one will resent you if you serve in the feudal state of a prince, and no one will resent you if you serve in the home of a high official.
Confucius thought that Zhong Gong had achieved great achievements in virtue and said: Ran Yong, you can make him a high official like a senior official.
Zhong Gong's father was a man of humble status.
Confucius used an analogy and said: A mottled cow gives birth to a red calf with round and straight horns. Even if you don't want to use it as a sacrifice, will the gods of the mountains and rivers abandon it?
Ran Qiu, also known as Zi You, was twenty-nine years younger than Confucius.
As the head of Li family's retainers.
Ji Kangzi asked Confucius: Is Ran Qiu virtuous?
Confucius replied: There is a city with a thousand households and a fief with a hundred chariots. Ran Qiu can manage the military and political affairs there well.
As for whether he is benevolent or not, I don't know.
Ji Kangzi asked again: Is Zilu virtuous?
Confucius replied: Just like Ran Qiu.
Ran Qiu asked Confucius: Do you act immediately when you hear what you should do?
Confucius replied: Act immediately.
Zilu asked Confucius: When you hear something you should do, should you act immediately?
Confucius replied: How can you act immediately when you hear something when your father and brothers are here?
Zihua felt that this was strange and said in confusion: "I boldly ask, why do you ask the same question but get different answers?"
Confucius replied: Ran Qiu was timid and worried, so I encouraged him.
Zhong Yu has the courage of two people to do things, so I have to restrain him.
Zhong Yuan, named Zi Lu, was from Bian.
Nine years younger than Confucius.
Zilu had a rough temperament, liked to show off his strength, had a strong ambition, and was straightforward. He wore a rooster-style hat and a sword decorated with boar skin. He once bullied Confucius.
Confucius slowly induced him with ritual music. Later, Zilu dressed in Confucian clothes and brought a gift for apprenticeship. Through the recommendation of Confucius's students, Zilu asked to be Confucius's student.
Zilu asked how to deal with political affairs. Confucius said: You must first set an example for the people, and then you can make the people work hard.
Zilu asked for further explanation.
Confucius said: Be persistent.
Zilu asked: Does a gentleman value bravery?
Confucius said: What a gentleman values ​​most is righteousness.
A gentleman who has no choice but to be brave but does not uphold righteousness will become rebellious and rebellious. A villain who has no choice but to be brave but not uphold righteousness will become a robber.
Zi Lu wanted to hear some truth, but he didn't act immediately, for fear of hearing another truth.
Confucius said: The only person who can decide a case by just listening to one side's words is Zhong You!
Zhong Yu advocates bravery more than I can use it, so it does not apply.
People with a temperament like Zhongyou's will not end well.
I'm afraid Zhong You is the only one who doesn't feel ashamed to stand next to people wearing fur coats while wearing a shabby robe made of tangled linen.
Zhong Yuan's knowledge seems to have reached the main hall, but he has not yet been able to enter the inner room.
Ji Kangzi asked: Is Zhong You virtuous?
Confucius replied: A country with a thousand chariots can let him manage military and political affairs. As for whether he has benevolence, I don't know.
Zilu liked to travel with Confucius and met hermits such as Changju, Jieyou, and an old man carrying farm tools.
Zilu became Ji's retainer. Ji Sun asked Confucius: Can Zilu be said to be a retainer?
Confucius replied: It can be said that he is a minister who is ready to fill his position.
Zilu was appointed as the official of Pucheng and bid farewell to Confucius.
Confucius said: There are many brave warriors in Pu Yi, and it is difficult to govern them.
However, I tell you: if you are respectful and humble, you can control brave people; if you are generous and honest, you can bring everyone close to you; if you are respectful and honest and the society is quiet, you can use it to serve your superiors.
At first, Duke Linggong of Wei had a favorite concubine named Nanzi.
Linggong's crown prince had offended her and fled abroad for fear of being murdered.
When Duke Ling passed away, his wife Nanzi wanted Prince Ying to inherit the throne.
Prince Ying refused to accept it and said: Although the prince has fled, his son is still there.
So Wei Guo established Zou as the king, which was Wei Chugong.
Twelve years after Chugong succeeded to the throne, his father had been staying abroad and could not come back.
At this time, Zilu served as the governor of the fiefdom of Kong Kui, a doctor of the Wei Kingdom.
Kuai and Kong Kui rebelled together and tried to sneak people into Kong Kui's house, so he and his followers attacked Wei Chugong.
After he fled to the state of Lu, he entered the palace and succeeded to the throne. He then defended Duke Zhuang.
When Kong Kui was making trouble, Zilu had something to do, so he rushed back when he heard the news.
Zigao came out of the city gate of Weiguo and happened to meet him. He said to Zilu: "Wei has escaped on duty. The city gate has been closed. You can go back. Don't suffer disaster for him."
Zilu said: If you eat other people's food, you cannot avoid other people's disasters.
Zigao finally left.
Just as an envoy was about to enter the city, the city gate opened and Zilu followed him in.
Found Jiang Wei, Jiang Wei and Kong Kui were both on the stage.
Zilu said: Why did the king appoint Kong Kui?
Please let me catch him and kill him.
He did not listen to his advice.
So Zilu wanted to set fire to the platform, but Kuai was afraid, so he asked Shiqi and Huxu to go down to the platform to attack Zilu, and cut off Zilu's hatband.
Zilu said: A gentleman can die, but his hat cannot fall off.
After saying that, he tied his hat and died.
When Confucius heard the news of the riot in Weiguo, he said: Alas, Zhong Yu is dead!
Soon, news of his death came.
So Confucius said: Ever since I had my son Zhongyou, I can no longer hear any evil words.
At this time, Zigong was on an envoy to Qi State on behalf of Lu State.
Jaeyu, named Ziwo.
He is articulate and good at rhetoric.
After becoming a disciple of Confucius, he asked: "When a person's parents die, isn't it too long to observe mourning for three years?"
If a gentleman does not practice etiquette for three years, the etiquette will be ruined; if he does not play music for three years, the music will be ruined.
In one year, the old millet is eaten, the new millet matures, and the wood for drilling and making fire is replaced. It is enough to mourn for one year.
Confucius said: If you only stay in mourning for one year, how will your heart feel?
Zaiwo replied: Peace of mind.
Confucius said: Since you feel at ease, just do it.
When a gentleman observes filial piety, even if he eats delicious food, he will not feel the sweetness, and he will not feel happy when listening to beautiful music. That is why a gentleman does not do this.
Zaiwo withdrew, and Confucius said: Zaiyu is not a benevolent gentleman!
It takes three years after a child is born to leave his mother's arms.
Observing filial piety for parents for three years is a common etiquette observed by the whole world.
Jaeyu slept during the day.
Confucius said: Rotten wood cannot be carved with tools, and rotten walls cannot be painted.
Zaiwo asked about the virtues of the five emperors. Confucius replied: You are not the person to ask such a question.
I was appointed as the official of Qi State in Lin'an, and together with Tian Chang, I conspired to cause rebellion, so I was exterminated. Confucius was ashamed of him.
Duanmu Ci was a native of Wei State, his courtesy name was Zigong.
Thirty-one years younger than Confucius.
Zigong was articulate and skillful in rhetoric, and Confucius often refuted his words.
Confucius asked Zigong: Who is better between you and Yan Hui?
Zigong replied: How dare I hope to compare with Yan Hui?
Yan Hui heard one truth and could deduce ten truths. I heard one truth and could only deduce two truths.
After Zigong studied under Confucius, he asked: What kind of person am I? Confucius said: You are like a useful tool.
Zigong asked: What kind of utensils are they?
Confucius said: Hu Lian in the ancestral temple.
Chen Ziqin asked Zigong: Where did Zhongni get such extensive knowledge?
Zigong said: The thoughts of King Wen and King Wu on governing the country have not been completely lost. They are still spread among the people. The wise people remember the important parts, while the unworthy people only remember the details. The thoughts of King Wen and King Wu exist everywhere.
If you can't learn, why do you need a regular teacher?
Chen Ziqin asked again: Every time Confucius visited a country, he must have learned about the political affairs of that country.
Did he ask others to tell him, or did they tell him on their own initiative?
Zigong said: Sir, he obtained it through his virtues of gentleness, kindness, respect, frugality and humility.
Your husband's way of seeking may be different from other people's ways of seeking.
Zigong asked Confucius: "What about a person who is rich but not arrogant, who is poor but not flattering?"
Confucius said: That's all right; however, it would be better to be willing to abide by the ways of the sages even if you are poor, and to be courteous and courteous even if you are rich.
Tian Chang wanted to rebel in Qi, but he was afraid of the power of Gao Zhaozi, Guo Huizi, Bao Mu, and Yan Yu, so he wanted to divert their troops to attack Lu.
When Confucius heard about this, he said to his disciples: The State of Lu is where the tombs of our ancestors are located, and it is the country where we were born. Our motherland is in such danger, why don't you come forward?
Zilu asked to go, but Confucius stopped him.
Zizhang and Zishi asked to rescue Lu, but Confucius refused.
Zigong asked to rescue Lu, and Confucius agreed.
Zigong then set out and came to the state of Qi. He persuaded Tian Chang and said: You are wrong to attack the state of Lu.
Lu is a difficult country to attack. Its walls are thin and low, its moat is narrow and shallow, its monarch is ignorant and unkind, its ministers are hypocritical and useless, and its soldiers and people hate fighting. Such a country cannot be fought against.
You might as well attack Wu.
The country of Wu has tall and thick city walls, wide and deep moats, strong and brand-new armor, well-selected and energetic soldiers, valuable talents and elite troops, and wise ministers guarding it. Such a country is easy to attack.
Tian Chang suddenly became angry, his face changed and he said: What you think is difficult, others think is easy; what you think is easy, others think is difficult. What is your intention in using these words to teach me?
Zigong said: I have heard that those who are worried at home should attack strong countries; those who are worried about foreign countries should attack weak countries.
Today, your worries are at home.
I heard that you have been awarded titles many times but failed to do so because some of the ministers in the DPRK were against you.
Now, you want to capture the State of Lu to expand the territory of the State of Qi. If you win, your monarch will become more arrogant. If you occupy the land of the State of Lu, your ministers will be more noble, and your conquest and labor will not be included. In this way, the relationship between you and the monarch will become increasingly estranged day by day.
This is because you make the monarch arrogant and indulgent, and make the ministers uninhibited. It is too difficult to achieve great things because of this.
If the monarch is arrogant, he will have no scruples, and if the ministers are arrogant, they will fight for power. In this way, there will be an emotional rift between you and the monarch, and you and the ministers will compete with each other next time.
If this is the case, your situation in Qi will be dangerous.
So it is better to attack Wu State.
If the attack on Wu fails to win, and the people die abroad, and the ministers lead the troops to fight, and the court's power is empty, then there will be no strong ministers above to resist, and there will be no criticism from the people below, and you will be the only one who isolates the monarch and autocrats Qi. Tian Chang said: OK.
Even so, my army has already marched to the State of Lu, and now it is withdrawing from the State of Lu and marching to the State of Wu. What should I do if the ministers doubt me?
Zigong said: "Stand still and do not attack. Please let me go as your envoy to see the King of Wu and ask him to send troops to aid Lu and attack Qi. You can take the opportunity to send troops to meet it."
Tian Chang accepted Zigong's advice and sent him south to meet the King of Wu.
Zigong persuaded the King of Wu and said: I have heard that those who practice kingship cannot allow the vassal states to be exterminated, and those who practice tyranny cannot allow other powerful enemies to appear. On an object that weighs thousands of pounds, even the weight of one baht or one tael may cause displacement.
Today, the state of Qi, which has ten thousand chariots, and the state of Lu, which has thousands of chariots, are competing with the state of Wu for supremacy. Privately, I feel danger for the king.
Besides, to rescue the Lu State is a matter of reputation; to attack the Qi State is a matter of great profit.
There is no greater profit than pacifying the princes of various countries north of Surabaya, attacking the violent Qi State, and subduing the powerful Jin State.
In name, the country of Lu was preserved in danger, but in fact it hindered the expansion of Qiang Qi. Smart people will not doubt this truth. King Wu said: OK.
Even so, I once fought against the State of Yue, and the King of Yue retreated to live in Kuaiji Mountain. The King of Yue worked hard on himself, treated his soldiers well, and was determined to take revenge on me.
You wait until I attack Yue and then do as you say.
Zigong said: The power of Yue is not greater than that of Lu, and the strength of Wu is not greater than that of Qi. If the king puts Qi aside and attacks Yue, then Qi has already pacified Lu. Moreover, in the name of restoring the ruined country and reviving the severed heir, the king attacks the weak Yue and fears the powerful Qi. This is not a sign of bravery.
A brave person does not shy away from difficulties, and a kind person does not let others get into trouble. A wise person will miss the opportunity, and a person who implements the royal way will not let a country become extinct. Use these to establish your morality.
Now, preserve the State of Yue to show your benevolence to the princes of other countries, assist the State of Lu to attack Qi, and exert the power of the State of Jin. The princes of all countries will surely come to Wu to pay homage, and the great cause of dominating the world will be successful.
The king is really afraid of the country of Yue, so I request to go east to meet with the king of Yue and ask him to send troops to follow you. This actually makes the country of Yue empty and nominally follows the princes to attack Qi.
King Wu was very happy, so he sent Zigong to Yue.
The King of Yue cleared the road and went to the outskirts to greet Zigong. He personally drove his car to the residence where Zigong was staying and asked, "This is a remote and backward country. Why did the doctor humiliate his solemn status and come here?"
Zigong replied: Now I have persuaded King Wu to rescue Lu and attack Qi. He wanted to do this but was afraid of Yue and said, "Wait until I capture Yue."
Like this, it is inevitable to conquer the Yue Kingdom.
Besides, it would be too clumsy to make people suspicious of someone without the intention to retaliate; it would be unsafe to have people know about it if he has the intention to seek revenge; it would be too dangerous to let people know about it before the matter has started.
These three situations are the biggest disaster in getting things done.
After hearing this, Gou Jian kowtowed to the ground and bowed again and said: I once overestimated my capabilities and went to war with Wu. I was besieged in Kuaiji. I hated him so much that my lips were parched day and night. I only wanted to fight to the death with the King of Wu. This is my wish.
So he asked Zigong what to do.
Zigong said: The king of Wu was ferocious and cruel, and the ministers could not bear it; the country fought many wars, which made it exhausted and decayed, and the soldiers could not bear it; the people resented the king, and there were internal disturbances among the ministers; Wu Zixu was killed for his remonstrances, and the chief minister came to power, complied with the fault of the king, and used it to protect his own selfish interests. This is a political manifestation of harming the country.
Now if the king can really send troops to assist the king of Wu, appeal to his will, use heavy gold and treasures to win his favor, and honor him with humble words to show respect for him, he will definitely attack Qi.
If that war cannot be won, it will be your great blessing.
If he wins, he will definitely lead his troops to approach Jin. Please let me go north to meet the king of Jin and let him attack it together. This will definitely weaken the power of Wu.
When all their elite troops were consumed in the Qi State, the heavy troops were restrained by the Jin State, and the king took advantage of its exhaustion to attack it, which would surely destroy the Wu State.
The King of Yue was very happy and agreed to act according to the plan.
He gave Zigong a hundred yi of gold, a precious sword, and two good spears.
Zigong didn't accept it and left.
Zigong reported back to the King of Wu and said: I solemnly told the King of Yue what you said. The King of Yue was very frightened and said: I am very unlucky. I lost my father when I was young.
Five days later, Wen Zhong, a senior official from the State of Yue, kowtowed to the ground and said to the King of Wu: Gou Jian, the minister of the East China Sea Service, would like to send the envoy Wen Zhong to repair your subordinates and ask them to send greetings to the king.
Now I heard privately that the king is going to launch an army of justice to attack the violent, support the weak and tyrannical Qi State and appease the Zhou royal family. I request to send out the entire army of 3,000 people in Yue State. Gou Jian requested to personally wear armor and carry sharp weapons, and was willing to risk the danger of arrows and stones in front.
Therefore, Wen Zhong, a humble minister of the Yue Kingdom, was sent to present the treasures treasured by his ancestors, including twelve pieces of armor, axes, Qulu spears, and light swords, as gifts to the noble military officials.
The King of Wu was very happy after hearing this and told Zigong what Wen Zhong had said: The King of Yue wants to follow me personally to attack Qi. Is that okay?
Zigong replied: No.
It is unethical to make someone else's country empty, mobilize all his troops, and ask his king to follow him on an expedition.
You accept his gift and allow him to send his army without his king accompanying him.
The king of Wu agreed and thanked the king of Yue.
So King Wu mobilized the troops from nine counties to attack Qi.
Zigong therefore left the state of Wu and went to the state of Jin. He said to the king of Jin: I heard that if you don't plan a strategy in advance, you can't cope with sudden changes, and if you don't manage the army well in advance, you can't defeat the enemy.
Now the state of Qi and the state of Wu are about to go to war. If the state of Wu cannot win the war, the state of Yue will definitely take the opportunity to disrupt it; after winning the battle with the state of Qi, the king of Wu will definitely lead his army to approach the state of Jin. Jin was very panicked and said: What should we do?
Zigong said: Prepare your weapons, recuperate your soldiers, and wait for the arrival of the Wu army.
Jin Jun did as he said.
Zigong left Jin and went to Lu.
Sure enough, the King of Wu fought a battle with the Qi people in Ailing and defeated the Qi army. He captured seven generals' soldiers and refused to return home. Sure enough, he led his troops to approach the Jin state and met the Jin people in Huangchi.
Wu and Jin were competing for supremacy. The Jin people attacked Wu and defeated the Wu army.
When the King of Yue heard the news of the Wu army's disastrous defeat, he crossed the river to attack the state of Wu. He did not set up camp until he was seven miles away from the capital of the state of Wu.
When King Wu heard the news, he left Jin and returned to Wu, where he fought with the Yue army in the Five Lakes area.
Many battles failed, and even the city gate could not be defended. So the Vietnamese army surrounded the palace and killed King Wu Fucha and his minister.
Three years after the destruction of the Wu State, the Yue State dominated the east.
Therefore, Zigong's trip saved the state of Lu, disrupted the state of Qi, destroyed the state of Wu, made the state of Jin strong, and enabled the state of Yue to dominate.
Zigong's mission caused corresponding changes in the situation of various countries. Within ten years, the situations of Qi, Lu, Wu, Jin, and Yue each changed.
Zigong was good at hoarding rare things, buying at low prices and selling at high prices, and changing hands to make profits according to the supply and demand situation.
He likes to promote the strengths of others and does not hide the faults of others.
He once served as the prime minister of Lu and Wei, and his family fortune accumulated thousands of gold. He eventually died in Qi.
Yan Yan was from the state of Wu and his courtesy name was Ziyou.
Forty-five years younger than Confucius.
After Ziyou received his profession, he served as the governor of Wucheng.
Confucius passed by Wucheng and heard the sound of playing the harp and singing.
Confucius smiled slightly and said: Why use a knife to kill a chicken?
Ziyou: Once upon a time, I heard my husband say: Talented people who learn rituals and music will cultivate their benevolence and love the people; ordinary people who learn rituals and music will abide by laws and regulations and be easy to control.
Confucius said to the accompanying students: Everyone, what Yan Yan said is correct.
What I just said was just a joke.
Confucius believed that Ziyou was familiar with articles and erudite.
Bu Shang, courtesy name Zixia.
Forty-four years younger than Confucius.
Zixia asked: "The beautiful smile is charming and moving, the bright eyes are flowing and shining, and the pure white hair of the Buddha is dyed with brilliant literary colors. What do these three sentences mean?"
Confucius replied: Painting must first have a pure white background, and then decorate the picture with color.
Zixia said: Did the emergence of ritual and music come after benevolence and righteousness?
Confucius said: Fortune teller, now I can discuss the Book of Songs with you.
Zigong asked: Which one is stronger, master Zhuan Sun or the diviner?
Confucius said: Master, it's a little too much, Shang, it's a little behind.
Zigong said: Is Master Zhuan Sun any better?
Confucius said: Excess and failure to catch up are equally imperfect.
Confucius said to Zixia: You must aspire to be a talented and virtuous scholar, not a shallow and dishonest scholar.
After the death of Confucius, Zixia settled in Hexi to teach students and became the teacher of Wei Wenhou.
Zixia's son died, and he cried his eyes out. Master Zhuan Sun was a native of Chen State, his courtesy name was Zizhang.
Forty-eight years younger than Confucius.
Zizhang learned from Confucius how to obtain official salary. Confucius said: Listen more to what others say, and do not make rash comments about unsolved problems. Others should be cautious when speaking out, so that you can make fewer mistakes; watch more people's actions, and don't act rashly about unsolved problems. Others should act cautiously, which can reduce regrets.
The fewer mistakes you make in your words and the fewer regrets in your actions, the official salary you seek will be contained in it.
One day Zizhang followed Confucius and was besieged between the states of Chen and Cai. Zizhang asked how to make everything work.
Confucius said: If you are honest and trustworthy in your words and sincere and respectful in your actions, it will work even in the southern barbarians and Beidi; if you are not loyal and trustworthy in your words and sincere and respectful in your actions, will it work even in your own hometown?
When standing, the words "loyalty, trust and reverence" appear before your eyes; when sitting in the car, the words "loyalty, trust and reverence" are hung on the crossbar in front of the car. Once you reach this point, it will work everywhere.
Zizhang wrote these words on the big belt around his waist.
Zizhang asked: What can a scholar do to be called enlightened?
Confucius said: What do you mean by mastery?
Zizhang replied: "You must have a good reputation among the princes' states, and you must also have a good reputation in the families of ministers and officials."
Confucius said: This is reputation, not understanding.
The so-called understanding should be upright and righteous, consider other people's words, observe other people's expressions, and always think about humility and concession. In this way, you will be able to gain access in the states of princes and the fiefdoms of ministers and officials.
The reputation mentioned above seems to be pursuing benevolence, but in actual actions it violates benevolence. You have to deal with it calmly. There is no doubt that such a person will definitely gain fame in the states of princes and the fiefdoms of ministers and officials.
Zeng Shen was a native of Nanwucheng, named Liaoyu, and was forty-six years younger than Confucius.
Confucius thought that he could understand filial piety, so he taught him his studies.
He wrote a "Book of Filial Piety".
He died in the state of Lu.
Tantai Mieming was a native of Wucheng, named Ziyu.
Thirty-nine years younger than Confucius.
His body and appearance were ugly.
He wanted to serve Confucius, but Confucius thought that he had low qualifications.
After studying as a teacher, he devoted himself to self-cultivation practice when he returned home. He dealt with things openly and honestly, and did not take evil paths. It was not for official business and he never met with officials or officials.
He traveled south to the Yangtze River, and there were three hundred students who followed him. He was flawless in acquiring, giving, abandoning, and pursuing, and his reputation spread to the princes in all directions.
Confucius heard these things and said: If I judge people by words only, my judgment of Jaeyu is wrong; if I judge people by appearance alone, my judgment of Ziyu is wrong.
The words are not neat and the characters are cheap.
Thirty years younger than Confucius.
Confucius talked about Mi Zi Jian and said: Zi Jian is really a gentleman!
If there are no gentlemen in the state of Lu, where did this person learn such good character?
Zi Jian was appointed as Shanfu's local governor. He came back and reported to Confucius, saying: "There are five people in this place who are more talented than me. They taught me how to govern the people."
Confucius said: What a pity! The areas that are not managed uniformly are too small. If the areas that are managed are large, it will be almost the same.
Yuan Xian, courtesy name Zisi.
Zisi asked what shame was.
Confucius said: If the country's politics are clear, you can be an official and receive a salary, but you can't see trees.
The country's politics are dark, and it is a shame to be an official and receive a salary but not be able to stand alone.
Zisi said: If competitiveness, self-praising, resentment, and greed are not revealed, can it be regarded as benevolence?
Confucius said: It can be said to be commendable. Whether it can be regarded as benevolence, I don't know.
After Confucius passed away, Yuan Xian went to live in seclusion in a low-lying place with water and overgrown weeds.
Zigong became the Prime Minister of Wei State, and there was a continuous stream of carriages and horses when he went out, pushing through the thick weeds, and came to a remote, simple and dilapidated hut to visit Yuan Xian.
Yuan Xian tidied up his shabby clothes and met Zigong.
Seeing this, Zigong felt ashamed for him and said, "Are you embarrassed?"
Yuan Xian replied: I have heard that those who have no property are called poverty, and those who have learned principles but cannot implement them are called embarrassment.
Like me, poverty is not embarrassment.
Zigong felt very ashamed and left unhappy. He felt ashamed for his whole life that he had said the wrong thing this time. Gongye Chang was a native of Qi State, with the courtesy name Zichang.
Confucius said: If Gong Ye is the leader, you can marry your daughter to him. Even if he is in prison, it is not his fault.
He married his daughter to him. Nangong Kuo, courtesy name Zirong.
Nangong Kuo asked Confucius: Yi is good at archery and Yi is good at rowing, but neither of them can end well; how can Yu and Ji cultivate the world by themselves?
Confucius didn't answer.
After Nan Zirong withdrew, Confucius said: This man is really a gentleman! This person advocates morality!
Confucius commented on him: If the country's politics are clear, he will be appointed; if the country's politics is dark, he will not be punished.
He recited a few lines of the poem "The Defilement of Bai Gui" over and over again, and Confucius married his niece to him.
Gongxiai, named Jici.
Confucius said: The scholars in the world have no good deeds. Most of them have become retainers of ministers and officials in the cities. Only Ji Ji has never been an official.
Zeng Jun, courtesy name Xi.
He accompanied Confucius, and Confucius said: Talk about your ambitions.
Zeng Jun said: Wearing newly made spring clothes, we took a bath in the Yishui River with five or six adults and six or seven children, blew the wind on the rain praying platform, and came back singing songs.
After hearing this, Confucius sighed deeply and said: I agree with Zeng Jun's ambition!
Yan Wuyao, named Lu.
Yan Lu was Yan Hui's father. Both father and son studied under Confucius.
Yan Hui died and Yan Lu was poor. He asked Confucius to sell his car and bury Yan Hui.
Confucius said: No matter whether Kong Li is talented or not, he is still our son to us.
When Kong Li died, there was only an inner coffin but no outer coffin. I couldn't sell my car and walk on foot to buy him a coffin, because I was once a doctor and walking on foot was not allowed.
Shang Qu was a native of Lu. His courtesy name is Zimu, twenty-nine years younger than Confucius.
Confucius taught the Book of Changes to Shang Qu. Shang Qu passed it on to Zihong, a native of Chu. Zihong passed it on to Jiaozi Yongxian, a native of Jiangdong. Yongzhen passed it on to Zhou Zijiashu, a native of Yan. Zhoushu passed it on to Guangzi Chengyu, a native of Chunyu. Guangyu passed it on to Tianzizhuanghe, a native of Qi. Tianhe passed it on to Zhongtong, a prince from Dongwu. Zhongtong passed it on to Yang He, a native of Suichuan.
During the reign of Emperor Wu and Yuanshuo of the Han Dynasty, Yang He served as the middle doctor of Zi Dang Dynasty because of his study of the Book of Changes.
Gao Chai, whose courtesy name is Zigao.
Thirty years younger than Confucius.
Zigao was less than five feet long and studied under Confucius. Confucius thought he was stupid.
Zilu appointed Zigao as the governor of Feiyi. Confucius said: This is killing other people’s children!
Zilu said: There are people there. There are temples dedicated to the gods of earth and grain. Why must reading be called knowledge?
Confucius said: Therefore I hate people who flatter themselves with sweet words.
The lacquer carvings are opened and the characters are opened.
Confucius asked Zikai to become an official. Zikai replied: I don't have confidence in being an official yet.
Confucius was very happy to hear this.
Gongbo Liao, courtesy name Zizhou.
Zizhou spoke ill of Zilu in front of Jisun. Zifu Jingbo told Confucius and said: Jisun was already suspicious, but I still had the strength to kill Gongbo Liao and display his body in the street.
Confucius said: If the right way can work, that is God's will. If the right way is abandoned and cannot be used, it is also God's will. What can Gong Bo Liao do to God's will?
Sima Geng, courtesy name Ziniu.
Ziniu talks a lot and has an impatient temper.
He asked Confucius about benevolence, and Confucius said: A benevolent person is very careful in his words.
Ziniu asked again: "If you speak carefully, can this be considered benevolence?"
Confucius said: It's difficult to do, but you can't be cautious when talking!
Ziniu asked what makes a gentleman, and Confucius said: A gentleman is neither sad nor afraid.
He then asked: If he is not worried or afraid, can he be considered a gentleman?
Confucius said: If you reflect on yourself and have no guilt in your heart, there is nothing to worry about and nothing to be afraid of!
Fan Xu, courtesy name Zi Chi.
Thirty-six years younger than Confucius.
Fan Xu asked Confucius to learn how to grow crops. Confucius said: I am not as good as an old farmer.
He also asked to learn how to grow vegetables. Confucius said: I am not as good as an old vegetable farmer.
After Fan Chi withdrew, Confucius said: Fan Xu is a villain with shallow ambitions!
If the ruler advocates propriety and justice, no one among the people will dare to be disrespectful; if the ruler is sincere and faithful, no one among the people will dare not to tell the truth.
If this could be done, then people from all over the world would come to seek refuge with their wrapped children on their backs, and there would be no need to grow their own crops.
Fan Chi asked what benevolence was, and Confucius said: Love all people!
Asked again what wisdom is, Confucius said: Understanding people.
Youruo was forty-three years younger than Confucius.
You Ruo said: The application of etiquette should be just right.
This is the most brilliant way that the sage kings in the past used to govern the country. It would not work if they handled both small and big things according to this principle. But it would also not work if they only knew the importance of harmony and blindly pursued it without using propriety to control it.
Youruo also said: The promises kept must be consistent with righteousness, and the promises can withstand the test of practice. If respect is in line with etiquette, you can avoid shame; if you rely on those who are close to you, you will be reliable.
After Confucius passed away, students missed him very much. Youruo looks a lot like Confucius, and the students all support him as a teacher and treat him as they did when they served Confucius.
One day, a student came in and asked him: Once upon a time, when my husband was about to go out, he asked his classmates to bring their rain gear. Soon it started to rain.
The students asked: How did Sir know that it was going to rain?
The teacher replied: "Isn't it said in the Book of Songs: When the moon is attached to the position of Bi Xing, it will rain heavily."
Didn't the moon sit on the seat of Hyades last night?
One day, the moon stayed at the position of the Hyade star again, but it didn't rain.
Shang Qu was old and had no sons, so his mother wanted to find another wife for him.
Confucius sent him to Qi State, but Shang Qu's mother begged not to send him.
Confucius said: Don't worry, Shang Qu will have five boys after he is forty years old.
Afterwards, it turned out to be the case.
May I ask how you, sir, could have known in advance that this would be the case?
Youruo is silent and unable to answer.
The students stood up and said, "Sir, please stay out of here. This seat is not for you!"
Gongxichi, courtesy name Zihua.
Forty-two years younger than Confucius.
Zihua was on an envoy to Qi, and Ran You asked Confucius for food for his mother.
Confucius said: Give him a cauldron.
Ran You asked for more, and Confucius said: "Then give him a Yu." , Ran You gave her five grains. Confucius said: Gongxi Chi went to Qi State, riding in a carriage with fat horses and wearing light and warm fur clothes.
I have heard that a gentleman relieves the poor in urgent need rather than increasing his wealth.
Wuma Shi, also known as Ziqi, was thirty years younger than Confucius.
Chen Sibai asked Confucius: Does Duke Zhao of Lu know etiquette?
Confucius said: Understand etiquette.
After Confucius left, Chen Sibai bowed to Wuma Qi and said: I heard that a gentleman is not partial to others. Could it be that a gentleman will also be partial to others?
Duke Zhao of Lu married a girl from Wu as his wife and named her Mencius.
Mencius's real surname was Ji, and he avoided calling her by the same surname, so he called her Wu Mencius.
If Mr. Lu knows etiquette, then who else doesn’t?
Wu Masi conveyed these words to Confucius, and Confucius said: I am so lucky. If I make a mistake, others will definitely know about it.
The ministers cannot criticize the king's faults, but those who help him avoid taboos are those who understand etiquette.
Liang Yu, also known as Shuyu, was twenty-nine years younger than Confucius.
Yan Xing, also named Ziliu, was forty-six years younger than Confucius.
Ran Ru, named Zi Lu, was fifty years younger than Confucius.
Cao, whose courtesy name was Zixun, was fifty years younger than Confucius.
Boqian, whose courtesy name was Zixi, was fifty years younger than Confucius.
Gongsun Long, whose courtesy name was Zishi, was fifty-three years younger than Confucius.
There are clearly written records of the thirty-five people from Zishi and above on their ages, names, careers and deeds.
The remaining forty-two people, whose age cannot be tested and whose written records are not available, are recorded below:
Ran Ji, courtesy name Zichan.
Gongzu's name was Zi, with the courtesy name Zizhi.
Qin Zu, named Zinan.
The lacquer carving is Duo and the character is Zi Lian.
Yan Gao, this word is arrogant.
The lacquer carving disciple's father.
Rangsichi, named Zitu.
Shang Ze.
Shi Zuoshu, courtesy name Ziming.
Ren Buqi, word selection.
Gongliangru, whose courtesy name is Zizheng.
Behind the words, in the words.
Qin Ran, named Kai.
The first name of Gong Xia is Cheng.
Xi Rongzhen, whose courtesy name is Zixi.
Gong Jian Ding, the character is Zizhong.
Yan Zu, whose courtesy name is Xiang.
Shandan, named Zijia.
Jujing territory.
Hanfuhei, named Zisuo.
Qin Shang, courtesy name Zi Pi.
Shen Dang, courtesy name Zhou.
Yan's servant, named Uncle.
Rongqi, named Ziqi.
County Cheng, courtesy name Ziqi.
Zuo Ren Ying, Zi Xing.
Yan Ji, the word Si.
Zheng Guo, courtesy name Zitu.
Qin Fei, also named Zi Zhi.
The word of giving is constant.
Yan Kuai, the word is Zisheng.
Bu Shu Cheng, named Zi Che.
Yuan Kang, Zi Ji.
Leke, the sound of the word Zizi.
Lian Ji, courtesy name Yong.
Shu Zhonghui, courtesy name Ziqi.
Yan He, courtesy name Ran.
Di Hei, courtesy name Xi.
Bang Xun, whose courtesy name is Zi Lian.
Kong Zhong.
Gongxi Yuru, named Zishang.
Gong Xiwei, courtesy name Zishang.
Tai Shigong said: Later generations of scholars all described the seventy disciples of Confucius. Some of those who praised them exceeded their reality, and some of those who slandered them damaged their true image. In short, no one has seen their true appearance and commented on them.
The life stories of Confucius disciples are still close to the truth in Kong's ancient writings. Regarding the names, surnames, words and deeds of Confucius's disciples, I took them all from the disciples' questions and answers in The Analects of Confucius, compiled them into chapters, and left blanks where there are questions.
