◆Zhu You Biography Zhu You, courtesy name Zhongxian, was a native of Wan County, Nanyang County.
When the young man lost his father, he returned to the home of his maternal grandparents Liu in Fuyang County and traveled to and from Chongling. Shizu and Bosheng were both dear to him.
After Bo Sheng paid homage to the Chief Situ, he appointed Zhu You as his guard.
Shizu was the Grand Sima, and when he conquered Hebei, he appointed Zhu You as his army guard. He often met his relatives and stayed there.
Zhu You accompanied the banquet and said calmly: Chang'an is in political chaos and the public has the status of an emperor. This is a destiny sent from heaven. Shizu said: Summon assassins to arrest you, the guardian! Zhu You didn't dare to say anything anymore.
He followed the expedition to Hebei and often fought hard to break the formation. He made Zhu You a partial general and was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang.
Shizu ascended the throne and was worshiped as General Jianyi.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Yanghou was blocked.
In winter, he and his generals attacked Deng Feng in Yuyang, Zhu You was defeated and captured by Deng Feng.
The next year, Deng Feng was defeated, and Rouqi and Zhu You surrendered.
The emperor restored Zhu You's position and generously rewarded him with condolences.
He was sent to attack Xinye and Suixian, and they were all pacified.
Since Yancen was defeated by Rang, he joined Qin Feng's general Zhang Cheng. Zhu You led the conquering general Ji Zun to fight Yancen in Dongyang, defeated Yancen, and beheaded Zhang Cheng before the battle. Yancen was defeated and returned to Qin Feng.
Zhu You received ninety-seven seals and ribbons.
Attacked Huangyou, Huangyou surrendered and rewarded Zhu You with thirty kilograms of gold.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he led general Hou Jin and general Geng Zhi to attack the south and besieged Qin Feng in Liqiu, defeated his general Zhang Kang in Caiyang and beheaded Zhang Kang.
The emperor personally came to Liqiu and sent Li You, the censor Zhongcheng, with a seal to recruit Qin Feng to surrender. Qin Feng made bad words and refused to surrender.
The emperor returned and gave Zhu You strategies, and Zhu You tried his best to besiege.
In the summer of the next year, the city was impoverished, so Qin Feng led his mother and his wife, Jiurenzuchou, to surrender.
Zhu You took Qin Feng to Luoyang in a prison car and beheaded him.
The Grand Sima Wu Han impeached Zhu You for abolishing the imperial edict and accepting surrender, which violated the general's mission, and the emperor did not punish him.
After Zhu You returned, he joined forces with the Cavalry Commander Zang Gong to attack Yancen Yu and the bandits in Yin County, Zanhuang County and Zhuyang County, and they were all put down.
Zhu You was a simple and upright man who liked Confucianism.
Leading a large number of soldiers, accepting more surrenders, taking the ability to stabilize the city as the foundation, and not pursuing the merit of indiscriminate beheading.
The soldiers were also strictly prohibited from plundering the people. The soldiers were happy to indulge themselves, and they often complained about Zhu You.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, troops were stationed south to the Tang Dynasty to resist the Xiongnu.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the number of fiefs was increased, and the title of Lihou was established, with 7,300 households living in the fiefs.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he went to the capital and presented the seal and ribbon of the general, because he stayed in the capital to serve the imperial invitation.
Zhu You reported that in ancient times, ministers were rewarded without royal titles, and suggested that all kings should be changed to Dukes.
The emperor immediately adopted it and implemented it.
He also reported that the three princes should be ordered to remove their royal titles in order to follow the example of past classics.
Later the emperor also accepted his suggestion.
Zhu You first studied in Chang'an, and the emperor went to greet him. Zhu You worked hard with him from time to time, but he was promoted to Tuoshe first.
Later, when the emperor came to Zhu You's mansion, he smiled and said, "Master, do you have to tell me without leaving me?" Because of old kindness, I have been rewarded many times.
In the twenty-fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he died.
His son Zhu Shang succeeded him.
Zhu Shang died, and his son Zhu Yan succeeded to the throne. In the 14th year of Yongyuan, his brother-in-law was implicated in the witchcraft of his grandson Queen Yin, so he was exempted from being a commoner.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Mrs. Deng granted Zhu Yan's son Zhu Chong the title of Marquis of Li.
◆Jingdan Biography: Jingdan was named Sun Qing, and Feng Yi was from Yueyang.
I studied Chang'an when I was young.
When Wang Mang took the exams in four subjects, Jing Dan was promoted to the title of Gudehou Xiang in the language subject. He was praised for his ability to do things and was moved to Shuo Diao Lian Lian Lie Vice-Secretary.
Gengshi ascended the throne and sent envoys to Shanggu to announce that Jingdan, Lian and Geng Kuang had surrendered to Gengshi, and then became the governor of Shanggu.
After Wang Lang got up, Jing Dan and Geng Kuang jointly planned to resist Wang Lang.
Geng Kuang sent Jingdan and his sons Geng and Kou Xun to lead their troops south to Shizu. Shizu introduced Jingdan and others and said with a smile: General Handan threatened to send troops to Yuyang and Shanggu several times. I just talked and dealt with it. I didn't expect the two counties to come for me!
This honor should be shared with the scholar-bureaucrats from the two counties. He worshiped Jingdan as a partial general and was named Fengyihou.
He followed and attacked Wang Lang's general Erhong, who was in the south. Lang's soldiers fought, but the Han army retreated. Jing Dan attacked with cavalry and defeated Wang Lang's army. They chased for more than ten miles, leaving many dead and wounded on the road.
When Jing Dan returned, Shizu said to him: I heard that the assault cavalry is the best soldier in the world. Now that I see the assault cavalry participating in the battle, how can I express my joy in words? So he followed in the expedition to Hebei.
When Shizu came to the throne, he used prophecies to appoint Sun Xian, the general of Ping Di, to act as Grand Sima. The tribesmen were unhappy.
The emperor issued an edict asking the officials to recommend who could be the Grand Sima, but the officials recommended only Wu Han and Jing Dan.
The emperor said: General Jing is the general of Beizhou, and Da Sima can be him.
However, General Wu had the merit of establishing great policies, and also killed Miao Hui and Xie Gong. His merits are great.
According to the old system, the rank of Hussar General and the rank of Grand Sima could be held concurrently. So Wu Han was appointed as the Grand Sima, and Jing Dan was appointed as the General of the Hussars.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Jingdan was granted the title of Marquis of Yueyang.
The emperor said to Jingdan: Although the original kingdom of Guandong now has several counties, only Yueyang has a city of ten thousand households.
As the saying goes, if you don't return to your hometown, you will be like walking in the dark wearing brocade clothes, so I will call you the Marquis of Yueyang.
Jing Dan kowtowed his head to express his gratitude. In the autumn, Wu Han, General Geng of Jianwei, General Zhu You of Jianyi, Jia Fu of Zhijinwu, General Feng Yi, Qiannu General Chen Jun, Zuo Cao Wangchang, Cavalry Commander Zang Gong and other followers defeated the five schools in Yuyang, and 50,000 people surrendered.
It happened that the Shaanxi thief Su Kuang attacked Hongnong and captured the county guard alive.
Jing Dan was ill at that time, and because he was a returned general, the emperor wanted him to be forced to serve as the governor of Hongnong County, so he summoned him to see him at night and said to him: "Thieves are approaching the capital. It is enough to rely on the general's authority and sleep in bed to guard him." Jing Dan did not dare to refuse, so he reluctantly accepted the appointment and led his battalion west to Hongnong County. He died of illness more than ten days later.
Zijing succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis Yuwu.
When Jing Shang died, Zi Jingbao succeeded him.
When Jingbao died, his son Jinglin succeeded him. Jinglin had no children and the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Mrs. Deng granted Jingbao's younger brother Jingjun the title of Marquis of Janting.
◆Biography of Wang Liang Wang Liang, courtesy name Junyan, was from Yaoyang County, Yuyang County.
As a county official, the prefect Peng Chong put Wang Liang in charge of the county magistrate of Hunu. Together with Gai Yan and Wu Han, he led troops south to pursue the ancestor Yu Guang'a and worshiped him as a partial general.
After conquering Handan, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Following the pacification of Hebei, he paid homage to the Wild King's order, and together with Kou Xun, the prefect of Hanoi, rejected Luoyang in the south and guarded Tianjing Pass in the north. Zhu Jun and others did not dare to send troops. Shizu thought it was Wang Liang's contribution.
When he came to the throne, it was discussed to elect the Great Sikong, and "Chi Fu Fu" said that Wang Liang's main guard was Xuanwu. The emperor thought that Ye Wang was the emigration of Wei Yuanjun, Xuanwu was the name of the water god, and Sikong was the official of water and earth, so he promoted Wang Liang to be the Great Sikong and granted him the title of Wu Qianghou.
In the second year of Jianwu, he and the Grand Sima Wu Han and others attacked Tanxiang together. The imperial edict was that all military affairs should belong to the Grand Sima. However, Wang Liang launched the wild king's troops without authorization. The emperor refused to obey the edict and ordered him to stop operations in the county where he was located, and Wang Liang marched without authorization.
The emperor was furious because Wang Liang had disobeyed orders before and after, and sent Minister Zong Guang to hold the talisman to kill Wang Liang in the army.
Zong Guang couldn't bear it, so he took Wang Liang back to the capital in a prison car.
After arriving in Beijing, the emperor pardoned him.
After more than a month, he was appointed as Zhonglang General and also in charge of Jinwu affairs.
Guard Jiguan in the north, attack Chimei Biejiao and surrender.
In the spring of the third year, he attacked the five schools, pursued Xindu and Zhao State, and defeated them. All the settlements were pacified.
In winter, an envoy was sent to hold the talisman festival to worship Wang Liang as the former general.
In the spring of the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he attacked Feicheng and Wenyang and captured them both.
Jin and the hussar generals Du Mao attacked Jiaopi and Su Mao between Chu and Pei, and captured Daliang and Lisang. The captured general Ma Wu and the partial general Wang Ba also went their separate ways, and they were all put down in more than a year.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he followed to rescue Taocheng, defeat Pang Meng and others. Wang Liang fought particularly effectively. He became the prefect of Shanyang, guarded and comforted the new converts, and led the troops as before.
A few months later, he was recruited to Beijing and replaced Ouyang She as Henan Yin.
Wang Liang opened a canal to divert the valley water into the city of Luoyang, then poured it eastward into Gongchuan River. When the canal was completed, the water stopped flowing.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, an impeachment report was issued. Wang Liang was frightened and wrote a letter requesting to resign.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Wang Liang once led troops to conquer, and everyone praised him as a virtuous man, so he was promoted to the capital.
It is suggested to open a canal to benefit others, but all efforts have been made, but the success has not been achieved. The people complained and slandered, and the talkers made a loud noise.
Although he was forgiven, he still insisted on humbly retiring. Because of the beauty of a gentleman, Wang Liang was specially appointed as the prefect of Jinan. In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the fiefdom was increased and he was named Marquis of Fucheng.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, he died in officialdom.
Prince Yu succeeded to the throne.
When Yu died, his son Wang Jianshi succeeded him.
Wang Jianshi was investigated because his father Wang Yu and his younger brother Wang Ping participated in the rebellion of Chu King Liu Ying. They were executed in the city and the feudal state was abolished.
◆Du Mao Biography: Du Mao, courtesy name Zhu Gong, was a champion of Nanyang County.
At first, he returned to Guangwu in Hebei and became a backbone general, often accompanying him on expeditions.
Shizu ascended the throne, was worshiped as a general, and was granted the title of Marquis of Lexiang.
Attack the five schools in Zhending from the north and advance to Guangping.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Kuxing.
Together with Zhonglang General Wang Liang, he attacked the bandits of the Five Schools in Weijun, Qinghe, and Dongjun, and pacified all the forts. More than thirty of his generals, Chijie, surrendered, and the three counties were quiet and the roads were smooth.
Next year, an envoy was sent to hold Du Mao as a hussar general, attack Peijun, and capture Mangxian.
At that time, the western defense was built again to welcome Jiaozhi.
In the spring of the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Du Mao led the captured general Ma Wu to attack the western defense. After a few months, he was able to capture the enemy and escape to Dong Xian.
Dongfang had been pacified, and in the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Du Mao was ordered to lead troops northward to garrison Jinyang and Guangwu to guard against Hu invaders.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, Guo Liang, the prefect of Yanmen, attacked Yin Yufan County, the general of Lu Fang. Jia Lan, the general of Lu Fang, led more than 10,000 Hu cavalry to rescue him. Du Mao fought with him, but the army was defeated and led into Loufan County.
At this time, Lu Fang occupied Gaoliu, joined forces with the Xiongnu soldiers, and invaded the border people many times, which made the emperor very worried.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, the emissary Duan Zhong was dispatched to distribute the prisoners who had been released from the shackles to Du Mao in each county to guard the north. He then mobilized the border soldiers to build pavilions and repair beacon fires. He also mobilized the transportation of gold, silk and silk to supply the sergeants and give them to the border residents. The officials kept looking at each other.
Du Mao also built farmland and used horse-drawn carts to transport the goods.
First, Jia Dan, Huo Kuang, Xie Sheng and others from Yanmen were plundered by Yin You. Yin You took them as generals and guarded Pingcheng with Yin You.
When Jia Dan and others heard that Lu Fang had failed, they killed Yin You with Huo Kuang, Xie Sheng and others to see Guo Liang. Guo Liang reported the situation and made them all princes. The emperor ordered that the transportation of gold and silk be given to Du Mao, Guo Liang's military officials and the people who surrendered in Pingcheng.
From then on, Lu Fang's cities gradually surrendered. Guo Liang killed the members of his powerful family, the Xun family, to appease the old and weak. Within a month, Yanmen was temporarily peaceful, and Lu Fang fled to the Xiongnu.
The emperor promoted Guo Liang's son to the rank of Zhonglang, and he was placed on the guard's side.
Guo Liang's official name was from Beiping.
He is eight feet long and strong and brave. Although he is a military commander, he is proficient in scriptures and wise. He is especially knowledgeable about border affairs and is famous in the north.
At first, Youzhou Mu Zhu Fuzheng served as a soldier of Cao Cao. He had meritorious service in defeating Peng Chong and was granted the title of Marquis of Guangwu.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Du Mao's settlement was increased and he was granted the title of Marquis.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, because he was involved in the case of cutting off the cords of soldiers and horses and causing soldiers to kill people, he was dismissed from his official position, his household was cut off, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Shenzang Township.
Jianwu died in the 19th year.
His son Du Yuan succeeded him. In the 14th year of Yongping, because he was involved in a rebellion with King Dongping and others, his death was reduced by one degree, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu, Mrs. Deng later granted Du Maosun and Du Feng the title of Marquis of Anleting.
◆Biography of Ma Cheng Ma Cheng, whose courtesy name is Junqian, was born in Jiyang, Nanyang County.
He was a county official when he was young.
Shizu conquered Yingchuan, used his horse to become an Jidu, and transferred him to the magistrate of Jiaxian County.
When Shizu launched a crusade against Hebei, Ma Cheng abandoned his official post and went on foot to catch up with him in Puyang. He used Ma Cheng as a Qi gate to follow the expedition.
Shizu ascended the throne and moved to the guard of the army.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, he was promoted to General Yangwu and supervised the execution of General Liu Long, General Zhenwei Song Deng, and Shesheng Xiaowei Wang Shang. He sent soldiers from Kuaiji, Danyang, Jiujiang, and Lu'an to attack Li Xian. At that time, the emperor came to Shouchun and set up a mandala to offer sacrifices according to ancestral rites.
Encircling Li Xian in Shu, he ordered all armies to dig deep ditches and fortify themselves.
Li Xian challenged him many times, but Ma Cheng stood firm and refused to fight. He defended the area for more than a year.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, the city was depleted of food, so they attacked the city, massacred the residents of Shucheng, beheaded Li Xian, pursued his followers, and pacified the Jianghuai area.
In the summer of the seventh year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Pingshuhou.
In the eighth year, he followed the expedition and defeated Weixiao. He became the prefect of Tianshui with his horse and commanded the army as before.
In winter, the army was summoned to the capital.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, Dai Lai She was in charge of Zhonglang General, and led Wuwei General Liu Shang and others to conquer Hechi County and pacify Wudu County.
In the second year, Grand Sikong Li Tong resigned from office and appointed Ma Cheng as his deputy. He lived in Grand Sikong Mansion and performed his duties faithfully. He paid homage to General Yangwu again for several months.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, troops were stationed in Changshan and Zhongshan to guard the northern border, and he led the troops of General Zhu You of Jianyi.
He also built fortifications on behalf of General Du Mao of the Hussars. From Xihe to Weiqiao, from Heshang to Anyi, from Taiyuan to Jingxing, from Zhongshan to Ye, he built forts, set off beacons, and built a lookout post ten miles away.
After five or six years of service, the emperor recognized Ma Cheng's hard work and summoned him back to Beijing.
Many people from the frontier wrote letters begging him to return to the border, so the emperor sent Ma Cheng back to the camp.
When Nandan was at peace in the fortress and the north was at peace, he worshiped Ma and became the governor of Zhongshan, presented the general's seal and ribbon, and continued to lead the troops as before.
In the 24th year of Jianwu's reign, he attacked the barbarians in Wuxi Valley in the south. Before he achieved military success, he presented himself with the seal and ribbon of the prefect.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Quanjiao and returned to the country.
He died in the 32nd year of Jianwu.
Zima Wei succeeded to the throne.
Ma Weizu, his son Ma Xiang succeeded him, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Jiling.
Ma Xiang died, and his son Ma Feng succeeded him.
Ma Feng died, and his son Ma Xuan succeeded him.
Ma Xuan died, and his son Ma Yi succeeded to the throne.
Ma Yi died, and his son Ma Chou succeeded him. During the reign of Emperor Huan, he deposed his feudal state because of his crime.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, Ma Chang, the great-great-grandson of Ma Cheng, was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang Ting.
◆Biography of Liu Long Liu Long, courtesy name Boyuan, was from the clan of Nanyang Anzhonghou.
During Wang Mang's reign, Liu Long's father Liu Li and Anzhonghou Liu Chong launched an army to murder Wang Mang. The incident was revealed, and Liu Long was spared from the disaster because he was under seven years old.
When he was old, he studied in Chang'an and worshiped him as the captain of the cavalry.
He asked for leave and returned, welcoming his wife and children and settling them in Luoyang.
When he heard that Shizu was in Hanoi, he followed Shizu Yu Shedog and was appointed as the Cavalry Captain. Together with Feng Yi, he rejected Zhu Tuna, Li Yi and others. Li Yi killed Liu Long's wife and children.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Kangfuhou.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he became the general who killed the captives and attacked Li Xian.
After Li Xian was defeated, Liu Long was sent to garrison Wudang.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he acted as the governor of Nanyang. For more than a year, he presented the seal and ribbon of the general.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the number of towns increased and he was granted the title of Marquis of Jingling.
At this time, the number of cultivated fields in the world was unrealistic, and the age of household registration increased and decreased.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the prefectures and counties were ordered to inspect and verify land reclamation. However, the governors and governors were unevenly distributed. They might give fine and fertile land to powerful families, while exploiting and exploiting the weak common people. The common people complained and filled the roads with howls and cries.
At that time, each county sent envoys to report the matter. The emperor saw that there was a book on Chen Liu's official slip. When he looked at it, he saw that it was written that "You can ask questions in Yingchuan and Hongnong, but not in Henan and Nanyang." The emperor questioned the book's origin, but the official refused to tell the truth and lied that he had picked it up on Changshou Street.
The emperor was angry.
At that time, Xianzong was the Duke of Donghai, and he was only twelve years old. He said behind the scenes: Officials who receive orders from the governor naturally want to cultivate land as a method. The emperor said: If this is the case, why do you say that Henan and Nanyang cannot be asked? Xianzong replied: Henan is the imperial city and there are many close ministers; Nanyang is the imperial hometown and there are many close relatives. The fields and houses exceed the regulations and cannot be used as standards. The emperor ordered General Huben to question the official, and the official explained it truthfully, just as Xianzong said.
So he sent a close servant to investigate and verify, and reported the traitor.
The next year, Liu Long was imprisoned and more than ten of his peers died.
The emperor regarded Liu Long as a meritorious official and demoted him to a commoner.
In the 17th year of Jianwu's reign, Liu Long was granted the title of Marquis of Fule Township. He sent General Zhonglang, deputy general Fubo, Ma Yuan, to attack the Jiaozhi barbarian expedition. Liu Long also defeated their army at the entrance of Jinxi Valley, captured their commander Zheng Er, beheaded more than a thousand people, and surrendered more than 20,000 people.
After returning to Beijing, he was granted the title of Marquis of Changping.
After the death of the Grand Sima Wu Han, Liu Long became the Hussar General and acted as the acting general for the Grand Sima.
Liu Long followed the law and guarded himself, and took charge of the affairs for eight years. He presented the seal and ribbon of the general, dismissed from office, and was given cattle and ten bottles of wine, and was invited by the princes.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis Shen.
He died in the second year of Zhongyuan, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
His son Liu An succeeded him.
◆Fu Jun's biography Fu Jun's courtesy name was Ziwei, and he was a native of Xiangcheng, Yingchuan County.
Shizu captured Xiangcheng, and Fu Jun greeted the Han army as the county pavilion chief and worshiped him as a school captain. Xiangcheng arrested his mother, brother, and clan, and executed them all.
Follow and defeat Wang Xun and others, with Fu Jun as the partial general.
Another attack on Jing and Mi was defeated. He was sent back to Yingchuan to collect and bury his family members.
When Shizu was conquering Hebei, Fu Jun and more than ten guests pursued him northward. They caught up with him at Handan and paid a visit to Shizu. Shizu asked him to lead the Yingchuan troops and often follow him in the expedition.
Shizu ascended the throne and took Fu Jun as his attendant.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of Kunyang.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he appointed Fu Jun as General Jinu, and together with Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, defeated Qin Feng, so he led his troops to conquer Jiangdong and pacified all of Yangzhou.
He died in the seventh year of Jianwu and was given the posthumous title of Weihou.
His son Fu Chang succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuhu.
During the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, his mother was bereaved, so he wrote a letter saying that Wuhu was poor and unwilling to go to the country, and asked for a grant of 500,000 yuan to be made a Marquis of Guannei.
Suzong was angry and demoted Fu Chang to the title of Marquis of Guannei, but refused to reward him with money.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Empress Dowager Deng restored the title of Fu Tie, Fu Chang's son, to the title of Gaozhitinghou.
◆Jiantan's biography Jiantan's courtesy name is Zidanji, a native of Xiangcheng, Yingchuan.
As a county official.
When Shizu was campaigning against Hebei, someone recommended Jiantan, so Shizu summoned him.
Because of his ability to serve as a county official, he was appointed as the chief bookkeeper.
He also worshiped as a partial general and followed him to pacify Hebei. He also defeated the big gun Yu Lunu.
When Shizu ascended the throne, he worshiped Jiandan as General Yanghua and granted him the title of Qianghou of Xuyin.
He and other generals attacked Luoyang, while Zhu Tuna's generals guarding the east city acted as counterattacks and made a private agreement to open the east gate in the early morning.
Jiantan and Jianyi General Zhu You took the opportunity to enter and fought with Zhu Tuna in Kuxia, killing many people. The fighting did not cease until breakfast, and Zhu Tun surrendered.
He attacked Neihuang again and calmed down.
In the second year of Jianwu, he and his right general Wan captured the counties of Nanyang, while Dong Jinjin, a native of Duxiang, built in Wancheng and captured Liu Ma, the prefect of Nanyang.
Jiantan then led his troops to Wan, and selected his own suicide squad to climb the city tower at night and cut through the pass. Dong Jinjin abandoned the city and returned to Duxiang.
Deng Feng built another army in Xinye and defeated Wu Han.
At this time, Wan died of illness, and Jiandan was alone and helpless. Deng Feng was blocked from the south, and Dong Tanjin was blocked from the north. For a year, the roads were blocked and food supplies were cut off. Jiantan ate only vegetables and worked hard with the soldiers.
Whenever he encounters a battle, he often acts as a target and is wounded in three places on his body, in order to save his troops.
When the emperor conquered Nanyang and defeated Dong Yujin and Deng Feng, he appointed Jiantan as his left cao and often followed him on expeditions.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of Hefei.
Jianwu died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign.
Zijianhong succeeded to the throne.
Jianhong died, and Zijian succeeded to the throne.
Jianfu died, and Zijianya succeeded to the throne.
◆The biography of Ma Wu Ma Wu was named Zizhang and was a native of Huyang, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he lived in Jiangxia to avoid hatred.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, the three elders of Jingling and Xiyang raised troops at the county border. Ma Wu also participated. Later, they entered the green forest and joined the Han army.
When Gengshi was established, he appointed Ma Wu as his minister, and together with his ancestor Po Wang Xun and others, he worshiped him as General Zhenwei, and together with Shangshu Ling Xie Gong attacked Wang Lang.
Shizu conquered Handan and invited Xie Gong, Ma Wu and others to hold a grand cocktail party in an attempt to kill Xie Gong, but failed.
After the reception, Shizu and Ma Wu climbed up the Congtai alone and calmly said to Ma Wu: I have obtained the Yuyang and Shanggu assault cavalry and want you to command them. How about it?
Ma Wu said: I am dull, cowardly and have no strategy. Shizu said: "A general has been a general for a long time and has a deep knowledge of military affairs. Is it the same as my history?" From this, Ma Wu returned to Shizu in his heart. After Xie Gong was executed, Ma Wu rushed to She Quan and surrendered. Shizu was very happy to see him and led him to his side. Every time he held a condolence banquet with the generals, Ma Wu often got up and considered it before him. Shizu was very happy.
Then he asked Ma Wu to lead his troops to Ye. Ma Wu kowtowed and refused, saying that he was unwilling. Shizu praised his intention even more, and asked Ma Wu to follow him to attack the bandits.
Shizu attacked You Lai, Wu Ban and others, but failed at Shenshui. Ma Wu, the only rear army in the palace, returned to attack the enemy's position, so the rebels did not dare to catch up.
Entering Anci and Xiaoguangyang, Ma Wuchang was the vanguard and fought vigorously forward. All the generals led their troops to follow. Therefore, they defeated the rebels and pursued them to Pinggu and Junmi counties before returning to the army.
When Shizu ascended the throne, he appointed Ma Wu as the Shizhong, Qi Duwei, and the Shandu Marquis.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, he and Huya General Gai Yan and others attacked Liu Yong. Mawu attacked Jiyin separately, captured Chengwu and Chuqiu, and captured the general.
The next year, Pang Meng made an attack on Taocheng. Ma Wu fought with him first and defeated Pang's army. Just as the emperor's chariot arrived, Pang Meng was defeated.
In the summer of the sixth year of Jianwu, he and Gengxi, the general of Jianwei, attacked Weixiao. The Han army was disadvantaged and led the army to Long. Wei Xiao pursued him urgently. Ma Wu selected his best cavalry to return to the army to resist Wei Xiao. He wore armor and held a painted halberd and charged at him, killing thousands of people. Only then did Wei Xiao's troops retreat, and all the troops had to return to Chang'an.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the number of food towns increased, and the title of Marquis Yu was granted.
He led the army to the north and settled in Quyang to guard against the Xiongnu.
The others answered one by one, and when they came to Ma Wu, Ma Wu said: If I am brave enough to fight, I can serve as a military lieutenant to supervise the fight against thieves.
The emperor smiled and said, "Don't be a thief, just deliver it to the pavilion chief yourself, that's all."
Ma Wu was addicted to drinking, and he had a big heart and dared to tell the truth. At this time, when he was drunk, he insulted the heroes and princes in front of the emperor, commenting on their merits and demerits, without evading taboos. The emperor deliberately let him talk, thinking that it would be funny.
Although the emperor restricted and controlled the heroes, he could always be tolerant and forgive the minor faults of the heroes.
The treasures and delicacies brought from far away must be given to the princes first, but there are very few in the emperor's kitchen.
Those who have meritorious service are often rewarded and granted fiefs instead of being appointed to official positions, so they can maintain their fortune and wealth, and no one is killed or demoted.
In the twenty-fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Ma Wu led his army under the command of General Zhonglang to attack the Wuling barbarians. He returned to Beijing and presented his seal and ribbon. At the beginning of Emperor Xianzong's reign, the Western Qiang invaded Longyou, destroyed the defenders and attacked and killed the generals. The imperial court was deeply worried, so it appointed Ma Wu as the capture general, and Wang Feng, the general of Zhonglang, as his deputy. Together with Dou Gu, the supervisor of the army, and Chen Yujin, the captain of Youfu, they led Wuhuan, Liyang Camp, and Sanfu to recruit soldiers, Qiang and Hu soldiers from all counties in Liangzhou, and prisoners who had been released from the shackles. A total of 40,000 people attacked them.
When he arrived at Haoxian County, Jincheng County, he fought with the Qiang and beheaded six hundred people.
They fought again in the Luodu Valley and were defeated by the Qiang soldiers, killing more than a thousand people.
The Qiang then led the crowd out of the fortress, and Ma Wu pursued them to the east and west Han, where they defeated the Qiang soldiers, beheading 4,600 people and capturing 1,600 alive. The rest either surrendered or dispersed.
Ma Wu reorganized his army and returned to the capital, adding 700 new households to the city, bringing the total to 1,800 households in total.
He died in the fourth year of Yongping.
Zima Tan succeeded to the throne, but because he was involved in the rebellion between his brother Bo Ji and Chu King Liu Yingdang and Yan Zhong, the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu, Mrs. Deng subsequently granted Ma Wu and Sun Ma Zhen the title of Marquis of Ting.
When Ma Zhen died, Zima succeeded him.
The historian commented: The twenty-eight generals of Zhongxing were thought to correspond to the twenty-eight constellations in the sky in their previous lives, and they were not examined in detail.
But they can feel the changes in current affairs, use their wisdom and courage, and are called assistant ministers. They are really ambitious and capable people.
Most of the reviewers had a negative attitude towards the fact that Guangwu did not serve as a meritorious official, and even abandoned those handsome men who had achieved great achievements.
However, it turns out that such a move was made out of foresight.
As for the decline of royal power and the decline of domineering virtues, officials can still be appointed based on their merits and virtues. For example, Guan Zhong and Zan Xianpeng were successively promoted in the Qi Huan Dynasty, and Xian Zhen and Zhao Shanzhi were both listed in the Jin Wen Dynasty. It can be said that they are both connected.
In the Qin and Han Dynasties, the world valued force, and the rise of warriors was the reason for helping kings' fortunes.
There are also some cunning people who sell bamboo poles to butcher dogs, and some are rewarded by connecting the city, or they are entrusted with the task of leveling the land on which the world depends. Therefore, if the power is doubtful, gaps will arise, and if the forces are equal, disasters will occur.
Xiao He and Fan Kouhui were still in prison, and Han Xin and Peng Yue were eventually executed. Isn't it like this?
From then on, as for Xiaowu, the ministers and assistants of the fifth generation were all served by princes and nobles.
As a result, the roads of the scholar-bureaucrats were blocked, the talented people were shielded and separated, the court had private favors from father to son, and many talented people below guarded the gate with resentment.
I can't say enough about those who have failed to recognize their talents and committed themselves to recklessness.
Therefore, in view of the deviation from the past, Guangwu had ambitions to make things right. Although Kou Xun and Deng Yu had great achievements, and Geng and Jia Fu had great achievements, they could only enclose a few large counties, and they only added special advances and invitations from the court.
Examining his policy during the period of peace, assessing his duties and holding his faults accountable, he is exactly the kind of person who is said to be able to guide people through government and coordinate them through punishment.
If you act according to the law, it will definitely hurt them.
Why?
If you act according to the law, you will lose personal favors and old friendships; if you are forgiving in the first place, you will violate prohibitions and punishments; if you choose virtues and talents, you do not have to have great merits; if you recommend merits, people will not necessarily be virtuous; if you participate in the office, it will be difficult for the public to be satisfied; if the merits and talents are appointed side by side, the ills of the great ancestor will not be far away.
One has to assess whether one is competent or not, that is, weighing the facts.
Therefore, high-ranking officials rewarded their heroes with generous salaries, harsh laws and strict decrees, and ordered officials to perform their duties.
In the era of Jianwu, there were more than a hundred people who were feudal lords, but only a few people such as Deng Yu, Jia Fu, and Li Tong participated in state affairs. The blame was shared equally, and the rest were treated favorably with generous laws, and their fiefdoms and salaries were improved, and all of them continued to benefit their descendants with their fame.
In the past, Zhang Liang thought that all Liu Bang used were the old stories of Xiao He and Cao Shen, while Guo Qianji also ridiculed Nanyang for having too many dignitaries, and Zheng Xing advised him not to use only meritorious officials.
Giving partial favor to others can easily lead to the disadvantages of selfish indulgence. If everyone is favored by the public, they will surely recruit talents from all over the world. Isn't it like this when you think about it?
In Yongping, Xianzong recalled the heroes of his previous life, so he drew pictures of twenty-eight generals and hung them on the cloud platform of Nangong. In addition, there were Wang Chang, Li Tong, Dou Rong, and Zhuo Mao, a total of thirty-two people.
Here it is appended to the end of the chapter according to its original order to indicate the ranking of the meritorious officials.
Tai Fu Gaomi Hou Deng Yu, Grand Sima Guangping Hou Wu Han, Left General Jiaodong Hou Jia Fu, Jianwei General Haojue Hou Geng Yan, Hussar General Shen Zang Hou Du Mao, Zhijin Wu Yongnu Hou Kou Xun, Southern General Wuyang Hou Cenpeng, Western General Yangxia Hou Feng Yi, Jian The general of Yi is Zhu You, the marquis of Yingyang, the conquering general is Yingyang Hou Jizun, the hussar general is Yueyang Hou Jingdan, the Huya general is Anpinghou Gaiyan, the guard is Anchenghou Yaoqi, the prefect of Dongjun is Dongguang Hou Gengchun, the city gate captain is Langling Hou Zanggong, the captor general Yang Xu is Hou Mawu, Piao Cavalry General Shen Hou Liu Long, Zhongshan Governor Quanjiao Hou Ma Cheng, Henan Yin Fucheng Hou Wang Liang, Langfu Governor Zhu Ahou Chen Jun, Hussar General Shen Zanghou Du Mao, Ji Crossbow General Kunyang Hou Fu Jun, Zuo Cao Hou Jiantan, Shanggu Governor Huai Linghou Wang Ba, Xindu Governor Alinghou Renguang, Yuzhang prefect Zhongshuihou Li Zhong, right general Huailihou Wanxiu, Taichang Lingshouhou Pitong, Xiaoqi general Changchenghou Liu Zhi, Hengye general Shansanghou Wangchang, Grand Sikong Gushihou Li Tong, Grand Sikong Anfenghou Dou Rong, Taifu Xuande Hou Zhuomao.
