Emperor Xuan had nine sons. Queen Mu Zhang gave birth to Emperor Jing, Emperor Wen, and Sima Wangqian of Pingyuan. Mrs. Fu gave birth to Sima Liang, king of Wencheng in Runan, Sima Nian, king of Langye Wu, Sima Jing, Hou Huiting of Qing Dynasty, and Sima Jun, king of Fufeng Wu. Mrs. Zhang gave birth to Sima Xu, king of Liang, and Sima Lun, king of Zhao, was born to Mrs. Bai.
Sima Liang and Sima Lun have other biographies.
Sima Qian, king of Pingyuan, was named Ziliang.
When he was young, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang Ting in the Wei Dynasty as a young master. He gradually moved to the rank of Zhonglang General of the Fu Army and became the Marquis of Pingyang Township.
The fifth-class title was established and the title was changed to Tao Bo.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and made him the King of Pingyuan. He was granted the title of 11,300 households, two horses for preaching and driving, and the clothes of the attendants.
In the early years of Xianning, kings were sent to feudal states. Sima Qian was seriously ill and could not maintain his rationality. He also liked peace and quiet and had little desire to compromise, so he specially wrote a Shao letter to keep him.
In the last years of Taikang, the official worshiped Dr. Guanglu and was appointed as a servant. He was specially given a gold seal and a purple ribbon, and his rank was the same as that of the three divisions.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was promoted to Dr. Zuo Guanglu. His position as a servant remained the same. He wore a sword and wore shoes when going to the palace. There was no need to walk in small steps when entering the court.
Although Sima Qian was the king of a great feudal state and did not take care of government affairs, if he was transferred or replaced, it would be based on his ability.
Although he has a title and salary, it seems that he does not have it with him. The salary, cloth and silk are all piled up in the open air to rot.
On cloudy and rainy days, the bullock carts are driven out and the carts without curtains are put into the warehouse. Someone asked why, and the answer was: carts without curtains are suitable for storage.
When a court official visited him, even though his name was announced, the visitor's carriage and horses would be parked outside the door, and he might not be seen for a whole day.
I was able to visit him sometimes and socialize with others. He was very respectful and humble, and there were no mistakes at first.
Before and after my concubine died and was buried, the coffin was always left unnailed in an empty room at the back. I opened it every few days to look at it, maybe did some obscene things, and waited until the body rotted before burying it.
King Zhao Sima Lun assisted in the government affairs and appointed Sima Qian as General Wei.
Emperor Hui was deposed and re-established. Sima Qian wrote poems and was appointed Taibao.
When King Sima Tong of Qi pacified King Sima Lun of Zhao, the members of the royal family and the officials in the court all comforted Sima Tong with cow wine. Only Sima Qian had a hundred coins in his pocket. When he saw Sima Tong take it out, he said: King Zhao rebelled and rebelled. It is your credit for your righteous deeds. Now I use a hundred coins to congratulate you.
Even so, it is difficult for you to take advantage of the general trend, so you must be cautious.
After Sima Jian assisted in the government affairs, Sima Qian went to visit him, and Sima Tong came out to greet him.
After Sima Qian entered the house, he squatted on Sima Gang's bed and refused to let Sima Tong sit down. He said to him: "Don't imitate women." This word means Sima Lun.
When Sima Tong was killed, Sima Qian cried very sadly and said to the people around him: "The clan is gradually declining, and only this son is the best. If you kill him, you will be in danger from now on!"
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, acted righteously and arrived in Luoyang to visit Sima Qian, but Sima Qian stayed behind closed doors.
Sima Yue's car stayed for a long time before Sima Qian sent someone to see the guest off, while he peeped through the crack in the door.
At that time, no one could fathom his intentions. Some said he was ill, while others thought he was doing something cryptic.
Yongjia died in the fifth year of his reign at the age of eighty.
It happened that Liu Cong invaded Luoyang and had no time to give him the nickname "Mi". He has two sons. The eldest son, Sima Guang, died young. The second son, Sima Yong, was named the Duke of Ande County in the Taixi year and served as a regular attendant. They are both good people.
In trouble, the whole family will be exterminated.
Sima Dian, the king of Langye Wu, was given the title Zijiang in the early years of his reign and was named Nan'antinghou.
He was talented and famous very early. He initially served as General Ningshuo and guarded Yecheng. He had a reputation for being good at appeasing people and making them obey.
Gradually he was moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi. In the Jin Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Shuwu Township. He was appointed as the Right General, supervised the military affairs of Yanzhou, and was the governor of Yanzhou.
The fifth-class title was established and he was named Nanpi Bo.
He was transferred to the post of General Zhenglu, Jiajie. Emperor Wu ascended the throne and granted him the title of Prince of Dongguan County, granting him a fief of 10,600 households.
When the second ministers were first established, a special edict was issued to let the kings choose their own commanders.
Sima Dian asked for permission, but the emperor refused.
After entering the imperial court, he served as Shangshu Youpushe and Fujun General. He was appointed as General Zhenshu, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of Xuzhou's military affairs. He replaced Wei Cui to guard Xiapi.
Sima Dian defended the enemy well, and the soldiers were willing to die to serve him. The people of Wu were afraid of him.
He was granted the title of Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title of King Langxie, using Dongguan to expand his feudal kingdom.
In the battle of Pingding County, Sun Hao led tens of thousands of troops from Tusheng. Sun Hao sent a letter and seal to Sima Dian to ask for surrender. Shaoshu says: Sima Bodu, King of Langxie, led the troops under his command to occupy Tuzhong one after another, making it impossible for the enemy to save each other.
He also sent the fallen evil minister Liu Hong and others to march towards the Yangtze River. The enemy was shocked and frightened, and sent an envoy to present the fake seal and ribbon.
Sima Dian then sent Chief Shi Wangheng to lead his troops to cross the Yangtze River, break through the enemy's border defenses, capture Lan Bian, the governor, beheaded and surrendered 50,000 to 60,000 people, and condemned Jiang Dan, Yu Sai and others to surrender and plead guilty. Sima Dian's meritorious service was outstanding, and his two sons were granted the title of Marquis of Ting, each with a title of 3,000 households and 6,000 pieces of silk.
Soon, he also supervised all the military affairs in Qingzhou and added the clothing of the servants.
He was promoted to General, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division.
Sima Dian not only had a distinguished status because he was a relative of the emperor, but also contributed to the pacification of Wu. He restrained himself from being respectful and indulgent, and did not appear to be complacent about his achievements. His staff did their best, and the people were inspired and attached to him.
When he was seriously ill, he was given bed tents, clothes, money, silk, rice and other items, and his servants were sent to greet him.
Taikang died in the fourth year of his reign at the age of fifty-seven.
On his deathbed, he petitioned to be buried next to his mother's mausoleum and to divide his kingdom among his four sons. The emperor agreed.
His son, Prince Gong, Sima Su, succeeded to the throne.
He also named his second son, Mo Shan, King of Juni, Sima Yao as King of Dong'an, and Sima Huai as King of Huailing.
Sima Jin's name is Sizu, and he has many officials and servants.
Taixi died in the first year of his reign at the age of thirty-five.
His son Sima Rui succeeded to the throne, also known as Wu Tong.
At the beginning of the restoration of the emperor's empire, the prince Sima Cao was made the king of falling mo and offered sacrifices to Prince Gong.
Sima Pei died early and made his prince Sima Huan the king of Langxie.
He died that day and took the title of Prince Sima Yu as King Langxie.
In the early years of Xianhe, after Sima Yu was transferred to Kuaiji, Emperor Cheng made Emperor Kang the king of Langxie. Emperor Kang ascended the throne and named Emperor Cheng's eldest son Ai Emperor as King Langxie.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne and made the deposed Emperor the king of Langxie.
After the deposed emperor ascended the throne, King Kuaiji acted as the minister of sacrifice for the Langye Kingdom.
Emperor Jianwen ascended the throne, and King Langxie had no successor.
When the emperor was dying, he named his youngest son Daozi King Langxie.
Daozi later became King of Kuaiji, and Emperor Gong was appointed King of Langxie.
After Emperor Gong ascended the throne, Langye Kingdom was abolished.
Sima Dan, the king of Wulingzhuang, was named Sihong.
At first he served as a servant, and later he was granted the title of Duke of Dongwu, with a fief of 5,200 households.
Transferred to the post of former general and central protector.
He is jealous and harmful by nature and has no filial and friendly character.
His younger brother Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, had a good reputation and was loved by his parents. Sima Dan hated him as an enemy, so he spoke ill of Sima Yao to Sima Liang, king of Runan. Sima Liang had always had conflicts with Sima Yao, so he petitioned to abolish him and move him.
King Zhao Sima Lun rebelled and appointed Sima Dan as the leading general.
Sima Dan has always been friendly with Guo Chu in Hanoi and Sima Chu's younger brother.
When the wine was in full swing, He Ye and others talked about the grievances of Tui Gan. Sima Dan was a drunkard by nature, so he killed both of them and gave their heads to Sima Lun. He stopped drinking and went on a violent rampage.
Sima Dan's wife, Su Di, was the queen's sister-in-law.
At first, relying on his family status, he was rude to Sima Dan's mother.
King Sima Tong of Qi was assisting in government affairs. Sima Dan's mother, Princess Zhuge, complained that Sima Dan was unfilial and begged to be let back. Therefore, Sima Dan, his wife and children moved to Liaosai.
His son Sima Xi, who was five years old, refused to go with him, saying: "We should ask to come back for our father, and we should not move together."
After complaining for many years, the concubine passed away, Sima Yao was killed, and then he was able to return to the court.
The official title was Guanglu Dafu, Shangshu, Prince Taifu, and was renamed King Wuling.
In the last years of Yongjia, he was killed by Shi Le, and his son Sima Zhe, King of Ai, succeeded him.
Sima Zhe, whose courtesy name was Jinglin, was a regular servant of Sanqi. He was also killed by Shi Le.
He had no son, so Emperor Yuan later appointed his prince Sima Xi as King of Wuling to offer sacrifices to Sima Dan.
Sima Yao, King of Dong'an, had the courtesy name Si Xuan.
At first, he was the Duke of Dong'an, and he successively served as the minister of Huangmen of Sanqi, and then moved to the position of regular servant of Sanqi.
A person with a beautiful beard, resolute temperament, authority, erudition, filial piety in serving relatives, and exhaustive etiquette in mourning.
When Yang Jun was executed, Sima Yao stationed troops in Yunlong and commanded all the troops. Because of his meritorious service, he was worshiped as the General of the Right Guard and the Colonel of Shesheng. He was granted the title of Prince of the County in the Jin Dynasty and was granted the title of 20,000 households. He was also appointed as the Shizhong and the General of the Dian Army. He also served as the General of the Right Guard.
He was moved to the right servant of Shangshu and appointed as the regular servant of Sanqi.
On this day, more than three hundred people were punished and rewarded, and the orders were all issued from Sima Yao.
The father of Shuyi captain Wen Fang, Sai Leng, was killed by Danwudeng's grandfather, Zhu Jiang Dan. Danwu Xun was worried that Sai Tan was a nuisance to his uncle's family, so Zaotian killed Wen because he was not guilty.
Sima Yao's brother Sima Dan repeatedly accused Sima Liang of being accused by King Sima Liang of Runan, but Sima Liang refused to listen.
At this time, because Sima Yao was arbitrary in punishments and rewards, Sima Dan took the opportunity to speak ill of Sima Yao. Sima Liang was deceived by Sizhui's rhetoric, so he dismissed Yao Sheng from his official position and returned to his mansion as a public servant. He was convicted of rebellious remarks and moved to Daifang.
In the early years of Yongkang, Sima Yao was recruited and his title was restored. His official title was Zong Zhengqing, and he was moved to the post of Shangshu and Zuopushe.
When Emperor Hui was attacking Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, Sima Yao was holding a funeral for his mother in Ye, and he persuaded Sima Ying to lay down his weapons and surrender.
When the emperor's army was defeated, Sima Ying resented Sima Yao and killed him.
Later, Sima Hun, the Marquis of Changleting, son of Sima Jin, the king of Langxie, was appointed king of Shu'an to offer sacrifices to Sima Yao.
He died soon after and the feudal state was lifted.
Sima Huai, king of Yuan Dynasty in Huailing, was named Sichong.
At first he was granted the title of Duke of Guangling, with a fief of 2,900 households.
He successively served as general of the left and regular attendant of Sanqi.
When King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, the three kings rebelled. Sima Guan and Zuowei General Wang Yu attacked and killed Sun Xiu, thus deposing Sima Lun.
Because of his meritorious service, he ascended the throne and became the King of Huai Ling. He entered the court and was appointed as the Minister, and was also appointed as the Minister, and was transferred to Zong Zheng and Guang Lu.
After his death, his son Zhenwang Sima Rong succeeded him.
He died without a son. During the reign of Emperor An, he appointed Sima Yun, the grandson of King Wulingwei, as King of Huailing to offer sacrifices to King Yuan.
He died without a son, Yilin! Wang Sima Bao's son Anzhi succeeded him.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Jing, the Marquis of Huiting in the Qing Dynasty, was given the title Zizuo as a prince in the late Wei Dynasty.
When he died at the age of twenty-four, he was given posthumously as Captain Shesheng, and was succeeded by Emperor Wen's son Sima Ji, courtesy name Taixuan.
In the first year of Taishi, he was granted the title of King of Yan and granted 6,663 towns.
Sima Ji went to the feudal state. In the early years of Xianning, he was recruited as an infantry captain. He used Yuyang County to expand his feudal state and add clothes to his servants.
The official paid homage to the governor of Qingzhou and the general of Zhenshu. During the holidays, he used 10,337 households in Beiping, Shanggu and Guangmi counties to increase the number of Yan Kingdom to 20,000.
He died without a son, so King Sima Jian of Qi asked his son Sima Ji to succeed him.
Later, Sima Tong failed and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Jun, the King of Wu in Fufeng, was given the courtesy name Zizang.
He was clever when he was young, and when he was five or six years old, he could write memorials and recite scriptures, and people who saw him were amazed.
When he grows up, he will be quiet, upright and upright, and he will have the best reputation in the clan. In the middle of Wei Jingchu's reign, he was named Pingyang Tinghou.
King Cao Fang of Qi came to the throne. Sima Jun was eight years old and became a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Soon he was transferred to the rank of captain of infantry and garrison cavalry, but his position of permanent attendant remained the same.
He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Xiang, and served as General Pingnan, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Huaibei. He was renamed Pingshouhou and transferred to General Anshu.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was granted the title of Dongmouhou and transferred to General Andong to guard Xuchang.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, the Jin Dynasty granted him the title of King of Ruyin, granting him a fief of 10,000 households and commanding the military affairs of Yuzhou.
General Ding Feng of the State of Wu invaded Shaopi, and Sima Jun led the army to resist and repel the enemy.
He was moved to the post of envoy Chijie and governor of Yangzhou's military affairs, and guarded Shouchun in place of Shi Bao.
Soon he was in charge of Yuzhou and returned to guard Xuchang.
He was moved to the post of General of Zhenxi, Envoy Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Yongliang and other state military affairs. He replaced Sima Liang, King of Runan, to guard Guanzhong. He was also awarded the attire of Gunmian Shizhong.
Sima Jun was good at appeasing the rulers and had majesty and kindness. He advised and supervised agriculture and mulberry planting, and shared labor with the soldiers. He, his staff, assistants, generals and soldiers were limited to farming ten acres, and they all reported to the table.
Shaoshu's orders spread to all states and counties, allowing people to engage in farming.
In the early years of Xianning, Shu Jigeng and others of the Qiang tribe rebelled. Sima Jun sent many people to attack them and killed more than 3,000 people.
After ascending to the throne, he became the General of the Conquest of the West. The Ministry of Construction recruited auxiliary officials and appointed them as the third division of Yitong. The positions of Chijie and Governor remained the same.
Shao also ordered Sima Jun to send 7,000 men to replace the Liangzhou garrison.
Shu Jingneng, Hou Tanbo and others wanted to plunder the tenant soldiers first, but Sima Jun ordered the Pinglu Guards Wen to imitate the armies of Du Liang, Qin and Yong to march and garrison troops to deter them.
Ji Feng then sent the twenty troops under his command and Danbo, who tied him behind his back, to the military gate, and each sent his own son as a hostage.
Another 200,000 people including Ji Keluo, Hou Jinduo and Beilu Re from the Anding, Beidi and Jincheng areas came to surrender.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Sima Jun entered the dynasty and changed his title to King Fufeng. He used people whose households were within the boundaries of the feudal state to increase the number of households in his feudal town and gave it to Yu Bao and Guan.
In the early years of Taikang, Jin was granted the title of General of Hussars, and the positions of Kaifu, Chijie, and Governor remained.
Sima Jun had a filial character. His mother, Concubine Fu, followed his brother Sima Liang in the official position. Sima Jun often cried and missed her. If he heard that his mother was sick, he would worry about not being able to eat. Sometimes he would put down his official position to visit her and pay her respects.
He was eager to learn when he was young, and was able to write books and treatises. He discussed the sequence of benevolence and filial piety with Xun Zhi, and his articles were commendable.
When Sima You, King of Qi, left the capital to go to his own kingdom, Sima Jun came forward to persuade the emperor sincerely, but because the emperor refused, he fell ill and died.
As a posthumous gift to the Grand Sima, he was given the title of Shizhong and Fake Huangtie.
When people in the west heard that he was dead, people all over the road cried for him, and the people erected monuments for him. When the elders saw the monument, they all bowed down. This is the love he left behind.
He has ten sons, Sima Chang and Sima Xin are the most famous.
Sima Changzi came to visit.
He was renamed King of Shunyang, and his official title was given to Shizhong, Tunqi Xiaowei, and guerrilla general.
In the last years of Chengtai's reign, the plastic pendant entered the Pirates, and I don't know what happened to Sima Chang.
Sima Xin, the king of Xinye Village, was named Hongshu.
After King Wu died, his elder brother Sima Chang extended his favor and requested to divide the country and grant it to Sima Xin.
During the Taikang period, Sima Xin was granted the title of Duke of Xinye County in Xiashao, granting 1,800 households, and the etiquette was the same as that of the county king.
Although Sima Xin was young and rich, he was able to fulfill his moral principles carefully.
When his mother, Concubine Zang, passed away, she went beyond etiquette in mourning and was famous for her filial piety.
The official worships Sanqi as a regular attendant.
King Zhao Sima Lun usurped the throne and made Sima Xin the general of Nanzhonglang.
King Sima Tong of Qi mobilized rebels and sent messages throughout the world, but Sima Xin didn't know who to listen to.
The favored Wang Sui said: King Zhao is close and powerful, while King Qi is distant and weak, so I should follow King Zhao.
Sun Xun, who joined the army, said loudly to everyone: King Zhao is cruel and rebellious, and the whole world should work together to defeat him. It is the law of the ancient sages to destroy relatives for justice.
Sima Xin obeyed him.
So he sent Sun Xun to see Sima Tong. Sima Jian went up to him and took his hand and said, "The person who enables me to achieve great integrity is Xinye Gong."
When Sima Jian entered Luoyang, Sima Xin personally wore armor and led his men to serve as Sima Jian's guide.
Because of his meritorious service, he was granted the title of Prince of Xinye County and granted the title of 20,000 households.
He was moved to the post of envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Jingzhou, general Zhennan, and Kaifu Yitong.
Sima Xin was about to go to his post and drove with Sima Tong to visit the mausoleum. He took the opportunity to persuade Sima Tong: "The King of Chengdu is a close relative and has made great achievements together. Now he should be retained to assist in the government."
If that doesn't work, he should be deprived of his military power.
Sima Tong refused to obey.
Soon after Sima Jian failed, Sima Xin was frightened and took the initiative to befriend Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu.
Sima Xin's governance was harsh and harsh, and the barbarians complained.
When Zhang Chang caused rebellion in Jiangxia, Sima Xin petitioned to punish him.
At that time, Changsha King Sima Yi was in power and had conflicts with Chengdu King Sima Ying. He suspected that Sima Xin was conspiring with Sima Ying and prevented Sima Xin from sending troops. Zhang Chang's troops became stronger day by day.
At that time, Sun Xun was appointed as a lieutenant and said to Sima Xin: The ancients said that one day of appeasing an adulterer can cause trouble for several generations.
The Duke is responsible for the royal family's barrier and is in an important position to assist the court. He can act as soon as he submits the seal. What's wrong with that?
If evil and evil grow and spread, and disasters are difficult to predict, can this be called supporting the royal family to pacify the Central Plains?
Sima Xin was about to send troops, and Wang Sui said again: "Zhang Chang and other small bandits can be subdued by his own generals. There is no need to disobey the emperor's orders and go to the battlefield in person!"
So he withdrew his troops.
When Zhang Chang arrived at Fancheng, Sima Xin sent troops to resist him. The army was defeated and Zhang Chang killed him.
Posthumously awarded the title of General of Hussars.
He had no sons, so his elder brother's son Sima Shao was his heir. Yongjia died in Shile in the last years of his life.
Liang Xiaowang Sima Xu was named Zihui. He practiced Qingjing, was respectful and prudent, and had no other talents. As a young master, he was named Pingletinghou.
When the fifth-class title was established, he was renamed Kaipingzi.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named him King of Liang, granting him 5,358 households.
When he left the enfeoffed country, he was moved to the position of Beizhonglang General and supervised the defense of Yecheng.
At that time, the kings selected their own officials and subordinates, and Sima Shu selected Zhang Fan, the chief official of Ruyin, as the middle official.
Zhang Fan has never been of good character. His real name is Xiong, and his wife Liu knows music and teaches singing to Cao Shuang. Zhang Fan visited He Yan again and committed adultery as he pleased.
He Yan was killed and moved to Hejian, so he changed his name and took the initiative to befriend Sima Xu.
After being reported by relevant officials, Sima Xu was reduced to one county in Xia Shao.
During the Xianning period, Chen Guo and Runan Nandun were added as vassal states.
During the Taikang period, he replaced Kong Xun in supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, and was appointed General Pingdong to guard Xu Lu.
Soon, he replaced Sima Huang, King of Xiapi, in his original position as supervising the military affairs of Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and was promoted to General Anton.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was transferred to the general of Zhengxi, replacing the Qin King Sima Sai to supervise the military affairs in Guanzhong, and also served as the captain of the Xirong Guards.
He was appointed as a minister and promoted to supervise Liangzhou.
Soon after, he was appointed as General of the Guard, recorded as a minister, acted as the crown prince's Taibao, and was given the title of one thousand soldiers and one hundred horses.
Much later, he was appointed as the General of the Expedition to the West, replacing King Sima Lun of Zhao to guard Guanzhong. He was also the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Liang and Yong, and appointed the left and right Chang Shi and Sima.
He also served as the captain of the Xirong School, stationed troops in Haozhi, and supervised General Jianwei Qiechu, Zhenwei General Lu Zhong and others in Liumo against the Di enemy bandit Cha Wannian.
There was a conflict between Sima Xu and Dan, who urged him to march and cut off his support. Lu Bo did not save him, so Zhou Chu was killed.
The court accused Sima Xu.
Soon he was recruited as a general, a minister, a leading general, and a minister.
Sima Xu once held a gathering of guests and said to the army workers: My cousin is serving as a minister and cannot swallow his power.
Rights are hard to come by.
Wang She said: "It is difficult for the Duke to monopolize power here."
Sima Xu said: Who is the most powerful in the long history?
He replied: It's Lu Bo.
Sima Xu said: "That's a retainer, don't mention him."
Wang Quan said: "Everyone in the world is a retainer. I'm afraid the king's law can no longer be implemented."
Sima Xu said again: I am in Chang'an, what can I do wrong?
So he pointed at his single clothes and recalled that he was honest.
Wang Quan replied: Inside and outside the imperial court, the public is expected to recommend talented people to keep the unkind people away from the imperial court.
And you are the Third Duke and Assistant Prime Minister. Because you are single-clothed, you regard this as incorruptible and not worthy of praise.
Sima Xu looked ashamed.
In the early years of Yongkang, after deposing Jia together with King Sima Lun, the imperial edict appointed Sima Xu as Dazai, keeper of the Shangshu Order, and increased the number of 20,000 households in the fiefdom.
King Sima Lun of Zhao was assisting in government affairs. There were changes in the astrology, and the divination results were unfavorable for the prime minister.
Sun Xiu was afraid that Sima Lun would suffer disaster, so he reduced Situ to the position of prime minister and gave this position to Sima Xu, and promoted him in an attempt to reconcile the stars.
Some people say: Sima Xu has no power and no benefits.
Sima Wei firmly refused and refused to accept.
When Sima Lun usurped the throne, he appointed Sima Xu to take charge of the government, and gave him a hundred warriors and Xuan Xuan's band of ten.
After Sima Lun was destroyed, the imperial edict appointed Sima Xu as the Grand Administrator and Situ, and he replaced Sima Tai, King of Gaomi, as the Grand Master.
Yongning died in the second year of his life, and his funeral was in accordance with the precedent of Sima Liang, King Wencheng of Runan.
Doctor Chen Liuren Cai Ke commented on Mi Hao and said: Sima Shu's official position is that of prime minister, with great responsibilities, his kinship is noble and close, and he is also a master. He is respected by the court and looked up to by the people.
However, in the face of major festivals, there is no unchangeable ambition; in the face of dangerous things, one cannot give up his life to pursue justice; when Prince Huai was deposed, he did not hear a word of advice from him; when the King of Huainan was in trouble, he could not take advantage of the situation to support justice; King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne and rebelled, and could not leave the court.
There was turmoil in the Song Dynasty due to the Dang clan. Hua Yuanbai believed that he could not hold an official position and said: I am in charge of the rules of the monarch and his ministers.
My official position is low and I cannot correct it. What a big sin I have committed!
In the small Song Dynasty, there were still ministers who were not rewarded for their merits. What's more, in the emperor's court, there is a prime minister who lives in poverty. If it is not derogatory, how can the rule of law be implemented?
"The Hanging Method" If he was not diligent in his duties, he would be named Ling. If Sima Shu did not do what was right when he saw it, he could not be said to be diligent, so he should be given the nickname "Ling".
Liang Guochang's attendant Sun Lin and Sima Xu's cronies claimed that they were wronged, and the government issued an official document saying: Jia's dictatorial power, and King Sima Lun's usurpation and rebellion, both used force to control the inside and outside of the court. Sima Xu could not leave under that situation, and what is the basis for accusing him of being unable to leave the court?
Cai Ke discussed it again and said: Sima Xu is a minister of the clan, but the country is in turmoil and cannot be rectified. The monarch cannot be supported when he is overthrown. This is not how a prime minister should be.
Therefore, "Spring and Autumn" ridiculed Huayuan Leju, saying that they were not like ministers.
Besides, Mai's cruelty and violence were no more severe than those of Empress Lu, but Wang Ling was still able to stay behind closed doors; King Sima Lun of Zhao's cruelty was no more serious than that of King Zhou of Yin, but Wei Zi was still able to leave.
In modern times, there is Taiwei Chen Zhun, a man with a foreign surname. Because his brother Chen Huiyou had betrayed King Sima Lun and had an old grudge, he was able to claim to be ill and not join the puppet court.
What's more, Sima Xu is Sima Lun's biological brother, but he can't leave?
Zhao Dun's advice to the court was not heeded, and he fled but did not go far. He was not immune from the guilt. What's more, Sima Xu could not resign his official position and face the north to serve the false monarch.
He should be derogated and criticized according to the previous discussion to promote the integrity of ministers and clarify the principles of serving the king.
So the court followed Cai Ke's argument.
Sima Xu's former subordinates continued to pursue complaints, so he changed his nickname.
Sima Xu had no sons, so he was succeeded by Sima Xi, the son of Sima Dan, King of Wuling, who was also King Huai. The official worshiped the general Zhenglu, and both died in Shile with Sima Dan.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Sima Kui, the son of Sima Su, King of Xiyang, was the descendant of Sima Xu. He died early and became the Shang King.
At this time, Dan Moqiao, the son of King Tan, returned from the mutual pressure and succeeded to the throne. He was also King Sheng, and his official position was to serve as a regular attendant.
He died without a son. The imperial edict ordered Sima Lian, the son of King Wulingwei, to succeed Si Qusu, who successively served as the prime minister's servant. He and his father Dan Quzhong were deposed and moved to Xin'an.
After his death, the feudal state was restored during the Taiyuan period, and his son Sima Su succeeded to the throne.
After death, he was succeeded by his son Zhen.
Huanxuan usurped the throne, and Kong Pu, the minister of the feudal state, fled to Shouyang. He returned in the early years of Yixi and gradually moved to the post of General Zuowei and Taichang Qing.
Liu Yu crusades against Yao Xun, please! Rei joins the army as a consultant. He is killed by the plastic pass, and the feudal state is cancelled.
Emperor Wen had nine sons, including Emperor Wenming, Wang You of Qi Xian, Wang Zhao of Chengyang Ai, Wang Dingguo of Liaohui, and Guangde of Guanghan. Wang Jian of Anping, Ji of Yan, Prince Yongzuo, and Yanzuo of Leping didn't know who their mothers were.
There is another legend about King Yan's successor Qing Huitingbao.
Yong Zuo died early and did not pass on.
The king of Qi Xian, Sima You, was named Dayou. Be wise at a young age.
When he grows up, he will be calm, kind and fair, be close to wise people, like charity, like classic books, be able to write articles, be good at letters, and be imitated by the world.
His talent and reputation were greater than those of Emperor Wu, and Emperor Xuan often valued him.
Emperor Jing had no sons, so he made Sima You his heir.
He followed Wang Jun in his campaign and was named the Marquis of Changle Pavilion.
When Emperor Jing died, Sima You was only ten years old. His sorrow moved the people around him and he was praised and praised.
Inherited the title of Wuyang Hou.
After serving Jing Xian Yang in another mansion, he became famous for his filial piety when serving the queen.
He also served as a regular servant of the cavalry and an infantry captain. He was 18 years old at the time. He appeased the subordinates in the military camp and was very majestic and gracious.
The fifth-level title was established, and he was renamed Anchanghou and moved to General Wei.
In mourning for Emperor Wen, he was so disfigured that he could only stand up with a wooden stick.
His subordinates made rice balls into balls for him to eat, but Sima You cried and refused to accept them.
The Queen Mother personally went to enlighten him and said: What should I do if I get other diseases?
You should think long-term and not stick to one idea.
He often sent people to force Sima You to eat, but Sima Jixi remonstrated and said: "Be sad without losing your temper. This is the teaching of a saint."
Moreover, the king is a close relative of the clan and has the important task of assisting in government affairs.
Ordinary people still cherish their lives for the sake of their ancestors, not to mention that you are responsible for the great cause of the world and the important task of assisting the royal family. How can you express your boundless sorrow and compete with Yan Yuan and Min Sun for filial piety!
Don't let wise people laugh at you and fools rejoice.
Ji happy personally served food and drinks, but Sima You had no choice but to eat.
After Ji Xi withdrew, Sima You said to the people around him: "Ji Sima will make me remember the etiquette of mourning and preserve my small body."
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named Sima You King of Qi. At that time, the imperial court had just been established, and Sima You was in charge of the military affairs. He was responsible for the control of Anning both inside and outside.
Shao Shu discussed how the vassal king asked them to choose the senior officials in the country. Sima You reported: In the past, the sage kings established feudal kingdoms to get close to the princes. The rules were passed down from generation to generation and no one could change them.
The truth is that if the king is not passed down from generation to generation, people will be left to chance; if people do not have stable masters, their customs will be hypocritical and honest.
Therefore, the late emperor deeply studied the orthodoxy that governs all ages, and considered restoring the rules of the ancient sages, dividing land boundaries, and establishing five levels of nobility, either to promote virtue or to reward meritorious officials.
I thought that Your Majesty was following the will of God to establish a great cause, establish feudal relatives, and let the vassal state appoint senior officials on its own.
However, the great cause is now being established and the system has just been established. Although Yongshu is obedient, Wu has not yet surrendered. We should wait until the Qing Dynasty is peaceful before discussing the restoration of the ancient system.
The memorial was sent three times in succession, and they all responded that they disagreed.
After this, the Prime Minister reported that there was a shortage of high-ranking officials, and Dian Shuling requested that they be dispatched and recommended.
Sima You issued an order: "I am unworthy of the favor and courtesy, and I am worried about my incompetence."
As for the appointment of officials and the discussion of talents, it is a matter for the imperial court and not a matter for the feudal state to decide.
I command to ask for this.
At that time, the royal family was provided with food and clothing by the royal family. Sima You said in court that the rent and salary were sufficient to support himself, and requested that no more supplies be provided.
I went to the table more than ten times before and after, but the emperor did not allow it.
Although Sima You did not go to his own feudal country, he distributed rents, taxes, and salaries to civil and military officials, down to the soldiers, and gave them gifts in case of illness, death, and funeral.
Sometimes droughts and floods occur, and the people in the country are provided with loans and relief, and they are not recovered until a good harvest year. The amount is at least two-tenths, and the country relies on him.
He was moved to the post of general of hussars, and a government office was set up to recruit auxiliary officials. The etiquette was like that of the third division.
Lower your status to make yourself humble and treat others with integrity.
He often lamented that the government did not examine officials, but only by using inspectors to control the military and government would there be appropriate majestic restraint, so he issued an edict saying: The previous emperors ruled the country, clarified punishments and rectified the laws, and used whipping as a teaching method to correct delays and neglect.
Moreover, in the Tang and Yu dynasties, there were still inspections and demands.
Previously I wanted to discuss how to create something to roughly fix the inspection law.
He was also worried about whether it was appropriate in the traditional and simplified versions and failed to review its key points, so he ordered Liu and Cheng to examine it in detail.
However, I also thought that when Zheng Guo cast a punishment book, Shu Xiang denied it; when Fan Xuan discussed the system, Quan Xing ridiculed him.
The order is completely in accordance with the old scriptures, without any addition or derogation.
Those that are not covered by ordinary rules shall be determined based on the circumstances of the matter.
It is the ethics of the ancients that all officials should do their best and concentrate on official matters.
If there are any deficiencies, it is up to the imperial ministers to correct the regulations on rescue, and they can almost avoid responsibility.
So the inside and outside were respectful and tidy.
At that time, the position of hussar should be eliminated from the camp. Thousands of soldiers were attached to Sima You's kindness and refused to leave. They stopped the officials in Jingzhao and complained, so the emperor returned Sima You's camp.
Whenever Sima You participated in discussions about government affairs, he would state them in detail.
Shaoshu thought that there had been famine for many years and discussed how to save money. Sima You reported: I have heard that the teachings of the previous emperors never failed to correct the fundamentals.
Paying attention to the fundamentals of agriculture is the outline of the country.
Now that there is peace in all directions, the warriors take off their armor and take vacations to engage in agriculture.
However, local officials cannot make the best use of the geographical advantages by being considerate of official duties.
In the past, Emperor Moxuan sighed and said: The only people who rule the world with me are good prefects!
Timely rewards and punishments were imposed, and weak officials were dismissed and virtuous ministers were promoted. At that time, it was very stable, and most of the people appointed were famous prefects.
Considering that there is a surplus of land and there are many people who do not work in agriculture, and there are some falsehoods among those who have joined agriculture, if we consider the whole country, there must be many people who are hungry.
Now we should sternly order the prefectures and counties to check the hypocrisy and fraud that harms agriculture, urge the replenishment of farmland, and pay attention to what they are doing together.
In this way, the grains in the world can be restored to the level of ancient times. Should we still worry about famine because of temporary floods and droughts?
When assessing political performance and deciding on dismissal or promotion, the requirements must be strict, and everyone should be afraid of authority and grateful, and everyone should work hard on their own.
In addition, in the city, more and more people have food to eat without farming. With the help of craftsmanship and other industries, the clothes are luxurious and gorgeous, and the rich are even more luxurious. There are still the shortcomings left by Wei Qian. They did not receive education for a long time and waste money and food, often counting in the tens of thousands.
It should be stated that past laws must prohibit this phenomenon.
Make people give up luxury and change to frugality, do not encroach on the farming season, and work hard to cultivate and harvest to fill the warehouse.
This etiquette of honor and disgrace was born from then on, and education was brought back to the basics, and it prospered from then on.
He was transferred to the general of the Zhenjun Army, and was also appointed as a servant. He used Yu Bao, advocate, and acted as the prince's young master.
A few years later, he was appointed as the prince's tutor. He advised the prince: In the past, the ancient emperors established the country and established the throne. They looked up at the astronomy and looked down at the geography. They established great causes and promoted morality to stabilize the people and inherit the sacrifices. Fu Zuo continued the Taoism and passed down the tradition, so he established the prince.
Use your great moral principles to make him noble, and use your status as deputy to make his position stable. Once the prince's virtue is established, the country will have support.
Those princes who were kind and benevolent succeeded in their achievements, while those who were close to treacherous princes overthrew their country. Therefore, the candidate to protect the prime minister must be a wise man.
In the past, during the reign of King Cheng of the Zhou Dynasty, Dan Shi served as a Fu. He relied on his virtue to support himself externally, and sought stability internally by being kind to his family. His virtue relied on righteousness to achieve success, and he did not force himself on kindness.
The Ying family abandoned the clan, and its collapse was like a landslide; the Liu family's feudal descendants, the imperial legacy of the Han Dynasty will be passed down for a long time.
Chu was in trouble because of Wuji, and Song was in trouble because of Yili.
Zhang Yu was a eloquent speaker, which ultimately endangered the powerful Han Dynasty.
If the person you assist is disloyal, disaster will befall your body; not only your body, but also your country will be destroyed.
Don't say that there will be no estrangement between father and son. There was a precedent of Jiang Chong in the past; don't say that there is no love between close relatives. There may be people like Pan Chong.
Flattery can confuse the truth, false accusation can alienate relatives, and Li Ji's slander made the Marquis of Jin doubt Shen Sheng.
To strengthen family ties, we need to rely on Tao, not kindness; to cultivate ourselves, we need to rely on respect, not on dignity.
People who depreciate themselves have room for success, while people who are self-satisfied are even more stupid.
We must be considerate in all kinds of matters, and we must be kind in fundamental matters.
When you see destruction, you should be alert to danger; when you see stability, you should think of survival.
The eldest son presides over morality, I ventured to tell the gatekeeper.
The world thinks that the proverbs are well written.
In the second year of Xianning, he replaced Mai as Sikong, but his positions of Shizhong and Taifu remained the same.
At first, Sima You was especially favored by Emperor Wen. Every time he saw Sima You, he patted the bed and called him by his nickname, saying "This is the seat of Taofu". There were many times when he was almost made the prince.
When the emperor was ill, he was worried that Sima You would be uneasy and cried as Emperor Wu recounted the story of King Huainan and King Chensi of Wei in the Han Dynasty.
Before he died, he took Sima You's hand and entrusted him to Emperor Wu.
The Queen Mother was ill before, and after she recovered, the Emperor and Sima You held wine glasses to celebrate her birthday. Sima You shed tears in front of the Queen Mother because of her previous critical illness, and the Emperor felt ashamed.
Sima You once served the emperor when he was ill. He always had a sad face, and people at that time praised him for it.
When the Queen Mother was dying, she also shed tears and said to the emperor: Taofu is impatient, and you are unkind as an elder brother. If I become ill and cannot bear it, I am afraid you will not be able to get along.
Therefore, I ask you not to forget my words.
In the emperor's later years, his sons were all cowardly and the prince was unworthy. People inside and outside the court wanted to appoint Sima You.
Xun Xu, the eunuch of the Central Secretary, and Feng Shou, the attendant, both flattered and worked for themselves, but Sima You had always hated them.
Because the court's expectations were on Sima You, Xun Xu and others were afraid that his successor would bring disaster to them, so they calmly said to the emperor: "Long live your majesty, the prince cannot be established as emperor."
The emperor said: Why?
Xun Xu said: All the officials inside and outside are devoted to King Qi, how can the prince succeed to the throne?
Your Majesty tried to issue orders to conquer the country, but the Manchu people must not agree. Then my words will be proved.
Feng Shou also said: Your Majesty sends princes to feudal countries to complete the system of five-level titles, which should start with relatives.
There is no closer relative than the King of Qi.
After the emperor believed Xun Xu's words, he also accepted Feng Shou's opinion. In the third year of Taikang, he wrote in Shao Shu: In ancient times, officials and nobles were Zuobo with nine lives, who either entered the court to assist in government affairs, or went out of the capital to rule the four directions.
Lu Wang of the Zhou Dynasty could conquer all the five princes and nine uncles. Shi Zhong, Sikong, and Qi Wang Sima You are peaceful and prosperous in virtue, loyal and fair.
As the younger brother of the same mother, he shouldered the important responsibilities of the three princes, assisted Tianming in establishing meritorious deeds, and worked hard for the royal family, so he should be promoted to a prominent official position.
to meet everyone's expectations. He was appointed as Grand Sima and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Qingzhou. His position as a servant remained unchanged. On holidays, he commanded thousands of soldiers in his camp. His personal cavalry and chariots remained the same. He also added an advocating department, twenty official cavalrymen, and five cavalrymen.
The rest will be carried out by the person in charge according to the old system.
Sima You was not happy, and the chief secretary Ding Yi said: In the past, the Grand Duke was granted the title of Qi, and he was still prominent in Shuhai; Duke Huan of Qi combined nine princes, and he was the strongest among the five hegemons.
What's more, His Highness has great virtues and respects the saints. He assists the great feudal states and purges them eastward, so that everyone can find his own place.
Why can we only expand our empire by being in the imperial court?
Sima You said: I don't have the ability to correct current affairs, why do you have so many words?
The next year, he wrote a letter to Sima You: Ah!
The destiny of heaven is not always there, and heaven has already moved Wei's imperial empire.
We, the Jin Dynasty, have accepted and obeyed the orders of God, honored the kings, established kingdoms in the east, and granted them the land in the east to defend and assist our country.
Never neglect your beauty, always protect the ancestral temple.
He also issued an edict to Taichang, discussing how to respect and reward the items and use Jinan County to benefit the Qi State.
He also appointed Sima You's son Sima Ku as King of Beihai.
So he prepared the rituals, set up a high-pitched band, and a six-hundred-strong music and dance procession, and the yellow iron Chariot chariot and the deputy chariot followed.
When Sima You knew that Xun Xu and Feng Shou had framed him, he became angry and resentful and fell ill. He begged to stay at the successive tombs, but was not allowed to do so.
The emperor sent imperial doctors to diagnose and treat him. Those doctors responded to the emperor's wishes and said he was fine.
When his illness became serious, he was still urged to go on the road.
Sima You reluctantly entered the court to bid farewell. He always maintained his appearance and appearance. Although he was seriously ill, he kept himself tidy and behaved as usual. The emperor even doubted that he was not sick.
After traveling and staying for two nights, he vomited blood and died. He was thirty-six years old at the time.
The emperor cried bitterly, and Feng You stood by and said: "King Qi's reputation exceeds his reality, and the hearts of the world are towards him."
Now that your death is a blessing to the country, why should Your Majesty be overly sad!
The emperor no longer shed tears and cried.
An imperial edict was issued to follow the precedent set by Anping King Sima Fu for funeral ceremonies, with a Xuanxuan band set up around the temple and sacrifices to be held at the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
His son Sima Tong succeeded to the throne, and there is another biography.
Sima You restrained himself with etiquette and rarely made any mistakes.
When you borrow a book from someone else, you must correct the errors in the book with your own hands before returning the book.
In addition, his kind-hearted temperament is beyond ordinary people. If anything violates his taboo, he will burst into tears.
Even Emperor Wu was in awe of him. Whenever he was asked to be with him, he must think of his words carefully before speaking.
Three sons: Sima Rui, Sima Zan, and Sima Shi.
Sima Rui, whose courtesy name was Jinghui, was adopted by King Dingguo of Liaodong.
In the early years of Taikang, he was renamed King of Donglai.
During the Yuankang period, he successively served as infantry and garrison captain.
Sima Rui had a violent personality, drank and was willful, and repeatedly bullied and insulted his younger brother Sima Jian. Dan Modan tolerated him because he was his elder brother.
Sima Tong mobilized rebels, and Sima Lun captured Sima Rui and his younger brother Sima Fu, King of Beihai, and handed them over to the imperial officer for execution.
Sima Jian's concubine, Dan Youshangshu, advised: "The crime does not involve others, and the evil is limited to himself. This is the grand strategy of the ancient philosophers and the system adopted by emperors for centuries."
Therefore, Gun was killed, and Yu's successors prospered; Da Zhao was killed, Ji Zhao was exiled, and the barbarians were not responsible.
The path of enlightenment and forgiveness ceases, suspicion and suspicion prevail, so hostages are used to control others, and liaisons are established to detect evildoers. The source of these methods is probably three generations of harmful laws.
Sima Rui and Sima Shi are the sons of King Xian. They are descendants of virtuous people and should receive special leniency to fulfill the code of harmony between relatives.
When Sun Xiu died, Sima Rui and others were spared.
Sima Rui led his troops to greet him, and Sima Rui met him by the roadside.
Sima Jiong did not see him immediately. He wanted to wait for the troops to settle down before delivering the military symbols.
Sima Rui said resentfully: I almost died because of your involvement, why don't I have any feelings of family and friends?
When Sima Jiong assisted the government, he issued an edict to appoint Sima Rui as the regular servant of the scattered cavalry, and as a general, as well as the rear army, servant, and special advance. He added 20,000 households in the fiefdom.
Sima Rui asked Sima Tong to open a government office again. Si Wudan said: Genduo's sons, King Cheng and Liao Tonggong, have not yet opened a government office. They should wait until later.
Sima Rui became even more resentful because of this, and secretly stated that Sima Tong was in power, and together with Zuowei General, Gong Gong and Yu planned to abolish Dan District Dan.
The matter was exposed and he was exempted from being a commoner.
Soon Xia Shao said: Da Sima has broad knowledge and clear judgment, and has quick strategies. He leads the alliance to stabilize and restore the country.
Since the beginning of written records, Dan Gong and Chou Gong were not as wise as his merits, so they were awarded the position of prime minister.
Sima Rui, the king of Shulai, was secretly jealous and harbored evil intentions. He conspired with Wang Yu and wanted to frame him with false accusations.
On the day when Wang Yu was arrested, Si Wugan and his servants were in the same car, wearing casual clothes, and traveled for Wang Yu and stayed overnight before returning home.
The treachery and danger are obvious, confusing both inside and outside.
In addition, Sima Rui's previous impeachment speech against Sima Gang was profound. Even if Guan Cai betrayed morality and Ya Qing caused chaos in the clan, it could not surpass Sima Rui's words.
According to the "Spring and Autumn Annals", Sima Rui was moved to Shangyong.
Later, Sima Rui was granted the title of Marquis of Weiyang.
In the early years of Yongning, Chen Zhong, the internal history of Shangyong, killed Sima Rui on Sima Tong's order.
After Sima Tong died, he issued an edict to kill Chen Zhong, restored Sima Rui's fiefdom, and reburied him according to royal rites.
Sima Zan, named Jingqi, was adopted by the descendants of Guangde, the martyred king of Guanghan.
He died when he was six years old. It was the first year of Taikang, and his nickname was King Chong.
Sima Shi, whose courtesy name is Jingshen, was originally the Marquis of Changle Pavilion.
Because Sima Zan died, Sima You asked Sima Sai to adopt him as his heir to King Guangmo Shang, and he was renamed King of Beihai.
In the early years of Yongning, he was appointed as General Pingshu and Jiejie, and as a regular servant of Sanqi, guarding Xuchang in place of King Sima Jian of Qi.
Soon after he was promoted to General Annan and Commander-in-Chief of Yuzhou Military Affairs, he added 20,000 additional fiefs.
Before setting off, he was left as a servant and general of the army, and was given a thousand soldiers and hundreds of horses.
Sima Zhao, the Ai Wang of Chengyang, died at the age of ten.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and wrote to Shao: My dead brother Qianqiu was young and intelligent, with a precocious temperament. Unfortunately, the late emperor passed away early, and the late emperor was particularly sad.
He wanted to continue his descendants one after another, but in the end he failed. Every time he thinks about his wish, he feels sad.
Although it does not conform to the rules and regulations, it is also common in modern times to establish the prince Jingdu as the descendant of Qianqiu. Moreover, it is to follow the original intention of succession.
So Sima Zhao was granted the title of Mi.
Jingdu died in the sixth year of Taishi, and his fifth son Sima Xian succeeded him.
After his death, his sixth son Sima Zhi was made King of East China Sea and the descendant of King Ai.
After his death, in the early years of Xianning, he named his thirteenth son Sima Ya the King of Qinghe and became the descendant of Sima Zhao.
King Hui of Liaodong Dingguo died at the age of three.
In the early years of Xianning, the title of Mi was added, and King Sima You of Qi made his eldest son Sima Rui the heir.
Sima Rui passed away and was succeeded by his son Sima Zun.
Guangde, the war king of Guanghan, died when he was two years old.
In the early years of Xianning, the title of Mi was added, and King Sima You of Qi let his fifth son Sima Zan inherit the title.
After his death, he gave birth to his second son as direct heir. Sima Jian, King of Ping in Le'an, was named Ming Dynasty and was initially named Linsi Tinghou.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named him King Le'an.
The emperor carefully selected teachers and friends for Sima Jian and King Yan Sima Ji, and issued an edict saying: Sima Jian, King of Le'an, and Sima Ji, King of Yan, have grown up. They should have teachers and friends to guide them. They should choose people who are proficient in classic Confucianism and have good conduct, thrift and frugality, so that they can respect them.
In the past, Han Qi had a good relationship with Tian Su and was good at doing good deeds. He should definitely get a competent person.
During the Taishi period, the official worshiped the Yue Cavalry School Lieutenant.
In the early years of Xianning, Liang Zou of Qi State was used to expand the fiefdom, so he went to the feudal state and wore the clothes of a servant.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi, a general of the upper army, and a captain of Shesheng.
Soon he was appointed as envoy Chijie, military governor of Yuzhou, and general Annan. He replaced Sima Ya, the king of Qinghe, to guard Xuchang. However, he could not make the trip due to illness.
He died in the seventh year and was succeeded by his son Sima Ji, the Shang King.
He died without a son, so King Sima Jian of Qi made his son Sima Bing the descendant of Sima Jian.
The 11,219 households in Jiyin were changed to Guangyang Kingdom, and Sima Bing was made King of Guangyang.
Sima Jian failed and King Guangyang was deposed.
King Yanzuo of Leping was named Dasi. He was seriously ill when he was young and was not qualified for the title of nobility.
In the early years of Taikang, the edict said: My younger brother Sima Yanzuo lost his father in his early years and was still young and ignorant, which makes people sad and sympathetic.
I was seriously ill when I was a child, and I looked forward to getting better every day. Now I am disabled, with no hope of recovery, and I feel very sad.
Call him King Leping to give him a name to comfort my heart.
He died soon without any sons.
Shi Chen said: King Pingyuan is emotionally and rationally unstable, and no one in the world can guess him.
It is said that he was in an era of turmoil and separation, and lived in a period of war and struggle, but he was able to stay away from disasters, preserve himself, and enjoy great blessings. His ignorance was unmatched by others!
King Langxie is good at martial arts, gentle and respectful, King Fufeng is outstanding in literary talent and education, and is filial, so he may be a commendable person in the clan.
As a descendant of Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing, the King of Qi carried forward the teachings of "Zhou Nan" and "Zhao Nan". His morality enlightened the refined and popular, and his reputation was great among the prime ministers and assistants.
Later, due to his high status, he was persecuted by doubts, and his elegant literary talent was criticized for his faults. Feng Shou and Xun Xu came up with treacherous strategies like creeping grass. Emperor Wu deeply maintained his incomprehensible love for his son.
So he deprived the King of Qi of his power in the court and moved to a feudal country thousands of miles away. He died of resentment before he could prepare for the journey. What a pity!
If God granted him a long life and got rid of his political enemies, and he was ordered to be a trusted minister, accept the great trust of governing the country, and assist the succeeding emperor, and he was indeed able to manage the country's politics, then judging from the signs in the underworld, maybe there will be a period of decline and prosperity, and judging from the events in the world, the possible victory or defeat can be deduced. How can the eight kings dare to fight, how can the five barbarians compete!
"Poetry" says that without virtuous people, a country will decline. Sima You can really confirm what the Japanese say; traitorous ministers can never stop badmouthing people and disturb all directions. He is probably talking about people like Xun Xu and Feng Tongtong.
Praising: Some of the descendants of Emperor Wen and Emperor Xuan are wise and some are despicable.
King Fufeng left behind his love, and King Langxie restrained himself.
Sima Dan was the most flattering and cruel, and Sima Shu participated in public revenge.
Although Sima Qian made concessions, his temperament and rationality were unstable.
The beautiful King Qi Xian is outstanding.
Governing the country by oneself, being both civil and military.
Trees were cut down for their height and orchids were burned for their incense.
