The king of Nanyue, Wei Tuo, was from Zhending and his surname was Zhao.
The Qin State annexed the six countries, captured and pacified Yang Yue, established Guilin, Nanhai and Xiangjun, and resettled the people who had committed crimes and migrated to these places, and lived together with the Yue people for thirteen years.
Wei Tuo was appointed as the magistrate of Longchuan County in Nanhai County during the Qin Dynasty.
During the second year of Qin Dynasty, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai County, fell ill and was about to die. He summoned Zhao Tuo, the commander of Longchuan, and said to him: I heard that Chen Sheng and others had launched a rebellion, and that the Qin Dynasty was pursuing cruel and unjust policies, and the people of the world were resentful of this. Xiang Yu, Liu Bang, Chen Sheng, Wu Guang, etc. all gathered people in their respective states and counties at the same time, formed armies, and fought for the world like tigers. The Central Plains region was in turmoil, and it was unknown when peace would be restored. Heroes betrayed the Qin Dynasty and opposed each other.
Nanhai County is remote and remote, and I am afraid that the bandit army will invade the land. When I attack here, I want to mobilize the army to cut off the newly built road to the Central Plains. I have taken precautions in advance and wait for the changes in the princes. It happens that I am seriously ill.
Let’s talk about Panyu. There are dangerous mountains behind us to rely on, and there is the sea as a barrier to the south. It is thousands of miles away from east to west. We have some Central Plains people to assist us. We can also be the lord of a state and establish a country.
There is no one among the governors of Nanhai County who is worthy of me to study these things with him, so I have summoned you to tell you these things.
Ren Xiao immediately issued an appointment document to Zhao Tuo, asking him to act on behalf of Nanhai County.
After Ren Xiao died, Zhao Tuo sent a message to Hengpu, Yangshan, and Huangxiguan, saying: The bandit army is coming, so we must quickly cut off the road, gather the army, and defend ourselves.
Zhao Tuo took this opportunity to gradually use the law to kill the officials installed by the Qin Dynasty, and use his cronies as acting governors.
After the Qin Dynasty was destroyed, Zhao Tuo attacked and annexed Guilin and Xiangjun, and established himself as King Wu of South Vietnam.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already pacified the world. Because the people in the Central Plains were tired and miserable, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty spared Zhao Tuo and did not kill him.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, he sent Lu Jia to South Vietnam and ordered Zhao Tuo to inherit his title of King of South Vietnam, make an agreement with him, exchange envoys, and let him coordinate Baiyue so that they can live in harmony and not become a scourge to the south of the Han Dynasty. South Vietnam borders Changsha to the north.
During the post-Gao period, officials from relevant departments requested that South Vietnam be prohibited from purchasing ironware in border markets.
Zhao Tuo said: Emperor Gao made me the king of South Vietnam, and the two sides exchanged envoys and supplies. Now Gao Hou listens to the opinions of the slanderers, treats the barbarians as aliens, and cuts off the source of the artifacts we need. This must be the idea of ​​King Changsha. He wants to follow the Han Dynasty in the Central Plains, eliminate South Vietnam, double as the king of South Vietnam, and establish his own merits.
So Zhao Tuo took advantage of the title and called himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue. He sent troops to attack the border cities of Changsha and defeated several counties before leaving.
Empress Gao sent General Longlu Hou Zhou Zao to attack Zhao Tuo.
In the hot and humid climate, most of the soldiers became seriously ill, making it impossible for the army to cross Yangshan Mountains.
More than a year later, Queen Gao died, and the Han army stopped attacking.
Therefore, Zhao Tuo relied on his army to show off his power on the border, and bribed Minyue, Xiou and Luoyue with property to make them all belong to South Vietnam, making his territory more than 10,000 miles long from east to west.
Zhao Tuo actually rode in Huangwu Zuohu's chariot and issued orders as the emperor, which was equal to the status of the Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, when the emperor had just ruled the world, he sent envoys to the princes and the rulers of the barbarians from all over the world to inform them of his intention to come to Beijing from Dai to ascend the throne, and to let them know the emperor's saintly virtues.
So for the tomb of Zhao Tuo's parents in Zhending, a tomb guard was set up, and sacrifices were held on time every year. His cousins ​​were also summoned, and they were given honorable official positions and generous rewards to show their favor.
The emperor ordered Prime Minister Chen Ping to recommend people who could be sent as envoys to South Vietnam. Chen Ping said that Lu Jia, a native of Haochou, had served as envoys to South Vietnam many times during the late emperor's reign.
The emperor summoned Lu Jia, appointed him Taizhong doctor, and went to South Vietnam as an envoy. He took the opportunity to blame Zhao Tuo for proclaiming himself emperor and not sending an envoy to report to the emperor.
When Lu Jia arrived in South Vietnam, the South Vietnamese king Zhao was particularly frightened and wrote an apology to the emperor, saying: The barbarian chief husband Chen Tuo used to isolate and discriminate against South Vietnam. I secretly suspected that the king of Changsha was a slanderous minister. I also heard in this distant place that the high queen killed Zhao Tuo's clan and dug and burned the graves of his ancestors. Therefore, he abandoned himself and invaded the border area of ​​​​Changsha.
Moreover, in the low and humid land in the south, among the barbarians, Minyue in the east only had thousands of people, but they called their ruler king; in the west, naked countries like Xiou and Luoyue also had to call themselves kings.
So I arrogantly stole the emperor's title to comfort myself. How dare I report this to the emperor!
Zhao Tuo kowtowed deeply and apologized, saying that he would remain a vassal minister of the Han Dynasty for a long time and abide by his duty to pay tribute to the emperor.
So Zhao Tuo issued an order to the whole country, saying: I heard that two heroes cannot coexist, and two sages cannot live together in the same world.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was a wise emperor. From now on, I will get rid of the imperial system and will no longer ride in Huangwu Zuohu's car.
Lu Jia returned to Beijing to report the matter, and Emperor Wen of Han was very happy.
Continuing to the era of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Tuo professed his vassalage to the Han Dynasty and sent people to Chang'an to meet the emperor in the spring and autumn.
However, in South Vietnam, Zhao Tuo always stole the title of emperor. He only became king when he sent envoys to meet the emperor, and accepted the emperor's orders just like the princes.
In the fourth year of Jianyuan, Zhao Tuo died.
Zhao Tuo's grandson Zhao Hu became the king of South Vietnam.
At this time, King Ying of Minyue launched a war to attack the border towns of South Vietnam. Zhao Hu sent people to write to the Emperor of Han, saying: South Vietnam and Minyue are both vassals of the Han Dynasty and cannot send troops to attack each other without permission.
Now that Fujian and Yue have invaded me, I dare not send troops to fight. I hope that the emperor will issue an edict to deal with this matter.
So the emperor praised the South Vietnamese for their loyal behavior and abiding by their duties and covenants, sent troops for them, and sent two generals to attack Minyue.
Before the Han army crossed the Yangshan Mountains, Yu Shan, the younger brother of the King of Minyue, killed Ying and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, thus stopping the crusade.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty sent Zhuang Zhu to explain the court's intentions to the King of Nanyue. Zhao Hu kowtowed deeply and said: The emperor sent troops to attack Fujian and Yue for me. Even if I die, I can't repay the emperor's kindness!
Zhao Hu sent Prince Yingqi to the court to serve as a bodyguard.
He then said to Zhuang Zhu: The country has just been invaded by the enemy. Please leave first.
Zhao Hu was preparing his bags day and night to go to the capital to meet the emperor.
After Zhuang Zhu left, his ministers admonished Zhao Hujin and said: The Han Dynasty sent troops to kill Ying, and they also used this action to warn South Vietnam.
Moreover, the late king once said in the past that when serving the emperor, one only hopes not to be rude. The most important thing is not to go to the emperor just because you like to listen to the good words of the messenger.
If you go to court to see the emperor, you will not be able to come back. This is a situation of national subjugation.
So Zhao Hu used illness as an excuse and did not go to see the Emperor of Han in the end.
More than ten years later, Zhao Huzhen became seriously ill, and Prince Yingqi asked to return to the country.
When Zhao Hu died, he was given the posthumous title of King Wen.
After Ying Qi Dai was established as the King of Nanyue, he hid the seal of Emperor Wu of his ancestor.
When Yingqi went to Chang'an to serve as a guard, he took a daughter from Handan's family as his wife and gave birth to a son named Zhao Xing.
When he ascended the throne and became king, he wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, requesting that his wife Xi be made the queen and Zhao Xing be the prince.
The Han Dynasty repeatedly sent envoys to tactfully advise Ying Qi to go to the emperor. Ying Qi liked to kill people arbitrarily and was afraid that if he went to the capital to worship the emperor, he would be forced to follow the laws of the mainland and implement the laws of the Han Dynasty. Therefore, he used illness as an excuse to not go to the emperor and only sent his son Cigong to the capital to serve as a guard.
When Yingqi died, he was given the posthumous title of King Ming.
Prince Zhao Xingdai was established as the King of Nanyue, and his mother became the Queen Mother.
When the Queen Mother was not married to Yingqi as her concubine, she had committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji, a native of Baling.
After Yingqi's death, in the fourth year of Yuanding, the Han Dynasty sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother to go to Beijing to worship the emperor like the princes in the interior. He ordered the debaters to admonish the official Zhongjun and others to publicize this idea, and asked the warrior Wei Chen and others to assist him where they were insufficient. Guard Lu Bode led his troops to garrison in Guiyang, waiting for the envoy.
The King of Nanyue is young, and the Queen Mother is from the Central Plains. She once committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji. This time Anguo Shaoji came to serve as an envoy and committed adultery with her again.
Most people in South Vietnam knew about this, and most of them did not rely on the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother was afraid of unrest and wanted to rely on the power of the Han Dynasty. She repeatedly persuaded the King of Nanyue and his ministers to request to belong to the Han Dynasty.
So he sent a letter to the emperor through an envoy, requesting that the princes in the interior should meet with the emperor once every three years and remove the border barriers.
So the emperor agreed to their request and gave the silver seal to Lu Jia, the prime minister of South Vietnam, and also gave the official seals such as internal history, lieutenant, and master, and the rest of the official positions were placed by South Vietnam himself.
They abolished their previous punishments of tattoos and torture, and used the laws of the Han Dynasty to compare with the princes in the interior.
The envoys stayed to pacify South Vietnam.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother packed their belongings and valuables in preparation for going to Beijing to meet the Emperor.
Lu Jia, the prime minister of South Vietnam, was very old and had assisted three kings. There were more than 70 officials and officials in his clan. The men all married the princess's wives, and the women married the princes and their brothers' clan members. They were related by marriage to the King of Qin in Cangwu County.
His position in South Vietnam is very prominent, and the South Vietnamese people trust him. Many people have become his cronies, surpassing the King of South Vietnam in terms of popular support.
The King of Nanyue wanted to write to the emperor. He repeatedly suggested that the king give up this move, but the King of Nanyue did not listen.
He had the idea of ​​​​treason against the King of Nanyue, and repeatedly excused himself from meeting the Han Dynasty envoys due to illness.
The envoys paid great attention to Lu Jia's words and deeds, but due to the situation, they did not execute Lu Jia.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were also afraid that Lu Jia would be the first to attack, so they arranged a banquet and planned to use the power of the Han Dynasty envoys to kill Lu Jia and others.
At the banquet, the envoys all faced east, the Queen Mother faced south, the king faced north, and Prime Minister Lu Jia and the ministers all faced west, sitting and drinking with them.
Lu Jia's younger brother was a general and led his troops to wait outside the palace.
While drinking, the Queen Mother said to Lu Jia: It is in the interests of the country that South Vietnam belongs to the Han Dynasty, but Prime Minister, you complain that this is not good. Why?
The Queen Mother wanted to anger the Han Dynasty envoy.
The envoy hesitated and did not dare to kill Lu Jia.
Lu Jia saw that the people around him were not his cronies, so he stood up and walked out.
The queen mother got angry and wanted to hit Lu Jia with a spear, but the king stopped her.
Lu Jia went out, divided some of his brother's soldiers, and arranged them around his residence. He refused to meet the king and the envoy because of his illness.
Lu Jia secretly prepared to launch a rebellion with his ministers.
The King of Nanyue had no intention of killing Lu Jia. Lu Jia knew this, so he did not launch a rebellion for several months.
The Queen Mother had engaged in promiscuous behavior and no one in the South Vietnam country would join her. She wanted to kill Lu Jia alone, but she was unable to do it.
The Emperor heard that Lu Jia disobeyed the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were weak and could not control Lu Jia, and the envoys were timid and incapable of decision-making.
He also believed that the king and the queen mother had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and Lu Jia was the only one causing trouble, so it was not worth sending troops. He wanted to send Zhuang Shen and 2,000 people as an envoy to South Vietnam.
Zhuang Shen said: If we go for friendly negotiations, a few people will be enough; if we go for violence, two thousand people can't do much.
Zhuang Shen refused to go, so the emperor dismissed Zhuang Shen from his position.
Han Qianqiu, a strong man from Jiadi and the prime minister of the former King of Jibei, said: "For such a small South Vietnam, the King of South Vietnam and the Queen Mother are acting as internal agents, and only Prime Minister Lu Jia can destroy it. I am willing to get 200 warriors to go to South Vietnam. I will definitely kill Lu Jia and report to the emperor when I come back."
So the emperor sent Han Qianqiu and the Queen Mother's younger brother Zhen Le to lead 2,000 troops to South Vietnam.
They entered South Vietnam, and the people of Lu Jia finally rebelled and issued an order to the people of South Vietnam: The king is young, the queen mother is Chinese, and she had an affair with the envoys of the Han Dynasty. She wanted to belong to the Han Dynasty. She took all the treasures and valuables of the late king and presented them to the Han emperor to flatter the Han emperor. He took many of his followers with him, went to Chang'an, and sold them to the Han people as servants.
She only wanted to gain the temporary benefits of her escape, and did not take into account the Zhao family's national power, nor did she intend to plan for the permanent plan for future generations.
So Lu Jia and his brother led troops to attack and kill the King of Nanyue, the Queen Mother and the Han Dynasty envoy.
He also sent people to inform King Cangwu of Qin and officials in various counties and counties that Shuyanghou Zhao Jiande, the son of King Ming's eldest son and his wife of South Vietnamese nationality, would be the King of South Vietnam.
At this time, Han Qianqiu's army entered South Vietnam and captured several small towns.
After that, the South Vietnamese simply moved out of the way and provided food and drink, allowing Han Qianqiu's army to advance smoothly. When they reached a place forty miles away from Panyu, the South Vietnamese attacked Han Qianqiu and others with troops, and wiped them all out.
Lu Jia had the Han Dynasty envoy's talisman packed in a wooden box, sealed it, placed it on the border fortress, said some nice and deceptive words to apologize to the Han Dynasty, and at the same time sent troops to guard key places.
So the emperor said: Although Han Qianqiu did not succeed, he was still worthy of being a pioneer among soldiers.
The emperor granted Han Qianqiu's son Han Yannian the title of Marquis of Cheng'an.
Zun Le, his sister was the Queen Mother, she was first willing to belong to the Han Dynasty, so Zun Le's son Guangde was granted the title of Longkanghou.
The emperor issued an edict of pardon and said: "The emperor is declining and the princes are trying their best to conquer the traitors. People will ridicule the ministers for not knowing how to punish the traitors."
Now Lu Jia, Zhao Jiande and others have rebelled, and they can safely proclaim themselves kings. I ordered the criminals and the sailors south of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, a total of 100,000 people, to attack them.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuan Ding, Weiwei Lu Bode became General Fubo and led his troops out of Guiyang and went straight down to the Huishui River; Lieutenant Yang Pu, the Lord Commander, became the general of the building and ship, left Yuzhang and went straight down to Hengpu; two people who had returned to the Han Dynasty and were made marquises A South Vietnamese man became General Ge Chuan and General Xia Li and led his troops out of Lingling. Then one army went straight to Lishui and the other to Cangwu. He asked Chiyihou to use the sinners of Bashu to mobilize Yelang's soldiers and go straight to the Zoke River. In the end, they all met up in Panyu.
In the winter of the sixth year of Yuanding, General Lou Chuan led his elite troops to first capture Xunshan, then broke through Shimen, paid the warships and grain of South Vietnam, took the opportunity to advance forward, defeated the vanguard of South Vietnam, and led tens of thousands of troops to wait for General Fubo.
General Fubo led the pardoned sinners. The road was far away, and the date of rendezvous happened to be missed. Therefore, only more than a thousand people joined General Louchuan, so they moved forward together.
General Lou Chuan was in front and fought straight to Panyu.
Zhao Jiande and Lu Jia were both defending in the city.
General Louchuan chose a favorable place to garrison in the southeast of Panyu; General Fubo garrisoned in the northwest of Panyu.
Just when it was dark, General Lou Chuan attacked and defeated the South Vietnamese and set fire to Panyu City.
The South Vietnamese have heard the name of General Fubo in normal times, but now that it's dark, they don't know how many troops he has.
General Fubo set up camp, sent envoys to summon those who surrendered, gave them official seals, and then sent them back to recruit others.
General Lou Chuan fought hard and burned the enemy, but drove the rebels into General Fubo's camp to surrender.
At dawn, all the enemy soldiers in the city surrendered to General Fubo.
Lu Jia and Zhao Jiande had fled into the sea with hundreds of their subordinates at night and took a boat to the west.
General Fubo took the opportunity to ask the South Vietnamese nobles who had surrendered, and then he knew Lu Jia's whereabouts and sent people to hunt him down.
Su Hong, a former school captain who is now an officer of General Fubo, captured Zhao Jiande and was named Chang Haihou; Nanyue native Lang Guan Duji captured Lu Jia and was named Lincai Marquis.
Zhao Guang, King of Cangwu, had the same surname as the King of Nanyue. Hearing that the Han Dynasty troops had arrived, the Jieyang County magistrate named Ding of Nanyue decided to join the Han Dynasty. Weng, the governor of Guilin County in Nanyue, informed Ou Luo to surrender to the Han Dynasty. They were all sealed.
Before the troops of General Ge Chuan and General Xia Li, as well as the Yelang army so called mobilized by Marquis Chiyi, had arrived, South Vietnam had been pacified.
So the Han Dynasty established nine counties here.
General Fubo increased the number of fiefs, and General Louchuan's army broke through the enemy's strong defense, so he was granted the title of General Lianghou.
After Zhao Tuo first became king, the Kingdom of Nanyue was destroyed for five generations, a total of ninety-three years.
Tai Shigong said: Wei Tuo became the king of Nanyue because of Ren Xiao's promotion and persuasion.
Just as the Han Dynasty was initially stabilized, he was made a prince.
Longluhou led his troops to attack South Vietnam. They encountered a hot and humid climate. Many of the soldiers were infected with diseases and were unable to march, which made Zhao Tuo even more proud.
Due to mutual attacks with Ou Luo, South Vietnam's national power was shaken.
The Han Dynasty's army pressed on the territory, and the South Vietnamese prince Yingqi had to go to Chang'an to serve as a guard.
Later, South Vietnam fell, and the sign was that Yingqi married a daughter of the Hu family. Lu Jia's small loyalty caused Zhao Tuo to cut off the heir to the throne.
The general of the building and ship indulged his desires and became lazy, arrogant, dissolute and chaotic. General Fubo's ambitions were not in his favor, and he became more and more resourceful and thoughtful, which was a blessing in disguise.
It can be seen that the transition between success and failure is as unpredictable as Jiu Mo.
