Empress Gao, of the Lu family, was the mother of Emperor Hui and assisted Emperor Gaozu in pacifying the realm. After Emperor Hui ascended, she became the Queen Mother. She arranged for her granddaughter, the daughter of Princess Lu Yuan, to be the Queen, who had no children, so a son from a harem beauty was made prince. Upon Emperor Hui's death, this prince became emperor, but due to his youth, Empress Dowager Lu ruled in his stead, granting amnesty and promoting her relatives: four of her brother's sons were made kings, and six others were made princes.

In the first year of her reign, she abolished harsh laws and rewarded the people. She established officials to encourage filial piety. In the second year, she ordered merit rankings for princes to be preserved in the ancestral temple. Natural events occurred: earthquakes, solar eclipses, and floods. In the fourth year, the young emperor, aware he was not the Queen's biological son, complained and was imprisoned. The Empress Dowager replaced him with Liu Hong, King of Hengshan. In the fifth year, Wei Tuo, King of Nanyue, declared himself emperor. In the sixth year, there was a general amnesty and construction at Changling. The Xiongnu invaded in the seventh year, and several kings died or were imprisoned. In the eighth year, Empress Lu died in Weiyang Palace.

After her death, Lu Lu and Lu Chan, holding military and political power, plotted rebellion. Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, son of King Qi, learned of this and coordinated with his brother, King Qi, and officials Zhou Bo and Chen Ping to counter them. King Qi raised an army, and General Guan Ying, sent to stop him, instead allied with him. Zhou Bo, using deception, gained control of the Northern Army by tricking Lu Lu into surrendering his command. Lu Chan, attempting a coup, was killed by Liu Zhang. The Lu family was then exterminated. The ministers, believing the young emperor and his brothers were not Emperor Hui's sons, killed them and enthroned Emperor Wen. Ban Gu noted that under Empress Gao, the world was peaceful, with reduced warfare and punishments, allowing the people to prosper in farming.