Emperor Guangwu had eleven sons: Queen Guo gave birth to King Gong of Donghai Liu Qiang, King of Peixian Liu Fu, King An of Jinan Liu Kang, King Zhi of Fuling Liu Yan, King Jian of Zhongshan Liu Yan.
◆In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Prince Gong of Donghai, Liu Qiang, made his mother Guo the queen and Liu Qiang the crown prince.
In the seventeenth year, Empress Guo was deposed. Liu Qiang was worried and uneasy. He expressed his wish to the kings many times and expressed his willingness to prepare the country of Fan.
Emperor Guangwu couldn't bear it, so he was slow to answer, and it took several years before he agreed.
In the 19th year, Liu Qiang was named the King of East China Sea. Twenty-eight years later, we arrived at the fiefdom.
The emperor believed that Liu Qiang was deposed not because of his own fault, but because he was polite when he went there, so he gave preferential treatment to Dafeng and also took control of Yilu County, a total of twenty-nine counties.
He was also given a tiger head, and there were bells and drums in the palace, as well as riding horses.
When Liu Qiang arrived at the fiefdom, he wrote several times to return the East China Sea, and asked the crown prince to resolutely resign.
The emperor did not agree. He sighed with deep approval and showed Liu Qiang's memorial to the ministers.
At first, King Lu Gong liked to build palaces and built the Lingguang Palace, which was very magnificent and still existed at this time. Therefore, the emperor issued an edict to let Liu Qiang make Lu his capital.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he entered the imperial court and followed the emperor to grant Zen to Mount Tai, so he stayed in the capital.
In the spring of the next year, the emperor died.
In winter, Liu Qiang returned to his fief.
In the first year of Yongping, Liu Qiang fell ill. Chang Shidun of the Xian sect ordered the imperial physician to take a post car to see a doctor. He ordered King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Kang of Jinan, and King Liu Yan of Huaiyang to wait for Lu.
When Liu Qiang died, he thanked him on his deathbed and said: "I have been blessed by God to be a supporter of Tibet. I have received special support from two countries. I have been given the courtesy and music in the palace. Everything is different. My great virtues are immeasurable, but I have never repaid you."
However, he was careless in self-cultivation, fell ill for many years, and was worried about by the court.
The Empress Dowager and Your Majesty took pity on me and were moved in their hearts. They sent envoys and imperial doctors several times to order the Prime Minister to use tricks and techniques.
Whenever I think of kindness, I don’t know what to say.
The ministers self-examined themselves, their strength was weak, and they became increasingly sleepy day and night. In the end, they no longer saw the imperial palace, flattered the curtains, failed to live up to the emperor's great kindness, and had to hate Jiuquan.
Since I am short-lived and lonely, and my Majesty the Queen Mother is worried, I feel really sad and ashamed.
His son, Liu Zheng, was originally a villain. After becoming an intruder, it would definitely not be the best way to benefit all.
My heart is willing to return it to Donghai County.
Tianen sympathized with his ministers, thinking that he did not have many sons, and arranged for his three daughters to be marquises of small countries. This was a personal plot of his own, and Tianen did not dare to forget it.
Today is the time when Emperor Guangwu is about to pass away. I only hope that Your Majesty will make more efforts to support the Empress Dowager and enjoy her royal meals.
The minister is strong, trapped and weak, and his words cannot fully convey his meaning.
I hope to thank the kings, but I didn't expect that Cheng would never see each other again.
The emperor was very sad after reading the book, and the queen mother went out to Jinmen Pavilion to express her condolences.
The chief minister, Kongzhijie, was sent to guard the funeral. Dahong, his deputy, and Zongzheng, the general, were the chief craftsmen. They treated the funeral as a special ceremony and presented them with special etiquette: rising dragons, jiaotou, luan chariots, dragons, and tigers.
The king of Chu Liu Ying, the king of Zhao Liu Xu, the king of Beihai Liu Xing, Princess Guantao, Princess Biyang and the wives of the four surnames of Jing Qi and Xiaohou all came to attend the funeral.
The emperor recalled that Liu Qiang was very modest and frugal and did not want to be buried lavishly to violate his wishes, so he issued a special edict to Du Cen and Donghai Fu Xiang: "The king is courteous and courteous, and he lives his life with virtue. The things he sends are kept in accordance with the rules, the clothes can be kept in shape, and the carriages and pottery are kept within the limits, in order to commend the king's unique ambition."
A great craftsman will be left to build a mausoleum and temple. Liu Qiangli is eighteen years old and is thirty-four years old. Liu Zheng, the king of Zijing, was the heir.
◆The biography of Peixian King Liu Fu, Liu Fu was granted the title of Duke Youyi in the fifteenth year of Jianwu.
In the seventeenth year, Empress Guo was deposed as the Empress Dowager of Zhongshan, so Liu Fu moved to become the King of Zhongshan and took control of Changshan County.
Twenty years later, he was granted the title of King of Pei.
At that time, the forbidden net was still sparse, and all the kings were in the capital, vying for reputation and vying to treat guests from all over. Shouguang Hou Liu Li, the son of Emperor Gengshi, was favored by Liu Fu.
Liu Li complained that Liu Penzi had killed his father, and through the guests Liu Fu befriended, he reported the death of Liu Penzi's brother, the Marquis Liu Gong. Liu Fu was imprisoned and was released after three days.
From then on, the kings and guests were punished frequently and acted according to the law.
Twenty-eight years later, we arrived at the fiefdom.
In the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Liu Bao, the son of Liu Fu, was granted the title of Peihou.
In the first year of Yongping, Liu Jia, Liu Bao's younger brother, was granted the title of Tonghou.
Liu Fu was a dignified and disciplined man who loved classics. He was good at expounding the "Jing Shiyi", "The Classic of Filial Piety", "The Analects" and prophecies. He wrote the "Treatise on the Five Classics", which was called "Pei Wang Tong Lun" at that time.
He is cautious, disciplined and consistent in his fiefdom, and is called a wise king. Xianzong respected him and rewarded him several times. Liu Fuli died in the forty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Ding, king of Li, was his heir. ◆In the biography of King Liu Ying of Chu, Liu Ying was granted the title of Duke of Chu in the fifteenth year of Jianwu. In the seventeenth year of his reign, he was promoted to the title of king. In the twenty-eighth year of his reign, he became a fief.
His mother, Mrs. Xu, had never been favored, so Liu Ying was the poorest and youngest in the country.
In the 30th year, the emperor added the two counties of Linhuai and Xuchang to the Chu State.
Since Xianzong became Taizong, Liu Ying often attached himself to the prince alone, and the prince loved him very much.
When the prince came to the throne, he was rewarded several times.
In the first year of Yongping, Xuchang, Liu Ying's brother-in-law, was granted the title of Longshu Hou.
When Liu Ying was young, she was fond of wandering and socializing with guests. In her later years, she was even more fond of Huangdi and Laozi, and studied Buddhism, fasting, and sacrifices.
For eight years, it was decreed that all people in the world who had committed capital crimes could atone for their sins.
Liu Ying sent his lieutenant to bring thirty pieces of yellow silk and white silk to the Prime Minister and said: "I remember that I have done many wrongs in Fanfu. I am very happy to be so kind. I will give you this silk silk to atone for my sins."
The Prime Minister reports to the superior. The edict stated: The King of Chu recited the subtle words of Huangdi and Laozi, liked the Ren Temple of Buddhism, and swore an oath to the gods in the third month of Xie Zhai. Why should there be any suspicion or regret?
He returned the silk he handed over to help the monk who lived nearby prepare a feast for him.
So the class showed it to the masters of various countries.
Later, Liu Ying made friends with alchemists, made golden tortoises and jade cranes, and carved inscriptions as talismans.
In the thirteenth year, a man, Yan Guang, accused Liu Ying, Wang Ping, Yan Zhong and others of Yuyang of fabricating books with the intention of treason, and the case was submitted to trial.
An official reported that Liu Ying had recruited cunning people, concocted prophecies, was good at ministering to officials, and set up princes, princes, and generals with two thousand stones, and was extremely treasonous, so he requested that he be killed.
The emperor felt that the kiss could not be tolerated, so he deposed Liu Ying, moved to Danyang Jing County, and granted Tang Muyi 500 households.
Dahong was sent to escort him with integrity, and his servants and servants were encouraged to accompany him. He was also allowed to ride in a clothing cart, hold a crossbow, and go hunting on the road, hoping to find happiness for himself.
If a man and a woman are the lords of the marquis, the food and land will remain the same.
The Queen Mother of Chu does not need to hand over the seal and ribbon, and can stay in the Chu Palace.
The next year, Liu Ying arrived in Danyang and committed suicide.
Thirty-three years after the founding of the country, the country was eliminated.
The emperor issued an edict to send Dr. Guanglu to pay homage to the temple, give him gifts according to the law, and give seals and ribbons to the princes, and he was buried in Jing with the rites of princes.
He sent Zhonghuangmen to guard his wife.
All the officials who moved out of Chu were speechless.
The imperial edict was sent to Empress Dowager Xu: The country has heard about the affairs of Chu State and hopes that he will not be like this.
Having found out the truth, he felt anxious and uneasy in his heart. He wanted to forgive him and save his body so that he could live to an old age, but Wang did not care about the Queen Mother and died of his own accord.
This is destiny, there is nothing we can do!
The Queen Mother was young and weak and could barely increase her diet.
It is human nature to make a wish for the king to be rich and noble. He has issued an edict to drive out those who participated in the rebellion and ordered An Tianzhai to be settled.
So Yan Guang was granted the title of Zhejiao Hou.
The Chu prison was dragged on for several years, and those who were implicated in their words included relatives from the capital, heroes from the princes, prefectures and counties, officials who examined cases, and subordinates who flattered each other. Thousands of them committed capital crimes and were exiled to the army.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor visited Pengcheng and saw Empress Dowager Xu and Liu Yingzi in the inner hall. They were crying sadly and moved everyone around.
In the second year of Jianchu's reign, Emperor Suzong made Liu Ying's son the Marquis of Chu, and his five younger brothers were all Marquises of Lieutenant, and no ministers or officials were allowed.
◆The biography of Liu Kang, King An of Jinan, Liu Kang was granted the title of Duke of Jinan in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, became a king in the seventeenth year, and became a fief in the twenty-eighth year.
In the 30th year, the imperial court added the six counties of Zhua, Ande, Chaoyang, Pingchang, Xiyin, and Chongqiu in the plains to the Kingdom of Jinan.
In the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Liu De, Liu Kang's son, was granted the title of Marquis of Dongwu City.
Liu Kang did not abide by the laws and socialize with guests in the fiefdom.
Later, someone wrote a letter to accuse Liu Kang of recruiting Yuyang Yanzhong, Liu Zichan, etc., who were cunning and cunning people from the prefecture and county. They also sent a lot of silk and case books to conspire against him.
The case was investigated and a court official reported it. Xianzong thought it was because of relatives and could not bear to get to the bottom of the matter, so he only eliminated Zhua and other five counties. In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Suzong returned the lost land. Liu Yong increased his wealth, overhauled his palace, raised 1,400 slaves, raised 1,200 horses in stables, and had 800 hectares of private land. He was extravagant and indulgent, and he also traveled without restraint.
In the early years of the Yongyuan Dynasty, He Chang, the governor of the state, came to Liu Kangdao to admonish him: I heard that the original meaning of the princes is to exercise restraint and restrain themselves, and then they can protect their territory and live in harmony with their people.
The king is a relative of flesh and blood and enjoys eating thatched soil. He should issue political orders and clarify the laws. There should be timetables for entry and exit, and there should be regulations for traveling with horses and clergy.
But now there are more than a thousand slaves, maids, stables, and horses, adding useless bits for self-cannibalization.
The maidservants were locked inside, losing their nature and becoming confused and harmonious.
Many inner houses violated the prohibition, the cost was huge, and the construction was less than half.
Too much literature will lead to lack of substance, and too many civil works will kill people. These are not ways to carry forward the rites and spread endless blessings.
Therefore, Chu built the Zhanghua Palace and suffered disaster; King Wu built the Gusu Terrace and the country was destroyed; Qi Jinggong raised a thousand horses, but the people did not praise him.
Now I am traveling to various places, without restraint in the morning and evening. It is not a way to take precautions before things happen, and to be in deep trouble.
May the king cultivate the virtues of courtesy and frugality, abide by the ancient system, reduce the number of slaves and maidservants, save the number of horses, eliminate the wealth of private fields, travel and watch feasts, and live according to etiquette, then I can dare to feel at ease and protect myself. King hope thinks deeply about foolish words.
Liu Kang had always respected He Chang, and although he had no resistance, he could never change his ways. Liu Kangli died in the fifty-ninth year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Cuo, King Jian.
◆The biography of Dongping Xian Wang Liu Cang, Liu Cang, was named Dongping Gong in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, and became the king in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Liu Cang was fond of reading scriptures when he was young, and he was quite intelligent. He had a good beard and a thick waist. Xianzong loved him very much.
After he ascended the throne, he was granted the title of General of Hussars and appointed forty chief historians, ranking above the Three Dukes.
In the first year of Yongping, the two sons of Feng Cang were appointed as Xuanhou.
In the second year, Shouzhang and Xuchang of Dongjun and Pingyang, Nang and Huling counties of Nanshanyang were added to Dongping Kingdom.
At this time, it had been more than 30 years since the ZTE, and there were no worries in the four directions. Liu Cang believed that the world was in peace, and rituals and music should be cultivated, so he and his ministers jointly agreed on the system of crowns, carriages and uniforms in the northern and southern suburbs, and the number of eight-hundred-meter dances in Guangwu Temple, which he wrote in "Rituals and Music" and "Yu Fu Zhi".
Every time the emperor went on a hunting tour, Liu Cang often stayed behind to guard the empress dowager.
In the spring of the fourth year, the emperor drove out to inspect the houses in the city. Soon he heard that he was going to Hanoi for hunting. Liu Cang wrote to dissuade him, saying: "I heard that the season is in season and farming is very busy in the peak spring, so we should not gather people to make meritorious deeds."
Ancient books say: If there is no place to stay in the field while hunting, no food and drink to enjoy, and no regularity in going in and out, then the trees will not be straight.
This is the practice of losing the spring order.
I know that the chariot is out today, and the affairs are from the province. Wherever it passes, the officials recite the virtues of "Gantang".
Even so, the actions are not in accordance with etiquette and are not a demonstration for everyone.
I hope that your majesty will patrol the fields, look at the crops, pretend to be distant, and return according to the festival.
In the autumn and winter, it is only then that the spirit is revitalized, the Dharma is rectified, the Zhou guards are prepared, and the feathers are set up.
The Book of Songs says: Suppressing dignity is the corner of virtue.
I couldn't help but worry in my heart, so I wrote in my own handwriting, begging to express my sincerity wherever Your Majesty arrives.
After the emperor saw it, he immediately returned to the palace.
Liu Cang had been in the government for several years and had done many useful things. However, he felt that he was personally assisting the government and his reputation was getting higher and higher day by day. He felt a little uneasy, so he went to Shu and asked to be reinstated.
A common man never forgets the kindness of a basket of rice. Kuang Chen, who is in the position of prime minister, has a sense of brotherhood.
He should die in the wild and set an example for all officials, but he is stupid and stubborn, and he is sick. He is indeed ashamed to bear the responsibility and insults the position of assistant general. He will be satirized by the poet "Three Hundred Red Fus".
Now that the area is safe and there are no warnings in the remote areas, it is the time to abide by the highest virtue and govern by doing nothing. Civilian officials can still be included in the province, but military posts should not be added.
In ancient times, Xiang was granted the title of Youbi by Shun and was not involved in political affairs. Because of the deep love of the king, he could not bear to expose his evildoings.
Not forgetting the past is a good example for the future.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, no descendants of the clan have held high positions in public affairs.
I hope that your majesty will review Yu Shun's approach to raising his mother and brother, abide by the old rules, and die with kindness in the end.
Please give me the seal of the hussar general and retreat to your own fiefdom, hoping to receive love and mercy.
Emperor You didn't listen to the edict.
After that, I presented it many times and my words were very sincere.
He was allowed to return to the country after five years, but he did not receive the general's seal.
The chief minister of Qingqi was appointed Taifu of Dongping, Peng was appointed as the middle official, and Lingshi was appointed as Wang Jialang.
Give an additional 50 million yuan and 100,000 pieces of cloth.
In the winter of the sixth year, the emperor visited the state of Lu and summoned Liu Cang to follow him back to the capital.
The next year, the Queen Mother died.
After the burial, Liu Cang returned to his fiefdom. The emperor gave him 500 slaves, 250,000 pieces of cloth, and precious clothing and utensils.
In the eleventh year, Liu Cang and the capitals of various dynasties.
After more than a month, I returned to China.
When the emperor was sent back to the palace, he missed him sadly, so he sent an envoy with an imperial edict to paint the king Fu Dao: After saying goodbye, he felt unhappy sitting alone, so he came back by car, leaned on the crossbar in front of the car and recited a poem: Looking forward forever, it really works my heart, and I recite "Cai Shu" to increase my sighs.
Some time ago, I asked King Dongping how happy he was at home. The king said that doing good deeds is the happiest. His words were loud and spoke deep in his heart.
Nineteen princes' seals are now given to the princes. Princes over five years old who are able to worship are asked to bring them with them.
In the spring of the 15th year, the emperor visited Dongping and gave Liu Cang 15 million yuan and 40,000 pieces of cloth.
The emperor showed Liu Cang his work "The Chronicles of Guangwu", and Liu Cang wrote "Ode to Guangwu's Death".
The emperor thought it was very good and the article was very elegant, so he specially ordered the school secretary Jia Kui to make annotations.
When Suzong came to the throne, his respect and kindness to Liu Cang exceeded that of previous generations. No one among the kings could compare with him.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, there was an earthquake. Liu Cang wrote a letter and talked about several things, but they were kept in the ban.
The emperor replied: I personally read several things mentioned in Bingyin's letter and repeated them several times. My mind is enlightened and I seem to understand a lot.
Normally, officials would say this when reporting on matters, but their wisdom was shallow and short-sighted. Some people said that if this was the case, it would be wrong to consider it.
Why? Disasters happen because of politics.
Now after the Yuan Dynasty, there is famine and the people are scattered. This is caused by my poor virtue.
In addition, the drought in winter and spring was severe and the area was very wide. Even if it was used internally to overcome the responsibilities, it was unclear how to deal with it.
After getting the king's profound advice, I quickly understood it.
Didn't "The Book of Songs" say: Before I see a gentleman, I am worried; when I see a gentleman, my heart is filled with worry.
I thought of some of your good ideas and decided to follow them in order, hoping to get good retribution.
In recognition of your virtue, I will give you five million yuan.
Later, the emperor wanted to build a county for Yuanling and Xianjie Ling. Liu Cang heard about it and hurriedly sent a message: I heard that you will build Guoyi for the two mausoleums. I thought it was just hearsay and it was not true. Recently, I sent the official Guba to visit Princess Niyang's illness. When the envoy came back, I learned that the edict had been issued.
I have seen Emperor Guangwu personally fulfill the virtue of frugality, and I have a deep understanding of the difference between persistence and diligence. In terms of burial system, the construction of the mausoleum is based on classical principles. The edict said: It is not a mountain mausoleum.
Emperor Xiaoming's great filial piety did not violate the teachings and implemented them conscientiously.
As for what he created, he was particularly frugal and modest in his virtues, which reached its peak.
The ministers were foolish and thought that the construction of the garden city started with the strengthening of the Qin Dynasty.
In ancient times, there were no graves but tombs because they didn’t want them to be conspicuous, let alone building a city or a capital!
Going against the late emperor's sacred heart, constructing useless projects, wasting state funds, and shaking the hearts of the people are not ways to bring peace and prosperity.
In terms of the number of good and bad fortunes, I don't want to repair the tombs for no reason, and there will be a rise. The ancient methods are not consistent, and the current investigation is against people's hearts. Looking for good or bad luck does not bring blessings.
Your Majesty fulfills the supreme nature of Emperor Shun and pursues the deep thoughts of your ancestors, but you are afraid of making negative comments that may harm your Sacred Heart.
Chen Cang did hurt the beauty of the pure virtue of the two emperors, and it was not smooth to the infinite.
Just want your viewing.
The emperor obeyed and stopped doing anything.
From then on, when there were suspicious political matters in the court, they would send fast horses to seek advice.
Liu Cang answered the questions wholeheartedly, and all of them were adopted and applied.
In the third year, the emperor had guards in the Nangong, and Liu Cang visited the Yetingchi Pavilion from the empress. The emperor saw the utensils used by the Queen Mother Yin in the old days, and showed a sad look on his face, so he ordered to keep one piece of clothes for each of the five seasons, and a total of fifty bundles of clothes for daily wear. The rest were given to the princes and their descendants in the capital in varying numbers.
A special letter was given to Liu Cang and Liu Jing, the king of Langyi: The middle-level official was envoyed and heard the news personally, and he was praised endlessly.
The years pass quickly, and the mountains and hills gradually become distant, and I feel lonely and sad. However, I recently visited the Nangong Palace, saw old clothes, and heard the teacher say: When things exist, people die. Don’t express sorrow but mourn naturally.
Indeed.
Thinking of Wang Xiaoyou's virtue, isn't it like this?
Now I have sent to Queen Guanglie a piece of fake silk scarf and a bundle of clothes. You can look at them from time to time, to comfort the cold spring of "Kaifeng", and also to enable future generations to see the making of clothes.
Nowadays, the Kong family of Lu State still has Zhongni chariots and hats, which shows that the virtuous person's reputation will last for generations to come.
Emperor Guangwu's uniforms were given to various countries in the second year of Zhongyuan, so they will no longer be given away.
He also sent a horse with blood flowing out from the small hole in its front.
I have often heard that Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sang the praises of Pegasus and made him sweat, but now I saw it with my own eyes.
At present, the rebel soldiers are still stationed in the camp, and the general is away. He is worried and worried, and there is no day for peace and quiet.
May the king cherish your spirit and provide it with your heart.
The bitter words are enough to stop, and the longing is like thirst.
In the winter of the sixth year, Liu Cang went to court to ask for help.
In the first month of the second year, the emperor agreed.
The special gift is twelve million, and the other kings each have ten million.
The emperor thought that the weather was cold and dew, so he sent an audience to give him mink fur, as well as food and fruits for the eunuchs, so that Dahong and Dou stubbornly greeted him in the suburbs.
The emperor personally walked through the residence, prepared curtains and beds, and had all the money, silk and utensils fully prepared.
The edict read: "The Book of Rites" says that my uncle returned to Ningnai, and the "Book of Songs" says that my uncle Jian'er Yuanzi, this is extremely respectful.
In the past, Xiangguo Xiao treated loyal and virtuous people preferentially.
Not to mention respecting those who are close to relatives!
The four kings of Pei, Jinan, Dongping and Zhongshan are not even praised by their names.
After Liu Cang arrived, he went to the palace and bowed, and the emperor personally answered the ceremony.
From now on, when all the kings enter the palace, they will greet them with cars, and they will not get off until they reach the provincial pavilion.
Liu Cang felt that he was uneasy after receiving a favor, so he thanked him and said: "I heard that the nobles have constant respect, and the humble have equal prestige. The humble and the high are ranked in order, and the superiors and inferiors are justified."
Your Majesty is extremely virtuous and shows kindness to your flesh and blood. Not only do you offer gifts to the court, you can see the heavenly rituals at your fingertips, but you also personally bow down to the supreme dignity and pay tribute to your ministers. Every time you have a banquet, you often change your appearance, and you pay homage in person in the palace. There are allusions to this. The minister was very frightened and indeed felt uneasy. Every time he saw me, he was so humble that he didn't know where to put his hands and feet.
This is not a way to set an example for the subordinates and appease the ministers.
The emperor sighed after reading the memorial and became even more complimentary.
According to the old code, all the princes and daughters were granted the title of village head, and only Liu Cang's five daughters were granted the title of county princess.
In March, Dahonglu sent all the kings back to the country. The emperor specially stayed with Liu Cang and gave him a secretary, a map of immortals, and Taoist secrets.
After finishing drinking in August, a minister sent Cang back to his country, and then he agreed.
The emperor wrote an edict to Liu Cang and said: It is true that people of flesh and blood do not feel close to each other due to distance, but seeing colors several times brings back the feelings of the past.
I remember that the king has been working outside for a long time, and wants to go back to the court to rest. He wants to sign Dahonglu's memorial, but he can't bear to write. He wants to be awarded Xiaohuangmen, and he feels so sad in the heart that he can't speak.
So we saw him off in a car and said goodbye with tears.
He was also given chariots and chariots to serve the emperor, precious treasures and horses, and hundreds of millions of money and cloth.
When Liu Cang returned home and fell ill, the emperor sent the imperial doctor on a fast horse, and the small yellow gate called for help, and envoys were constantly coming and going.
He also set up a post horse thousands of miles away to ask about Liu Cang's daily life.
Liu Cang died in the first month of the second year, and he issued an edict to Zhongfu, sealing the memorials and the books, notes, rhymes, poems, seven-character poems, idioms, and poems written by Liu Cang since the founding of the Wu Dynasty, and collecting them for reading.
Da Honglu was sent to observe the festival, Wu Guan Zhonglang was appointed as the deputy supervisor of the funeral, and a total of six people were appointed as envoys. He ordered all the princes and kings of the four surnames to gather in Dongping for the funeral, and gave him a total of 100 million yuan and 90,000 pieces of cloth.
When he was buried, Ce wrote: In the third month of the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor said: "Prince Pixian is a diligent member of the royal family. He personally received Ce's order, which was revealed in the previous life."
When he came to serve as the assistant to Fan, he was cautious and virtuous, and he was polite and courteous. Fu Wen was the subordinate.
God doesn't have eyes and doesn't repay kindness, leaving me alone morning and night, without an end.
Today, the imperial edict has been issued by the Ministry of Justice to grant the king a chariot, a chariot, a horse, nine dragons and hundreds of tigers to accompany him on his journey.
Who can receive this favor but my King Xian!
If the soul has a spirit, it will keep this favor and honor.
Alas! Forty-five years after Liu Cang was established, his son Huai Wang Liu Zhongsi. In the second year, the emperor divided the Dongping Kingdom and granted Liu Shang, Liu Zhong's younger brother, the title of King of Rencheng, and the remaining five were named marquises.
◆The biography of Liu Shang, the filial king of Rencheng, Liu Shang, the filial king of Rencheng, was granted the title in the first year of Yuanhe, and he ate the three counties of Rencheng, Kangfu and Fan. He died in the eighteenth year of his reign and was succeeded by Liu An, the king of Zizhen.
◆Liu Yanzhuan, the pledge king of Fuling, Liu Yan, the pledge king of Fuling, was granted the title of Duke of Huaiyang in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, became a king in the seventeenth year, and went to the fiefdom in the twenty-eighth year.
In the 30th year, the imperial court placed the four counties of Changping, Xihua, Xinyang and Fule in Runan under the Huaiyang Kingdom.
Liu Yan was arrogant and extravagant by nature and treated his subordinates harshly.
During the Yongping period, someone wrote to Liu Yan, his brother Xie, and his sister, Princess Guantao's son-in-law Han Guang, to recruit cunning people to make prophecies and offer sacrifices in temples.
The case was handed over for examination, and Han Guang and Xie were killed. Their confessions were implicated, and there were many capital crimes and emigrations.
A superior petitioned for Liu Yan's death. Emperor Xianzong believed that Liu Yan's crime was less serious than that of Liu Ying, the king of Chu, so he specially extended his favor and granted him the title of King of Fuling instead, giving him the salary of two counties.
Liu Yan had already moved to a feudal state, and he held grudges several times.
During the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, someone accused Liu Yan and his son Liu Li of treason. Someone asked Liu Yan to be summoned in a carriage to Tingwei to be imprisoned.
Suzong issued an edict: The king committed treason and injustice last time, and the circumstances were as serious as those of Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai of the Zhou Dynasty, and Huainan of the Han Dynasty.
The scriptures have justice, and the laws have clear punishments.
The late emperor couldn't bear the kindness of a kiss, and he violated the law and suffered it for the king. Everyone in the crowd was puzzled.
Now the king has no intention of repentance, his rebellious heart has not changed, and the rebellion has been broken from within, starting with his son Li, which is indeed not what this dynasty likes to hear.
I feel sorry for you and cannot bear to punish the king. Now I am demoting you to the title of Marquis of Fuling and taking the salary of a county.
This kind of sin was brought upon himself, so be warned!
The crimes of Liu Yi and others were pardoned and no investigation was carried out. An emissary was sent to guard Liu Yan's country and they were not allowed to interact with the officials.
In the first year of Zhanghe, the emperor visited Jiujiang and gave Liu Yan a letter and a chariot to meet him in Shouchun.
The emperor looked at Liu Yan and his wife and children, and felt very sad, so he issued an edict: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty had a thousand and eight hundred nobility titles, and half of them were surnamed Ji, in order to consolidate the royal family.
On my southern tour this time, I headed towards the Huaihe and Haihai areas, intending to stop at Fuling, so I met with the marquis. Seeing Hou Zhiyi decline and his body not as good as before, I felt very sad, happy and sad at the same time.
Now the restored prince is the king of Fuling, and four more counties have been enfeoffed, adding to the previous five counties.
◆In the biography of Liu Jing, the Si King of Guangling, Liu Jing was granted the title of Duke of Shanyang in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, and became the king in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Liu Jing has an impatient, insidious and harmful personality. He is talented and likes grammar.
After the death of Emperor Guangwu, the coffin was in the front hall. Liu Jing cried but did not mourn. Instead, he wrote a flying letter, sealed with a square bottom, and sent Cangtou to pretend to be the king of the East China Sea. Liu Qiang's uncle Dahonglu Guo Kuang wrote to Liu Qiang: The king is innocent and has been denounced many times, while his brothers have been bound to prison.
The Queen Mother neglected her duties and did not guard the North Palace. When she was old, she was repelled and lived far away. She was deeply regretted at home and the noses of those who rejoiced were sore.
Later, the Empress Dowager's body was found in the hall, and Luoyang officials arrested and executed the guests one after another. There was even a family with three corpses lying in the hall. It was extremely sad!
Now there is mourning in the world, and the bows and crossbows are fully equipped. A few days ago, Liang Song ordered Hu Benshi to say: If an official is wronged due to cheap things, he should do it immediately, and do not stick to the regular system, because it is difficult to get a title again!
Lang Guan was grieving privately and was heartbroken for Wang Han.
Today the servants are trying to engrave the King of Thieves for merit, but is there a limit?
If the people of the two countries are united, millions of people can be gathered, and the king will be the commander-in-chief, and the courage will be unparalleled. The achievements will be easier than Mount Taishan to crush an egg, and it will be lighter than four horses carrying a feather. This is the army of Tang and Wu!
Xuanyuan star has white energy this year. Astrologers and good people all say that those with white energy will lose their place as the heroine of Xuanyuan.
Then he went out to the west in front of the Taibai Star, and at noon the troops started to rise.
Also, the Prince's star is black in color and often turns red on the solstice.
Black is a disease, red is a soldier, and the king works hard to achieve success.
The great ancestor was the pavilion chief, and your majesty was born in Baishui. What's more, the king is your majesty's eldest son, so where is his deputy?
Above, I hope that everything in the world will be done, and below, I use snow to remove the shame of sinking and avenge my dead mother.
With sincerity, gold and stone are opened.
You should be prepared for the chilling atmosphere of the autumn frost, and don't be a sheep and be controlled by others. At that time, even if you want to be a sheep, will you be able to get it?
I saw all the physiognomists talking about the noble appearance of the king and the method of the emperor.
The leader of the people is dead, and the people of Lu Yan are still thieves. If they want to have hope, let alone the king!
The king who has been appointed is established by heaven and cannot be obtained by man.
Now the new emperor has arranged that the strong one will be on the right.
May the king do what the Great Patriarch and Your Majesty wishes, and not be like Fusu and call the general Lu Hutian!
Liu Qiang was very frightened after receiving the letter. He grabbed the envoy, sealed the letter and presented it to him.
Xianzong believed that Liu Jing was his brother from the same mother, so he concealed his story and sent Liu Jing to live in Henan Palace.
At this time, the Xiqiang rebelled, and Liu Jing was frustrated. He hoped that the world would be disturbed by the Qiang disaster, so he secretly consulted with the fortune teller.
After the emperor heard about it, he changed the title of Liu Jing to King Guangling and sent him back to his fiefdom.
Later Liu Jing called Xiang Gong again and said: I look like the late emperor.
The late emperor conquered the world at the age of thirty, and I am thirty now. Can I raise an army?
Xiang Gong reported it to the officials. Liu Jing was afraid and tied himself up and was thrown into prison.
The emperor again favored him and did not pursue the matter. He issued an edict not to allow Liu Jingchen to serve as an official, but his food and rent were still the same as before. He sent a prime minister and a lieutenant to protect him.
Liu Jing still did not change.
Later, witches were used to offer sacrifices and curses, and a supervisor reported him and requested that he be killed. Liu Jing committed suicide. Liu Jingli died in the 29th year. The emperor took pity on him and gave him the posthumous title King Si. ◆The biography of Liu Heng, Huai Gong of Linhuai, Liu Heng was established in the fifteenth year of Jianwu. He died before becoming king and became king. He had no children and was removed from the country.
◆Zhongshan Jianwang Liu Yanzhuan, Liu Yan, was granted the title Duke Feng Yigong of Zuo in the 15th year of Jianwu, and became king in the 17th year. Yan was the youngest son of Empress Dowager Guo and stayed alone in the capital.
In the 30th year, he was granted the title of King of Zhongshan.
In the winter of the second year of Yongping, the kings came to meet Piyong and returned to Tibet after their affairs. They ordered Liu Yan to return to the fiefdom with them, and to follow them with tiger and beni official cavalry.
Liu Yan went to Shu and resigned, and Xianzong reported back: "Every prince must have his right and left when leaving the country, so at the meeting in Jiagu, Sima Yi followed."
Now there are hundreds of officers and cavalry from each of the five countries, marching in order. They are all barbarian cavalry from the Northern Army. Their soldiers are good at shooting. Their bows are not empty, and they will definitely hit the canthus.
Those who have civil affairs must be equipped with military equipment. This is the meaning of re-employment. There is no need for the king to refuse!
The emperor believed that Liu Yan was favored by the Empress Dowager Guo, so she favored him and gained exclusive access to the capital.
In the fifteenth year, Liu Yan's concubine Han Xu made a mistake, and Liu Yan hanged her to death. The prime minister raised a memorial and was removed from Anxian County.
During the Yuanhe period, Suzong returned Anxian County to Zhongshan. Liu Yanli lived in the fifty-second year and died in the second year of Yongyuan. Liu Xiansi, King of Ziyi. ◆The biography of King Lang Ya Xiao Wang Liu Jing, Liu Jing, was granted the title of Duke of Langji in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, and became the king in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Liu Jing was respectful and filial by nature, and loved the study of Confucian classics. Emperor Xianzong was particularly fond of him and rewarded him with special favors. No one could compare with him.
In the second year of Yongping, six counties including Gai, Nanwuyang and Hua in Taishan and Changyang, Luxiang and Dongmou in Donglai were added to Langyi.
It took five years to go to the fiefdom.
Queen Guanglie died, and the emperor gave all the gold and treasure left by the Queen Mother to Liu Jing.
Liu Jing established his capital in Ju, and he was fond of building palaces and palaces. He used extremely skillful means to decorate the walls and walls of the palaces with gold and silver.
He wrote poems and poems many times to praise his merits and virtues. The emperor praised him and wrote down to the historians.
In the Liu Jing Kingdom, there is the Chengyangjing Wang Temple, where officials worship.
The god repeatedly warned that the palace was inconvenient, so Liu Jing wrote that he would move the palace to Kaiyang and exchange the five counties of Hua, Gai, Nanshiyang, Houqiu and Ganyu for Kaiyang and Linyi in the East China Sea. Suzong agreed.
Liu Yanli died in the thirty-first year of his life and was buried in Qiu Guangping Pavilion in the East China Sea. There was an edict to cut the pavilion and open Yang.
Liu Yusi, King of Ziyi.
