Among the eight types of government officials in "Hong Fan", the third type is called sacrificial officials.
Sacrifice is used to show filial piety, serve ancestors and understand gods.
Sacrifices are spread all over the surrounding ethnic minorities, and they all perform sacrifices; even animals, jackals and otters also perform sacrifices.
Therefore, the sage king established laws and rituals for the sacrifices.
If the spirit is single-minded, respectful, solemn and wise, the gods may come to him and call 觋 on men and witches on women, so that the gods can reach the gods and provide him with sacrifices.
The descendants of the sages of the previous generation who can understand the mountains and rivers, worship etiquette, and understand the affairs of the gods are regarded as wizards; those who can understand the pure-color livestock used for sacrifices in the four seasons, the conditions of the places where sacrifices are held, and the origin of the gods are called sect members.
Therefore, there are officials above the gods and officials below the people, each managing his own affairs without confusion.
The people and the gods have different karma, respecting and not offending, so the gods send him good luck, and the people follow the natural order, disasters will not come, and there will be no shortage of what they need.
After the young Emperor Wu weakened, nine members of the Li family rebelled, causing chaos in people and spirits and unable to follow the principles of justice.
The family is worshiped by witches and sacrifices are made without restraint, which defiles the gods and the gods consider them unclean.
Good luck will not come, disaster will come often, and he will not be able to complete his life.
Zhuanxu accepted this situation and ordered Nan Zhengzhong to master astronomy to entrust the gods, and Huo Zhengli to master geography to entrust the people, so that the world could return to its previous normal state and not violate or defile the gods.
Since the Gonggong family dominated the Kyushu, his son named Julong was able to pacify the water and soil, and was worshiped as the land god after his death.
There was a man named Lieshan who ruled the world, and his son was named Zhu. He could produce hundreds of grains and was worshiped as a grain god after his death.
Therefore, worshiping the gods of land and cereals in the countryside has a very early origin.
"Yu Shu" says that Shun observed the Xuanji Jade Scale and came to organize the sun, moon, five stars and seven political affairs.
So they offered sacrifices to heaven, six sects inside, mountains and rivers, and gods all over the place.
Collect the auspicious jade from the princes, princes, uncles, sons and men, choose an auspicious month and auspicious day, meet with the pastors and guardians of the princes from all over the world, and award the auspicious jade to them.
In February every year, he will go to the east for inspection and arrive at Daizong.
Daizong is Mount Tai.
Burn firewood and look at the mountain for sacrifice according to rank. So the meeting ended.
Shuhou refers to the princes.
Harmonize the four o'clock and months and correct the dates, unify the rhythm and weights and measures, revise the five rituals and five music, and use three silks, two life and one death as the ritual of stinging.
In May, we visited Nanyue.
Nanyue refers to Hengshan Mountain.
In August, he inspected Huashan Mountain.
Huashan refers to Huashan.
In November, he inspected Beiyue.
Beiyue refers to Hengshan Mountain.
They are all the same as Daizong's etiquette.
Zhongyue refers to Mount Song.
Inspections are conducted every five years.
Dayu continued this inspection system.
Thirteen generations later, when Emperor Kongjia arrived, he had bad moral conduct and liked to worship gods. The gods were defiled and two dragons left.
Thirteen generations later, Tang conquered Xia Jie and planned to move the Xia Dynasty's land and sacred sites. When this failed, he made "Xia She".
So he demoted Lieshan's son Zhu, and sacrificed Zhou Guo's son to the Grain God instead.
Eight generations later, Emperor Taiwu had two mulberry and valley trees growing in the courtyard. One night they grew as thick as an arch. Taiwu felt very frightened.
Yi Zhi said: Monsters cannot defeat virtue.
Taiwu practiced virtue, and the mulberry and grain trees died.
Yi Zhi informed Wu Xian about this.
Thirteen generations later, Emperor Wuding got Fu Yue as prime minister, the Yin Dynasty prospered again, and Wuding was named Gaozong.
A pheasant climbed onto the tripod and began to crow. Wu Ding became frightened.
Zu Ji said: We must cultivate virtue.
Wu Ding obeyed his words, and the throne has always been peaceful.
Five generations later, Emperor Yi neglected the gods and was struck by thunder and died.
Three generations later, Emperor Zhou became promiscuous, and King Wu launched a crusade against him.
From this point of view, it seems that at the beginning there was no lack of respect for the gods, but later on it gradually became neglected and relaxed.
The Duke of Zhou assisted in becoming king, and the king's way was quite harmonious. He established rituals and created music. The places where the emperor worshiped the heaven were called Mingtang and Piyong, and the places where the princes worshiped were called Pangong.
The sacrifices to Hou Ji in the suburbs were made to match the offerings to heaven, and the sacrifices to King Wen in the Mingtang clan were made to match the offerings to heaven.
Within the four seas, everyone assists in the sacrifice according to their own positions.
The emperor offered sacrifices to the world's famous mountains and rivers, and invited the gods to appease them, all in accordance with order rather than etiquette.
Treat the Five Mountains as if they were the three nobles, and treat the Four Sacred Mountains as if they were the princes.
The princes only offered sacrifices to the famous mountains and rivers within their territory, the officials offered sacrifices to the five places including gates, properties, wells, stoves and middle passages, while the common people only offered sacrifices to their ancestors.
Each has its own laws and etiquette, and any indulgence in sacrifice must be prohibited.
Thirteen generations later, the world declined even more and rituals and music were abolished.
King You lost his royal power and was defeated by Quanrong. King Ping moved eastward to Luoyi.
Duke Xianggang of Qin attacked the Quan Rong and rescued the king of Zhou. He was classified as a prince and lived in the west. He thought he represented the God of Shao Wu. He built Xizhi and offered sacrifices to the White Emperor. The sacrifices used were one horse, one colt, one ox and one ram each.
For the next fourteen years, Duke Wen of Qin went eastward to hunt between Yi and Wei, and he divined the situation of his residence and got good omens.
Duke Wen dreamed of a yellow snake hanging from the sky to the ground, and its mouth rested on the hillside of Wandi.
Duke Wen asked Shi Dun, who said: "This is a symbol of heaven. You want to sacrifice it."
So he built a fortress and used three animals to worship Baidi in the suburbs.
Before the establishment of Yongzhi, there used to be Wuyang Wuzhi next to Yongcheng, and there were good Zhizhi in Yongcheng and Cambodia, but they were all abandoned and no one worshiped them.
Some people say: Since ancient times, Yongzhou has always been the residence of gods due to its high terrain, so altars have been built to worship heaven in the suburbs, and temples of various gods have gathered here.
Sacrifices were held during the Huangdi period, and suburban sacrifices were also held in the late Zhou Dynasty.
These words are not found in the classics and are not spoken by scholar-bureaucrats.
Nine years after the establishment of the palace, Duke Wen of Qin got a stone-like object and worshiped it in the city on the northern hillside of Chencang.
Sometimes this god doesn't come throughout the year, and sometimes it comes several times a year.
They often come at night, and there are lights like shooting stars coming from the east and gathering in the temple city, and there are lights like roosters, crowing loudly, attracting wild geese to crow at night.
Using an animal to sacrifice it is called Chen Bao.
Seventy-one years after the establishment of Chen Bao Temple, Qin Degong became emperor and lived in Yongcheng after divination.
His descendants expanded their territory to the banks of the Yellow River and established their capital in Yongcheng.
The temples in Yongcheng began to flourish from this time.
Three hundred animals were sacrificed in Yongzhi.
Build a temple to worship.
The dogs were divided and hung on the four gates of the city to protect against evil spirits.
Four years later, Qin Xuangong established a secret camp in Weinan to worship the Qing Emperor.
Thirteen years later, Duke Mu of Qin became king. He lay ill in bed and did not wake up for five days. When he woke up, he said that he had dreamed of heaven, and God ordered Mu Gong to quell the chaos in Jin.
The historian recorded it and hid it in the mansion.
Later generations said that Duke Mu of Qin went to heaven.
In the ninth year of Duke Mu of Qin's reign, Duke Huan of Qi had already become the hegemon. He convened an alliance of princes in Kuiqiu and came up with the idea of ​​enfeoffing Hui.
Guan Zhong said: In ancient times, there were seventy-two families who built earth altars on Mount Tai to offer sacrifices to heaven. There were seventy-two families who worshiped earth on Mount Liangfu, but Yiwu recorded twelve families.
In the past, Wuhuai offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and to earth in Yunyun; Chuxi offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Shennong offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and to earth in Yunyun; Emperor Yan offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Huangdi offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in pavilions; Zhuanxu offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Emperor Yan in Tai. Yao offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Shun offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Yu offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Kuaiji; Tang offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; King Cheng of Zhou worshiped heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Sheshou: all of them were granted Zen status after being appointed as emperors by heaven.
Duke Huan of Qi said: I marched north to conquer Shanrong and passed by Lone Bamboo; marched west, reined up my horse and climbed Mount Beier; marched south to Zhaoling and climbed Xiong'er Mountain to overlook the Yangtze River and Han River.
There were three alliances in military chariots, six general alliances, and nine alliances with the princes. I unified the world and none of the princes disobeyed me.
What is the difference from the previous three generations who received destiny?
So Guan Zhong saw that Duke Huan of Qi could not be persuaded with words, so he took the opportunity to set up obstacles with deeds, saying: In ancient times, the millet on the mill and the grain from the north were used to fill the baskets; and a three-ridged thatch between the Yangtze and Huaihe rivers was used as a straw mat.
The East Sea brings flounder, and the West Sea brings birds.
Then there are the fifteen kinds of mascots that appear unannounced.
Now that the phoenixes and unicorns are not coming, and the valleys are not growing, but the basil and weeds are lush in the fields, and the owl and owls are flying in groups, it is probably not good to plan to seal the bombs, right?
So Qi Huan Gong stopped the idea of ​​granting Zen.
In this year, Duke Mu of Qin accepted Yiwu, the king of Jin.
After that, he appointed Ya Jin as the king three times and put down the civil strife in Jin.
Duke Mu died after reigning for thirty-nine years.
Fifty years later, King Zhou Ling ascended the throne.
At that time, all the princes were not paying homage to the king of Zhou, so Chang Hong boldly launched an activity with ghosts and gods tomorrow, setting up the ceremony of shooting but not coming. Not coming means that the princes do not come to court.
He relied on monsters to attract princes.
The princes did not comply, and the Zhou Dynasty declined even more.
Two generations later, when it was time to honor the king, the people of Jin killed Chang Hong.
At this time, the Ji family was in power in the Lu State and placed gifts on Mount Tai for sacrifice. Zhongni ridiculed this matter.
Two hundred and fifty years after Qin Xuan Gong established the secret era, Qin Linggong established Shangzhi in Wuyang to offer sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor; he established Xizhi to offer sacrifices to the Yan Emperor.
Forty-eight years later, Zhou Taishi met Qin Xiangong and said: The Zhou Dynasty began to unite with Qin, and then separated. After five hundred years of separation, they should reunite. Seventy years after the alliance, the overlord will appear.
Seven years after Taishi Dan met Qin Xiangong, gold fell with the rain in Liangyang. Qin Xiangong thought he had received the auspicious omen of gold, so he built a border in Liangyang to worship the White Emperor.
One hundred and ten years later, King Nan of Zhou died and Jiuding entered the Qin Kingdom.
Some people say that in the 42nd year of King Xian of Zhou Dynasty, after the Daqiu Society of Song Dynasty was destroyed, the tripod sank under the swimming water of Pengcheng.
Seven years after the death of King Nan of Zhou, Duke Zhuang Xiang of Qin destroyed Shu Zhou, and the sacrifices of Zhou Dynasty were discontinued.
Twenty-eight years later, Qin annexed the world and became emperor.
The First Emperor of Qin has ascended the throne. Some people say: The Yellow Emperor obtained the virtue of earth, and yellow dragons and giant earthworms appeared.
In the Xia Dynasty, Mu De was achieved, the green dragon landed in the suburbs, and the vegetation grew extremely lush.
The Yin Dynasty gained gold and virtue, and silver flowed from the mountains.
The Zhou Dynasty gained the virtue of fire, and the auspicious sign of red crow came.
Now the Qin Dynasty has changed the Zhou Dynasty, which is the era of gaining water virtue.
Previously, Duke Wen went out hunting and obtained a black dragon, which was an auspicious sign for Shui De.
So Qin changed the name of the Yellow River to Deshui, and the winter tenth month was the beginning of the year. The color was black, the scale was six, the sound was Da Lu, and the government was law.
After Qin Shihuang had been emperor for three years, he inspected counties in the east, offered sacrifices to Jufeng Mountain, and praised his achievements.
So he followed seventy Confucian scholars and doctors from Qi and Lu, and arrived at the foot of Mount Tai.
Some Confucian scholars suggested: In ancient times, Feng Zang used cattails to wrap the wheels for fear of damaging the earth, stone, grass and trees on the mountain; he cleaned the ground for sacrifices, and used grass and straw to make mats, which meant that these were easy to comply with.
Qin Shihuang heard that these discussions were different and difficult to implement, so he no longer used Confucian scholars.
So we cleared the driveway and went up to the south of Mount Tai.
When he reached the top of the mountain, he erected a stone tablet to praise his merits and show the reasons why he should be enshrined in Zen.
Go down the mountain from the north road and go to the Liangfu sacrifice site.
Many of the rituals used were those used by Taizhu in offering sacrifices to heaven in Yongcheng. These were kept secret and could not be obtained and recorded by the world.
When Qin Shihuang was climbing Mount Tai, he encountered a storm halfway up the hillside and rested under a big tree.
The Confucian scholars were no longer in use and could not participate in the feudal war. When they heard that Qin Shihuang was in trouble, they laughed at him.
So Qin Shihuang cruised eastward on the sea, paying homage to famous mountains, rivers and eight gods, and visiting immortals and nobles.
It has been around since Yagami Liangzhan; some people say it was created since Taigong.
The state of Qi is called Qi because it is in the middle of the sky.
Its sacrifices ceased, and it is unknown when it started.
The eight gods, one called God, are sacrificed to Tianqi.
There is a deep pool of water in Tianqi, at the bottom of the mountain in the southern suburb of Linmiao.
The second is called Landlord, and he is worshiped by Liang Fu in Mount Tai.
Probably the God of Heaven likes yin, so the sacrifice must be at the bottom of the mountain, called Zhi; the God of Earth likes yang, so the sacrifice must be on a small island in the water.
The third one is called the military commander and sacrifices are made to Chi You.
Chiyou was in Lujian Township, Shuping, which was the western border of Qi State.
The fourth is called the Lord of Yin, and is worshiped at Sanshan; the fifth is called the Lord of Yang, and is worshiped at Zhifu Mountain; the sixth is called the Lord of Moon, and is worshiped at Laishan: They are all located in the north of Qidi, near the Bohai Sea.
Seventh, he called the Lord of the Sun and offered sacrifices to Shengshan.
Shengshan plunges steeply into the sea and is located in the northeasternmost part of the land to welcome the rising sun.
Eight is called the Lord of the Four Seasons and is worshiped in Langxie.
Langxie is located in the northeast of Qidi, where the star of the year begins.
They all prepare sacrifices with their own sacrifices, and the shamans add or subtract them, so the kui coins are different.
During the reigns of King Wei and King Xuan of Qi, liars discussed and wrote about the continuous operation of the Five Virtues. When Qin became emperor, the people of Qi reported them, so Qin Shihuang adopted them.
However, Song Wuji, Zheng Boqiao, Yuan Shang, Xianmen Gao and later were all natives of Yan. They played magic tricks to dissolve the body and rely on ghosts and gods.
Kuiyan became famous among the princes with his theory that yin and yang govern fortune, but the alchemists of Yan and Qihai told him that his method was not feasible. It was so absurd and strange that people who flattered and sought cooperation arose from then on, and it is impossible to count them one by one.
King Wei, King Xuan, and King Yan Zhao sent people to the sea to search for Penglai, Fangzhang, and Yingzhou.
These three sacred mountains are said to be in the Bohai Sea, not far from inhabited areas.
It is said that someone has arrived, and the immortals and the elixir of immortality are all there.
All the things and animals in it were white, and the palaces were built with gold and silver.
Before arriving, it looked like clouds from a distance; after arriving, the three sacred mountains were located under the water, and you could go up from the water to the mountains.
The gods were afraid that people were about to go, so they blew the boat away with the wind, and they never reached it.
There is no monarch in the world who does not admire him.
When Qin Shihuang went to the sea, the alchemists were vying to tell him these things.
Qin Shihuang was afraid that he would not be able to reach it, so he sent people to search for him at sea with boys and girls.
When the ship reaches the sea, it always excuses itself as being unable to reach them due to the wind, saying that it cannot reach them and can only see them.
The next year, Qin Shi Huang returned to the sea and arrived at Langye. He passed through Mount Heng and returned via Shangdang.
Three years later, he visited Jieshi Mountain, inspected the alchemists on the sea, and returned from Shangjun.
Five years later, Qin Shihuang went south to Xiangshan Mountain and climbed Mount Kuaiji, near the sea, hoping to encounter the strange medicines on the three sacred mountains in the sea.
Unable to do so, he died in a sand dune on the way back.
In the first year of the Second Qin Dynasty, he patrolled eastward to Jieshi, which was by the sea. He and Li passed through Mount Tai and arrived at Kuaiji. They all performed rituals and offered sacrifices, and made carvings next to the stone inscriptions erected by Emperor Qin Ye to commend Qin Shi Huang's merits.
In the autumn of the Qian year, the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty.
Three years later, Zhuan II was killed.
Twelve years after Qin Shihuang granted Zen status, the Qin Dynasty fell.
Everyone needs to hate the Qin Dynasty for burning "Poems" and "Books" and destroying classics. The people resented its criminal laws and the world rebelled. They all said: When Qin Shihuang went to Mount Tai, he was hit by wind and rain and could not be granted Zen status.
Isn't this what I said without virtue and why I want to be punished?
In the past three generations, they all lived between the Yellow River and Luoshui River, so Mount Song was the central mountain, while the four mountains were all in their respective directions, and the four mountains were all east of Mount Laoshan.
When the King of Qin proclaimed himself emperor and established Xianyang as his capital, all the five mountains and four mountains were in the east.
From the Five Emperors to the First Emperor of Qin, the rise and fall alternated, and the famous mountains and rivers sometimes went out of the territory of the princes, and sometimes they were in the place where the emperor was. The increase or decrease in etiquette varied from generation to generation, and it is impossible to record them all.
When Qin annexed the world, he ordered sacrificial officials to record the heaven, earth, famous mountains, small ghosts and gods that were often sacrificed in an orderly manner.
So from Mount Wei to the east, they offered sacrifices to five famous mountains and two large rivers. Called Taishi.
Taishi is Songshan.
Hengshan, Taishan, Huixi, Xiangshan.
The river is called Boishui, Huai River.
In the spring, dried meat and wine are used as sacrifices for the horse for one year. In the spring, they thaw; in the autumn, they freeze; in the winter, they reward the gods with limited blessings.
The sacrifices include one cow and one calf, and the spare jade and coins are different.
From Huashan to the west, there are seven famous mountains and four famous rivers.
They are Huashan and Boshan respectively.
Boshan is Xiangshan.
Yueshan, Qishan, Wushan, Hongzhong, Dushan.
Du Mountain is about Min Mountain in Shu.
The famous rivers are the Yellow River, the altar is in Linjin; Mianshui, the altar is in Zhuangmo; Qiuyuan, the altar is in Chaona; Jiangshui, the altar is in Shu.
The thawing and freezing of the Spring and Autumn period are the same as offering sacrifices to the mountains and rivers in the east. The sacrifices are also different types of calves and spare Gui coins.
The four major tombs are Hong, Qi, Wu and Yue, all of which have the ritual of tasting new grains.
Chen Maishen enjoys sacrifices according to festivals, and the sacrifice to the Yellow River also includes the ritual of offering turbid wine to the gods.
These were all in the Yongzhou area, close to the emperor's capital, so they added a chariot and four ponies covered in red with black neck hair.
Bashui, Chanshui, Fengshui, Laoshui, Jingshui, Weishui and Changshui are not included in the ranks of Dachuan. Because they are close to Xianyang, they all have to be worshiped according to the mountains and rivers, without anything extra.
Yanshui, Luoshui, Mingze, Pushan, Yuexushan and other small mountains and rivers also have to compete with gods to bring blessings, but the etiquette does not necessarily have to be the same.
Moreover, there are more than a hundred temples in Yongdi such as Yue, Yue, Shen, Chen, Beidou, Mars, Venus, Jupiter, Saturn, Chenxing, Twenty-Eight Constellations, Feng Bo, Yu Shi, Si Hai, Jiu Chen, Fourteen Chen, Zhu Bu, Zhu Yan, and Zhu Zhu.
There are also dozens of temples in the west.
There is the Temple of Emperor Zhou in the lake.
There are gods in Xia Bang.
In Feng and Dy, Zhaoming and Emperor opened the pond.
There are five temples and longevity temples dedicated to Lord Du in Du and Bo; there are also temples dedicated to Lord Du in Yong and Jian.
Lord Du was the right general of the Zhou Dynasty in the past. He was the smallest ghost in Qin.
All gods are worshiped on time throughout the year.
Only Yongdi was the most noble in offering sacrifices to heaven with the four seasons. Only Chen Bao shocked the people with the brilliance of the gods when they came.
In the past, the four sides of Yongdi prayed for the success of the year, so they thawed, froze in autumn, raced the gods in winter, tasted horses in May, and Zhongyue in the four seasons, just like Chen Bao Shen enjoyed a sacrifice according to festivals.
Pure red horses are used in spring and summer, and horses are used in autumn and winter.
Each stage uses four horses, four puppet dragons, and a puppet cart driven by four horses, each of which has the same color as the emperor it is enshrined.
There are four yellow calves and four lambs each, and each has a fixed amount of Gui coins. The animals are buried in the ground, and there is no need for ritual utensils such as Zuodou.
Suburban festivals are held once every three years.
The Qin Dynasty regarded October as the beginning of the year, so they often fasted and offered sacrifices in the suburbs in October, lit beacon fires, and bowed down next to Xianyang. White clothes were the most precious thing, and the things used for sacrifices were the same as usual.
In the Western and Qi seasons, sacrifices were performed as before, and the emperor did not go there in person.
All such sacrifices are presided over by Tai Zhu Changlai, and sacrifices are performed according to the four seasons of the year.
As for the gods of other famous mountains and rivers, as well as the Eight Gods, the emperor would offer sacrifices when he passed by, and stop after he left.
Sacrifices in remote areas of counties and counties were performed by the people individually and were not managed by the Emperor Zhuguan.
Zhu Guan has a secret blessing. If there is a disaster, Zhu Guan will transfer the fault to the lower level.
When the Han Dynasty was established, when Emperor Gaozu had just risen, he killed a big snake. Some ghosts and gods said: The snake is the son of the White Emperor, and the person who killed the snake is the son of the Red Emperor.
When Emperor Gaozu went to Fengdi to pray in an elm society, he conquered Peixian County and became the Duke of Pei. Then he offered sacrifices to Chiyou and sacrificed his blood to the drums and flags of the army.
So he arrived at Bashang in the tenth month and was made King of Han.
Therefore, October is the beginning of the year, and the color of clothing is red.
The next year, he went east to attack Xiang Ji, returned to Guanzhong, and asked: What emperor did Qin sacrifice to heaven in the past?
Answer: The four emperors include the white, green, yellow and red emperors’ temples.
Emperor Gaozu said: I heard that there are five emperors in heaven, but there are only four. What is the reason for this?
No one knows why.
So Gaozu said: I understand, you will have five when I come.
So the Black Emperor Temple was built, called Beishi.
The relevant officials went to the temple, but Emperor Gaozu did not go there in person.
All the sacrificial officials of the Qin Dynasty were summoned and the Taizhu and Dazai palaces were re-established with the same etiquette as before.
So the county was ordered to set up communes.
The edict was issued: I attach great importance to temples and respect sacrifices.
Now the sacrifices to heaven and to the gods of mountains and rivers should be performed at their own time and with the same etiquette as before.
Four years later, when the world was at peace, he issued an edict to the imperial censor, ordering Fengdi to renovate the Yusheshe, and offer sacrifices to it regularly. In the spring, sheep and pigs were sacrificed to it.
Order Zhu Guan to build Chi You's temple in Chang'an. Chang'an set up temple officials and witches.
Among them, the shamans in the Liang region offered sacrifices to heaven, earth, Tianshe, Tianshui, Fangzhong, and Tangshang; the witches in the Jin region offered sacrifices to the Five Emperors, Dongjun, Yunzhongjun, witch societies, witch temples, clan cooking, etc.; the witches in the Qin region offered sacrifices to Du Zhu, Wu Bao, and Zongzong; the witches in the Jing region offered sacrifices to Tangxia, Wu Xian, Siming, Shi Mi, and the like; and the witches of the Nine Heavens worshiped the Nine Heavens: all were sacrificed in the palace according to the four seasons of the year.
Among them, the Yellow River shamans worshiped the Yellow River in Linjin, and the Nanshan shamans worshiped Nanshan and Qinzhong.
Qin Zhong was the second emperor.
Each of these gods has certain festivals.
Two years later, some people say that after the establishment of the Zhou Dynasty, Houji ancestral temples were built in various cities, and now animals are killed and their blood is used as sacrifices throughout the world.
So Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to the imperial censor: He ordered the world to build Lingxing Temple and sacrifice cattle on time every year.
In the spring of the 10th year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, relevant officials asked for instructions and ordered all counties to sacrifice sheep and pigs to Ji every spring in February and the twelfth lunar month. Where people gathered, they built shrines as appropriate to offer sacrifices. The critic replied: Yes.
Thirteen years after Emperor Wen ascended the throne, he issued an edict saying: The Secret Minister pushed the fault to the bottom. I feel that this is very undesirable and I abolish it.
At the beginning, the famous mountains and rivers were in the territory of the princes, and the princes and their officials offered sacrifices, but the emperor's officials did not care.
When the feudal states of Qi and Huainan were abolished, Taizhu was ordered to offer sacrifices all year round as before.
In the second year, due to the bumper harvest every year, the relevant officials were ordered to add one chariot each to the five counties of Yongdi, with all the ornaments on the carriages and horses; one puppet carriage each in Xizhi and Qizhi, four puppet horses, all the ornaments on the carriages and horses; two more pieces of Guiyu each for the Yellow River, Qiuquan, Hanshui; each altar was enlarged, and the Gui coins and beans were increased according to grade.
Gongsunchen, a native of the Lu State, wrote a memorial saying: The Qin State originally had the virtue of water, but now the Han Dynasty has gained the world of the Qin Dynasty. According to the law of the beginning and end of the five elements, the Han Dynasty should have the virtue of earth, and the symbol of superior virtue is the emergence of the yellow dragon.
It should be changed to the first day of the first lunar month, and the color of clothing should be yellow.
At that time, the Prime Minister Zhang Cang was fond of rhythm and calculation, and believed that the Han Dynasty was a time of water virtue, and the Yellow River bursting at the Jindi was its symbol.
It was the tenth month of winter, and his complexion was dark on the outside and red on the inside, which matched the emperor's virtue.
What Gongsun Chen says is wrong, don't listen to him.
In the second year, Huanglong appeared in Chengji.
Emperor Wen summoned Gongsun Chen and worshiped him as a doctor. He explained the virtues of the country with the Confucian scholars and drafted a plan to change the clothes, colors and other matters.
In the summer of this year, the emperor issued an edict saying: Strange things appeared in Chengji, which did not harm the people, but brought good harvests every year.
I hope to go to the countryside to worship the gods in heaven. The ceremony officials will discuss it and tell me frankly.
Relevant officials said: In ancient times, the emperor personally went to the suburbs to worship God in the summer, so it was called Jiao.
So in early summer and April, Emperor Wen went to Wuzhi on the outskirts of Yongdi for the first time to offer sacrifices, and all the sacrificial robes were red.
Xinyuan Ping, a native of Zhao, was able to meet the emperor by observing the luck. He said that there was divine energy in the northeast of Chang'an, which formed five colors, like a human crown.
Some people say that the northeast is the residence of the gods, and the west is where the gods’ tombs are.
When the auspiciousness of heaven comes, a temple should be built to offer sacrifices to heaven in order to comply with it.
So the Temple of the Five Emperors was built in Weiyang, in the same temple. Each emperor had one hall, facing five gates, with the same color as each emperor.
The use and etiquette of sacrificial rituals are the same as those of the Wuzhi of Yongdi.
In the early summer and April of the second year, Emperor Wen personally went to the place where the Bashui River and the Weishui River converged to worship the Five Emperors of Weiyang in the suburbs.
The Five Emperors Temple is close to the Weishui River, and its north side leads to the water of Puchi.
Raise a fire to perform sacrifices, and the light reaches the sky.
The emperor then favored Xinyuan Ping, making him the highest official, and rewarding him as much as a thousand pieces of gold.
He also ordered doctors and Confucian scholars to compile the "King System" based on the essentials of the "Six Classics" and discuss matters such as hunting tours and enshrining Zen.
When Emperor Wen walked out of the long gate, he seemed to see five people on the north side of the road, so he built the Five Emperors Altar where they stood and worshiped them with five prisons.
The next year, Xinyuanping sent someone to hold the jade cup and write to the court to present this cup.
Niiguanping said to the emperor: There is Binyu's auspiciousness under the palace.
Upon inspection, it turned out that there was indeed someone offering a jade cup with the words "Entering the Lord and Extending Life" engraved on it.
Niiguanping added that I would wait for the sun to return to the center of the sky.
After waiting for a while, the sun indeed returned to the sky.
So the seventeenth year was changed to the first year, so that the whole world celebrated and drank.
Xinyuan Ping said: The Zhou Dynasty's treasure tripod was lost in Si River. Now the water from the Yellow River bursts into Si River. I saw the gold treasure auspiciousness in Fenyin in the northeast. Is it possible that Zhou tripod will appear there?
Auspicious signs will not come unless they are welcomed.
So the emperor sent envoys to build a temple in the south of Fenyin, leaning on the Yellow River, hoping to use sacrifices to summon Zhou Ding.
Someone wrote a letter to accuse Aragaki that everything he said was false.
The emperor asked the officials to examine and execute Xinyuan Ping.
After that, Emperor Wen was no longer interested in correcting matters such as Shuo, clothes, and gods. He handed over the Weiyang and Changgong Five Emperor Temples to the ancestral officials, and offered sacrifices on time, and he no longer went there.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded the border several times, and Emperor Wen dispatched troops to defend it.
Later, the harvest gradually failed.
A few years later, Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne.
In the sixteenth year, the ancestral officials carried out sacrifices throughout the year as before, and there were no new trees.
When Emperor Wu first came to the throne, he attached great importance to the sacrifice of ghosts and gods.
The Han Dynasty has been established for more than sixty years, and the world is stable. The scholar-bureaucrats all hope that the emperor will hold a ceremony to correct Shuo and measure. Emperor Wu also favors Confucianism and recruits virtuous people.
Tang Wan, Wang Zang and others became public ministers because of their knowledge. They wanted to follow the ancient method of setting up a Mingtang in the south of the city to invite the princes to come to court. They drafted inspections, enshrined Zen, changed the calendar, and served colors, etc., but there was no result yet.
Empress Dowager Dou did not like Confucianism, so she secretly monitored Zhao Wan and others for committing adultery and illegal affairs. She tried Zhao Wan and Wang Zang, and Zhao Wan and Wang Zang committed suicide, and all the things they had done were abolished.
Six years later, Queen Mother Dou passed away.
In the second year, the state recruited knowledgeable people.
In the second year, the emperor went to Yongdi for the first time and worshiped Wuzhi in the suburbs.
From then on, sacrifices were often held every three years.
At this time, the emperor petitioned the gods and placed him in the Nianshi Pavilion in Shanglin.
The spirit is a woman from Changling who died due to dystocia, and the spirit appears in her sister-in-law Wanruo.
Wan Ruo enshrined her in his room, and most of the people went to worship her.
Lord Pingyuan also went to offer sacrifices, and his descendants all became high officials.
When the emperor succeeded to the throne, he would use generous gifts to set up sacrifices in the palace.
Her conversation could be heard, but her figure could not be seen.
At this time, Li Shaojun was also able to meet Emperor Wu with the help of sacrifices to the body, the method of fasting grains, and preventing aging. Emperor Wu respected and favored him.
Li Shaojun was a member of the Shenze Hou family and was in charge of prescriptions.
Hide his age and place of origin.
He often claims that he is seventy years old and can control ghosts and gods to prevent aging.
He traveled around various princes with his alchemy skills.
No wife or children.
People heard that he could control ghosts and gods and that he could live forever, so they all rushed to give him gifts, which made him rich in money, food and clothing.
People thought that he would be rich without managing the property, and they didn’t know who he was from, so they trusted him even more, and competed to serve him.
Li Shaojun relies on his unique prescriptions and is good at always fulfilling what he says.
He often had banquets with Marquis Wu'an. There was an old man in his nineties at the banquet. Li Shaojun told him about the place where he and his grandfather played and practiced archery. The old man followed his grandfather when he was a child and knew that place. Everyone in the house was amazed.
Li Shaojun came to see the emperor. The emperor had ancient bronze vessels and asked Li Shaojun.
Li Shaojun said: When Duke Huan of Qi was ten years old, the artifacts were displayed on the cypress bed.
After meeting it for a while, I looked at the inscription and found that it was indeed an artifact from the time of Duke Huan of Qi.
Everyone in the palace was shocked, thinking that Li Shaojun was a god and a man who was hundreds of years old.
Li Shaojun said to the emperor: Temples and stoves can attract ghosts and gods. If they attract ghosts and gods, they can turn the sand into gold. If you use gold to make eating utensils, you can live a long life. If you live long, you can see the Penglai Immortal in the sea. If you hold a Zen ceremony, you will not die. This is the case with the Yellow Emperor.
I once traveled around the sea and saw An Qisheng. An Qisheng gave me a jujube as big as a melon to eat.
An Qisheng is an immortal who travels in Penglai. If you agree with him, he will see people. If you don't agree with him, he will not see people.
So the emperor personally worshiped the ancestral temple, sent alchemists to the sea to visit Penglai Anqisheng and others, and engaged in the work of using medicine to turn Dansha into gold.
After a long time, Li Shaojun died of illness.
The emperor thought that he had turned into a god and survived, so he sent Huang Chui Shi Kuanshu to study his plan. However, the weird and pedantic alchemists from Yanqi and Qi along the coast came one after another to talk about ghosts and gods.
Miu Ji, a native of Bo, submitted a memorial requesting the art of sacrificing Tai Yi, saying: Among the gods, Tai Yi is the most noble, and Tai Yi's assistants are the Five Emperors.
In ancient times, the emperor worshiped Taiyi in the southeastern suburbs in the spring and autumn. He used one Tailao every day for seven days and set up a mandala to open up a Shinto that could reach all directions.
So the emperor ordered Taizhu to build Taiyi's temple in the southeastern suburbs of Chang'an City, and to offer sacrifices regularly according to Miuji's method.
After that, someone wrote a letter saying: In ancient times, the great master used Tailao to worship three gods: Tianyi, Earthly and Taiyi once every three years.
The emperor agreed to do this and ordered Taizhu to take over the management of the sacrifices at Miuji's Taiyi altar according to the method mentioned in the letter.
Later, someone said: In ancient times, the emperor often used an owl and a broken mirror to sacrifice his sins and pray for blessings in the spring. He used an owl and a broken mirror to sacrifice the Yellow Emperor, a sheep to sacrifice the Ming Yang;
He ordered the sacrificial officials to manage the sacrifices according to the methods mentioned, and to offer sacrifices to Taiyi beside the Taiyi altar in Miuji.
Two years later, during a sacrifice ceremony in Yongjiao, a one-horned beast was hunted, which looked like an elk.
The relevant official said: Your Majesty has held the suburban sacrifice devoutly. In return for your sacrifice, God will give you a one-horned beast, which is regarded as a unicorn.
So they used it to sacrifice five sticks, adding an ox to burn firewood for each stick.
Silver was given to the princes as a sign of harmony with heaven.
So the King of Jibei thought that the emperor was going to enfeoff the land, so he wrote to donate Mount Tai and the surrounding towns, and the emperor compensated him with other counties.
King Changshan committed a crime and was demoted. The emperor named his younger brother King Zhending to continue the sacrifices of the previous king, and made Changshan a county.
From then on, all the Five Sacred Mountains were in the emperor's territory.
The next year, a young man from Qi State met the emperor with his alchemy skills.
The emperor had a beloved Madam Li. After her death, the young man used magic to summon the image of his wife and the Kitchen God at night. The emperor saw them through the bed curtains.
He worshiped the young man as General Wencheng, rewarded him with many things, and entertained him with the courtesy of a guest.
Wen Cheng said: Even if the emperor wants to communicate with the gods, if there are no images of gods on the bedding, clothes, shoes and other items in the palace, the gods will not come.
Just draw some cars with clouds on them, and drive them on auspicious days to drive away evil spirits.
Ganquan Palace was also built, with an altar in the middle depicting the harmony of heaven and earth, various ghosts and gods, and offering sacrificial supplies to attract the gods.
After more than a year, his alchemy became less and less effective, and the gods stopped coming.
He fed the cow with silk books and pretended not to know, saying that there was something foreign in the cow's belly.
When I killed the cow, I got a book. What the book said was very strange.
The emperor recognized his handwriting and interrogated the young man, and found that it was indeed his handwriting.
So he killed General Wencheng and concealed the matter.
After that, white beam platforms, copper pillars, dew-bearing cactus and so on were built.
In the second year after General Wencheng's death, the emperor fell seriously ill in Dinghu, and all the witch doctors were called in.
You Shui Fa Gen said that there was a witch doctor in Shangjun, and the ghosts would get rid of people's illnesses.
The emperor summoned him to hold sacrifices in Ganquan Palace.
When he fell ill, he sent someone to ask the Lord God. The Lord God said: "The Emperor has no illness worth worrying about."
The disease will gradually recover. Please cheer up and meet me at Ganquan Palace.
So the emperor recovered from his illness, got up, and came to Ganquan Palace. He had recovered from his illness.
The emperor granted a general amnesty to the world and installed a divine king in the longevity palace.
The most noble among the divine kings is Tai Yi, and his assistants are Tai Jin, Si Ming, etc., who all follow Tai Yi. You can't see them, you can't hear their voices, they're just like human voices.
When it goes, it comes, and when it comes, the breeze is blowing.
Dwelling in the Veil, sometimes speaking during the day, but often at night.
He waited until the emperor's exorcism ceremony was over before he came in.
Relying on the witch as the master, what you want to say about food and drink is conveyed by the witch.
They also set up the Shougong and Beigong, set up feather flags, and set up offerings to entertain the gods.
The emperor sent someone to record what the god said, which was called "painting method".
What the Lord God said was known to the world, and there was no big difference, but the Emperor was happy in his heart.
This matter is very secret and not known to the world.
Three years later, relevant officials said that the first year should be named according to the auspicious signs from heaven, and should not be ranked according to one yuan or two yuan.
One yuan is called "Jian", two yuan is called "Light" because of the long star, and now the one-cornered beast obtained in the suburban sacrifice is called "Hunter".
After another year, the emperor offered sacrifices to Yong in the suburbs and said: Now I personally come to the suburbs to offer sacrifices, but there is no one from the land to offer sacrifices. This is something that cannot be matched by etiquette.
The relevant officials discussed with Sima Tan, the Taishi Ling, and Kuanshu, the ancestral official: The horns of the animals to be sacrificed to heaven and earth should be as big as cocoons and chestnuts.
Now Your Majesty will personally offer sacrifices to Hou Tu. Hou Tu should build five altars on round hills in the lake to offer sacrifices, and sacrifice a yellow calf to each altar.
After the sacrifice, they were all buried in the soil. Those who followed the sacrifice all wore yellow clothes.
So the emperor went east to Fenyin.
Gongsun Pangyang, a man from Fenyin, and others saw a light like crimson next to Fenyin, so the emperor built a Houtu Temple on the small earth mountain in Fenyin, as suggested by Kuan Shu and others.
The emperor went to see the sacrifice in person, just like the heavenly ceremony.
After the ceremony, the emperor went to Rongyang.
When he came back and passed through Luoyang, he issued an edict to ennoble the descendants of Zhou and ordered them to worship him.
It is recorded in "Wu Ji".
The emperor began to inspect counties and counties, and slowly arrived at Mount Tai.
In the spring of this year, Marquis Lecheng wrote a letter recommending Leda.
Leda is a native of the Micellar Palace. He was once a classmate of General Wencheng, and later he was in charge of preparing medicines for the Micellar King.
The sister of Marquis Lecheng is Queen Kang and has no sons.
After the death of King Kang, other Ji's sons were established as kings. However, Queen Kang engaged in promiscuous behavior and was at odds with the king, threatening each other with national laws.
When Empress Kang heard that Wencheng had died, she wanted to take the initiative to flatter the emperor, so she sent Leda to the palace. She relied on the relationship between Marquis Lecheng and asked to see the emperor, saying that he was proficient in alchemy.
After the emperor executed Wencheng, he regretted knowing that his alchemy skills were not comprehensive. When he saw Mrs. Luan, he was very happy.
Luan Qu was tall and beautiful, spoke with skill, and dared to speak boldly so that no one would suspect him.
Leda said: I often travel to and from the sea and see An Qisheng, Xianmen and the like. They think that my status is low and they don't trust me.
He also thought that King Kang was a prince and was not qualified to give him medicine.
The minister told King Kang several times about the situation, but King Kang refused to reuse the minister.
Chen's master said: Gold can be made, the Yellow River burst can be blocked, the medicine of immortality can be obtained, and gods can be summoned.
But I am afraid that I will follow in the footsteps of Wencheng, so the alchemists will have to shut up and dare not talk about alchemy anymore!
The emperor said: Wencheng died of eating horse liver.
If you can really sort out his alchemy, what should I begrudge you?
Le Da said: My teacher is not asking for help from others, but people are asking for help from him.
Your Majesty must want to recruit him, so you must improve the status of the envoy, make him a close confidant of the emperor, and entertain him with guest gifts. Do not despise him. Only by letting them wear letter seals can they send messages to the gods.
Whether the man of God comes or refuses to come depends on whether the emperor pays attention to the messenger before he can be invited.
So the emperor used a small alchemy to test it and demonstrated the chess game. The chess pieces could hit each other.
At this time, the emperor was worried about the Yellow River bursting and the failure of gold casting, so he worshiped Leda as General of Five Benefits.
After meeting for more than a month, Leda got four official seals; he got the seals of General Tianshi, General Dishi, and General Datong.
The emperor issued an edict to the imperial censor: In the past, Dayu dredged the Jiuhe River and opened the four rivers.
Recently, the Yellow River has flooded the flat land on its shores, and there is no end to the work of building embankments.
I have been on the throne for twenty-eight years. If God sends people to assist me, Leda is one of them.
The hexagram "Qian" is called "Flying Dragon", "Hongjian is in Pan", my meaning is consistent with this.
General Leda was appointed Marquis of Letong with two thousand households of feudal lords.
He was given the mansions of princes and thousands of servants.
Cars, horses, curtains, and utensils were taken from the emperor's carriage to enrich his residence.
He also married Princess Wei Chang to him, gave him one hundred thousand catties of gold, and renamed his town Princess Dangli.
The emperor personally went to General Wuli's residence and sent envoys to greet him and provide him with supplies.
From the emperor's aunt to the generals and ministers, everyone went to his house to hold a banquet and presented his property.
The emperor also carved a jade seal for the general of heaven, and sent an envoy to wear a feather robe and stand on the white grass at night. General Wuli also wore a feather robe and stood on the white grass to receive the jade seal to show that he was not a human subject.
Wearing the "Tiandao" is to guide the gods for the emperor.
So General Wuli often made sacrifices at home at night. Want to attract the gods.
Later, he packed his bags and headed east to the sea to visit his teacher.
Leda appeared for a few months, wearing six official seals, and his dignity shocked the world. However, people between Yan and Qi on the seaside all said without hesitation that they also had the secret recipe to become a god.
In the summer of June, a Fenyin wizard named Jin was offering sacrifices to the people next to Wei Juhoutu's temple. He saw the shape of a hook on the ground, and when he dug up the soil with his hands, it turned out to be a tripod.
The tripod was very large and different from other tripods. It was engraved with patterns but had no inscription. I felt strange and reported it to the officials.
The officials reported the victory to the governor of Hedong, and the victory was reported to the emperor.
The emperor sent someone to check whether the tripod obtained by the wizard was treacherous, so he held a ceremony and offered sacrifices to the tripod. He welcomed the tripod to Ganquan Palace and followed the emperor to dedicate it to heaven.
When we arrived at Zhongshan, the weather was sunny and warm, with a yellow cloud appearing.
At this time, a deer ran by, and the emperor shot it himself and used it as a sacrifice.
When he arrived in Chang'an, the ministers and officials all talked about respecting the tripod.
The Emperor said: Recently the Yellow River has been flooded, and the harvests have been poor year after year. Therefore, I inspect the counties and counties, offer sacrifices to the ancestors, and pray for a good harvest for the people.
There is no news yet on whether this year's harvest will be good or not. Why did the tripod appear?
Relevant officials said: I heard that Emperor Tai built a divine cauldron in the past, which meant unification and was an image association of all things in the world.
Huangdi made the tripod of three treasures to symbolize heaven, earth and man.
Dayu collected metals from the pastoral guards of Kyushu and cast the Jiuding to symbolize Kyushu.
They all used to cook sacrifices to worship the ghosts and gods in heaven.
Among them, the empty one in the foot is called Ge, which is used to symbolize the three virtues and enjoy the blessing of inheriting heaven.
When the virtues of the Xia Dynasty declined, the tripod was moved to the Yin Dynasty; when the virtues of the Yin Dynasty declined, the tripod was moved to the Zhou Dynasty; when the virtues of the Zhou Dynasty declined, the tripod was moved to the Qin Dynasty; when the virtues of the Qin Dynasty declined, and the society of the Song Dynasty was destroyed, the tripod disappeared and no longer appeared.
"Song of Zhou" says: From the hall to the school, from the sheep to the cattle, whether the big or small tripod is clean, your life will be long.
Now that the cauldron reaches the sweet spring, because the light changes like a dragon, the blessings received will definitely be endless.
The dispatch is consistent with the sign of the arrival of yellow and white clouds in Zhongshan, which is probably like the shape of a beast. As a talisman, as well as a big bow and four arrows, they were all obtained under the altar, which was God's reward for the sacrificial tycoon.
Only those who accept destiny and become emperors know its meaning and are in harmony with heaven.
The tripod should be placed in Zongmi's temple and hidden in the emperor's court to coincide with the obvious auspiciousness.
The emperor went down to Shao and said, "Okay."
People who went to visit Penglai at sea said that Penglai was not far away, but they could not reach it, probably because they could not see the clouds.
The emperor sent people to help them observe the clouds.
In the autumn of this year, the emperor went to Yongcheng to conduct a suburban sacrifice.
Some people say that the Five Emperors were Taiyi's assistants, so they should build a Taiyi temple and the emperor would go to the suburbs to offer sacrifices in person.
The emperor hesitated.
A man named Gongsun Qing from the State of Qi said: This year I got a treasure tripod, and the winter solstice is on the first day of the Xinsi lunar month, just like the time of the Yellow Emperor.
Gongsun Qing has a note saying: The Yellow Emperor got the tripod when he was in Mianhou, and asked Guiyu District. Guiyu District replied: The Yellow Emperor got the treasure tripod, and on the first day of the winter solstice on the first day of the month, he got the chronology from heaven, and the cycle started again and again.
So Huangdi deduced the sun and moon according to his divine strategy, and then repeated the winter solstice on the first day of the lunar month every 20 years, a total of 20 times, 380 times! One year, the Yellow Emperor became an immortal and ascended to heaven.
Gongsun Qing wanted to present his letters to the emperor through Suo Zhong.
Suo Zhong saw that his book was not in line with the classics and suspected that he was talking nonsense, so he declined and said: "The Baoding matter has been settled."
No need to say any more!
Gongsun Qing asked Emperor Wu's favored people to pass the notes on.
Emperor Wu was very happy after seeing it, so he summoned and asked Gongsun Qing.
Gongsun Qing replied: This book was passed down to me by Duke Shen, who is already dead.
The emperor asked: Who is Shen Gong?
Gongsun Qing said: He was from Qi State and had a relationship with An Qisheng. An Qisheng told him what Huangdi said, but he did not write it down, only what was written on the tripod.
It is said that after the founding of the Han Dynasty, it was considered the time of the Yellow Emperor.
It is said that the most sage people in the Han Dynasty are among the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the great ancestor.
After the tripod appears, it can communicate with the gods, and a sealing ceremony can be held.
There were seventy-two kings in Feng Chan, but only the Yellow Emperor could go to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. Duke Shen said: The Han emperor should also go to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. If he goes to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices, he can become an immortal and ascend to heaven.
The Yellow Emperor had tens of thousands of princes, and the number of kings who offered sacrifices to the gods was seven thousand.
There are eight famous mountains in the world, three of which are in the barbarians and five in the Central Plains.
There are Huashan Mountain, Shoushan Mountain, Taishi Mountain, Taishan Mountain and Shulai Mountain in the Central Plains. These five mountains were where the Yellow Emperor often visited to meet the gods.
The Yellow Emperor learned immortal arts while fighting. He was worried that the people would criticize his behavior, so he killed those who criticized ghosts and gods.
After more than a hundred years, I was able to communicate with God.
The Yellow Emperor worshiped God in the suburbs of Yongcheng and lived there for three months.
The area code of Guiyu was Dahong. After his death, he was buried in Yongcheng, in the original Hong Tomb.
After that, Huangdi led all spirits to Mingting.
Mingting is Ganquan Palace.
The so-called humble family is Taniguchi.
Huangdi mined copper from Shoushan Mountain and cast a tripod at the foot of Jingshan Mountain.
After the tripod was cast, a dragon lowered its beard to greet the Yellow Emperor.
After the Yellow Emperor rode on the dragon, more than seventy people from the harem of ministers followed, and the dragon then left upwards.
The rest of the ministers could not go up, so they all held on to the dragon's beard. The dragon's beard was pulled out and they fell down, along with Huangdi's bow.
The people looked up and saw that Huangdi had ascended to heaven, so they held his bow and dragon beard and cried. Therefore, from now on, people called this place Dinghu, and Huangdi's bow was called Wuhao.
So the emperor said: Alas!
If I can really be like the Yellow Emperor, I will treat my wife and son as if I were taking off my shoes.
He worshiped Gongsun Qing as Lang Guan and sent him to Shumian to greet the gods at Taishi Mountain.
The emperor then held sacrifices in the suburbs of Yongcheng, arrived in Longxi, climbed Kongtong Mountain, and visited Ganquan Palace.
The ancestral official Kuanshu and others were ordered to prepare Taiyi's ancestral altar. According to Boji's Taiyi altar, the ancestral altar has three floors.
The Five Emperors Altar surrounds the Taiyi Altar, each according to their position.
To the southwest of the Yellow Emperor, eight roads were opened to reach the gods.
The items used in Taiyi sacrifices were the same as those in Yongcheng, except that wine, dates, dried meat, etc. were added, and a yak was killed as a sacrifice.
The Five Emperors specially had ritual vessels to hold the wine as offerings.
The four directions under the altar are places for continuous sacrifices, enshrining the entourage of each god and Beidou.
After the sacrifice is completed, all remaining sacrifices must be burned.
The color of the ox is white, and the white deer is placed in the middle of it, and the pig is in the middle of the deer, and the deer is filled with wine.
Oxen were used as sacrifices to the sun, and three-year-old sheep and pigs were used as sacrifices to the moon.
Taiyi's Zhu and Zai should wear purple and colorful clothes. The colors of the Five Emperors' blessings are the same as those of the Five Emperors. They wear red clothes to worship the sun and white clothes to worship the moon.
On the first day of the winter solstice in November, when the sky was still dark, the emperor began to offer sacrifices to Taiyi in the countryside.
Offering sacrifices in the morning and worshiping the moon in the evening are just a bow; when meeting Taiyi in court, it is the same as offering sacrifices to Yongcheng in the suburbs.
The person who assisted the sacrifice said: God began to bestow the divine treasure of the tripod to the emperor, one after another, and finally again, and the emperor respectfully paid homage to the God of Heaven.
Yellow is the most expensive color for clothes.
During the sacrifice, the altar was filled with fire and cooking utensils were placed beside the altar.
Relevant officials said there was a light shining on the temple.
Gongqing said that when the emperor was worshiping Taiyi in the suburbs of Yunyang, the relevant officials held jade and jade sacrifices. A beautiful light appeared that night, and during the day, yellow air reached the sky.
Taishi Ling Sima Tan, ancestral official Kuanshu and others said: The virtue of the gods brings good fortune to the world, and the Taizhi Altar should be built within the glorious range of the place where it was made to show the auspiciousness.
Taizhu is ordered to be managed, and sacrifices are held in autumn and the twelfth lunar month.
There is a festival in the suburbs of the emperor every three years.
In the autumn of this year, in order to conquer South Vietnam, I prayed at the Taiyi Temple. I used vitex to draw the moon, the Big Dipper, and the rising dragon on the flag to symbolize the three stars of Taiyi.
When praying for an expedition, the Taishi official should hold a spiritual flag and point it at the country to be conquered.
But the envoys of General Wuli did not dare to enter the sea and went to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices.
The emperor sent people to follow him to check, but actually saw nothing.
General Wuli said nonsense that he had seen his teacher and that he had exhausted all his methods and most of them were ineffective.
The emperor then killed General Wuli.
In the winter of this year, Gongsun Qing was in Henan to welcome the immortals. He said that he had seen traces of the immortals on Fengshi City, and there was a pheasant-like thing walking back and forth on the city.
The emperor personally went to Fengshi City to see the traces and asked Gongsun Qing: "You can't follow the example of Wencheng and Wuli, right?"
Gongsun Qing said: Immortals do not ask for help from human masters, but enter into the master and ask for help from him.
The rule of the matter is that if you don't act calmly, the gods will not come.
Talking about gods may seem pedantic and weird, but if you accumulate a certain number of years, you can attract gods.
So the prefectures and states built their own roads, renovated palaces, palaces, and temples on famous mountains, in anticipation of the emperor's arrival.
In the spring of this year, South Vietnam had been wiped out, and the favored minister Li Yannian presented a beautiful piece of music.
The emperor was very satisfied with the music and gave it to the ministers for discussion. He said: Folk sacrifices have drum music, but now there is no music in suburban sacrifices. Is this appropriate?
Gongqing said: In ancient times, there was music in both heaven and earth during sacrifices, and only gods could come and enjoy the sacrifices.
Some people say: It is very sad that Emperor Tai asked a plain girl to play the fifty-stringed harp. The emperor could not suppress his emotions, so he divided the harp into twenty-five strings.
So in order to reward the gods for annihilating South Vietnam, they sacrificed Taiyi and Houtu, and began to use music and dance.
The recruitment of singing boys began at this time, and the production of twenty-five-stringed harp and harp instruments began.
The next winter, the emperor discussed with the ministers: In ancient times, the troops were first reorganized and disarmed, and then the feudal army was sealed.
So he went north to inspect Shuofang, commanding an army of more than 100,000 riders, and came back to worship the Yellow Emperor's tomb in Chuangshan Mountain. He disbanded his troops far away.
The emperor said: I heard that Huangdi was not dead, but there was a tomb. Why is this?
Someone replied: The Yellow Emperor became an immortal and ascended to heaven, and his officials buried his clothes.
After arriving at Ganquan Palace, since I was going to Mount Tai soon to pray for Zen, I first offered sacrifices to Mount Tai.
After obtaining the tripod, the emperor discussed with the ministers and other Confucian scholars about the title of Dang.
No one had held the ceremony of Zen for a long time, and they did not know its etiquette and rituals, so the Confucian scholars quoted the story of worshiping and shooting oxen during the ceremony of Zen.
Ding Gong, a native of Qi State, was more than ninety years old. He said: Fengchan is another name for immortality in ancient times.
Qin Shihuang could not go up to worship heaven.
If your Majesty definitely wants to go up, if you go up slowly, there will be no wind and rain, and you can go up to worship the sky.
The emperor then ordered the Confucian scholars to practice the ritual of shooting cattle and draft the etiquette of sealing.
After a few years, it was time to become a Zen monk.
The emperor had heard the words of Gongsun Qing and the alchemist, saying that the Yellow Emperor and above had attracted monsters and gods to interact with each other. He also wanted to imitate the Yellow Emperor and welcome the gods and men of Penglai, and be higher than the world and compare with the virtues of the Nine Emperors, so he widely used Confucianism to beautify it.
Since the group of Confucian scholars could no longer debate clearly the matter of Feng Chan, they were too stuck in ancient texts such as "Poems" and "Books" and did not dare to express it.
The emperor showed the artifacts in the temple to the Confucian scholars. Some of the Confucian scholars said that they were different from those in ancient times. Xu Yan also said that the Confucian scholars in Taichang were not as good as those in Lu State. Zhou Ba summoned the Confucian scholars to discuss the matter of conferring Zen, so the emperor dismissed Xu Yan and Zhou Ba, and dismissed all Confucian scholars from appointment.
In March, the emperor went east to Fengshi City and followed the rites to climb Zhongyue Songshan Mountain.
The accompanying officials seemed to hear voices shouting "Long Live Long Live" on the mountain.
Asked the emperor, the emperor did not answer; asked the people below, the people below also did not answer.
So he ordered the ancestral officials to increase the number of sacrifices to Mount Song, and prohibited the felling of trees on the mountain. A total of 300 households at the foot of the mountain were used as people to worship Mount Song, and their residences were used as their enshrined towns to provide sacrifices separately. They were exempted from corvee or taxes. Nothing was added.
The emperor therefore tied the stone to Mount Tai. Before the vegetation on Mount Tai could grow, he ordered people to transport the stone to the top of Mount Tai.
The emperor then patrolled the sea eastward and paid homage to the Eight Gods.
The people of Qi gathered tens of thousands of people who said there were strange and strange ways, so they increased the number of ships and ordered thousands of people who said there were sacred mountains in the sea to visit the Penglai god.
Gongsunqing often walked ahead with the talisman to wait for the emperor in famous mountains. When he arrived at Shulai, he said that he saw a very big man at night, several feet tall.
Some of the ministers said that they saw an old man holding a dog and saying, "I want to see the emperor." After saying this, he suddenly disappeared.
After the emperor saw the big footprints, he still didn't believe it. When the officials told the old man's story again, they were convinced that he was an immortal.
The emperor stayed at sea, gave the alchemist a chariot, and sent more than a thousand people to visit the gods.
In April, the emperor returned to Fenggao.
He felt that the Confucian scholars and alchemists who talked about Feng Chan all said something different, which was unreasonable. Difficult to implement.
The emperor arrived at Father Liang and offered sacrifices to the landlord.
When he arrived at Yimao, he ordered the Confucian scholars in his entourage to wear leather benches on their heads, put huts on their belts, and perform the ritual of shooting oxen.
The ritual of worshiping Taiyi in the east under Mount Tai is the same as that of worshiping Taiyi in the suburbs.
The altar is one foot two feet wide and nine feet high. There is a jade ultimatum buried underneath, the contents of which no one knows.
After the sacrifice ceremony, the emperor climbed Mount Tai alone with his attendants, Cha Zihou, and also performed sacrifices to heaven.
No external communication of this matter is allowed.
The next day, we descended from the north of the mountain.
In Bingchen, a ceremony of sacrificing the earth was held at the Suran Mountain in the northeast at the foot of Mount Tai, which was the same as the ritual of sacrificing the earth after the queen.
The emperor went to worship in person, wearing yellow clothes and using music.
A kind of thatched grass with three ridges between the Jianghuai River and the Huaihe River is used as a straw mat for placing offerings when offering sacrifices to the gods.
And build the altar with five-color soil.
Strange animals, birds, and white pheasants from remote areas were released for additional sacrifices.
Animals such as oxen, rhinoceros and elephants are not required.
After they all arrived at Mount Tai, they left.
The temple that seals the seal seems to have light at night, and white clouds rise from the seal during the day.
The emperor came back from the altar and sat in the bright hall, while the officials went to celebrate his birthday in turn.
The emperor issued an edict to change the Yuan Dynasty to Yuan Feng.
These are recorded in the "Wu Ji".
The Emperor also said: In ancient times, the Emperor would go on inspection tour once every five years and go to Mount Tai to pay homage. All the princes would have a place to meet and stay.
The princes are now ordered to build their official residences under Mount Tai.
Since the emperor had sealed Mount Tai, there was no wind or rain, and the alchemists said that it seemed that the gods of Penglai could be seen, so the emperor happily hoped to see them, and headed east again to the sea to look at them.
Feng Chezihou fell ill suddenly and died within a day.
The emperor had no choice but to leave and patrol along the seaside to Jieshi in the north, starting from western Liaoning, and from the northern border to Jiuyuan.
In the fifth month, he went to Ganquan Palace and traveled eighteen thousand miles.
In the autumn of this year, a comet appeared in Dongjingsu.
More than ten days later, a comet appeared in Sanneng Constellation.
Wang Shuo, a fortune teller, said: I observed the sky and saw that Saturn came out like a melon, and then went in again.
Relevant officials said: Your Majesty established the feudal etiquette of the Han Dynasty, and God probably rewarded him with the appearance of the De Star.
Next winter, the Five Emperors of Yongcheng will be worshiped in the suburbs.
When I came back, I prayed and worshiped Taiyi.
The tribute said: The virtue star shines brightly, which is very auspicious.
The birthday girl often appears and shines brightly.
The letter star appeared brightly, and the emperor worshiped Taizhu and enjoyed the meal.
In the spring of this year, Gongsun Qing said that he saw a divine man in Shulai Mountain, as if he wanted to see the emperor.
The emperor then went to Fengshi City and worshiped Gongsun Qing as a senior official.
Then he went to Shulai and stayed there for a few days. He saw nothing but the master's footprints.
He also sent thousands of alchemists to visit gods and collect medicines. There was a drought that year.
The emperor went on patrol without any reason, so he prayed at Wanlisha and offered sacrifices to Mount Tai on the way.
Returning to Huzi, he personally went to the breach of the Yellow River to block the water. He stayed there for two days, sank the sacrifices to the bottom of the river to offer sacrifices, and then left.
