Lord Shang was the son of the concubine Ji of the Kingdom of Wei. His name is Yang Yang and his surname is Gongsun. His ancestor’s original surname was Ji.
When he was young, Gongsun Yang was interested in the study of criminal names and magic. He served his uncle, the Prime Minister of Wei State, and served as the middle concubine.
The uncle knew that he was a virtuous man, but he had not yet had time to recommend him to the king of Wei.
Just when the uncle was sick, King Wei Hui went to visit him personally and said, "What will happen to the country if something unexpected happens to your illness?"
The uncle replied: My bastard son Gongsun Yang is young, but he is talented. I hope that the king can hand over all the affairs of the country to him and let him govern.
King Wei Hui was silent after hearing this.
When King Hui of Wei was about to leave, the uncle withdrew his entourage and said: If the king does not use Gongsun Yang, he must be killed and not allowed to leave the country.
King Wei agreed to his request and left.
The uncle summoned Gongsun Yang and apologized: Just now, the king asked about people who could serve as prime minister, and I recommended you. Judging from the look on his face, the king will not agree with my suggestion.
I must first be loyal to the king and then consider the position of the minister, so I advise the king that if Gongsun Martingale is not appointed, he should be killed.
The king agreed to my request.
You should leave quickly, otherwise you will be captured soon.
Gongsun Yang said: Since the king cannot listen to you and appoint me, how can he listen to you and kill me?
In the end, he did not leave Wei State.
After King Hui left, he said to his attendants: "The uncle's illness is very serious, which is really sad. He wants me to hand over all the affairs of the country to Gongsun Yang, and after that, he persuades me to kill him. Isn't this very confusing?"
Shortly after Gongshu Zuo's death, Gongsun Yang heard that Duke Xiao of Qin ordered to search for talented people throughout the country in order to restore the hegemony of Duke Mu of Qin and regain the lost territory in the east. He went west to enter the Qin State and relied on Duke Xiao's favored minister Jing Jian to seek an audience with Duke Xiao.
Duke Xiao summoned Wei Yang and asked him to talk about state affairs for a long time. Duke Xiao fell asleep while listening and couldn't listen at all.
Afterwards, Duke Xiao was angry with Jingjian and said: "Your guest is a bully. How can you appoint such a person?"
Jing Jian again used Xiao Gong's words to blame Wei Yang.
Wei Yang said: I used the methods of Yao and Shun to persuade the king, but his mind could not understand.
A few days later, Jing Jian asked Duke Xiao to summon Wei Yang.
When Wei Yang met with Duke Xiao, he explained the way of governing the country incisively and vividly, but it was not in line with Duke Xiao's wishes.
Afterwards, Duke Xiao blamed Jing Jian again, and Jing Jian also blamed Wei Yang.
Wei Yang said: I used the methods of Yu, Tang, Wen and Wu to persuade the king, but he would not listen.
Ask him to summon me again.
Wei Yang met Duke Xiao again. Duke Xiao was very friendly to him, but he did not use him.
After exiting the meeting, Xiaogong said to Jingjian: Your guest is good. I can talk to him.
Jing Jian told Wei Yang, and Wei Yang said: I used the Five Hegemons' methods of governing the country to convince the king, and I saw that he was ready to adopt it.
If you summon me again, I'll know what to say.
So Wei Yang met Duke Xiao again, and Duke Xiao had a very good conversation with him. He unknowingly moved his knees forward on the mat, and they talked for several days without feeling tired.
Jing Jian said: How can you win over the king? Our king is very happy.
Wei Yang replied: I advised the king to adopt the imperial method of governing the country and establish a prosperous age like Xia, Shang and Zhou. However, the king said: The time is too long, I can't wait, let alone a wise king. Who doesn't want to be famous when he is in power? How can I be asked to wait in obscurity for decades or hundreds of years to achieve the great cause of becoming an emperor?
Therefore, I used the method of enriching the country and strengthening the army to persuade him, and he was very happy.
However, this cannot be compared with the virtues of Yin and Zhou.
Shortly after Qin Xiaogong appointed Wei Yang, he planned to change the laws, but he was also worried that people in the world would talk about him.
Wei Yang said: If you hesitate in action, you will not become famous; if you hesitate in doing things, you will not succeed.
Moreover, behavior that goes beyond ordinary people is often criticized by the world; people with unique opinions will definitely be laughed at by ordinary people.
Foolish people cannot figure it out after it happens, but smart people can foresee what is going to happen in advance.
You cannot plan the creation of new things with the people but you can share the joy of success with them.
Those who pursue the highest morality do not collude with the world, and those who achieve great achievements do not collude with ordinary people.
Therefore, as long as the saint can make the country strong and prosperous, there is no need to follow the old rituals; as long as it can benefit the people, there is no need to follow the old rituals. Duke Xiao said: Well said.
Qianlong said: That's not the case.
The sage imparts education without changing the folk customs; the wise man governs the country without changing the established laws.
If you follow the customs of the people and impart education, you will be successful without any effort; if you follow the established laws and govern the country, the officials will be accustomed to it and the people will be stable.
Wei Yang said: What Qianlong said is a secular saying.
Most people are content with old customs, while scholars stick to what they see in books.
It's okay for these two types of people to abide by the law, but you can't talk to them about reforms other than the established law.
The three dynasties had different ritual systems but they were able to unify the world; the five uncles had different legal systems but they were able to dominate each other.
Wise people make laws, and stupid people are restricted by them; wise people change rituals, and ordinary people are restricted by rituals.
Du Zhi said: Without a hundred times the benefit, the law cannot be changed; without ten times the effect, the old instrument cannot be replaced.
There is no fault in imitating the established laws, and there is no deviation in following the old rites.
Wei Yang said: There is no fixed way to govern a country, and it is beneficial to the country not to follow the old laws.
Therefore, Tang and Wu were able to rule the world without following the old laws, and Xia and Yin perished without replacing the old rituals.
Those who oppose the old laws cannot be criticized, but those who follow the old rituals are not worthy of praise. Duke Xiao said: Well said.
So Wei Yang was appointed as the chief of Zuo Shu, and finally the order to change the law was made.
Wei Yang ordered the people to be organized into ten families into one clan, and five families into one team, to supervise and report each other. If one family breaks the law, the ten families will be jointly punished.
Those who do not report evil will be punished by being cut off from the waist; those who report evil will be rewarded the same as beheading the enemy; those who hide evil will be punished the same as those who surrender to the enemy.
If there are more than two adult men in a family, the tax will be doubled if there are no separate households.
Those with military merit will be promoted and rewarded according to the standards; those who fight over private matters will be sentenced to different punishments according to the severity of the case.
Those who are committed to agricultural production and have a good harvest of grain and increased production of cloth are exempted from labor or taxes.
Those who were poor due to being engaged in industry, commerce or laziness had them and their wives confiscated as official slaves.
Those in the royal family who have no military merit cannot be included in the family roster.
The hierarchy of titles and titles was clarified, and each family occupied land and real estate according to their grade. The clothes and clothing of retainers and servants were determined according to the title and grade of each family.
Those who have military merit are distinguished and glorious, but those who do not have military merit cannot show glory even if they are very rich.
The new law was ready but had not yet been announced. Worried that the people would not believe it, Wei Yang erected a three-foot-long log at the south gate of the market behind the capital, and recruited people who could move the log to the north gate and rewarded them with ten gold coins.
The people thought this was strange and no one dared to touch it.
He also announced that anyone who could move the wood to the north gate would be rewarded fifty gold.
A man moved it away and immediately gave him fifty gold to show that he would do what he ordered and would never cheat.
New laws were enacted afterwards.
The new law was implemented among the people for a whole year. Thousands of people from Qin State came to the country and said that the new law was not suitable.
At this time, the prince violated the new law.
Wei Yang said: The new law cannot be implemented smoothly because the people at the top violate it.
The prince will be punished according to the new law.
The prince was the heir to the monarch and could not impose punishment, so he punished Gongzi Qian, the teacher who supervised his behavior, and Gongsun Jia, the teacher who imparted knowledge to him, with ink punishment.
The next day, all the people of Qin implemented the new law.
Ten years after the new law was implemented, the people of Qin were very happy. No one picked up other people's lost things on the road, there were no thieves in the mountains and forests, and every family was rich and sufficient.
The people have the courage to fight for the country and dare not fight for personal gain. There is order in the villages and towns.
The people of Qin who initially said that the new law was not suitable also said that the law was suitable. Wei Yang said: "These are the people who disturb the enlightenment, so he moved them all to the border areas."
After that, no one among the people dared to discuss the new law.
So Wei Yang was appointed as Daliang Zao.
He led the army to besiege Anyi of Wei State and forced them to surrender.
Three years later, the Qin State built a palace city in Xianyang and moved the capital from Yongdi to Xianyang.
It was ordered that fathers, sons, and brothers of the common people were not allowed to live in the same room.
Sporadic towns and villages were merged into counties, and county magistrates and county magistrates were set up. A total of thirty-one counties were merged and divided.
Abolish well fields and redraw the boundaries of farmland, encourage the reclamation of wasteland, and balance taxes.
Unify the national weights and measures system.
After four years of implementation, Gongzi Qian violated the new law again and was sentenced to death.
Five years later, when the Qin state became prosperous and powerful, the Emperor of Zhou gave the sacrificial meat to Duke Xiao of Qin, and princes from all over the world came to congratulate him.
The next year, Qi's army defeated Wei's army in Maling, captured Wei's crown prince Shen, and killed general Pang Juan.
Another year later, Wei Yang persuaded Qin Xiaogong: The relationship between Qin and Wei is like a person suffering from a heart disease. Either Wei annexes Qin, or Qin annexes Wei.
Why do you say that?
The Wei State was located to the west of the high mountains, with its capital in Anyi. The Yellow River was the boundary with the Qin State and it monopolized the geographical advantage east of Mount Wei.
When the situation is favorable, they will invade the Qin State to the west, and when the situation is unfavorable, they will expand their territory eastward.
Now, with the help of the king's virtuous and sage wisdom, Qin is prosperous.
The Wei State was severely defeated by Qi last year, and the princes betrayed it one after another. They can take this opportunity to attack Wei State.
Wei cannot resist Qin and will definitely retreat eastward.
Once it retreats to the east, Qin will occupy the dangerous terrain of the Yellow River and Huashan Mountain, and can control the princes and countries to the east. This is the great cause of the emperor to unify the world.
Qin Xiaogong thought it was right and sent Wei Yang to lead an army to attack Wei.
The state of Wei sent its son Yan to lead troops to attack the Qin army.
When the two armies met and confronted each other, Wei Yang sent someone to send a letter to the general of the Wei army, Gongzi Yan, writing: I had a good relationship with the young master at the beginning, but now you and I are generals of two hostile countries and cannot bear to attack each other. Can we meet the young master in person, conclude an alliance, have a few drinks, and then withdraw our troops, so that both Qin and Wei will be in peace.
Wei Gongzi Yan thought that Wei Yang was right.
The two made an alliance, and then held a banquet and drank wine. However, the armored warriors who had been ambushed by Wei Yang suddenly attacked and captured Wei Gongzi Yan. They took the opportunity to attack his army, completely defeated the Wei army, and escorted Gongzi Yan back to the country.
King Wei Hui's army was defeated by Qi and Qin many times, leaving the country empty. Wei was getting weaker day by day. King Wei Hui was very panicked, so he sent envoys to cede the Hexi region to Qin in order to seek reconciliation.
Wei then evacuated Anyi and moved its capital to Daliang.
King Wei Hui said: I really regret not taking the advice of Gongshu Zuo.
After Wei Yang returned from defeating the Wei army, Qin Xiaogong granted him fifteen cities in the Yu and Shang areas, with the title Lord Shang.
Lord Shang served as Prime Minister of Qin for ten years, and many princes and nobles resented him.
Zhao Liang went to see Shang Jun.
Shang Jun said: I can see you because of Meng Langao's introduction. Now I ask to make friends with you, is that okay?
Zhao Liang replied: I don't dare to hope.
Confucius said: Recommend the virtuous and those who are supported by the people will come; gather the unworthy, and even those who can become kings will retreat.
I am not talented, so I dare not obey my orders.
I have heard this saying: Holding a position you shouldn't have is called position greed, and enjoying a reputation you shouldn't have is called fame greed.
If I accept your friendship, I am afraid that I am greedy for both position and fame.
So I dare not obey my orders.
Shang Yang said: Are you unhappy with how I govern Qin?
Zhao Liang said: Being able to listen to other people's opinions is called cleverness, being able to self-examine is called Ming, and being able to restrain oneself is called strong.
Yu Shun once said: People who are humble are respected by others.
You might as well follow Yu Shun's advice without asking me.
Shang Yang said: At the beginning, the customs of Qin were the same as those of Rong and Di. Father and son were not separated, and men, women, old and young lived in the same room.
Now I have changed the culture of Qin, made them separate men and women, and made them live separately. I built a large palace and city, and made Qin look like Lu and Wei.
Do you think I am more capable in governing the state of Qin than Dr. Wuxi?
Zhao Liang said: A thousand sheepskins are not as valuable as a fox armpit, and a thousand people who follow the advice are not as valuable as one person who speaks out.
King Wu allowed his ministers to express their opinions frankly, and the country prospered. King Zhou did not like his ministers to give advice, so he perished.
If you don't object to King Wu of Zhou's actions, then please allow me to speak frankly in my poem without being blamed, okay?
Shang Jun said: As the saying goes, words that appear pleasant are like flowers, words that are true and sincere are like fruits, words that are bitter and unpleasant to the ear are good medicine for curing diseases, and words that are flattering are diseases.
If you are really willing to speak out and justly all day long, that will be the best medicine for my illness.
I will worship you as my teacher, why do you refuse to make friends with me?
Zhao Liang said: That Doctor Wuxi is a remote countryman from Chu State.
I heard that Duke Mu of Qin was a virtuous man, so he wanted to see him in person. But he didn't have the money to go, so he sold himself to the people of Qin, wearing a coarse short coat and feeding their cattle.
A full year later, Duke Mu of Qin found out about this and promoted him from the cow's mouth to the top of ten thousand people. No one in Qin was dissatisfied.
He served as the Prime Minister of Qin for sixty-seven years. He went east to conquer Zheng, supported the king of Jin three times, and sent troops to rescue Chu once.
Implement morality within the country. The country of Pakistan came to pay tribute; it governed the princes virtuously, and ethnic minorities from all over the world came to pay homage.
When Yu Yu heard about this situation, he came to knock on the door and seek refuge.
When Doctor Wuxi was appointed as the Prime Minister of Qin, he did not ride in a car when tired, did not hold an umbrella in the scorching heat, and traveled all over the country without accompanying vehicles or armed defense. His merits were recorded in the annals of history and hidden in the treasury, and his virtues were taught to future generations.
When Wu Xianfu died, both men and women in Qin State cried bitterly. Even the children did not sing ballads, and the people who were pounding rice did not make corresponding calls out of sorrow.
This is the virtue of Doctor Wuxi.
Now that you are able to meet the King of Qin, you rely on the recommendation of the King of Qin's favorite minister Jing Jian. This is not a reputation at all.
As the Prime Minister of the Qin State, if you build palaces on a large scale without benefiting the people, this cannot be said to be a contribution to the country.
Punishing the prince's master and using cruel methods to harm the people is accumulating resentment and accumulating disaster.
Educating the people is more deeply rooted in the hearts of the people than ordering them, and it is faster for the people to imitate the behavior of the superiors than to order them.
Now you are unreasonably establishing authoritative change procedures. This is not to educate the people.
You proclaimed yourself king in the south of Shangyu fiefdom, and used new laws to persecute the nobles of Qin every day.
The Sutra says: Rats still know how to be polite, but people have no manners. Since people have lost their etiquette, why don't they die quickly?
According to this poem, it really cannot be flattering to you.
Gongzi Qian has been in seclusion for eight years. You killed Zhu Huan and punished Gongsun Jia with ink.
"The Book of Songs" says: Those who gain the revitalization of the human heart will perish if they lose the human heart.
None of these things are popular.
As soon as you go out, dozens of vehicles are following behind you. The vehicles are all armored guards. Strong men serve as personal guards. People with spears and halberds run close to your vehicle.
If you lack any of these defenses, you will definitely not dare to go out.
"Shangshu" says: Prosperity depends on virtue, and destruction depends on force.
Your situation is as dangerous as the morning dew that will soon disappear. Do you still plan to prolong your life?
Then why not return Shang's fiefdom of fifteen cities to the State of Qin, go to remote and desolate places to water gardens and cultivate their own land, and persuade the King of Qin to reuse those talents who live in seclusion in the mountains and forests to support the elderly and raise orphans, so that father and brother can respect each other, rank according to merit, and respect virtuous people. Only in this way can peace be guaranteed.
You also want to covet Shang Yu's wealth, take monopolizing the political and religious affairs of Qin as an honor and favor, and arouse the resentment of the people. Once the king of Qin abandons his guests and cannot be in power, how many people will Qin want to arrest you?
The day of your death will come as quickly as you lift your feet.
But Shang Jun did not follow Zhao Liang's advice.
Five months later, Qin Xiaogong died and the prince ascended the throne.
Gongzi Qian and his gang reported that Shang Jun wanted to rebel, and the monarch sent people to arrest Shang Jun.
Shang Jun fled to the border crossing and wanted to stay in a hotel.
The owner of the inn did not know that he was Lord Shang, and said: Lord Shang has an order, and the owner of the hotel will jointly and severally sentence the people staying in the hotel without documents.
Shang Jun sighed longly and said: Alas! The legacy of enacting new laws has reached such an extent!
He left Qin and fled to Wei.
The people of Wei resented him for deceiving the young master Yan and defeating the Wei army, and refused to take him in.
Shang Jun plans to go to other countries.
The people of Wei said: Lord Shang is a fugitive from Qin. Qin is powerful, but its fugitive comes to Wei. It is impossible not to return him.
So he sent Lord Shang back to Qin.
After Lord Shang returned to Qin, he fled to his fiefdom of Shang. He and his subordinates mobilized the soldiers in the city to attack Zheng in the north to seek a way out. Qin sent troops to attack Lord Shang and killed him in Lingchi of Zheng.
King Hui of Qin divided Shang Jun into five pieces and showed it to the public, saying: Don't rebel like Shang Yang!
So he killed the whole clan of Lord Shang.
Tai Shigong said: Mr. Shang is a cruel and merciless person by nature. It should be considered that when he used the way of an emperor to persuade Duke Xiao, he relied on pretentious talk and it was not his own qualifications.
Besides, relying on the recommendation of the king's favorite minister Jing Jian, when he was appointed, he punished the prince Qian, deceived the Wei general, the prince Xian, and refused to listen to Zhao Liang's advice, which is enough to prove that Lord Shang was cruel and ungrateful.
I once read a book about Shang Jun's Kasai farming campaign, and the content is similar to his own actions.
But in the end, he got a bad reputation in Qin State for treason. There is a reason for this!
