Chun Shenjun is a native of Chu State, his name is Xie and his surname is Huang.
He once traveled around to learn from his teachers, gained profound knowledge, and served King Qingxiang of Chu.
King Qingxiang thought Huang Xie was eloquent and asked him to go on a mission to Qin.
At that time, King Zhao of Qin sent Bai Qi to attack Hanhe, defeated Han and Wei in Huayang, and captured Wei general Mang Mao. Han and Wei surrendered to Qin and served Qin.
King Zhao of Qin had ordered Bai Qi to attack Chu with South Korea and Wei, but the Qin army had not yet set off. At this time, King Chu sent Huang Xie to Qin by chance and heard about Qin's plan.
At this time, the State of Qin had occupied a large area of ​​Chu State, because before this King Qin had sent Bai Qi to attack the State of Chu, captured Wu County, Qianzhong County, captured the capital of Yancheng and Ying, and marched eastward to Jingling. King Qingxiang of Chu had to move the capital eastward to Chen County.
Huang Xie saw that King Huai of Chu was lured by Qin and went to Qin's court for negotiation. As a result, he was deceived, detained and died in Qin.
King Qingxiang was the son of King Huai of Chu, and the state of Qin did not pay attention to him at all. Huang Xie was worried that the state of Chu would perish if a war started.
So he wrote a letter to persuade King Qin:
Among the princes in the world, no one is more powerful than Qin and Chu.
Now I heard that your Majesty is going to conquer Chu State, which is like two tigers fighting each other.
When two tigers fight each other and the inferior dog takes advantage of it, it is better to be friendly with Chu.
Please allow me to state my opinion: I have heard that when things develop to their peak, they will inevitably go to the opposite direction, as is the case with the changes between winter and summer; when things accumulate to extremely high levels, they will be dangerous, as is the case with stacked chess pieces.
Now the land of Qin occupies the western and northern borders of the world. This has never been the case since the beginning of mankind, not even the territory of the emperor.
However, for three generations, the first emperors, King Wen, King Zhuang, and the king himself, never forgot to connect the land of Qin with Qi, so as to cut off the key parts of the alliance between the countries.
Now the king sent Shengqiao to serve as a garrison in South Korea. Shengqiao annexed the land of South Korea to the Qin State. This was a good way to obtain hundreds of miles of land without using any soldiers or force.
The king can be said to be talented.
The king sent troops to attack the Wei State again, blocking the access roads to and from the Wei capital Daliang, captured Hanoi, captured Yan, Suanzao, Xu, Tao and other places, and then invaded Xing. The Wei troops fled in all directions like white clouds blown by the wind and did not dare to save each other.
The king has accomplished enough.
The king stopped the campaign to rest and reorganize his troops, and sent troops again two years later; he also captured Pu, Yan, Shou, Yuan and other places, and then marched to Ren and Pingqiu, while Huang and Jiyang retreated and defended themselves. As a result, Wei surrendered to Qin;
It can be said that the power of the king has been exerted to the extreme.
If your Majesty maintains your merits, masters your power, gets rid of the desire to conquer, and spreads benevolence and righteousness, so that there will be no future disasters, your career will be equal to that of the three kings, and your power will be equal to that of the five hegemons.
If your Majesty, relying on the large number of strong men, relying on the strength of the military, and taking advantage of the power of destroying the Wei State, wants to use force to make the princes of the world submit, I am afraid you will be in trouble in the future.
The Book of Songs says: No one wants to have a good beginning, but few people can have a good ending.
"Book of Changes" says: When the little fox was about to cross the water, his tail got wet.
What these words say is that it is easy to start but hard to end.
How do you know this is the case?
In the past, Zhibo only saw the benefits of attacking Zhao Xiangzi, but he did not expect that he would be killed in Yuci. King Wu Fu Chai only saw the benefits of attacking Qi but did not expect to be defeated by Yue King Gou Jian in the dry tunnel.
It is not that these two countries have not made great achievements, but because they were greedy for immediate benefits, they ended up getting disaster later.
Because King Wu Fu Chai believed Yue's compliment, he went to attack Qi. After defeating the Qi people in Ailing, he was captured by Yue King Gou Jian at the Sanjiang River when he returned.
Zhibo believed in the Han and Wei families, so he attacked the Zhao family and Jinyang City. Victory was just around the corner. However, the Han and Wei families betrayed him and killed Zhi Boyao on the platform.
Now the king is jealous that the Chu State will not be destroyed, but he has forgotten that destroying the Chu State will make Han and Wei stronger. I think for the king and think that this cannot be done.
There is a poem that says: The army never travels long distances away from its homestead.
From this point of view, Chu is a helper and neighboring countries are enemies.
"The Book of Songs" says: The cunning rabbit jumps and jumps, but cannot run away when encountering hounds; I can figure out other people's thoughts.
Now the king believes that South Korea and Wei are on good terms with you, just as Wu Guo believes in Yue.
I heard the saying that the enemy cannot be tolerated and the opportunity cannot be missed.
I'm afraid that South Korea and Wei are actually deceiving Qin by asking Qin to eliminate the trouble.
How can you see it?
The king has no kindness for South Korea and Wei for many generations, but he has resentment for several generations.
The fathers, sons and brothers of the kings of Han and Wei have been killed by Qin's sword for nearly ten generations.
Their territory was incomplete, their country was ruined, and their ancestral temples were burned down.
From the generals down to the soldiers, they were disemboweled, beheaded and disfigured, their heads separated, their bones exposed in the wilderness and swamps, their heads stiffened, and corpses strewn everywhere in the country. The father, son, old and weak were tied up by the necks and hands, and became prisoners who were allowed to be humiliated. They walked on the road in groups.
The people were unable to live, their relatives fled, their flesh and blood were scattered, and they were exiled and reduced to male servants and female slaves, all over the country.
Therefore, if Han and Wei are not destroyed, this is Qin's biggest worry. Now, the king is using them to attack Chu together. Isn't it inappropriate?
Besides, how will the king send troops to attack Chu?
Will the king borrow a road from his enemies South Korea and Wei?
If so, then the day of sending troops is when the king is worried that they will not be able to return. This means that the king is lending his troops to his enemies, South Korea and Wei.
If the king does not borrow the road from his enemies Korea and Wei, he will definitely attack the area on the right side of Suishui.
The area to the right of Suishui is full of large rivers, mountains, dense forests, deep streams and valleys. Even if the king occupied these grain-free areas, he would not get the land.
This is because the king has a bad reputation for destroying the Chu State without getting the benefits of occupying the land.
Besides, from the day your king attacks Chu, the four countries of Korea, Zhao, Wei, and Qi will all send troops to deal with your king.
Once Qin and Chu go to war, they will continue to fight and cause trouble. Wei will send troops to attack cities and places such as Liu, Fangyu, Zhi, Huling, Dang, Xiao, and Ping. All the land originally occupied by the Song Kingdom will be lost.
The people of Qi attack Chu in the south, and the Surabaya area will definitely be conquered.
These places were flat, open and fertile lands extending in all directions, but they were allowed to occupy them alone.
The king defeated Chu, which made Han and Wei stronger in the Central Plains, and made Qi even stronger.
As Korea and Wei became stronger, they were able to compete with Qin.
Qi State has Surabaya as its border to the south, the sea to the east, and the Yellow River to the north, so there will be no future troubles. No country in the world is more powerful than Qi and Wei.
With the vastness of the king's land, the large population, and the powerful military equipment, once he sends troops to enmity with the Chu State, Han and Wei will become emperors. This is a mistake in the king's plan!
I think for your Majesty, there is no better way than to be friendly with Chu State.
Qin and Chu united as a whole to attack South Korea, and South Korea must restrain itself and dare not act rashly.
If the king manages to set up the dangerous terrain of Dongshan and takes advantage of the favorable conditions surrounded by the Yellow River, Korea will definitely become a vassal of Qin.
If this situation is created, the king will garrison Zheng with 100,000 troops, and Wei will be frightened, and Xu and Yan will retreat and stand firm without attacking, then the connection between Shangcai and Tailing and Wei will be severed, and Wei will become a vassal of Qin.
Once the king has good relations with the Chu State, the two countries of ten thousand chariots within Hangu Pass, Han and Wei, will cede land to the Qi State, and the vast area of ​​​​Jizhou on the right side of the Qi State can be easily obtained.
The king's land spans the east and west seas and binds the princes of the world. In this way, Yan and Zhao do not have Qi and Chu to rely on, and Qi and Chu do not have Yan and Zhao to rely on.
Then the king used danger to frighten the two countries Yan and Zhao, and directly shake the two countries Qi and Chu. Then these four countries would surrender to Qin without a sudden attack.
After reading Chun Shenjun's letter, King Zhao said: "It's really good."
So he stopped Bai Qi from going on an expedition and resigned from Han and Wei.
At the same time, he sent envoys to send generous gifts to Chu, and Qin and Chu formed an alliance to become friendly countries.
Huang Xie accepted the alliance and returned to Chu State. The King of Chu sent Huang Xie and Prince Wan to Qin State as hostages. Qin State detained them for several years.
Later, King Qingxiang of Chu fell ill, but Prince Wan was unable to return to Chu.
However, the prince had a very good personal relationship with the Qin Prime Minister Ying Hou, so Huang Xie persuaded Ying Hou: Prime Minister, are you really very good to the prince of Chu?
Ying Hou said: Yes.
Huang Xie said: Now the King of Chu may be ill, so it would be better for Qin to let the prince go back.
If the prince can be established as king, he will definitely serve the Qin State deeply and be grateful to the Prime Minister for his kindness that will never be exhausted. This is not only an expression of goodwill and friendship between the countries, but also retains an ally of a great country for the future.
If he is not allowed to go back, then he will be just a commoner in Xianyang City at best; Chu State will establish a new crown prince, and he will definitely not serve Qin State by then.
That would lose the trust of friendly countries and cut off the allies of a powerful country. This is not the best policy.
I hope you, Xiangguo, will consider this matter carefully.
Ying Hou Fan Ju reported what Huang Xie said to the King of Qin.
The King of Qin said: Let the teacher of the Prince of Chu go back to inquire about King Chu's condition first, and then make a plan after he comes back.
Huang Xie made plans for the prince of Chu and said: The purpose of Qin detaining the prince is to obtain benefits.
Now the prince is powerless to benefit Qin. I am very worried about you.
Moreover, Yang Wenjun's two sons are both in the Chu Kingdom. If the king unfortunately dies and the prince is not in the Chu Kingdom, Yang Wenjun's son will definitely be his successor, and the prince will not be able to enjoy the country.
It is better to flee Qin and go out with the envoy; please let me stay and bear the consequences of this with my life.
The Prince of Chu changed his clothes and pretended to be the driver of an envoy from the Chu State to get out of the customs. Huang Xie stayed in the guest house, always refusing to receive guests on the pretext that the Prince was ill.
It was estimated that the prince had gone far and Qin could not catch up, so Huang Xie took the initiative to report to King Zhao of Qin: The prince of Chu has gone back and is far away.
I deserve death, please grant me death.
King Zhao was very angry and wanted to allow Huang Xie to commit suicide.
Ying Hou said: "As a minister, Huang Xie sacrificed his life for his master. If the prince is established as the king of Chu, he will definitely use Huang Xie in an important position. Therefore, it is better to spare him the death penalty and let him return to his country to show his goodwill towards the Chu country."
The King of Qin listened to the advice of Marquis Ying and sent Huang Xie back to his country.
Three months after Huang Xie returned to Chu, King Qingxiang of Chu passed away, and Prince Wan was appointed King of Chu. This was King Kaolie.
In the first year of King Kaolie's reign, Huang Xie was appointed prime minister, granted the title Lord Chunshen, and was rewarded with twelve counties in Huaibei.
Fifteen years later, Huang Xie proposed to the King of Chu: The area north of the Huaihe River is close to the State of Qi. The situation there is urgent. Please classify this area as a county to make governance more convenient.
At the same time, he offered twelve counties in Huaibei and asked for the seal to be transferred to Jiangdong.
King Kaolie agreed to his request.
Chun Shenjun built cities in the old capital of Wu and made them his own capital.
Chun Shenjun has already served as the prime minister of the Chu State. At this time, Qi State has Mengchang Lord, Zhao State has Pingyuan Lord, and Wei State has Xinling Lord. They are all vying to treat virtuous corporals, attract guests, compete with each other for wise men, and assist the king in controlling the state affairs.
In the fourth year when Chun Shenjun served as the prime minister of Chu, Qin defeated and killed more than 400,000 Zhao Changping garrison.
In the fifth year, Handan, the capital of Zhao State, was surrounded.
Handan asked for help from the Chu State. Chu State sent Chun Shenjun to lead troops to rescue Handan. After the Qin army retreated, Chun Shenjun led his troops back to Chu State.
In the eighth year when Chun Shenjun served as the prime minister of Chu State, he marched northward for Chu State, destroyed Lu State, and appointed Xunqing as the magistrate of Lanling County.
At this time, the Chu State became prosperous and powerful again.
Once, Lord Pingyuan of the State of Zhao sent envoys to visit Lord Chunshen, and Lord Chunshen arranged for them to stay in a first-class guesthouse.
The envoy of the State of Zhao wanted to show off the wealth of the State of Zhao to the State of Chu, so he specially put a tortoise shell hairpin in his crown, showed off his sword scabbard decorated with pearls and jade, and asked to invite the guests of Lord Chun Shen to meet him. The distinguished guests of Lord Chun Shen all came to see the envoy of the State of Zhao wearing shoes made of pearls, which made the envoy of the State of Zhao feel ashamed.
In the fourteenth year of Chun Shenjun's tenure as prime minister, King Zhuang Xiang of Qin came to the throne, appointed Lu Buwei as Prime Minister of Qin, and granted him the title of Marquis Wenxin.
Captured the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.
In the 22nd year of Chun Shenjun's appointment as prime minister, the princes of various countries were worried that Qin's conquests would be endless and unstoppable, so they made an alliance with each other to crusade against Qin in the west. The king of Chu served as the leader of the six-nation alliance, leaving Chun Shenjun in charge.
After the Allied Forces of the Six Nations arrived at Hangu Pass, the Qin army came out to fight. The Allied Forces of the Six Nations were defeated and fled.
King Chu Kaolie blamed Chun Shenjun for the defeat in the battle, and Chun Shenjun was gradually alienated.
At this time, one of the guests, Zhu Ying, who was watching Jin, said to Chun Shenjun: People think that Chu is a strong country and you have made it weak. I think this view is wrong.
The former king had good relations with Qin for twenty years but Qin did not attack Chu. Why?
It would be very inconvenient for Qin to cross the fortress of Ji Pass to attack Chu; it would also be impossible for Qin to attack Chu by borrowing roads from the Western and Eastern Zhou Dynasties and turning its back on Han and Wei.
The current situation is no longer like this. Wei is in danger and cannot begrudge Xu and Yanling, and agrees to cede these two cities to Qin.
In this way, the Qin army is only 160 miles away from the capital of Chu, Chen. What I will see is that Qin and Chu are at war with each other day by day.
At that time, the Chu State moved its capital from Chen to Shouchun; while the Qin State moved its vassal Wei Yuanjun from Puyang to Yewang and established Dongjun.
From then on, Chun Shenjun came to the fiefdom of Wu and performed the duties of prime minister at the same time.
King Chu Kaolie had no sons. Chun Shenjun was worried about this matter, so he looked for women suitable to give birth to sons and donated them to the king of Chu. Although he donated a lot, he never gave birth to a son.
Li Yuan of the State of Zhao came with his sister, intending to present his sister to the King of Chu. He also heard that the King of Chu was not suitable for giving birth to a son, and he was afraid that he would not be favored for a long time.
Li Yuan looked for an opportunity to become Chun Shenjun's attendant. Soon he asked for leave and went home, but deliberately delayed his return.
After he came back, he went to see Lord Chunshen. Lord Chunshen asked him why he was late. He replied: The King of Qi sent an envoy to ask for my sister to marry him. Because I drank with the envoy, my return was delayed.
Chun Shenjun asked: Has the engagement gift been delivered?
Li Yuan replied: No.
Chun Shenjun asked again: "Can you let me see it?"
Li Yuan said: Yes.
So Li Yuan dedicated his sister to Chun Shen Jun, and she immediately gained Chun Shen Jun's favor.
Later, Li Yuan learned that his sister was pregnant, and discussed further plans with his sister.
Li Yuan's sister found an opportunity to persuade Chun Shenjun: "The King of Chu respects and favors you even more than his brother."
Now you have been the prime minister of Chu for more than twenty years, but the king has no sons. If the king of Chu will have brothers after his death, then after the king of Chu is established, each of them will make the people he trusted more prominent. How can you be favored for a long time?
Not only that, you have been in charge of political affairs for many years, and it is inevitable that you have been rude to the brothers of the King of Chu. If the brothers of the King of Chu are really established as kings, disaster will befall you. How can you keep the prime minister's seal and the Jiangdong fiefdom?
Now I know I'm pregnant, but no one else knows.
I have only been favored by you for a short time. If you offer me to the King of Chu based on your noble status, the King of Chu will definitely favor me. I rely on God's blessing to give birth to a son. This will mean that your son will become the King of Chu, and the whole country of Chu will be yours. How is this compared with the unexpected disaster you suffer?
Chun Shenjun thought that what he said was very right, so he sent Li Yuan's sister away from home, arranged her in a strict residence, and then told the King of Chu that he wanted to donate Li Yuan's sister.
The King of Chu summoned Li Yuan's sister into the palace and favored her very much. He gave birth to a son, made him a prince, and made Li Yuan's sister a queen.
The King of Chu valued Li Yuan, so Li Yuan participated in the government affairs.
Li Yuan sent his sister to the palace, made her a queen, and made her son a prince. Worried that Lord Chun Shen would reveal his secret and become more arrogant, he secretly raised an assassin. He planned to kill Lord Chun Shen to silence him, and some people in the capital knew about it.
In the twenty-fifth year of Chunshenjun's tenure as prime minister, King Kaolie of Chu fell seriously ill.
Zhu Ying said to Chun Shenjun: There are unexpected blessings and unexpected disasters in the world.
Now that you are in a world where life and death are uncertain, and you serve a moody monarch, how can you not have people come unexpectedly?
Chun Shenjun asked: What is unexpected blessing?
Zhu Ying replied: You have been the prime minister of Chu for more than 20 years. Although you are the prime minister in name, you are actually the king of Chu.
Now the king of Chu is seriously ill and is about to die. You assist the young king and control the state affairs on his behalf, just like Yi Yin and Zhou Gong. When the king grows up and then hand over the power to him, doesn't it mean that you go south to claim the king and occupy the Chu country?
This is what is called unexpected blessings.
Chun Shenjun asked again: What is an unexpected disaster?
Zhu Ying replied: Li Yuan is your enemy if he is not in charge of national affairs. He has been raising assassins for a long time without caring about the military. As soon as the King of Chu is born, Li Yuan will definitely enter the palace first to seize power and kill you to silence you.
This is what is called an unexpected disaster.
Chun Shenjun then asked: What do you mean by someone who comes unexpectedly?
Zhu Ying replied: If you arrange for me to be the doctor, when the King of Chu is born, Li Yuan will be the first to enter the palace. I will kill Li Yuan for you.
This is what is called an unexpected person.
After hearing this, Chun Shenjun said: "You have to give up this plan." Li Yuan is a weak person, and I am very friendly to him. Besides, how could he get to this point!
Zhu Ying knew that his suggestions were not adopted, and he was afraid that disaster would affect him, so he ran away.
Seventeen days later, King Chu Kaolie passed away. As expected, Li Yuan entered the palace first and ambushed the assassin at Thorny Gate.
When Chun Shenjun entered the Thorny Gate, the assassins raised by Li Yuan caught him from both sides and killed him. He cut off his head and threw it outside the Thorny Gate.
At the same time, he sent officials to kill everyone in Chunshenjun's family.
Li Yuan's sister was favored by Lord Chun Shen and became pregnant. Then she entered the palace and was favored by Queen Chu Kaolie. The son born to her was established as King of Chu. This was King Chu You.
This year, Qin Shihuang has been on the throne for nine years.
Lao Ai also had an affair with the Queen Mother of Qin. After being discovered, the three tribes were destroyed by the barbarians, and Lu Buwei was deposed because of his involvement.
Taigong Shi said: I went to the Chu region and visited Chun Shenjun's old city. The palace buildings were very magnificent!
At that time, Chun Shenjun persuaded King Qin Zhao and risked his life to send people to send the Prince of Chu back to Chu State. What a smart and brilliant move it was!
But later he was controlled by Li Yuan and became confused.
As the saying goes: If you fail to make a decision when you should make a decision, you will suffer disaster in turn.
It means Chun Shenjun lost Zhu Ying's opportunity to kill Li Yuan, right?
