Duke Huan of Zheng was the youngest son of King Zhou Li and the younger brother of King Zhou Xuan.
Twenty-two years after King Xuan ascended the throne, Youcai was granted the title of Zhengdi.
He was sealed for thirty-three years, and the people all loved him.
King You appointed him as Situ.
He made the people of Zhou Dynasty live in harmony, and the people were very happy. People in the Yellow River and Luoshui basins missed him.
When he was a Situ for a year, because King You doted on Bao Si and neglected political affairs, the problems became difficult to recover. Some princes betrayed King You. So Huan Gong asked Tai Shibo: "The royal family is in serious disaster. How can I escape from death?"
Tai Shibo replied: Only the east of Luoshui and the south of the Yellow River can live in peace.
Duke Huan asked: Why?
Tai Shibo replied: The kings of the neighboring countries of Guo, Hao, Guo and Hao in that area were greedy and liked to take advantage of small things, so the people did not obey them.
Now, you are Situ, and the people love you. If you really ask to live in that area, the kings of Guo and Hao will easily give you land if they see that you are legitimate.
If you really live in that area, the people of Guo and Hao will be your people. Duke Huan: I want to live in the Yangtze River Basin in the south. How about it?
Taishi replied: In the past, Zhu Rong controlled fire for the Gao Xin family and made great contributions, but his descendants did not prosper in the Zhou Dynasty. Chu State is his descendant.
If the Zhou royal family is weak, Chu will surely prosper.
If the state of Chu prospers, it will definitely not be beneficial to the state of Zheng.
Duke Huan said; I want to live in the west, how about it?
Tai Shibo replied: The people there are greedy and profit-seeking, and it is difficult to live there for a long time.
Duke Huan said: If the Zhou royal family is weak, which country will prosper?
Tai Shibo replied: Qi, Qin, Jin, Chu, right?
Qi State, whose surname was Jiang, was a descendant of Boyi, who assisted Yao in managing the ceremonial system.
Qin, whose surname is Ying, is a descendant of Boyi, who assisted Shun in bringing many tribes into submission.
As for the ancestors of the Chu State, they have also established meritorious deeds for the people of the world.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated King Zhou, King Cheng granted the Tang Dynasty to Shuyu. The mountains and rivers there were dangerous. With these virtuous descendants coexisting with the weak Zhou family, the Jin Kingdom would definitely be able to prosper. Duke Huan said: OK.
So he quickly asked King You for instructions and moved his people to the east of Luoshui. As expected, the kings of Guo and Xi donated ten cities to him, and he finally established the state of Zheng.
In the second year, Quan Rong killed King You and Duke Huan at the foot of Mount Li.
The people of Zheng supported Duke Huan's son Jutu, who was Duke Wu.
In the tenth year of Duke Wu's reign, he married the daughter of Marquis Shen as his wife, named Wu Jiang.
Wu Jiang gave birth to the prince Wusheng, but it was difficult to deliver the baby. After the birth, his wife did not like Wusheng.
Later, Wu Jiang gave birth to a younger son, Shu Duan, who was born naturally. His wife loved Shu Duan very much.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Wu fell ill. His wife asked him to make Duan the crown prince, but Duke Wu refused.
At that time, Duke Wu passed away and Wansheng came to the throne. This was Duke Zhuang.
In the first year of Emperor Zhuang's reign, Duke Zhuang granted his younger brother Uncle Duan a title to the capital, and he was known as Taishu.
Ji Zhong said: The capital is larger than the capital, so it cannot be granted to a younger brother.
Duke Zhuang said: Wu Jiang wants to do this, and I dare not object.
Uncle Duan arrived in Beijing, reorganized his military equipment, and conspired with his mother Wu Jiang to attack Zhengdu.
In the twenty-second year, Shu Duan attacked Zhengdu, and Wu Jiang acted as an internal response.
Duke Zhuang sent troops to attack Shu Duan. Duan fled and Duke attacked the capital. The people in the capital betrayed Shu Duan. Shu Duan had no choice but to flee to Yan.
The people of Yanyi fled. Uncle Duan had no choice but to flee to the Republic of China.
So Zhuang Gong moved his mother Wu Jiang to Chengying and swore that he would not see her until he came to Huangquan.
More than a year later, Duke Zhuang regretted what he had said and missed his mother very much.
Uncle Kao from Yinggu presented a gift to Duke Zhuang, and Duke Zhuang gave her food.
Uncle Kao said: I have an old mother. Please give food to my mother.
Duke Zhuang said: I miss my mother very much, but I hate breaking my oath. What should I do?
Uncle Kao said: Control the tunnel to a place with spring water, and then you mother and son can meet.
So Zhuang Gong followed his method and finally saw his mother.
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Mu of Song died, and his son Feng fled to Zheng.
Zheng Guo invaded Zhou's fields and seized the crops in the fields.
In the twenty-fifth year of the year, Zhouxu of Wei State killed his own king Huan Gong and ascended the throne, and joined forces with Song State to attack Zheng State because Zheng State accepted Gongzi Feng.
In the twenty-seventh year, Zheng Juncai paid homage to King Huan of Zhou. King Huan was angry with Zheng for grabbing crops and did not treat him according to etiquette.
In the twenty-ninth year, Duke Zhuang was angry that King Huan of Zhou did not treat him courteously, so he deliberately used Qi to exchange the land of Lu State, which was close to Xu State.
In the thirty-third year, the Song Dynasty killed Confucius' father.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Zhuang did not pay homage to King Huan of Zhou, so King Huan led Chen, Cai, Guo, and Wei to attack Zheng.
Zhuang Gong, Ji Zhong, and Gao Qumi sent out troops to attack and defeated King Huan's army. Zhu Yu shot King Huan in the arm.
Zhu Yu asked to continue pursuing King Huan, but Duke Zhuang stopped him and said: If you violate an elder, you will be punished, let alone insulting the emperor.
Then Zhu Yu stopped chasing.
Duke Zhuang sent Ji Zhong late at night to inquire about King Huan's arrow wound.
In the thirty-eighth year, Beirong attacked the state of Qi. The state of Qi sent envoys to the state of Zheng to ask for help. The state of Zheng sent Prince Hu to lead the army to rescue the state of Qi.
Duke Qi wanted to marry his daughter to Prince Hu. Hu resigned and said: Our country is a small country and it is not suitable to match the big country of Qi.
At that time, Ji Zhong was with the prince and persuaded the prince to agree to the marriage, saying: Our king of Zheng has many beloved concubines. The prince will not be able to ascend the throne without the help of the Taiguo. All three princes can become kings.
The three young masters mentioned by Ji Zhong include Prince Hu, his younger brother Tu, and his younger brother Zi Qian.
Forty-three years later, Duke Zhuang of Zheng passed away.
At first, Ji Zhong was favored by Duke Zhuang. Duke Zhuang asked him to be a minister. Duke Zhuang asked Ji Zhong to marry a beautiful woman from Deng State for him and gave birth to Prince Hu. Therefore, Ji Zhong made Hu the king. This is Duke Zhao.
Duke Zhuang once married a woman from the Yong family of the Song Dynasty and gave birth to Li Gongtu.
Women of the Yong family are very favored by the monarch.
When Duke Zhuang of Song Dynasty heard that Ji Zhong supported Hu, he sent someone to trick Ji Zhong into arresting him, and threatened him: If you don't make Tu the king, you will be executed.
The king of Song also arrested Tu Qiu for taking bribes.
Ji Zhong agreed to the Song Dynasty and swore an alliance with the Song Dynasty king.
He was going to take Tu Tu back to his country and make Tu Tu his king.
Duke Zhao suddenly heard that Ji Zhong had proclaimed his younger brother Tu as king due to threats from the Song Dynasty. On Dinghai in the ninth month, he suddenly fled to the Wei Kingdom.
On the day of Jihai, he suddenly came to Zhengdu and took the throne. This was Duke Li.
In the fourth year of Li Gong's reign, he offered sacrifices to Zhong Zhuanquan.
Duke Li was concerned about this matter and secretly asked Ji Zhong's son-in-law to kill Ji Zhong.
Yong Jiu's wife was Ji Zhong's daughter. When she found out about this, she asked her mother: Which one is closer, father or husband?
The mother said: There is only one father, but there are many choices for husbands!
Ji Zhongnu told Ji Zhong about this, but Ji Zhong killed Yong Jiu and exposed his body in the busy market.
Duke Li was helpless with Ji Zhong, but he was very angry with Yong Jiu, saying: After discussing with the woman, he deserved to die. In the summer, Duke Li was driven to live in Queyi on the border.
Ji Zhong welcomed Zhao Gonghu, and on Yihai day in the sixth month, Hu returned to Zhengdu and ascended the throne.
In the autumn, Duke Li of Zheng relied on the people of the city to kill Uncle Shan, the official of Liyi, and settled in Liyi.
When the princes heard that Duke Li had escaped, they attacked Zheng Guo, but they left without defeating Zheng Guo.
The State of Song gave Duke Li a large number of troops and asked him to stand guard in Liyi. Therefore, the State of Zheng stopped attacking the city.
In the second year of Duke Zhao, when Duke Zhao became the crown prince, his father, Duke Zhuang, wanted to make Gao Qumi his minister. The prince suddenly disliked Gao Qumi. Duke Zhuang did not listen to Hu's advice and finally made Qumi his minister.
When Zhaogong came to the throne, Qumi was worried that Zhaogong would kill him. On Xinmao day in October in winter, Qumi and Zhaogong went hunting and shot Zhaogong in the countryside.
Ji Zhong and Qu Mi did not dare to accept Duke Li, so they made Zhao Gong's younger brother Zi Qi the king instead, and they called him Zi Qi. He had no posthumous title.
In the seventh month of the first year of Ziqian, Duke Xiang of Qi met with the princes at the first stop. Zheng Ziqian went to the meeting, assisted by Gao Qumi, who followed Ziqian there. Ji Zhong excused himself from illness.
The reason why Ji Zhong did this was because Zi Qi once fought with Xianggong of Qi when he was a prince, and the two sides became enemies. When the princes met, Ji Zhong asked Zi Qi not to go.
Zi Qian said: The state of Qi is strong and Duke Li lives in Yue. If I don't go, Qi will lead the princes to attack me and ask Duke Li to return to the capital.
Why don't I go there? Why will I be humiliated? And why will I end up in the situation you imagined?
Zi Qian finally went there.
Ji Zhong was worried that Qi would kill Zi Qian and his followers, so he claimed to be ill.
When Zi Qian arrived, he did not apologize to the Marquis of Qi. The Marquis of Qi was very angry, so he set up an ambush and killed Zi Qian.
Gao Qumi fled back to the state of Zheng, discussed with Ji Zhong, and called Zi Qi's younger brother Gong Ziying from the state of Chen to support him as the king. This was Zheng Zi.
That year, Duke Xianggang of Qi asked his son Peng Sheng to kill Duke Huan of Lu by breaking his ribs while he was drunk.
In the eighth year of Zheng Zi, the governor of Qi State, Zhifu, and others rebelled and killed their own monarch, Duke Xiang.
In the twelfth year of the Song Dynasty, Wan Chang, a man of the Song Dynasty, killed his own king Min Gong.
This year, Zheng Guojizhong passed away.
In the fourteenth year, the people who had fled to Liyi with Duke Li of Zheng sent someone to trick him into taking the official's leave, and coerced him to help Duke Li return to the capital to restore his throne.
Fu Ji said: Forgive me, I will kill Zheng Zi for you and let you return to the capital.
After Duke Li made a covenant with him, he released him.
On the Jiazi Day in the sixth month, Fu falsely killed Zheng Zi and his two sons, and ushered in Li Gongtu, who came back from Yue to ascend the throne.
At the beginning, there was a fight between a snake in the south gate of Zhengdu and a snake outside the city, and the snake in the city died.
Six years later, Duke Li came back again.
After Duke Li returned to Zhengdu, he blamed his uncle and said: I lost my country and went to live outside the capital, but my uncle has no intention of accepting me. This is too much.
Yuan said: Serving the king cannot have two minds. This is the duty of a minister.
I know the sin.
After that, he committed suicide.
Duke Li then said to Fu Jiu: You have two intentions in serving the king.
So he killed him.
When he was about to die, he pretended to regret and said: "It's just right that I didn't repay Zheng Zi for his great virtue and ended up like this!"
In the first year after Li Gongtu was restored to power, Qi Huangong began to dominate.
In the fifth year, the states of Yan and Wei, together with King Zhou Hui's younger brother Dai, attacked King Zhou Hui. King Hui fled to Wen, and his younger brother Dai ascended the throne as King of Zhou.
In the sixth year, King Hui appealed to the State of Zheng for help. Duke Li led an army to attack Prince Dai of Zhou, but failed to win. So Duke Li and King Hui of Zhou withdrew to the State of Zheng, and King Hui lived in Yue.
In the spring of the seventh year, Duke Li of Zheng and Uncle Guo jointly attacked and killed Prince Dai and escorted King Hui to the capital of Zhou.
In the autumn, Duke Li died, and his son Duke Wen ascended the throne.
Just four years after Li Gong took the throne, he fled to live in Yue. He lived in Yue for seventeen years and then returned to Zhengdu. He reigned for seven years, which together with the time of escape, totaled twenty-eight years.
In the seventeenth year of Duke Wen, Duke Huan of Qi led his army to defeat the State of Cai, and then attacked the State of Chu, all the way to Zhaoling.
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Wen had a concubine named Yan Ji. She dreamed that the Emperor of Heaven gave her an orchid and said: I am Bo Min.
I am your ancestor.
Use this orchid to be your son. The orchid has a strong and mellow aroma.
Yan Yan told Wen Gong about this dream, and Wen Gong slept with her. And gave her bluegrass as a voucher.
So Yan Ji gave birth to a son, named Lan.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Chong'er of Jin passed by the state of Zheng, and Duke Wen of Zheng was not polite to him.
Uncle Zhan, Wen Gong's younger brother, said: "Chong'er is a wise man and has the same surname as us. He passed by you when he was in poverty. You cannot be rude to him."
Duke Wen said: "There are many fugitive princes from the princes passing by here. How can I receive them according to the courtesy?"
Uncle Zhan said: "If you don't treat him politely, kill him. If you don't kill him, if he returns to the country, he will be a worry to the state of Zheng."
Duke Wen did not listen to Uncle Zhan's advice.
In the spring of the thirty-seventh year, Duke Chong'er of Jin returned to Jin and ascended the throne. He was Duke Wen of Jin.
In the autumn, the State of Zheng invaded the State of Hua, and the State of Hua only obeyed Zheng's orders. Soon, the State of Hua joined the State of Wei, so the State of Zheng attacked the State of Hua again.
King Zhou Xiang asked Bo Fu to intercede on behalf of the Hua Kingdom. Zheng Wengong resented King Hui for fleeing to Yue. It was Wen Gong's father, Li Gong, who escorted King Hui back to the throne. However, King Hui did not reward Duke Li with a salary for the throne. He also resented King Xiang for joining the Wei Kingdom and the Hua Kingdom. Therefore, Wen Gong did not listen to King Xiang's intercession for the Hua Kingdom and instead imprisoned Bo Fu.
King Xiang was very angry and united with the Zhai people to attack Zheng State, but failed to win.
In winter, the Zhai people attacked King Xiang of Zhou, and King Xiang fled to Zheng State. Zheng Wengong asked King Xiang to live in Chi.
In the thirty-eighth year, Duke Wen of Jin sent King Xiang of Zhou back to Chengzhou.
In the forty-one year, Zheng Guo helped Chu State attack Jin State.
Because Jin Wengong passed by Zheng and Zheng was rude to him, Zheng betrayed Jin and helped Chu.
Forty-three years ago, Duke Wen of Jin and Duke Mu of Qin jointly besieged the capital of Zheng. They attacked Jun Zheng for helping Chu to attack Jin, and Wen Gong passed by Jun Zheng for his rude crime.
At the beginning, Zheng Wengong had three wives and five beloved sons, all of whom died early due to their crimes.
Zheng Wengong hated Zi Xia and drove away the princes.
Zilan fled to Jin and followed Duke Wen of Jin to besiege Zhengdu.
At that time, Zilan served Duke Wen of Jin with great respect, and Duke Wen of Jin favored him very much. He acted secretly in Jin and took the opportunity to ask to return to Zheng to be the crown prince.
At this time, the state of Jin wanted to get Shu Zhan and kill him.
Duke Wen of Zheng was very frightened and did not dare to tell Uncle Zhan. When Uncle Zhan heard about this, he told Zheng Jun: I once told you that I wanted to kill Chong'er, but you didn't listen to me. Jin has finally become a worry for our country.
But the reason why Jin State besieged the capital of Zheng was because of me. If I die, I can pardon Zheng State. This is my wish.
So Uncle Zhan committed suicide.
The people of Zheng gave Uncle Zhan's body to the State of Jin.
Duke Wen of Jin said: I definitely want to see Lord Zheng and insult him before leaving.
The people of Zheng were worried about this, so they sent someone to tell Qin privately: Defeating Zheng is good for Jin, not Qin.
The Qin army withdrew after hearing this.
Duke Wen of Jin sent Zilan to the State of Zheng to be crown prince and took the opportunity to inform the State of Zheng.
Shi Gui, a doctor in the state of Zheng, said: I heard that the daughter named Ji is the first wife of Houji, and her descendants should be prosperous. Zilan's mother is his descendant.
Besides, the madam's sons are all gone, and none of the remaining sons can compare with Lan Xianneng.
Now it is urgent for the Jin State to surround Zheng. The Jin State asks for Zilan's return to Zheng. There is no better condition than this!
So the state of Zheng agreed to the state of Jin, made an alliance with the state of Jin, and finally made Zilan the crown prince, and the Jin army withdrew.
In the forty-fifth year, Duke Wen of Zheng passed away and Zilan came to the throne. This was Duke Mu.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Miao, Duke Mu of Qin sent three generals to lead an army to attack the state of Zheng. When they arrived in the state of Hua, they met the merchant Xian Gao of the state of Zheng.
After the death of Duke Wen of Zheng, the garrison officer Zanhe in the capital of Zheng State betrayed the inside story of Zheng State to Qin State, so the Qin army came to attack Zheng State.
In three years, the State of Zheng sent troops to follow the State of Jin to attack the State of Qin, and defeated the Qin army in Wang.
The prince of Chu State, Shang Chen, killed his father and became king and ascended the throne.
In the twenty-first year, the Chu State and the Song State Hua Yuan attacked the Zheng State.
Hua Yuan slaughtered sheep to reward the soldiers, but did not give meat to his driver, Yang Zhen. Yang Zhen was angry and drove the chariot to Zheng State. Zheng State imprisoned Hua Yuan. Song State redeemed Hua Yuan with a large sum of money, but Hua Yuan had already escaped.
The state of Jin asked Zhao Chuan to lead his army to attack the state of Zheng.
In the twenty-second year, Duke Mu of Zheng passed away, and his son Yi came to the throne. This was Duke Lin.
In the spring of the first year of Linggong, Chu State dedicated it to Linggong turtle.
Zijia and Zi Gong were about to pay homage to Linggong. Zi Gong's index finger trembled and said to Zi Jia: My finger has moved before, so I must eat rare food.
After entering the palace, he saw Duke Ling eating turtle soup. Zigong smiled and said, "It's true."
Duke Lin asked why Zigong was laughing, and Zigong told Duke Lin the above situation.
Duke Ling called him over, but he didn't give him the soup. Zigong was very angry, so he dipped his finger in the soup and tasted it before leaving the palace.
Duke Lin was very angry and wanted to kill his son.
Zigong and Zijia Shangyi made the first move.
In summer, they killed Ling Gong.
The people of Zheng wanted to appoint Linggong's younger brother Quji, but Quji humbly said: "I must let a worthy person take the throne, and I, Quji, have no talent; I must let him take the throne in the order of eldest son and youngest son, then Prince Jian will be older than me."
Jian is Linggong's younger brother and Quji's older brother.
So he made Zijian the king, and he was Xianggong.
After Duke Xiang ascends the throne, he will kill all the Miao family.
The Miao family is the family of the son who killed Duke Ling. Qu Ji said: The Miao family must be killed, and I will leave Zheng.
Only then did Duke Xiang stop.
And appointed Miao Du as a doctor.
In the first year of Xiang AD, the state of Chu was angry that the state of Zheng had accepted bribes from the state of Song, released Hua Yuan, and attacked the state of Zheng.
The state of Zheng betrayed the state of Chu and became close to the state of Jin.
Five years later, Chu State attacked Zheng State again, and Jin State came to rescue Zheng State.
In the sixth year, Zijia died, and the people of Zhengdu drove out Zijia's family because he killed Duke Ling.
In the seventh year, Zheng and Jin formed an alliance in Yanling.
In the eighth year, King Zhuang of Chu came to attack Zheng because of his alliance with Jin. He besieged the capital of Zheng for three months. Zheng surrendered the capital to Chu.
When the King of Chu entered the city from the imperial gate, Zheng Xianggong took off his shirt, exposed his arms, and held a sheep to greet the King of Chu. He said: "I cannot serve you in the border town. It is my sin to let you come to the capital of our country angrily."
I dare not take orders.
You exiled me to the south of the Yangtze River and gave Zheng to the princes, and I obeyed your orders.
If the king has not forgotten King Zhou Li, King Xuan of Zhou, Duke Huan of Zheng, and Duke Zheng Wu, and feels pity for them and cannot bear to cut off their sacrifices, you can give me a barren land so that I can serve you again. This is my wish, but I do not dare to hope.
I just took the liberty to show my sincerity and will obey your orders.
King Zhuang ordered the army to retreat thirty miles and then settled down.
The ministers of the Chu State said: We have traveled thousands of miles to get here, and the officers and soldiers have also worked hard for a long time.
Now the country that has been conquered is giving up again, why?
King Zhuang said: The reason why we attack is to attack the untamed king.
Today I am already obedient, what else do you want?
The Chu army finally withdrew.
Jin heard that Chu was attacking Zheng and sent troops to rescue him.
When the Jin army set out, the Jin army was not unanimous and was still undecided, so it arrived late. By the time it reached the Yellow River, the Chu army had already left.
Some Jin generals wanted to cross the river to pursue them, while others wanted to return home, but they finally crossed the Yellow River.
After King Zhuang heard about it, he turned around and attacked the Jin army.
Instead, Zheng helped Chu and defeated the Jin army on the Yellow River.
Ten years later, Jin came to attack Zheng again because it opposed Jin but was close to Chu.
Eleven years ago, King Zhuang of Chu attacked the State of Song, and the State of Song asked the State of Jin for help.
Jin Jinggong wanted to send troops to rescue the Song Dynasty. Bo Zong came to admonish the Jin Dynasty and said: God is helping the Chu Kingdom and cannot attack Chu.
The Jin State then found a strong man named Xie Yang, named Zihu, who was from the Huo State.
The state of Jin asked Xie Yang to deceive the state of Chu and ask the state of Song not to surrender. Xie Yang passed by the state of Zheng. The state of Zheng had a close relationship with the state of Chu, so he arrested Xie Yang and dedicated it to the state of Chu.
The King of Chu rewarded Xie Yang with a generous gift and made a covenant with him, asking him to tell the truth and ask Song to surrender quickly. The King of Chu threatened Xie Yang many times, and Xie Yang reluctantly agreed.
So the King of Chu asked Xie Yang to board the chariot where he was watching the enemy troops, and asked him to shout to the Song army. But Xie Yang actually broke the agreement with the Chu people, conveyed the order given to him by the Jin Jun, and shouted loudly: The Jin State is gathering all the troops from all over the country to rescue the Song State. Although the Song State is in an urgent situation, it must not surrender to the Chu State. The Jin Army will arrive soon!
The King of Chu was very angry when he heard this and was about to kill Xie Yang.
Xie Yang said: It is the duty of the king to formulate orders, and it is the duty of his subjects to carry out the orders.
I accept the order of the king of our country and go abroad to do business. I would rather die than let the king's life be harmed.
King Zhuang said: So, you have promised me and then betrayed me. Where is your credit?
Xie Yang said: The reason why I agreed to you is to use it to fulfill the order of our king.
When Xie Yang was about to be executed, he turned around and said to the Chu army: As a minister, you must not forget to be loyal and then die!
The younger brothers of the King of Chu all went to the King of Chu to pardon Xie Yang, so the King of Chu pardoned him and allowed him to return to the Kingdom of Jin.
The State of Jin granted him the title of Shangqing.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Xiang passed away, and his son Duke Yu came to the throne.
In the first year of mourning, Duke Xu Linggong went to Chu to slander Zheng, so Duke asked his younger brother to go to Chu to defend himself.
His defense was unsuccessful and he was imprisoned by the State of Chu.
So Duke Zheng came to Jin to talk about reconciliation between the two countries.
He had friendship with Zi Fan of Chu State, and Zi Fan interceded for his release to the State of Zheng.
In the second year, the state of Chu attacked the state of Zheng, and the Jin army came to rescue him.
That year, when Duke Du passed away, Zheng Guoliang appointed Duke Duke's younger brother, Cheng Gong.
In the third year of Chenggong's reign, the King of the Communist Party of Chu said: I am kind to Zheng Cheng. Then he sent people to Zheng to make an alliance with Duke Cheng.
Duke Cheng secretly formed an alliance with Chu. In the autumn, Duke Cheng paid homage to the state of Jin. Jin said: "The state of Zheng secretly made peace with Chu and arrested Duke Cheng."
And sent Luan Shu to attack Zheng Guo.
In the spring of the fourth year, the state of Zheng was worried that the state of Jin would come to surround him, so the son decided to make his elder brother the king.
In April of that year, Jin heard that Zheng had established a new king and asked Duke Cheng to return to the country.
When the people of Zheng heard that Duke Cheng had returned to the country, they killed him to welcome him.
The Jin army withdrew.
Ten years later, the state of Zheng betrayed its alliance with the state of Jin and formed an alliance with the state of Chu.
Duke Li of Jin was very angry and sent troops to attack Zheng Guo.
The King of the Communist Party of Chu rescued Zheng Guo.
Jin and Chu fought at Yanling. The Chu army failed. The Jin army shot the King of Chu in the eye, and the two sides ceased fighting and left.
In the thirteenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Duke Dao of Jin attacked Zheng Guo and stationed his troops in Weishang.
The Zheng army defended the city, and the Jin army also left.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Cheng passed away and his son Hui came to the throne. This was Duke Li.
In the fifth year of Ligong's reign, Si, the Prime Minister of the State of Zheng, went to pay homage to Ligong, but Ligong was not polite to him.
Zi Si was very angry and asked the cook to kill Li Gong with poison. He announced to the princes that Li Gong had died of a sudden illness.
Li Ligong's son Jia was born. Jia was five years old at that time. This was Jian Gong.
In the first year of Jian AD, the princes planned to kill Zi Si, the Prime Minister of the country. Zi Si found out and killed all the princes.
In the second year, the State of Jin attacked the State of Zheng. The State of Zheng formed an alliance with the State of Jin, and the State of Jin left.
In winter, Zheng Guo entered into an alliance with Chu State.
Zisi was afraid of being killed, so he was close to both Jin and Chu.
In the third year, the prime minister Zi Si wanted to establish himself as the king. The prince Kong sent Wei Zhi to kill the prime minister Zi Si in his place.
Zi Kong also wanted to establish himself as king.
Zichan said: Zisi cannot stand on his own, so you killed him, and today you imitate him. In this way, the civil strife will never subside.
So Zi Kong listened to Zi Chan's advice and still only became the prime minister of Zheng Jiangong.
In the fourth year, Jin was angry that Zheng had made an alliance with Chu and attacked Zheng. Zheng also formed an alliance with Jin.
The King of the Communist Party of Chu rescued Zheng Guo and defeated the Jin army.
Duke Jian wanted to make peace with Jin, but Chu imprisoned Zheng's envoys.
In the twelfth year, Duke Jian was very angry that Zi Kong, the prime minister, had monopolized power. He killed Zi Kong and made Zi Chan the minister.
In the 19th year, Duke Jian came to Jin and interceded with Lord Wei to allow him to return to the country. He also granted six towns to Zichan.
Zichan resigned and only accepted three cities.
In the 22nd year, the state of Wu sent Yanling Jizi to Zhengguo. Yanlingjizi and Zichan hit it off and said to Zichan: There are many people in power in Zheng who are doing evil. Disaster is about to happen, and the power will fall into your hands.
If you are in power, you must govern the country according to etiquette; otherwise, Zheng will suffer a disastrous defeat.
Zi Chan met Ji Zi favorably.
In the twenty-three years, the princes competed for favor and killed each other, and they also wanted to kill Zichan.
Some princes came to remonstrate and said: Zichan is a benevolent person. The reason why Zheng can survive is because of Zichan. Don't kill him!
The young men just gave up.
In the twenty-fifth year, the state of Zheng sent Zi Chan to the state of Jin to inquire about Duke Ping's condition.
Duke Ping asked: After my divination, I said they were Shi Shen and Tai Ni Zuo Chong. The historian does not know their origins, so I take the liberty to ask what kind of gods they are.
Zichan replied: The Gaoxin family had two sons. The eldest son was called Yan Bo and the second son was named Shi Shen. They lived in the big forest and couldn't tolerate each other. They fought against each other every day. Emperor Yao didn't like them, so he moved to Shangqiu to preside over sacrifices. Merchants continued to worship Chenxing, so Chenxing was called Shangxing. Emperor Yao asked Shi Shen to live in Daxia and presided over the sacrifice of Chenxing. The people of the Tang Dynasty followed it and served the Xia and Shang dynasties. The last monarch of the Tang Dynasty was called Tang Shuyu.
When King Wu's wife, Yi Jiang, was pregnant with her uncle, she dreamed that the Emperor of Heaven said to her: "I will name your son Yu, so I gave him the Tang Dynasty title and entrusted him to sacrifice to Ginseng and breed offspring there."
After the uncle was born, the texture on his palms resembled the character "Yu", so he was named after "Yu".
After King Zhou Cheng destroyed the Tang Dynasty, he gave the Tang Dynasty title to his uncle.
Therefore, Shenxing is the star of the Jin Kingdom.
From this we learned that Shi Shen is the god of the ginseng star.
In the past, Jin Tianshi had a descendant named Mei who was a water official and gave birth to Yunge and Taiyi.
Tai Ni could inherit the official position of his predecessors, dredged the Fen River and Tao River well, built embankments for Daze, and lived in Taiyuan.
Emperor Zhuanxu rewarded him for this and sealed Fenshui to him.
Shen, Si, Piao, and Huang Guo were actually in charge of his sacrifices.
Now, Jin ruled the Fen River Basin and destroyed the countries in this area.
From here, Tai Ni is the god of Fen and Tao rivers.
However, these two gods will not harm your body. For the gods of mountains and rivers, sacrifices should be made when floods and droughts occur. For the gods of the sun, moon and stars, sacrifices should be made when snow, frost, wind and rain come out of season. If you are sick, it is caused by eating, drinking, music, and women.
After discussing this with Zichan, Duke Ping and his uncle praised him and said: Yes, you are truly worthy of being a knowledgeable gentleman!
Give your son a generous gift.
In the summer of the twenty-seventh year, Duke Jiang of Zheng went to pay homage to the king of Jin.
In the winter, the state of Zheng was afraid that King Ling of Chu was powerful, so he paid homage to the state of Chu, and Zichan followed him.
In the twenty-eighth year, Zheng Jun fell ill and sent Zichan to meet with the princes and make an alliance with King Ling of Chu in Shen. King Chu killed Qi Guo Qingfeng.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Jian passed away, and his son Ding Gongning came to the throne.
In autumn, Duke Dinggong paid homage to Duke Zhao of Jin.
In the first year of Ding AD, the prince of Chu State Qi Ji killed the king of the country, King Ling, and established himself as king. This was King Ping.
King Ping wanted to do something benevolent and moral among the princes, so he returned all the land that King Ling had invaded from Zheng to Zheng.
In four years, Jin Zhaogong passed away. The six ministers of Jin became stronger and the country's power weakened.
Zichan said to Han Xuanzi: To hold power must be based on benevolence, righteousness and morality, and do not forget the reasons for the consolidation of power.
In the sixth year, a fire broke out in the state of Zheng, and Duke Din wanted to pray to ward off the disaster.
Zichan said: It is better to practice virtuous government.
In the eighth year, Prince Jian of Chu State fled to Zheng State.
In the tenth year, Prince Jian discussed with Jin State to attack Zheng State.
Zheng Guo killed Prince Jian, and Prince Jian's son fled to Wu.
In the eleventh year, Duke Dinggong arrived in Jin.
Jin and Zheng negotiated to kill the rebellious ministers of the Zhou royal family and send King Jing back to Zhou.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Ding passed away and his son Xiangong Hui came to the throne.
Duke Xian died in the thirteenth year, and his son Sheng Gongsheng ascended the throne.
At this time, the six ministers of Jin became stronger and invaded Zheng's territory, causing Zheng to decline.
In the fifth year of Duke Sheng's reign, the Prime Minister of Zheng died. The people of Zheng all cried, mourning for him as they mourned for their own relatives.
Zichan is the youngest son of Zheng Chenggong.
Be kind and caring to others, serve the king with loyalty and honesty.
Confucius once passed by the state of Zheng and was as close as brothers to Zichan.
When he heard that Zichan had died, Confucius cried sadly: Zichan's benevolence is really a legacy from ancient times!
In the eighth year, the Fan and Zhongxing clans of Jin rebelled against Jin. Jin asked Zheng for help, and Zheng rescued them.
The Jin State therefore attacked the Zheng State and defeated Zheng's army at Tieba.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Jinggong of Song Dynasty destroyed Cao State.
Twenty years later, Tian Chang of the State of Qi killed his own monarch, Duke Jian, and Tian Chang became the Prime Minister of the State of Qi.
In the twenty-second year, King Hui of Chu destroyed the state of Chen.
Confucius passed away.
In the thirty-sixth year, Zhibo of Jin State attacked Zheng State and captured nine cities.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Sheng passed away, and his son Duke Ai came to the throne.
In the eighth year of Duke Ai, the people of Zheng killed Duke Ai and made Chou, the younger brother of Duke Sheng, the king of the country.
In the third year of Gong Gong's reign, the three Jin Dynasties destroyed Zhibo.
In the thirty-first year, Gonggong passed away, and his son Yougong came to the throne.
In the first year of Yougong, Han Wuzi attacked Zheng Guo and killed Yougong.
The people of Zheng appointed You Gong's younger brother as the king of the country. This was Duke Fang.
In the fifteenth year of Gong Gong's reign, Han Jinghou attacked Zheng Guo and captured Yongqiu.
Zheng Guo built the capital.
In the 16th year, Zheng Guo attacked South Korea and defeated the Korean army in Fushu.
In twenty years, Han, Zhao, and Wei became vassal states.
In the twenty-third year, Zheng Guo surrounded Yangzhai in South Korea.
In the twenty-fifth year, Zheng Jun killed Yang, the Prime Minister of the country.
In the twenty-seventh year, Ziyang's followers killed Gong Xi and made You Gong's younger brother Yi the king of the country. This was Zheng Jun.
Two years after Zheng Junyi took the throne, the people who were occupied by Zheng Guo rebelled and returned to Korea.
In the eleventh year, South Korea attacked Zheng Guo and captured Yangcheng.
In the twenty-first year, Marquis Ai of Han destroyed the State of Zheng and annexed it.
Tai Shigong said: As the saying goes, people who rely on power and interests to bond together will become estranged when the power and interests end. This is exactly the case with Fu Xia.
Although Fu Xia kidnapped and killed Zheng Zi and accepted Li Gong back as king, Li Gong eventually abandoned him and killed him. What is the difference between this approach and Jin's Rick?
But if someone like Xun Xi sticks to his integrity, he will not be able to save Xi Qi even if he dies.
Because accidents happen, there are many reasons!
