General Wei Qing was a native of Pingyang County. His father Zheng Ji served as a minor official in the county and served in the family of Pingyang Marquis Cao Shou. He had an affair with Pingyang Marquis's concubine Wei Wei and gave birth to Wei Qing.
Wei Qing's half-brother is called Wei Changzi, and his half-sister is called Wei Zifu. Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty in Princess Pingyang's family, so he pretended to be surnamed Wei. Wei Qing, whose given name is Zhongqing.
The eldest son of Wei changed his surname to Changjun.
Changjun's mother is Wei Yu.
Wei's eldest daughter is called Wei Ru, her second daughter is Wei Shaoji, and her third daughter is Wei Zifu.
Later, Wei Zifu's younger brothers Bu and Guang both pretended to be surnamed Wei.
Wei Qing was a servant of the Hou family in Pingyang. When he was a child, he returned to his father Zheng Ji's house, and his father asked him to shepherd sheep.
Zheng Ji's sons from his first marriage all treated him as a slave, not as a brother.
Wei Qing once followed someone to the living room of Ganquan Palace. A prisoner with an iron shackle around his neck came to Wei Qing and said, "You are a noble man. You will be a high official and a marquis in the future!"
Wei Qing smiled and said, "I was born of a slave. I would be satisfied if I didn't get beaten or scolded by others. How could I think of becoming a marquis?"
When Wei Qing grew up, he became a cavalryman of the Pingyang Hou family and often followed Princess Pingyang.
In the spring of the second year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wei Qing's sister Wei Zifu entered the palace and was favored by Emperor Wu.
Queen Chen Ajiao is the daughter of Liu Piao, the eldest princess of Tangyi. She has no sons and is jealous.
The eldest princess heard that Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu and was pregnant. She was jealous of her and sent people to arrest Wei Qing.
At that time, Wei Qing was serving in Jianzhang Palace and was not yet famous.
The eldest princess arrested and imprisoned Wei Qing and wanted to kill him.
Wei Qing's friend Qi Lang Gongsun Ao and some strong men snatched him out. For this reason, Wei Qing did not die.
When Emperor Wu heard the news, he summoned Wei Qing and appointed him as the supervisor of Jian Zhang, with the title of Shizhong. Together with his half-brothers, they all received high status, and the emperor's rewards for them accumulated as much as a thousand pieces of gold in a few days.
Wei Ru became the wife of Grand Servant Sun He.
It turned out that Wei Shaoer had an affair with Chen Zhang, so Emperor Wu summoned Chen Zhang and made him a noble person.
As a result, Gongsun Ao became more and more prominent.
Wei Zifu became Emperor Wu's wife.
Wei Qing was promoted to Dazhong doctor.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang, Wei Qing served as the general of cavalry and attacked the Xiongnu, marching out of the fortress from Shanggu; Sun He, the imperial servant, served as the general of light chariots and marched out of the fortress from Yunzhong; Gongsun Ao, the Dazhong doctor, served as the general of cavalry and marched out from Daijun; Wei Wei Li Guang served as the general of heroic cavalry and marched out of the fortress from Yanmen; each army had ten thousand cavalry.
Wei Qing led his troops to Fucheng and killed hundreds of enemies.
The cavalry general Gongsun Ao lost 7,000 cavalry, and the guard Li Guang was captured by the enemy and escaped. Both Gongsun Ao and Li Guang were sentenced to death, but they both paid ransom and were exempted from death penalty and became civilians.
Gongsun He also had no credit.
In the spring of the first year of Yuanshuo, Wei Zifu gave birth to a boy and was made queen.
In the autumn of this year, Wei Qing became a general of chariots and cavalry. He went out from Yanmen and led 30,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu, killing thousands of the enemy.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded the border, killed the governor of Liaoxi County, captured more than 2,000 people in Yuyang County, and defeated the army of General Han Anguo.
The Han Dynasty ordered General Li Xi to attack the Xiongnu and send troops from Daijun; it also ordered the cavalry general Wei Qing to set out from Yunzhong and go west to attack the Xiongnu as far as Gaoque.
So he captured the Henan area and reached Longxi, captured thousands of enemies, seized 100,000 livestock, and drove away King Aries and King Loufan.
The Han Dynasty changed the Henan area to Shuofang County, and designated 3,800 households to enfeoff Wei Qing as Changping Marquis.
Wei Qing's lieutenant Su Jian had military merits. The imperial court also designated 1,100 households to enfeoff Su Jian as Pingling Marquis and sent Su Jian to build Shuofang City.
Wei Qing's captain Zhang Cigong had military merit and was named An Touhou.
The Emperor said: The Xiongnu rebelled against the laws of nature, violated human relations, violated the elders, abused the elderly, specialized in stealing, defrauded various barbarian countries, planned conspiracies, and relied on their force to repeatedly invade the borders of the Han Dynasty. Therefore, the imperial court mobilized troops and sent generals to combat their crimes.
Doesn't it say in the "Jing": The expedition against Xi'an went as far as Taiyuan, and the chariots and horses galloping out to build the Shuofang City.
Now the chariot general Wei Qing crossed the Xihe area to Gaoque, killed 2,300 enemy troops, captured all their chariots, baggage, and livestock, and was made a prince. He then went west to pacify the Henan area, patrolled the ancient fortresses of Yuxi, crossed Ziling, built a bridge across the Beihe, and launched a crusade. Puni, defeated Fuli, beheaded the enemy's agile and elite soldiers, captured 3,071 enemy scouts, caught the enemy's plot, cut off the enemy's left ear for credit, drove back the enemy's more than one million horses, cattle and sheep, preserved the army, returned to the division in victory, and granted 3,000 additional Wei Qing households.
The next year, the Huns invaded the border, killed Gongyou, the prefect of Daijun, invaded Yanmen, and plundered more than a thousand people.
The next year, the Huns invaded Daijun, Dingxiang, and Shangjun on a large scale, killing and plundering thousands of Han people.
The following year, in the spring of the fifth year of Yuanshuo, the imperial court ordered the cavalry general Wei Qing to lead 30,000 cavalry troops from Gaoque; Wei Wei Su Jian was ordered to serve as a guerrilla general, Li Ju, the internal historian on the left, was a strong crossbow general, Sun He, the imperial servant, was a cavalry general, and Li Cai, the prime minister, was a light chariot general.
They all went to attack the Huns. King Youxian of the Xiongnu was facing the soldiers of Wei Qing and others. He thought that the Han army could not reach here, so he started drinking.
At night, the Han army came and surrounded King Youxian. King Youxian was frightened and ran away all night. He galloped through the encirclement and headed north with one of his concubines and hundreds of strong cavalry.
Guo Cheng, the Qingqi captain of the Han Dynasty, and others chased for hundreds of miles but failed to catch up. The Han army captured more than ten of King Youxian's younger kings, more than 15,000 men and women, and millions of livestock, so Wei Qing led his troops in triumph.
When Wei Qing's army reached the frontier, Emperor Wu sent an envoy with the official seal of the general, and appointed the cavalry general Wei Qing as the general in the army. The other generals all led their troops under the general Wei Qing. The title of general was established, and the troops returned to Beijing.
Emperor Wu said: General Wei Qing personally led the soldiers to attack and kill, and the army won a great victory. He captured more than ten people from the King of the Huns and granted Wei Qing 6,000 households.
He also granted Wei Qing's son Wei and his wife the title of Marquis of Yichun, Wei Qing's son Wei Busuo as the Marquis of Yin'an, and Wei Qing's son Wei Deng as the Marquis of Fagan.
Wei Qing resolutely refused and said: I was lucky enough to be an officer in the army. It was only because of your majesty's divine power that the army achieved great victory. At the same time, this was also the result of the hard work of all the captains.
Your Majesty has given me a favor and granted me a title to my city.
The sons of the minister Wei Qing are still young and have not had the hard work and merits of the war. The emperor showed favor and ceded land to the three of them as marquises. This is not my original intention of being an official in the army to encourage soldiers to fight hard!
How dare Wei, his wife and three other people accept the reward?
The emperor said: I have not forgotten the merits of the captains. Now I have to consider their rewards.
Emperor Wu ordered the censor to say: The captain of the guard army accompanied the general to attack the Huns three times, often supporting the armies, leading a school of troops, capturing the little king of the Huns, and demarcating 1,500 households and making Gongsun Ao the title of Heqihou.
Duwei Han said that he followed the general and sent troops from Yuhun fortress to the palace of King Youxian of the Xiongnu. Under the command of the general, he fought hard and captured the little king of the Xiongnu. He designated 1,300 households in Han said as Longxhou.
The cavalry general Gongsun He followed the general to capture the Hun king, and designated 1,300 households to make Gongsun He the Marquis of Nanxu.
The light chariot general Li Cai accompanied the general to capture the Hun king twice, and designated 1,600 households to make Li Cai the Marquis of Le'an.
School Lieutenant Li Shuo, School Lieutenant Zhao Buyu, and School Lieutenant Gongsun Rongnu each followed the general three times to capture the little king of the Huns. One thousand, three hundred households were designated to grant Li Shuo the title of Shezhe Marquis, one thousand three hundred households were designated to grant Zhao Buyu the title of Suicheng Marquis, and one thousand three hundred households were designated to grant Gongsun Rongnu the title of Congping Marquis.
The generals Li Ju, Li Xi and the captain Dou Ruyi had military merits and were given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and each of them had a settlement of 300 households.
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu invaded Daijun and killed the captain Zhu Ying.
In the spring of the next year, General Wei Qing sent troops from Dingxiang. Heqi Hou Gongsun Ao will be the middle general, Grand Servant Sun He will be the left general, Xihou Zhao Xin will be the front general, Weiwei Su Jian will be the right general, Lang Zhongling Li Guang will be the rear general, and left Neishi Li Ju will be the strong crossbow general. They were all subordinate to the general and returned after killing thousands of enemies.
More than a month later, they all sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Xiongnu, killing more than 10,000 enemies.
The armies of the right general Su Jian and the former general Zhao Xin combined into one army, with a total of more than 3,000 cavalry, met the Xiongnu Chanyu's army alone. They fought with them for more than a day, and the entire Han army was about to be wiped out.
Former general Zhao Xin was originally a Huns. He surrendered to the Han Dynasty and was granted the title of Marquis of Xi. Now seeing that the military situation was critical, the Huns tempted him again, so he led the remaining 800 cavalry and ran to Shan Yu to surrender.
The right general Su Jian lost all his troops, fled back alone, and came to the general Wei Qing.
General Wei Qing asked Jun Zhenghong, Chang Shi'an, Yilang Zhouba and others for their opinions on Su Jian's crimes, and said: How to determine Su Jian's crimes?
Zhou Ba said: Ever since the general went on the campaign, he has never killed his deputy.
Now that Su Jian has abandoned the army and returned, he can kill Su Jian to show the majesty of the general.
Hong and An both said: It can't be like this.
The book on the art of war says that when two armies confront each other, the side with fewer troops will be defeated by the side with more troops, even if it fights resolutely.
Now Su Jian led thousands of troops to resist Shan Yu's tens of thousands troops. After fighting for more than a day, all the soldiers died, but he still did not dare to betray the Han Dynasty and returned on his own.
Being killed upon his own return was a warning to the soldiers that if they failed in the future, they would not be able to return to the Han Dynasty. Su Jian should not be killed.
General Wei Qing said: "Wei Qing, I am lucky enough to serve as an official in the army as a relative of the emperor, so I don't worry about losing dignity. However, Zhou Ba advised me to establish personal dignity, which was a great disobedience to the purpose of being a minister."
Moreover, if my authority allows me to kill the guilty general, but because of my respected status, I dare not kill him without permission outside the country, I would rather report the situation to the emperor in detail and let the emperor make his own decision, thereby showing that a minister does not dare to have arbitrary power. Isn't it also okay?
The officers in the army all said: OK!
So Su Jian was imprisoned and sent to the emperor's residence.
Wei Qing led his troops into the border fortress and stopped the conquest of the Xiongnu.
This year, Huo Qubing, the son of General Wei Qing's sister, was eighteen years old. He was favored by Emperor Wu and became the emperor's servant.
Huo Qubing was good at horseback riding and archery. He accompanied the general on two expeditions. The general, on the emperor's order, allocated some brave warriors to him and appointed him as the captain of Gaoyao. He and 800 light and brave cavalry left the army for hundreds of miles, looking for favorable opportunities to attack and kill the enemy. The number of enemy soldiers they killed exceeded their losses.
So the emperor said: Huo Qubing, the lieutenant of the Yao School, killed 2,028 enemies, including the Xiongnu Prime Minister and the household. He killed Shanyu's grandfather's Ji Ruohou Chan, and captured Shanyu's uncle Luo Gubi alive. For his merits, he twice won the first place in the army, and designated 1,600 households to confer Huo Qubing as the champion marquis.
Hao Xian, the prefect of Shanggu, went on four expeditions with the general and captured more than 2,000 enemy soldiers. He designated 1,100 households and made Hao Xian a marquis of public benefit.
This year, the troops of two generals were lost. Xihou Zhao Xin fled and had little military success, so General Wei Qing did not increase his title.
After the right general Su Jian came back, the emperor did not kill him, but pardoned his sins, paid a ransom, and became a commoner.
General Wei Qing returned to the capital, and the emperor rewarded him with a thousand gold coins.
At this time, Mrs. Wang was being favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, so Ning Cheng persuaded Wei Qing: "General, the reason why you don't have many military achievements, but you have thousands of households in the city, and your three sons are all named marquis, is just because of Queen Wei."
Now that Mrs. Wang is lucky, but her relatives with the same surname are not rich yet, I hope that the general will take the thousand pieces of gold rewarded by the emperor to celebrate the birthday of Mrs. Wang's parents.
So General Wei Qing used five hundred gold to celebrate the birthday of Mrs. Wang's parents.
When Emperor Wu heard the news, he asked General Wei Qing. General Wei Qing reported the facts to the emperor, who appointed Ning Cheng as the captain of the East China Sea.
Zhang Qian went on an expedition with the general, because he had been on an envoy to Daxia and was detained by the Xiongnu for a long time. This time he served as a guide for the army and was familiar with good places with water and grass, thus saving the army from hunger and thirst. In addition to his achievements in previous missions to distant countries, Zhang Qian was granted the title of Bowang Hou.
The champion Hou Huo Qubing was granted the title of Marquis for three years. In the spring of the second year of Yuanshou, the emperor appointed the champion Hou Huo Qubing as a general of hussars, leading 10,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu from Longxi and achieving military merit.
Emperor Wu said: The Hussar General personally led his warriors across the Wuzu Mountains, attacked Tianpu, crossed the Hunu River, and passed through five Xiongnu kingdoms. He did not plunder the property or people of those who feared obedience, but only hoped to capture the son of the Chanyu.
After six days of fighting, they crossed Yanzhi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, fought hand to hand with the enemy, killed King Zhelan, chopped off King Luhu's head, killed the heavily armed enemy soldiers, captured King Hunxie's son, the Xiongnu Prime Minister, and the captain, annihilated more than 8,000 enemies, and captured King Xiutu's golden man offering sacrifices to the sky. Huo Qubing was granted the title of 2,000 households.
In the summer of this year, General Hussar and Hou Gongsun Ao of Heqi both sent troops from the north and marched in separate routes; Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and Lang Zhongling Li Guang both sent troops from Youbeiping and marched in separate routes.
They all went to attack the Huns. Lang Zhongling led 4,000 cavalry to arrive first, and Bowang Hou led 10,000 cavalry to arrive later.
King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led tens of thousands of cavalry to besiege Lang Zhongling Li Guang. Lang Zhongling fought with the enemy soldiers for two days and lost most of his men. The number of enemies they killed exceeded the number of people they lost.
When Bowang Hou arrived with his troops, the Huns' army had already withdrawn.
Bowang Hou was guilty of staying on the march and delaying the military plane. He was sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became a civilian.
After General Hussar left the north, he had gone deep into the Xiongnu. Because he and the Cavalry Marquis Gongsun Ao took the wrong route, they were unable to meet him. General Hussar crossed Juyanze and reached the Qilian Mountains, where he captured many enemies.
The emperor said: General Hussar crossed over to Juyanze, passed through Xiaoyue clan, and attacked the Qilian Mountains. He captured King Tu, and led 2,500 people to surrender. He killed 30,200 enemies, and captured five Hun kings, five Hun kings' mothers, wives of Shanyu, and fifty-nine Hun princes. He also captured a total of sixty-three Hun prime ministers, generals, householders, and captains. The Han army was reduced by about three-tenths, and Huo Qubing was granted the title of 5,000 households.
The captains who followed Huo Qubing to the Xiaoyue clan were rewarded with the title of Zuo Shuchang.
Eagle Strike Sima Zhao Ponu went out twice with the Hussar generals, beheaded King Tianpu and captured King Jiqie. The Qianqi generals captured one Xiongnu king and queen mother, and forty-one people below the prince. They captured 3,330 enemy soldiers. The vanguard captured 1,400 enemy soldiers, and designated 1,500 households as Conghuhou.
The school captain Ju Wang Gao Bu Shi followed the Hussars General Huo Qubing and captured 11 people below King Huyu Tu and the prince. He also captured 1,768 enemy soldiers and designated 1,100 households as Yi Guanhou.
Many of the school's servants had military merits and were granted the title of Huiquhou.
Gongsun Ao, the Marquis of Heqi, committed the crime of staying on the march and failing to join the generals of the Hussars. He was sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became a commoner.
The soldiers, horses and weapons led by the old generals are not as good as those of the hussar generals. The hussar generals lead soldiers who are often selected. However, he dared to fight deep into the enemy's territory and often ran in front of the army with his strong cavalry. His army also had good luck and never encountered great difficulties.
However, the veterans often fell behind due to slow marching and failed to encounter good fighter opportunities.
From then on, the hussar general became closer to the emperor day by day and became more noble, similar to the great general Wei Qing.
In the autumn of this year, Chanyu was very angry because King Hunxie was stationed in the west. He was defeated many times by the Han Dynasty and lost tens of thousands of people, all because of the Hussar General's army.
Chanyu was angry and wanted to summon King Hunxie and kill him.
Therefore, King Hunxie and King Xiutu wanted to surrender to the Han Dynasty, so they first sent people to wait at the border.
At this time, Li Xi led his troops to build a city on the bank of the Yellow River. When he saw King Hunxie's envoy, he immediately ordered the chariot to rush back and report to the emperor.
After hearing the report, the emperor was afraid that King Hunxie would pretend to surrender and attack the border, so he ordered General Hussar to lead his troops to meet King Hunxie and King Xiutu.
General Hussar had already crossed the Yellow River and was looking at each other from a distance with King Hunxie's troops.
When King Hunxie's lieutenants saw the Han army, most of them did not want to surrender, and many of them fled.
General Huo Qubing rode his horse into the enemy camp, met King Hunxie, and killed eight thousand people who wanted to escape. Then he ordered King Hunxie to take a transfer car alone, first to the emperor's residence, and then he led all the troops of King Hunxie to cross the Yellow River. Tens of thousands of people surrendered, and they were said to be one hundred thousand.
After they arrived in Chang'an, the emperor rewarded them with hundreds of thousands of dollars.
It was designated that 10,000 households be granted the title of Marquis of Luo Yin by King Hunxie.
He named his little king Hudu Ni as the Marquis of Xiamo, Yingbi as the Marquis of Huiqu, Qinli as the Marquis of Heqi, and Tongli of Dadanghu as the Marquis of Changle.
So the emperor praised Huo Qubing's contribution and said: Husband General Huo Qubing led the army to attack King Hunxie of the Xiongnu Western Region. King Hunxie, his troops and people all defected to the Han Dynasty and supported the Han army with military supplies. The hussar generals led more than 10,000 of their skilled archers to kill the fierce people who tried to escape, beheaded more than 8,000 people, and made 32 enemy kings surrender to the Han Dynasty. There were no casualties among the Han soldiers, and all the 100,000-strong army returned. The hussar generals went on expeditions one after another and worked tirelessly to almost eliminate border troubles in the Hesse area, and were fortunate to keep peace forever.
One thousand, seven hundred households were designated as hussar generals.
Therefore, the number of garrison troops in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun was reduced by half, so as to ease the burden of corvee on the people of the country.
Soon after, the imperial court moved the surrendered Huns to the five border counties outside the original border fortresses, but they were all in the Henan area, and according to their original customs, they were treated as vassal states of the Han Dynasty.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang, killing and plundering more than a thousand people from the Han Dynasty.
In the second year, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty discussed with the generals and said: Xihou Zhao Xin advises the Xiongnu Chanyu. He often thinks that the Han army cannot cross the desert and stay there easily. Now sending a large army to attack will surely realize our wish.
This year is the fourth year of Yuanshou.
In the spring of the fourth year of Yuanshou, Emperor Wu ordered General Wei Qing and Hussar General Huo Qubing to lead 50,000 cavalry each, followed by hundreds of thousands of infantry and people transporting supplies. Those soldiers who dared to fight hard and go deep were all subordinate to the Hussar Generals.
The hussar general began to send troops from Dingxiang to meet Shanyu.
The Huns captured later said that the Chanyu was heading east, so he ordered General Hussar to send troops from Daijun and General Wei Qing to send troops from Dingxiang.
The doctor ordered Li Guang to be the front general, Grand Servant Sun He to be the left general, Lord Commander Zhao Shiqi to be the right general, and Pingyang Marquis Cao Xiang to be the rear general. They were all subordinate to the general.
The army immediately crossed the desert, with a total of 50,000 cavalry including men and horses, and the hussar generals attacked the Xiongnu Chanyu.
Zhao Xin advised Shanyu and said: The Han army has crossed the desert, and the men and horses are tired. The Xiongnu can sit back and collect the Han prisoners.
So they transported all their baggage to the far north and arranged all their elite troops north of the desert to wait for the Han army.
When General Wei Qing's army marched more than a thousand miles outside the Great Wall, he saw Shan Yu's army waiting there in formation, so the general ordered the Wugang chariots to form a circular camp, and ordered five thousand cavalry to gallop to resist the Huns.
The Huns also came galloping with about 10,000 cavalry.
It happened that the sun was about to set, a strong wind blew, and sand and stones hit people's faces. The two armies could not see each other. The Han army ordered the left and right wings to gallop forward to outflank Shan Yu.
Chanyu saw that the Han Dynasty had many troops, and the warriors and horses were very powerful. If they fought, it would be detrimental to the Xiongnu. Therefore, in the evening, Chanyu rode a cart pulled by six mules, and together with about several hundred strong cavalry, broke through the encirclement of the Han army and galloped northwest.
At this time, it was already dusk, and the Han army and the Huns were fighting each other, killing roughly the same number of people.
Lieutenant Zuo of the Han army captured the Xiongnu prisoners and said that Shan Yu had left before dark, so the Han army sent light cavalry to pursue them all night, followed by the general's army.
The Xiongnu soldiers fled in all directions.
By daybreak, the Han army had traveled more than 200 miles without catching up with the Shanyu, but captured and killed more than 10,000 enemy soldiers. Then they arrived at Zhao Xin City in Taoyan Mountain and obtained the grain stored by the Xiongnu for the army.
The Han army stayed for a day and then returned, burning all the remaining food in the city.
When the general Wei Qing was fighting Shanyu, the troops of former general Li Guang and right general Zhao Shiqi marched from the east road. Because they lost their way, they were unable to attack Shanyu with Wei Qing as scheduled.
It was not until General Wei Qing led his troops back to the south of the desert that he met the former general and the right general.
The general wanted to send an envoy back to Beijing to report to the emperor, so he ordered the chief historian to interrogate former general Li Guang according to the charges listed in the document. Li Guang committed suicide.
The right general returned to the capital and was handed over to the judge. Zhao Shiqi paid the ransom and became a commoner.
General Wei Qing entered the border fortress and captured a total of 19,000 enemy soldiers.
At this time, the Xiongnu tribe had been without their Chanyu for more than ten days. When King Yougu Li heard the news, he became the Chanyu himself.
Later, the Chanyu reunited with his tribe, and King Youguli removed the name of the self-reliant Chanyu.
The hussar general also led 50,000 cavalry and carried the same military supplies as the general Wei Qing, but he had no lieutenants.
He appointed Li Gan and others as senior colonels and deputy generals, and sent troops from Daijun and Youbeiping for more than a thousand miles. When they met the army of King Xian of Zuo, their achievements in capturing enemy troops far exceeded that of General Wei Qing.
When all the troops returned from the expedition, Emperor Wu said: General Huo Qubing led the army to the expedition, and personally led the captured Xiongnu soldiers, carrying a small amount of military supplies, across the desert, crossed the river to capture the Shanyu's close minister Zhangqu, killed the little Xiongnu king Bicheqi, and then attacked the Xiongnu general Zuo, beheaded the enemy general, and seized his flag and war drum.
After crossing Lihou Mountain and crossing the Gonglu River, they captured three Xiongnu soldiers, including the King of Tuntou and the King of Han, as well as eighty-three people including generals, prime ministers, danghu, and captains. Then they worshiped heaven at Langjuxu Mountain, worshiped earth at Guyan Mountain, and climbed high mountains to look at the desert.
A total of 70,443 prisoners were captured and the enemy killed, and the Han army lost about three-tenths. They obtained food from their enemies, so they could travel to extremely distant places without running out of food. It was designated that 5,800 households were granted the title of General Huo Qubing.
Lu Bode, the right governor of Beiping, was subordinate to the Hussar General. He met with the Hussar General in Yucheng. He did not miss the date and followed the Hussar General to Yushan Mountain. He captured and killed 2,700 Xiongnu people and designated 1,600 households as Fulihou.
Xingshan, the captain of the Northern Territory, followed General Hussar to capture the little king of the Huns, and assigned 1,200 households to Xingshan as the Marquis of Yiyang.
The Huns who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty in the past were designated as Zhuanghou for 1,300 households and 1,800 households for restoration of Luzhi as Zhuanghou because King Chun restored the Luzhi and King Yijiquan of Louzhuan both followed the Hussar generals in attacking the Xiongnu.
Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, and Zhao Anji, the Marquis of Changwu, both followed General Hussar and made great achievements in defeating the Xiongnu, and each gained 300 additional households.
Lieutenant Li Gan captured the enemy's flags and drums, and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a grant of food to 200 households.
Xu Ziwei, the school captain, was awarded the title of Grand Concubine.
In addition, many of the petty officials and soldiers under the Hussars General Huo Qubing served as officials and received rewards.
However, the general Wei Qing failed to get the title, and none of the officials and soldiers in the army were granted the title of marquis.
When the two armies led by Wei Qing and Huo Qubing left the fortress, they had a military parade at the frontier fortress. At that time, there were 140,000 government and private horses. However, when they returned to the fortress, there were less than 30,000 horses left.
So the imperial court added the official position of Grand Sima, and both the General and the Hussars became Grand Sima.
And a decree was made to make the rank and salary of the hussar general equal to that of the general.
From then on, the power of General Wei Qing declined day by day, while the Hussars General became more powerful day by day.
Most of the general's old friends and retainers left him and went to serve the hussar generals. These people often received titles for this, but Ren An was the only one who refused to do so.
The hussar general is a man of few words, silent, courageous and courageous.
Emperor Wu once wanted to teach Sun Tzu and Wu Qi the art of war. He replied: In war, it only depends on the policy and strategy. There is no need to learn ancient war art.
Emperor Wu built a mansion for him and asked General Hussar to take a look. He replied: The Huns have not been eliminated yet, so they have no intention of considering private matters.
From then on, Emperor Wu valued and favored Hussar General Huo Qubing more.
However, Huo Qubing had been serving the emperor in the palace since he was a boy, receiving dignitaries, but he did not know how to show sympathy to the soldiers.
When he went to war, the emperor sent his eunuchs to give him dozens of carts of food. When he came back, there was a lot of leftover rice and meat thrown away on the carts, and some of his soldiers were starving.
When he was fighting outside the wall, the soldiers were short of food, and some were so hungry that they could not stand up, while the hussar generals were still drawing pitches and playing football games.
Most of what he does is like this.
General Wei Qing was kind-hearted and had a spirit of compromise. He pleased the emperor with his tolerance and gentleness, but no one in the world praised him.
General Hussar passed away three years after his attack on the Xiongnu in the fourth year of Yuanshou, that is, in the sixth year of Yuanshou.
Emperor Wu was very sad about his death, and dispatched the armored troops from the five border counties to form a formation from Chang'an to Maoling, so that the outside of the tomb built by Huo Qubing would look like praying for the mountains.
He was given a posthumous title, combining the two principles of bravery and territorial expansion, and called him Marquis Jinghuan.
Huo Qubing's son Yan succeeded the title of Champion Marquis.
Huo Shen was young and named Zihou. The emperor liked him and hoped to appoint him as a general when he grew up.
Six years later, in the first year of Yuanfeng, Huo Huan died, and the emperor gave him the posthumous title of Aihou.
He had no sons, so his descendants were cut off and the feudal state was abolished.
Since the death of General Hussar, the general's eldest son, the Houwei couple of Yichun, lost their marquis title for breaking the law.
Five years later, the two younger brothers of the Wei couple, the Marquis of Yin'an Wei Buyi and the Marquis of Fagan Weideng, both lost their marquis titles because they were guilty of insufficient gold and insufficient weight.
Two years after losing the marquis, the feudal state of the champion marquis was abolished.
Four years later, General Wei Qing died, and the imperial court gave him the posthumous title Liehou.
Wei Qing's son Wei Qian took over the title and became Marquis of Changping.
Fourteen years passed since the general besieged Shanyu and he died. The reason why he did not attack the Xiongnu again during this period was because the Han Dynasty had few horses and was in the process of conquering East Vietnam and South Vietnam in the south, Korea in the east, and attacking the Qiang and Southwest Yi. Therefore, there was no attack on the Xiongnu for a long time.
Because General Wei Qing married Princess Pingyang, the Marquis of Changping and his wife could succeed the Marquis.
But six years later, he broke the law and lost the marquis.
The following is the list of the two generals and their lieutenants:
In total, General Wei Qing attacked the Xiongnu seven times and captured more than 50,000 enemy soldiers.
He fought with Chanyu once and regained the Henan area, so he established Shuofang County and enfeoffed it twice, granting a total of 11,800 households.
His three sons were all granted the title of marquis, and each of them was granted the title of 1,300 households.
Combined, the number of households in the Wei family that were granted a title was 15,700.
A total of nine of Wei Qing's lieutenants and lieutenants were granted the title of marquis for their meritorious services following Wei Qing, and a total of fourteen of his lieutenants and lieutenants had become generals.
One of the lieutenants was Li Guang, who has his own biography.
Others that have not been passed on include:
General Gongsun He.
He is from Yiqu, and his ancestors are Huns.
Gongsun He's father Qingxie was granted the title of Marquis of Pingqu during the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, but lost the title for breaking the law.
Gongsun He served as a minister when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was the prince.
In the eighth year after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Gongsun He became a general of Qingchao as a servant and garrisoned in Mayi.
Four years later, Gongsun He set out from the clouds as a light chariot general to attack the Xiongnu.
Five years later, Gongsun He served as a cavalry general and followed the general to defeat the Huns, and was granted the title of Marquis of Nanxu.
A year later, Gongsun He, as General Zuo, sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Xiongnu twice with the general, but without success.
Four years later, he lost the Marquis because he committed the crime of insufficient gold and insufficient weight.
Eight years later, as General Fuju, he sent troops from Wuyuan and went on an expedition of more than 2,000 miles to defeat the Xiongnu, but with no success.
Eight years later, he became prime minister as a servant and was granted the title of Marquis Ge Yi.
Gongsun He served as a general seven times, but failed to achieve great success in attacking the Xiongnu. He was made a prince twice and became a prime minister.
Later, because his son Gongsun Jingsheng had an affair with Princess Yangshi and engaged in witchcraft, he was exterminated and left no descendants.
General Li Xi is from Yuzhi.
He once served Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, and when Emperor Wu of the Han came to the throne for eight years, he became a general officer and garrisoned in Mayi. Six years later, he became a general and sent troops from Daijun to fight against the Huns. Three years later, Li Xi became a general and followed the general to send troops from Shuofang to attack the Huns.
No credit. Li Xi served as a general three times in total, and later he often held senior positions.
General Gongsun Ao was from Yiqu.
Initially, he served Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty as a Langguan.
In the twelfth year after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he became a cavalry general. He sent troops from Dai County to fight against the Xiongnu. He lost 7,000 soldiers and was sentenced to death. He paid a ransom and became a commoner.
Five years later, as a school captain, he followed the general in fighting the Huns and was awarded the title of Heqihou.
A year later, as a lieutenant general, he sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns twice with the general, but without any credit.
Two years later, he sent troops from the north as a general, delayed the time agreed with the hussar general, was sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became a civilian.
Two years later, as a captain, he followed the general to fight against the Huns, but had no military exploits.
Fourteen years later, as General Injo, he was responsible for the construction of the surrendered city.
Seven years later, as General Yinju, he sent troops to fight against the Huns again and marched to Yuwu. Because he lost many soldiers, he was handed over to the judge and sentenced to death. However, he pretended to be dead and fled to the people for five or six years.
Later, the incident was discovered and he was arrested.
Because of his wife's witchcraft incident, his entire family was killed.
He served as a general four times, attacked the Huns, and was made a marquis once.
General Li Ju was from Yunzhong and served Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne for seventeen years, he became a strong crossbow general as Zuo Neishi.
A year later, he became a strong crossbow general.
General Li Cai was a native of Chengji and served Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
As a light chariot general, he followed the general to defeat the Huns and was named the Marquis of Le'an.
Later he became prime minister and was killed for breaking the law.
General Zhang Cigong was from Heche. He served as a school captain and served General Wei Qing in fighting against the Xiongnu, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Antou.
Later, the Queen Mother died and he became a general and stationed at the headquarters of the Northern Army.
A year later, he became a general and followed General Wei Qing to fight against the Huns. He became a general twice and lost his title as a marquis for breaking the law.
Zhang Cigong's father, Zhang Long, was a brave archer who drove a light chariot.
Because he was good at archery, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty liked and got close to him.
General Su Jian was from Duling. As a lieutenant, he followed General Wei Qing to fight against the Huns. Because of his military exploits, he was named Pinglinghou, and as a general he was responsible for the construction of Shuofang City.
Four years later, he became a guerrilla general and followed the general Wei Qing to send troops from Shuofang to attack the Xiongnu.
A year later, as the right general, he again sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns with the general. As a result, the Marquis of Xi defected to the Huns, and the army suffered losses. He was sentenced to death, paid the ransom, and became a commoner.
After that, he became the governor of Daijun. After his death, his tomb was in Dayu Township.
General Zhao Xin surrendered to the Han Dynasty as the Xiongnu Prime Minister and became the Marquis of Xi.
Seventeen years after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Zhao Xin became a former general and fought against the Xiongnu Chanyu. After the failure, he surrendered to the Xiongnu.
General Zhang Qian visited Daxia as an envoy and became a captain after returning.
He served with General Wei Qing in attacking the Xiongnu and was named Bowang Hou.
Three years later, he became a general and attacked the Xiongnu from Youbeiping. Because he missed the agreed military term, he was sentenced to death. He paid the ransom and became a commoner.
After that, he served as an envoy to Wusun, and later became a great minister, and then died. His grave is in Hanzhong.
General Zhao Shiqi was from Qiyi.
In the 22nd year after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he became the right general as the Lord Commander, and followed the general Wei Qing to send troops from Dingxiang to fight the Xiongnu. Because he got lost and delayed the military term, he was sentenced to death. He paid the atonement and became a civilian.
General Cao Xiang became the rear general as Marquis of Pingyang, and followed General Wei Qing to send troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns.
Cao Xiang is the grandson of Cao Shen.
General Han said that he was the concubine grandson of Gong Gaohou Han Daidang.
As a school lieutenant, he followed General Wei Qing to defeat the Xiongnu and was granted the title of Marquis of Longji. Later, he lost the title of Marquis because he committed the crime of not having enough gold as an aide.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Han Yue became General Henghai in the capacity of waiting for an imperial edict. He led troops to attack East Vietnam and was awarded the title of Jingdaohou.
In the third year of Taichu, he became a guerrilla general and garrisoned some castles outside Wuyuan.
Later, he became Guang Luxun and was killed by Prince Wei because he went to the palace to dig up evidence of witchcraft.
General Guo Chang was from Yunzhong.
As a school captain, he followed General Wei Qing to fight against the Huns.
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng's reign, he became General Bahu as a Taizhong doctor and garrisoned Shuofang.
After returning, he led troops to attack Kunming, but he had no merit and was stripped of his official seal.
General Xun Shen was from Guangwu, Taiyuan County.
He applied for an audience with the emperor because of his ability in driving, and was appointed as a servant and a school captain. He accompanied the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns many times.
In the third year of Yuanfeng's reign, he became General Zuo and led troops to attack North Korea, but he had no credit.
Because Yang Pu, the captain of the ship arresting building, committed a crime, he was executed.
In total, Hussar General Huo Qubing made six sorties against the Huns, four of which were as generals, and killed more than 110,000 Huns.
After King Hunxie led millions of people to surrender, he opened up places such as Hexi and Jiuquan, which reduced the Huns' intrusive activities in the western region.
He was granted four titles and had a total of 15,100 households.
A total of six of his lieutenants were made marquises for their meritorious service, and two of them later became generals.
General Lu Bode was from Pingzhou.
As the governor of Youbeiping, he followed the Hussars general to defeat the Xiongnu and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuli.
After Hussar General Huo Qubing died, Lu Bode became General Fubo as a guard, crusaded and defeated South Vietnam, and was conferred a title by the court.
After that, he lost the marquis for breaking the law.
Later, he became the captain of Qiannu and stationed in Juyan until his death.
General Zhao Ponu was originally from Jiuyuan. He once fled to the Xiongnu, and later returned to the Han Dynasty and became the Sima of Huo Qubing, the general of the Hussars.
He led troops to attack the Huns from the north. He often made meritorious deeds and was named Cong Piaohou.
Later, he committed the crime of insufficient gold and insufficient weight and lost the marquis. A year later, he became the general of the Xionghe River and attacked the Huns to the water of the Xionghe River without any merit.
Two years later, he attacked and captured King Loulan, and was named the Marquis of Zunye.
Six years later, he became General Junji and led 20,000 cavalry to attack King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu. King Zuoxian fought with him and besieged Zhao Ponu with 80,000 cavalry. Zhao Ponu was captured alive by the enemy and all his troops were destroyed.
He lived among the Xiongnu for ten years, and then fled back to the Han Dynasty with his eldest son Anguo.
Later, he was exterminated because of the crime of witchcraft.
Since the rise of the Wei family, General Wei Qing was the first to be granted the title of marquis, and later five of his descendants were granted the title of marquis.
It took a total of twenty-four years, but all five marquises were deprived of their title, and no one in the Wei family was granted the title of marquis again.
Tai Shigong said: Su Jian once said to me: I once blamed the general Wei Qing for being extremely noble, but the wise men and officials in the country did not praise him. I hope the general can follow the example of those famous generals in ancient times who recruited wise men, and work hard.
The general refused and said: Ever since Dou Ying, the Marquis of Wei Qi, and Tian Fan, the Marquis of Wu'an, treated their guests favorably, the emperor often gnashed his teeth and hated them.
It is the king's authority to get close to and appease the scholar-bureaucrats, to recruit talented people, and to abolish the unworthy ones.
As a minister, you only need to abide by the laws and do your job well. Why should you participate in the selection of wise men?  The hussar general Huo Qubing also followed this idea, and this is what they did when they were generals.
