Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, great-grandson of Emperor Wu, and grandson of Prince Ru.
Prince Ru took in Shi Liangdi and gave birth to Emperor Shi's grandson. His grandson took in Mrs. Wang and gave birth to Emperor Xuan, who was named Zenghuang's grandson.
A few months after giving birth, a "witchcraft incident" occurred. The prince, Liang Di, the emperor's grandson, and Mrs. Wang were all killed.
The facts are all recorded in "The Legend of the Prince".
Even though his great-grandson was still an infant, he was imprisoned.
At that time, Bingji was an official of Tingwei and was responsible for handling witchcraft incidents. He was extremely sympathetic to his great-grandson's innocent misfortune, so he ordered the female convicts Zhao Zhengqing from Huaiyang and Hu Zu from Weicheng to exchange breast-feeding and provide them with food and clothing privately. They treated him very kindly.
The witchcraft incident could not be concluded for several years.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Wu was ill and traveled back and forth between Changyang and Wuzha palaces. The astrologers who were watching the clouds said that there was the emperor's energy in Chang'an prison. Emperor Wu sent envoys to inform the various officials in the capital that criminals imprisoned due to witchcraft incidents would be executed regardless of their severity.
The emissary ordered Guo Rang to go to the county prison at night for inspection. Bingji closed the prison door so that the envoys could not enter, but his great-grandson Lai Bingji was saved.
Later, when there was a general amnesty, Bingji drove his great-grandson to his grandmother Shi Liangdi's home.
This incident is recorded in "Biography of Bingji" and "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Later, there was an edict, sending officials from Yeting to visit the great-grandson at the historian's home, and ordered Zongzheng to record him in the royal genealogy.
At this time, Zhang He, the order of Yeting, was Prince Li's former attendant. He missed Prince Li's old kindness and sympathized with his great-grandson, so he treated his great-grandson considerately and used his personal money to support his great-grandson's education.
When he was older, he married the daughter of Xu Guanghan, a court dyer, for his great-grandson. Therefore, his great-grandson relied on the Guanghan brothers and the Shi family of his grandmother's family.
He returned from the East China Sea to learn "Poetry" from Zhong Weng. He was talented and never tired of learning. He also had the character of drawing a sword to help when the road was rough. He fought chickens and horses and made many friends. He was familiar with the evil in the alleys and the gains and losses of official governance.
He visited the tombs of his ancestors many times to pay his respects, and went to the Sanfu District of Kyoto to understand the people's sentiments. He was once trapped and humiliated in the salt pond of Lianshao County, especially in Du County?
He traveled between counties, mostly in Xiadu.
He went to the imperial court to attend court invitations and lived in Shangguanli, Chang'an. He had hair all over his body and on his feet. He always glowed when sleeping. Every time he went to a bakery to buy cakes, the business of the bakery prospered. People were surprised by this.
In April of the first year of Yuanping, Emperor Zhao died without any heirs.
General Huo Guang asked the queen to summon the king of Changyi to be the emperor.
On June 1, the king of Changyi received the emperor's jade seal and imperial robes, and honored the queen as the empress dowager.
On June 28, Queen Huo Guangzou said that King Changyi had behaved lewdly and requested that he be abolished.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of King He of Changyi" and "The Biography of Huo Guang".
In the seventh month of autumn, Huo Guang made a memorial and said: In the system of etiquette, people value blood relations, so they respect their ancestors, and if they respect their ancestors, they will respect their ancestors' cause.
Emperor Zhao has no heirs, so he should choose a virtuous descendant as his successor.
Emperor Wu's great-grandson Ming was ill and was ordered to be taken care of by Yeting. He is now eighteen years old. Study "Poetry", "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety" as a teacher, be thrifty, benevolent and love others, and you can be the successor of Emperor Zhao.
Flatter the great cause of the ancestors and rule the subjects of the world.
The Queen Mother agreed. Zongzheng and Liu De were sent to his great-grandson Shang Guanli's residence to wash his clothes and give him royal clothes. The imperial servants used Lanyu light carriages to greet his great-grandson. He first went to Zongzheng's mansion to fast and salute. On July 25, he entered Weiyang Palace and met with the Empress Dowager. He was first granted the title of Marquis of Yangwu.
Later, the county officials presented the national treasure seal and succeeded to the emperor's throne. Jin visited Gaomiao.
On the fifth day of August, Prime Minister Yang Chang passed away.
In September, there is a general amnesty.
On November 19, Queen Xu was established.
Money is given to all princes and kings below, and there are certain rewards from officials and people to widows and widowers.
The Empress Dowager entered Changle Palace and began to set up garrison guards.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of this year, officials from the county and state were recruited and moved to Pingling, the tomb of Emperor Zhao, with assets of more than one million.
An envoy was sent to hold the imperial talisman and tell the two thousand stones of the prefecture and the country to manage the government carefully and to educate the people with virtue.
大将军霍光向宣帝叩请还政于君，宣帝谦让再三，仍委霍光以大任。

In terms of rewards for meritorious service, the general Huo Guang was granted the title of 17,000 households, including General Chariot and Cavalry, Guang Luxun, Marquis Fuping, and Anshi Wanhu.
下诏书说： 已故丞相安平侯杨敞等忠于职守，与大将军霍光、车骑将军安世建议定策，以安定宗庙，功赏未及而去世。

Now, his son Yang Zhong, Prime Minister Yangping Hou Cai Yi, Du Liao general Pinling Hou Fan Mingyou, former general Longluo Hou Han Zeng, Tai servant Jianping Hou Du Yannian, Taichang Puhou Suchang, admonishment officials Yichun Hou Wang Tan, Dangtu Houping, Du Hou Tuqitang, Changxin Shaofu Guannai Hou Xiahou Sheng and other additional households have been enfeoffed.
Tian Guangming, the imperial censor, was granted the title of Marquis of Changshui, later general Zhao Chongguo was granted the title of Yingping Marquis, Dasi Farming Yannian was granted the title of Yangcheng Marquis, Shaofu Shi Le was granted the title of Yuanshi Marquis, and Guanglu Doc Wang Qian was granted the title of Pingqiu Marquis.
As a reward to You Fufeng Zhou De, the titles of Guan Su Wu, Ting Wei Li Guang, Zong Zheng Liu, Da Honglu Zhang Xian, Zhan Shi Song Wa, Guang Lu doctor Bing Ji, and Jing Fu captain Zhao Guanghan were given the title of Marquis of Guannei. Zhou De and Su Wu were granted food and towns.
On April 10th in the summer, an earthquake occurred, and the imperial edict was issued to the Central Plains counties and counties to elect one person each with the highest literary distinction.
In May, Phoenix gathers in Jiaodong and Qiancheng.
Forgive the world.
Reward officials with two thousand stones, princes and ministers, down to Zhongdu officials, eunuchs, and six hundred stones, each with different levels. From Zuo Geng to the fifth doctor.
The people of the world are given one level of nobility, and filial sons are given the second level. Women are given beef and wine for every 100 households, and rent and taxes are exempted.
In June, an edict was issued saying: The late crown prince passed away in Hu County without a posthumous title.
Memorial ceremonies should be held on time, posthumous titles should be discussed, and cemeteries and gardens should be set up.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Prince".
In the seventh month of autumn, an edict was issued to make Liu Jian, the crown prince of Yanla, the king of Guangyang, and Liu Hong, the youngest son of Liu Xu, the king of Guangling, to be the king of Gaomi.
In the spring of the second year, the emperor's private money was used to build Pingling and move the people here to live here.
Tian Yannian, Hou Tian Yannian of Nongyang City, committed suicide due to corruption charges.
In the fifth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: My virtues are shallow but I have inherited the great cause of my ancestors. Morning and night I miss Emperor Wu for performing benevolence and righteousness, selecting famous generals, and conquering disobedience. Therefore, the Xiongnu fled far away, conquered the Di, Qiang, Kunming, and Nanyue.
The auspicious symbols echo repeatedly, the tripod shines brightly, the white lin appears auspicious, and the merits and virtues cannot be fully publicized. However, the temple music is not suitable for its merits and virtues, so please have a supervisor to discuss the performance.
Relevant organizations should add their names.
In June, the temple of Emperor Wu was revered as the temple of Shizu, dances of "Shengde", "Wenshi" and "Five Elements" were played, and the emperor presented gifts from generation to generation.
Temples were built to offer sacrifices in all the counties and counties where Emperor Wu visited during his hunting tours.
As a reward, he will be rewarded with a civil title of the first level, and a woman will be rewarded with some cattle and wine from a hundred households.
The Huns invaded the border many times and invaded Wusun from the west. King Kunmi of Wusun and the Han princess who married King Wusun sent a letter to the court through the Han Dynasty envoy who was on an envoy to Wusun, saying that King Wusun hoped that the court would send elite troops to attack the Xiongnu, and hoped that the emperor would take pity on Wusun and send troops to save the princess.
In the autumn, the imperial court mobilized and selected the elite soldiers of Guandong's light chariots, and also selected the strong and skilled officials in riding and archery with a rank of three hundred stones in each county to join the army in the westward expedition.
Tian Guangming, the imperial censor, was the general of Qilian, the latter general Zhao Chongguo was the general of Pulei, the prefect of Yunzhong Tian Shun was the general of Huya, together with the general of Liao Dynasty Fan Mingyou, and the former general Han Zeng were five generals, with 150,000 cavalry, and the school captain Chang Hui held the talisman to command the Wusun soldiers to attack the Xiongnu.
On the 13th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year of this year, Queen Xu passed away.
On the 18th, the five generals sent troops to Chang'an.
In the fifth month of summer, we withdraw our troops.
Qilian General Tian Guangming committed suicide because he refused to stay, and Huya General Tian Shun was guilty of falsely reporting the results of the battle and was handed over to the military court for disposal.
Colonel Chang Hui led the Wusun soldiers to attack the right territory of the Xiongnu, won a great victory, and was granted the title of lord.
When a severe drought occurs, all the people in counties and counties with serious drought conditions will be exempted from taxes.
All poor households in Sanfu District will be exempted from taxes and labor until the second year.
On June 11, Prime Minister Cai Yi passed away.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: I have heard that agricultural development is the foundation of a country's prosperity. This year's agricultural harvest has decreased, and envoys have been sent to provide relief for those in need.
The imperial chefs are now ordered to save food and cut down on butchers, and Yuefu reduces the number of musicians so that they can participate in agriculture.
Officials from the prime minister down to the central government agencies were required to report the amount of donated grain and enter it into Chang'an warehouse to help the court provide loans to the poor.
Folks who use vehicles and ships to carry grain into the customs are not required to undergo interrogation.
On the 11th day of the third month, the Empress Huo was established, and she rewarded the ministers, ranging from the prime minister to the ministers, with money, silk, and silk, and offered a general amnesty to the whole country.
On April 29th in the summer, there were forty-nine earthquakes in the county, and landslides and floods occurred in some places.
The edict was issued: "The occurrence of any disaster is a warning from heaven and earth."
I inherited the great cause, enshrined the ancestral temple, and ruled over the subjects, but failed to be virtuous. Therefore, the Beihai and Langwangya earthquakes destroyed the ancestral temple. I was deeply frightened.
The Prime Minister, Yu Shiqi, the princes, Zhong Erqianshi and knowledgeable people put forward suggestions for censorship and eradication of foreign affairs in order to correct my bad behavior.
Order Sanfu, Taichang, and Zhongyuan County to each recommend a virtuous and upright person.
Some laws and regulations that cause difficulties and inconveniences to the people can be eliminated. I hope they will be mentioned separately. If the damage caused by the earthquake is serious, the rent will be exempted.
An amnesty was announced for the whole world.
Because the ancestral temple was destroyed by the earthquake, the emperor wore plain clothes and avoided the main hall for five days to express his heavy heart.
In May, phoenixes gathered in Anqiu and Chunyu, Beihai.
In the autumn, Wang Ji of Guangchuan was found guilty, was deposed, moved to Shangyong, and committed suicide.
In the first month of spring in the first year of the Earth Festival, a comet appeared in the western sky.
In March, the county's land was temporarily borrowed to cultivate with the poor.
In June of summer, an edict was issued saying: I heard that Yao first made the nine tribes harmonious, and then developed the harmony of all the nations. I was inspired by the virtue of my ancestors and inherited the emperor's inheritance. Whenever a member of the clan who is still close by blood is removed from the clan due to crime, if there are virtuous people who can persuade them to change their evil ways and do good, they can restore their affiliations and make them a new leaf.
In November of winter, King Yanshou of Chu rebelled and committed suicide.
On December 30, there was a partial solar eclipse.
On the eighth day of March in the second year of spring, Huo Guang, the great general of Sima, passed away.
The edict states: The Great Sima General Bo Luhou has been with Emperor Xiaowu for more than thirty years, and has assisted Emperor Xiaozhao for more than ten years. He has been loyal to the country many times, and led the Sangong, Jiuqing, officials and other ministers to formulate long-term peace and stability strategies to stabilize the ancestral temple and bring peace to the people of the world.
I deeply admire him for his high merit and virtue. Now let his descendants enjoy his glory.
If his nobility is not reduced, if he does not bear the burden of corvee and tax from generation to generation, his merits will be like that of Prime Minister Xiao He.
In the fourth month of summer, phoenixes gathered in Lu County, followed by flocks of birds.
Amnesty to the world.
In the fifth month, Pingqiuhou Wang Qian, the official of Guanglu, was found guilty and sentenced to death in prison.
The emperor began to take charge of the government personally, and missed the merits of the general Huo Guang, so he appointed Huo Guang's nephew, Lepinghou Huoshan, to be the secretary and take charge of the government affairs. He also ordered the ministers to report their work to the emperor frequently so that the emperor could grasp the situation. He would listen to work reports every five days and perform duties in various departments below the prime minister. To describe their situation and measures, and to test their political achievements and abilities.
The ministers should be promoted and those who have made special contributions should be generously rewarded so that their duties can be passed down to their descendants and their positions will not be changed.
This resulted in the imperial court having complete facilities and adequate staffing. The top and bottom are of one heart and one mind, and there is no intention of settling down.
In the spring and March of the third year, an edict was issued saying: It has been said that meritorious deeds are not rewarded, and crimes are not punished. Even the emperors of the Tang Dynasty, Yao, Yu and Shun could not transform the world with virtue.
Today, Wang Cheng, the Prime Minister of Jiaodong, warmly receives and properly resettles the refugees, so that more than 80,000 refugees have registered their registered residence in Jiaodong. His political achievements are different from those of ordinary people. Now Wang Cheng's salary has been raised to two thousand dan and he has been given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
The edict also said: The widowed, lonely, elderly and poor people are the people I have the most sympathy and concern for.
In the past, edicts were issued to lend public fields, seeds, and grain rations.
Now I will give silk to the widowed and lonely old man.
Erqianshi officials should strictly require their staff to pay serious attention to them and not let them lose their regular jobs.
Let the Zhongyuan County appoint virtuous and upright people who can go deep among the people and understand the people's sentiments.
On the 22nd day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, the Crown Prince was established and the whole country was granted amnesty.
He was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, the imperial censor, and the right concubine of the middle two thousand stone ranks. As his father's heir, he was promoted to the first rank in the world.
King Guangling was rewarded with a thousand catties of gold, each of the fifteen princes and kings was given a hundred catties of gold each, and the eighty-seven people in the feudal kingdom were each rewarded with twenty catties of gold.
In the tenth month of winter, an edict was issued saying: I was deeply frightened by the earthquake on September 26th. I hope that the ministers can admonish me for my faults, and recommend virtuous and honest people to correct my shortcomings. I must not hold back any taboos and do not avoid the powerful.
Because of my lack of virtue, I cannot make the remote areas surrender, so the border garrison continues.
Then he ordered heavy troops to garrison, which increased the burden on the people and the work of the soldiers. This was not a long-term strategy to stabilize the world.
It is now decided to remove the chariot and cavalry generals and the right generals from garrison troops.
He also issued an edict: Everything in Chipi Forbidden Garden that has not been used by the royal family should be lent to the poor.
The county's buildings and buildings will no longer be built.
Those who migrated back were given public land, loans of seeds and grain rations, and were exempted from service taxes.
In November, an edict was issued saying: Because I was not thoughtful, I led the people into ignorance. I worked hard at night to think about national affairs and miss the people of the world. I was deeply afraid of tarnishing the saintly virtue of the late emperor. I also vigorously set up virtuous and upright models to form a trend of filial piety and brotherhood among the people. It has been going on for several years, but I have not been able to completely change the customs.
As the old saying goes: Filial piety and brotherhood are the foundation of being a human being!
Now the county is ordered to recommend filial piety and brother-in-law, and one person who is famous for his righteous behavior in the village.
In December, four people from Ting and Weiping were appointed, with a salary of 600 shi.
Wenshan County was abolished and its county was merged into Shu County.
In the spring and February of the fourth year, my grandmother was granted the title of Lord Boping, and Xiao Jianshi, the great-grandson of Xiao He, the former Marquis of Marquis, was granted the title of Marquis.
The edict said: If we guide the people to put filial piety first, then the world will be harmonious.
Nowadays, people sometimes suffer the death of their parents and have to bear the burden of corvee labor, which prevents their parents' bodies from being buried on time, which hurts the filial piety. I deeply sympathize with this.
From now on, those whose grandparents or parents are bereaved can be exempted from corvee service, so that they can carry out the funeral procession and carry out the way of the Son of Man.
In the fifth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: The relationship between father and son and the relationship between husband and wife are due to nature.
Although there is danger, he is still willing to sacrifice his life and take risks to save others.
Sincere love is born in the heart, kindness comes from nature, this is impossible to violate!
From now on, parents whose sons hide crimes, husbands whose wives hide crimes, and grandparents whose grandsons hide crimes can be exempted from guilt.
Another example is a son whose parents have committed a crime, a husband who has committed a crime, a wife who has committed a crime, or a grandson whose grandparents have committed a crime. If the crime does not lead to death, they must be reported to the Tingwei and the emperor before making a decision.
Sun Wen, King Hui of Guangchuan, was granted the title of King of Guangchuan.
In the seventh month of autumn, the great Sima Huo Yu rebelled.
The edict said: In the former case, Dongzhishi ordered Zhang She to send Li Jing, a wealthy family in Wei County, to report Huo Yun, the Marquis of Guanyang, for treason. I remembered the achievements of General Huo Guang and wanted to make the big thing a trivial matter and urge Huo Yu to change his mind.
Now the great Sima Bo, Lu Hou Huo Yu, his mother, Mrs. Xuancheng Hou, and their disciples from Kun, Guanyang Hou Huoyun, Leping Hou Huoshan, their sisters-in-law, General Fan Mingyou of the Liao Dynasty, Changxin Shaofu Deng Guanghan, Zhonglang General Ren Sheng, Cavalry Captain Zhao Ping, Chang'an man Feng Yin and others conspired to commit treason and injustice.
Huo Yu's mother also ordered the female maid Chunyu Yan to poison Gong Ai with medicine, and then planned to poison the prince in order to usurp the power of the Han family.
Those who are rebellious and disobedient have all obeyed the law.
All ordinary participants who were deceived and threatened by Huo without specific criminal facts will be pardoned.
On the first day of August, Queen Huo was deposed.
In September, an edict was issued: I was afraid that the people would lose their regular jobs and live in poverty, so I sent a special envoy to visit the people's sufferings.
Some officials bother the people for their own purposes, regardless of the people's dire straits. I sympathize with them very much.
This year, some counties and counties suffered floods and have already provided loans.
Salt is necessary for thousands of households, but the price is very high, which adds to the difficulties of the people. We are now ordering to lower the price of salt in the world.
He also issued an edict saying: The first edict pointed out: Those who were executed were not allowed to resurrect, and those who were punished by death, mutilation, mutilation, and mutilation were not allowed to grow again.
This is the reason why the late emperor attached great importance to punishment, but some legal officials failed to understand his meaning deeply. Some of those arrested and imprisoned today were severely tortured, and some died in prison due to torture from hunger and cold. Why is it so cruel and inhumane! I am very sad about this. The county is now ordered to report the names, place of origin, title, and residential addresses of those who died in prison due to torture, starvation, and cold every year. The Prime Minister and Censor must report this to the court as an important event at the end of the year.
In December, Liu Nian, the king of Qinghe, was deposed because of his guilt and moved to Fangling.
In the first year of Yuankang, Dudongyuan was named Chuling, and Du County was renamed Duling.
The prime ministers, generals, lieutenants, and officials with two thousand stones and assets worth one million were moved to Duling.
In March, an edict was issued saying: Recently, phoenixes have gathered in Mount Tai and Chenliu, and nectar has fallen in Weiyang Palace.
I failed to carry forward the great achievements of the late emperor, ensure that the people live and work in peace and contentment, inherit the virtues of heaven and earth, and regulate the seasons of the four seasons. Instead, the heaven and earth presented auspiciousness and blessings with the nectar of the phoenix. I worked hard day and night without any arrogance. I did not dare to slack off in self-examination. I thought long and hard about the right path without the end.
Didn't "The Book" point it out? The phoenix descends, and humans and gods mingle.
You can pardon the prisoners in the world, reward the officials who are diligent in their duties with titles ranging from less than 2,000 shi to 600 shi, ranging from Zhonglang to fifth doctor, the second level above the assistant historian, the first level for the common people, and a certain amount of cattle and wine for every hundred households of women.
In addition, the widow, the three elders, and the filial brother were given fields and silks. The original relief loan will be forgiven.
In the fifth month of summer, the Huangkao Temple was built.
Add Fengmingyuan household registration and set up Fengming County.
The eldest descendants of one hundred and thirty-six families, including Emperor Gaozu's meritorious minister Jianghou Zhou Bo, were exempted from taxes and services, allowing them to offer sacrifices in their family temples without interruption from generation to generation.
If there is no eldest descendant, the following will be exempted.
In the eighth month of the autumn, an edict was issued saying: I do not understand etiquette, music, calligraphy, archery, mathematics, and imperialism, and cannot integrate and understand the way of governing the country, so I cannot achieve the harmony of yin and yang and the good weather.
It is now ordered that officials and people who have good conduct, are proficient in literature, understand the skills of the previous kings in governing the country, and can understand its principles, two people from each prefecture and country, one person from each of the two thousand stones.
In winter, Jianzhang Guards are set up.
In the spring of the second year and the first month of the first lunar month, an edict was issued: "Book" said: King Wen made the criminal law, and no pardon was allowed for those who violated the law. Today there are some legal officials who, although they have cultivated their moral integrity and served the Dharma, still do not fulfill their duties and cannot satisfy me. I also feel sad for these legal officials.
We have decided not to hold them accountable and hope that they and officials at all levels can focus on starting over.
On February 26th, the queen was named Wang, and rewards ranging from prime minister to lang and Congguan were given in money and silk.
In March, because of the auspiciousness of phoenix and nectar, the world's officials are given the second level of nobility and the common people are given the first level of nobility. Women are given some beef and wine for every 100 households, and widows and widowers are given some silk in their senior years.
In May of summer, an edict was issued saying: Prison is related to the fate of tens of millions of people, and is used to prohibit violence, curb evil, and nurture all living beings.
Only those who can make the living not complain and the dead not hate can serve as civil servants.
Not so now. Some people in law enforcement and sentencing use a clever mind, analyze the laws and regulations, and conjure up clues to convict people for the crime of entering and exiting people, limitless violations, or intentional excuses.
If the case is not reported truthfully, the court will not be able to understand the true situation, I will not be able to investigate clearly, and the officials will not be competent in their duties. If this continues, the people from all over the world will have nothing to rely on!
Two thousand stones each inspect their subordinates, and such people who bend the law for personal gain are not allowed to be in charge of prisons.
The first duty of officials is to act in accordance with the law. However, in order to satisfy the guests, some will arbitrarily send servants, improve the food and drink standards of the guests, overstep their authority and ignore the regulations, in order to win the praise of the guests. This is like walking on thin ice while waiting for the scorching sun. Isn't it dangerous?
The epidemic is prevalent in some parts of the world today, and I deeply sympathize with them.
The counties and counties severely affected by the epidemic are now ordered to be exempted from rent and taxes this year.
The imperial edict also said: I heard that the name of the emperor in ancient times was difficult to know and easy to taboo.
Nowadays, many people among the people have committed crimes because they wrote against taboos. I sympathize very much.
I changed the original name from "I'm sick" to "Inquiry".
Anyone who has violated taboos before this edict and is guilty will be forgiven.
In winter, Zhao Guanghan, the king of Jingzhao, was found guilty and had his head cut in half.
In the spring of the third year, because the phoenix gathered on Mount Tai many times, the princes, prime ministers, generals, princes, two thousand stones and gold were rewarded, and the ministers and officials were rewarded with silk, each with different rewards.
Reward the officials of the world with the second rank and the common people with the first rank. Women will be rewarded with a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households, and widows and widowers will be given a certain amount of silk for their senior years.
In March, an edict was issued saying: I heard that Shun's younger brother Xiang was guilty, and Shun became emperor and granted him the title of "Bi". The closeness of flesh and blood is clear and unbroken, and now the late King of Changyi is granted the title of Marquis of Haihun.
He also issued an edict saying: When I was in a humble state, the imperial censor Bingji, Zhonglang generals Shi Zeng and Shi Xuan, Changle guard Xu Shun, and the attendant Guanglu doctor Xu Yanshou all had old favors for me.
Also, Zhang He, the late Yeting magistrate, taught me Gong to study literature and classics. He was very kind and his contribution was very great.
Didn't "Poetry" say it? There is no reward without virtue.
Now Zhang He's adopted younger brother's son Peng Zu, the general of the imperial family, is granted the title of Marquis of Yangdu, and Zhang He is given the posthumous title of Marquis of Yangdu Aihou.
Bingji, Shi Zeng, Shi Xuan, Xu Shun and Xu Yanshou were all princes.
Among my old friends, Hu Zu and Zhao Zhengqing, female prisoners from the county prison, also contributed to my nursing and childcare. They both rewarded me with official salary, land, house and property, and each repaid me according to the depth of his kindness.
In the sixth month of summer, an edict was issued saying: In the summer of the previous year, Phoenix gathered in Yongdi.
This spring, tens of thousands of colorful birds flew over the counties of Sanfu, soaring and dancing, wanting to roost but not landing.
Sanfu is now ordered not to break into bird nests to retrieve eggs in spring and summer, nor to eject flying birds.
This is the order.
Prince Qin was made King of Huaiyang.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: I feel that the elderly people have degenerated teeth, weak blood, and no desire for violence. Today, some of them are punished by law and imprisoned in prison, and they will not be able to live out their remaining years. I feel very sorry for them.
From now on, anyone over the age of eighty will not be held liable for any crime other than false accusation and murder.
He sent great and middle-ranking officials such as Fu Qiang and others to patrol the country, to visit the widows and widowers, observe the customs and sentiments of the people, observe the success and failure of the officials, and discover and recommend people with both good character and learning.
In February, Huo Zhengshi and others from Hedong rebelled and were executed.
In March, an edict was issued saying: In the previous period, thousands of phoenixes and colorful birds gathered in Changle, Weiyang, Beigong, Gaobin, Ganquan Taiji Hall and Shanglin Garden.
My righteous deeds are not thorough and I have little virtue and little merit, but I have received many awards and honors. I really dare not take others' merits and take them as my own.
Now reward the officials of the world with a second-level title, the common people with a first-level title, and a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women.
In addition, the three elders and filial brothers were given two pieces of field silk each, and each of the widowers and widowers was given one piece.
In the eighth month of autumn, the son of the deceased Yin Wenggui of Youfufeng County was given a hundred catties of gold as a sacrifice to his father.
He also gave twenty kilograms of gold to each of the direct descendants of the meritorious officials.
On August 11, Great Sima Wei General An Shi passed away.
There are good harvests every year, and every stone of grain is five cents.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Shenjue, the emperor came to Ganquan and the suburbs to offer sacrifices to the Thai border.
In March, he came to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
The edict was issued: "I have inherited the great cause of my ancestors, and I am trembling with fear. I just want everything to be in order, but I still can't completely straighten it out."
In the fourth year of Yuankang, millets of Jiagu grew in the county, sparrows and phoenixes gathered in the capital many times, nine stems of golden zhi were produced in the copper pool of Hande Hall, nine true gods presented unicorns, and Nanjun received a white tiger and a majestic phoenix as a treasure.
My moral character is shallow, but I am deeply shocked when I see the auspiciousness constantly appearing, so I pray for the people respectfully and devoutly.
Crossing the big river eastward, the weather is calm and the magical fish are dancing in the river.
Near the Long Live Palace, the phoenix descends in the sky.
I am not virtuous, so I may not be able to live up to God’s expectations.
Five years is now regarded as the first year of Shenjue.
Give the world a second-level nobility for those who are diligent in official affairs, a first-level commoner, a number of oxen and wine for women from hundreds of households, and a certain amount of silk for widowers and lonely seniors.
The money and materials borrowed for relief will be exempted.
There is no land rent in the land I pass through.
The Western Qiang rebelled, recruiting light-sentenced prisoners from the Sanfu and Zhongdu prisons, as well as agile archers, Yulin orphans, Hu and Yue horses, officials from Sanhe, Yingchuan, Peijun, Huaiyang, and Runan, knights from Jincheng, Longxi, Tianshui, Anding, Beidi, and Shangjun, and horses from the Qiang region, all gathered in Jincheng.
In the fourth month of summer, General Zhao Chongguo and Qiannu General Xu Yanshou were dispatched to attack the Western Qiang.
In June, a comet appeared in the east.
On the spot, Xin Wuxian, the prefect of Jiuquan, was granted the title of General Po Qiang, and he advanced with General Hou and General Qiannu.
The edict was issued: "The military journey is hard, and the transportation of military supplies is troublesome. We now order all princes, princes, barbarian princes and princes who are due to come to court in the first month of next year to be exempted from the court."
In autumn, the son of the late great minister Nong Zhuyi was given a hundred catties of gold as a sacrifice to his father.
Later general Zhao Chongguo wrote a letter proposing the strategy of farming in the frontier fortress, which was recorded in the "Biography of Zhao Chongguo".
In the spring and February of the second year, an edict was issued saying: On the 19th day of the first lunar month the day before yesterday, phoenixes and nectar descended on the capital, followed by tens of thousands of birds.
I have no great virtues, but I have repeatedly received blessings from heaven. I deeply feel the grace of heaven and forgive the world.
In the fifth month of summer, the Xiqiang surrendered and beheaded the evil tycoon Yang Yu and Chief Fei.
The vassal state of Jincheng was established to accommodate the surrendered Qiang.
In the autumn, the Huns chased the king and the sages, and brought more than ten thousand people to surrender.
Zheng Ji, the captain of the cavalry commander of the Western Regions, was sent to meet the king of Sun Zhu, and defeated the chariot division. They were all made marquises.
In September, Sili Xiaowei was spared the crime, thrown into prison, and committed suicide.
The Xiongnu Chanyu sent famous kings to the Han Dynasty to offer congratulations on the first month and start the marriage process.
In the spring of the third year, Leyou Garden was built.
On the sixth day of March, Prime Minister Wei Xiang passed away.
In the eighth month of autumn, an edict was issued saying: Officials are corrupt and bending the rules to govern the country.
Nowadays, petty officials are diligent in civil affairs, but their salaries are very low. It is difficult to prevent them from invading the common people.
Now the salary of less than one hundred stones will be increased by fifteen.
In February of the fourth year of spring, an edict was issued saying: In the former, Phoenix and Manna descended on the capital, and Jiarui appeared at the same time.
Temples for Taiyi, Five Emperors and Houtu were built to pray for the well-being of the people.
Luan and phoenixes gather in the tens of thousands, some hovering high in the sky, overlooking the city, and some resting underground to offer auspiciousness.
On the night of my fast, the divine light was radiant.
At dusk when worshiping the gods, the lights of the gods intersect.
Some auspiciousness descended from the sky, some auspiciously echoed on the earth, and some gathered from all directions and appeared in front of the altar.
God has given me a lofty reward, and the whole world has benefited from its blessings, and now the whole world is forgiven.
As a reward, he will be rewarded with the first level of civilian nobility, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a certain amount of silk for widows and widowers.
In April of summer, Huang Ba, the prefect of Yingchuan, was promoted to two thousand shi for his outstanding political achievements. He was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and was rewarded with a hundred catties of gold.
He also rewarded Yingchuan officials and people with high moral character with a rank of nobility, with each person receiving a second rank. Those in Litian were rewarded with a first rank, and chaste women and filial women were rewarded with silk.
Order each county to recommend a virtuous person who can care about the people.
In the fifth month, the Xiongnu Chanyu sent his younger brother Huliuruo Wang Shengzhi to come to court.
In the tenth month of winter, eleven phoenixes gathered in Duling.
In November, Yan Yannian, the governor of Henan, was found guilty and executed.
In December, phoenix birds gather in the upper forest.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Wufeng, he came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
The Crown Prince performed the coronation ceremony.
The Empress Dowager gave the prime minister, generals, princes, and princes two thousand stones and silk, each with one hundred pieces, and each of the officials eighty pieces. He also rewards the heirs of marquises with the rank of five great officials, and the heirs of male fathers are rewarded with the rank of one rank.
In the summer, a group of sinners who participated in the construction of Duling Palace were pardoned.
On the first day of December in winter, there is a partial solar eclipse.
Zuo Fengyi and Han Yanshou were found guilty and executed.
In the spring and March of the second year, he came to Yong to offer sacrifices to the five emperors.
On the seventh day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Han Zeng, the cavalry general of the Great Sima, passed away.
In the eighth month of autumn, an edict was issued saying: Marriage ceremonies are a major event in human relations; wine, food and banquets are one of the forms of ritual and music.
Nowadays, some counties and 2,000 stones impose strict restrictions, prohibiting people from marrying and holding banquets to entertain guests.
This will weaken the social etiquette of the township party and prevent the people from enjoying the joyful atmosphere of weddings. This is not a good way to lead the people.
Didn't "Poetry" say it? 民间如失去了互相饮食应酬的情义，而粗薄的食品将会加深人们的怨尤。
The decree banning wedding banquets should be revoked.
In November of winter, the Xiongnu called for Shanyu to lead his troops to surrender to the Han Dynasty, and the court made him a prince.
In December, Yang Yun, the Marquis of Pingtong, was demoted to the people because of a crime committed when he was Guang Luxun.
He did not think about repentance, resented the court, was treasonous and immoral, and was cut in half.
On the 26th of the first lunar month of the third year of spring, Prime Minister Bingji passed away.
In March, he came to Hedong, worshiped the God of Houtu, and issued an edict: In the past period, the Xiongnu invaded the border many times, and the people suffered disaster.
I am the emperor, but I cannot pacify the Huns.
Xu Lu Quan Qu Shanyu asked for marriage with this dynasty, and soon died of illness.
King Youxian Tu Qitang was established on his behalf.
The minister of flesh and blood appointed the son of Xulu Quanqu Chanyu as Huhanxie Chanyu and killed Tu Qitang.
The kings each acted on their own, divided into five danyu, and attacked each other. Thousands of people were killed, nine out of ten livestock products were lost, and the people were hungry and plundered each other for food, so the situation was very turbulent.
The brothers and descendants of the Shanyu family, including Shanyu, Ming Wang, Youyi Zhizi, and Qiequ, led more than 50,000 people from the household officials and subordinates to submit to the Han Dynasty. The Shanyu proclaimed himself a minister and sent his brother Wang to pay tribute to the New Year with treasures. The north was peaceful and there was no use of weapons.
I was respectful and devout, offering sacrifices to heaven in the suburbs and offering sacrifices to the earth in the temple. The divine light appeared on the ground, and its light shone on the top of the palace for more than ten moments.
The nectar falls and the divine birds gather.
Relevant agencies have been ordered to report to Heaven and the ancestral temple.
On March 25th, the Luanfeng gathered on the trees in the east palace of Changle Palace again, flew down to the ground, its wings were colorful, and stayed for more than ten moments, while the officials and the people watched.
I am stupid by nature, and I am deeply afraid that I will not be able to live up to God's repeated wishes of good fortune and receive such blessings.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? Don't be narcissistic after receiving praise, be modest and prudent, and don't be lazy or idle.
All ministers and officials should encourage themselves.
Now reduce taxes on the world’s population.
Pardon prisoners with capital crimes or less.
He will be rewarded with the rank of civil nobility, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a five-day banquet for the whole country.
Also give some silk fabrics to the widowed, lonely and elderly people.
Set up vassal states in Xihe and the north to protect the Huns from surrendering.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, King Xu of Guangling committed suicide.
The Xiongnu Chanyu proclaimed himself a minister and sent his younger brother King Guli to serve at the court.
Since the frontier fortress was not intruded, the garrison troops were reduced by 20%.
Geng Shouchang, the Prime Minister of Agriculture and Agriculture, asked for the establishment of a Changping warehouse to supply military supplies for the northern frontier fortress and reduce canal transfers.
He was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
On April 30th in summer, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The edict was issued and said: The emperor showed a strange sign and warned me to bow with respect. It is because of my lack of virtue and the failure of the officials to do their job.
In the past, envoys were sent to visit the people's sufferings, and then they sent twenty-four prime ministers and censors to travel around the country to redress injustices and investigate and deal with officials who made harsh decrees without authorization and did not change them.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Ganlu, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
Huhanxie Shanyu of the Xiongnu sent his son Youxian Wang Zhuolou Qutang to serve in the imperial court.
On February 21, Xu Yanshou, the cavalry general of Dassi, passed away.
In April of summer, Huanglong appears in Xinfeng.
On the first day of April, a fire broke out in the Taishanghuang Temple.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, there was a fire in Emperor Xiaowen's temple, and the emperor wore plain clothes for five days.
In winter, the Xiongnu Chanyu sent his younger brother, King Zuoxian, to pay homage.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Prince Xiao was appointed King of Dingtao.
The edict said: In the former case, the nectar of the phoenix descends, the sweet springs flow, the dead trees bloom in spring, and the divine light is seen together. They all receive blessings. It is appropriate to forgive the world and reduce the people's tax by thirty coins.
Each prince, prime minister, general, and prince was rewarded with two thousand stones of gold in varying degrees.
Grant the common people a rank of nobility, give women a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households, and give a certain amount of cloth and silk to widows and widowers who live alone in their old age.
In the fourth month of summer, Wei Lu, the protector of the army, was sent to lead troops to pacify Zhuya.
In autumn and September, Prince Yu was made King of Dongping.
In the winter of December, I came to the Negative Yang Palace, which belongs to the Jade Temple.
Hu Hanxie Chanyu of the Xiongnu knelt down at Wuyuan fortress and wished to congratulate the three-year Spring Festival with the national treasure.
Issue an edict and order relevant agencies to discuss it.
They all say: The system of the Holy King, benevolence and courtesy, starts with the capital and then the Central Plains, first with the Central Plains and then with the Yi and Di.
"Poetry" says: Lead the people to observe etiquette and obey the law, and obey orders everywhere.
The Prime Minister's command was fierce and powerful, and overseas people were completely convinced.
Your Majesty's holy virtue fills heaven and earth, and the light is hidden outside.
The Xiongnu Chanyu admired his righteousness to the wind, and the whole country came together to congratulate him with the national treasure. This was an unprecedented thing.
The Shanyu does not worship Zhengshuo of the Han Dynasty, but is a guest of the king. When he worships, he should be like the princes and kings.
The edict said: It is often heard that the five emperors and three kings did not rule according to etiquette in the wilderness, and their political punishments were not adequate.
Today, Chanyu claims to be a minister of the Northern Domain and has come to the court to celebrate the Spring Festival. I am not virtuous enough to place him under the rule of my court. I should treat him as a guest and be in front of the princes and kings.
In the first month of spring of the third year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
The Xiongnu called Han Xie Shanyu Jihou to come to the court, and when he paid homage, he called him a vassal minister but did not sign up.
Emperor Xuan rewarded him with seals, ribbons, crowns, clothes, carriages, horses, gold, brocade, and silk fabrics.
A commissioner was sent to guide Shanyu. He first went to the Chang'an residence and stayed in Changping.
Emperor Xuan went from Ganquan to Chiyang Palace to rest.
He went to Changpingban again and sent an edict to the chanyu not to visit him.
Crowds of people on both sides of the road he passed lined up in front of the door to watch. The barbarian monarchs and princes and tens of thousands of people lined the road to welcome him.
The emperor boarded the Wei Bridge and the welcoming crowd shouted "Long live!"
Chanyu entered the building.
The emperor held a welcome banquet in Jianzhang Palace to honor Shan Yu.
And let Shanyu visit the treasures of the Han Dynasty.
In February, Shanyu returned westward after completing his congratulatory mission. The imperial court sent a guard of 16,000 people led by Changle Guards Gaochanghou Dong Zhong, Chariot and Cavalry Commanders Han Chang, and Cavalry Commanders Wei Hu to escort Shan Yu.
Shanyu lived in the south of Mu and was stationed in Guanglu City.
The imperial edict was issued to the north to support its grain supply.
Zhizhi Shanyu was isolated and fled far away, and the Xiongnu became stable from then on.
Emperor Xuan issued an edict saying: The former phoenix gathered in Xincai, surrounded by tens of thousands of birds, all standing in awe of the phoenix.
For this reason, the governor of Runan was rewarded with 10,000 pieces of silk, and various rewards were given to Xincai's chief officials, three elders, filial piety, Li Tian, ​​and widowers and widowers.
Grant the common people the second level of nobility and exempt them from this year's land rent.
On March 6, Prime Minister Huang Ba passed away.
The imperial edict ordered various scholars to speak about the similarities and differences of the Five Classics. The prince, Taifu Xiao Wangzhi and others summarized and synthesized them, and then Emperor Xuan personally reviewed them.
So Liangqiu's "Yi", Daxia Xiahou's "Shangshu", and Gu Liang's "Spring and Autumn" were established.
In winter, Wusun Princess Liu Jieyou returned to China to visit relatives.
In the summer of the fourth year, Wang Haiyang of Guangchuan was found guilty and was demoted to a commoner and moved to Fangling.
On October 23rd in winter, a fire broke out in the Xuanshi Pavilion of Weiyang Palace.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Huanglong, he came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
When the Xiongnu Huhanxie Chanyu came to court, the courtesy and rewards were the same as last time.
In February, Shanyu returned to China.
The edict said: I have heard that in ancient times when governing the world, the king and his ministers were of one mind, judged right and wrong, and acted in accordance with the rules.
It is the harmony between the upper and lower levels, and peace at home and abroad. His cohesion is admirable.
I am not a wise king, but I have repeatedly told the ministers to be lenient, care about and solve the sufferings of the people, and pursue the peaceful and prosperous times of the three kings and carry forward the virtues of the ancestors.
Among today's officials, some regard it as lenient not to restrain evil, and as lax as to condone the guilty; some regard cruel officials as virtuous, which are all one-sided and incorrect.
Such an imperial edict is extremely ridiculous!
Nowadays, there are few things happening in the world, there are fewer corvees, and there is no army, but the people are poor and there are many thieves. What is the fault?
The personnel, household registration, and tax information reported to the court were inconsistent with the facts and were lied to avoid prosecution.
Sangong doesn't care about this. How will I know the true and credible situation?
Any requests to reduce the number of followers and officers and use their expenses to support themselves will no longer be implemented.
When the censor finds something suspicious when reviewing the materials reported from various places, he must conduct verification and cannot allow the false to be confused with the true.
In March, a comet appeared between Wangliangxing and Gedao star areas, and then entered the Purple Palace star area.
In April of Xia, an edict was issued saying: The purpose of recommending honest officials is to promote honesty and integrity.
Officials with six hundred stones are regarded as officials. When handling cases, they must first seek instructions from the court, and their rank and salary are determined by the court. From now on, officials with six hundred stones cannot be promoted to honest officials.
On the seventh day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, Emperor Xuan died in Weiyang Palace.
On the 26th, the Queen Mother was honored as the Queen Mother.
Ban Gu commented: When Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty governed the country, meritorious deeds must be rewarded, and guilty deeds must be punished. Comprehensive examination of names and facts shows that people in politics, literature, and jurisprudence can be proficient in their professions and exert their expertise. As for the skills of craftsmen and tools, few can match them since the reign of Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng. From this we can see that in the era of Emperor Xuan, officials were competent in their duties and the people were in peace with their jobs.
Being invaded by the Xiongnu, the Huhanxie Chanyu could come to the court, the Zhizhi Chanyu could escape far away, Shen Tianwei could be seen in the Northern Yi, and the Chanyu Muyi could bow his head and declare himself a vassal.
The ancestor of the Gongguang clan, whose career is passed down to his heirs, can be said to be the master of Zhongxing, and his virtues are comparable to those of Emperor Gaozong of Yin and King Xuan of Zhou.
