Cao Mo was from the state of Lu, and served Duke Zhuang of Lu with bravery and strength.
Duke Zhuang loves brave people.
Cao Mo served as the general of Lu and fought with Qi, being defeated many times and fled.
Duke Zhuang of Lu was afraid, so he offered up Suiyi area to seek peace.
But Cao Mo was still appointed as general.
Duke Huan of Qi agreed to meet with Duke Zhuang of Lu in Ke Di and make an alliance.
After Duke Huan and Duke Zhuang made an alliance on the altar, Cao Mo threatened Duke Huan with a dagger. No one in Duke Huan's bodyguard dared to move rashly. Duke Huan asked, "What are you going to do?"
Cao Mo replied: Qi is strong and Lu is weak, so it would be too much to invade Lu with a big country.
Now if the capital of Lu falls, it will hit the border of Qi. You need to consider this issue.
So Duke Huan of Qi promised to return all the occupied land of Lu.
After he finished speaking, Cao Mo dropped his dagger, walked down from the altar, and returned to where the courtiers were sitting, facing north, his expression unchanged, and his conversation calm as usual.
Duke Huan was very angry and planned to break the covenant.
Guan Zhong said: No.
If you covet small profits for temporary pleasure, you will lose credibility in front of the princes and lose the support of the people in the world. It is better to return the land to Lu.
So, Duke Huan of Qi returned the occupied land of Lu as agreed, and all the land that Cao Mo had lost in many battles returned to Lu.
One hundred and sixty-seven years later, there were Zhuan Zhu's deeds in the state of Wu.
Zhuanzhu was from Wu Guotang. When Wu Zixu fled Chu and went to Wu, he knew that Zhuan Zhu had skills.
After Wu Zixu went to see King Liao of Wu, he persuaded him about the benefits of attacking Chu.
Wu Gongziguang said: That Wu Yuan's father and brother were all killed by the Chu State. Wu Yuan just wanted to attack the Chu State. He did it to avenge his own personal revenge and did not really think about the Wu State.
The king of Wu no longer discussed the attack on Chu.
Wu Zixu knew that Young Master Guang planned to kill King Liao of Wu, so he said: That Young Master Guang has an attempt to seize the throne at home, and we cannot persuade him to send troops abroad yet.
So he recommended Zhuanzhu to Gongzi Guang.
The father of Prince Guang was Zhufan, King of Wu.
Zhufan had three younger brothers: in order of brotherhood, the eldest brother was called Yuji, the second brother was called Yimei, and the youngest brother was called Ji Zha.
Zhufan knew that Ji Zha was a virtuous man, so he did not make his son the crown prince. Instead, he wanted to pass on the throne in the order of brothers, and finally pass the throne to Ji Zha.
After Zhufan died, the throne was passed to Yuji.
After Yuji's death, he passed it on to Yimei.
After Yimei's death, it should have been passed down to Jiziza, but Jiziza avoided and refused to be made king, so the people of Wu made Yimei's son Liao their king.
Prince Guang said: If the order of brothers is to be followed, the youngest son should be established; if it must be passed on to the son, then I am the real legitimate son, and I should be made the king.
Therefore, he often secretly supported some wise people in order to obtain the throne with their help.
After Prince Guang got Zhuanzhu, he treated him well like a guest.
In the ninth year of King Liao of Wu, King Ping of Chu died.
In the spring of this year, King Liao of Wu wanted to take advantage of the funeral of Chu State and sent his two younger brothers, Gongzi Gaiyu and Shuyong, to lead an army to surround the city of Ji of Chu State. He also sent the youngest son of Yanling to Jin State to observe the activities of various vassal states.
The Chu State sent out its troops and cut off Wu generals Gaiyu and Shuyong's retreat. The Wu army could not return.
At this time, Gongzi Guang said to Zhuan Zhu: This opportunity cannot be missed. If you don't fight for it, you will never get it!
Besides, I am the true heir and should be made king. Even if Ji Zi comes back, he will not depose me.
Zhuan Zhu said: Wang Liao can be killed. Mother and son were weak, so the two younger brothers led the army to attack the Chu State. The Chu State army cut off their retreat.
At present, the Wu army is besieged by the Chu State outside, but there are no loyal ministers who are upright and outspoken in the country. What else can King Liao do to us?
Gongzi Guang kowtowed his head and said: My Gongzi Guang's body is your body, and I will be responsible for everything after your death.
On Bingzi day in April of this year, Gongzi Guang ambushed the warriors in armor in the basement and prepared a banquet for King Wu. King Liao sent guards to line up from the palace to Gongzi Guang's home. On both sides of the door and steps were King Liao's cronies.
They stood in the aisle, all holding spears.
When the wine was intoxicating, Prince Guang pretended to have a foot problem, went into the basement, and asked Zhuanzhu to put the dagger into the belly of the grilled fish, and then presented the fish to him.
When he came to King Liao, Zhuan Zhu broke open the fish and stabbed King Liao with his dagger. King Liao died at that time.
The guards also killed Zhuan Zhu, and King Liao's men were in chaos for a while.
Prince Guang sent out an ambush of warriors to attack King Liao's men, and wiped them all out. He then proclaimed himself king, and became King Helu of Wu.
Helu then granted Zhuanzhu's son the title of Shangqing.
Over the next seventy years, Yurang's deeds were recorded in the state of Jin.
Yu Rang was a native of Jin. He had served the Fan family and the Zhongxing family in the past, but he had no reputation. He left them to serve Zhibo, who respected and favored him very much.
When Zhibo attacked Zhao Xiangzi, Zhao Xiangzi, Han and Wei jointly planned to destroy Zhibo. After Zhibo was destroyed, the three families divided his territory.
Zhao Xiangzi hated Zhibo the most, so he painted his skull into a drinking vessel.
Yurang fled to the mountains and said, "Oh!
A man should die for someone who understands him, and a good woman should dress up for someone who loves her.
Now that Uncle Zhi is my confidant, I will definitely avenge him and sacrifice my life to repay Uncle Zhi. Then even if I die, my soul will have nothing to be ashamed of.
So he changed his name and surname, pretended to be a person who had been tortured, entered Zhao Xiang's womb to repair the toilet, and hid a dagger on his body, intending to use it to assassinate Zhao Xiangzi.
Zhao Xiangzi went to the toilet, his heart palpitated, and he questioned the prisoner who was repairing the toilet, and found out that it was Yu Rang, with a sharp knife hidden in his clothes. Yu Rang said: "I want to avenge Zhibo!"
The guards want to kill him.
Xiangzi said: He is a righteous man, I just need to avoid him cautiously.
Moreover, after Zhibo died without an heir, and his retainers wanted to avenge him, he was a wise man in the world.
Finally he left.
Not long after, Yurang smeared paint on his body again, making his skin swollen and rotten, as if he had leprosy. He swallowed charcoal and his voice became hoarse, making his body and appearance unrecognizable, and he begged for food on the street.
Even his wife doesn't recognize him anymore.
I met his friend on the road, recognized him, and said, "Aren't you Yu Rang?" Answered: It's me.
His friend shed tears for him and said: With your talents, you will devote yourself to serving Zhao Xiangzi. Xiangzi will definitely be close to you and love you.
Isn’t it easy to be close to you and do whatever you want?
Why bother to mutilate your body and disfigure your appearance? Isn't it more difficult to achieve the purpose of revenge against Zhao Xiangzi in this way?
Yurang said: "After entrusting yourself to serve someone, you then want to kill him. This is a monarch who serves him with a different intention."
I know that it is very difficult to choose this approach, but the reason why I chose this approach is to make future generations of ministers in the world feel ashamed who serve the king with different intentions!
After Yurang finished speaking, he left. Soon, Xiangzi was catching up to go out, and Yurang hid under the bridge that he must pass by.
When Xiangzi came to the bridge, the horse was frightened. Xiangzi said: "This must be Yurang."
I sent someone to check, and it turned out to be Yu Rang. So Xiangzi listed his sins and accused him, saying: Didn't you once serve the Fan family and the Zhongxing family?
Zhibo wiped them all out, but instead of avenging them, you pretended to be Zhibo's retainer. Zhibo is dead, why are you so eager to avenge him?
Yu Rang said: I serve the Fan family and the Zhongxing family, and they treat me as an ordinary person, so I repay them like an ordinary person.
As for Zhibo, he treats me as a national scholar, so I repay him like a national scholar.
Xiangzi sighed and said with tears: Oh, Mr. Yurang!
You have become famous by avenging Uncle Zhi; and it is enough for me to forgive you.
You should make your own plan, I can't let you go anymore!
Order the soldiers to surround him.
Yu Rang said: I have heard that a wise monarch does not bury the reputation of others, and loyal ministers are willing to die for their reputation.
You forgave me before, and no one in the world did not praise your wisdom.
I should have suffered the death penalty for what happened today, but I hope I can get your clothes and prick it a few times. This will fulfill my desire for revenge. Then, even if I die, I will have no regrets.
I dare not expect you to agree to my request, but I still venture to speak my mind!
So Xiangzi admired his chivalry very much and sent someone to bring his clothes to Yurang.
Yu Rang pulled out his sword, jumped up and stabbed it many times, saying: "I can use it to repay Uncle Zhi for being under the Nine Springs!"
So he committed suicide with his sword.
On the day of his suicide, all the people with lofty ideals in Zhao State cried for him when they heard the news.
More than forty years have passed since then, and there are stories of Nie Zheng in Zhi.
Nie Zheng was a native of Shenjing, Zhiyi.
In order to avoid killing people, he fled to Qi State with his mother and sister, and slaughtered livestock as a profession.
After a long time, Yan Zhongzi of Puyang served Han Aihou and developed a grudge against Xia Lei, the Prime Minister of South Korea.
Yan Zhongzi was afraid of being killed and ran away. He traveled around, looking for someone who could avenge Xia Lei on his behalf.
When he arrived in Qi State, some people in Qi State said that Nie Zheng was a brave man because he avoided his enemies and hid among the butchers.
Yan Zhongzi visited Nie Zheng's house and made many trips. Then he prepared a banquet and personally held a cup to toast Nie Zheng's mother.
When he was very happy after drinking, Yan Zhongzi presented a hundred yi of gold to his mother Nie Zheng to celebrate her birthday.
Nie Zheng was surprised by the generous gift and refused Yan Zhongzi firmly. However, Yan Zhongzi insisted on giving it away. Nie Zheng declined and said: I am fortunate to have my mother alive. Although my family is poor, she lives here as a guest and kills pigs and dogs. I buy some sweet and crunchy things in the morning and evening to feed my mother. My mother's support is quite complete, but I dare not accept Zhongzi's reward.
Yan Zhongzi avoided others and took the opportunity to say to Nie Zheng: I have an enemy. I traveled to many vassal states and could not find anyone to avenge me. But when I came to Qi, I heard privately that you are very loyal, so I offered a hundred gold as the cost of some coarse grain for your mother. I can also make friends with you. How dare I ask for anything else!
Nie Zheng said: The reason why I have humbled my ambition and humiliated my status and become a butcher in this market is just to support my mother. While my mother is still alive, I dare not commit myself to others.
Yan Zhongzi insisted on giving it as a gift, but Nie Zheng still refused to accept it.
But Yan Zhongzi finally fulfilled the etiquette of meeting a guest and a host, said goodbye and left.
After a long time, Nie Zheng's mother passed away. After the burial was completed and her mourning clothes were removed, Nie Zheng said: Alas!
I am just a common man, killing pigs and dogs with a knife, but Yan Zhongzi is a minister of the princes, but he has traveled thousands of miles and humiliated his status to befriend me.
My friendship with others is too shallow and insignificant, and there is no great merit that can offset his kindness to me. However, Yan Zhongzi offered a hundred gold coins as a birthday gift to my mother. Although I did not accept it, this incident is enough to show that he knows me very well.
A virtuous man, out of some petty hatred, regards me, a poor butcher living in a remote area, as a confidant. How could I just keep silent and end it like this!
Besides, when you invited me before, I didn’t agree just because my mother was still alive. Now that my mother is enjoying her remaining years, it’s time for me to do my best for those who understand me.
So he went west to Puyang, where he met Yan Zhongzi and said, "The reason why I didn't agree to Zhongzi's invitation before was just because my mother was still alive. Unfortunately, my mother has already reached the end of her life."
Who is the enemy Zhongzi wants to take revenge on?
Please let me do this!
Yan Zhongzi told him truthfully: My enemy is Xia Lei, the prime minister of Korea, and Xia Lei is the uncle of the king of Korea. He has a prosperous clan and a large population. The place where he lives is well-defended by soldiers. I wanted to send someone to assassinate him, but I never succeeded.
Now that you don't dislike me, I agree to add some warriors as your assistants.
Nie Zheng said: The distance between South Korea and Wei is not too far. Now the prime minister of the assassination family is a relative of the king. In this situation, not many people can go. If there are too many people, accidents will inevitably happen. If an accident occurs, the news will be leaked. If the news is leaked, it means that the entire Korean people are against you. Isn't this too dangerous!
So he declined the carriages and crowds, bid farewell to Yan Zhongzi and went away alone.
He took the sword to the capital of South Korea, where Xia Lei, the prime minister of South Korea, was sitting in the hall, with many guards armed with swords and halberds.
Nie Zheng walked straight in, walked up the steps and assassinated Xia Lei, causing chaos among the attendants. Nie Zheng shouted loudly, and dozens of people were killed by him. He also took advantage of the situation to disfigure his face, goug out his eyes, cut open his belly, and let out his intestines, and he died like this.
South Korea displayed Nie Zheng's body in the market and offered a reward to find out whose family the murderer belonged to, but no one knew.
So South Korea offered a reward to anyone who could name the person who killed Prime Minister Xia Lei, and he would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins.
After a long time, no one knew.
Nie Zheng's sister Nie Rong heard that someone had assassinated the prime minister of South Korea, but she didn't know who the murderer was. No one in South Korea knew his name. His body was displayed and a reward of a thousand gold was offered for people to identify it. So she sobbed and said: "Maybe it's my brother?"
Alas, Yan Zhongzi knows my brother!
So he immediately set off for the capital of South Korea. When he came to the market, the deceased was indeed Nie Zheng. He lay on the body and cried bitterly. He was extremely sad and said: This is the so-called Nie Zheng in the deep well of Zhi.
Pedestrians on the street said: This man brutally killed the prime minister of our country. The king offered a reward of a thousand gold to find out his name. Didn't you hear, madam?
How dare you come to identify the body?
Nie Rong answered them: I heard about it.
But the reason why Nie Zheng endured the humiliation and even mingled with pig butchers and meat sellers was because my mother was still alive and I was not married yet.
After my mother passed away at the end of her life, I was already married. Yan Zhongzi selected my brother from a poor and humble situation to befriend him. We were deeply kind to him. What else could my brother do?
A warrior is supposed to sacrifice his life for his close friends, but now because I am still alive in the world, I have severely damaged my face and body, making it unrecognizable, so as not to implicate others. How can I be afraid of death and bury my brother's reputation forever!
The whole market was shocked.
Nie Rong then shouted "Oh my God" three times, and finally died beside Nie Zheng due to excessive grief.
When people from Jin, Chu, Qi, Wei and other countries heard the news, they all said: Not only is Nie Zheng capable, but his sister is also a fierce woman.
If Nie Zheng really knew that his sister had no forbearance and would not care about the suffering of exposing her body to the public, but would go through thousands of miles of hardships and dangers to reveal his name, so that the sister and brother died together in the streets of Korea, then he might not have dared to commit himself to Yan Zhongzi. Yan Zhongzi can also be said that only by knowing people can he win the wise men!
From then on, for more than two hundred and twenty years, the Qin State had the deeds of Jing Ke.
Jing Ke was a native of Wei State. His ancestors were from Qi State and later moved to Wei State. The people of Wei State called him Qing Qing.
After arriving in Yan State, the people of Yan State called him Jing Qing.
Jing Qing loved reading and fencing, and relied on his swordsmanship to persuade Wei Yuanjun, but Wei Yuanjun did not appoint him.
After that, the Qin State attacked the Wei State, established Dongjun, and moved the relatives of Wei Yuanjun to Yewang.
Jing Ke once passed by Yuci while wandering around and discussed swordsmanship with Gai Nie. Gai Nie glared at him.
After Jing Ke went out, someone advised Gai Nie to call Jing Ke back.
Gai Nie said: I was talking to him about swordsmanship just now, and there was something inappropriate about what he said, so I glared at him; go and look for it, I glared at him, he should have left, and I didn't dare to stay here anymore.
Someone was sent to Jing Ke's residence to inquire about the landlord. Jing Ke had already left Yuci by car.
When the person who was sent came back to report, Genie said: It was time to leave, but I glared at him just now and he was scared.
Jing Ke was roaming Handan, Lu Goujian and Jing Ke were playing games, and they argued about the way to play. Lu Goujian got angry and scolded him, but Jing Ke escaped silently, and they never met again.
After Jing Ke arrived in Yan State, he became friendly with a man who was a dog butcher and Gao Jianli, who was good at building construction.
Jing Ke was very fond of drinking. He drank with the dog butcher and Gao Jianli every day in the Yan market. After they were drunk but not drunk, Gao Jianli was building a building, and Jing Ke sang in time with each other in the market to entertain each other. After a while, they cried to each other, as if there was no one around.
Although Jing Ke was among the drunkards, he was a deep and steady man and loved reading. In the princely countries he traveled to, he always made friends with the local wise men, heroes, and people of high moral standing.
After he arrived in Yan State, Mr. Tian Guang, a hermit of Yan State, also treated him friendly and knew that he was not an ordinary person.
Soon after, Prince Dan of Yan, who happened to be a hostage in Qin State, escaped back to Yan State.
Prince Dan of Yan had been a hostage in the State of Zhao in the past, and King Yingzheng of Qin was born in the State of Zhao. He and Prince Dan were close friends when he was young.
When Ying Zheng was established as King of Qin, Prince Dan went to Qin as a hostage.
The King of Qin was unfriendly to Prince Yan, so Prince Dan fled back out of resentment.
When he returned, he sought ways to retaliate against the King of Qin. The State of Yan was weak and unable to do so. From then on, Qin sent troops to Shandong every day to attack Qi, Chu and the three Jin Dynasties, gradually swallowing up all the countries like silkworms eating mulberry leaves. The war will spread to the Yan Kingdom, and the monarchs and ministers of the Yan Kingdom are afraid that a catastrophe is coming.
Prince Dan was worried about this and asked his teacher Ju Wu for advice.
Ju Wu replied: Qin's land is spread all over the world, threatening South Korea, Wei and Zhao. It has the solid and dangerous terrain of Ganquan and Taniguchi to the north, the fertile land of the Jinghe and Weihe River basins to the south, and occupies the fertile Bajun and Hanzhong areas. It has the mountains of Long and Shu as barriers on the right, and the Miao Mountain and Hangu Pass as fortresses on the left. It has a large population, well-trained soldiers, and more than enough weapons and equipment.
If there is an intention to expand outward, there will be no stable place south of the Great Wall and north of Yishui. Why are you trying to offend King Qin because of your resentment at being bullied? Prince Dan said: In this case, what should we do?
Ju Wu replied: Let me think about it further.
Some time later, Qin general Fan Yuqi offended the king of Qin and fled to the state of Yan. The prince accepted him and let him live there.
Ju Wugui advised: No.
The King of Qin was already very violent, and if he brought his anger to the State of Yan, it would be enough to frighten people, not to mention that he heard that General Fan lived here?
This is called putting meat on the path where the hungry tiger passes. Ah, the disaster must be irreversible!
Not even Guan Zhong or Yan Ying can give you any advice.
I hope you will send General Fan to the Xiongnu as soon as possible to eliminate Qin's excuse to attack us.
Please go west to form an alliance with the three Jins, go south to contact Qi and Chu, go north to make peace with Shanyu, and then you can find a way to deal with Qin.
Prince Dan said: The teacher's plan takes too long. My heart is so depressed and troubled that I may not even be able to wait for a moment.
Moreover, it is not just for this reason that General Fan is at the end of his rope in the world and has defected to me. I cannot abandon my sympathetic friend and send him to the Xiongnu just because of the violent Qin State. This should be the end of my life.
I hope the teacher will consider other methods.
Ju Wu said: Choosing dangerous actions to seek safety, creating disasters to pray for happiness, shallow strategies but deep resentment, and ignoring the great disasters of the country in order to make a new friend, this is what is called accumulating hatred and contributing to disasters.
Take a goose feather and put it on the coals of the stove and it will burn out instantly.
What's more, the Qin State, which is as ferocious as an eagle of prey, vents its hatred and cruel anger against the Yan State, is there any need to say it!
There is a Mr. Tian Guang in Yan State. He is a man of profound wisdom, courage and calmness. You can discuss with him.
The prince said: I hope to make friends with Mr. Tian through the teacher, is that okay?
Ju Wu said: "I obey."
Ju Wu then went out to visit Mr. Tian and said, "The prince hopes to plan state affairs with Mr. Tian." Tian Guang said: I would like to learn from you.
Then he went to visit the prince.
The prince stepped forward to greet him, walked backwards to guide Tian Guang, knelt down and wiped the seat to make way for Tian Guang.
After Tian Guang sat firmly and there was no one around him, the prince left his seat and asked Tian Guang for advice, saying: "The State of Yan and the State of Qin have sworn to be incompatible. I hope you will pay attention."
Tian Guang said: I heard that when the Qiji is strong, it can run thousands of miles in a day. When it gets old, even inferior horses can run ahead of it.
Now the prince has only heard of me in my prime, but he doesn't know that my energy has been exhausted.
Even so, I cannot take the liberty to plan state affairs. My good friend Jing Qing can take on this mission.
The prince said: I hope to make friends with Jing Qing through my husband, is that okay? Tian Guang said: "I obey."
So he got up immediately and hurried out.
The prince arrived at the door and warned: What I said and what your husband said are important matters of the country. I hope you will not leak them!
Tian Guang leaned over and said with a smile: Yes.
Tian Guang walked hunched over to see Jing Qing and said, "You and I are good friends with each other. Everyone in the Yan Kingdom knows that. Now that the prince has heard about my scene in my prime, he doesn't know that my body is no longer strong enough. I am honored to listen to his teachings: The states of Yan and Qin have sworn to be incompatible. I hope you will pay attention."
I have not met you in private, and have recommended you to the prince. I hope you will visit the prince in the palace. Jing Ke said: I would like to learn from you.
Tian Guang said: I heard that an older and mature person should not let others doubt him.
Now the prince warned me: What I said is a national matter. I hope you will not leak it. This is because the prince doubts me.
If a person behaves in a way that makes others doubt him, he is not considered a moral and loyal person.
He wanted to commit suicide to motivate Jing Qing, saying: I hope you will see the prince immediately and say that I am dead to show that I will not reveal the secret.
So he cut his neck and committed suicide.
Jing Ke then went to meet the prince, told him that Tian Guang was dead, and conveyed Tian Guang's words.
The prince bowed twice and knelt down, knelt down and moved forward, crying bitterly. After a while, he said: The reason why I warned Mr. Tian not to talk is to make the big plan succeed.
Now Mr. Tian is using his death to show that he will not tell anyone. Is this my original intention?
Jing Ke sat firmly, and the prince left his seat and kowtowed with his head and said: Mr. Tian doesn't know that I am not motivated, so that I can come to you and make a statement without presumptuousness. This is because God has pity on Yan State and has not abandoned me.
Now the King of Qin is greedy for profit, and his desire will not be satisfied.
His ambition will not be satisfied unless he takes over all the land in the world and makes all the kings surrender to him.
Now Qin has captured King Han and occupied all his territory.
He also sent troops to attack Chu State in the south and to approach Zhao State in the north. Wang Jian led hundreds of thousands of troops to Zhangshui and Ye County, while Li Xin sent troops to Taiyuan and Yunzhong.
If the State of Zhao cannot resist the Qin army, it will definitely surrender to the State of Qin; if the State of Zhao surrenders, then disaster will befall the State of Yan.
The Yan State is weak and has been troubled by many wars. Now it is estimated that even mobilizing the power of the whole country will not be able to resist the Qin army.
The princes are afraid of surrendering to the Qin State, and no one dares to advocate a unified policy. I have an immature plan in private, thinking that I can really get the world's warriors and send them to the Qin State to seduce the King of Qin with heavy profits. The King of Qin is greedy, and the situation will definitely achieve our wishes.
It would be great if we could really kidnap the King of Qin and make him return all the lands he invaded and occupied, like Cao Mo who kidnapped Duke Huan of Qi. If not, then take advantage of the situation and kill him.
Their Qin generals monopolize military power abroad, and if there is trouble at home, the monarch and his ministers will be suspicious of each other. Taking advantage of this opportunity, if the countries in the east can unite, they will definitely be able to defeat Qin.
This is my highest wish, but I don’t know who to entrust this mission to. I hope Jing Qing will consider this matter carefully.
After a while, Jing Ke said: "This is a national event. My talents are poor and I am afraid I am not qualified for it."
The prince stepped forward and knelt on the ground, firmly requesting not to shirk, and Jing Ke agreed.
At that time, the prince respected Jing Qing as his superior and stayed in a first-class hotel.
The prince visited Jing Ke at his residence every day. Jing Ke was provided with expensive food and drinks, rare and exotic objects from time to time, and beautiful women with carriages and horses were allowed to follow Jing Ke's will to satisfy his wishes.
After a long time, Jing Ke still showed no sign of taking action.
At this time, Qin general Wang Jian had already broken through Zhao's capital, captured the king of Zhao, and incorporated all Zhao's territory into Qin's territory. The army advanced and seized land to the north until it reached the southern border of Yan State.
Prince Dan was afraid, so he begged Jing Ke: The Qin army will cross Yishui sooner or later. Even if I want to serve you for a long time, how can I do it?
Jing Ke said: Even if the prince does not say anything, I will ask for action.
Now when I go to the Kingdom of Qin, if I don’t have anything to make the King of Qin trust me, then the King of Qin will not be able to approach me.
As for General Fan, the King of Qin offered a reward of a thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households to buy his head.
If I really get the head of General Fan and the map of Dukang of Yan State and present them to the King of Qin, the King of Qin will be happy to receive me, so that I can have the opportunity to serve you.
The prince said: General Fan came to me when he was at the end of his rope. I can't bear to hurt this elder's heart for my own selfish interests. I hope you can consider other ways!
Jing Ke knew that the prince could not bear it, so he went to see Fan Yuqi himself and said: Qin's treatment of the general can be said to be too cruel! Your parents and people were all killed or taken into slavery.
Now I heard that thousands of catties of gold and tens of thousands of households were offered to acquire the general's head. What are you going to do?
Fan Yuqi raised his head, sighed to the sky, and said with tears: Whenever I, Fan Yuqi, think about this, it often hurts to the bone, but I just can't think of a way to take revenge!
Jing Ke said: "Today I have a sentence that can relieve Yan's troubles and avenge the general. How about it?"
Fan Yuqi stepped forward and said, "What should we do about this?"
Jing Ke said: I hope to get the general's head and present it to the King of Qin. The King of Qin will definitely be happy and receive me. I grabbed King Qin's sleeve with my left hand, and stabbed him in the chest with the dagger in my right hand. In this way, the general's hatred was washed away, and the shame of Yan's being bullied was also wiped away!
General, do you have any other ideas?
Fan Yuqi exposed one shoulder, held the other wrist tightly with one hand, approached Jing Ke and said, "This is something I have been grinding my teeth on day and night, and I can only hear your advice today!"
Fan Yuqi committed suicide.
When the prince heard the news, he drove there and cried bitterly on General Fan's body. He was extremely sad.
There was no other way, so Fan Yuqi's head was put into a box and sealed.
At that time, the prince had already searched for the sharpest dagger in the world. He found the dagger of Mrs. Xu from Zhao State, spent a hundred gold on it, and asked the craftsmen to quench it with poisonous water. He tested it on people and found that as long as there was a trace of blood, everyone would die immediately.
So he prepared his luggage and sent Jing Ke off.
There was a warrior named Qin Wuyang in the Yan State. He killed people when he was thirteen years old. No one dared to look at him face to face.
So Qin Wuyang was sent as an assistant.
Jing Ke was waiting for a man and planned to set off together. The man lived far away and had not arrived yet, but Jing Ke had already prepared his luggage for him.
A few days later, Jing Ke had not yet set out. The prince thought that he was stalling for time and suspected that he was going back on his word, so he urged him again: "The days are running out, does Jing Qing have any plans to leave?"
Please allow me to send Qin Wuyang first.
Jing Ke got angry and rebuked the prince: "What does the prince mean by sending him like this?"
If you just go and don't care about completing your mission and come back, you are a worthless boy!
What's more, he entered the unpredictable and violent Qin State with a dagger. The reason why I stayed temporarily was to wait for another friend to go with me.
Now that the prince thinks that I have delayed the time, let's say goodbye!
So we set off.
The prince and the guests who knew about this all dressed up in ordinary people's clothes and went to see Jing Ke off.
Arriving at the bank of Yishui, after bidding farewell, we set out on the road. Gao Jianli was building the building. Jing Ke sang in time with the beat, emitting a desolate and melancholy tone. Those who saw him off shed tears and sang as they walked forward: The wind is rustling, the Yishui is cold, and the strong men will never return once they are gone!
He made an impassioned tone again, and the people seeing him off had their eyes widened with anger, their hair stood on end, and their hats were raised.
So Jing Ke got in the car and drove away without even looking back.
As soon as he arrived in Qin, Jing Ke brought a gift worth thousands of gold and gave it generously to Meng Jia, the concubine among the favored ministers of the King of Qin.
Meng Jia first spoke to the King of Qin on behalf of Jing Ke: The King of Yan was really frightened by the majesty of the King and did not dare to send out troops to resist the King's soldiers. He preferred that all the people in the country be the ministers of the Qin State, ranked among the other vassal states, and pay taxes as if they were directly under the jurisdiction of counties and counties, so that they could guard the ancestral temple of the late king.
I was too scared to come forward and make a statement in person. I hereby cut off Fan Yuqi's head and present a map of the Dukang area of ​​the Yan Kingdom, and seal it in a box. King Yan also held a farewell ceremony at the court and sent envoys to report the situation to the king and ask for his instructions.
When the King of Qin heard the news, he was very happy. He put on his formal attire, arranged a nine-guest ceremony, which was extremely grand in diplomacy, and summoned the envoys of Yan State in Xianyang Palace.
Jing Ke held Fan Yuqi's head, and Qin Wuyang held the map box. They advanced in the order of chief and deputy envoys. When they reached the steps in front of the palace, Qin Wuyang's face suddenly changed and he was trembling with fear. The ministers were surprised.
Jing Ke turned around and smiled at Qin Wuyang, stepped forward to apologize and said: "The savage people in the barbarian land of the northern vassal have never seen the emperor, so they are frightened."
I hope the king will tolerate him a little and allow him to complete his mission in front of the king.
The King of Qin said to Jing Ke: Hand over the map Wuyang took.
Jing Ke took the map and presented it. King Qin unfolded the map. The scroll was stretched to the end and the dagger was exposed.
Jing Ke took the opportunity to grab King Qin's sleeve with his left hand, and stabbed him with a dagger in his right hand.
Before he got close, King Qin was startled. He jumped up and broke his sleeve.
He hurriedly drew his sword, the sword was long, and he just grabbed the scabbard.
In the moment of panic and urgency, the sword was sheathed too tightly, so he couldn't pull it out immediately.
Jing Ke chased the King of Qin, and the King of Qin ran around the pillar.
The ministers were in a daze with fright. Suddenly something unexpected happened and everyone lost their normal state.
The laws of the Qin State stipulate that the ministers in the palace are not allowed to carry any weapons; the military attachés can only guard outside the palace in order with weapons, and they are not allowed to enter the palace without the emperor's order.
At the critical moment, there was no time to summon the guards below, so Jing Ke was able to pursue the King of Qin.
In a hurry, he was panic-stricken and had no weapons to attack Jing Ke, so he could only fight Jing Ke with his bare hands.
At this time, the attendant medical officer Xia Wuqie hit Jing Ke with the medicine bag he was holding.
Just as King Qin was running around the pillar, panicking and not knowing what to do, the attendants shouted: Your Majesty, push your sword behind your back!
King Qin pushed his sword behind his back, then drew out his sword and attacked Jing Ke, cutting off his left leg.
Jing Ke was crippled, so he raised his dagger and threw it directly at the King of Qin. He missed but hit the bronze pillar.
The King of Qin attacked Jing Ke one after another, and Jing Ke was stabbed in eight places.
Jing Ke knew that the big thing would not succeed, so he leaned on the pillar and laughed, spread his legs like a dustpan and sat on the ground and cursed: The reason why the big thing didn't succeed is because I want to capture you alive and force you to sign a contract to return the land to the princes in return for the prince.
At this time, the guards rushed forward to kill Jing Ke, but King Qin was not happy for a while.
Afterwards, the merits and demerits were evaluated differently, the rewards given to the officials and the officials responsible for the crimes were dealt with in different ways. He gave Xia Wuji two hundred yi of gold and said, "Wuji loved me, so he threw the medicine bag at Jing Ke."
So the King of Qin became furious, sent more troops to the State of Zhao, ordered Wang Jian's army to attack the State of Yan, and captured Jicheng in October.
King Xi of Yan, Prince Dan and others led all the elite troops to retreat eastward to Liaodong.
Qin general Li Xin pursued the King of Yan closely, and Dai Wangjia wrote to King Yan, saying: The reason why the Qin army is pursuing the Yan army with great urgency is because of Prince Dan.
Now if you kill Prince Dan and offer his head to the King of Qin, you will definitely be forgiven by the King of Qin, and Sheji may be lucky enough to be sacrificed.
After that, Li Xin led his army to chase Prince Dan, who was hiding in the Yanshui River. King Yan sent an envoy to kill Prince Dan and prepared to sacrifice his head to the King of Qin.
The king of Qin marched again to attack Yan.
Five years later, Qin finally destroyed Yan and captured King Xi of Yan.
The next year, King Qin annexed the world and made him emperor.
So the retainers of Prince Dan and Jing Ke were compiled, and all the retainers fled.
Gao Jianli changed his name and worked as a bartender, hiding in Songzi to work.
After a long time, I felt very tired. When I heard that there were guests in the host's hall, I walked around and couldn't bear to leave.
I often open my mouth and say: There are good things about the tone of that building, and there are also bad things.
The waiter told the master what Gao Jianli said, saying: "That mediocre worker knows music and talks about right and wrong in private."
The master of the house asked Gao Jianli to build the building in front of the hall. All the guests said that he was good at building the building and rewarded him with wine.
Gao Jianli thought that he would remain anonymous for a long time and hide in fear without end, so he retreated to the hall, took out his clothes and clothes from the suitcase, modified himself and came to the front of the hall. The guests were all shocked, and left their seats to receive him with equal etiquette, treating him as an honored guest.
He was invited to sing and sing. After hearing this, all the guests were moved to tears and left.
People in Songzi City took turns inviting him to be a guest, and the news was heard by Qin Shihuang.
Qin Shihuang called for him to come in. Someone who knew him said, "This is Gao Jianli."
Qin Shihuang took pity on him because he was good at building construction, and specially pardoned his death penalty.
So Xun blinded him and asked him to build the building, and he said yes every time.
Gradually, he got closer to Qin Shihuang. Gao Jianli put lead into the building, and when he came closer to the palace and struck the building, he raised the building and hit Qin Shihuang, but missed.
So Qin Shi Huang killed Gao Jianli. I will never dare to get close to people from the six eastern countries in my life.
When Lu Goujian heard about Jing Ke's assassination of the King of Qin, he said privately: Alas! What a pity, he doesn't pay attention to the technique of stabbing the sword. I don't understand this person very well!
In the past, when I scolded him, he thought I was no longer a fellow traveler.
Tai Shigong said: When people talk about Jing Ke in the society, when it comes to the fate of Prince Dan, they say: grain falls from the sky like rain, and horns grow from the horse's head! This is too much.
It is also said that Jing Ke stabbed the King of Qin, which is not true.
When Gongsun Jigong, Dong Sheng, and Xia Wuji were friends, they all knew about this incident, and what they told me was just like what I recorded.
From Cao Mo to Jing Ke, some of their chivalrous actions were successful, and some were unsuccessful, but their ambitions and intentions were all clear, and they did not violate their own consciences. Their reputations have been passed down to future generations. Isn't this false!
