Liu Ji, whose alias is Huixu, is from Pengcheng.
His father, Liu Sisi, became prominent in the Song Dynasty because he was a younger brother of Emperor Gaozu of the Song Dynasty, reaching the rank of Jin Ziguanglu. Liu Jilian had a very good reputation and had served as an upright official very early on.
After Emperor Qi Gao accepted the abdication and ascended the throne of the emperor, he killed all the close relatives of the Song Dynasty. When he was about to kill Liu Jilian and others, Ji Lian was saved from death because the Grand Prime Minister Chu Yuan had always been very good with Zhilian. With his firm plea, Ji Lian was saved.
During the Jianyuan period, Liu Ji was re-elected as Minister Zuocheng.
In the early years of the Yongming Dynasty, Liu Weilian served as the internal history of Jiangxia County, and was promoted many times to the internal history of Pingnan Changsha County, the champion chief historian, the prefect of Guangling County, and was in charge of the affairs of the prefecture.
Later, he was called to serve as the minister of Huangmen, and was transferred to the prince's concubine.
During the Jianwu period, Liu Jilian served as the long history of Xiao Yaoxin in Pingxi and the prefect of Lu Su.
At that time, Dancha's sons were still young, so the relatives relied on the brothers Xiao Yaoxin, and the relatives relied on the queen's younger brother Liu Xuan and brother-in-law Jiang Zhe.
When Xiao Yaoxin was guarding Jiangling, Emperor Ming had great hopes for him; however, when Yaoxin arrived in Zhoubao, he invited guests and privately gave him large rewards, which Emperor Ming was very disgusted with.
Liu Erlian's nephew, Ji Xing Artificial Hehe, was consulted by Luwei to join the army. Wanghe was handsome, talented and eloquent, and Luwei valued him very much.
Wang Hui was so arrogant that he even argued with Xiao Yaoxin to insult Liu Jilian in front of everyone. Liu Jilian was very unhappy about this. He secretly reported to Emperor Ming that Xiao Yaoxin had abnormal signs. Emperor Ming accepted his opinion and appointed Xiao Yaoxin as the governor of Yongzhou.
Emperor Ming was deeply grateful to Ji Lian. Four years later, he appointed Liu Jilian as an auxiliary general and the governor of Yizhou, and ordered him to guard the upper reaches of Xiao Yaoxin.
When Liu Jilian's father was the governor of Dong in Saiqu, he was greedy and despicable and had no political achievements. However, the people of Yizhou still valued justice and treated Jilian very well.
After Liu Jilian got off the bus and took office, he expressed condolences to old and old officials, comforted and made new and old friends. When he saw his father's old officials, they all shed tears in front of them.
Liu Jilian appointed Gong Sui, a native of Suining, as the chief administrator of the prefecture.
Gong Rui is the grandson of Gong Ying. His family has been educated and virtuous for generations, so he was recommended to be an official.
When Donghunhou came to the throne, in the first year of Yongyuan, Liu Jilian was recruited as the right guard general, but he did not take office because of the road blockage.
Liu Jilian heard that Marquis Shuhun had lost his moral character and that there were many changes in the capital, so he became proud and reserved.
Liu Jilian was originally known as a civil servant with a jealous and intolerant temperament. Now he has become more cruel, cruel and self-willed. The local people began to feel resentment and disappointment towards him.
In September of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Liu Jilian gathered five thousand people, claiming to be practicing martial arts, but in fact he sent Chinese soldiers to join the army. Song Mai led these people to attack Zhongshui.
Li Tuo, a native of Zhenxian County, knew about this in advance and deployed defensive forces to guard the dangerous places. The battle between Songmai and Li Tuo was unfavorable. When they returned to the state, many counties and counties rebelled.
In the same month, Pang Xubo, a native of Xincheng, killed the county magistrate of Wucheng and drove away the prefect of Shiping County.
In October, Le Shichun and Li Nandang, who were natives of the Jin Dynasty, killed the governor of their county. Le Shichun named himself the governor of Nan Qinzhou and Li Nandang the governor of Yizhou.
In December, Liu Jilian sent Cui Maozu, who joined the army, to lead 2,000 soldiers to conquer, bringing only three days of food.
It was the coldest season of the year. A group of thieves gathered together to cut down trees and block the roads. The soldiers were unable to get water and fire to quench their thirst and keep out the cold. As a result, they returned in a great defeat, with seven to eight tenths of them dead.
In the first month of the second year, Bo Yang, a native of Xincheng, expelled Qiao Xiyuan, the prefect of Suining County.
In March, Yong Daoxi, a native of Brazil County, led a group of more than 10,000 thieves to invade Brazil County. They were still several miles away from the county. Yong Daoxi claimed to be General Zhenxi and was given the title Jianyi.
Lu Xiulie, the governor of Brazil County, and Kui Lu, the magistrate of Qianxian County, surrounded the city to defend themselves. Liu Chuilian sent Chinese soldiers to join the army, Li Fengbo, and led 5,000 soldiers to rescue.
After Kui Guibo arrived, he and the soldiers from the county defeated and captured Yong Daoxi alive, and beheaded Daoxi in the market of Fujian County.
Taking advantage of the victory, Li Fengbo wanted to go alone to Shuxiang in Bayou Valley to pursue the remaining thieves.
Kui Ying dissuaded him and said: Now the soldiers are slack and the generals are arrogant. It is not a good strategy to take advantage of victory and go into danger.
It's better to slow down for a while and think of other ways.
Li Fengbo did not take his advice and led all the army into the mountains. As a result, they were defeated and fled back to Zhouxiang.
In June, Cheng Yanyan, a native of Jiangyang, rebelled and killed the prefect He Fazang.
Lu Baolie was afraid that he would not be able to protect himself, so he went to Basu County Prime Minister Xiao Huixun.
In October, Zhao Xubo, a native of Brazil County, rebelled again. With 20,000 people, he set out from Guanglian, took a Buddhist chariot, wrapped blue stones with colorful cloth, and deceived the people, saying: God has given me the jade seal, and I should be the king of Shu.
Many people foolishly followed him.
Liu Jilian marched against Zhao Xubo and others, and sent Chief Shi Zhao Yuetang as the vanguard.
After being defeated, Liu Chonglian sent Li Fengbo to attack from Fu County.
Another army of Li Fengbo joined the army from Shihuang in front of the city and attacked Zhao Xubo's camp gate, resulting in a major defeat of the Zhao army.
At that time, there was a man named Shi Wen'an from Kuaiji who lived in seclusion in the countryside and practiced courtesy. He was re-elected as Shangshu Zuocheng instead of Liu Ji and served as the internal history of Jiangxia County. He was also called to serve as Yushi Zhongcheng instead of Ji Lian. He and Ji Lian were very close.
Liu Jilian's son was named Liu Zhongse, also named Fuli. When he heard about the Zhidan uprising, he led his fellow villagers to respond to Zhidan.
In the early years, Liu Jian took the title of worship official as Shu Miao Farewell, and followed Gaozu to pacify the capital.
In the spring of the next year, the emperor sent his right-hand man Chen Jiansun to escort Liu Jilian's younger brother, Tongzhilangxing Wang Zhao, and Zhilian's two sons to Dan Deng as envoys, announcing the emperor's intention to express his condolences.
After receiving the order, Liu Jilian packed his bags and prepared to return home.
Emperor Gaozu appointed Xitai general Deng Yuanqi as the governor of Yiye.
Deng Wujie was from Luxuan.
When Liu Chonglian was an official at Zhi Deng, he always treated Jian Wuqi very badly.
Zhu Daochen, the signature officer, once met Liu Jilian in Dulu, the capital of the state. He was a scoundrel. Liu Jilian wanted to kill him because he was guilty, but he escaped and escaped death.
Now he advised Deng Wu tomb: "The situation in Yiye has been in chaos for a long time. The losses in public and private treasuries must be great. How can Liu Yizhou transport supplies over a long distance when he comes to an empty city."
Daochen asked me to check first and welcome him along the way; otherwise, it would not be easy to get the supplies transported thousands of miles away.
Deng Yuanqi agreed to his request.
When Sai Dao arrived at Yiye, his words were very disrespectful. He went to the houses of officials in various prefectures one by one and snatched away utensils and property whenever he saw them. When he met someone who refused to give it to him, he said: "Sooner or later, things will belong to others, so why bother to cherish them."
So everyone in the military government was very panicked, thinking that Deng Wu would definitely kill Liu Jilian when he arrived here, and would also implicate his subordinates, so they all went to Ji Lian's house to complain.
Liu Jilian thought so too; he was also jealous of his disrespect to Sha Gendan in the past, so he felt even more angry.
Sima Zhujian persuaded Liu Chonglian and asked him to serve as the governor of Danxi County and leave his three sons as hostages. Liu Jilian agreed.
Soon, Liu Shenglian summoned the assistant historian and lied that Queen Xuande of Qi Dynasty had an order to gather troops to rebel again. He captured Zhu Daochen and killed him.
He also wrote a letter to inform Zhu Shilue and summoned Li Ying back.
Neither Li Ying nor Zhu Shilue accepted his mission.
After the envoy returned, Deng Yuanqi gathered his troops and waited for an opportunity in Brazil County. Liu Jilian killed Zhu Shiluo's three sons.
In June of the first year of Tianjian, Deng Yuanqi arrived in Brazil County, and Liu Jilian sent general Li Fengbo and others to resist the attack.
The two armies fought, each gaining and losing. As time passed, Li Fengbo was defeated and retreated to Chengdu.
Liu Jilian drove the residents out, then closed the city gates and stood firm.
Deng Yuanqi quietly marched and surrounded the city of Chengdu.
In the winter of that year, Liu Jilian's city bureau chief Jiang Xizhi and others plotted to surrender the city, but failed, so Liu Jilian killed them.
Sichuan has been suffering from chaos for two years. The food in the city has been exhausted, and a liter of rice cannot be bought for three thousand yuan. People who have died of starvation are piled up together to sleep on each other.
Those who had no relatives or friends killed others to eat.
Liu Ji drank gruel for several months. He was hungry and distressed and had no idea what to do.
In the first month of the second year, Emperor Gaozu sent his chief secretary Zhao Jingyue to announce the order for Liu Jilian to surrender. Liu Jilian took off his shirt and exposed his chest to plead guilty.
Deng Yuanqi moved Liu Jilian outside the city, and soon visited him and treated him with courtesy.
Liu Jilian thanked him and said, "If I had known this, how could it have happened before?"
Deng Yuanqi killed Li Fengbo and other generals, and sent Liu Jilian back to the capital.
Before Liu Jilian left, no one came to see him, only Gong Rui came to see him off.
At the beginning, when Deng Yuanqi was on the road, he was afraid that the matter would not be successful, and there would be nothing to reward the soldiers, so as long as there were people who came to serve as soldiers, they all promised to appoint them. Therefore, there were nearly two thousand people who accepted the duties of the governor.
After Liu Jilian arrived in the capital, he came to the palace to apologize, and Gao Zu received him.
Liu Jilian came in from Dongye Gate, walked a few steps, kowtowed, and came to the Emperor Gaozu.
Gaozu smiled and said to him: "You want to learn from Liu Bei but you can't even learn from Gongsun Shu. Is it because you don't have ministers like Wo Long?"
Liu Jilian kowtowed again to apologize.
Liu Jilian was pardoned and demoted to a civilian.
In the first month of the fourth year, Ji Lian was killed by Lin Daogong, a Shu native, when he was leaving Jianyang Gate.
When Liu Jilian was in Shu, he killed Dao Gong's father, but Dao Gong fled. Now he has taken revenge on him.
Chen Bozhi is the successor of Jiyin County. He had physical strength when he was young.
When he was thirteen or fourteen years old, he liked to wear an otter-skin hat and a bayonet. When the rice in the neighborhood was ripe, he would secretly cut it.
Once when the landowner saw him, he stopped him and said: "You bitch, don't move!"
Chen Bozhi said to the landowner: Fortunately, you still have a lot of rice. What does it matter if you have less rice?
The landlord wanted to arrest him and take him away, so Chen Bozhi came in with a knife. When he was about to stab the landlord, he said: What will happen to this little bitch!
The landowner quickly fled back, but Chen Bozhi calmly picked up the rice and went home.
When Chen Bozhi grew up, he often worked as a robber in the Zhongli area. Once, he showed his face and peeked at other people's boats. The boatman slashed him with a knife and cut off his left ear.
Later, he followed his fellow countryman Wang Guangzhi, a chariot and cavalry general. Wang Guangzhi loved his bravery and let him sleep on his bed every night, and often let him accompany him during expeditions.
When Xiao Zijing, King of Lu Qi'an Lu, was an official in Nan Yanzhou, he had a lot of troops to defend himself.
Emperor Ming sent Wang Guangzhi to attack Zijing. Wang Guangzhi arrived at Guowu and sent Chen Bozhi as the vanguard. With the city gate opened, Jianwang entered the city alone and killed Lu Wangman.
Later, he made many military exploits. Due to his meritorious service, Chen Bozhi was promoted to champion general and hussar commander many times. He was named the uncle of Yufu County and was granted a settlement of 500 households.
After the rise of the righteous army, Saidiebao was appointed as Jijie, supervising the military affairs in advance, and governor of Yuzhou. His duties as a general remained as before.
Soon, Chen Bozhi was transferred to Xingtu and occupied Manmo City to resist the rebels.
Jiansha was pacified, and Zhidan captured the leader of the palace, Lan Jianzhi, and sent him to persuade Danzhi to surrender. He was immediately appointed General Anton and Governor of Liaoye.
Although Su Zuzhi accepted the appointment of direct responsibility, he still had a wait-and-see mentality and lied that the army would come down and surrender soon.
Zhidan said to the generals: This worthy answer shows that his mind has not yet been settled and he is still hesitating. He should be forced to do so.
So the army was stationed in Mandang, and they quickly returned to their mother's invitation before returning to Zhidan.
The number of the rapid advance is Zhennan General, and he advances with the army.
Chen Bozhi garrisoned troops at Zhuoqie, and soon entered the Youdan siege.
Before Jianchenyue was pacified, whenever someone who surrendered came out of the city, Chen Bozhi would call him over and whisper to him.
Emperor Gaozu was afraid that he would have second thoughts, so he quietly said to Bo Zhi: I heard that the people in Chengguo were very angry about your surrender in Jiangzhou and wanted to send assassins to kill you. You should be careful.
Bo Zhi still didn't believe what he said.
It happened that Zheng Bolun, the general of Shuhunhou, came out of the city to surrender. Zhidan sent him to the commander on duty and said to Zhu Zhu: "The people in the city hate you very much. I want to write a letter to induce you to surrender so that I can give you a reward."
When you surrender again, I will cut off your hands and feet alive; if you don't surrender, I will send assassins to kill you.
You need to be more prepared.
Chen Bozhi was frightened and never had second thoughts from then on.
Chen Bozhi fought hard and achieved great success.
After Jiankang City was captured, Chen Bozhi was given the title of General Zhengnan, and was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County, with a settlement of 2,000 households, and was sent back to Jiangzhou to guard it.
Chen Bozhi was illiterate. After he returned to Jiangzhou, he only agreed loudly when he got the documents and lawsuits.
When something happens, let the signing official pass on his verbal orders, and the final decision will be made by the official in charge of the matter.
Chen Bozhi had old friendships with Deng Xi from Yuzhang and Dai Yongzhong from Yongxing. Deng Xi once hid Bozhi's child Chen Ying from harm, and Bozhi was particularly grateful for this.
After Chen Bozhi took office in Zhouxiang, he appointed Deng Xi as his assistant and Dai Yongzhong as the secretary to join the army.
Chu Wang, a native of Henan, was a frivolous person in the capital. In the late Southern Qi Dynasty, he became the Western Cao of Yangzhou. Due to the troubled times, he lived at home. While other frivolous people could recommend each other to become officials, Chu Wang was the only one who did not become an official.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Chu Wang frequently visited Shangshu Fan Yun. Fan Yun did not like Chu Wang and resolutely refused to see him.
Chu Wang became even more angry and said to his friends privately: Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, all the common people have become officials and nobles. What sin do I have to be abandoned?
Now that the country has just been established, there are constant famines and famines, and there may even be chaos and chaos, which is unknown.
Chen Bozhi has a strong army and is stationed in Jiangzhou. He is not the one who came here on behalf of this place, so he naturally has doubts; and the appearance of Mars in the South Dipper is not a sign that it appears for me.
I am going to go out for a trip today. If nothing is accomplished, I will go to Wei State and at least become the governor of Henan County.
So he went to Chen Bozhi's assistant Wang Simu, worked under him, and received a very cordial reception.
Later, Chen Bozhi's fellow countryman Zhu Longfu Ren Changliu joined the army. They jointly took advantage of Chen Bozhi's ignorance and darkness to do some evil and sinister things. They jointly controlled the opening or closing of criminal law and political affairs.
Chen Bozhi's son was named Hu Ya, who was appointed as the general of Zhige at that time. Emperor Gaozu personally wrote the indictment of Zhu Longfu and gave it to Hu Ya. Hu Ya was given to Chen Bozhi without opening the seal. Emperor Gaozu also sent Chen Bozhi to replace Deng Xi in Jiangzhou, but Bozhi did not accept the appointment.
He replied to Emperor Gaozu: Zhu Longfu is a brave and athletic man, and Deng Geng is also very meritorious. Your Majesty, please change the post of Bijiaji appointed by you to Zhizhong.
Deng Xi persuaded Chen Bozhi that night: The imperial treasury is empty, there are no utensils and ritual guards, there is no rice in the three warehouses, and there is famine in the border area. This is an opportunity that only comes once in a generation. Don't miss it.
Chu Wang, Yongzhong and others also agreed with Deng Sui's words.
Chen Bozhi said to Deng Xi: I will report to Shangguan today. If I still don't get it, I will rebel with you.
Emperor Gaozu ordered a county within the ministry to be handed over to Deng Zhen. Chen Bozhi summoned the governors of Fuzhou and told them: On the order of King Jian'an of Qi, he led 100,000 rebel soldiers in Jiangbei and stationed in Liuhe. After seeing the envoy, he quickly transported food with Jiangzhou's existing strength.
I have received great kindness from Emperor Ming, and I vow to die in repayment.
We will start martial law and prepare for business today.
He asked Chu Juan to forge Xiao Shiqi's letters and show them to the bureaucrats and historians.
Then, an altar was set up in front of the official hall, and animals were killed as an oath of alliance. Chen Bozhi drank first, and the chief minister and the following ones took their blood in turn to form an alliance.
Chu Wang suggested to Bo Zhi: To hold a major event today, we should attract people who are highly respected by the public. But Cheng Yuanchong disagreed with everyone; Wang Guan, the internal historian of Linchuan County, was the grandson of Wang Sengqian. He was a good person and could be summoned as chief historian to replace Cheng Yuanchong.
Chen Bozhi agreed with his opinion and still appointed Chu Wang as the prefect of Xunyang County to fight against the rebel generals; Yongzhong as the auxiliary general; Zhu Longfu as the governor of Yuzhou, leading 500 people to guard Dalei.
The fifth leader of Dalei was Shen Huixiu, and the soldier who joined the army in Zhennan was Li Yanbo.
Chen Bozhi also sent fellow countrymen Sun Lin and Li Jing to be under Zhu Longfu's control. Sun Lin was in charge of Xuzhou and Li Jing was in charge of Yingzhou.
Zheng Bolun, the governor of Yuzhang, led the county soldiers to resist and guard Yuzhou.
After Cheng Yuanchong lost his official position, he gathered hundreds of people at home. He asked Chen Bozhi's signature officers Lu Xiaotong and Dai Yuanze to act as internal agents.
Chen Bozhi often did some carpentry work every morning. He went to bed as soon as the sun went down in the evening, and his left and right guards also rested.
Cheng Yuanchong took advantage of the relaxation of their taboos, entered through the north gate, and went straight to the main room.
Chen Bozhi heard the cry and personally led his men out to kill him. Cheng Yuan was unable to defeat him and fled into Lushan Mountain.
When Cheng Yuan first launched an army, he invited Zhang Xiaoji from Xunyang, and Shengkui followed him.
After the incident failed, Su Zhizhi chased Yun Ji but failed to catch up, so he caught his mother Liang Juya, filled her with wax and killed her.
He also sent a letter back to the capital to inform his son Huya brothers that Huya and others fled to Xuyi. Xu An, Zhuang Xingshao, Zhang Xianming and others from Xuyi intercepted them, but failed to defeat them and were killed by them instead.
Chandan sent Wang Gan to attack and investigate quickly.
When Su Zhizhi heard that Wang Jian was coming, he said to Chu Wang: Wang Guan is not dead yet, and Zheng Bolun refuses to obey his orders, so he should be trapped empty-handed.
Now we should first pacify Yuzhang, open the road to the south, mobilize more people, increase the transportation of property and food, and then sweep to the north to suppress the hungry and tired people, without fear of failure.
So the Tanggai people from the same hometown were left to guard the city, and the others rushed to Yuzhang one after another.
Zheng Bolun, the governor of Yuzhang County, defended the city, but Chen Bozhi's attack failed.
At this time, Wang Mao's advance troops had arrived. Chen Bo was surrounded by enemies inside and outside and had no choice but to flee. He fled from a small road to the north of the Yangtze River and entered the Wei Kingdom with his son Hu Ya, Chu Wang and others.
The Wei State appointed Bo Zhi as envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Huainan, Pingnan general, Guanglu doctor, and Qujiang county marquis.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, the emperor issued an edict, ordering Xiao Hong, the Taiwei and King of Linchuan, to lead the army in the Northern Expedition. Xiao Hong asked Qiu Chi, the reporter, to write a private letter to Chen Bozhi saying: Fortunately, General Chen is all well.
General, you are the most brave man among the three armies and an outstanding talent of our time.
You despise the small ambition of the sparrow and admire the soaring wings of the swan.
Back then, you followed the changes of time, met the great ancestor of the Ming Dynasty, made great achievements, became a founding hero, owned a luxurious Zhulu chariot, and controlled thousands of miles of territory with discipline. How spectacular was this? How could you become a desperado in one day? Your thighs tremble when you hear the sound of arrows. , but you have to grovel in front of the barbarian's felt tent, how despicable is it? The motive for asking you to go to Liang and the Northern Wei Dynasty is for no other reason, just because you can't think over and over again in your own heart, plus you are influenced by rumors, and you are confused and arrogant, leading to where you are today.
The Holy Dynasty has always been about letting the pardoned people perform meritorious service and atone for their sins, put aside their shortcomings, make good use of talented people, recruit people from all over the world who are sincerely serving the country, and calm the doubtful and uneasy people. These are all things you know, general, and I don’t need to describe them in detail.
Zhu Tuna once participated in the bloody incident that killed Liu Yan, the brother of Emperor Guangwu of the Han Dynasty Liu Xiu. Zhang Xiu assassinated Cao Cao's beloved son Cao Ang. After they surrendered, Emperor Guangwu of the Han Dynasty did not suspect Zhu Tuna because of this. Wei Jun Cao Cao still treated Zhang Xiu as before.
What's more, General, you are not guilty of the crimes of the ancients, and your achievements are very important in this world.
Even the sage Qu Yuan would praise you as long as you know how to return from the wrong path; if you go astray, you can return to the right path soon. This is what the ancient classic "Book of Changes" recommends.
Now Emperor Wu of Liang has violated the law, repeatedly affirmed his grace, relaxed the legal net, and even missed the big fish that swallowed the boat, and he can also be tolerant to those who committed major crimes. General, the graves of your ancestors have not been damaged, and your relatives are living safely; General, your residence has not been damaged, and your concubine is still waiting for your return.
Think about it carefully in your heart, what else can you say?
Today, the heroes and generals of the Liang Dynasty are as orderly as the flying geese.
Some of them wear gold seals with purple ribbons and participate in planning military operations together; some of them ride in light vehicles and wear banners to accept the important task of guarding the border.
They often kill white horses and drink their blood to make oaths, and pass this habit on to their descendants.
Isn't it sad that the general is the only one who is shameless and lives an ignoble life, working in a foreign country?
Moreover, despite Murong Chao's strength, he was still inevitably killed in the execution ground of Jiankang City; even with Yao Hong's grandeur, he still ended up surrendering to the western capital of Chang'an.
Therefore, we can know that between heaven and earth, the place where frost and dew reach does not breed aliens; the northern Central Plains region where Zhou Han is located does not accommodate ethnic minorities.
The Northern Wei Dynasty falsely claimed the title of emperor and stole the Central Plains. After many years, it accumulated a lot of evil and was full of disasters. It was natural that it would collapse and perish.
What's more, Emperor Xuanwu of the Northern Wei Dynasty was stupid and cunning, and killed each other. The tribes were divided among each other, and the chiefs were suspicious of each other. They would soon have ropes tied around their necks to ask for surrender, and they would be taken to the capital and beheaded in public.
General, you are as dangerous as a fish swimming in a cauldron of boiling water, or a swallow building a nest in a swaying tent. Isn't this confusing?
In late spring in March, grass grows in the south of the Yangtze River, there are mixed peanut trees, and flocks of orioles fly around.
Seeing the war flags and war drums of the motherland, lamenting the past life deeds, climbing the parapet in the city and stroking the bow strings, wouldn't it be sad, hateful and painful.
This is why Lian Po wanted to become a general of Zhao again, and Wu Qi shed tears when he looked at the Xihe River before leaving. This is human nature.
General, are you ruthless?
I hope you will make plans to return to Liang as soon as possible and gain happiness for yourself.
Chen Bozhi then returned to Liang State with eight thousand soldiers in Shouyang.
His son Chen Huya was killed by the Wei people.
After Chen Bozhi arrived in Liang Dynasty, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Western Yuzhou, general Pingbei, governor of Western Yuzhou, and Marquis of Yongxin County, with thousands of households in the city.
Before he took office, he was appointed as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi, a general of Xiaoqi, and a doctor of Taizhong.
After some time, Chen Bozhi passed away at home.
Some of his sons are still in Wei.
When Chu Juan was in Wei, the people of Wei wanted to promote him to an official position.
When the Emperor of Wei met with his ministers on New Year's Day, Chu Wang composed a poem and joked: With a cage crown on his hat and a red robe on his trousers, I don't know what it is now, and I don't know what it was before.
The people of Wei were angered and demoted him as the governor of Shiping County.
Chu Wang went out hunting every day, fell off his horse and died.
Shi Chen said: Civil servants like Liu Jilian have nothing to do with general behavior, but they cannot protect themselves by doing so. This is caused by being accustomed to chaos.
Chen Bo was originally a villain, but he took advantage of the gentleman's tolerance to tolerate him, and the thieves deceived him to change him. How could it last long?
