Liu Fei, King Hui of Qi Dynasty, was the eldest son of Emperor Gaozu.
His mother was Gaozu's former mistress, whose surname was Cao.
Six years ago, Emperor Gaozu granted Liu Fei the title of King of Qi and granted him seventy cities. All people who spoke the Qi language belonged to the King of Qi.
King Qi is the elder brother of Emperor Xiaohui.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, King Liu went to Beijing to see the emperor.
Emperor Hui and the King of Qi had a banquet, and the two treated each other with the same etiquette as family members and brothers.
Empress Dowager Lu was angry about this and wanted to kill King Qi.
The King of Qi was afraid that he would not be able to avoid disaster, so he adopted the strategy of his internal historian Xun and donated Chengyang County as Tang Muyi to Princess Lu Yuan.
Empress Dowager Lu was very happy, and King Qi was able to resign and return to Qi.
Thirteen years after King Hui ascended the throne, he died in the sixth year of Emperor Hui.
His son Liu Xiang came to the throne and became King Ai.
In the first year of King Ai, Emperor Xiaohui passed away, and Empress Dowager Lu began to take charge of the government. All affairs in the world were decided by Empress Lu.
In the second year, Empress Gao conferred the title of King Lu on her brother's son Lihou Lutai, and set up Jinan County in Qi State as the fiefdom of King Lu.
In the third year of King Ai's reign, his younger brother Liu Zhang entered the Han Palace for guard duty. Empress Dowager Lu named him Zhu Xuhou and married Lu Lu's daughter to him.
Four years later, Empress Dowager Lu granted Liu Zhang's younger brother Xingju the title of Marquis of Dongmou, and both of them served as guards in Chang'an Palace.
In the eighth year of King Ai's reign, Empress Gao divided Langxie County of Qi State and named Liu Ze, Marquis of Yingling, as King Langxie.
The next year, King Zhao Liuyou entered the court and was imprisoned in his mansion and died.
The three Zhao kings were deposed one after another.
After Gao, the descendants of the Lu family were granted the title of King of Yan, King of Zhao, and King of Liang, and they monopolized power and arbitrarily ruled the government.
When Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang was twenty years old, he was a man of great courage and bravery. He was angry because the Liu family could not get a position.
He once served the banquet of the Queen of Gao, who ordered Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang to serve as wine stewards.
Liu Zhang personally requested: "I am a descendant of a military general. Please allow me to supervise the behavior at the banquet in accordance with military law." Empress Gao said: Yes.
When the wine was in full swing, Liu Zhang performed songs and dances to add to the fun.
Then he said: Please let me sing a plowing song for the Queen Mother.
The queen treated him as a child and said with a smile: "I think your father knows about farming. You were born as a prince, how could you know about farming?" Liu Zhang said: I know.
The Queen Mother said: "Try to tell me about farming."
Liu Zhang said: If you plow deeply and plant densely, you will leave sparse seedlings. They are not the same kind, so you must shovel and hoe them resolutely.
Queen Lu was silent after hearing this.
After a while, one of the Lu clan members got drunk and ran away from the banquet. Liu Zhang chased him, drew his sword and beheaded him. Then he came back and reported: "There is a man who escaped from the banquet. I would like to kill him according to military law."
The Queen Mother and her officials were greatly surprised. Since he had been allowed to act in accordance with military law, he could not be punished.
The banquet also ended.
From then on, everyone in the Lu family was afraid of Zhu Xuhou, and even the ministers obeyed Zhu Xuhou. Liu's momentum gradually became stronger again.
The next year, Queen Gao died.
King Lu Lu of Zhao was appointed as the general, and King Lu Chan was appointed as the prime minister. Both of them lived in Chang'an City. They gathered troops to threaten the ministers and wanted to launch a rebellion.
Because his wife was Lu Lu's daughter, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang knew about their plot, so he sent someone to sneak out of Chang'an to report to his brother King Qi, hoping that he would send troops to the west. Zhu Xuhou and Dongmuhou acted as internal correspondents in order to kill the Lu clan and take the opportunity to make King Qi the emperor.
After the King of Qi heard about this plan, he secretly planned to send troops with his uncle Si Jun, Lang Zhongling Zhu Wu, and Lieutenant Wei Bo.
Zhao Ping, the Prime Minister of Qi, heard about this and sent troops to guard the palace.
Wei Bo lied to Zhao Ping and said: The king wants to send troops, but there is no tiger talisman from the court to verify it.
Now the Prime Minister has surrounded the palace, which is a good thing.
I request you to lead the troops to protect King Qi.
Zhao Ping believed what he said and asked Wei Bo to lead troops to surround the palace.
After Wei Bo led the army, he sent troops to surround the Prime Minister's Mansion.
Zhao Ping said: Alas!
The words of Taoism should be discontinued, but they will be confused by it. This is exactly the case.  Finally committed suicide and died.
At that time, the King of Qi appointed Si Jun as the prime minister, Wei Bo as the general, Zhu Wu as the internal history officer, and sent out all the troops in the country.
He sent Zhu Wu to the east to deceive King Langxie, saying: The Lu clan rebelled, and the King of Qi sent troops to march west to kill them.
The King of Qi thought that he was a junior, young and not familiar with the war, and he was willing to entrust the entire army of the feudal country to the King.
The king has been a general since the time of Emperor Gao and is familiar with war.
The King of Qi did not dare to leave the army, so he sent his ministers to invite the King to Linzi to meet with the King of Qi to discuss important matters, and together they could lead the troops westward to quell the chaos in Guanzhong.
King Langye believed it and thought it was right, so he flew to see King Qi.
King Qi, Wei Bo and others took the opportunity to detain King Langxie. Zhu Wu was sent to send out all the troops of Langye Kingdom and command them.
After Langxie King Liu Ze was deceived, he could not return to his feudal kingdom, so he persuaded King Qi and said: King Qi Huihui is the eldest son of Emperor Gao. From the original source, the king is the eldest grandson of Emperor Gao and should inherit the throne.
Now the ministers are still undecided, and I am the eldest among the Liu family. The ministers are waiting for me to decide the big plan.
Now that the king has detained me here, I can't do anything. Why not let me enter the customs to discuss the important matter of establishing a new emperor.
King Qi thought it was right, so he prepared many cars to send King Langxie to the court.
After King Langxie left, King Qi raised troops to attack Jinan in the west of Lu State.
At this time, King Liu Ai sent a letter to the princes and kings, saying: After Emperor Gaozu pacified the world, he made his descendants kings, and King Hui Hui made them kings in Qi.
After the death of King Hui Hui, Emperor Hui sent Zhang Liang, the remaining marquis, to establish his minister as King of Qi.
After the death of Emperor Hui, Empress Gao took over the dictatorship. She was old and allowed Zhu Lu to depose the kings appointed by Emperor Gao without permission. She also killed three kings of Zhao, destroyed the three kingdoms of Liang, Yan and Zhao, let the Lu people become kings, and divided Qi into four kingdoms.
The loyal ministers came to remonstrate, but the Lord was confused and refused to listen.
Now that Empress Gao has passed away, the emperor is still young and cannot govern the world. Of course, he must rely on his ministers and princes.
Now Zhu Lu is proud of himself as a high official, gathers troops to show off his power, intimidates princes and loyal ministers, and falsely delivers imperial edicts to command the world. The Han court is therefore in great danger.
Now I am leading an army into the pass to kill those who should not be kings.
When the court heard that the King of Qi was sending troops to march westward, Prime Minister Lu Chan sent General Guan Ying to lead his troops eastward to intercept the Qi troops.
When Guan Ying arrived at Xingyang, he thought in his mind: Zhu Lu led his troops to gather in Guanzhong, intending to harm the Liu family and establish himself as emperor.
If I defeat Qi and return to the DPRK to report victory, it will be equivalent to increasing the capital of the Lu family.
So he ordered the army to stop and garrison in Xingyang, and sent envoys to inform the king of Qi and the princes that they were willing to unite with each other and wait for Lu's rebellion to be executed together.
After the King of Qi heard about this, he marched westward to recapture their hometown of Jinan County, and stationed troops on the western border of Qi State to wait for the fulfillment of the alliance.
Lu Lu and Lu Chan wanted to rebel in Guanzhong. Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, Taiwei Zhou Bo, and Prime Minister Chen Ping killed them.
Zhu Xuhou first beheaded Lu Chan, and then Taiwei Zhou Bo and others were able to kill all the Lu clan members.
King Langxie also happened to come to Chang'an from Qi.
The ministers discussed letting King Qi succeed the emperor, but King Langxie and some ministers said: King Qi's mother-uncle Sijun is ferocious and cruel, like a tiger wearing a hat.
We almost caused chaos in the world just now because of the Lu family, and now we want to establish the King of Qi because we want another Lu family to appear.
Dai Wang's mother's family, the Bo family, is upright and loyal. Moreover, Dai Wang is the biological son of Emperor Gao. He is still alive and is the eldest.
From the perspective of parents and children, it is justified; from the perspective of a kind family, ministers will feel relieved.
So the ministers planned to welcome the king as the emperor, and sent Zhu Xuhou to tell the King of Qi that Zhu Lu had been killed and asked him to withdraw his troops.
Guan Ying was in Xingyang. He heard that Wei Bo originally instigated the rebellion of the King of Qi. After the Lu family was killed, Qi also withdrew its troops. Guan Ying sent someone to summon Wei Bo to question him.
Wei Bo said: When there is a fire in a house, where do you have time to tell your parents first and then go to put out the fire?
After saying that, he stood aside, his legs trembling, as if he was too frightened to speak, and he didn't say anything else until the end.
General Guan looked at him for a long time and said with a smile: People say that Wei Bo is brave, but in fact he is just a mediocre and incompetent man. How can he accomplish anything?
So he was removed from his post but not punished.
Wei Bo's father met Emperor Qin because he was good at playing the piano.
When Wei Bo was young, he wanted to meet Cao Shen, the Prime Minister of Qi. Since his family was poor and he did not have the financial resources to smooth things over in person, he often went to clean the door of Prime Minister Qi's attendants alone in the middle of the night.
The attendant was very strange and thought it was some kind of monster, so he waited secretly and finally caught Wei Bo.
Wei Bo said: I want to see the Prime Minister, but there is no way, so I came to clean up for you in order to ask for an audience.
So this attendant led Wei Bo to visit Cao Shen, and Cao Shen asked him to become an attendant.
Once he was driving for Cao Shen and asked for his opinions on some matters. Cao Shen thought he was talented and recommended him to King Qi Huihui.
King Huihui summoned Wei Bo and appointed him as internal history.
At first, King Huihui had the right to appoint officials with a salary of two thousand stone.
After King Ai Hui passed away and King Ai Hui came to the throne, Wei Bo was arbitrary in political affairs and had more power than Qi Prime Minister.
After King Qi withdrew his troops and returned to his country, Dai Wang came to Chang'an and took the throne as emperor. This was Emperor Xiaowen.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Chengyang, Langye and Jinan counties, which were separated from Qi during the reign of Emperor Gao, were all returned to Qi. King Langye was renamed King of Yan, and Marquis Zhuxu and Marquis Dongmou were granted the title of 2,000 households each.
In this year, King Ai of Qi died, and Prince Liu Ze came to the throne. This was King Wen of Qi.
In the first year of King Wen of Qi, the imperial court granted the Chengyang County of Qi to Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, making him King of Chengyang; and the Jibei County of Qi to Dongmou Liu Xingju, making him the King of Jibei.
In the second year of King Wen of Qi, King Jibei rebelled, and the imperial court sent troops to kill him, and his fiefdom was returned to the imperial court.
Two years later, Emperor Xiaowen conferred the title of marquis on seven people, including King Qi Hui's son Ba Pí Jun.
King Wen of Qi died fourteen years after he took the throne. He had no sons, the title of his country was abolished, and the fiefdom was transferred to the imperial court.
A year later, Emperor Xiaowen divided the land of Qi and made several sons of King Hui Hui originally named kings. General Lu of King Xiao of Qi was promoted to King of Qi as Yang Xuhou, the son of King Hui Hui.
It turned out that all other counties in the Qi State were entrusted to the sons of King Huihui as kings: Liu Zhi was the King of Jibei, Liu Biguang was the King of Jinan, Liu Xian was the King of Sichuan, Liu Xian was the King of Jiaoxi, Liu Xiongqu was the King of Jiaodong, and together with the King of Chengyang and the King of Qi, they were seven kings in total.
In the eleventh year of King Xiao of Qi, King Liu Bi of Wu and King Liu Wu of Chu rebelled. They raised their troops and marched westward, telling the princes: We are going to kill the traitor Chao Cuo of the Han Dynasty to stabilize the country.
The kings of Jiaoxi, Jiaodong, Sichuan, and Jinan all sent troops without authorization in response to the actions of the kings of Wu and Chu.
They also wanted to unite with Qi State, but King Xiao of Qi was hesitant and always defended the city and did not listen to them. The armies of the three countries jointly surrounded Qi.
The King of Qi sent Dr. Lu Zhong to report to the emperor, and the Emperor asked Dr. Lu Zhong to go back and tell the King of Qi: "Hold on, the troops I sent have now defeated Wu and Chu."
On the way, the doctor returned to Qi State. The armies of the Three Kingdoms surrounded Linzi heavily, and the doctors on the road were unable to enter the city.
The generals of the Three Kingdoms kidnapped the doctor in Luzhong and made an alliance with him, saying: You turn around and say that the Han court has been breached, and Qi should surrender to the Three Kingdoms as soon as possible, otherwise it will be massacred.
The doctor on the way had no choice but to agree to them, and when he came to the city, he saw the King of Qi from a distance and said: The imperial court has sent millions of troops, and sent Lieutenant Zhou Yafu to defeat the Wu Chu rebels. He is leading troops to rescue Qi State. Qi State must hold on and not surrender!
The generals of the Three Kingdoms killed the doctor on the road.
When the state of Qi was first besieged and reached a critical stage, it secretly contacted the three kingdoms. The alliance had not yet been concluded. Just when they heard that Dr. Lu Zhong had returned from the court, the king of Qi was very happy, and the ministers once again advised the king of Qi not to surrender to the three kingdoms.
Soon after, the troops led by Han generals Luan Shi and Pingyang Hou Caoqi came to Qi State, defeated the armies of the three countries, and lifted the siege of Qi State.
Soon, the emperor heard that Qi had conspired with the Three Kingdoms at first, and wanted to move troops to attack Qi.
King Xiao of Qi was afraid and committed suicide by taking poison.
After Emperor Jing heard about it, he thought that Qi was the best. It was not his fault that he conspired with the Three Kingdoms because he was threatened by persecution. So Liu Shou, the prince of King Xiao, was made King of Qi. This was King Yi, who continued the descendants of King Qi.
The King of Jiaoxi, King of Jiaodong, King of Jinan and King of Sichuan were all executed, and their territories were all assigned to the Han court.
Moved the King of Jibei to Suichuan and became the king.
In the twenty-second year of King Qi Yi's reign, his son Cijing came to the throne. This was King Li.
King Qi Li, his mother is Queen Mother Ji.
The Queen Mother married her brother Ji's daughter to King Li as his queen. King Li did not like Ji's daughter.
The Queen Mother wanted the Ji family to be favored for generations to come, so she let her eldest daughter Ji Wengzhu enter the palace to straighten out the order in the harem and not allow the maids to approach King Qi. She wanted King Li to like Ji's daughter.
King Li took the opportunity to commit adultery with his sister Wengzhu.
There was a eunuch named Xu Jia from the State of Qi who entered the court to serve the Empress Dowager of Han Dynasty.
The Empress Dowager has a beloved daughter, whose title is Xiuchengjun. Xiuchengjun is not from the Liu family, but the Empress Dowager loves her.
Xiuchengjun had a daughter named E, and the Queen Mother wanted to marry her off to the princes. The eunuch Xu Jia asked to be sent to Qi as an envoy, saying that he would let the King of Qi write a letter asking for E to be his queen.
The Queen Mother was very happy and sent Xu Jia to Qi State.
At that time, the leader of the Qi State, Fu Yan, knew that Xu Jia was on a mission to the State of Qi to marry the queen. He also took the opportunity to say to Xu Jia: If the matter succeeds, I hope you can tell the boss that my daughter is willing to serve in the Queen of Qi's harem.
After Xu Jia arrived in Qi State, he first spread the matter secretly.
When the Queen Mother Ji heard this, she was furious and said, "The King of Qi already has a queen, and all the concubines in the harem are ready."
Moreover, Xu Jia was originally a poor man from Qi State. He became an eunuch after he was extremely poor. He entered the court to serve the Han Palace. He did not get any benefits. He also wanted to disturb our royal family of Qi State!
As for who the master father Yan is?
He actually wants his daughter to enter the harem!
Xu Jia was very embarrassed and returned to the court to report to the Empress Dowager: King Qi is willing to marry E as his queen, but there is a problem, maybe like King Yan.
The King of Yan had just been sentenced to death for committing adultery with his daughters and sisters, and the feudal country was destroyed, so Xu Jia deliberately used the story of King Yan to offend the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother said: "Don't talk about marrying your granddaughter to Qi anymore."
The matter gradually spread to the emperor's ears.
From then on, the master father Yan also had a gap with the King of Qi.
Zhufu Yanzheng was favored by the emperor, and he arbitrarily determined political affairs. He took the opportunity to say to the emperor: Linzi of Qi has one hundred thousand households, trade taxes amount to a thousand gold per day, and the population is large and wealthy, even more than Chang'an. If he is not the emperor's brother or beloved son, he should not be king here.
Nowadays, the relationship between King Qi and his royal relatives is becoming increasingly estranged.
Then he said calmly: Qi wanted to rebel when Empress Dowager Lu was there, and King Xiao almost participated in the rebellion during the Seven Kingdoms Rebellion between Wu and Chu.
Now I heard about Qi's affair with his sister.
So the emperor appointed his father Yan as the prime minister of Qi and wanted to investigate and deal with the matter.
After Master Yan came to Qi State, he stepped up the interrogation of the eunuchs in Queen Qi's harem who helped King Qi reach the residence of his sister Wengzhu, and ordered them to implicat King Qi in their confessions and circumstantial evidence.
When the King of Qi was young, he drank poison and committed suicide because he was afraid that he would be arrested and executed by the officials for serious crimes.
His heirs were cut off and he had no descendants.
At that time, the King of Zhao was afraid that Zhufu Yan would depose the State of Qi as soon as he became the Prime Minister of Qi. He was afraid that he would alienate the Han family, so he wrote to the emperor to report that Zhufu Yan had accepted bribes and gossiped about the State of Qi because of grievances.
The emperor took this opportunity to imprison his father Yan.
Gongsun Hong said: The king of Qi died of melancholy and had no descendants. The land has been transferred to the imperial court. It is impossible to eliminate the resentment of the people of the world without killing the master father Yan.
Finally, he killed his father Yan.
King Qi Li died in the fifth year of his reign and had no descendants. The fiefdom was transferred to the Han Dynasty.
The descendants of King Hui of Qi also owned two countries, namely Chengyang and Suichuan.
The land of Fengchuan is close to the state of Qi.
The emperor took pity on the State of Qi, and because the cemetery of King Hui Hui was in the county town, he assigned all the cities east of Linzi surrounding the cemetery of King Hui Hui to the State of Sichuan in order to worship King Hui Hui.
Liu Zhang, King of Chengyang Jing, was the son of King Hui Hui. He relied on his status as Zhu Xuhou and his ministers to kill Zhu Lu, and Liu Zhang personally beheaded the property of King Lu of the Prime Minister in Weiyang Palace.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he granted Liu Zhang the title of 2,000 households in his territory and rewarded him with a thousand catties of gold.
In the second year of Emperor Wen's reign, Liu Zhang was granted the title of King of Chengyang from Chengyang County of Qi State.
Qi Zhang died in the second year of his reign, and his son Liu happy came to the throne. He was the King of Gong.
After being king for eight years, he was renamed King of Huainan.
Four years later, he came back to be the king of Chengyang.
After reigning for thirty-three years, he died, and his son Liu Yan came to the throne. He was the King of Qing.
King Qing died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Yi came to the throne. This is King Jing.
King Jing died in the ninth year of his reign, and his son Liu Wu came to the throne. This was King Hui.
King Hui died in the eleventh year of his reign, and his son Liu Shun came to the throne. He was King Huang.
King Huang died in his forty-sixth year, and his son Liu Hui came to the throne. This is King Dai.
King Dai died in the eighth year of his reign, and his son Liu Jing came to the throne. He died at the age of fifteen in the third year of Jianshi.
Liu Xingju, the king of Jibei, was the son of King Hui of Qidu. As the Marquis of Dongmou, he assisted the ministers in exterminating the Lu, but his contribution was not great.
When Emperor Wen came to Chang'an from Dai Kingdom, Xingju said, "Please let me and my servant Xia Houying enter the palace to clear away the remaining troubles."
Then he deposed the young emperor Liu Hong and jointly established Emperor Xiaowen.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Xingju was granted the title of King of Jibei from Jibei County of Qi State, and was granted the title at the same time as King Chengyang.
Two years after being granted the title, Liu Xingju rebelled.
At first, when the ministers killed the Lu family, Zhu Xuhou made the greatest contribution. He promised to grant Zhu Xuhou the title of king in all the land of Zhao, and to grant the title of king to Dongmuhou in all the land of Liang.
After Xiaowen came to the throne, I heard that Zhu Xuhou and Dongmuhou initially wanted to make King Qi emperor, so their contributions were reduced.
In the second year of Emperor Wen's reign, Emperor Xiaowen ennobled his sons as kings, and then designated two counties in Qi State to enfeoff Liu Zhang and Qi Xingju as kings.
Liu Zhang and Liu Xingju believed that they had lost their deserved positions as King Zhao and King Liang, and their merits had been deprived of them.
After Liu Zhang's death, Liu Xingju heard that the Huns invaded the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty sent a large number of troops. He sent Prime Minister Guan Ying to lead the counterattack. Emperor Wen personally went to Taiyuan.
When the emperor heard about it, he immediately ordered the army led by the prime minister and the troops that had already set out to stop advancing and let them all return to Chang'an.
He sent General Chai Puhou to defeat and capture the King of Jibei. The King of Jibei committed suicide, and the fiefdom was transferred to the imperial court and changed to a county.
Thirteen years later, in the sixteenth year of Emperor Wen's reign, he granted the title of King of Jibei to Anduhou Liu Zhi, the son of King Hui Hui of Qi.
Eleven years later, when Wu and Chu rebelled, Liu Zhi always stood firm in the city and did not conspire with the princes of the seven countries to cause rebellion.
After the Wu and Chu rebellions were put down, the emperor changed the title of Liu Zhi to King Sichuan.
Jinan King Liu Biguang, the son of King Qi Hui, was named King of Jinan in the 16th year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign as a Lehou.
Eleven years later, he rebelled with the kings of Wu and Chu.
The Han army defeated the rebels, killed Liu Piguang, made Jinan a county, and transferred the fiefdom to the Han court.
Liu Xian, King of Sichuan, was the son of King Hui of Qi. In the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign, he was named King of Sichuan by Wucheng Hou Jin.
Eleven years later, he rebelled with the kings of Wu and Chu. The Han army defeated the rebels and killed Liu Xian.
The emperor therefore moved and granted the title of King of Jibei, Liu Zhi, as King of Sichuan.
Liu Zhi was also the son of King Qi Hui, and the emperor named him King of Jibei from the Marquis of Andu.
Liu Xian, the king of Sichuan, rebelled and had no descendants, so he changed the title of King Jibei to King Sichuan.
King Sichuan died after reigning for thirty-five years, and his posthumous title was King Yi.
His son Liu Jian succeeded to the throne and became King Jing.
King Jing died after reigning for twenty years, and his son Liu Yi succeeded to the throne. He was King Qing.
King Qing died in his thirty-sixth year, and his son Liu Zhonggu came to the throne. This was King Si.
King Si died in the twenty-eighth year of his reign, and his son Liu Shang came to the throne. This was King Xiao.
King Xiao died in the fifth year of his reign, and his son Liu Heng ascended the throne. He died in the eleventh year of his reign in the third year of Jianshi.
King Liu Xing of Jiaoxi was the son of King Hui of Qi. In the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jiaoxi by the Marquis of Changping.
Eleven years later, he rebelled with the kings of Wu and Chu.
The Han army defeated the rebels and killed Liu Xian. The fiefdom was transferred to the Han court and renamed Jiaoxi County.
Liu Xiongqu, King of Jiaodong, was the son of King Qi Mouhui. In the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jiaodong by the Marquis of Baishi.
Eleven years later, he rebelled with the kings of Wu and Chu. The Han army defeated the rebels and killed Xiongqu. The fiefdom was transferred to the Han court and changed to Jiaodong County.
Tai Shigong said: Among the princes, no one in the great country surpasses King Qi Yuhui.
Since the world had just been pacified and the Liu family had fewer children, the emperor of the Han Dynasty felt that the Qin Dynasty did not grant large-scale land to clan members, so he enfeoffed people with the same surname in large numbers to calm the hearts of the people.
It was only natural that it was later split into several countries.
