◆Biography of Alchemy, Preface, Confucius talked about the "Book of Changes" which said that there are four principles of "the way of a gentleman", one of which is to use tortoise shell or divination grass for divination.
The so-called divination was used by the ancient kings to predict misfortunes and fortunes, to decide problems, and to let the gods give instructions to determine the meaning of everything in the future.
There are many records in ancient books about the theories of Yin and Yang that speculate on the future.
But the crazy ultimatum, the jade-cement golden rope, hidden in a mysterious place and sealed on the Yao altar, can no longer be seen.
As for the Hetu Luoshu, the images of turtles and dragons, Jizi's alchemy, Shikuang's secret book, Weihou, etc., and seal talismans, they are all used to speculate on unknown numbers and test the good and bad luck of personnel, and sometimes they are heard.
There are many schools of them, such as Feng Jiao, Dun Jia, Qi Zheng, Yuan Nian, Six Days and Seven Points, Feng Zhan, Ri Zhe, Ting Zhuan, Xu Yu, Luxu Technique, etc., as well as those who look at the clouds and calculate the energy, infer good and bad, sometimes it seems to be somewhat effective.
But after all, this kind of thing is a bit vague, profound and mysterious, and quite difficult to explore. Therefore, Confucius did not talk about monsters, gods and the like, and rarely talked about life.
Sometimes the ending is mentioned without mentioning its origin, and sometimes the main idea is mentioned in a roundabout way, just to let people follow it without letting people know the reason behind it!
Ever since Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the people in the Han Dynasty had been very fond of alchemy and other things. There was no one in the world who knew the art of alchemy but had come here with some advice on their backs.
Later, Wang Mang pretended to usurp the throne under the pretense of Fu Fu. In the Eastern Han Dynasty, Guangwu believed in the prophecy, and some people who were following the trend came to the emperor's side to discuss the matter and talk loudly.
Therefore, Wang Liang and Sun Xian became the Great Sikong and Great Sima based on their plans. Zheng Xing and Jia Kui became famous because they echoed appropriately, while Huan Tan and Yin Min failed because of their opposition.
From then on, there were many people who studied divination and studied strange texts and numbers.
Therefore, some knowledgeable people were very angry when they saw these grotesque things, and they made impassioned speeches to the emperor, thinking that they must be abandoned.
Sima Qian also said: Reading the books of the Yin and Yang family makes people restrained and have many taboos.
That’s what I’m talking about.
Everything has its biases and cannot be without faults. Even the way of a saint is generally the same.
Some people accuse the shortcomings of "The Book of Songs" of being too real and almost stupid; the historical records of "The Book of Songs" are untrue and almost exaggerated.
But isn’t the shortcoming of numerology the secret and deception?
If you only talk about gentle and sincere poetic teachings and remove some foolish things, you will have a deep understanding of the Book of Songs; if you read through the history of the Tang and Yu dynasties without pursuing those false accusations, you will have a deep understanding of the Book of Books; if you only follow the rules of change in magic and do not believe in those vulgar words, then you will have a deep understanding of the mystery of magic. The ancients said: If you are not a person who truly understands the truth, the Dao will not be implemented in an empty way.
This means that most people get lost in the confusion and therefore stray too far from the right path.
Zhang Heng is considered the orthodox member of the Yin Yang family, and Lang Qiye has studied the signs of evil in the most detailed way. There are also many famous people who are also talented, but they still lack the skills to study. Now, here are some people who are good at pushing forward changes and can make up for current events. I would like to commend them here.
◆Biography of Ren Wengong, Ren Wengong was from Langzhong, Bajun.
His father, Ren Wensun, knew the secrets of Tianguan Fengjiao.
When Wen Gong was young, he learned from his father and was called to work in the state.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, some people said that the prefect of Yueyuan wanted to make trouble, and the governor was very afraid, so he sent Duke Wen and five other people to inspect the boundaries of the county and take a peek at the actual situation.
They were living in the guest house together, and a storm suddenly came. Wen Gong quickly asked other workers to leave, saying that something bad would happen to harm people, so he drove the carriage and ran away.
Those who were engaged could not leave quickly, so Jun Guo sent troops to kill them, and Duke Wen was spared.
Later, when Wen Gong was engaged in governing the country, there was a severe drought at that time. He reported to the governor: On May 1st, there will be a flood. The change has come and cannot be prevented. The officials and the people should be called to prepare early.
The governor refused to listen, so Wen Gong prepared a big boat alone. Some people heard about it, and some took precautions. When the drought was at its worst, Wen Gong hurriedly moved away and sent someone to report to the governor, who laughed it off.
The sun was about to hit the middle of the day, clouds started to rise in the north, and soon it rained heavily. By evening, the water suddenly rose by more than ten feet, destroying houses and injuring thousands of people.
Duke Wen became famous for his divination skills.
He was called Sikong Peng.
Emperor Ping ascended the throne and returned home claiming to be ill.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, Duke Wen knew that a great chaos was coming, so he trained his family members to carry hundreds of kilograms of stuff and run around the house dozens of times a day. No one knew the reason at the time.
Later, when soldiers and bandits broke out, few of those who fled were able to escape. Only Wen Gong and his family carried food and walked quickly, and they were all spared.
So he ran to Zigong Mountain and survived the military revolution for more than ten years.
During Gongsun Shu's reign, a stone broke off at Wudan Mountain in Sichuan.
Duke Wen said: Alas!
When a wise man from Xizhou died, I met him.
From then on, his descendants often gathered together to have wine and food, and he died in the next three months.
Therefore, the Yibu people have a saying: Ren Wengong has unparalleled wisdom.
Guo Xian's biography, Guo Xian's courtesy name is Ziheng, and he was born in Runan Song Dynasty.
When he was young, he worshiped Zhongzi, the king of Donghai, as his teacher.
At that time, Wang Mang was the chief minister and summoned Zhongzi to go. Zhongzi wanted to go.
Guo Xian remonstrated: According to etiquette, only those who come to learn, not those who teach.
Nowadays, the king is humble, Taoist and fearful of the noble, so I don’t agree with him privately.
Zhongzi said: The prince is the most important person and he dare not disobey.
Xian said: Now is the time to talk about business and get things done.
Zhongzi obeyed, and Riyan went.
Wang Mang asked: Why are you late?
Zhongzi answered Guo Xian's words, and Wang Mang was secretly surprised.
Later, when he usurped the throne, he worshiped Guo Xian as a doctor and gave him clothes.
Guo Xian burned his clothes and fled to the coast of the East China Sea.
Wang Mang hated him very much and wanted to chase him but didn't know where he was.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he was looking for people with good moral principles in the world, so he called Xian to be a doctor.
He was promoted again, and in the seventh year of Jianwu, he served as Guang Luxun for Zhang Kan.
From driving to the southern suburbs.
When Guo Xian was in office, he suddenly looked back to the Northeast and took three sips of wine.
Law enforcement officers reported this as an act of disrespect.
The emperor issued an edict to ask why.
Xian replied: Qi is on fire, so use this to suppress it.
Later, Qi Guoguo reported a fire, which was the same date as the trip to the suburbs.
In the eighth year, the chariots marched westward to Kaihuo. Guo Xian admonished him: "The world has just settled down, and the chariots cannot move."
Guo Xian immediately pulled out his knife and cut off the chariot leather lead.
The emperor did not obey, so he went to Long.
Later, Yingchuan troops rose up and they returned.
The emperor sighed: "I regret not using Zi Heng's words."
At that time, the Xiongnu invaded the border fortress several times, and the emperor was very worried, so he summoned hundreds of officials to discuss it at the court.
Guo Xian believed that the world was exhausted and should not mobilize troops.
The remonstrance was not in line with his wishes, so he fell to the ground and said he was dizzy and stopped talking.
The emperor sent two men to help him go down to the palace, but Guo Xian did not bow.
The emperor said: I often hear that Guandong Gong Guo Ziheng, this is absolutely true.
Guo Xian then resigned due to illness and died at home.
Xu Yangzhuan, also known as Xu Yang, was named Weijun and was a native of Pingxing, Runan.
When I was young, I liked arithmetic.
When Wang Mang was assisting the government, he was called Lang, and soon he was promoted to Captain of Jiuquan.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, Xu Yang changed his name to become a witch doctor and fled to another place.
Wang Mang failed and returned to his hometown.
In the old days of Runan there was Honggu and Pipi. When he became emperor, Prime Minister Zhai Fang came forward to ask for its destruction.
During the Jianwu period, the prefect Deng Chen wanted to restore his merits. Hearing that Xu Yang knew about the water veins, he summoned him to discuss with him.
Xu Yang said: In the past, Emperor Cheng used Fang Jin's words. Not long ago, he dreamed of going to heaven. The Emperor of Heaven became angry and said: Why did you defeat me in Zhuo Longyuan?
From then on, the people lost their profits and suffered from hunger and poverty.
There was a ballad at that time: Zhai Ziwei, who defeated me, made me soybeans and cooked my taro.
If you use your backhand to overturn, you should make a comeback.
In the past, Dayu created rivers and dredged rivers to benefit the world. Today, the Ming Dynasty established waste industries to enrich the country and secure the people. The words of the nursery rhyme will be effective here.
I am really willing to die for this.
Deng Chen was overjoyed, so he appointed Yang as the governor of the capital and put him in charge of this matter.
The terrain of Xu Yangshun is high and low, and the pond is more than 400 miles away. It took several years to complete it.
The people benefited from it and had good harvests year after year.
At first, the surname Hao You wanted to take over the power of that area for the sake of repairing Bei, but Xu Yang refused to listen, so they jointly framed Yang for accepting bribes.
Deng Chen imprisoned Xu Yang. But the handcuffs will be released naturally.
The jailer was frightened and immediately reported to Deng Chen.
Deng Chen was shocked and said: "It's really bad. The prefect heard that loyalty can move the gods. Has it come true now?"
Xu Yang was immediately released that night and allowed to go home.
It was very dark and there seemed to be firelight shining on him on the road, which made people feel very strange at the time.
Later Xu Yang died of illness.
Deng Chen built a temple for Xu Yang in the capital palace and painted portraits. The people remembered his achievements and went to worship him.
Gao Huozhuan, named Jinggong, was from Xinxi, Runan.
The appearance is that the four sides of the face are high and the middle is low.
When he was young, he studied in the capital and had an old relationship with Emperor Guangwu.
He worshiped Situ Ouyang She as his teacher.
Ouyang She was imprisoned and sentenced. Gao Huo, wearing an iron hat and torture tools, went to the court to beg for She's pardon.
Although the emperor did not pardon She, he introduced Gao Huo.
He said to Gao: "Jing Gong, I want to use you as an official, but you should change your normal behavior."
Gao Huo replied: I have inherited my nature from my parents and cannot change it with Your Majesty.
When he came out, he said goodbye and left. The three princes fought to summon him, but they refused.
Later, the prefect Bao Yu asked for Huo. When he arrived at the door, he sent the chief clerk to greet him. The chief clerk only sent the cavalry to greet him. Gao Huo heard this and left immediately.
Bao Yu pursued Gao Huo, but Gao Huo turned around and said, "The Lord of the House has been deceived by his master, and it is not enough to talk to him."
Will not stay.
At that time, there was a severe drought in the county. Gao Huo had always been good at astronomy, knew Dunjia, and could manipulate ghosts and gods.
Bao Yu himself went to ask how to get the rain. Gao Huo said: "I will immediately remove the three departments of postal supervision. The Ming government should go out from the north to Sansili Pavilion, and the rain can come."
Bao Xian complied, and sure enough he received heavy rain.
Every time he visits a county, he always greets his family with courtesy.
Gao Huo fled to the south of the Yangtze River and died in Shicheng.
The people of Shicheng missed him and built a shrine in his honour.
Biography of Wang Qiao, Wang Qiao, a native of Hedong.
During the reign of Emperor Xianzong, he became the magistrate of Ye County.
Wang Qiao has magical powers. On the first and fifteenth day of every month, he often travels from Ye County to the forbidden provinces of the imperial court to meet with the emperor.
The emperor saw that he came very quickly, but did not see his carriage and horses. He felt strange and secretly asked Taishi to spy on his whereabouts.
Taishi reported that when Wang Qiao arrived, two water birds often flew from the southeast.
So the emperor asked people to open a net to catch water birds, but only got one shoe.
Check the shoes. They are the shoes given to the minister's officials in four years. Whenever Wang Qiao goes to court, the drum at the gate of Ye County does not beat but plays by itself, so that the capital can hear it.
Later, a jade coffin dropped from the sky to the front of the hall. Officials stepped forward to push it, but they could not move it.
Wang Qiao said: Did God call me alone?
So he washed himself, got dressed, slept in the coffin, and the lid was immediately closed.
After two nights, the coffin was buried in the east of the city, and the soil naturally turned into a grave.
That night, the cattle in the county were sweating and panting, but people didn't know what was going on.
The people built a temple for him, called Ye Jun Temple.
Every time local officials arrive at their posts, they must first pay homage to it.
When officials pray for something, it is very effective.
If there is any violation of God's will, disaster will be imposed immediately.
The emperor then took the drum from Ye County and placed it under the capital pavilion. From then on, there was no more sound.
Some people say that this is the ancient immortal prince Qiao.
Xie Yiwu's biography, Xie Yiwu's courtesy name is Yaoqing, a native of Shanyin in Kuaiji.
When he was young, he worked as a county official and studied in style.
The prefect Wu Lun promoted him to postal supervisor.
At that time, Wu Chengchang was guilty of embezzlement, and Wu Lun sent him to imprison Wu Chengchang and try his crimes.
After Yiwu arrived at the county, he did not check it. He only looked at the pavilion and returned crying.
People in the county were surprised and didn't know what they were doing.
When he came back, he reported to Wu Lun: "I used Zhanhou to know that Chief Wu Cheng would die in thirty days but not in sixty days. He would rest as a wandering soul and would not be punished, so I did not arrest him."
Wu Lun listened to his words, and after a month or so, a post came and sent Chang Wu Cheng's seal and ribbon, saying that he died of a sudden illness.
Fifth Lun was more polite and convinced.
Xie Yiwu was promoted to Xiaolian and made the longevity magistrate. Soon he was promoted to the governor of Jingzhou and the prefect of Julu.
Care for people wherever you go and have good political achievements.
Later Wu Lun became a Situ and asked Ban Gu to write an article recommending Xie Yiwu Dao: I heard that Yao used Ji and Qi to achieve prosperity and peace in politics; Shun used Gao Tao to promote Yongxi.
Although the Yin and Zhou Dynasties had monarchs such as Gaozong, King Wen, and King Wu, they relied on the strategies of Fu Shuo and Lu Wang, so they were able to respect their careers and cooperate with Dazhong.
I personally saw Xie Yiwu, the governor of Julu, Kuaiji, who came from Dongzhou. He was covered with mud, but his appearance was very special and his majesty showed off.
Talent combines four subjects, conduct encompasses nine virtues, benevolence is enough to help every time, and wisdom encompasses all things.
At a young age, he learned to be refined and elegant, compiled six books, studied stars, comprehensively studied catalogues, studied sacred secrets, observed variations, divined the heaven and earth, became in harmony with God, and carried out royal affairs according to his morality.
In the past, I served as a companion, worked with the ministers, and upheld his loyalty and integrity. He helped me to uphold discipline. Apart from cowardice, I was exempted from violence. It is really due to his merits.
When he was selected as the prime minister, he benefited hundreds of miles, brought great blessings, and became a god, so he became the governor of Jingzhou and exercised authority over the country.
Administer according to the law, with the demeanor of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong; live frugally and inherit the ethics of public etiquette.
In terms of ability, he can act as an external figure; if he listens to the truth and observes the truth, he can be the crown of the Kyushu, move to Julu, and have a harmonious government.
In terms of morality, performance, and planning, Yi Yin, Lu Shang, Guan Zhong, and Yan Ying had the talent, and they were equal to Shi Su, Jing Fang, and others. Although he is engaged in official duties, he is reclusive and does not seek fame or favor. He is humble and plays the role of Jishan. Compared with ancient sages, he is really ethical; compared with today's people, he is extraordinary and refined. He is indeed the great tortoise of the country and the pillar of the Han Dynasty. He should be promoted to Dingsi, to the three-chen court, and to the fifth-grade salt training. He will definitely be happy, not just abide by the law and serve his duties.
I am a stubborn servant with a talent that is different from others of the same kind. I sit in a plain position and am very vigilant. I am willing to ask for resignation and give way to Yiwu. I will show the light of the seven rays above and satisfy the people's hopes below. I have no regrets.
Later, during the spring trip, he took a chariot and followed two officials. The governor of Jizhou reported that he had failed in the ritual order and was damaging to the national code, so he was demoted to Xiapiling.
He knew the day of his death in advance, and he died as expected.
His son said in his will: In the last years of the Han Dynasty, when there was chaos, graves would be dug up and corpses exposed.
He asked his son to be buried with a hanging official without leaving the top of the grave.
At that time, Dr. Bo Hai and Guo Feng were also good at prophesying and predicting disasters, and their divination of good and bad luck was very successful.
Know your death date first, and ask your disciples to buy coffins and burial materials in advance to die on that day.
Yang Youchuan, whose courtesy name is Aihou, was born in Chengdu, Shu County. When I was young, I studied the "Book of Changes", as well as the Qizheng, Yuanqi, Fengyunzhanhou, etc.
Became a county literary publisher.
At that time, there were big birds gathering in the warehouse at night. The prefect Lian Fan asked Yang You, who replied: According to the divination, there should be small soldiers in the county, but they will not cause harm.
More than twenty days later, barbarians invaded Guangrou County, killing and wounding officials. The county mobilized troops to attack them, and the chaos subsided.
Another wind blew and cut the food, and the prefect asked Yang You again.
You replied: When there is a person who recommends solid wood, his color is yellow.
Soon, Wu Guan offered several bags of oranges.
Yang You once went to someone's house to drink. He said to the coachman: If you drink for three hours, you should get up quickly.
Soon he was urged to leave.
Later, there was a fight and murder behind the master's room, and people asked Yang You how he knew.
You replied: Just now there were turtledoves fighting on the trees in the Tutu Temple. This is a sign of soldiers and thieves.
Many of his words came true.
Yang You wrote more than ten books called "Qi Ping".
Died at home.
Li Nan's biography, Li Nan's courtesy name is Xiaoshan, and he was born in Gourong, Danyang.
He was eager to learn when he was young and knew the wind angle very well.
During the reign of Emperor Yongyuan, the prefect Ma Leng was summoned for a theft case, and he had to go to Tingwei to handle the case. The officials and the people were uneasy, and Li Nante called in to congratulate him.
Ma Leng was a little unhappy and said to Li Nan: The prefect is immoral and must be punished now, but why do you congratulate me instead?
Li Nan said: There is good wind in the morning, and good news should arrive at noon tomorrow, so I come to congratulate you.
The next morning, Ma Leng stretched his neck to look at the shadow of the sun, thinking that it was not working. At noon, there was an edict from the post envoy to forgive Ma Leng.
Li Nan asked why he was late.
The messenger said: When passing through Wanling Puliyan the day before yesterday, the horse broke its foot, so it could not be reached quickly.
Ma Leng was convinced.
Later, he was promoted as a Taoist scholar and summoned to the palace. However, he was unable to travel due to illness and died at home.
Li Nan's daughter also knew family skills and became the wife of a native of Youquan County.
Arriving in the kitchen in the morning, a sudden storm broke out. The woman went to the main room to ask her mother-in-law for leave to go back and say goodbye to her parents. Her mother-in-law refused, so the daughter-in-law knelt down and cried: My family specializes in ancestral magic. A sudden strong wind blows the chimney and derrick of the stove first. This disaster will surely befall the woman who is in charge of cooking in the kitchen. This is a sign that I will die.
So the date of her death was stated.
Her mother-in-law asked her to go back, and she died of illness as expected.
According to the biography of Li He, Li He was named Mengjie and was a native of Nanzheng, Hanzhong.
His father, Li Jie, was famous for his Confucianism and was a doctorate.
Li He inherited his father's business, traveled to Taixue, and was proficient in the Five Classics.
He grew up in the "Heluo" Fengxing, with a simple appearance that no one else could understand.
The county called him to serve as a waiting official at the curtain gate.
Emperor He ascended the throne and dispatched envoys, all wearing casual clothes and acting alone. Each of them went to the prefectures and counties to observe the rumors.
The two envoys should go to Yibu and surrender to Li He's residence.
At this time, it was summer and he was enjoying the cool night outside. Li He looked up at the sky and asked: When you two set off from the capital, did you know that the imperial court sent two envoys?
The two of them were silent, looked at each other in surprise and replied: "I have never heard of it."
And asked: How do you know?
Li He pointed to the stars and told them: There are two envoys heading towards Yizhou, so they know it.
Three years later, one of his envoys became the prefect of Hanzhong, and Li He was still an official in Hanzhong. The eunuch believed that Li He had hidden virtues and called him to be the governor of the household.
At that time, the general Dou Xian accepted his wife, and all the counties and counties in the world sent gifts to celebrate her, and the counties also sent envoys there.
Li He came forward and admonished: General Dou is the younger brother of the queen. He does not practice etiquette, but is arrogant and unruly in his power. The disaster of danger is about to come. The Ximing Mansion is loyal to the royal family and should not associate with him.
The prefect resolutely sent someone to go, but Li He couldn't stop him, so he asked to go on his own and agreed.
Li He stayed there late to observe the changes.
He walked to Fufeng, while Dou Xian committed suicide in the fiefdom, and all his followers were killed.
Everyone who had contact with Dou Xian was dismissed from office, except for the prefect of Hanzhong.
Li He was promoted to Xiaolian at the age of 15, promoted to minister five times, and was worshiped as Taichang.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, he replaced Yuan Chang as Sikong. He stated the gains and losses of political affairs several times, showing the integrity of a loyal minister.
After four years in office, he was dismissed because he asked for help.
After the death of Emperor An, Beixiang was appointed Marquis of Beixiang, and Li He was appointed as Situ.
When the Marquis of Beixiang fell ill, Li He secretly conspired with Shaofu Henan Tao Fan and infantry commander Zhao Zhi to establish Emperor Shun. Sun Cheng and others succeeded in advance, so Li He's contribution was not significant.
In the second year, due to the illness of the officials and the people, there were still disasters, so he was granted the title of dismissal from office.
General Zhai, the great craftsman, wrote a letter saying that Li He wanted to help everyone to stabilize the country. So he recorded the merits of the conspiracy and made Li He the Marquis of Shedu, but Li He refused.
He was over eighty years old and died at home.
Feng Zhou, a disciple of Shangdang, made his own mourning clothes and mourned for three years. People at the time found it strange. Duan Yi's biography, Duan Yi's courtesy name Yuanzhang, was from Xindu, Guanghan.
Study the Book of Changes, Mingfengjiao.
There were people who went there to study at that time. Even if they did not arrive, they must have known his name in advance.
I once told a Shoujin official: One day there will be two students carrying their luggage and asking about my residence. I hope you can tell them.
It turned out to be exactly what he said.
Another student came to study. After studying for several years, he thought he had mastered the essential skills. He resigned and returned to his hometown. Duan Yi mixed a plaster for him, sealed it in a tube with a simple letter, and told the student: "If there is an emergency, open it and take a look."
When the students arrived at Jiameng, they fought with the officials to cross the river, and the Jin officials broke the head of the disciple.
The student then opened the tube and got the letter. The letter said, if you get to Jiameng and break it in a fight with an official, use this plaster to wrap it.
The student listened to his words and the injured person recovered immediately.
The students were so impressed that they completed their studies in a hurry.
Duan Yi then lived in seclusion and died at home.
Liao Fu's biography, Liao Fu's character and writing, was born in Pingyu, Runan.
He often taught hundreds of people to study "Han Shi" and "Ouyang Shangshu".
His father was the governor of the Northern Territory. During the Yongchu period, he was imprisoned and died because of the Qiang people who invaded the county. Liao Fu felt that his father died because of the law and was afraid of becoming an official.
At the end of the mourning period, he sighed: "I said: Who is related to the name and the body?"
Do I have a reputation?
So I decided to leave the world.
Specializes in classics, especially astronomy, prophecy, wind angle, and pushing techniques.
Even if the state, county or government summoned him, he would not respond.
Even if asked about the disaster, there is no answer.
Liao Futui knew that there was a famine in the years, so he gathered thousands of dendrobiums from the grain, all of which were used to give to his clan's in-laws and to bury those who died of illness and could not collect their bones.
He often lives near the graves of his ancestors and never enters the city.
The prefect's name was Ye Huan. He was a student at first and studied under Liao Fu. Later he came to the county. Before he took office, he first sent officials and disciples gifts and wanted to promote Liao Fu's children. Liao Fu refused, so people at that time called him Mr. Beiguo.
He died at home at the age of eighty.
The two sons, Meng Ju and Wei Ju, are both famous.
Zhexiang's biography, Zhexiang's courtesy name is Bo Shi, and he was born in Luo, Guanghan.
His ancestor Zhang Jiang was granted the title of Zhehou. His great-grandson Zhang Guo became the governor of Yulin and moved to Guanghan, so he was granted the title of family here.
Zhang Guosheng had a broken statue.
Zhang Guo has a capital of 200 million and a family of 800 children.
The broken statue showed benevolence when it was young and did not kill insects or break young shoots.
Be able to understand "Jing's Book of Changes" and be familiar with the words of Huangdi and Laozi.
After the death of the state, he realized what Lao Tzu said: "A great treasure will lead to a rich perish", so he dispersed his gold and silk property and gave it to his relatives and friends.
Someone advised him, "You have three sons and two daughters, and a family full of grandchildren. You should increase your property. Why did you take it all away?"
Like saying: Once upon a time, Dou Ziwen had a saying: I am running away from misfortune, not riches.
My family has been accumulating wealth for a long time, and the fault of being full is the most taboo among Taoists.
In this world, the way is about to decline, and the son has no talent.
Being rich without kindness is called misfortune.
If the wall is tall with gaps, it will collapse quickly!
The smart people were convinced by him after hearing these words.
Knowing the day of his death, he summoned the nine guests to eat and say goodbye, then died suddenly.
He was eighty-four years old, his family had no extra property, and his sons were in decline as his father said.
Fan Ying's biography, Fan Ying's courtesy name is Ji Qi, and he was born in Luyang, Nanyang.
When he was young, he studied in Sanfu and learned "Jingshi Yi" and "Five Classics" at the same time.
He is also good at wind angle and star calculation. He and Luo have seven latitudes and can predict disasters and changes.
Living in seclusion in the sun of Hushan Mountain, people coming from all over the world came to receive their karma.
The prefectures and counties politely asked him to come out, but he refused. Even if the minister recommends him to be a virtuous, upright, and moral person, it will not work.
Once there was a storm coming from the west. Fan Ying said to the students: There was a big fire in Chengdu.
So he rinsed the water to the west and asked the students to write down a certain time on a certain day.
Later, a visitor came from Sichuan and said: There was a big fire today. Black clouds suddenly rose from the east, and it rained heavily for a while before the fire was extinguished.
So the world praised his superb art.
In the early years of Emperor An's reign, Fan Ying was called a doctor.
In the first year of Jianguang's reign, he issued an imperial edict to issue policy documents and summoned Fan Ying and six others from the same county, including Kong Qiao, Li Yuenei, Beihai Lang Zong, Chen Liu Yang Lun, and Dongping Sanfu. Only Lang Zong and Yang Lun arrived in Luoyang, while Fan Ying and the other four did not.
In the second year of Yongjian's reign, Emperor Shun prepared a letter and prepared a ceremony for him. He summoned him with Xuanzhong, but he resolutely resigned because he was seriously ill.
So the edict ordered the counties and counties to drive them on the road.
Fan Ying had no choice but to arrive in Kyoto, claiming to be ill and refusing to get up.
So he reluctantly carried him into the palace in a car, but he still didn't show any courtesy.
The emperor got angry and said to Ying: I can make you live or kill you; I can make you noble or humble; I can make you rich or poor.
Why did you neglect my orders?
Fan Ying said: I am ordered by Heaven.
Living your life to the end is heaven; dying without losing your life is heaven.
How can your Majesty let me live, how can you kill me!
When a minister sees a tyrant as if he has seen his enemy and refuses to stand in his court, is it valuable to get something?
Although I was born into the ranks of commoners and live within a wall, I am content and contented. If I refuse to exchange for the dignity of ten thousand chariots, how can I be humble?
How can your Majesty make me noble or humble?
I will not accept the unfair salary, even if it is a drop of ten thousand cents; if my ambition is fulfilled, I will not feel disgusted even if I use a bamboo basket to carry rice.
How can Your Majesty make me rich and make me poor?
The emperor could not make him give in, but respected his reputation and let him go to the imperial hospital to recuperate, and sent him sheep wine and other things every month.
In March of the fourth year, the emperor set up an altar for Fan Ying, ordered the bus to drive, and the minister acted as a guide. He gave him a few sticks, treated him like a master, and asked him about political gains and losses.
Fan Ying did not dare to resign and was worshiped as General of the Five Features.
A few months later, Ying said he was seriously ill and ordered him to be the Guanglu doctor and allowed him to go back on leave.
He also ordered him to send thousands of dendrobium grains to his place, and always send a cow and three dendrobiums of wine to him in August. If something unfortunate happened, he would be sacrificed with the ceremony of a prisoner.
Fan Ying refused to resign and refused to listen to edicts and edicts.
When Fan Ying was first ordered to do something, everyone thought that he would not surrender. However, when he later faced the emperor, he did not come up with any clever plans, and the commentators were disappointed.
At first, Zhang Kai from Henan was summoned together with Fan Ying, and then he said to Ying: There are two ways in the world, that is, coming out and not coming out.
I used to think that if you came out, you could help the king and help these people.
But you started to anger the Lord of Ten Thousand Vehicles with your unafraid of slander. After enjoying the honor and wealth, you didn't hear of any way to save the world, and there was no basis for advancement or retreat.
Fan Ying was good at alchemy. Whenever there was a disaster or strange phenomenon in the court, he would often issue edicts to ask about the effect of transformation and recovery, and what he said was often effective.
At first, Fan Ying wrote "Yi Zhang Ju" and was known as Fan's School in the world. He taught his students with Tuwei.
Chen Chen of Yingchuan learned from Fan Ying when he was young.
Once when Fan Ying was ill, his wife sent her maid to pay her respects, and Fan Ying would get out of bed to answer her questions.
Chen Chen felt strange and asked him.
Ying said: Wife means Qi. When offering sacrifices, there is no one who refuses to pay homage according to the etiquette.
Such was his reverence.
He was in his seventies and died at home.
