Yuan Ang, Zisi.
His father was a native of Chu. He once worked as a thief and later moved to Anling.
During the period of Empress Lu, Yuan Ang once served as Lu Lu's retainer.
When Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, Yuan An's brother Yuan Sha recommended Yuan An to be a doctor.
Jianghou Zhou Bo became the prime minister. After retiring from the court, he walked out quickly, feeling very contented.
The emperor treated him with great courtesy and often saw him off with his eyes.
Yuan Ang stepped forward and said, "What kind of person is the Prime Minister?"
The emperor said: An important minister of the country.
Yuan An said: Jianghou is what is usually called a hero, not an important minister of the country.
The important ministers of the country are the master and the minister, and the master will die and the minister will perish.
During the period of Empress Lu, Zhu Lu was in power and granted the title of king without authorization. Although the Liu family's world was not cut off, it was as weak and weak as a belt.
At that time, Jianghou was serving as the Taiwei and had military power, so he could not help or save him.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers worked together to punish Lu. The Taiwei controlled the army, which happened to make him successful. He was a hero in general, not an important official of the country.
If the prime minister shows pride towards his lord, and your majesty humbly gives in, it would be a violation of etiquette for both the minister and the lord. I think your majesty should not adopt this attitude.
After the court meeting, the emperor gradually became more solemn and the prime minister became more and more fearful.
Afterwards, Jianghou scolded Yuan Ang and said: I am close to your brother, but now you are slandering me in the court!
Yuan An never admitted his mistake.
When Jianghou was dismissed as prime minister and returned to the feudal state, someone in the feudal state wrote a letter accusing him of treason. Jianghou was arrested, tied up and imprisoned. The royal family and other ministers did not dare to speak for him. Only Yuan An defended Jianghou's innocence.
Jianghou was able to be released, and Yuan An made great efforts.
Jianghou then became close friends with Yuan Ang.
Liu Chang, the king of Huainan, went to the capital to see him and killed Piyanghou. He behaved very arrogantly.
Yuan An advised the emperor: If the princes are too arrogant, chaos will inevitably occur, and their fiefdoms can be appropriately reduced.
The emperor did not adopt his opinion.
The king of Huainan became even more arrogant.
The plot to rebel was discovered, and King Huainan was summoned. The emperor exiled him to Shu County and escorted him in a prison car.
Yuan An was serving as Zhonglang General at that time, so he remonstrated and said: You have always been arrogant and indulgent to the King of Huainan without imposing any restrictions, even to this extent. Now it suddenly destroyed him.
The King of Huainan is a staunch man. If you die from the cold on the road, you will eventually be considered as the incompatible people in the world and will have the reputation of killing your brother. What should you do?
Zaoshang didn't listen and did it anyway.
The king of Huainan arrived in Yong County and died of illness. The news came that the emperor could not eat and cried very sadly.
Yuan An entered and kowtowed to apologize.
The emperor said: This situation occurred because your opinions were not adopted.
Yuan An said: If the emperor wants to think about it himself, this matter has already passed, how can he regret it?
Besides, you have three outstanding behaviors, which are not enough to ruin your reputation.
The emperor said: What are the three things that make me superior to others?
Yuan Ang said: When you were in the Kingdom of Dai, the Queen Mother was ill. For three years, you never closed your eyes, went to bed without undressing, and refused to give the medicine to the Queen Mother unless you tasted it yourself.
As a commoner, it was difficult for Zeng Shen to do this, but now as a king, you have implemented it, and you are far ahead of Zeng Shen in terms of filial piety.
Zhu Lu is in power, and the powerful ministers do their own thing. However, you took six post cars from Dai State to the capital city where misfortune and fortune are unpredictable. Even warriors like Meng Ben and Xia Yu cannot compare with you.
When you arrive at the official residence of the King of Dai, you sit to the west to abdicate the throne of emperor three times, and to the south to abdicate the throne of emperor twice.
Xu You surrendered only once, but you surrendered the world five times, more than Xu You surrendered four times.
Besides, you exiled the King of Huainan because you wanted to put some hard work on his mind and make him correct his mistakes. Because the officials were careless in protecting him, he died of illness.
The emperor was relieved at this time, and Yuan An became famous in the court.
Yuan Ang often talks about great principles and is impassioned.
Because the eunuch Tangtan had been favored by the emperor many times, he often secretly harmed Yuan An, which made Yuan An feel worried.
Yuan An's nephew Yuan Zhong served as an attendant knight, guarding the emperor with talismans. Yuan Zhong advised Yuan Ang: "You have humiliated him in the court. If you say bad things about you in the future, the emperor will not believe him."
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty went out, Zhao Tan accompanied him in the carriage. Yuan Ang bowed in front of the carriage and said: I heard that those who accompanied the emperor in the six-foot-tall carriage were all domestic heroes. Even if the Han Dynasty lacks talents, why do you only ride in the same carriage with people with broken bodies?
The emperor then laughed and asked Zhao Tan to get out of the car.
Zhao Tan got out of the car crying.
Emperor Wenwen of the Han Dynasty went up the mountain from Baling and wanted to gallop down the hillside from the west.
Yuan Ang took the reins of Emperor Wen's horse. The emperor said: General, are you timid?
Yuan Ang said: I have heard that people with a rich family do not sit close to the eaves, and people with a rich family do not sit on the railings beside the balcony. The wise master does not take risks and does not succeed by chance.
Now you want to indulge the six horses in the chariot and gallop down the mountain. If the horses are frightened and the chariot is destroyed, even if you underestimate yourself, how can you be worthy of Gaozu and the Queen Mother?
The emperor then stopped.
The emperor arrived at Shanglin Garden, accompanied by the queen and Mrs. Shen.
They often sit on the same level of seats in the palace.
When they were seated, Chief Lang arranged the seats, and Yuan Ang pulled Mrs. Shen's seat back a little.
Mrs. Shen was angry and refused to sit down.
The emperor was also angry and got up.
Yuan An took the opportunity to step forward and persuade: I heard that if there is an order of superiority and inferiority, then there will be harmony between the superiors and inferiors. Now that His Majesty has confirmed the Queen, Mrs. Shen is just a concubine. How can the concubine and the Lord sit at the same table?
Besides, if you dote on her, reward her even more.
The method His Majesty used to pamper Mrs. Shen turned out to be a disaster.
Hasn't your majesty heard about human pigs?
The emperor was happy and went inside to tell Mrs. Shen what Yuan An had said.
Mrs. Shen gave Yuan Ang fifty catties of gold.
However, Yuan An could not stay in the court for a long time because of his many blunt admonitions.
He was transferred to the captaincy of Longxi. He loved the soldiers, and the soldiers rushed to do their best for him.
He was promoted to prime minister of Qi and then prime minister of Wu.
When saying goodbye and setting off, Yuan Zhong said to Yuan An: King Wu has been arrogant for a long time, and there are many traitors in the country. If you want to expose and punish him now, those people will either write a letter to accuse you, or they will kill you with a sharp sword.
The land in the south is low and humid. You drink wine every day and do nothing more than persuade the King of Wu not to rebel.
If you can do this, you may be able to get away from trouble.
Yuan Ang adopted Yuan Zhong's strategy, and the King of Wu treated him favorably.
Yuan Ang took leave and went home. He met Prime Minister Shen Tujia on the road and got out of the car to worship him. The prime minister only expressed his gratitude to Yuan Ang from the car.
When Yuan An returned home, he felt ashamed in front of his subordinates, so he went to the Prime Minister's residence to send a name card and asked to see the Prime Minister.
It took a long time for Cheng to meet Yuan Ang.
Yuan Ang knelt down and said, "I hope to receive you alone."
The prime minister said: If what you are talking about is a public matter, go to the official office to discuss it with the official, and I will report your opinions. If it is a private matter, I will not accept private requests.
Yuan Ang knelt down and persuaded him: "As the prime minister, you can weigh it yourself. How do you compare to Chen Ping and Jianghou?"
The prime minister said: I can't compare.
Yuan Ang said: Yes, you think you can't compare.
Chen Ping and Jianghou assisted Emperor Gao to pacify the world, served as generals, eradicated the Lu, and preserved the Liu family. You are just a warrior with a strong bow. You were promoted to captain and accumulated merits to become the governor of Huaiyang. You have no military exploits for attacking cities and seizing territory with unexpected plans.
Moreover, when the emperor came to Beijing from Daiguo, every time he met with the ministers and officials, he would not stop to accept their opinions and put them aside. If the opinions were acceptable, he would adopt them. There was never a time when he would not approve them.
What's the reason?
I just want to use this method to attract the world's most capable scholars and officials. The emperor hears things he has never heard before, understands things he has never understood before, and becomes wiser day by day. Now you have closed the mouths of the people in the world and are becoming stupid day by day.
As a wise monarch, you come to rebuke the foolish prime minister. Your son who will suffer disaster is not far away.
The prime minister then bowed twice to Yuan Ang. Said: I am a vulgar and vulgar person, but I am not smart. Fortunately, the general taught me.
Invite Yuan An into the inner room and sit together as the most distinguished guest.
Yuan Ang has never liked Chao Cuo. Where Chao Cuo stayed, Yuan An left; when Yuan An was there, Chao Cuo also left. The two have never spoken together.
When Emperor Mojing came to the throne and Chao Cuo became the imperial censor, he sent officials to investigate Yuan An's acceptance of the property of King Wu and punished him. The emperor issued an edict to exempt him from punishment and demote him to a commoner.
When news of Wu and Chu's rebellion came, Chao Cuo said to the Prime Minister: Yuan Ang accepted a lot of money from the King of Wu and specifically covered it up for him, saying that he would not rebel.
Now that he has really rebelled, if he wants to ask Yuan An to be punished, he must know about the rebellion plot.
The Prime Minister said: The matter has not been exposed. Punishing him may interrupt the rebellion conspiracy.
Now that the rebels are marching westward, what is the benefit of punishing him!
Besides, Yuan Ang shouldn't have any conspiracy.
Chao Cuo hesitated.
Someone told Yuan An what had happened. Yuan An was frightened and met Dou Ying at night. He explained to him the reasons for King Wu's rebellion and was willing to confront him personally in front of the emperor.
Dou Ying went to the palace to report to the emperor, and the emperor asked Yuan Ang to go to the palace to meet him. When he came to the meeting, he explained the situation of King Wu's rebellion. It was because of Chao Cuo. Only by killing Chao Cuo quickly and confessing his mistake to the king of Wu could the Wu army stop.
The emperor appointed Yuan Ang as Taichang and Baoying as general.
The two men had always been friendly, but when the king of Wu rebelled, the leading figures in the tombs near the capital and the wise officials in Chang'an City all scrambled to attach themselves to these two men, with hundreds of cars following them every day.
After Chao Cuo had been executed, Yuan Ang went to Yu Li as Taichang.
King Cheng wanted Sai'an to be a general, but Tomb Sai was unwilling.
The King of Wu wanted to kill him, so he sent a captain and five hundred soldiers to surround Yuan Ang in the army.
When Yuan An was the prime minister of the state of Wu, a Cong Shi had an affair with Yuan An's maid. Yuan An knew about this but did not reveal it, and treated Cong Shi as before.
Someone told Cong Shi that the prime minister knew that you were having an affair with your maid, so Cong Shi fled back.
Yuan Ang personally drove his car to chase Cong Shi, and finally gave him his maidservant, and still let him serve as Cong Shi.
When Yuan An went on his mission to Wu and was besieged, Cong Shi happened to be the captain who besieged Yuan An, so he exchanged all his luggage for two stones of strong wine, and the weather was cold. The soldiers were hungry and thirsty, and the soldiers besieging the southwest corner were all drunk. Sima took Yuan Ang to his feet at night and said, "You can go." King Wu expects to kill you tomorrow. Yuan An didn't believe it and said: What do you do?
Sima said: I was originally a maidservant who had an affair with Shi.
Yuan Ang then thanked him in horror and said: "You are lucky to have parents. I can't harm you."
Sima said: Just leave, I am about to run away and hide my parents, what are you worried about!
So he used a knife to open the tent of the military camp and led Yuan Ang straight out from the road guarded by the drunken soldiers.
Sima and Yuan An went their separate ways. Yuan An untied his knot and carried it in his arms. They walked for seventy miles. At dawn, they encountered Liang's cavalry. They galloped away on horseback and finally reported back to the court.
The Wu and Chu rebels had been defeated, and the emperor changed the title of Pingluhou Liu Li, son of King Chu Yuan, to King of Chu, and Yuan An became Prime Minister of Chu.
He once wrote a letter to speak out, but it was not adopted.
Yuan Ang resigned from his job and went home to live leisurely due to illness. He followed the local customs and participated in cockfights and dog racing with the villagers.
Ju Meng, a native of Luoyang, once visited Yuan An, who entertained him warmly.
A rich man in Anling said to Zhichou: I heard that Ju Meng is a gambler. Why do you associate with him?
Yuan Ang said: Although Ju Meng was a gambler, his mother died, and more than a thousand cars came from other places to pay tribute, making him a place that surpassed everyone.
Besides, everyone has emergencies.
Once someone knocks on your door to beg you for something urgent or difficult, there is no need for your parents to be alive to shirk it, and there is no need to leave home to shirk it. The only people in the world who look up to them are Ji Xin and Ju Meng.
Nowadays, you are often followed by several warriors on horseback. In case of emergency, can you rely on them?
After rebuking the rich man, he stopped communicating with him.
When all the princes and noble officials heard about this, they all praised Yuan An.
Although Yuan An was leisurely at home, Emperor Jing often sent people to ask him about strategies.
The King of Liang wanted to become the heir to the throne, and Yuan An advised him not to have such discussions in the future.
The King of Liang resented Yuan An and sent people to assassinate Yuan An.
The assassins came to Guanzhong and asked Yuan Ang about his character. Many famous people praised him.
The assassin met Yuan Ang and said: I accept the money from King Liang to assassinate you. You are a cultivated person and I cannot bear to kill you.
But there will be more than ten groups of assassins in the future, so be on guard.
Yuan Ang felt unhappy and there were many strange things going on at home, so he went to Mr. Jue's house to ask for fortune telling.
When returning, the assassins from Liang who came later stopped Yuan An outside the gate of Anling City and stabbed him to death.
Chao Cuo was from Yingchuan.
I once studied the criminal naming theories of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang from Mr. Zhang Hui of Zhi County, and I was the same teacher as Song Meng and Liu Dai from Luoyang.
Because he was familiar with literature and classics, he served as Taichang's anecdote.
Chao Cuo was a severe, upright and harsh person.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, there was no one in the court who studied "Shang Shu". He only heard that there was Fu Sheng in Qi State. He was a doctor from the Qin Dynasty and was proficient in "Shang Shu". He was over ninety years old and could not be recruited because of his old age. Emperor Wen then ordered Taichang to send people to study.
Taichang sent Chao Cuo to Fu Shengna to study Shangshu. After returning, he took the opportunity to write a letter reporting on his study and praised his explanation of Shangshu.
Emperor Wen issued an edict and appointed him successively as the prince's minister and the family doctor, and later he was promoted to doctor.
Chao Cuo wrote again and said: The reason why the king has a noble and distinguished position and his fame has been spread for generations is because he knows how to use punishment and reputation.
Therefore, if you know how to control your ministers and govern the people, then the ministers will be fearful and obedient; if you know how to listen to various opinions, then you will not be deceived; if you know how to stabilize the society and make the people wealthy, then the people of the world will obey; if you know how to be loyal and filial to the elders, then the ministers will have the behavior. These four items, I believe, are the crown prince’s top priorities.
Some people think that the Crown Prince does not need to know what he is doing. Although I am stupid, I actually think this is not the case.
Look at the reason why the kings in the previous world could not worship in the ancestral temple and were coerced and killed by their ministers was because they did not understand the art of punishment.
The Crown Prince has read a lot, so the reason why he has not thoroughly mastered the art of punishment and naming is that he has not studied the meaning of the book.
Reading too much without knowing the principles discussed in it is a waste of effort.
I see that the Crown Prince is highly intelligent and has extraordinary skills in driving, riding and shooting. However, he has not yet mastered the science of punishment. This is related to His Majesty's thoughts.
I hope that your majesty will choose some saints' techniques that can be used in this world to give to the pope and the prince, and let the prince state it according to the situation.
I hope your Majesty will investigate and make a decision.
The emperor praised Chao Cuo for his kindness, so he appointed Chao Cuo as the prince's family order.
Because of his eloquence, he was favored by the prince and was known as the "think tank" in the prince's family.
At this time, the Huns were powerful and invaded the border many times. The emperor sent troops to resist.
Chao Cuo wrote a letter discussing military affairs, saying:
I heard that since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the Hu people have invaded the border areas many times. Small-scale invasions have brought small profits, and large-scale invasions have big profits. When they were high, they invaded Longxi again, attacked cities, robbed towns, and plundered livestock; later they invaded Longxi, killing officers and soldiers, and looting on a large scale.
I heard that the power of victory can make the people's morale a hundredfold, but a defeated soldier cannot be inspired even to death.
Since Gaohou, Longxi has been troubled by the Xiongnu three times. The people's hearts have been hurt and they have no confidence in winning.
Today, the officials in Longxi rely on the spirits of their ancestors, abide by His Majesty's edicts, harmoniously unite the soldiers, inspire their integrity and will, and arouse the injured people to resist the righteous Xiongnu. They can attack many with a small number and kill one Xiongnu king, which is very beneficial to defeating many soldiers.
It's not that the people of Longxi are brave or timid, it's just that the officials behave cleverly and clumsily.
Therefore, the Art of War says: There are generals who are sure to win, but there are no people who are sure to win.
From this point of view, to stabilize the border and establish achievements, good generals must be selected.
I also heard that when it comes to using troops, there are three most urgent things in a battle: first, occupying favorable terrain; second, the soldiers must obey orders and be well-trained; third, the weapons must be sophisticated and easy to use.
The Art of War says: A ditch with a width of five feet, water overflowing the chariots, mountains and forests, piles of stones, long flowing water, large hills, and places where grass and trees grow are the places where infantry can use their skills. Chariots, soldiers, and cavalry cannot fight together here.
The mountains and hills are continuous, and the plains and wilderness are the places where chariots and cavalry are used. The infantry is very inconsistent in fighting here.
There is a huge difference in height, and the river valley is in the middle, which is condescending. This is the place where bows and crossbows are useful. Short weapons are not suitable for use.
The two formations are close to each other. There is flat ground and short grass, so you can go forward or back. This is where the halberd weapon comes into play. The sword and shield are not the same.
The reeds and bamboos are slender, the grass and trees are lush, and the branches and leaves are dense. This is where the long and short spears are used. The long and halberds are not used together.
The road is tortuous and intertwined with dangers and obstacles. This is where swords and shields come into play. Bows and crossbows are not suitable for one use.
The soldiers are not selected and trained, the soldiers are not proficient in weapons, the daily movements are not precise, the movement is uncoordinated and unstable, the gains cannot be obtained, the avoidance of disasters is not quick, the front attack is slack and the back is slack, and the golden drum command is out of touch. These are the faults of being unfamiliar with the training and management of the army. Such soldiers will not be able to do anything when fighting.
If the weapon is not sharp, it is the same as empty hand; if the mail is not hard, it is the same as exposing the body; if the crossbow cannot shoot far, it is the same as a short weapon; if the arrow misses the target, it is the same as having no arrows; if it hits the target but cannot enter, it is the same as having no arrows: these are the disasters caused by the general's failure to inspect the weapons. In these circumstances, fighting is not one of five.
Therefore, the Art of War says: If the weapons are not sharp, the soldiers are handed over to the enemy; if the pawns are unusable, the generals are handed over to the enemy; if the generals do not know how to use the army, the king is handed over to the enemy; if the king does not know how to choose generals, the country is handed over to the enemy.
These four aspects are the essentials for using troops.
I also heard that small and large shapes are different, strong and weak forces are different, and danger and easy have different defenses.
To serve the strong with a humble body is the form of a small country; to unite small countries to attack a big country is the form of a country with even strength; to use barbarians to attack barbarians is the form of a country in the Central Plains.
Nowadays, the Huns' terrain technology is different from that of the Central Plains.
Going up and down hillsides, going in and out of streams, the horses of the Central Plains are not as good as the horses of the Huns; the dangerous roads are sloping, and the riders of the Central Plains are not as good as the Huns.
If it is a plain area, with light chariots and swift cavalry, the Huns will easily get confused; strong crossbows and long halberds can shoot wide and far, which is incomparable to the Huns' bows; hard and boring armor, sharp weapons, matching lengths, crossbows coming and going to support, the soldiers in formation move forward together, and the Huns The slave soldiers cannot resist; the horse archers shoot arrows at the same target, and the Xiongnu's leather hoods and wooden trunks cannot block them; they dismount and fight on the ground, their swords and halberds intersect, and their footsteps move back and forth, but the Huns' feet cannot connect quickly: these are the special skills of the Central Plains.
From this point of view, the Xiongnu has three strong skills, and the Central Plains has five strong skills.
Your Majesty also sent hundreds of thousands of troops to kill tens of thousands of Xiongnu. To calculate the number of people, it was the technique of hitting ten with one strike.
Even so, weapons are still deadly weapons; war is still a dangerous thing.
If you don't understand the ways and methods of using troops, you will change the big into the small, from strong to weak. This change is only as easy as pitching.
Using human death to win victory will lead to failure and regret.
The emperor's way to success is based on sound strategies.
The Yiqu barbarians who came to surrender today are Yiqu barbarians who have returned to Yi. There are thousands of people in their tribe. Their food and skills are the same as those of the Xiongnu. They can be given hard trowels, armor, cotton clothes, strong bows and sharp arrows, and good cavalry from the border counties.
Let the wise generals know their customs and make them live in harmony, which is to use your majesty's wisdom to control the commander-in-chief.
If there are dangers, use this method to deal with them; use light chariot riders to deal with flat passages.
The two armies cooperate with each other, fight together, each uses their own skills, and uses many soldiers horizontally. This is a foolproof strategy.
The book says: Please choose wisely from the mad man’s words.
Your Majesty, Chao Cuo, is stupid and vulgar. He is guilty of committing a crime of death and is arrogant. I hope your Majesty will decide.
Emperor Wen praised Chao Cuo's statement very much, and gave him a written reply, saying: The emperor asked the prince about his family order: I heard the three chapters of the letter about military affairs.
The book says: The words of a madman are what the master chooses, but that is not the case now.
The speaker is not crazy, but the person who chooses is unwise. This is the great danger of the country.
If you are not wise enough to choose not to be crazy, you will not be able to deal with it even if you listen to ten thousand petitions ten thousand times.
Chao Cuocha discussed the two urgent tasks of the world: guarding the frontiers and fortresses, encouraging farming, and devoting ourselves to our own industry.
I heard that the Qin Dynasty attacked Hu and Raccoon in the north, built fortifications on the Yellow River, attacked Yang and Guangdong in the south, and placed garrison soldiers.
The reason why they sent troops to attack Hu and Guangdong was not to defend the border areas and rescue the dead, but to expand, so the world was in chaos before their achievements were established.
If you send troops without knowing the situation, you will be captured in battle, and your soldiers will die on the border if you are garrisoning.
The land of raccoon dogs and raccoon dogs is a cold and shady place, where vegetation grows three inches tall and the ice is as thick as six feet. They eat meat and drink cheese, the people have tight muscles, and the birds and beasts have fine hair, so they can withstand the cold.
The land of Yang and Guangdong has less yin and more yang. People's muscles are loose and black animals have thin hair and are resistant to heat.
The Qin Dynasty's garrison soldiers could not adapt to the soil and water of the border areas. The garrison soldiers died on the border, and the transport soldiers and migrant workers fell to their deaths on the road.
When the people of Qin went on the road, they felt like they were going to the execution ground, so the government enforced micro-discipline, which was called "banishing and garrisoning".
First, the guilty demoted officials, their sons-in-law, and small traders were conscripted, then those who had been registered as merchants, then their grandparents and parents who had been registered as merchants, and finally all the poor living in Jianzuo.
The expedition did not go smoothly, and the servicemen who went on the road were deeply resentful and had feelings of betrayal.
Whenever the common people would rather die than surrender to the enemy in defense or attack, this is achieved through strategy.
Therefore, if you defeat a strong defender, you should be rewarded with a title, and if you attack a city and capture territory, you should seize spoils to make the soldiers' families rich, so that the soldiers are willing to risk arrows and stones, go through fire and water, and regard death as home.
Today, when the Qin Dynasty recruits its soldiers, there will be disasters of tens of thousands of deaths, but there is no reward of two bahts. After the soldiers are killed in battle, they will not be exempted from the tax of one cent. The people of the world can clearly see that the flames of disaster have burned around them.
Chen Sheng went to guard the border and arrived in Daze Township, where he took the lead in advocating an uprising for the world. The people of the world followed suit because of the consequences of the Qin Dynasty's use of violence to force labor conscription.
The Hu people's livelihood of food and clothing is not fixed on the land, which naturally creates a situation where it is easy to disturb the border.
How to prove it?
The Hu people eat meat, drink cheese, wear fur clothes, and have no cities or fields to live in. They are like birds and animals in the wilderness. They stop when they encounter sweet water and grass, and move away when the grass and water are exhausted.
From this point of view, the irregular movement, sometimes arriving and sometimes leaving, is the occupation for the survival of the Hu people, while in the Central Plains it will lead to the situation of leaving the cultivated land.
Now let the Hu people move their herds in several places and hunt along the fortress, sometimes to Yan and Dai, sometimes to Shangjun, sometimes to Beidi, and sometimes to Longxi, in order to spy on the defending garrison soldiers, and then the soldiers will invade.
If Your Majesty does not save us, the people on the border will become desperate and want to surrender. If we go to save them, we will send few troops to resist the Hu people. If we send more troops, the journey will be long. As soon as we arrive, the Hu people will have already left.
If you don't retreat from the camp, the cost will be too high. If you retreat, the barbarians will invade again.
For years like this, the Central Plains became impoverished and the people found no peace.
Fortunately, Your Majesty is worried about the border, and it is of great benefit to send generals to send troops to control the border fortress.
However, it is better to select soldiers who have come from afar to guard the border fortress and rotate them every year. They do not understand the specialties of the Hu people. It is better to select soldiers who live regularly, build families, cultivate fields, and just guard the border.
For the convenience of defense, high cities and deep ditches were built. Prepare stone bases, spread iron caltrops, and build a city inside the city. The two cities are one hundred and fifty steps apart.
At key points, at intersections where rivers flow, cities should be planned and built, and the number of residents in the city should be no less than a thousand. Bamboo strips should be set up around the city to prevent theft. Houses should be built first, farm tools should be prepared, and then criminals and people who are exempted from imprisonment and one year of hard labor should be recruited to live there. If the number is not enough, those who redeem their sins as slaves and those who use their slaves to buy titles will be recruited. If there are not enough, those who want to be recruited will be given high titles and exempt their entire families from servitude.
They are given winter and summer clothes and provided with food and drink, and the supply is stopped when they are able to support themselves.
People in counties and counties can buy titles, high-level titles, and rank as ministers.
If they lost their husbands or wives, the government would help them buy slaves, wives, and clothes.
Human relationships say that you cannot stay in a place for a long time unless there is a match.
The people under the fortress are not rich in benefits and salaries, and they cannot be allowed to live in a dangerous place permanently.
When the Hu people invaded and plundered, those who could stop the plundering would be rewarded with half of the looted property. The government would offer to redeem the robbed people.
By doing this, the townspeople will help each other, and they will not be afraid of death when fighting with barbarians.
All of this was not for the emperor to establish virtue and righteousness, but to protect the lives and property of his relatives.
Compared with the situation where the Eastern garrison was unfamiliar with the terrain and feared the barbarians, the credit was ten thousand times higher.
At this time, Your Majesty moved the people to enrich the frontier fortress, so that the people in distant places did not have the burden of garrisoning. The people in the frontier fortress were protected by father and son, and there was no trouble of being captured. The benefits were passed on to future generations. Your Majesty is a wise king. Compared with the resentful people who went to serve in the Qin Dynasty, the benefits and losses are huge.
The emperor followed Chao Cuo's suggestion and recruited people to move to the frontier.
Chao Cuo said again:
Fortunately, Your Majesty has recruited people to move to the frontier fortress, which greatly saves garrison work and reduces the cost of transporting supplies. The benefits are significant.
If the officials below can really claim generous favors, implement wise measures, care for the old and weak who have moved in, treat the strong men well, be tolerant and friendly to them without harming them, and let the first comers live in peace and happiness without missing their homeland, then the poor will invite and encourage each other.
I heard that in ancient times, people migrated to distant places to fill the empty land. They wanted to observe the harmony of yin and yang, taste the water and springs, check the quality of the land, and observe the growth of vegetation, and then build cities, organize districts, divide residences, and open roads to the fields. Roads, field boundaries were determined, and houses were built first. A family had one room and two rooms, doors and windows opened and closed, and furniture was installed so that people could live there when they came. There were farm tools for farming. This was the reason why people were willing to leave their hometowns easily and go to Xinyi.
Doctors and wizards must be prepared for them to cure diseases, offer sacrifices to ancestors and gods, marry men and women, take care of life and death, follow graves, plant trees and raise livestock, and keep their houses complete and safe. These are enough to make the people happy to live there and want to stay for a long time.
I also heard that border counties were set up in ancient times to guard against enemy invasion. Five families were placed in a team with a team leader; ten long lines were divided into one li, with fake soldiers in them; four li in a company, there were fake warriors in each company; ten companies in one town, each town had fake marquises.
Therefore, internally it is the establishment of soldiers, and externally it is the military and political system.
After the training is completed, they are no longer allowed to migrate. They travel together when they are young and work together as adults.
When fighting at night, recognizing your own people by their voices is enough to save each other; fighting during the day, when you can see with your eyes, it is enough to recognize each other; and when you have love and care, you are enough to fight to the death to save each other.
In this way, if you use generous rewards to persuade and heavy punishments to deter, then death will not turn around and retreat in front of you.
The migrated people are not strong and capable people, but only consume clothing and food, and cannot be used. Although they have courage, but do not have good officials, it is the same as ineffectiveness.
Your Majesty has severed all ties with the Xiongnu. I estimate that the Huns will come south this winter and severely inflict a heavy blow on the Huns.
If you want to establish your majesty, you must start with the use of bows and crossbows. When you attack, you must not inflict serious damage. Let the enemy win and go away, so that it will be difficult to surrender in the future.
I hope your majesty will take action against this foolish minister.
Later, imperial officials were ordered to recommend virtuous literary people, and Chao Cuo was among those recommended.
The emperor personally advised Shao and said:
In the ninth month of the fifteenth year, Renzi said, the emperor said: In the past, Yu the Great sought magi all over the country. Within the far reaches of the four directions, wherever boats and chariots could reach, and wherever human beings could go, they all obeyed orders to make up for the shortcomings of his administration; those who were near offered their brightness, and those who were far away offered their wisdom, kindness and hard work to help the emperor.
Therefore, Dayu could not lose his virtue and rule, and the Xia Dynasty was prosperous and prosperous for a long time.
The Emperor Gao personally eliminated the great harm, removed the traces of the disaster, selected heroes and talents, and as the head of an official, he tried his best to give advice and make up for the shortcomings of the emperor's government, and supported the Han Dynasty.
Thanks to the spirit of heaven and the blessings of the ancestral temple, the world is peaceful and stable, extending to all ethnic groups in the four borders.
Now that I am the Son of Heaven, I will inherit the sacrifices of the ancestral temple. I have neither high virtue nor intelligence. I cannot shine brightly and see clearly. My wisdom cannot lead to great governance of the country. This is visible to all the officials.
Therefore, the imperial edict was issued to appoint ministers, princes, princes, three princes, nine ministers, and county governors, each according to his own will, to select virtuous and outstanding talents, who have a thorough understanding of the country, are familiar with the changes in personnel, and dare to speak out and strongly advise. Each of them will have a certain number of people, who will be used to assist me in correcting my shortcomings.
There are two or three officials who can discuss the three aspects of state structure, personnel, and advice. I highly commend them, so I have them come to the court and personally inform me of my will.
The official should state the three essential points of state affairs, personnel affairs, and direct remonstrance, and think deeply about the shortcomings of my virtues. Officials are unfair in handling affairs, government affairs are not communicated clearly, and the people are uneasy. All the deficiencies and errors in the four aspects should be expressed, and all opinions should be expressed without concealment.
The emperor's ancestral temple can be dedicated to the emperor, and the good interests of the ignorant people can be established below. It can be written into a chapter. I will read it personally and observe whether the doctor's suggestions to assist me have fulfilled his responsibility or not fully explained.
Write it down and seal it carefully and carefully, and I will open it myself. The officials should speak their minds frankly and do not worry about the obstruction of the officials in power.
Oh, I need to quit!
The two or three recommended doctors should express their will and don't be lazy!
Chao Cuo replied:
Pingyang Houchen Cao Mu, Ruyin Houchen Xia Houchong, Yingyin Houchen Guan He, Tingwei Chen Yichang, Longxi Prefecture Minister Gongsun Kunxie recommended the virtuous prince's family, Chao Cuo risked his life and paid homage again, saying: I heard that in ancient times The virtuous masters of the past all asked wise men to assist them. Therefore, the Yellow Emperor obtained Li Mu and ranked first among the five emperors. Dayu obtained Jiu Yao and became the originator of the three kings. Qi Huangong obtained Guan Zhong and became the leader of the five hegemons.
Today, Your Majesty talks about the selection of heroes and talents from Yu the Great and the Supreme Emperor. He is humble and ignorant and seeks the help of wise men. He is extremely reproachful.
I observe the history of the past life, and the great achievements of Emperor Gao, and the great virtues of His Majesty, and the assistance of wise men, are all seen by Yousi. They are engraved on the jade tablets recording the merits, hidden in the golden chamber, passed down through the years, passed down to later generations, respected by the emperors, and connected with heaven and earth.
Today's minister Cao Zhou and others used Chao Cuo to make up for the situation, which was very inconsistent with the Ming Dynasty's purpose of seeking virtue.
Chao Chao, a humble minister who had no knowledge, risked his life and offered a foolish answer, saying:
The imperial edict said: The country is clear as a whole, but the foolish minister explained it by referring to the five ancient emperors.
I heard that the five emperors were wise and wise, but the ministers were not as wise as the five emperors, so I personally handled government affairs in the main hall, above the bright hall where politics and religion were declared. Doing things in accordance with the weather and time, in the next situation, in accordance with the favorable geographical conditions, in order to win harmony.
Therefore, all sentient beings are covered, and all things growing in the land are supported. They are illuminated by light without partiality. The kindness extends from birds to water insects, and all the products of plants and trees are moistened.
Then the yin and yang are harmonious, the four seasons are in order, the sun and the moon produce light, the wind and rain are timely, the dew falls, the grains are abundant, the monsters are extinct, the poisonous breath is extinguished, the people are free from diseases, the Yellow River appears in pictures, the Luo River appears in books, the dragon comes, the phoenix flies, the virtues spread all over the world, and the spiritual light spreads to the four seas.
Creation is the basic content of matching heaven and earth and governing a country.
The imperial edict said: "The truth lies in the beginning and end of human affairs." The foolish minister used the three ancient kings to illustrate.
I heard that the three kings and ministers were all wise, so they conspired to help each other and made plans to stabilize the world, all based on human feelings.
All human feelings do not want to live long, and the three kings protect people's lives without harming them; all human feelings do not want to be rich, and the three kings make people rich without making them poor; all human feelings do not want peace, and the three kings maintain social order without harming the people; all human feelings do not want to be comfortable, and the three kings save manpower but do not exhaust the people's strength.
The three kings formulated laws and regulations, and then implemented them according to human sentiment; they mobilized the people to set up undertakings, and they started from personnel matters and then implemented them.
以己之心为根据来要求别人，把自己的好恶也用到别人身上。

Don't force things on others that you hate; don't forbid people from doing things that you want to do.
In this case, the world will welcome the government's decrees, admire the government's kindness, respect them like parents, and follow them like flowing water; the people will be harmonious and loving, the country will be peaceful, and the order of status will not be chaotic, and will be extended to future generations.
These are the ways of human affairs that understand the end and beginning of human affairs.
The imperial edict said: "Speak bluntly and remonstrate very much. The foolish minister thought that the ministers of the five hegemons could understand."
I heard that the Five Hegemons were not as good as their ministers, so they entrusted the country to the ministers and handed over important matters to the ministers.
As human ministers, the assistant ministers of the Five Hegemons should be careful about themselves and not dare to go beyond false accusations. They should abide by the laws and not tolerate personal feelings. They should work hard but not dare to boast. They should not avoid death when encountering disasters. They should not seize the upper position when seeing a wise man. The salary they receive should not exceed the legal standard. Do not let the incompetent occupy the position of honor.
This is how he behaves, and he can be said to be a minister who acts according to the rules.
They enacted laws not to set traps to harm the people, but to promote benefits and eliminate harm, respecting the Lord and calming the people and avoiding irritability.
They reward people, not to take people's wealth in vain and give it away to others, but to encourage loyalty and filial piety in the world and publicize their merits.
Therefore, those with more merit will be rewarded more generously, while those with less merit will be rewarded less.
In this way, the people don't resent collecting people's wealth to reward their merits, because they know that what they pay is for their own stability.
They imposed punishments not to indulge their violent tempers by killing them in anger, but to prohibit behavior that was unfaithful, unfilial, or even harmful to the country.
Therefore, serious crimes are punished severely and minor crimes are punished lightly.
In this way, the people will not be resentful even to death after committing a crime, knowing that the punishment for the crime is their own fault.
If this is the case when enacting laws, we can say that we are fair and upright officials.
If the law violates reason, ask for it to be revised, and do not use it to harm the people; if the monarch enforces it violently, then restore the correct way of doing it, and do not use it to harm the country.
To remedy the king's faults, promote the king's virtues, and highlight the king's merits, so that the king does not engage in evil behavior internally and does not have a bad reputation externally.
Serving the king to this extent can be said to be a person who is outspoken and tries his best to advise.
This is the reason why the Five Hegemons used virtue to uphold the world, correct the princes with power, achieve great achievements, and have a prominent reputation. If we cite the wise monarchs in the world, the Five Hegemons are the outstanding representatives. This is a way to make up for their shortcomings with outspoken advice when they are not as good as their ministers.
Today, the number of people under His Majesty's command, the majesty of His Majesty, the depth of virtues, and the power of command and prohibition are tens of thousands of times greater than that of the five tyrants. However, the edicts and policies given to foolish ministers make up for my shortcomings. How can I still recognize Your Majesty's brilliance and flatter me!
Shao Ce said: "The officials are unjust, the government is not declared, and the people are restless. The foolish ministers use the fortress to explain it."
When I heard that Sai began to annex the world, its king was not as good as the three kings, and its ministers were not as good as the three kings' assistant ministers. However, the establishment of achievements was not slow. Why?
The terrain is convenient, the mountains and rivers are favorable, the wealth is sufficient, and the people are good at fighting.
Compared with the coexisting six kingdoms, the ministers of the six kingdoms were all incompetent, their strategies were not unified, and the people could not do what they wanted. Therefore, Qin was the most prosperous and powerful at this time.
A strong country with chaotic neighboring countries is most qualified to claim the title of emperor, so Qin can annex the six countries and establish himself as emperor.
At that time, the methods of the three kings to establish their merits could not be adopted.
Later in the period of decline, people were appointed unworthy and listened to slanderers; the palaces were overrun, the desire for luxury was unlimited, the people were exhausted, and the wealth was uncontrolled; they pretended to be virtuous, and the ministers competed for flattery out of fear, they were arrogant and indulgent, regardless of the disaster that was coming; and they were rewarded in vain. They follow personal preferences, execute them arbitrarily to vent their anger, impose harsh laws and cruelty on the people, punish cruelly, execute people easily, and personally shoot and kill people; the world is cold and unable to live in peace, the evil officials use the law to abuse the law, and the prison officials judge the officials, and they are arbitrary in life and death.
The top and bottom are disintegrated, and each one is independent.
When Qin first began to have civil strife, the officials first invaded the poor and untouchables; in the middle period, they invaded the families of rich officials; and in the end, they invaded the clan ministers.
Therefore, people who are close or distant are in danger, there is resentment inside and outside, people are separated and flee, and people are rebellious.
Chen Sheng first advocated the collapse of the world, cut off the sacrifices in ancestral temples, and occupied the country for different surnames.
The result is unjust officials, undeclared government, and unrest among the people.
Now, when your Majesty is in harmony with heaven, he is like the benefit of the earth, benefiting all the people, eradicating the traces of the Qin Dynasty, and abolishing the chaotic laws; he personally promotes his own industry and prohibits luxury and waste; he eliminates troubles and loves others generously; he does not use corporal punishment, and his crimes are not as good as his wife; he does not punish slander. Abolish the law of banning and minting money; open the gates and do not doubt the princes; respect the elders and care for the young orphans; marry off the sinners in the harem; respect and reward filial piety, and the peasants are free of rent when the court has enough; the Ming Dynasty imperial edict to the commander of the army, Cherish soldiers and officials; seek out upright officials and eliminate treacherous officials; eliminate palace punishment and execute those who harm the people; condolences the people, and the princes return to the feudal country; personally cultivate the fields, save money, and show the people that they are not extravagant.
To bring benefits to the world and eliminate harms, to reform laws and eradicate old ones, and to stabilize the sea, there are dozens of great achievements that are difficult to achieve in the previous world. Your Majesty has carried out them, and his moral integrity is a great blessing to the people of the world.
The imperial edict said: "I will always correct my unethical words and deeds. A foolish minister is not worthy of this."
The imperial edict said: "Know and state your ambitions, don't hide anything. The foolish ministers use the wise ministers of the Five Emperors to explain it."
If the ministers heard that the ministers of the Five Emperors were not as good as the Five Emperors, the Five Emperors would personally handle the matter; the three kings and their ministers were all worthy, so they would worry about it together; the Five Hegemons were not as good as their ministers, so they would appoint their ministers.
This is to not abandon the virtues of gods, not to abolish the names of saints, and to establish merit in this world.
It is said that things in the past cannot be undone, and things in the future can still wait. The one who can understand the world is the emperor. This is what it means.
I have heard privately that if the war cannot be won, then the fiefdom will be changed, and if the people are poor, then the occupation will be changed.
Today, His Majesty is a god of great virtue, and his talents are no less than those of the Five Emperors. He has dominated the world. For sixteen years now, the people have not become richer, the thieves have not declined, and the borders have not been stable. The reason for this is that some people say that Your Majesty did not personally handle the matter, but waited for the ministers to handle it.
Nowadays, the ministers in power are selected from all over the world, but they cannot see His Majesty's clear light, just like the assistant ministers of the Five Emperors.
If your Majesty does not deal with it personally, but waits for the ministers who do not hope for the light of clarity, the ministers who think that the virtues of gods will be abandoned by themselves.
The loss of a day is one day, the loss of a year is a year. The sun and the moon are getting closer to the evening. The virtues are not spread to the world and spread to all generations. The foolish minister does not overestimate his own ability and privately feels sorry for His Majesty.
Risking one's life to confuse Cao Mao's foolish opinions, my words are only for His Majesty's decision.
At that time, Zhiyi was dead, and there were more than a hundred people in charge of countermeasures. Only Kenbi was the highest rank, and he was promoted to middle doctor.
Xianbi also said that it was appropriate to cut down the feudal lords and that the laws and regulations should be changed, so he wrote a total of thirty chapters.
Although Gui Lihu didn't accept it, he was surprised by his talent.
At that time, the prince praised the strategy of making mistakes, but many of the great heroes did not like to show their mistakes.
After Emperor Jing ascended the throne, he used Chao Cuo as his internal history.
Chao Cuo repeatedly requested to discuss political affairs alone, but Emperor Jing always obeyed. He favored him more than Jiu Qing, and many laws were revised.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia was dissatisfied, but was unable to harm him.
The Neishi Mansion was built on the open space surrounded by the wall of Taishang Temple. The door opened to the east, making it inconvenient to enter and exit. So Chao Cuo opened two doors to the south for access and cut through the wall of Taishang Temple.
After Prime Minister Shen Zuotai heard about this, he was very angry and planned to use this mistake to write a memorial asking Chao Cuo to be executed.
When Chao Cuo heard the news, he asked to see the emperor alone that night and told the emperor exactly what had happened.
The prime minister went to court and took the opportunity to tell Chao Cuo that he had cut open the wall of the Taishang Temple to make a door without authorization, and requested that he be handed over to the Tingwei for execution.
The emperor said: This is not a temple wall, but a wall on the open space outside the temple. It does not involve any law.
The prime minister apologized, and after retreating from the court, he angrily said to the chief minister: I should have killed him first and then reported it to the emperor, but instead I reported him first and was betrayed by the gangster, so I made a mistake.
The prime minister fell ill and died, making Chao Cuo even more powerful.
Chao Cuo was promoted to the imperial censor, and he stated the sins of the princes and requested that their lands be reduced and their neighboring counties be recovered.
After the memorial was sent, the emperor ordered the ministers, princes and royal family to gather for discussion. No one dared to criticize him, except Baoying who disagreed. From then on, there was a gap between him and Chao.
The decree revised by Chao Cuo had thirty chapters. The princes were in an uproar and hated Chao Cuo.
When Chao Cuo's father heard the news, he came from Yingchuan and said to Chao Cuo: Your Majesty has just ascended the throne. You have been in power, infringing and weakening the princes, and alienating other people's flesh and blood. People blame you and resent you. Why do you do this?
Chao Cuo said: Of course.
Otherwise, the emperor will not be noble and the country will not be peaceful.
Chao Cuo's father said: The Liu family's world is at peace, but the Chao family is in danger. I leave you and go back!
He took poison and died. When he was dying, he said: I can't bear to see a disaster involving myself.
Ten days later, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu all rebelled against Chao Cuo.
The emperor and Chao Cuo discussed sending troops. Chao Cuo wanted the emperor to personally lead the troops and let him guard the rear.
At that time, Dou Ying was recommending Yuan An, and Shou Shao came to see him. The emperor was planning military rations with Chao Cuo.
The emperor asked Yuan Ang: "You once served as the prime minister of Wu. Do you know Wu Chen Tian Lubo's character?"
What do you think about Wu and Chu's rebellion today? He replied: "Don't worry, we can defeat them today."
The emperor said: King Wu minted money from the mountains, boiled the sea into salt, seduced the world's heroes, and started a rebellion with a white scarf on his head. This plan has not been completed yet, so how can we give up?
Why do you say he has nothing to worry about?
Yuan Ang replied: The copper salt in Wu State is of great benefit, so why not find heroes to seduce it?
If the country of Wu is really blessed with heroes, they will only serve as assistants and will not rebel.
The people Wu Guo seduced were all scoundrels who were desperate to make money and treacherous people, so they attracted chaos later.
Chao Cuo said: Yuan Ance is very good.
The emperor said: How to plan for quelling the chaos?
Yuan An said: "Please everyone on the left and right please step back."
The people on the left and right left, leaving Chao Cuo alone.
Yuan An said: What I want to say is not known to others.
So Chao Cuo was asked to step aside.
Chao Cuo hurriedly fled to the Shuxiang room, hating Yuan Ang deeply.
The emperor asked Yuan An urgently and replied: The ministers of Wu and Chu sent letters saying that Emperor Gao made his children kings and each had their own land. Now Chao Cuo, the traitor, is good at punishing the princes and depriving them of their land. Therefore, he went west to attack Chao Cuo in the name of rebellion. He restored the original fiefdom and then stopped.
The current strategy is to kill Chao Cuo, send envoys to pardon the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, and restore their old lands. Then they can all stop fighting without bloodshed.
So the emperor remained silent for a long time and then said: "Look at the situation, I don't love anyone to thank the world."
Yuan Ang said: If you take out the Yu Ji, you can only make a careful calculation by the emperor.
So Ren Yuan Ang thought it was too often, secretly packed his bags and set off.
More than ten days later, Prime Minister Qing Zhai, Lieutenant Jia, and Ting Lieutenant Zhang Ou impeached Chao Cuo, saying: King Wu is rebellious and wants to harm the ancestral temple, and the whole world should punish him.
Now Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, suggested: "With millions of soldiers, it is not reliable to hand them over to the ministers alone. It is better for your majesty to lead the troops yourself and let Chao Cuo stay behind."
The unconquered areas around Xu and Tong can be given to Wu.
Chao Cuo did not praise His Majesty's virtue and integrity, but wanted to alienate the ministers and people, and also wanted to give the city to Wu. He did not fulfill the courtesy of a minister, and was treasonous.
Chao Cuo should be punished by being cut in half, and his parents, wives, brothers, young and old, should be put to death.
Please handle the matter according to law.
The emperor's instructions said: "Okay."
Chao Cuo had no idea.
He sent a lieutenant to summon Chao Cuo and tricked him into getting into a car and passing through the market. Chao Cuo was beheaded in Shushi wearing court clothes.
Chao Cuo was dead, and his servant, Duke Deng, served as a school captain. At this time, he served as a general to attack the rebels of Wu and Chu.
He returned to the capital, wrote a letter reporting the military situation, and went to see the emperor.
The emperor asked: When you came from the army and heard that Chao Cuo was dead, did Wu and Chu retreat?
邓公说： 吴王谋反已有几十年了，因削减他的封地而发怒，以诛杀晁错为名，他的本意不在晁错呀。

Moreover, I am worried that the scholar-bureaucrats in the world will keep silent and dare not speak out. The emperor said: Why?
Deng Gong said: Chao Cuo was worried that the princes were too strong to be subdued, so he asked to reduce the fiefdoms of the princes in order to respect the imperial court. This is a good thing for all times.
The plan had just started to be implemented, but he was killed. Internally, it blocked the mouths of loyal ministers. Externally, it avenged the princes. I privately think that it is not advisable for you to do this.
At this time, Emperor Jing sighed loudly and said: You are right, I also regret this.
So Deng Gong was appointed as the lieutenant of Chengyang.
Deng Gong was from Chenggu and had many strange strategies.
In the first year of Jianyuan, the imperial court wanted to recruit virtuous people, and the ministers recommended Deng Gong. At this time, Deng Gong was dismissed from his post and was appointed as the ninth minister by common people.
A year later, Mr. Deng resigned and returned home again due to illness.
His son Sutong was very famous among the court ministers because of his research on the theories of Jianhu and Wang.
Zan said: Although Yuan Ang is not eager to learn, he is also good at understanding and understanding. He still has the essence of benevolence and is often passionate and generous when citing great causes.
When Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, his talents came at the right time.
Times changed, and during the reign of Emperor Jing, he used a trick to kill Chao Cuo for his suggestion of Wu and Chu rebellion, and he himself finally suffered an accident.
Chao Cuo was keen on making foresight for the country, but he could not see that his own disaster was coming.
His father could see clearly, but committed suicide in a ditch, which was of no use to save the country from defeat. It is not as good as Zhao's mother to blame Zhao Kuo. Although Zhao Kuo was defeated by Changping, he saved the Zhao family from being killed by Lian Lifa.
How sad!
Although Chao Cuo did not die well, the world still lamented his loyalty.
Therefore, his remarks related to the implementation of political affairs were collected and recorded in his biography.
