Gaozu was born in Zhongyangli, Fengyi, Peixian County. The surname is Liu and the courtesy name is Ji.
The father's name is Taigong, and the mother's name is Liu Yu.
Previously, Lady Liu had rested on the shore of the Great Lake and met God in her sleep.
At this time, there were thunder and lightning, and the sky was dark and the earth was dark. Grandpa Gong went to see Lady Liu and saw a dragon on her body. Later Lady Liu became pregnant and gave birth to Gaozu.
Gaozu had a high nose, a plump forehead like a dragon, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left leg.
He is kind and loving to others, likes to give charity, and is broad-minded.
They often have lofty ambitions and do not engage in ordinary people's production operations.
When he reached his prime, he tried to be an official and became the chief of the Sishui Pavilion. Every official in the court was familiar with him and was teased by him.
He likes drinking and women.
He often borrowed wine from Wang Lao and Wu Fu and slept drunk. Wu Fu and Wang Lao often saw a dragon above him and felt very strange.
Every time Emperor Gaozu came to buy wine and stayed in the hotel to drink, the wine in the hotel sold several times more than usual.
When a strange phenomenon was discovered, at the end of the year, these two hotels often wrote off the credit debts of Gao Zu.
Emperor Gaozu once went to Xianyang to perform corvées and allowed people to watch. When he saw Qin Shihuang, he sighed and said: Ah, a real man should look like this!
Lu Gong, a single father, was friendly with the magistrate of Peixian County. In order to avoid his enemies from visiting the magistrate's house, he moved his family to Peixian County.
When the outstanding officials in Pei County heard that the county magistrate had a distinguished guest, they all went to send gifts to congratulate him.
Xiao He is the chief official of the county and is in charge of collecting gifts. He said to all distinguished guests: "Those whose gifts are less than one thousand yuan should sit down in the hall."
When Emperor Gaozu was the chief of the pavilion, he always looked down upon the officials. So he deceitfully said "Congratulations on thousands of dollars" on his name card, but in fact he didn't take out any money.
When the famous assassin was handed in, Lu Gong was shocked, stood up, and went to the door to greet Gaozu.
Lu Gong was a good person, so when he saw Gaozu's appearance, he respected him especially and led him to sit in the hall.
Xiao He said: Liu Ji originally talked a lot but rarely achieved anything.
Emperor Gaozu then teased the guests in the hall and sat at the top of the table, showing no humility.
The banquet was about to end, and Duke Lu signaled Gao Zu not to leave with his eyes.
Gaozu finished his drink and stayed behind.
Lu Gong said: I have been good at meeting people since I was young. I have met many people, but none of them is as noble as you, Liu Ji. I hope you, Liu Ji, take care of yourself.
I have a biological daughter who is willing to be your wife, Liu Ji, who holds a broom and sweeps.
After the banquet, Mrs. Lu was angry with Mr. Lu and said: "At first you always wanted to make this daughter different and marry her to a noble man."
Pei Ling was friendly with you and asked to marry your daughter, but you didn't agree. Why did you arbitrarily decide to marry Liu Ji?
Lu Gong said: This is not what you women and children can understand.
So he married his daughter to Liu Ji.
The daughter of Duke Lu was Empress Lu, who gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he once asked for leave to go home.
Queen Lu and her two children were weeding in the field. An old man passed by and asked for some water. Queen Lu gave him some food.
The old man met Empress Lu and said, "My wife is a noble person in the world."
Empress Lu asked him to read the faces of the two children. The old man looked at Xiaohui and said: Madam, the reason why she is so noble is because of this child.
After seeing Lu Yuan, he was also a noble prime minister.
The old man had already left, and Gaozu happened to come to the field from someone else's house. Empress Lu told him that a guest was passing by and showed our faces to mother and son, saying that we would both be noble people in the future. Gaozu asked where my father was, and Empress Lu said: "It's not far away."
Gaozu caught up with the old man and asked him.
The old man said: I met my wife and children just now, and they are all similar to you. Your appearance is beyond words.
Emperor Gaozu thanked me and said: If it is true as my father said, I will never forget your kindness to me.
When Emperor Gaozu became famous, he didn't even know where the old man was.
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he used bamboo skin as a hat. This hat was made by a thief he sent to Xue County, and he often wore it. When he became a distinguished person, he still often wore it. The so-called "Liu's crown" refers to this kind of hat.
Emperor Gaozu served as the pavilion chief and sent servants to Mount Li for the county. Many of the servants fled on the way.
He estimated that by the time they reached Lishan Mountain, everyone would have fled. He went to the swamp area west of Fengyi and stopped to drink. At night, Gaozu released the slaves he had escorted.
Emperor Gaozu said: "Everyone, let's go. I'm running away from now on!"
Among the servants, there were more than ten young and strong men who were willing to follow Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk, so he took a small road through the swamp that night and sent a man to explore the way.
The person who went out to explore the road came back and reported: There is a big snake lying across the road ahead. Please go back.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk and said: "When a hero walks, there is nothing to be afraid of!"
So he stepped forward, drew his sword and struck the snake, cutting it into two pieces, and the road was opened.
After walking for a few miles, he got drunk and lay down to sleep.
The people behind came to the place where the snake was killed and saw an old lady crying at night.
People asked why she was crying. The old lady said: Someone killed my son, so I cried.
People said again: Old lady, why was your son killed?
The old lady said: My son, the son of the White Emperor, turned into a snake and was lying on the road. Now he was killed by the son of the Red Emperor, so I cried.
People thought the old lady was dishonest and wanted to give her a hard time. The old lady suddenly disappeared.
Those who were left behind arrived at the place where Gaozu was resting, and Gaozu had already woken up.
They told Gaozu what had just happened. Gaozu was secretly happy and felt arrogant.
Those who followed him grew in awe of him.
Qin Shihuang often said that "there is the emperor's energy in the southeast", so he traveled to the east to suppress the emperor's energy in the southeast.
Emperor Gaozu suspected that the incident was related to him, so he ran away and hid among the rocks in the Mangshan and Dangshan areas.
Queen Lu searched with others, and often found Gaozu as soon as they arrived.
Emperor Gaozu felt strange and asked Empress Lu. Empress Lu said: There are often clouds where you are. If you look for the clouds, you can often be found.
Gaozu was very happy.
When some of the children in Pei County heard about this, many wanted to join him.
In the autumn of the first year of Qin II, Chen Sheng and others revolted in Qixian County and established themselves as kings in Chenxian County, known as Zhang Chu.
Most of the counties and counties killed their chiefs in response to Chen Sheng.
The magistrate of Peixian County was frightened and wanted to respond to Chen Sheng with Peiju. The chief official Xiao He and the jailer Cao Shen said to him: As an official of the Qin Dynasty, you are now rebelling against Qin and leading the children of Peixian County. I am afraid they will not obey your orders.
I hope you can gather hundreds of people who are fleeing outside. Use this power to intimidate the masses, and they will not dare to disobey your orders.
The county magistrate sent Fan Kuai to summon Liu Ji. Liu Ji's team already numbered nearly a hundred people.
So Fan Kuai followed Liu Ji to Peixian County.
The magistrate of Peixian County regretted it again. Fearing that something might happen to Liu Ji, he closed the city gates and sent people to defend him, intending to kill Xiao He and Cao Shen.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were frightened and climbed over the city wall to attach themselves to Liu Ji.
Liu Ji wrote a letter on silk and sent it to the city, telling the elders of Peixian County: The world has been suffering from the tyranny of the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
Now the elders are guarding the city for Pei Ling, but the princes from all over the world have revolted and want to massacre Pei County.
If the elders of Peixian County unite to kill Pei Ling and select the leader among their children who can be appointed as the leader to respond to the princes' army, then the lives of the whole family can be saved.
Otherwise, both father and son would be killed and their deaths would be meaningless.
The elders led their children to kill Pei Ling, opened the city gate, and welcomed Liu Ji, hoping to make him the magistrate of Pei County.
Liu Ji said: The world is in chaos, and all the princes are in rebellion. If the elected generals are not qualified, they will be completely defeated.
I am not begrudging my own life, but I am afraid that my talents are too weak to save my father, brothers and children.
This is a big deal, and I hope we can jointly elect someone who can do the job.
Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were civil servants who valued their wealth and life, and were afraid that the Qin Dynasty would exterminate their entire clans if the matter failed, so they all recommended Liu Ji.
The elders all said: We usually hear many strange things about Liu Ji. It seems that Liu Ji should be honored. And after divination, no one is more auspicious than Liu Ji.
At this time, Liu Ji repeatedly made concessions, but no one dared to take up the post. Finally, Liu Ji was appointed Duke of Pei.
In the courtyard of the Pei County Yamen, they offered sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor and Chi You, and used the blood of sacrifices to raise drum flags.
The flags are all red, because the snake Liu Ji killed was the son of the White Emperor, and the one who killed the snake was the son of the Red Emperor, so he respected red.
So the young men and powerful officials, such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai and others, recruited soldiers for Pei Gong. They gathered two to three thousand people to attack Hu Ling and Fang Yu, and then returned to defend Fengyi.
In the second year of Qin II, General Chen Sheng led Zhou Zhang's army to the west to play in the water and return.
Yan, Zhao, Qi, and Wei all established themselves as kings.
Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu raised troops in Wu.
Qin Ping, the governor of Sishui County, led his troops to surround Feng. Two days later, Peigong sent troops to fight and defeated the Qin army.
Duke Pei ordered Yong Chi to guard Fengyi and led his troops to Xue.
Zhuang, the governor of Sishui County, was defeated in Xue and fled to Qi. Pei Gongzuo Sima captured Zhuang, the governor of Sishui County, and killed him.
Pei Gong returned to the army to fight against his father. When he arrived, there was no fighting.
King Chen Sheng of Chen sent Wei people to Zhoushi to attack the city and seize the territory.
The envoy from Zhoushi said to Yong Chi: "Feng, it turns out that King Liang once moved here."
Now Wei has captured dozens of cities. If you, Yongchi, surrender to Wei, Wei will make you Yongchi a marquis and still garrison Fengyi.
If you don't surrender, Fengyi will be slaughtered with blood.
Yong Chi was originally very reluctant to submit to Pei Gong. When Wei Guo surrendered, he betrayed Pei Gong and defended Fengyi for Wei Guo.
Duke Pei led his troops to attack Feng, but failed to capture it.
Pei Gong fell ill and returned to Pei County.
Pei Gong resented that Yong Chi and Fengyi's children had betrayed him. When he heard that Dongyang Ningjun and Qin Jiali had made Jingju the false king and lived in Liu County, he attached himself to them and wanted to borrow troops to attack Fengyi.
At this time, Qin general Zhang Han was chasing King Chen's troops, while Sima Yi, the general of Sima Yi, led his army northward and captured Chu. They reached Xiangtu City and arrived at Dang County.
Dongyang Ningjun and Peigong led their troops to the west and fought with Sima Yi in the west of Xiao County, but they did not take advantage.
He returned to collect scattered soldiers, gathered in Liuxian County, and led troops to attack Dangxian. He captured Dangxian County in three days.
He collected troops from Dang County and obtained five to six thousand men. He attacked Xiayi and defeated them.
Return to Fengyi.
I heard that Xiang Liang was in Xue County, so he brought more than a hundred cavalry to see Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang assigned 5,000 additional soldiers to Peigong and ten generals at the level of five officials.
Duke Pei returned and led his troops to attack Feng.
Peigong followed Xiang Liang for more than a month, and Xiang Yu had already conquered Xiangcheng and returned.
Xiang Liang summoned all the generals to Xuexian County. When he heard that King Chen was indeed dead, he made Xin, a descendant of Chu State and the grandson of King Huai of Chu, king of Chu, and made Xutai his capital.
Xiang Liang was named Wu Xinjun.
After stopping for a few months, he went north to attack Kangfu, rescued Dong'a, and defeated the Qin army.
The Qi army returned to Qi, but the Chu army pursued the defeated soldiers alone. He sent Pei Gong and Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Chengyang and massacred the soldiers and civilians in the city.
Peigong and Xiang Yu garrisoned east of Puyang, fought with the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army.
The Qin army cheered up again, defended Puyang, and cut off the water.
The Chu army left and turned to attack Dingtao, but Dingtao was not captured.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu went west to capture the city. When they arrived at Yongqiu City, they fought with the Qin army, defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang, but Waihuang was not captured.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army again, looking proud.
Song Yi warned him, but he didn't listen.
Qin sent troops to reinforce Zhang Han and secretly attacked Xiang Liang at night. They defeated Xiang Liang in Dingtao and died in the battle.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu were attacking Chenliu. When they heard that Xiang Liang was dead, they led their troops and marched eastward with General Lu.
Lu Chen was stationed to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu was stationed to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong was stationed in Dang.
Zhang Han had defeated Xiang Liang's army and thought that the enemies in Chu did not need to worry, so he crossed the Yellow River and attacked Zhao from the north, defeating the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king of Zhao, and Qin general Wang Li besieged Zhao Xie in Julu City. This is the so-called Hebei Army.
In the third year of Qin II, King Huai of Chu saw that Xiang Liang's army was defeated. He was frightened, moved away from Xutai, established his capital in Pengcheng, merged the armies of Lu Chen and Xiang Yu, and took command personally.
Peigong was appointed as the governor of Dang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, commanding the army of Dang County.
Xiang Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an and his title was Duke of Lu.
Lu Chen was appointed Situ, and his father Lu Qing was appointed Ling Yin.
Zhao requested rescue many times, so King Chu Huai sent Song Yi as his general, Xiang Yu as his second general, and Fan Zeng as his junior general, and went north to rescue Zhao.
He ordered Pei Gong to march west and invade Guanzhong.
An agreement was made with the generals: whoever conquers Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong.
At this time, the Qin army was strong and often took advantage of the victory to pursue, but the generals did not think it was advantageous to enter the pass first.
Only Xiang Yu hated Qin for defeating Xiang Liang's army, and was so angry that he was willing to enter the pass with Peigong west.
King Huai's veterans all said: Xiang Yu is agile but fierce, cunning and cruel.
Xiang Yu once attacked Xiangcheng, but no one was left alive in Xiangcheng. They were all buried alive. Wherever they passed, they were slaughtered and destroyed.
Moreover, the Chu army attacked and conquered many times, and King Chen and Xiang Liang failed before.
It is better to send another kind-hearted elder to march westward with the call of justice and explain the truth clearly to Qin's father and brothers.
Qin's father and brothers have suffered from their monarch's rule for a long time. Now if they can really get a generous elder to go to Guanzhong without bullying and tyranny, they should be able to win Guanzhong.
Now Xiang Yu is so fierce that he cannot be dispatched.
Only Pei Gong, who has always been a tolerant elder, can be dispatched.
In the end, King Huai did not agree to Xiang Yu's request and sent Peigong to the west to attack Qin. Collecting the scattered troops of King Chen and Xiang Liang, they passed through Dang and arrived at Chengyang. They faced off against the Qin army in Gangli and defeated the two Qin troops.
The Chu army sent troops to attack Wang Li and severely defeated his army.
Peigong led his troops to the west, met Peng Yue in Changyi, and joined him to attack the Qin army. The battle was not won.
Returning to Li County, I met Marquis Gangwu and captured his army, about 4,000 people, and merged them together.
Peigong, together with the troops of Wei General Huang Xin and Wei Shentu Wu Pu, jointly attacked Changyi, but Changyi was not captured.
Passing through Gaoyang on the way west.
Li Shiqi was the prison gate and said: "There are many generals passing by here. I think Pei Gong is a big man, with the demeanor of a kind and elder man."
So he went to seek an audience and lobby Pei Gong.
Peigong sat on the bed, stretched out his legs, and asked the two women to wash his feet.
Li Sheng did not bow down, but bowed deeply and said: "We must destroy the cruel and cruel Qin Dynasty with one step. We should not sit down with our legs stretched out to meet the elders."
So Pei Gong stood up, straightened his clothes, apologized to him, and asked him to take his seat.
Li Shiqi persuaded Peigong to attack Chenliu and obtain the grain and rice accumulated by Chenliu.
Pei Gong then appointed Li Shiqi as Lord of Guangye and Li Shang as general, led Chen Liu's army, and attacked Kaifeng together with Pei Gong, but Kaifeng was not captured.
Xiangxi fought with Qin general Yang Xiong at Baima, and then fought to the east of Quyu, defeating Yang Xiong's army.
Yang Xiong fled to Rongyang, and Qin II sent an envoy to behead him in public.
Peigong went south to attack Yingyang and massacred the city of Yingyang.
Relying on Zhang Liang, he captured the royal palace in South Korea.
At this time, Zhao general Sima Yin was about to cross the Yellow River and enter Hangu Pass. Peigong attacked north to defeat Pingyin and cut off the Yellow River ferry.
Heading south, they fought in the east of Luoyang, but the battle was unfavorable. After returning to Yangcheng, they gathered their cavalry and fought with the governor of Nanyang County in Guidong, defeating the Qin army.
After capturing the city of Nanyang County, the governor of Nanyang County fled and retreated to Wan County.
Duke Pei led his troops to bypass Wancheng and march westward.
Zhang Liangjin remonstrated and said: "Pei Gong, although you are eager to break into Hangu Pass, there are still many Qin soldiers and they are guarding the dangerous position."
If Wancheng is not captured now, the defenders of Wancheng will attack from behind and the powerful Qin army will block it from the front. This is a dangerous tactic.
So Pei Gong led his troops back from another road at night, changed the flag, and surrounded Wancheng on three levels at dawn.
The governor of Nanyang County wanted to commit suicide, but his bodyguard Chen Hui said: "It's not time to die yet."
He climbed over the city wall to see Pei Gong and said: I heard that I have accepted the agreement of King Huai of Chu to attack Xianyang's Chengwang Pass first.
Now I will stay in Wancheng.
Wancheng was the seat of a large county, with dozens of connected cities and a large number of people and sufficient food. The officials and people believed that surrender would definitely lead to death, so they all boarded the city to defend it.
If Shishi stayed here all day to attack the city, many soldiers would be killed or injured. If he led his troops to leave Wancheng, the defenders of Wancheng would definitely follow and pursue him. If you move forward, you will lose the promise of entering Xianyang first, and if you retreat, you will be troubled by the powerful Wancheng defenders.
For His Majesty's idea, it would be better to make a clear promise to surrender, grant him the title of Nanyang County Governor, let him stay behind, and lead the soldiers of Wancheng to march westward.
Many unconquered cities, hearing the news, rushed to open their city gates and wait for the next step, so that they could pass without hindrance. Pei Gong said: OK.
He made the governor of Nanyang County the Marquis of Yin and granted Chen Hui a thousand households.
When the troops are led westward, no one will fail to surrender.
Arriving at Danshui, Gaowu Houyi and Xianghou Wangling surrendered in Xiling.
When he returned to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Rong, and together with him, they forced Xixian and Lixian to surrender.
Ningchang of Wei was sent as an envoy to Qin Guanzhong, but the envoy did not come back.
By this time, Zhang Han had led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu in Zhao.
At first, Xiang Yu and Song Yi marched north to rescue Zhao. When Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, he replaced him as general. Many generals, such as Qing Bu, were subordinate to Xiang Yu. He defeated Qin general Wang Li's army and made Zhang Han surrender, and all the princes joined him.
When Zhao Gao had killed Qin II, he sent people to see Pei Gong and wanted to make an agreement to carve up Guanzhong and claim the throne. Pei Gong thought it was a fraud, so he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and sent Li Sheng and Lu Jia to lobby the Qin generals. They lured them with their own interests and took the opportunity to attack Wuguan and break the pass.
He also fought with the Qin army in the south of Lantian. He added more suspects and planted more flags. No looting was allowed in the places he passed. The people of Qin were very happy. The Qin army collapsed and the Qin army was defeated.
They fought again in the north of Lantian and defeated the Qin army again.
Taking advantage of the victory, he pursued and completely defeated the Qin army.
In October of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang before the princes.
The Prince of Qin rode on a plain carriage with a white horse, tied his neck with a ribbon, sealed the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
Some generals advocated killing the King of Qin.
Pei Gong said: King Huai of Chu sent me originally because I can be tolerant. Besides, it is unlucky to kill someone after they have already surrendered.
So he handed the King of Qin over to the officials and headed west into Xianyang.
Pei Gong wanted to stay in the palace to rest, but after being persuaded by Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang, he sealed off the valuable treasures, property and storehouses in the Qin Palace and returned to the army.
He summoned the elders and heroes from each county and said: "The elders have suffered from the harsh punishments of the Qin Dynasty for a long time. Those who slander the government will be exterminated, and those who gather to discuss will be beheaded in the streets."
I made an agreement with the princes that whoever enters Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong, and I should be crowned king in Guanzhong.
It was agreed with the elders that the law has only three chapters: the death penalty for murder, and the punishment for injury and robbery commensurate with the crime committed.
All other laws of the Qin Dynasty were abolished.
Officials and people should live in peace and harmony.
The reason why I am here is to eliminate harm for the elders. There will be no bullying or cruel behavior. Don't be afraid.
The reason why I returned to Junba was to wait for the princes to arrive and formulate a common agreement.
Peigong sent people and officials from the Qin Dynasty to patrol the county and countryside to inform the people.
The people of Qin were very happy and rushed to entertain the soldiers with cattle and sheep, wine and food.
Pei Gong refused to accept it again, saying: "There is a lot of grain in the warehouse, there is no shortage, and I don't want to waste it on the people."
The people were even more happy, fearing that Pei Gong would not become King of Qin.
Someone advised Pei Gong: Qin is ten times richer than the world, and its terrain is good.
Now that he heard that Zhang Han had surrendered to Xiang Yu, Xiang Yu gave him the title of King Yong and declared him king in Guanzhong.
Now that he is about to come to Guanzhong to join the kingdom, you, Pei Gong, may not be able to occupy this place.
We should quickly send troops to guard Hangu Pass to prevent the princes' troops from entering, and gradually recruit Guanzhong troops to strengthen our strength and resist the princes' troops.
Pei Gong agreed with his plan and followed it.
In November, Xiang Yu led the army of the princes to the west and wanted to enter the pass, but the gate was closed.
Hearing that Pei Gong had pacified Guanzhong, he was furious and sent Yingbu and others to attack Hangu Pass.
In December, it’s time to play in the water.
Cao Wushang, the left Sima of Pei Gong, heard that King Xiang was angry and wanted to attack Pei Gong. He sent someone to tell Xiang Yu: Pei Gong wants to claim the title of king of Guanzhong and make Ziying the prime minister. He has all the treasures.
I plan to get a reward for this.
Yafu advised Xiang Yu to attack Peigong.
At that time, Xiang Yu feasted his soldiers and prepared for the battle tomorrow.
At this time, Xiang Yu had 400,000 troops, which was said to be one million.
Pei Gong had 100,000 troops, which he claimed were 200,000, but he was no match for Xiang Yu.
It happened that Xiang Bo wanted to save Zhang Liang and went to see him at night. He persuaded Xiang Yu with reason, and Xiang Yu canceled his plan to attack Peigong.
Pei Gong brought more than a hundred cavalry and rode to Hongmen to see Xiang Yu and express his apology.
Xiang Yu said: This is what your Pei Gongzuo Sima Cao Wushang told me.
Otherwise, why would I, Xiang Yu, do such a thing?
Peigong was able to escape and return because of Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang.
After returning, he immediately killed Cao Wushang.
Xiang Yu marched westward, slaughtering innocent people and burning the Qin Palace in Xianyang. Everywhere he passed was destroyed and destroyed.
The people of Qin were greatly disappointed, but they were afraid and did not dare to disobey.
Xiang Yu sent people back to report to King Huai of Chu.
King Huai of Chu said: We must follow the original agreement.
Xiang Yu resented that King Huai of Chu refused to let him enter the Pass with Pei Gong from the west, but sent him north to rescue Zhao. He fell behind in the agreement among the princes of the world to compete for the king of Guanzhong.
Originally, it was the generals and I, Xiang Ji, who stabilized the world.
He pretended to respect King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor, but actually did not obey his orders.
In the first month of the first month, Xiang Yu established himself as the overlord of Western Chu, proclaimed himself king in nine counties in the Liang and Chu areas, and established his capital in Pengcheng.
He broke the original agreement and made Pei Gong the king of Han Dynasty. He became the king of Ba, Shu and Hanzhong and established Nanzheng as his capital.
Guanzhong was divided into three parts, and three generals of the Qin Dynasty were appointed: Zhang Han was the King of Yong and his capital was Feiqiu; Sima Xin was the King of Sai and his capital was Yueyang; Dong Yi was the King of Zhai and his capital was Gaonu.
He granted Chu general Xiaqiu Shenyang the title of King of Henan and established his capital in Luoyang.
The Zhao general Sima Yin was granted the title of King of Yin, and Chaoge was established as the capital.
King Xie of Zhao moved to another place and became king.
Zhang Er, the general of Zhao, was granted the title of King of Changshan and established the capital of Xiangguo.
He granted Dangyang Lord Yingbu the title of King of Jiujiang and established six counties as his capital.
King Huai of Chu named Zhu Guo Gong Ao the title of King of Linjiang and established his capital in Jiangling.
Wu Rui of Fan County was granted the title of King of Hengshan and Zhu County was established as his capital.
Zang Tu, the general of Yan, was made King of Yan and his capital was established in Ji County.
Han Guang, the original king of Yan, moved to Liaodong and became king.
Han Guang refused to obey, and Zang Tu attacked and killed Han Guang without end.
He was granted the title of Anjun, Chenyu, and three counties in Hejian, and lived in Nanpi.
One hundred thousand households were granted to Mei Yi.
In April, Xiang Yujing dismissed his troops and dispersed, and the princes returned to their feudal states.
When the King of Han returned to his country, King Xiang sent 30,000 troops to follow him. The soldiers of Chu and other vassal states admired the King of Han and followed him with tens of thousands of soldiers.
They entered Eclipse from the south of Du County. After leaving, they burned down the plank road to prevent attacks by the princes' armies and bandits. They also expressed to Xiang Yu that they had no intention of marching eastward.
When they arrived at Nanzheng, many of the generals and soldiers fled back on the way. The soldiers all sang songs and wanted to return to the east.
Han Xin advised the King of Han: Xiang Yu made the meritorious generals kings, while the king was made alone in Nanzheng. This was actually demoting him.
The officers and soldiers in the army were all from the east of Mount Laoshan, and they were eager to return home day and night. If you take advantage of them when they are strong, you can achieve great success.
When the world is at peace and everyone naturally feels at ease, it can no longer be exploited.
It is better to decide to march eastward and fight for the power of the world.
Xiang Yu left Hangu Pass and sent people to move to Emperor Yi.
Said: In ancient times, emperors ruled over thousands of miles of land and had to live upstream.
He sent envoys to move Emperor Yi to Chen County in Changsha and urged him to leave quickly. The ministers gradually betrayed Emperor Yi, so Xiang Yu secretly asked the kings of Hengshan and Linjiang to attack him and kill Emperor Yi in the south of the Yangtze River.
Xiang Yu resented Tian Rong and made Qi general Tian Du the king of Qi. Tian Rong was angry and proclaimed himself king of Qi. He killed Tian Du and rebelled against Xiang Chu. He gave the general's seal to Peng Yue and asked him to raise troops in Liang to rebel against Chu.
Chu sent Xiao Gongjiao to attack Peng Yue, and Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao.
Chen Yu resented Xiang Yu for not making him king, so he sent Xia Sui to lobby Tian Rong and borrow troops to attack Zhang Er.
Qi lent troops to Chen Yu and defeated Zhang Er, king of Changshan. Zhang Er fled and joined the king of Han.
Chen Yu took King Zhao Xie back from Dai and established him as King of Zhao. King Zhao then named Chen Yu the Dai King.
Xiang Yu was furious and sent troops north to attack them.
In August, the King of Han used Han Xin's strategy to return from the old route and attack King Yong Zhanghan.
Zhang Han met the Han army in Chencang, but King Yong was defeated and retreated. He stopped to engage in battle at Haozhen, but failed again and fled to Feiqiu.
The king of Han immediately pacified Yongdi.
He went east to Xianyang, led his army to besiege King Yong in Feiqiu, and sent generals to capture Longxi, Beidi and Shangjun.
He sent generals Xue Ou and Wang Xiu out of Wuguan, and with the help of Wang Ling's troops stationed in Nanyang, they met the Taigong and Empress Lu in Peixian County.
When Chu heard the news, he sent troops to block Yangxia so that the Han army could not advance.
Chu made Zheng Chang, the former magistrate of Wu County, the king of Han to resist the Han army.
In the second year, the king of Han went east to capture the city. Sima Xin, king of Sai, Dong Yi, king of Zhai, and Shenyang, king of Henan, all surrendered.
King Zheng Chang of Han was unwilling to surrender, so the King of Han sent Han Xin to defeat him.
Therefore, Longxi, Beidi, Shangjun, Weinan, Heshang, and Zhongdi counties were established, and Henan County was established outside the pass.
Han Taiweixin was renamed King of Han.
Among the generals, if 10,000 people or a county surrendered, they would be granted to 10,000 households and the Great Wall in the county on the river would be repaired.
The original Qin Dynasty gardens and ponds everywhere were cultivated and cultivated by the people. In the first month of the first month, Zhang Ping, the younger brother of King Yong, was captured.
Grant amnesty to the guilty.
The King of Han left Hangu Pass and arrived in Shaanxi County to comfort the elders outside the Pass. After returning, Zhang Er came to see him and the King of Han gave him generous treatment.
In February, he ordered the Qin State to be abolished and the Han State to be established instead.
In March, the King of Han crossed the Yellow River from Linjin Pass. King Bao of Wei led his troops to capture Hanoi, captured King Yin and established Hanoi County.
Cross Pingyinjin to the south and reach Luoyang.
Dong Gong, the third old man in Xincheng, stopped the King of Han and told him about the death of Emperor Yi.
When the king of Han heard this, he exposed his left arm and cried loudly.
So he mourned Emperor Yi and mourned for three days.
An envoy was sent to inform the princes: "The whole world will support the establishment of the Righteous Emperor and declare vassal status to him in the north."
Now Xiang Yu has exiled and killed Emperor Yi in the south of the Yangtze River, which is a treasonous act.
I will mourn him personally, and all the princes will wear white mourning clothes.
Mobilize all the troops in the pass, recruit soldiers from the three counties of Henan, Hedong, and Hanoi, and go south along the Yangtze River and Han River. Those who are willing to follow the princes and kings to attack the Chu Kingdom and kill the Yi Emperor.
At that time, King Xiang went north to attack Qi State, and Tian Rong fought with him in Chengyang.
Tian Rong was defeated and fled to Pingyuan. The people in Pingyuan killed him, and the whole country surrendered to Chu.
The Chu soldiers burned the Qi people's walls and took their children captive, and the Qi people rebelled against Chu.
Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng made Tian Rong's son Tian Guang the king of Qi, and the king of Qi rebelled against Chu in Chengyang.
Although Xiang Yu heard that the Han army was advancing eastward, since he had already fought with the Qi army, he wanted to defeat the Qi army and then attack the Han army.
The king of Han took advantage of this opportunity to rob the troops of the five princes and entered Pengcheng.
When Xiang Yu heard the news, he led his troops to leave Qi and left Huling from Lu. They arrived at Xiao County and fought fiercely with the Han army on the Sui River east of Lingbi in Pengcheng. They defeated the Han army and killed many soldiers, so that the Sui River could no longer flow.
The Chu army captured the parents and wives of the King of Han from Pei County and held them hostage in the army.
At this time, when the princes saw that the Chu army was strong and the Han army was defeated, they all left Han and returned to Chu. Sima Xin, the king of Sai, also fled to Chu.
Queen Lu's brother Zhou Luhou led an army for the Han and was stationed in Xiayi.
When the King of Han came to him, he gradually gathered soldiers and garrisoned them in Dang County.
The King of Han traveled westward through Liang and arrived at Yu County. He sent an envoy to follow Jiujiang King Yingbu. The King of Han said: If you can make Yingbu raise his troops to rebel against Chu, Xiang Yu will definitely stay and attack him.
If I can stay for a few months, I will surely conquer the world.
Suihe went to persuade Jiujiang King Yingbu, and Yingbu betrayed Chu. Chu sent Long Qie to attack him.
After the King of Han defeated Pengcheng, he retreated westward. During the march, he sent people to look for his family members, but they also fled and did not meet each other.
After the defeat, only Emperor Xiaohui was found. In June, he was made crown prince and granted amnesty to sinners.
The prince was ordered to garrison in Yueyang, and all the princes and people in Guanzhong gathered in Yueyang to guard.
Water was diverted to Feiqiu, but Feiqiu surrendered and Zhang Han committed suicide.
Renamed Feiqiu Huaili.
So he ordered the ancestral officials to offer sacrifices to heaven, earth, the four directions, God, mountains and rivers, and then offer sacrifices on time.
Soldiers from within the customs were recruited to the city to guard the border fortress.
At this time, King Yingbu of Jiujiang fought against Long Qie, but failed to win, so He Suihe sneaked back to Han Dynasty.
The King of Han gradually recruited some soldiers, and with the reinforcements of various generals and Guanzhong soldiers, the army was greatly strengthened in Xingyang, and the Chu army was defeated between Jing and Suo.
Three years later, King Bao of Wei asked for leave to go back to inspect his parents' illness. When he arrived in Wei, he cut off the crossing of the Yellow River and rebelled against the Han and returned to Chu.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to persuade Wei Bao, but Wei Bao refused to listen.
The King of Han sent general Han Xin to attack Wei Bao, defeated the Wei army and captured Wei Bao. He then pacified Wei and established three counties named Hedong, Taiyuan and Shangdang.
The king of Han ordered Zhang Er and Han Xin to march eastward to Jingxing, attack Zhao, and kill Chen Yu and Zhao Wangxie.
The next year, Zhang Er was granted the title of King of Zhao.
The King of Han stationed his army south of Xingyang and built a corridor to connect it to the Yellow River in order to access Aocang's grain.
The confrontation with Xiang Yu lasted for more than a year.
Xiang Yu captured the corridors of the Han army many times. The Han army was short of food, so Xiang Yu besieged the king of Han.
The king of Han asked for peace and divided the land west of Xingyang into Han Dynasty.
King Xiang did not agree.
The King of Han was worried, so he adopted Chen Ping's strategy and gave Chen Ping 40,000 catties of gold to drive a wedge between the kings and ministers of Chu.
So Xiang Yu became suspicious of Yafu.
At this time, Yafu persuaded Xiang Yu to take advantage of the situation and capture Xingyang. When he found out that he had been suspected, he became very angry and asked to beg to retire and return to his hometown to become a common man, citing his old age.
Yafu died before reaching Pengcheng. The Han army was short of food, so they released more than 2,000 women from the east gate at night, wearing armor, and the Chu army surrounded them on all sides.
General Ji Xin rode in the King of Han's chariot and disguised himself as the King of Han to deceive the Chu army. The Chu army all shouted long live and rushed to the east of the city to watch, so the King of Han was able to escape out of the west gate with dozens of cavalry.
The King of Han ordered the imperial censors Zhou Ke, Wei Bao, and Song Gong to stay in Xingyang. The generals and soldiers who could not follow him stayed in the city.
Zhou Ke and Song Gong discussed it and said: It is difficult for Wei Bao, a traitorous king, to defend the city together with him.
So Wei Bao was killed.
The king of Han escaped from Xingyang and entered Hangu Pass to collect soldiers, hoping to march eastward again.
Yuan Sheng advised the King of Han: Han and Chu had been at war in Xingyang for several years, and the Han army was often in difficult situations.
I hope that when the king leaves Wuguan, Xiang Yu will surely lead his troops to the south, and that the king will have a deep ditch and a high base to allow rest between Xingyang and Chenggao.
It is not too late to send Han Xin and others to secure Zhao's territory north of the Yellow River and unite with Yan and Qi. It will not be too late for the king to go to Xingyang again.
In this way, the Chu army is fortified in many directions and its forces are dispersed. The Han army can rest and reorganize. If it fights against the Chu army again, it will definitely be able to defeat the Chu army.
The king of Han adopted his strategy and sent troops between Wan and Ye counties, and together with Yingbu gathered troops during the march.
Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han was in Wan County, so he led his troops southward.
The king of Han stood firm and refused to fight with him.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the Suishui River and fought with Xiang Sheng and Xue Gong in Xiapi. Peng Yue defeated the Chu army.
So Xiang Yu led his army to the east to attack Peng Yue, and the king of Han also led his troops to the north to garrison Chenggao.
Xiang Yu had already won the victory and drove away Peng Yue. When he learned that the Han army was stationed in Chenggao again, he led his troops to the west and conquered Xingyang. He killed Zhou Ke and Song Gong, captured Han Wangxin, and then besieged Chenggao.
The King of Han fled, and alone and with Teng Gong in a carriage, they left the Yumen of Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River to the north, and rushed to Xiuwu to spend the night.
Claiming to be an envoy, he rushed into Zhang Er and Han Xin's camp in the morning and captured their troops. He then sent Zhang Er to Zhao in the north to gather more troops, and Han Xin to attack Qi eastward.
The king of Han got Han Xin's army, and his military power was revived.
He led his army to the bank of the Yellow River and marched south. He fed and drank the soldiers south of Xiaoxiuwu, intending to fight Xiang Yu again.
The doctor Zheng Zhong dissuaded the King of Han and told him not to fight with Xiang Yu.
The King of Han adopted Zheng Zhong's strategy and sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to lead 20,000 troops and hundreds of knights across Baima Jin and enter the Chu land. They and Peng Yue defeated the Chu army in the west of Yan County, and then captured more than ten cities in Liang.
The Marquis of Huaiyin had accepted the order to march eastward and did not cross the Yellow River in the plains.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to persuade Qi Wang Tian Guang. Tian Guang betrayed Chu, made peace with Han, and attacked Xiang Yu together.
Han Xin adopted Kuai Tong's strategy and launched a surprise attack, defeating Qi.
King Peng of Qi killed Li Sheng and fled eastward to Gaomi.
Xiang Yu heard that Han Xin had used all the troops north of the Yellow River to defeat Qi and Zhao, and was about to attack the Chu army, so he sent Long Qie and Zhou Lan to stop the attack.
Han Xin fought with Chu, and the cavalry general Guan Ying cooperated to attack, defeated the Chu army, and killed Long Qie.
King Tian Guang of Qi defected to Peng Yue.
At this time, Peng Yue led his troops to station in Liang, harassing the Chu army and cutting off its food.
In the fourth year, Xiang Yu said to Cao Jiu, the Grand Sima of Haichunhou: Guard Chenggao carefully.
If the Han army challenges, be careful. Don't accept the challenge, just don't let the Han army advance eastward.
I will definitely pacify Liang in fifteen days and then meet with the general.
So he marched to attack Chenliu, Waihuang, and Suiyang, and captured them all.
As expected, the Han army repeatedly challenged the Chu army, but the Chu army refused to fight. The Han army sent people to insult the Chu army for five or six days. The great Sima was very angry and ordered the soldiers to cross the Si River.
When the soldiers were halfway across, the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army, and captured all the gold and jade treasures of Chu.
Both the Grand Sima Cao Jiu and the Chief Sima Xin committed suicide on Si River.
Xiang Yu arrived at Suiyang and heard that Haichunhou was defeated, so he led his troops back.
The Han army was besieging Zhongli Huang in the east of Xingyang. As soon as Xiang Yu arrived, they all retreated to the dangerous area.
Han Xin had defeated the state of Qi and sent people to tell the king of Han: Qi is close to the state of Chu. If the power of Qi is too small, and if we don't establish a temporary acting king, we may not be able to stabilize Qi.
The king of Han wanted to attack Han Xin.
Liu Hou said: It is better to make him the king and let him defend the whole land by himself.
The king of Han then sent Zhang Liang with a seal and ribbon to establish Han Xin as King of Qi.
Xiang Yu was frightened when he heard that Long Qie's army was defeated and sent Wu She from Xutai to persuade Han Xin.
Han Xin refused to obey.
Chu and Han were in a stalemate for a long time, with the outcome unresolved. The young and strong were tired of serving as soldiers, and the old and weak were tired of transporting grain.
The King of Han and Xiang Yu stood on both sides of Guangwu Stream and talked.
Xiang Yu wanted to challenge the King of Han alone.
The King of Han enumerated Xiang Yu's sins and said: Initially, Xiang Yu and I were both ordered by King Huai, saying that if we entered Guanzhong first and pacified Guanzhong, we would become kings in Guanzhong. You Xiang Yu broke the agreement and made me the king of Shu and Han. This is the first crime.
You, Xiang Yu, under the guise of King Huai's order, killed the champion of Qingzi and claimed to be a general. This is the second crime.
You, Xiang Yu, have rescued Zhao and should return to resume your duties. However, you coerce the troops of the princes to enter Hangu Pass without authorization. This is the third crime.
King Huai agreed not to brutally plunder the land of Qin. You, Xiang Yu, burned the palaces of the Qin Dynasty, dug up the tomb of the First Emperor, and secretly amassed the property of the Qin Dynasty. This is the fourth crime.
He also forcibly killed the king Ziying who surrendered to the Qin Dynasty. This was the fifth crime.
In Xin'an, he used deception to kill 200,000 of the Qin Dynasty's descendants and made their general king. This was the sixth crime.
You, Xiang Yu, let your generals become kings in good places, but moved away the original princes and kings, causing your subordinates to fight for rebellion. This is the seventh sin.
You Xiang Yu expelled Emperor Yi from Pengcheng, established the capital of Pengcheng yourself, seized the land of King Han, merged Liang and Chu to become king, and allocated more land to yourself. This is the eighth crime.
You Xiang Yu sent people to assassinate Emperor Yi in Jiangnan. This is the ninth crime.
The tenth crime is to kill someone's monarch while serving as a subject, to massacre those who have surrendered, to govern unfairly, to fail to keep promises when making agreements, to be intolerable to the people of the world, and to be treasonous.
I led the righteous army to follow the princes to kill the cruel thieves, and sent the criminals who had been punished to kill you Xiang Yu. Why should I challenge you!
Xiang Yu was furious and shot the king of Han with a crossbow.
The king of Han was wounded in the chest, but he touched his feet and said, "This thief shot my toes!"
The King of Han was wounded and bedridden. Zhang Liang asked the King of Han to reluctantly get up and patrol to comfort the soldiers, so as to stabilize the morale of the army and prevent the Chu army from taking advantage of the opportunity to defeat the Han.
The King of Han came out to inspect the army. His injuries worsened, so he drove into Chenggao to rest.
When the king of Han recovered from his illness, he went west to Hangu Pass and came to Dongyang, where he expressed condolences to his elders and entertained them with wine. He chopped off the head of King Sima Xin of Sai and hung it in public in Yueyang Market.
After four days of rest, he returned to the army and was stationed in Guangwu.
The troops in Guanzhong were mobilized in large numbers.
At that time, Peng Yue led troops to station in Liang, harassing the Chu army and cutting off its food.
Tian Heng went to rely on Peng Yue.
Xiang Yu attacked Peng Yue and others many times, and Qi King Han Xin attacked the Chu army again.
Xiang Yu was afraid, so he made an agreement with the King of Han to divide the world equally, cutting off the territory to the west of Honggou to return to Han, and the east of Honggou to Chu.
King Xiang sent back the parents and wife of the King of Han. The Han army all shouted long live, and the Chu army bid farewell to the Han army and returned to their garrison.
Xiang Yu dismissed his troops and returned eastward.
The King of Han wanted to lead his troops back to the west, so he later adopted the strategy of leaving the marquis and Chen Ping to pursue Xiang Yu. He arrived in the south of Yangxia and stationed his troops, and agreed with Qi King Han Xin and Jiancheng Hou Pengyue to meet up with the Chu army at a time.
When they arrived at Guling, Han Xin and Peng Yue did not come to meet them.
The Chu army attacked the Han army and defeated the Han army.
The king of Han entered the camp again and dug a deep trench for defense.
Zhang Liang's strategy was used, so Han Xin and Peng Yue came to join him.
Liu Jia also entered Chu territory and besieged Shouchun. When the King of Han was defeated in Guling, he sent an envoy to summon Zhou Yin, the commander-in-chief, and sent all Jiujiang soldiers to meet Wu King Yingbu. Yingbu and Zhou Yin captured Chengfu during the march and massacred him wantonly. They followed Liu Jia and the princes of Qi and Liang to gather at Gaixia.
The King of Han granted King Wu Yingbu the title of King of Huainan.
In the fifth year, Gaozu and the princes' army attacked the Chu army together, and they fought Xiang Yu at Gaixia.
The Marquis of Huaiyin led an army of 300,000 men to the front alone, with General Kong on the left, General Fei on the right, the Emperor in the rear, and Generals Jianghou and Chai following behind.
Xiang Yu had about 100,000 soldiers.
The Marquis of Huaiyin fought first, but failed to win and retreated.
Generals Kong and Fei sent out troops to attack, but the Chu army was at a disadvantage. The Marquis of Huaiyin took advantage of the situation to counterattack and defeated Xiang Yu in Gaixia.
Xiang Yu's soldiers heard the song of Chu in the Han army and thought that the Han army had completely occupied the Chu land. Xiang Yu retreated and fled, so the Chu army was defeated.
The king of Han sent cavalry general Guan Ying to pursue Xiang Yu as far as Dongcheng, where he killed 80,000 Chu soldiers and thus pacified the Chu territory.
Lu County defended the city for the Chu State, but the Han army did not capture it. The King of Han led the princes' troops northward and showed Xiang Yu's head to the elders of Lu County, and Lu County surrendered.
So Xiang Yu was buried in Gucheng with the title of Lu Gong.
The king of Han returned to Dingtao, rushed into the camp of the king of Qi, and captured his army.
In the first month, the princes and generals asked each other to respect the King of Han as emperor.
The King of Han said: I heard that the title of emperor belongs to virtuous people. It is just a name but no reality, and it is not enough to hold the throne. I dare not accept the position of emperor.
All the ministers said: The king was born in poverty, punished the rebels, and brought peace to the world. Those who had meritorious service would cede lands and make them princes.
The king does not respect titles, so everyone has doubts about their titles and dare not take them seriously.
The ministers and others insisted to the death that the king should be called emperor.
The King of Han repeatedly gave in and had no choice but to say: "Everyone must think that this will benefit the country."
In order to benefit the country, the emperor took the throne north of Sishui during the Jiawu Period. The emperor said that Emperor Yi had no descendants.
King Han Xin of Qi was familiar with the customs of Chu, so he moved to be the king of Chu and established Xiapi as his capital. The feudal lord Pengyue was granted the title of King of Liang, and his capital was established in Dingtao. The original King Xin of Han was still the King of Han and established his capital in Yangdi.
Wu Rui, the king of Hengshan, moved to Changsha and established his capital in Linxiang.
Fanjun's general Mei Kuang had made military exploits and followed him into Wuguan. The emperor thanked Fanjun for his kindness.
King Yingbu of Huainan, King Zang Tu of Yan, and King Zhang Ao of Zhao all maintained their previous titles.
The world is basically at peace.
Gaozu established his capital at Luoyang, and all the princes became Gaozu's vassals.
The original Linjiang King Gonghuan rebelled against Xiang Yu and ordered Lu Wan and Liu Jia to besiege Gonghuan but failed to conquer.
Gonghuan surrendered a few months later and killed him in Luoyang.
In May, all the soldiers were disarmed and returned home.
The soldiers of the vassal states who stayed in Guanzhong were exempted from corvee for twelve years, and those who returned to their hometown were exempted from corvee for six years and were provided with food for one year.
Emperor Gaozu held a banquet in Luoyang Nangong.
Emperor Gaozu said: All princes and generals, please do not hide anything from me and speak your mind.
What is the reason why I can win the world?
Why did the Xiang family lose the world?
Gao Qi and Wang Ling replied: Your Majesty is arrogant and insulting, while Xiang Yu is kind and protective.
However, His Majesty sent people to attack the city and capture the territory, and the places he surrendered and captured were granted to him, sharing the interests of the people of the world.
Xiang Yu was jealous of the virtuous, framed those who had merit, and doubted the virtuous. He won battles without giving any reward for his merits, and gained land without sharing the profits. This was the reason why he lost the world.
Emperor Gaozu said: You know the first, but you don’t know the second.
When it comes to planning and planning in the tent, which is worse than a thousand miles away, I am not as good as the ovary.
In guarding the country, pacifying the people, supplying military supplies, and smoothing food routes, I am not as good as Xiao He.
With millions of soldiers in a company, we will win every battle and conquer every attack. I am not as good as Han Xin.
These three people are all outstanding people. I can use them. This is the reason why I have won the world.
Xiang Yu had Fan Zeng but could not use him. This was the reason why he was captured and killed by me.
Emperor Gaozu wanted to establish his capital in Luoyang for a long time, but Liu Jing, a native of Qi, dissuaded him. Zhang Liang, the remaining marquis, also persuaded Emperor Gaozu to enter Guanzhong as the capital. On the same day, Emperor Gaozu ordered him to get up and enter Guanzhong to establish his capital.
In June, there is a general amnesty.
In October, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled and captured Dai.
Emperor Gaozu personally led the army to attack him, captured Zang Tu, King of Yan, and immediately appointed Taiwei Lu Wan as King of Yan.
He sent Prime Minister Fan Kuai to lead troops to attack Dai.
In the autumn of this year, Li Ji rebelled. Gaozu personally led troops to attack him, but Li Ji fled.
Li Ji was a general of the Xiang family.
When the Xiang family was defeated, Li Ji was the magistrate of Chen County and did not follow Xiang Yu. He fled and surrendered to Gaozu, who made him a marquis in Yingchuan.
When Emperor Gaozu arrived in Luoyang, he summoned all the Tonghous based on their names, and Li Ji was also summoned.
Liji was very frightened, so he rebelled. In six years, Emperor Gaozu met with the Grand Duke once every five days, just like the common people's father-son etiquette.
The Taigong's family order admonished the Taigong: There are no two days in the sky, and there are no two masters in the earth.
Now, although Gaozu is your son, he is the monarch of all peoples; although Taigong is Gaozu's father, he is a subordinate.
How can the monarch be allowed to pay homage to his ministers!
In this way, the monarch loses his majesty and dignity.
Later, Emperor Gaozu paid homage to the Grand Duke. The Grand Duke greeted him at the door with a broom in his arms and walked backwards.
Emperor Gaozu was shocked and got out of the car to help the grandpa.
Taigong said: The emperor is the monarch of all people, how can he destroy the laws of the world because of me!
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu respected the Grand Duke as the Supreme Emperor.
Emperor Gaozu praised his family order in his heart and rewarded him with five hundred catties of gold.
In December, someone wrote a letter to accuse Chu King Han Xin of treason. Emperor Gaozu asked the ministers on his left and right, and the ministers rushed to attack Han Xin.
Emperor Gaozu adopted Chen Ping's strategy and pretended to tour Yunmengze and met with the princes in Chen County. King Han Xin of Chu went to greet him and took the opportunity to arrest him.
On this day, the world is amnesty.
Tian Ken came to congratulate him and advised Gaozu: Your Majesty has captured Han Xin and established his capital in Qinzhong.
Qin is a place with a superior geographical situation. There are dangers of blocking mountains and rivers, and it is thousands of miles away from the princes. It has a million warriors with halberds. Qin is a hundred times better than other places.
The terrain is convenient, and sending troops to the princes from here is like a high-rise building.
As for Qi, there are the riches of Langye and Jimo in the east, the dangers of Mount Tai in the south, the natural boundary of Zhuohe River in the west, and the benefits of fish and salt in the Bohai Sea in the north. The area is two thousand miles away, and there are one million warriors with halberds. It is thousands of miles away from the vassal states. Qi is ten times better than other places.
So these two places are Eastern Qin and Western Qin.
If he is not your Majesty's biological son, don't send him to be the king of Qi. Gaozu said: OK.
Reward five hundred catties of gold.
More than ten days later, Han Xin was granted the title of Marquis of Huaiyin and his fiefdom was divided into two countries.
Emperor Gaozu said that General Liu Jia had made many military exploits and was named King of Jing, and he was called the Gong Huaidong.
His younger brother Liu Jiao became the king of Chu and became the king of Huaixi.
His son Liu Fei became the king of Qi and was granted more than seventy cities. All the people who could speak the language of Qi belonged to the state of Qi.
Emperor Gaozu judged the merits and deeds, cut talismans with the princes as letters, and granted the princes food and towns.
Move Han Wangxin to Taiyuan.
In the seventh year, the Xiongnu attacked Han Wangxin in Mayi, and Han Wangxin rebelled with the Xiongnu in Taiyuan.
Baitu Manqiuchen and Wang Huang established Zhao Li, the original Zhao general, as king and rebelled against the Han Dynasty. Gaozu went to crusade in person.
The weather was so cold that two or three of the ten soldiers lost their fingers from the cold, and finally arrived at Pingcheng.
The Xiongnu besieged Gaozu in Pingcheng, and they withdrew their troops after seven days.
Fan Kuai was ordered to stay and pacify Daidi.
He made his elder brother Liu Zhong the acting king.
In February, Emperor Gaozu passed through Zhaodi and Luoyang from Pingcheng to Chang'an.
Changle Palace has been built, and officials below the prime minister have moved to Chang'an to work.
In August, Emperor Gaozu led his army eastward to attack the remaining rebels of King Xin of Han in Dongyuan.
Prime Minister Xiao built Weiyang Palace and built the East Palace, North Palace, Front Hall, Arsenal, and Taicang.
When Emperor Gaozu came back and saw that the palace was extremely magnificent, he was very angry and said to Xiao He: The world is in turmoil and has been fighting hard for several years. The success or failure is not yet known. Why should we build excessively luxurious palaces now?
Xiao He said: It is precisely because the world is not stable that we take this opportunity to build the palace.
Moreover, the emperor's home is all over the world. If the palace is not spectacular and gorgeous, it will not be enough to show the emperor's nobility and majesty, and it is also to prevent future generations of palaces from surpassing them.
Only then did Gaozu feel happy.
Gaozu went to Dongyuan and passed by Bairen. Zhao Xiangguan and his superiors murdered Gaozu. Gaozu had an abnormal heartbeat and therefore did not stop at Bairen.
Liu Zhong, the acting king, abandoned his country and fled. He returned to Luoyang and was deposed as Marquis of Heyang.
In the ninth year, Zhao Xiangguan's plan to murder Gaozu was discovered, and all three of their clans were executed.
Zhang Ao, king of Zhao, was deposed as Marquis of Xuanping.
In this year, the nobles of the Chu State Zhao, Qu, Jing, Huai, and the Qi nobles Tian were moved to Guanzhong.
Weiyang Palace was built.
Emperor Gaozu gathered the princes and ministers and held a banquet in the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
Holding a jade wine cup in his hand, Emperor Gaozu stood up and congratulated the Emperor on his birthday, saying: "In the past, adults often thought that I was a scoundrel who could not make a living. I could not manage the industry and was not as diligent as Zhong Qing."
Now, compared with Zhong, who has accomplished more in my career?
All the officials in the palace shouted long live and laughed happily.
In October of the tenth year, King Yingbu of Huainan, King Pengyue of Liang, King Lu Wan of Yan, King Liu Jia of Jing, King Liu Jiao of Chu, King Liu Fei of Qi, and King Wu Rui of Changsha all came to Changle Palace to pay homage.
Nothing happens in spring and summer.
In July, the Supreme Emperor died in Yueyang Palace, and the kings of Chu and Liang came to mourn him.
Pardon the prisoners in Yueyang.
Li Yi was renamed Xinfeng.
In August, Zhao Xiangguo and Chen Xi rebelled in Dai.
Emperor Gaozu said: Chen Xi once worked for me and kept his word.
Daidi is a place that I value, so I made Chen Xi a prince and guarded Daidi in the name of the Prime Minister. Now he and Wang Huang and others plundered Daidi.
The officials and people of Dai are not guilty, so forgive the officials and people of Dai.
In September, Emperor Gaozu himself went east to attack Chen Xi.
Arriving at Handan, Emperor Gaozu said happily: "If Chen Xi doesn't go south to defend Handan, and relies on the Zhang River as a formation, I know he has no ability."
Hearing that Chen Xi's generals were all former merchants, Emperor Gaozu said: I know how to deal with them.
So he used gold to lure Chen Xi's generals, and many of Chen Xi's generals surrendered.
In the eleventh year, Emperor Gaozu's crusade against Chen Kuang and others in Handan was not over yet. Chen Kuang's general Hou Chang led more than 10,000 people to fight on the move. Wang Huang garrisoned in reverse, and Zhang Chun crossed the Yellow River to attack Liaocheng.
Han sent General Guo Meng and the generals of Qi to attack and defeated them.
Taiwei Zhou Bo marched from Taiyuan and pacified Daidi.
When they arrived at Mayi, they failed to capture it for a while, but later they attacked it and destroyed the city.
Chen Xi's general Zhao Li defended Dongyuan, but Gaozu attacked Dongyuan but failed to capture it.
More than a month later, Zhao Li's soldiers insulted Gaozu, and Gaozu was very angry.
Dongyuan surrendered and ordered those who insulted Gaozu to be beheaded and executed. Those who did not insult Gaozu were spared.
So he set aside the area north of Changshan in Zhao State, named his son Liu Heng the acting king, and established Jinyang as the capital.
In the spring, Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, rebelled against Guanzhong and executed three of Han Xin's clans.
In the summer, Liang Wang Peng Yue rebelled, abolished his title, and moved to Shu.
He wanted to rebel again, so he executed three of his clansmen. His son Liu Hui was named King of Liang, and his son Liu You was named King of Huaiyang.
In autumn and July, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled and annexed the land of Liu Jia, King of Jing, to the east, and crossed the Huai River to the north. Liu Jiao, King of Chu, fled to Xue County.
Emperor Gaozu personally went to attack him and named his son Liu Chang the King of Huainan.
In October of the twelfth year, Emperor Gaozu defeated Yingbu's army in Huizhen, and Yingbu fled. Gaozu ordered other generals to pursue him.
Emperor Gaozu led his army back, passed by Peixian County, and stopped.
A banquet was held in Peigong, and all the friends, fathers and children from the past were called together to have a feast. Selecting Peizhong children, one hundred and twenty were obtained and taught them to sing.
After drinking to his heart's content, Emperor Gaozu was building a building, composed a poem by himself, and sang: The strong wind is blowing, the clouds are flying, the sea is full of power, we are returning to our hometown, and the warriors are safe and guarding the four directions!
Let the children learn to sing along.
Emperor Gaozu danced again, feeling sad and tearful, and said to his father and brothers in Peixian County: People who travel far away miss their hometown.
Although I have established my capital in Guanzhong, my soul will still miss Sipei County for thousands of years to come.
I started as Pei Gong, punished violence and rebelled, and finally conquered the world. I regard Peixian County as my Tangmuyi, exempting the people of Peixian County from corvee service, and they will not have to do corvee service for generations to come.
The fathers, brothers, elders, women, and old friends in Peixian County drank and drank happily every day, talking about old ways and making fun of themselves.
After more than ten days, Gaozu wanted to leave, but the elders and brothers in Peixian County insisted on keeping Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu said: I have so many followers that my father and brothers cannot afford to support them.
So Gaozu set out.
The people of Peixian County came out in large numbers and went to the west of the city to contribute cattle and wine.
Emperor Gaozu stayed again, pitched a tent, and feasted for three days.
The fathers and brothers of Pei County all kowtowed and asked, "Pei County is fortunate enough to be exempted from the corvee, but Fengyi has not yet been exempted from the corvee. Please show mercy to Fengyi."
Emperor Gaozu said: Fengyi is the place where I grew up, and I will never forget it. I only went to help the Wei state because Fengyi rebelled against me because of Yong Chi. The fathers and brothers of Peixian County insisted on their request, and then they exempted Fengyi from the corvee. Like Peixian County, they made Peihou Liu Bi the king of Wu.
The generals of the Han army pursued Yingbu's army on both the north and south sides of the Taoshui River. They defeated Yingbu's army and captured and killed Yingbu in Poyang.
Fan Kuai led another army to pacify Daidi and killed Chen Xi in the city.
In November, Emperor Gaozu returned to Chang'an from the army that conquered Yingbu.
In December, Emperor Gaozu said: The First Emperor of Qin, King Chen She of Chu Yin, King Anli of Wei, King Qi Min, and King Zhao Daoxiang all died without heirs, and were given to ten families to guard their tombs, twenty families of Qin Shihuang, and five families of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
All local officials and people who were coerced by Chen Xi and Zhao Li were pardoned.
When Chen Xi's surrendered generals said that Chen Xi was rebelling, King Lu Wan of Yan sent people to Chen Xi to participate in the conspiracy.
Emperor Gaozu sent Marquis Piyang to pick up Lu Wan, but Lu Wan refused to come because he was ill.
Marquis Piyang came back and explained in detail that there were signs of Lu Wan's rebellion.
In February, Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo were sent to lead an army to attack Lu Wan, King of Yan. Pardon the officials and people of Yan who participated in the rebellion.
The prince Liu Jian was granted the title of King of Yan.
When Emperor Gaozu attacked Yingbu, he was shot by a stray arrow and fell ill during the march.
The condition was serious, so Empress Lu invited a good doctor. The doctor went in to see Gaozu. Gaozu asked the doctor. The doctor said: The disease can be cured.
So Emperor Gaozu scolded the doctor and said: I conquered the world as a commoner with a three-foot sword. Isn't this destiny?
Destiny is in the sky, even if there is a Bian Que, what's the use!
Emperor Gaozu refused to let the doctor cure the disease, rewarded him with fifty pounds of gold, and told him to leave.
Soon Empress Lu asked Gaozu: If your Majesty, Xiao Xiangguo, dies in a hundred years, who will succeed him?
Emperor Gaozu said: Cao Shen can do it.
When asked about the next step, Emperor Gaozu said: "The royal tomb is fine."
However, Wang Ling is a bit naive and Chen Ping can help him.
Chen Ping is very wise, but it is difficult for him to act alone.
Zhou Bo is steady and kind, but lacks literary talents, but the one who can stabilize the Liu family must be Zhou Bo, and he can be made a Taiwei.
Empress Lu asked the next question, and Gaozu said: This is not something I will be able to know in the future.
Lu Huo and thousands of cavalry stayed at the frontier and waited, hoping that Gaozu would recover from his illness and go to apologize to Gaozu himself.
On the first day of the fourth month, Emperor Gaozu died in Changle Palace.
After four days there was no mourning.
Empress Lu discussed with Shen Shiqi and said: The generals and the emperor are both common people with registered households. Now they are vassals in the north. They are often unhappy because of this. Now they serve the young emperor. If these people are not wiped out by the entire clan, the world will not be stable.
Someone heard the news and told General Li.
General Li went to see Shen Shiqi and said, "I heard that the emperor has passed away and there has been no mourning for four days. I want to kill the generals."
If this is the case, the world will be in danger.
Chen Ping and Guan Ying commanded 100,000 soldiers to garrison Xingyang, and Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo commanded 200,000 soldiers to pacify Yan and Dai. When they heard that the emperor had died and all the generals had been killed, they must have returned with their troops to attack Guanzhong.
The ministers are rebelling within, and the princes are rebelling outside, and the world is ready to be destroyed.
Shen Shiqi went to the palace and told Empress Lu these words, and then in Ding Wei a funeral was held and a general amnesty was granted to the world.
When Lu Wan heard that Emperor Gaozu had passed away, he fled to the Huns.
Bingyin buried Gaozu.
I have already established the prince as emperor and came to the Taishang Temple.
All the ministers said: Gaozu started from a humble common people, brought order to the chaos, and brought peace to the world. He was the founder of the Han Dynasty and had the highest merit.
His title is Emperor Gao.
The prince assumed the title of emperor, and this was Emperor Xiaohui.
Order all counties and princes of various countries to build Gaozu temples and offer sacrifices according to the seasons of the year.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Emperor Xiaohui thought that Emperor Gaozu missed Peixian County, so he made Peigong the original temple of Emperor Gaozu.
The one hundred and twenty singing children taught by Emperor Gaozu were all appointed as music performers in Emperor Gaozu's original temple. If there were any vacancies in the future, they would be filled immediately.
Emperor Gao had eight sons: the eldest son was King Fei of Qi Yaohui who was a concubine; the second was Emperor Xiaohui, born to Empress Lu; the third was King Ruyi of Zhao Yin who was born to Mrs. Qi; the third was Wang Heng of Dai, who was established as Emperor Xiaowen and was born to Empress Dowager Bo; the third was Wanghui of Liang, who was renamed King Zhao Bing when Empress Dowager Lu was the one; the third was Wang You of Huaiyang, who was renamed King Zhao You when Empress Lu was the Empress; the third was Prince Li of Huainan; the third was King Jian of Yan.
Tai Shigong said: The politics of the Xia Dynasty were simple and kind. The disadvantage of simplicity and kindness was that it made the people rough and less polite, so the people of the Yin Dynasty succeeded it with respect and dignity.
The disadvantage of being respectful and paying attention to dignity is that it makes the common people believe in ghosts and gods, so the people of the Zhou Dynasty replaced it with paying attention to hierarchy.
The disadvantage of paying attention to hierarchy is that it prevents the common people from treating each other with sincerity, and there is no better way to remedy the inability to treat each other with sincerity than to govern with simplicity and kindness.
The rules of governance of the kings of Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties seemed to go back and forth in cycles, ending over and over again.
It can be said that between the Zhou Dynasty and the Qin Dynasty, the shortcomings of paying attention to hierarchy were exposed.
Isn't it absurd that Qin Shihuang Ying Zheng did not change the situation, but instead made the punishment cruel?
Therefore, the rise of the Han Dynasty, facing the ills of the past, changed the rules of governance so that the people would not be tired and get the laws of heaven.
The carriage uniforms were customized. The emperor's carriage was covered with yellow silk lining, and a feather-made pillar was erected on the left side of the carriage scale.
Emperor Gaozu was buried in Changling.
