◆The biography of Guo Ji, named Xihou, was born in Maoling, Fufeng.
Great-great-grandfather Guo Xie was famous as a knight during the reign of Emperor Wu.
His father, Guo Fan, was the prefect of Shu County.
Guo Ji had ambitions when he was young. During the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, he was recruited into the Da Sikong Mansion and moved to Yuyang Duwei three times.
At the time of Wang Mang, he was the Great Yin of Shanggu and moved to merge with the prefecture for animal husbandry.
In the new era of Gengshi, the three auxiliaries were invaded by soldiers one after another. The people were shocked, and the powerful clans and surnames supported each other to defend their camps and refused to surrender first.
When Gengshi Su heard of Guo Ji's name, he worshiped him as Zuo Fengyi and sent him to guard and appease the people.
When Shizu ascended the throne, he paid homage to Yongzhou's pastor, and then became a minister, offering loyal advice several times.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he became the prefect of Zhongshan.
The next year, Peng Chong was eliminated and became the governor of Yuyang.
Yuyang suffered both from Wang Mang's rebellion and from Peng Chong's defeat. The people were cunning and evil, and there were many thieves.
After Guo Ji arrived, he showed his loyalty with punishment and reward, and killed the bandits and commanders, and the thieves disappeared.
At that time, the Xiongnu harassed the county borders many times, and the border people suffered greatly.
Guo Ji organized his troops and horses and set up offensive and defensive strategies. The Huns were afraid to stay away and did not dare to enter the border fortress again, so the border people were able to live and work in peace and contentment.
After five years of working, the household registration will double.
Later, a group of bandits emerged in Yingchuan. In the ninth year, Guo Ji was conquered and worshiped as the prefect of Yingchuan.
When he was summoned to say farewell, the emperor expressed his condolences and said: "A virtuous prefect, I am not far from the imperial city. The river runs for nine miles. I hope that the capital will also be blessed."
Although you are good at hunting, the mountain roads are dangerous and dangerous. In battle, you are just like a soldier, so you must be cautious.
When Guo Ji arrived at the county, he recruited hundreds of bandits from Yangxia, Zhao Hong, and Xiangcheng Zhao Wu. They all surrendered to Guo Ji with their bare hands. Guo Ji dismissed them and returned to the countryside.
Because he repented and let the thieves go without permission, the emperor praised him for his good approach and did not blame him for his mistakes.
Later, when Zhao Hong, Zhao Wu and other party members heard about Guo Ji's prestige, they came from far away from the south of the Yangtze River, or from Youzhou, Jizhou and other places to surrender to him unexpectedly.
In the eleventh year, the provincial governor of Shuofang belonged to Bingzhou.
The emperor used Lu Fang to occupy the northern territory, and transferred Guo Ji to be the pastor of Bingzhou.
Guo Ji went to the capital to express his gratitude, and the emperor immediately introduced him. He summoned the crown prince and other kings to a banquet all day long, and rewarded him with carriages, horses, clothing and other items.
Guo Ji therefore said that when selecting and filling various positions, one should choose from among the wise and talented people in the world, and it is not appropriate to exclusively use people from Nanyang.
The emperor accepted it.
Guo Jiqian was in Bingzhou, and he had always been kind and kind. When he later entered the border, when he went to the county, old and young came together to greet him on the road.
Everywhere Guo Ji went, he inquired about the sufferings of the people in detail, hired senior citizens to be virtuous and handsome, and gave them the gift of a few sticks, so that the senior citizens could participate in political affairs day and night.
When I first arrived at Xingbu and Meiji in Xihe, there were hundreds of children, each riding a bamboo horse, greeting him.
Guo Ji asked: Why do the children come from far away?
The child replied: I was very happy when I heard that the envoy had arrived, so I came to welcome you.
Guo Ji declined.
When the matter was over, Zhu'er was sent back to the outside of Guo and asked: "When will the envoy come back?"
Guo Ji asked if he was going to work, and he calculated the date and told the children.
After returning from his inspection, he arrived one day early. Because he had broken his promise to Zhu'er, Guo Ji stopped at the pavilion and did not enter the city until the appointed date.
At this time, many people in the imperial court recommended Guo Jike to be the Great Sikong. The emperor thought that Lu Fang was still in trouble in Bing and the Huns were not at peace. He wanted Guo Ji to stay in Bingzhou for a long time, so he did not call him.
Guo Ji knew that Lu Fang was an old thief who could not be subdued for a short period of time. He should take strict precautions and buy rewards clearly to quell the bandits.
Lu Fang captured Sui Yu and forced Lu Fang to surrender to Guo Ji. Lu Fang fled to the Huns.
Guo Ji petitioned to resign because he was old and sick.
In the 22nd year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed Taizhong doctor and was given an area of ​​​​the house, as well as curtains and money valleys to use for his family. Guo Jichang dispersed it among the nine clansmen of his clan, leaving nothing for himself.
He died the next year at the age of eighty-six. The emperor came to pay his respects in person and gave him a place for his tomb.
◆The biography of Du Shi, whose courtesy name is Jun Gong, was born in Ji County, Hanoi County.
Talented at a young age. As a county meritorious official, he has the reputation of being fair and honest.
At the beginning of the revolution, he was recruited to the Da Sima Mansion.
In the first year of Jianwu, he was promoted to Shi Yushi three times a year, responsible for settling the people who were recalled to Luoyang.
At this time, the general Xiao Guang indulged his soldiers and committed violence among the people. The people were frightened and uneasy. Du Shi's orders to Xiao Yu were ineffective, so he killed Xiao Guang and reported the truth to Liu Xiu after he returned.
Liu Xiu summoned him and presented Du Shi with a set of ceremonial halberds. Then he was sent to Hedong to kill and surrender the traitor Yang Yi and others.
When Du Shi arrived in Dayang, he heard that the thief Yang Yi and others were waiting for an opportunity to cross the Yellow River north, so he and Chang Shi quickly burned Yang Yi's ships, led the county soldiers, and led the cavalry commando to attack the rebels and kill Yang Yi and others. The rebels were all wiped out.
He was appointed magistrate of Chenggao County and served for three years with excellent political performance.
He was then moved to the rank of Captain of Pei County, and then transferred to the rank of Captain of Runan. He managed well wherever he went.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Du Shi was promoted to Nanyang Prefect.
Du Shi was frugal and frugal by nature, and he was honest in politics. He established prestige among the people by killing and raping people. He was good at making suggestions and cherishing the people's labor.
Make a machine that uses water to push a piston to blow air. It is used to smelt iron and cast it into agricultural machinery. It requires less labor and is more effective. People think it is very convenient.
He also repaired sloping ponds and expanded the area of ​​cultivated land. Every household in Nanyang County became rich and prosperous.
People at that time compared him with the former prefect Zhao Xinchen. Some people in Nanyang praised him and said: There was Zhao Fu before him and Du Mu behind him.
Du Shi thought he had little merit, and felt uneasy after living in a large county for a long time. He asked to be demoted to a small county to avoid meritorious officials, so he went to Shudao: "Your Majesty has achieved great achievements in heaven, and has been able to complete the great cause of prospering the Han Dynasty. He has suppressed his troops and cultivated civilized governance. The generals have all returned to the court. There is peace in the country, blessings for all generations, and the world is lucky."
Only the Xiongnu, who do not know their virtues, are still causing trouble in the northwest frontier, tyrannizing China, and the people on the border are wasted and unable to defend themselves. I am worried that although the brave generals try their best to defend the border, they still cannot stop fighting.
Generally speaking, if an army is always busy fighting without getting rest, the soldiers will be resentful. If the army is hard at work without rest, the soldiers will also be resentful. It is difficult for a resentful army to accuse them of making new achievements again.
I saw the mood of the generals and the wish of the heroes. They wanted to return to the county to have a rest, and then accept the order to go on the expedition, so that there would be no resentment.
I believe that the division's victory lies in harmony rather than in numbers. Although your Majesty is concerned about the northern border, you should alternately use offensive and rest tactics.
In the past, King Wu of Shang, Tang and Zhou was good at controlling the masses, so there were no cruel and vicious masters.
It has been thirteen years since Your Majesty raised the army. The generals are harmonious and the soldiers are happy.
Now if the officials and governors are from the military, then the generals will encourage each other; if the soldiers can be treated like the central guards, then the soldiers will have a hundred times more courage.
Why?
Because the world has become stable, people value their lives, and ministers and below all miss the peaceful place. If they are not rewarded and appointed according to their merits, there will be no way to encourage them.
Your Majesty should indeed leave the positions of several county guards vacant to wait for the return of meritorious generals, and give many generous rewards to soldiers who have served for a long time.
In this way, the troops stationed on the border will risk their lives and the officials who go to the city to guard the fortress will not hesitate to work hard. In this way, the alarm system of the border fortress will be very accurate and the defensive operations will be indestructible.
The government of the Holy King must be in compliance with the people's hearts.
You are now using me, a foolish and incompetent person, to block the desire of heroes to be loyal and remonstrate. This is very inappropriate. I, Du Shi, secretly thought to myself, I was originally a small official as a historian, but it was your majesty's opportunity to create a great cause. All the heroes were away from home, and there was a shortage of talents in the court.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, I wrote a letter asking for merit, but His Majesty was so kind that he did not allow me to abdicate.
I, Du Shi, have received a particularly generous favor. According to the law, I dare not take the risk and cannot suppress my urgent wish. I am willing to step down from the position of a high county and accept a low-level position.
When I am older and able to take on heavy responsibilities, I will definitely be of benefit to the court and be given a high official position. Even though it is a title, I dare not refuse. Please have mercy on me!
The emperor cherished his talent and did not allow it.
Du Shi usually liked to recommend talented people, and several times recommended famous people such as Liu Tong of Qinghe and Dong Chong, the magistrate of Luyang County.
At first, the ban was relatively simple, but the troops were dispatched with a seal and no tiger talisman as a token. Du Shi wrote a letter saying: I heard that soldiers are the weapons of the country, and saints are very cautious.
According to the old system, tiger talismans were used when sending troops. As for general recruitment, bamboo slips were enough.
Only when the symbols are consistent can you gain the other party's complete trust, so you can reveal the state's orders and grasp the authority of the court.
Recently, only seals or edicts are used to mobilize the army. If someone forges it, it will not be detected.
I think that now that the war is still going on and the internal and external bandits have not been eliminated, we should be particularly cautious when recruiting troops from states, counties and feudal countries. We can set up tiger talismans as a voucher for sending troops to prevent treachery and hypocrisy.
In the past, Prince Xinling of Wei, Lord Wuji, overpowered his neighboring countries, and faked the military talisman of the King of Wei to break Qin's siege on Zhao. If Ruji had not stolen the military talisman and given it to Wuji in order to avenge her father's murder, Lord Xinling's contribution to saving Zhao would have been in vain.
Although some things are troublesome, they cannot be saved. The so-called cost-effectiveness is probably referring to this kind of military dispatch system.
According to the memorial, the emperor accepted his suggestion.
Although Du Shishen was a local official, he devoted himself to the court. He had upright opinions and good strategies, and he was willing to accept every situation.
After serving for seven years, political education became popular in the county.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, he was recruited due to the case of sending guests to avenge his younger brother.
At this time, Du Shi died of illness. Bao Yong, the captain of Sili School, wrote a letter saying that Du Shi was poor and had no land and house, and there was no land to bury him after his death.
The emperor issued an edict to organize the funeral in the county residence, and gave thousands of pieces of silk as funeral expenses.
◆Kong Fenchuan, whose courtesy name is Junyu, was born in Maoling, Fufeng.
His great-grandfather Kong Ba was an attendant during the reign of Emperor Yuan.
Kong Fenshao studied "The Spring and Autumn Annals of the Zuo Family" from Liu Xin. Liu Xin praised him and said to the students: I have learned from Jun Yu.
Affected by Wang Mang's rebellion, Kong Fen, his mother and young brother fled to Hexi.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, asked Kong Fen to consult with Cao Yu and act as the chief aunt.
In the eighth year, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
At this time, the world was in chaos, and only Hexi was peaceful. Guzang was called a wealthy town, and Qiang and Hu were the currency.
Kong Fen stayed in office for four years, but his property did not increase at all.
He served his mother as a filial piety, and although he was frugal, he was extremely devoted to his mother's support.
He and his wife eat vegetables and rice together.
At that time, the world was uncertain, and most of the scholars did not practice moral integrity. However, Kong worked hard to be clean and was laughed at by everyone. Some people thought that he was covered in grease and could not moisturize himself, which only added to the hardship.
Kong Fen had already established a righteousness, and governance was based on benevolence, love and fairness. The prefect Liang Tong treated him with deep respect and did not treat him with the courtesy of an official. He always greeted him at the gate and introduced him to his mother.
After Long and Shu were at peace, all the governors in Hexi were recruited, and all the goods and goods were included in the carts. The rivers and lakes were full of them, but Kong Fen had no money and could only ride a bicycle on the road.
The officials and people of Guzang and the Qiang and Hu even said to each other: Mr. Kong was honest, benevolent and virtuous, and the whole county was favored. Now that he has left, why don't we repay his kindness together?
So they jointly donated more than ten million in cattle, horses and utensils, and chased them hundreds of miles away.
Kong Fen only expressed his gratitude and received nothing from the utensils.
After arriving in the capital, he was worshiped as the Commander-in-Chief of Wudu.
At that time, the remaining thieves from Longxi, Kui Mao and others, attacked the mansion at night and massacred the county guard. The thieves were afraid that Kong Fen would pursue him urgently, so they captured his wife and son and wanted to use them as hostages.
Kong Fen was fifty years old and had only one son. He finally pursued his wife and son relentlessly regardless of the safety of his wife and son.
The officials and the people felt their loyalty and worked harder.
There are many Di people in the county and they are familiar with the environment of the valley. Its powerful man Qi Zhongliu is believed and admired by the Di people.
Kong Fen then led Zhong Liu and others to cover and attack, and cooperated with each other internally and externally.
The thieves were embarrassed and fearful, so they pushed Kong Fen's wife and son into the front car to force the officers and soldiers to retreat. The officers and soldiers attacked even more fiercely, so they captured Kui Mao and others and eliminated them. Kong Fen's wife and son were also killed by the thieves.
Shizu issued an edict to commend his merits and worship him as the prefect of Wudu.
Kong Fen became the official of the government, and he was respected. After he was worshiped as the prefect, everyone in the county did not do evil and did good, and changed their conduct.
Kong Fen made clear decisions in politics, knew what was good and what was wrong, and when he saw virtues, he loved them as relatives. He hated those without virtues as if they were enemies. The county was called Qingping.
His younger brother Kong Qi studied in Luoyang.
Kong Fen regarded Kong Qi as an official because he was proficient in Confucian classics. Kong Fen resigned from the official position due to illness, kept his promise to his hometown, and died at home.
Kong Qi Botong classics, wrote "Zuo Shi's Deletion of Spring and Autumn Period".
In his later years, Kong Fen had a son, Kong Jia, who was promoted to Chengmen school captain and wrote Zuo Shi Shuo.
◆Zhang Kanzhuan, named Junyou, was born in Wan, Nanyang County. It is a common surname in the county.
Zhang Kan was orphaned at an early age, leaving his late father's remaining wealth of millions to share with his brother and son.
When he was sixteen years old, he went to study in Chang'an. Zhimei behaved seriously and his classmates called him "Holy Boy".
When Shizu was young, he often praised Zhang Kan when he saw his ambition and integrity.
After he ascended the throne, the lieutenant general recommended Zhang Kan to the ministers in the future, called him to pay homage to him, and moved to visit him three times.
He was sent to deliver silk and lead 7,000 horses. He followed the Grand Sima Wu Han to attack Gongsun Shu. On the way, he was worshiped as the prefect of Shu County.
At that time, the Han army only had seven days of food left, so they secretly prepared ships to withdraw and escape.
Zhang Kan heard about it and ran to see Wu Han and said that Gongsun Shu would be defeated and it was not appropriate to retreat.
Wu Han obeyed and showed weakness to challenge. As expected, Gongsun Shu went to fight on his own and died in the battle.
After Chengdu was captured, Zhang Kan entered the city first, inspected the treasury, collected the treasures, and made a list of them all, without any selfishness.
He comforted the officials and the people, and the people of Shu were very happy.
Zhang Kan stayed in Shu County for two years and was worshiped as the Cavalry Commander. Later, he led the Cavalry General Du Mao to defeat the Huns at Gaoliu and was worshiped as the Governor of Yuyang.
If he catches the cunning and cunning, he will surely reward and punish him, and the officials and the people will be happy to use him.
The Huns once invaded Yuyang with 10,000 cavalry. Zhang Kan led thousands of cavalry to attack and defeated the Xiongnu troops, and the Yuyang County was peaceful.
So he opened more than 8,000 hectares of rice fields in Hunu, encouraged the people to cultivate, and became rich.
The people sang: The mulberry trees have no branches, the two branches are covered with wheat ears, Zhang Jun is in charge, and the people are overjoyed.
After eight years of supervision, the Huns did not dare to invade the fortress.
The emperor summoned the officials in charge of accounting books in various counties and asked them about their customs and the political achievements of the previous and previous county governors.
Fan Xianjin, the commander of Shu County, said: Zhang Kan, the governor of Yuyang, was in Shu in the past. His kindness was enough to favor his subordinates, and his prestige was enough to attack the traitors.
When the former Gongsun Shu was defeated, the treasures were piled up like mountains, and the things he mastered were enough to make him rich for ten generations. But on the day when Zhang Kan resigned, he was riding in a folded carriage with a quilt bag.
As for Emperor Gaozu summoning Jibu, Emperor Ming introduced Lian Fan, angered him, stimulated his ambition, and killed him, which further increased his favor and obedience to justice. This is really what a monarch needs.
However, Shu Mufan, who is reasonable, opened the gate because of his feelings. ◆Lian Fan Chuan, Lian Fan's courtesy name Shudu, was a native of Duling County, Jingzhao County, and a descendant of Zhao general Lian Po.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, because the Lian family was a large clan, they moved him from Kuxing County to Duling.
He has been a frontier county guard for generations, and some of his ancestors were buried in Xiangwu, Longxi, so his descendants became officials in Longxi.
His great-grandfather Lian Bao was the right general when he became Emperor Ai. His grandfather, Lian Dan, was the minister of the Great Sima Yong during Wang Mang's reign, and both were famous in their previous lives.
Lian Fan's father suffered a massacre and died in the Shu Han Dynasty, so Lian Fan lived in Xizhou.
After Xizhou was pacified, he returned to his hometown.
When he was fifteen years old, he bid farewell to his mother and went to Xizhou to welcome his father's death.
Zhang Mu, the prefect of Shu County, was an old kinsman of Lian Fan's grandfather Lian Dan. He offered Lian Fan a large amount of money, but Lian Fan did not accept it and walked back to Jiameng with his guests to bear his father's funeral.
The boat carrying the coffin hit the rocks and sank. Lian Fan hugged the coffin and drowned together. Everyone mourned his filial piety and rescued him with a hook. He survived after being recuperated and rescued.
Zhang Mu heard about it and sent another envoy to catch up with Lian Fan with the money and goods he had given to Lian Fan before. Lian Fan refused again.
After carrying his father's coffin back for burial, he went to the capital to study under Dr. Xue Han.
Jingzhao and Longxi counties competed to invite him, but Lian Fan refused. In the early years of Yongping, Deng Rong, the governor of Longxi, prepared gifts and asked Lian Fan to be his meritorious officer. At this time, Deng Rong was accused of committing a crime by the state. Lian Fan knew that his crime was difficult to solve, so he wanted to use his power to help him. Pretending to be sick, Deng asked for leave and left. Deng did not understand Lian Fan's feelings and resented him very much.
Lian Fan then went east to Luoyang, changed his name and asked to act as Tingwei's jailer.
Not long after, Deng Rong was arrested and imprisoned, and Lian Fan was able to serve as a bodyguard and work diligently.
Deng Rong was surprised that he looked like Lian Fan. He didn't understand why, so he asked, "Why do you look like my former hero?"
Lian Fan reprimanded him and said, "You must be blinded by the predicament!"
He no longer answered his words.
Deng Rong was released from prison because he was sleepy and ill. Lian Fan followed him to recuperate and take care of him. He never mentioned this matter until Deng Rong died. He also personally drove Deng Rong's coffin to Nanyang for burial, and left only after the burial.
Later, Pi was summoned to the palace, and it happened that Xue Han was killed because of the rebellion of King Chu Ying. None of Xue Han's old students dared to see him, so Lian Fan went to collect Xue Han's body alone.
The officials reported to the government, and Xianzong was furious. He summoned Lian Fan to see him and questioned him, saying: "Xue Han conspired with the King of Chu to cause chaos in the world. You are a government official and you do not agree with the court. Instead, you go to collect the corpses of criminals. Why is this?"
Lian Fan kowtowed and said, "I am foolish and ignorant. I think that all the Han people have already fallen into disgrace. The teacher's love must not be forgotten. His crime shall be punished by death."
The emperor's anger subsided and he asked Lian Fan: "Are you a descendant of Lian Po?"
Is it related to the late right general Lian Bao and the great Sima Liandan?
Lian Fan replied: "Bao is Chen's great-grandfather, and Lian Dan is Chen's grandfather."
The emperor said: No wonder your ambition and courage dare to do this!
Therefore, his sins were pardoned, and Lian Fan's reputation became even more prominent from then on.
He was promoted as a scholar, and a few months later he was promoted to the governor of Yunzhong.
Coinciding with the Huns' large-scale invasion of the frontier fortress, the beacon tower sounded alarms all day long.
According to the old practice, if the attacking enemy exceeds 5,000, a letter must be sent to the neighboring county.
The officials wanted to send a message to the neighboring county for help, but Lian Fan refused to listen and led his soldiers to resist.
There were so many enemy troops that Lian Fan's soldiers could not resist.
At dusk, Lian Fan ordered the sergeants to tie two torches each into a cross shape, light three torch heads, and hold one end, so that the camp was lined up like stars.
When the enemy saw the many torches, they thought it was Han reinforcements arriving and were shocked.
Wanting to wait for dawn to retreat, Lian Fan ordered the sergeant to eat well at night and launch a pursuit at dawn. Hundreds of people were beheaded, and the Huns soldiers trampled each other. More than a thousand people died, and they never dared to attack Yunzhong again.
Later, he served as the prefect of Wuwei and Wudu counties. He educated and induced people according to the people's customs and managed them well.
He built a junior high school and moved to the post of prefect of Shu County. The custom in Shu is to favor literary debate and argue with each other. The honest model always encourages them to be honest and honest, and not to be affected by the frivolous and frivolous atmosphere.
Chengdu is rich in folk goods, and the urban houses are close together. In the past, citizens were prohibited from working at night to prevent fires. However, citizens still worked secretly at night, hiding from each other, and fires often broke out.
Lian Fan then abolished the shilling and strictly stipulated that sufficient water should be stored for fire prevention.
The people thought it was convenient, so they sang about it and said: "Uncle Lian Du, where did you come from?"
There is no fire, and the people live in peace. I have never had a short coat in my life, but now I have five pairs of trousers.
After staying in Shu for several years, he was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown for breaking the law.
Lian Fan has been around for generations, has many fields, and has saved a lot of money and food, which are used to provide relief to family friends.
When Suzong died, Lian Fan rushed to Jingling.
At that time, Yan Lin, the governor of Lujiang County, was ordered to mourn the country and met on the road.
Yan Lin was riding in a small car, but his horse died because of the deep mud and could not move forward. Lian Fan was very sympathetic when he saw it, and ordered him to dismount and give Yan Lin a ride, and left without telling him.
After Yan Lin finished his work, he didn't know who to return the horse to, so he followed Lian Fan's whereabouts.
Someone told Yan Lin: Therefore, Lian Shudu, the governor of Shu County, likes to help people in emergencies and difficulties. Now that you are mourning the country, it must be him.
Yan Lin also heard about Lian Fan's reputation for a long time and thought it was right, so he took the horse to Lian Fan's house, thanked him and returned the horse to him.
Everyone in the world admires his kindness, but some people ridicule him for relying on General Dou Xian. Died at home. At first, Lian Fan and Luoyang Qinghong were close friends. At that time, people praised him and said: before him, there was Guan Zhong and Uncle Bao, and after him, there was Qinghong and Lian Fan.
Qinghong was generous and loyal, and became the prefect of Langfu and Kuaiji counties, where he performed unusual deeds.
◆The biography of Wang Tang, whose courtesy name is Jingbo, was born in Guanghan.
At first, he promoted the most talented people and moved him to Gucheng County Magistrate, and his governance was famous.
In Yongchuzhong, Kouba County of Western Qiang was in trouble for the people. The imperial edict sent Zhonglang General Yin Jiu to attack and conquer, but he failed for several years.
The three prefectures had great achievements in government affairs and were worshiped as the prefect of Bajun.
Wangtang sent troops to attack the bandits and killed more than a thousand Qiang captives. Ba and Yong were left in peace. The officials and the people built a shrine for Wangtang during his lifetime.
The governor Zhang Qiao showed his ability in governance and moved to Youfufeng.
During Emperor An's expedition to the west, wet nurse Wang Sheng, Zhongchang Shijiang Jing and others invited their families to belong to the hall, but the king's hall was not used.
Wang Tang said: "I have been favored by the country, how can I be accommodating to the powerful? I will defend it to the death!"
The family members will be sent back today and the concierge will be closed.
Sure enough, someone falsely accused Wangtang, which coincided with the collapse of the emperor, Jiang Jing and others were executed. Wangtang was praised for keeping the right path and not disobeying the powerful.
In the second year of Yongjian's reign, he was recruited as a general and a master craftsman.
In the fourth year of Yongjian's reign, he changed his position to Yilang due to official business.
He paid homage to Prime Minister Lu again, and his administration was simple and simple. He did not file a lawsuit for several years.
He moved to Runan to be the prefect, collected talented people, treated the virtuous and corporal officers, and did not do anything on his own, so he taught the history: The ancients were busy seeking talents and were comfortable with envoys, so they were able to keep things clean at the top and rectify things at the bottom.
Chen Fan, the meritorious official, is responsible for assessing talents in prefectures and counties and appointing candidates.
The chief secretary Ying Si is responsible for handling government affairs and filling in gaps.
Only in this way can we follow the name, take responsibility for the truth, observe words and observe results.
From then on, he sincerely asked for his duties, and no longer had any presumptions about teaching, and the county was governed.
At that time, Liang Shang, the general, and Yuan Tang, the minister, hated him because they were unable to seek help.
Later, when thieves from Lujiang entered the Yiyang realm, Wang Tang mobilized troops to pursue them, and the thieves fled. However, Liang Shang and Yuan Tang still held a grudge and falsely accused Wang Tang of being without police during his term of office, and were exempted from returning home.
Died at the age of eighty-six.
The legacy was ordered to be buried in a thin coffin with tiles.
The prince is a pure man but not an official.
Great-grandson Wang Shang, Yizhou Shepherd Liu Yan regarded him as the prefect of Shu County and had a reputation for governance.
◆The biography of Su Zhang, whose courtesy name is Ruwen, was born in Pingling, Fufeng.
The eighth generation ancestor Su Jian was the right general during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Grandfather Su Chun, courtesy name Huan Gong, had a brilliant reputation. He was strong-willed and obsessed with reputation and reputation. Scholars and friends were in awe of him. When they met, they talked about him and said: "When I see Su Huan Gong, I am afraid that he will speak out and teach others. When I don't see him, I miss him again."
Sansuke calls him "Sir".
In Yongpingzhong, he served as the captain of Fengche Commandery Dou Gu's army. He made an attack on the Northern Xiongnu and the Che Division. He was granted the title of Marquis of Zhongling Township and was promoted to the Grand Administrator of Nanyang.
Su Zhang was erudite and capable of writing when he was young.
During the reign of Emperor An, he was a virtuous and upright person with excellent performance in countermeasures, and was named Yilang.
He stated his gains and losses several times, and his words were very upright. When he was appointed as the magistrate of Wuyuan County, Su Zhang often opened a granary and rescued more than 3,000 households when there was a famine.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he moved to Jizhou as governor.
The old man was the governor of Qinghe, and Su Zhang inspected him to punish him for being a traitor and embezzling stolen goods.
Su Zhang then invited the prefect to have dinner and wine, and talked about his life's good deeds.
The prefect said happily: "Everyone has one day, but I only have two days."
Su Zhang said: "Su Zhang's drinking with his old friend tonight is a personal favor between the two of us; if the Jizhou governor wants to punish you tomorrow, it will be selfless under public law."
So he was punished.
Within the borders of the state, Su Zhang was known to be selfless and fearless.
He was replaced as the governor of Bingzhou, and in order to defeat the powerful and powerful, he violated the order and was dismissed.
From then on, he hid in the countryside and did not interact with the current people. Later, he was recruited as Henan Yin, but he did not take office. At that time, the world was in chaos and the people were suffering. Commentators recommended that Su Zhang had the talent to manage the country. However, the imperial court could not reuse him and he died at home.
◆Yangxuzhuan, Yangxuxi named Xingzu, was from Pingyang, Taishan.
The seventh generation of his ancestor was Erqian Shiqingxiao. His grandfather, Yang Ke, was the Sili Xiaowei during the reign of Emperor An.
His father, Yangru, was Taichang during the reign of Emperor Huan.
Yang Xu was regarded as a descendant of a loyal minister and was worshiped as a doctor. After he resigned from the official position, he was conscripted into the mansion of General Dou Wu.
After Dou Wu failed, he was imprisoned for more than ten years due to party affiliation and lived in seclusion.
When the party ban was lifted, he was conscripted into the Taiwei Mansion and moved to Lujiang Prefecture.
Later, the Yellow Turban bandits in Yangzhou attacked Shu and burned the city walls. Yangxu recruited all the men in the county who were over twenty years old. They all held troops and put out the fire. The weak ones participated in fetching water to put out the fire. They gathered tens of thousands of people and fought hard. They defeated the Yellow Turban bandits and the county boundaries were pacified.
Later, the Anfeng thief Dai Feng and others caused trouble, and Yangxu defeated them again, beheaded more than 3,000 people, and captured their commander alive. The rest of the party were civilians, and they were given farming tools so that they could engage in legitimate agricultural production.
In the third year of Zhongping, Zhao Ci, a soldier of Jiangxia, rebelled, killed Qin Jie, the prefect of Nanyang, captured six counties, and worshiped Yang as the prefect of Nanyang.
When he entered the county, he would patrol incognito and take a boy with him to inspect the county and collect rumors before entering.
Some commanders were greedy and officials and people were cunning, but he knew the situation, and everyone in the county was frightened and frightened.
So he sent troops and Wang Min, the governor of Jingzhou, to attack Zhao Ci and beheaded him. He was killed by more than 5,000 people. The remaining thieves in the county came to surrender to Yangxu, and Yangxu appealed to them to pardon the remaining gang members.
After the thieves were put down, political decrees were issued to meet the urgent needs of the people, and the people were happy and admired.
At that time, many powerful families were extravagant, and Yang Xu was very ill. He often had poor food and clothing, and drove an old horse and a broken carriage.
Fu Cheng once offered him raw fish, and Yang Xu accepted it and hung it in the court. Fu Cheng later offered it to him, and Yang Xu showed him the raw fish hanging in the court to stop him from offering fish.
Later, Yangxu's wife and son Yangmi arrived at the county house, but Yangxu refused to accept them. His wife took Yangmi away with only cloth quilts, rags, salt, and a few bushels of wheat. She turned around and said to Yangmi: How can I support your mother and son if I treat myself so poorly?
Let both mother and son go home.
Six years later, Emperor Ling wanted to make Yangxu the Taiwei.
At that time, those who worshiped the Three Dukes would give tens of millions of gifts to Dongyuan and order the envoys and governors to pay the money, which was named "Zuozou".
Wherever he went, he was often greeted with salutes and generous bribes.
Yangxu sat on the single table, held up his old cotton robe to show it off, and said, "This is all my property."
The emperor was displeased with Zuo Zou's report, so Yang Xu failed to ascend to the throne.
However, he was drafted too often and died of illness at the age of forty-eight before he could set out.
The deceased will be buried with a thin will and no legacy will be accepted.
According to the old system, after the death of an official with two thousand dan, he would be paid a million yuan. Jiao Jian, the prime minister of the government, followed Yang Xu's will during his lifetime and received nothing.
The emperor praised Yangxu with an edict and ordered the Taishan prefect to give Yangxu money from the government to support his family.
◆Zongzhuan of King Jia, named Meng Jian, a native of Liaocheng, Dongjun.
He was promoted to Xiaolian, then moved to the capital, and had political achievements.
There are many precious products in the old Jiaozhi soil. Mingji, green feather, rhinoceros, elephant, tortoise shell, exotic fragrant and beautiful trees all come from Jiaozhi.
Most of the former and later governors were corrupt and perverted the law. They flattered the powerful at the top and accumulated private bribes at the bottom. They often used this to seek promotion, so the officials and the people resented betrayal.
In the first year of Zhongping, Jiaozhi stationed troops and served as governor and governor of Hepu. He called himself "General Zhutian".
Emperor Ling specially ordered the three palaces to select capable officials, and one official recommended Jia Cong to be the governor of Jiaozhi.
Jia Cong went to the ministry and interrogated his counter-claims. They all said that the people gathered together as thieves because the taxes were too heavy, the people were poor and empty, the capital was far away, there was nothing to complain about, and the people had no life.
Jia Wangzong immediately sent a letter to inform the people, so that the people could settle down in their own affairs, recruit people who had fled the famine, exempt them from corvee service, execute the generals who caused harm, and select good officials to try to guard the counties. Within a year, the whole territory was settled, and the people were in peace.
There is a song in the lane: "Jia's father came late, so I rebelled first; now that there is peace, the officials dare not eat."
After three years of service, he became the best among the thirteen states and was worshiped as Yilang.
At that time, the Yellow Turbans had just been defeated. After the brutal war, the counties and counties imposed excessive taxes and levies, which led to adultery.
The imperial edict sent Sha to eliminate the governor and two thousand stones, and to select honest and capable officials, so Jia Wangzong was appointed as the governor of Jizhou.
According to the old system, a post car is used to accompany the driver, and red curtains are hung to greet the state border.
When Jia Wangzong arrived, he Shengcha said: "The governor should watch from a distance and listen widely, correct and examine the good and evil. How about those who hang up curtains to cover themselves up?"
So he ordered the driver to take off the curtains.
People everywhere were naturally shocked when they heard the news.
Those officials who had made mistakes were sent away by looking at the wind to remove their seals and ribbons. Only Dong Zhao, the chief of Yingtao, Jiyin, and Liang Guohuang, the chief of Guanjin, served as officials and waited for Jia Wangzong, so the state boundaries became peaceful and smooth.
Emperor Ling died, and the general He Jin recommended Jia Wangzong as the general of Liao Dynasty. He died in the official position.
◆Biography of Lu Kang, Lu Kang's courtesy name was Jining, and he was a native of Wu County, Wu County.
Grandfather successively, in "The Biography of Du Xing".
His father, Lu Bao, was ambitious, but he refused to go even though the imperial court continuously conscripted him.
Lu Kang had been an official in the county since he was a child and was known for his righteousness and righteousness. Zang, the governor, promoted his talents and appointed him as the magistrate of Gaocheng County.
Gaocheng County is on the border. According to the old system, it is ordered that one person in each household must have a crossbow in case of unpreparedness, and no contact is allowed.
When new chief officials arrive, they often send out migrant workers to repair the city walls.
When Lu Kang arrived, no one was sent, and the people were very happy.
Lu Kang governed with kindness and trust, and the bandits and bandits were gone, and the states and counties reported their results.
In the first year of Guanghe, he moved to the post of Wuling Prefect and then became the Prefect of Guiyang and Le'an counties. The county where he lived praised him.
At that time, Emperor Ling wanted to cast bronze figures, but the court's resources were insufficient, so he issued an edict to transfer people's land and charge ten yuan per mu.
At that time, floods and droughts damaged farmers and made the people poor.
Lu Kang came up and remonstrated: I heard that the former kings governed the country by caring for the people.
Eliminate corvee, lighten taxes, and reduce taxes, so as to bring peace to the world, eliminate troubles and become simple, and worship simplicity. Therefore, all surnames obey the teachings, and all kinds of spiritual creatures sense kindness.
The Lord of Decline in the last days is extremely extravagant and unprovoked, and has developed all kinds of new methods to work hard and exploit the people below to satisfy his own meager needs. Therefore, the people lament and Yin and Yang are moved.
His Majesty's holy virtues should be promoted and enlightened, but he actually issued an edict to collect land money for each acre and cast them into bronze figures. I read the edict with melancholy and worried that this was a mistake.
The tax on the eleventh day was called "Che" in the Zhou Dynasty, and "Che" means "tong", which means that this kind of law can be implemented throughout the ages.
Therefore, Duke Xuan of Lu changed the old system of public land and implemented a tax on acres, but the insect plague occurred naturally; Duke Ai of Lu increased taxes, which Confucius thought was wrong.
Is there anyone who seizes the people's belongings to build useless bronze figures, abandons the admonitions of the saints, and follows the same path as the fallen master?
It is said in the legend: What you do must be recorded in a book. If the book fails to follow the law, what will future generations say?
Your Majesty should be careful and reflect on your behavior, and try to change your ways for good, so as to eliminate the resentment of the people.
When the book was circulated, the concubines falsely accused Lu Kang of quoting the subjugation of the country as a metaphor for a saint, which was disrespectful, and sent him to the imperial court in a prison car.
Liu Dai, the imperial censor, examined the matter. Liu Dai gave an explanation, dismissed him, and returned him to the fields.
Later he was worshiped as Yilang.
By chance, Lujiang thief Huang Rang and others joined forces with Jiangxia barbarians with more than 100,000 people, captured four counties, and worshiped Lu Kang as the governor of Lujiang.
Lu Kang declared rewards and punishments, defeated Huang Rang and others, and the rest of the party surrendered.
The emperor commended him for his contribution and appointed Lu Kangsun and Lu Shang as his doctor.
When Emperor Xian came to the throne, the world was in chaos. Lu Kang risked his life and sent filial and honest officials to pay tribute to the imperial court.
At that time, Yuan Shu was stationed in Shouchun, but his troops were hungry, so he sent an envoy to ask Lu Kang to transport soldiers and armor.
Lu Kang believed that Yuan Shu was rebellious and closed himself off to others. He practiced war preparations internally and prepared to resist.
Yuan Shu was furious and sent his general Sun Ce to attack Lu Kang and besieged the city several times.
Lu Kang stood firm, and some of the officials and soldiers were already on vacation. They all returned from hiding and entered the city at night.
After two years of being attacked, the city fell.
More than a month later, he fell ill and died at the age of seventy.
More than a hundred members of the clan suffered from famine, and half of them died.
The imperial court showed pity for his integrity and worshiped his son Lu Xie as the doctor.
The youngest son, Lu Ji, served in Wu as the governor of Yulin. He was well-known for his erudition and good governance.
When he was six years old, he paid a visit to Yuan Shu and brought three tangerines to the table. After the visit, the tangerines fell to the ground. Yuan Shu asked him why, and he said he wanted to take them back to his mother to eat.
