Gongsun Hong was born in Xue County, Sichuan State.
He worked as a jailer when he was young. Removed from office for committing a crime.
Because his family was poor, he made a living by herding pigs on the beach.
When he was in his forties, he began to study "Spring and Autumn" and miscellaneous treatises of various schools.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he recruited virtuous and literary people. At this time, Gongsun Hong was sixty years old and got a doctorate as a virtuous and literary person.
He was sent as an envoy to the Huns and returned to the court to report, which was not in line with the emperor's wishes. Emperor Wu was very angry and thought he was incompetent, so Gongsun Hong wrote a letter claiming to be ill and was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty once again selected virtuous literary people, and Dong Weihui once again recommended Gong Zhucong.
Gong Chuicong declined and said: I went west to Beijing in the past and was dismissed because of my incompetence. I hope to choose someone else.
But the people of the country insisted on recommending him, so Gongsun Hong came to Taichang.
The emperor went down to Shao Shu Ce and asked all the Confucian scholars:
The bookmaker wrote: I heard that in ancient times, when politics was perfect, the punishment for criminals was to mark their clothes and hats and let them wear special clothes, but the common people did not break the law. At that time, Yin and Yang were in harmony, the grains were abundant, the livestock were multiplying, the dew fell from the sky, the weather was smooth, the rice with full grains grew, the red auspicious grass appeared, the mountains were covered with dense forests and lush grass, and the lakes did not dry up. Unicorns and phoenixes appear in the lakes on the outskirts of the city. Turtles and dragons swim in the ponds, rivers produce pictures, and Luo produces books. A son will not die before his father, nor will a younger brother die before his elder brother. At that time, as far as Qusou in the north and Jiaodu in the south, as long as it was reachable by cars and boats and people could walk, all living beings had their own place.
I admire that era very much. How can we govern the country now to reach this state?
You have studied the laws of the sages, you are well versed in the principles of the superiority and inferiority of kings and ministers, and you are very insightful in your discussions. You are all very famous today. I dare to ask you: What is the most fundamental way of heaven and man?
How to predict good and bad luck?
Floods and droughts occurred during the reign of Yu and Tang. What were their faults?
What methods should be used to perfect and coordinate the four aspects of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, and wisdom?
The succession of the imperial line, the vagaries of life and death, the signs of divine destiny, how did all these rise and fall happen?
The laws of astronomy, geography, and human affairs, flowers are what you study.
Please write down what you think is a comprehensive and correct discussion into a detailed article. I will read it personally and don’t hide anything.
Gongsun Hong replied:
I heard that in the ancient times of Yao and Shun, they did not pay much attention to titles and rewards, but the people worked hard to do good; they did not advocate the use of severe punishments, but the people did not break the law easily. This was because Yao and Shun themselves acted righteously and had faith in their treatment of the people. The age of decline. They attach great importance to titles and generous rewards, but the people are not encouraged to do good; they impose severe punishments, but they cannot prevent evil things from happening. This is because the king himself is not upright and has no faith in his treatment of the people.
We must be trustworthy towards the people, otherwise, generous rewards and cruel punishments will not be enough to encourage good deeds and prohibit crime.
Therefore, if palace positions are awarded according to talents, officials will be able to master their own duties and achieve political clarity; if they do not listen to useless discussions, then things can be done; if they do not make useless utensils, they can reduce taxes; if they do not delay farming and do not harm the people's strength, then the people will become rich; if they promote virtuous people, they will be demoted If there are immoral people, then the court will be able to establish prestige; if those who have merit are promoted and those who have no merit are demoted, then officials will not compete for power; if criminals are appropriately punished, then treacherous and evil things will be stopped; if virtuous people are appropriately rewarded, then officials will be encouraged. Summarizing these eight principles is the fundamental strategy for governing the people.
If the people have their own affairs, they will not fight; if they can each express their own interests, there will be no complaints; if they are treated with courtesy, the people will not be arrogant; if they love the people as sons, the people will trust and be close to the emperor. These are the top priorities of the emperor.
Therefore, if the laws and regulations do not violate the righteousness, the people will be convinced and will not rebel; if the etiquette advocated does not violate the etiquette, the people will be loyal and not arrogant.
Therefore, what is punished by the legal system is also forbidden by justice; what promotes rewards must be advocated by etiquette.
What the people believe in is etiquette and justice. If rewards and punishments comply with etiquette and justice, then the people will not break the law: in ancient times, only symbolic punishments such as painting clothes and wearing different seals prevented the people from breaking the law, because they always followed etiquette and justice at that time.
I heard that people with similar interests can be together, and people with similar voices can be harmonious.
Now the emperor implements virtuous government at the top, and the people are of one mind and virtuous at the bottom. Therefore, if you are of one heart and one mind, your aspirations will be unified, your actions will be unified, and your actions will be coordinated, your speech will be coordinated. If speech is coordinated, then the harmony between heaven and earth will correspond to it.
Yin and yang are in harmony, the weather is smooth, the dew falls from the sky, the grains are abundant, the livestock multiply, the Jiashi rice with full grains grows, the red auspicious grass grows, the mountains and forests are dense, and the lakes are full of water, these are the scenes produced by the harmony.
A well-coordinated body will not get sick, and without illness, it will not die young. A father will not lose his son, and an elder brother will not cry because his younger brother died prematurely.
The benevolence of the Holy King is as high as the sky and as bright as the sun and the moon, so auspicious unicorns and phoenixes appear, and auspicious turtles and dragons appear in the lakes and lakes in the suburbs. Pictures are drawn from the river, and books are published from Luo. Countries far away admire him and send envoys with gifts to surrender and pay homage. This is the pinnacle of the peace agreement.
There is a sense of propriety in advancing and retreating, and there is a distinction between superiority and inferiority, which is called etiquette. Monopolizing the power of life and death, opening blocked roads, weighing priorities, exploring gains and losses, and exposing the true and false things around and far away are called techniques.
The above four articles are the fundamental principles and methods for governing the world. They should all be formulated and implemented and cannot be abandoned.
If you master the key points, the world will be happy and peaceful. Although the criminal law is established, it will not be used because no one breaks the law. If you cannot master these methods, the emperor will be deceived and the officials will cause chaos.
The gains and losses of these things are the basis for inheriting and continuing the achievements of our ancestors.
I heard that there were floods in Yao's time and he sent Yu to control them. I didn't hear that there were floods when Yu was in charge of the world.
As for the drought in the Shang Tang era, it was caused by the remnants of Xia Jie.
Xia Jie and Shang Zhou implemented evil policies and were punished by heaven; Dayu and Shang Tang did good deeds and accumulated virtue, so they became kings of the world.
From this point of view, God does not have personal preferences, likes and dislikes. If you comply with God's virtues, harmony will prosper. If you go against the grain, disasters will happen.
Creation is the law of astronomy, geography, and human affairs.
I am foolish and reckless, and I am not qualified to answer the emperor's policy questions.
At that time, there were more than a hundred people who responded to the imperial edict. When Taichang reported the results of the edict, Gongsun Hong was ranked lower.
After the strategy slip was presented to the emperor, the emperor selected Gongsun Hong's strategy as the first.
Gongsun Hong was summoned to see him. The emperor saw that he was a talented person, so he appointed him as a doctor and waited for the Shao Jin Ma Alliance.
Gongsun Hong once again wrote to Shu and said: Your Majesty has the position of the First Sage but not the reputation of the First Sage, and has the reputation of the First Sage but does not have the officials of the First Sage. Therefore, your Majesty is in the same situation as the First Sage, but the results of his governance are different.
In the past, the officials were honest, so the people were loyal; now, the officials are greedy, so the people are vulgar.
Bad politics will not be implemented, and hateful laws will not be obeyed.
Appointing corrupt officials to implement bad governance and using abhorrent laws to govern vulgar people will make it impossible for the people to be educated, which is why different governance results will occur.
I heard that when Duke Zhou governed the world, changes occurred in one year. In three years, the people were educated, and in five years, the world was at peace.
This is what His Majesty longs for.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor replied in a book: Question: Gongsun Hong praised Zhou Gong's rule, so who do you think is more talented than Zhou Gong?
Gongsun Hong replied: My knowledge is shallow, how dare I compare with Duke Zhou!
Even so, I still understand that by practicing governance now, we can reach the state of governance of the sages.
Tigers, leopards, horses and cows are all wild beasts that are difficult to command. Once they are tamed by a trainer, they can be controlled and used to make them obey human orders.
I heard that straight wood can be bent by drying in a few days, and gold and stone can be melted in a few months. How can people's knowledge of interests and dislikes be compared to that of animals, wood and stone?
I think it takes a year to change the country, which is too slow.
The emperor was surprised by his words.
At that time, there had just been contacts with the southwestern barbarians, and the two counties of Bashu and Bashu were suffering from worship work. The emperor issued an edict and sent Gongsun Hong to inspect.
When he reported back to the court, he strongly opposed the transportation of southwestern Yi and believed that it was useless. The emperor did not listen to his opinion.
Whenever there was a political meeting in the court, Gongsun Hong would state his opinions and let the emperor make his own choice, rather than refute or argue face to face in the court.
From this, the emperor saw that his behavior was cautious and honest, he left room for debate, he was familiar with documents, laws and official duties, and he decorated it with Confucianism, so he liked him very much and promoted him to Zuo Neishi within a year.
When Gongsun Hong went to court, he did not argue in court if he thought something was wrong.
He often went to see the emperor one after another with Ji An, the lord captain. Ji An raised questions first, and Gongsun Hong then elaborated. The emperor was often very happy and listened to everything he said. As a result, Gongsun Hong became more and more favored.
He once made an appointment with the minister to make some suggestions, but when he came to the emperor, he completely reneged on the agreement and followed the emperor's intention.
Ji An accused Gongsun Hong in court: Many people in Qi are hypocritical and dishonest. They first made the above suggestions to the ministers, and now completely betrayed the previous agreement. This is disloyal to the king.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong apologized and said: Those who know me well think that I am loyal to the king; those who do not know me think that I am unfaithful.
The emperor thought his words made sense.
The emperor's favorites slandered Gongsun Hong, but the emperor treated him more and more favorably.
Gongsun Hong was good at talking and well-informed. He often said that what a monarch fears is not being magnanimous and magnanimous, and what a minister fears is not being frugal.
He served his stepmother respectfully and filially. When his stepmother died, he spent three years in mourning.
After working as a historian for several years, Gongsun Hong was promoted to the imperial censor.
At that time, Canghai County was newly established in the east, and Shuofang County was built in the north.
Gongsun Hong advised him several times, thinking that it was a waste of money and people to manage a useless place, and it was not worth the exhaustion of the Central Plains area, so he hoped to stop it.
The emperor then ordered Zhu Maichen and others to refute Gongsun Hong and demonstrate the necessity of establishing Shuofang County.
Zhu Maichen and others raised ten questions, but Gongsun Hong could not refute any of them.
So he apologized to the emperor and said: I am a vulgar person from Shandong. I don't understand how beneficial it is to establish Shuofang County. I hope to stop moving to Southwest Yi and Canghai County and focus on running Shuofang County.
The emperor then agreed to his request.
Ji An said: Gongsun Hong is ranked among the three nobles and has a lot of salary, but he uses cloth to make quilts. This is hypocrisy.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and he apologized and said: There is such a thing.
Among the nine ministers, no one has a better friendship with me than Ji An, but today when he questioned me in court, he really hit on my weakness.
As one of the Three Lords, using a cloth quilt is indeed a pretense and deception, in order to gain fame and reputation.
I heard that when Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Qi, he married three women with different surnames. His luxury was comparable to that of a monarch. Duke Huan of Qi relied on his assistance to dominate, but he was against an arrogant king.
Yan Ying served as Qi Jinggong's prime minister. He did not eat two portions of meat and vegetables for one meal, and his concubines did not wear silk clothes. Qi State was also governed very well. He was looking down on the common people.
Now I, Gongsun Hong, serve as the imperial censor. I use cloth quilts to eliminate the distinction between high and low officials from Jiuqing to the junior officials. It's exactly what Ji An said.
Besides, without Ji An, how could your Majesty hear what I said?
The emperor thought he could be polite and respected him more and more.
During the Yuanshuo period, Gongsun Hong replaced Xue Ze as prime minister.
In the original Han Dynasty, princes were generally appointed as prime ministers. Only Gongsun Hong did not have a title. The emperor issued an edict: "I admire the way of governing the country by the sages. I open the door wide and recruit wise men from all over." In ancient times, positions were arranged according to merit, and different palace positions were awarded based on talents. People with great merits received generous salaries, and people with high virtues received prestigious titles. Therefore, those with martial arts were promoted, and those with literary virtues were praised.
We hereby order that 650 households in Pingjin Township, Gaocheng County, be granted to Prime Minister Gongsun Hong and be granted the title of Marquis of Pingjin.
This became the system thereafter. The promotion of officials to prime minister and the title of marquis began with Gongsun Hong.
At that time, when the emperor was making great achievements, he repeatedly selected virtuous people.
Gongsun Hong stood out because he was the first to take countermeasures. He was dressed in white cloth, and a few years later he was promoted to prime minister and was granted the title of marquis. For this reason, he built a guesthouse, opened the gates, invited wise men, and discussed matters with them.
Gongsun Hong himself only ate a meat dish and brown rice for each meal. His relatives, friends and guests all relied on him to provide food and clothing. As a result, he spent all his salary and there was nothing left at home.
But he has a jealous temperament, and is gentle on the outside but deep inside.
Those who have had quarrels with Gongsun Hong, no matter near or far, although he is friendly to them on the surface, they will always seek revenge in the end.
It was Gongsun Hong's idea to kill his father Yan and demote Dong Zhongshu to Jiaoxi.
Later, the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan rebelled, and when the court was severely investigating their accomplices, Gongsun Hong fell seriously ill. He felt that he had done nothing, so he was granted the title of marquis and held the position of prime minister. He should assist the wise emperor to calm down and pacify the country, so that people would follow the moral principles of a minister.
Now there is rebellion among the princes and kings, which is caused by the incompetence of the ministers.
He was afraid that he would die of illness and would not be able to explain, so he wrote a letter saying: I heard that there are five aspects of the normal way in the world, and there are three ways to practice it.
The five aspects of monarch and minister, father and son, husband and wife, elders and children, and friendship among friends are the common way of the world; benevolence, wisdom, and courage are the three virtues that implement the common way.
Therefore, when in doubt, asking is closer to wisdom, practicing one's own actions is closer to benevolence, and knowing integrity is closer to courage. If you understand these three principles, you will know how to cultivate your character and self-discipline; only then you will know how to govern the people.
There is no one who cannot govern himself but can govern the people.
His Majesty personally practiced filial piety, learned from the three kings, and established political decrees like the Zhou Dynasty. He had the virtues of King Wen and the talent of King Wu. He recruited people from all over, selected talented people to serve, and appointed officials according to their ability. This was a practice that could inspire the people to encourage talented people.
Now that I am ignorant and have no talents, and I have no hard work, Your Majesty attaches too much importance to promoting me from among the soldiers, making me a prince, and reaching the rank of three Dukes.
My moral character and ability are not worthy of such a high official title, and I am ill. I am afraid that I will be buried in a ditch before dogs and horses. In the end, I will not be able to repay the emperor's kindness, nor will I be able to fulfill my duties faithfully.
I want to return the title of marquis, resign and retire, and make way for talented people.
The emperor replied: Since ancient times, we have rewarded those who have meritorious service and commended those who are virtuous. We advocate civil rule when we are successful, and we advocate martial arts in troubled times. This principle has never changed.
I work hard day and night to become a talented person and inherit the throne, but I am worried and cannot rest in peace. I just want to work with all the ministers to govern the world, and you know how to govern the country.
A gentleman praises goodness, and his good deeds will bless future generations. If you act accordingly, I will always think of you.
Unfortunately, you are suffering from a minor illness, why worry about not being cured? I actually submitted a letter of resignation to the Marquis and asked to retire and resign. This shows my immorality.
There are not many things going on in the court now. You can take care of your spirit, don't worry about it, and seek medical advice and take medicine to recover your body.
Therefore, he was given a vacation, cattle, wine and all kinds of silk and silk.
After a few months, Gongsun Hong recovered from his illness and became a director of the court.
Gongsun Hong served as prime minister and imperial censor for a total of six years. He died in office as prime minister when he was eighty years old.
After him, Li Cai, Yan Qingzhai, Dan Zhou, Shi Qing, Gongsun He, and Liu Quyou became prime ministers one after another.
From the time of Li Cai to the time of Shi Qing, the guest house of the Prime Minister's Mansion was desolate and dilapidated. By the time of Gongsun He and Liu Qusao, the guest house was dilapidated and converted into stables, garages and housing for slaves.
Among these people, only Shi Qing was honest and rigorous. After Gong Sunhong, Shou finally became the prime minister. The rest were all convicted and executed.
Gongsun Hong's son Gongsun Du succeeded the marquis and served as the governor of Shanyang County for more than ten years. The emperor summoned Shi Cheng, the magistrate of Juye County, and asked him to wait for the bus. However, Gongsun Du kept him from going on the road, so he was found guilty and sentenced to four years of hard labor.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, when praising the descendants of heroes, the emperor issued an edict saying: Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, none of the ministers can compare with Gongsun Hong.
He was appointed prime minister and granted the title of marquis, but he covered himself with quilts, ate brown rice, and used his salary to provide for old guests, so that he had nothing left. The food and clothing he enjoys are below the standards stipulated by the system. It can be said that they use themselves as an example to promote simple folk customs, which is completely different from those who hide their wealth but dress frugally on the surface to gain a false reputation.
It is the law of the Holy King to guide by commending virtues and righteous deeds and encourage changes in secular folk customs.
The direct descendants of Gongsun Hong were given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 300 households.
Bu Shi, from Henan.
The occupation is farming and animal husbandry.
He had a younger brother. When he grew up, Bu Shi separated from his family and took over a hundred sheep. He gave all his farm, house and property to his younger brother.
Bu Shi had been tending sheep in the mountains for more than ten years, and there were more than a thousand sheep, so he bought a farm and a house.
But his younger brother went bankrupt, and Bu Shi immediately distributed the property to his younger brother. This happened many times.
At that time, the Han Dynasty was resisting the invasion of the Huns, and Bu Shi wrote a letter willing to donate half of his family wealth to help the border affairs.
The emperor sent a human divination: Do you want to be an official?
Shi said: Shepherding sheep since childhood, I am not familiar with how to be an official and do not want to be an official.
The messenger said: Don’t you have any enemies in your family that you want to tell them about?
Bu Shi said: I was born with no quarrels with others. I lent money to the poor people in the city, taught me good deeds from unkind people, and got along well with others in my residence. How could Bu Shi be wronged?
The messenger said: What do you want to do?
Bu Shi said: When the emperor fights against the Huns, I believe that wise men should die for the sake of the festival, and those with money should contribute money, so that the Huns can be destroyed.
The messenger reported to the court.
The emperor told Prime Minister Gongsun Hong again.
Gongsun Hong said: This is not a normal behavior.
An unruly minister cannot be used as an example to follow. I hope Your Majesty will not agree.
The emperor did not accept Bu Shi's request, and returned to Bu Shi a few years later.
After Bu Shi returned to his hometown, he resumed his sheep herding business.
A year later, King Hunxie and others surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The state expenses were too high, the warehouses were empty, and the poor people were migrating. They all relied on state supplies, but they could not fully provide them.
Bu Shi also gave 200,000 yuan to the governor of Henan to save the refugees.
When Henan reported a list of rich people to help the poor, the emperor recognized Bu Shi and said: He is the one who insists on giving half of his family property to help the poor.
So Bu Shi was given 400 servants, and all of them were returned to the government.
At that time, the rich were all scrambling to hide their property, but Bu Shi especially wanted to help the country with expenses.
The emperor then respected Bu Shi as an elder, summoned Bu Shi to be the middle man, granted him the rank of Zuo Shu Zhang, and ten hectares of farmland, and announced it to the world to show his respect and encourage the people to follow his example.
At first, Bu Shi was unwilling to become a husband. The emperor said, "I have sheep in Shanglin Garden, and I want you to graze them."
After Bu Shi became a Langguan, he still wore commoners and straw sandals to herd sheep.
After more than a year, the sheep became fat and multiplied.
The emperor passed by the sheep herding field and praised him very much.
Bu Shi said: Not only shepherding sheep, but also governing the people.
Live on time, get rid of the bad ones immediately, and don't let them harm others.
The emperor was surprised by his words and wanted him to try to govern the people.
Renbu Shi was appointed as the Feng family order, and the Feng family was in great control; he was moved to the Gao order to be in charge of water transportation, and he was the best in the assessment.
The emperor was honest and honest in his divination style, and he became the Tutor of the King of Qi, and then became the Prime Minister.
When Lu Jia rebelled, Bu Shi wrote: I heard that the Lord was ashamed and I died.
The ministers should be loyal to each other, and the most stupid ones should contribute money to help the army. This is the guarantee that powerful countries will not dare to invade.
I am willing to invite my son and the people who practice crossbows in Lin Miao and those who practice boats in Bochang to fight and die in battle to fulfill my integrity.
The emperor thought he was virtuous, so he went to Shao and said: I have heard that repaying kindness with kindness and repaying evil with straightness.
There are many misfortunes in the world today, and the princes in the counties and counties have no upright people who can rise up and repay grievances directly.
Prime Minister Qi behaved elegantly and uprightly, plowing the land himself, grazing with the animals, helping his younger brother with his assets, and starting the business from scratch, without any profit or confusion.
Not long ago, troops were mobilized on the northern border to attack the Xiongnu, and Bu Shi wrote a letter to provide money to help the officials.
In previous years, there was a famine in Xihe, and Bu Shi led his people to send grain to Xihe.
Now he took the initiative to sign up to join the army. Although he did not fight, it can be said that righteousness is seen in his heart.
I should give Divination to the Marquis of Guannei, forty kilograms of gold and ten hectares of fields, and inform the world so that my intentions will be known.
During the Yuanding period, Bu Shidai Genqing was recruited as the imperial censor.
After Bu Shi took office, he said that the prefecture was inconvenient to use salt and iron but the ships had a tax, which could be abolished.
The emperor therefore disliked Bu Shi.
In the second year, it was time for him to be enfeoffed, but Bu Shi was not good at writing and etiquette, so he was demoted to the crown prince and tutor, and replaced Bu Shi with Ai.
The above will end with longevity.
The child is wide, and the people can ride on thousands.
He studied "Shangshu" and studied under Yu Fouwusheng.
As a doctor selected by the county and the country, he studied in Kongshili.
Because he was poor and had no resources, he was supported by his disciples.
He often rented fields and plowed them, brought scriptures with him to work, and recited them during his breaks. His reading was so profound.
Use Ce Wen as anecdotes, and use merits to make up for the history of Tingwei's literary career.
Kuan is a gentle man, honest and wise, capable of self-defense, good at writing, weak in martial arts, and unable to express himself verbally.
At that time, he was appointed as a Tingwei, and the Tingwei government was full of officials of literature, history and law, but Zhe was among them as a Confucian scholar. He showed that he was not familiar with affairs and could not be a low-level official. He was appointed as a Congshi and went to Jidian to guard livestock for several years.
Returning to the mansion, he submitted the livestock register. When the imperial officer encountered a problem, the memorial had been returned many times, and the officials did not know what to do.
Ni Kuan explained to him how to write it, and the officials asked Ni Kuan to write the memorial.
After the performance was completed, everyone who read it was convinced and told the official Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang was shocked and called Ni Kuan to talk. He appreciated his talent and appointed him as his assistant.
Submit the memorial written by Ni Kuan and get immediate permission.
The next day, Zhang Tang met with the emperor.
Asked: The last memorial was beyond the reach of ordinary officials. Who wrote it?
Zhang Tang said it was Ni Kuan.
The emperor said: I have heard of him a long time ago.
Zhang Tang yearned for learning from then on, and appointed Ni Kuan as an official to report cases. He used the meaning of ancient law to judge difficult cases, which was very popular.
When he went to Zhangtang, he was appointed as the official censor, Ni Kuan was appointed as a subordinate official, and he was promoted to serve as the censor.
Meet the emperor and talk about Confucian classics. The emperor was delighted and asked about another article in "Shang Shu".
He was promoted to Zhongdafu and moved to Zuo Neishi.
After being leniently appointed to the post of civil administration, he encouraged farming, reduced sentences and punishments, and managed prison litigation. He was courteous to his subordinates and devoted himself to winning the hearts of the people. He chose benevolent people, treated his subordinates favorably, and did not seek reputation. The officials and the people were extremely trustworthy and loved.
Ni Kuanbiao opened six auxiliary canals and issued water control regulations to expand irrigated fields.
Rent taxes are collected according to seasonal harvests and are not collected urgently. They are borrowed from the people, so excessive rents are not put into the treasury.
Later, when military service was called for, Zuo Neishi ranked last due to rent debt and was dismissed from office.
When the people heard that he was about to be dismissed from office, they were afraid of losing Ni Kuan. Everyone drove the oxcart and the small family was responsible for the burden. Rent losses continued one after another, and rent and taxes topped the list.
The emperor was even more amazed at Ni Kuan's talent.
When discussing the matter of imitating ancient hunting patrols and fengdang, there were more than fifty scholars who opposed it, but they could not make up their minds.
When Sima Xiangru died of illness, he left a posthumous note praising his merits and virtues, talking about auspicious signs, and suggesting that he should be granted the title of Mount Tai.
The emperor valued his book and asked Ni Kuan. Ni Kuan said: Your Majesty personally practices holy virtue, unites all people, sacrifices to heaven and earth, and presents gifts to hundreds of gods. The signs pointed by the gods will definitely appear. Heaven and earth will respond at the same time, and the auspicious signs will be revealed.
It is a grand festival for emperors to honor Mount Tai, worship Mount Liangfu, and seek auspiciousness for the surname Zhaoming.
However, the meaning of "enjoyment" is not attached to the scriptures, it is to complete the Zen ceremony, to open and close to the gods of heaven and earth, to respectfully welcome the arrival of the gods, to take charge of the duties of all officials, to perform their duties and to determine their institutional etiquette.
Only the Holy Lord can formulate it properly, which cannot be compared with the officials.
A big event will be held today, but it has been discussed for several years without a decision. The ministers have different opinions and nothing has been accomplished.
Only the emperor establishes the right position of neutrality, takes charge of all things, coordinates governance, and vibrates the sound of virtue like the sound of gold and jade, so as to obey the heaven's praise and establish a foundation that will be passed down through the ages.
The emperor agreed with this view and formulated his own etiquette, using Confucian scholarship to modify it.
The etiquette has been completed, and the ceremony of Zen will be held. Ni Kuan will be worshiped as the censor, and he will be followed to seal Mount Tai and ascend to Mingtang.
Ni Kuan Shangshou said: I heard that during the restructuring of the Three Dynasties, political, religious, and legal phenomena were related to each other.
If the Holy Tradition is not abolished, His Majesty becomes angry and points his fingers to the heaven and the earth. He then builds a bright hall to worship Yong and worships the Taiyi Temple. He uses six rhythms and five tones to deeply praise the holy meaning. Divine music and four colors have their own rituals to undertake the most solemn sacrificial ceremony and leave the law of sacrificing to the heaven and earth for future generations. The world is deeply lucky for this.
Through this ceremony, the auspiciousness of Bailin and Baoding in the Taichu year will be determined. We will climb Mount Tai to report the auspiciousness to the gods, and gain blessings and open the doors to wait for the auspicious scene of the winter solstice.
On the occasion of the sacrifice of Guihai, the sun showed the light of the sun; on the day of the winter solstice of Jiazi in the first year of Taichu, the heaven and earth enjoyed awe and peace forever.
The radiance shines everywhere, the astronomical colors in the sky are dazzling, and a scene called Zhaoming appears, and auspicious omens are sent down to repay the implementation of the virtuous government.
Your Majesty Ni Kuan raises your glass and pays homage again, wishing you a long life.
The emperor wrote a book saying: I raise your cup to you.
Later, Taishi ordered Sima Qian and others to say: The calendar is ruined and has not been corrected since the rise of the Han Dynasty. It should be corrected now.
The emperor then ordered Ni Kuan, Sima Qian and others to jointly establish the Han Taichu Calendar.
See "Lü Li Zhi" for details.
At the beginning, Chu Da, the Prime Minister of Liang State, was proficient in the Five Classics and was a doctor. At that time, Ni Kuan was his disciple.
When there was a vacancy for the imperial censor, Chu Da came to take up the post. Chu Da thought he was qualified to be the censor.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he heard that Ni Kuan had taken office, and Chu laughed.
When he arrived at the court and discussed with Ni Kuan in front of the emperor, Chu was not as good as Ni Kuan, so he stood back and said in admiration: Your Majesty really knows people.
Ni Kuan was the imperial censor. Because he was satisfied with his position, he did not give any advice to the emperor for a long time, and his officials despised him.
He reigned for nine years and died in office.
Zan said: Gongsun Hong, Bu Shi and Ni Kuan all used Hongjian's wings to be trapped in the sparrows, traveling far between sheep and pigs. How could they have reached this point without luck?
At that time, the Han Dynasty had been prosperous for more than sixty years. The country was stable and the treasury was abundant. However, the four sides were not convinced and there were many systems lacking.
The emperor had just started a great civil and military undertaking, but he could not find the talents he asked for, so he started to use a pulsar cart to welcome Mei Cheng, and sighed when he saw his master's father dying.
The people were envious and yearned for it, and strange people and talents appeared at the same time.
Bu Shiba was promoted from herding, Hongyang was promoted from the Jia people, Wei Qing was promoted from the slaves, and Jin Yuechan was promoted from the captives. These are the ancient version of building and selling cattle.
Mozhi has its talents flourished here, Confucianism and elegance include Gongsun Hong, Dong Zhongshu, and Ni Kuan, loyalty includes Shi Jian and Shi Qing, simplicity includes Ji An and Bu Shi, recommending sages include Han Anguo and Zheng Shi, enacting laws and regulations include Zhao Yu and Zhang Tang, writing articles include Sima Qian and Sima Xiangru, and humor includes Dongfang Shuo and Meigao, Yan Zhu and Zhu Maichen responded to the emperor's questions, Tang Du and Luoxia Hong were listed, Li Yannian coordinated music, Sang Hongyang was responsible for financial planning, Zhang Qian and Su Wu were sent as envoys, Wei Qing and Huo Qubing were leaders, Huo Guang and Jin Yueyan were sent to protect the young master, and the rest are indescribable.
Therefore, he made great achievements and established the system, which was not as good as that of later generations.
Xiao Xuan inherited the great unification, continued to build the magnificent imperial cause, taught the six arts, and recruited outstanding talents. Xiao Wangzhi, Liang Qiuhe, Xia Housheng, Wei Xuancheng, Yan Pengzu, and Yin Gengshi were promoted through Confucianism. Liu Xiang and Wang Bao became famous with their articles, and their generals and ministers were well-prepared. An Shi, Zhao Chongguo, Wei Xiang, Bingji, Yu Dingguo, Du Yannian, and others who governed the people included Huang Ba, Wang Cheng, Gong Sui, Zheng Hong, Zhao Xinchen, Han Yanshou, Yin Wenggui, Zhao Guangmo, Yan Yannian, and Zhang Chang, all of whom have made great achievements in the world.
Examining his famous ministers, he was second only to the talents of Emperor Wu's era.
