Han Anguo, the imperial censor, was a native of Cheng'an County, Liang State, and later settled in Suiyang.
I once studied "Han Feizi" and the doctrines of Zajia from Mr. Tian in Zouxian County. He served King Xiao of Liang and served as a middle official.
When the Seven Kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, King Xiao of Liang sent Han Anguo and Zhang Yu as generals to resist the Wu army on the eastern front.
Because Zhang Yu fought hard and Han Anguo defended firmly, the Wu army could not cross Liang's defense line.
The Wu Chu rebellion was put down, and the reputations of Han Anguo and Zhang Yu became prominent.
King Xiao of Liang was the half-brother of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty. Empress Dowager Dou liked him very much and allowed him to have the power to nominate the Prime Minister of Liang and two thousand stone-level officials.
The scene of his coming in and out and playing games was more like that of an emperor than that of a minister.
When Emperor Jing heard about it, he was very unhappy. Empress Dowager Dou knew that Emperor Jing was dissatisfied, so she became angry with the envoys sent by Liang Guo and refused to receive them. Instead, she asked them about what King Liang had done.
At that time, Han Anguo was the envoy of the Liang Kingdom, so he went to see the eldest princess and cried: Why can't the Queen Mother clearly understand the filial piety of the Liang King as a son and the loyalty as a minister?
In the past, when the seven kingdoms of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao rebelled, the princes from the east of Hanguguan all united and marched westward. Only Liang was the most loyal to the court and became an obstacle to the rebels' attack.
King Liang thought that the Queen Mother and the Emperor were in Guanzhong, and the princes were in trouble. When he talked about it, tears streamed down his face. He knelt down and saw me and six other people off, leading the troops to repel the Wu Chu rebels. For this reason, the Wu Chu rebels did not dare to march westward, and finally failed and perished. This was all the power of King Liang.
Now the Queen Mother is blaming and complaining about Liang Wang for some strict etiquette.
King Liang's father and brother were both emperors, and the scenes he saw were great, so they cleared the way when traveling and prohibited people from passing through. When he returned to the palace, he emphasized vigilance. King Liang's car and flags were all gifts from the emperor. He just wanted to use these to show off in remote counties, let cars and horses gallop back and forth in the country, and let everyone in the world know that the queen mother and the emperor loved him.
Now when Liang envoy arrives, he will inquire and blame him.
King Liang was frightened and cried and missed him day and night, not knowing what to do.
Why was the King of Liang filial as a son and loyal as a minister, but the Queen Mother showed no mercy?
The eldest princess told Queen Mother Dou these words in detail, and Queen Mother Dou happily said: I will tell the emperor these words for him.
After telling the story, the knot in Emperor Jing's heart was relieved. He took off his hat and confessed his mistake to the Queen Mother, saying: We brothers cannot advise each other, which actually adds sorrow to the Queen Mother.
So he received all the envoys sent by King Liang and rewarded them heavily.
From then on, King Liang became even more favored.
Empress Dowager Dou and Princess Dachang rewarded Han Anguo with property worth about a thousand gold.
As a result, his reputation became prominent and he became connected with the imperial court.
Later, Han Anguo was convicted of breaking the law, and Meng County jailer Tian Jia insulted Han Anguo.
Han Anguo said: Will the ashes of death not resurface?
Tian Jia said: If it burns again, just urinate to put it out.
Soon after, the position of domestic history of Liang was vacant. The Han court sent envoys to appoint Han Anguo as domestic history of Liang. He started as a prisoner and served as an official with a rank of 2,000 stone.
Tian Jia abandoned his official position and ran away.
Han Anguo said: If Tian Jia doesn't come back and take office, I will destroy your clan.
Tian Jia took off his clothes and exposed his chest to apologize.
Han Anguo smiled and said: You can pee now!
Do people like you deserve my punishment?
Finally treat him nicely.
When the internal history of Liang was vacant, King Xiao of Liang had just recruited Gongsun Gui from Qi. He liked him very much and planned to request his appointment as internal history.
Queen Mother Dou heard this and ordered King Xiao of Liang to appoint Han Anguo as internal history.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng lobbied King Xiao of Liang and asked him to ask Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty to be the heir to the throne and increase the fiefdom. They were afraid that the court ministers would not agree and secretly sent people to assassinate the advisors in power.
Even after Yuan Ang, the former Prime Minister of Wu State, was killed, Emperor Jing heard about the plans of Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others, so he sent envoys to capture Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng.
More than a dozen groups of Han sent envoys to the Liang State, and a nationwide search was conducted from Liang State Prime Minister down, but still no one was caught for more than a month.
Han Anguo, the internal historian, heard that Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng were hiding in the palace of Liang Xiaowang. Han Anguo entered the palace and met with Liang Xiaowang, crying and saying: My lord has been humiliated and I deserve to die for my crime.
The king has no good ministers, so things are in such chaos.
Now that I can't catch Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng, please let me say goodbye to you and give me permission to commit suicide.
King Xiao of Liang said: Why are you doing this?
Han Anguo burst into tears and said: Your Majesty, think about it for yourself, which one is closer between you and the Emperor, the Supreme Emperor and Emperor Gao, or the Emperor and King Linjiang?
King Xiao of Liang said: "It's not as close as them."
King Liang Xiao said: The relationship between the Supreme Emperor, King Linjiang, Emperor Gao and the Emperor is between father and son. However, Emperor Gao said: I am the one who takes over the world with a three-foot sword, so the Supreme Emperor could not interfere in political affairs in the end and lived in Yueyang Palace.
King Linjiang was the eldest prince, but he was deposed and demoted to King Linjiang just because of his mother's mistake. He also committed suicide in the Lieutenant's Mansion because he occupied the open space within the wall of the ancestral temple when building a palace.
Why is this so?
Because in governing the world, public affairs cannot be compromised by private affairs.
If you want to say: Even if you are your biological father, how do you know that he will not turn into a tiger?
How do even brothers know he won't turn into a wolf?
Now, Your Majesty, you are among the princes, but you listened to the false words of an evil minister, violated the emperor's prohibition, and obstructed the sage's law.
Because of the Queen Mother, the Emperor cannot bear to use laws against you.
The Queen Mother cried day and night, hoping that the king would change his mind, but the king never realized it.
If the Queen Mother dies suddenly, who can you rely on, Your Majesty?
Before he finished speaking, King Xiao of Liang burst into tears and thanked Han Anguo and said: I will hand over Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng now.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng committed suicide.
The envoy from the Han court went back to report the situation, and Liang Guo's affairs were resolved. This was the power of Han Anguo.
Therefore, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Empress Dowager Dou valued Han Anguo even more.
King Xiao of Liang passed away and King Gong came to the throne. Han Anguo lost his official position for breaking the law and lived at home.
During the Jianyuan period, Tian Fan, the Marquis of Wu'an, served as the Taiwei of the Han Dynasty. He was favored and gained great power. Han Anguo gave Tian Fan something worth five hundred gold.
Tian Fu told the Queen Mother about Han Anguo, and the emperor often spoke of Han Anguo's talents, so he summoned him to serve as the captain of the North, and later he was promoted to the rank of chief minister.
Minyue and Dongyue attacked each other, and Han Anguo and Daxing Wang Hui led their troops there.
Before reaching Yue, the Yue people killed their king and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and the Han army withdrew its troops.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Hou Tianfan of Wu'an became the prime minister, and Han Anguo became the imperial censor.
The Xiongnu sent people to request peace, and the emperor handed it over to the courtiers for discussion.
Daxingling Wang Hui was a native of Yan. He had served as an official in border counties many times and was familiar with the situation of the Xiongnu.
He commented: The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu usually made peace within a few years before the Xiongnu broke the treaty again.
It is better not to agree and send out troops to attack it.
Han Anguo said: Sending troops to fight thousands of miles away will not lead to victory.
Now the Xiongnu rely on the abundant army and horses, have the heart of animals, and migrate like flocks of birds in flight. It is difficult to control them.
The land we get cannot be considered as opening up new territory, nor can the people who own it be considered powerful. They have not belonged to our people since ancient times.
If the Han army goes thousands of miles away to compete for interests, the troops and horses will be exhausted, and the enemy will rely on its comprehensive superiority to attack our weaknesses.
Moreover, at the end of the day, even the thinnest white silk produced by the Lu land cannot be penetrated; the strong wind blowing from bottom to top, in the end, even has no power to flutter the goose feathers. It is not that the power was not strong at the beginning, but that the power failed in the end.
Therefore, it is really disadvantageous to send troops to attack the Xiongnu. It is better to make peace with them.
Most of the opinions of the officials agreed with Han Anguo, so the emperor agreed to make peace with the Xiongnu.
In the second year of the marriage, which was the first year of Yuanguang, Nie Wengyi, a wealthy gentry in Mayi City, Yanmen County, told the emperor through Daxing Wang Hui: The Xiongnu had just made peace with the Han, and they were close and trusted the people in the border areas, so they could lure them with financial benefits.
So he secretly sent Nie Wengyi as a spy, fled to the Xiongnu, and said to Shanyu: I can kill the magistrate, county magistrate and other officials of Mayi City, surrender Mayi City to you, and get all the property.
Shanyu trusted him very much and thought what he said was reasonable, so he agreed to Nie Wengyi.
Nie Wengyi came back, beheaded the condemned prisoner, and hung his head on Mayi City, pretending to be the head of an official in Mayi City, in order to win the trust of the envoy sent by Shanyu.
Said: The chief of Mayi City is dead. You can come quickly.
So Shan Yu led more than 100,000 cavalry through the border fortress and entered Wuzhou Fortress.
At this time, the Han Dynasty ambushed more than 300,000 chariots, cavalry, and infantry, hiding in the valley next to Mayi City.
Wei Lieutenant Li Guang served as the general of the cavalry, Grand Servant Sun He served as the general of the light chariot, Wang Hui of Daxing served as the general of generals and generals, and Taizhong doctor Li Xi served as the general of caiguan.
Han Anguo, the imperial censor, served as the general guarding the army, and all generals were subordinate to the general guarding the army.
It was mutually agreed that when Shanyu entered Mayi City, the ambush troops of the Han army would rush out and attack.
Wang Hui, Li Xi, and Li Guang also attacked the Huns' military supplies from Dai County.
At that time, Chanyu entered the Wuzhou Fortress of the Han Dynasty Great Wall.
There were still more than a hundred miles away from the city of Mayi, and they were about to plunder and plunder, but they only saw livestock grazing in the wilderness, but not a single person.
Chanyu thought it was strange, so he attacked the beacon tower and captured Wuzhou's Wei Shi.
I want to ask Wei Shi about the situation.
Wei Shi said: Hundreds of thousands of Han troops were ambushing the city of Mayi.
Shanyu turned around and said to the people on his left and right: "I was almost deceived by the Han!"
Then he led the troops back.
After leaving the frontier fortress, he said: It is God's will that we capture Wuzhou Weishi!
Call Wei Shi the King of Heaven.
It is said under the seal that Shanyu has retreated.
The Han army pursued them to the frontier fortress, but they probably couldn't catch up, so they retreated back.
Wang Hui and others had an army of 30,000 people. They heard that the Chanyu did not fight the Han army, and estimated that the military supplies used to attack the Xiongnu would definitely fight against the Chanyu's elite troops. The situation of the Han army must have failed, so they weighed the interests and decided to withdraw their troops, so the Han army returned without success.
The emperor was angry that Wang Hui did not attack the Xiongnu's logistics troops and led his troops to withdraw without permission.
Wang Hui said: It was originally agreed that as soon as the Xiongnu entered Mayi City, the Han army would fight the Shanyu, and then my troops would capture the Xiongnu's military supplies. This would be profitable.
Now Shanyu heard the news and returned before reaching Mayi City. My 30,000 troops could not defeat him and would only bring shame.
I knew I would be beheaded when I came back, but this way I could save your Majesty's 30,000 soldiers.
The emperor then handed Wang Hui over to Tingwei for punishment.
The Tingwei judged him that he should be beheaded as he walked to avoid the enemy and waited.
Wang Hui secretly gave Tian Fu a thousand gold coins.
Tian Fu did not dare to plead with the emperor, but said to the Queen Mother: Wang Hui first proposed the plan of Mayi to lure the enemy, but now it failed and he killed Wang Hui. This was to avenge the Huns.
When the emperor met with the Queen Mother, the Queen Mother told the emperor what the prime minister had said.
The emperor said: The person who first proposed the Mayi plan was Wang Hui, so he mobilized hundreds of thousands of soldiers from all over the world to follow his words and attack the Huns.
Besides, even if the Chanyu cannot be captured this time, if Wang Hui's troops attack the Huns' military supplies, they may still gain something, which can comfort the hearts of the soldiers.
Now I cannot apologize to the people of the world without killing Wang Hui.
When Wang Hui heard this, he committed suicide.
Han Anguo was a man of great strategy, and his intelligence was enough to cater to the world, but he did so out of a loyal heart.
He is greedy for money.
Those he recommended were all honest scholars who were more worthy than himself.
In the Liang Kingdom, Hu Sui, Zang Gu, and Zhi Ta were recommended, and they were all famous scholars in the world. The scholars also praised and admired him very much, and even the emperor thought that he was a talented person in governing the country.
Han Anguo served as the imperial censor for more than four years. When the Prime Minister Tian Fu passed away, Han Anguo acted as the prime minister. He fell off the car while guiding the emperor's car and became lame.
The emperor discussed appointing the prime minister and planned to appoint Han Anguo. He sent someone to visit him and found that he was severely lame, so he appointed Pingji Hou Xue Ze as the prime minister.
Han Anguo was dismissed from his post due to illness for several months. His foot injury recovered, and the emperor appointed Han Anguo as lieutenant.
More than a year later, he was transferred to the rank of guard.
The chariot general Wei Qing attacked the Xiongnu, marched from Shanggu County, and defeated the Xiongnu in Longcheng.
General Li Guang was captured by the Xiongnu and escaped; Gongsun Ao's soldiers suffered heavy casualties; they all deserved beheading, but later paid for their sins and became commoners.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded the border and killed the governor of western Liaoning. When they invaded Yanmen, they killed and took thousands of people captive. The chariot and cavalry general Wei Qing sent troops to pursue them and marched out of Yanmen County.
Weiwei Han Anguo served as general Caiguan and was stationed in Yuyang.
Han Anguo captured prisoners, who confessed that the Huns had gone far away.
Han Anguo immediately wrote to the emperor saying that it was the farming season and requested that the army be temporarily suspended.
After stopping their military garrison for more than a month, the Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and Yuyang on a large scale.
There were only more than 700 people in the military camp of Han Anguo. They went out to meet the Xiongnu and fought with them. However, they failed to win and returned to the military camp.
The Huns captured more than a thousand people, livestock and property and left.
After the emperor heard the news, he was very angry and sent an envoy to blame Han Anguo.
Tiaohan Anguo moved further east and stationed in Youbeiping.
Because at that time the prisoners of the Huns confessed that they wanted to invade the east.
Han Anguo initially served as a royal censor and a general protecting the army, but was gradually ostracized and alienated, demoted and demoted; while the newly favored young generals Wei Qing and others had military merits and were even more favored by the emperor.
After being alienated, Han Anguo felt very frustrated; he led troops to garrison and was bullied by the Xiongnu. He suffered many losses and casualties, and felt very guilty.
He hoped to return to the court, but he was even transferred to the east to garrison, and he felt depressed.
A few months later, he fell ill and vomited blood and died.
Han Anguo died in the second year of Yuanshuo.
Tai Shigong said: Hu Sui and I reviewed the calendar and observed Han Changru's behavior. Judging from Hu Sui's deep and reserved kindness, the world said that Liang Guo has many loyal and loyal elders. This is indeed true!
Hu Sui did his best as an official, and the emperor was about to rely on him to become the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, but Hu Sui died again.
Otherwise, with Husui's honest character and upright behavior, he is really a humble and prudent gentleman.
