Guan Zhong, whose name was Yiwu, was from Yingshang.
When he was young, he often interacted with Bao Shuya, and Bao Shuya knew that he was wise and talented.
Guan Zhong's family was poor and he often took advantage of Bao Shuya, but Bao Shuya was always very kind to Guan Zhong and had no complaints because of these things.
Soon, Bao Shuya served the young master Xiaobai of Qi State, and Guan Zhong served the young master Jiu.
After Xiaobai came to the throne and was established as Duke Huan of Qi, Duke Huan asked the state of Lu to kill Prince Jiu and Guan Zhong was imprisoned.
So Bao Shuya recommended Guan Zhong to Duke Huan of Qi.
After Guan Zhong was appointed, he came to power in Qi. Duke Huan relied on Guan Zhong to dominate, and as the overlord, he united with the princes many times to bring the world into unity. This was all achieved through Guan Zhong's wisdom.
Guan Zhong said: When I was poor, I used to do business together with Bao Shuya. When we shared the profits, I always asked for more. Bao Shuya did not think that I was greedy for money. He knew that my family was poor.
I once planned things for Bao Shuya, but it made him even more difficult and embarrassed. Bao Shuya didn't think I was stupid, because he knew that there were good times and bad times in fortune.
I had served as an official many times and was expelled by the king many times. Bao Shuya did not think that I had no talent. He knew that I had not met a good opportunity.
I have run away from many battles. Bao Shuya doesn't think I'm timid. He knows that I have an old mother at home who needs support.
Prince Jiu failed in the struggle for the throne of the king, Zhaohu died for him, and I was imprisoned and suffered humiliation. Bao Shuya did not think that I was a shameless person, because he knew that I was not ashamed of small mistakes, but felt ashamed of not being famous in the world.
It was my parents who gave birth to me, and it was Bao Shuya who really understood me.
After Bao Shuya recommended Guan Zhong, he was willing to work under Guan Zhong.
His descendants have enjoyed salaries in Qi for generations, and more than a dozen generations have received fiefs, most of whom are famous officials.
Therefore, people in the world did not praise Guan Zhong's talents, but praised Bao Shuya for his ability to recognize talents.
After Guan Zhong became the Prime Minister of Qi, he relied on the conditions of the small Qi State on the seaside to circulate goods and accumulate wealth, making the country rich and powerful, and sharing the same likes and dislikes with the people.
Therefore, he said in his book "Guanzi": Only when the warehouses are full of food can the people understand etiquette; when food and clothing are abundant, can the people distinguish between honor and disgrace; only when the king's actions are in line with the law can the six relatives be stable; if etiquette, justice and integrity are not promoted and carried forward, the country will perish.
Government decrees issued by the state are like the source of flowing water, flowing down the minds of the people.
Therefore, government orders can be easily implemented if they are consistent with the situation.
Whatever the people want, give it to them; whatever the people object to, abolish it.
When Guan Zhong was in power, he was good at turning disaster into good fortune and failure into success.
He pays attention to the priorities of things and carefully weighs the pros and cons of things.
Duke Huan of Qi actually resented Shaoji's remarriage and wanted to attack Cai. Guan Zhong took this opportunity to attack Chu and blamed it for not paying tribute to the Zhou royal family.
Duke Huan actually wanted to send troops to the north to attack Shanrong, but Guan Zhong took the opportunity to let Yan rebuild the political and religious system of the Zhaogong period.
During the alliance meeting at Ke, Duke Huan wanted to break the treaty that Cao Mo had forced him to make, but Guan Zhong followed the situation and persuaded him to abide by the treaty, and the princes therefore submitted to Qi.
Therefore, it is said: Knowing that giving is just for getting, this is the magic weapon for governing the country.
Guan Zhong's wealth was comparable to that of the monarch, and he had a gorgeous Sangui Terrace and banquet facilities for the monarch, but the people of Qi did not think that he was extravagant and arrogant.
After Guan Zhong's death, Qi still followed his policies and was often stronger than other vassal states.
More than a hundred years later, Yan Ying came out of Qi State.
Yan Pingzhong, named Ying, was a Yiwei native of Lai, Qi State.
He assisted three generations of Qi Dukes Linggong, Zhuanggong and Jinggong. He was respected by people in Qi because of his frugality and hard work.
When he became the prime minister of Qi, he did not eat more than two kinds of meat at each meal, and his wives and concubines did not wear silk clothes.
In the court, if the king's words involve him, he should express his opinions honestly; if the king's words do not involve him, he should act honestly.
If the king can do the right thing, he should follow his orders. If he can't do the right way, he can act according to his orders.
Therefore, during the three generations of Qi Linggong, Zhuanggong and Jinggong, his reputation was well-known among the princes of various countries.
Yue Shi's father is a talented man who is being imprisoned and serving hard labor.
Yanzi went out and met him on the road. He untied the horse on the left side of the carriage, ransomed him, and then drove him home.
After leaving Taoism, Yan Zi went into the inner room without saying goodbye to Yue Shi's father. After a long time, Yue Shi's father asked to break off the relationship with Yan Zi.
Yanzi was shocked, and hurriedly packed his clothes and apologized, saying: Even though I can't be said to be kind and generous, I finally helped you get out of your predicament. Why did you ask to break off the relationship so quickly?
Father Yue Shi said: That's not the case. I heard that a gentleman will be wronged by people who don't understand him, but his will will be upheld in front of people who understand him.
When I was in captivity, those people didn't understand me.
Since you have been moved and awakened, and bought me out, this means you understand me; if you understand me but do not treat me politely, it is better to let me continue to be imprisoned and serve as a slave.
So Yanzi invited him into the house and treated him as an honored guest.
When Yanzi was the prime minister of Qi, he was going out in a carriage. The coachman's wife secretly looked at her husband through the crack in the door.
He saw his husband driving the car for the prime minister, with a big umbrella covering his head, waving a whip and driving four horses, looking very proud and proud.
Soon after returning home, his wife asked to leave him. The coachman asked her why she left. The wife said: Yanzi was only six feet tall, but he became the prime minister of Qi State and his reputation was famous in various countries. I saw that when he went out, his ambitions and thoughts were very deep, and he often had the attitude of being inferior to others.
Now you are eight feet tall and can only be a coachman. Judging from your expression, you think you are quite satisfied, so I beg you to let me leave.
From then on, the coachman became humble and respectful.
Yanzi noticed his change and felt strange, so he asked him about it, and the driver told him the truth.
Yanzi recommended him to become a doctor.
Tai Shigong said: I have read Guan Zhong's "Herdsmen", "High Mountains", "Riding Horses", "Light and Heavy", "Jiufu" and "Yanzi Chunqiu". These books are really written in too much detail!
After reading their works, I also wanted people to know about their deeds, so I wrote biographies for them in turn.
As for their works, there are already many in the society, so I will not discuss them here, but only record their unknown things.
Guan Zhong is what the world calls a virtuous minister, but Confucius despises him. Is it because the Zhou Dynasty's rule is declining? Since Huan Gong is a virtuous minister, Guan Zhong does not encourage him to practice the royal way but assists him to become the overlord?
An old saying goes: It is necessary to take advantage of the situation to help cultivate a gentleman's virtues and correct his mistakes, so that the monarch, his ministers and the people can be close to each other.
This is probably Guan Zhong, right?
When Yan Zi lay on the body of Duke Zhuang and cried bitterly, completed the etiquette and then left, was it a sign that people said that if you don't do something just when you encounter something just, you have no courage?
As for Yanzi who spoke out and dared to offend the majesty of the monarch, this is what people call a person who thinks of being loyal when advancing and thinks of making up for his mistakes when retreating!
If Yan Zi is still alive, even if I wave the whip and drive the carriage for him, I will be very happy and yearn for it!
