In ancient times, primitive things had no external image. The various substances that made up the universe matched and matched with heaven and became the beginning of all things. As it is said in the "Records", they lived in caves and earthen chambers in winter, and in summer they lived in nests built with firewood, eating hair and drinking blood, without any coverings such as linen or silk.
至于燧人氏钻木取火，庖牺氏始画八卦，女娲氏断鳖足以立四极，炎帝神农氏发展农业，分划疆域，逭一切都是同一道理。

The Yellow Emperor reached the seaside in the east, reached the Yangtze River in the south, and climbed Mount Daiyue in the Kongshan Mountains. Things such as his riding horses in the Kunlun Mountains and his search for the best path in the Kongtong Mountains have been recorded in the annals of history and cannot deceive future generations.
Zhuanxu's Gaoyang family made everyone in the world have their own needs, and the emperor praised the Gaoxin family for following the way of heaven and practicing morality.
Crossing Panmu Mountain in the east, reaching Liusha in the west, starting from Youling in the north, and arriving at Jiaojun in the south. Wherever the moon shines, and the mountains and rivers that boats and cars reach, no one is not a subject of the monarch, and everywhere is the domain of the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Yao, Dayu controlled the land and water and divided the land into nine states.
Yu Shun ascended the throne and became king, and his achievements were even more outstanding. He formulated the calendar, divided the star districts, planned the boundaries of mountains and rivers, and inspected the territory in all directions. He established Bingzhou in northern Hebei and named the Yan and Qi areas as Youzhou and Yingzhou. This is what the Book of History says about the establishment of ten mountains and the establishment of twelve mountains.
夏朝的功业在于唐尧，殷朝沿袭夏曲没有增益减损。

且迭王灭茵，京城自丰迁往镐京。

到周成王时，改写《尚书禹贡》，徐州、凿业并入直、壅蛆，又从幽业、差赵中离析出冀州。

The official is in charge of the land of the world, so as to know the pros and cons of each place, so that each can find its proper place; the official Baozhang, who observes and records astronomy, distinguishes the divisions of the nine states, so that each has its corresponding star area.
The southeast is called Yangzhou, the due south is called Jingzhou, Henan is called Yuzhou, the due east is Qingzhou, the east of Hedong is called Yanzhou, the due west is Yongzhou, the northeast is called Youzhou, the north of the Yellow River is Jizhou, and the due north is called Bingzhou.
When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he learned lessons from the wars in the difficult period, abolished the princes and kings, and divided the world into thirty-six counties.
Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, Zhangjun, Kuaiji, Yingchuan, Dangjun, Sishui, Xuejun, Dongjun, Langye, Qijun, Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoning West, Liaodong, Daijun, Julu, Handan, Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Jiuyuan, Yanmen, Shangjun, Longxi, Beidi, Hanzhong, Bajun, Shujun, Qianzhong, Changsha? There are thirty-five counties in total, and the capital under the jurisdiction of Yu Neishi has a total of thirty-six counties.
Then the army was sent across the Yangtze River to capture the land where Baiqi was pacified. He also established Minzhong, Nanhai, Guilin and Xiangjun, a total of forty counties, each with one county guard.
In the Qin Dynasty, the territory reached Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the western belt around it, all facing the sea.
Mozhibi established a new dynasty, eradicated the shortcomings of the Taiwan system, divided the Gyeonggi region into three parts, and added 23 counties, Guiyang, Jiangxia, Yuzhang, Hanoi, Weijun, Donghai, Chu Guo, Pingyuan, Liangguo, Dingxiang, Taishan, Runan, Huaiyang, Qiancheng, Donglai, Yanguo, Qinghe, Xindu, Changshan, Zhongshan, Bohai, Guanghan, and Zhuojun, a total of twenty-three counties.
The internal history is divided into three parts: Hui Shang, Hui Mu and Shi Si.
"Hanshu Geography" says: On the 26th day of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Wu changed the names of Heshang, Weinan and Zhongdi to Jingzhao, Yufeng Yi and Fufeng. This is the Sanfu area.
Emperor Yiwen added nine counties, Guangping, Chengyang, Zichuan, Jinan, Jiaoxi, Jiaodong, Hejian, Lujiang, and Hengshan? Emperor Wu changed the name of Hengshan to Liu'an.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty established four additional counties.
Jibei, Jiyin, Shanyang, Beihai.
Emperor Xuan changed the name of Jibei to Dongping.
When Emperor Wu entered Vietnam and opened up the Hu lands, he first established seventeen counties: Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaoshi, Jiuzhen, Rinan, Zhuya, and Dan'er. After pacifying the southwestern barbarians, six counties were established: Zangke, Yuesong, Shenli, Wenshan, Qianwei, and Yizhou. Wudu County was established in the west, and Lingling County was separated, for a total of seventeen counties.
Land was opened up to expand the territory, and fourteen more counties were added.
Hongnong, Linhuai, Xihe, Shuofang, Jiuquan, Chenliu, Anding, Tianshui, Xuantu, Lelang, Guangling, Dunhuang, Wuwei, Zhangye.
Emperor Zhao had fewer changes and established an additional county.
Jincheng.
By the second year of the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, there were 71 newly established counties in total, which together with the 40 counties of the Qin Dynasty, made a total of 111 counties.
Yongzhou was renamed Liangzhou, Liangzhou was renamed Yizhou, Xuzhou was set up, and the old name was restored. Jiaozhi was set up in the south, and Shuozhou was set up in the north, making a total of thirteen divisions.
There are eleven prefectures: Liang, Yi, Jing, Yang, Qing, Yu, Yan, Xu, You, Bing, and Ji, and two prefectures of Jiaoshi and Shuofang, totaling thirteen divisions.
After Emperor Moguang Wu's war subsided, when Shuhan was first established, people's livelihood was in decline, household registrations were reduced, counties were in decline and scattered, and eight counties were merged to save the province.
Chengyang, Zichuan, Gaomi, Jiaodong, Lu'an, Zhending, Shangshui, Guangyang.
In the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, the state pastoralist was abolished and the official position of the state governor was restored. Each of the thirteen state governors was in charge of a state.
Emperor Moming established a county, Yongchang.
Emperor Zhang of the Han Dynasty established two counties, Rencheng and Wu.
Emperor He and Emperor Moshun of the Han Dynasty added or changed nine counties.
Wing Tong set up Bianli and Lubao, and Mu changed the name to Jinyan to Su, Chu to Yilang, Shansu to Secuo, Luo Chen to Gongpi, Wang Chui to Rongda, Lao to Anping, and Tianshui to Hanyang.
The governor of Shuofang was abolished and merged with Sili, with a total of thirteen divisions. The difference from the Western Han Dynasty was that the county of the Xiaowei Division of Sili was in Henan, while Shuofang was subordinate to Bingbu.
There are one hundred and eight counties.
The eight counties of Youmo were cancelled, and five counties were divided. Seven counties changed their old names, and ninety-six counties continued to use their old names, three counties less than those in the Western Han Dynasty.
Emperor Huan and Emperor Mo Ling of the Han Dynasty increased the number of counties compared with the previous dynasties and established six more counties.
Emperor Huan established Gaoyang, Gaoliang, and Bobi; Emperor Ling established Nan'an, Poyang, and Luling.
Emperor Wu of Wei dominated one area, and the three kingdoms of Wei, Shu and Wu were established. The people were in turmoil and displaced. The areas of Mengsheng and Piamo were deserted. Twelve counties were established: Xinxing, Leping, Xiping, Xinping, Lueyang, Yinping, Daifang, Qiao, Leling, Zhangwu, Nanxiang, and Xiangyang.
Cancel Shangjun, Shuofang, Wuyuan, Yunzhong, Dingxiang, Yuyang and Lujiang.
Emperor Wen established seven counties: Chaoge, Yangping, Yiyang, Weixing, Xincheng, Yiyang, and Anfeng.
During the Jian'an period of the Han Dynasty, the First Lord of Shu established nine counties for the first time: Badong, Brazil, Zitong, Jiangyang, Wenshan, Hanjia, Zhuti, Danqu, and Fuling. Shu has eleven counties and counties in Qu. The Great Emperor Wu Zhu established five counties for the first time: Linhe, Wuchang, Zhuya, Xin'an, and southern Luling.
The Shao Di and Jing Di set up four counties, and the Shao Di set up Linchuan, Linhai, Hengyang and Xiangdong.
Emperor Jing established Tianmen, Jian'an, Jianping and the northern part of Hepu.
Yuleibao also has twelve counties, Shi'an, Shixing, Shaoling, Ancheng, Xinchang, Wuping, Jiude, Wuxing, Dongyang, Guilin, Xingyang, and Yidu.
It occupies eighteen counties of Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Taikang, Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty, the power of the Sun family of Wu was pacified, and a total of twenty-three additional counties were added, including Xingyang, Shangluo, Dunqiu, Linhuai, Dongguan, Xiangcheng, Ruyin, Changguang, Guangning, Changli, Xinye, Suijun, Yinping, Yiyang, Piling, Xuancheng, Nankang, Jin'an, Ningpu, Shiping, Geyang, Leping, and Nanping.
Seven counties were abolished and Sizhou was established, and four more states were established: Liangzhou, Qinzhou, Ningzhou, and Pingzhou. The name of Guangzhou of Wu State was used, and there were nineteen states in total: Si, Ji, Yan, Yu, Jing, Xu, Yang, Qing, You, Ping, Bing, Yong, Liang, Qin, Liang, Yi, Ning, Jiao, and Guangzhou.
There are one hundred and seventy-three counties, including twenty-five counties established by the Wu State, eleven newly established counties by the Shu State, and twenty-one counties established by the Wei State. The ninety-three old counties of the Han Dynasty were followed, and twenty-three counties were established.
In this way, it became a great civilized country and owned all the territories of Yin and Zhou.
As a result, it is more abundant than in the primitive era and more prominent than the achievements of Fuxi and Shennong. The purpose is to support the people of Li instead of competing for territory.
Those rings made of jade and arrows made of wood, the foreign furs and windy chariots, the flocks of southern birds patronizing us, the spring breeze harmonious with the smooth rhythms, the emperor's achievements are prosperous, everywhere.
However, the signs of the stars are attached to the sky, the mountains and rivers govern the earth, the stars of Duanmen and Yemen plan the vast area, and the mountains and rivers of Hangu distinguish the counties and cities. Looking up at the sky and the geography, everything in the world belongs to the dynasty.
Therefore, Luo Zhizhou and Xianyang are like Qin and Mo. Jin is adjacent to the west of the Yellow River. People in the past dynasties know that Yao and Yu settled in the new capital of Haojing. The local five-foot-long boys can recite it skillfully, and historians do not need to record it in the history books.
In the past, the Fuxi family was born in Chengji, and as the emperor, Chen was his capital.
The Shennong family originally made its capital Yusu, but later established Dihuang as its capital.
Dong Tong was born in Huaqiu and established his capital in Gu.
He first lived in Chunuo, and later moved his capital to Dihuang.
Tixi first lived in Saiduo, and later moved the city to Pandan.
Changui ascended the throne and established his capital in Taiwan.
King Youyi said: If you don't climb a mountain, you don't know how high the sky is; if you don't face the abyss, you don't know how thick the earth is.
The earth is grand, and all things are born on the ground. It can carry Kunlun and Jianshan without falling, and it can be carried back to the sea without leakage.
The king was convinced, so he took a carriage and parked his car to see the sights. He looked at the stone inscriptions on Shunxi Mountain in the distance, and looked at the city walls stacked on top of each other as if he were admiring them.
The times were stagnant, the political system was in decline, King Ping of Zhou moved eastward, and the princes were in dispute; Xuan Wei was in power, and the Three Kingdoms were in power.
Emperor Zuwu of the Jin Dynasty inherited a thousand-year legacy and accepted the abdication. The former king's homeland all belonged to the Jin State, so he could talk about territorial matters.
Saitong was unprepared, and the Central Plains were completely abandoned. In the Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, his sphere of influence moved southward to Jianye, which was the only one in the world.
In the past, Dayu observed the turbid Yellow River and found its roundness, so that he could talk about the affairs in the sea.
There are seven stars in the Big Dipper in the sky, and there are seven layers of earth on the earth. There are four corners in the sky, and there are four big rivers on the earth that flow eastward into the sea.
The farthest places in all directions are called Baji.
The terrain becomes lower in the southeast and the sky tilts toward the northwest.
Baji is vast, 203,1300 miles from east to west, and 203,1300 miles from north to south.
The distance from the earth to the sky is half the width of the eight poles, and the same is true from the ground to the ground.
Previously, Huangdi ordered Shuhai to measure the steps from Shuji to the West Pole, a total of 500,098,08 steps.
In the case of Shi Chen, the entire sky is 1,070,913 miles in total and 356,970 miles in diameter.
North and south are longitudes, and east and west are latitudes.
There are twelve times in the sky, which are the paths of the moon; there are twelve times in the earth, which are the areas where princes establish states.
Some states got their surnames from their ancestors' birthplaces, and some named their regions because of their achievements. Qi, You, Yan, and Qi are among these regions.
Previously, the Yellow Emperor traveled all over the world, governed thousands of miles, and gained nearly 10,000 countries with a radius of 100 miles. This is what the "Book of Changes" said: "Beyond the world, all nations will be at peace."
During the reign of Emperor Yao, many states were coordinated. The system was organized with eight families as neighbors, three neighbors as friends, three friends as li, five li as towns, ten towns as capitals, ten capitals as divisions, and one state had twelve divisions.
The territory of the Xia Hou family was limited to the seaside, with deserts in the west and the Yangtze River Basin in the south. Both the north and the south knew the king's authority and education, and all the people within the reach of Shuhai's pace were obedient.
So it was divided into five servers within Kyushu.
In the country where the emperor is located, five hundred miles will be used as a meadow, bundles of grain must be paid as taxes within one hundred miles, cut ears of grain must be paid within two hundred miles, threshed crop stalks must be paid within three hundred miles, millet must be paid within four hundred miles, and rice must be paid within five hundred miles.
The five hundred miles outside the Dianfu are the marquis's clothes, the one hundred miles are the fiefdoms of the officials, the two hundred miles are the nobility, and the three hundred miles are the marquis.
The five hundred miles outside the Houfu are Suifu, the three hundred miles are devoted to culture and education, and the two hundred miles are devoted to martial arts and strengthening defense.
Five hundred miles outside of Suifu are required to obey, three hundred miles follow the normal way, and two hundred miles are tax exempted.
The five hundred miles beyond the main gate are Huangfu, three hundred miles are Barbarian, and two hundred miles are Liuli.
Reaching the four seas, it became a system of five clothes, and the geographical scope of the five clothes was five thousand miles in radius.
The political virtues of the Xia Dynasty declined and they encountered the Youqiu Rebellion.
Shaokang was revived without losing his original land and state.
From the time of Kong Jia to the time when Jie was in power, the princes merged with each other, and more than 3,000 states were able to survive. Compared with the time when the Xia Hou family gathered the princes at Tushan, they lost about seven-tenths.
Chengtang defeated Jie in Jiao and moved the capital to Bo. Yi Zhi, Zhong Hui and others formulated a strict code of law.
The king formulated the salary and salary for the titles, and the titles were divided into five levels: Duke, Marquis, Uncle, Son, and Male.
The emperor's field is a thousand li in circumference, that of a duke is a hundred li, that of an uncle is seventy li, and that of a son is fifty li.
Those who are less than fifty miles away have no contact with the emperor and belong to the princes, and are called vassals.
Within the Four Seas there are nine states, each with a radius of a thousand miles.
Each state established thirty feudal states with a width of one hundred miles, sixty feudal states with a width of seventy miles, and one hundred and twenty feudal states with a width of fifty miles, for a total of two hundred and ten feudal states.
Mingshan Daze cannot be used as fiefdom, and the rest is regarded as vassal land.
There are 210 feudal states in eight states across the country.
Within the boundaries of the state where the emperor is located, there are nine hundred-mile feudal states.
There are twenty-one feudal states of seventy miles, and sixty-three feudal states of fifty miles, for a total of ninety-three kingdoms.
Famous mountains and swamps cannot be enfeoffed, and the rest of the land is used as salary for the scholars and as idle land after enfeoffment.
There are nine states in the country, with a total of 1,773 feudal states.
The emperor's noble men and the vassals of the princes are not among them.
The emperor's land tax within a hundred miles provided for official use, and within a thousand miles provided food and clothing.
The five kingdoms become one vassal, each with a commander; the ten kingdoms form one company, each company has a commander; the thirty kingdoms form one pawn, each pawn has a pawn commander; the two hundred and ten kingdoms form one state, and each state has a prefect.
There are eight uncles in eight states, fifty-six are honest, one hundred and sixty-eight are handsome, and three hundred and thirty-six are long.
Each of the eight uncles is called the second uncle according to the two ministers whose country belongs to the emperor, and the world is divided into left and right.
Within a thousand miles is the meadow, and a thousand miles away is the harvest and flow.
The emperor sent officials as three supervisors to monitor Fang Bo's country. There are three people in each.
Where the emperor is, the princes can take fiefs but their descendants cannot succeed to the throne; outside the emperor's place, the princes' descendants can succeed.
King Wu of Zhou came to the throne. Taking the example of the Xia and Shang dynasties, he established only five levels of titles and divided the land into three parts.
They granted more than fifty kingdoms to princes with the same surname. The fiefdoms of Zhou Gong and Kang Shu were called Lu and Wei, each occupying hundreds of miles.
Taigong was granted the title of Qi, located on the shore of Shuhai.
A total of 1,800 countries are distributed within an area of ​​5,000 miles.
The descendants of Taihao and Huangdi, and the princes of Tang Yao and Yu Shun still retained their fiefdoms.
The great Situ, who was in charge of the land of the state, measured the territory of the princes for five hundred miles in length and breadth, and the emperor ate half of the taxes; the land of the princes was 400 miles in length, and the emperor ate one-third of the taxes;
Each family cultivates 100 acres of land every year, 200 acres of land for two-year rotation, and 300 acres for three-year rotation.
The five families are the ratio, so that they can guarantee each other; the five ratios are the between, they can rely on each other and bear the damage of the house and other accidents; the four households are the clan, and they jointly handle funerals; the five clans are the party, and they can help each other in case of disaster; the five parties are the states, and they can help each other; the five states are the township, and they can pay tribute to the sage with the courtesy of treating guests.
The young Situ has a team of five, five teams are two, four two are pawns, five pawns are a brigade, five brigades are a division, and five divisions are an army.
They were used to go on expeditions together, engage in field hunting, chase bandits, arrest thieves, and issue orders to collect tribute.
To manage the land, make well fields, and run livestock, the nine wells are wells, the four wells are towns, the four towns are hills, the four hills are dians, the four dians are counties, and the four counties are the capital.
The person in charge of giving and providing compensation sent people to set up huts ten miles along the road, where food and drink could be provided.
There are lodgings thirty miles away, and there are road rooms where you can stay, and there are things stored in the road rooms.
There is a market at fifty miles, and there is a waiting room in the market, and there is a waiting room for welcoming and seeing off guests, and there are stored materials in the waiting room.
The people in Sui who were in charge of the countryside regarded five families as neighbors, five neighbors as li, four li as bi, five zhengs and scolds, five bis as counties, and five counties as sui.
Da Sima governed the princes of the country based on their household registration in Jiuji.
A thousand miles in length and breadth within the Wang Ji is the Guo Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Guo Ji is the Hou Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Hou Ji is the Ding Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Ding Ji is the Nan Ji, and the five hundred miles beyond the Nan Ji is the Cai Ji. , the five hundred miles outside the Wei Ji are the Wei Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Wei Ji are the Man Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Man Ji are the Yi Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Yi Ji are the Zhen Ji, and the further five hundred miles outside are the Fan Ji.
Ji is the boundary of the field. From Baiwang City to the outside, it is bounded by five thousand miles from east to west and from north to south. There are nine kis that divide the land.
At that time, the country's governance was at peace, and its politics and religion could be described as clear and clear. No one committed a crime and the criminal law was not used. There were 13,714,933 people, which was probably the heyday of the Zhou Dynasty.
When the Zhou royal family declined, the system of rituals, music, and conquests were all controlled by the princes. The weak preyed on the strong, and the strong bullied the weak.
At the beginning of the Spring and Autumn Period, there were still 1,200 kingdoms. By the end of Lu Aigong's hunt for Lin in the west, 36 monarchs had been killed in 242 years, and 52 countries had perished.
One hundred and thirty-nine of them know the location of their country, including Lu, Zhu, Zheng, Song, Ji, Wei, Xi, Ju, Qi, Chen, Qi, Cai, Xing, Xi, Jin, Xue, Xu, Deng, Qin, Cao, Chu, Sui, Huang, Liang, Yu, Yun, Xiaozhu, Xu, Yan, Wei, Mi, and Shu , Yong, Tan, Lai, Wu, Yue, Youqiong, Sanmiao, Guazhou, Youyu, Dong, Gong, Su, Shen, Yi, Xiang, Nanyan, Teng, Fan, Dai, Xi, Gao, Rui, Wei, Chunyu, Gu, Ba, Zhou, Liao, Luo, Lai, Mou, Ge, Tan, Xiao, Sui, Hua, Quan , Zhang, Huo, Geng, Jiang, Ji, Xian, Dao, Bai, Wei, Juan, Li, Xiang, Mi, Ren, Xuju, Zhuanyu, Dun, Guan, Yong, Bi, Feng, Xie, Ying, Jiang, Mao, Xun, Kui, Jie, Jiao, Shen, Liu, Chao, Genmu, Tang, Li, Xunxia, Han, You Li, Zhenguan, Zhexun, Guo, Youguo, Ge, Biyang, Yi, Zhu, Weiwei, Tangdu, Yang, Bin, Hao, Guan, Hu, Pi, Hu, Li, Dating, Ni, Qi, Bei, Zhongwu, Pugu, Kunwu, Fang, Mixu, Jiafu, Zhen, Tong, Bo, Han, Zhao.
Thirty-one countries have disappeared, Ji, Ji, Xun, Jia, Er, Zhen, Jiao, Yuqiu, Yang, Ji, Yingshi, Mao, Dan, Xin, Bi, Fengfu, still, Youyi, Chong, Juan, Yong, Ju, Yan, Shang Yan, Baosi, Xuan, Youmin, Quegong, Xiang, Ji, Qiongsang.
Barbarians, Rongdi, and others are not included.
The five hegemons are more prosperous and lead the alliance among the princes.
The royal family declined and during the Warring States Period, seven hegemons emerged: Han, Wei, Zhao, Yan, Qi, Qin, and Chu.
There are also the Song, Wei, and Zhongshan dynasties, which are inseparable. For example, the three dynasties of Han, Zhao, and Wei were divided into the Jin Dynasty and each became king.
"Sima Law" extensively states the system of three ancient dynasties, which says: In ancient times, six feet was one step, one hundred steps was one acre, one hundred acres was one husband, three husbands was one house, and three houses was one well field.
The well field is one mile vertically and horizontally, which is Jiufu, and is jointly owned by eight families.
Each couple received 100 acres of private land and 10 acres of public land, for a total of 880 acres for eight families. The remaining 20 acres were land occupied by thatched cottages. Families in the same field cared for each other, helped neighbors, and rescued each other in case of illness or disaster.
The people received land, each farmer had one hundred acres of good land, two hundred acres of medium land, and three hundred acres of low-grade land. They would cultivate the land every year and arrange their own rotation.
The farmer who received the field, and the other men in the family who were the remaining husbands, also received the field according to their number.
Land was distributed among the families of scholars, workers and merchants, and five people were equal to one farmer.
There is a tax and a tax. The tax refers to one-tenth of the output of the farmer's public land. Craftsmen, merchants, and hengyu who manage the mountains and rivers pay their respective profits and products. The tax refers to the provision of chariots, horses, weapons, and the service of soldiers.
The people received the land when they were twenty years old and returned it when they were sixty years old.
Farming must also include growing grains to prevent natural disasters.
There should be no trees in farmland so as not to hinder the growth of grains.
Mulberry and eucalyptus trees should be planted around the cottage, various vegetables should be planted in separate borders, various fruits and melons should be planted on the edges of the fields, and domestic animals such as dolphins, dolphins, dogs, and pigs should not miss the opportunity to breed.
Each village has a school, and each township has a school. The local schools are used for education, and the township schools are used for teaching etiquette.
According to Sima's law, six armies were officially established and military orders were formulated based on the well fields.
One mile of land is a well, ten wells are a link, ten links are a bridge, and a line is ten miles vertically and horizontally.
The ten become the same, and the ten are the same, and they are the same across hundreds of miles.
Ten of them are called a seal, and ten of them are called a ridge. The ridge stretches thousands of miles.
Therefore, four wells are called a town, and four towns are called hills. Each hill has sixteen wells, one military horse and three cows.
There are four hills for the fields, and there are sixty-four wells in each field, four military horses, one military chariot, twelve oxen, three armored soldiers, and seventy-two soldiers.
This is called the system of riding a car.
A total of 10,000 wells with a radius of 100 li, excluding 3,600 wells including mountains, ravines, cities, towns, gardens, and streets. It is stipulated that there are 6,400 wells, 400 military horses, and 100 military chariots to pay taxes. This is a family with more land under the Qing Dynasty, and it is called a 100-carriage home.
The area has a radius of 366 li, a total of 100,000 wells, and it is stipulated that there are 64,000 wells to pay taxes, 4,000 military horses, and military chariots. This is the most powerful among the princes, and it is called the country of thousands of chariots.
The emperor's kingdom has a radius of thousands of miles and a total of millions of wells. It is stipulated that the tax payers include 640,000 wells, 40,000 horses, 10,000 chariots, and 720,000 soldiers. Therefore, the emperor is called the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots.
After Qin Shihuang took control of the world, he looked for the reasons for the failure of the Gu Dynasty. He believed that it was due to the wanton discussion of the officials, the warlike feudal princes, and the mutual invasion of the barbarians. The Zhou royal family was eliminated due to its weakness, so the fifth-class titles were cancelled.
When the Han Dynasty arose, it accepted the lesson of Qin's isolation and defeat, so it divided the territory and established second-class titles. Meritorious officials were granted more than a hundred fiefs.
At that time, the people experienced the rule of the Qin Dynasty and the disputes between Chu and Hui. The population declined. There were only 10,000 households in the large feudal kingdoms and only 500 or 600 households in the small ones. Therefore, the Han Dynasty respected the children of the royal family and expanded the nine kingdoms extensively.
In ancient times, land was enfeoffed but not the population. As a result, large fiefdoms spanned states and counties, while small ones only had more than ten cities. The divisions were based on households and the distance of the land boundaries. The so-called division of people began with ridges.
It is covered from the east of Lidan to Liaozhou. To the south of Limulus Mountain, the Holy Land of Sai extends eastward, passing through Donghui and Zhacheng, to the seaside, where it is called Chaxang.
The place where Tong Mi and Sicheng flowed in, including Gu Dan and Sha Ye, was Luan Chu.
To the east is the Kenliao Huiting tide, which is close to the Heshan area and is called Xingxing.
To the north is the Jinhui coast, including Luchong, which is He.
To the north and to the north bank of Zhuisai, across Lixingdi, is Kentu.
The borders of the princes are connected, surrounded by three borders, and adjacent to Hu and Pad on the outside.
The emperor himself had Sandan, Sedeng, Ticong, and Luzhui, from the west to Danshu, to the north to Zhoushi, to the west to Longyou, and the Sanfu area of ​​​​the capital, a total of fifteen counties.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty adopted Yi Sheng's suggestion to divide Man Zhao, and Xing Tong used the strategy of reclamation to reduce Cheng Chu.
Gentong implemented the suggestion of the chief fortress and issued the edict of Tuien, so that the princes and kings could allocate population and food to their children. The court would not decide on promotion, demotion or deposed, and the vassal state would handle it on its own.
From then on, Cha was divided into seven, Fang was divided into six, Chi was divided into five, and Huainan was divided into three.
The newly enfeoffed prince's great enfeoffment did not exceed more than a dozen cities. Changsi, Xie, and Youbi retained their old names, but lost the north and south sides.
From the time Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing promoted recuperation to the second year of Doumian, Emperor Ping, there were 12,233,062 households, 59,594,978 people, and a land of 9,302 miles from east to west and 13,368 miles from north to south.
There is roughly one pavilion every ten miles, with a pavilion length.
There are ten pavilions and one township. There are three elders in the township, one each for Zhi, Shifu and Youyou.
Each county is about a hundred miles long and horizontal, with less densely populated land and more sparsely populated land. The same is true for townships and pavilions.
They are all systems of the Qin Dynasty.
Lian Guanggen's resurgence did not go beyond the system of the previous generation. King Xingqiang of the East China Sea, because his stay, advance and retreat behavior was in line with etiquette, so he was generously rewarded and given twenty-nine counties in the overlapping counties as his fiefdom. The other officials who were granted the title due to favor only took one county as their fiefdom.
By the third year of Dantong Chengshi, there were 10,677,960 households with 56,486,856 people. This was also an era of increasing household numbers.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian appointed Daluan as General Zhenshu and granted him the title of Marquis Feiting.
In the third year of Huang Chu, Emperor Wen of Wei, for the first time, it was stipulated that the concubine of the king who was entrusted with the title was a township duke, the concubine of the succeeding king was a Tinghou, and the concubine of a duke was Tingbo.
In the first year of Zhangwu's reign, Liu Bei also enfeoffed counties and states to various kings. Some of them only received honorary titles from a distance without checking the location of the land.
At that time there were 200,000 households and 900,000 men and women.
In the fifth year of Chiwu, Sun Quan also used the good name of Zhongzhou to divide the kings.
At that time there were 523,000 households, with 10,000 men and women.
Sai Tong was made the queen, and Yuzhou and others were ordered to establish a five-level nobility system. Only Ma Fu, an company in Anping County, had 10,000 households, which was the same size as the kings of Wei.
In other counties, there are 1,800 official settlements, with a land length of 75 li each; in the great feudal state, there are 1,600 feudal households, with a land of 70 li each side; in the sub-state, there are 1,400 feudal households, with a land length of 65 li each; in the great feudal state, there are 1,200 feudal lords, with a land length of 60 li each; One thousand households, each with a land of fifty-five li in length and breadth; a Dafeng Kingdom with 800 households, with a land of 50 li in length and width; a sub-state with 600 households, with a land of 45 li in length and width; a Dafeng Kingdom with 400 households, and a land of 40 li in length and width; a sub-state with 200 households, and land of 25 li in length and width.
In the first year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, the counties were divided into various kings as feudal states.
A large country with 20,000 households in a city has three armies, upper, middle and lower, and 5,000 soldiers; a sub-state with 10,000 households has an upper and lower armies, and 3,000 soldiers; a small country with 5,000 households has an army with 1,500 soldiers.
The kings of various places did not go to their respective feudal states, but held official posts in the capital.
The system of five levels of nobility was abolished. A large country was defined as a prince with a household of more than 10,000 households, a sub-country with a household of more than 5,000 households, and a small country with less than 5,000 households.
In the first year of Taikang, when the state of Wu was pacified, it had approximately 2,459,840 households and 1,6163,863 people.
Each country in the Jiangsu area took one-third of its own land as a food town. After the Yuan Emperor crossed the Yangtze River, in the first year of Taixing, he began to stipulate that each feudal state should use one-ninth of its food town.
Sizhou.
The place of Yuzhou recorded in "Yu Gong".
At the time of Emperor Mowu, Sili Xiaowei was set up for the first time to command the counties of Sanfu and Sanhe.
Its boundaries include the three counties of Jingzhao, Fengyi and Fufeng in Yongzhou in the west, the two counties of Hedong and Hanei in Jizhou in the north, and the Shubu area including Hongnong and Henan counties in Yuzhou, a total of seven counties.
The status and reputation of the county governor are higher than those of the state and county shepherds, and they are awarded silver seals and green ribbons.
When Emperor Guangwu established his capital in Luoyang, the area under Sili's jurisdiction was the same as that of the Western Han Dynasty.
When the Wei family accepted the throne, they took the location of the Han Imperial Palace as the capital, and administered the five counties of Henan, Hedong, Hanoi, Hongnong and Pingyang in Jizhou, and established Sizhou.
The Jin Dynasty continued to use the capital of Wei, so it returned Sanfu to Yongzhou, divided it into Henan County and established Rongyang, divided Jingzhao in Yongzhou and established Shangluo, abolished Shu County and established Dunqiu, so it was named Sizhou and was managed by Si Li Xiaowei.
The state governs twelve counties, one hundred counties, and 475,700 households.
Henan County was established in the Han Dynasty.
It governs twelve counties and 114,400 households.
Set Yin.
Luoyang Zhiwei.
There are five departments and three cities.
Seven miles from east to west and nine miles from north to south.
There are three gates of Jianchun, Dongyang and Qingming in the east, four gates of Kaiyang, Pingchang, Xuanyang and Jianyang in the south, three gates of Guangyun, Ximing and Khotan and Min in the west and two gates of Daxia and Guangmo in the north.
Sili Xiaowei, Henan Yin and hundreds of officials gathered in the city.
Jiabi, the royal city of Zhoushu in Henan.
King Xiao of Gong Zhou granted Gong Hui Gong, the grandson of Duke Huan of Zhou, the title of Eastern Zhou. Therefore, during the Warring States Period, it was also known as Shu Zhou and Western Zhou.
Mangshan and Shouyang are its county boundaries.
The location of Hangu Pass in Xin'an, Heyin.
It is related to Chenggao and is the Wulao Pass of Zheng.
The Feng family has Liu Ju, the food town of Liu Zi, the official of Zhou Dynasty.
There is Yanshou City and Immortal Temple.
There is Eban Pass in Yangcheng.
The city is located in the center of the earth, and the shadow of the sun is one foot and five inches during the summer solstice.
There are Yangcheng Mountain and Jishan Mountain. The base of the insect is in that Xiang.
The more achievements there are, the longer the hurricane will be.
The former kingdom of King Luman.
In the former Manzi Kingdom, this was the place where King Chuzhuang was defeated by his misfortune.
When it was built, it was called Nanliang to distinguish it from Shaoliang.
It was established in the second year of Huasi Painting in Rongyang County, Yangzhai.
It oversees eight counties and 34,000 households.
The place name is Yao, where Formosa Plastics built Aocang.
Consolidate the place where the main interest is to live.
Mi Yuan Mo Wang Ji Nei.
When Kun was trapped, he immediately had Bolang Changsha, where Danmu attacked Taiwan and merged with the emperor.
Yue Wawa was the capital of Zhao Saiwu. The horseshoe crab plug is meandering in the northeast, also known as Pengju.
Hongnong County pendant setting.
It oversees six counties and 14,000 households.
Emperor Chou sent a letter to Guguan.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty moved to Mianyue. Invitation was originally called Su, but Lian Genxi was renamed Wing. In the Zhou Dynasty, the original shovel fish was divided into two parts, the east and the west, which were governed by the two phases.
Yiyang Yuchi and Huayin Huashan are in the south of Huayin County.
In the second year of Zhu Yue Hua Pan's reign, the southern part of Sailii was divided and set up.
It oversees three counties and 17,000 households.
The upper bandits fell to the hurricane in the northwest of the county.
The fief where people from Yitai Xiangjie sell bran.
The Qianlong and Miaohu Mountains are on its side, which is the birthplace of Yucheng.
Pingyang County originally belonged to Jiongsai, and the tombs were separated.
It governs twelve counties and 42,000 households.
The old capital of Yuan Dynasty in Laos. Hou country. Far away from Dangbao Country.
Sudanzheng, Tomb, and Zhao became princes, and Liudan was granted the title of Prime Minister Biyuan of Langtan Kingdom.
Ridges and mountains are in its bundle. The Fisher King Hu Zhanyue is the Prime Minister of the Principality.
At that time, the centipede migrated from Didie to Xiang.
Qiuyuan Mountain is in the southwest. The Duke surrounded the prime minister.
Jilihukou Mountain is in the southeast.
There is straight day, so it is called: rugged.
Lu Dan was originally from the country of Tart.
Multi-paint settings. It governs nine counties and has 42,500 households.
As much as Hihara Dida. Duke Zhi Gensheng moved from Zhiyan to Qianguo.
Yuanwang Kenshan is in the northeast, the birthplace of the frontier fortress.
Supervise the Duke and the Prime Minister.
Zuoyanxing Mountain is in the west.
But the descendants of King Jianfeng Youmei Zhuyuan are here. The ancient Yue sculptures were made on the first day of the lunar month.
Crabs have salt ponds.
Fishing invites Lidan, a place for farming.
There is Chongju Mountain, and Zhitong and Guisheng once lived in the south of the mountain, which is called Jukencan.
Hebei.
The inspection board is set up every two years.
He was in charge of six counties, with three lettuce and seven thousand households.
There is a copper plate.
The place where Chaoge Zhou established his capital.
A common ancient country.
Beishan, the birthplace of Qishui.
Lin Liu was born in Jiaxinzhong Township, Jiayuan.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty passed by this Xiang during his patrol, he received Lu Jia's head, so he changed his name.
Nanyang, opened by Liao Wu and Jin, was renamed Xiu Wu by Qin.
Hanoi County Han setting.
It oversees nine counties and 52,000 households.
Yewang Taihang Mountain is in the northwest.
The original state is Jinyi.
Huaiping Gao Xinghou migrated here from Xiangguo.
Heyang Qinshui Ruanyuan Zhou Yuanyi.
Shanyang warms his homeland, and Su angers his fiefdom.
Guangping County Tomb Settings.
It governs fifteen counties and 35,200 households.
Guangping and Handan were established as counties by the Qin Dynasty.
Wu'an, Yiyang, was the capital of Xinghou State, the former capital of Shexiang State.
Nanhe was appointed as the Marquis of Guangnian in Feixiang, Linshui, Quliang.
He suppressed Wei and set it up in Moyang Ping County.
It oversees seven counties and 51,000 households.
Yuancheng is a city born after the Han Dynasty.
Guantao Qingquan hair stems in Wuyang, Yangping and Leping, Cambodia
Wei Jun Han setting.
It oversees eight counties and 40,700 households.
Emperor Wu of Yewei was granted the title and lived in Qianbo.
Changle Weicuo Qiu Anyang Dangyin Neihuanghuangchi is in its west.
Liyang was originally the Kingdom of Lihou.
It was established in the second year of Tongyou in Dunqiu County.
It oversees four counties and 6,300 households.
Dunqiu Fanyang Yin'anwei
After Yongjia, Sizhou fell to Liu Cong.
Liu Cong took Luoyang as Jingsu, and when Shi Qin arrived, he took Luoyang as Sizhou.
Shi Jilong also classified Danye's Jiongmu, Zhidi, Yuandang and Tongye's Sumao and Sailian as pirate industries. After Wu Tong crossed the Liao Dynasty, he also temporarily placed his Dan industry in Xu, not its original location.
Later, the Hongnong people who lived in Xunyang temporarily established Hongnong County.
The Hedong people living in the south temporarily established Hedong County in the Shangming area within the boundaries of Xiaoling County, Wuling County, Han Dynasty, and governed eight counties: Anyi, Wenxi, Yong'an, Linfen, Hongnong, Qiao, Songzi, and Daqi. They all lived there.
In the fifth year of Yonghe's reign, Huan Wen entered Luo and resettled Henan County under the jurisdiction of Sizhou.
Yanzhou.
According to the records in "Yu Gong", Shun set up twelve pastoralists in the land of Jihe, and this was one of them.
"Zhou Rites": Hedong is called Yanzhou.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: The flow of five stars is Yanzhou.
Yan, Duan Ye, Xin Ye.
He also said: Yanshui was taken to name the place.
Wutong of the Han Dynasty established the eleventh day, and the old name was Chaye, which will not be changed from now on.
The whole state governs eight counties, fifty-six counties, and 83,300 households.
Chen Liuguo selected settings.
Oversees ten counties and 30,000 households.
The tomb king fell and was sealed.
The original Kuang sculpture was reclaimed, a place where Ren suffered misfortune.
Pull the original burden Zhou. Qiao Dan Sai Ken Chu Tong
Puyang State originally belonged to Sedeng, and was separated from Zhichu and Saixing.
It oversees four counties and 21,000 households.
The ancient Kunwu country in Puyang.
Zasi scolded Lao for being a lazy person, and immediately threw herself into the river. Prime Minister of the Principality.
Prime Minister of Linqiu Principality.
There is Giethoorn.
There is a gourd embankment on the white horse.
Prime Minister of Juancheng Principality.
Jiyin County setting.
It oversees nine counties, with seven to six hundred households.
Emperor Gaozu of the Dingtao Han Dynasty granted Pengyue the title of King of Liang and made Xiang his capital.
Chuidan was the original prince state.
When Ji's family became a martial artist, there was Chu Qiuting.
Shan's father is from his old country.
Chengyang is where Shun Dang loved fishing, and Yao's tomb is to the west.
Gaoping State originally belonged to Liang State and was separated from Shanyang in the early days of Zhichu.
He was in charge of seven counties, with three cadres and eight hundred corpses.
The Marquis of Changyi.
There is Jiafu Pavilion.
The place where Lu Huolin lived in Ju Ye.
Fang and Jinxiang Hulu Gaoping Hou Kingdom.
The Marquis State of Nanpingyang.
There is Peng Huang.
Set by the Han Dynasty in Rencheng.
Oversaw three counties and 1,700 households.
Renchenggu. true father luang
Dongping Guohan setting. It oversees seven counties and 6,400 households.
Hurricane wrinkles are sleepy. Fan Wuyan Fucheng Dongping Lu Gangping
Jibei Guohan setting.
It oversees five counties and 3,500 households.
The birthplace of Lu Bian Que.
There are five houses in the west of the county.
Linyi Dongagucheng is getting more and more trapped. There is refuge in Snake Hill. Taishan County selection setting.
It oversees 11 counties and 9,300 households.
There is a Mingtang directly to the southwest of Taiwan.
There is a royal mountain in the altar.
The country of Xia is located in the land of Hanhou. There are dodders gathered together. Panjuedan is in the northeast.
Qinbao was originally called Chalk Salt.
There is a quiet place in Nanwuyang.
Yuwu has a wish. The original imperial seal.
There are collisions in the chasm. In the last years of Emperor Hui's reign, the entire Yanzhou fell into the hands of Husheng.
Later, Hunulong changed Chenliu County to Jiandandeng, which was a pirate industry.
At that time, the people were sent to the south, and the five children borrowed land to resettle their children's property and live in Saidan.
Dantong was appointed as the governor of Zhengjian and lived in Luyi. He established Yaoyan, Yijian, Chunuo, Lishan and other counties.
Later it was changed to Tong Chong Cong, some returned to Hongnan, some lived in Danxun, and some lived in Yebi.
After that, he began to divide the territory into a territory. He often lived in Guangling, facing Jingkou across the river in the south.
In the fourth year of Shengchen's reign, a speed fish 璺 was set up on the border of Liizhan.
Saitong divided Lu Yisu into five counties: Jiancuo, Duojiang, Huangmu, Zhanjie and Zhabian and established Shanyang County, which belonged to southern Yanzhou.
Mold out.
The case "Yu Gong" is recorded as a place of shaping.
"Zhou Rites": Sunfish appear in Henan.
"Yu" means "shu", which refers to receiving the neutralizing energy and feeling calm and relaxed emotionally and rationally.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Gouling star is the division of fish.
The land boundary starts from Jidian in the west, ends in Zhuzhi and plastics, starts from the border fortress in the north, and is bounded by Pishan Mountain in the south.
Taiwan annexed the whole country and established seven counties: Sancong, Jiongsai, Zhiyan, Ticong, Dan, Huisai and Zheng.
The three clusters were changed to Jiongyisu, and thirteen prefectures were built in Genzhao. The old name of Yingye was not changed. The two counties of Jianyi and Jisai belonged to Sili, and Zhimo belonged to Ke. Before that, swimming was renamed Peijun, Henghe was renamed Zhe, and Rectification was renamed Dui. The parts of Hungry and Wings were separated into Lidiyanying, and they were separated into Danyou at Longchuan.
He also divided the title into Sichuan to establish Xiangyuan Li, divided this mu to establish Ruyin County, and merged the speed sculptures into the chisel seal. The whole state governs ten counties, eighty-five counties, and 116,796 households.
Yingchuan County Taiwan is set up.
It oversees nine counties with 28,300 households.
Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty in Xuchang established his capital here.
Wei succeeded to the throne and moved the capital to Luoyang. Jiang kept the palace arsenal and renamed it Xuchang.
Changshe Yingyin came to the Prime Minister of the Duke of Ying.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Shaoling.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Yanling.
Xinji Changping Runan County Desert was established.
It oversees fifteen counties and 21,500 households.
Xinxi Nananyang Ancheng became the Hou Xiang.
Shenyang North Yichun Langlingyang Angu Jiangguo.
There is Jiangting.
Shang Cai Pingyu originally selected Wang Ken.
There is Shen Pavilion.
Dingying, Zhuoyang, Nandun, Ruyang, and Wufang were originally in Fangguo.
Western Plains Cypress Country.
There is a dragon spring whose water can be used to temper swords.
Xiangcheng County was established in the second year of Taishi.
It oversees seven counties and 18,000 households.
Xiangcheng Houxiang.
There is Xibugencheng.
Emperor Wen of Fanchang succeeded to the throne here.
Dingling Houxiang.
The Prime Minister of the father city.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Kunyang.
Emperor Xuan of Wuyang was first granted this city.
Ruyin County was established as a county by the Wei Dynasty, but was later abolished and reset in the second year of Taishi.
It oversees eight counties and 8,500 households.
Ruyin is the old beard country.
Shen Yuan Chu Yi.
Yuanlu, Gushi, Liyang Xincai Song Houxiang. Testimonials.
Set by Liang Guohan.
It governs twelve counties and 13,000 households.
Suiyang was the capital of the Song Dynasty in the Spring and Autumn Period.
There is Mount Jie in the lower city of Mengyu, and there are patterned stones on the mountain.
The original hammer fell in the air.
There are Laixiang Temples in Paddian, Su, Suedanjiang, Jiping and Kudong, the birthplace of Lao Tzu.
Pei Guohan setting.
It oversees nine counties and 5,096 households.
It was the place where Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised his troops.
Feng, Zhuyi, Fuli, Zhuqiu, Wen, Hongxiao
Qiaojun was established by Wei.
Oversaw seven counties and one thousand households.
Qiao, Chengfu, Feng, Shansang, Longkang, Qi, Zhi.
Lujunhan setting.
It oversees seven counties and 3,500 households.
Lu Qufu is the place where Lu Hou Bo lived in his childhood.
There is Yishan Mountain in Bianzhou, Wenyang.
The country of Jiang Yuandanmai.
Xue Xizhong fiefdom.
Public and mutual
Yiyang County was established by the Wei Dynasty.
It governs seven counties and has 16,700 households.
Xiyang is secluded.
Fu murals are located in Zhi, Qichun, Zhu, Xiling, Qisi and Yiyang.
Anfeng County was established in Wei Dynasty.
It oversees five counties and 1,200 households.
Anfeng, Yulou and Anfeng were the prime ministers.
Polygonum and pine nourish the prime minister.
Emperor Hui divided Ruyin into Xincai County, Liang State into Chen County, and Runan into Nandun.
During the Yongjia Rebellion, Yuzhou fell into the hands of mutual oppression.
After the five boys crossed the silk, they borrowed a chisel to place the fortress wall scepter and chisel Dan calendar.
Sheng Tong placed Yiyeqiao between Kuangsi and Yi, and lived in Xieyi.
At that time, Kuangzhi belonged to the north, so Danyang Qiao was divided into Huainan County, which was located at Wang Yao.
Also, because the refugees from Dangtu County crossed over to Liao Dynasty, the overseas Chinese placed a reward title on Tu, which belongs to the same invitation industry as Sui, Luliao and Baofeng.
In the first year of Kongchen's reign, the school was moved to the town.
Chang Gentong changed Lan Die Zhou to Lan Jiang Se, and the Qian Jiese people established Nan Xincai County in the old city of Chuijiudu Jihu, under the jurisdiction of Musuye.
Jinxi County was set up in the south of Molujiang County.
Jiye.
According to the records of "Yu Gong" and "Zhou Li", they were all located in Hanoi, and they built twelve pastoral areas, and Jiye was one of them.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Pleiades and Bisu are the divisions of Jizhou, which is divided into Zhao State.
The terrain of Jiye is steep in some places and flat in other places. Many emperors in the past dynasties built their capitals here. The world was in chaos but Jizhou was peaceful. The world was poor but Jiye was strong. The world suffered from famine but Jizhou had abundant crops.
The whole state governs 13 counties, 83 counties, and 326,000 households.
After Emperor Hui, Jizhou fell into the hands of Shi Le.
In the second year of Taixing, Shi Le usurped the throne and proclaimed himself the king of Xiang State, and the country was named Zhao.
Later, they were eliminated by Murong Ruang, and the Murong family was defeated by Fu Jian.
In the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, Fu Jian failed and the land belonged to Murong Chui.
Murong Chui usurped the throne in Zhongshan and proclaimed himself emperor, which was Hou Yan.
Later Yan was eventually destroyed by Wei.
Youzhou.
In the Jicong area recorded in the case "Yu Gong", Shun built twelve pastoralists, and Youzhou was one of them.
"Zhou Li": Youzhou in the Northeast.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Jixing is the division of Youzhou, which is divided into Yan Kingdom.
It means that the yin energy in the north is extremely strong, so it is called Netherworld.
King Wu of Zhou defeated the Yin Shang Dynasty and granted the title of Duke Zhao to Yan. Later, Yan and the other six vassal states became kings.
After Qin destroyed Yan, it established five counties: Yuyang, Shanggu, Youbeiping, Liaoxi and Liaodong.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty divided Shanggu into Zhuo County.
Emperor Wu established thirteen states, and Youzhou continued to use its old name without any change.
After that, Shubu was developed and counties such as Xuantu and Lelang were established, all of which were affiliated with Youzhou.
In the first year of Yuanfeng, Yan was renamed Guangyang County.
There were nine counties under the jurisdiction of Youzhou, which remained unchanged until the Jin Dynasty.
Youzhou governs seven counties, thirty-four counties, and 59,020 households.
Zhuojun was established in the desert of Fanyang State.
Emperor Wen of Wei changed its name to Fanyang County.
Emperor Wu of Jin established the kingdom and named Sima Sui, the son of Emperor Xuan's younger brother, as King Fan Yang.
It oversees eight counties and 11,000 households.
Zhuoliang Township Fangcheng Changxiang Qiu An Fan Yang Rongcheng Hou Xiang.
Set in Yan Guohan. Emperor Xiaozhao changed it to Guangyang County.
统管十县，二万九千户。

Ji'an is the second Hou Xiang.
There are neat seals in Changping.
Prime Minister of Lu'an, Guangyang.
Liu Chan, the Lord of Shu, was once granted the title of Lord Anle.
The Marquis of Quanzhou.
Yongnu fox slave
Beiping County was established in Qin Dynasty.
Oversees four counties and 5,000 households.
Xu Wutuyin's handsomeness has no end
The Qin Dynasty established Shanggu County, and the county was located above the valley, so it was called.
Oversaw two counties and 4,070 households.
Juyang Juyong
Guangning County originally belonged to Shanggu. During the Taikang period, it was established as a county and the captain lived here.
Oversaw three counties and 3,950 households.
Xialuopan Zhuolu
Dai Jun Qin set up.
It oversees four counties and 3,400 households.
Pingshudang City, Guangchang City
Liaoxi County was established in Qin Dynasty.
It oversees three counties and 2,800 households.
Yangle is as fat as Haiyang
After Emperor Hui, Youzhou fell to Huqin.
In the fifth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, Murong Jun became king in Ji position, which was called Bingji.
In the seventh year, Murong Jun moved the capital to Ye.
After Fang Rongyi died, his son Tomb Rongduo was eliminated by Dengjian.
After the failure of Dengjian, the land returned to the tomb and was called Likui.
After Ji Zhou'an's death, Nie Rongxuan moved to Niulong.
Pingzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it belongs to the Jizhou area, within Youcong during the Zhou Dynasty, and it belonged to Youbeiping County at the time of selection.
At the end of the period of Penghuan, Gongji only called himself Wang Mu, and his son Gongjichen and Gongzhuchen's son Gongji Saiyi occupied Liaosai without authorization, and all the tribes of Dongyi surrendered to them.
Shuyi Xiaowei was appointed in Xiangping, and the five counties of Liaosai, Dandian, Baotu, Yingli, and Luantui were divided into Chuicong, and then re-merged into Youye.
After the padding was reduced, there was a guard who guarded Dongyi, and the place of administration was Xiangping.
In October of the second year of Xianning, five prefectures, namely Changli, Liaosai, Ketu, Yingzuo and Luantui, were separated to establish Chuye.
It oversees 26 counties and 18,100 households.
Changli County Lianshi was the capital of the Liaodong vassal state, and Zhan was established as a county.
Take charge of two counties and 900 households.
Changli guests
Liaodong Guotai was established as a county.
Emperor Guangwu of the Han Dynasty made Liaodong and others belong to Qingzhou, and later returned to Youye.
Oversaw eight counties with 5,400 properties.
The location of Xiangping Dongyi School Lieutenant.
Wenju Lejuan City Xi'an Ping Xinchang Licheng
Lelang County is also set up.
Oversaw six counties, three thousand. The place granted to King Yu by Zhou Dynasty in North Korea.
There is Hunmi Suicheng in Tun, where the Qin Dynasty built the Great Wall.
Carved square gaze
Xuantu County Lotus setting.
It oversees three counties and 3,200 households.
Goguryeo is prosperous and prosperous
Gongsundu of Daifang County was established.
He was in charge of seven counties and had 4,900 corpses.
Lead Fang Liekou Nan Xin Chang Cen Ti Xi Han Zi Hai Ming
When Pingzhou was first established, Murong Xin was appointed as the governor. During the Chengtai Rebellion, Ling Xin was elected as the leader. When Murong Pang's grandson Fuchaan moved the capital to Ji.
After that, Jikui Na's son Jiao Xuanxuan moved to Yulang and was buried in the tomb from Youye to the area south of Lu Zunzhuang.
As the governor of Tang Ye, Xue Li guarded Quanzhi, the governor of Yiye guarded Qixu, the governor of Chaiye guarded Qiqiu, the governor of business guarded Xuanli, and the governor of Jizhou guarded Danmen.
Chan Zhou was the herdsman of You and Jizhou to guard the inside, and the governor of Jiangye guarded the imperial orangutan.
Later, he usurped power when he encountered a wall and usurped the throne in Niulong. He became the Hou Yan and was eventually destroyed by Wei.
Bingzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it belongs to the Jizhou area. Shun established twelve pastoralists, and Bingzhou was one of them.
"Zhou Li": The due north is called Bingzhou, and its town is called Hengshan.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Shisu is the division of Bingzhou, corresponding to Weiguo.
This prefecture is neither named after Weishui nor Hengshan Mountain. The reason why it is called Merger is because it is located between the two mountains.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established thirteen prefectures, and Bing prefectures continued to use their old names without changing. They governed the ten counties of Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Shangjun, Yanmen, Daijun, Dingxiang, Wuyuan, Xihe, and Shuofang. They also appointed the governor of Shuofang.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign in Houmo, Shuofang was abolished and merged into Bingzhou.
In the last years of Emperor Ling's reign, the Qiang invaded and invaded extensively, and the people in the five counties of Dingxiang, Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang, and Shangjun were displaced and scattered in other places.
In the 18th year of Jian'an, the state merger was canceled and merged into Jizhou.
In the 20th year, the wasteland under the fortress was collected to establish Xinxing County, and later Shangdang was separated to establish Leping County.
In the first year of Wei Huangchu, Bingzhou was re-established, and the area north of Xingling was abandoned until the Jin Dynasty.
Bingzhou governs six counties, 45 counties, and 59,300 households.
Taiyuan traditional Chinese painting setting.
It oversees 13 counties and 14,000 households.
The Marquis of Jinyang.
Yangqu Yuci is located in Li Mengyang, Yangzhou, Daling, Qiping, Tao Jingling, Zhongdu, Wu
Shangdang County was established in Qin Dynasty.
It oversees ten counties and 13,000 households.
The eldest son of Liu Huguan in Lutun was born in Gaodu Tongtan, the eldest son of Huguan, Xiangyuan Wuxiang
Xihe Guohan setting.
It oversees four counties and 6,300 households.
Li Shixi City Zhongyang Jiexiu
It was established during the Taishi period of Leping County.
It oversees five counties and 4,300 households.
The teapot set in Yanmen County, Leping, Yangzhou is stained with Ai Shouyang.
It oversees eight counties and 12,700 households.
Guangwu, Guangwu, Taoping, Chengjingren, Fangui, Yuanping, Mayi
Emerging County Settings.
He oversees five counties and nine thousand households.
Jiuyuan Dingxiang Yunzhong Guangmu Jinchang
Emperor Hui changed Xinxing's name to Jinchang County.
In the first year of Yongxing, Liu Yuanhai usurped the throne in Pingyang and called himself Mo. At that time, all the land in Bingzhou belonged to Liu Yuanhai.
Liu Yuanhai appointed the governor of Yongzhou to guard Pingyang and the governor of Youzhou to guard Lishi.
After Liu Cong captured Luoyang, he set up left and right ministers, each commanding more than 200,000 households. Every 10,000 households had an internal secretary, with a total of forty-three internal historians. The left and right shanyus each controlled the six tribes of barbarians.
The five prefectures of Yin, Wei, Dongliang, Xiheyang, and Beiyan were also set up to appease the newly surrendered people.
Liu Yao moved the capital to Chang'an, and the area surrounding Pingyan was owned by Huchi.
They worked together to pacify the city of Suli, and established the city of Suzhou.
During the period of Saitong and Huaihu, Panwuxun was abandoned and Wuqin established Yongshi County and Wuxiang County in the local area.
When Fu Jian, Yao Xing, and Helian Bobo moved their business to Hedong, they divided Hedong into two states: Bing and Ji. Yongzhou.
According to the records in "Yu Gong", in the land of Heishui and Xihe, Shun established twelve pastoralists, and Yongzhou was one of them.
Because the terrain is surrounded by mountains, it is named after Yong.
It also means that the northwest position is where Yang Qi cannot reach and Yin Qi is blocked and accumulated. "Zhou Rites": The west is called Yongzhou.
It is a place of digging industry during bad times.
After Guizi Genwang Kebi, the capital was Fengyan, and the business belonged to Wang Ji.
When King Shu of Ping of Zhou Dynasty moved to Tao Dan, he gave the area of ​​Tui and He to the Duke of Taisei. From then on, the land became the platform, and successive generations used it as their capital until Qin Shihuang pacified the Six Kingdoms.
After the fall of the Qin Dynasty, the Han Dynasty established its capital here again.
When the Thirteen Prefectures were established, half of the land in the western part of Yiye was assigned to Tieye, and the rest of the land belonged to Sili and was not under the jurisdiction of the states.
Emperor Guangwu of the Later Han Dynasty established Luoyang as the capital, and Yongzhou was re-established in the Guanzhong area.
Later, it was canceled and the Sili Xiaowei was appointed to command the three auxiliaries as before.
During the reign of Emperor Xian, Yongzhou was again established. From Sanfu to Youqiu, they all belonged to Yongye.
When Yi Saitong came to the throne, he divided Huixi into Suye and Longxi into Tongye. He changed Sai Lioyin into the prefecture and canceled the left and right wings? Medical Phoenix still belongs to Sili as the third assistant.
At the beginning of the Jin Dynasty, Zong maggot was placed in Changzhong, and he was in charge of seven commanderies, thirty-nine counties, and 99,500 households.
It was set up in Jingzhao County.
It oversees nine counties and 40,000 households.
Chang'an Duling dominated the city and Lantian Gaoliu lived in Yueyang County for thousands of years.
Xinfengyin is the city of Zheng Huan, the younger brother of King Zhouxuan of Zheng.
Feng Yijun was established in the Han Dynasty and was called Zuo Youchi.
It oversees eight counties and 7,700 households.
Linjin was originally Dali, but it was renamed after Qin acquired this place.
There is a river temple, and the temple is located on the edge of the Jinshui River, so it is called.
When Duke Wu of the Qin Dynasty conquered Xiaguang, he set up Shanggui, so Xia was added here.
Chongquan Pinyang was built by Qin Ligong, located in the north of Qu.
Su Yilian Shao Heyang Xia Yang died in Shaoliang, and was renamed by King Qin Huiwen.
Liangshan is in its northwest.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty used Fufeng County as the title of Duke Duwei, and in the Yue Dynasty, it was renamed Youfufeng.
Oversaw six counties and 23,000 households.
Chiyang was built by Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty.
There is Mount Eyi.
The place where the pressure is overwhelming and friends are squinting. The Prime Minister of Yu.
There are 303 ancestral halls below Wuzhen, Taihao and Huangdi.
Qianwu Mountain is in its west, which is called Qishan Chencang in ancient Chinese. Meiyangqishan is in its northwest. It was the fiefdom of King Tai of Zhou.
An Dingjun and Han Dynasties were set up.
It oversees seven counties and 5,500 households.
Linjing is facing the secret country of Nawu's capital Lu Quaigu.
Nishikawa
Hokujiguntai setting.
Oversaw two counties and 2,600 households.
Niyang Fuping
It was established in the second year of Taipan in Shiping County.
It oversees five counties and 18,000 households.
Huaili was named Feiqiu during the Qin Dynasty, but was renamed by Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty.
There is Huangshan Palace.
The second branch of Shiping's martial arts master is located in the east, which is called Zhongke in ancient Chinese.
The ancient country of Hu, a country that Xia Qi conquered.
Kuacheng
Xinping County congestion is set up.
Under the jurisdiction of two counties, there are 2,700 households.
The lacquer water is to the west.
Fenyi
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and changed Fufeng State into Qin State.
After Jianxing, Yongzhou fell into the hands of Liu Cong.
At the time of Liu Yao, the capital was moved to Chang'an and renamed Zhao. The two prefectures of Qin and Liang guarded Shanggui, Shuo Prefecture held Gaoping, the governor Youye guarded Beidi, and Bing Prefecture guarded Puban.
Mutual diligence conquers day and night, and then sets up obstacles.
After the mutual defeat, Xun Jian usurped the throne and occupied the center of the alliance. He also established the capital and cultivated fortresses, creating the merger of Taiwan.
At that time, Sili Xiaowei was set up in Yuzhou. The governor of Yuchu was to guard Zhudan, the governor of Taizhou was to guard Dan, the governor of Xingye was to guard Chengying, the governor of fishery was to guard Xuanwu, and the governor of Chaiye was to guard Zhabao.
During the reign of Dengjian, the branch division was assigned to Yongye, and the branch division was assigned to Xianyang County. Suqiu was guarded by the governor of Suiye.
After deceleration, Fendiye set up a sanitary industry, and the state government was located at Yiying. The governor of Youye guarded Shacheng, the governor of Huiye guarded Danzhi, the governor of Chaiye guarded Zuchang, the governor of Yingzhou guarded Taoli, the governor of Yanye guarded Cangyuan, and the governor of Yongzhou guarded Puban.
So Luozhou was moved to Fengyang, East Yuzhou was placed in Xuchang, Xiangyang was guarded by the governor of Jingzhou, and Pengcheng was guarded by the governor of Xuzhou.
Soon Yao Chang defeated the Fu family and became the Later Qin Dynasty.
After Yao Xing, the son of Yao Chang, attacked Luoyang, he used Bing and Jizhou Mu to guard Puban, Yuzhou Mu guarded Luoyang, Yanzhou governor guarded Cangyuan, and divided the division to command the five northern counties, and set up Yongzhou governor to guard Anding.
After Yao Hong was eliminated by Liu Yu, these areas were successively owned by Helian Bobo.
Helian Bobo claimed the throne in Tongwan, and this was Xia.
He established Youzhou Mu in the big city, and pacified Liu Yizhen in Chang'an. He sent his son Heliansuo to guard the area, which he named Nantai.
The governor of Shuozhou guarded the three cities, the governor of Qinzhou guarded Xingcheng, the governor of Yongzhou guarded Yinmi, the governor of Bingzhou guarded Puban, the governor of Liangzhou guarded An'ing, the governor of Beiqinzhou guarded Wugong, the governor of Yuzhou guarded Li Run, and the governor of Jingzhou guarded Shaanxi. The names of the prefectures and counties at that time are unknown.
However, after Emperor Yuan crossed the Yangtze River south, the states and states they established also had remote leaders, that is, official officials were appointed in name.
At first, Wei Gai was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou and guarded Zoucheng. Later, it was canceled and Shiping County was established. The county seat was temporarily in Wudang City.
Some people from the Qin State fled to the south of the Yangtze River and renamed Tangyi as Qin County. The overseas Chinese established Weishi County and belonged to Qin County.
During the reign of Emperor Kangxi, Yu Yi was appointed governor of Jingzhou and moved to Xiangyang.
After that, many exiled people from Qin and Yong went south to Fan and Mian. Emperor Xiaowu began to establish Yongzhou in Xiangyang, and still established the seven counties of Jingzhao, Shiping, Fufeng, Huiyi, Guangchuan, Yicheng, and Beihenan, all belonging to Xiangyang.
Xiangyang originally belonged to Jingzhou.
Liangzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it was the western border of Yiye. After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, this area was owned by Di.
Meiyang Ganquan Palace built by the Qin Dynasty was originally a place where the Xiongnu made gold figures to worship heaven.
After the Xiongnu lost Ganquan, they sent Xiutu, King Hunxie and others to occupy the territory of Liangzhou. The two kings later surrendered their lands to the Han, and the Han built Zhangye, Jiuquan, Dunhuang, and Daqingxun.
Later, Jin Zhengxuan was established and called Huiyou Five Commanderies.
Lian renamed Yongzhou in Zhou Dynasty to Liangzhou because it was located in the west and was cold all year round.
The terrain of Liangzhou stretches diagonally to the northwest, between the Nanshan Mountains, cutting off the Western Qiang in the south, and leading to the Western Regions in the west. At that time, it was called the broken right arm of the carp.
During the reign of Lu Tong, maggots rebelled repeatedly. The five counties in the west were far away from the state capital, so they designated another area as Yongzhou.
Finally, based on ancient classics, the world was designated as Jiuzhou, and the five counties in Hexi and Guanyou were combined into Yongzhou.
In the Wei Dynasty, Liangzhou was also divided, and the governor also served as Wuji Xiaowei to defend the Western Regions. The old system was the same as that in the Han Dynasty, and it did not change until the Jin Dynasty.
It governs eight counties, 46 counties, and 30,700 households.
Jincheng County Han setting.
He oversees five counties and 2,000 households.
Yuzhong Yun Street Jincheng White Earth Havoc
Xiping County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
He was in charge of four counties and 4,000 households.
The Western Capital is Linqiang, Changning and Anyi
Wuwei Junhan setting.
It oversees seven counties and 5,900 households.
Guzang Xuanwei Yi Cangsong Xianmei Li Xuanfanhe
Zhangye County Han setting.
It oversees three counties and 3,700 households.
Yongping Linzemo Zhaowu County, to avoid Emperor Wen's taboo to change.
Wulanhan is named after Wulan.
Xijun Han setting.
It oversees five counties and 1,900 households.
Rile Xian Dan Xian Ti Long Live Orchid Pond said Orchid Jue Po Pond.
Jiuquan County election setting.
Under the jurisdiction of nine counties, there are 4,400 properties.
Fu Lu Hui Shui An Mi Pong Ma Le Chuo Biao Shi Longshou Yumen Shatou Day Yulong Sunbathing
Dunhuang County setting. It oversees twelve counties and 6,300 households.
Changpu, Dunhuang, Longle, Yangguan, Xiaoguangzhi, Yihe, Yi'an, Shenquan, Yiwu, Xinxiang, Qianqi
Xihai County originally belonged to Zhangye. In the second year of Xingping reign of Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Ya, the prefect of Wuwei, requested to build it.
Under the jurisdiction of one county, there are 2,500 households.
Juyanze is located in the southeast, which is called quicksand in "Shangshu".
In the fifth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui separated five counties from Dunhuang County: Yihe, Yiwu, Yi'an, Shenquan, and Guangzhi, Jiuquan Bishatou County, and separate Kuaiji and Xinxiang counties. A total of eight counties were established as Jinchang County.
During the Yongning period, Zhang Gui was appointed governor of Liangzhou and guarded Wuwei. He requested that the people who migrated during the Qin and Yong Dynasties be concentrated in the northwest of Guzang and set up Wuxing County to take charge of Wuxing, Dacheng, Wuzhi, Xiangwu, Yanran, Xinzhang, Pingdi, Sijian and other counties.
Jinxing County was also established within the Xiping boundary to take charge of Jinxing, Wuhan, Yonggu, Linjin, Linzhang, Guangchang, Daxia, Suixing, Hantang, Zuonan and other counties.
At that time, the Central Plains fell and Emperor Yuan moved to Jiangshu. Zhang Gui controlled and occupied the Hexi area and used the Jin calendar to create Qianliang.
When arriving at Zhangku, the two counties of Lingju and Zhiyang in Jincheng County were divided, and they were combined with the three newly established counties of Yongdeng County to form Guangwu County.
Zhang Mao divided Wuxing, Jincheng, Xiping and Angu into Dingzhou.
Zhang Jun divided the eleven counties of Wuwei, Wuxing, Xiping, Zhangye, Jiuquan, Jiankang, Xihai, Xijun, Huanghe, Jinxing, and Guangwu into Liangzhou, Xingjin, Jincheng, Wushi, Nan'an, Yongjin, Daxia, Wucheng, and Hanzhong were Hezhou, and Dunhuang, Jinchang, Gaochang, and the three counties and battalions of the Western Regions Protector, Wuji Xiaowei, and Yumen Protector Army were Shazhou.
Zhang Jun is temporarily the governor of Liangzhou and leads the three states on his behalf.
Zhang Zuo also changed Dunhuang County to Shangzhou.
During the Yongxing period, Huanyang County was set up as a pastoral area, and Zhang Xuanliang was changed to Qilian County.
Zhang Tianxi also established Linsong County.
Tianxi surrendered to the Fu family, and its lands were successively occupied by Lu Guang.
After Lü Guang made Guzang the capital, he changed Dansuan to Shu Zhangye County because of Guo Mo's prophecy.
When Danlong surrendered to Xingxuan, the land was divided into three parts.
King Wu Ya became Yousu and established his country in Dunhuang. It is better for the bald Wu Gu to speed up and build the country in Luan Chi. Juqu Mengxun is a plastic plug, inviting the founding of the country.
The three parties respectively occupied five counties in Hexi.
Qinzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that this area was originally a Yongye area. At the time of the tomb, it was first divided into the west of Longshan Mountain to house rooms. The governor also served as the guardian of Qiang. There was a period in the middle when this establishment was temporarily abolished.
In the fifth year of Taiyimian, the five counties in the west of Yongyelu, the seven counties in Jinqiu and Zhiye's Tuochao were combined to build Seye, and the town was located in Jixu.
In the third year of Zhuchen's reign, Taiye was abolished and merged into Yongye.
In the seventh year, Formosa Plastics was built and built on top of the town.
It oversees six counties, 24 counties, and 32,100 households.
Longxi Juntai is set up.
Take charge of four counties and 3,000 households.
Wushu Mountain in Shouyang, Xiangwu is to the east.
Lintao Didao
Nan'an County selection setting.
It oversees three counties and 4,300 households.
Xingdao Xinzhong Pottery
Tianshui County was established in Gencha, Emperor Xiaoming changed it to Hanyang, and Jin Dynasty was renamed Tianshui County.
It oversees six counties and 8,500 households.
The seat of Congyuan Prefecture in Shanggui, Hebei Province.
Shichang Xinyang Xinhan Xianqin County. Chengji
The original name of Lueyang County was Guangwei, and the name was changed during the Taishi period.
It oversees four counties and 9,320 households.
Linwei Pingxiang Lueyang Qingshui
Set in the desert of Wudu County.
He oversees five counties and 3,000 households.
The old road of Xia Bianhe Pond and Juwudu
It was established during the Taishi period of Yinping County.
Take charge of two counties and 3,000 households.
Yin Ping Ping Wu
Emperor Hui divided Didao, Lintao, and Heguan in Longxi, and established six additional counties: Taoyang, Suiping, Wujie, Shixing, Fifth, and Zhenqiu. The nine counties were combined to form Didao County, which belonged to Qinzhou.
Zhang Jun assigned it to Liangzhou and established Didao County as Wushi County.
Jiangzuo divided a part of Luanzhou into Qinzhou, and established Liangzhou as its administrative seat, and established Dichi as Northern Qinzhou.
Liangzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it was the land of Huayang Heishui, where Shun established twelve pastoralists, and Liangzhou was one of them.
Liang refers to the strong beam of Western Vajra energy, so it is called Luan.
According to the Book of Rites of Zhou, the official Fang clan merged Liangzhou into Yongzhou.
The Han Dynasty did not establish state names and classified these places as Yizhou.
In the first year of Emperor Xian's reign, Linjiang County was assigned to Yongning County.
In the sixth year of Jian'an, Liu Zhang changed Yongning County to Bashu County, divided Ba County and Dianjiang to build Brazil County.
Liu Bei took control of Shu, and divided the four counties of Jiameng, Fucheng, Zitong, and Baishui in Guangmo County, renamed Jiameng Hanshou, and established Hande County to merge into Zitong County; he divided the three counties of Danqu, Xuanhan, and Mochang in Ba County to create Danqu County, which was soon abolished, and these counties jointly belonged to Brazil County.
In the third year of Taishi, Yizhou was separated, Liangzhou was established in the desert, Moshou was changed to Jinshou, and Guangmo County was separated to establish Xindu County.
Liangzhou governs eight counties, 44 counties, and 76,300 households.
Qin established Mozhong County. It oversees eight counties and 15,000 households.
Nanzheng Pucheng praises Mianyang Chenggu Xixiang Huanghuangxing Road
Zitong County was established in Shu.
It oversees eight counties and 10,200 households.
Hanging Tong, Fucheng, Wulian, Huang'an, Hande, Jinshou, Jiange, Baishui
It was set up in Guangmo County and Han Dynasty.
It oversees three counties and 5,100 households.
Guanghan Deyang Five Cities
Xindu County was established in the second year of Taishi.
Take charge of four counties, two lettuce and four thousand five hundred
Luoshifang Mianzhu Xindu
Dangu was established in Fuling County.
It oversees five counties and 4,200 households.
Fuling of Han Dynasty, Ping of Han Dynasty, Jia Wanning of Han Dynasty
Berkshire setting.
It oversees four counties and 3,300 households.
Jiangzhou Dianjiang Linjiangzhi
Brazil County Shu setting.
Under the jurisdiction of nine counties, there are 12,000 properties.
Central Khotan, the Western Chongguo, Cangxi, Qichun, the Southern Chongguo, Hanchang, Dangqu, Anhan, Pingzhou
Badong County falling setting.
It oversees three counties and 6,500 households.
YufuquNanpu
In September of the sixth year of Taikang, Xindu County was abolished and merged into Guanghan County.
Emperor Hui also divided Brazil County and established Danqu County, which took charge of the three counties of Danqu, Hanchang and Xuanhan. It also belonged to Liangzhou together with the four counties of Xincheng, Weixing and Shangyong.
Soon Liangzhou counties fell under the jurisdiction of Li Te, and during the Yongjia period they were divided into Yangmaosou. The Jin people who migrated to Liangzhou and Yizhou were divided into two Yinping counties in the north and south of the two states.
After arriving in Huan Wen and pinging Shu, Jinchang County was established with the Ba Shi refugees, which governed the ten counties of Changle, Anjin, Yanshou, Anle, Xuanhan, Ningdu, Xinxing, Jiyang, Dongguan, and Yong'an. It also established two counties, Yichang and Jinxing, which belonged to Brazil County. Suining County was established in the southeast of Deyang boundary, and Jiange County was established in Jinshou, which belongs to the chisel industry.
Later, Yu Genzui divided the northern part of Gulian and established Zhideng, which governed the four counties of Jinshou, Baishui, Shaohuan and Xing'an. Zitong County was moved to Zitong and Jiange County was abolished. South Hanzhong County was also established, and Brazil and Zitong were separated and established as Jinshan County.
When Jinshan County arrived, two more counties, Xinba and Wenyang, were established, and four counties were established: Beixinba, Huayang, Nanyinping, and Beiyinping. Later, ten counties were established, including Baqu, Huai'an, Songxi, Baishui, Shangluo, Beishangluo, Nandanqu, Huaihan, Xinxing, and Ankang.
Yizhou.
The beneficial industry in the twelve animal husbandry mentioned in "Yu Gong" and Aijian are all areas of chiseling industry, and if the chiseling industry is combined into the blocking industry, the beneficial industry becomes the blocking industry. "Spring and Autumn Yuan Ming Bao" says: Participating in the flow of stars is the stem industry, and benefit means misfortune.
This means that the terrain of the stem industry is dangerous, and it also means that the territory is large, so it is named like this.
At the beginning, the King of Taisai defeated Shu, established Shu County, and appointed Zhang Ruo as the county governor.
Until Qin Shihuang established thirty-six counties, the name of Shu County did not change.
In the early Han Dynasty, there were Hanzhong, Ba and Shu counties.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Shu was divided into four counties and Guanghan was established.
Emperor Wu opened up the Southwest Yi region and established four counties: Jianwei, Yangke, Yuemao, and Yizhou, making a total of eight counties. He then established Yizhou to govern the counties. Yizhou began around this time.
When he arrived in Houmo, Emperor Ming established Yongchang County for the newly annexed area. Emperor An also established the three counties of Shu, Guanghan and Qianwei according to various roads. Emperor Ling established the three counties of Wenjiang, Canling and Guangrou as Wenshan County.
In the first year of Emperor Xingping's reign, Liu Zhang divided Ba County into Yongning County.
In the sixth year of Jian'an, Yongning was renamed Basu, Bajun was called Basijun, and Fuling County was established.
In the 21st year, Liu Bei divided Ba County into Guling County.
In the first year of Zhangwu in Shu, it was renamed Guling as Badong County, Basi County as Ba County, Guangmo was divided into Zitong County, Jianwei was divided into Jiangyang County, Shu County's vassal state was called Hanjia County, and Jianwei vassal state was called Zhuti County.
In the second year of Jianxing reign of Liu Chan, Yizhou County was changed to Jianning County, Guangmo's vassal state was changed to Yinping County, part of Jianning and Yongchang were divided into Yunnan County, part of Jianning and Yangke were divided into Xinggu County, and Guanghan was divided into Shuguanghan County.
During the reign of Wei Jingyuan, the Shu Kingdom was pacified and Shu Guanghan County was abolished.
In the second year of Taishi, Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty, Yizhou was divided and Liangzhou was established, and Hanzhong was included in Liangzhou.
In the seventh year, Yizhou was divided and Ningzhou was established.
Yizhou governs eight counties, 44 counties, and 149,300 households.
Up to multiple pot settings.
Oversaw six counties and 50,000 households.
Shujun was set up by the Han Dynasty. It oversees five counties and 10,000 households.
Wuyang Nan'an burned the cattle and cattle in the Taoist capital and built them for the Han Dynasty.
There are five counties and ten thousand households.
Wuyang Nan'an Bo Daozi Zhongniu
Wenshan County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees eight counties and 16,000 households.
Wenshan was promoted to Du'an, Guangyang, Xingle, Pingkang, Canling and Guangrou.
Hanjia County was set up in Shu.
It oversees four counties and 13,000 households.
Han Jia moved to Yangyan Road and Yanniu
Jiangyang County was established in Shu.
Take charge of three counties. Three thousand one hundred households.
Jiangyang Fu Hanan
Zhuti County was established in Shu.
It oversees five counties and 2,600 households.
Zhu Ti Nan Guang Hanyang Nan Qin Tang Lang
Yuelan County and Han Dynasty were set up.
It oversees five counties and 53,400 households.
Huiwuqiongdu Beishui Dingzhetai Deng
It is set up in the desert of Jianke County.
It oversees eight counties and 1,200 households.
Wanshou Qilan talks about Yelang, no loach, and the canal.
After Emperor Hui, Li Te usurped the throne and proclaimed himself emperor in Shu. The country was named Han, and all counties in Yizhou fell under Li Te's rule.
Li Xiong further divided Hanjia and Shu counties into two counties, and established Shenli and Moyuan counties.
Although Yizhou counties fell into the hands of the Li family at this time, Jiangzuo was also led by Jin Yao.
Huan Wen destroyed Shu and returned it to Jin. He abolished Moyuan and Shenli and established the four counties of Nanyinping, Jinyuan, Ningshu and Shining.
In the second year of Xian'an, Yizhou fell into the hands of the Fu family again.
In the eighth year of Taiyuan, it returned to the Jin Dynasty.
In the second year of Long'an, three counties of Jinxi, Suining and Jinning were established.
Ningzhou.
During the Han and Wei dynasties, it was a profitable area.
In the seventh year of Taishi, Emperor Wu divided the territory into Jianning, Xinggu, Yunnan, and Yongchang in Jiaozhou. A total of four counties were combined into Kongmiao, which governed 45 counties and 83,000 households.
Yunnan County Fish Set.
It governs nine counties and 9,200 households.
Yunping, Yunnan, Zhidong, Qingxiaogu recovers from evil, Longyu then stays in Yongning for a long time
Xinggu County Tan was set up.
It oversees 11 counties and 6,200 households.
Lu Gao Gou Ding Wan Wen Luo Wudi Wu Dian Ben Gu Teng Xiu Tan Feng Han Xingjin Chengdu Zhuan
Jianning County fish setting.
He has jurisdiction over seventeen counties and nine thousand households.
Wei Kunze Cunyi New Agreement
Yu Yuanxiu Yun Lingqiu Dianchi
Yongchang County Lotus setting.
It oversees eight counties and 38,000 households.
Buwei Yongshou Bisu Yongxiang Nanfuxu Tang Ailao Bonan
In the third year of Taikang, Emperor Wu abolished Ningzhou and merged it with Yiye, and established Nanyi Xiaowei to guard it.
In the second year of Tai'an, Emperor Hui resettled Ningzhou and established the seven counties west of Jianning as Yizhou County.
In the second year of Yongjia, Yizhou County was renamed Jinning County, and Yangke County was divided into Pingyi and Yelang counties. But at that time, the land was once again owned by Li Te.
After that, Li Shou divided the six counties of Xinggu, Yongchang, Yunnan, Zhuti, Yuemao, and Heyang in Ningzhou into Hanzhou.
In the fourth year of Xiankang's reign, the four counties of Yangke, Yelang, Zhuti and Yuejun were divided to set up Anzhi.
In the eighth year, Saicong was abolished and merged into Chocong, Longya was assigned to Yizhou, and Yongchang County was abolished.
