Zhu Yi, whose courtesy name was Yanhe, was from Qiantang, Wu County.
His father, Zhu Xun, was well-known for his loyalty and righteousness. He served as an official in the Qi Dynasty until the king of Jiangxia joined the army and was ordered by Wu Ping.
When Zhu Yi was old, his grandfather stroked Zhu Yi's head happily and said to his grandfather Zhaozhi: "This son is not an ordinary person. He will become your family."
He is more than ten years old. He likes to gamble in groups and is extremely hated by the township party.
When he grew up, he forced himself to change his bad habits and studied as a teacher. He studied the Five Classics, especially "Li" and "Yi", dabbled in literature and history, and was proficient in miscellaneous arts. He was good at gambling, go, calligraphy, and arithmetic.
When he was twenty years old, he arrived in the capital. The Minister ordered Shen to interview him, so he joked with him: "You are young, why are you not honest?"
Zhu Yi hesitated and did not understand the meaning of these words.
Shen Yue then said: "The only skills in the world are literature, history, classics, Yi, chess, calligraphy and so on. If you take them all at once, you can call them dishonest."
In this year, a letter was written stating that it was appropriate for Jiankang to set up a prison department, and Yu Tingwei was of the same rank. The edict was submitted to Yu Shangshu for detailed discussion, and he agreed with his opinion.
Under the old system, one could only become an official at the age of twenty-five.
At this time, Zhu Yi was twenty-one years old, and the imperial court made an exception and ordered him to be promoted to the post of Yangzhou Councilor to engage in history.
Not long ago, Shaoling was looking for people with special talents. Doctor Mingshan of the Five Classics recommended Zhu Yi and said: I met Zhu Yi, a native of Qiantang. He was still young, but he had perfect moral character, was shrewd and sophisticated in his work, had no thoughts of distraction when he was alone, and when no one saw him, he still looked respectful as if he were facing guests. His mind was broad and deep, and his demeanor was extraordinary.
For example, a famous mountain is so high that it is difficult to climb to the top; a blue sea is so deep that it is difficult to peer into its depths.
Another example is that Guizhang has just been carved, and the brocade group he is wearing begins to weave. When touched, it will make a loud sound, and the decoration will appear in the world.
Observe his honest character, which is not only rare among ten families. If he is allowed to carry a heavy load and gallop on a long distance, he will definitely have the function of a thousand-mile horse.
Emperor Gaozu summoned him and asked him to explain the principles of "The Book of Filial Piety" and "The Book of Changes". He was very happy after hearing this and said to the people around him: "Zhu Yi is indeed special."
Later I met Ming Shanbin and said to him: The person you recommended is indeed a very qualified person.
So he called Zhu Yi to be on duty in the Western Province, and soon he became a doctor of Imperial College.
This year, Emperor Gaozu personally explained the "Book of Filial Piety" and asked Zhu Yi to read it.
He was moved to the post of Minister Yi Cao Lang, and concurrently served as Zhongshu Tongshi Shiren. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to Hongluqing, the prince's right guard, and soon he was appointed as a member of the imperial family.
In the fifth year of the Ordinary Period, a large-scale Northern Expedition was launched. Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in the Northern Wei Dynasty, sent an envoy to ask for the surrender of the land and the people. Shao ordered a minister to discuss the truth of the matter.
Zhu Yi said: Since the king's army marched north and continued to win, the local forces in Xuzhou have weakened, and they all want to blame Fa Monk. Fa Monk is afraid of the impending disaster, so his surrender will not be false.
Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Yi to report to the Dharma monk and ordered all the troops to respond, all under Zhu Yi's command.
After arriving, the monk followed the imperial decree, just as Zhu Yi predicted.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he moved to serve as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Since Zhou She's death, Zhu Yi took his place in charge of the court's affairs, the replacement of military commanders, court rituals and state codes, and the drafting of Shao's imperial edicts.
Whenever people from all over the world come in to submit their reports, the official records and detailed consultations are all piled up in front of him. Zhu Yi writes with his pen and makes decisions. He is talented and smart. He keeps writing in his hand, and everything is done in an instant.
In the fourth year of Datong, he was promoted to General Youwei.
In the sixth year, Zhu Yishou told the "Lao Zi Yi" written by Chan Dan in Jinshu Hall, and the imperial order allowed it.
When he sat down to speak, there were more than a thousand people from the imperial court and Taoists and laymen listening, which became a grand event at that time.
At that time, the Shilin Museum was opened in the west of the city to introduce scholars. Zhu Yiyu and Zuo Cheng He Chen took turns lecturing on the "Book of Rites" written by Gao Zu, and the crown prince summoned Zhu Yi to lect on "Yi" in Xuanpu.
In the eighth year, he was appointed as a servant.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was moved to the position of general of Zuowei and led the infantry.
In the second year, he was moved to the position of leader, but his family remained as usual.
Emperor Gaozu dreamed that he had pacified the Central Plains, and he praised and celebrated it. The next morning, he told Zhu Yi the dream, and Zhu Yi replied: This is a sign of the unification of the four directions in the universe.
When Hou Jing returned and surrendered, he summoned the ministers to discuss it. Shangshu Pu She Xie Li and others thought it was unacceptable to accept it. Emperor Gaozu wanted to take Zhu Yi over, but the matter was pending. Zeng came to Wu Shanyu at dawn and said to himself: Our country is so peaceful that I will accept the land now. If doing so will cause chaos to the country, it will be too late to regret it.
Zhu Yi sensed Gaozu's hidden thoughts and responded: The wise emperor rules the world and obeys the will of heaven. The people of the subjugated north do not admire you because they have no chance to express their wishes.
Now Hou Jing divides most of the land of Wei State, sincerely expresses his submission, and comes from afar to join the Holy Dynasty. Isn't it true that God enlightens his heart and everyone helps him realize his plan?
After deducing Hou Jing's original intention and examining this matter, it is highly commendable.
If we don't accept him today, I'm afraid it will make those who come after us despair.
This is obvious, may your Majesty have no doubts.
Emperor Gaozu wanted to adopt Zhu Yi's advice, but he thought of his previous dream, so he accepted Hou Jing's surrender.
The Marquis of Zhenyang was defeated and captured, and an envoy was sent back from Wei to tell him that Gao Cheng, the prime minister of Wei, wanted to live in harmony with the Liang Dynasty again.
In June of that year, Jiankang Ling Xie Ting and Tongzhi Lang Xu Ling were sent as envoys to Tonghao in the north.
At that time, Hou Jing was guarding Shouchun. He repeatedly warned Gaozu to sever peace with Wei and asked for the envoy to be recovered.
He also wrote to Zhu Yi with sincere words, but Zhu Yi just relayed the imperial edict in reply.
In August, Hou Jing raised his troops to rebel in the name of condemning Zhu Yi.
Zhu Yi recruited 3,000 troops. Hou Jing marched to Beijing and used these people to guard Da Sima Gate.
At the beginning, Hou Jing conspired to rebel, and the governor of Hezhou, Xiao Fan, the king of Poyang, and the governor of Sizhou, Yang Yaren, reported many times. Zhu Yi thought that Hou Jing would not do that if he was sent to the Liang Dynasty alone, so he said to the envoy: The king of Poyang does not allow the country to have a guest!
He also suppressed the report and did not report it, so the court did not take precautions against this matter.
When Hou Jing came to invade, the civil and military officials in the city blamed him.
The crown prince also wrote "Ode to the Siege of the City", the last chapter of which says: Wearing a high crown and thick-soled shoes, he sat on a fat horse, climbed to the palace where the emperor lived, opened the golden gate of the royal family, stated strategies to assist the king, and announced the power of political punishments. Many fortifications were built in the surrounding suburbs, and all nations were unrest.
May I ask the jackal who he is?
May I ask the gizzard who he is for?
This refers to Zhu Yi.
Zhu Yi was so angry that he fell ill and died at the age of sixty-seven.
Shaoling said: Zhu Yi, the leader of the old army, has a broad mind and outstanding talents. He has been discussing and planning strategies in the court for many years. I was supposed to be assisting the imperial government in its administration, and I had entrusted him with important responsibilities for a long time. He died suddenly, and my heart was filled with sadness.
You can posthumously give him a coffin as a posthumous gift from his attendant and minister, Youpu She.
The money needed for the funeral can be provided at will.
In the past, when ministers died, they did not give posthumous gifts to the chancellor. When Zhu Yi passed away, Emperor Gaozu felt sorry for him. When discussing the matter of posthumous gifts, some people who were friendly to Zhu Yi began to report: Although Zhu Yi held many officials, what he hoped for in his life was to be a law enforcement official.
According to his long-cherished ambition, Emperor Gaozu made this posthumous gift.
Zhu Yi had been in power for more than thirty years. He was good at peering into the innermost intentions of his lord, and he was able to flatter and obey the emperor's orders, so he was particularly favored.
Officials in the officialdom often serve from outside to the middle. All these four positions can wear mink tails on their hats, and lead from the right guard to the leader. These four positions all have retinues and honor guards when they travel. There has never been such a thing in modern times.
Zhu Yi and his disciples built houses from Chaogou all the way to Qingxi. The house was surrounded by terraces and ponds, where they could play with guests every spare time.
Gifts from all parties and wealth accumulated.
He has a stingy temperament and has never given anything to others.
The delicacies in the kitchen were delicious and rotten, and more than ten carts of them were often thrown away every month, even though his sons and relatives did not give them away.
He wrote more than 100 expositions, notes on rituals, and essays on "Li" and "Yi", many of which were lost during the war.
The eldest son was named Su, and he was a doctor of state; the second son was named Run, and he was appointed as Situ Tuo.
Both died in the war.
He Chen, named Guobao, was from Shanyin in Kuaiji.
His uncle He Chang was appointed as an infantry captain and was a great Confucianist of the time.
When He Chen was young, He Chang taught him Confucian classics, and he could understand the principles as soon as he listened.
He Yi felt very strange and often said: "This son should be distinguished by his understanding of the meaning of the scriptures."
After He Chang's death, He Chen's family was poor and he often traveled to and from Zhuji, selling millet to support himself.
In his spare time, he studied economics and was especially proficient in the "Three Rites".
At first, He Jiang gathered his disciples in the countryside to teach economics, but now they started to learn economics from He Chen.
In ordinary years, the governor of Linchuan called him to serve as a wine minister and engage in history.
He Ge began to show his talents in the capital. When Emperor Gaozu learned that he had knowledge, he summoned him in the Wende Hall and talked happily with him. He told Xu Mian, a servant of Xu Mian: "He Ge indeed has a scholarship that has been handed down from generation to generation."
So he was appointed as the minister of the kingdom, and soon he was concurrently appointed as the doctor of Taixue. Then he was moved to the position of Zhongwei to participate in military affairs, Shangshu general, Shiren, and ceremonial affairs.
After many years of promotion, he was promoted to Tongzhi Zhengyuanlang, but he remained the same.
He was also appointed to record the affairs of the king of Poyang in the west, and concurrently served as minister Zuo Cheng. Upon completion of his term, he was actually granted the title.
He Chen was ordered to compile the "New Mi Law", which is still in use today.
At that time, the crown prince suggested that at the end of the great career, the crown prince could marry the daughter.
He Chen retorted:
The decree holds that at the end of the great career, one can crown a son and marry a daughter, but one is not allowed to crown oneself and hold a wedding ceremony on one's own.
Looking at the literal meaning of "Book of Rites", I am still very confused about this explanation.
Looking at the etiquette of marrying a crown, it is originally presided over by the father. Only those without fathers can do the ceremony on their own, so it is called great merit and small merit, and it is a ritual system to marry a crown to a son;
At the end of Xiaogong, you can marry on your own, and it is also said that "a crown prince marries a wife", and its meaning becomes clearer.
Therefore, the two names for mourning are listed first, both of which state that the crown is married to the son, and they are placed in the next sentence, which clearly shows the meaning of marrying.
Since it is obvious that small meritorious deeds lead to self-marriage, it means that great meritorious deeds can lead to self-importance. This is to express the will in simple language.
If it is said that because the father is in mourning for a great service, the son is in mourning for a minor service, and the mourning for a minor service is light, he can marry his son with a crown, but the mourning for a major service is heavy, so he is not allowed to marry himself.
If it is said that the article of small merit has already stated that one can marry, the article of great merit does not say that one can be crowned. Therefore, knowing that one is in mourning for great merit, one is not allowed to give gifts on his own, but he can be crowned and married for his son.
I believe that rituals should not be performed when in mourning. The rituals of good and bad fortune should not interfere with each other.
Although the son is at the end of his life and can get married, his father still has to perform the wedding for them if necessary.
If the father can crown his son and marry his son at the end of his great work, it means that there is no obstacle between good and bad rites; there is no obstacle between good and bad rites, how can he not be allowed to marry by himself?
If one's crown and one's own marriage interferes with mourning, then is it possible for one's crown to marry one's own son alone?
He Chen was puzzled by the fact that he was allowed to be crowned his son but not allowed to crown himself.
He also decreed that if you have accomplished a small feat of sacrifice, you are not allowed to marry a wife, and if you have a great merit of surrendering, you are not allowed to marry a wife for your son.
I have studied this purpose and found out that if you have done a great job of surrender, you cannot marry someone else, and if you have done a small job in surrender, you cannot marry someone else. This means that anyone who has done a great job in surrender cannot be married.
In this case, the "Book of Rites" should say that if you surrender, you cannot marry, how can it only talk about mourning?
Today we don’t talk about surrender, but only mourning, which actually has its meaning.
When a man marries and adopts someone else as a heir, or he goes through mourning and then surrenders, and when he meets a person who is passed on to someone else, it is considered a great merit to surrender to his biological sister; if a doctor is in mourning for his father who is a scholar, and because he surrenders with respect, it becomes a small merit.
There is no difference in the meaning of "倭" for crown marriage.
So it is like this, because when you get married, you have to bear the responsibility of yourself, and when you meet someone else, you have to inherit the heavy responsibility, and you want to be less generous with one and more generous with the other. Although this is a surrender, the other is prosperous.
In the past, I served as a mourner for my relatives. Although I surrendered again, I still followed the etiquette of Xiaogong and could be crowned or married.
If the great merit is reduced to a minor merit, it will only be downgraded by one level. There are regulations for downgrading, but there is no difference if one accepts the lowest grade and marries the crown.
Only wearing mourning clothes expresses his intention not to marry. Because he died young, he was deeply in mourning. He was not favored by others, and the public opinion was different from the other sect. He thought he was too young to be mourned lightly, which immediately became a murderous strategy. Therefore, he specifically expressed his intention not to marry, to show his true kindness.
Therefore, there is no difference in surrendering and marrying; only in mourning can one express his intention not to marry.
The meaning is this, and it cannot be said that the surrender of great merit cannot be crowned and married.
Moreover, the "Book of Rites" says "Xia Shang is a small meritorious deed", which means that the lower Shang can not be applied to both the Zhongyu and Shangshang, and the small merits cannot be used in both great merits.
If it is true that the surrender of small and large merits is not worthy of marriage, and the sacrifice of the upper and middle grades is not worthy of marriage, the "Book of Rites" cannot only say that "the lower sacrifices of small merits are not worthy of marriage".
I'm afraid it's not the literal meaning.
This is what He Chen is confused about again.
Then he listened to He Chen's argument.
He was moved to serve as an official and a regular attendant.
In the old days, the minister's seat was in the south and he did not wear mink clothes; the wearing of mink clothes started from He Chen.
Soon after, he was moved to the post of Censor Zhongcheng and participated in ceremonial affairs as before.
Since He Chen's family had a large fortune, he bought the princess's house as a residence. He was impeached by a minister and was dismissed from office because of this.
Soon after, he was appointed Zuocheng, the minister, and was transferred to serve as the minister of Huangmen and the doctor of Guozi. He was not appointed as the official minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, and was appointed as the minister Zuocheng, and participated in ceremonial affairs.
He Chen served successively, and most of the rituals for sacrifices in suburban temples were formulated by him.
Whenever I see Gaozu, I often talk with him for a long time, so people in the palace say: "There is no He Ya in the upper palace."
He Sui's appearance and demeanor were very elegant, so people called him that way.
He was moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi, and the etiquette remained as usual.
At that time, the officials appointed by Emperor Gaozu were all guilty of treachery, which seriously harmed the current affairs. Therefore, He Bao issued a sealed report stating:
The minister received the grace of being promoted, but he could not serve in the post; the great ancestor had the important task of giving loyal advice, but he could not recommend a word.
It is said that a loving father does not like a son who does nothing, and a wise king does not tolerate incompetent ministers. Therefore, I forget to sleep and eat after receiving my salary, and sigh in the middle of the night.
Then he talked about current affairs and listed them later.
It can't be called a strategy, but rather a matter of loyalty.
Keep it to yourself and don't tell your wife or children.
There is no embellishment to the words, and the drafts are burned after they are written.
Maybe you can listen to it, please try to review it.
If you don't agree, please forgive me for being stupid.
One of the things is: Today, the Northern Wei Dynasty has kowtowed and professed its vassalage, and its weapons and uniforms have been taken off. It is the time for the people to reproduce and accumulate wealth and educate them. However, the number of household registrations in the world is decreasing. This is indeed an urgent matter today.
Although it was in decline and scattered everywhere, and it was even more serious outside the customs, the counties could not bear the numerous pressures from the state, and the counties could not bear the raids of the counties. They disturbed one after another, and did not implement political skills, but only went to collect the goods as their business.
The people could not accept the orders, so they went into exile, or attached themselves to the common surnames, or gathered at the borders. They were forced to flee as a last resort, and they were not willing to do so.
The state collects very light taxes from outside the customs, and even the normal rental classes back then were often in arrears and accumulated a backlog, and the people lost their homes. Isn't it Mu Shou's fault?
The empty household registration in Shujing is due to the numerous tasks.
The dogs do not bark at night, so the people can live in peace.
In today's big states and counties, big ships are ordered to come, not only from Shifu; but also from poor and secluded villages. Even the most remote small towns must be reached.
Every time a messenger comes, there will be harassment, not to mention the continuous harassment, which is deeply harmful to the people.
Officials with low talents and tiredness surrendered themselves to the envoys' raids; ferocious and cunning officials relied on the envoys to become even more corrupt.
Even if there are honest officials, county officials will still be constrained.
Therefore, the governor of the city had a great seal, but the categories were not assessed. The people abandoned their businesses and many people were displaced. Although they were allowed to resume their businesses every year in the lower summer and were given many tax exemptions, the people were not allowed to return to the place where they lived.
The second thing is: the Holy Lord is concerned about the sufferings of the people, and the people's urgent mood for water and fire is heard far and near. As for those flying and wriggling insects, if they can relieve the suffering, let alone the people.
However, the officials of the prefectures and counties have no emotion to worry about the suffering of the people. Therefore, the people of the world can only look forward to one person. As it is said, they love him like their parents, look up to him like the sun and moon, respect him like ghosts and gods, and fear him like thunder.
If medicine can be administered according to the disease, how can the disease not be cured?
Today, all the ministers are greedy and corrupt, and there are very few who are honest and honest. It is indeed because of extravagant customs that they are like this.
The disadvantages of extravagance are manifested in many things. Let me briefly mention two of them and point out the most serious ones.
When people eat at a monk's place, they can only get good food.
Today is a feast that competes to show off its luxury. The accumulated fruits are like mountains, the delicacies on display are like embroidery, and the money used to build a terrace is less than the cost of a banquet. However, the choice between the host and the guest is just for the sake of fullness, so before they come down from the hall, the food has been thrown away with the rotten food.
Also, singers and dancers have a certain rank. At the age of sixteen, they should be waiting to get married.
People who keep prostitutes today have no rank. Although they are lowly and humble people, they all accept beautiful girls, Ji Jiang, do their best to embezzle, and compete for Luo Qi to decorate them.
Therefore, the herdsmen who served as officials competed to exploit the people, and even though they collected huge amounts of money, after they resigned from office and returned home, they could not support them for a few years, and all the money was spent.
It is because of the expense of banquets and fine wines that many people went bankrupt; the equipment needed for singing and dancing must be purchased with thousands of gold.
The things consumed are as much as hills and mountains, but just for a moment of pleasure.
He even resents that he has taken too little in the past but now spends too much. If he can become an official again, he will take more money. How ridiculous this is!
There will be thousands of other lewd and extravagant things written down, and they will become more and more common every day. If you want to make people keep their integrity in a corner, and make officials respect innocence, how can you get it!
Today, it is appropriate to impose strict restrictions, teach them to be frugal, demote those who are ornamental, engage in flashy things, and make them known to everyone, change their extravagant life of feasting, singing and dancing, and change their likes and dislikes.
Losing moral integrity is something that the people suffer from themselves. They are ashamed of not being able to join the group, so they do it reluctantly. If they try their best and fail to do so, they will suffer disadvantages.
Today, if you rectify the atmosphere and correct the disorder, it will be easy to turn back the palm.
When discussing perfect governance, honesty and simplicity must be the first priority. To correct the shortcomings of ornamental and licentiousness, there is no better way than to promote frugality.
The three things are: His Majesty takes it as his own responsibility to shoulder the responsibility of the people, and his wish to spread benefits to the world. He is not afraid of the hard work that wears out the calluses on his hands and feet, and does not refuse the hard work that makes the body weak. He is not only forgetful of hunger when the sun sets, and sleeps late at night.
As for Baisi, there is no one who does not report to the superiors. The suspicion of blaming the subordinates is stopped, and the subordinates are no longer guilty of persecuting the superiors. The way of governing the country is better than that of a hundred kings, and it has been recorded that it has caused troubles for more than a thousand years.
However, people with short talents and children from wealthy families, since they can perform in front of His Majesty, want to seek advancement through unfair means, regardless of the overall situation of the country.
I don’t know that the most important thing about being an official or holding any position is to control disorder, correct inappropriate things, and have a clear and forgiving heart, so that things can be done fairly.
They only find faults, make precise analyses, use shallow intelligence, make extraordinary demands, are capable of being severe and harsh, and devote themselves to correcting the faults of others and expelling them. Although their deportation behavior may seem to be fair, in fact it makes them more powerful.
There are more people committing crimes, and clever avoidance is even more serious. This is indeed the reason why officials are neglected and abolished, and evil and evil are promoted.
Now I sincerely hope to realize the benefits of requiring them to act fairly and get rid of their slanderous wishes, so that there will be stability below and peace above, and there will be no misfortune.
The fourth thing is: since the expedition to the north, the national treasury has been empty.
There is no war today, but there is still no time to spare. There is indeed a reason.
When the country is tired, it should reduce war and stop waste. If there are fewer things, it can support the people. If it stops waste, it can accumulate wealth. It only takes five years. If there is no war, the country will be rich and the people will be rich.
If accumulated over time, it will be Fan Li's method to reduce the Wu State, and Guan Zhong's method to make Qi State dominate.
Now we should reduce the number of officials and inspect their respective positions.
For all the things that should be done in the capital's administrative offices, government offices, official residences, and shops, five out of ten should be omitted, or one out of three should be omitted; as well as the national appearance and military equipment, there should be more in the past, but less today.
Although there should be more in the future, that is, things may not be necessary, so all is reduced.
If there are garrisons, post offices, official offices, and administrative offices in the four directions that are old, useless, or hinder the people, and should be eliminated, they should be eliminated; if there are any that should be reduced, they should be reduced.
Wherever there is construction, there is a waste of money, whether it is urgently needed or to serve the people; and when there is conquest, recruitment, expropriation or expropriation, even if it is related to the national economy and weighing matters, it is necessary to pay for it and rest the people.
If you don't pay taxes, you can't gather wealth; if you don't rest people, you can't gather people's strength.
Therefore, saving money is to use it for big things; recuperating the people is to use them for big labor.
If you think that small things will not cost much money, then the expenses will continue all year round; if you think that small labor will not hinder the people, then the labor will continue all year round.
It is impossible to harass the people in order to gain a prosperous life.
If their money is consumed to increase wealth and prosperity, treachery and theft will be more likely to grow. As a result, ills will continue and the people will not be able to use them. It is difficult to say that the country is rich and the people are strong and have lofty goals.
In the more than 20 years since the Revolution, criminal law and labor have gradually emerged, while the people's power has declined and dispersed.
Now that the Wei family is getting married, there is no alarm on the battlefield. It is better to take advantage of this time to take good care of the people, so that they can live together, reduce national expenses, and have reserves in the treasury. If there is a worry abroad, Guanhe can be swept away. But the country is exhausted and the people are tired, how can we implement far-reaching strategies?
The plan was only consummated after the incident happened, and it was too late to find out.
When the book was read, Emperor Gaozu was furious and called the master to come forward. He dictated an edict and asked He Chen:
Honest words are heard, and extra praise is what you expect.
But I have been in the world for more than 40 years. The Public Transport Department has received outspoken memorials. I have seen and heard them. The things they stated are no different from your statements. I always want to accept them and never give up their wishes. Every time I suffer from complicated things, I become more confused and confused.
A minister with a mink tail seal on his crown and a ribbon on his head means he is knowledgeable and knowledgeable. He should not be like a lowly person who only seeks fame and shows off on the road.
He said that he could do things to the higher authorities and clearly stated the political gains and losses, but it was a pity that the court could not adopt them.
Or recite "Li Sao" There is no one in the vast distance, so you can't drive a horse and carriage thousands of miles away.
Or recite "Laozi": If few people know me, then I will be valuable.
There is no one who can't speak out such criticisms and remonstrances. At the banquet on the first day of the first lunar month, there were all such people.
You can classify things, inspire my heart, and enlighten my mind.
Qing said: Now that the Eastern Wei Dynasty in the north is kowtowing and proclaiming its vassalage, it is the time for the people to reproduce and accumulate wealth and educate them. However, the people have lost their peaceful homes. This is the fault of Mu Shou.
I do not have the wisdom to understand people, and there are many shortcomings everywhere. I cannot listen to what is said in the four directions, and I cannot see everything in the four directions. I can examine and blame myself from the heart. There is no way to escape my sins.
Yao was the holy lord, but there were still four evil people in the court; not to mention me, how could there be no evil people in the court?
But in the great swamp, there are dragons and snakes, and even if they are not all good, they are not all evil.
You can clearly point out: a certain governor is cruel, a certain eunuch is corrupt, a certain official is cruel; a minister, Lantai, a chief secretary, a minister, someone is cunning, someone accepts and gives, and he can be dismissed or promoted by clearly stating what he is doing.
If Shun had only listened to the letter from the bus, he would not have known about the four evils in the end, and Yao would have always been a fatuous monarch.
Qing also said that the household registration in Shujing was empty because of the large number of people sent on envoys, but it is unknown who these envoys were.
Qing said that the officials with low talents and tiredness surrendered themselves to the envoys' raids; the ferocious and cunning officials became even more corrupt and cruel by relying on the envoys. What are their names?
Who are the honest officials and the constrained officials?
It is a strange thing that the imperial court misses the virtuous, just as a hungry man seeks food, a thirsty man seeks water, and honest officials are hampered.
It should be reported one by one quickly and should be promoted more effectively.
Most of the envoys sent were due to civil lawsuits or for military supplies. These things were as fast as the wind, and they were all sent out of necessity.
If we don't send envoys, how can we deal with the injustice of the world?
How to handle things successfully?
Evil people are growing day by day, and good people are being buried day by day. If you want to find a peaceful place to sleep, how can you find it?
It is a good thing to manage things without sending envoys.
Able to walk without feet, able to fly without wings, able to reach where he wants to go; able to subdue others without exerting force, isn't it very lucky?
Since you say this, you should have profound insights and state the secret skills, and you should not be too talented to make the country confused.
Qing also said: The chief minister is greedy and cruel, all because of excessive and extravagant food.
The officials' corruption and wastefulness are as shown in the previous answer.
Although Mosai Tong was stingy with the money used to build the terrace, the money made by Deng Tong was all over the world. I have no shame in governing the country in this way.
If you think that the diet of the common people is poor, this is not the case.
In the early years, I thought about it a lot.
If they are diligent in running their property, then there will be no one who is not rich; if they are idle and not eager to make money, then their family will be poor.
If you work hard to buy property, use it to get food on the plate, run it yourself, and eat it yourself, what harm will this do to the world?
Scoundrels, who are not diligent in building property, make themselves poor, and do nothing, what good will this do to the world?
Moreover, logically speaking, they are both called rich, but being rich is different: if you are rich while being stingy, you will never be able to build anything; if you are rich while being extravagant, what harm will it do to things?
If the court postpones the punishment, the matter cannot be cut off; if it imposes a ban, how can we know what happened in the secret room of Quwu?
If we go to every house to search, we are doing this very meticulously. Is it possible to prevent the officials from calling the door?
This intensifies mutual threats and demands for property, which is enough to encourage the emergence of disasters and is not conducive to governance.
If this refers to the imperial court, I have no idea about it.
Animals used for sacrifices in the past. It has been a long time since butchering was done, and only vegetables were served when gathering in the court, which shows a rough understanding of the limits of luxury and frugality.
If the cost is further reduced, there will be the irony in "Cricket".
If you think that doing meritorious deeds is a waste, they are all produced in the garden.
When doing meritorious deeds, there is no need to spend too much money. One melon can be transformed into dozens of varieties. One dish can be made with more than ten flavors. The melons remain the same and there is no need to have more varieties. Changing the types will result in more flavors. What harm will be done to the matter has nothing to do with the country.
If you use this method to gain wealth, you will have nothing to be ashamed of in front of others.
I myself have not eaten the food of the state except official banquets for many years. Even the people in the palace have not eaten the food of the state for a long time.
Everything that was built did not go through the materials officials or the national craftsmen. They were all hired with money to complete the work.
It is extremely convenient to get wealth nearby, benefit the people, benefit the country, benefit me, and create various merits.
Or you can judge my heart based on your heart, so you cannot know these things.
The wealth obtained will be made public to the world, and no one-sided arguments will be allowed.
Qing also said that there is no restraint in keeping female prostitutes beyond the rank. This is the responsibility of the official. Even so, there are differences: wealthy people often keep prostitutes. As for the nobles, relatives, and officials such as Zhongshu Sheng, they have not heard that there are 16-year-old girls in the family, and many keep female prostitutes.
These should be spoken out to the person concerned and should be given the luxury of years of rectification.
Qing added: "Then I hate Xiang Ri even more for taking too little. If I can become an official again, I will double my money. How ridiculous this is."
Brave and cowardly people are different. Greedy and honest people have their own uses. A brave person can make him enterprising, a cowardly person can help him defend the city, a greedy person can help him defend against foreign invasion, and an honest person can help him govern the people.
If Shu Qi were to guard Xihe, would he be able to succeed?
And Wu Qi went to educate the people, but he would not succeed.
If Wu Qi is used instead of reused, he will not make great achievements in Xihe.
Today's use of civil and military officials is similar to this.
Take the role they can seize, and if that doesn't work, they don't have to be re-appointed. They are not entrusted with a position of power by the court and do more evil.
If you think the court's actions are absurd, even if you are willing to do so, you should consider the reasons for the absurdity.
Qing said that they should be taught to be frugal, and said that the best management method must be to put honesty first.
This is a great saying.
Confucius said that if a person in power is upright, his subordinates will act without giving orders; if a person in power is not upright, his subordinates will not obey even if they give orders.
It has been more than thirty years since I lost my wife, maid, and concubine, and I have never behaved in a lustful and dissolute manner.
I am very capable of thinking about myself, and I have not slept in the same room with a woman for more than thirty years.
As for the size of the residence, it is no more than a bed, and it is well known that carved things are not allowed into the palace.
His nature is not to drink alcohol, and his nature does not like sound, so the court held a banquet without playing music, which was seen by all the wise men.
I get up in the middle of the night to take care of things. Depending on the number of things I have to do, if I have a few things I can finish them before noon, if I have a lot of things I can finish them before the sun is in the west.
Often eat one meal a day, day or night, at no fixed time.
On days when you are sick and suffering, maybe take it twice.
In the past, my waist and abdomen were more than five feet wide, but today I have slimmed down to more than two feet. The old belt is still preserved, which is not nonsense.
For whom?
It is for the sake of saving all things.
"The Book" says: Only with siblings can one become a human being, and with good ministers can one become a holy master.
If I have some arms and legs toward the sun, I can be the master of the game.
Today, I still cannot help but succumb to the rank of a ninth-rank official. Doing things without orders is just a lie.
Qing is still resentful and dissatisfied, so he doesn't know how to answer.
Qing also said that there is no one in Baisi who does not refuse to go up and adopt unfair means to seek advancement.
Who is this person?
What is fraud again?
Now we don’t ask outsiders to report things to the higher authorities. Is this logically okay?
If no one neglects his official position, can the official position be abolished?
If official positions are abolished, people will cause chaos. If people cause chaos, can the country be peaceful?
Losing food due to choking is what we are talking about.
If the petition is cut off, who will bear the responsibility?
How can we find people who can be specially appointed?
Therefore, the ancients said: If you listen to one person's opinion alone, evil things will happen; if you only trust one person, it will cause chaos.
This is like Tai II appointing Gao Gao, and Empress Yuan giving power to Wang Mang.
Calling the deer a horse, the calamity of Jian Le killing the second generation in Wangyi Palace finally occurred, and Wang Mang finally seized power in the Western Han Dynasty.
Qing said, "Fault-finding, who is it?" Precise analysis, who is he?
When things get serious, who is the person who accuses others of their faults and excommunicates them?
He also said that among the administration, office, residence and premises, which one should be removed?
Which position should be omitted? Which item should be omitted from the national capacity and military preparation?
Which item is not needed? Among the Sifangtun rumors, which one is useless and which one harms the people?
Where is Xingzao built to serve the people?
Where to spend money instead of what is urgently needed?
Why be called?
What is levy for?
There has never been anything like this in the imperial court, so what is the way to rest quietly?
Examples should be given for each incident and a report should be prepared.
Qing said, "If we don't take this opportunity to take good care of our people, we will not make plans until something happens, and it will be too late when we know it."
Just like what you said, now is a big battle for the people. Where is it?
You said that our country is exhausted and its people are tired. As you said, you must give examples after all, and you must not say nonsense out of thin air.
If you can talk about it, you can definitely put it into practice.
Strategies for enriching the country and strengthening its army, rescuing the people in emergencies and reducing labor, and methods for commanding both near and far should be laid out in detail.
If you don't display it, you will be deceiving the court and showing your eloquence in vain.
Anyone who wants to do something must first examine himself. Only those who have no faults or faults can blame others.
You must not slander officials inside and outside the court without telling the truth.
I look forward to hearing your memorial again, watching it again, paying it to the Minister of Finance, and promulgating it to the whole country, so that the disasters like random sheep will be eradicated forever, and the harmful things will be extinct forever. I hope that new beautiful policies will appear again today.
After receiving the order, He Chen could only admit his mistake and did not dare to criticize him again.
A long time later, he was moved to the post of Taifuqing.
In the second year of Taiqing, he was moved to the post of General Yunqi and Changshi of Xuancheng King of the Chinese Army.
Hou Jinggao's troops attacked the capital, and the king moved to Taiwan, leaving He Chen and Sima Yang Ao to guard the East Mansion.
The thieves soon captured the capital and allowed the soldiers to slaughter him. He Chen was shot but was still alive. The thieves found him and drove him to the palace in a car. They asked him to see Wang Ke, the servant, and Zhu Yi, the leader, and persuaded them to open the city gate and let the thieves in.
Wang Ke and others blamed him, but he stopped crying. The thief drove him to Zhuangyan Temple in a car for treatment of his wounds.
The next year, Taicheng fell and He Chen fled back to his hometown.
In the winter of that year, thieves invaded Kuaiji, arrested He Chen again, sent him out of the capital, and appointed him as Doctor Jin Ziguanglu.
He later became ill and died at the age of sixty-nine.
He Chen compiled more than 100 chapters in total such as "The Book of Rites", "The Five Classics' Zhiyi" and various rites and methods.
His son Xu Mian, in the early years of the Taiqing Dynasty, served as the prefect of Bashan together with the Marquis of Xichang. He died in chaos in the county.
Yao Cha, the official secretary of the Chen Dynasty, said: Xia Housheng once said: The worry of a scholar is that he is not proficient in Confucian classics; if he is proficient in Confucian classics, he will be able to obtain high officials and titles as easily as picking up mustard greens on the ground.
Zhu Yi and He Chen were both from humble backgrounds. They relied on their knowledge of Confucian classics to gain eminence when they had the opportunity, which is in line with Xia Housheng's remarks.
However, after Zhu Yi received the emperor's favor and assumed power, he could not assist the emperor in the right way, but was aggressive and flattering.
It was Zhu Yi's responsibility to lead the enemy to defeat the country.
The disaster caused was obvious, but his guilt was not shown. After his death, he was still treated with special favors.
If there is no punishment for the guilty, and the rewards are so false and unrealistic, and there is no reason to persuade them to stop them, how can we govern the country?
Gentleman, the reason why you know about the troubles in the Taiqing period is that it has something to do with Zaodian.
