Fan Kuai, a native of Peixian County, kills dogs as a profession.
Later, he hid with Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty in the Mangshan and Cishan areas because he was avoiding official duties.
During Chen Sheng's uprising, Xiao He and Cao Shen asked Fan Kuai to find and bring back Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and became Peigong.
Fan Kuai, as a Sheren, attacked Huling and Fangyu and returned to garrison Fengyi. He attacked the army of the Sishui County Supervisor in Fengyi and defeated them.
Then he went east to pacify Peixian County and defeated the army of Sishui County Governor to the west of Xuexian County.
Shumian fought against Sima Chao in Ci County, defeated the enemy, beheaded fifteen of them, and was awarded the title of doctor of another country by Pei Gong.
Fan Kuai often followed Pei Gong. Pei Gong attacked Zhang Han's army in Puyang. When he attacked the city, Fan Kuai was the first to climb up and beheaded twenty-three enemies. Pei Gong gave him the title of Lieutenant.
Then he attacked Chengyang, and was the first to ascend the city, occupy Hufu, defeat Li You's army, beheaded sixteen enemies, and was awarded the title of Shangwen by Pei Gong.
Later, he followed Pei Gong in Chengwu to attack the prefect of Shu County and the captain of Yu County. He drove back the enemy, beheaded 14 of them and captured 16 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of fifth doctor.
He followed Pei Gong to attack the Qin army and sent troops to the south of Boyi.
The troops of the governor of Hejian were stationed in Gangli, and Fan Kuai defeated them.
After defeating Dun Bi's army in the north of Kaifeng, Fan Kuai was the first to ascend the city because he repulsed the enemy. He beheaded one of the military commanders, beheaded the enemy sixty-eighth, and captured twenty-six people. Pei Gong gave him the title of minister.
Then he followed Pei Gong and defeated Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
When he attacked Wanling, Fan Yan first ascended the city, beheaded eight enemies and captured 44 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of Xianchengjun.
Follow Peigong to attack Changshe and Nianyuan, blockade the Yellow River ferry, go east to Xixiang to attack the Qin army, and then go south to Nianyi to attack the Qin army.
Defeated Shouling of Nanyang County in Yangcheng. Heading east to attack Wancheng, Fan Yan was the first to ascend the city.
Going west to Li County, Fan Kuai repelled the enemy army, beheaded fourteen enemies and captured forty people. Pei Gong increased his reward to him.
Attacked Wuguan, came to Bashang, beheaded one captain, beheaded ten enemies, captured 146 people, and surrendered 2,900 soldiers.
Xiang Yu garrisoned under the stage and prepared to attack Peigong.
Pei Gong led more than a hundred cavalry to meet Xiang Yu through Xiang Bo, apologized to Xiang Yu, and explained that there was no blockade of the pass.
Xiang Yu entertained Pei Gong's soldiers with wine and meat. When the wine was flowing freely, Yafu wanted to kill Pei Gong. He asked Xiang Zhuang to dance his sword in front of the banquet and took the opportunity to kill Pei Gong. Xiang Bo often protected Pei Gong.
At this time, only Pei Gong and Zhang Liang were able to enter the camp and sit down. Fan Kuai heard that the matter was urgent outside the camp gate, so he came to the military gate with his sword and shield.
Just as he was about to enter the camp gate, the guard guarding the gate blocked Fan Kuai. Fan Kuai went straight in and stood under the tent.
Xiang Yu looked at him and asked who he was.
Zhang Liang said: "It's Fan Kuai who is accompanying Duke Pei."
Xiang Yu said: Strong man!
And gave him a cup of wine and a pig's leg.
After Fan Kuai drank the wine, he drew his sword and cut the meat to eat.
Xiang Yu said: Can I drink again?
Fan Kuai said: Even if I refuse to refuse even if I die, am I still afraid of drinking a glass of wine?
Besides, Pei Gong first entered to pacify Xianyang and camped on the top to wait for the king.
As soon as the king arrived today, he listened to the villain's words and became estranged from Pei Gong. I am worried that the world will be divided and people will doubt your Majesty.
Xiang Yu remained silent.
Pei Gong went to the toilet and called Fan Kuai out.
After coming out, Pei Gong left behind his carriage and only rode one horse. Fan Kuai and four others followed on foot and ran back to the Bashang military camp from the foot of the mountain, leaving Zhang Liang to thank Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu left it at that and no longer had the idea of ​​killing Pei Gong.
If Fan Kuai hadn't broken into the camp to condemn Xiang Yu that day, Pei Gong's career would have almost failed.
A few days later, Xiang Yu entered Xianyang, burned and killed people wantonly, and made Peigong King of Han.
The King of Han granted Fan Kuai the title of Marquis of Linwu.
Later Fan Kuai was promoted to doctor and followed the King of Han into Hanzhong.
When the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, Fan Kuai led another army to attack the army of the Xixian County Magistrate north of Baishui, and to attack King Yong's light cavalry troops south of Yong County, defeating the enemy.
Follow the King of Han to attack Yongxian and Tengcheng, and climb the city first.
When Haozhi attacked Zhang Ping's army and attacked the city, Fan Kuai first ascended the city and beheaded one county magistrate and one county magistrate, beheaded eleven enemies and captured twenty others. He was promoted to the rank of Cavalry General.
Following the King of Han, he attacked the Qin army's chariots and cavalry troops in Shumian, Rangxiang. He defeated the enemy and was promoted to general.
Attacking Zhao Bi, occupying Jun, Huaili, Liuzhong, and Xianyang; diverting water to irrigate waste hills, Fan Kuai made the greatest contribution.
After arriving in Luanyang, the King of Han granted Fan Township in Du County as a food town.
Following the king of Han, he attacked Xiang Yu, slaughtered and cooked Zaoyi, and defeated Wang Wu and Cheng Chu's troops in Waihuang County.
Then attack Zouxian, Luxian, Xiaqiu and Xuexian.
Xiang Yu defeated the King of Han in Pengcheng and once again took over all the Lu and Liang areas.
When Fan Kuai returned to Rongyang, the King of Han gave him another 2,000 households in Pingyin as a settlement, and asked him to garrison Guangwu Mountain as a general for one year.
Surrounded Xiang Yu in Chen County, defeated him and bloodbathed Hu Ling.
After Xiang Yu's death, the King of Han became the emperor. Because of Fan Kuai's meritorious service in the battle, he was granted a title of 800 households in the city.
In the autumn of this year, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled. Fan Kuai followed Han Gaozu to attack him, captured Zang Tu, and pacified Yan.
When Chu King Han Xin rebelled, Fan Kuai followed Mo Gaozu to Chen County, arrested Han Xin, and pacified Chu.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty granted Fan Kuai the title of Marquis and a seal of seal. According to legend, Wuyang was given the title of Marquis of Wuyang, exempting him from the previous title.
Later, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu as a general to attack the rebel food in Daidi.
From Huo Renyi to Yunzhong County, he worked with Jianghou and others to pacify Dai land and increase the number of households by 1,500.
Because he attacked the armies of Chen Xi and Manqiuchen, fought in the state of Xiang, and captured Bairen County, Fan Kuai first ascended the city, surrendered and pacified Qinghe and Changshan counties, a total of 27 counties, destroyed Shuyuan County, and was promoted to prime minister of the left.
Defeated the armies of Qi Muyin and Yin Pan in Wuzhong County and Guangchang County. Defeated Chen Xipian general Wang Huang's army in the south of Daidi, and took advantage of the situation to attack Han Xin's army in Shenhe County.
Fan Kuai's men killed Han Xin, defeated the few Xiongnu cavalry in Henggu County, killed General Zhao Ji, and captured ten people including Prime Minister Feng Liang, County Governor Sun Fen, General Wang Huang, one general, and Tai servant Jie Fu.
Fan Kuai and his generals jointly pacified the seventy-two counties of Dai.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled, and Fan Kuai attacked Lu Wan as prime minister, defeated his prime minister, reached the south of Jixian, and pacified the eighteen counties and fifty-one townships of Yan.
Emperor Gaozu added 1,300 households to Fan Kuai, and designated 5,400 households in Wuyang as Fan Kuai's food territory.
Fan Kuai followed Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty to fight, beheading 176 enemies and capturing 287 people. He also led other troops to fight, defeated seven enemy armies, occupied five cities, pacified six commanderies and fifty-two counties, and captured one prime minister, thirteen generals, and twelve officials ranging from two thousand to three hundred stone.
Fan Kuai married Empress Lu's sister Lu Xu and gave birth to a son named Mr. and Mrs. Fan. Therefore, compared with other generals, he was closest to the emperor.
During the previous rebellion of Yingbu, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was very ill and did not want to see anyone. He lived in the inner palace and ordered the guards not to let the ministers in.
No one, including ministers Jianghou and Guan Ying, dared to enter.
After more than ten days, Fan Kuai opened the palace door and rushed in. The ministers followed him.
The emperor was lying alone with a eunuch on his pillow.
Fan Kuai and others saw the emperor weeping and said: Your Majesty led us to raise troops in Fengyi, Pei County to pacify the world. How majestic it was!
Now that the world is at peace, how tired it is!
Besides, Your Majesty is seriously ill and the ministers are shocked and frightened. Your Majesty will not summon us to discuss state affairs, but will you just say goodbye to a eunuch alone?
Besides, didn’t Your Majesty see what happened to Zhao Gao?
Gaozu stood up with a smile.
Later, Lu Wan rebelled, and Mo Gaozu sent Fan Kuai to attack Yan as prime minister.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu was very ill. Some people slandered Fan Kuai for colluding with the Lu family, saying that once the emperor died, Fan Kuai would use his troops to kill all Madam Qi, King Zhao Ruyi and others.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was very angry when he heard these words, so he sent Chen Ping to take Zhou Bo to lead the army instead of Fan Kuai, and beheaded Fan Kuai on the spot.
Chen Ping was afraid of Empress Lu, so he arrested Fan Kuai and came to Chang'an.
When they arrived in Chang'an, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already passed away. Empress Lu released Fan Kuai and restored his title and estate to him.
In the sixth year of Xiaohui, Fan Kuai died, and Mi was named Marquis of Wu. His son Fan Kuai succeeded him as Marquis.
Fan's mother, Lu Xu, was also granted the title of Marquis of Linguang. During Queen Lu's period, she had monopolized power and the ministers were all afraid of her.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers killed Lu Xu and others, and also killed Fan and his wife. The title of Wuyang Marquis was suspended for several months.
After Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, he granted Fan Kuai's concubine Fan Shi the title of Marquis of Wuyang and restored his original title and fiefdom.
After the death of Fan Shi, Mi was named Huanghou.
His son Fan Tuoguang inherited the title.
Six years later, the family members of Hou Wuyang wrote a letter saying: Huanghou Fan was sick and infertile, so his wife had an affair with his younger brother and gave birth to Fan Tuoguang. Fan Tuoguang was not actually the son of Huanghou.
The emperor ordered that he be handed over to the officials and dismissed from the title.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Ping inherited the severed title and granted Fan Zhang, the son of Fan Kuai's great-great-grandson, the title of Marquis of Wuyang, with a land of 1,000 households.
Li Shang was born in Gaoyang County.
He gathered thousands of young people during Chen Sheng's uprising.
More than six months after Pei Gong captured some areas, Li Shang led his troops in Qidi and surrendered 4,000 people to Pei Gong. He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe. He was the first to ascend the city. Pei Gong granted him a title and named him Xinchengjun.
He also followed Pei Gong to attack Fengshi County, blocked the Yellow River ferries, and defeated the Qin army in Luoyang.
He then followed up and captured Wan and Xing, and pacified seventeen counties.
He also cooperated with the main force to attack Shanguan Pass and pacified Hanzhong to the west.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, made Li Shangxin the king, granted him a title, and appointed him the captain of Longxi.
He also pacified Beidi County and defeated Zhang Han's deputy generals Wushi, Kuyi and Niyang. The king of Han gave him six thousand households in Wucheng as a food town.
He followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Ji's army and fought a fierce battle with Zhong Limei. After winning the battle, he was awarded the Prime Minister's Seal of Liang State and added four thousand households to the city.
He followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu for two years, and then went to attack Hu Ling.
After the King of Han proclaimed himself emperor, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled. As a general of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang followed the emperor to attack Zang Tu. He fought at Longtuo and charged into battle. He defeated Zang Tu's army in Yixia and repulsed the enemy. He was promoted to prime minister of the right and was given the title of prince. The emperor gave him a talisman as a certificate that would last for generations, and he was granted food for 5,000 households in Zhuojun.
He also led his troops to attack Shanggu and took advantage of the victory to seize the land of Dai. The emperor granted Zhao Xiang the national seal.
He Jianghou and other generals pacified Dai County and Yanmen, and captured Dai's Prime Minister Cheng Zong, Acting Prime Minister Guo Tong, and 19 people ranging from generals to 600 shi.
He returned in triumph and commanded the Imperial Guard as a general for one year.
In October, as Prime Minister You, he attacked Chen Xi's rebels and destroyed the Shuyuan barrier.
He then followed to attack the Tingbu rebels, broke down the barriers in front of the rebels, captured two formations, and was able to annihilate the Tingbu army. So he was renamed the Marquis of Qu Zhou, and the food town was 5,100 households, and the previous food town was abolished.
To sum up his military achievements, Li Shang led his army to defeat three rebels, pacify six counties and seventy-three counties, and captured one prime minister, one acting prime minister, one general, two minor generals, and a total of 19 people with salaries ranging from less than 2,000 shi to 600 shi.
Li Shang assisted Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu.
After Empress Lu's death, Li Shang was seriously ill and unable to govern.
His son Li Ji, whose courtesy name was good, had a good relationship with Lu Lu.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers wanted to kill the Lu family. Lu Lu was a general at the time and commanded the Northern Army. Because of this, Taiwei Zhou Bo could not command the Northern Army, so he sent people to hold Li Shang hostage and ordered his son Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu.
Lu Lu trusted Li Ji and traveled with him. Taiwei Zhou Bo took the opportunity to enter the Northern Army and surrendered them, so he killed the Lu family.
Li Shang died in this year, and his nickname was Jinghou.
His son Li Ji inherited the title, and everyone in the world said that Li Kuang betrayed his friends.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Wu, Chu, Qi, and Tong rebelled. The emperor ordered Li Ji to be the general and besieged Tong City, but they still could not capture it for seven months. Lebu came from Pingqi and captured Tucheng, thus annihilating the State of Zhao.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Li Ji wanted to marry Lord Pingyuan as his wife. Emperor Jing was furious and had Li Ji arrested and stripped of his title.
The emperor named Li Jian, another son of Li Shang, the Marquis of Mu, a descendant of Li Shang.
The title was passed directly to Xuansun Su, who was appointed as Taichang during the military inspection. He was convicted and killed for being implicated in witchcraft, and his feudal status was abolished.
During the Second Beginning of the year, the great ministers who were granted the title of "Lian Zhi" were given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and the descendants of Bai Lishi and below were all given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a total of more than 100 people living in the city.
Xia Houying was from Peixian County.
He was in charge of horse breeding and driving in Peixian County. Every time he passed by Sishang Pavilion after seeing off guests, he would talk to Gaozu, often for a long time.
Xia Houying later served as a county official on probation and became friendly with Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu injured Xia Houying while playing proverbs, so someone broke the law.
As the chief of the pavilion at the time, Gaozu wanted to be sentenced to a higher crime of wounding, but Gaozu told him that he had not harmed Xia Houying at all, and Xia Houying testified for Gaozu that this was not the case.
After a retrial, Xia Houying was found guilty of perjury and imprisoned for more than a year. He was whipped hundreds of times and finally acquitted Gaozu.
When Emperor Gaozu started his army, he and his subordinates wanted to attack Peixian County. Xia Houying, who was a minor official in the county government at that time, was ordered by Emperor Gaozu.
On the first day when Emperor Gaozu captured Peixian County, Emperor Gaozu became the Duke of Pei, and granted Xia Houying the title of seventh-level Duke and Duke, becoming a royal servant in charge of chariots and horses.
Following Emperor Gaozu in attacking Huling, Xiahouying and Xiao He surrendered to Ping, the supervisor of Sishui County. Ping surrendered Huling and surrendered, so Xiahouying was given the rank of ninth rank and the fifth rank.
He also attacked the Qin army in Yangdong, captured Jiyang, captured Hufu, and defeated Li You's army in Yongqiu. He attacked with military chariots and fought fiercely. He defeated the enemy and was awarded a title and silk.
Following Gaozu, he attacked Zhang Han's army at Shu'a and Puyang. He used his chariots to attack Zhang Han's army quickly and defeated the Qin army. He was awarded the title of Zhigui.
Following Gaozu, he attacked Trip Ben's army in Kaifeng, and attacked Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
Xia Houying captured 68 people and surrendered 850 soldiers, receiving a cabinet of official seals.
He also pursued the Qin army in the east of Luoyang, and still used military chariots to attack. He was granted a title and appointed magistrate of Teng County.
Therefore, he often followed Gao Zu in his chariot to fight, almost to Nanyang, and fought in Lantian and Zhiyang until he reached Ba Shang.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, and granted the title of Marquis of Xia to the title of Marquis of Zhaoping. He was also made a royal servant and followed the king of Han to Shuhan.
The king of Han also ordered the Three Qin Dynasties, and Xia Houying followed the emperor to attack Xiang Ji.
To Pengcheng. Xiang Yu defeated the Han army.
Seeing that the battle situation was not going well, the King of Han quickly retreated and met Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan. Xia Houying asked them to get in the chariot and go together.
The King of Han was impatient, his horse was tired, and his enemies were chasing behind him, so he kicked the two children out of the car several times and abandoned them. Xia Houying always carried them and hugged them tightly.
The King of Han was furious and tried to kill Xia Houying more than ten times, but finally escaped and sent Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan to Fengdi.
After the King of Han arrived in Rongyang, he gathered the scattered soldiers, revitalized the army, and gave Yiyang to Xiahou Ying as a food city.
Attacked Xiang Ji in Xiayi, pursued them all the way to Chen, and finally defeated Chu.
When he arrived in Lucheng, he added Zishi County as a food town.
After the King of Han proclaimed himself emperor, King Yan Zang Tu rebelled, and Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao to attack Zang Tu.
The next year, he followed to Chen County and captured Han Xin, King of Chu.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Ruyin, and the talisman was dissected as evidence and passed down from generation to generation.
Following Emperor Gao, he attacked the state of Dai, went to Wuquan and Yunzhong, and added a thousand households to the settlements.
He followed Emperor Gaozu to attack Han Xin's army Hu Qi near Jinyang and defeated the enemy.
They pursued northward to Pingcheng, where they were surrounded by the Huns and could not communicate with them for seven days.
Emperor Gao sent an envoy to give the Huns rich items, and Mao Duncai opened a corner of the encirclement to let them go.
Emperor Gao wanted to drive away, but Xia Houying insisted that the troops retreat slowly and carefully through the gap opened by the Xiongnu. The soldiers all pointed their weapons and arrows outward, and finally escaped.
Emperor Gao also gave Xiahou Ying an additional thousand households in Xiyang as food towns.
Following Emperor Gao, he attacked the Huns cavalry in the north of Juzhu and defeated the enemy.
Attacking the Huns cavalry south of Pingcheng, he charged three times and achieved great military success, so Emperor Gao gave him the 500 households he captured as food.
Following Emperor Gao, he attacked the armies of Chen Zhu and Yingbu, charged into battle, and bravely defeated the enemy. He added a thousand households to the food town, and added 6,900 households to Xiahou Ying's food town in Ruyin, canceling the previously sealed food town.
Xia Houying often followed Emperor Gao as a servant since Emperor Gao launched his army in Pei County, until Emperor Gao's death.
Later, he served Emperor Hui as a servant.
Emperor Hui and Empress Lu thanked Xia Houying for rescuing Xiaohui and Duke Yuan of Lu in Xiayi, so they gave him a first-class residence closest to the north palace of the palace. Empress Lu inscribed it "near me" to express a special kind of respect superior to other officials.
After Emperor Hui's death, he served as a servant to Empress Lu.
After Empress Lu's death, the acting king Liu Heng arrived. Xia Houying, as a royal servant, entered the palace together with Liu Xingju, the Marquis of Cambodia, to drive out the young emperor established by Empress Lu. According to the emperor's driving ceremony, he went to the palace of the acting king to welcome Liu Heng, the acting king, and he and the ministers jointly supported him as the emperor. He remained the imperial servant.
He died eight years later and was given the title Wenhou.
The title was passed to his great-grandson Xiahou Po, who married Princess Pingyang, the sister of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. Later, he committed adultery with his father's maid and committed suicide, and the feudal state was abolished.
At first, Xia Houying was named Teng Gong because he was the magistrate of Teng County. When his great-grandson Xiahou Po married Princess Pingyang, Princess Pingyang took the surname of Sun from the grandpa's family and was named Princess Sun. Therefore, the descendants of Teng Gong also changed their surname to Sun.
Guan Ying was born as a businessman selling silk products in Suiyang County.
Emperor Gaozu became Duke of Pei and led his soldiers to Yongqiu. After Zhang Han killed Xiang Liang, Pei Gong returned his army to Yang, and Guan Ying served as a follower in Zhongjuan. Defeated Qin's Shujun commandery at Chengwu and defeated the Qin army at Gangli. Because of his bravery in battle, he was awarded the title of Seventh Doctor.
He also followed Pei Gong to attack the Qin army in the south of Bo, Kaifeng and Quyu. The attack was rapid and fierce. Pei Gong gave him the title of Xuanling Jun.
He followed Pei Gong and attacked the west of Yangwu to Luoyang, and defeated the Qin army to the north of Xi.
He crossed the Yellow River ferry to the north, defeated the Nanyang governor and rode to the east of Yangcheng to the south, and pacified Nanyang County.
Then he entered Wuguan to the west and fought in Lantian. He was swift and tenacious in the battle. When he reached Bashang, Duke Pei gave him the title of Zhigui and the title Changwenjun.
When Pei Gong became the king of Han, he worshiped Guan Ying as his doctor and followed him into the desert. In the tenth month, he worshiped him as his lieutenant.
Following the king of Han, he pacified the Three Qin Dynasties, captured Shuoyang, and surrendered to the king of Sai.
Besieging Zhang Han's army in Feiqiu, they failed to completely annihilate the enemy.
Following the King of Han to the east, he went out to Linjin Pass, defeated King Yin and surrendered, and pacified his territory.
The troops of Long Qie, the general who attacked Xiang Yu, and Xiang Tuo, the prime minister of Wei, fought bravely in the south of Dingtao and defeated the enemy.
The King of Han granted Guan Ying the title of Lieutenant Marquis, named Changwen Marquis, with his seat in Pingxiang, Du County.
He still followed the King of Han as a visitor to conquer Ci, and then went north to attack Pengcheng.
Xiang Yu defeated the King of Han in Pengcheng, and the King of Han fled westward. Guan Ying followed the King of Han back and garrisoned Yongqiu.
Wang Wu and Wei Gongshen disciples rebelled against the Han Dynasty and followed the Han king to defeat them.
He also captured Wai and headed west to Rongyang to reorganize his army.
Since the Chu army had a large number of cavalry, the King of Han chose people in the army who could serve as cavalry generals. Everyone unanimously recommended the former Qin army knights Li Bi and Luo Jia from Chongquan, who were familiar with cavalry. They were school captains at the time and could serve as cavalry generals.
The King of Han wanted to appoint them. Li Bi and Luo Jia said: We are subjects of the Qin Dynasty. I am afraid that the Han army does not trust us. We would like to be assisted by people who are good at cavalry fighting around the King of Han.
Although Guan Ying was young, he had experienced many battles, so he worshiped Guan Ying as the middle doctor, ordered Li Bi and Luo Jia to be the left and right captains, and led the Langzhong cavalry to attack the Chu cavalry with Cambodia in Rongyang, defeating the enemy.
He was also ordered to lead another large army to attack the rear of the Chu army, cut off their food routes, and blockade Yangwu to Xiangyi.
Xiang Guan, the general who attacked Xiang Yu in Lu, defeated the enemy and led his soldiers to kill one of You Sima and one of the cavalry generals.
To the west of Yan, he defeated the army of Duke Zhe and Wang Wu, and led his troops to kill five generals from Lou Fan and one from Lian Yin.
He defeated Xi's general Dan Ying in the imperial palace and defeated the enemy. His soldiers killed one of the captains.
He led the cavalry to the south across the Yellow River, escorted the King of Han until the day was trapped, and went north to meet the army of the Prime Minister on duty at Yisu.
Returning the troops to Aocang, Guan Ying was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the third year, as a lieutenant, he was granted the title of a food town in Pingxiang, Du County.
As a censor, he was ordered to lead the cavalry of the army to the east and return to the Han Dynasty army of the prime minister. He defeated the rebel army in Lixia and led the soldiers to capture the cavalry general Hua Wushang and his forty-six officials.
Linzi was captured and Qi Prime Minister Tian Guang was captured.
He pursued Qi Xiang Tian Heng to Ying and Bo, defeated his cavalry, led his troops to kill one of the cavalry generals, and captured four of them alive.
He captured Gu and Bo, defeated Qi General Tian Su in Qiancheng, and killed him.
Xiangdong followed Han Xin to attack Longdan and Maojin in Baoshi. His subordinates killed Longdan and captured alive each of You Sima and Lian Yin. Ten generals from Loufan personally captured alive the enemy's deputy general Zhou Lan.
Qi had been pacified, and Han Xin proclaimed himself king of Qi. He sent Guan Ying to lead an army to attack Chu General Gong Dai in the north of Lu, and defeated the enemy.
Turning to the south, he defeated the governor of Xue County and personally captured one of the cavalrymen.
Attack Fu Yang and march to Tong, Qili and Xu in the southeast of Xiaxiang.
After crossing the silver carp, they captured all the cities in this area and arrived at Guangling.
Xiang Xing sent Xideng, Sa Gong and Su Gong back to the north. Wei Yingdu marched back and defeated Xideng and Langsheng in Gongpi, killed Zheng Gong, captured Gongpi and Huahua.
Defeated the Chu cavalry at Wangdang, pacified Pengcheng, captured Xiang Tuo of Zhu State, and captured Liu, Xue, Pei, Deng, Lu, and Dao.
Attacked Xuanse and Zhese, and captured another deputy general.
He joined the King of Han in Yixiang and followed the King of Han to defeat Xiang Lan in Chen.
The soldiers he led killed two generals and captured eight generals.
The king of Han increased his number of food towns by 2,500 households.
Xiang Ji failed to escape at Gaixia. Ying, as the censor, led the cavalry to pursue Xiang Ji to Shucheng and defeated the enemy.
Five of his soldiers killed Xiang Ji together, and they were all given the title of marquis.
One man each from the left and right Sima was captured, and 12,000 enemy soldiers were captured. All the enemy generals and soldiers were captured.
Capture Shucheng and Liyang County.
After crossing Dansi, Zaiyu defeated the county magistrate of Chengsu, captured the county magistrate of Cheng, and pacified Cheng, Qi, and Hui Shandeng.
The Hui army pacified a total of fifty-two counties north of Jin Hui.
After the King of Han ascended the throne, he increased the number of households under Guanying to 3,000 households.
As a chariot general, he followed the emperor to attack King Zang Tu of Yan.
The next year, he followed the emperor to Chen County and captured Han Xin, the king of Chu.
After returning in triumph, the emperor cut off the talisman with him as evidence, and made 2,500 households in Yingyin a food town to be passed down from generation to generation.
He followed the emperor to attack King Xin of Han in Daidi, and when he reached Mayi, he led his generals to capture six counties north of Loufan, beheaded the left general of Daidi, and defeated the Huns cavalry north of Wuquan.
He also followed the emperor to attack the cavalry of Han Zhi and Bao Chu in Jinyang. His soldiers killed one of the generals of Li Chu and Zhi Mo.
Under the emperor's military order, he led the troops of Yan, Zhao, Qi, Liang, and Chu to defeat the Xiongnu cavalry at Bishi.
When he arrived at Pingcheng, he was besieged by the Xiongnu army.
He followed the emperor to attack Chen Xi, and led an army to defeat Chen Xi's prime minister Hou Chang's army in Qu Ni, killing Hou Chang and five generals.
Attack Quni, Lunu, Shangquyang, Anguo, Anping and other counties.
Capture Dongdanse.
When Ying Bu rebelled against the Han, Guan Ying went out with his chariot and cavalry generals first. He attacked Ying Bu's partial generals at Xiangdi, defeated the enemy, and beheaded the three deputy generals, Lou Fan and others.
Then he marched and destroyed the army of Shangzhu State and Da Sima of Yingbu.
He also defeated Ying Bu's general Fei Zhu.
Guan Ying captured Zuo Sima alone. His soldiers killed ten young generals and pursued them to the upper reaches of the Huaihe River.
The emperor increased his food estate by 2,500 households.
After Yingbu was wiped out, the emperor returned to the court and decided to let Guan Ying use the five thousand households in Yingyin as a food town and take back the previously sealed food town.
In total, he captured two generals with a salary of two thousand stone, led his troops to destroy the enemy sixteen times, occupied forty-six cities, pacified one traitor, two counties, and fifty-two counties. He captured two generals, one Zhuguo and Xiang each, and ten people with a salary of two thousand stone.
Zhuo Ying defeated Ying Bu and returned to the army. Emperor Gao died and became a prince to assist Emperor Hui and Empress Lu.
After Queen Lu died, Lu Lu and others wanted to rebel.
King Ai of Qi heard the news and led his troops to march westward. Lu Lu and others used Guan Ying as their general to attack the Cha army.
When Zhengying arrived at Mingchang, he and Jihuangdong waited for the plan, stationed troops in Rongyang, and persuaded the King of Qi to focus on the execution of the Lu family, and the Qi troops stopped advancing.
After Jianghou and others punished the Lu, the King of Qi withdrew his troops and returned to the country.
Guan Ying returned from Rongyang and joined ministers Jianghou and Chen Ping to support Emperor Wen.
So Guan Ying was given three thousand households to live in, he was rewarded with a thousand catties of gold, and he was worshiped as a Taiwei.
In the third year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, was dismissed as Prime Minister. Zhuo Ying became Prime Minister and no longer served as a Taiwei officer.
This year the Huns invaded the north in a large scale, and the emperor ordered Guan Ying to lead a cavalry of 85,000 people to fight against the Huns.
The Xiongnu retreated, and the King of Jibei rebelled. The emperor issued a letter to Shao and ordered Guan Ying to withdraw his entire army.
More than a year later, Guan Ying died while serving as prime minister. The whole house is filled with Mi.
The title was passed on to his grandson: Bi Qiang, because of his crime, his title was cut off.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Luo Ying's grandson Yi Zi was granted the title of Linru Marquis and was regarded as a descendant of Luo Ying. Later, he was deprived of his land for committing crimes.
Fu Kuan, as one of the five cavalry officers of Wei State, followed Pei Gong in the campaign. He appointed his troops and raised troops in Hengyang.
Following Pei Gong, he captured Anyang and Gangli, defeated Zhao Ben's army in Kaifeng, and attacked Yang Xiong's army in Quyu and Yangwu. He killed twelve enemies and was awarded the title of Duke of Pei.
Follow Pei Gong to Bashang.
Pei Gong became the king of Han and gave Fu Kuan the title of Gongdejun.
He followed the King of Han into Guanzhong and became a right-hand cavalry general.
After pacifying the Three Qin Dynasties, he was given Diaoyin as a food town.
He followed the attack on Xiang Ji and followed the King of Han in Huai County. The King of Han gave him the title of Marquis of Tongde.
He followed and attacked Xiang Guan, Zhou Lan, and Long Qie. The soldiers he led killed one of the enemy cavalry generals under Ao, and the king of Han increased his food.
Under the command of Huaiyin Hou Han Xin, he defeated Qi Zaili's army and attacked Tian Jie.
Under the command of Prime Minister Cao Shen, he destroyed Bo County and increased the number of food towns due to his merits.
Because of his meritorious service in pacifying Qi, the King of Han cut his talisman with him as proof. His title was passed down from generation to generation, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Yangling, with a settlement of 2,600 households, exempting him from the previous settlement.
He became the right prime minister of Qi and stationed in Qi.
Five years later, he became the prime minister of Qi.
In April, Chen Xi was attacked, led by Lieutenant Zhou Bo, who replaced Prime Minister Fan Yan as Prime Minister to attack Chen Xi.
In January, Xiangguo, who was moved to Dai, led the garrison.
Two years later, he was appointed Prime Minister of Dai State and commanded the garrison.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Fu Kuan died and Mi was given the title Jinghou.
The title was passed to his great-grandson Fu Yan, who was killed for treason and the feudal state was abolished.
Zhou Jie, a native of Pei, followed Gaozu as Zhongjuan and raised troops in Wanqu.
Attack Jiyang.
Defeat Li You's army.
Attacked the Qin army in Shumian, Kaifeng, beheaded one of the thousand generals, killed fifty-seven enemies, captured seventy-three prisoners, and granted him the title and title of Lord Linping.
They fought again in the north of Lantian, killing two chariots and horses, one cavalry commander, twenty-eight enemies, and captured fifty-seven prisoners.
Go to Bashang. Pei Gong became the king of Han, bestowed upon him the title of nobility, the title of Marquis of Jianwu, and the rank of Captain of Cavalry.
He followed the King of Han to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and then went west to attack Zhang Ping's army in Longxi and won.
Occupying six counties in Longxi, his men killed four chariot commanders, four horsemen, and twelve cavalry commanders.
Following the king of Han, he attacked the Chu army eastward and fought as far as Pengcheng.
The Han army was defeated and retreated, holding on to Yongqiu and defeating the rebellious Wang Wu and others.
He captured the Liang area and led an army westward to attack Xing Shuo's army in the south of Jun County. He won and personally captured two Xing Shuo captains, 12 Sima and Hou, and surrendered 4,680 enemy troops.
Yishu defeated the Chu army in Rongyang. There were 4,200 households in the enfeoffed towns.
He led his army to Hanoi alone and defeated the army of Chu Bi in Chaoge. His subordinates captured two enemy cavalry generals and 250 horses and chariots.
Following the king of Han, he attacked Anyang Yishu, fought as far as Jipu, and occupied ten counties.
He also led another army to defeat Tong's army and captured two enemy generals, Sima and four others, and 2,400 officials and soldiers surrendered.
He followed the King of Han to capture Handan, and then led his army to capture Pingyang. He personally beheaded the governor, and his subordinates beheaded an enemy governor and pacified Ye County.
He followed the King of Han to attack Chaoge and Handan, and led his own army to defeat the army of Chang, and captured six counties in Handan County.
Returning to Aocang, he defeated Xiang Ji in the south of Chenggao, cut off the Chu army's food and salary route, and blocked the area from Rongyang to Xiangyi.
Defeat a champion in Ludi.
The occupied land extended to Gao, Tan and Xiapi, and to Qixian and Zhuyi in the south.
Attack Xiang Han in Jiyang.
Returning his army to Chen, he attacked Xiang Ji's army and won. He led his army to pacify Jiangling.
