Liu Xun, courtesy name Wentong, was born in Jie County, Hedong. His father Shilong was Sikong in the Qi Dynasty.
When Liu Xun was seventeen years old, Emperor Wu of Qi was still a member of the Central Army, so he was appointed to join the army and transferred to the position of chief registrar.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, he was appointed Sangonglang of Shangshu, moved to Prince Zhongsheren, and became a friend of Prince Xiang of Badong.
When Zixiang was in charge of Jingzhou, Liu Xun followed him there.
Zi Xiang likes to get close to villains, but Liu Xun knew that this would be a disaster, so he returned to Beijing claiming to be ill.
When the disaster struck, Liu Xun was spared because he returned to Beijing first.
He successively served as the Minister of Zhongshu and the Commander of the Zhonghu Army.
He served as the prefect of Xin'an and lived in the county. He was dismissed and returned home on the grounds that he had no political achievements.
After a period of time, Ren Weijun proposed to join the military.
In the last years of Jianwu, he served as the captain of Xirong and the governor of Liang, Nan and Qin states.
When Emperor Gaozu raised his troops to rebel, Liu Xun led the Hanzhong troops to respond.
Emperor He ascended the throne and appointed him as a servant and a general in charge of the front army.
When Emperor Gaozu was the emperor, he was appointed as a general to protect the army. Before he was appointed, he was still moved to the position of Prince Zhan Shi.
Emperor Gaozu composed a poem and presented it to Liu Xun at the banquet. The poem goes: After you are crowned among the others at the banquet, I am the only one who really thinks about meritorious deeds.
I once chatted with Gaozu again, and Gaozu said: Xu Yuanyu disobeyed orders in Cennan, and the "Book of Zhou" is not related to the crime. I have pardoned his disciples, how about it?
Liu Xun replied: "The punishment will not be imposed on his descendants, and the rewards will be extended to future generations. Today I see the Holy Dynasty again."
At that time people called it wisdom.
Soon he was transferred to the right servant of Shangshu.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, a large-scale Northern Expedition was launched. Liang Hong, the king of Linchuan, supervised the army, with Liu Xun as his deputy.
After the army returned, they still served as servants.
Due to a long illness, he was transferred to the post of Dr. Jin Ziguanglu, with additional Sanqi regular attendants and twenty close followers.
Before becoming an official, he served as envoy Chijie, General Annan, and governor of Xiangzhou.
He died in office in October of the sixth year at the age of forty-six.
Emperor Gaozu wore plain clothes and expressed his condolences.
He was given as a gift to Shizhong and the general of the Fu army, and was given a piece of propaganda, with the posthumous title Mu.
Liu Xun is the author of "The Biography of Renzheng" and many poems and poems, which are rough and meaningful.
His son Liu Zhao succeeded him.
Liu Xun's fourth younger brother, Liu Xin, also had a good reputation and served successively as Shizhong and Zhenxi Chief.
He died in the twelfth year of Tianjian and was given to General Ningyuan and the governor of Yuzhou.
Liu Chen, also known as Wenruo, is Liu Xun's fifth younger brother.
When he was only a few years old, his father Liu Shilong and his mother Yan were often bedridden, and Liu Chen went to bed without undressing for several years.
During the period of mourning and filial piety, people are known for being excessively sad.
When he started his career, he served as Situ Xing and joined the army. He was later moved to the position of Prince Zhongsheren.
Qi Donghunhou sent Liu Shanyang, the governor of Brazil, to attack Emperor Gaozu from Jingzhou. Shi Xiao Yingzhou, the chief of the Xizhong army, could not think of any good strategies. At night, he called Liu Chen and his confidant Xi Shanwen to discuss countermeasures.
Liu Chen said: The current emperor is fatuous and rebellious, doing more and more evil every day.
Not long ago I heard that all the ministers in the capital were so frightened that they dared not even speak out; now, fortunately, we are far away from the court and are temporarily safe.
The imperial court ordered us to attack Yongzhou, but it was just a way for both sides to kill each other.
Didn't you see Xiao Lingjun's fate? He defeated Cui's army of 100,000 with thousands of elite soldiers. However, he was framed by those evil villains, which caused disaster to him.
Never forget the past and be the teacher of the future.
If the conspiracy of those villains succeeds, how do you know that you will not follow in their footsteps?
Besides, Yongzhou has a lot of soldiers, and Xiao Shijun is majestic. Liu Shanyang will definitely not be his opponent; if he defeats Liu Shanyang, we in Jingzhou will also be blamed for not executing the imperial order.
It's a real dilemma, so it should be seriously considered.
Shanwen also tried his best to persuade Tizhou to accompany Gaozu in raising troops to start a rebellion.
Yingzhou lured Liu Shanyang to death and appointed Liu Chen as General Ningshuo.
When Emperor Qi He came to the throne, Liu Chen was promoted to Shangshu Libu Lang, and he was promoted to General of the Assistant State and Prefect of Nanping.
Soon he was moved to the position of Shizhong and Champion General, and he remained as the prefect.
He was transferred to the Ministry of Personnel and did not accept the official position.
After Yingzhou was captured, Yingzhou prepared to move the capital to Xia, but Liu Chen insisted on admonishing him. He believed that Ba and Shaanxi had not surrendered yet, and they should not give up their base areas easily to shake the people's hearts.
Yingzhou didn't listen.
Soon Ba Shu's enemy troops attacked Kip Kou, and the plan to move the capital was cancelled.
Everyone said he was prescient.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he appointed Liu Chen as the Minister of the Five Arms and the leading general of the heroic cavalry.
Because of his meritorious service in the founding of the country, he was granted the title of Prefecture Lingbo and was granted the title of 700 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, he became the chief historian of Anxi, the champion general, and the governor of Nanjun.
In the sixth year, he was recruited as a regular attendant of the foreign scattered cavalry and led by the prince's right guard.
Before setting off, he moved to Chijie, supervised the military affairs of Xiangzhou, assisted the generals of the country, and was the governor of Xiangzhou.
In eight years, he was dismissed from his post for arbitrarily indulging a sergeant.
Soon after, he was appointed as Secretary Supervisor, moved as a regular attendant, and became the Minister of the Temple Department. He fell ill before he could take the official position. The imperial court issued an edict and appointed him as the official of Guanglu and Guanglu. Because his illness worsened, he did not take the official position.
Ten years later, he died at home at the age of forty-one.
As a posthumous gift to Zhongshu Ling, Mi became Mu.
His son Liu Fan inherited the title.
Xi Chanwen was born in Linjing County, Anding County.
He lost his parents when he was young and lived in poverty. He loved reading books since he was a child. At the beginning of Qi.
Xiao Chiaxu, who served as the governor of Yongzhou, joined the army, so he was very friendly with his son Xiao Yingzhou.
He also served successively as a doctor in Xizhong and joined the army and led the city bureau.
Emperor Gaozu raised an army to resist Marquis Shuhun, and Shanwen tried his best to persuade him. Xiao Yingzhou agreed to respond to Emperor Gaozu and join the rebellion. He also sent Tian Zugong to report to Emperor Gaozu secretly, and contributed a silver sword. Emperor Gaozu gave him gold Ruyi in return.
Emperor Qi He ascended the throne and appointed him as the minister of Huangmen, and soon moved to Weiqing.
Yingzhou died suddenly, and the state government was in turmoil. Shanwen thought that Emperor He was young and the tasks in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River were arduous. At that time, Xiao Qi, the king of Shixing, was staying in Yongzhou, so he and the civil and military officials from Jiangling in the Western Dynasty welcomed Xiao Qi to take charge of the affairs of Jingzhou Mansion, so the people were able to stabilize.
Emperor Gaozu accepted Zen and ascended the throne, and Shanwen was appointed as the official minister of the capital and the general of the auxiliary country.
He was granted the title of Shanyang Bo and was granted the title of Shanyang Bo, with a settlement of 700 households.
He was appointed as the prefect of Shuyang, and was granted a new title in Xiangxi, but his residence remained the same.
He served as an official for two years and was known for his innocence. He died while serving as an official.
Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to donate 30,000 yuan and 50 pieces of cloth to help with funeral arrangements.
Mi's name is power.
Wei Rui, courtesy name Huaiwen, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
Since becoming prime minister, he has assisted the three surnames. Grandfather Wei Xuan did not want to be an official and lived in seclusion in Nanshan, Chang'an.
When Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty was on the throne, he once offered a conquest for the Taiwei, but was rejected.
Uncle Wei Zuzheng was Guang Luxun in the late Song Dynasty.
His father, Wei Zugui, became the chief historian of Ningyuan.
Wei Rui was very filial to his stepmother, so he was praised by the villagers.
The elder brothers Wei Rui and Wei Chan were famous earlier.
Wei Zuan and Wei Rui were very studious, and Wei Cao was pure.
Wei Zuzheng was the county governor and often took Wei Rui to handle official business, treating him as his son.
At that time, Wei Rui's wife, brother-in-law, Wang Cheng, and aunt-in-law, Du Yun, were both well-known in the countryside.
Wei Zuzheng said to Wei Rui: Compared with Cheng and Yun, what do you think?
Wei Rui was too humble to answer.
Zu Zheng said: Your articles may be inferior to theirs, but your knowledge should surpass them, and in terms of participating in national affairs and making contributions to the country, they are not as good as you.
My cousin Du Youwen was the governor of Liangzhou and asked Wei Rui to go with him.
Liangzhou was very prosperous at that time, and most of the people who served as officials there were dismissed for being greedy for money. Although Wei Rui was very young, he was known for his integrity.
In the early years of Song Yongguang, Yuan Yun was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou. When he saw Wei Rui, he felt that he was extraordinary and took him as the chief official.
After Yuan Zhuan arrived in Yongzhou, he and Deng Wan rebelled against the imperial court. Wei Rui requested in advance to serve in Yicheng County, thus avoiding Yuan Yun's disaster.
Later, he served as the Zuo Changshi of King Ping of Jin Dynasty, moved to Sikong Guiyang to join the army, and followed Qi Sikong Liu Shilong to defend Yingcheng and resist the attack of Shen Youzhi, the governor of Jingzhou.
After the Youzhi rebellion was put down, he moved to the former army to join the army.
Much later, he was appointed magistrate of Guangde County.
He moved to Qixing prefect, Benzhou Biejia, Changshui captain, and general of the right army.
In the last years of the Qi Dynasty, the situation was in turmoil. Wei Rui did not want to stay away from his hometown, so he asked to be appointed as Shangyong Prefect and become a general in Wei.
Soon the Taiwei Chen Haoda and the guard general Cui Huijing rebelled against the imperial court and frequently invaded Jiankang, the capital. Everyone was frightened and at a loss.
People from Shu asked Wei San about the current situation, and Wei Shu said: Although Chen Xianda is a veteran, he is not a talented person in governing the world; Cui Huijing knows some things, but is cowardly and lacks courage. They should end up with a reduced clan.
The people who will bring peace to the world will probably come from our state.
So, he sent his two sons to take the initiative to make friends with Gaozu.
When Emperor Gaozu's call for an army came out, Wei San led his county soldiers to cut down bamboos and make bamboo rafts. They traveled day and night to join in, bringing a total of more than 2,000 people and 200 horses.
Emperor Gaozu was very happy to see Wei San who had come to seek refuge. He took pictures of a few cases and said, "I saw you before, but today I see your sincerity. My great mission will definitely succeed."
The rebel army conquered Ying and Lu and pacified Jiahu. Wei Guan proposed many strategies, all of which were adopted by Gaozu.
The Eastern Expedition army was about to set off from Yingcheng. When discussing the candidates for the generals who would stay in Yingcheng, Gaozu found it difficult to determine. After a long time, he turned back to Wei San and said: Give up a good horse without riding it. Where to look for it in such a hurry?
On that day, he was appointed as the champion general and the prefect of Jiangxia to handle the affairs of Ying Prefecture. When Ying City was defended, there were nearly 100,000 scholars, men and women, and the city gates were closed for nearly a year. The plague was prevalent in the city, and seven or eight out of ten people contracted the disease and died. The corpses were piled under the bed, and the living people slept on the bed. Every house was filled with corpses.
Wei Fu personally counted and inspected and comforted those who were still alive. They all cook for him so that the dead can be buried and the living can return to their hometowns to live and work in peace and contentment, so the people all depend on him.
After the establishment of the Liang Dynasty, Wei Fan was conquered as Dali.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he moved to the rank of Tingwei and was enfeoffed as the capital of Liangzi, with a settlement of 300 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, the title was changed to Yongchang, and the city was as before.
The prince is established. He moved to the right guard of the crown prince and became the general of the auxiliary state, the governor of Yuzhou, and the governor of Liyang.
Three years later, the Northern Wei army invaded the border area, and Wei San led the state troops to repel the enemy troops.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, the king's army made a northern expedition and ordered Wei San to lead the army.
Wei Jiang sent Chief Shi Wangchaozong and Liangjun Governor Feng Daogen to attack Xiaoxian City in the Northern Wei Dynasty, but failed to capture it.
When Wei San was patrolling the position, hundreds of enemy soldiers suddenly rushed out of Wei City and set up a formation outside the city gate. Wei He wanted to attack them. All the generals said: "We came here lightly armed and were not well prepared for battle. We should go back and give the soldiers armor first, and then we can attack."
Wei San said: No.
There are more than 2,000 enemy defenders in Wei City. If they defend behind closed doors, they can protect themselves. Now they rush out of the city for no reason. They must be their elite warriors. If they can be defeated, the enemy city will be defeated without attacking.
The generals still hesitated to comply. Wei Shu pointed to the talisman and said: "The imperial court gave me this thing, not for decoration. I, Wei Min, must not disobey my military orders."
So he marched to attack.
The soldiers fought desperately, but the Soviet army was defeated and fled, so they launched a fierce attack on Xiaoxian City and captured Xiaoxian City in the middle of the night.
Then, he marched against Hedan.
It turned out that Sima Chaolue and others from the right army attacked Hefei, but could not take it for a long time. Wei He inspected the local mountains and terrain. Said: I heard that water can be used to water Mangyang and seam rice can be used to water Anken. This is the terrain of Zaobao.
So it was decided to build a weir to stop Danmi, and relatives set an example. Soon, the weir and dam were built, the waterway was connected, and boats came one after another.
In the Northern Wei Dynasty, Shu and west small towns were built to protect the golden gallbladder. Tong He captured these two small towns first.
Not long after, Northern Wei reinforcements general Yang Lingyin suddenly arrived with fifty thousand troops. Everyone was afraid of losing to the Wei army and asked the court to send more reinforcements.
Wei Shu smiled and said: "The enemy has already reached the city, and we just ask for more troops. It's like we just forge weapons when we are in danger. How can we not have time?"
Moreover, when I asked for more troops, the other side also increased their troops, just like the state of Wu raised the height of Baqiu. The Shu Kingdom is as tall as the White Emperor. The most important thing in using military force is to win by surprise, not in large numbers. This has been the truth since ancient times.
So he fought with Yang Lingyin and defeated him, which calmed the morale of the army a little.
At first, after Wei San built the Feishui Weir, he sent his military leader Wang Huaijing to build a castle on the bank to protect the weir. The Northern Wei army captured Huaijing City and more than a thousand people were sunk.
Taking advantage of the victory, the Wei soldiers attacked Wei San's embankment. The force was very fierce. Pan Lingyou, the military supervisor, persuaded Wei San to retreat to Chao Lake, and the generals requested to retreat to protect Sancha.
Wei San was furious and said: "How can there be such a reason to lead the army to fight to the end, only to advance and not to retreat?"
He ordered people to fetch umbrellas, fans and military flags, and set them up at the foot of the embankment to express his unwavering determination.
Wei San had always been weak and could not ride a horse to command every battle. Instead, he would ride on a board to supervise and encourage the soldiers.
The Wei army came to attack the embankment. Wei San personally commanded his troops to fight with the Wei army. As soon as the Wei army retreated, they immediately built a fort on the embankment to hold on.
Wei San built a battleship, the height of which was equal to the Hefei city wall, to besiege Hefei city from all sides.
The people of Wei had no choice but to cry.
Wei San had prepared siege equipment, and the water in the weir was full of water, but the reinforcements from the Northern Wei Dynasty were of no use.
Wei guard general Du Yuanlun personally went to the city to supervise the battle, but was shot by a crossbow and died. The army collapsed and the city fell.
The Liang army captured more than 10,000 Wei soldiers, tens of thousands of cattle and horses, and enough silk to fill ten rooms, all of which were used as military rewards.
Wei San often received visitors during the day and studied military books at night. He would get up at midnight and light up the lamp to read until dawn, comforting the soldiers. He was always meticulous and always feared that he would fail, so the people who were recruited rushed to join him.
The specifications and standards of the places where he lived and the walls of his houses and buildings were in compliance with regulations.
After the city of Hefei was pacified, Emperor Gaozu ordered all troops to march to Shuling.
Shuling is twenty miles away from Zongcheng in the Northern Wei Dynasty. The two armies are about to fight, and an order is sent to let the troops return.
The enemy army was already very close, and the generals were worried that the Northern Wei army would pursue them later. Wei San arranged for all the baggage to be carried forward, and he rode a small car to the rear. The Northern Wei army was intimidated by Wei Ji's reputation and watched the Liang army retreat without daring to approach. The Liang army all returned safely.
Therefore, the Liang Dynasty moved the Yuzhou administrative office to Hefei.
In the fifth year, the tomb of King Wei Shishan invaded Jiutuye and besieged the governor Kenzhan in the fort. Pan's army numbered one million and built more than 40 castles.
Chandan sent the Northern Conqueror General Xuan Jisai to lead an army of 200,000 to rescue.
Xuan Jisai led his army to temporarily stationed at Yingkenbisui, built a fort, and waited and defended. Emperor Gaozu ordered Wei Shu to lead the Yuzhou army to join him.
Huanghe took a straight road from Jindan and passed through Luolu Daze. When encountering mountain streams and gorges, a flying bridge was erected to allow the army to pass.
Everyone was afraid that Jipan's army would be strong, so they all persuaded Tong He to slow down his march.
But Tong He said: Zhong Zhengcheng is now digging holes to live, and is in an extremely critical situation. Even if our chariots and horses are speeding, and our soldiers are running, we may not be able to make it in time, let alone slowing down. The people of the Northern Wei Dynasty are already under my control, so don't worry.
The army arrived at Dancheng in ten days.
At the beginning, Shandan warned Jian Moji: Huang He is a famous person in your hometown, and you should respect him well.
When Liang Sai met the emperor, he was very respectful.
After Emperor Gaozu learned about it, he said: If the two generals reconcile, the army will definitely win.
Twenty miles in front of Cao Jingzong's camp, Tong He dug a long ditch overnight, erected antlers in it, intercepted Shaoyangzhou, and built a fortress. By daybreak, the military camp was completed.
Yuan Ying was shocked when he saw it. He knocked the ground with his staff and said, "What kind of god is this?"
The next morning, Yuan Ying personally led his troops to fight. Tong He rode in an unpainted wooden cart and commanded the army Ruyi with a white horn in his hand. They fought several rounds in one day. Yuan Ying was deeply afraid of the power of the army.
Youji's army attacked the city again at Yexiang. The arrows were as dense as rain. Tong He's son Wei Die asked to go down the city wall to avoid the arrows, but Tong He refused.
The whole army was in panic. Wei San shouted loudly on the city wall, and then the morale of the army calmed down.
Before the war began, the tomb soldiers built two bridges on both sides of the fortress and erected a hundred-step-wide fence across the Huaihe River to connect the two sides.
Wei San equipped himself with tall ships and sent Feng Daogen, the prefect of Liang County, Zhan Sui, the prefect of Lujiang County, and Li Wenzhao, the prefect of Taixing County, as naval troops.
When the Huaihe River surged, Tong He immediately ordered them to attack. Ships of all sizes rushed towards the Wei army, sailed to the enemy's camp, carried firewood in small boats, poured anointing oil on them, and set fire to the enemy's bridges.
The wind was strong and the fire was strong, and the smoke and dust covered the sky and the sun. The brave soldiers pulled out the enemy's fences, cut off the bridges, and the water flow was extremely fast. Suddenly, the bridges and fences were destroyed.
Feng Daogen and others all fought in person. The officers and soldiers all fought bravely to take the lead, one against a hundred. The shouts of killing shook the heaven and the earth, and the Wei army was defeated.
Seeing that the bridge was broken, Wu Jie got away and ran away.
The soldiers of the Wei army rushed into the water and fled. As a result, more than 100,000 people drowned and as many were beheaded.
The rest abandoned their armor and knelt down, kowtowed, and begged to be taken as slaves. There were hundreds of thousands of them.
Liang Jun captured countless military equipment, grain, cattle and horses, etc.
Wei Chai sent someone to report to Chang Yi. Chang Yi was filled with joy and sorrow, and was so excited that he couldn't speak. He just shouted: "Be reborn! Be reborn!"
Emperor Gaozu sent his chief minister Zhou She to the Huaihe River to express condolences to the entire army. Wei San piled up the captured supplies in front of the army gate. After Zhou She looked at them, he said to Wei San: "General, the loot you captured this time is as high as Xiong'er Mountain."
According to meritorious deeds, Wei San was granted 700 additional households in the city, promoted to the title of Marquis, and recruited as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi and a right-guard general.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Wei Shu moved to the left guard general, and soon served as the chief historian of Anxi and the prefect of Nanjun, with a rank of two thousand stones.
It happened that Ma Xianbei, the governor of Sizhou, was returning from the Northern Expedition and was chased by the Wei army, which caused the garrison of Sanguan to become uneasy. Luan Zhidan Shao ordered Tong Zhao to lead his troops to rescue Xingxianbiao.
As soon as Huanghe arrived in Anlu, he built the city wall, raised it to more than two feet, dug a large trench, and built tall buildings. Everyone laughed at Wei Fu. This showed his cowardice. Wei San said: No, when a general should be timid, he cannot show off his bravery for a moment.
When Yuan Ying was dispatched, he was anxious for Ma Xian to escape, wanting to avenge the shame of being trapped. When he heard that the emperor was coming, he withdrew, and Emperor Wu also issued an edict to stop the troops.
In the second year, he moved to General Wu and the governor of Liaozhou.
In the ninth year, he recruited foreign Sanqi regular attendants and right-guard generals. He was repeatedly moved to Zuowei general and Prince Zhanshi, and soon became Tongzhi Sanqi regular attendant.
In the thirteenth year, the official position was moved to General Zhiwu and Danyang Yin. He was dismissed due to official business.
Soon, he was appointed as the Central Guard Army.
Fourteen years after leaving prison, Jihe was promoted to General Pingbei, Colonel Ningman, and Governor of Yuzhou.
At first, when Wei San was raising an army in the countryside, his disciples were embarrassed and cried to dissuade Tong He. Huang He returned home to serve as a state official, and was waiting on the roadside to greet him. Tong He smiled and said to him: If I had listened to you, I would have to beg for a living today.
Give him ten oxen.
Lei He treated his old friends and never left anyone out of grudges. Scholar-officials over seventy years old were often appointed as false county magistrates, and all the villagers turned to him.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian's reign, he went to the court and requested to resign. However, Emperor Gaozu issued a commendation from Shao and did not allow him to resign.
In the court, Wei Qiu was extremely docile and respectful, and never dared to look up at the emperor. Gaozu was also very respectful to him.
Tong Su had a kind and kind temperament, and raised his elder brother's orphan more thoughtfully than his own son. All the salary and rewards he received from his previous official positions were from Genzhi's wealthy family. Dun hides away. Scattered among relatives and friends, there are no extra belongings in the house.
Later, he served as a guard for the army and had nothing to do at home. He admired Wan Shi and Lu Mai as people, so he painted their portraits on the soil to admire them for himself.
Although he was already old at that time, he still personally taught several of his sons in his free days.
The third son, Wei Ling, was especially proficient in classics and history. People at the time thought he was knowledgeable and knowledgeable. Wei San was often present and Wei Leng asked him to explain the scriptures. The content he explained was often more insightful than Wei Leng's.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu was concentrating on believing in Buddhism, and the people of the world followed suit; Wei San had always been relatively weak in faith, and he was an official and a minister, so he was unwilling to be influenced by the world, and his behavior was the same as in the past.
In the summer of the first year of Liang Pongtong's reign. Wei San moved to serve as a servant and general of chariots and cavalry. Due to illness, he did not pay homage to the official position.
In August, he died at home at the age of seventy-nine.
The will requested that he be buried lightly and encased in ordinary clothes.
Emperor Gaozu came to express his condolences in person today and wept bitterly.
He was given 100,000 yuan in money, 200 pieces of cloth to store the secret utensils in the garden, and a court robe. The funeral expenses were paid by the government, and people from the Zhongshu House were assigned to supervise the execution.
Posthumously presented to the three divisions: Shizhong, Chariot and Cavalry General, and Kaifu Yitong.
Mi's name is Yan.
At the beginning of the Battle of Shaoyang, Chang Yizhi was very grateful to Wei San and invited Cao Jingzong and Wei San to gather together and set up 200,000 yuan to gamble with the government officials. Jingzong threw a pheasant, and Wei San slowly hit a pheasant. He immediately took one and turned it over, saying: "What a strange thing." So it became a plug.
At that time, Cao Jingzong competed with other generals to win first, and Wei Shu came second. He did not like to boast about his victories, which was the case in most cases. The world especially praised him for this.
Wei San's sons include Wei Fang, Wei Zheng, Wei Ling, and Wei An. Wei Fang has another biography.
Wei Zheng, whose courtesy name was Jingzhi, started his career as King Xing of Nankang and joined the army. Soon he was moved to the position of minister of Zhongshu and became the governor of Xiangyang.
In the past, Wei Zheng was very friendly with King Shuhai, Seng Ru. When Seng Ru was a minister and participated in the imperial election, all the guests and friends fawned over him, but Wei Zheng took it indifferently.
After Seng Ru was expelled and dismissed from office, Wei Zheng deepened his friendship with him, even more than before, and people praised his behavior.
He held various official positions until he served as the Minister of Huangmen.
Wei Leng was an upright person with a calm and simple temperament. He served as a historian who recorded events. He was knowledgeable and well-informed. Scholars at the time asked him to answer difficult questions.
Wei Leng started his career in Prince Ancheng's palace and joined the army. Soon he was moved to serve as the official secretary and censor, the prince's servant, and Guanglu Qing.
He is the author of three volumes of "Xu Xun of Hanshu".
Wei An was a man of straightforward writing and upright character. He studied classics and history in his youth and was quite talented in literature.
He started as a prince and gave up his family, and soon moved to the position of Taifuqing, governor of Southern Yuzhou, and Taifuqing.
Hou Jing crossed the Yangtze River, and Wei An stationed troops in six gates. Soon he was appointed as the military commander in Xigang, the governor city.
At that time, Hou Jing built two earth mountains on the east and west outside the city, and two earth mountains were built inside the city to compete with them. Taizong personally carried the earth, and all the officials from Prince Ai on down personally picked up dustpans, shovels, and shovels to participate in building the earth.
Wei An was responsible for defending Tushan in the west of the city. He fought hard day and night. For his merits in resisting the enemy, he was awarded the title of "General of Light Chariots" and "Blessing Festival".
When he died in the city, he was given posthumously as a regular attendant of Sanqi and a general of left guard.
Wei Ai, younger brother of Wei San clan.
Wei Ai, whose nickname is Xiaoyou, is calm and thoughtful.
His great-great-grandfather Wei Guang was a general in the rear army of the Jin Dynasty and the prefect of Beiping.
Great-grandfather Wei Gui moved south to Xiangyang in the early Taiyuan years of Emperor Guiwu's reign in the east, where he served as the minister of the local cavalry and scattered cavalry.
His grandfather, Wei Gongxun, served as the prefect of Yiyang in Song Dynasty.
His father, Wei Yizheng, passed away at an early age.
Wei Ai lost his father when he was young. He served his mother very filially and became famous for this.
Wei Aiqing was an upright and upright man who did not want to socialize and was dedicated to learning. He always sat alone in a shabby room, studying ancient books. The tables and chairs in the room were covered with dust and it was as quiet as if there was no one there.
When I was twelve years old, I visited the capital and happened to catch up with the emperor's trip to Nanyuan. The streets and alleys were bustling with people, old and young, vying to see him. Only Wei Ai was still sitting upright reading without letting go of the book. The tribesmen were surprised to see him like this.
When he grew up, he was erudite and talented in literature, especially proficient in the principles of Zhouyi and Chunqiu Zuoshi.
When Yuan Zhuan was the governor of Yongzhou, he recruited him to be the chief register.
When his mother passed away, he built a hut next to the tomb to live in and carried the soil to build the tomb himself.
Emperor Gaozu went to Yongzhou and after hearing about this incident, he went to express his condolences in person.
After three years of mourning, he was drafted into the army.
When Emperor Gaozu's rebel army just started, he appointed Wei Ai as a strong general, champion Nanping Wang Sima, and led Xiangyang County Magistrate.
At that time, the capital had not yet been pacified, and Yongzhou's military equipment was empty. Yan Sengdu, the prefect of Wei Xing, and others occupied the prefectures and counties to resist the rebels. The people in the state were panicked and had two minds.
Wei Ai was calm, alert and strategic. He had always been convinced by the army and the people of the state. He confided in his heart to appease the people and analyzed the changes in the situation between the enemy and ourselves. He also recruited warriors from the countryside and got more than a thousand people. He launched a fierce battle with the rebels such as Sengdu and others in the southern part of Shiping County. He defeated the enemy and the people were able to settle down.
After Xiao Yingzhou's death, Emperor Qi He recruited soldiers in Xiangyang, and Wei Ai followed Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, to apply for the army.
Before the war, Xiao Suo, the governor of Badong, and Lu Xiulie, the governor of Brazil, invaded Jingzhou. After Xiao Qi arrived, he ordered Wei Ai to write a letter to Xiao Suo, and Xiao Suo immediately asked for surrender.
In the second year of the reign of Emperor Zhongxing of Qi Dynasty, he followed Emperor He and sent him to Xia along the Yangtze River.
After Emperor Gaozu was enthroned by Zen, Wei Aijin was given the title of General of the Auxiliary State, and he was still a general of Qiaoqi. Soon he was appointed as the prefect of Ningshu. Together with Deng Yuanqi, the governor of Yizhou, he went west to attack Liu Jilian. When they marched to Gong'an, Wei Ai died of illness on the way, leaving Wei Wei Qing.
His son Wei Qianxiang was promoted to General Xiaoqi, and served as the governor of Changshi and Ruyin and Zhongli counties in the north.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen's Ministry of Civil Affairs, said: In the past, Dou Rong moved the land on the right side of the river to submit to the Han Dynasty, and eventually became a wealthy family; Liu Hui led Nanzheng to respond to Gaozu's righteous deeds, and the reputation of his family for generations has not been ruined, all because it was in line with the trend of the times. Liu Chen's plans were also very effective, which is a reflection of his wisdom.
Wei San led the mediocre troops to join Gaozu. His place was smaller than Liu Hui's, but after the battles of Hefei and Shaoyang, his achievements were even more remarkable, but he did not take any credit or be arrogant. What a gentleman!
