Prime Minister Zhang Cang is from Yangwu. He likes books, music and calendars very much.
During the Qin Dynasty, he served as the censor and was in charge of various documents and files in the palace.
Later, because of the crime, he ran away and went home.
When Pei Gong conquered the city and passed Yangwu, Zhang Cang followed Pei Gong as a guest to attack Nanyang.
Later, Zhang Cang should be beheaded for breaking the law. When he took off his clothes and leaned on the instrument of torture, he was tall and big, with skin as plump and fair as gourd seeds. Wang Ling happened to see him and marveled at how good Zhang Cang was. Therefore, Wang Ling interceded with Pei Gong and pardoned his death penalty.
In this way, Zhang Cang followed Pei Gong westward into Wuguan and arrived at Xianyang.
Pei Gong was established as the king of Han, entered Hanzhong, and soon returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
Chen Yu defeated Zhang Er, the king of Changshan, and Zhang Er surrendered to the king of Han. The king of Han appointed Zhang Cang as the governor of Changshan.
He also followed Han Xin to attack Zhao, and Zhang Cang captured Chen Yu.
After Zhao Di was pacified, the king appointed Zhang Cang as the Prime Minister of the country to guard against border enemies.
Soon after, he was transferred to Zhao Guo Xiangguo to assist Zhao Wang Zhang Er.
After Zhang Er died, he assisted Zhao Wang Zhang Ao.
Then he was transferred to Dai Guo Xiangguo to assist Dai Wang.
When King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled, Emperor Gaozu led troops to attack. Zhang Cang followed Emperor Gaozu as the acting prime minister for his meritorious service in attacking Zang Tu. In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Beiping, with a settlement of 1,200 households.
Later, Zhang Cang was promoted to the position of Prime Minister in charge of financial management. Instead, he served as chief accountant as Liehou, a position he held for four years.
At this time, Xiao He was serving as the prime minister, and Zhang Cang had been serving as the historian since the Qin Dynasty. He was very familiar with the world's books and various books. In addition, he was proficient in calculations, music and calendars, so he was ordered to stay in the prime minister's mansion as a prince and be responsible for managing the accounting books handed over by various counties.
When Yingbu failed to rebel and fled, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty appointed his son Liu Chang as king of Huainan and ordered Zhang Cang to assist him as prime minister.
Fourteen years later, Zhang Cang was promoted to the imperial censor.
Zhou Chang was a native of Peixian County. He and his cousin Zhou Ke both served as soldiers of Surabaya during the Qin Dynasty.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised an army in Pei County, he defeated the governor and eunuch of Sishui County. In this way, the two brothers Zhou Chang and Zhou Ke followed Pei Gong with their qualifications as soldiers. Pei Gong appointed Zhou Chang to be in charge of the flag, and Zhou Ke was temporarily a guest in his tent.
Later, they all followed Pei Gong into the Pass and overthrew the rule of Qiang Qin.
Pei Gong was granted the title of King of Han, and the King of Han appointed Zhou Ke as Yushi Dafu and Zhou Chang as Lieutenant.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, the Chu army surrounded the Han Dynasty in Xingyang. The situation was urgent. The Han Dynasty quietly escaped and ordered Zhou Ke to stay in Xingyang City.
The Chu army conquered Xingyang and wanted to appoint him as a general. Zhou Ke scolded him: You people should surrender to the king of Han quickly, otherwise you will be prisoners soon!
Xiang Yu was furious after hearing this and immediately cooked and killed Zhou Ke.
Therefore, the king of Han worshiped Zhou Chang as the imperial censor.
Zhou Chang often followed the King of Han and defeated Xiang Yu's army many times.
Therefore, in the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu, Zhou Chang was granted the title of Marquis of Fenyin together with Xiao He and Cao Shen. Zhou Ke's son Zhou Cheng was also granted the title of Marquis of Gao Jing because his father died for the country.
Zhou Chang is a stoic and strong man who dares to speak his mind. People like Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were in great awe of Zhou Chang.
Zhou Chang once entered the palace to perform business when Emperor Gao was resting. Emperor Gao was hugging Qi Ji. Seeing this, Zhou Chang turned around and ran away. Emperor Gao quickly chased after him. After catching up, he rode on Zhou Chang's neck and asked, "What kind of emperor do you think I am?"
Zhou Chang straightened his neck, raised his head and said: Your Majesty, you are an emperor like Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
Emperor Gao laughed loudly after hearing this, but he was most in awe of Zhou Chang.
When Emperor Gao wanted to depose the crown prince and make Qi Ji's son Ruyi the crown prince, many ministers firmly opposed it, but it didn't work.
Later, fortunately, Zhang Liang made a plan for Empress Lu, so Emperor Gao temporarily gave up the idea. Zhou Chang, on the other hand, had a tough attitude when he was admonishing the emperor. Emperor Gao asked him what the reason was, because Zhou Chang already had a stuttering problem, and when he was very angry, his stuttering became more severe. He said: Although my eloquence is not very good, I have always known that this will not work.
Your Majesty, although you want to depose the prince, I will never accept your edict.
After hearing this, Emperor Gao laughed happily.
After the incident, Empress Lu heard the above conversation in the east chamber. When she saw Zhou Chang, she knelt down and thanked him and said: If you hadn't argued hard with your reason, the prince would have been deposed.
After that, Qi Ji's son Ruyi was appointed King of Zhao at the age of ten. Gaozu was worried that if he died, King Zhao would be killed.
At that time, there was a young man named Zhao Yao, whose official position was to be the censor in charge of Fu Xi. Fang Yugong, a member of Zhao State, said to Zhou Chang, the censor doctor: "Your censor Zhao Yao is young, but he is a wizard. You must treat him differently. He will replace you in the future."
Zhou Chang smiled and said: "Zhao Yao is young and is just a small official with a sword and a pen. How could he reach such a state!"
Soon after, Zhao Yao went to serve Gaozu.
One day, Emperor Gaozu was depressed alone and sang sadly. The civil and military officials in the court didn't know why the emperor was like this.
Zhao Yao stepped forward and asked: "Your Majesty, the reason why you are so unhappy is because the King of Zhao is young, and Mrs. Qi and Queen Lu are not in harmony with each other?"
Are you worried that King Zhao will not be able to protect himself after you live forever?
Gaozu said: Yes.
Privately, I'm very worried about this and don't know what to do.
Zhao Yao said: You'd better send a noble and strong prime minister for King Zhao. This person must be someone who is respected by Empress Lu, the prince and all the ministers. Gaozu said: Yes.
This is what I think about this matter, but who among the officials in the Manchu Dynasty can take on this important task?
Zhao Yao said: Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, is a strong and upright man. Moreover, from Empress Lu and the prince to the civil and military officials of the Manchu Dynasty, everyone has always been in awe of him. Therefore, only he can take on this important task. Gaozu said: OK.
So Gaozu summoned Zhou Chang and said to him: I think I must trouble you. You must assist King Zhao for me no matter what, and you can serve as his prime minister. Zhou Chang cried and replied: I have been following Your Majesty from the beginning. Why did you just abandon me to the princes and kings halfway?
Gaozu said: I know that this is a demotion, but privately I am really worried about King Zhao. After thinking about it again and again, no one else can do it except you.
You really have no choice but to go away for me! So Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, was transferred to the position of Prime Minister of the State of Zhao.
After Zhou Chang left, a long time passed. Gaozu held the official seal of the imperial censor in his hand, gently caressed it and said: Who is the most suitable candidate for the imperial censor?
Then he looked at Zhao Yao carefully and said: No one is more suitable than Zhao Yao.
In this way, Zhao Yao was appointed as the imperial censor.
Zhao Yao also had military merits and food in the past. When he followed the imperial censor to attack Chen Xi and made meritorious service, he was named the Marquis of Jiangyi.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Dowager Lu sent an envoy to summon King Zhao to the court. Prime Minister Zhou Chang asked King Zhao to say that he was not in good health and could not go.
The envoy went back and forth three times, but Zhou Changdu always insisted not to send King Zhao to Beijing.
So Empress Lu was very worried and sent an envoy to summon Zhou Chang to the capital.
After Zhou Chang came to Beijing, he met with Empress Lu. Empress Lu scolded him very angrily: Don't you know that I hate Mrs. Qi very much?
But you didn't let King Zhao enter the capital, why?
After Zhou Chang was summoned to the capital, Empress Lu sent an envoy to summon King Zhao. Soon, King Zhao came to the capital.
More than a month after he arrived in Chang'an, he was forced to drink poison and died.
Therefore, Zhou Chang claimed that he was recovering from illness and no longer went to court to see the Queen Mother. Three years later, he too died.
Five years later, Gao Hou heard that the imperial censor Zhao Yao, the Marquis of Jiangyi, had made a plan to protect King Zhao Ruyi during the reign of Emperor Gaozu, so he removed his title of Marquis of Jiangyi to compensate for his crime, and made Ren Ao, Marquis of Guang'a, the censor.
Ren Ao turned out to be a jailer in Peixian County.
When Emperor Gaozu was still an ordinary citizen, he avoided lawsuits. The jailers could not find Emperor Gaozu himself, so they captured Empress Lu and disrespected her.
Ren Ao, who had always been close to Emperor Gaozu, was very angry when he saw this, so he wounded the jailer who was detaining Empress Lu.
When Emperor Gaozu began to raise troops, Ren Ao followed him as a guest, and later served as censor, stationed in Fengyi for two years. Emperor Gaozu established himself as King of Han, marched eastward to attack Xiang Yu, and promoted Ao to the post of governor of Shangdang County.
When Chen Kui rebelled, Ren Ao held on to the city and was not captured by the rebels. For his meritorious service, he was granted the title of Marquis of Guang'a, with a settlement of 1,800 households.
When he was in high school, he served as the imperial censor.
Three years later, he was dismissed and appointed Pingyang Marquis Cao Cheng as the imperial censor.
After the death of Empress Gao, Cao Cheng and his ministers jointly killed Lu Lu and others. Afterwards, he was removed from his official position and appointed Zhang Cang, the prime minister of the King of Huainan, as the imperial censor.
Zhang Cang, Jianghou Zhou Bo and others jointly honored Dai Wang as Emperor Xiaowen.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wen's reign, Prime Minister Guan Ying passed away and Zhang Cang succeeded him as Prime Minister.
It had been more than twenty years since the establishment of the Han Dynasty to Emperor Xiaowen. At that time, the world was just peaceful, and all the civil and military officials in the court were soldiers. However, Zhang Cang was the only one who devoted himself to exploring and revising music and calendars from the time he served as Prime Minister.
Because Emperor Gaozu entered the Pass in October and defeated the Qin Dynasty and reached Ba Shang, the old calendar of the Qin Dynasty that started the year in October was still followed.
He also speculated on the operation of the five virtues of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth, and believed that the Han Dynasty was in the period when the virtue of water was strong, so it still advocated black like the Qin Dynasty.
Zhang Cang also played the temperament pipe, adjusted the music to match the five tones and eight tones, and used this to deduce other rules to formulate the laws.
And from this, the measurement standards of various utensils were formulated as standards for all kinds of craftsmen in the world.
During his tenure as prime minister, he finally accomplished all this. Therefore, scholars who studied music and calendar throughout the Han Dynasty all studied under Zhang Cang.
And Zhang Cang likes books. In addition, he can read all kinds of books and is proficient in all kinds of knowledge, especially music and calendar.
Zhang Cang was grateful to Wang Ling who had saved his life.
The royal tomb is the Marquis of Anguo.
After Zhang Cang became noble, he often served Wang Ling as his father.
After Wang Ling's death, Zhang Cang became prime minister, but during every five-day vacation, he always visited Mrs. Wang Ling and presented her with delicious food before going home.
After Zhang Cang served as prime minister for more than ten years, a man named Gongsun Chen from the State of Lu wrote to the emperor, saying that the Han Dynasty was a period of strong native virtue, and the sign was that a yellow dragon would appear soon.
The emperor issued an edict to hand over the proposal to Zhang Cang for review. Zhang Cang thought it was not the case and threw the matter aside.
But later Huanglong actually appeared in Chengji County, Tianshui County, so Emperor Wen summoned Gongsun Chen to the court and appointed him as a doctor, making him responsible for drafting a calendar system that conformed to Tu De. At the same time, the first year was changed.
Prime Minister Zhang Cang therefore retired on his own, claiming that he had been ill for many years and would no longer go to court.
Zhang Cang once recommended someone to be a middle marquis official, but this person took advantage of his power to commit corruption and pervert the law. The emperor blamed Zhang Cang for this, and Zhang Cang resigned due to illness.
Counting it all together, Zhang Cang served as prime minister for a total of fifteen years before resigning.
Zhang Cang died in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign and was given the posthumous title Wenhou. His son Kanghou inherited the title and died eight years later.
Zhang Lei, the son of Marquis Kang, succeeded to the throne. Eight years later, the titles and fiefdoms were revoked because he was guilty of disrespecting the princes after attending their funerals.
In the past, Zhang Cang's father was less than five feet tall. After giving birth to Zhang Cang, Zhang Cang was eight feet tall. He was named a marquis and became a prime minister.
Zhang Cang's son was also very tall, but his grandson Zhang Lei was a little over six feet tall. He lost his title because of a violation of the law.
After Zhang Cang was dismissed as prime minister, he was already very old and had no teeth in his mouth. He could only live by sucking milk and used young women as his wet nurses.
He had many wives and concubines, numbering around a hundred, and anyone who had ever given birth to a child was no longer favored.
Zhang Cang finally lived to be more than a hundred years old before passing away.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia was from Liang. As a warrior who could draw strong bows and crossbows, he followed Emperor Gao to attack Xiang Yu, and was promoted to a minor official called Duiliu due to his military exploits.
When he followed Emperor Gao to attack the Yingbu rebels, he was promoted to captain.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, he was promoted to the governor of Huaiyang County.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, officials who had followed Emperor Gao in the Northern and Southern Wars and whose current salary was two thousand shi were all selected and granted the title of Marquis of Guannei. A total of twenty-four people were awarded this title, and Shen Tujia received five hundred households.
After Zhang Cang became prime minister, Shen Tujia was promoted to the imperial censor.
After Zhang Cang dismissed him as prime minister, Emperor Xiaowen wanted to appoint the queen's brother Dou Guangguo as prime minister, but he said: I am afraid that doing so will make the world think that I favor Guangguo.
Dou Guangguo was a man of great talent and good moral character, so the emperor wanted to appoint him as prime minister. But after long consideration, Emperor Xiaowen still thought he was not suitable. However, many ministers during the reign of Emperor Gao were dead, and there seemed to be no suitable candidate among the living people, so he appointed Shen Tujia as prime minister and made him a Marquis of Anhu in his original city.
Shen Tujia was an honest and upright person and did not accept private visits at home.
At that time, Deng Tong, the Taizhong doctor, was the most favored, and the emperor rewarded him with tens of millions of money.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty once went to his house to drink and have fun, which shows how much the emperor loved him.
At that time, the Prime Minister Shen Tujia went to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but Deng Tong stood beside the emperor and neglected his etiquette.
After Shen Tujia finished his speech, he continued: Your Majesty, you love your favorite and you can make him rich, but as for the etiquette in the court, you must take it seriously.
The emperor said: Please stop talking, I just have a preference for Deng Tong.
Shen Tujia came back from the court and sat in the Prime Minister's Mansion. He issued an order asking Deng Tong to come to the Prime Minister's Mansion. If he didn't come, Deng Tong would be beheaded.
Deng Tong was very frightened and went to the palace to tell Emperor Wen.
Emperor Wen said: "It's okay for you to go. I will send someone to summon you to the palace immediately."
Deng Tong came to the Prime Minister's Mansion, took off his hat and shoes, kowtowed to Shen Tujia and apologized.
Shen Tujia sat there casually, deliberately not treating him with courtesy, and at the same time scolded him: "The court is the court of Emperor Gaozu."
You, Deng Tong, are just a minor minister, but you dare to play in the main hall. You are guilty of disrespect and should be beheaded.
Whoever comes, execute it now and kill him!
Deng Tong kowtowed and his head was bleeding, but Shen Tujia still didn't say spare him.
Emperor Wen estimated that the prime minister had made Deng Tong suffer a lot, so he sent an envoy to summon Deng Tong into the palace with the emperor's official certificate. He apologized to the prime minister and said: "This is my dear minister, please spare him!"
After Deng Tong returned to the palace, he cried and said to Emperor Wen: The prime minister almost killed me!
Five years after Shen Tujia served as prime minister, Emperor Xiaowen died and Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, Chao Cuo served as internal historian. Because he was favored by the emperor, he had a high status and great power. He petitioned the emperor to change many laws and regulations. At the same time, they also discussed how to use demotion and punishment to weaken the power of the princes.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia also felt that what he said was not adopted, so he hated Chao Cuo.
Chao Cuo served as the internal historian. The gate of the internal historian's mansion originally led out of the palace from the east, which made it inconvenient for him to get in and out. So he took it upon himself to build a wall door to lead out to the south.
The wall cut through the door to the south was the outer wall of the Taishang Emperor's ancestral temple. After Shen Tujia heard about it, he wanted to use Chao Cuo's unauthorized cutting of the ancestral temple wall as a door to punish Chao Cuo and petition the emperor to kill him.
But someone among Chao Cuo's disciples told him about it. Chao Cuo was so frightened that he ran to the palace overnight, met with the emperor, surrendered to Emperor Jing, and explained the situation.
In the morning of the next day, Prime Minister Shen Tujia petitioned Chao Cuo, the internal minister, to be killed.
Emperor Jing said: The wall that Chao Cuo built was not the real ancestral temple wall, but the short outer wall of the ancestral temple, so other officials lived inside. Besides, I asked him to do this. Chao Cuo was not guilty.
After retiring from the court, Shen Tujia said to Chang Shi: I regret very much that I didn't kill Chao Cuo first, but reported it to the emperor first, only to be deceived by Chao Cuo.
After returning to the Prime Minister's Mansion, he vomited blood and died of anger, and was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
His son Shen Tumi, the co-marquis, inherited the title and died three years later.
Shentu Qubing, the son of Gonghou, succeeded to the throne and died thirty-one years later.
Shentu Qubing's son Shentu immediately succeeded to the throne. Six years later, because he committed a crime as the governor of Jiujiang by accepting gifts from the former officials, the feudal state was revoked.
After the death of Shen Tujia, Tao Qing, the Marquis of Kaifeng, and Liu She, the Marquis of Tao, successively served as prime ministers during the reign of Emperor Jing.
By the time of the current royal family, Bai Zhihou Xuchang, Pingji Hou Xue Ze, Wuqiang Hou Zhuang Qingzhai, Gaoling Hou Zhao Zhou and others had become prime ministers one after another. They were all hereditary princes, mediocre and incompetent, cautious, and being prime ministers was just a waste of time.
No one is famous for his outstanding contributions and outstanding achievements. Tai Shigong said: Zhang Cang is very proficient in writing, knowledge, music and calendar, and is a famous prime minister in the Han Dynasty. However, he put aside the opinions of Jia Sheng, Gongsun Chen and others to adopt Zhengshuo and change the color of clothes. Instead of implementing them, he chose to adopt the Zhuanxu calendar implemented by the Qin Dynasty. Why is this?
Zhou Chang is simple, strong and upright, and he is as stubborn as wood and stone.
Ren Ao was reused because of his kindness to Empress Lu in the past.
Shen Tujia can be said to be a man of uprightness, perseverance, and noble moral character, but he neither understands power nor is knowledgeable. Compared with senior prime ministers such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Chen Ping, he is probably inferior.
There were many prime ministers during the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, so I will not name them one by one, nor record their origins, place of origin, dates of birth and death, conduct, deeds, etc. For the time being, I will record the prime ministers since Emperor Wu Zhenghe's reign.
Prime Minister Che Qianqiu was from Changling. After his death, he was succeeded by Prime Minister Wei.
Prime Minister Wei was famous as a virtuous man and a native of Lu.
Because he was proficient in reading, he served as a minor official, and then gradually rose to the position of Dahonglu.
A fortune teller once gave him a fortune telling him that he could become the prime minister.
He had four sons, and he asked the fortune teller to look at them. When he came to the second son named Wei Xuancheng, the fortune teller said: This child has a noble appearance and can be made a marquis in the future.
Prime Minister Wei said: Even if I become prime minister and be granted the title of marquis, and the eldest son inherits the title of marquis, how can the second son be granted the title of marquis?
Later, Wei Xuan became the prime minister, but died of illness, and his eldest son could not inherit the throne because of a crime, according to the law at that time, so Wei Xuancheng was established.
Wei Xuancheng pretended to be mentally disturbed at the time and refused to be the heir, but in the end the court allowed him to inherit the title, and he also won a good reputation as a prince who was about to give up the title to others.
Later, because he rode a horse and broke into the ancestral temple, he was sentenced to the crime of disrespect. The emperor issued an edict and was demoted one level to become a Marquis of Guannei. He lost the title of a lord, but he still enjoyed the previous fiefdom.
After the death of Prime Minister Wei, he was succeeded by Prime Minister Wei.
Prime Minister Wei's name is Wei Xiang, and he is from Yinji.
He was promoted from a civil servant to the position of prime minister, but he was a person who liked it. He required his subordinates to wear swords, and stipulated that only when they were wearing swords could they come forward to make an announcement.
If there are subordinate officials who do not have a sword and need to go in to report something, they will have to borrow a sword from others to bring it with them before they dare to enter the house.
At that time, Jing Zhaoyin was Zhao Junguanghan. Prime Minister Wei reported to the emperor that Zhao Guanghan had committed a crime that should be dismissed. Zhao Guanghan sent people to kidnap Prime Minister Wei in an attempt to get a promise of immunity, but Prime Minister Wei firmly refused.
In this way, Mr. Si Zhifan, the prime minister's adviser, reported to the emperor, saying that Zhao Guanghan, the king of Zhao, threatened the prime minister, falsely accused the prime minister's wife of killing his maid, sent officials and soldiers to surround and search the prime minister's house, and arrested the prime minister's family members, committing the unethical crime of killing innocent people.
At the same time, it was discovered that Zhao Guanghan had dispatched the knights without authorization.
Due to his serious crime, Zhao Guanghan was sentenced to death by being cut in half. Later, some emissaries, Chen Ping and others, exposed the minister in the report, suspected of hijacking and threatening the parties without authorization, and was sentenced for the crime of disrespect. As a result, several officials below the chief minister were executed, and some were sentenced to castration and sent to the silkworm room.
Prime Minister Wei finally passed away due to illness while serving as prime minister, and his son inherited the title. Later, he also broke into the ancestral temple on horseback and committed a crime of disrespect. The emperor issued an edict to demote him one level and became a Marquis of Guannei. He lost the title of a prince, but still enjoyed the former fiefdom of his hometown.
After the death of Prime Minister Wei, Bing Ji, the imperial censor, took over his position.
Prime Minister Bing's name is Bing Ji, and he is from the state of Lu.
Because he likes reading and enforcing laws, he became a censor.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaoxuan, because of his old friendship with the emperor, he was named a prince, and then became the prime minister.
He was sensible and had intelligence and wisdom beyond ordinary people, and was praised by later generations.
He died of illness while serving as prime minister, and his son Bing Xian inherited the title.
Later, Bing Xian also broke into the ancestral temple on horseback and committed the crime of disrespect. The emperor issued an edict to demote him one level and became a Marquis of Guannei. He lost the title of a prince, but he still enjoyed the former fiefdom of his hometown.
Bing Xian served as an official until he became a servant. Because he was confused and unclear as an official, and he and his son committed malpractice and corruption for personal gain, he was dismissed from office and demoted to civilians.
After the death of Prime Minister Bing Ji, Prime Minister Huang succeeded him.
Once upon a time, there was a man in Chang'an who was good at reading faces. His name was Tian Wen. He met Prime Minister Wei, Prime Minister Wei, and Prime Minister Bing, who were not high-ranking officials at that time, when they were guests. Tian Wen said: "The three gentlemen here now will all be prime ministers in the future."
Later, these three people became prime ministers one after another. How could this man have such foresight!
Prime Minister Huang's name is Huang Ba, and he is from Huaiyin.
Because he liked reading, he became an official and became the prefect of Yingchuan.
When governing Yingchuan, he used etiquette, regulations and decrees to teach and influence the people.
If someone is guilty of a serious crime and should be beheaded, Xiao Zhi will rationally let him commit suicide.
His teachings spread throughout the world, and his reputation was known far and near.
Emperor Xiaoxuan specially issued a document for this purpose, saying: Huang Ba, the prefect of Yingchuan, used propaganda laws to govern the people, so no one picked up relics on the road, men and women went their own way, and there were no prisoners who committed serious crimes in the prison.
The title of Marquis of Guannei is specially given and one hundred catties of gold.
In this way, he was recruited by the emperor to the capital as Jing Zhaoyin, and later became prime minister. During his tenure as prime minister, he still governed the country with etiquette and justice, and finally died of illness while serving as prime minister.
After his death, his son inherited the title and was later made a prince.
After Prime Minister Huang died, the emperor appointed Yu Dingguo, the imperial censor, to take his place.
Prime Minister Yu Dingguo already has a biography of Tingwei, which is included in the biography of "Zhang Tingwei".
After Prime Minister Yu resigned, Wei Xuancheng, the imperial censor, took over his position.
Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng is the son of the Prime Minister Wei Xian mentioned earlier.
He inherited his father's title, but later lost his title due to breaking the law.
Wei Xuancheng has loved reading since he was a child and is very familiar with "The Classics" and "The Analects of Confucius".
When he reached the rank of Weiwei as an official, he was promoted to Prince Taifu.
After Mr. Xue, the imperial censor, was dismissed, Wei Xuancheng became the censor.
After the Prime Minister requested to retire and return to his hometown, and the Emperor agreed to his resignation, Wei Xuancheng became the Prime Minister again. The emperor named him Fuyang Marquis after his old feudal city of Fuyang.
A few years later, he died of illness. Emperor Xiaoyuan personally attended his funeral and gave him a particularly generous reward.
Wei Xuancheng governed the country in a harmonious and unconventional way. He was able to follow the world and be ups and downs, but some people called him flattery and opportunistic.
The fortune teller had long said that he should replace his father and inherit the title, but he lost it after he got it. Then, he wandered around again and made a comeback, reaching the rank of prime minister.
At the same time, both father and son became prime ministers. Both father and son were prime ministers, and people talked about it well at that time. Isn't this destiny?
The person meeting you knew in advance that something like this would happen.
After the death of Prime Minister Wei, Kuang Heng, the imperial censor, took over his position.
Prime Minister Kuang Heng was from Donghai.
He loves reading and once studied the Book of Songs with a doctor.
Because his family was poor, he had to work for others to make ends meet.
His talent was low and he took the court's talent selection exam many times, but failed. He only managed to pass the C-level exam at the ninth time.
As for the scriptures, he was very familiar with them because he failed many examinations.
Later, he became a candidate for Pingyuan County Literature and History.
After several years, no one in the county respected him.
At this time, the imperial censor summoned him to Beijing, and as a candidate for the Baishi official, he was recommended as a Langguan, a supplementary doctor, and was worshiped as the prince's young master to serve Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Emperor Xiaoyuan liked the Book of Songs, so he promoted Kuang Heng to the rank of Guang Luxun, and asked him to serve as a teacher in the palace, teaching the emperor's courtiers. The emperor also sat next to him and listened to the lectures, and admired him very much. Therefore, his status became more and more noble day by day.
Zheng Hong, the imperial censor, was dismissed from office for breaking the law, and Mr. Kuang Heng succeeded him as the censor.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng passed away, and Mr. Kuang succeeded him as Prime Minister and was named Marquis of Le'an.
In ten years, he rose to the rank of prime minister without leaving the city gate of Chang'an. Isn't this a good opportunity and destiny?
Tai Shigong said: I have thought over and over again that scholars travel all over the world in order to obtain high-ranking officials and generous salaries, but there are too few people who can get the title of marquis!
Most people will step down after reaching the position of imperial censor.
These people have already become censors and are one step away from the position of prime minister. They hope in their hearts that the prime minister will die immediately so that they can take his place.
There are also people who engage in conspiracy and conspiracy, secretly slandering and slandering, hoping to gain power.
But some people wait for a long time but don't get it; while some people don't wait long and get promoted to the throne and are named princes: this may be really destiny!
Mr. Zheng, the imperial censor, waited for many years and did not get the position, but Mr. Kuang served as the imperial censor for less than a year. Prime Minister Wei died and he was replaced immediately. Could this position be obtained by cleverness?
And those who have the talents of saints and sages have been in poverty for many years without being used. This is really too many!
