King Wu Liu Bi was the son of Liu Zhong, the brother of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Seven years after Emperor Gaozu pacified the world, he named Liu Zhong the acting king.
Later, when the Xiongnu attacked Dai, Liu Zhong could not hold on, so he abandoned the country and fled. He took a small road to Luoyang and surrendered to the emperor.
Because the emperor was a brother of flesh and blood, he could not bear to be punished according to law, so he only deposed the king and demoted him to be the Marquis of Heyang.
In the autumn of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu, King Yingbu of Zhunnan rebelled, annexed the Jing territory to the east, hijacked the troops of the local princes, crossed the Huai River to the west, and attacked Chu State. Emperor Gaozu personally led the army to punish him.
Liu Zhong's son, Peihou Liu Bi, was twenty years old and strong. As a cavalry commander, he followed Gaozu and defeated Yingbu's army at Huizhen in the west of Qixian County. Yingbu fled.
King Liu Jia of Jing was killed by Yingbu and had no heirs.
The emperor was worried that the people in Wu and Kuaiji were frivolous and aggressive, and there was no brave king to restrain them. His sons were young, so he made Liu Bi the king of Wu in Pei, with jurisdiction over three counties and fifty-three counties.
After he had received his official seal, Emperor Gaozu asked Liu Bi to come and see him. After seeing him, he said: "You have a rebellious appearance."
At the same time, he felt regret in his heart, but he had already appointed him, so he patted him on the back and warned him: "There will be a rebellion in the southeast in the fifty years after the founding of the Han Dynasty. Is it you?"
However, everyone with the same surname is one family, so you must not rebel!
Liu Bi kowtowed and said, "I don't dare."
By the time of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the world had just stabilized, and the princes of some counties were working hard to appease their own people.
Wu State owned the copper mines in Yuzhang County, so Liu Bi recruited desperadoes from all over the world to mint money privately and boil seawater to make salt. Because of this, the state did not levy taxes and the state expenses were very abundant.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Crown Prince of Wu came to Beijing for an audience and was able to accompany the Crown Prince to drink and play chess.
Prince Wu's teachers were both from Chu. They were frivolous, strong, and arrogant. When they were playing chess with the crown prince, they had an argument over the chess game and their attitude was disrespectful. The crown prince picked up the chessboard and threw the chessboard at Prince Wu, killing him. Afterwards, his body was sent back to Wu for burial.
When they arrived at the state of Wu, King Wu said angrily: If a family with the same surname in the world died in Chang'an, they should be buried in Chang'an. Why should they be sent to the state of Wu for burial?
The body was then sent to Chang'an for burial.
From then on, the King of Wu gradually disobeyed the etiquette that his vassals should abide by, claiming to be ill and refusing to enter the court.
The people in the capital knew that he claimed to be ill and refused to enter the court because his son had died. After questioning, he was indeed not ill. After that, when the envoys of the King of Wu came, they detained him, questioned him, and punished him.
The King of Wu was frightened and even more actively planned rebellion.
Later, the King of Wu sent someone to Beijing for the autumn invitation, and the emperor questioned the envoy again. The envoy told the emperor: The King of Wu is indeed not sick. The imperial court detained and punished several envoys, so he claimed that he was ill and could not come back.
And there is such a thing: it is unlucky to see fish in a deep pool.
Now the King of Wu began to pretend to be sick. When the court noticed and was severely questioned, he became more and more eager to conceal his behavior for fear that the emperor would kill him. The plan of claiming to be sick was out of helplessness.
It is hoped that the emperor will put aside his past grudges and give King Wu a chance to start over.
So the emperor pardoned Wu's envoys and allowed them to go back. He also gave King Wu a few swords and a staff, thinking that he was old and could not go to the capital to see him.
The king of Wu was able to absolve him of his sins, and the rebellion was relaxed.
However, the feudal state where he was located had no income from copper salt, so the people did not pay taxes.
Soldiers are paid in lieu of service and the price is fair.
At a certain time every year, they visit talented people and give rewards to common people.
The king of Wu took in fugitives who were wanted by law officials from other counties and did not hand them over.
After doing this for more than forty years, the king of Wu was able to control and utilize his people.
Chao Cuo served as the prince's family order and gained the prince's favor. He encouraged the prince many times to say that the king of Wu was guilty and his fiefdom should be reduced.
He also wrote many times to persuade Emperor Wen. Emperor Wen was generous and could not bear to punish him, so King Wu became even more arrogant.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo became the imperial censor, and advised the emperor: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu had just settled the world, he had few brothers and young sons, so he widely enfeoffed people with the same surname. Therefore, his concubine, King Tuohui, was granted the title of King of Qi and ruled over more than 70 counties.
Now, because of the suspicion that his son had been beaten to death in the past, King Wu pretended to be ill and refused to go to the capital to see him. According to ancient laws, he deserved to be killed. Emperor Wen couldn't bear it, so he rewarded him with a seat and a cane.
He was very kind to him and should have reformed.
But he became even more arrogant and excessive, casting coins from copper mines, boiling sea water to make salt, seducing desperadoes from all over the world, and plotting rebellion.
Cutting him off now is also a rebellion, and not cutting him down is also a rebellion.
If you reduce it, it will be done quickly and the disaster will be small; if you don't reduce it, it will be done late and the disaster will be great.
In the winter of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, the King of Chu came to court. Chao Cuo took this opportunity to say that when King Liu Wu of Chu was in mourning for Empress Dowager Bo last year, he had secretly committed adultery in the house where he lived in mourning, and requested that he be killed.
Emperor Jing issued an edict to pardon his death penalty, but only reduced Donghai County as punishment.
Subsequently, Wu's Yuzhang County and Kuaiji County were reduced.
Two years ago, King Zhao reduced his Hejian County because of his guilt.
Liu Xuan, the king of Jiaoxi, reduced his six counties due to fraud in the sale of titles.
The ministers of the Han Dynasty were discussing reducing King Wu's land.
Wu King Liu Bi was worried that there would be no end to the land expropriation, so he wanted to take the opportunity to reveal his plot and raise an army to attack.
He also thought that there was no one among the princes who could make plans together, and knew that the King of Jiaoxi was brave and eager to fight for victory. Several princes and kings in the same area were afraid of him, so he sent Ying Gao, the middle official, to seduce the King of Jiaoxi.
There is no letter, but a verbal notification: The King of Wu is not talented and has worries that will come soon. He does not dare to treat himself as an outsider, so that you can understand his good intentions.
King Jiaoxi said: Any advice?
Ying Gao said: Now the emperor appoints ministers, is deceived by evil ministers, likes the immediate interests, listens to slander, changes laws without authorization, seizes the fiefdoms of princes, demands more and more fiefdoms, and kills and punishes good people. These situations are becoming more and more serious.
As the saying goes: After eating rice bran, you will eat rice.
The King of Wu and the King of Jiaoxi are famous princes. Once they are noticed, they may not be able to live in peace and freedom.
The King of Wu suffered from internal illness and had been unable to see the emperor for more than twenty years. He was once worried about being suspected and had no way to explain it. Now he hunched his shoulders and walked in small steps, still afraid of not being understood.
I heard that the king was punished for selling his title. I heard that the feudal lords had their fiefdoms reduced. The crime should not be punished in this way. I am afraid that this kind of punishment can only end with the loss of land.
King Jiaoxi said: Yes, there is such a thing.
What do you think we should do?
Ying Gao said: Those who hate each other help each other, those who have the same hobbies stay with each other, those with the same emotions help each other, those who have the same desires pursue the same, and those with the same interests die together.
Now the King of Wu thinks that he has the same worries as the King. He is willing to take the opportunity to comply with the situation and sacrifice his body to eliminate harm to the world. Can you think about it?
King Jiaoxi said in surprise: How dare I do this?
Although the emperor is now threatening and urgent, I am already guilty of capital punishment. How can I not support him?
Ying Gao said: Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, deceived the emperor, invaded the princes, and blocked the loyal and virtuous people. All the ministers in the court felt hatred and resentment, and the princes all had the intention of betrayal. He has done his best to serve the people.
Now comets appear and locust plagues continue to occur. This is the only opportunity that comes once in a lifetime, and the time of sorrow and labor is the era when saints are born.
Therefore, the king of Wu wanted to use the crusade against Chao Cuo as an excuse at home, and follow the king's chariot outside, galloping around the world, making the places he faced surrender, and conquering the places pointed by his fingers. No one in the world dared to disobey.
If your Majesty can promise me a word, then the King of Wu will lead the King of Chu to capture Hangu Pass, guard the grain of Aocang in Xingyang, and resist the Han soldiers.
Build a house for the army to be stationed and wait for the arrival of the king.
If the king really comes, then the world can be annexed. Isn't it also possible for two monarchs to divide and rule the world?
King Jiaoxi said: OK.
Ying Gao went back to report to the King of Wu. The King of Wu was still worried that the King of Jiaoxi would not participate in the rebellion, so he personally acted as an envoy to Jiaoxi and made an alliance with the King of Jiaoxi in person.
Some of the officials in Jiaoxi learned about King Jiaoxi's rebellion plan and advised him: "Serving an emperor is the happiest thing."
Now the king and the king of Wu are marching westward. If things succeed, the two masters will definitely have differences and disputes, and disaster will start from here.
The land of the princes is less than two-tenths of the imperial counties, and betraying the imperial court will also worry the Queen Mother. This is not a long-term solution.
King Jiaoxi refused to listen.
So he sent envoys to join forces with the King of Qi, the King of Sichuan, the King of Jiaodong, the King of Jinan, and the King of Jibei. They all agreed and said: For the sake of justice, King Chengyang Jing will attack those surnamed Lu. Don't let him participate in the army. After the incident is completed, just give him some land.
The princes were shocked and frightened by the recent punishment of reducing their land, and most of them resented Chao Cuo.
When the documents to reduce the Wu Guoji and Yuzhang counties were sent to the state of Wu, the king of Wu first launched an army to rebel. On Bingwu of the first month, the king of Jiaoxi killed the officials sent by the court with less than 2,000 shi, as did the kings of Jiaodong, Sichuan, Jinan, Chu, and Zhao, so they marched westward.
King Qi later regretted it and committed suicide by taking poison, violating the covenant.
The King of Jibei's city wall was damaged and had not been repaired, so his lieutenant ordered him to be kidnapped and guarded so that he could not send troops.
The King of Jiaoxi was the leader, and together with the King of Jiaodong, the King of Sichuan and the King of Jinan, they led troops to besiege Linyi.
King Liu Sui of Zhao also rebelled and secretly sent envoys to the Xiongnu to discuss joint operations.
When the Seven Kingdoms launched a rebellion, the King of Wu conscripted all his soldiers and ordered the whole country: I am sixty-two years old and personally command the army.
The youngest son is fourteen years old and also leads the way.
Therefore, people who are the same age as me, and the same age as my youngest son at the lowest level, all have to go to war.
More than 200,000 people were conscripted.
He sent envoys to Minyue and Dongyue to the south, and Dongyue also sent troops to follow the king of Wu.
In the first month of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, King Wu first set out from Guangling.
He crossed the Huaihe River to the west and joined the Chu army.
The letter sent by an envoy to the princes said: King Wu Liu Bi respectfully greets the king of Jiaoxi, King of Jiaodong, King of Suichuan, King of Jinan, King of Zhao, King of Chu, King of Huainan, King of Hengshan, King of Lujiang, and the son of the late King of Changsha: I hope to get your advice!
Because there are treacherous ministers in the court who have done nothing for the world, but they invade the land of the princes, send officials to impeach, arrest, interrogate and punish the princes, and only insult the princes. They do not treat the Liu family's relatives with the etiquette of princes and kings. They ignore the meritorious officials of the late emperor, promote and appoint bad people, confuse the world, and want to harm the country.
Your Majesty is frail, sick and mentally disturbed, and cannot clearly understand the political situation.
I want to raise an army to punish them, and I respectfully follow your advice.
Although our country is small, the land is only three thousand miles in radius; although the population is small, we can prepare 500,000 elite soldiers.
I have been serving South Vietnam for more than thirty years, and their monarchs have not refused to recruit and assign soldiers to follow me into the army, and I can get more than three hundred thousand people.
Although I am not talented, I am willing to follow all the princes personally.
Yue is bordering Changsha. They can follow the son of the King of Changsha to pacify the north of Changsha, and then attack Shu and Hanzhong westward.
I sent people to tell the King of Dongyue, the King of Chu, and the King of Huainan to attack westward with me. After the kings of Qi and King Zhao pacified Hejian and Hanoi, some of them entered Linjin Pass and some joined me in Luoyang. King Yan and King Zhao originally had an alliance with the Xiongnu.
I hope everyone will work hard.
The sons of King Yuan of Chu, King Huainan, King Hengshan, and King Lujiang of Huainan have been focusing on their own affairs for more than ten years. Their resentment has been deeply rooted in their bones and they have wanted to take action for a long time. However, I do not know the kings' intentions and dare not obey orders.
Now if the princes can preserve and perpetuate the country that is about to be extinct, support the weak and hoe the strong, and stabilize the Liu family, this is what the Ancestral Temple Sheji hopes.
Although our country is poor, I have saved the cost of food and clothing, saved money, repaired weapons and armor, and accumulated food, working day and night for more than thirty years, all for today. I hope all the kings will work hard to take advantage of these conditions.
Anyone who captures and kills a general will be rewarded with five thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households; whoever captures and kills a general will be rewarded with three thousand catties of gold and five thousand households; whoever captures and kills a deputy general will be rewarded with two thousand catties of gold and two thousand households. If an official with a salary of two thousand dan is arrested and killed, he will be rewarded with a thousand catties of gold and a thousand households with food. If an official with a salary of one thousand dan is arrested, he will be rewarded with 500 catties of gold and 500 households with a fief. Those who have meritorious service above can be made marquises.
Those who surrendered with an army or a city with ten thousand soldiers and ten thousand households in the city were treated like generals; soldiers with five thousand households in the city were treated like generals; soldiers with three thousand households in the city were treated like lieutenants; soldiers with one thousand households in the city were treated like officials with two thousand stones; those small officials who surrendered also received titles and rewards according to their positions.
Other rewards were doubled as stipulated by the Han Dynasty.
The number of people in the original enfeoffed cities will only increase and will not remain the same.
I hope that the kings will clearly declare to the scholar-bureaucrats that I dare not deceive them.
My money is available everywhere in the world, and I don't necessarily have to come to Wu to get it. The kings can use it day and night and they can't use it up.
Someone who deserves a reward tells me that I will go and give it to him.
Respectfully inform the kings.
After the emperor was notified of the rebellion of the seven kingdoms, the emperor sent Taiwei Tiaohou Zhou Yafu to lead thirty-six generals to attack Wu and Chu; he sent Qu Zhouhou Liji to attack Zhao; general Luan Bu attacked Qi; General Dou Ying was stationed in Xingyang to monitor the armies of Qi and Zhao.
When Wu Chu and other rebellious letters were heard, the Han Dynasty's army had not yet set off, and Dou Ying had not yet set out to praise Yuan An, the prime minister of the former King of Wu, to the emperor.
Yuan Ang was relaxing at home at the time, and the emperor summoned him to see him.
The emperor was planning the army and rations with Chao Cuo. The emperor asked Yuan Ang: "You once served as the prime minister of the King of Wu. Do you know the character of Wu's minister Tian Lubo?"
Now that Wu Chu is rebelling, what do you think?
Yuan Ang replied: It's not worth worrying about, we can defeat them immediately.
The emperor said: The king of Wu relied on copper mines to mint coins, boil seawater to make salt, seduce the world's heroes, and raised his troops to rebel when his hair was gray. How could he launch a rebellion without a comprehensive plan?
Why do you say he can't make a difference?
Yuan Ang replied: It is true that the copper mines in Wu State are beneficial to boiling salt. Where can I get heroes and seduce them?
If King Wu can really get heroes, he should help King Wu do what is reasonable, and he will not rebel.
Those whom the King of Wu seduced were all scoundrels, treacherous men who fled to make money, so they seduced each other and rebelled.
Chao Cuo said: Yuan An’s analysis is correct.
The emperor asked: How can we come up with good countermeasures?
Yuan An said: I hope to reject the people on the left and right.
The emperor asked everyone around him to retreat, but Chao Cuo remained.
Yuan An said: Even a minister cannot know what I say.
So he dismissed Chao Cuo again.
Chao Cuo hurried to the east chamber to escape, and was very angry about this.
The emperor finally asked Yuan An again, and Yuan An replied: The letters exchanged between Wu and Chu said that the emperor Gaozu appointed the Liu family's children as kings and had their own enfeoffed lands. Now the traitor Chao Cuo has demoted and punished the princes without authorization, and deprived the princes of their land.
In the name of rebellion, they jointly attacked to the west and jointly punished Chao Cuo. They would stop fighting when the original fiefdom was restored.
The current strategy is to kill Chao Cuo, send envoys to pardon the sins of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, and restore the original reduced fiefdoms. Then the war can be over without blood staining the weapons.
So the emperor was silent for a long time and said: What is the real situation? I will not reject the world just because I love someone.
Yuan An said: There is no stupid plan of mine beyond this. I hope the emperor will seriously consider it.
So Yuan Ang was appointed Taichang, and Dehou, the son of King Wu's younger brother, was appointed Zongzheng.
Yuan Ang prepares his luggage secretly.
More than ten days later, the emperor sent a lieutenant to summon Chao Cuo and tricked Chao Cuo into taking a car to patrol the Dongshi. Chao Cuo was killed in Dongshi wearing the clothes of the previous emperor.
Then Yuan An was sent as Taichang to serve the ancestral temple, and Dehou as Zongzheng to assist relatives, to inform the King of Wu according to Yuan An's plan.
When they arrived in the state of Wu, Wu Chu's army had already attacked the Liang state camp.
Because Zong Zheng was a relative, he went to see the King of Wu first and told the King to kneel down and accept the edict.
When King Wu heard that Yuan An was coming, he also knew that he wanted to convince him, so he smiled and replied: I have become the Eastern Emperor, who else should I kneel down to?
He refused to see Yuan An and detained him in the army, hoping to force Yuan An to become a general.
Yuan An refused, so he sent people to surround and guard him, and were about to kill him. Yuan An was able to escape under the cover of night, left on foot, ran to King Liang's military camp, and then returned to the court to report.
Tiaohou took a six-horse carriage and met at Xingyang.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he saw Ju Meng and said happily: "The Seven Kingdoms rebelled. I arrived here in a carriage. I didn't expect to arrive safely."
I thought that the princes had already obtained Ju Meng, but Ju Meng had no intention of raising an army now.
I have taken Xingyang again, and there is nothing to worry about east of Xingyang.
When he arrived in Huaiyang, he asked his father, Jianghou's former retainer Deng Duwei, "How can I come up with a good strategy?"
The retainer said: Wu Bing is very energetic and it is difficult to win against him. Chu soldiers are impetuous and cannot maintain their vigor for long.
Now I propose a strategy for the general. It is better to lead the army to build a fortress in Changyi in the northeast and give up the Liang State to the Wu Army. The Wu Army will definitely attack Liang with all its elite troops.
The general dug deep trenches and built high fortifications to hold on, and sent lightly-armed troops to cut off the confluence of the Huai River and the Surabaya River and block the Wu army's food route.
Due to the stalemate between Wu and Liang, they were exhausted and their food supplies were exhausted. Then the troops that maintained their strength and vigor were used to subdue those extremely exhausted armies, and it was inevitable to defeat Wu. Tiao Hou said: OK.
According to his plan, he stayed in the south of Changyi, and then sent lightly-armed troops to cut off Wu's army's food routes.
When King Wu first sent troops, Wu Chen Tian Lubo was the general.
Tian Lubo said: If the army gathers together to march westward, it will be difficult to succeed if there is no other way to produce surprise troops.
I would like to lead 50,000 people, and go up along the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, gather the troops from Huainan and Changsha, attack Wuguan, and join forces with the king. This is also a strange plan.
Prince Wu advised: "My father takes rebellion as his banner. It is difficult to entrust such an army to others. What should I do if I entrust others to rebel too?"
Moreover, having an army to act alone has many other advantages and disadvantages that cannot be known in advance, and it will only harm yourself in vain.
King Wu did not agree to Tian Lubo's suggestion.
A young general Huan from the state of Wu said to the king of Wu: The state of Wu mostly has infantry, and infantry is suitable for fighting in difficult terrain; the Han army has many chariots and cavalry, and the chariots and cavalry are suitable for fighting on flat ground.
I hope that if the cities that the king passes through cannot be captured, he will simply give up and leave, quickly march westward to occupy the Luoyang armory, eat Aocang's grain, and rely on the dangers of the mountains and rivers to command the princes. Even if he cannot enter the pass, the overall situation of the world has actually been settled.
If the king is slow to advance and stays to attack the city, and the Han army's chariots and cavalry arrive and rush into the countryside of Liang and Chu, the matter will fail.
The King of Wu consulted the old generals for their opinions. They said: This young man's strategy for charging is okay. How can he know the far-reaching strategy?
So the King of Wu did not adopt General Huan's plan.
King Wu arbitrarily concentrated his troops and led the troops in person. Before crossing the Huaihe River, many guests were awarded the positions of general, lieutenant, marquis, and Sima. Only Zhou Qiu was not appointed.
Zhou Qiu was from Xiapi and fled to Wu. He liked drinking and had bad conduct. King Liu Bi of Wu despised him and did not appoint him.
Zhou Qiu paid homage to King Wu and said to him: Because I have no talent, I cannot serve in the army.
I dare not ask to lead the army. I hope that if you get a Han Dynasty talisman from your Majesty, I will be able to repay you.
The king of Wu gave him the talisman.
Zhou Qiu got the talisman and drove into Xiapi overnight.
When Xiapi heard that King Wu had rebelled, they all defended the city.
Zhou Qiu arrived at the guest house and summoned the magistrate of Xiapi County.
The county magistrate walked in and asked his entourage to kill him on the pretext of the crime.
Then he summoned the wealthy officials who were friends with his brothers and told them: King Wu's rebel army is coming. After arriving, the people in Shajinpi City will only have time to eat.
If you surrender now, your family will be saved, and talented people will be granted the title of marquis.
After these people went out, they told each other that all the people in Xiapi surrendered.
Zhou Qiu got 30,000 men in one night, sent someone to report to the king of Wu, and led his army to the north to capture the city.
By the time they reached Chengyang, the army had grown to more than 100,000 people and they defeated Lieutenant Chengyang's army.
Later, when he heard that King Wu was defeated and fled, he thought that no one would be able to achieve success with him, so he led the army back to Xiapi.
Before arriving, he died of a sore attack on his back.
In mid-February, King Wu's army was defeated and fled, so the emperor issued an order to the generals: I heard that those who do good will be rewarded with blessings by God; those who do evil will be rewarded with disaster.
Emperor Gaozu personally commended his merits and granted titles to princes. The titles of King You and King Mouhui were cut off. Emperor Xiaowen took pity on them and gave them special favors. He named Sui, the son of King You, and Yan, the son of King Mouhui, as kings. They allowed them to worship their ancestors in their ancestral temples and became vassal states of the Han Dynasty. Their kindness matched that of heaven and earth, and their light was as bright as the sun and moon.
King Wu Liu Bi violated kindness and morality, seduced the world's fugitive sinners, disturbed the world's coins, and refused to attend court in Beijing for more than 20 years, claiming to be ill. The ministers in charge petitioned many times to punish Liu Bi for his crimes. Emperor Xiaowen forgave him and hoped that he could change his ways and become a good person.
Now he actually made a covenant with King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Zhao, King Liu Xian of Jiaoxi, King Liu Piguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Sichuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Jiaodong, and committed rebellious and immoral acts. He sent troops to endanger the ancestral temple, massacred ministers and envoys of the Han Dynasty, coerced tens of millions of people, killed innocent people indiscriminately, burned down civilian houses, dug graves, and was extremely cruel.
Now Liu Xun, the king of Jiaoxi, and others are even more rebellious and unruly, burning down the ancestral temple and plundering the royal utensils in the ancestral temple. I hate them very much.
I wore white clothes and avoided the main hall. The generals wanted to encourage the scholar-bureaucrats to attack the rebels.
When attacking a rebel enemy, it is meritorious to go deep into the enemy's army and kill as many enemies as possible. The captured officials must be killed if their salary is more than 300 dan and do not release them.
Anyone who dares to discuss the imperial edict or do not act in accordance with the edict will be punished by being cut in half.
At the beginning, the King of Wu crossed the Huaihe River and marched westward with the King of Chu. They defeated the Han army at Jibi and moved forward with great vigor.
King Xiao of Liang was afraid and sent six generals to attack King Wu. Two of King Liang's generals were defeated again, and the soldiers fled back to Liang.
The King of Liang repeatedly sent envoys to report the situation to Tiaohou and ask for help, but Tiaohou refused.
He also sent envoys to speak ill of Tiaohou in front of the emperor. The emperor sent people to ask Tiaohou to rescue Liang State, but Tiaohou still insisted on a strategy that was beneficial to him and refused to send troops.
The King of Liang sent Han Anguo and Zhang Yu, the younger brother of the Prime Minister of Chu who was killed for state affairs, as generals, and was able to slightly defeat the Wu army.
The army of the state of Wu wanted to march westward, but the state of Liang held on to the city. The army of Wu did not dare to advance westward, so they ran to the place where Tiaohou was garrisoned and met Tiaohou's army in Xiayi.
The Wu army wanted to fight Tiaohou, but Tiaohou stood firm and refused to fight. Wu's army was short of food and its soldiers were hungry. They challenged Tiaohou several times to no avail, so they attacked Tiaohou's camp at night and harassed the southeastern corner of the formation.
Tiaohou sent people to guard the northwest, and the enemy invaded from the northwest.
The Wu army was defeated. Most of the soldiers starved to death, and some defected and dispersed.
So King Wu and his men, thousands of strong men, fled overnight, crossed the Yangtze River and fled to Danyang, where they were protected by Dongyue.
There were about 10,000 troops in East Vietnam, and they also sent people to take in the deserters gathered in Wu.
The Han Dynasty sent people to lure Dongyue with huge profits. Dongyue deceived the King of Wu and asked the King of Wu to go out to comfort the army. He sent people to assassinate the King of Wu with a spear and halberd, put his head on his head, and sent an express train to quickly report to the emperor.
The sons of King Wu, Zihua and Ziju, fled to Minyue.
When the King of Wu abandoned his army and fled, his army collapsed, and most of them surrendered to the armies of Taiwei and King Liang one after another.
King Liu Wu of Chu was defeated and committed suicide.
The kings of Jiaoxi, Jiaodong and Sichuan of Qi besieged Linyi of Qi and could not capture it for three months.
When the Han army arrived, King Jiaoxi, King Jiaodong, and King Sichuan each led their armies back.
The King of Jiaoxi then sat on a straw mat, shirtless and barefoot, drinking water and apologizing to his mother, the Queen Mother.
Crown Prince Liu De said: The Han army has come from afar. I think they are already very tired. I can attack them. I hope to collect the remaining troops of the king to attack the Han army. If the attack fails, it is not too late to flee to the sea.
The King of Jiaoxi said: My soldiers have been dispersed and can no longer be mobilized.
Didn't listen to the prince's words.
Gong Gaohou, the general of the time, sent a letter to the King of Jiaoxi: "If you come to punish the unjust people under the imperial edict, those who surrender will have their sins forgiven and their original titles and lands restored; those who do not surrender will be killed."
What will your Majesty do? I am waiting for a reply to take appropriate action.
The King of Jiaoxi went to the Han army's camp and knelt bare-chested and begged: "I, Liu Xun, violated the king's law and disturbed the people, so the general came all the way to this poor country and asked to be punished for my crime of being cut into pieces."
Marquis Gonggao came to see him holding a golden drum and said: The king is suffering from the war. I want to know the reason why the king sent troops.
The King of Jiaoxi knelt down and replied: At that time, Chao Cuo was the emperor's minister. He changed the laws of Emperor Gaozu and usurped the land of the princes.
We thought this was unjust and worried that he would bring chaos to the world, so the seven kingdoms sent troops to kill Chao Cuo.
Now that we heard that Chao Cuo had been killed, we withdrew our troops and returned.
The general said: If your Majesty thinks Chao Cuo is not good, why don't you report it to the emperor?
Without getting the emperor's edict, he sent troops to attack the righteous princes who abided by the king's law.
From this point of view, your original intention is not to kill Chao Cuo.
He took out the edict and read it to him.
After reading it, he said: Your Majesty, please think about what you should do!
King Jiaoxi said: People like me deserve to die.
Just committed suicide.
The Queen Mother and the Prince also died.
King Jiaodong, King Sichuan, and King Jinan also died successively, and the feudal state was abolished and returned to the Han Dynasty.
General Li besieged the capital of Zhao for ten months before conquering it, and King Zhao committed suicide.
Because the King of Jibei was kidnapped, he was not executed and was moved to the title of King of Sichuan.
At the beginning, Wu King Liu Bi took the lead in the rebellion and led the Chu and Wu armies together, uniting the armies of Qi and Zhao.
In the first month of the year, the army started a rebellion, and in March the whole army was defeated. Only Zhao State was finally conquered.
Emperor Jing also named Pingluhou Liu Li, the youngest son of King Chu Yuan, as King of Chu, as the successor of King Chu Yuan.
Liu Fei, the king of Runan who moved to Wu, took over the original fiefdom of Wu and became the king of Jiangdu.
Tai Shigong said: King Wu Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu because his father was demoted.
The King of Wu was able to exempt taxes and support the people because he had the convenience of copper mines and sea salt.
The idea of ​​​​rebellion came from the death of his son.
He got into trouble because of a chess dispute, and eventually his country was destroyed and he died; he got close to the foreign Yue people and murdered his fellow clan, and finally he died.
Chao Cuo made great plans for the country, but disaster befell him instead.
Yuan An was good at contingency lobbying. He was favored at first, but suffered humiliation in the end.
Therefore, in ancient times, the land of the princes did not exceed a hundred miles, and the mountains and seas were not divided among the princes. If you don't get close to the Yi and Di, you will alienate your clan members. This was probably what you said to the King of Wu, right? Those who don't make plans will be punished. Isn't that what Yuan Ang and Chao Cuo said?
