◆The biography of Du Du, named Jiya, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
The great ancestor was Du Yannian, who served as a censor during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
When Du Du was young, he was very knowledgeable and did not practice small things. The people in the village did not treat him well.
He lived in Meiyang and had good relations with Meiyang Ling. He asked him to do things for him many times, but Meiyang Ling didn't do it for him and hated him. In anger, Meiyang Ling arrested Du Du and sent him to the capital.
When the great Sima Wu Han passed away, Guangwu ordered all the Confucian scholars to express condolences. Du Du wrote an edict in prison with elegant speech. Guangwu praised him for his good writing and gave him silk and exempted him from punishment. Du Du believed that the mountains inside Guanzhong and the river outside were the former capital of the late emperor, and Luoyi should not be rebuilt, so he wrote a "Fu on the Capital" and presented it to the emperor.
Du Du later became an official in the county literature department, but due to eye disease, he did not go to the capital for more than 20 years.
Du Du's maternal great-grandfather, Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian, was famous for his military strategies.
Du Du often sighed and said: Du's civilization is good at politics, but Du Du is not appointed as an official. Xin's upright and martial, but Du is timid and afraid of getting into trouble.
Five generations have passed, but my generation has declined!
Du Du's sister married the Ma family in Fufeng.
In the third year of Jianxin, the chariot and cavalry general Ma Fang attacked the Xiqiang. He asked Du Du to be his lieutenant and died in the battle at Shegu Mountain.
Du Du wrote a total of eighteen articles including Fu, Elegy, Diao, Shu, Zan, "Seven Characters", "Nv's Commandments" and essays.
He also wrote fifteen chapters of "Lun on the Ming Dynasty".
His son Du Gu is a heroic hero and famous for his business.
◆Biography of Wang Long, whose courtesy name is Wenshan and Feng Yi was born in Yunyang.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he was appointed as Lang because of his father's relationship. Later he fled to Hexi and served as Dou Rong's left guard.
In Jianwu, he served as the magistrate of Xinji County.
He is capable of articles and has written a total of twenty-six poems, poems, inscriptions and books.
At that time, in the last years of Wang Mang, Cen Zixiao, the historian of Pei State, was also famous for his articles. Wang Mang was appointed as the emissary and wrote four articles in total: eulogy, elegance, "Fu Shen" and "Shuo Ji".
According to the biography of Xia Gong, Xia Gong was named Jinggong and was a native of Meng, Liang State.
He studied "Han Shi" and "Mencius' Book of Changes" and had thousands of disciples.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, thieves emerged and captured the prefectures and counties. Because of his kindness and trust, Xia Gong was attached to the people, and he defended the area with troops, thus gaining safety.
Guangwu ascended the throne, praised him for his loyalty and courage, called him a doctor, and then promoted him to the captaincy of Taishan.
He gathered the people and was very popular with them.
Xia Gong is good at writing articles, and has written a total of 20 fus, odes, poems and "Encouraging Learning".
He died in office at the age of forty-nine, and all the Confucian scholars jointly gave him the posthumous title "Xuanmingjun".
His son Xia Ya learned a lot when he was young and wrote a total of forty poems, poems, poems and poems.
When the junior middle school was built, Suzong recruited literary scholars extensively, appointed Fu Yi as the Lantai Lingshi, and was awarded the title of doctor. Together with Ban Gu and Jia Kui, he was in charge of the correction of books.
Fu Yi believed that Emperor Xiaoming had the highest merit, but there were no temple odes, so he imitated the "Qing Temple" and wrote ten "Xianzong Odes" to commemorate the emperor. His elegance became famous in the court.
As a relative of the general Ma Fang, he respected Fu Yi very much. He asked Fu Yi to serve as army commander and treated him with the courtesy of a master and friend.
Ma's family was defeated and was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown.
In the first year of Yongyuan, Dou Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry, asked Fu Yi to take charge of the record office and Cui Xiang to take charge of the book.
Dou Xian was promoted to general, Fu Yi was appointed Sima, Ban Gu was appointed as the Central Protector, and General Dou Xian was promoted to general. His articles were the most prosperous at that time.
Fu Yi died young and wrote a total of 28 poems, fuses, poems, odes, congratulations, "Qi Ji" and lianzhu.
◆Huang Xiangzhuan, whose courtesy name is Wenqiang, was from Anlu County, Jiangxia County.
I lost my mother at the age of nine. I miss her so much that I feel haggard and almost dead. The villagers praised him as a filial son.
When he was twelve years old, the prefect Liu Hu heard about it and summoned him as a "filial son". He liked him very much and respected him.
Huang Xiang's family was poor and he had no concubines. He worked hard and took care of himself. He also recited classics extensively, studied Taoism, and wrote good articles.
There is a popular saying in the capital: Jiangxia Huangtong is unparalleled in the world.
He was first appointed as a doctor. In the first year of Yuanhe, Emperor Suzong ordered Huang Xiang to go to Dongguan. Huang Xiang read books he had never seen before.
Huang Xiang later asked for leave. When he returned to the capital, King Qiancheng performed a crowning ceremony. The emperor summoned Huang Xiang to His Highness at his Zhongshan mansion. Looking back at the kings, he said: This is Jiangxia Huangtong who is unparalleled in the world.
Everyone around him looked at him differently.
Later, he was summoned to the Anfu Hall to discuss political affairs, and was awarded the title of Shangshulang. He stated the gains and losses of the court many times, and the rewards increased.
I once slept alone on the stage, never leaving the palace gate day and night. The emperor heard about it and praised him.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan, he was awarded Zuo Cheng. After his merits were fulfilled, he should be promoted. Emperor He retained him and increased his salary.
In six years, he was promoted to Shangshu Ling.
Later, he was appointed as the prefect of Dongjun. Huang Xiang resigned and said: "I am a lonely, humble, ignorant and ignorant person in the Jianghuai area. I have nothing to say about my Confucian classics, conduct, and ability."
Encountering a peaceful and prosperous age, he received the remaining blessings from his ancestors, so he was able to be recruited by the emperor when he was weak and promoted continuously, even to the minister.
So far, he has no meritorious deeds that can be described. He should have died in repayment of his kindness, but unexpectedly, he was appointed as the prefect of the nearby county of the capital, and his position was thousands of miles away.
I heard that when people are awarded officials based on their ability, they will do a good job, and when they are awarded titles based on their merit, the wise and the foolish will all be in their proper place.
I, Huang Xiang, am an unknown person, born in various sects, guarding a county and serving in politics, and I am not qualified for the job.
I'm really afraid that because of my confusion, I will live up to the emperor's kindness.
I also think that the post of Shangshuling is the most confidential and noble, and it is not something that I, Huang Xiang, should hold for a long time.
After receiving the emperor's edict, I was terrified and didn't know what to do.
I, Huang Xiang, am young and just driven.
I would like to beg for mercy, stay as a redundant official, supervise minor duties, do some chores in the palace, and realize my yellow-scented ant-like ambition. This is my great wish until death, and it will be a great honor after my death.
The emperor also loved Huang Xiang's ability and studied history for a long time. He still stayed on as minister, increased his salary by 2,000 dan and gave him 300,000 yuan. From then on, he was in charge of secrets, trusted him very much, and used him highly.
Huang Xiang also works diligently and worries about state affairs as well as family affairs. In the twelfth year, Dongping and Qinghe reported that the court minister Zhong Liao and others had spread rumors to confuse the public and implicated nearly a thousand people.
Huang Xiang told the truth and saved many people.
Suspicious cases in the county and state are often dealt with lightly, and human life is cherished, but I am afraid that I cannot do it.
He is also familiar with border defense affairs. The deployment of military and political affairs is very appropriate.
The emperor knew that he worked hard for the country and rewarded him many times. He expressed condolences when he was sick and gave him medicine.
There were many recommendations during his reign, and the emperor was very fond of him. Public opinion ridiculed him for being overly favored.
In the first year of Yanping, he was promoted to the prefect of Wei County.
The county originally had inner and outer gardens, which were often planted separately with others, and thousands of dendrobiums could be harvested a year.
Huang Xiang said: "Tian Ling" states that merchants do not farm, "King System" states that officials do not cultivate fields, and those who are paid as officials do not compete with the people for profits.
As soon as he entered the county, he rented out the inner and outer gardens to others for cultivation.
There was a flood that year and the people were starving. So he distributed his wages and rewards to the poor, and the rich households also provided charity grain to make up for the shortfall in public loans, and the hungry people were preserved.
Later, he was dismissed from office due to financial difficulties, and died at home a few months later.
He wrote a total of five poems, notes, memorials, books and orders. There is another biography about his son Huang Qiong.
◆Liu Yi Chuan, Liu Yi, the son of King Jing of Beihai.
First, he was granted the title of Marquis Pingwang. In Yongyuanzhong, he was granted the title of nobility after being convicted.
When Liu Yi was young, he was famous for his talent in literary debate.
In the first year of the early Yuan Dynasty, he published twelve chapters of "Lun on Han De" and "Lun on Constitution".
At that time, Liu Zhen, Deng Dan, Yin Dui, and Ma Rong jointly wrote a letter saying that Liu Yi had written well. Emperor An commended him, gave him 30,000 yuan, and granted him the title of Yilang.
◆The biography of Li You, whose courtesy name is Boren, was from Luoxian County, Guanghan.
When he was young, he was famous for his articles.
During the reign of Emperor He, the servant Jia Kui recommended Li You to have the style of Sima Xiangru and Yang Xiong. He was summoned to Dongguan, where he was ordered to compose a poem and was given the history of Lantai Order.
After a slight promotion, he became an admonishing official when he reached Emperor An. He was ordered to co-author the "Han Ji" with Liu Zhen, the admonishing official.
Later, Emperor An deposed the prince as King of Jiyin, and Li You wrote a letter to remonstrate.
Shun the emperor was established, and he was promoted to Le An.
He died at the age of eighty-three. He wrote a total of 28 poems, poems, inscriptions, poems, odes, "Seven Sighs" and "Elegies".
Li Sheng, a native of Li Youtong County, was also talented in literature. He served as Dongguan Lang and wrote dozens of poems, poems, poems and essays.
◆Su Shun's biography, Su Shun's courtesy name is Xiaoshan, and he was born in Baling, Jingzhao.
During the reign of Emperor He and Emperor An, he was famous for his talent and learning.
He likes health-preserving techniques and lives in seclusion to seek the Tao.
He became an official in his later years, was awarded the title of doctor, and died in office.
He wrote a total of sixteen poems, essays, poems, laments and essays.
At that time, the talents of the three assistants were very prosperous. Cao Zhong and Bo Shi of Fufeng were also talented and learned. They wrote four edicts, books and treatises.
There was also Cao Shuo, who came from an unknown place and wrote four chapters of "Ode to the Han Dynasty".
◆The biography of Liu Zhen, Liu Zhen courtesy name Qiusun, Mingbao, was from Caiyang County, Nanyin County.
He was eager to learn when he was young.
In Yongjun Middle School, I served as a servant to pay homage.
Empress Dowager Deng ordered Liu Mayu, Ma Rong, and Doctor of the Five Classics to collate Dongguan's Five Classics, the biographies of various scholars, and the art of hundreds of schools of thought, sorting out the errors and corrections.
In the first year of Yongning, the Queen Mother ordered Liu Zhen and Liu Mayu to write biographies of famous officials since the founding of the Wu Dynasty, and they were promoted to Shizhong and Yueqi Xiaowei.
In the fourth year of Yanguang reign, he was awarded Zongzheng.
In the second year, he was transferred to Weiwei and died in office.
There are seven chapters in total including poems, poems, and poems.
He also wrote thirty chapters of "Shiming" to clarify the names of all things.
◆Ge Gong's biography, Ge Gong's courtesy name is Yuanfu, and he was a native of Ningling, Liang State.
During the reign of Emperor He, he was famous for his writing skills and writing skills.
He has a generous and heroic temperament and extraordinary courage.
In the junior high school of An Diyong, he was promoted to be a filial and honest man, and he was promoted to a grand official. He was given four instructions on what should be done for the benefit of the country, and was given the order of Dang Yin.
He was summoned to the Taiwei Mansion, but he couldn't go because of illness.
The state promoted the most talented people and appointed them as Linfen magistrates.
In the two counties of Dangyin and Linfen where he was appointed, he had political achievements and was praised by others.
There are a total of twelve articles, poems, steles, poems and secretaries.
◆Wang Yizhuan, Wang Yizhi's uncle, was a native of Yicheng, Nanjun.
In the junior high school of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to a planner and became the school secretary.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he served as a servant.
The author of "Chu Ci Chapters and Sentences" has spread throughout the world.
There are twenty-one poems, poems, books, essays and essays in total.
He also wrote 123 chapters of "Chinese Poems".
His son, Wang Yanshou, was a man of literary and artistic talents.
When he was young, he traveled to the state of Lu and wrote "Ode to Lingguang Palace".
Later, Cai Yong also wrote this poem, but it was not completed. When he saw Yanshou's work, he admired it very much, so he stopped writing it.
I once had a strange dream, which was very unpleasant, so I wrote a "Dream Ode" to encourage myself.
Later, he fell into the water and drowned. He was only in his twenties.
◆Cui Qi's biography, Cui Qi's courtesy name is Ziwei, a native of Anping, Zhuo County, and the ancestor of Cui Yuan, Prime Minister of Jibei Province.
When he was young, he studied in the capital and was famous for his extensive articles.
First, he should be filial and honest, and be a man.
Henan Yinliangji heard that Cui Qi was talented and asked to be friends with him. Liang Ji committed many illegal acts, and Cui Qi repeatedly quoted ancient and modern successes and failures to admonish him. Liang Ji could not accept it, so he wrote "Admonitions to Foreign Relatives". Cui Qi was very frustrated because his words were not accepted by Liang Ji, so he wrote "White Bird Ode" to persuade him. Liang Ji looked at it, called Cui Qi and asked: "Everyone inside and outside the officials has his own business. The world is so vast, are we the only ones who are particularly bad?" You may have overstimulated it a little too much!
Cui Qi replied: In the past, when Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Qi, he was willing to listen to advice; Xiao He assisted Han Gaozu and established officials with secretaries.
Now the generals have been prime ministers for several generations, like Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, but their virtues are not obvious and the people are miserable. You can't recruit honest and good people to save the disaster. Instead, you want to silence people and cover the ears of the Lord. Are you trying to change the color of black and yellow and the deformation of red deer?
Liang Ji had no answer and sent Cui Qi back.
Later, he was appointed as the head of Linji, but he did not dare to take up the post, so Jie Yinshou left.
Liang Ji ordered the assassin to kill him secretly.
The assassin saw Cui Qi plowing fields on the road with a book in his arms. He was lying on the ridge and chanting while resting.
The assassin took pity on him and told Cui Qi the truth: General Liang wants me to kill you. You are a wise man and I can't bear to do it. You should run away quickly and I will run away from now on.
Cui Qi was able to escape, but Liang Ji finally arrested and killed him.
He wrote poems, odes, inscriptions, poems, proverbs, condolences, treatises, "Nine Consultations" and "Seven Characters", totaling fifteen articles.
◆The biography of Bian Shao, whose courtesy name is Xiaoxian, was born in Junyi County, Chenliu County.
Famous for writing articles, he taught hundreds of students.
Bian Shao was very eloquent, and he once slept in bed during the day. The students secretly laughed and said: "Bian Xiaoxian has a loose stomach, is too lazy to study, and just wants to sleep."
Bian Shao listened quietly and replied promptly: Bian is the surname and Xiao is the character.
Abdominal defecation, "Five Classics" 笥.
I just want to sleep and think about things.
Mei and Zhou Gong communicated about their dreams, Jing agreed with Confucius.
If you are a teacher, you can laugh at it, so what can be said about it?
The students who laughed at him felt ashamed.
Bian Shao's talents are agile, most of them are like this.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he served as the Prime Minister of Linying, conscripted the great and middle-level officials, and engaged in writing in Dongguan.
Then he was promoted to the governor of the north, and entered the court to be granted the title of Shangshu.
Later he became Prime Minister Chen and died in office.
He wrote a total of fifteen poems, odes, steles, inscriptions, books and policies.
