Su Qin was a native of Luoyang in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. He went east to Qi State to study under Mr. Guiguzi.
After traveling for many years, he was impoverished and returned home in embarrassment.
Brothers and sisters-in-law, younger brothers and sisters, wives and concubines all laughed at him privately, saying: "It is the custom of the Zhou people that people manage their industries, work hard in industry and commerce, and pursue the two-tenths of profits as their career."
Now you have abandoned your profession and gone to talk, and you are in poverty, isn't that right?
After hearing these words, Su Qin felt secretly ashamed and sad, so he stayed behind closed doors and read all his books.
Said: Since a scholar has been taught by a teacher and immersed himself in reading, but he cannot obtain status and glory through it, no matter how much he reads, what is the use?
So I found a book called "Yin Fu" and sat down at my desk to study it.
After working hard for a whole year, he searched for the truth and found a way to get along with the king. He said excitedly: With these alone, I can persuade the king of today.
He asked to see and lobby King Xian of Zhou.
However, the ministers around King Xian always knew Su Qin's character and looked down upon him. Therefore, King Xian of Zhou did not trust him either.
So he went west to the state of Qin.
Duke Xiao of Qin is dead.
He persuaded King Hui and said: Qin is a country surrounded by dangerous mountains. The Wei River flows like a belt, with Hangu Pass and the Yellow River in the east, Hanzhong in the west, Bashu in the south, Daima and Mayi in the north. This is really a dangerous, fertile and abundant natural treasury.
With its numerous people and well-trained soldiers, the Qin State was able to annex the world, establish an empire, and rule all directions.
King Hui of Qin said: It is impossible for a bird to fly in the sky before its feathers are full; the country's political and religious affairs are not on the right track, and it is impossible to annex the world.
At this time, the state of Qin had just executed Shang Yang and hated the lobbyists very much, so it did not appoint Su Qin.
So, he went east to the state of Zhao.
Zhao Suhou appointed his younger brother Zhao Cheng as the prime minister of the country, with the title Fengyang Jun.
Lord Fengyang doesn't like Su Qin.
Su Qin left Zhao State again and traveled to Yan State. It took more than a year before he had the opportunity to meet Yan Wenhou.
He advised Marquis Wen of Yan: The country of Yan is bounded by Korea and Liaodong to the east, Linhu and Loufan to the north, Yunzhong and Jiuyuan to the west, and Tuohe and Yishui to the south. The country stretches for more than two thousand miles, has hundreds of thousands of soldiers, 600 chariots, and 6,000 horses, and has enough food stored for several years.
In the south, the land in Jieshi Mountain and Yanmen Mountain is fertile and rich in products; in the north, you can grow red dates and chestnuts to gain income. Even if the people do not farm, the income from red dates and chestnuts alone can ensure that they live a prosperous life.
This is the so-called natural treasury.
The people can live and work in peace and contentment, there is no war, and they will not face the danger of the army being destroyed and the generals and soldiers being killed. No one can compare with the Yan State in this regard.
Does your Majesty know the reason for this?
The reason why Yan State was not invaded by enemies was that Zhao State was Yan State's barrier in the south.
Qin and Zhao launched five wars, Qin won twice and Zhao won three times.
The two countries are killing each other and destroying each other, but the king can rely on the intact power of the Yan State to control them from behind. This is the reason why the Yan State is not invaded by enemy countries.
Moreover, if Qin wanted to attack Yan, it would have to travel through Yunzhong and Jiuyuan, pass through Daijun and Shanggu, and travel thousands of miles. Even if it could capture Yan's city, Qin would consider that it had no way to defend it.
It is already very obvious that Qin cannot invade Yan.
Now that the State of Zhao wants to attack the State of Yan, as long as it issues an order, it will not take ten days for hundreds of thousands of troops to be stationed in the Donghuan area on the border. The Zhao army will then cross the Tuo River and ford the Yishui River. It will not take more than four or five days to reach the capital of the State of Yan.
Therefore, when Qin attacked Yan, it had to fight thousands of miles away; when Zhao attacked Yan, it only fought within a hundred miles.
There is no more wrong strategy than not worrying about disasters within a hundred miles, but focusing on enemies thousands of miles away.
Therefore, I hope that your Majesty can unite with the State of Zhao and unite all countries into one, so that there will be no trouble for the State of Yan.
Marquis Yan Wen said: Of course you are right, but my country is weak, close to the powerful Zhao State in the west, and close to Qi and Zhou in the south. Qi and Zhao are both powerful countries.
You must use the method of marriage and marriage to make the Yan country safe and sound. I am willing to surrender the country to you.
So he funded Su Qin's carriage, horses and money to travel to Zhao.
Lord Fengyang was dead, so he took the opportunity to lobby Zhao Suhou: "Every minister in the world, right down to the scholars in rough clothes, all admire you as a wise king for your benevolence and righteousness, and they all hope to listen to your teachings and give your loyal advice in front of you. It has been a long time."
Even so, Lord Fengyang is jealous of talents and you ignore political affairs, so no guests or lobbyists dare to speak freely in front of you.
Now that Lord Fengyang has passed away, you can get close to the scholars and the people again, so I dare to state my humble opinion to you.
I think for you privately, there is nothing more important than the peace of the people's lives, the peace of the country, and the absence of the need for the people to be involved in wars.
The foundation for the stability of the people lies in the choice of diplomatic relations. If the diplomatic relations are properly chosen, the people will be stable; if the diplomatic relations are not chosen appropriately, the people will be unstable for life.
Please allow me to analyze Zhao's foreign aggression: If Zhao is enemies with Qi and Qin, the people will not have peace. If they rely on Qin to attack Qi, the people will not have peace. If they rely on Qi to attack Qin, the people will still have no peace.
Therefore, if you want to plot against the kings of other countries and attack other countries, you often have to publicly declare to sever diplomatic relations with other countries. I hope you will be careful and don't say this easily.
Please let me analyze for you the pros and cons of this extremely clear black and white, yin and yang.
If you really listen to my advice, the State of Yan will definitely donate its land rich in felt fur dogs and horses, the State of Qi will definitely donate its bays rich in fish and salt, the State of Chu will definitely donate its gardens rich in oranges and pomelos, Han, Wei, and Zhongshan will all contribute accordingly to provide you with bathing expenses, and your relatives, father and brothers will all be able to become marquises.
Obtaining ceded territory and enjoying rights was exactly what the five hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period pursued at the cost of wiping out their entire army and capturing their generals; making noble relatives a marquis was the reason why King Tang and King Wu of Shang raised their armies, resorted to exile, and even risked being charged with regicide.
Now that I have you seated, you can easily reap these two benefits, and this is what I wish for you.
Now if the king is friendly with Qin, then Qin will definitely use this advantage to weaken South Korea and Wei; if it is friendly with Qi, then Qi will definitely use this advantage to weaken Chu and Wei.
If Wei is weak, it will cede territory beyond the river; if South Korea is weak, it will give up Yiyang. Once Yiyang is surrendered to Qin, Shangjun will be in a desperate situation. The cession of Hewai will cut off Shangjun's transportation. The state of Chu will be weak, and you will be isolated and helpless.
You must consider these three aspects carefully.
If Qin captures Zhidao, South Korea's Nanyang will be in danger. If Qin wants to seize Nanyang and surround the capital of Zhou, then Zhao will take up arms to defend itself; if Qin occupies the Wei area and captures Juan City, then Qi will definitely surrender to Qin.
Since Qin's desire has succeeded in Shandong, he will definitely send troops to invade Zhao.
If the Qin army crossed the Yellow River, crossed the Zhang River, and occupied Panwu, then the armies of Qin and Zhao would definitely fight under the city of Handan.
That's why I'm worried about you.
At this time, no country established in Shandong was more powerful than Zhao.
Zhao's area is more than two thousand miles across, with hundreds of thousands of armed forces, thousands of chariots, and tens of thousands of horses, and enough food to last for several years.
There is Changshan Mountain in the west, Zhangshui River in the south, Qinghe River in the east, and Yan State in the north.
Yan is a weak country to begin with and is not worth fearing.
In the world, the Qin State hates nothing more than the Zhao State. But why did Qin dare not send troops to attack Zhao?
It was because they were afraid that South Korea and Wei would plot against it from behind.
In this case, then Han and Wei can be regarded as the barriers to the south of Zhao.
If Qin attacked Han and Wei, there would be no obstacles from famous mountains and rivers, and it would gradually invade Han and Wei like silkworms eating mulberry leaves, until it approached the capitals of the two countries.
If Han and Wei cannot resist Qin, they will inevitably surrender to Qin.
The Qin State has relieved Han and Wei of plotting concerns, and then the disaster of war will inevitably befall the Zhao State.
This is why I'm worried about you.
I heard that Tang Yao was not given a reward of 300 acres, and Yu Shun was not given a foot of fiefdom, but he could own the whole world; Yu and Xia could become king among the princes with less than a hundred people; Shang Tang and Zhou Wu had less than 3,000 ministers, less than 300 chariots, and less than 30,000 soldiers, but they could become the emperor: they have indeed mastered the strategy of conquering the world.
Therefore, a wise monarch should be able to predict the strength of the enemy's country externally, and estimate the quality of his soldiers internally. In this way, the key to victory, defeat, and survival will already be clear to him without waiting for the armies of both sides to come into contact. How could one be blinded by everyone's opinions and make decisions on national affairs in a confused manner?
I have privately examined the map of the world. The land of each vassal state is five times that of Qin. It is estimated that the soldiers of each vassal state are ten times that of Qin. If the six countries form a whole and work together to attack Qin westward, Qin will definitely be defeated.
Now, instead, he serves Qin in the west and becomes a minister of Qin.
Defeating others and being defeated by others, asking others to surrender to oneself and oneself to surrendering to others, are they the same thing?
Anyone who advocates the policy of continuous balance wants to cede the land of various vassal states to Qin.
When Qin's hegemony is successful, they can build tall pavilions and pavilions, build magnificent palaces, and enjoy the music played by the lute. There are balconies and palaces in front, and spacious and gorgeous cars; behind there are graceful and beautiful beauties. As for the harm done by Qin to other countries, they will not share their worries.
Therefore, those who advocate Lianheng rely on the power of Qin to threaten the princes and countries day and night and seek to cede land. Therefore, I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
I heard that a wise monarch resolves doubts, rejects slander, abandons the channels of gossip, and blocks the channels of partying and selfish pursuits. That is why I have the opportunity to state before you the strategy to honor the monarch, expand the territory, and strengthen the army.
Privately, I think for your Majesty, it is better to make Han, Wei, Qi, Chu, Yan, and Zhao form a coherent whole to fight against Qin.
Let the generals of the world gather on the Huan River, communicate with each other about their old grudges, kill the white horse and swear a blood oath, and agree with each other: If Qin attacks Chu, then Qi and Wei will send elite troops to help Chu, South Korea will cut off Qin's main grain transportation route, Zhao's army will cross the river to the south to support, and Yan's army will stick to the north of Changshan.
If Qin attacks South Korea and Wei, then the Chu army will cut off Qin's support, and Qi will send elite troops to help Han and Wei. Zhao Jun crossed the river and Zhang to support, while Yan Guo held on to the Yunzhong area.
If Qin attacks Qi, Chu will cut off Qin's support, South Korea will defend Chenggao, Wei will block Qin's main roads, Zhao's army will cross the river and Zhang to advance to Boguan for support, and Yan will send elite troops to coordinate operations.
If the Qin State attacks the Yan State, then the Zhao State will stick to Changshan, the Chu State troops will be stationed in Wuguan, the Qi Army will cross the Bohai Sea, and Han and Wei will send elite troops to coordinate the battle.
If Qin attacks Zhao, South Korea's troops will be stationed in Yiyang, Chu's troops will be stationed in Wuguan, Wei's troops will be stationed outside the river, Qi's troops will cross the Qinghe River, and Yan's elite troops will be sent to coordinate operations.
If some princes do not act in accordance with the covenant, the armies of the other five countries will be used to attack him.
If the six kingdoms were united to resist Qin, then Qin would not dare to send troops from Hanguguan to invade the six kingdoms of Shandong.
In this way, your overlord's cause is successful.
King Zhao said: I am still young and have only been in charge of the country for a short time. I have never heard of strategies for long-term peace and stability in the country.
Now that you intend to ensure the survival of the world and the stability of the various vassal states, I am willing to sincerely surrender to you.
So he decorated a hundred carriages, loaded with a thousand pieces of gold, a hundred pairs of white jade stones, and a thousand bolts of silk and satin, to persuade the vassal states to join.
At this time, the Emperor of Zhou gave King Hui of Qin the meat used in sacrifices to King Wen and King Wu.
King Hui sent rhinoceros heads to attack Wei, captured Wei general Long Jia alive, captured Wei's Diaoyin, and planned to march eastward.
Su Qin was afraid that Qin's troops would attack Zhao, so he used a trick to anger Zhang Yi and force him to defect to Qin.
So Su Qin went to persuade King Xuan of Han and said: Korea has strong Gongyi and Chenggao in the north, the fortresses of Yiyang and Shangban in the west, Wan, Rang, and Mishui in the east, and Xingshan in the south. The area is more than 900 miles in length and breadth, and there are hundreds of thousands of armed forces. All the strong bows and crossbows in the world are made from Korea.
For example, the Xizi crossbow and the Shili and range made by Shaofu have a range of more than 600 steps.
Korean soldiers shoot with their feet on the crossbow. They can fire a hundred arrows continuously without stopping. Enemies far away can be shot through the armor on their chests, and enemies close by can be shot through their hearts.
The swords used by Korean soldiers were all forged from Mingshan, Tangxi, Moyang, Hezhen, Dengshi, Wanfeng, Longyuan, and Tai'a. These sharp weapons can cut off cattle and horses on land, chop swans and wild geese on the water, and can cut through strong armor and iron clothes when facing the enemy.
With the bravery of Korean soldiers, wearing strong armor, pulling powerful crossbows, and wearing sharp swords, even if one is worth a hundred, it is not a problem.
With the strong military strength of South Korea and the wisdom of the king, he went west to serve Qin and surrendered, bringing shame to the country and being ridiculed by the world. There is nothing more serious than this.
Therefore, I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
If the king goes to serve Qin, Qin will definitely ask for Yiyang and Chenggao from you.
This year the land will be dedicated to him, and next year he will ask for ceded land.
Give it to him, but there is no land to give to him. If you don't give it, you will lose the good results of the previous land harvesting and suffer future troubles.
Moreover, the king's land is limited, but Qin's greedy demands are endless. To exchange limited land for endless demands is called using money to buy resentment and entangle disasters. There was no need to fight, and the land was taken away.
I've heard a saying: It's better to have a chicken's mouth than a cow's anus.
Now, if you surrender to the west, what is the difference between being a cow's anus?
Although your Majesty is wise and possesses Korea's powerful army, yet you suffer the ugly reputation of being a cow queen. Privately, I feel ashamed for your Majesty.
At this time, King Han suddenly changed his face, rolled up his sleeves, opened his eyes angrily, pressed his sword on his hand, looked up at the sky and sighed longly, saying: Although I have no future, I can never serve Qin.
Now that you have conveyed King Zhao's advice, I am willing to entrust the entire country to you and obey your arrangements.
Su Qin also lobbied King Wei Xiang and said: Your Majesty's land is bounded by Honggou, Chendi, Runan, Xudi, Lindi, Kunyang, Zhaoling, Wuyang, Xindu, and Xinyi in the south, Huaihe, Yinghe, Zhuzao, and Wuxu in the east, bounded by the Great Wall in the west, and Hewai, Juandi, Yandi, and Suizao in the north. The land stretches thousands of miles.
Although the place is nominally small, the fields are covered with houses, and there is no room for grazing livestock.
The population is densely populated, and there are many chariots and horses. They are traveling day and night, in an endless stream, with a roaring sound, as if there are three armies and horses.
I privately estimate that your king's power is as great as that of Chu. But those who advocate Lianheng tempt you to serve the Qin State and invade the whole world with the Qin State, which is as ferocious as tigers and wolves. Once the Wei State is harmed by the Qin State, no one will care about your disaster.
Relying on Qin's powerful power to internally hijack the monarchs of other countries, there is no crime more serious than this.
Wei is the most powerful country in the world; Wang is the wise king in the world.
Now you actually intend to serve Qin to the west, claim to be a vassal state of Qin in the east, build a palace for Qin, accept the enfeoffment of Qin, adopt the style of Qin's crown and clothing, and pay tribute and sacrifice to Qin in the spring and autumn. I privately feel ashamed for the king.
I heard that King Gou Jian of Yue fought with only 3,000 exhausted soldiers and captured Wu King Fu Cha alive at Qian Sui; King Wu of Zhou only used 3,000 soldiers and 300 leather-covered chariots to subdue Shang Zhou in Muye: Could it be that they relied on more soldiers and generals?
It's really because of giving full play to their power. Now, I have heard privately that the king's military strength includes 200,000 elite troops, 200,000 troops wearing blue turbans, 200,000 troops capable of charging into battle, 100,000 orderlies, 600 chariots, and 5,000 horses.
These strengths are far beyond that of King Gou Jian of Yue and King Wu of Zhou. However, now you listen to the advice of the ministers and want to serve Qin as a minister.
If you serve Qin, you must cede land to show your loyalty. Therefore, before the army is used, the country has already suffered losses.
All ministers who falsely claim to serve Qin are treacherous people, not loyal ministers.
As ministers of the monarch, they want to cede their monarch's land in order to gain friendship with Qin, steal temporary benefits regardless of the consequences, destroy the interests of the country and achieve personal benefits, rely on the power of Qin to externally, and hijack their monarch internally to achieve the purpose of ceding land. I hope your Majesty will carefully examine this situation.
"Book of Zhou" says: When vegetation grows weak twigs, what if we don't remove them in time and they grow and stretch everywhere?
If you don't cut off the slender branches in time, you will have to use an ax when they grow thicker.
If you don’t consider maturity beforehand, disaster will befall you later. What will you do about it then?
If your Majesty can really follow my advice, if the six countries unite and work together, with one will, there will definitely be no harm from the Qin Dynasty.
Therefore, King Zhao of our country sent me to offer immature strategies and detailed conventions, all relying on the king's instructions to call on everyone.
The King of Wei said: I have no future and have never heard of such wise advice. Now that you have come to teach me on the mission of King Zhao, I will seriously lead the people of the country to follow your arrangements.
Then, Su Qin went to the east to persuade King Qi Xuan, saying: Qi has Mount Tai in the south, Langye Mountain in the east, Qinghe River in the west, and Bohai Sea in the north. This can be said to be a country with natural dangers on all sides.
Qi's land spans more than two thousand miles, its armed forces are hundreds of thousands, and its grain piles are as high as hills.
The three armies are excellent, uniting the soldiers of the five families. The attack is as brave and swift as the sharp blade and the arrow of the good bow. The battle is as fierce as the thunder and fury, and the retreat is as fast as the wind and rain.
Since the beginning of the campaign, the troops south of Mount Tai have never been recruited, nor have they crossed the Qinghe River and the Bohai Sea to recruit soldiers from these two divisions.
There are 70,000 households in Linzi alone. I estimate privately that each household has no less than three men, 37.21 million. There is no need to recruit soldiers from distant counties. Linzi alone already has enough soldiers of 210,000.
Linzi is rich and well-off, and all the residents here play the yu, drums and harp, play the piano and build buildings, fight chickens and running dogs, and play chess and football.
The streets of Linzi are so crowded that their axles hit each other, and there are so many people that their shoulders rub against each other. Connecting the skirts of clothes can form a curtain, and lifting the sleeves can become a curtain. Everyone's sweat is like rain. Every family is well-off, everyone is rich, their ambitions are high, and their will is high.
With the wisdom of the king and the strength of Qi, no country in the world can compare with it.
Now that you have to go west to serve Qin, I feel ashamed for your Majesty.
Moreover, the reason why Han and Wei are very afraid of Qin is because they are bordering Qin. If both sides send troops to fight, the situation of victory or defeat will be decided in less than ten days.
If Han and Wei defeated Qin, they would lose half of their troops and their borders would be unable to be defended; if they could not win the battle, then the country would be in danger.
This is why Han and Wei regard fighting with Qin as so important and want to surrender to Qin so easily.
Now, the situation of Qin's attack on Qi is different. Qin's back is backed by the lands of Han and Wei, and it has to pass through Wei's Yangjin stronghold and Qi's Kangfu's dangerous fortress. Chariots cannot drive side by side, and war horses cannot run parallel. As long as a hundred people guard the dangerous place, even a thousand people dare not pass. Even if the Qin army wants to go deep, it will be like wolves with doubts, often looking back, fearing that Han and Wei are plotting against it behind.
So it's bluffing, intimidating and threatening. Although it is arrogant and boastful, it does not dare to risk attacking, so it is quite clear that Qin cannot harm Qi.
They failed to fully understand the fact that Qin State was basically helpless against Qi State, but wanted to go west to serve Qin State. This was a strategic mistake among the ministers.
Now, Qi State has not yet had the ugly reputation of surrendering to Qin State, but it has strong national strength, so I hope that the king will consider it carefully in order to decide on countermeasures.
King Qi said: I am not a smart person. I live in a remote country, close to the sea, with no roads, and located in the east. I have never heard your wise teachings.
Now that you have come to teach me on the mission of King Zhao, I will solemnly lead the people of the country to obey your arrangements.
So Su Qin went southwest to lobby King Wei of Chu, saying: "The Kingdom of Chu is the most powerful country in the world; your Majesty, the Kingdom of Chu is the wise king in the world."
Chu State has Qianzhong and Wujun in the west, Xiazhou and Haiyang in the east, Dongting and Cangwu in the south, and Jingsai and Xiyang in the north. It has a land of more than 5,000 miles and has an armed force of one million, thousands of chariots, and tens of thousands of horses. It has enough grain to last ten years.
This is the capital to build hegemony.
With the power of Chu and the wisdom of the king, no country in the world can match it.
Now that you want to serve Qin to the west, there will be no prince in the world who will not bow to the west and submit to Qin's Zhangtai Palace.
Qin's greatest worry is no greater than that of Chu. If Chu is strong, Qin will be weak; if Qin is strong, Chu will be weak. Judging from this situation, the two countries cannot coexist at the same time.
Therefore, I advise your majesty to plan, it is better to join forces and have a blind date to isolate Qin.
If the king does not adopt the policy of cooperation, Qin will definitely send two armies, one to attack from Wuguan, and the other to go straight to central Guizhou. Then the situation in Yanying will be shaken.
I heard that we should control unrest before it occurs, and take action before disaster strikes. If you wait until disaster strikes before you worry about it, it will be too late.
So I hope your Majesty can make careful plans early.
If the king really listens to my advice, I can make all the countries in Shandong offer you the gifts of the four seasons, accept your wise guidance, entrust the country to you, dedicate ancestral temples for your protection, train soldiers, sharpen weapons, and obey the king's command.
If the king can really adopt my immature strategy, then your harem will surely be filled with the beautiful music and beautiful women of Han, Wei, Qi, Yan, Zhao, Wei and other countries. Camels and fine horses produced in the lands of Yan and Dai will surely fill your pen.
Therefore, if the alliance is successful, Chu will be able to become king. If Lian Heng succeeds, Qin will be able to proclaim himself emperor.
Now you have to give up your career as king and gain the reputation of serving others. I privately think that this approach of your Majesty is not advisable.
Qin is a country as ferocious as tigers and wolves, and has the ambition to annex the world.
Qin is also the common enemy of all the princes in the world.
Anyone who advocates Lianheng wants to divide the land of various princes and offer it to Qin. This is called supporting the enemy and worshiping the enemy.
As ministers of other people, they wanted to divide their king's land to interact with Qin, a powerful wolf and tiger, and invade the world. However, their country was suddenly invaded by Qin, but they did not care about these disasters.
Relying on the power of the Qin Dynasty externally to hijack one's own monarch internally and demand ceded territory is the greatest rebellion and the greatest disloyalty. There is no more serious crime than this.
Therefore, if there is an alliance and a blind date, the princes will cede land to serve the Chu State. If the Lian Heng is successful, the Chu State will cede land to serve the Qin State. These two strategies are too different. Between the two, which side should the king stand on?
Therefore, King Zhao of our country sent me to present this immature strategy and a detailed agreement. It is up to the king to inform everyone.
The King of Chu said: Our country borders Qin in the west, and Qin has the ambition to seize Ba and Shu and annex Hanzhong.
Qin is a country as ferocious as tigers and wolves, and should not be approached.
Han and Wei are often threatened by Qin's aggression and cannot make in-depth plans with them. If we plan in-depth with them, I am afraid that some rebellious people will leak it to Qin, causing the plan to be implemented before the plan is implemented, and the country will be in danger.
I personally estimate that if we pit Chu State against Qin State, we may not necessarily win; and they cannot be trusted when planning with the officials within the court.
I couldn't sleep well while lying on the bed, and I couldn't feel the sweetness when I ate. My mind was in a trance, like a flag hanging in the sky with no where to go.
Now that you intend to unify the world, unite the princes, and preserve the country in danger, I am willing to respectfully entrust the entire country to you and obey your arrangements.
As a result, the six countries united successfully and worked together.
Su Qin became the leader of the United Vertical Alliance and concurrently served as the Prime Minister of the Six Nations.
Su Qin went north to return his order to King Zhao. On the way, he passed Luoyang. The accompanying vehicles and horses were fully loaded with luggage. There were many envoys sent by the princes to see him off, and they were as grand as the emperor.
King Xian of Zhou Dynasty was frightened when he heard the news. He quickly found someone to clear the road for him and sent envoys to the suburbs to greet him.
Su Qin's brothers, wife, and sister-in-law squinted and did not dare to look up at him. They all fell down on the ground and served him with great respect.
Su Qin smiled and said to his sister-in-law: Why were you so arrogant to me before, but now you are so deferential to me?
His sister-in-law quickly fell to the ground, bent her body, and crawled in front of him. She put her face to the ground and apologized, saying: "Because I saw that uncle, you have a high status and a lot of money."
Su Qin sighed with emotion and said: I am the same person. When I am rich, my relatives will respect me, but when I am poor, they will despise me. Not to mention ordinary people!
If I had two hectares of fertile farmland in the suburbs of Luoyang back then, would I still be able to wear the seals of six countries now?
At that time, he distributed thousands of gold coins and gave them to relatives and friends.
When Su Qin went to the State of Yan, he borrowed one hundred gold from someone for travel expenses. Now that he was rich, he borrowed one hundred gold to repay that person.
And he repaid all those who had been kind to him in the past.
Among his entourage, there was only one person who did not receive the reward, so he went forward to plead his case.
Su Qin said: "I have not forgotten you. When you came to Yan State with me, you tried to leave me again and again by the Yishui River. At that time, I was in dire straits, so I deeply blamed you, so I put you last. Now you can also get the reward." After Su Qin agreed on the alliance of the six countries, he returned to the State of Zhao. Marquis Su of Zhao named him Lord Wu'an, so Su Qin sent the alliance to Qin.
From then on, Qin State did not dare to spy on countries outside Hangu Pass for fifteen years.
Later, Qin State sent envoy Xishou to deceive Qi State and Wei State, and joined forces with them to attack Zhao State, intending to destroy the alliance.
Qi and Wei attacked Zhao, and the king of Zhao blamed Su Qin.
Su Qin was afraid and asked to send an envoy to Yan State to take revenge on Qi State.
After Su Qin left Zhao, the alliance collapsed.
King Hui of Qin married his daughter to the prince of Yan as his wife.
In this year, Marquis Wen of Yan died and the prince ascended the throne. This was King Yi of Yan.
King Yi had just ascended the throne, and King Xuan of Qi took advantage of Yan's mourning to attack Yan and captured ten cities in a row.
The King of Yi said to Su Qin: Once upon a time, Sir, when you came to the Kingdom of Yan, the late king sponsored you to meet the King of Zhao, and then we agreed on the alliance of the six kingdoms.
Now the State of Qi first attacks the State of Zhao, and then the State of Yan, and is ridiculed by the world because of the Master. Can the State of Qi regain the occupied territory for the State of Yan?
Su Qin felt very ashamed and said: Please let me take back the lost land for the king.
When Su Qin saw the King of Qi, he bowed twice, bent down to express his congratulations to the King of Qi, and raised his head to express his condolences to the King of Qi.
King Qi said: Why do celebrations and mourning follow each other so quickly?
Su Qin said: I heard that hungry people would rather be hungry than eat poisonous plants like Aconitum, because the more it fills the stomach, the more it will be the same as the disaster of starving to death.
Now, although the Yan State is weak, King Yan is the youngest son-in-law of King Qin.
The king took advantage of his ten cities but had a long-term enmity with Qiang Qin.
Today, the weak Yan State flies like wild geese one after another, and the powerful Qin State follows behind it as a cover, thus causing the world's elite troops to attack you. This is similar to eating aconite.
King Qi's face suddenly became sad and serious, and he said, "In this case, what should we do?"
Su Qin said: I heard that people who were good at handling things in ancient times were able to turn disaster into good fortune and failure into success.
Your Majesty, you can really follow my plan and immediately return the ten cities of Yan State.
Yan Guo must be very happy to take back ten cities for nothing. King Qin must be very happy to know that the ten cities of Yan were returned to Yan because of his relationship.
This is called giving up hatred and gaining unbreakable friendship.
The states of Yan and Qin both come to serve Qi, so no one dares not to listen to the orders issued by the king to the world.
This is tantamount to relying on Qin with false boasts, but actually gaining the world at the cost of ten cities. This is the achievement of dominating the world. King Qi said: OK.
So the ten cities of Yan were returned.
Some people who slandered Su Qin said: Su Qin is a courtier who swings around, betrays the country, and is capricious, and will cause trouble.
Su Qin was afraid of being convicted and returned to Yan State, but the King of Yan refused to give him an official position.
Su Qin asked to see King Yan and said: I am a humble person in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty with no merits, but the king granted me an official position in the ancestral temple and treated me with courtesy in the court.
Now that I have persuaded the king to retreat the army of Qi and take back ten cities, he should be getting closer to me.
Now that I have returned to Yan State and the king has not granted me an official position, someone must have slandered me in front of you on the charge of disloyalty. In fact, my "disloyalty" is the king's blessing.
I heard that a loyal person does everything for his own purpose; an enterprising person does everything for others.
Besides, when I lobbied the King of Qi, I didn’t deceive him.
I left my mother behind in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. I had no intention of establishing a reputation for loyalty for myself, but was determined to help others make progress.
Now, if there are people who are as filial as Zeng Shen, as honest as Boyi, and as faithful as Wei Sheng, what do you think if these three types of people are allowed to serve the king?
King Yan replied: "That's enough."
Su Qin said: As filial as Zeng Shen, to fulfill his filial piety, he would never leave his parents to spend a night outside. How could you let him walk thousands of miles like this to come to the weak country of Yan to serve the king who was in danger?
Like Boyi, he was honest and upheld justice. He refused to be the heir of Lord Guzhu, refused to be a minister of King Wu of Zhou, refused to accept the title of nobility and became a marquis, and eventually starved to death at the foot of Shouyang Mountain.
With such an incorruptible character like him, how could the king let him walk thousands of miles to Qi State to do some work and get back ten cities?
Like Obi, Cheng Xin made an appointment with the woman for a tryst under the bridge, but the woman did not come as scheduled. She did not leave even when the flood came. She hugged the bridge pillar and was drowned by the water.
With such integrity, how could the king let him walk thousands of miles to retreat from Qi's powerful army?
It was for my so-called loyalty and faithfulness that I was convicted in front of the king.
King Yan said: You are not loyal and trustworthy. Is there anyone who is guilty of being loyal and trustworthy?
Su Qin said: That's not the case.
I heard that there was a man who was an official in a far away place. His wife was having an affair with someone else. When her husband was about to come back, the person she was having an affair with became worried. The wife said, "Don't worry. I have prepared poisoned wine and am waiting for him."
Three days later, her husband arrived, and his wife asked her concubine to bring him poisoned wine. The concubine wanted to tell him that the wine was poisonous, but she was afraid that he would drive the mistress away; but she didn't tell him, and she was afraid that her poisonous wine would kill the mistress, so she pretended to fall and poured the wine on the ground.
The master's father became furious and beat her with fifty bamboo boards.
So when the concubine fell down and spilled the glass of poisoned wine, she saved her master's father above and her mistress below, but she couldn't avoid being beaten. How can you say that loyalty and faithfulness can't be punished?
Unfortunately, my sin is similar to what happened to my concubine!
King Yan said: Sir, please restore your original official position.
From then on, King Yan treated him more and more favorably.
The mother of King Yan Yi was the wife of Marquis Wen of Yan. Having an affair with Su Qin.
King Yan Yi knew about this, but treated Su Qin even more generously.
Su Qin was afraid that he would be killed, so he persuaded the King of Yan: If I stay in Yan State, I cannot improve Yan State's status. If I stay in Qi State, I will certainly improve Yan State's status.
King Yan said: Let Sir do everything.
So Su Qin pretended to have offended King Yan and fled to Qi. King Xuan of Qi appointed him as a guest minister.
When King Xuan of Qi passed away and King Min succeeded to the throne, Su Qin persuaded King Min to hold a grand funeral to show his filial piety, build palaces high on the ground, and open gardens on a large scale to show his success. In fact, Su Qin planned to ruin Qi State, which would benefit Yan State.
King Yi of Yan died, and Yan Kuai ascended the throne and became the king.
After that, many officials of Qi State competed with Su Qin for the king's favor, so they sent people to assassinate Su Qin. Su Qin was not dead at the time, but escaped with fatal injuries.
The King of Qi sent people to arrest the murderer, but he was not caught.
Su Qin was about to die, so he said to King Qi: "I am going to die soon. Please cut my body into five pieces in a crowded market and show it to the public." He said: "Su Qin is plotting rebellion in Qi for the sake of Yan. If you do this, my assassin will definitely be caught."
At that time, King Qi did as he said, and the murderer who assassinated Su Qin came out on his own initiative, so King Qi killed him.
When King Yan heard the news, he said: Qi State's act of revenge for Mr. Su has gone too far.
Shortly after Su Qin's death, a large number of facts about his destruction of Qi for Yan were leaked.
Later, when the State of Qi heard these secrets, it turned its anger on the State of Yan.
King Yan was very scared.
Su Qin's younger brother is Su Dai, and Dai's younger brother is Su Li. Seeing that their elder brothers have become famous and fulfilled their wishes, they all work hard to learn the art of vertical and horizontal.
When Su Qin died, Su Dai went to see King Yan and planned to inherit Su Qin's old business.
He said to King Yan: "I am a despicable person from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty."
I heard privately that the king is very virtuous, but I am very stupid, so I gave up my farm tools and came to see the king.
When I arrived in Handan, Zhao State, the situation I saw was far inferior to what I heard in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. I privately decided to take on the ambition of doing something for you.
When I arrived at the Yan court and looked around the king's ministers and officials, I realized that the king was the wisest king in the world.
King Yan said: What do you mean by a wise king?
Su Dai replied: I heard that a wise king would like to hear others point out his faults, rather than just hear others praise his merits. Please allow me to explain the faults of the king.
Qi and Zhao are the enemies of Yan, while Chu and Wei are Yan's back-up countries.
Now, the king flatters the enemy and attacks the country that can save him. This is not good for Yan.
Please think about it for yourself, Your Majesty. This is a strategic mistake. Anyone who does not tell you about this mistake is not a loyal minister.
King Yan said: Qi is my enemy and a country that I want to conquer. I am just worried that the country will be weak and not have enough strength.
If you can attack Qi with the current strength of Yan State, then I am willing to entrust the entire country to you.
Su Dai replied: There are seven countries in the world that can fight against each other, but Yan is in a weak position.
You cannot win by fighting alone, but as long as you have someone to rely on, you can always improve your prestige.
If you attach yourself to Chu State to the south, the prestige of Chu State will increase; if you attach yourself to Qin State to the west, the prestige of Qin State will increase. The central part relied on Korea and Wei, and the prestige of Korea and Wei increased.
If the prestige of the country you are attached to increases, this will definitely improve your prestige.
Nowadays, the king of Qi is old, stubborn and confident, and cannot listen to other people's opinions.
He attacked the Chu State in the south for five years, and all the wealth he had accumulated was exhausted; the Qin State had troubled the west for many years, and his soldiers were exhausted; he fought in the north against the Yan State, and only captured two generals at the cost of annihilating the three armies.
However, the remaining troops must be mobilized to attack the Song Dynasty southward with 5,000 chariots and annex twelve small vassal states.
This is the desire of their king, but their people's power has been exhausted, how can they do it?
Moreover, I have heard that if the war continues for too long, the people will become tired and tired, and if the war lasts for too long, the soldiers will be exhausted.
King Yan said: I heard that the Qi State has Qingji and Zhuohe Rivers that can be used for defense, and the Great Wall and Jufeng can be used as fortresses. Is this true?
Su Dai replied: If the weather does not give him a favorable opportunity, how can he hold on even if there are Qingji and Zhuohe?
The people are tired and tired. Even if there is a Great Wall and a fortification, how can it become a fortress?
Moreover, in the past, the purpose of not levying troops west of Jizhou was to guard against the invasion of Zhao, and the purpose of not levying troops north of Luohe was to guard against the invasion of Yan.
Now, the troops in Jixi and Hebei have been drafted into the war, and the defense forces within the territory are already very weak.
An arrogant king must be profit-loving, and his ministers must be greedy for money.
If the king could not be ashamed of taking his nephew and brother as a hostage and use pearls, jade, and cloth to bribe the cronies of the King of Qi, then the King of Qi would be friendly to the State of Yan and rashly send troops to destroy the State of Song. Then, in this way, the State of Qi would be destroyed.
King Yan said: Finally, with you, I am destined to destroy Qi.
The State of Yan sent a young man to Qi State to serve as a hostage.
Su Li also took advantage of the opportunity of Yan State to send hostages to ask for an audience with the King of Qi.
The King of Qi resented Su Qin and planned to imprison Su Li.
The proton of the State of Yan pleaded guilty in front of the King of Qi on his behalf, and then Su Li committed himself to becoming a minister of the State of Qi.
The prime minister of Yan State, Zizhi, was married to Su Dai. Zizhi wanted to seize the power of Yan State, so he sent Su Dai to Qi State to serve the young master who was the hostage.
King Qi sent Su Dai back to Yan to resume his duties. King Yan asked, "Maybe King Qi is going to dominate?"
Su Dai replied: Impossible.
King Yan said: Why?
Su Dai replied: The King of Qi does not trust his ministers.
As a result, the King of Yan devoted himself to Zi Zhi, and soon gave up the throne to Zi Zhi. As a result, the Yan Kingdom was in chaos.
The State of Qi took the opportunity to attack the State of Yan and killed King Kuai and Zizhi of Yan.
The State of Yan supported King Zhao on the throne, but Su Dai and Su Li no longer dared to return to the State of Yan. In the end, they all surrendered to the State of Qi, and the King of Qi treated them friendly.
Su Dai passed through Wei State, and Wei State arrested Su Dai on behalf of Yan State.
The King of Qi sent someone to tell the King of Wei: Qi wants to entrust Song Dynasty to the King of Qin’s younger brother Jingyang Jun, but the King of Qin will definitely refuse to accept it.
It wasn't that King Qin didn't want Qi's assistance to seize Song's land, but that he didn't trust King Qi and Mr. Su.
Now that the conflict between Qi and Wei has reached such a serious level, Qi will not deceive Qin.
Qin will also trust Qi. If Qi and Qin unite, Jingyang Lord will get the land of Song. This is not a thing that is beneficial to Wei.
Therefore, it is better for the king to let Mr. Su return to Qi State. King Qin will definitely doubt King Qi and not trust Mr. Su.
If Qi and Qin cannot unite, there will be no major changes in the situation of the world, and the situation of attacking Qi will be formed.
So the State of Wei released Su Dai, and when Su Dai arrived in the State of Song, the King of Song treated him friendly.
Qi State attacked Song State, and Song State was in danger. Su Dai wrote a letter to King Yan Zhao, saying:
The Yan State was a big country listed among the Ten Thousand Cheng States, but it sent hostages to the Qi State, with a low reputation and low power; it dedicated many troops to help the Qi State attack the Song State, which made the people poor and exhausted their financial resources; even if they defeated the Song State and harmed Huaibei of the Chu State, they could only strengthen the Qi State, helping the enemy become stronger and harming their own country; these three aspects are very detrimental to the Yan State.
Despite this, the king continued to do this in order to gain the trust of Qi.
Qi State is even more distrustful of the king, and its hatred of Yan State is getting deeper and deeper. This shows that the king's strategy is wrong.
Adding the Song State and Chu State Huaibei together, it is worth a powerful Wancheng state, and Qi State's annexation of it is equivalent to benefiting Qi State from doubling its national strength.
Beiyi stretches seven hundred miles across, and if you add Lu and Wei, it is worth a powerful Wancheng country.
Qi State annexed them, which is equivalent to benefiting Qi State from doubling its national strength. A powerful Qi State, Yan State is too worried to support. Now that the powerful power of three Qi States is pressed on Yan State, the disaster must be serious.
Even so, a wise person can turn disaster into good fortune and failure into success.
Qi's purple cloth, which was originally dyed from shabby white silk, could increase its price tenfold; King Gou Jian of Yue was trapped on Kuaiji Mountain, but he defeated the powerful Wu and dominated the world; these are all examples of turning disaster into good fortune and turning failure into success.
Now, if the king wants to turn disaster into good luck and failure into success, he should encourage all countries to respect Qi as the overlord, send envoys to the Zhou royal family to openly form alliances, burn Qin's talismans, and declare: The best strategy is to conquer Qin; the second is to exclude it forever.
The Qin State was rejected by all countries and faced the threat of being conquered. The King of Qin must be worried about this.
The Qin State has taken the initiative to attack various vassal states for five consecutive generations, but now it has succumbed to the Qi State. According to the will of the King of Qin, if he can force the Qi State to be desperate, he is not afraid to bet the entire country in order to achieve success.
In this case, why doesn't the king send lobbyists to persuade the King of Qin with these words: Yan and Zhao defeated the Song State and strengthened the Qi State. Everyone respected him and became his subordinates. Yan and Zhao did not benefit.
The reason why Yan and Zhao did not get any benefit but still did this was because they did not trust King Qin.
In this case, why doesn't the king send a trustworthy person to collude with Yan and Zhao and let Lord Jingyang and Lord Gaoling go to Yan and Zhao first?
If Qin betrays its trust, it will use them as hostages, so that Yan and Zhao will trust Qin.
In this way, Qin was proclaimed emperor in the west, Yan was proclaimed emperor in the north, and Zhao was proclaimed emperor in the middle, establishing three emperors to issue orders in the world.
If South Korea and Wei do not obey, then Qin will send troops to attack it. If Qi does not obey, then Yan and Zhao will send troops to attack it. In this way, who in the world dares to disobey?
The whole world obeyed, so they took advantage of the situation and ordered Han and Wei to attack Qi, saying: The lost territory of Song must be handed over and Huaibei of Chu must be returned.
Handing over the lost land of the Song State and returning Huaibei to the Chu State would be beneficial to both Yan and Zhao; and establishing three emperors simultaneously would also be a matter of great joy for Yan and Zhao.
They actually got benefits and got their wish in terms of status, so it would be as easy for Yan and Zhao to abandon Qi as to throw off their slippers.
Now if you don't collude with Yan and Zhao, then the situation of Qi's hegemony will definitely form.
If the princes all support the state of Qi but you disobey, you will be attacked by the princes of all countries; if the princes all support the state of Qi but you obey it, your reputation will be reduced.
Now, if you collude with Yan and Zhao, the country will be stable and its reputation will be respected; if you do not collude with Yan and Zhao, the country will be in danger and its reputation will be reduced.
A wise person would not do this if he abandons the honor of national security and chooses national danger and reputation.
After hearing these words, King Qin must have felt like a dagger piercing his heart.
So why didn't the king send lobbyists to use these words to lobby the King of Qin?
The King of Qin will definitely adopt it after hearing it, and Qi will definitely be attacked.
Making friends with Qin is a beneficial diplomacy; attacking Qi is a legitimate interest.
Pursuing a favorable foreign policy and pursuing legitimate interests is what the Holy King does.
King Zhao of Yan thought that the letter he wrote was very good, so he said: The former king was kind to the Su family. Later, because of Zi Zhi's troubles, the Su family left the Yan State. If the Yan State wanted to take revenge on the Qi State, the Su family had to be the one.
So he recalled Su Dai, treated him well, and planned with him to attack Qi.
Finally defeated Qi State and forced King Qi Min to flee Qi State.
After a long time, the State of Qin invited King Yan, and King Yan wanted to go. The Su Dynasty stopped King Yan and said: The State of Chu was greedy for the land of Zhi, which led to the country's peril, and the State of Qi seized the land of Song, which led to the ruin of the country. Qi and Chu could not serve Qin just because they had Zhi and Song. Why?
That's because any successful country is Qin's most hated enemy.
Qin conquered the world not by enforcing justice, but by using violence.
Qin's violence was openly announced to the world.
He once warned the Chu State: The army of Shu is floating on the Wen River in boats, taking advantage of the strong water in summer to go straight down the Yangtze River, and can reach the capital of Ying in five days.
The Hanzhong army set out from the Bajiang River in boats and took advantage of the swollen water in summer to go straight down the Hanjiang River. They could reach Wuzhu in four days.
I personally gathered an army in Wandong and marched directly to follow the city. The smart people had no time to make suggestions and the brave people had no time to get angry. I attacked you as quickly as I shot down an eagle.
And King Chu, you still want to wait for all the countries in the world to attack Hangu Pass, isn't it too far away?
It was for this reason that the King of Chu served Qin for seventeen years.
Qin also sternly warned South Korea: My army sets out from Shaoqu and can cut off the passage of Taihang Mountain within one day.
My army set out from Yiyang and attacked Pingyang directly. Within two days, the situation in all parts of Korea was unshakable.
My army will attack Xinzheng through two weeks from east to west, and within five days, I will conquer all of Korea.
South Korea believed that what he said was reasonable, so he served Qin.
The state of Qin also sternly warned the state of Wei: My army conquered Anyi and besieged Nuji, and Taiyuan of South Korea was cut off.
My army went straight down the Zhi Road, passed through Nanyang, blockaded Jiyi, and surrounded the east and west for two weeks. Taking advantage of the strong water in summer, I drove light warships, with strong crossbows in front and sharp spears in the back, to dig open the mouth of Xingze Water, the main beam of Wei State If the mouth of the Baima River is dug, Waihuang and Jiyang of Wei will be swallowed by the floods and cease to exist; if the mouth of the Suxu River is dug, Xudi and Dunqiu of Wei will be flooded and cease to exist.
When fighting on land, attack Hanoi, and use water attacks to destroy beams.
The State of Wei believed that what he said was reasonable, so he served the State of Qin.
Qin planned to attack Anyi and was worried that Qi would rescue it, so it promised the land of Song to Qi.
Said: The King of Song was ignorant, so he made a wooden man that looked like me, and shot it in the face with arrows. My country was cut off from Song, and the army was too far away from Song to attack it directly.
King Qi, if you can defeat the Song State and take it as your own, you will be as happy as I would be if I took it for myself.
Later, the Qin State captured Anyi of the Wei State and besieged Nuji. Instead, it regarded the defeat of the Song State as Qi's crime.
Qin planned to attack South Korea and was worried that the princes of the world would rescue it, so it promised Qi to the princes of the world to attack it, saying: The king of Qi made an alliance with me four times, deceived me four times, and resolutely led the army of the world to attack our country, many times.
As long as Qi exists, there will be no Qin. As long as Qin exists, there will be no Qi. It must be conquered and destroyed.
When the Qin State captured Yiyang and Shaoqu in South Korea and conquered Linyi and Lishi, it regarded defeating the Qi State as a sin among the vassal states in the world. Qin planned to attack Wei, so he first respected Chu and promised Nanyang to Chu.
Said: I had already severed ties with South Korea.
If it is beneficial to the state of Chu to destroy Junling and besiege it, then I will be as happy as if I had it.
When the state of Wei abandoned the alliance and joined forces with the state of Qin, the state of Qin charged Chu with siege.
Qin's army was trapped in the forest, so he respected Yan and Zhao, and promised Jiaodong to Yan and Jixi to Zhao.
When Qin and Wei reconciled, they took Gongzi Yan as a hostage and used rhinoceros troops to attack Zhao one after another.
Qin's army suffered heavy losses at Qiaoshi and was defeated at Yangma, so he respected Wei and granted the land of Ye and Cai to Wei.
After he reconciled with Zhao, he threatened Wei and refused to divide the land as agreed.
When the Qin army was in trouble, they sent the Queen Mother's brother Ranghou to make peace. When he won, even his uncle and mother were deceived.
Outside Xihe, the Shangluo area and Sanchuan area are often attacked by the Qin State. This is a disaster for the Jin State!
The Qin State invaded half of the land of Han, Zhao, and Wei. The disasters caused by the Qin State were so serious! However, people from Yan, Zhao and other countries who went to Qin to persuade their kings tried to persuade their own monarchs by serving Qin. This is something that worries me very much.
King Yan Zhao did not go to Qin, and Su Dai was reused by King Yan again.
The King of Yan sent Su Dai to contact the various countries to unite and establish a blind date. Just like when Su Qin was alive, some princes joined the alliance and some did not. People from all over the world respected the alliance advocated by Su Qin from then on.
Both Su Dai and Su Li lived to a very old age, and their reputations became prominent in various vassal states.
Tai Shigong said: The three brothers Su and Qin are famous all over the world for lobbying the princes. Their theories are good at maneuvering and maneuvering.
However, Su Qin was killed on the charge of counter-intentional conspiracy. Everyone in the world laughed at him and tabooed the study of his teachings.
However, there are many differences in the deeds of Su Qin circulated in society. All deeds similar to Su Qin in different periods are attached to Su Qin.
Su Qin was born among the common people, but he was able to unite six countries and have a blind date. This shows that his intelligence is beyond ordinary people. Therefore, I will list his experiences and state them in the correct chronological order, so as not to let him only suffer a bad reputation.
