Wan Shijun, whose surname is Shi and whose name is Fen, is from Zhao.
After the fall of Tongguo, he moved to Wen County.
Gaozu Shu attacked Xiangju and passed through Hanoi County. Shi Fen was only fifteen years old at that time and was a minor official serving Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu liked his respectful attitude when talking to him, so he asked: Who else is in your family?
Shi Fen replied: I only have a mother who is unfortunately blind.
The family is poor.
There is also a sister who can play the piano.
Gaozu said: Can you follow me?
He replied: I am willing to do my best.
So Emperor Gaozu called his sister to be a beauty, and appointed Shi Fen as his chamberlain, Zhongjuan, who was responsible for accepting invitations to meet famous people and other matters.
Because his sister was a concubine, his home was moved to the streets of Chang'an City where the emperor's relatives lived.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, Shi Fen was promoted to Taizhong doctor due to his many merits.
Shi Fen did not understand Confucianism, but he was extremely respectful and cautious, unmatched by anyone.
Zhang Xiangru, Marquis of Shuyang, was dismissed as the Crown Prince and Tutor.
When choosing someone to be the Taifu, Shi Fen was elected as the Prince Taifu.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, Shi Fen was promoted to Jiuqing.
Shi Fen was in the court and close to the emperor. Emperor Jing couldn't bear his restraint and asked Shi Fen to be the prime minister of the princes.
Shi Fen's eldest son Shi Jian, his second son X, his third son X, and his fourth son Shi Qing all reached the rank of two thousand stones because of their obedient, loyal, filial, and cautious behavior.
Then Emperor Jing said: Mr. Shi and his four sons are all officials with a salary of two thousand shi, and all the respect and favor of the ministers will gather at his house.
Since the total salary of his four sons and Shi Fen was 10,000 dan, Shi Fen was named Lord Wan Shi.
In the later years of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wan Shijun resigned from his old age and returned to his hometown with his salary as a doctor, and went to court regularly every year.
Every time you pass by the palace gate, you must get off the car and walk quickly. When you see the emperor's carriage and horses on the road, you must hold the crossbar of the carriage and salute.
When his descendants who are minor officials come back to visit him, Wan Shijun will definitely put on court clothes and meet them without calling them by name.
When his descendants made mistakes, he would not blame them. Instead, he would sit aside and face the dining table without eating.
When the descendants saw this situation, they blamed each other, asked the elders of the clan to be a guarantee, and apologized without putting on their clothes. The descendants promised to correct their mistakes, and Shi Fen accepted their apology.
His adult children are also neatly dressed and polite when they are with him.
The servants also looked respectful and cautious.
Sometimes the emperor would give his family food, and Wan Shijun would always kowtow and bend down on the ground before eating it, as if he were in front of the emperor.
When a relative in the family dies, he must wear mourning clothes and feel very sad.
His descendants followed his teachings and learned from him.
Wan Shijun's family was famous throughout the county for their filial piety and respect, and even the noble literati in the Qilu area felt inferior to them.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Wang Zang, the doctor's order, angered the empress dowager because of his love of Confucianism.
The Empress Dowager believed that Confucianism was rich in humanities but not in quality, and was not as good as Wan Shijun's family. They did not talk about it but practiced it, so Shi Jian, the eldest son of Wan Shijun, was granted the title of Lang Zhongling, and his fourth son Shi Qing was granted the title of internal history.
When Shi Jian was old and gray, Wan Shijun was still healthy.
Shi Jian went back to visit his father on leave every five days, entered the child's room, asked the servants privately, and took away his father's underwear and toilet, washed them himself, and then gave them to the servants. He did not dare to let Wan Shijun know, and he often did this.
When Shi Jian presented a memorial in front of the emperor, he would avoid others and speak freely to the emperor alone, even if there was someone to present. However, when he went to court, he seemed like a person who was not good at talking, so the emperor became close to him and treated him politely.
Wan Shijun moved to the mausoleum to live.
When Shi Qing, who was serving as an official, came home drunk, he entered the gate without getting out of the car. When Wan Shijun heard about it, he stopped eating.
Huqing was frightened and took off his shirt to apologize, but Wan Shijun still did not forgive him.
Shi Qing asked the whole family and Shi Jian to take off their shirts. Wan Shijun scolded him: "Nei Shi is a powerful person. When he enters the village, all the elders in the village move out of the way, but Nei Shi sits in the car and is at ease. It shouldn't be done!"
So Shi Qing was asked to leave.
From then on, Shi Qing and the other children walked home in a hurry after entering the inner door.
Wan Shijun died in the fifth year of Yuanshuo. Shi Jian cried sadly and could only walk with a cane.
Shi Jian also died more than a year later.
Wan Shijun's descendants all observe filial piety, but Shi Jian is the most filial, even more than Wan Wuxing.
Shi Jian was appointed as Lang Zhongling and reported matters to the emperor. When the report was reported, Shi Jian read it and said in horror: Write the word "horse" with four dots and the tail, a total of five. Now write the word "horse" with four dots. If you write less, the emperor will blame you to death.
He was also cautious when dealing with other matters.
Shi Qing was appointed as a servant and drove a carriage for the emperor. The emperor asked how many horses were in the carriage. After Shi Qing counted the horses with a whip, he raised his hand and said: "Six horses."
Shi Qing is the most straightforward and concise among the brothers, and he is also so careful.
Shi Qing became the prime minister of the state of Qi. The people of Qi respected his family ethics. He managed the state of Qi well without using punishment, so the people of Qi built a stone temple for him.
In the first year of Yuanshou, the emperor appointed a prince and selected someone among the ministers who could be the prince's teacher. Shi Qing was promoted from being the prefect of Pei County to the prince's tutor, and seven years later he was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the fifth year of Yuanding, Prime Minister Zhao Zhou was dismissed due to insufficient funds for sacrifices. The emperor went down to Shao and said: "Wan Shijun is a person respected by the late emperor, and his descendants abide by filial piety. Therefore, he appointed Shi Qing, the imperial censor, as the prime minister and granted him the title of Marquis of Muqiu."
At this time, the Han Dynasty was attacking Vietnam and Vietnam to the south, North Korea to the east, expelling the Xiongnu to the north, and attacking Dawan to the west. There were many affairs in the country, and the emperor was patrolling the country, building ancient temples, enshrining Zen, and promoting rituals and music.
Domestic expenditures were insufficient. Ministers such as Sang Hongyang worked hard to increase fiscal revenue, ministers such as Wang Wenshu strictly enforced the law, ministers such as Ni Kuan promoted literature, and the nine ministers cooperated with each other to govern the country. But many things have nothing to do with Shi Qing. He is just obedient and handles things respectfully and carefully.
Shi Qing served as prime minister for nine years without any advice on current affairs.
He once wanted to punish the emperor's close ministers Suozhong and Jiuqing Xianxuan, but he could not be punished. Instead, he was punished for it, and in the end he had to atone for his sins.
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng, there were 2 million refugees in Guandong and 400,000 refugees without household registration. The ministers planned to ask the emperor to move the refugees to border areas to resettle them.
The emperor believed that Prime Minister Shi Qing was old and cautious and could not discuss state affairs with him, so he ordered the prime minister to retire and return home, and to investigate and punish those ministers below the imperial censor who wanted to migrate as refugees.
The prime minister felt ashamed that he could not fulfill his duties and wrote to the emperor: "I have been favored by the emperor and become a useless prime minister, like a tired horse unable to assist in the governance of the court."
There is no food in the warehouses in the city, and the people are in exile. The crimes I have committed really deserve to be executed. The emperor cannot bear to punish me according to law. I hope to return the prime minister's seal and ask for an old skeleton to go home, so that I can make way for talented people.
The report said: Not long ago, the Yellow River overflowed and flooded more than ten counties. The work on the flood control embankments was very hard, but it still couldn't be blocked. I was very worried.
Therefore, he patrolled the country, paid homage to Mount Song, paid homage to the Eight Gods, and blocked the breach in Xuanfang.
He crossed the Huaihe River and the Yangtze River, patrolled the Lishan coast and asked about the sufferings of the people.
Considering that officials bent the law for personal gain and imposed endless heavy taxes, people who ran away from home were exempted from it, but those who settled down were very worried, so the Refugee Law was enacted to prohibit heavy taxes.
A few days ago, I went to Mount Tai to worship heaven, and the emperor gave me wonderful rewards, which were auspicious symbols.
I promised to renovate the government affairs in return for the auspicious response, but I am afraid that I am not obeying God's good intentions. I went to investigate among the people and learned that the officials were treacherous and evil.
The appointed officials fail to perform their duties, the people are miserable, and thieves are lawless.
In previous years, I was in Mingtang, pardoning prisoners on death row, and officials who had not been demoted or punished. They all reformed and started over.
Nowadays, more and more people are in exile, but the documents for household registration are not reduced. The ministers do not strictly punish the officials, but request that 400,000 people be moved away, which makes the people uneasy. Orphans and teenagers under ten years old are also innocently led to move away. I am very disappointed with this.
Now you write a letter saying that the granaries in the city are empty, the people are poor, and robbers and thieves are rampant. You are the prime minister and cannot govern. You ask for grain and rice to atone for your sins and to retire and become a commoner.
You know well that the people are in distress, but you ask for an increase in taxes and sway the people. Now that the people are in danger, you want to resign from your position. Who do you blame?
If you take it for granted, you can return home!
Gen Qing was a simple man. When he saw the emperor's edict asking him to go home, he thought he had the emperor's permission and wanted to return the prime minister's seal ribbon.
Shi Qing believed that being severely reprimanded by the emperor and finally sent home was the harshest criticism. Some people advised Shi Qing to commit suicide.
Shi Qing was frightened and didn't know what to do, so he went to the court again to manage things.
When Gen Qing was the prime minister, he was very scheming and had no talent.
Mi died more than three years later and was named Tianhou.
The second son Shi De is Shi Qing's favorite.
The emperor let Shi De inherit the title, and later he was appointed Taichang. He was dismissed for breaking the law and the feudal state was abolished.
When Shi Qing was Prime Minister, there were thirteen people among his descendants who were serving as minor officials up to two thousand shi.
After Gen Qing's death, some people were deposed for committing crimes, and the virtue of filial piety and respect also declined.
Wei Wan, a native of Dai Ren Ling, was a knight with outstanding chariot skills. He followed Sai Tong and was promoted to the rank of Zhonglang General due to his merit. He was honest and cautious and had no other ambitions.
When Xiao Liangcha was the crown prince, he summoned the emperor's close friends to have a drink, but Xun excused himself because he was ill.
Before Secha died, he told Emperor Xiaojing: Wei Wan is a highly respected person, treat him well.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, he did not ask about Wei Wan's situation for more than a year. Wei Wan encouraged himself to be cautious every day.
Emperor Jing went on a tour to Shanglin, and ordered Zhonglang to be a charioteer. When he came back, he said, "Do you know why I can let you be a charioteer?"
Wei Wan said: I am a charioteer in the state of Dai. I was lucky enough to be promoted due to my merits and became a general of the rank and file. I don’t know why.
The emperor asked: I called you when I was the prince, why did you refuse to come?
He replied: This is really a capital crime, I am sick.
The emperor gave him the sword. Wei Wan said: The late emperor gave me six swords, and I dare not accept this reward again.
The emperor said: "Swords, people often exchange them, do you still keep them to this day?" Wei Wan said: "They are all here."
The emperor sent someone to fetch six swords. The swords were all well preserved and had never been worn.
When a Lang officer made a mistake and was criticized, Wei Wan often took the blame himself, did not argue with other generals, and often gave up his military merits to other generals.
The emperor believed that he was honest, loyal and magnanimous, so he appointed Wei Wan as the tutor of Liu De, the king of Hejian.
When the vassal states of Wu and Chu rebelled, the emperor issued an edict to appoint Wei Wan as general. He led the army in Hejian to attack the states of Wu and Chu and made military exploits. The emperor promoted him to lieutenant.
Three years later, Wei Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Jianling because of his military exploits.
In the second year, the emperor deposed the prince and executed Li Qing and others.
The emperor thought that Wei Wan was a kind elder and could not bear to send him, so he ordered Wei Wan to retire and return to his hometown, while Zhi Du was responsible for arresting Li Qing and others.
After the incident was over, the emperor appointed King Micellar as the prince and ordered Wei Wan to be the prince's tutor. Later, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
Five years later, when Tao Hou Liu She was replaced as prime minister, Wei Wan only reported routine matters and did not discuss anything else.
However, since he became an official until he was promoted to prime minister, he has been unable to build or abolish anything.
The emperor believed that Wei Wan was a kindhearted person and could assist the prince, so he respected and favored him and rewarded him with many things.
Wei Wan served as prime minister for three years. After Emperor Jing's death, Emperor Wu ascended the throne.
In the middle of the Jianyuan year, because officials imprisoned many innocent people when Emperor Jing was ill, Wei Wan refused to redress the grievances of the people, so he was dismissed.
After Wei Wan died, Mi was named Aihou.
His son Wei Xin inherited his title, but was convicted of insufficient tribute for sacrifices, and the princely state was abolished.
There is no doubt that he is from Nanyang. As a Langguan, he served Emperor Wen.
Someone of his fellow-shalangguan asked for leave to go home and mistakenly took away the gold of his fellow-shalangguan.
Soon his colleague Shalang found out that he had made groundless speculations about Zhi Busuo. Zhi Busuo apologized and said that he had indeed taken the gold, so he bought the gold to compensate him.
Later, the official Lang who took leave returned and returned the gold to the man who had lost the gold. This made the man who had lost the gold very ashamed, so he called Zhi Busuo an elder.
Soon, Zhi Busuo was promoted to a middle doctor.
When he went to court to pay homage to the emperor, some people slandered him and said: "Zhi is handsome, but how could he have an affair with his sister-in-law?"
After hearing this, Zhi Buyi said: I have no brother.
However, he never defends himself.
When Wu and Chu rebelled, Zhi Busuo led an army of two thousand stones to attack the rebels.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, he was appointed as the imperial censor.
When the emperor recorded his military exploits in quelling the Wu and Chu rebellions, he granted Zhi the title of Marquis of Sai.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and was dismissed together with Prime Minister Wei Wan for faults.
Zhi Buyi is proficient in the theory of inaction in Laozi.
When he is an official, he does everything according to the previous system, lest people know about his achievements as an official.
He doesn't like to build a reputation and people call him an elder.
After Zhi Buyi's death, Mi was given the title of Marquis of Xin.
The throne was passed to his grandson Zhi Pengzu. He was convicted of insufficient money for the sacrifice and the feudal state was abolished.
Zhou Ren's ancestor was from Rencheng.
He was summoned by the emperor because of his excellent medical skills.
When Emperor Jing was the crown prince, he was a sacrificer and was promoted to Taizhong doctor through meritorious service.
When Emperor Jing just came to the throne, he worshiped Zhou Ren as his doctor.
Zhou Ren is a deep and steady person and does not reveal other people's secrets.
He usually wore patched and dirty clothes and deliberately showed that he was unclean, so he was favored and entered the palace bedroom.
The emperor was playing with the concubines in the harem. Zhou Ren was often beside him, but he never spoke.
The emperor sometimes asked people about their merits. Zhou Ren said: The emperor himself can observe it.
Although Zhou Ren knew the shortcomings of others, he did not slander them in front of the emperor, that's all.
Emperor Jing personally visited his home twice.
His family moved to Yangling.
The emperor gave many rewards, but he often declined and did not dare to accept them.
He also refused to accept bribes from princes and ministers.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he was respected as a minister of the late emperor.
Zhou Ren was dismissed from his post due to illness and returned home with a salary of 2,000 shi to provide for his old age. His descendants all became high-ranking officials.
Zhang Shi, courtesy name Zhao, was the youngest son of Anqiu Hou Jiyue, a great hero.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Tuiya assisted the prince by studying the science of punishment names, but he was very kind-hearted.
When Liangtong was in power, he respected him very much and served as Jiuqing.
During the reign of You Wusu, he replaced Dong Guo as the imperial censor.
As an official, Zhang Ou never punished others, but only acted with sincerity and kindness.
His subordinates considered him an elder and did not dare to deceive him too much.
When he reported a case, he would return whatever could be returned; if he could not, he would weep for the sinner and seal the document as he could not bear to read it.
He cares about people like that.
Zhang Ou was old and asked to retire, but the emperor still gave him the salary of a doctor or above to go home and spend his old age.
The family lives in Yangling.
His descendants are all high officials.
Praise: King Kong said: A gentleman should talk less and do more. Isn't this what it means to fall into the Five Stars, build the Linghou, fortify the fortress, and withdraw from the army?
Therefore, educating others can achieve the goal without being harsh, and being an official can govern the country without being dignified.
As for Shi Jian's laundry, Zhou Ren wore torn clothes and diapers, and was ridiculed by gentlemen.
