Emperor Xiaojing was the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowen.
His mother is Queen Mother Dou.
When Emperor Xiaowen was in Daiguo, the former queen gave birth to three boys. When Empress Dowager Dou became favored, the former queen died, and her three sons also died one after another, so Emperor Xiaojing could succeed to the throne.
On April 22, the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the Yisi day, the people were given the first rank of nobility.
In May, half of farmers’ land rent will be reduced. The Taizong Temple was built for Emperor Xiaowen.
Order ministers not to congratulate him on his accession to the throne.
The Xiongnu were allowed to enter the land of Dai and signed a peace treaty with the Xiongnu.
In the spring of the second year, Xiao Xi, the grandson of Xiao He, the original Prime Minister, was ennobled as Marquis of Wuling, and it was stipulated that men should be registered in the book when they were twenty years old.
On April 25, Queen Mother Xiaowen passed away.
The kings of Guangchuan and Changsha both went to their respective kingdoms.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia passed away.
In August, Kaifeng Hou Taoqing, the imperial censor, was appointed prime minister.
The comet appears in the northeast.
In autumn, hailstorms hit Hengshan Mountain like rain. The largest hailstones were five inches long and the deepest ones were two feet deep.
Yinghuo moved backwards, approaching Beichen's position, and the moon appeared in the middle of Beichen.
The year star moves in reverse direction in heaven.
The emperor established Nanling, Neishi and Qiyi as counties.
On the twenty-second day of the first month of the third year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
A comet with a long ray appears in the west.
The sky fire burned down the main hall and tower of Luoyang East Palace.
King Liu Bi of Wu, King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Zhao, King Liu Xian of Jiaoxi, King Liu Biguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Zichuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Jiaodong launched a rebellion and sent troops to the west.
The emperor executed Chao Cuo because of this incident and sent Yuan Ang to inform the seven kingdoms. However, the seven kingdoms still did not stop their march and continued to besiege Liang State to the west.
Therefore, the emperor sent General Dou Ying and Taiwei Zhou Yafu to lead troops to attack them and finally eliminated them.
On June 25, the emperor pardoned the defeated soldiers and those who participated in the rebellion, including Liu Pei, the son of King Chu Yuan.
The general Dou Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Wei.
He established Pingluhou Liu Li, the son of King Yuan of Chu, as King of Chu.
Prince Liu Duan was made King of Jiaoxi, and Prince Liu Sheng was made King of Zhongshan.
Liu Zhi, the king of Jibei, was renamed the king of Zichuan, Liu Yu, the king of Huaiyang, was the king of Lu, and Liu Fei, the king of Runan, was the king of Jiangdu.
The king of Qi, Liu Jianglu, and the king of Yan, Liu Jia, both died.
In the summer of four years, the crown prince was established.
The prince Liu Che was granted the title of King of Jiaodong.
On June 29th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In leap September, Geyang was changed to Yangling.
Checkpoints were also set up at ferries and passes, and entry and exit were based on talismans.
In winter, the state of Zhao was renamed Handan County.
In March of the fifth year, Yangling and Wei Bridge were built.
In May, two hundred thousand coins were allocated to recruit people from all over the country to move to Yangling.
The Jiangdu area encountered a big storm from the west, destroying twelve feet of the city wall.
On the 28th, the emperor conferred the title of Longluhou on the son of the eldest princess.
The title of King Guangchuan was changed to King Zhao.
In the spring of the sixth year, Lieutenant Wei Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Jianling, Prime Minister Cheng Jia of Jiangdu was granted the title of Marquis of Jianping, Grand Administrator Gongsun Hunxie of Longxi County was granted the title of Marquis of Pingqu, Prime Minister Su Jia of Zhao was granted the title of Marquis of Jiangling, and the original general Luan Bu was granted the title of Marquis of Tuan.
King Liang and King Chu both died.
In leap September, the trees along the Chi Road were cut down and the orchid pond was filled in.
In the winter of the seventh year, Prince Li Liu Rong was deposed and was granted the title of King of Linjiang.
On the last day of November, there was a solar eclipse.
In the spring, the prisoners and slaves who built Yangling were pardoned.
Prime Minister Tao Qing was dismissed from his post.
On February 16, Taiwei Tiaohou Zhou Yafu was appointed prime minister.
On April 17, the mother of King Jiaodong was made queen.
On the 29th, King Jiaodong was established as the crown prince.
The crown prince's name is Toru.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Zhou Ping, the grandson of the original censor Zhou Ke, was granted the title of Shenghou, and Zhou Zuoche, the grandson of the original censor Zhou Chang, was granted the title of Anyanghou.
On April 23, a general amnesty was granted to the people, and the people were given first-class titles.
The prohibition against merchants and bridal sons-in-law being allowed to serve as officials, and the prohibition against officials who have committed crimes being allowed to serve as officials again, were abolished. There was an earthquake. There was hail in Hengshan and Yuandu, with the largest diameter being one foot and eight inches.
In February of the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the Xiongnu invaded Yan territory, so they no longer made peace with the Xiongnu.
In March, he ordered King Linjiang to be summoned to the capital for questioning. Soon King Linjiang died in the Lieutenant's Mansion.
In the summer, Prince Liu Yue was made King of Guangchuan, and Prince Liu Ji was made King of Jiaodong.
Four princes were enfeoffed.
On September 30, there was a solar eclipse.
In the winter of the third year of Zhongyuan, the official position of Yushi Zhongcheng in the princely kingdoms was abolished.
In the spring, the two kings of the Xiongnu came and surrendered with their tribes, and they were both named princes.
The prince Liu Fangcheng was made King of Qinghe.
In March, the comet appears in the northwest.
Prime Minister Zhou Yafu was dismissed from his post and Taohou Liu She, the imperial censor, was appointed as prime minister.
In April, there was an earthquake.
On the last day of September, there was a solar eclipse.
Troops were stationed outside the Dongdu Gate of the capital.
In March of the fourth year of Zhongyuan, Deyang Palace was built.
A serious locust plague occurred.
In autumn, the prisoners who built Yangling were pardoned.
In the summer of the fifth year of Zhongyuan, Prince Liu Shun was made King of Changshan.
Ten people were enfeoffed as marquises.
On June 29th, a general amnesty was granted to the people, and the common people were given first-class titles.
Severe waterlogging occurred across the country.
Change the name of the prime minister of the vassal kingdom to prime minister.
In the fall, there was an earthquake.
On February 25, the sixth year of Zhongyuan, the emperor came to Yong County to worship the Five Emperors in the suburbs.
In March, there was hail.
In April, King Xiao of Liang, King Gong of Chengyang, and King of Runan all died.
Liu Ming, the son of King Xiao of Liang, was made King of Jichuan, Liu Pengli was named King of Jidong, Liu Ding was named King of Shanyang, and Liu Bushi was named King of Jiyin.
The original Liang Kingdom was divided into five kingdoms.
Confess four people as marquis.
The official title of Jiangting Wei should be Dali, Jiangzuo Shaofu should be renamed Jiangzuo Dajiang, Lord Lieutenant should be renamed Duwei, Changxin Zhanshi should be renamed Changxin Shaofu, Jiangxing should be renamed Dachangqiu, Daxing should be renamed Xingren, Fengchang should be renamed Taichang, Dianke should be renamed Daxing, and Zhisu Neishi should be renamed Danong.
The official rank of Ouchi was determined to be two thousand stones, and the left inner officer and the right inner officer were set up to make them subordinate to Ouchi.
On July 29, there was a solar eclipse.
In August, the Huns invaded Shangjun.
In the winter of the first year of Houyuan, he was renamed Zhongdafu Ling as Weiwei.
On March 19, a general amnesty was granted to the people, and the people were given the title of first class. Officials with two thousand shi and the prime ministers of the princely states were given the title of right concubine.
In April, people are allowed to gather and have feasts.
On May 9, there was an earthquake, and there was another earthquake during breakfast.
The Shangyong earthquake lasted for twenty-two days and destroyed the city wall.
On July 29, there was a solar eclipse.
Prime Minister Liu She was dismissed from his post.
In August, Wei Wan, the imperial censor, was appointed prime minister and granted the title of Marquis of Jianling.
In the first month of the next two years, three earthquakes occurred in one day.
General Zhi led his troops to attack the Xiongnu.
The people were allowed to gather and feast for five days.
Neishi County was ordered not to feed the horses with grain, but to return the horses to the government.
Criminals and slaves were required to wear only the most coarse clothing. It is forbidden to use horses to pound rice.
Due to the poor harvest that year, the people of the world were prohibited from eating the food harvested that year in advance within one year.
Reduce the number of princes in the capital and send them to their own fiefdoms.
In March, the Huns invaded Yanmen.
In October, the cultivated land around Changling, the mausoleum of Emperor Gaozu, was rented to farmers.
A severe drought occurred.
The plague spread among the people of Hengshan Kingdom, Hedong County, and Yunzhong County.
In October of the third year of AD, a solar and lunar eclipse occurred. The sun and moon were red for five consecutive days.
On the last day of December, there was a thunderstorm.
The sun appears purple.
The five stars are retrograde and invade Taiweiyuan.
The moon crosses the sky.
On the seventeenth day of the first lunar month, Crown Prince Liu Che held a coronation ceremony.
On the 27th, Emperor Xiaojing passed away.
The imperial edict granted everyone from the princes to the common people who were his father's heirs a first-class title, and each household in the world received one hundred coins.
Release the palace maids and let them return to their homes, exempting them from taxes and corvee for life.
The prince ascended the throne and became Emperor Xiaowu.
In March, Tian Fu, the younger brother of the Empress Dowager, was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, and Tian Sheng was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Yang.
Yangling was set up as the mausoleum of Emperor Jing.
Tai Shigong said: After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Xiaowen extended his kindness and kindness, and the people of the world were grateful and at peace. By the time of Emperor Xiaojing, there was no longer any need to worry about the rebellion of princes and kings with different surnames.
However, Chao Cuo deprived the princes and kings of the same surname of their fiefdoms, causing the seven kingdoms to rebel together and jointly attack the imperial court in the west. This is because the power of the princes and kings is too strong, and Chao Cuo did not gradually weaken it when taking action.
It was not until Zhufu Yan made suggestions that the power of the princes and kings weakened, and the country was finally stabilized.
Isn’t the key to national security relying on strategy?
