Wang Liang, courtesy name Fengshu, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was the sixth-generation grandson of Wang Dao, the prime minister of the Jin Dynasty. His grandfather Wang Yan was a doctor of Youguanglu and Kaifu Yitong in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Wang You, was the minister of Huangmen.
Because Wang Liang was a child of a famous family, he was selected as a mate to the princess in the late Song Dynasty. He was worshiped as Prince Consort and Secretary Lang. After being promoted many times, he served as King Wenxue of Guiyang, Wang You of Nanjun, and Secretary Cheng.
Prince Liang of Jingling of the Qi Dynasty opened a west residence, invited talented people to set up a scholar's hall, and sent craftsmen to paint their portraits. Wang Liang also participated in it.
Wang Liang moved to Zhongshu Shilang and Da Sima to work as Zhonglang and became the prefect of Hengyang.
Because the terrain in the south was low and humid, he declined to take up the post and moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen.
Soon Wang Liang became the governor of Jinling. He was honest and fair and had good political measures.
Emperor Qi Ming was the prime minister at that time. After hearing about it, he praised him and recommended him as the leader of the army. He was highly appreciated and accepted.
When Emperor Ming of Qi came to the throne, Wang Liang was moved to the crown prince's concubine, Shangshu Libu Lang. He was famous for explaining things clearly and clearly, and he was also moved to serve in the palace.
In the last years of Jianwu, Wang Liang served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. The right servant of this fashion book, She Jiang Zhe, managed the government affairs, recommended and selected talents many times, and became the home of scholars.
Wang Liang often insisted on dissent by virtue of his position in the election department.
When Wang Liang was not a member of the staff, he had a close friendship with Jiang Zhe because Jiang Zhe was the emperor's brother-in-law. Jiang Tuo spread his reputation, and Wang Liang was even more valued by the emperor. When he arrived in Japan, his relationship with Jiang Zhe had become distant and cold, but Jiang Zhe was still as close to him as before.
When Jiang Zhe was killed, all the villains violated the religious orders, and all appointments to officials and appointments were decided by their favorites, and Wang Liang was even less able to stop them.
It seems that they have been carefully scrutinized externally, but there is no obvious identification internally. Their selection and appointment are limited to status and rank. People in the world do not think they have ability.
Wang Liang frequently added Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi and the prince's right guard to lead the minister's right servant and guard the army.
Soon Shu Hun killed him arbitrarily and the torture was already rampant. Wang Liang relied on him to please him and was finally saved from being killed.
When the benevolent and righteous troops arrived in Xinlin, many officials inside and outside the imperial court went to the road to welcome him. Those who could not escape also sent people to express their sincere feelings through the small road, but Wang Liang did not go.
When the city was settled, everyone only elected Wang Liang as their leader.
Wang Liang came out to meet Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu said: If a blind man falls and does not help him, how can he need someone to help him?
But he was not convicted.
After the establishment of Bafu, Wang Liang served as the Grand Sima Changshi, the General of Fujun, and the Governor of Langye Qinghe County.
When Liangtai was established, Wang Liang was granted the title of Shizhong and Shangshu Ling, but he resolutely refused to accept the offer. He only served as Shizhong, Zhongshu Supervisor and concurrently as Shangshu Ling.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the abdication, and Wang Liang moved to serve as minister, minister, and general of the Chinese army. He was introduced to serve as an assistant, and he was granted the title of Duke of Yuning County and a settlement of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, Wang Liang was transferred to Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and his servants and soldiers were still as before.
On the first day of the first lunar month, he met with guests from all over the world in the court. Wang Liang refused to go to the palace because he was ill. He held a banquet and talked and laughed freely.
A few days later, the emperor summoned the ministers to inquire about the matter. Wang Liang's face showed no signs of illness. Yushi Zhongcheng Le'ai reported that this was disrespectful to the emperor and discussed the punishment of abandoning the market.
The emperor ordered Wang Liang to be stripped of his title and become a commoner.
In the summer of the fourth year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu had a banquet with his ministers in Huaguang Palace and said to them: I still listen to the affairs of the state every day until the sun sets, and I want to hear about the gains and losses of the administration.
You and others can be said to be talented and courageous people, and they should each give advice.
Fan Zhen, the minister Zuocheng, stood up and said: Situ Xiebei originally had only a false reputation, but your majesty promoted him like this. The previous minister, Ling Wang Liang, was very talented in handling practical affairs, but your majesty abandoned him like this. These are things that a foolish minister cannot know.
Gaozu's face changed and he said: "You can talk about other things."
Fan Zhen insisted on his own opinion, and Gaozu was very unhappy.
Censor Zhongcheng Ren Fang took the opportunity to report: I heard that Xifu had repeatedly slandered others, and the Han Dynasty had fair laws to punish him; Bai Bao reported once, and the Jin Dynasty punished him with strict punishments.
How much more so for those who rely on those below to slander those above, and who slander and praise people casually.
I heard that Fan Zhen, the minister Zuo Chengchen, came back from Jin'an and said to others: I don't visit other people, only Wang Liang; I don't entertain others, I only entertain Wang Liang.
Bai Cong and Wanxiu, who had arrested Fan Zhen, came to Taiwan for interrogation, and their confessions were consistent with the rumors.
On the tenth day of this month, the emperor paid a farewell party to Zhen Guo, the governor of Liangzhou. The banquet was over, and all the ministers asked to retire. At that time, the emperor ordered Yuan Ang, the minister in charge, and ten other people to stay behind to inquire about the strategy of governance.
Fan Zhen did not answer the questions he asked, but he made a very heated discussion, denigrating and judging Situ Chen Xie Li, and praising and recommending Wang Liang, a common man.
At that time, I was also among the ministers who stayed behind due to their kindness. I stood in the hall with my colleagues and heard and saw. The rumors were not wrong.
Now the king is traveling again and drives to the court in person. He recommends talents with deep affection and favors are all over "Zhanlu".
After the banquet, he stood upright facing the screen, with the person who recorded the events in front and the person who recorded the remarks in the back, thinking deeply about the thoughts of the early dynasty and asking about the sufferings of the people. However, Lian Tang spoke rudely and stated praise and blame at will, which was harmful to his beautiful style and lacked the reputation of humility.
Without strict rulings, the legal system will decline, and Fan Zhen is the person involved.
Chen Jin's case: Fan Zhen, the minister Zuo Chengchen of Shangshu, was a queen of clothes, his words and deeds were inconsistent, he boasted in the countryside, and he was criticized loudly in the ranks of officials.
Sticking to unreasonable knowledge, listening flatteringly, not knowing what to remove and replace; gossiping. It's just enough to cover up mistakes.
In the past, soldiers of benevolence and righteousness were stationed for a short period of time. When Jianlong suffered a bereavement, he did not call the door and wore black mourning clothes as if a shadow was attached to him. It was as if he knew it in advance and was actually worshiping the emperor.
Nowadays, when friends coordinate and provoke each other, they turn into various conflicts. If people don't persist, they will become such evil people.
In the past, when celebrating meritorious deeds, he was rewarded with small but generous rewards. He went out to take charge of famous states and went to the government to manage and rule. He did not repatriate the property he collected, but he pretended to be honest. Clothes can cover the body. Those who slander others will soon lose their place of residence. They will attract criticism for their faults and think they should be deposed. They will humiliate the people's masters in the court.
Since he was in the position of enforcing state laws, the memorial was silent.
Those who see wrongdoing going on without stopping do not have the most impartial comments; those who are ugly and upright may privately attack the shortcomings of others.
The country's institutional laws and regulations should be seriously corrected in accordance with the law.
The ministers and others participated in the discussion and requested that Jian Long be removed from his official position based on the existing affairs, and ordered to be detained separately and delivered to Tingwei Prison for punishment.
Those involved with Fan Zhen should be arrested together, entrusted to officials handling litigation, and dealt with according to the legal system.
Fan Zhen's position was written on yellow paper, and his ministers worshiped the impeachment memorial.
The emperor issued an edict to convey permission.
The edict questioned Fan Zhen and said: Wang Liang lacked talent when he was young and had no reputation among his peers at that time. In the past, he wandered into many outstanding talents, made friends with them and hoped to be attached to them. In his later years, he flattered and served Jiang Zhe and served as an official. Finally, he helped and attached to Mei Chong'er and Ru Fazhen, and he took charge of the chaotic politics.
Every household suffered from disasters and fell into extreme hardship, and the world was in chaos and chaos. Whose fault is it to eat the emperor's salary and not to die in order to rule the world?
Wang Liang helped stabilize the vicious clique, which dominated the country, lavished food and clothing, filled the house with beauties and music, and annexed each other when the situation was critical.
Wang Liang first signed the letter of sincerity to Liang Wu on the Jianye Stone, and fell down to apologize.
I hired him because he surrendered and forgiven his past sins.
Wang Liang was fickle and disloyal to the king, and his treachery and greed for money were clearly exposed. What could be disputed and discussed casually?
All based on stated answers.
Fan Zhen could only answer the ten questions in a scattered manner.
Wang Liang therefore lived in seclusion and did not interact with guests.
When his mother died, he performed his filial duty in mourning.
In the eighth year of the reign of Emperor Xia Shao, Wang Liang was appointed as Secretary Supervisor. Soon after, he was appointed as a regular servant of Zhi Sanqi, and a few days later he was moved to Taichang Qing.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to the School Supervisor and became a regular attendant.
That year Wang Liang died.
The emperor sent a funeral gift of thirty thousand coins and five thousand pieces of cloth to the emperor.
Wang Liang's nickname is Yangzi.
The word "heavy duty" is public sale, and the county title is written by the person. His father, Ji Cheng, was a doctor named Guanglu of Sai Dynasty.
Zhang Ji's biological mother was ill for four seasons. Zhang Nuo was only eleven years old at the time. Zhang Cheng thought it was strange that Xiang was still naked at night to take care of his mother.
When his mother passed away, Zhang Ji became extremely thin due to the grief. He was thinner than the average person and could only stand up with a cane.
Bao Dan had a rough and rash character, and was intelligent and talented. He had a strong relationship with his brothers Chengtie, Jiqun, etc. They were all known to the world. At that time, people called them: Chong, Rong, Juan, and Ji, making them four.
Zhang Ji started his career as Zuolang, but did not accept it. He dealt with the funeral of his parents one after another and built a hut next to the grave to mourn for six years.
After the mourning was over, he served as a hussar and joined the army. Cao Xing joined the army as a foreign soldier.
During the Chenglong period of Yiqiao, he was in charge of the Longgang Order when he was in trouble. He rarely worked on his job and mostly traveled around the mountains and rivers.
It coincided with the rebellion of the thief Tang Yu. Zhang Ji led the people to encourage the people in the county and preserved the county territory.
He entered the court to wash horses for the prince, served as the Grand Sima Dong Cao, Wang You of Jian'an, and the Grand Sima worked as a lieutenant.
Xiao Bi, the king of Wuling, served as the guard of the army, and Zhang Ji was transferred to the army guard Sima, and soon became the governor of the state.
Emperor Ming also served as the governor of the state, and Zhang Ji still served as the farewell driver.
At that time, the Wei Dynasty invaded Shouchun and appointed Zhang Ji as General Ningshuo and military leader, while Deputy Minister Pu Shen Wenji guarded Yuzhou.
The Wei Dynasty had millions of soldiers and besieged the city for several days. At that time, Shen Wenji entrusted all the planning and handling to Zhang Ji.
After the Wei army retreated, Zhang Ji moved to Xi Sima, General Ning Shuo, and Nanping Internal History.
The Wei army invaded Yongzhou again, and the emperor ordered that he use his title as the commander-in-chief to oversee the military affairs of Jing and Yong.
At that time, Cao Hu, the governor of Yongzhou, crossed the border of Fancheng and appointed Zhang Ji as the governor of the state.
After the Wei army was defeated and retreated, Zhang Ji returned to Jingzhou and became the minister of Huangmen. He also served as the governor of Sima and Xingxing Yongning counties.
The name of the county was changed from Yongning to Changning because of Zhang Ji's father's taboo.
Soon Zhang Ji moved to Situ Sima and became an assistant general.
When Chen Haoda, the governor of Jiangzhou, led his army to rebel, Zhang Ji took his own title as the prefect of Liyang and Nanqiao counties, and moved to the post of Nan Changshi, the prefect of Xunyang, the general of the auxiliary country, and conducted affairs in Jiangzhou.
Soon he was drafted back and served as the general to support the country, the military governor of North Xuzhou, and the governor of North Xuzhou.
He went on patrol and was stationed in Baixia. He was also moved to be the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Nanyanzhou and the governor of Nanyanzhou.
Soon Zhang Ji came to supervise the military affairs of the five states of Northern Xu, Xu, Yan, Qing, and Ji, and the generals he appointed were still the same as before.
At the end of Yongyuan, Zhang Ji was recruited as a servant and served as a guard in the palace.
When Renyi's troops arrived, Jiang Yan, a concurrent guard, fled, Zhang Ji concurrently served as a guard, and Deputy Wang Ying was in charge of all military affairs in the city.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun was promiscuous and violent, and the righteous army had been besieging the city for a long time. The people in the city wanted to escape, but no one took the initiative.
Yuyong Sanxi, the governor of Northern Xuzhou, came to force Nahuo to plan the matter with him, so he sent Zhang Qi to kill Donghunhou in the Hande Hall.
Zhang Ji summoned Shangshu's right servant Wang Liang and others to sit under the west bell in front of the palace, and said: "In the past, Jie had a foolish and angry virtue, so Ding moved to Yin; Shang Dynasty was brutal and wreaking havoc, so Ding moved to Zhou."
Now those who have rebelled against their relatives have isolated themselves from the world, and the land of the four seas has returned to the Holy Lord. This is the time when Wei Zi left Yin, and Xiang Bo returned to Mo. Can we not work hard?
He then sent Guozi doctor Jianxue, Sheshedongkenlang and others as envoys to Huxiyuan to pay homage to Chandan. Gudan appointed Gong mole as the minister in charge and the general of Zuowei.
Gao Zu was in charge of all affairs, and Zhang Yun moved to the Grand Sima Zuo Sima.
When Chuchutai was established, he served as the regular attendant of Sanqi and Zhongshu Ling.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the abdication and granted Zhang Ji the title of Marquis of Jiang'an County based on his merits, granting him a fief of 1,000 households.
He also served as the minister, the son of the state, the leader of the knights, the general of the guard army, and the chief minister of Yangzhou. He was dismissed due to some circumstances.
Soon Zhang Ji served as Duzhi Shangshu, former general, and Prince Youjie leader, but was dismissed due to official duties.
Soon he was appointed as the Minister of the Ancestral Temple, and then transferred to the Changshi of Sanqi, the Minister of Duguan, and the Dazhongzheng of Yangzhou. He used his original position to lead the military.
Immediately, Zhang Jiqian led the generals, Zhongzheng and Hou were the same as before.
At that time, the Wei army invaded Qingzhou, and Shao Zhang Ji took a holiday to attend state affairs.
When the Wei army retreated, he went out to serve as a regular servant of the cavalry, a general, and the prefect of Wuxing, with a salary of two thousand dan.
Zhang Ji came to express his condolences to the old officials of the previous dynasty, recommended their descendants, and assigned them important positions. His political affairs were tolerant and benevolent.
Zhang Jijin was given the title of General Yunhui and appointed Minister Zuopushe.
The emperor thought of Zhang Ji's mansion, but because of the scorching summer heat, he stayed in the province of Pushe. In the past, all the utensils donated by the emperor in person were given to the eunuchs for food. The emperor thought that Zhang Ji was poor, so he wrote Shao Shu himself and refused to accept it.
Zhang Ji served as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, commander of military affairs in Qingji and Hebei provinces, general of Anbei, and governor of Qingji and Qingji states.
When the Wei army invaded Qushan, Zhang Ji was ordered to temporarily station in Liuli and supervise all the armies.
After returning, he was promoted to General Zhenbei.
At the beginning, Yuzhou was connected to the border, and the people's custom was to trade with people from the Wei Dynasty.
When Qushan rebelled, someone colluded with the Wei people, and he could no longer feel at ease. Moreover, Zhang Ji was relaxed and unprepared, and the officials invaded and robbed the people.
Xu Daojiao and others from the state invaded the state city at night and killed Zhang Ji. He was sixty-three years old at the time.
A superior officer deprived him of his title and fiefdom.
Zhang Ji has a strong and straightforward personality and likes to interact with people.
He had held various official positions but had no savings. His salary was all given to relatives and old friends, and his family had no extra property.
When Zhang Ji left Wuxing County and was recruited as a servant, he took the road from Wu. The villagers waiting for Zhang Ji were crowded by water and land.
Zhang Ji dressed simply and went straight back to the capital. People didn't recognize him because he was so straightforward and simple.
Zhang Ji's eldest daughter Chu Yuan was married to the Kong family in Kuaiji, but she returned to her mother's family because she had no children.
When Zhang Ji was killed, she used her body to cover the sharp blade and died before her father.
Zhang Ji's son Zhang Sheng has another biography.
Zhang Juan, also known as Lingsu, is Zhang Ji's cousin.
When he was young, he was famous for his knowledge of affairs and his ability to talk fluently. He was an official in the capital and became a minister. He died in the early years of Tianjian.
Wang Ying, whose courtesy name was Fengguang, was from Linyi, Langxie.
His father, Wang Mao, was a doctor of Guanglu and a Marquis of Nanxiang.
Wang Ying selected the Linhuai princess of the Song Dynasty and worshiped the Prince Consort as the Commander-in-Chief. In addition to Zuo Zuo Lang, she was promoted to Prince Sheren, Fujun Gongcao, Sanqi Shilang, and Situ Zuoxi.
When Emperor Gao of Qi was appointed General of Hussars, Wang Ying was recommended as a lieutenant.
Soon, Wang Ying became the prefect of Yixing, replacing Xie Chaozong.
Chaozong left the county, and Wang Ying and Wang Ying hated each other. After returning, they alienated Wang Ying from Wang Mao.
Wang Mao reported to the court that Wang Ying had not provided enough for her parents, so she lost her county position and was abandoned.
A long time later, Wang Ying served as a consultant to the former army and joined the army. She was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu. Da Sima was appointed as the Minister of Zhonglang. She did not accept the offer because of her mother's death.
After the mourning period was over, Wang Ying served as a servant to Huang Menlang, became the prefect of Xuancheng, and moved to Hussar to become a long history.
He also served as Huangmen's minister, Sima, and the concubine of the prince. He still moved to the minister's position. After his father died, he left his position.
When Wang Ying's mourning period expired, she retired from her service and served as a servant, leading the Shesheng school captain, champion general, and Dongyang governor.
Wang Ying had a benevolent government in Junxiang and moved to Wuxing to be the prefect.
Emperor Ming was worried about various government affairs. Wang Ying lived in two counties one after another. Both had a reputation for being competent and were praised and praised very much.
After he returned to the court, he served as Prince Zhan Shi and Zhong Lingjun.
In the early years of Yongyuan, political affairs were managed by villains. Wang Ying was loyal to her duties but could not make any comments.
After Wang Ying's cousin Wang Liang took charge of the government, although he was not friendly to Wang Ying, he often wanted to introduce him as a colleague.
Wang Ying moved to Zuopushe, Shangshu, but did not worship. It happened that Cui Huijing, the guardian army, came from Beijing to send King Jiangxia to attack. Wang Ying took the holiday and led all the troops to resist Huijing at the head of the lake. Ye Guo was attacked by Hui Jing and the army collapsed. Wang Ying jumped into the water, grabbed the wood pieces and escaped into Leyou, so she was able to return to Taicheng.
Cui Huijing was defeated, and Wang Ying returned to the court and lived in the leading army mansion.
When the army of benevolence and righteousness arrived, he took another holiday and took charge of all the military affairs in the palace.
After Jiankang was pacified, Emperor Gaozu was appointed Prime Minister of the country. He recommended Wang Ying as Zuo Changshi and became a champion general. He was sent to Jiangling to greet Emperor He.
When Emperor He went to Nanzhou, he gave way to palaces other than the formal bedroom.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Wang Ying moved to serve as a minister, general of the Fu army, and became the Duke of a feudal city and county, housing thousands of households in the town.
Soon after he was moved to Zuopushe, the minister, the ministers in charge and Fujun remained the same as before.
Immediately, Wang Ying was appointed as the general of the guard army, and also moved to the general of the cavalry, the general of the Chinese army, and Danyang Yin.
Wang Ying took office for three years, and moved to Shizhong and Guanglu to lead the left guard general.
Soon he was moved to Shangshu Ling and General Yunhui, and his servants were still the same as before.
He was promoted to General Zuo Zhongquan many times and promoted one department.
Wang Ying had a noble and prudent personality and was respectful and prudent in her duties. Emperor Gaozu valued her very much.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, Wang Ying moved to Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yi, but Danyang Yin and Shizhong remained as before.
When Wang Ying was about to take up his post, the craftsmen of the seal cast cast his seal six times, and the tortoise was destroyed six times. After the completion, the neck of the tortoise was empty and there was no filling to fill it.
Wang Ying took office for six days when she suddenly fell ill and died.
Posthumously presented to Shi Zhong, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong.
Yao Cha, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: Confucius claimed that there were three benevolent people in Yin. Weizi left, Jizi became a slave, and Bigan died because of his admonishment.
Wang Liang was in troubled times, and his power and position were all revealed.
What is the difference between his choice and the three virtuous people?
When one succeeds in supporting the emperor, thanks to the tolerant politics, and becomes a hero who assists the emperor in starting a business, he would have felt ashamed in his heart.
It is not a misfortune that he wastes and dies in vain.
"Book of Changes" says: Possessing something that is not something you can have will definitely lead to danger.
Wang Liang's behavior means that he has lost his base. What a pity!
Zhang Ji's adaptability to the situation was also caused by that era.
Wang Ying cast the seal six times and it was destroyed. Could it be that the gods were filled with jealousy?
