The ancestor of the Xiongnu was a descendant of the Xiahou family, named Chunwei.
Before Yao, Yu and Shun of the Tang Dynasty, there were Shanrong, Yanyun, Xunzhou and other branches. They lived in the northern border of China and moved along with water, grass and livestock husbandry.
Most of the livestock raised are horses, cattle, and sheep. The exotic livestock include camels, donkeys, mules, Yaosao, colts, and Yixi.
They migrated in pursuit of water and grass. They did not have cities or agriculture for permanent residence, but they also had separate grazing lands.
There are no written books, only words are used for restraint and management.
When the men were young, they could ride sheep, draw bows and shoot mice, and learn archery. When they grew up, they could shoot foxes and rabbits, and mostly ate meat.
Men in their prime are strong and can bend bows and shoot arrows, so they serve as armored cavalry.
The living customs of the Huns were that when there was no war, they would graze and hunt birds and animals as a way of making a living; in case of emergency war, people would practice battle formations to attack and plunder others. This was the nature of the Huns.
Their long weapons are bows and arrows, and their short weapons are swords and spears.
When fighting, attack if things go well, retreat if things go wrong, and don't be ashamed to run away.
If there is a profit, then etiquette and justice will be ignored.
The Huns, from the king on down, all eat animal meat, wear animal hides, and wear felt fur.
Strong young people eat rich food, and old people eat leftovers.
Those who are strong are valued and those who are old and weak are looked down upon.
When his father died, his son took his stepmother as his wife; when his brothers died, the surviving ones took their wives as wives.
The custom in terms of names is to have names, no taboos, and no epithet.
The Xia Dynasty declined, and Gong Liu, the ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty, lost his position as a farmer, so he reformed and changed the customs of Xirong and established a capital in Bin.
More than three hundred years later, Rong Di attacked Yifu, King Tai of Zhou, and Yifu fled to the foot of Qishan Mountain. The Bin people followed Yifu to build houses and settle down under Qishan Mountain, and began to establish the Zhou Kingdom.
More than a hundred years later, King Wen of Zhou Dynasty Xi Bo Jichang attacked Yi.
More than ten years later, King Wu of Zhou attacked and destroyed him, and then built Luoyi. King Wu returned to Fengjing and Haojing to live, and exiled the Rong and Yi to the north of Jinghe and Luohe, requiring them to contribute gifts on time, and called them "Huangfu".
After more than two hundred years, the Zhou Dynasty declined, and King Zhou Duo went to attack Zuo Xi and returned with four white wolves and four white deer.
From then on, people from Huangfu no longer paid tribute to the Zhou Dynasty.
The Zhou Dynasty formulated the law of "Lu Xing" at that time.
By the time of King Zhou Yi, the grandson of King Mu of Zhou, the royal family of Zhou declined, and Rong and Di repeatedly attacked and ravaged various countries in the Central Plains.
The people of the Central Plains were deeply affected, and poets began to sing poems that hated them: No house, no home, this is all because of Yan Yun; When will I not be on guard? Yan Yun's attack was really urgent.
When King Xuan, the great-grandson of King Yi, sent a general to lead an army to attack Yan Yun, the poet praised: The expedition against Yan Yun reached Taiyuan; the chariots were dispatched to build a city in the north.
At that time, the surrounding ethnic minorities all surrendered to the Zhou Dynasty, which was known as Zhongxing.
When King You of Zhou Dynasty arrived, he had a conflict with Queen Shen's father, Shen Hou, because he doted on his beautiful concubine Gui Si.
The Marquis of Shen was very angry and joined forces with Quan Rong to attack King You, killed him under Mount Li, occupied the land of the Zhou Dynasty, plundered and lived between the Jingwei River, and invaded and ravaged the people of the Central Plains.
Qin Xianggong sent troops to rescue the Dan Dynasty, so King Qiewen left; Yan and Guzhi moved eastward to the capital of Tao Dan.
At that time, Tong Saigong attacked Zuosheng and went all the way to Guishan. At this time, Tong Cai began to be named a prince.
Sixty-five years later, the Shanrong crossed Zangli again to attack Bianli. Duke Manli led his army to fight the Shanrong at the border of Bianxi. Forty-four years later, Shanrong attacked Yan again.
Yan State asked Qi State for help. Duke Huan of Qi led his army to attack Shanrong in the north, but Shanrong fled.
More than twenty years later, Rong Zhai went to Luoyi and attacked King Xiang of Zhou Dynasty. King Xiang fled to Panyi in Zheng State.
At first, King Xiang of Zhou wanted to attack the State of Zheng, so he married Rong Zhai's daughter as his queen and joined forces with Rong Zhai to attack the State of Zheng.
Soon after, Empress Zhai was deposed, and Empress Zhai was very resentful. King Xiang's stepmother was named Empress Hui, and she had a son named Zidai. Queen Hui wanted to make Zidai king. So Empress Hui, together with Empress Zhai and Ziying, responded internally and opened the city gate to welcome Rong Zhai. Rong Zhai therefore attacked the city, defeated and drove away King Xiang, and established Zidai as King of Zhou.
At that time, some Rong Zhai were already living in Luhun, and Shu Bian arrived in Wei State, and the invasion became even more severe.
King Xiang of Zhou had been wandering for four years, so he sent an envoy to Jin to ask for help.
Duke Wen of Jin had just ascended the throne and wanted to establish hegemony, so he sent troops to attack Rong Zhai, killed Zidai, and welcomed King Zhou Xiang back to Luoyi.
At this time, Qin and Jin were very powerful.
Duke Wen of Jin attacked and expelled Rong Di. Rong Di lived between the Huan River and Luo River in the Xihe River, and they were called Chidi and Baidi.
Duke Mu of Qin got Yu Yu, and the eight kingdoms of Xirong surrendered to Qin.
Therefore, there are Rong tribes such as Mianzhu, Dengrong and Diyuan living in Longxi. To the north of Qishan, Liangshan, Jinghe and Qihe there are Rong tribes such as Yiqu, Dali, Wushi and Quyan. To the north of Jin there are Rong tribes such as Linhu and Loufan. To the north of Yan there are Donghu and Shanrong.
They live scattered in the valley, each with its own leader. There are more than a hundred Rong tribes living together, but they cannot be unified.
More than a hundred years later, the Duke of Jin sent Wei Jiang to negotiate peace with Rong Di, and Rong Di began to pay homage to the king of Jin.
More than a hundred years later, Tsai Xiangzi led his troops across Juzhu Mountain, conquered and annexed the state of Dai, and approached Hu Xian.
Later, Zhao Xiangzi, together with the Han and Wei families, destroyed Zhi, and the three families occupied the land of Jin. In this way, Zhao State occupied Daidi and the area north of Juzhu Mountain, while Wei State occupied Xihe and Shangjun, adjacent to the Rong people.
Later, the Rong people in Yiqu built cities for self-defense, while the Qin State slowly encroached on the land of Yiqu. When King Hui arrived, he captured twenty-five cities in Yiqu.
King Hui of Qin attacked the State of Wei, and the State of Wei dedicated all the areas of Xihe and Shangjun to the State of Qin.
During the reign of King Zhao of Qin, King Yiqurong had an affair with Queen Mother Xuan and gave birth to two sons. Queen Mother Xuan deceived King Yiqurong and killed him in Ganquan, and then raised troops to attack and eliminate Yiqu.
Therefore, the Qin State occupied Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun, and built the Great Wall to resist the Hu people.
King Wuling of Zhao also mutated the customs of his own country, wore the clothes of the barbarians, learned horseback riding and archery, and attacked Linhu and Loufan to the north. From Daidi along the foothills of Yinshan Mountain to Gaoque, he used it as his frontier fortress. And established Yunzhong County, Yanmen County and Dai County.
Later, a wise general from Yan State, Qin Kai, served as a hostage in the Hu area. The Hu people trusted him very much.
After returning, he led his troops to attack Ding Donghu, and Shu Hu retreated for more than a thousand miles.
Qin Wuyang, who later assassinated Qin Shihuang with Jing Ke, was Qin Kai's grandson.
The State of Yan also built the Great Wall, from Zaoyang to Xiangping, and set up Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi, and Liaodong counties to resist the Hu people.
At that time, three of the seven highly civilized countries of the Warring States Period bordered on the Xiongnu.
Later, when General Li Mu of the State of Zhao was there, the Huns did not dare to invade the border of the State of Zhao.
Later, Qin Shihuang destroyed the six kingdoms and sent General Meng Tian to lead an army of hundreds of thousands to the north to attack the Xiongnu. He completely recovered the area south of the Yellow River. Using the Yellow River as a fortress, he built forty-four cities on the edge of the Yellow River and sent those who were punished for their crimes to guard the border to live there.
They also built a straight road from Jiuyuan to Yunyang; they also built the Great Wall along the dangerous chasms of the mountains and along the valleys, and repaired the places that could be repaired. It was more than 10,000 miles from Lintao to Liaodong.
Later, the Qin State crossed the Yellow River and occupied the northern false area of ​​​​Yangshan.
At that time, both Shuhu and Yuezhi were very powerful.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was named Touman. Touman could not resist Qin, so he moved north.
More than ten years later, Meng Tian died. The descendants of the original princes rebelled against the Qin State. The Central Plains area was in chaos. Those who had been exiled by the Qin Dynasty to guard the border left. As a result, the Xiongnu's situation improved and they slowly crossed the Yellow River. In the south, they were adjacent to the Central Plains with their original border fortress. Shan Yuli had a prince named Maodun.
Later, the Chanyu's favored Ban clan gave birth to a son. Chanyu Touman wanted to depose the crown prince Mao Dun and make his younger son the crown prince, so he sent Mao Dun to Yuezhi as a hostage.
After Maodun arrived at Yuezhi and became a hostage, Touman Chanyu immediately sent troops to attack Yuezhi.
Yuezhi wanted to kill Mao Dun, so Mao Dun stole Yuezhi's good horse and rode it back to the Huns.
Touman Chanyu thought that Mao Dun was brave, so he asked him to lead 10,000 cavalry.
Mao Dun then made the Ming Dy, or ringing arrow, and trained and constrained his cavalry in archery. He ordered them to say: If anyone does not follow and shoot the thing shot by my Ming Dy, he will be killed.
Mao Dun led his men out for hunting. Anyone who did not follow the target shot by She Ming Dy was immediately killed.
Soon, Mao Dun shot his own good horse with Wu Dy. Some people around him did not dare to follow suit, so Mao Dun immediately killed these people.
A few days later, Mao Dun himself shot his beloved wife with a hammer. Some people around him were very frightened and did not dare to shoot arrows. Mao Dun killed these people again.
Soon, Mao Dun led his men out for hunting and shot Shanyu's fine horse with a wu-dy, and everyone around him followed suit.
So Mao Dun knew that the people around him could be used for his own purposes. When he went hunting with his father Touman Chanyu, he shot Touman with a hammer. The people around him followed the lead and shot Touman, killing the Chanyu. Mao Dun also killed his stepmother, his younger brother, and all the ministers who disobeyed him.
So Maodun established himself as Chanyu.
When Mao Dun established himself as a chanyu, Dong Hu was very powerful. When Cambodian Hu heard that Mao Dun killed his father and established himself, he sent an envoy to Mao Dun and said: Dong Hu wants to get Tou Man, a good horse known as a thousand-mile horse.
Mao Dun asked the ministers, and they all said: "This is the Xiongnu's BMW and cannot be given to them."
Mao Dun said: How can we be neighbors and yet pity a horse?
So he gave the thousand-mile horse to Donghu.
Soon, Shu Hu thought that Mao Dun was afraid of him, so he sent an envoy to Mao Dun and said: Shu Hu wants to get Shan Yu, a Ban clan.
Mao Dun asked the ministers again, and the people around him were very angry and said: "The Shu Hu people are unreasonable and want Banshi from us!"
Please send troops to attack them.
Mao Dun said: How can we be neighbors and yet begrudge a woman?
So he gave his favorite Pi family to Ding Donghu.
King Shuhu became more arrogant and invaded westward.
There is an uninhabited wasteland between the Xiongnu and Donghu, which is more than a thousand miles away. The Xiongnu and Donghu each live on one side and set up observation posts.
Shuhu sent an envoy to Modu and said: The Huns cannot reach the deserted land guarded by the observation post on the border with us, and we want to occupy it.
Mao Dun asked the ministers, and some ministers said: "This is abandoned land, give it to them."
After hearing this, Mo Dun was furious and said: Land is the foundation of the country, how can you give it to others!
Those who said they could give land to Shuhu were killed.
Maodun mounted his horse and ordered his countrymen to kill anyone who retreated, so he went east to attack Donghu.
At first Shu Hu looked down upon Mao Dun and took no precautions.
When Mao Dun arrived with his troops, he completely defeated and eliminated King Donghu, captured the people of Ding Donghu, and plundered their livestock and products.
After returning, he sent troops to the west to drive away the Yuezhi, and to the south he annexed Loufan and the Aries King of Henan. He also completely recovered the Xiongnu territory that Qin sent Meng Tian to invade. Using the original Henan fortress as the boundary with the Han Dynasty, he reached Chaona and Fushi, and then invaded Yan and Dai.
At that time, Liu Han was fighting Xiang Yu, and the Central Plains was exhausted by the war, so Maodun was able to become strong and strong, with more than 300,000 warriors who could bend bows, ride and shoot.
It was more than a thousand years from Chunwei to Touman. Sometimes the Xiongnu were large, sometimes small, and their residences were scattered and separated. They were so long ago that their lineage inheritance cannot be arranged one by one in order.
However, when Maodun became the Chanyu, when the Huns were at their most powerful, all the ethnic minorities in the north were subject to his rule and became enemies of the Chinese ethnic groups in the south. It was only then that its lineage, surnames and official titles could be recorded.
The Chanyu's surname was Lyuta, and their people called the king "Pengli Gutu Chanyu".
The Huns called the sky "Plough Holder" and the son "Gu Tu". The name "Chanyu" means vast. This name means that the Chanyu is as big as the sky.
The Xiongnu had left and right Xian kings, left and right Guli kings, left and right generals, left and right captains, left and right Danghu, and left and right Guduhous.
The Huns called the wise "Tu Qi", so the prince often served as the Zuo Tu Qi King.
From King Youyouxian down to Danghu, the older ones led more than ten thousand cavalry, while the younger ones led thousands of cavalry. There were twenty-four leaders in total, and they were given the title of Ten Thousand Cavalrymen.
Their ministers all have hereditary official positions.
The Huyan family, the Lan family, and later the Xubu family, these three surnames were the noble families of the Xiongnu.
Those left kings and left generals all live in the east, facing the area bounded by Shanggu and Shu, which connects Hui Raccoon and North Korea; those of right kings and right generals live in the west, facing west of Shangjun, bordering the Di and Qiang; and the royal court of the Shanyu faces Daijun and Yunzhong areas.
They each have their own area and move with the quality of the water and grass.
The left and right Xianwang and the left and right Guli led the largest tribe, and the left and right Guduhou assisted in government affairs.
The twenty-four leaders also each have official positions such as Qianchang, Baichang, Shichang, Xiaowang, Xiang, Duwei, Duhu, and Qiequ.
In the first month of each year, the leaders of various tribes held a small gathering in the court of Chanyu and held a spring festival.
Every May, a grand gathering is held in Longcheng to worship their ancestors, heaven and earth, ghosts and gods.
Every autumn, when the grass is yellow and the horses are fat, a meeting is held in the hoof forest to count the population and livestock for tax collection.
Their law is that anyone who draws a knife and wounds someone within one foot shall be put to death; a person who commits the crime of stealing shall have his entire family's property confiscated; if he commits a crime, his bones shall be crushed for minor crimes, and his bones shall be crushed for serious crimes.
The length of jail time is no more than ten days, and there are only a few prisoners in jail across the country.
Chanyu walked out of his tent every morning and worshiped the rising sun; in the evening he worshiped the moon.
Their rules for sitting up are: the elder is on the left, facing north.
Advocate Wu said and Ji said.
Their funeral customs are: they are buried with coffins, gold and silver, and clothes, but there are no tombs, tomb trees, and mourning systems. If a Chanyu dies, dozens or hundreds of his close concubines will be buried.
The Huns often raised troops to fight according to the waxing and waning of the moon. They attacked when the moon was full and retreated when the moon was waning.
When they fought, whoever beheaded the enemy would be rewarded with a jug of wine, and the spoils captured would belong to him, and the captured people would be made slaves.
Therefore, when they fight, everyone moves forward bravely for the sake of gain, and is good at luring the enemy into the encirclement and then annihilating them.
Therefore, when they pursue interests, they fly together like birds; when they are in danger and collapse, they fall apart and disperse.
Whoever transports the deceased back during the war will own all the property of the deceased.
Later, Maodun Chanyu conquered the northern countries of Hunyu, Qushe, Dingling, Gekun, Xinhua and other countries.
At that time, the Hun nobles and ministers all admired Mo Dun and thought he was wise and talented.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had just settled down and moved King Han Xin to Daidi and established the capital in Mayi.
The Huns laid siege to Mayi, and Han Xin surrendered to the Huns.
After the Xiongnu got Han Xin, they led their troops southward across Juzhu Mountain, attacked Taiyuan, and reached the city of Jinyang.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty personally led his troops to fight against the Xiongnu.
It happened that the winter was very cold and it snowed heavily. Two or three out of ten soldiers had their fingers frozen off, so Mao Dun pretended to be defeated and escaped to lure the Han army.
The Han army pursued Mao Dun, but Mao Dun hid his elite soldiers and exposed the old and weak soldiers. So the Han army totaled 320,000 men, most of whom were infantry, and pursued Maodun northward.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty first led his troops to pursue Pingcheng, but not all the infantry arrived. Maodun sent more than 300,000 elite cavalry to besiege Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty at Baishan Mountain in Pingcheng for seven days. The desert army inside and outside could not provide food and grass to each other.
The Huns' cavalry was all white horses in the west, green horses in the east, black horses in the north, and red horses in the south.
Emperor Gao sent an envoy to secretly send generous gifts to the Min clan, and the Men clan said to Mao Dun: The coaches of both sides should not be forced.
Now that we have obtained Han territory, Shanyu you will not be able to live here after all.
Besides, the Lord of Han is blessed by the gods, so Shanyu, you should consider it carefully.
Mao Dun had made an appointment with Han Xin's generals Wang Huang and Cao Li, but the troops of Wang Huang and Bao Li were still late in arriving. Mao Dun suspected that they were conspiring with the King of Han, so he listened to Ban's words and opened a corner of the encirclement.
So Emperor Gao ordered the soldiers to draw their bows fully, nock their arrows, face outwards, and rush out from the corner of the siege. Finally they joined the army, and Mao Dun led his army to retreat.
The King of Han also retreated with his troops and sent Liu Jing to make peace with the Xiongnu.
After that, Han Xin became the general of the Xiongnu, and together with Zaili, Wang Huang and others, he repeatedly betrayed the Han-Hungarian peace treaty and invaded Daijun, Yanmenjun and Yunzhongjun.
Soon after, Chen Xi rebelled against the Han Dynasty and conspired with Han Xin to attack Dai County.
The Han Dynasty sent Fan Sha to lead his troops to attack them, and recovered Daijun, Yanmenjun, Yunzhongjun and other counties without leaving the frontier to fight.
At that time, the Xiongnu generals of the Han Dynasty led their troops to surrender many times, so Maodun often came and went to invade Dai.
Emperor Gaozu was deeply worried, so he sent Liu Jing to send the royal daughter to the Que family who pretended to be a princess and sent a certain amount of silk floss, silk silk, wine and food to the Xiongnu every year.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled against the Han Dynasty and led nearly 10,000 of his associates to surrender to the Huns. They came and went to harass the people in the Shanggu Yisu area until the death of Emperor Gaozu.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Dowager Lu, Maodun gradually became arrogant and even wrote a letter and sent an envoy to Empress Lu, saying: I am a lonely and helpless monarch. I was born in a humid swamp and grew up in a vast place where cattle and horses are grazed. I have been to the border many times, hoping to visit the Central Plains.
Your Majesty, you are an independent king, but you are also lonely and helpless, living alone.
We two monarchs were very unhappy and had nothing to entertain us. I hope that both of us can exchange what we have for what we don’t have.
Empress Dowager Lu was very angry after reading the letter. She summoned the prime ministers Chen Ping, Fan Sha and Ji Bu to discuss killing the Xiongnu envoys and sending troops to attack the Xiongnu.
Fan Sha said: I am willing to lead an army of 100,000 people to attack the Xiongnu territory.
Empress Lu asked Ji Bu, and Ji Bu said, "You can kill Fan!"
In the past, when Chen Xi rebelled in Dai, there were 320,000 Han soldiers, and Fan Sha was the general. At that time, the Huns besieged Emperor Gao in Pingcheng, but Fan Sha could not break through the siege.
People all over the world sang: It’s too hard under a flat city!
After seven days without food, the soldiers could not even draw their bows. Now the sound of people singing is still in their ears, and the wounded people have just stood up. But Fan Sha wants to shake the world, and talks nonsense about bringing a hundred thousand soldiers to the Xiongnu to go on a rampage. This is deceiving the emperor in person.
Moreover, these ethnic minorities are like animals. They don’t deserve to be happy when they hear good things about them, and they don’t deserve to get angry when they hear bad words. Queen Mother Lu said: That's fine.
So he ordered the great emissary Zhang Ze to write a letter in return, saying: The Chanyu has not forgotten our ruined country and has rewarded us with letters. We are very afraid.
After retiring from the imperial court, I thought to myself, I am old and weak, my hair and teeth have fallen out, and I can't walk steadily. Shanyu has heard others say wrong things, and it is not worth the humiliation that Shanyu has lowered and insulted me.
Our country has done nothing wrong and should be forgiven.
I have two chariots and eight horses for you to ride on.
When Mao Dun received a reply, he sent an envoy to apologize and said: "We have never heard of the etiquette of the Central Plains. Fortunately, Your Majesty forgives us."
The Xiongnu offered horses, and the Han and the Huns made peace.
After Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, the marriage was completed.
In the summer of the third year, King Youxian of the Xiongnu entered the area south of the Yellow River to harass and invade, so Emperor Wen issued an edict saying: The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu are brothers and do not invade each other's borders. The Han Dynasty sent a lot of silk, silk, food and other items to the Xiongnu.
Now King Youxian has left his country and led his troops to invade our land south of the Yellow River. This is inconsistent with the previous boundaries.
The people of King Youxian came and went into our Khotan fortress, hunting down our officials and soldiers, and driving away and violating our ethnic minorities who lived in Shangjun to protect the frontier fortress, so that they could not live in their original places.
匈奴人欺凌殴打我们边地的官吏，进行偷盗，非常傲慢无道，这不是和约所要求的样子。

He ordered the dispatch of 80,000 chariots and cavalry from the border areas to Gaonu, and sent Prime Minister Guan Ying to lead them to attack King Youxian.
King Youxian was driven away and escaped from the frontier fortress. Emperor Wen went to Taiyuan to inspect.
At this time, the King of Jibei rebelled, and Emperor Wen returned to the capital and stopped the prime minister's military operations against the Huns.
The next year, the Chanyu sent a letter to the Han Dynasty saying: The great Chanyu of the Xiongnu established by heaven asked the emperor if he was safe and well.
The emperor's previous words about the marriage were consistent with the meaning of the letter, and both parties were very happy.
The border officials of the Han Dynasty invaded and insulted King You Xian. The King You did not ask me for instructions, but followed the advice of Houyi Luhou Nanzhi, and became enemies with the officials of the Han Dynasty, thus severing the peace treaty between our two monarchs and severing the brotherhood between the two countries.
Emperor, you sent two letters reproaching us. I sent an envoy to answer the letter, but the envoy did not return, and the envoy from the Han Dynasty did not come to the Xiongnu.
The Han Dynasty did not make peace with us for this reason, and we, as neighboring countries, were not allowed to surrender.
Now because the minor officials broke the peace treaty, I punished King Youxian and sent him to the west to find the Yuezhi to attack.
Thanks to God's blessing, the soldiers were excellent and the horses were strong, the Yuezhi had been eliminated, and they were completely killed and pacified.
Loulan, Wusun, Hujie and the twenty-six neighboring countries have all become part of the Xiongnu.
The nomadic peoples have become one family, and the north has been pacified.
I hope to stop the war, allow the soldiers to rest, herd the horses, eliminate the unpleasant things in the past, restore the past peace treaty, calm the border people, inherit the tradition of friendship between the Hungarian and Han peoples since ancient times, enable the young to grow up, enable the elderly to live and work in peace and contentment, and live in peace and joy from generation to generation.
I don't know what you mean, Emperor, so I sent my doctor Xie Kuqian to ask for an audience with a letter, and presented a camel, two mounts, and eight chariot horses.
If the emperor does not want the Huns to get close to the border fortress, then I will order the officials and people to live away from the border fortress.
When the messengers arrive, please send them back immediately.
In mid-June, the Huns envoys came to Xinwangzao and sent letters to the court.
When the Han Dynasty discussed whether it would be more advantageous to attack the Xiongnu or make peace with them, the ministers all said: The Chanyu has just conquered the Yueshi and is on the verge of victory, so we cannot fight with them.
Moreover, even if the Xiongnu captured the land, it was all saline-alkali land and uninhabitable, so it was very convenient to get married.
So the Han Dynasty agreed to Shan Yu's request.
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, a letter sent by the Han Dynasty to the Xiongnu said: The emperor of the Han Dynasty respectfully asked the Xiongnu whether Da Danyu was safe and sound.
Your faction, Mo Qian, sent me a letter, saying: I hope to stop the war, recuperate the soldiers, eliminate previous misunderstandings, and restore our original peace treaty, so as to stabilize the border people and ensure peace and happiness from generation to generation. I really appreciate what you said.
This was the intention and ambition of the ancient holy kings.
The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu were brothers, and the gifts given to Shanyu were very generous.
The responsibility for betraying an alliance and alienating brothers from family ties generally lies with the Huns.
However, what happened to King Youxian happened before the amnesty, so please don't pursue and blame him too much.
If Shan Yu can do what he said in the letter and tell the officials clearly so that they do not bear the covenant and insist on integrity, we will respectfully follow what Shan Yu said in his book.
The envoy said that Shanyu personally led the army to fight and made great contributions to unifying other countries. The battle was very hard.
Therefore, there are now one royal embroidered robe, one long coat, one brocade robe, one golden ornament, one gold-embellished waist belt, one gold belt hook, ten pieces of colored silk, twenty pieces of brocade, forty pieces each of red silk and green silk.
Shortly afterwards, Maodun Chanyu died, and his son Jizhu succeeded to the throne, known as Laoshang Chanyu.
Shortly after the Chanyu of Laoshang Jizhou came to the throne, Emperor Wen sent a daughter of the royal family to pretend to be a princess to be the Banshi of Shanyu, and sent eunuchs and Zhongxing from Yandi to assist the princess.
Bank of China said he didn't want to go, so the Han Dynasty forced him to go.
Bank of China said: If I must go, I will harm the Han Dynasty.
When Bank of China talked about that package, he surrendered to Shanyu, who liked him very much.
At the beginning, Chanyu loved the silk, silk cotton and food of the Han Dynasty. Zhongxing said to Chanyu: The Xiongnu people are not as strong as a county in the Han Dynasty, but they are very powerful. The reason is that they are different from the Han people in dressing and eating. There is nothing to rely on the Han Dynasty.
Now if you change the customs of the Xiongnu and like the things of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty will only give two-tenths of the Xiongnu's total number, and you will get all the Xiongnu tribes.
I hope you will wear the cotton and silk from the Han Dynasty and run in the weeds and thorns, so that the clothes and pants will be cracked and tattered to show that they are not as strong as felt fur; and throw away all the food from the Han Dynasty to show that it is not as convenient and delicious as cheese.
So the Bank of China taught the people around Shan Yu how to count their people and livestock in writing and counting.
The Han Dynasty sent letters to the Shanyu, using wooden slips one foot and one inch long. The greetings at the beginning were: "The emperor wishes to ask the Xiongnu that the Shanyu is safe and well", the things used to send each other, and some greetings, etc.
The Bank of China preached that the Chanyu wrote a letter to the Emperor of Han using a wooden slip one foot and two inches long. The seal and seal of the letter were very long and large, and the words were arrogant. He said that the Xiongnu was born from heaven and earth and was placed by the sun and the moon. The great Chanyu asked Emperor Mo that he was well, as well as the gifts and words he gave, etc.
Some envoys from the Han Dynasty said that the Huns had bad customs and looked down upon the elderly. The Bank of China questioned the envoys of the Han Dynasty and said: According to the custom of your Han Dynasty, for those who are about to guard the border and join the army, don't their parents give up warm clothes and delicious food to provide for those who are about to set off? The envoy from the Han Dynasty said: That's right.
Bank of China said: The Huns regard attacking and fighting as their business. This is very clear. The old and weak cannot participate in the battle, so they give rich and good food to the strong people to eat in order to defend themselves. In this way, both father and son can be safe and sound. How can we say that the Huns despise the elderly?
The envoy of the Han Dynasty said: The Xiongnu father and his son lived in a tent. When the father died, the son married his stepmother; when a brother died, the surviving brothers married the deceased's wife as their own wives.
And there is no particularity about hats and belts and court etiquette.
BOC said: The custom of the Huns is to eat the meat of livestock, drink its milk and wear its leather; livestock eat grass and drink water, and move places with the seasons.
Therefore, in emergencies, people practice horseback riding and archery, and in peacetime, people live and work in peace and contentment.
The Huns' restraints were simple and easy to implement; the relationship between the monarch and his ministers was also simple and straightforward, so it could be maintained for a long time.
The government affairs of the entire country are like the affairs of one person.
When the father and elder brother died, the son and younger brother would marry their wives as their own wives, for fear that the family and surname would have no descendants.
Therefore, although the marriage life of the Huns is chaotic, they must establish members of their own clan to pass down the family.
Nowadays, although people in the Central Plains pretend not to marry the wives of their fathers and brothers, their relatives have gradually become alienated, to the point of killing each other, and even changing their surnames and clans. This is all caused by this kind of thing.
Moreover, due to the many shortcomings of etiquette, people resent each other between their superiors and subordinates; and if palaces are built on a large scale out of etiquette, the people's vitality will be exhausted.
As for the Han people, they worked hard to cultivate fields and cultivate mulberry trees for food and clothing, and built cities for self-defense. As a result, the people did not know how to fight in emergencies and were exhausted from production during peacetime. well!
Those of you who live in mud and stone houses, stop talking and show off your fine clothes. What's the use of just wearing a tall hat to look noble? From then on, when the envoys of the Han Dynasty wanted to argue with them, the Bank of China always said: The envoys of the Han Dynasty should not say more, just remember the silk silk cotton and polished rice and distiller's yeast sent by the Han Dynasty to the Xiongnu, so that they are in sufficient quantity and ensure good quality. Why make irresponsible remarks?
Besides, it doesn’t matter if the things sent by the Han Dynasty are very good. If they are not very good but rough, then we will wait until the autumn season and we will send cavalry to trample your crops.
Zhongxing said that he would teach Chanyu to spy on the key points on the border of the Han Dynasty day and night.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Xiongnu Chanyu led 140,000 cavalrymen to attack Chaona and Xiaoguan, killed Sun Yin, the captain of the Northern Territory, and plundered many people, livestock, and property.
Then the Xiongnu came to Pengyang again, and sent cavalry to break into the Huizhong Palace and set it on fire. The Xiongnu's scouting horses arrived at Yongganquan.
So Emperor Wen appointed Lieutenant Zhou She and Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu as generals, and dispatched thousands of chariots and 100,000 cavalry to garrison near Chang'an City to prevent the Huns from invading.
He also appointed Changhou Luqing as the general of Shangjun, Ninghou Wei Yao as the northern general, Longluhou Zhou Chong as the Longxi general, Shuyanghou Zhang Xiangru as the general, Chenghou Dong Chi as the general, and dispatched a large number of chariots and cavalry to attack the Xiongnu.
Shanyu stayed in the fortress for more than a month. The Han army drove away the Huns and returned without killing the enemy.
The Xiongnu became increasingly arrogant and invaded the border every year. Many people were killed. Yunzhong County and Liaodong County were the most serious, with more than 10,000 people killed in each county.
The Han Dynasty was very worried and sent an envoy to send a letter to the Xiongnu. The Shanyu also sent a person in charge to thank him, and the two sides discussed the matter of peace again.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Han Dynasty sent an envoy to send a letter to the Xiongnu, saying: The emperor wishes to ask if the Xiongnu leader is safe and well.
You sent me the doctor Han Liao who gave me two horses as a gift. It has been delivered and I respectfully accept it.
Our late emperor stipulated: The nomadic archery people north of the Great Wall are under the jurisdiction of the Chanyu. I will be in charge of the families wearing hats and belts within the Great Wall, so that the people can farm the fields, weave and spin, shoot and hunt wild animals, and find food and clothing. Father and son will not be separated, monarch and ministers will live in peace, and they will not do violent and evil things.
Now I heard that there were evil people who were greedy for ill-gotten gains, betrayed trust, broke off the peace treaty, ignored the lives of the people, and alienated the friendship between the two monarchs. However, these are things in the past.
Your letter said: Our two countries have made peace, and the monarchs of both countries are very happy about this. In the future, the war will be stopped, the soldiers will be recuperated, and the horses will be grazed. Generations of joy will be restored, and the stable situation will be restored. I appreciate this very much.
Saints must renew themselves and change their ways every day, so that the elderly can rest and the young can grow up smoothly, each of them can protect their lives and enjoy their old age.
The Chanyu and I have followed the principles of creation, complied with the will of God, and appeased all the people, so that our throne can be passed on from generation to generation, even to eternity, and everyone in the world praises this.
The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu were evenly matched neighbors. The Xiongnu lived in the north, where the weather was cold and winter came early, so I ordered my officials to send a certain amount of tillers, gold, silk, cotton and other items to Shan Yu every year.
Now the world is very stable and all the people are happy. Only you and I, Shanyu, are the parents of the people and the rulers of the world.
I recall and miss the past, but it's just for some small possessions and trivial matters, plus the mistakes of the counselor's plans. These are not enough to alienate the friendship between our brothers.
I heard that the sky does not cover one side and the earth does not support one side.
Shanyu and I should put aside our past grudges, follow the great path of heaven and earth, eliminate our past grudges, and seek long-term peaceful coexistence so that the two peoples can be like sons and daughters of one family.
All the people, including fish and turtles, birds, and animals that move astray, have their beaks rested, or squirm, all of them tend toward safety and benefit and avoid danger.
Therefore, not stopping those who return is the way of God.
We should completely eliminate the misunderstandings in the past. I condone and pardon the Han people who fled to the Huns. Shan Yu, you should not blame Zhang Ni and others.
I heard that ancient emperors made clear agreements and never went back on them.
I hope that the Chanyu will pay attention, the world will be stable, and the Han Dynasty will not break the agreement after the marriage.
I hope Shanyu will consider this matter carefully.
The Chanyu had already agreed to make peace with the Han Dynasty, so Emperor Wenwen of the Han Dynasty issued a Shao Order to the censor, saying: The Great Chanyu of the Xiongnu sent me a letter. The Han-Hungarian peace situation has been decided. Taking in the fugitives is not enough to increase the population and expand the land. The Huns are not allowed to enter the fortress, and the Han Dynasty people are not allowed to leave the fortress. Violating the current peace treaty of beheading, this way we can have a long-term peaceful relationship, there will be no disasters in the future, and it will be convenient for both parties.
I have promised the Huns.
Now announce it to the world and let the officials and people know this clearly.
Four years later, the old Shang Shanyu died, and his son Junchen Shanyu succeeded to the throne. Zhongxing said that he served Junchen Shanyu again.
The Han Dynasty also made peace with the Xiongnu again.
More than a year after the military minister Shan Yu came to the throne, the Xiongnu broke off the fraternal relations with the Han Dynasty and invaded Shangjun and Yunzhong counties. Thirty thousand cavalry were sent to each county. Many people were killed and a lot of property was robbed.
At that time, the Han Dynasty sent three generals to lead their troops and were stationed in Beidi County, Juzhu Mountain in Daidi, and Feihukou in Zhaodi. The officials and people living along the border also guarded the dangerous positions to prevent the Huns from invading.
Three generals were also stationed at Xiliu in the west of Chang'an City, Jimen and Bashang on the north bank of the Wei River to guard against the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu cavalry invaded the Juzhu Mountain in Daidi, and the Han army's beacon alarm reached Ganquan and Chang'an.
A few months later, the Han army arrived at the frontier fortress, and the Huns also moved away from the frontier fortress, and the Mo army withdrew: More than a year later, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty died and Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. King Liu Suijing secretly sent envoys to the Huns.
When Wu Chu's dagger state rebelled, the Xiongnu wanted to conspire with Tang state to invade the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress.
The Han army surrounded and defeated Zhao State, and the Huns stopped their actions.
After that, Emperor Jing sent people to make peace with the Xiongnu, exchange border trade, give things to the Chanyu, marry the princess to the Chanyu, and act in accordance with the previous covenant.
Throughout the reign of Emperor Jing, there were small-scale invasions and robberies by the Huns from time to time, but there were no major invasions.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he stated the provisions regarding marriage and treated the Xiongnu very favorably in border market trade, providing them with rich supplies of bridles.
The Xiongnu people from Shanyu on down were all close to the Han people and traveled under the Great Wall.
The Han Dynasty sent Nie Wengyi, a native of Mayi, to take goods out of the customs and trade with the Huns secretly, pretending to sell the city of Mayi to the Huns, in order to lure the Chanyu.
Chanyu believed his words and coveted the property wrapped in Mayi City, so he led 100,000 cavalry into the entrance of Wuzhou.
The Han Dynasty ambushed more than 300,000 troops near the city of Mayi. Han Anguo, the imperial censor, served as the general guarding the army and led four generals to prepare to ambush Cuiyu.
After Chanyu entered the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress, he was still more than a hundred miles away from the city of Mayi. He felt strange when he saw livestock scattered all over the fields but no one was grazing, so he attacked a post.
At that time, a Yanmen captain was patrolling the defense line and found the enemy, so he went to defend the post. The Shanyu caught him and wanted to kill him.
Knowing the Han army's plan, the lieutenant surrendered and told Shan Yu all about the Mo army's situation.
Shanyu was shocked and said: "I had some doubts about this."
So he led his army back.
After leaving the frontier fortress, Shanyu said: It is God's will that I can get Wei Shi.
He named Wei Shi the King of Heaven.
The Han army originally hoped to wait for the Chanyu to enter Mayi as promised and then attack with troops, but the Chanyu did not come, so they gained nothing.
The army led by General Wang Hui set out from Daidi to attack the Xiongnu's logistics troops. When he heard that the Shanyu was returning with his troops, the army was outnumbered and powerful, so he did not dare to attack.
The Han Dynasty killed Wang Hui because he planned the ambush in Mayi but he did not attack.
From then on, the Xiongnu severed their peaceful relations with the Han Dynasty, attacked the fortresses guarding the roads, and often invaded the borders and robbed countless people.
But the Huns were also very greedy. They still liked the trade markets in the frontier fortresses and the goods of the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty also opened the market to cater to their interests.
In the autumn of the fifth year since the ambush in Mayi, the Han Dynasty sent four generals with 10,000 cavalry each to attack the Hungarian troops in the frontier market area.
General Qizhi attacked from Shangfu and reached Longcheng, killing 700 Lifu people.
Gongsun He attacked from Zhou Shisu and gained nothing.
Gongsun Dian attacked from Jiajun and was killed by Baoji, with seven thousand people killed.
Li Guang attacked from Yanlong and was defeated by Li Su. Bao Chu captured Kui Chen alive, but Kui Chen escaped on the road.
Zunsu imprisoned Gong Zhufu and Kuilu, and they atone for their sins and became common people.
That winter, thousands of Huns invaded the border, and the Huns suffered the most serious damage among them.
The Han Dynasty sent General Han Anguo to station in Yuli to guard against Baocu's invasion.
In the autumn of the next year, another 20,000 Hungarian cavalry invaded the border fortress, killed the prefect of western Liaoning, and took away more than 2,000 people.
They also defeated the Yuyang Prefect's army of more than a thousand people and surrounded the general in Xuanli.
At that time, more than a thousand cavalry led by Zuo San'er were almost dead. It happened that the Yan Kingdom came to rescue them. After the rescue army arrived, the Huns withdrew. Bao Chu invaded Yadanna again, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.
So the Lian Dynasty sent General Zhizhi with 30,000 cavalry to attack from Yanmen, and Li Xi from Fudeng to attack the Huns and kill thousands of them.
The next year, Jie Xuan led his army from the west of Longyouli to Longyou and attacked Luyuan and Huangshengwang, which Baoji belonged to south of Dong Hui. He killed and captured thousands of Huns and obtained more than one million sheep.
So Sumu occupied the Tom area, built Suzuo City, repaired the pass originally built by General Shili's tomb, and relied on the Yellow River to strengthen the pass defense.
Selection of sculptures also gave up the remote and winding Yang-making place and gave it to Baocha.
This year is the second year of the Five Plastics Festival.
In the winter of the following year, the military minister Chanyu died. His younger brother Zuoguli King Yi Zhenniu established himself as Chanyu and defeated the military minister Shanyu's crown prince Qi.
Li escaped, surrendered to He, and He granted him the title of Marquis of Zhi'an. Yu Shan died a few months later.
After Yi Zhixie Chanyu succeeded to the throne, in the summer of that year, tens of thousands of Xiongnu cavalry invaded Fajun, killed the prefect's friends and robbed more than a thousand people.
In the autumn of this year, they invaded Yanmen County, killed and kidnapped more than a thousand people.
The next year, they invaded Daijun, Dingxiang and Shangjun, with 30,000 cavalry on each route, killing and taking away thousands of people.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu was very resentful of the Han Dynasty for seizing the area south of Donghui and building Shuofang City. He invaded the border many times and invaded Henan. He attacked and harassed Shuofang City and killed and looted many officials and people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent Wei Qing to lead six generals and more than 100,000 troops from Shuofang and Gaoque to attack the Xiongnu.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu thought that he would not be able to choose the army, so he got drunk.
The desert army marched six to seven hundred miles out of the fortress and surrounded King Youxian overnight.
King Youxian was frightened and escaped, taking most of the Xiongnu's elite cavalry with him.
The general of the Han Dynasty captured 15,000 men and women from King Youxian's tribe, and more than ten people were supported by Xiaowang.
That autumn, 10,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded Dai County, killed Captain Zhu Yang, and plundered more than a thousand people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Wei Qing to lead six generals and more than 100,000 cavalry. They still set out from Dingxiang and walked hundreds of miles to attack the Huns. They killed more than 19,000 Huns. The Han Dynasty also lost two generals and more than 3,000 cavalry.
The right general Su Jian escaped alone, while the former general Xihou Zhao Xin failed in the battle and surrendered to the Huns.
Pan Xin turned out to be a small king of the Xiongnu. After surrendering to the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty made him a Marquis of Xi. As a former general, he joined forces with Su Jian, the right general, and met Shan Yu's large army alone, so the entire army was wiped out.
The Chanyu obtained the Marquis of Xi, made him the second king after the Chanyu, married his sister to him, and discussed with him how to deal with the Han Dynasty.
The religious Chanyu went further north and crossed the desert to lure and overwhelm the Han army, so that the Han army would be extremely tired before attacking and not get close to the border fortress.
Shan Yu followed Xin Zhao's advice.
The next year, tens of thousands of Xiongnu cavalry invaded the upper valley and killed hundreds of people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Huo Qubing to lead 10,000 cavalry from Longxi, crossed the Yanqi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, wiped out more than 8,000 Xiongnu, and captured King Xiutu's golden man.
That summer, Husband General Huo Qubing and Heqihou led tens of thousands of cavalry from Longxi and the north, marched two thousand miles, passed through Juyan, and attacked the Qilian Mountains, wiping out more than 30,000 Xiongnu people and more than ten people under the title of Xiao Wang.
At that time, the Xiongnu also invaded Daijun and Yanmenjun, killing and plundering hundreds of people.
The Han Dynasty sent Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and General Li Guang from Youbeiping to attack the Xiongnu Zuoxian King.
King Zuo Xian surrounded Li Guang. More than half of the four thousand Han troops led by Li Guang were killed, and the number of enemies he killed exceeded his own.
Just when Bowang Hou's rescue army arrived, General Li had to escape, but the army was all dead.
Heqi Hou Gongsun Ao missed the date agreed with Hussar General Huo Qubing. Both he and Bowang Hou Zhang Qian should be sentenced to death and use their titles to atone for their sins and become commoners.
In the autumn of that year, Chanyu was very angry that King Kunxie and King Xiutu who were stationed in the west were wiped out by the desert army and captured tens of thousands of people. He wanted to call them here and kill them.
King Kunxie and King Xiutu were frightened and discussed surrendering to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent General Hussar to meet them. King Kunxie killed King Xiutu and led his troops to surrender to the Han Dynasty. There were more than 40,000 people in total, known as 100,000 people.
At this time, after the Han Dynasty received the surrender of King Kunxie, Longxi, Beidi, and Hexi were less invaded by the Xiongnu, so they moved the poor people from Guandong to the new Qinzhong area in Henan Province they had captured to enrich the border areas, and reduced the number of troops stationed in the area west of the Northland by half.
In the spring of the next year, the Huns invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang counties with tens of thousands of cavalry, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.
In the spring of the next year, the rulers and ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed: Xihou Zhao Xin gave Shan Yu a plan to move to the north of the desert, thinking that the Han army could not attack there.
So they fed the horses with grain and dispatched 100,000 cavalry. There were also 140,000 volunteers who brought their own clothes, food and horses to join the army. The carriages and horses transporting grain were not included.
He ordered General Wei Qing and Hussar General Huo Qubing to each lead half of their troops. Wei Qing set out from Dingxiang and General Hussar from Daidi. They agreed to cross the desert to attack the Xiongnu.
When the Shanyu heard about this, he transported the food and grass to a distant place and led his elite troops to fight in Mobei.
One day of fighting with the Han Dynasty general Wei Qing, it happened to be dark and a strong wind blew. The Han army sent out the left and right wings to surround Shanyu.
The Chanyu expected that he could not defeat the Han army, so he alone and hundreds of elite cavalry broke through the siege of the desert army and fled northwest.
The Han army pursued throughout the night but failed to capture Chanyu. During the pursuit, they captured and killed more than 19,000 Xiongnu people. They fought north to Zhao Xincheng in Zhenyan Mountain before returning.
When the Chanyu fled, the Xiongnu soldiers often mixed with the Han army and followed the Chanyu.
The Chanyu was unable to meet his own troops for a long time. King Yougu Li thought that the Chanyu was dead, so he proclaimed himself the Chanyu.
The true Chanyu later gathered his own tribe, and King Yougu Li removed the title of Chanyu and restored his original title.
General Huo Qubing set out from Dai and crossed more than 2,000 miles north to fight with King Zuoxian. The Han army killed and captured more than 70,000 Huns, but King Zuoxian and his generals all escaped.
General Hussar built an altar to worship heaven on Langjuxu Mountain and a place to worship on Guyan Mountain. He did not return to the army until he reached Hanhai.
After that, the Xiongnu fled far away, and Monan no longer had the royal court of Shan Yu.
The Han people crossed the Yellow River and went west from Shuofang to Lingju. They built canals and opened fields everywhere, and set up officials. There were fifty or sixty thousand officials and soldiers. They slowly encroached on the Xiongnu territory, and the land was connected to the north of the Xiongnu's old territory.
At the beginning, generals Wei Qing and Huo Qubing of the Han Dynasty sent troops to besiege Shanyu, killing and capturing 89,000 Xiongnu people. Tens of thousands of Han soldiers died, and more than 100,000 Han army horses died.
Although the Xiongnu were exhausted and fled far away, the Han army lacked horses and could not pursue them.
Chanyu adopted the letter's suggestion and sent an envoy to say good things and ask for a marriage.
The emperor handed the matter over to the ministers for discussion. Some of the ministers said that they should make peace with the Huns, while others said that they should be made vassals.
Prime Minister Shi Renchang said: The Xiongnu were newly defeated and tired. They should be allowed to serve as foreign ministers and go to the frontier areas to pay homage to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent Ren Chang as an envoy to Shan Yu Nahuo. After Shan Yu heard about Ren Chang's idea, he became furious and detained Ren Chang and refused to let him go back.
Prior to this, the Han Dynasty also recruited and surrendered some Huns envoys, and the Chanyu always detained the Han Dynasty's envoys to compensate.
The Han Dynasty was mobilizing troops and horses, but Huo Qu, the general of the Hussars, died of illness. Therefore, the Han Dynasty did not attack the Xiongnu in the north for a long time.
A few years later, Yi Zhixie Chanyu died, having reigned for thirteen years. His son Uwe succeeded as Chanyu.
This year is the third year of Yuanding.
After Uwe Chanyu succeeded to the throne, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to inspect various counties and counties.
Later, the Han Dynasty went to conquer the two Vietnames in the south, but did not attack the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu did not invade the border.
Three years after Uwe Shanyu succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty wiped out both Vietnams. He sent Sun He, the former Tai servant, to lead 15,000 cavalry out of Jiuyuan for more than 2,000 miles to Fujujing. He sent Piaohou Tangponu to lead more than 10,000 cavalry out to the Xiongnu River for several thousand miles to the Xiongnu River. Both armies came back without encountering a single Huns.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty inspected the border and personally arrived at Shuofang City. He commanded 180,000 cavalry to show his military might. At the same time, he sent Guo Ji as an envoy to advise Shan Yu.
After arriving at the Xiongnu, the Xiongnu official in charge of receiving guests asked Guo Ji what his mission was. Guo Ji humbly said kindly and said: I want to tell Shan Yu in person when I see him in person.
Shanyu then met with Guo Ji, who said: The head of the King of Nanyue has been hung under the north gate of the Han Dynasty palace. If you, Shanyu, can go to fight the Han soldiers now, then the emperor of the Han Dynasty is waiting at the border with his troops; if you cannot go, you should face south and surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Why just run away to the north and hide in the cold and miserable place with no water and grass in the north of the desert?
After Guo Ji finished speaking, Shanyu was furious and immediately killed the concierge responsible for the reception. He detained Guo Ji and refused to let him go back. In order to humiliate Guo Ji, he exiled him to the North Sea.
In the end, Chanyu did not dare to invade the Han Dynasty's border. He rested his troops and horses, practiced hunting, and sent envoys to the Han Dynasty many times to sweetly ask for peace.
The Han Dynasty sent Wang Wu and others as envoys to spy on the Xiongnu.
Xiongnu law stipulates that envoys from the Han Dynasty who do not put down the talismans and do not use ink on their faces are not allowed to enter the account.
Wang Wu was from the north and knew the customs of the Xiongnu. He removed the talismans, painted his face with ink, and entered the felt tent.
Chanyu liked Wang Wu, so he pretended to promise Wang Wu: "For your sake, I will send the prince to the Han Dynasty to be a hostage, in order to make peace with the Han Dynasty."
The Han Dynasty sent Yang Xin as an envoy to the Xiongnu.
At this time, the Han Dynasty captured Jia Raccoon and North Korea in the east and made them the counties of the Han Dynasty. Jiuquan County was set up in the west to isolate the communication roads between the Xiongnu and Qiang people.
The Han Dynasty also communicated with the Yuezhi and Daxia in the west and married the princess to King Wusun in order to divide the friendly countries that the Xiongnu provided as backup in the west.
They further expanded farmland to the north, all the way to Xuanglei. As a frontier fortress of the Han Dynasty, they never dared to say anything to these Xiongnu.
In this year, Xihou Tanxin died. The rulers of the Han Dynasty believed that the Huns were weak and could be surrendered.
Yang Xin was a strong, upright and stubborn man. He had never been a noble minister, and the Chanyu did not treat him affectionately.
The Xiongnu Chanyu wanted to summon him into the tent, but Yang Xin refused to remove the talisman, so the Chanyu had to meet Yang Xin outside the tent.
Yang Xin advised Chanyu: If you plan to make peace with the Han Dynasty, send the prince to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
Shanyu said: This is not what our covenant originally stipulated.
The original covenant stipulated that the Han Dynasty would always marry the princess to the Chanyu, and give us a certain amount of silk, silk cotton, and food for marriage, and the Xiongnu would no longer invade the borders of the Han Dynasty.
Now you want to go against the previous rules and ask my prince to go to the Han Dynasty as a hostage. It seems that there is no hope of getting married.
The customary practice of the Xiongnu was: when they saw that the envoys were not the eunuchs favored by the Han emperor, but Confucian scholars, they thought they were here to lobby, so they refuted their arguments; if they were young people, they thought they were here to assassinate them, and discouraged them.
Every time the Han army entered the Huns, the Huns would retaliate.
The Han Dynasty detained the Xiongnu envoys, and the Huns also wanted to detain the Han Dynasty's envoys. They would not stop until there was equality between the two sides.
After Yang Xin returned, the Han Dynasty sent Wang Wu and others as envoys to the Xiongnu.
The Huns still flattered him with good words, but they just wanted to get more property from the Han Dynasty, so they deceived Wang Wu and said: I want to go to the Han Dynasty to pay homage to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty and make an appointment to become brothers in person.
Wang Wu came back to report to the court, and the Han Dynasty built an official residence for Chanyu in Chang'an.
The Xiongnu also said: Unless a prominent official from the Han Dynasty comes as an envoy, I will not tell you the truth.
The Xiongnu sent their nobleman as an envoy to the Han Dynasty. The nobleman fell ill. The Han Dynasty gave him medicine in an attempt to cure him, but unfortunately he died.
During the Han Dynasty, Chongguo wore a two-thousand-stone seal ribbon and sent envoys to the Xiongnu to attend funerals for Xiongnu nobles. The generous funeral expenses amounted to thousands of kilograms of gold.
The Chanyu believed that the noble man was killed by the Han Dynasty, so he detained Lu Chongguo and refused to let him come back.
What Shan Yu said several times was just to deceive Wang Wu. He had no sincerity in coming to the Han Dynasty and did not send the prince as a hostage.
At this time, the Xiongnu repeatedly sent surprise troops to invade the borders of the Han Dynasty. So the Han Dynasty worshiped Guo Chang as the general to suppress the Hu, and sent him and the Marquis of Zhaoye to station east of Shuofang to guard against the Huns.
Uwe Chanyu died after reigning for ten years, and his son Zhan Shilu became a Chanyu. Because of his young age, he was named Er Chanyu.
This year is the sixth year of Yuanfeng.
From then on, the Chanyu moved northwest, with the left army facing Yunzhong County and the right army facing Jiuquan and Dunhuang.
After Er Chanyu succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty sent two envoys, one to condolences Chanyu, and the other to condolences King Youxian, hoping to divide the Xiongnu monarchs and ministers.
After the envoys arrived at the Huns, the Huns handed them all over to the Shanyu.
The Chanyu was furious and detained them all.
The Han Dynasty’s envoys were detained in more than ten batches before and after the Huns, and after the Huns’ envoys came to the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty always detained them to compensate.
In this year, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division westward to attack the Kingdom of Dayuan, and also sent General Gongsun Ao of Ingan to build the surrender city.
That winter, there was heavy snow in the Huns, and most of the livestock starved to death and froze to death. Chanyu was young and liked to kill people and fight, so many people in the country were uneasy.
Captain Zuo wanted to kill Shan Yu, so he secretly sent someone to tell the Han Dynasty: I want to kill Shan Yu and surrender to the Han Dynasty. But the Han Dynasty is too far away. If the Han Dynasty sends troops to meet me nearby, I will start an uprising.
When the Han Dynasty heard this, they built the surrender city. The emperor thought that he was far away from the Xiongnu.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhaoye, with 20,000 cavalry, more than 2,000 miles north of Shuo, with the agreement that they would not return until they reached Junji Mountain.
Zhao Yehou arrived at Junji Mountain as agreed and returned to his army. Lieutenant Zuo wanted to attack but was discovered. The Chanyu killed him and sent out troops to attack Zhao Yehou. Zhao Yehou retreated while capturing and capturing thousands of Xiongnu people.
Walking back to a place four hundred miles away from the city of surrender, we were surrounded by 80,000 Xiongnu cavalry.
Hou Yehou went out to find water at night. The Xiongnu captured Zhao Yehou alive and took the opportunity to attack the Han army.
The officials in the army were afraid that the court would kill them if they lost their generals. No one persuaded them to return to the Han Dynasty, so the Mo army was destroyed by the Xiongnu.
Shanzi was overjoyed, so he sent an army to attack the city of Shoujiang. When he failed to capture it, he invaded and harassed the border fortress, and then left.
The next year, Shanyu wanted to personally lead his army to attack Shanduo Yue, but he died of illness before arriving.
King Erli died after reigning for three years.
When his son was still young, Liyi people supported his uncle, Youxian Wang Bao Zhengyi, the younger brother of Uwei Danzi, as his chanyu.
This year is the third year of Youchi.
After the Chanyu of Juli Lake succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty sent Guanglu Xubai to go out of Wuyuan Fortress several hundred miles or even a thousand miles away to build castle posts as far as Luqu; they also sent guerrilla generals Han Shuo and Changping Houwei to station near them, and sent strong crossbow captain Lu Bode to build a castle beside Juyanze.
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu invaded Yunzhong, Dingxiang, Wuyuan, and Shuofang counties on a large scale, killing and plundering thousands of people, and defeated several officials worth two thousand shi before leaving.
On the way to retreat, the castle post built by Guanglu Xu Zi was destroyed. He also sent King Youxian to invade Jiuquan and Zhangye and plundered thousands of people.
It happened that Ren Wen led his army to intercept the Xiongnu and rescued the Han people. King Youxian lost all the plundered property, men and horses and retreated.
When the Xiongnu heard that General Li Guangli of the Second Division had invaded the Dayuan Kingdom and killed the King of Dayuan and returned, the Chanyu wanted to intercept him on the road, but in the end he did not dare to do so. The Chanyu died of illness that winter.
The Chanyu of Julihu died after reigning for one year, and his younger brother Zuo Daduwei and the Marquis of Tartar succeeded him as Chanyu.
The Han Dynasty destroyed the Dayuan Kingdom and shocked foreign countries. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty wanted to further defeat the Xiongnu, so he issued an edict saying: Emperor Gao left me with the worry of the royal city being besieged. The letter from Shanyu during the reign of Emperor Gao was very rebellious.
In the past, Duke Xiang of Qi avenged his ancestors of the Nine Dynasties from afar, and the "Spring and Autumn Annals" praised him.
This year is the fourth year of Taichu.
Moreover, the Danhou Shanyu had just succeeded to the throne and was afraid that the Han Dynasty would attack the Xiongnu, so he released all the Han Dynasty envoys who refused to surrender, such as Lu Chongguo, etc. back to the Han Dynasty.
Shanyu himself declared: I am a younger generation, how dare I compare with the Emperor of Han!
Han Tian is my elder.
The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang Su Wu to send generous gifts to Chanyu. Chanyu became even more arrogant and stubborn in etiquette, which was not what the Han Dynasty expected.
The next year, Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhaoye, escaped from the Xiongnu and returned to the Han Dynasty.
The next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guang of the Second Division to lead 30,000 cavalry from Jiuquan to attack King Youxian in the Tianshan Mountains. He killed and captured more than 10,000 Xiongnu and returned.
The Huns laid siege to the general of the Second Division, and Li Guangli could hardly escape.
Six out of ten Han soldiers died.
The Han Dynasty also sent Yingan General Gongsun Ao out of Xihe County to meet with Lu Bode, the strong crossbow commander, at Zhuoxie Mountain, but nothing was obtained.
He also sent the cavalry captain Li Ling to lead 5,000 infantrymen from the north of Juyan. After walking for more than a thousand miles, he encountered Shanyu. The two sides fought. Li Ling killed and wounded more than 10,000 Xiongnu people. He had run out of weapons and food. He wanted to break out, but Shanyu surrounded Li Ling. Li Ling surrendered to the Xiongnu. Four hundred of his soldiers escaped and returned to the Han Dynasty.
The Chanyu honored Li Ling and married his daughter to him.
Two years later, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guang of the Second Division to lead 60,000 cavalry and 70,000 infantry to set out from Shuofang; sent General Lu Bode, the strong crossbow captain, to lead more than 10,000 people to join forces with the General of the Second Division; sent guerrilla general Han Yuo to lead 30,000 infantry to set off from Wuyuan;
After the Xiongnu heard the news, they transported their families and belongings far to the north of the Yuwu River, while Shanyu led 100,000 cavalry to wait for the Han army south of the Yuwu River and engage in battle with the general of the Second Division.
The general of the Second Division broke away from the contact and led the army back, fighting with Shanyu for more than ten days. Guerrilla General Han said nothing was gained.
The battle between General Yingan and King Zuoxian did not go well, so he led his army back.
In the second year, Qi Qianhou Chanyu died. After reigning for five years, his eldest son, King Zuoxian, succeeded to the throne, namely Hulugu Chanyu.
This year is the first year of Taishi.
At the beginning, Chanyu, the Marquis of Jie Ning, had two sons. The eldest son was King Zuoxian, and the second son was General Zuo. Moreover, the Chanyu of Qianhou was ill and was about to die, so he made King Zuoxian the Chanyu in his last words.
When King Zuo Xian did not arrive, the Xiongnu nobles thought that King Zuo Xian was ill, so they instead supported General Zuo Shanyu.
After King Zuo Xian heard about it, he did not dare to come to the royal court.
General Zuo sent people to summon King Zuo Xian to give him the throne.
King Zuo Xian declined on the pretext that he was ill. General Zuo refused to accept his brother's resignation and said: "Unfortunately, you have died, so you can pass the throne to me."
King Zuo Xian agreed, so he appointed King Zuo Xian as Hulu Gu Chanyu.
After Hulu Gu Shanyu succeeded to the throne, she made her younger brother Zuo Dajiang the Zuoxian King. A few years later, Zuoxian King died of illness. His son Xianxianshan failed to take his place as Zuoxian King, but became King Zhu.
King Zhu is in a lower position than King Zuoxian.
Hulugu Shanyu made her son the Xianwang of Zuo.
Six years after Hulugu Chanyu ascended the throne, the Huns sent troops to invade Shanggu and Wuyuan, killing and plundering the officials and people of the Han Dynasty.
That year, the Huns invaded Wuyuan and Jiuquan and killed the captains of the two counties.
So the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to lead an army of 70,000 people to set off from Wuyuan; it sent the censor Shang Qiucheng to lead more than 30,000 people to set off from Xihe;
When Chanyu heard that the Han Dynasty had sent out a large army, he transported all the food and supplies to Zhijushui in the north of the city.
King Zuo Xian led the Xiongnu tribe across the Yuwu River and traveled six to seven hundred miles to live in Doubian Mountain.
Chanyu personally led his elite troops to cross the temporary river with Zuo Anhou.
The Yushi doctor's troops arrived at Zhuixie Trail, but returned without encountering the Huns.
The Xiongnu generals and Li Ling led more than 30,000 cavalry to pursue the Han army and surrounded the Han army at Junji Mountain. The two sides fought repeatedly for nine days. The Mo army charged into the battle, repulsed the enemy, and killed a large number of Huns.
When they arrived at Punu River, the Xiongnu had no luck in fighting, so they retreated.
When the army led by Hou Mangtong arrived at the Tianshan Mountains, the Xiongnu sent General Yanqu and King Zuohuzhi and King Youhuzhi to lead 20,000 cavalry to intercept the Han army. Seeing that the Han army was strong, they retreated.
There is no gain or loss in the coincidence.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was afraid that Cheshi's troops would intercept Chonghe Hou, so he sent Minlinghou to lead an army to surround Cheshi City. After breaking the city, King Wang and his tribe, who completely captured Cheshi, returned.
When General Li Guangli of the Second Division was about to leave the frontier fortress, the Huns sent Captain Right and Wei Lu to lead five thousand cavalry to intercept and attack the desert army in the narrow pass of Fuyangju Mountain.
The general of the Second Division sent 2,000 Xiongnu soldiers from his own country to fight Weilu. Weilu's soldiers were defeated and hundreds of people were killed or injured.
Taking advantage of the victory, the Han army pursued the fleeing enemy and reached Madame Fan City. The Huns fled one after another, and no one dared to resist the Han army.
It happened that General Ershi's wife and son were arrested for committing witchcraft. Li Guangli was very worried and frightened when he heard about it.
Li Guangli's servant Hu Yafu was also in the army because he had escaped. He persuaded Li Guangli: If a person's family and children have been arrested by the officials, if he cannot rescue them as he wishes when he returns, but happens to meet them in prison, will it be possible to see the place north of Zhiju again at that time?
Therefore, the general of the Second Division was hesitant and wanted to penetrate deeply into the Xiongnu and gain military exploits, so he led his army to the north and arrived at the Zhiju River.
The Huns had already fled, so the general of the Second Division sent an escort with 20,000 cavalry across the Zhiju River.
One day, he encountered King Zuo Xian and General Zuo. They led 20,000 cavalry and fought with the Mo army for a day. The Han army killed General Zuo and the Huns suffered heavy casualties.
Han Army Commander Shi discussed with Marquis Huiqu, the commander of Juesui, and said: General Li has second thoughts. He wants to put everyone in danger and seek glory for himself. I'm afraid he will definitely fail.
The two discussed to arrest Li Guangli together.
When Li Guangli heard about it, he killed Chang Shi and led his army back to Suxie Wuyanran Mountain.
Chanyu knew that the Han army was very tired, so he personally led 50,000 cavalry to intercept and attack the general of the Second Division. The two sides fought and suffered heavy casualties.
The Xiongnu dug a trench several feet deep in front of the Han army at night and launched a fierce attack from behind. The Han army was in chaos and defeated. The general of the Second Division surrendered to the Xiongnu.
Shan Yu always knew that Li Guangli was a general and noble minister of the Han Dynasty, so he married his daughter to him and respected him more than Wei Lv.
The next year, Shan Yu sent an envoy to send a letter to the Han Dynasty, saying: There is the Han Dynasty in the south, and the powerful Xiongnu in the north. Hu means a proud man who does not worry about small etiquette.
现在我们想与汉朝大开边界，娶汉朝的女儿做妻子，每年汉朝送给我们一万石酒，五千斛粮食，各种布绢一万匹，其他方面像以前约定的那样，那么我们就不侵扰汉朝边界了。 

The Han Dynasty sent envoys to report back and send back the Xiongnu envoys. Shanyu asked the people around him to ask questions to the Han Dynasty envoys, saying: The Han Dynasty is a country that respects etiquette and justice.
But General Li Guangli of the Second Division said that the former prince rebelled. Why is this?
The Han Dynasty envoy replied: That's what happened.
But that incident was a personal fight between the prime minister and the prince. The prince raised an army and wanted to kill the prime minister. The prime minister falsely accused the prince, so he killed the prime minister.
This is a son playing with his father's army, and he should be whipped for a crime. It is just a small mistake.
How does it compare with Maodun Chanyu personally shooting his biological father, establishing himself as a Chanyu, and marrying his stepmother as his wife? That's the behavior of an animal!
Chanyu detained the envoy and did not let him come back for three years.
General Li Guangli of the Second Division had stayed with the Huns for more than a year. Wei Lu was very jealous of Li Guangli's favor. It happened that Shan Yu's mother was ill. Wei Lu ordered the Huns' shaman to tell her that the late Shan Yu was angry and said: We used to sacrifice soldiers and often said that if we catch the General of Second Division, we will kill him and sacrifice him to the ancestral temple. Now that we have caught him, why don't we use him to sacrifice him in the temple?
Therefore, the Chanyu captured General Ershi, and Li Guangli cursed: I will destroy the Huns after I die!
So he killed General Ershi and offered sacrifices to the temple.
It happened that the Xiongnu had been snowing heavily for several months, and the livestock froze to death. People also fell ill with the plague, and the crops failed to mature. Chanyu was afraid, so he built a temple to worship the second division general Li Guangli.
Since General Ershi was defeated by the Xiongnu, the Han Dynasty had lost tens of thousands of generals and soldiers, so it did not send any more troops.
Three years later, Emperor Mowu died.
Prior to this, the Han army penetrated deep into the Huns and pursued the Huns for more than 20 years. The Huns suffered miscarriages and their families were ruined. They were very tired of this kind of life.
Everyone from Shanyu on down hoped to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
Three years later, Chanyu wanted to ask for peace with the Han Dynasty, but he fell ill and died.
At the beginning, Shanyu had a half-brother who was the captain of Zuo. He was very wise and the Huns all admired him. Shanyu's mother was afraid that Shanyu would not give birth to a son but would establish Zuo Daduwei, so she secretly sent people to kill Zuo Daduwei.
Captain Zuo's brother was very resentful of this and refused to attend court meetings at Shan Yu's court again.
In addition, when the Chanyu was about to die of illness, he said to the nobles of the Huns: My son is too young to govern the country. I will appoint my younger brother King Yougu Li as the Chanyu.
After the death of Chanyu, Wei Lu and others negotiated with Zhuanquban clan to conceal Chanyu's death, and under the guise of Chanyu's order, they drank and swore an oath with the Xiongnu nobles, and changed the name of Zhuanqupi clan's son, King Zuoguli, to Huyanta Chanyu.
This year is the second year of the First Yuan Dynasty.
After Huyan Qianyu succeeded to the throne, he hinted to the Han envoys that he wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
King Zuoxian and King Youguli of the Xiongnu were very resentful because they were not appointed as chanyus, and wanted to lead their tribes to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Afraid that he would not be able to reach the Han Dynasty, he coerced King Lu Tu and asked him to surrender to the Wusun Kingdom in the west with him and discuss attacking the Xiongnu.
King Lutu reported the matter, and the Chanyu sent people to investigate. King Youguli did not plead guilty, but put the blame on King Lutu. The people of the Huns thought that King Lutu was unjust.
So King Xian of the Left and King Guli of the Right returned to their own places and refused to go to Shanyu's Dragon City again.
In the autumn of two years later, the Huns invaded Dai County and killed the captain.
The Chanyu was young and had just succeeded to the throne. His mother had behaved improperly, and the people in the country were in disarray. They were often afraid that the desert army would attack them.
So Wei Lu gave Chanyu advice to dig wells, build cities, build high buildings to store grains, and guard them together with the descendants of the Qin people who had fled to the Xiongnu.
Even if the Han army attacks, there will be nothing they can do to us.
So hundreds of wells were dug and thousands of trees were felled.
Some people said that the Huns could not hold on to the city and that they were sending food to the Han army. Wei Lü stopped and came up with the idea to release the Han envoys Su Wu, Ma Hong and others who refused to surrender.
Ma Hong once went on a mission to the countries in the Western Regions with his deputy Guanglu doctor Wang Zhong, but was intercepted by the Huns. Wang Zhong died in the battle, and Ma Hong was captured alive and refused to surrender.
So the Xiongnu released these two people back to the Han Dynasty, hoping that they would bring the Xiongnu's goodwill for reconciliation.
At this time, it had been three years since Shanyu succeeded to the throne.
The next year, the Xiongnu sent 20,000 cavalry from the left and right, organized into four teams, to invade the border and harass them.
The Han army pursued them, killed and captured nine thousand people, and captured King Outuo alive. The Han Dynasty suffered no losses.
Seeing that King Outuo was captured in the Han Dynasty, the Huns were worried that the Han Dynasty would let him lead the way to attack them, so they moved far to the northwest, and did not dare to go south to graze with water and grass, and sent people to garrison Outuo.
The next year, nine thousand cavalry were stationed in the surrendered city to guard against the desert army, and a bridge was built on the Yuwu River in the north to allow people to cross, in order to prepare for escape in times of crisis.
At that time, Wei Lu was already dead.
When Weilu was alive, he often talked about the benefits of peace with the Han Dynasty, but the Huns did not believe it. After Weilu's death, the Huns' army was besieged many times and the country became even poorer.
Shan Yu's younger brother, King Zuo Guli, recalled what Wei Lu said and thought it made sense. He wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty, but he was worried that the Han Dynasty would not agree, so he did not want to talk about it first. He often asked people around him to make insinuations and discuss the matter with Han Dynasty envoys.
However, there were fewer intrusions on the borders of the Han Dynasty, and the envoys of the Han Dynasty were treated more politely. In order to slowly reconcile with the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty also adopted a tolerant policy towards it.
Later, King Zuo Guli died.
The next year, the Shanyu sent King Lizu to secretly inspect the borders of the Han Dynasty. When he came back, he reported to the Shanyu that the Han army in Jiuquan and Zhangye was even weaker. If he sent troops to attack, there might be hope of regaining those places.
At that time, the Han Dynasty got the surrender first and knew the Xiongnu's plan. The emperor of the Han Dynasty issued an edict and ordered the desert army on the border to be wary of the Xiongnu invasion.
Soon afterwards, King Youxian and King Lizu of the Xiongnu led four thousand cavalry into three teams and invaded Yuele, Wulan, and Fanhe.
The prefect of Zhangye and the captain of the subordinate states sent troops to attack the Xiongnu and defeated the enemy. Only a few hundred Xiongnu escaped.
The knights of King Qian Changyiqu of the country shot and killed the King of Ploughs. The Han Dynasty gave him 200 catties of gold and 200 horses, and made him the King of Ploughs.
Guo Zhong, the captain of the vassal state, was granted the title of Marquis of Cheng'an.
From then on, the Huns did not dare to invade Zhangye.
The next year, the Xiongnu sent more than 3,000 cavalry into Wuyuan, killing and plundering thousands of people. Later, they sent tens of thousands of cavalry southward to hunt and harass along the frontier fortress. As they went, they attacked the Han Dynasty's castles and outposts outside the fortress, and captured officials and people.
At that time, the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress counties were very smart in their warning beacons and watched carefully. The Huns who invaded the border rarely went smoothly, so they rarely invaded the border fortress again.
The Han Dynasty got another Huns who surrendered, saying that Wuhuan had dug up the grave of the late Xiongnu Chanyu. The Xiongnu resented Wuhuan and were now sending 20,000 cavalry to attack Wuhuan.
General Huo Guang wanted to send troops to intercept and attack the Xiongnu, so he asked the guard captain Zhao Chongguo about this matter.
Zhao Chongguo believed that Wuhuan had invaded the borders of the Han Dynasty many times before, and now the Xiongnu attacked them, which was convenient for the Han Dynasty.
In addition, the Huns rarely invaded the border. Fortunately, there were no wars on the northern border.
The barbarians attacked each other, and the Han Dynasty sent troops to stop them, provoking the Xiongnu and causing trouble. It was not a good idea.
So Huo Guang asked Zhonglang General Fan Mingyou for advice, and Fan Mingyou said that he could attack them.
So the Han Dynasty appointed Fan Mingyou as General Du Liao and led 20,000 cavalry to attack from Liaodong.
When the Xiongnu heard that the Han army had arrived, they retreated.
Before the Han army set off, Huo Guang warned Fan Mingyou: The army should not go out in vain. If it misses the Xiongnu, it will attack Wuhuan.
Wuhuan had just been defeated by the Xiongnu army at that time. Fan Mingyou followed the Xiongnu and took advantage of the opportunity to attack Wuhuan. He killed more than 6,000 Wuhuan people and three Wuhuan princes. He led his army back and the Han Dynasty named Fan Mingyou the Marquis of Pingling.
The Huns were very frightened and did not dare to send any more troops.
So he sent envoys to the Wusun Kingdom to get the Han princess who married Wusun.
He also attacked the Wusun Kingdom and captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places.
The Han princess who married Wusun wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty asking for help. The Han Dynasty handed the matter over to the ministers for discussion, but could not decide what to do.
At this time, Emperor Zhao died and Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty succeeded. Kunmi, the leader of the Wusun Kingdom, wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty again, saying: We have been invaded and weakened by the Huns one after another. I am willing to use half of the elite soldiers in the country, totaling 50,000 horses, to fight against the Xiongnu with all my strength. I hope the Emperor of the Han Dynasty will send troops to rescue the princess!
In the second year of this period, the Han Dynasty sent a large number of elite soldiers and generals from Guandong, and selected generals with more than three hundred stones in each county. All those who were brave, strong, good at riding and shooting were all recruited into the army.
Tian Guangming, the imperial censor, was appointed as General Qilian, leading more than 40,000 cavalry, starting from Xihe County; General Fan Mingyou of Liao Dynasty was sent to lead more than 30,000 cavalry, starting from Zhangye; former general Han Zeng was sent to lead more than 30,000 cavalry, starting from Yunzhong County; General Zhao was appointed Chongguo was appointed General Pulei, leading more than 30,000 cavalry, and set out from Jiuquan; he appointed Tian Shun, the prefect of Yunzhong County, as General Huya, leading more than 30,000 cavalry, and set out from Wuyuan: a total of five generals and more than 100,000 cavalry were sent to march more than 2,000 miles from the frontier fortress.
Chang Hui, the captain who was sent as an envoy to protect the princess, sent troops from Wusun's western regions. Wusun Kunmi personally led more than 50,000 cavalrymen under the rank of Jihou to attack the Xiongnu from the west. Together with five Han Dynasty generals, there were more than 200,000 troops.
When the Xiongnu heard that the Han Dynasty had sent a large number of troops, the old, sick and weak fled in a hurry, driving their livestock and their belongings and fled far away, so the five generals did not gain much.
Fan Mingyou, the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty, traveled more than 1,200 miles from the frontier to Pulihoushui. He killed and captured more than 700 Huns, and captured more than 10,000 horses, cattle and sheep.
Former general Han Zeng traveled more than 1,200 miles from the frontier to reach Wuyuan, where he killed and captured the Huns. When he arrived at Houshan, there were only more than 100 people, and more than 2,000 horses, cattle and sheep were captured.
General Pulei went to Chongguo and was supposed to besiege the Xiongnu with the Wusun army in Puleize as agreed. The Wusun army arrived and left earlier than the agreed date, and the Han army failed to meet up with the Wusun army.
General Pu Lei went out for more than 1,800 miles from the frontier and went west to Houshan. He killed and captured the Huns. In total, he captured more than 300 people, including the Shanyu envoy King Puyin, and more than 7,000 horses, cattle and sheep.
It was heard that the Huns had fled, but these generals did not come back as scheduled.
The emperor alleviated their sins and pardoned them without punishing them.
Qilian General Tian Guangming traveled more than 1,600 miles from the frontier to reach Jizhi Mountain. He killed and captured 19 Huns and obtained more than 100 cattle, horses and sheep.
On the way, he met Ran Hong, an envoy of the Han Dynasty who had returned from the Huns, and others. They said that there were a large number of Huns to the west of Jizhi Mountain. Tian Guangming warned Ran Hong and asked him to tell Ran Hong that there were no Huns when he returned and wanted to lead his troops back to the Han Dynasty.
Gongsun Yishou, the censor, advised Tian Guangming that he could not do this. Qilian General Tian Guangming did not listen to the advice and led his army back.
Huya General Tian Shun traveled more than 800 miles from the frontier and reached the Danyuwu River. He stopped his army and refused to go forward. He killed and captured more than 1,900 Xiongnu people and captured more than 70,000 horses, cattle and sheep, and led his army back to the Han Dynasty.
The emperor deceived the emperor to increase the number of humans and animals he captured because Huya General Tian Shun did not come back by the agreed time limit; while General Qilian knew that the Huns were ahead, but stopped his army from advancing and handed them all over to the jailers for interrogation. Later they committed suicide.
Gongsun Yishou was promoted to serve as censor.
Captain Chang Hui and the Wusun army arrived at the court of King Youguli and captured more than 39,000 people, including Chanyu's father and sister-in-law, Juci, Mingwang, Ligudu Lieutenant, Qianchang, and generals, and seized more than 700,000 horses, oxen, sheep, donkeys, mules, and camels.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty granted Chang Hui the title of Marquis of Changluo.
The number of Xiongnu troops who lost their lives and injuries, as well as the livestock that died due to long-distance migration, are countless.
As a result, the Xiongnu declined and were very resentful of Wusun.
That winter, Shanyu personally led 10,000 cavalry to attack the Wusun Kingdom. He captured a few old and weak people and wanted to return to the army.
At this time, there happened to be heavy snowfall, which was more than ten feet deep in one day. Many of the tribesmen and livestock froze to death, and less than one tenth of them came back alive.
So Ding Lingguo took advantage of the Xiongnu's weakness to attack it from the north, Wuhuan State attacked it from Shubian, and Wusun State attacked it from the west.
These three countries killed tens of thousands of Huns and robbed tens of thousands of horses, as well as many cattle and sheep.
In addition, many people died of starvation, three-tenths of the Xiongnu people died, and five-tenths of the livestock died. The Xiongnu country declined greatly. Those subordinate countries of the Xiongnu rebelled and left one after another, attacking and harassing each other, and no one was able to govern them.
Later, the Han Dynasty sent more than 3,000 cavalry, divided into three groups, to attack the Huns together, and captured and brought back thousands of people.
In the end, the Xiongnu did not dare to retaliate against the Han Dynasty to compensate for the losses, but wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty even more, and the borders of the Han Dynasty became peaceful and less troublesome from then on.
Hu Yanqian Chanyu died in the seventeenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Zuoxian Wang succeeded him as Chanyu. This is Xulu Quanqu Chanyu.
This year is the second year of the Earth Festival.
After Xulu Quan Qu Chanyu succeeded to the throne, he established the right general's daughter as the Pi family and deposed the Zhuan Quque family who was favored by the late Chanyu.
Zhuan Quban's father, Zuo Daqiequ, was very resentful.
At that time, because the Xiongnu did not dare to invade the border again, the Han Dynasty abandoned the cities on the border fortress so that the people defending there could rest and recuperate.
When Shanyu heard about this, he was very happy and summoned the Xiongnu nobles to discuss the matter and wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
Zuo Daqiequ was jealous of this, so he said to Shanyu: In the past, the Han Dynasty sent envoys, and the army followed closely and came to attack us.
Now we can also follow the example of the Han Dynasty in dispatching troops, and first send envoys to pay homage to the Emperor of Han. So he asked Shan Yu to allow himself and King Huluzi to lead 10,000 cavalry to the south to hunt along the Han Dynasty's border fortress. After meeting, they attacked the border fortress together.
Before reaching the border fortress, three Xiongnu cavalrymen happened to escape and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, saying that the Huns were coming to invade.
So the Emperor of the Han Dynasty issued an edict to station the cavalry on the frontier fortress in key places. He sent four people including the general, the general, and the supervisor to lead 5,000 cavalry. They were divided into three groups, and each went hundreds of miles away from the frontier fortress. Each captured dozens of Huns and returned.
At that time, the Huns escaped with three cavalrymen, so they did not dare to invade the border fortress and led their troops to retreat.
This year there was a famine in the Huns, and sixty-seven out of ten people and livestock died.
Xiongsu also sent two villages with 10,000 cavalry each to guard against the Han army's attack.
In the autumn of this year, thousands of people from the Ximo tribe who lived in the left area who had previously belonged to the Xiongnu, starting from their monarch, drove their livestock to escape from the Xiongnu. They fought with the Xiongnu in the Outuo area. Many people were killed and injured in the battle, so they surrendered to the south and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
The next year, armies from various countries in the Western Regions attacked the Xiongnu together, captured the Cheshi Kingdom, captured the King of Cheshi and his tribe and left.
Shanyu also appointed Doumo, the younger brother of Che Shigong, as King of Che Shigong. He gathered the remaining tribesmen and moved eastward, not daring to live in the original place again.
The Han Dynasty further dispatched soldiers to farm in various places in the Che Division to enrich Nabu's strength.
The next year, because the Xiongnu resented that all the countries in the Western Regions attacked Che Division together, they sent generals on the left and right respectively to lead 10,000 cavalry to garrison in the right area, hoping to oppress and invade Wusun and the countries in the Western Regions.
Two years later, the Huns sent left and right Ao Ta to lead 6,000 cavalry respectively, together with General Zuo, to attack the Han army stationed in Cheshi City again, but failed to capture it.
In the second year, the Lioling Kingdom invaded the Xiongnu frequently for three consecutive years, killing and plundering thousands of Xiongnu people and driving away their horses and livestock.
The Huns sent more than 10,000 cavalry to attack Ding Lingguo, but nothing was gained.
The next year, Shanyu led more than 100,000 cavalry to hunt along the frontier fortress, hoping for an opportunity to invade the frontier fortress.
Before they arrived, it happened that the Huns surrendered to the Han Dynasty and explained the situation. The Han Dynasty named him Yanbing Luxi Luhou and sent general Zhao Chongguo to lead more than 40,000 cavalry to station in nine counties along the border to guard against the Huns.
More than a month later, Shan Yu was so sick that he vomited blood, so the Xiongnu did not dare to invade and went back. The Han Dynasty also withdrew its army.
The Xiongnu sent Wangdu Li Huci and others to the Han Dynasty to request peace with the Han Dynasty. Before they could return to report the news, it happened that the Shanyu died.
This year is the second year of Shenjue.
Xujian Quanqu Chanyu died after nine years of reign.
As soon as Xujian Quanqu Shanyu came to the throne, he deposed the Zhuanqupi family, and the Zhuanquban family secretly committed adultery with King Youxian.
When King Youxian left after attending the Dragon City Conference, Zhuan Qupi told him that Shanyu was very ill and should not go far away for the time being.
A few days later, Shanyu died.
King Haosu Xingweiyang sent people to summon the princes from all the ministries, but before they arrived, Zhuan Qupi and his younger brother Zuo Daqi Qudu Longqi discussed and established King Youxian Tu Qitang as the leader of Yanqu Qianyu.
Zou Yanqu Qiandan replaced his father as the Youxian King, and was the distant grandson of Uwe Shanyu.
After holding Yanqu Qianyu's succession to the throne, he made peace with the Han Dynasty and sent his younger brother Yi Qiuruo Wang Shengzhi to the Han Dynasty to present gifts and meet him.
The Chanyu had just come to the throne, and he was very vicious. He killed all the nobles Xing Weiyang and others who were in power at the time of the Chanyu in Xuyanquanqu, and appointed Dulongqi, the younger brother of Zhuanqupi's family. He also removed all the close relatives of the Shanyu's descendants from their official positions and appointed his own children to replace them.
Jihou Zha, the son of Xulu Quanqu's Chanyu, failed to be established as Chanyu and fled to his father-in-law's Wuchanmu.
Wuchanmu was originally a small country between Wusun and Kangju. It was repeatedly invaded, so he led thousands of his troops to surrender to Licu. Hulugu Chanyu married his younger brother's son, the sister of King Chu, to the leader of Wuchanmu, and let him lead his tribe to live in Youdi.
It was said that King Zuo Xian, the father of King Zhu Xianshu, was supposed to be made a chanyu, but he gave it to Hulu Gu Chanyu. Therefore, Hulu Gu Chanyu promised to make Xianxian Shanyu a chanyu in the future.
Therefore, most Huns believe that the king should be a Chanyu.
King Yuezhu had always been in conflict with King Baobi Qianli, so he led tens of thousands of his troops to surrender to Handan.
Even the plastic seal says that Zhu Wang is a ridge and fallen fort.
The Chanyu re-established his cousin Lian Zhitang as king.
The next year, Shanyu Zouyan Quning killed the two younger brothers of Ya Xianxian Shan.
Wutanmu asked Shanyu not to kill them, but Shanyu did not listen, and Wutanmu was very angry.
Later, King Zuo Aotar died, and Chanyu made his youngest son King Aotar and left him in the royal court.
The nobles of Aotar jointly supported the son of the late king of Aotar as king and moved eastward with him.
Chanyu sent his right prime minister to lead 10,000 cavalry to pursue them, but lost thousands of them and failed to win.
At this time, Shanyu had been in power for two years. He killed many people and was very cruel. The people in the country were alienated from Shanyu.
In addition, the prince and King Zuo Xian repeatedly spoke ill of the nobles of Zuo, and the nobles of Zuo were very resentful.
The next year, Wuhuan attacked King Guxi, who was bound by the Xiongnu, and captured many people. The Chanyu was very angry with King Guxi.
King Guxi was frightened, so he, together with Wu Pengying and the nobles of Zuodi, supported Jijian as Huhanxie Chanyu. They dispatched an army of 40,000 to 50,000 men from Zuodi to attack King Yan Quningdan in the west and reached the north of Guge River.
Before the battle began, the army of King Juyanqu Qianli was defeated and fled. He sent someone to report to his younger brother King Youxian for help, saying: The Niuku people are attacking me together. Are you willing to send troops to help me?
King Youxian said: "You don't care about the people and kill your brother and other nobles. Just die there yourself. Don't come and taint me."
Qian Chanyu, who was holding Yan Qu, was very angry and committed suicide.
Zuo Dajiequ Dudan donkey fled to King Xian of You, and all his tribesmen surrendered. Follow the evil Chanyu.
This year is the fourth year of Shenjue.
Zou Yanqu Qian Shanyu collapsed after reigning for three years.
