Lu Chui, named Zuogong, was from Wu County, Wu County.
He is the sixth generation grandson of Lu Wan, the Taiwei of the Jin Dynasty.
His grandfather, Zizhen, was the governor of Dongyang in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Huixiao, was Taichang Qing of the Qi Dynasty.
When Lu Chui was young, he studied diligently and was good at writing articles.
He built a two-story thatched house in his residence, cut off contact with others, and studied day and night. This lasted for several years.
Once you read it once, you will definitely be able to recite it orally.
I once borrowed someone else's "Han Shu" and lost four volumes of "Five Elements Chronicles", so I wrote them down silently and returned them to others without any omissions.
When he was young, his grandfather Qiang Dai looked at him with special eyes. Zhang Dai often said to his sons: "Sending children is the Yang Yuan of your family."
At the age of seventeen, he was elected as a scholar of the state.
Prince Liang, the governor of Jingling, set up a residence in the west and introduced talented people, including Lu Ren.
Recruitment was for Yi Cao to join the army, and for Luling King Fa Cao to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as a foreign soldier of King Ancheng of the Right Army and joined the army, and was changed to the chief secretary.
Lu Chui was friendly with Ren Fang, a man from Le'an, and wrote "Perception of Ji Fu" as a gift to Ren Fang. Ren Fang used this title to repay Lu Chui and said: "It is indeed a generation of great men who are born in Lu Township in the Houfu area."
To commemorate meritorious deeds and morality, inherit the top and bottom garments embroidered with dragons.
It was passed down from generation to generation when it came to the Japanese people, and the three horses galloped together to gain grace and glory.
Stop after passing the dragon gate, and fly while looking at the parasol branches.
Although the white jade is pure, the orchids are indeed fragrant.
Thinking about using objects as metaphors is not something Dou Hu can do.
Marriage standing in Shuyue is comparable to being condensed in autumn frost.
He would pass by casually without skipping a meal, and would often throw three pennies into the Wei River.
If you don't dare to sigh with your sleeves covered, how can you wear clothes in a ravine?
Savings and collections are redundant, but also indifferent and tasteless.
Obtaining the will is like having it in the heart, and violating the principles of justice is like trying to uphold justice.
It's like Uncle He Ping's lack of ornamentation, and it's like Yang Ziyun's lack of frugality.
All kinds of good deeds are gathered together to leave integrity, and all kinds of speech are combined to form scholarship.
He impressed the Gao family and the Dai family backstage, and refuted the Zou family and the Yan family in the Dong family's tent.
Collected the Book of Songs from three schools in the river, and visited scholars at the twists and turns of the Huai River.
Academics include books passed down orally, and skills include sonorous music.
Sometimes he would sit down and fall asleep with his hair tied to the roof beams, or he would just be chatting while holding an iron awl in his hand.
The article is beyond others and has profound meaning, the truth is profound and the diction is dense.
Lamenting the passage of my life, I feel sad as I approach the end of the year.
Measure the light under a house and listen to the bells ring in Los Angeles.
Only Lu Zi, regardless of his age, made friends after meeting each other in a paved place.
I gain the value of Tian Su, and you gain the reputation of the world.
It is true that people who are poor, frustrated and without property will eventually face a short life for a long time.
Hunger and weakness are shown by pacing slowly, and avoiding responsibilities is shown by walking quickly.
You compare me to Pei Shuze, and you compare me to Yuan Yaoqing.
Friendship is based on sincerity and sincerity, and rumors cannot confuse people.
Search secretly in all things, and obtain it from a thousand miles away.
Speech images can be discarded, and auxiliary tools can be naturally collected.
The houses are not connected to each other for living, and the same car is used for traveling.
There is not enough time in winter and no extra time in summer.
Meats and fruits are not firewood cakes, and music cannot entertain.
Before I even got out of the car, your vehicle had already turned around.
They looked at each other while eating, feeling melancholy and confused, and their faces changed.
The country has become strange, and separation and reunion cannot be predicted.
His residence is different from that of Shanyan when he is alive, and he is not next to his important plate after death.
It's like putting glue into paint, how can Li Lou tell the difference?
This is how Lu Zheng was highly respected by his scholar friends.
He was transferred to the hussar Linchuan King Dong Cao.
At that time, there were many innovations and reforms in the ritual and music system. Emperor Gaozu liked Lu Jia's talent very much, so he ordered the writing of "Xin Lu Ke Inscription", which was very beautiful in diction.
He was transferred to Prince Zhongsheren to be in charge of the palace documents and records.
Shao also ordered Lu Bian to write "Shi Que Ming Ji", and Lu Bian presented it.
Emperor Gaozu ordered: "The Stone Que Inscription" written by Prince Zhongshe Renduubao is elegant and beautiful in its diction and meaning, and can be regarded as a masterpiece.
In the past, Yuqiu was able to distinguish things, and Han Shudan presented poems and poems, and was awarded gold and silk, which became a beautiful story in the history books. Lu Chui can be given thirty pieces of silk.
He was transferred to the position of Prince Concubine and Doctor of the State, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he served as the minister of Zhongshu, the minister of Huangmen, and the history of Yangzhou Biejia. Due to illness, he requested to be relieved of his post and was transferred to Hongluqing. He entered the Shangshu Province as the official of the Ministry of Affairs and participated in the selection affairs.
When he went out, he served as the chief historian of Jin'an in Yunhui, the prefect of Xunyan, and the state affairs of Liaoye Prefecture.
He was dismissed from his post due to official duties and demoted to the rank of Vice Minister of Zhongshu, Situ Sima, Prince's concubine, and Tingweiqing.
He also served as the concubine of the middle school, and was awarded Shizhong, the great Zhongzheng of Yangzhou.
He was also awarded the title of Doctor of Guozi, and his positions as concubine and zhongzheng remained as before.
He was appointed Taichang Qing, and Zhongzheng remained the same.
Xuan passed away for seven years at the age of fifty-seven.
There are twenty volumes of collected works, which are popular in the world.
The fourth son, Lu Zan, was smart in his early years, proficient in scriptures at the age of ten, and served as a charioteer for boys. He died.
To Qia Zi Mao Yi, he was from Wuyuan, Pengcheng.
He is the great-grandson of Yanzhi, the hussar general of the Song Dynasty.
My grandfather, Zhongdu, was a hussar and a lieutenant of the King of Jiangxia.
When his father arrived in Tan, he was the official official of the Qi Dynasty.
When Qia was eighteen years old, he was in charge of welcoming west Cao in South Xuzhou.
When he was young, he was well-known, high-minded, alert, talented and moral.
Xie Tiao's articles were very famous at that time. When he met Dao Qia, he was very friendly and appreciative of them, and invited him to discuss them with him every day.
I often say to Dao Qia: You are not only a celebrity, but also have both civil and military talents.
Xie Tiao later served as the official of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and resigned when he arrived at Qia. Xie Peng wanted to recommend him, but he refused after observing that the world would be in chaos.
He was appointed as the Zuo Changshi of the Kingdom of Jin'an, but he refused to take up the post, so he built a house on the side of a mountain rock and lived in seclusion for several years.
Ren Fang, a Le'an native, has the ability to understand others, and is friendly with his brother Daoqi, both in the marsh and the irrigated area.
I once visited Qia in a farm house. After seeing him, I admired him and said: This man is unparalleled in the world.
So I used the etiquette of meeting a friend's parents.
In the early years of Tianjian, both Dao Zhou and Dao Gai were promoted, and Dao Qia was especially appreciated by Zhiyu. His cousin Dao Hang also had the same reputation as him.
Emperor Gaozu asked Qiu Chi, who was waiting for the imperial edict, and said: How does Daoqia compare with Daohang and Daoji?
Qiu Chi replied: He is more upright and honest than Dao Hang, and his articles are not inferior to Dao Gai's; plus he can talk clearly, it is difficult for the two of them to compare with Dao Qia.
He was immediately recruited to Qia to serve as the prince's sacrificer.
When Emperor Gaozu went to the Huaguang Hall, Shao Ling went to Xia, and Dao Hang, Xiao Chen, and Ren Fang served him at a banquet. He composed twenty poems in rhyme, and the diction of Dao Qia was the most skillful. He also gave him twenty pieces of silk.
Emperor Gaozu said to Ren Fang: The Dao brothers can be called talented men.
Ren Fang replied: "My ministers often discuss privately that Song Dynasty will get military generals and Liang Liang will get literati."
In the second year, he was transferred to Chief Situ and was on duty in Shao Province. Shao ordered him to copy the scriptures.
In the fifth year, he was transferred to the position of Zhonglang in Shangshu Palace.
The uncles and brothers who came together occupied this position one after another, and people at that time thought they were very honored.
In the seventh year, he was transferred to the crown prince Zhongsheren, and he and his concubine Lu Chui were in charge of the records of the East Palace respectively.
Soon he served as an attendant, and the province soon appointed two bachelors, who came to serve as candidates.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to Dr. Guozi and was ordered to write the "Taixue Monument".
In the twelfth year, he went out to serve as the internal history of Linchuan and became a competent official in the county.
In the fourteenth year, he came to Beijing and served as the prince's family minister. He was transferred to serve as the minister of Huangmen and as a doctor of Guozi.
In the 16th year, he was transferred to the crown prince's concubine.
In the first year of ordinary life, he served as a doctor concurrently with his official position.
Not long after, when he joined the Ministry of Finance and served as a minister, he found it impossible to entrust him with anything.
Soon he was transferred to Yuanwai Sanqi Changshi, and also served as a doctor. He resigned due to the death of his mother.
In the fifth year, he served as the concubine of the crown prince and concurrently as the captain of the infantry school. Before taking office, he was subsequently transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen and concurrently as Zuocheng of the Minister. He never avoided noble relatives in his corrections, and bribery to the Minister of Ministers was not feasible.
At that time, the emperor wanted to go on an expedition in person, and the etiquette of the army and the country was mostly formulated through consultation.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the position of censor Zhongcheng. He had no scruples in impeachment and picketing, and was known as strong and upright. He was punished at that time.
Demoted due to official duties, but still in his position.
According to the old system, Zhongcheng could not enter the Shangshu's residence. Daoqia's elder brother Guiji served as Zuomin Shangshu. Daoqia cited the clause that relatives should not interfere and sent it to the Shangshu Province for a detailed decision.
Zuo Cheng Xiao Ziyun suggested that he should be allowed to enter Gai's official office because their brothers had always been loyal and did not distinguish between them.
In the seventh year, he went out to serve as General Zhenwei, Yunhui Chief Shi, and Xunyang Prefect.
In the first year of Datong, he died in the county at the age of fifty-one.
A posthumous gift to the attendant.
Mi's nickname is Li Zi.
Prince Zhaoming gave an order to Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an: Yan and Changshi in the northern Ming Dynasty passed away one after another. The sorrow and regret cannot be calmed down.
Lu Taichang died last year, and now the two wise men have passed away.
Lu Sheng upholds loyalty and acts steadfastly, is as clear as ice and as clean as jade, possesses literary talent with the four parts of the Book of Songs, has knowledge spanning nine schools, has noble sentiments and superior temperament, and sticks to the right path to reach the sky.
Ming Gong was well versed in Confucianism and investigated ancient affairs. He was honest, sincere, honest, and committed to morality. If he met the Master, he would definitely be promoted to the Hall of Confucius.
He has an open and cheerful demeanor, and his writing style can be used as a role model. He is a director because of his position, and he is honest and has no selfish motives.
They are all outstanding talents in the country, and they are the treasures of Chinese traditional culture.
Such sighs and regrets, what else is there to talk about.
It's just that they have spent time in exchanges and exchanges, and they have loyally advised each other. How can I explain it in detail? Fortunately, it is the strength of these people to avoid regrets.
The conversation is like yesterday, the voice and words are still in my ears. They have passed away one after another, and they have all become people in the underworld. Whenever I miss this, when can I talk about it.
The true weapon of the world should be sad.
Zhang Xin'an died recently. He sent someone to write boldly and elegantly, which is enough to sigh and regret. Following his brother's officialdom, he was separated in the east and west for a long time, which should be especially sad.
The recent decline of characters is particularly sad and regrettable. When I met the current messenger, I talked about it again.
Daoqia's anthology is popular in the world.
His sons' names were Bohuai and Zhongju.
Mingshan Bin's courtesy name is Xiaoruo, and he belongs to Pingyuan Ge Renren.
His father, Seng Shao, lived in seclusion and did not serve as an official. At the end of the Song Dynasty, he was recruited as a doctor of the Imperial Academy and did not take up the post.
When Shan Bin was seven years old, he could talk about the rights and wrongs of things. When he was thirteen years old, he was knowledgeable about scriptures and annotations, and observed all the etiquette in mourning.
After the mourning period expires, the state will requisition him to engage in history.
Serving as an official is a request from the court.
His elder brother Zhongzhang suffered from an incurable disease and the family was empty, so Shan Bin asked for an official position.
Xiao Yaoguang, the first king of the Qi Dynasty, was summoned to join the Fu army and later served as the Guangyang order and soon resigned.
When the rebel army arrived, Emperor Gaozu hired Tian Cao to join the army as Prime Minister.
When the Liang Dynasty Tai Pavilion was established, Shan Bin served as Shangshu Jiabulang, and was transferred to the imperial censor. He joined the army in the Youjun Ji office and was in charge of revising the auspicious rituals.
At that time, doctors of the Five Classics began to be established, and Shanbin was the first to accept this position.
He was transferred to Beizhonglang to consult and join the army, and studied with the crown prince.
He was promoted many times to serve as Minister of the Secretariat, Doctor of the Imperial Academy, Crown Prince, Imperial Concubine, and Doctorate. His titles remained the same.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, he went out to serve as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Huaihe River, general of expedition, and governor of Northern Yanzhou.
In the second year of the ordinary year, he was recruited to serve as the crown prince's right guard, and was granted the title of Shizhong, and was transferred to the post of censor Zhongcheng.
Due to official duties, he was demoted to Huangmen Shilang and Sinongqing.
In the fourth year, he was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi, and concurrently served as the chief minister of Qingzhou and Jizhou.
A new bachelor was established in Shu Palace, and Shan Bin was appointed to take charge of it. Soon, he also served as the emperor's wine minister with his own position.
At first, Shanbin was in the prefecture, and the Pinglu County under his jurisdiction had a bad harvest. Yebin started to release grain from the warehouse to help the people. Later, the governor inspected the official office of the prefecture and lost the account books. He thought it was due to Shanbin's losses and omissions. The relevant departments investigated the responsibility and confiscated Shanbin's house and transferred it to the government. Shanbin remained silent and did not appeal for himself, and bought another land to build a house.
Prince Zhaoming heard that Shanbin could not complete the house, so he ordered: Although Ming Jijiu went out to control Dazhou, he held great power to help people achieve things, inserted gold ornaments and pulled purple ribbons, but his hands were always empty.
I heard that the construction of the house has not been completed, so I am offering a meager subsidy.
He also sent a poem saying: Ping Zhong has been called Qiqi since ancient times, and Yi Wu used to be good at good names.
Beautiful laws establish wise people, and the Eastern Qin Dynasty originally had many scholars.
The houses are not built next to the road, but the houses are placed in Quy Nhon.
Geng Sang has a successor, and it is easy to compare with him today.
Those who will come to live in seclusion in the countryside will attract scholars from the Five Classics.
Shanbin has a loyal and honest character. His family once lacked funds and sold the cow he rode.
After withdrawing the money after the sale, he said to the buyer: The cow had suffered from leaky hoof, and it has been cured for a long time after treatment. I am afraid that if it relapses in the future, I will have to tell him.
The buyer immediately recovered the money Shanbin had withdrawn.
After the hermit Ruan Xiaoxu heard about it, he sighed and said: This passage is enough to make people return to simplicity and curb the superficial trend.
Five years later, he served as Doctor of the Imperial College again, and continued to serve as a regular minister and Zhongzheng.
In the year of 1999, he was appointed as a leaver in his own capacity and temporarily acted as an agent for the affairs of Northern Yanzhou.
He died in the first year of La Datong at the age of eighty-five.
Shao Ling gave posthumously to Shi Zhong and General Xinwei.
The name is proton.
Prince Zhaoming held a funeral for him, donated 100,000 yuan in money and 100 bolts of cloth, and sent Wang Yi, the funeral director, to supervise the arrangements for the funeral.
He also gave an order to Yin Yun, the former Situ Zuochang, saying: The envoy from Northern Yanzhou arrived and Lang Jubi passed away suddenly. I felt sad when I heard about it.
This wise man was well versed in Confucianism and determined to investigate ancient affairs. He was meek, loyal, honest, peaceful, elegant and broad.
It has been more than twenty years since he taught the scriptures.
As for the fact that he does not flatter people in his dealings with those in high positions, he advises loyally and does not show outward signs, it comes from his heart, and he probably has a deep foundation.
He took charge of the post of governor, and his actions were appropriate and his words had the purpose. Unexpectedly, he passed away for a long time, which was far from the past.
Reminiscing about his conversation becomes a thread of sadness, how can it be calmed down?
The relationship between the past and the past should be sour and sad.
Ye Xuan has been an academic official for a long time and is very helpful in teaching. However, he has a thorough personality, welcomes students, and gets close to them. Everyone likes him.
He wrote 224 volumes of "Notes on Ji Li", 20 volumes of "Etiquette", and 15 volumes of "The Classic of Filial Piety and Funeral Dress".
His son Zhen, also named Xingdao, also inherited his father's studies.
He successively served as a doctor of Taixue, Prince Sheren, Shangshu Ancestral Minister, and Yuyao Ling.
Yin Jun, whose courtesy name was Jihe, was from Changping, County Chen.
He is the eighth generation grandson of Jin Qiao Taichang Chenlie.
His father, Yin He, was talented and eloquent. He was famous throughout the world and served successively as Situ and Zhonglang.
Yin Shu married Wang Huan's daughter.
Wang Lei served as the governor of Zhenbei and the general of Zhenbei, so he reported to the court and appointed Zhou Yao as the chief historian of Zhenbei and the governor of Henan.
Wang Huan was killed, and Wu Yao was killed together.
Wu Man was nine years old at the time and was known for his filial piety.
When he grows up, he will be indifferent and leisurely and rarely socialize. He likes to study and is intellectually interested.
He was good at official calligraphy and became a role model at that time. Fan Nuo from Nanxiang and Renmao from Luandong all praised him and knew him.
Emperor Gaozu and Yin Chang were friends when they were young, and they married their daughter to Yin Gou, who became Princess Yongxing.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was appointed as the Commander-in-Chief of the Prince Consort, and served as Secretary Lang, Prince Sheren, Situ Chief Secretary, and Secretary Cheng.
When Yin Gou was in office, he began to compile the four books of Mi Ge and compiled a separate catalogue.
Shao also searched for calligraphy monuments in Western Province and compiled a detailed list of grades.
He was transferred to Qiaoqi to serve as Zhonglang, Zhongshulang, Prince's family order, and in charge of the palace documents and records.
Soon after, he was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, the concubine in the middle, the Minister of Libu, Situ Zuo, Changshi, and the minister.
A bachelor was appointed in the East Palace, and Yin Gou was appointed as the official.
Removal from office on official business.
He also served as the concubine, doctor of the state, and general Zuo Xiaoqi. The title of doctor remained the same.
When he went out, he served as General Mingwei and Internal History of Linchuan.
Yin Gou was weak and sick, so he closed his door and treated him in bed. However, the people were inspired by his virtues, and all the thieves fled the country.
Yin Gou once captured the leader of a robbery, but instead of torturing him, he just scolded him in a pleasant manner.
The robber leader kowtowed and begged to change, and Yin Gou ordered him to be released. Later, the man became a good person.
There was a lot of malaria in the county in the past, and it would definitely break out in summer. Since Yin Jun took office, there is no more malaria in the county.
Because his mother passed away and left his job, the mourning exceeded the etiquette. I was worried about him, so I wrote a handwritten letter to warn and enlighten him: I learned about your recent behavior, being sad and sleepy beyond the etiquette, and eating almost not a liter. It is very sad.
You are alone and are the sustenance of the clan. Excessive sadness that endangers your life is not allowed by Confucianism.
You should give up a little on your own, keep the ritual system, rice porridge, fruits and vegetables, and slightly increase it reluctantly.
I was deeply worried and my intention was involved, so I ordered Lung Daopeng to explain it orally in detail.
Wu Man replied: "After accepting the personally written order and the decree announced by Miao Daozhen, I fell down on the ground and read it with emotion and choked with sobs. I was so sad that my liver, blood and brain fluid flowed to the ground."
Villains have no temperament, and their actions cannot meet the etiquette. They are just born weak. As they age, sins accumulate and diseases increase.
Recently, I have been seriously ill and have been mourning all day long. I feel dizzy and my heart is obsessed with sorrow and joy. I just want to cure the mourning and cannot control myself with high principles.
The moistness of the condiments actually comes from the ancient classics. I do not avoid delicacies and delicacies, but I am ashamed to be taught by today's benevolent people. Who am I to receive such pity and sympathy?
We should follow the sage's words respectfully and think about nourishing ourselves to prolong our life. If we are able to extend our life, it is really due to His Highness's cultivation.
After the mourning period was over, he was transferred to the rank of Minister of the Fifth Army. However, because his illness delayed him for a long time and he was unable to bear the responsibilities, he was appointed as a regular attendant of casual cavalry and an infantry school captain to serve in the East Palace.
Soon he became a concubine.
When the fallen ally king died, his officials were dismissed. Xing invited him to serve as a guerrilla general on the right, and he was appointed as the prince of the country to offer wine and serve as usual.
He died in the fourth year of Tula's reign at the age of forty-nine.
Mi's nickname is King Zhen.
He has two sons: Wudi and Yue.
Lu Xiang, courtesy name Shiqing, was born in Wu County, Wu County.
His father, Lu Xian, served as the governor of Yangzhou in the Qi Dynasty. At the end of the Yongyuan Dynasty, Yaoguang occupied Dongfu and started a rebellion. Some people advised Lu Xian to leave him.
Lu Xian said: I am a subordinate of this family, why should I avoid death?
The imperial army captured the city and Lu Xian was captured and was about to be tortured. His second son, Lu Jiang, asked to die in Lu Xian's place. When he was not allowed, he blocked the blade with his body and killed all the torturers.
Lu Xiang mourned the tragic death of his father and brother. The funeral went beyond etiquette. After the mourning period was over, it was like being in mourning.
In the third year of Tianjian, Fan Xiu, the official minister of the capital, recommended Lu Xiang. Lu Xiang was appointed as Zuo Lang in Jiachao, and was appointed Yongning Order.
After his term of office expired, he was repeatedly promoted to the position of Facao, King of Sikong Linchuan. Foreign soldiers joined the army, and Qingche Luling Wang Jishi joined the army.
When Prince Zhaoming heard about Lu Xiang's academic conduct, he asked his great ancestor to invite him to travel with him. He appointed the prince to wash horses, transfer him to Zhongshe, and take charge of document records.
When Lu Xiang was out to serve as governor of Yangzhou, Lu Xiang's father died while taking this position. He resolutely refused, but Emperor Gaozu did not allow it and allowed the Sima of the government to exchange official residences.
Prince Zhaoming respected the elderly. Lu Xiang's mother was nearly eighty years old. He, Xiao Chen, Fu Zhao and Lu Dai sent people to visit her every month and gave her good food and clothes.
Lu Sai's mother suddenly suffered from angina pectoris, and the prescription required three liters of corn syrup. It was the winter moon, and it was close to dusk. There was no place to search. Suddenly, an old man came to the door to sell corn syrup, and the quantity was just as prescribed. When he was about to pay, the man disappeared somewhere. At that time, he thought it was because Lu Sai's filial piety moved God.
He was repeatedly promoted to doctor of the state, crown prince's family order, and in charge of document records. He resigned due to the death of his mother.
Lu Xiang was already fifty years old, and he was sad and thin beyond etiquette. The prince was worried about him and sent messengers every day to warn and enlighten him.
When the period of mourning was over, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine, and was also in charge of document records.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, Prince Zhaoming passed away and his officials were dismissed. The concubine Cai lived in Jinhua Palace. Lu Xiang was appointed Zhongsan doctor, infantry captain, family magistrate of Jinhua Palace, and informed of Jinhua Palace affairs.
In the sixth year, he went out to serve as the internal history of Poyang.
Before this, the people in the county used elixirs to cultivate Taoism. They once went into the mountains to collect medicines, picked up flags of five colors, and found stone seals in the ground. They felt strange in private.
Xian Yuchen and his wife didn't live in the same room before, but there were always strange weather in the place where Xian Yuchen lived, which made him feel even more magical.
In the first year of Datong, he gathered his disciples and killed Wang Jun, the magistrate of Guangjin. He claimed that he changed his reign to the first year of Shangyuan, set up officials and subordinates, and his followers deceived and tempted him. He had more than 10,000 followers.
When troops were about to be sent to attack the county town, Lu Xiang first led the people and officials to build the city and take precautions. When the bandits arrived, he defeated them in successive battles and captured Xian Yugan alive, while the rest fled and dispersed.
At that time, the magistrates of the neighboring counties of Yuzhang, Ancheng and other counties interrogated the party members who were detained in Xianyuchen, and took advantage of the opportunity to obtain property, but they could not get the truth. Some good people and their whole families were in trouble, but the upright people in Lu Xiang's county were not harmed innocently.
The people composed a ballad and said: After Xianyu was pacified, good and evil were clearly distinguished, and no one died unjustly, all because of Mr. Lu.
There were also two families, the Peng family and the Li family, who had been angry and fighting before, so they falsely accused each other. Lu Xiang called them into the inner room and did not scold them. He only persuaded and guided them with kind words. The two were grateful for the kindness and deeply regretted their mistakes. Lu Xiang then held a banquet for them and let them drink to their heart's content. After the banquet, the two returned in the same car, and they treated each other favorably.
The people also sang songs and said: In the fallen star policy, there are no enemies, the fight is over, and the enemies are in the same car.
In the sixth year of his reign, the county was under great control. Li Kui and other 420 people went to the court to report Lu Xiang's benevolence and moral education, and requested that a monument be erected in the county. Emperor Gaozu gave the order to allow it.
He also submitted a memorial requesting to keep Lu Xiang, but Lu Xiang firmly requested to return and be recruited as a official, secretary, superintendent, and concurrently as Yangzhou Dazhongzheng.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was transferred to Duzhi Shangshu, and his title of Zhongzheng remained as before.
In the second year, Hou Jing raised troops to surround the palace city, and Gaozu appointed Lu Xiang to be on duty in Shizhong Province.
In March of the third year, the city fell and Lu Xiang fled back to Wubi.
Soon the bandits invaded Shubu's territory and captured Wu Commandery.
Hou Jing's general Song Zixian marched to attack Yushan. Yu Zun fell into Youzhang and launched a rebellion. Thousands of his troops attacked the county at night, killed the pseudo-prefect Su Shanyu, and recommended Lu Sai to act as agent for the county affairs.
At that time, Lu Kong, the prefect of Huainan, escaped from the traitors and entered Wu County. Lu Xiang sent people to welcome Lu Zhen as the leader of the alliance, and sent Huan Zhang and his brother's son Dan Ju to lead his troops to resist Wang Xian.
Wang Xian heard about the rise of the rebels, so he retreated and fought with Guibi and others in Zhengwang. Guibi was defeated and fled. After the Chenggong army heard about it, they also fled separately.
Lu Xiang hid under the tomb and died of sorrow and anger one night at the age of seventy.
When Lu Xiang became an adult, he encountered disasters in his family and spent his whole life living in rough clothing. He didn't listen to music, and he didn't talk about killing or anything like that for about fifty years.
After the fort's measurement and quilt were decided, Shi Dan posthumously presented Tuo Sai as a servant and General Yunhui.
Due to the attack by the rebels, he was posthumously granted the title of Diewang Diebao, with a settlement of 500 households.
Yao Cha, the official secretary of Chen Shili Department, said: Lu Zhuibo dabbles in literature and history, Qia bandit is loyal and strong, Mingshan guest is elegant and loyal, Yin Jun is quiet and peaceful, Lu Xiang is simple and filial, although the position and salary are different, they are all listed among the famous ministers.
