In the past, the history books of Sima Qian and Ban Gu both compiled the "Biography of Sima Xiangru". Sima Xiangru did not participate in the major affairs of the Han Dynasty, so his articles are particularly famous for his biography.
Ban Gu also wrote the "Biography of Jia Zou Meilu", also because they could write articles and spread them to the world.
Fan Ye's "Book of Houmo" contains the "Biography of Wenyuan". The deeds of the people included in the biography have been recorded in great detail.
Formulating rituals and music, governing the country, understanding the past and present, recording good and bad deeds are all impossible without writing.
Therefore, no one who is a king and governs the world does not respect and value the function of articles; scholars among the Jin gentry also value and value the function of articles. This situation has not changed since ancient times.
Emperor Gaozu was both intelligent and virtuous, well aware of affairs, and had a vast empire. He went to Shao to seek liberal Confucian scholars and accepted talents with special knowledge. As a result, the ritual and music system flourished, and talents of all kinds gathered in the capital, glowing with dazzling brilliance.
Whenever Emperor Gaozu visited a place, he often ordered his officials to compose poems and essays. Those who wrote good poems and essays would be rewarded with gold and silk. Those who went to the palace to present poems and eulogies would sometimes be favored by being received.
Those literati with official titles, such as Shen Yue, Jiang Yan, Ren Fang, etc., were all called excellent at the time because of their literary talent.
As for people like Pengcheng Daohang, Wu Xingqiuchi, Shuhai Wang Sengru, Wujun Zhang Shu and others, some of them were honored by the Wende Hall of Zhidai Shao, and some enjoyed the favor of the Shouguang Hall where the monarchs and ministers feasted. These are all outstanding and outstanding talents in the future.
Shen Yue, Jiang Yan, Ren Fang, Wang Sengru and Zhang Sui are separately described according to their merits and achievements.
The collection was limited to the Taiqing period, and the deeds of talented and knowledgeable figures such as Dao Hang were collected into "Wenxue Biography".
To Hang, named Mao, was a native of Wuyuan, Pengcheng.
His great-grandfather came to Yanzhi and served as a general in the Song Dynasty.
When his father arrived in Jie, he was appointed Minister of the Fifth Army of Qi Dynasty.
Daehang was smart and alert since he was a child. When he was five years old, his father copied ancient poems on a screen. Daehang asked his father to teach him how to read them, and he was able to recite them immediately without forgetting the words.
When he grew up, Daohang was diligent and studious, good at writing articles, and was good at writing seal script and official script.
She is very beautiful in appearance and demeanor, and her behavior is loved by people.
During the Jianwu period of Qi Dynasty, after serving as an official in Han Dynasty, military law officer Cao joined the army.
In the early years of Tianjian's reign, he was moved to the post of Chief Registrar of Zhenglu.
When Emperor Gaozu first ascended the throne, he focused on recruiting and promoting outstanding talents. Emperor Gaozu admired Hang's talents very much.
After Emperor Gaozu established the crown prince, he ordered him to go to Hang to wash the prince's horses.
At that time, the imperial court set up a bachelor's department in the Wende Hall, summoned talented and knowledgeable people to stay in the bachelor's department, and ordered them to revise the classics. Emperor Gaozu also sent to Shao to let Dahang enjoy the benefits of a general membership, and his name was registered in the family register, so he could enter and exit the palace.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu hosted a banquet in the Huaguang Hall and ordered the ministers to compose poems. Only one person, Shao, was ordered to write a long poem of 200 words, which was to be completed within three seconds.
Taohang stood at his seat and presented his improvisation, with beautiful diction.
Soon, he went to Hang to take charge of the secretary of the East Palace and the Youcewen of Sanqi Province with the post of washing horses.
In the third year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu ordered Shao to select Shangshulang who was honest, capable or talented and knowledgeable during his tenure and promoted him to the rank of Minister. When he arrived at Han, he was appointed as the Minister of Cao in the palace.
Daohang and his cousins ​​Daogai and Daoqia were both known as talented men. At that time, they all took turns holding positions in the palace, which was considered an honor by contemporary people.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, he moved to Hang and was appointed Prince Zhongsheren.
He was a man who did not boast of his own merits or talk about the merits of others. Le'an Renfang and Nanxiang Fan Yun both had a good friendship with him.
In this year, he was moved to Danyang Yincheng. Because he was ill and unable to take office, he was moved to Beizhonglang to consult and join the army.
In the fifth year of Tianjian, Daohang died during his tenure at the age of thirty.
Zhidan was deeply saddened by his death and issued an edict granting him twenty thousand dollars and thirty pieces of cloth to his family.
Daohang wrote more than 100 poems and poems.
Qiu Chi, courtesy name Xifan, was from Wucheng, Wuxing.
His father, Qiu Lingju, was famous for his talent. He became an official in Qi Dynasty and was promoted to Taizhong doctor.
Qiu Chi could write articles at the age of eight. Qiu Lingju often said that the momentum and strength of articles about making children are similar to mine.
Huangmenlang Xie Shuyi and Zhengshi Hedian both met Qiu Chi and thought he had excellent talents.
When Qiu Chi grew up, he was appointed as an official in the state, promoted as a scholar, and was dismissed from the imperial examination.
Qiu Chi moved to Sima Xing to join the army, but he left his post to mourn his father's death.
At the end of the mourning period, Qiu Chi was dismissed and awarded the title of Xizhonglang to join the army.
After his meritorious service, he was promoted to the position of Lang in the palace, but he left his post to mourn his mother's death.
After the mourning period expired, Qiu Chi was appointed as the palace minister, and then moved to the chariot and cavalry record to join the army.
When Emperor Gaozu pacified the capital and established the Bafu, Qiu Chi was selected as the Hussar Master and received very generous courtesy. At that time, the words to persuade the King of Liang to join the Liang Dynasty and to give the King of Liang special treatment were all written by Qiu Chi.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Qiu Chi was worshiped as the Minister of Sanqi, and soon moved to the position of Minister of Zhongshu, leading Zhongzheng in Wuxingyi, and Wende Hall of Waiting for Zhao.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu wrote "Lianzhu" by himself and ordered ten people to follow him. Among them, Qiu Chi's writing was the most beautiful.
In the third year of Tianjian, Qiu Chi came out of the capital to serve as the prefect of Yongjia County. Qiu Chi was incompetent in his duties in Yongjia County and was impeached by the officials. Emperor Gaozu cherished his talent and suppressed the memorial to impeach Qiu Chi.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, the general of the Chinese army, Xiao Hong, king of Linchuan, went on the northern expedition. Qiu Chi was appointed to consult and join the army, and headed the record office.
At that time, Chen Bozhi defected to Wei and joined the Wei army to resist the Northern Expedition. Qiu Chi wrote a letter to enlighten Chen Bozhi, and Chen Bozhi surrendered.
After returning to school, Qiu Chi was worshiped as Zhongshu Lang and moved to Situ to work as Zhongshu Lang.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Qiu Chi died during his tenure at the age of forty-five.
The poems and poems written by Qiu Chi have been spread all over the world.
Liu Bao, courtesy name Xiaochang, was born in Pengcheng.
His grandfather Liu Kuang was Sikong during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Liu Zhi, was the concubine of the crown prince at that time.
When Liu Bao was four years old, his father passed away. When he was six or seven years old, Liu Bao would often cry when he saw his uncles.
At that time, Liu Bao's uncle Liu Chan and uncle Liu Hui were already in high status. Liu Bao's mother thought that Liu Bao was crying out of fear and was very angry about this.
Liu Bao replied: I lost my father very early and did not remember his face. I heard that my uncle and uncle had very similar faces to my father, so I felt sad when I saw them and had no other meaning.
As he spoke, he sobbed again, and his mother became even more sad.
At first, Liu Bao's parents and two brothers died one after another, and they were all buried temporarily. When Liu Bao was sixteen, their coffins were moved to the cemetery. The planning and arrangements for the reburial were all done by Liu Bao alone, without the help of his uncles and uncles. It didn't take long for everything to be done. Liu Hui often praised him and admired his ability.
Liu Bao has been eager to learn since he was a child and can write articles.
When he first became an official, Cao Xing joined the army, but he did not take office.
In the early years of Tianjian, because he was the younger brother of the Princess of Linchuan, he was promoted from the war chief to the military meritorious officer of the Linchuan King. He also accumulated merit and was moved to the post of minister of Shangshu Kubu, Danyang Yin Cheng, Prince Taifu Cheng, minister of Shangshu Palace, and Nanxuzhou Zhizhong. He was dismissed because of official business.
After meeting for a long time, Liu Bao appointed the prince to wash horses, be in charge of the secretary, and serve as a lecturer in Shouguang Palace.
After Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, he selected young scholars with literary talents. Liu Bao, his cousins ​​Liu Xiaochuo, Liu Ru, Dao Gai from the same county, Dao Gai's younger brother Luo Qia, Dao Gai's cousin Dao Hang, Wu Jun Lu Chui, and Zhang Shu were all appreciated for their literary talents and often participated in the banquets of the monarchs and ministers. Although their official positions were different, the rewards they received were the same.
In the tenth year of Tianjian, Liu Bao passed away at the age of thirty.
When Liu Bao was about to die, he called his friends Nanyang and Liu Zhisheng to entrust him with the funeral arrangements and requested that the funeral affairs must be frugal.
Liu Bao had a reputation for being capable when he was an official, and he was gentle by nature. But he is upright in dealing with things, interacts with people, criticizes his friends' shortcomings and mistakes in person, praises their friends' strengths and virtues behind their backs, is frank in his feelings, and does not hide his privacy. His friends all praise him for this.
Yuan Jun, courtesy name Xiaogao, was born in Yangxia, Chen County. He was the eighth generation descendant of Wei Langzhong's order, Yuan Huanzhi.
Yuan Jun lost his father at an early age, but he devoted himself to studying. His family was poor and had no books. He often borrowed books from others to read, and he had to copy the borrowed books. He set a pace for himself, copying fifty pages every day. If the number of pages did not reach the specified number, he would not rest.
Yuan Jun's speech is dull, but he is good at diction.
When Emperor Gaozu's rebel army captured the capital, Xiao Hui, the king of Xianyang, was guarding Su'er in the east, and Yuan Jun followed the whole garrison and took charge of recording events.
In the early years of Tianjian, when the vassal state was established, he appointed Yuan Jun as his minister to follow him to guard Jingkou.
Wang Qian was appointed governor of Yingzhou and made Cao the capital of the army.
Gaozu was very fond of poetry. At that time, there was an endless stream of people submitting poems and essays to Gaozu in Nanque. Among them, the authors of poems and essays with gorgeous diction and appreciable words were sometimes rewarded or promoted.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, Yuan Locust imitated Dangbi and wrote "Guan Zhen" and dedicated it to Taizu.
Emperor Gaozu commended him and gave him five pieces of silk.
In addition to being appointed as a member of the Sanqi Shilang, Yuan Jun was appointed as a bachelor of the province. He copied twenty volumes each of "Historical Records" and "Moshu".
Following Emperor Gaozu's order, he and Lu Jue each wrote "Xinque Ming", but because the words were too long, they could not be included in the text.
Yu Yuling's courtesy name was Zijie. He was the younger brother of Qian Lou, who was often served by Sanqi.
When Yu Yuling was seven years old, he could discuss subtle principles with others.
As an adult, he was sharp-witted, knowledgeable and talented.
Xiao Zilong, the Sui King of Qi, was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou. He called Yu Yuling to be the chief bookkeeper and ordered him to copy and compile books together with Xie Tiao, Zong Yang and others.
Xiao Zilong was replaced in his post and returned to the capital. He also ordered Yu Yuling to be the master of farewell.
Xiao Zilong was killed by Emperor Ming soon after. Xiao Zilong's old staff and former officials avoided him out of fear. No one dared to deal with the funeral affairs. Only Yu Yuling and Zong Yang stayed to handle the funeral for Xiao Zilong.
Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an, was appointed to Fujun. He selected Yu Yuling to join the army and also serve as a recorder.
In the late years of Yongyuan, Yu Yuling was expelled and granted the title of Dongyang Sui'an Order. He was praised by the people and officials for his good management of the county.
In the early years of Tianjian, Yu Yuling was appointed as the official of Jiankang Prison, and he was moved to the post of Shangshu Gonglunlang, waiting for the imperial edict to Wende Hall.
He also left Beijing and served as a special driver in Xiangzhou, moved to the post of Huqi Lushi and joined the army, and also served as Zhongshu general secretary.
Soon after, he led the Zhongzheng of Nanjun County and worshiped him as the prince's horse washer. His position remained unchanged.
According to the old practice, the officials of the East Palace were all people known for their purity and elegance. Prince Xima, who was in charge of documents, was the most outstanding among them.
In modern times, the officials selected for the Shu Palace were all talented and famous scholars from aristocratic families. At that time, Yu Yuling, Yu Zhoushe and others were promoted to serve in the East Palace. Emperor Gaozu said: Appointment as an official requires a pure and elegant character, which cannot be limited to aristocratic families.
At that time, people thought this was a very accurate view.
Yu Yuling soon moved to the post of Minister of Sanqi and changed to the command of Dazhongzheng of Jingzhou.
He also accumulated merit and was promoted to the position of Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu. His positions of Shiren and Zhongzheng remained unchanged.
Yu Yuling later left the capital and served as the chief historian of Jin'an King Xuanyi and the prefect of Guangling. He was responsible for the affairs of the prefecture and state, but was dismissed due to official business.
He was appointed as Tongzhilang, and soon he was awarded the title of Hongluqing, and also led the Dazhongzheng of Jingzhou.
Yu Yuling died during his tenure at the age of forty-eight.
Yu Yuling has ten volumes of collected works.
Yu Yuling's younger brother Yu Jianwu.
Yu Jian's name is Zi Shen.
He was able to compose poems when he was eight years old, and his elder brother Yu Yuling was particularly friendly to him.
Yu Jianwu first served as a permanent servant of the Kingdom of Jin'an, and then moved to the palace of King Xuanhui of Jin'an to join the army. From then on, every time the King of Jin'an moved the town, Yu Jianwu also followed the palace.
He successively served as the prince's lieutenant, Yunhui joined the army, and also joined the army as a secretary.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, the king of Jin'an became the crown prince, and Yu Jianwu also served as the general secretary of the East Palace. In addition, he was appointed as the official recorder of King Xiangshu of Anxi and joined the army. Soon he took charge of the Dazhongzheng of Jingzhou with his own official position.
After his meritorious service, he was moved to the post of Zhonglu Shi and consulted to join the army. The prince led the army to make more orders, and the prince became a concubine.
At the beginning, when Taizong was in the vassal state, he liked literary scholars very much. At that time, Yu Jianwuyu Shu Hai Xu Gao, Wujun Lu Dai, Pengcheng Liu Zun, Liu Xiaoyi, and Liu Xiaoyi's younger brother Liu Xiaowei were all appreciated and invited.
When Taizong became the crown prince, he also established the Wende Province and established bachelors. Yu Xin, son of Yu Jianwu, Xu Ling, son of Xu Go, Zhang Changgong of Wujun, Fu Hong of Beidi, Bao Zhi of Donghai and others were all outstanding talents who served as bachelors.
When Qi Yong asked next year, scribes Wang Rong, Xie Tiao, Shen Yue and others began to use the four tones changes in their articles, and new changes appeared when writing articles. By the time of Qi Yong, more emphasis was placed on the neatness of the rhyme, and more emphasis was placed on the beauty and beauty, and the requirements for the four tones in the articles were higher than before.
At that time, the prince wrote to King Xiangdong about this trend and said:
We people don't have the hobby of traveling. We only know how to write books on wooden boards. We like to write articles and recite short poems from time to time.
Although it is a mediocre voice, I cannot stop writing. Although I feel ashamed when I feel itchy, I cannot avoid relapse into my old ways.
Recently, I have seen that the articles circulating in the capital are particularly weak and weak. The literati are vying to imitate the style of flashy and unrealistic, and are vying to imitate weak and weak works.
Faced with this trend, during the long winter nights, I thought hard but could not figure out that this trend was not consistent with the techniques of fu, comparison and xing, and also deviated from the style of "The Book of Songs" and "Chu Ci".
As for the six rituals for governing the country and the three rituals for worshiping the heaven and earth ancestral temples, they are implemented within a certain scope; the five rituals for good and bad luck, guests, and soldiers are used for certain occasions.
If you want to chant your own feelings, you should imitate the chapters of "Nei Zhe"; if you write about your ambitions, you should imitate the structure of "Jiu Gao"; if you describe the scenery of spring outing, you should learn the writing method of "Gui Zang"; if you describe the magnificence of mountains and rivers, you should use the same method as "Zhou Yi Da Zhuan", these are all things I have never heard of.
Since I am rather clumsy at writing poems and compositions, I naturally dare not criticize other people's articles at will.
Just compare contemporary works of poetry and prose with the works of ancient talents one by one. The distant ones include Yang Xiong, Sima Xiangru, Cao Zhi, and Wang Can, and the more recent ones include Lu Zan, Yan Zhiwa, and Xie Lingyun. You will see that the terms and concepts of today's and ancients are completely different.
If you think the current poetry is correct, then the ancient poetry does not meet the requirements; if the sages of the past are worthy of praise, then the current style of poetry should be abandoned.
I cannot agree with the idea that everyone has their own interests and should coexist.
From time to time, there are people who imitate the poems and essays of Xie Chenle and Yuan Bianlin, which is also very confusing.
Why?
Xie Kangle's writing is outstanding and superb, all out of nature, but informality often appears, which is his dregs; Pei Hongshan is a talented writer of history, but he has no beauty in his words.
Therefore, learning Xie cannot learn his essence, but only learns his shortcomings; learning Pei abandons his strengths and only learns his shortcomings.
Xie Wen's magic cannot be achieved, and Pei Wen's simplicity should not be admired.
Therefore, people who are just imagining and forgetting their true identity want to share the meat for the Qilin Ren beast to eat, and want Chuke of the Jin State to do whatever they want in Handan of the Zhao State. It is just a fantasy.
Going into an abalone house for a long time without smelling its smell and blindly following suit will often lead to disaster.
If you strive to catch up with Xie Kangle, you can catch up even if you just imitate sentences such as "Three thousand people spread across Chi County"; if you blindly admire Pei Honglu, you will worry that figures like Tang Lin and Tang Zun of the Han Dynasty will not be biographed. Therefore, the exquisite Qin and the shining gold are despised by short-sighted people; popular music such as "Ba Ren" and "Xia Li" are better suited to the preferences of the Yingzhong audience.
The song "Yangchun" is elegant but no one agrees with it. After the beautiful singing is over, no one continues it. They don't study the details of the work carefully and comprehensively measure the literary simplicity of the work. It is different from "Qiao Xin", and I feel ashamed in the face of a master.
Therefore, when the scholars with noble moral character and attention to ethics saw Zheng from afar, they would avoid the voice of Zheng and Wei and retreat; those who wore Zhangfu crowns and wore pearls and green shoes could only sigh longly when they saw the Yue people walking in Minxiang with broken hair and tattoos.
This is already the case with poetry, and the same situation exists with literature and poetry.
Just because the pine smoke and ink cannot speak, it can only be painted and dyed by others; the paper has no emotion and can be written by the literati.
It’s so amazing that the disaster of poetry has reached such an extent!
As for the recent poems by Metabolism Tiao and Shen Yue, as well as the articles by Ren Fang and Lu Chui, Qian is indeed the crown of poetry and a model for writing.
The poems written by Zhang Shijian and the debates written by Zhou Shengyi also made these two good writers. It is difficult to meet such talented people again.
If the system of rituals and music and the laws of cultural relics have not collapsed, there will definitely be handsome and outstanding talents. As the leader of these talents, who else can you be except my brother?
I often want to discuss these things, but there is no one with whom I can talk. You are Cao Zijian of our family, so I want to discuss it with you.
Distinguish the pure and turbid in the water, making them as clear as the Jing River and the Wei River; comment on the right and wrong in it, just like Xu Shao and Xu Jing Runan commented on the first day of the month.
The ink pen has been written, but the evaluation will be different. Let those who use rats as jade stones know the shame, and let those who use Yu Yu to make up for the numbers know their own shame.
You are like Yuan Shao, who is afraid that his luxurious chariots and horses will be seen by Xu Zijiang; he is also like a cattle rustler who is ashamed that his crime will be known to Wang Lie.
I have missed you for a long time but can’t see you. How can I pass away my sorrow?
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing invaded and captured the capital. When Taizong ascended the throne, he ordered Yu Jianwu to be the Minister of Duzhi.
At that time, all the vassal kings in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River stood firm in their respective prefectures and counties to resist Hou Jing. Hou Jing used the emperor's order to send Yu Jianwu as an envoy to Jiangzhou to persuade Xiao Daxin, Duke of Dangyang, to surrender. Xiao Daxin soon led the state to surrender to Hou Jing, and Yu Jianwu fled into Jianchang. It took a long time for him to rush to Jiangling, but he died soon after.
Yu Jianwu has a collection of essays circulated in the world.
Liu Zhao, whose courtesy name was Xuanqing, was from Gaotang in Pingyuan. He was the ninth generation descendant of Liu Ding, the Taiwei of Jin Dynasty.
His grandfather Liu Bolong was famous for his filial piety during the funeral for his father. Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty ordered the crown prince and other kings to go to his home to express condolences. Liu Bolong's official position was promoted to the rank of minister of government.
Liu Zhao's father, Liu Biao, was in charge of the Imperial Records of Jin'an during the Qi Dynasty.
Liu Zhao was smart and alert since he was a child. He could understand the meaning of "Lao Han" and "Zhuangzi" at the age of seven.
When he grew up, he studied more diligently and was good at writing articles. His cousin Jiang Yan appreciated him and praised him very early.
In the early years of Tianjian, Liu Zhaochu became an official and was invited by the court. After his meritorious service, he was promoted to the north and joined the army.
He successively served as the Prince of Yuzhang, Xuanhui, and the Prince of Linchuan, Zhongjun.
At first, Liu Zhao's uncle Liu Wei collected the "Books of Jin" from various schools to annotate Qian Shi's "Ji Ji", a total of forty volumes. By the time of the Han Dynasty, Liu Zhao also collected the differences in the "Books of Hou Mo" from various schools to annotate Fan Ye's "Book of Hou Mo". People at that time called the Japanese annotations extensive and comprehensive.
Liu Zhao moved to the post of Tongzhilang and left the capital to serve as Liu Ling. He died during his tenure.
Liu Zhao wrote 180 volumes of "Collected Comments on Houmo", 10 volumes of "Biography of Young Children", and 10 volumes of Collected Works.
Liu Sui, the son of Liu Zhao, was well-spoken and fond of learning, and was proficient in the "Three Rites".
During the Datong period, Liu Juan was appointed minister of the Shangshu Temple, but soon resigned and no longer served as an official.
Liu Sui's younger brother, Liu Sui, also known as Handu, has been famous since he was a child.
He once served as the royal secretary of Xiangdong in Anxi. At that time, there were many literary people gathered in the Xifu, among whom Liu Sui was at the top.
Liu Sui was dismissed and granted the title of Tongzhilang. Soon he moved to Zhennan and was appointed as the official recorder of the affairs of the King of Eastern Hunan Province. He also came with the government and died in Jiangzhou.
He Xun, courtesy name Zhongyan, was born in Tan County, Donghai.
His great-grandfather He Chengtian was the censor Zhongcheng during the Song Dynasty.
Grandfather He Yi was appointed Yuanwailang.
His father, He Xun, served as a lieutenant in the Qi Dynasty and joined the army.
He Xun could compose poems at the age of eight, and was elected as a scholar by the state at the age of 20. Fan Yun of Nanxiang saw the strategies written by He Xun and greatly appreciated them, so he and He Xun formed a lifelong friendship.
From then on, Fan Yun praised every article and poem written by He Xun after seeing it. Fan Yun said to those close to him: Looking at the poems and essays of these literati recently, the simple ones are like Confucian scholars preaching scriptures, and the extravagant ones are a bit immoral. The ability to contain the aura of heaven and earth and include the principles of modern and ancient times can only be seen in He Sheng's poems.
Shen Yue also liked He Xun's poems. He once said to He Xun: Every time I read your poems, I repeat them many times a day, and I still can't get enough of them.
He Xun was praised by celebrities to such an extent.
During the Tianjian period, He Xun took up an official position at home and was invited by the court to move to the Zhongwei Jian'an Wangshui Cao Xing to join the army and also serve as the recorder's office.
King Jian'an loved literary scholars and entertained and feasted with them every day. King Jian'an moved to Jiangzhou, and He Xun was still the secretary in charge.
He Xun returned to the capital and served as King Cheng of Anxi to join the military affairs and serve as Minister of the Ministry of Water. He resigned because of his mother's mourning.
When the mourning period expired, He Xun was dismissed and granted the title of Renwei Luling Prince Ji. He then followed the royal family to Jiangzhou, where he died not long after.
Wang Sengru of the East China Sea collected He Xun's poems and essays into eight volumes.
At the beginning, both He Xun's poems and Liu Xiaochuo's poems were valued by the world, and the world called them "He Liu".
Shizu wrote an article commenting on He Xun, saying: Shen Yue is the one who has many poems but shows his talent; Xie Tiao and He Xun are the ones who show his talent with few poems.
At that time, there was Yu Qian in Kuaiji, who was good at writing five-character poems. His reputation was equal to that of He Xun, and his official position was that of the minister of the kingdom.
Later, there were Kong Wenggui from Kuaiji and Jiangbi from Jiyang, both of whom served as the secretary of the Grand Sima Mansion of Nanping King.
Kong Wenggui was also good at poetry. Jiang Bi was erudite and talented in reasoning. He also wrote annotations for the Analects and the Classic of Filial Piety.
Both men have collected works.
Zhong Rong, whose courtesy name was Zhongwei, was from Changshe, Yingchuan. He was the seventh generation descendant of Zhong Bi, a minister of Jin Dynasty.
His father, Zhong Chu, served in the Zhongjun Army during the Qi Dynasty.
Zhong Rong, his elder brother Zhong Xian and his younger brother Zhong Yu are all very studious, good at thinking and discerning.
Zhong Rong was born in the reign of Emperor Yongming of Qi Dynasty, and he was proficient in "Book of Changes". General Wang Jian of the Wei Army led the Emperor to offer wine to him. He admired Zhong Rong very much and highly recommended him.
Zhong Rong was promoted as a scholar of the state.
He first became an official and served as the minister of the kingdom, moved to Fujunxing to join the army, and left the capital to serve as the order of Anguo.
In the last years of Yongyuan, Zhong Rong was dismissed and allowed Situ Xing to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, although the etiquette and regulations were changed, things were busy and there was no time to spare. Zhong Rong wrote a letter and said: The cause of the chaos in the Yongyuan period was the arbitrary treatment of the imperial titles. Honors were not obtained by participating in wars, but officials were obtained by bribery.
By squandering gold and silver, one can obtain the rank of Jiuqing, by relying on letters of request, one can join the ranks of military officers, the streets will be full of riding captains, and the streets will be full of lieutenants.
Wearing the attire of an official, he still works as a slave; although his position is such as Huangmen, Sanqi, etc., he still personally undertakes the errands of the government officials.
There is no greater confusion between name and reality than sending.
I think that if an officer is a member of the noble family for generations, his family has its own reputation. If he only relies on this to obtain the title, then all of them should be eliminated, so as to serve as a warning to those who are greedy for profit and salary.
If they come from a family of officials and have a humble background, they should be allowed to work hard in their official career according to their family background, and they should not be given military positions in vain, causing the proliferation of noble positions.
If northerners living abroad are employed, they should be given extra care and comfort, but their salaries should be strictly controlled and they are not allowed to interfere with government affairs. They are only granted false posts.
I just try my best and show my loyalty, regardless of the opinions of others.
Emperor Gaozu ordered that the letter of deportation be handed over to the Minister of Finance for execution.
Zhong Zhu moved to the army and joined the army.
Fu Jiulu Wuyan left the capital and took up a post in Heshan, and promoted Zhong Li to Ning Shuo's Ji Office, where he was responsible for documents.
At that time, the layman He Yin was building a stone chamber in Ruoxie Mountain. A flash flood broke out and washed away the stones and trees. Only He Yin's stone chamber was not washed away. Xiao Yuanjian ordered Zhong Rong to write "Ode to the Ruoshi" to commend and publicize the event. The diction was very elegant and gorgeous. Zhong Rong was also selected to be awarded the title of "Xizhonglang" and "Jin'an Wangji".
Zhong Rong once reviewed ancient and modern five-character poems and commented on their merits and demerits, which he named "Poetry Criticism".
The preface of "Poetry Review" says: The change of solar terms makes all things sprout, and the changes and rises and declines of all things make people feel.
So there is a surge of emotion, and this emotion is expressed in singing and dancing. If you want to use it to illuminate the three talents of heaven and earth, reflect all things in the world, summon the gods to enjoy the sacrifices, tell the heavens about the subtleties of the world, alarm the heaven and earth, and influence the ghosts and gods, there is nothing more effective than poetry.
In the past, the lyrics of "South Wind" and the hymn of "Qing Yun" during the reign of Yu and Shun had far-reaching meanings.
"Summer Song" says that "the heart is full of joy", and Chu Di Ge flatters that "the name is more than just rules". Although the poems as a whole are not complete enough, they can generally be regarded as the origin of five-character poetry.
It was not until Li Ling of the Mo Dynasty that he created the name of five-character poetry.
The era of ancient poems is so long ago that it is difficult to clearly examine their author and writing time. However, judging from its content and style, it should be a work of Modai, not a work of the weekend decline period.
Since Wang Bao, Yang Xiong, Mei Cheng, Sima Xiangru and others, they have all competed in the creation of poems and poems, each showing his or her own talents, but poetry recitation has never been heard of. From Li Ling and Li Duwei to Ban Jieyu, in nearly a hundred years, although there were women among them, there was only one person.
The trend of poetry writing suddenly stopped.
In the two hundred years of the Later Han Dynasty, there were only Ban Gu's "Ode to History" poems, which were simple and without literary talent.
During the Jian'an period, Cao Cao and his son loved literature; Cao Zhi's brothers, with their prolific works, were actually pillars of the literary world; Liu Zhen and Wang Can grew in power around them.
There are also nearly a hundred people who follow them voluntarily.
The grand occasion of abundant talents can be regarded as appearing in this era.
After the Rebellion, the literary world gradually declined until the Jin Dynasty.
During the Taikang period, Zhang Zai, Zhang Xie, Zhang Hua, Lu Ji, Lu Yun, Pan Yue, Pan Ni, and Zuo Si all rose up, revived the literary world, followed Cao and his son, and inherited the lingering charm of the Jian'an period. Qian was also the period of the resurgence of five-character poetry.
In the Yongjia era, the theories of Huang and Lao were valued and the style of metaphysical poetry was advocated. The poetry works of this period focused on metaphysical reasoning rather than content and literary talent, making them boring to read.
As for when the Jin Dynasty moved south, the aftermath of this trend still spread. The works of Sun Chuo, Xu Xun, Huan Wei, Yu You and others were all simple and flat, like "On Moral Theory", and the Jian'an style was completely lost.
Before this, Guo Jingchun relied on his outstanding talent to innovate the poetry style; Liu Yueshi relied on his pure and vigorous style to contribute to the fire.
But there are many conservatives and few revolutionaries, so they are unable to influence the trend of the literary world.
In the Yixi period, Xie Yishou followed with his works of outstanding literary talent; in the early Yuanjia period, Xie Lingyun appeared. He had superb poetic talent, rich creations, and rich and gorgeous diction. No one could compare with him. He had actually surpassed Liu Yueshi and Guo Jingchun, and overwhelmed Pan Yue and Zuo Si.
It can be seen from this that Chen Si Wang Cao Zhi was an outstanding talent in the Jian'an period, and Liu Gongqian and Wang Zhongxuan strengthened his momentum; Lu Ji was an elite in the Taikang period, with Pan Anren and Zhang Jingyang as his right and left arms; Xie Lingyun was a talented person in the Yuanjia period, and Yan Yannian was his assistant. These people are all leading figures in five-character poetry, and they are outstanding talents whose works have become famous.
When it comes to four-character poems, the words are simple but profound. If you can imitate the "Book of Songs" and Chu Ci, you can gain a lot. However, the words are often cumbersome and the content of expression is very thin, so there are very few people in the world who go to school to write four-character poems.
Five-character poetry occupies a key position in poetry and is the most interesting among various genres. Isn't it because it meets the requirements of ordinary people because it is the most detailed and appropriate genre in describing situations, expressing emotions, and depicting things?
Therefore, "Shi" has six meanings, the first of which is Xing, the second is Fu, and the third is Bi.
When the words are finished but the meaning is not fulfilled, it is Xing; to use other things to express one's thoughts is Bi; to describe things directly and use words to describe the situation of things is Fu.
Promote the three expression techniques of "Poetry", use them according to the situation, use style to enhance the content of the poem, and use literary grace to embellish the diction of the poem, so that those who taste the poem will feel that it is endless, and those who hear the poem will be emotionally moved. This is a superior work of poetry.
If you only use analogy and euphemism, the problem is that the meaning is too profound. The profound meaning will make people feel that the diction is difficult.
If only Fu is used, then the problem is that the meaning is simple. If the meaning is simple, the diction will appear loose, so it will be slick and out of control, showing the problem of chaos.
As for the spring breeze and spring birds, the autumn moon and autumn cicadas, the summer clouds and hot rain, and the midwinter cold, these are the changes in the four seasons that make people feel and write them in poems.
Poems are used to express friendship during festive events, and poems are used to express sorrow and resentment when parting with friends.
As for the Chu minister Qu Yuan who was exiled, and the Han concubine Zhaojun who left the palace, some people's corpses lay outside the fortress, some people's souls flew into the air, some carried troops to guard the border, and some were powerful in the frontier fortress. The wanderers in the frontier fortress were cold and naked, and the women in the boudoir shed tears for their loved ones.
There were also scholars who resigned from their posts and went out to court, never to return; beautiful women entered the palace and were favored, captivating the city and the country.
All these situations arouse people's hearts. How can we express our thoughts without chanting poetry, and how can we express our feelings without chanting loudly? Therefore, "Poetry" can communicate everyone's emotions and express sorrow and sorrow.
To bring stability to people who are in embarrassment and poverty, and to make people who live in solitude and seclusion feel less bored, nothing can play this role better than poetry.
Therefore, there is no one among the literati who does not like poetry.
Nowadays, this kind of love for poetry is even more popular among scholars and common people.
Children who have just learned to dress and walk, children who have just entered school will definitely talk about it and gallop in the field of poetry.
Therefore, mediocre works and chaotic sentences all appear as poetic schools.
As for the rich children, they feel ashamed that their poems are not as good as others. They revise them all day long and chant them day and night. In their own eyes, they think they are refined and appropriate warning sentences, but in everyone's eyes, they are just shallow, clumsy and mediocre works.
There were even some frivolous and arrogant people who ridiculed Jian Zhi and Liu Zhen for their old-fashioned and poor poetry. They believed that Bao Zhao was a quiet and leisurely Emperor Xi, and that Xie Tiao was unparalleled in ancient and modern times. However, they could not catch up with the sentence "The market in Japan is full of people in the middle of the day" after imitating Bao Zhao, and they only learned sentences such as "The yellow bird crosses the green branches" after learning from Xie Tiao.
These people just abandon their brilliant opinions and cannot enter the field of literature.
I see those princes, nobles, scholar-bureaucrats, and the like, who often use poetry as an excuse to talk about politics, follow their own wishes, put forward different opinions, confuse things of completely different natures, reverse the positions of evil and good, and argue endlessly without accurate standards.
Recently, Pengcheng Xingtong was a scholar who was proficient in appreciation. He was dissatisfied with the chaotic situation and wanted to write a contemporary poem. He only criticized it verbally, but failed to write it down. I was influenced by him and wrote a "Poetry Review".
In the past, there was a method of classifying commentators into nine grades, and the "Qilue" also judged the grade of scholars. However, there are many inappropriate places in comparing their ranking with the actual situation. As for poetry writing skills, you can clearly know the pros and cons by comparing them. Using similar things to illustrate them is probably similar to playing chess.
The current emperor, with his innate talents and ability to understand profound and subtle emotions, his writings can shine like the sun and the moon, and his knowledge can understand the principles of humanity and nature. In the past, before he ascended the throne, he was already known as the leader in the literary world. , not to mention that now that the world has been unified, talented people have risen up and gathered one after another, and handsome people holding jade and pearls have emerged one after another. They have already looked down on Han and Wei, and no longer take them seriously; they have swallowed up Jin and Song, and feel they are one step ahead.
Such a grand occasion is indeed not based on folk songs and street talk, so we dare to differentiate.
The words I have collected now can probably only be circulated in the streets and alleys of the countryside, and are equivalent to gossip and jokes.
Soon, Zhong Rong died during his tenure.
Zhong Yan's courtesy name was Changyue, and he was promoted to the government to join the army and Jiankangping.
He is the author of ten volumes of "Biography of Good Officials".
Zhongyu, whose courtesy name was Ji Wang, was appointed as the county magistrate of Yongjia County.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu ordered his bachelor to compile "Qilue", and Zhong Yu also participated in the compilation.
Both brothers have anthologies.
Zhou Xingsi, also known as Si Zuan, was a native of Xiang County, Chen County. He was a descendant of Zhou Kan, the prince of Mo.
His great-great-grandfather Zhou Ning served as a member of the army in Zhengxi Prefecture and the governor of Yidu during the Jin Dynasty.
Zhou Xingsi lived in Gushe for generations.
When he was thirteen years old, he went to the capital to study. He spent more than ten years in total, and eventually read extensively and became proficient in historical books and was good at writing articles.
Zhou Xingsi once traveled from Gushu and stayed in a hotel. Someone said to him at night: Your talents and learning surpass those of contemporary people. You were first appreciated by noble ministers and finally appreciated by the British Lord.
After finishing speaking, the speaker disappeared.
During the Longchang period of Qi Dynasty, Xie Li, the servant, was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing. He only talked about literature and history with Zhou Xingsi.
When Xie Li was relieved of his duties as prefect and returned to the capital, he praised Zhou Xingsi and recommended him.
The state promoted Zhou Xingsi as a scholar, and Zhou Xingsi was dismissed and conferred the title of Cheng Cheng of Guiyang County. The prefect Wang Rong always appreciated him and treated him with great courtesy.
Emperor Gaozu changed his destiny and established the Liang Dynasty. Zhou Xingsi contributed "Xiuping Fu". The writing is beautiful and Gaozu admired it very much.
Zhou Xingsi was worshiped as the Minister of Ancheng Kingdom and went directly to Hualin Province.
That year, Henan presented a dancing horse. Emperor Gaozu went to Shao and Zhou Xingsi, together with Daizhao Daohang and Zhang Shu, wrote a poem praising the event. After the three of them finished the manuscript, Emperor Gaozu thought Zhou Xingsi's poem was the most exquisite.
Zhou Xingsi was promoted to the rank of Minister of Sanqi, and was promoted to Wende and Shouguang provinces.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu renovated his old residence in Sanqiao into Guangzhai Temple, and ordered Zhou Xingtu and Lu Ren to write the temple's inscriptions respectively. After writing, the two of them presented it to Emperor Gaozu together, and Emperor Gaozu chose the inscription written by Zhou Xingsi.
From then on, Zhou Xingsi was ordered to write the "Bronze Biao Inscription", "Gate Tang Jie", "Northern Expedition", and "Ci Yun Wang Xi's Book of Thousand Characters". Every time after writing and submitting it, Emperor Gaozu praised the beauty of the words and gave him gold and silk.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, Zhou Xingsi was dismissed and awarded the title of Cheng of Xin'an County. When his term of office expired, he was appointed as a minister of Sanqi and assisted in writing the history of the country.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, Zhou Xingsi moved to Shizhong, but his position of assisting in writing national history remained unchanged.
Zhou Xingsi's hands were originally suffering from rheumatism, but he contracted the epidemic again this year, and his left eye became blind. Emperor Gaozu clapped his hands and sighed: "What a good person to suffer from such a disease!"
He personally copied out the medicine for treating gangrene one by one and gave it to Zhou Xingsi.
He was valued to this extent by Gaozu.
Ren Fang also liked Zhou Xingsi's talents very much and often said: If Zhou Xingsi is not ill, he will be promoted to Yushi Zhongcheng within ten days.
In the fourteenth year of Tianjian, Zhou Xingsi was dismissed and granted the title of Linchuan County Magistrate.
In the 17th year of Tianjian, he was appointed to Shizhong and headed to the Western Province.
Zuo Wei led Zhou She to write annotations for the poems written by Emperor Gaozu, and Zhou She asked Zhou Xingsi to help him.
In ordinary two years, Zhou Xingsi passed away.
He wrote more than 100 volumes of "Records of the Emperor", "Records of the Emperor's Virtues", "Notes on Daily Life", and "Professional Etiquette", and has ten volumes of collected works.
Wu Jun, whose courtesy name is Shuxiang, was born in Guzhang, Wuxing.
His family has been poor for generations, but Wu Jun is eager to learn and has outstanding talents. Shen Yue once saw Wu Jun's articles, appreciated them very much, and praised them greatly.
In the early years of Tianjian, Liu Pan was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing, and he called Wu Jun to take over the post of chief registrar. He asked Wu Jun to compose poems with him every day.
Wu Jun's writing style is elegant and refined, with the temperament of the ancients. Some people like his style and imitate him, which is called Wu Jun style.
Xiao Wei, the king of Jian'an, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou and promoted Wu Jun to serve as a clerk in the record office and to be in charge of clerical matters.
King Jian'an moved to be the governor of Jiangzhou, and Wu Jun was appointed as the Minister of State and concurrently as the governor of the city.
After Wu Jun returned to the capital, he was dismissed and granted the title of "Feng Chao".
Prior to this, Wu Jun petitioned to compile "Qi Chunqiu", which he later submitted to Gaozu. Gaozu believed that the book he wrote was not consistent with reality, so he sent Liu Zhilin, a member of the Zhongshushe, to question Wu Jun about several records in the book. Wu Jun was confused and unable to answer correctly. Gaozu ordered the book to be handed over to the Shangshu Province for burning, and Wu Jun was dismissed from his post.
Not long after, Emperor Gaozu issued an order to summon Wu Jun and sent him to write the "General History", which began with the Three Emperors and ended with the Qi Dynasty. Wu Jun drafted this chronicle and the family was completed, but only the biographies were not completed.
In the first year of ordinary life, Xian Jun died at the age of fifty-two.
Fan Ye wrote ninety volumes of Hou Mo Shu, thirty volumes of Qi Chun Qiu, ten volumes of Temple Records, sixteen volumes of Twelve States, five volumes of Biography of the Sages of Qian and Tang Dynasties, five volumes of Su Wen Shi, and twenty volumes of collected works.
Before this, there were Gao Shuang in Guangling, Jiang Hong in Jiyang, and Yu Qian in Kuaiji, all of whom were good at writing articles.
During the Yongming period of Qi Dynasty, Gao Shuang presented poems to General Wang Jian of the Wei Army, which was appreciated by Wang Jian. When Wang Jian took charge of Danyang Yin, he recommended Gao Shuang as Xiaolian of the county.
In the early years of Tianjian, Gao Shuang successively served as the Linchuan King of the Chinese Army and joined the army.
He came out of Beijing and served as the magistrate of Jinling. He was imprisoned in Yezhong because of his guilt. He wrote "Ode on Wok Fish" to express his feelings. The text of the poem was very exquisite. Later, he was pardoned and Gao Shuang was released. He died soon after.
Jiang Hong was appointed to the Jianyang Order and died because of his guilt.
Yu Qian was promoted to the rank of Minister of the Kingdom.
They all have anthologies.
