Since ancient times, the founding emperors who were appointed by heaven and the monarchs who inherited the orthodox and abided by the laws of the late emperors were not only intrinsically noble in character, but also mostly had the help of their relatives.
The rise of the Xia Dynasty was due to the daughter of the Tushan family, and Xia Jie's exile was also related to Moxi.
The rise of the Yin Dynasty also relied on the Nu family, and the murder of King Zhou of Shang was also related to his favoring Daji.
The rise of the Zhou Dynasty also relied on Jiang Yuan and Tai Ren, and the capture of King You was also related to his fornication with Bao Si.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" is based on the two hexagrams "Qian" and "Kun", the "Book of Songs" begins with "Guan Ju", the "Shang Shu" praises Yao for marrying his daughter to Shun, and the "Spring and Autumn" ridicules those who marry their wives without going to meet them in person.
The relationship between husband and wife is the most important ethical relationship in human nature.
In the application of etiquette, only marriage is the most cautious.
When music harmonizes the four seasons, it becomes harmonious. The changes of yin and yang are the rulers of the growth and change of all things. How can we not be cautious?
People can promote human relations, but they can do nothing about destiny.
Indeed, a king cannot get the love of his spouse from his ministers, nor can a father get it from his son, let alone those of low status!
After couples get together, some are unable to produce children and grandchildren; after they are able to produce children, some cannot find a good home.
Isn't this destiny?
Confucius rarely talked about the destiny of heaven, probably because it was difficult to explain clearly.
If we cannot understand the changes of yin and yang, how can we understand the principles of human nature and destiny?
Tai Shigong said: The situation before Qin was too ancient, and the details could not be recorded.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Lu Ehuang became the empress of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and her son was the prince.
In her later years, her appearance deteriorated and she fell out of favor. As Mrs. Qi gained favor, her son Ruyi almost replaced the prince several times.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Lu executed the Qi family and killed King Zhao Ruyi. However, the concubines in Emperor Gaozu's harem could only be safe if they were not favored and alienated.
Empress Lu's eldest daughter was the wife of Zhang Ao, the Marquis of Xuanping, and Zhang Ao's daughter was the queen of Emperor Hui.
Because of their close relationship, Empress Dowager Lu tried every means to try to get her to have a child, but she never had a child. She had to bring someone else's son from the harem and falsely claimed it was her son.
After the death of Emperor Xiaohui, the world had just stabilized and the person who would succeed the throne was not yet clear.
So he raised the status of his relatives, made the Lu brothers kings as assistants, and made Lu Lu's daughter the queen of the young emperor, hoping to make the foundation stronger, but it was of no use.
Empress Lu died and was buried in Changling with Gaozu.
Lu Lu, Lu Chan and others were afraid of being killed, so they plotted to cause trouble.
The ministers conquered them, and heaven guided the Han family's imperial line, and finally eliminated the Lu family.
Only Queen Xiaohui was placed in the North Palace.
The minister ushered the king into the throne, who was Emperor Xiaowen, and he enshrined the ancestral temple of the Han family.
Isn't this destiny?
If it were not destiny, who could take on this important task?
Empress Dowager Bo, whose father was a Wu man and whose surname was Bo, had an affair with Wei Wei, a woman from the original Wei king's clan during the Qin Dynasty, and gave birth to Bo Ji. Bo Ji's father died in Shanin and was buried there.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wei Bao proclaimed himself King of Wei, and Wei sent her daughter to the palace of the King of Wei.
Wei Lao went to Xu Fu's place to see her fortune teller and asked him to see Bo Ji. Xu Fu said that she would definitely be able to give birth to the emperor.
At that time, Xiang Yu and Liu Bang, the king of Han, were fighting over the world in Xingyang, and it was not yet certain who would own the world.
Wei Bao initially joined the King of Han in attacking the King of Chu, but when he heard Xu Negi's words, he felt happy alone, so he betrayed the King of Han, first remaining neutral, and then allied with the King of Chu.
The king of Han sent Cao Shen and others to attack and imprison King Bao of Wei, changed the Gui land he occupied into a county, and sent Bo Ji to Zhizao mansion where criminals were housed.
After the death of King Bao of Wei, the King of Han once entered the Zhizao Mansion and saw Bo Ji's beautiful appearance. He issued an edict to take her into the harem, but she was not favored for more than a year.
When Bo Ji was young, she was very close to Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier. The three of them made a vow: Whoever gets rich first will not forget the others.
Later, Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier were both favored by the King of Han.
One time when the King of Han was sitting on the Chenggao Platform in the Henan Palace, the two beauties laughed at each other as they talked about their vows with Bo Ji.
When the King of Han heard about it, he asked them why, and they both told the King of Han the truth.
The king of Han felt a little sad and felt sorry for Bo Ji, so he summoned her and stayed with her that day.
Bo Ji said: Last night I dreamed of a blue dragon occupying my belly.
Emperor Gaozu said: This is a sign of a noble person. Let me fulfill it for you.
Fortunately, a boy was born, and he became the king.
After that, Bo Ji rarely saw Gaozu.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Dowager Lu was very resentful of the concubines such as Mrs. Qi and others who were favored to serve as Emperor Gaozu's bedtime, so she imprisoned them all and were not allowed to leave the palace.
Because Bo Ji rarely saw Gaozu, she was able to leave the palace and follow her son to the Kingdom of Dai, becoming the Queen Mother of Dai.
The Queen Mother's younger brother Bo Zhao also followed him to Dai.
During the seventeenth year of King Dai's reign, Empress Lu passed away.
The ministers discussed the establishment of a new king. They all hated the powerful power of their relative, the Lu family, and praised Bo's benevolence and kindness. Therefore, they welcomed back the king and established him as Emperor Xiaowen. Empress Dowager Bo changed her title to Empress Dowager, and her younger brother Bo Zhao was named Marquis of Zhi.
Empress Dowager Bo's mother had died before that and was buried in the north of Yueyang.
At this time, Empress Dowager Bo's father was honored as Lingwen Marquis, and a garden of 300 households was set up in Kuaiji County. People below Changcheng were sent to serve and guard the tomb. The sacrifices and ceremonies in the ancestral temple were carried out in accordance with the prescribed etiquette.
There is also a cemetery for Mrs. Lingwenhou in the north of Yueyang. All the etiquette is the same as that at the Lingwenhou Cemetery.
Empress Dowager Bo believed that her mother's family was the descendant of King Wei. Her parents died young, and there were people in the Wei family who served Empress Dowager Bo diligently, so she ordered that the status of the Wei family be restored, and rewards were received according to the degree of closeness.
Only one person in the Bo family was granted the title of Marquis.
Empress Dowager Bo died two years later than Emperor Wen, in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, and was buried in Nanling.
Since Empress Lu was buried with Emperor Gaozu in Changling, she specially built a separate mausoleum for herself, close to Emperor Xiaowen's Ba Mausoleum.
Empress Dowager Dou was a native of Guanjin County, Qinghe County, Zhao State.
During the reign of Queen Mother Lu, Concubine Dou was selected from a good family to serve the Queen Mother in the palace.
Later, the Queen Mother sent the maids out of the palace and gave them to the princes and kings, five for each king. Dou Ji was among these maids.
Dou Ji's family was in Qinghe. Thinking that Zhao State was close to her home, she asked the eunuch in charge of the deportation: "My name must be put on the list of people going to Zhao State."
The eunuch forgot about this and mistakenly put her on the list of people going to Dai.
The roster was read, the edict said it was okay, and it was time to set off.
Dou Ji burst into tears and complained that the eunuch didn't want to go, so he forced her to leave before she was willing to leave.
When he arrived in the Kingdom of Dai, the King of Dai only favored Concubine Dou, and gave birth to a daughter called Prostitute, and later gave birth to two boys.
The queen gave birth to four boys.
The queen died before the king entered the court and became the emperor. When the king became the emperor, the four boys born to the queen also died of illness one after another.
A few months after Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, the ministers requested the establishment of a prince. Dou Ji's eldest son was the oldest and was established as the prince.
Dou Ji was also made the queen, and her daughter Liu Piao was the eldest princess.
The next year, he established his youngest son Liu Wu as the acting king, and soon moved to Liang State. This was King Xiao of Liang.
Queen Dou's parents had died long ago and were buried in Guanjin.
At this time, Empress Dowager Bo issued an edict to relevant officials to honor Empress Dou's father as Marquis Ancheng and his mother as Mrs. Ancheng.
He ordered a garden town of 200 households to be set up in Qinghe, which was served and guarded by the local chief minister. Everything was done in accordance with the practices of Lingwen Garden.
Queen Dou's elder brother is Dou Changjun, and his younger brother is Dou Guangguo, also known as Shaojun.
When Shaojun was four or five years old, his family was poor and he was robbed and sold. His family did not know where he was sold.
He resold a dozen more houses and sold them to Yiyang. He went into the mountain to burn charcoal for his master. At night, more than a hundred people were sleeping under the cliff. The cliff collapsed and crushed all the people sleeping below to death. Only Shaojun escaped and was not crushed to death.
He made his own calculations and concluded that he would be made a marquis within a few days, so he went to Chang'an from his master's house.
I heard that Queen Dou was newly ennobled. Her hometown is Guanjin and her surname is Dou.
Although Guangguo was young when he left home, he still knew the name of the county and his family's surname. He also picked mulberries with his sister and fell from a tree. He used these things as evidence and wrote a letter to state his experience.
Queen Dou told Emperor Wen about this, and Guang Guo was summoned and asked him. He explained the situation in detail, and it was indeed good.
Asked what else he could use to prove it, he replied: When my sister left me to go west, she said goodbye to me in the post dormitory. My sister asked for rice soup to wash my hair and food for me to eat, and then she left.
So Queen Dou held her brother and cried bitterly, with tears streaming down her cheeks.
The attendants on the left and right also fell on the ground and cried, helping the queen to mourn together.
So he was rewarded with a lot of land, houses and money, and the Dou brothers, who had the same ancestor as the queen, were enfeoffed and allowed to move to Chang'an.
Jianghou Zhou Bo, General Guan Ying and others said: We people are not going to die, but our lives hang in the hands of the Dou brothers.
These two people were of humble origins, so they had to choose masters and guests, otherwise they would follow Lu's example and conspire to rebel again.
So he chose an older, virtuous and upright scholar to be with them.
From then on, Dou Changjun and Shaojun became humble and courteous gentlemen, and did not dare to rely on their dignity to be arrogant and arrogant towards others.
Queen Dou fell ill and became blind.
Emperor Wen favored Mrs. Shen and Yin Ji of Handan, but neither of them gave birth to children.
After Emperor Xiaowen died, Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne and granted Guangguo the title of Marquis Zhangwu.
Chang Jun died first, so he named his son Peng Zu the Marquis of Nanpi.
When Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms rebelled, Dou Ying, the son of Queen Mother Dou's party brothers, liked to act chivalrously and led the army to put down the rebellion. He was named Wei Qihou for his military exploits.
A total of three members of the Dou family were granted the title of marquis.
Empress Dowager Dou loved the teachings of Huang Emperor and Lao Tzu. The emperor, the prince and all the children of the Dou family had to read "Huang Emperor" and "Lao Tzu" and respect Huang Lao's scholarship.
Empress Dowager Dou died six years later than Emperor Jing, and she was buried with Emperor Wen in Ba Ling.
He left an edict and gave all the money and property in the East Palace to the eldest princess Liu Piao.
The Queen Mother is from Huaili, and her mother's name is Zang'er.
Zang'er is the granddaughter of Zang Tu, the original king of Yan.
Zang'er first married Wang Zhong of Huaili and gave birth to a son named Xin and two daughters.
Later, Wang Zhong died, and Zang'er remarried to the Tian family in Changling and gave birth to sons Tian Fu and Tian Sheng.
Zang'er's eldest daughter married Jin Wangsun and gave birth to a daughter. Zang'er considered her children a title, and it turned out that her two daughters were both noble people.
So she wanted to rely on her two daughters, so she forcibly took her daughter back from the Jin family's home.
Jin was very angry and refused to break up with his wife, so Zang'er sent his daughter to the prince's womb.
The prince loved her very much and gave birth to three daughters and one son.
When the boy was still pregnant, Beauty Wang dreamed that the sun fell into her arms.
She told the prince about this dream, and the prince said: This is a sign of great wealth.
Emperor Xiaowen died before he was born. After Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne, Mrs. Wang gave birth to the boy.
Previously, Zang'er sent her youngest daughter Erjiao to the palace, and Erjiao gave birth to four boys.
When Emperor Jing was crown prince, Empress Dowager Bo chose a woman from the Bo family to be his concubine.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, this concubine was made Queen Bo.
The queen had no children and was not favored.
As soon as Queen Mother Bo died, Queen Bo was deposed.
Liu Rong, the eldest son of Emperor Jing, and his mother was Li Ji.
Li Ji is from Qi.
Liu Rong was established as the prince.
The eldest princess Liu Piao has a daughter who plans to be the prince's concubine.
Li Ji was jealous, and it was only through the eldest princess that the beauties of Emperor Jing met Emperor Jing. They received more honor and favor than Li Ji. Li Ji was resentful every day, so she declined the eldest princess's request and refused to marry.
The eldest princess wanted to betroth her daughter to Mrs. Wang's son, and Mrs. Wang agreed.
The eldest princess was angry about this incident, so she often spoke ill of Li Ji in front of Emperor Jing: When Li Ji gathered with ladies and concubines, her attendants would often spit and curse behind them, and use evil and deceptive techniques.
Emperor Jing was angry with Li Ji because of this.
Emperor Jing was once in poor health and unhappy, so he entrusted his sons who were crowned kings to Li Ji and said to her: After I die, you must take good care of them.
Li Ji was angry, refused to agree, and spoke rudely.
Emperor Jing was very angry, but his grudge did not break out.
The eldest princess praised the merits of Mrs. Wang's son every day. Emperor Jing also thought that he had both political integrity and talent, and he had the auspicious sign that his mother had fallen in love with him in the dream. However, he still could not decide on the idea of ​​making the prince a prince.
Mrs. Wang knew that Emperor Jing resented Li Ji, so while his anger was still lingering, she secretly sent someone to urge the ministers to petition Li Ji to be the queen.
After a court meeting, the chief executive said: "A son is more valuable than his mother, and a mother is more valuable than his son. Now that the prince's mother has not been given a title, she should be made queen."
Emperor Jing was angry and said: Is this what you should say?
As a result, the official was executed for the crime, the prince was deposed, and he was named King of Linjiang.
Li Ji was even more resentful and could not see Emperor Jing, so she died in depression.
Mrs. Wang was finally made queen, her son was made prince, and the queen's brother Wang Xin was made Gaihou.
Emperor Jing died and the prince succeeded him as emperor.
Zang'er, the empress dowager's mother, was honored as Lord Pingyuan.
Tian Fu was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, and Tian Sheng was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Yang.
Emperor Jing had thirteen sons, one son became emperor, and all twelve sons were crowned kings.
Er Ji died young, and her four sons were all crowned kings.
The Queen Mother's eldest daughter was titled Princess Pingyang, her second daughter was Princess Nangong, and her third daughter was Princess Linli.
Gaihou Wangxin likes drinking.
Tian Fu and Tian Sheng are greedy people and good at using words and arguments.
Wang Zhong died early and was buried in Huaili. He was honored as Gonghou and established a garden of 200 households.
When Lord Pingyuan died, he was buried in Changling together with the Tian family. The cemetery set up had the same specifications as the Gonghou Cemetery.
The Queen Mother died sixteen years later than Emperor Xiao Jing, in the fourth year of Yuanshuo, and was buried with Emperor Jing in Yangling.
A total of three people in the Queen Mother's family were granted the title of marquis.
Queen Wei, also known as Zifu, came from a humble background.
Probably her family was called the Wei family and was within the Pingyang Marquis fiefdom.
Zifu is the singer of Princess Pingyang.
Emperor Wu newly came to the throne and had no sons for several years.
Princess Pingyang selected a dozen girls from good families, dressed them up and stayed at home.
Emperor Wu came back from participating in the ceremony to eliminate disasters and pray for good fortune in Bashang, and stopped by Princess Pingyang's house.
The princess asked all the beauties serving her to come out to see Emperor Wu, but Emperor Wu didn't like it.
After drinking, the singer came in. When Emperor Wu saw her, he only liked Wei Zifu.
On this day, Emperor Wu got up to change his clothes. Zifu served in the emperor's clothes carriage and was honored by his relatives.
Emperor Wu returned to his seat, very happy, and gave Princess Pingyang a thousand catties of gold.
The princess took the opportunity to ask Wei Zifu to be sent to the palace.
After Zifu got in the car, Princess Pingyang stroked her back and said: Let's go, eat well and work hard!
If you are noble, don't forget me.
Zihu had been in the palace for more than a year, but he never received Emperor Wu's favor again.
Emperor Wu singled out the useless palace servants and asked them to leave the palace and go home.
Wei Zifu was then able to see Emperor Wu, and she cried and asked to leave the palace.
The emperor loved her and favored her again, so she became pregnant and became more respected and favored day by day.
Emperor Wu summoned her elder brother Wei Changjun and younger brother Wei Qing to serve as ministers.
Later, Zifu became very favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to three daughters and one son. The son's name was Zhu.
When Emperor Wu was still the crown prince, he married the eldest princess's daughter as his concubine. When he ascended the throne as emperor, the concubine was made empress, with the surname Chen, and she had no children.
The emperor can inherit the throne, and the eldest princess has contributed a lot, so Queen Chen is arrogant and arrogant.
Hearing that Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu, he was very angry and sought death many times.
The emperor also became even more angry.
Empress Chen used women's witchcraft to deceive people. Emperor Wu was quite aware of this, so he deposed Empress Chen and made Wei Zifu the empress.
Empress Chen's mother, Princess Dachang, was the sister of Emperor Jing. She repeatedly reproached Emperor Wu's sister, Princess Pingyang, saying: The emperor could not ascend the throne without me. After he ascended the throne, he actually abandoned my daughter. Why don't you feel lucky and forget your duty?
Princess Pingyang said: It was because he had no sons that he was abandoned.
Empress Chen was eager to have a child and spent as much as 90 million on medical expenses, but she was unable to have a child.
When Wei Zifu was made queen, Wei Changjun was already dead, so Emperor Wu appointed Wei Qing as general. Wei Qing made Wei Qing the Marquis of Changping because of his military exploits against the Hu people.
His three sons were still in their infancy, and they were all named princes.
Empress Wei had an older sister, Wei Shaoer, and her son Huo Qubing was named a champion marquis because of his military exploits, and was known as the Cavalry General.
Wei Qing is known as the general.
Empress Wei's son Liu Zheng was made the crown prince.
The Wei family's relatives started their careers with military exploits, and five of them were granted the title of marquis.
When Queen Wei's beauty grew old, Mrs. Wang of Zhao was favored, had a son, and was named King of Qi.
Mrs. Wang died young.
Mrs. Li of Zhongshan was favored and gave birth to a son, who was named King of Changyi.
Mrs. Li died young, and her brother Li Yannian was favored because of his proficiency in music and was named a co-regulator.
The so-called Xielu refers to the former singing and dancing artists.
Their brothers were all exterminated for committing adultery in the harem.
At that time, her eldest brother Li Guangli was the general of the Second Division and was conquering Dayuan. He was not killed. When he returned to Chang'an, the emperor had already killed the Li family. Later, he showed mercy to his family and named him Marquis of Haixi.
The other imperial concubines also have two sons, King Yan and King Guangling.
Their mother was unloved and died of sorrow.
After Mrs. Li's death, Yin Jie and others were alternately favored. However, they all met Emperor Wu as singing girls. They were not women from princely families with fiefdoms and should not be matched with the emperor.
Mr. Chu said: When I was appointed Langguan, I asked Zhong Lisheng, who was familiar with the old affairs of the Han family.
According to him, the Queen Mother gave birth to a daughter when she was among the people, and her father was the grandson of King Jin.
Wang Sun was dead. After Emperor Jing's death, Emperor Wu came to the throne. Only the Queen Mother was still there.
Han Wang's grandson named Yan was usually favored by Emperor Wu. He took the opportunity to talk about the Queen Mother having a daughter in Changling.
Emperor Wu said: Why didn't you tell me earlier?
So I sent someone to take a look first, and she was indeed at home.
Emperor Wu went to meet her in person.
The road was cleared and no movement allowed, the cavalry that led the guard came out of the Hengcheng Gate, and Emperor Wu's chariot sped to Changling.
Entering the inner alley on the west side of the small market, the inner door was closed. Open the door forcefully. Emperor Wu's car entered the inner alley and stopped outside the Jin family's gate. He immediately sent armed cavalry to surround the house to prevent her from escaping and not being able to pick her up even if she came in person.
Then he sent his ministers on the left and right to search for him.
Everyone in the Jin family was frightened, and Jin girl hid under the bed in the inner room.
After finding her, the entourage helped her out and asked her to meet the emperor.
Emperor Wu got out of the car and cried: Ouch!
My eldest sister, why are you hiding so deeply?
He ordered the passenger car to pick her up, turned around and drove back to the city, straight into Changle Palace.
On the way, Emperor Wu ordered the people guarding the palace gate to inform the Queen Mother of his name, and he would go to see the Queen Mother as soon as the car arrived.
The Queen Mother said: Your Majesty is tired, where did you come from?
Emperor Wu said: Today I found my sister in Changling and came with her.
He turned back to his sister and said: Meet the Queen Mother!
The Queen Mother said: Is this my daughter?
Answered: Yes.
The Queen Mother burst into tears, and her daughter also fell to the ground and cried.
Emperor Wu came to congratulate the Queen Mother and his sister with wine in his hands. He gave 10 million yuan, 300 slaves, 100 hectares of land, and a high-class mansion to his sister.
The Queen Mother thanked her and said, "It's a waste of time for the Emperor."
So Princess Pingyang, Princess Nangong and Princess Linli were summoned to pay homage to her sister, and she was given the title Xiuchengjun.
She has a son and a daughter.
The son's name was Xiucheng Zizhong, and his daughter became the queen of the princes and kings.
These two children were not from the Liu family, so the Queen Mother loved them.
Xiuchengzi Zhong was arrogant and indulgent, and often bullied and oppressed officials and people. People were worried about this.
After Wei Zifu was established as queen, her younger brother Wei Qing, named Zhongqing, was granted the title of Marquis of Changping with the position of general.
He has four sons. The eldest son, Mr. Wei, is the prince who is preparing to inherit the title. He once served as the emperor's attendant, and his status is noble and very popular.
The three younger brothers of Mr. and Mrs. Wei were all granted the title of marquis, and each was given a land of 1,300 households. One was named the Marquis of Yin'an, the other was the Marquis of Fagan, and the other was the Marquis of Yichun. Their wealth shocked the world.
There is such a ballad circulating in the world: Don't be too happy when giving birth to a child, don't show your anger when giving birth to a girl, haven't you seen Wei Zifu dominate the world!
At that time, Princess Pingyang was a widow and she should choose a prince to be her husband.
The princess and her attendants discussed who among the princes in Chang'an City could be her husband, and they all said that General Wei Qing could be her husband.
The princess smiled and said: "He is a man who leaves my house. I often let him follow me on horseback. How can I let him be my husband?"
The attendants said: Now the general's sister is the queen, her three sons have all been ennobled, and her wealth has shocked the world. Why does the princess underestimate her?
So the princess agreed.
He told the queen about this, and the queen reported it to Emperor Wu, who ordered General Wei to be the husband of Princess Pingyang.
Mr. Chu said: A husband can change endlessly like a dragon.
The biography says: If a snake becomes a dragon, it will not change its pattern; if a home becomes a country, it will not change its surname.
When a husband is rich, all his stains can be covered up and eliminated, leaving only the glory and glory. How can the things that happened when he was poor and lowly affect him?
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he doted on his wife Yin Jieyu.
Mrs. Xing's official name is Ao'e, and people call her Aohe.
Aohe's rank is equivalent to an official with a salary of two thousand dan, Ronghua's rank is equivalent to that of a prince, and Jieyu's status is equivalent to that of a prince.
Someone was once promoted from Jieyu to queen.
Mrs. Yin and Mrs. Xing were favored at the same time, but Emperor Wu ordered them not to meet each other.
Once Mrs. Yin personally requested Emperor Wu to see Mrs. Xing, and Emperor Wu agreed.
He asked another lady to dress up, followed by dozens of attendants, pretending to be Mrs. Xing and came in front of her.
Mrs. Yin walked up to her and said, "This is not Mrs. Xing."
Emperor Wu said: Why do you say this?
Mrs. Yin replied: Judging from her figure, appearance and posture, she is not good enough to match the emperor.
So Emperor Wu ordered Mrs. Xing to put on old clothes and come alone.
Mrs. Yin saw her from a distance and said: This is true.
So she lowered her head and cried, feeling sad that she was not as good as Mrs. Xing.
The proverb says: Once a beautiful woman enters the house, she becomes the enemy of the ugly woman.
Mr. Chu said: Bathing does not have to go to the rivers and seas, the main thing is to remove dirt; riding a horse does not have to be a famous horse, the main thing is to be good at running; scholars do not have to be better than ordinary people in the world, the main thing is to understand the truth; women do not have to be of noble birth, the main thing is to be chaste and beautiful.
The biography says: No matter how beautiful or ugly a woman is, she will be jealous as soon as she enters the family; whether a scholar is virtuous or not, he will be jealous as soon as he enters the court.
Beautiful women are the enemies of ugly women, isn’t it right?
Mrs. Gou Yi, surnamed Zhao, was from Hejian.
He was favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to a son, Emperor Zhao.
Emperor Zhao was born when Emperor Wu was seventy years old.
Emperor Zhao was just five years old when he came to the throne.
After Prince Wei was deposed, there was no new crown prince.
And King Liu Dan of Yan wrote a letter, willing to return to the capital and join the palace as a guard.
Emperor Wu was very angry and immediately beheaded the envoy of King Yan in Beique.
The emperor lived in Ganquan Palace and called a painter to draw a picture of Zhou Gong carrying the king on his back.
So the officials knew that Emperor Wu wanted to make his youngest son the prince.
A few days later, Emperor Wu condemned Mrs. Gou Yi.
The lady took off her hairpin and earrings and kowtowed to apologize.
Emperor Wu said: Take her away and send her to Yeting Prison!
The lady looked back and saw Emperor Wu saying: "Go quickly, you can't live!"
The lady died in Yunyang Palace.
When he died, a storm blew up the dust, and the people were very sad.
The messenger took the coffin to the burial site at night and marked the burial place.
Afterwards, Emperor Wu asked around him in his spare time: "What do people say about this matter?"
The left and right replied: People say that since her son is to be established, why do they need to get rid of his mother? Emperor Wu said: Yes.
This is beyond the understanding of children and fools.
In the past, the reason why the country was in trouble was because the monarch was young and his mother was in her prime.
When a woman lives alone, she will become arrogant, arrogant and indulgent, and no one can stop her.
Haven't you heard about Queen Lu?
Therefore, all the mothers who gave birth to children for Emperor Wu, whether male or female, were not condemned and executed. Can we say that they are not sages?
Such a clear vision and careful consideration for future generations are not within the reach of those ignorant and ignorant Confucians.
The posthumous title is Wu. Is it a false name?
