Han Xin was born in Huaiyin County.
The family is poor and has no good character. He cannot be elected to be an official, and he cannot do business to make a living. He often lives in other people's homes and eats nothing.
His mother passed away and was too poor to bury her, so he found a high, dry place with spacious surroundings as a cemetery so that tens of thousands of families could be placed next to the grave in the future.
Han Xin once went to the countryside to eat at the pavilion chief's house in Nanchang. The pavilion chief's wife hated him so much that she got up very early to prepare the meal and put it on the bed to eat.
When it was breakfast time, Han Xin went and no meal was prepared for him.
Han Xin understood her intention and left her, never to interact with her again.
Han Xin once went fishing in the city. An old woman was rinsing silk cotton wool. She took pity on him and gave him food. This continued for dozens of days until the rinsing was completed.
Han Xin said gratefully to his old mother: I will definitely repay you heavily in the future.
The old man was very angry after hearing this and said, "You are a man and can't support yourself. I gave you food out of pity for you, a young man. Do I want you to repay me?"
A young man in Huaiyin City bullied Han Xin and said: Although you are tall and like to wear swords, you are actually very timid.
He insulted Han Xin in public and said: If you are not afraid of death, stab me with a sword; if you are afraid of death, get under my crotch.
So Han Xin stared at the young man carefully, then bent down and crawled under his crotch.
People watching the excitement on the street laughed at Han Xin and thought he was cowardly.
When Xiang Liang led his army across the Huai River to the north, Han Xin took his sword and went to him, and became an unknown soldier under Xiang Liang.
After Xiang Liang failed, he returned to Xiang Yu, who made him a doctor.
Han Xin repeatedly offered advice to Xiang Yu, but Xiang Yu did not adopt it.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, entered Hanzhong, and Han Xin escaped from the Chu army and joined the king of Han. At the beginning, he was still unknown and worked as a granary management clerk.
Later, he was sentenced to death for breaking the law. Thirteen of his accomplices were beheaded. When it was Han Xin's turn, Han Xin looked up and happened to see Teng Gong Xia Houying, so he asked: Doesn't the King of Han want to unify the world?
Why kill the strong man?
Teng Gong felt that Han Xin's words were unusual and he looked very powerful, so he did not kill him.
After talking to Han Xin, he was very happy and reported his situation to the King of Han.
The King of Han appointed Han Xin as the Commander-in-Chief of Su Su, but did not reuse him.
Han Xin talked with Xiao He many times, and Xiao He appreciated his talent very much.
When the Han army arrived at Nanzheng, dozens of generals escaped halfway.
Han Xin considered that Xiao He and others had recommended him to the King of Han several times, but he still could not be reused, so he ran away.
Xiao He heard that Han Xin had escaped. He had no time to report to the king of Han, so he went to chase him himself.
Someone reported to the King of Han: Prime Minister Xiao He has escaped.
The king of Han was furious, as if he had lost his left and right hands.
Two days later, Xiao He came to see the King of Han.
The King of Han was both angry and happy, and scolded Xiao He: "Why did you run away?"
Xiao He replied: How dare I run away? I am chasing those who run away.
The king of Han asked: Who are you chasing?
Xiao He replied: It's Han Xin.
The King of Han scolded again: "There are dozens of generals who have escaped, but you have not pursued them; you only pursued Han Xin. This is a lie."
Xiao He said: Those generals are easy to get, and outstanding talents like Han Xin can be said to be unparalleled in the world.
Your Majesty, if you only want to be king in the desert, then there is nothing that requires Han Xin; if you want to fight for the world, there will be no one except Han Xin who can discuss major matters with you.
It depends on how the king makes decisions.
The King of Han said: I want to develop to the east, how can I stay limited to this place?
Xiao He said: If the king is determined to march eastward and can reuse Han Xin, Han Xin will come; if he cannot reuse Han Xin, Han Xin will eventually run away.
The king of Han said: For your sake, let him be a general.
Xiao He said: Even if he is made a general, Han Xin will not stay.
The king of Han said: Then appoint him as a general.
Xiao He said: Great!
So the King of Han wanted to summon Han Xin immediately to announce his appointment.
Xiao He said: Your Majesty, you have always been arrogant and disrespectful to others. Now appointing generals is like calling a child. This is why Han Xin wants to leave.
If the king is determined to appoint him, he should choose a good day, fast and bathe, set up an altar and square, and hold a formal ceremony to worship the general. This is all right.
The king of Han agreed to Xiao He's request.
The generals were very happy when they heard that the King of Han was going to set up an altar to worship the general. Everyone thought that he was going to be a general.
When the ceremony of consecration was held, they found out that the general was Han Xin. The whole army was surprised.
After Han Xin accepted the ceremony of conferring the title of general, he sat down.
The King of Han asked Han Xin: The Prime Minister has recommended generals to me many times. What strategies do you have for me?
Han Xin expressed his humility and said to the King of Han: Now in the East, who can compete with the king for the world, isn't it King Xiang?
The King of Han said: Of course it is. Xin said: Your Majesty, in your own estimation, who is stronger than King Xiang in terms of bravery, strength and military strength?
The King of Han was silent for a long time and said: "I am not as good as King Xiang."
Han Xin bowed twice and said appreciatively: "Han Xin also thinks that the king is inferior to him. I once served King Xiang. Let me talk about King Xiang's character."
The king shouted angrily, and hundreds or thousands of people would be too frightened to move: "But you cannot use capable generals, only brave ones, not just warriors."
King Xiang treated people with respect and humility, and spoke docilely. When someone was sick, he would sympathize with him and shed tears, and share his food and drink with him. When the person he appointed had made meritorious service and should be given a title, he would hold the engraved seal in his hand and be reluctant to give it to others even though the edges were almost worn away. This is what people call a woman's kindness.
Although King Xiang dominated the world and made the princes surrender, he did not occupy Guanzhong and Pengcheng. He also violated Emperor Yi's agreement with the princes and sealed all his relatives as kings of Guanzhong. The princes were all angry.
When the princes saw that King Xiang had expelled Emperor Yi to the south of the Yangtze River, they all went back and expelled their original monarchs, occupied the rich land, and established themselves as kings.
Wherever King Xiang's army passed, there was no place that was not destroyed and destroyed. The people in the world resented him and were not willing to join him. They were just afraid of his power and were forced to obey.
Although he is the overlord of the world in name, he has actually lost the hearts of the people in the world, so he seems to be strong but is actually weak.
Now that the king is really able to take the completely opposite approach to King Xiang and appoint the brave and capable talents in the world, there is no enemy that cannot be eliminated!
If the cities in the world are entrusted to meritorious ministers, who else will not be convinced!
He led the army of justice and obeyed the wishes of the soldiers to return home. What enemy can't be defeated!
Moreover, the three kings who were enfeoffed in Qin were the original generals of the Qin army. They led the children of the Qin people in the war, and countless of them were killed and fled. They also deceived their subordinates to surrender to Xiang Yu: when they arrived in Xin'an, King Xiang used cunning means to bury alive the surrendered soldiers of the Qin army, more than 200,000 of them. Only Zhang Han, Sima Xin and Dong Yi were able to escape.
The fathers and brothers of Qin hated these three people to their very core.
Now the overlord of Western Chu relies on his power to forcibly ennoble these three people as kings. The people of Qin will not love them.
After the king led his army into Wuguan, the discipline was strict and there was no violation of Qiu. He abolished the harsh laws of the Qin Dynasty and made a three-part agreement with the people of Guanzhong. The people of Qin all hope that the king will come to Qin and become the king.
According to the agreement between Emperor Yi and the princes, the king was supposed to be the king of Guanzhong. All the people in Guanzhong knew this. The king lost his rightful title of king of Guanzhong and was demoted to Hanzhong. The people of Guanzhong were all resentful.
Now that the king has sent troops to advance, the fiefdom of the Three Qin kings can be pacified as long as a document is passed down.
So the King of Han was very happy, thinking that it was too late to get Han Xin, so he arranged the targets for the generals to attack according to Han Xin's strategy.
The king of Han sent troops to march eastward through Chencang and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, he led his troops out of Hanguguan and conquered the king of Wei and the king of Henan. The king of Han and Yin also surrendered.
Then he united the troops of Qi and Tang to attack Pengcheng, the capital of Chu. The Han soldiers were defeated and returned in disarray.
Bi Xin then sent troops to join forces with Mu Yingchang, and attacked the Chu army between the fortress and the fortress, and defeated the Chu army. Therefore, the Chu army could not advance westward.
After the Han army was defeated in Pengcheng, Sima Xin, king of Sai, and Dong Yi, king of Zhai, escaped from the Han army and surrendered to the Chu army. Bianyou, Shengyu and Qu also rebelled against each other and made peace with each other.
He sent Tai Qi to lobby Wei King Bao, but Wei Bao refused to listen, so he appointed Locust Xin as Zuo Prime Minister to attack Qu.
Cross-examining Su: Can Qu not use Uncle Dan as a general?
Li Sheng replied: The general is Yuan Zhi.
The whole letter said: He is just a child.
Then he marched to attack the grasshopper.
The king of Wei deployed heavy troops in Zhayuan and blocked Linjin Pass.
Hanzhi then set up additional suspects, deployed his boats, and pretended to cross the river from Zhuozhi. He also sent a concealed ambush force to cross the river from Xia Yang with wooden urns and basins of floating water to sneak attack Anyi.
King Wei Bao of Wei was greatly frightened and hurriedly led his troops to attack Zhengzhi. He captured Wei Bao and put Mi down.
After that, Han Xin sent someone to see the King of Han and said: I hope to increase the number of 30,000 troops. I request to take advantage of the victory and march north to conquer the two countries Yan and Zhao, attack Qi to the east, cut off Chu's grain routes to the south, and finally go west to join forces with the king in Rongyang.
The King of Han agreed to give Han Xin 30,000 more troops, and sent Tan Dan and Han Zhi to attack Zhao Er and Ji Er to the north.
He defeated the attacking army and captured Xia Yue alive in the hammer.
After Kongcao captured Chongxiao and Zhuyou, the King of Han sent people to call back his elite troops and marched to Rongyang to resist the Chu army.
Han Xin and Zhang Er led tens of thousands of troops and wanted to march eastward to capture Jingxing and attack Zhao.
King Chu and Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, heard that the Han army was about to attack Zhao, so they gathered a heavy army to guard Jingxingkou, claiming to have an army of 200,000.
Lord Guangwu Li Zuoche gave advice to Lord Chengan and said: I heard that the Han general Han Xin crossed the Xihe River, captured the king of Wei, and captured Xia Shuo alive. They had just fought a bloody battle to break up the alliance.
Now with Zhang Er as an assistant, he plans to attack Zhao. This is a battle far away from the country while taking advantage of the victory. The attack is unstoppable.
But I heard that when military rations are transported from thousands of miles away, the soldiers will look hungry; when firewood and grass are temporarily used for cooking, the army often cannot eat enough. Nowadays, the road in Jingxing is narrow and cannot pass two parallel chariots.
I hope you can lend me 30,000 elite troops for the time being to intercept their supplies of food and supplies from the small road. You must dig trenches deep, build forts high, and refuse to fight.
They can't engage in battle if they move forward, and can't go back if they retreat. I lead a surprise attack force to cut off their retreat, so that they can't plunder any food in the wild. In less than ten days, the heads of the two generals will be delivered to your tent.
I hope you will seriously consider my strategy, and I guarantee that you will not be captured by these two people.
Cheng'anjun is a nerd, and often claims that a just army does not use deceit and trickery. He said: I heard that in the art of war, if the force is ten times more than the enemy, you can surround them, and if you have more than twice the force, you can fight. Now Han Xin's army is said to be tens of thousands, but in fact it is not that many. They have traveled thousands of miles to attack us, and they are exhausted.
If we are unable to retreat from such an enemy now, how will we resist if we encounter a more powerful enemy in the future?
The princes will think that we are timid and attack us easily.
Therefore, he did not adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy.
Han Xin sent spies to find out that Chen Yu did not adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy and came back to report. Han Xin was overjoyed and dared to lead his army there.
We stopped and camped less than thirty miles away from Jingxingkou.
At midnight, the order was sent to set off, and 2,000 light cavalry were selected. Each of them took a red flag, went up the mountain from the trail, and hid in the mountain to observe the army. He warned everyone: "When the army sees our army retreating and fleeing, they will definitely attack us in full force. At this time, you rush into the Zhao army's camp, remove the Zhao army's flag, and plant the Han army's flag."
He also asked the deputy general to send an order to eat some dry food on the spot first, and told the generals: "Today we will hold a banquet after conquering the Kingdom of Zhao!"
The generals didn't believe it and only pretended to agree: "Yes."
Han Xin then said to the deacon officer: Zhao Jun has occupied a favorable terrain and set up camp, and they will not come out to attack our vanguard until they see the banner of our general. I am afraid that we will retreat when we reach the dangerous point of the pass.
Han Xin then dispatched 10,000 people to set off first. After leaving Jingxingkou, they formed a formation with their backs to the river.
Zhao Jun laughed when he saw this formation.
After daybreak, Han Xin raised the general's flag, beat the war drum, and walked out of Jingxingkou with great fanfare. The Zhao army opened the camp and attacked the Han army. The battle lasted for a long time.
At this time, Han Xin and Zhang Er pretended that they could not hold on, abandoned their flags and drums and fled quickly into the army arrayed by the water, and then turned around and fought fiercely.
As expected, Zhaojun sent out all his troops to fight for the banners and drums of the Han army and chased Han Xin and Zhang Er.
Han Xin and Zhang Er have entered the military formation by the river. The soldiers are fighting to the death and cannot be defeated.
The 2,000 light cavalry sent by Han Xin, when the whole army went out to fight for the spoils, rushed into the Zhao army's camp, pulled out all the Zhao army's flags, and planted 2,000 Han army red flags.
Seeing that they could not win and could not capture Han Xin, Zhang Er and others, the Zhao army wanted to retreat to the camp. They found that the camp was covered with red flags of the Han army. They were panicked, thinking that the Han army had defeated King Zhao and his generals. The battle was in chaos and they fled.
Although the generals of the army killed the deserters, they could not stop them.
So the Han army attacked from front to back, defeated the Zhao army, captured a large number of troops, beheaded Chen Yu, the king of Cheng'an, and captured Wang Xie alive by the riverside.
Han Xin ordered his troops not to kill Lord Guangwu. Anyone who could capture him alive would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins.
After a while, someone tied up Mr. Guangwu and sent him to the military camp. Han Xin immediately untied the ropes from his body and asked him to sit facing east while he sat facing west, treating him like a teacher.
After all the generals presented their heads and prisoners, they all congratulated Han Xin and took the opportunity to ask Han Xin: The art of war says that the right side of the military formation should be backed by mountains, and the front and left sides should be backed by water. This time, the general ordered us to line up with our backs to the water, and even said that if we were defeated, we would go to the army dinner. We were not convinced at all.
However, they actually succeeded. What kind of tactics was this?
Han Xin said: This kind of formation exists in the art of war, but you just didn't pay attention to it.
Doesn’t it say in the art of war that if you are in a desperate situation, you can fight hard to survive, and if you are in a desperate situation, you can fight hard to survive?
Moreover, I, Han Xin, am not leading soldiers who have been trained by me for a long time and completely obey my command. This is what the military book calls "temporarily driving citizens to fight." Under this situation, the soldiers must be put to death and let each of them automatically fight bravely for survival; if the army is deployed in an open area where it is easy to escape, everyone will flee without fighting. How can we use them to defeat the enemy?
The generals all said with admiration: "The general's high-level strategy is beyond our ability to match."
So Han Xin asked Lord Guangwu: I want to attack Yan State in the north and Qi State in the east. How do you think I can succeed? Guangwu Jun Qianrang said: I heard that ministers who have lost their country are not qualified to plan the survival of the country, and generals who have lost battles are not qualified to talk about bravery.
How can a captive like me, who has been defeated and perished, be qualified to discuss important matters?
Han Xin said: I heard that when Baili Xi was in Yu State, Yu State perished, and when he arrived in Qin State, Qin State became hegemonic. It was not that he was stupid when he was in Yu State and became smart when he arrived in Qin State.
If Lord Cheng An had listened to your plan, I, Han Xin, would have been captured by you long ago.
I completely follow your plan and hope you will not refuse.
Lord Guangwu said: I heard that a wise man will make a mistake in every thought; a fool will gain something in a thousand thoughts. Therefore, even if it is a madman's words, a saint can selectively adopt them. However, I am afraid that my strategy may not be worth listening to, but I am willing to dedicate my sincerity to you.
Originally, Cheng'anjun had a plan to win every battle, but once he failed, his army was defeated under Haocheng and he himself died on the river.
Now the general captured the king of Wei and captured Xia Shuo alive. In less than a morning, he defeated the Zhao army of 200,000 men and killed Anjun.
He is so famous all over the world and so powerful that even the peasants of the enemy country have a premonition of the arrival of the army and they all give up farming. They are discouraged and want to eat well and wear well. They listen to you and wait for the news of your order to march.
However, your troops are so exhausted that it's actually difficult to continue fighting.
Now the general leads such tired soldiers and is trapped under the strong city of Yan State. The true situation is exposed to the enemy, and his momentum is weakened. He cannot attack the city if he wants to, and the wilderness lasts for a long time and the food is exhausted.
If Yan cannot be defeated, Qi will definitely refuse to defend its borders and become stronger.
If the Han army continues to stalemate with Yan and Tiao, the importance of Liu Bang and Xiang Yu will become indistinguishable.
I have little knowledge, but privately I think that attacking Yan and conquering Qi is also a mistake. Han Xin said: What should we do?
Lord Guangwu replied: The best way now is to stand still. Within a radius of a hundred miles, people would bring beef and wine every day, entertain the generals, and pretend to attack the Yan State in the north, and then send an envoy with a letter to the Yan State. The Yan State would not dare not listen.
After the Yan State was surrendered, the army moved eastward and approached Qi State. Although there were smart people, they did not know how to plan for Qi State.
In this way, the fight for the world can be realized.
When using troops, there is a tendency to bluff first and then take actual actions. This is what I am talking about.
Han Xin said: Very good, thank you for your advice.
So he adopted Lord Guangwu's strategy and sent an envoy to the State of Yan. The State of Yan surrendered immediately after hearing the news.
Han Xin sent someone to report to the King of Han, and asked Zhang Er to be appointed King of Zhao to pacify the State of Zhao.
The king of Han agreed to his request.
Chu State sent raiding troops across the Yellow River to attack Zhao State many times. King Zhang Er of Chu State and Han Xin exchanged rescues, and the cities of Chu State were stabilized during the army's passing, and then troops were dispatched to support the King of Han.
The Chu army was besieging the King of Han in Rongyang. The King of Han broke out and went south to Wan County and Ye County. He conquered Jiujiang King Yingbu and entered Chenggao. The Chu army hurriedly surrounded them again.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han escaped from Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River, and defected alone with Teng Gong to Xiuwu County, where Zhang Er's army was stationed.
When I arrived at Xiuwu, I stayed in a guest house.
The next morning, someone claiming to be the envoy of the King of Han rode straight into the Zhao camp.
Before Zhang Er and Han Xin got up, the king of Han seized their seals and military symbols from their bedrooms, summoned the generals with military flags, and changed their positions.
After Han Xin and Zhang Er got up, they were surprised to know that the King of Han came to the camp alone.
The king of Han seized the two armies, ordered Zhang Er to defend Zhao, appointed Han Xin as prime minister, and mobilized Zhao's troops that had not been transferred to Rongyang to attack Qi.
Han Xin led his troops to advance, but before they crossed Pingyuanjin, they heard that the king of Han had sent Li Shiqi to persuade the king of Qi to surrender.
Han Xin wanted to stop advancing, but Kuai Tong persuaded Han Xin to continue attacking Qi. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
Han Xin thought his strategy was right, so he led his troops across the Yellow River, attacked Qi's Lixia army, and took advantage of the victory to reach Linmiao, the capital of Qi.
King Tian Guang of Qi fled to Gaomi and sent an envoy to Chu to ask for help.
Han Xin pacified Linmiao and pursued King Qi eastward to the west of Gaomi.
The King of Chu also sent Long Qie to lead an army of 200,000 troops to rescue Qi.
King Tian Guang of Qi and General Long Qie of Chu united their armies to prepare for a battle with Han Xin, but they had not yet fought.
Someone advised Long Qie: The Han soldiers fought far away from the homeland. They were enemies who had fought for a long time and had no retreat. Their offensive was unstoppable.
The Qi and Chu armies fought in their own areas, and the soldiers easily escaped.
It is better to dig deep ditches and high forts, stand firm without fighting, and let the King of Qi send his trusted ministers to appease the lost cities. The people of these cities will definitely rebel against the Han army when they hear that the King of Qi is still there and the Chu army comes to rescue them.
The Zun army lived in the state of Cha, two thousand miles away, and all the cities in the state of Qi rebelled against them. In that case, there would be no place to get food, and the Han army could surrender without a fight. Long Qie said: I have always understood Han Xin's character. He is easy to deal with.
In the past, I relied on my old mother who rinsed silk cotton wool for food, and I didn't even have the means to support myself. I was also humiliated by crawling under people's crotches in public, and I didn't have the courage to win over others. There was nothing to be afraid of.
Besides, I came to the rescue of Qi and made Han Xin surrender without a fight, so what credit do I have?
If he is defeated through fighting, half of the land of Qi can be obtained, why not!
So he decided to fight and set up a battle formation across the distance from Zheng Zhi.
Zhizhi sent people to make more than 10,000 bags overnight, filled them with sand to block the upper reaches of the river to avoid the water, and led half of the troops across the river to attack Long Qi.
Pretend to be defeated and run back.
Long Qie said happily: "I knew Han Xin was timid."
He then crossed over to pursue Manxin.
Zhengxin sent people to dig out the sandbags blocking the river, and the river surged down.
Most of Long Qie's troops could not cross, so Han Xin immediately intercepted and killed Long Qie.
Long Qie's troops on the east bank of Weishui scattered and fled, and Wang Danchen also fled.
Huang Miao pursued the defeated soldiers to the cross-region area and captured Cha Wang Tianguang.
All the soldiers of the Chu army surrendered, thus pacifying the state of Qi.
Han Xin sent someone to write to the King of Han, saying: Qi is a cunning and capricious country, and it is close to Chu in the south. If an acting king is not established to pacify it, the situation will not be stable.
Now that my power is too small to stabilize Qi, I request to be appointed the acting King of Qi.
At this time, the Chu army tightly besieged the King of Han in Rongyang. Han Xin's envoy arrived. The King of Han opened the letter and read it. He was furious and cursed: I am besieged here. I have been waiting for you to help me all night. You actually want to make yourself king!
Zhang Liang and Chen Ping secretly stepped on the King of Han's feet from behind, then leaned into his ear and said: The Han army is in an unfavorable situation, how can we prevent Han Xin from proclaiming himself king?
It is better to take this opportunity to make him king, treat him well, and let him guard Qi by himself.
Otherwise, rebellion may occur.
The King of Han also understood and cursed again: If a man has conquered the princes, he should imitate the king. Why should he be an acting king?
So Zhang Liang was sent to make Han Xin king of Qi, and mobilized his troops to attack the Chu army.
Chu State had lost its general Long Qie. King Xiang was frightened and sent his founder Wu She to persuade Qi King Han Xin: "Why don't you rebel against the King of Han and join Chu State?"
The King of Chu had an old friendship with his master.
Moreover, the King of Han was very untrustworthy. He fell into the hands of King Xiang several times, but as soon as he escaped, he broke the covenant and attacked King Xiang. He was unapproachable and untrustworthy to this extent.
Now although Shishi thinks he has a strong friendship with the King of Han, he will eventually be captured by him.
The reason why Shiba can be postponed until today is because King Xiang is still here.
Once King Xiang is destroyed, it will be your turn to deal with him.
Why not unite with the Chu State and become the king of Qi, one of the three equal parts of the world?
If you let this opportunity go now, you will definitely join the King of Han and attack the Chu State. As a smart man, is this how it turns out?
Han Xin declined and said: I had the opportunity to serve King Xiang for many years, but my official position was just that of a doctor, and my position was that of a guard holding a halberd. I refused to listen to my words and did not use the strategies I offered, so I turned my back on Chu and joined Han.
The King of Han awarded me the seal of general and allowed me to command tens of thousands of troops. He took off his own clothes and gave me clothes to wear, gave me his own food to eat, listened to my opinions and adopted my strategies, so that I can reach my current status.
If someone sincerely gets close to and trusts me, if I betray them, there will be no good results.
I hope you can say goodbye to King Xiang on my behalf, Han Xin.
After Wu She left, Kuai Tong knew that the key to the final outcome of the world lay in Han Xin, and further persuaded Han Xin with the view that three parts of the world would make him the king.
His words are recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
Han Xin couldn't bear to betray the King of Han, and he believed that he had made great contributions and the King of Han would not seize his Qi State, so he refused to listen to Kuai Tong.
The King of Han was defeated in Guling and adopted Zhang Liang's strategy, recruiting Han Xin to lead his troops to join forces at the foot of the country.
After Xiang Yu's death, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty used a surprise attack to seize Han Xin's military power, changed the title of King Han Xin of Qi to King of Chu, and made Xiapi his capital.
When Han Xin arrived in Chudu, he summoned the floating mother who had given him food in the past and gave her a thousand gold coins.
He went to the head of the Xiangxiang Pavilion and presented him with a hundred coins and said: You are a villain, and the good deeds you do have a beginning and an end.
He also summoned the young man who had insulted him by asking him to crawl under his crotch, and appointed him as the lieutenant of Chu State. Han Xin said to the generals: This is a strong man.
Can't I kill him when he insults me?
But there was no reason to kill him, so I endured it, and that's how we achieved today's achievements.
King Xiang's fugitive general Zhong Limei lived in Yilu and had always been friendly with Han Xin.
After King Xiang died, he fled back to Han Xin.
The king of Han resented Zhong Limei. When he heard that he was in Chu, he ordered Chu to arrest him.
When Han Xin first arrived in Chu State, he patrolled various counties and cities and sent troops to guard his entry and exit.
Someone wrote a letter to report that Han Xin, the king of Chu, was planning to rebel. Seeing the letter of accusation, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was a little worried.
He adopted Chen Ping's strategy and visited Yunmengze in name, but actually wanted to attack Han Xin, but Han Xin didn't know it.
When Emperor Gaozu was about to arrive in Chu, Han Xin wanted to rebel, but he thought he was not guilty; he wanted to see the emperor, but he was worried about being captured.
Someone advised Han Xin: If you kill Zhong Limei and go to the emperor, the emperor will be very happy and there will be no doubts.
Han Xin went to see Zhong Limei to discuss the matter. Zhong Limei said: The king of Han did not attack Chu because I am here with you.
If you want to capture me to please the King of Han, if I die, you will die too.
So he scolded Han Xin: You are not a loyal and honest person!
Finally committed suicide.
Han Xin took Zhong Limei's head and went to Chen County to meet Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty ordered the warriors to tie Han Xin up and put him in a car behind him.
Han Xin said: As people say, when the cunning rabbit dies, the fine hunting dog will be cooked and killed.
The emperor said: Someone has accused you of treason.
Then Han Xin was put on a torture device.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he pardoned Han Xin's sins and made him Marquis of Huaiyin.
Han Xin knew that the King of Han was afraid and jealous of his talents, so he pretended to be ill and refused to go to court or travel with his entourage.
He often harbors resentment at home and is ashamed to be on the same level as Jianghou and Guanying.
I once went to visit General Fan Kuai. Fan Kuai greeted him with the courtesy of walking on foot and called him my minister, saying: Your Majesty is actually willing to visit my home.
After Han Xin went out, he smiled and said: In this life, I am in the same position as Fan Kuai and others!
The emperor once talked with Han Xin about the talents of the generals in their spare time. The emperor asked: How many troops can I lead?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty can only bring one hundred thousand.
The emperor asked: What about people like you?
Han Xin said: Like me, the more the better.
The emperor smiled and said: The more the better, why did I catch you?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty is not good at leading troops, but he is good at controlling generals. This is why I was captured by Your Majesty.
Besides, your Majesty's power is given by God. It is not something that ordinary human beings can achieve.
Later, Chen Xi was appointed as Acting Prime Minister to supervise the border soldiers and bid farewell to Han Xin. Han Xin took Chen Xi's hand and walked back and forth with him in the courtyard several times. He looked up to the sky and sighed and said, "Can I talk to you if I have something to say?"
There's something I want to talk to you about.
Chen Xi said: "Everything must be obeyed by the general!"
Han Xin said: The area under your jurisdiction is where the best soldiers from all over the world gather, and you are His Majesty's trusted and favorite minister.
If someone says that you are rebelling, His Majesty will not believe it; if such words are heard again, His Majesty will become suspicious; if someone says this for the third time, Your Majesty will be furious and personally lead troops to attack.
If I raise troops from the capital to support you, the world will be able to plot your plans.
Chen Xi has always understood Han Xin's talents, believed in him, and said: I would like to follow your advice!
In the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled. Emperor Gao personally led troops to attack him, but Han Xin pretended to be ill and did not follow him.
Secretly sent someone to Chen Xi's residence. Han Xin planned with his retainers and pretended to pass Shao's order at night to pardon the criminals and slaves in various government offices and prepare to send troops to attack Empress Lu and the prince.
The arrangements are in place, waiting for Chen Xi's report.
One of his retainers offended Han Xin, and Han Xin imprisoned him and prepared to kill him.
The retainer's brother wrote a letter to Empress Lu reporting Han Xin's preparations for rebellion.
Empress Lu wanted to summon Han Xin, but she was afraid that he would not submit, so she discussed with Xiao Xiangguo and sent someone pretending to be from the emperor, saying that Chen Zhu was dead and all the ministers were going to congratulate him.
Xiangguo deceived Han Xin and said: Although you are sick, you should go to the palace to congratulate him.
As soon as Han Xin entered the palace, Empress Lu asked the warriors to tie Han Xin up and behead him in the clock room of Changle Palace.
When Han Xin was beheaded, he said: I did not adopt Kuai Tong's strategy, but was deceived by a woman. Isn't this God's will?
So the three tribes of Han and Xin were killed.
Emperor Gaozu returned from suppressing Chen Xi's rebellion and arrived in the capital. When he heard that Han Xin was dead, he was happy and pitiful, and asked: What did Han Xin say before he died?
Empress Lu repeated what Han Xin said.
Emperor Gaozu said: This person is Kuai Tong, the lobbyist of Qi State.
Summon Kuai Tong to cook him to death.
After Kuai Tong arrived, he explained himself and was pardoned without being killed.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
Peng Yue, courtesy name Zhong, was born in Changyi County.
He often fished in Ju Ye Ze and later became a bandit.
When Chen Sheng was revolting, someone said to Peng Yue: The heroes in the world are rushing to set up their own banner and rebel against the Qin Dynasty. You, Peng Zhong, can do the same as them.
Peng Yue said: Two dragons have just fought. Let's take a look.
More than a year later, more than a hundred young people in Junye Zezhong gathered to follow Peng Yue and said, "I ask you to be the leader." Peng Yue declined and was unwilling to do it.
The young people insisted on their request, and Peng Yue agreed.
Make an agreement with everyone to gather when the sun rises tomorrow, and those who are late will be beheaded.
When the sun came up the next day, more than ten people had not arrived, and the last person did not come until noon.
So Peng Yue said apologetically: I am old, and you force me to be the leader.
Today, many people have not arrived at the appointed time. We cannot kill them all, but only the last one to arrive.
Order the principal to kill the man.
Everyone laughed and said: Why are you so harsh!
Just don’t dare to disobey the order in the future.
At this time, Peng Yue killed the last person who arrived, set up an earthen altar, sacrificed his head with his head, and issued orders to his subordinates.
The subordinates were all frightened and afraid of Peng Yue, and did not dare to look up at him.
So he set out to capture the territory and collected the deserted soldiers from the princes' armies, gaining more than a thousand people.
Peigong attacked Changyi from Ci County to the north, and Peng Yue came to assist him.
Changyi was not captured, so Pei Gong led his troops to the west.
Peng Yue also led his troops to stay in Juyeze to collect the scattered soldiers of Wei Che's retreat.
Xiang Yu entered Guanzhong, enfeoffed various princes as queens, and returned home. More than 10,000 Peng Yue's troops were left without any one to belong to.
King Tian Rong of Qi betrayed King Xiang, so the King of Han sent someone to give General Peng Yue a seal, asking him to go south from Jiyin to attack Chu.
The Chu State ordered Xiao Gongjiao to lead his troops to attack Peng Yue, and Peng Yue defeated the Chu army.
In the spring of the second year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han, King Wei Bao and the princes went east to attack Chu. Peng Yue led more than 30,000 soldiers to join the King of Han in Waihuang.
The King of Han said: General Peng captured the land of Wei and obtained more than ten cities. He wanted to immediately support the descendants of Wei.
The current Western Wei King Wei Bao is the cousin of Wei King Wei Jiu and a true descendant of the Wei Kingdom.
He appointed Peng Yue as the prime minister of Wei State, responsible for military power and pacifying the Liang Dynasty.
The King of Han was defeated in Pengcheng, and his army retreated westward. Peng Yue also lost the cities he occupied, and led his troops alone to the north and stayed along the Yellow River.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue often traveled as a guerrilla force of the Mo army, attacked the Chu army, and cut off the Chu army's food and grass in Liang.
King Xiang and King Han were in a stalemate in Rongyang, and Peng Yue captured seventeen cities including Suiyang and Waihuang.
When King Xiang heard the news, he sent Cao Jiu to garrison Chenggao, and he went eastward to recover the cities occupied by Pengyue. These cities were all returned to the Chu State.
Peng Yue led his troops to retreat north to Gucheng.
King Xiang retreated south to Yangxia, and Peng Yue captured more than 20 cities near Changyi and obtained more than 100,000 hu of grain to supply the King of Han with military provisions.
The king of Han lost the battle and summoned Peng Yue, asking him to join forces to attack the Chu army. Peng Yue said: Wei Di had just been pacified not long ago, but he was still afraid of the Chu army's attack and could not go.
The king of Han pursued the Chu army and was defeated by Xiang Yu at Guling.
Then he said to Zhang Liang, the remaining lord, "What should I do if the armies of the princes do not obey the deployment?"
Liu Hou said: Peng Yue originally pacified the Liang region and made great contributions. The king originally appointed Peng Yue as the prime minister of Wei because of Wei Bao.
Now Wei Bao is dead and has no descendants, and Peng Yue also wants to be king, but the king decided not long ago to make him king.
Now if he captures the area north of Suiyang up to Gucheng, he will use it to make him king.
He also talked about the reasons why Han Xin was banned in the past.
This incident is recorded in "Gao Ji".
At that time, the king of Han sent envoys to Pengyue to follow Liu Hou's plan.
As soon as the envoy arrived, Peng Yue led his troops to join Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu died, he granted Pengyue the title of King of Liang and established his capital in Dingtao.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue went to Chen County to meet Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty.
In the ninth and tenth years, they all came to Chang'an to see him.
Su Peng rebelled in the cutting area, so he chose Hutong to go to Handan to fight against him personally. He then went to Handan to recruit troops from the King of Liang.
The king of Liang claimed to be ill and sent his generals to Handan.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty was angry and sent someone to blame King Liang.
King Liang was afraid and wanted to go to plead guilty in person.
His general Hu Zou said: Your Majesty did not go at first, and only went after being scolded. If you go there you will be captured, so why not send troops there?
King Liang refused to listen and still said that he was ill.
The servant of the King of Liang committed a crime and fled to Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty to report the King of Liang and Hu Zui for their rebellion.
So Emperor Mogao sent envoys to make a surprise attack and captured King Liang, imprisoning him in Luoyang.
After review by the officials in charge, it is deemed that the crime has constituted treason. Please judge according to law.
The emperor pardoned him, demoted him to civilian status, and exiled him to Qingyi County, Shu County.
He escorted him westward to Zhengdi, where he met Empress Lu who was coming from Chang'an to the east. She was going to Wuchang, but encountered a chasm on the way.
Qi Yue cried to Dan Hou and told him that he was innocent and hoped to be exiled to his hometown Changyi.
Queen Lu agreed and ordered him to tie it up together.
When they arrived in Luoyang, Empress Lu told the emperor: Peng Yue is a strong man. If he is exiled to Shu, he will bring trouble to himself. It is better to kill him now.
I asked him to come with me.
At this time, Empress Lu asked Peng Yue's retainers to report him for another rebellion.
After the emperor was informed by Tingwei, Peng Yue and his clan were killed.
Ting Bu, a native of Liu County, originally had a surname of Ying.
When he was young, a guest told him that he could become king after being tortured.
When he reached his prime, he broke the law and was punished by Tao Bu. Tao Bu smiled happily and said, "Someone told me that after being punished, I would become king. Isn't that what it is?"
Everyone who heard this laughed at him.
Tingbu was sent to Lishan for hard labor for committing a crime. There were hundreds of thousands of prisoners in Lishan. Tinghu had contacts with the leaders and heroes among the prisoners, and finally led this group of people to escape to the Yangtze River and became a group of bandits.
When Chen Sheng raised his troops, Qing Bu went to meet Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fan County. At that time, Jing Bu had thousands of troops.
The county magistrate married his daughter to him.
Zhang Han destroyed Chen Sheng and defeated Lu Chen's army. Yingbu led his troops north to attack the troops of the left and right captains of the Qin army. He defeated them at Qingbo and led his troops to advance.
Yingbu heard that Xiang Liang had pacified Kuaiji, so he crossed the Huai River to the west and surrendered his troops to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang attacked Jingju, Qinjia and other places to the west, and Yingbu's army was always the bravest.
After Xiang Liang knew for sure that Chen She was dead, he supported King Huai of Chu and named him Dangyang Lord with a tattoo.
Xiang Liang was defeated and died in battle. King Huai of Chu, Ying Bu and other princes and generals gathered in Pengcheng.
At this time, the Qin army stepped up the siege of Tangguo, and Tangguo sent people to request King Huai of Chu for rescue many times.
King Chu Huai sent Song Yi as the general, and Xiang Yu and Ying Bu were subordinate to him to go north to rescue the country.
Xiang Ji killed Song Yi on the bank of the Zhang River and established himself as general. He sent Yingbu to cross the Zhang River first and attack the Qin army, winning many times.
Xiang Ji led all his troops across the river and followed Ying Bu, defeating the Qin army and forcing Zhang Han and others to surrender.
The Chu army often won battles and made the greatest contributions among the princes. The reason why the armies of the princes all obeyed and subordinated to the Chu army was because Yingbu repeatedly defeated the larger number with a smaller number.
Xiang Ji led his army westward to Xin'an, and sent Yingbu and others to attack and bury alive Zhang Han's Qin soldiers of more than 200,000 men at night.
When they arrived at Hangu Pass, they were unable to enter, so they sent Ying Bu and others to raid from a small road and defeat the troops guarding the pass before they were able to enter.
When he arrived in Xianyang, Yingbu served as the forward.
King Xiang conferred titles on various generals, and made Yingbu the King of Jiujiang, making six counties his capital.
King Xiang honored King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor and moved the capital to Changsha, but secretly asked King Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill the Righteous Emperor.
Yingbu sent generals to chase him to Chen County and kill him.
King Tian Rong of Qi rebelled against Chu. King Xiang went to attack Qi and fine-tuned his army to Jiujiang. Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang excused himself from illness and sent his generals with thousands of people to go.
The Han army defeated Chu in Pengcheng, and Yingbu refused to help Chu due to illness. King Xiang resented Yingbu and sent envoys many times to condemn and recruit Yingbu. Yingbu was even more frightened and did not dare to go.
King Xiang was worried about Qi and Tang in the north, and worried about Han in the west. The only one he attached to was Yingbu. He also respected Yingbu's talents and wanted to rely on him and use him, so he did not attack him.
The army of the King of Han fought fiercely with the Chu army in Pengcheng. The Han army was defeated and fled through Liang to Yu County. The King of Han said to his left and right: People like you are not worthy of discussing world affairs together.
The visitor who was in charge of conveying the message came forward and said, "I don't understand what your Majesty said."
The King of Han said: Who can send me an envoy to Huainan, let him raise an army to betray the Chu State, and detain King Xiang in Qi for a few months? Then I will be completely sure of conquering the world.
Sui He said: I request to be sent as an envoy to Huainan.
So he went as envoy to Huainan with twenty people.
After arriving, Dazai received them as a host and did not see King Huainan for three days.
Suihe took the opportunity to persuade Dazai: "Your Majesty, if you don't meet me, Suihe must think that Chu is strong and Han is weak, which is why I am sent as an envoy."
If I can see the King of Huainan, and what I say is correct, it will be exactly what the king wants to hear; if what I say is wrong, I will kill all twenty of my party in the city of Huainan to show that the king has abandoned Han and is friendly with Chu.
Dazai reported these words to the King of Huainan, and the King of Huainan received Sui He.
Sui He said: The King of Han sent me to write a respectful letter to the king's driver. I feel strange why the king and the state of Chu are so close.
King Huainan said: I serve him as a minister.
Sui He said: The king and King Xiang are among the princes, and he surrendered to him. He must have thought that the state of Chu was powerful and could entrust the country to him.
King Xiang attacked Qi State and took the lead in carrying the tools for building walls.
Your Majesty should dispatch all the troops from Huainan and lead them personally as the vanguard of the Chu army. But now you only send 4,000 troops to aid Chu.
As a minister who serves others, is this what he should be like?
The King of Han is fighting in Pengcheng, and King Xiang has not yet left Qi. The king should dispatch all the troops from Huainan and travel day and night to Pengcheng to join the battle.
The king now has tens of thousands of troops, but no one has crossed the Huai River. He wants to sit back and watch who can win.
Is this what a person who entrusts state affairs to others should be like?
The king pretends to be close to and dependent on Chu State, but wants to rely entirely on himself. I think it is undesirable for the king to do this.
However, the king did not betray Chu because he thought Han was weak.
Although Chu's army was powerful, it was considered unjust by the people of the world because it betrayed the alliance and killed the Righteous Emperor.
However, the king of Chu thought he was powerful because he could win battles.
The King of Han united the princes and returned to garrison Chenggao and Rongyang. He transported grain from Shu and Hanzhong counties, dug deep trenches, reinforced fortifications, and divided his troops to guard the border fortresses.
The Chu people transferred their troops back, separated by beams, and penetrated eight to nine hundred miles into the enemy's country. If they wanted to fight, they would not be able to succeed, and they would not have enough strength to attack the city. The old, weak and disabled soldiers had to transport food from thousands of miles away.
When the Chu army reached Rongyang and Chenggao, the Han army held fast and did not go out to fight. In this way, it could not attack if they advanced and could not escape if they retreated. Therefore, the Chu army was easily exhausted.
If the Chu army defeated the Han army, the princes in various places would be afraid and rescue the Han army because they felt that they were in danger.
The Chu State was powerful enough to attract all the troops in the world to deal with it.
Therefore, Chu is inferior to Han. This situation is obvious.
Now that the king does not have good relations with Han, who is completely sure of victory, but instead relies on Chu who is in a critical position, I feel puzzled for the king.
I don't think Huainan's military strength is enough to destroy Chu.
If the king raises an army to rebel against Chu, King Xiang will definitely stay in Qi; if he stays for a few months, there will be no doubt that King Han will seize the world.
I request you and your Majesty to hold your sword and return to the King of Han. The King of Han will definitely cede the land and grant you the title of King. Moreover, Huainan will definitely belong to your Majesty.
Therefore, the King of Han specially sent me here to propose a stupid plan, hoping that the King would consider it carefully. King Huainan said: "I obey."
He secretly promised to betray Chu and join the Han, but he did not dare to leak it.
The Chu State's envoy was there and was eager to ask Yingbu to send troops. Sui He rushed in and said: The King of Jiujiang has returned to Han State, why should Chu State ask him to send troops?
Yingbu was shocked.
The Chu envoy stood up, and Sui He took advantage of the situation to persuade Ying Sermon: The matter has been done, we can only kill the Chu envoy, do not let him go back, and quickly return to Han to fight together.
Yingbu said: Follow the instructions of the messenger.
So he raised an army to attack the state of Chu.
Chu State sent Xiang Sheng and Long Qie to attack Huainan State, while King Xiang stayed to attack Xiayi.
A few months later, Long Qie attacked Huainan and defeated Yingbu's army.
Yingbu wanted to lead his troops to flee to Han, but he was afraid that King Xiang would intercept him, so he fled back to Han with Sui He through a small road.
When they arrived in the desert country, the king of Han was sitting on the bed washing his feet. He called Yingbu in to see him.
Yingbu was furious, regretted coming to Han, and wanted to commit suicide.
Yingbu came out and lived in a guest house. The curtains, food, and accompanying officials were the same as those of the King of Han Dynasty. Yingbu was unexpected and very happy.
So he sent people to Jiujiang.
The King of Chu had already sent Xiang Bo to recruit Jiujiang troops and killed Yingbu's wife and children.
Yingbu's envoy found many of Yingbu's old friends and close subordinates, and led many soldiers back to Han.
The king of Han allocated more soldiers to Yingbu and went north with him, recruiting troops along the way to Chenggao.
In the autumn and July of the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu was granted the title of King of Huainan and jointly attacked Xiang Yu.
Yingbu sent people to Jiujiang and secured several counties.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu and Liu Jia entered Jiujiang and lured the great Sima Zhou Yin to surrender. Zhou Yin rebelled against Chu.
He mobilized the Jiujiang troops to attack the Chu army together with the Han army, and defeated the Chu army in Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu's death, the emperor held a banquet and belittled Sui He in front of the ministers, saying that he was a pedantic nerd. There is no need for nerds to govern the world!
Sui He knelt down and said, "Your Majesty is leading troops to attack Pengcheng. The King of Chu has not yet left Qi. Your Majesty has mobilized 50,000 infantry and 5,000 cavalry. Can you use them to capture Huainan?"
The emperor said: No.
Sui He said: Your Majesty sent me and 20 people as envoys to the Huainan Kingdom, and your Majesty's wish was fulfilled. This shows that my contribution is greater than the 50,000 infantry and 5,000 cavalry.
However, Your Majesty said that I am a nerd, and there is no need for a nerd to govern the world. Why is this?
The emperor said: I am estimating your contribution.
He was appointed as the lieutenant of the guard army.
Yingbu was named King of Huainan and established six counties as his capital. Jiujiang, Lujiang, Hengshan, and Yuzhang counties were all placed under Yingbu's control.
In the sixth year of Han Dynasty, Yingbu went to Chen County to meet the emperor.
In the year of Han Dynasty, I went to Luoyang to meet him.
In the ninth year of Han Dynasty, he went to Chang'an to meet with him.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Empress Gao executed the Marquis of Huaiyin, and Yingbu was filled with fear.
In summer, the king of Han killed Peng Yue, king of Liang, and gave his meat sauce to every prince.
When they arrived at the Huainan Kingdom, the King of Huainan was hunting. When he saw the meat paste, he was greatly frightened and secretly sent people to gather troops to spy on the movements in neighboring counties.
Yingbu had a concubine who was ill and went to see a doctor.
The doctor's house was across from the doctor's house, so Benhe gave her very expensive gifts and had a banquet with his concubine at the doctor's house.
My concubine served the King of Huainan. During the chat, she praised Ben He as a loyal and mature man.
King Huainan was angry and said: Where did you know him?
The concubine explained the situation in detail. The King of Huainan suspected that she was having an affair with Ben He.
Ben He was afraid and said he was sick.
King Huainan became even more angry and wanted to capture Ben He.
Benhe wanted to report to Yingbu and take a post train to Chang'an.
Yingbu sent people to chase him, but he failed to catch up.
Benhe went to Chang'an and wrote a letter to report that Yingbu showed signs of rebellion and could kill him before the rebellion happened.
The emperor told Xiao Xiangguo about Ben He's petition, and Xiao Xiangguo said: Ying Bu should not have such a thing, I am afraid that someone who has hatred for him deliberately framed him.
Please imprison Ben He and send someone to secretly inspect King Huainan.
When Yingbu saw Benhe running away in fear of crime, he reported him to the court. He had already suspected that he had told some secrets of Huainan. However, the envoys of the Han Dynasty came again and proved it, so he killed Benhe's family and launched an army to rebel.
After the imperial court received reports of Yingbu's rebellion, the emperor pardoned Ben He and appointed him as a general.
The emperor summoned the princes and asked: Yingbu rebelled, what should be done to him?
The princes all said: If we send troops to bury this boy alive, what else can we do?
Teng Gong, the Marquis of Ruyin, asked his retainer Xue Gong what he thought of this matter. Xue Gong said: Yingbu should have rebelled.
Teng Gong analyzed: The emperor ceded territory and granted him titles to make him noble. He became the king of the south and became the monarch of a country of ten thousand chariots. What was the reason for his rebellion?
Duke Xue said: "In the past year, I killed Peng Yue and then killed Han Xin. These three people have equal merit and are of the same type."
He suspected that the disaster would involve him, so he rebelled.
Teng Gong reported these words to the emperor and said: My retainer is the former Chu State Commander Yin Xue Gong. If he has a plan for entering, you can ask him.
The emperor summoned Duke Xue to question him. Duke Xue replied: It is not surprising that Yingbu rebelled.
If Yingbu adopts the best strategy, the Shandong region will no longer be owned by the Han Dynasty; if he uses the middle strategy, victory or defeat will be unpredictable; if he adopts the lower strategy, his majesty can sit back and relax.
The emperor asked: What is the best policy?
Duke Xue replied: If you attack Wu State to the east, Chu State to the west, annex Qi State, seize the land of Lu, and send a document to Yan State and Zhao State to secure these places, Shandong area will no longer be owned by the Han Dynasty.
The emperor asked: What is Zhongce?
He replied: Attack Wu State from the east, Chu State from the west, annex South Korea, seize Wei State, occupy Aocang's grain, and blockade the main roads of Chenggao. It is difficult to predict whether we will win or lose.
The emperor asked: What is the next best option?
He replied: Go east to capture Wu State, go west to capture Cai Cai, hoard supplies to Yue, and live in Changsha. Your Majesty can sit back and relax, and the Han Dynasty will be safe.
The emperor asked, "What strategy will he adopt?" Duke Xue replied, "The next strategy will be adopted."
The emperor said: Why not adopt the best policy but adopt the worst policy?
Duke Xue said: Yingbu was originally a prisoner of Mount Li, and became the king of a great country. He did this all for his own sake, and did not think of the people or future generations, so he would adopt the worst policy. The emperor said: OK.
Grant Xue Gong a thousand properties.
So he sent troops and personally led the eastward attack on Yingbu.
When Yingbu began to rebel, he told his generals: The emperor is old and tired of war, so he will definitely not lead his troops in person.
He will send generals. Among the generals, I am only afraid of Huaiyin Hou Han Xin and Peng Yue. Now that they are dead, the rest are not worth fearing.
So they rebelled.
Sure enough, as Xue Gong analyzed, Yingbu attacked Jing State eastward, and Jing King Liu Mai escaped and died in Fuling.
Yingbu hijacked his troops and crossed the Huaihe River to attack Chu.
Chu State mobilized troops to fight with Yingbu between Xu County and Tong County. The Chu army was divided into three groups, trying to rescue each other and win by surprise.
Someone advised the generals of Chu State: Yingbu is good at using troops, and the people have always been afraid of him.
Moreover, the art of war says that when princes fight on their own land, they will easily escape.
Now the army is divided into three groups. If he defeats one of us, the rest will flee. How can we rescue each other?
Chu will not listen.
Yingbu really defeated one of them, and the other two disintegrated and ran away.
Yingbu advanced westward, met the emperor's army in the west of Qixian County, and fought in Zhenxiang.
Yingbu's army was very elite, so the emperor defended Yongcheng and saw Yingbu's army arrayed like Xiang Yu's army.
The emperor was disgusted by this. Seeing each other with Yingbu, he said to Yingbu from a distance: Why bother to rebel?
Yingbu said: I just want to be emperor.
The emperor scolded him angrily, so he fought and defeated Yingbu's army.
Yingbu's army was defeated and fled across the Huaihe River. They stopped and fought many times but always failed. Yingbu and more than a hundred people fled to the south of the Yangtze River.
Yingbu was originally married to Fanjun Wu Rui, so King Ai of Changsha deceived Yingbu and pretended to flee to South Vietnam with him. Yingbu believed him and followed him to Fanyang.
The Fanyang people killed Yingbu in Zixiang and finally destroyed Yingbu.
The emperor granted Benhe the title of marquis, and six other generals received the title.
Lu Wan, a native of Fengyi, was from the same hometown as Gaozu.
Lu Wan's father was friendly with Gaozu's father and had children at the same time. Gaozu and Lu Wan were born on the same day. The villagers brought sheep and wine to congratulate both families.
When Gaozu and Lu Wan grew up, they studied together and became friendly.
The villagers praised the two families for being friendly to each other. They gave birth to a son on the same day, and the son grew up to be friendly again. They once again congratulated the two families with sheep and wine.
When Emperor Gaozu was still a commoner, Lu Wan always followed him around because he broke the law and evaded hiding.
When Emperor Gaozu raised troops in Pei County, Lu Wan followed him as a guest, entered Hanzhong and was promoted to general, often accompanying him in the inner court.
Following Gaozu's campaign against Xiang Yu, he always stayed close to him as a Taiwei, entering and leaving Gaozu's bedroom, receiving food, clothing, and various rewards, which none of the ministers dared to compare with.
Even though people like Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were respected only because of their career needs, as for the favor they received, no one could compare to Lu Wan.
Lu Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an.
Chang'an is the original Xianyang.
After Xiang Ji died, Lu Wan was asked to lead another army and attack Linjiang King Gongwei together with Liu Mai. After returning, he followed Emperor Gaozu to attack Zang Tu, King of Yan, and defeated the enemy and pacified those places.
At that time, there were seven princes who were not named Liu and were crowned kings.
The emperor wanted to make Lu Wan king, but the officials were dissatisfied and complained.
When Zang Tu was captured, he issued a letter from Shao and ordered the ministers and princes to choose the meritorious minister among the ministers to be crowned King of Yan.
The officials knew that the emperor wanted to make Lu Wan a king, and they all said: Lu Wan, the Taiwei Marquis of Chang'an, who often followed the emperor to bring peace to the world, and who made the most contributions, can be made king.
The emperor appointed Lu Wan as King of Yan.
Among the princes and kings, no one was as favored as King Yan.
Six years after Lu Wan was granted the title of King of Yan, Chen Xi collapsed due to suspicion of his rebellion.
Chen Xi was from Wanju County. He didn't know why he followed the King of Han in the first place.
When King Xin of Han rebelled against the Han and entered the Huns, and the emperor came back from Pingcheng, Chen Xi was granted the title of Marquis by the doctor, and as Zhao Xiangguo, he commanded and supervised the troops of Tangguo and Daiguo, and all the border defense troops belonged to him.
When Chen Xi was young, he often praised and admired Wei Gongzi Xinlingjun. When he was leading troops to guard the border fortress, he widely solicited and adopted guests.
When he returned to his hometown on vacation, he passed through the state of Zhao. There were more than a thousand cars with his guests, and the guesthouse of the Handan government was full.
Chen Xi treated his guests with the same etiquette as when interacting with civilians, always treating others with humility.
Zhou Chang, the Prime Minister of Zhao State, requested to go to the capital to see the emperor. He explained in detail that Chen Xi had many guests and had many troops outside, so there was a fear that something might happen.
The emperor sent people to investigate and interrogate various illegal activities of Chen Xi's guests who lived in Daidi, and many of them implicated Chen Xi.
Chen Zhu was frightened and secretly asked the guests to send envoys to Wang Huang and Manqiuchen's residence.
In the autumn of the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, the emperor went to the emperor. The emperor summoned Chen Xi because of this incident. Chen Xici said that he was ill, so he rebelled with Wang Huang and others, proclaimed himself the acting king, and plundered the land.
When the emperor found out, he pardoned the officials and people who were not implicated by Chen Xi and held him hostage.
The emperor personally attacked Chen Xi and eliminated Chen Zhu's rebels. The matter is in "Gaodi Ji".
At first, the emperor went to Handan to attack Chen Xi's rebels, and King Lu Wan of Yan also attacked his northeast.
Chen Xi sent Wang Huang to the Xiongnu to ask for help. King Lu Wan of Yan also sent his subordinate Zhang Sheng as an envoy to the Xiongnu to inform Chen Xi and others that their army had been defeated.
Zhang Sheng went to the Xiongnu. Zang Yan, the son of Zang Tu, the former king of Yan, fled to the Xiongnu. He visited Zhang Sheng and said: The reason why you are respected in Yan is that you are familiar with Xiongnu affairs.
The reason why the Yan State was able to survive for a long time was that the princes frequently rebelled and could not be stabilized by the use of troops for many years.
Now you want to quickly eliminate Chen Xi and others for the sake of the Yan State. After Chen Xi and others are destroyed, it will be the turn of the Yan State, and you will also be prisoners.
Why don't you let King Yan let Chen Xi go for the time being and unite with the Xiongnu?
There is room for things to happen and he can rule the Yan Kingdom for a long time. If there is an emergency of the Han Dynasty's conquest, he can rely on this background to protect the country.
Zhang Sheng thought that what he said was right, so he ordered the Huns to attack Yan without permission.
The king of Yan, Lu Wan, suspected that Zhang Sheng was friends with the Xiongnu and plotted rebellion, so he wrote a petition asking his clan to destroy Zhang Sheng.
Zhang Sheng came back and reported in detail the reasons for doing so.
When Lu Wan came to his senses, he deceitfully sentenced other people, exonerating Zhang Sheng and his family members, allowing them to become spies for the Huns.
He also secretly sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi's residence, hoping to make the war against the imperial court continue for a long time.
The Han Dynasty beheaded Chen Xi, and his lieutenant surrendered, saying that King Lu Wan of Yan sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi's station to inform him of his strategy.
The emperor sent an envoy to summon Lu Wan, but Lu Wan excused himself from illness.
The emperor also sent the Marquis of Piyang to examine Shiqi and the imperial censor Yao to meet Lu Wan, taking the opportunity to check with the people around King Yan.
Lu Wan became even more frightened, closed the door and hid, and said to his most trusted ministers: The only ones who are kings are not Liu, but the King of Changsha and I.
Last year, the imperial clan destroyed the Marquis of Huaiyin and killed Peng Yue. It was Empress Lu's plan.
Now that the emperor was ill, the power was entrusted to Empress Lu.
Empress Lu was a Taoist woman who wanted to find trouble and kill the king with a different surname and the great hero.
So he said he was sick and couldn't get up. His ministers fled into hiding.
Many of what he said were leaked. Marquis Piyang heard about it and returned to the capital to report to the emperor in detail, which made the emperor even more angry.
He also collected people who had surrendered from the Xiongnu and said that Zhang Sheng was living in exile in the Xiongnu and acting as an envoy to the Yan Kingdom.
So the emperor said: Lu Wan has really rebelled!
He sent Fan Sha to attack King Lu Wan of Yan.
Lu Wan, along with all his family members and thousands of cavalry, were stationed under the Great Wall to wait and watch, hoping that the emperor would recover and go to Beijing to plead guilty in person.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Lu Wan led his men to flee into the Huns, who made him King of East Hulu.
Lu Wan was bullied and plundered by the barbarians, and often thought of returning to the Han Dynasty.
More than a year later, he died in the Huns.
When he was the empress, Lu Wan's wife and son escaped from the Xiongnu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. When the empress became ill and could not be received, they were asked to live in Yan's mansion and planned to hold a banquet to invite them.
Empress Gao eventually passed away, and Lu Wan's wife also died of illness.
During the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Lu Wan's grandson Lu Taren surrendered to the Han Dynasty as King Shuhu and was granted the title of Marquis of Evil Valley.
It was passed down to his great-grandson that the feudal state was abolished due to crime.
Wu Rui was the magistrate of Fanyang County during the Qin Dynasty. He was very popular among the people in the Jianghu area and was known as Fanjun.
The world began to rebel against the Qin Dynasty, Yingbu surrendered to Wu Rui, and Wu Rui married his daughter to him. So he led the Yue people to raise troops to respond to the anti-Qin struggles in various places.
Peigong attacked Nanyang County and encountered Wu Rui's general Mei Guo, so he and he attacked Xi County and Li County of Nanyang County. Both counties surrendered.
When Xiang Yu divided the princes among the princes, Wu Rui led the Baiyue soldiers to cooperate with the princes and followed them into Guanzhong, so he made Wu Rui the king of Hengshan and established Zhu as his capital.
His general Mei Guo had many merits and was granted the title of lord of 100,000 households.
After Xiang Yu's death, the emperor followed him into Wuguan because of his merits in the plum pot. So he was grateful to Wu Rui and changed his title to King of Changsha. He established his capital in Linxiang. He died a year later and was named King Wen. Zicheng Wang Wuchen succeeded to the throne.
When Wu Chen died, his son Ai Wang Hui succeeded to the throne.
Wu Hui died, and Wu You, the king of Zi Gong, succeeded to the throne.
Wu You died, and Wu Cha, the king of Zijing, succeeded to the throne.
Wu Chai died in the seventh year of Emperor Wen's reign without a son, and the feudal state was abolished.
At the beginning, King Wen Wu Rui, considered by Emperor Gaozu to be virtuous and loyal to the court, ordered the censor to say: The loyalty of the King of Changsha must be written in the decree.
At the time of Emperor Hui and Empress Gao, Wu Rui's two sons other than his legitimate son were granted the title of marquis. The title was passed down for several generations before being abolished.
Zan said: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu pacified the world, among the heroes who were not named Liu, there were eight countries who were crowned kings.
Zhang Er, Wu Rui, Peng Yue, Ting Bu, Zang Tu, Lu Wan and the two Han Xins were all able to adapt to the current situation, adapt to changes, and achieve success by virtue of cunning and strength. They all received fiefs, sat facing south, and called Gu the king.
Because they were powerful and were suspected by the court, they could not feel at ease. When things developed in the end, the situation was urgent and they were forced to plan a rebellion, and finally perished.
Zhang Er relied on his wisdom to save himself, and it was passed down to his son that he also lost his title.
Only Wu Rui did not violate the right path from the beginning, so he was able to pass the king's title to the fifth generation. However, the kingdom was abolished because there was no heir. There is a reason why his blessings were passed on to the descendants other than his legitimate son!
Written on important decrees issued by the imperial court to commend his loyalty!
