Zheng Miao, courtesy name Uncle Lin, was a native of Kaifeng, Xingyang.
The great ancestor Zheng Zhong was the chief agricultural officer during the Han Dynasty.
His father, Zheng Tai, was the governor of Yangzhou during the Han Dynasty and had a good reputation.
Zheng Miao lost his father when he was young, and he was insightful and able to identify talents very early.
Xun You saw him and said, "Zheng Gongye seems to be still alive."
Zheng Miao fled to Jiangdong with his uncle Zheng Hun.
At that time, Hua Xin was the governor of Yuzhang, and Zheng Hun went to join him. Hua Xin had always been friendly with Zheng Tai and raised Zheng Miao as his own son.
Zheng Miao did not return to his hometown until he was seventeen years old.
Be an upright person.
At that time, Wei Xie, a native of Jiyin, was appointed as the prime minister of the country and was very famous. Ren Lan, who was in the same county as Zheng Yu, made friends with him.
Zheng Miao believed that Wei Xi was a traitor who would eventually cause disaster, and advised Ren Lan to stay away from him.
When Wei Xi was defeated, everyone who discussed it praised Zheng Mao.
When Emperor Wu of Wei first made his sons princes, he carefully selected their retainers and friends. Zheng Miao and Xu Qian both served as Marquis of Linzi, and later became Sili Gongcao.
Wang Lang of Sikong invited him to serve as subordinate officials. Zheng Mian recommended Xu Yun from Gaoyang, Lu Zhi from Fufeng, and Wang Ji from Donglai. Wang Lang appointed them all. Later, they all became high-ranking officials with high reputations.
Zheng Miao was promoted to Shangshu Lang.
Later, he was appointed as Li Yangling, and his subordinates and people were sincerely convinced.
The prefect evaluated subordinate officials. After screening, Zheng Miao stood out and was ranked first among the county magistrates.
He was promoted to Minister Youcheng.
He was appointed as the prefect of Jiyin. When he took office, he praised the filial and brotherly people, respected the talented and talented people, and established schools to educate the younger generations.
He was transferred to the rank of general to serve as a lieutenant and a regular attendant on the casual cavalry.
When there was a vacancy for the governor of Guangping, Emperor Xuan said to Zheng Miao: Your uncle will be a great craftsman. Zheng Hun will have a good reputation in Yangping and Wei counties, and the people will be favored and influenced.
Moreover, Lu Zisai and Wang Ziyong continued to manage this county, so that there was no shortage of virtuous people from generation to generation, so I asked you to serve again.
When Zheng Miao was in Guangping, he put education first and was good at using laws and regulations to manage people. The people loved him.
He was recruited as a servant, and the people respected him and were reluctant to let him go. They cried and saw him off by the roadside.
Promoted to Shaofu.
When Gaogui Xianggong came to the throne, Zheng Miao and his mother Yin Wangsheng prepared chariots and horses to greet him in Yuanqiu, and granted him the title of Marquis of Ludantai.
He was appointed Guang Luxun and led Zongzheng.
Guanqiu Jian made a rebellion, and Emperor Jing personally conquered it. Hundreds of officials gathered in the city to offer sacrifices to him as a road god to see him off. Zheng Miao was ill and could not arrive.
Emperor Jing said to Wang Su, the leader of the army: It's just a pity that I didn't see Yinmao.
Wang Su told Zheng Miao, and Zheng Miao personally drove the car to chase Emperor Jing and caught up with him not far away.
Emperor Jing smiled and said: I knew you would definitely come like Hou Sheng.
So he and Zheng Miao rode in the car together and asked him: What strategy should I use first?
Zheng Miao replied: Li Qiujian and I were both ministers in the past, so I knew him very well.
This person likes strategies but does not know the truth. Since his past achievements in Youzhou, his ambitions and desires are unlimited.
Wen Qin is brave but has no plans.
Now the king's army was surprised, and the Jiang and Huai soldiers were energetic but unable to hold on. We dug deep ditches and built high fortresses to dampen their enthusiasm. This is what Yafuqu is best at.
Emperor Jing agreed.
Changing appointments is too common.
Gaogui Jinggong asked the ministers to discuss the establishment of Mingtang Piyong, carefully selected doctors, and promoted Liu Yi, Liu Shi, Cheng Xian, and Yu Jun. They all later reached the high positions of three ministers and assistant ministers.
When Changdao Xianggong became the monarch, because he participated in the discussion and support, he was granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng Township and a thousand households in the city.
In the early years of Jingyuan, he became seriously ill and lost his sight. He requested to retire many times but was not approved.
Dr. Ren Guanglu.
When the fifth level of nobility was established, he was granted the title of Mi Lingbo.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and became a marquis.
Although he had been ill for more than ten years, he was highly recommended by wise men at that time.
During the Taishi period, the edict stated: "Guanglu Milinghou Yuan is a pure man, with a quiet and peaceful demeanor when he retires, and a pure and flawless moral integrity when he enters. He should ascend to the position of the Three Dukes to make up for the vacancies of the Duke."
Zheng Miao was appointed Sikong.
Emperor Wu walked to the front of the palace and sent the Fifth Palace Commander Guo Tan to Zheng Yuan's house to announce the decree.
Zheng Miao repeatedly refused and sent his son back to the official seal, going back and forth more than ten times.
He said to Guotan: Wei appointed Xu Jingshan as Sikong. I was the minister at that time, and I accepted Shao as an imperial edict.
Tugong said to me: "The three princes should be in accordance with the will of God. It would really hurt the harmony of the people if they were not allowed to do so. I did not dare to humiliate the court with someone who was about to die, so I finally refused to accept the appointment."
It is not acceptable to follow in the footsteps of an elegant gentleman!
He resolutely refused, and it was only after a long time that he was allowed to retire as a marquis. He was awarded the same ceremony as the three divisions, set up official guards, and was rewarded with bedding and money of 500,000 yuan.
He died in nine years, at the age of eighty-five.
The emperor held a funeral ceremony in Shutang and was rewarded with a coffin, a set of court clothes, a piece of daily clothes, 300,000 yuan in money, and 100 pieces of silk each to use for the funeral.
Mi Hao Yuan.
He has six sons, the eldest son Zheng Mo succeeds, and the second sons Zheng Zhi, Zheng Shu, Zheng Xu, Zheng Cheng and Zheng Yu all reach the rank of minister.
Zheng Mo's courtesy name is Siyuan.
When I first became a secretary, I revised old articles and deleted redundant and dirty words.
Zhongshu ordered Yu Song to say to him: From now on, there will be a difference between red and purple.
He was changed to Shangshu Kaogong Lang, who was responsible for the campaign against Shu. He was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei, and was promoted to Situ Zuo Changshi.
When Emperor Wu of Jin accepted the concession from Emperor Wei, Zheng Mo and Guo Yi, a native of Taiyuan, were both concubines.
The imperial court believed that the crown prince's officials should be called accomplices, and Zheng Mo wrote in an edict: The crown prince embodies the nobility of the emperor and is selfless to the world.
Palace ministers are all under orders from the imperial court and cannot be equated with a feudal state.
The suggestion was adopted.
When he was appointed as the prefect of Sedeng, it was a time of famine and people were hungry. He opened a warehouse to help the people. Then he lived in the county seat and asked for punishment.
The imperial court believed that this was an act of concern for the country, and Xia Shao praised him and compared him to Ji An.
The imperial court also announced to the world that if any county or county has such a situation, it will be dealt with accordingly.
He was summoned to serve as a regular attendant on Sanqi.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu believed that the clan's children should be ranked according to their rank, and the villagers did not dare to be of the same rank as them, so they sought help from the state, so the Zhongzheng of the twelve counties jointly recommended Zheng Mo.
Emperor Wen wrote to Zheng Miao: I am really ashamed that I can be among the virtuous people.
When Emperor Wu was worshiping heaven in the southern suburbs, he issued an edict to let Zheng Mo accompany him. He said to Zheng Mo: Do ​​you know why I asked you to accompany me?
It turns out that the state recommends you to the same level, which often impairs fair evaluation.
So when asked about political affairs, Qian Yao said: Diligent farming is the foundation of the country, and selecting talents is the way to save the world.
A long term of office is beneficial to political affairs. Advance and retreat cautiously to facilitate admonishment.
Respecting the true meaning of Confucianism is the foundation of education and guidance.
That's all.
Emperor Wu agreed.
Later, he resigned because of his father's funeral and was soon promoted to Tingwei.
At that time, the imperial court ordered Yuan Yi to commit bribery and sentenced him to prison.
Many officials in the government were implicated, but brother Zheng Mo was the only one who stayed clean.
Promotions come too often.
At that time, Pushe Shantao wanted to recommend a relative to be a doctor, and said to Zheng Mo: You seem to be Yin Wenggui, so I dare not say anything more.
Zheng Mo is an honest and dignified person, soft yet strong, and this is generally the case.
When Sima You, King of Qi, was about to entrust the state, he asked the ceremonial officials to discuss the rules and regulations of Chongci.
The doctor's offer of wine to Cao Zhi and others went against Sima You's wishes. Zheng Mo did not investigate further and was dismissed from office because he was implicated and found guilty.
Soon he was appointed Dahonglu.
When his mother passed away, as usual, he had to come back to serve after the funeral. Zheng Mo begged not to come back, but it took a long time for him to be allowed.
So the law was changed and the ministers were allowed to remain in mourning until their period of mourning expired. This started from Zheng Mo.
After the period of mourning expired, he was appointed as Da Si Nong and then as Guang Luxun.
He died in the first year of Taikang at the age of sixty-eight, and his name was Mi.
Shangshu ordered Wei Guan to report: Zheng Mo is highly respected and should be appointed as the Third Duke. However, he served as the Nine Ministers five times and did not fully demonstrate his virtue. He should be granted the posthumous title of Third Duke.
The queen's father, Yang Jun, originally wanted to marry his daughter to Zheng Mo's son Zheng Yu. Zheng Mo said: Every time I read "Juan Buyi Biography", I often think about this person.
Fearing and staying away from people in positions of power is something we have to abide by for generations.
So he declined. Yang Jun was very jealous.
Therefore, he disagreed and the matter was not implemented.
Zheng Mo was generous and gentle, full of love, modest and prudent, and did not look down on others with his talent or family status. He was respectful to his superiors and courteous to his subordinates. He did not get angry even with his domestic servants, but there was still estrangement and resentment, so the scholar-bureaucrats thought it was difficult to live in society.
Zheng Mo's son Zheng Qiu.
Zheng Qiu's courtesy name is Ziyu.
When he was young, he was recruited by the Prime Minister's Office and served in Shu Palace.
The king of Chengdu was appointed as a general and launched an army to attack Sima Lun, the king of Zhao. Zheng Qiu was changed from the governor of Dunqiu to the post of You Changshi, and was named Pingshou Gong for his merits.
He was promoted many times and served as Shizhong, Shangshu, Sanqi Changshi, Zhonghujun, Shangshu Youpushe, and led the official department.
He died in the second year of Yongjia, and was posthumously named Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, with the title of Yuan.
Zheng Qiu's younger brother Zheng Yu served as minister in the last years of Yongjia.
Li Yin, whose courtesy name was Xuanbo, was from Xiangping, Liaodong.
Grandfather Li Min was the governor of Hanoi during the Han Dynasty. He resigned and returned to his hometown. Gongsun Du, the governor of Liaodong, wanted to force him to become an official. He drifted into the sea in a small boat and disappeared without a trace.
His son Li Xin has been looking for him for many years, crossing the sea and outside the Great Wall, but has never found him. He wants to mourn, but doubts that he is still alive, so he feels like he is mourning and does not want to get married.
Later, because a neighbor and an old friend of the same age as his father died, he also began to mourn.
Xu Miao, a native of Yan State who lived with him, persuaded him to marry him on the grounds that it was extremely unfilial to have no offspring.
After giving birth to Li Yin, he cut off contact with his wife as if in mourning. He was overly sad and died a few years later.
Li Yin lost his father when he was young, and his mother remarried. When he became an adult, he went on a diet and was sad, saying that he was in mourning.
Because the life and death of my grandfather were unknown, a wooden tablet was set up to worship him.
Therefore, he is famous for his filial piety.
The appearance is unmodified and weak, but he is knowledgeable, magnanimous and true to his word.
At the beginning, Li Yin was the chief planner of the county and state. He was requisitioned from the prefecture to work in the ministry and govern the country. He was promoted to Xiaolian and participated in the military affairs of Zhenbei.
He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Leping and advocated simplicity and simplicity in his administration.
He was summoned to serve as Shangshu Lang, and he was changed to Sima of the Central Guards Army and Minister of Civil Affairs to select officials who were fair and honest.
He was given the title of Marquis of Guanzhong and appointed as the prefect of Anfeng.
Emperor Wen used him as a general to serve as a lieutenant, and changed his position to a censor, Zhongcheng. He enforced the law impartially, and all officials were afraid of him.
When he conquered Shu, he was appointed as General Xizhong Lang and in charge of all military affairs in Guanzhong.
Later he served as Yin of Henan and was granted the title of Guanglu Bo.
In the early years of Taishi, he was appointed as Shangshu and became a Marquis.
Li Yin's memorial says: In ancient times, the Three Dukes sat down to discuss Taoism, participating in the affairs of the six officials internally, and participating in the teachings of the Six Armies outside. They were in the position of the Three Dukes, and they also heard cases, examined difficult laws, and discussed with ministers.
Your Majesty is a wise man who manages all matters day by day, issues many edicts, and follows ancient laws. Even though Tang and Yu visited and asked for help, Zhou's writings were rigorous, but he could not catch up.
From now on, when there are important matters in the country, you can personally summon the princes to ask for the correct advice.
When encountering difficulties, it can be extended to Taiwan Province and let the ministers and ministers express their opinions.
If you are ill and do not come, you can temporarily send a close minister to inquire. The emperor issued an edict and agreed.
He was promoted to the position of Pushe, Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and soon he was promoted to Prince Shaofu.
Because of his high integrity, he was appointed as the captain of Sili School.
Li Yin repeatedly stated that he was worthy of being the prince's master and was not suitable to serve as a supervisor.
Emperor Wu believed that those holding these two positions must be loyal and wise, so he disagreed every time.
In the early years of Xianning, the crown prince came to live in the East Palace. Emperor Wu thought that the affairs of the Sili school captain were heavy, and the young master had to tutor the crown prince in the morning and evening. Li Yin had always been in weak health and should not be tired for a long time, so he was changed to serve in the imperial palace and was promoted to special rank.
Soon he was appointed as the Minister of Secretariat, and Shizhong and Tejin remained as before.
Although Li Yin had held official positions inside and outside the court, his family was very poor and frugal. His son was sick and had no money to buy medicine.
When Emperor Wu heard about it, he rewarded him with a hundred thousand yuan.
Later, Emperor Wu believed that there was a Situ in the position of prime minister in the past, and Li Yin was appointed Situ in Xia Shao.
He has been in office for five years, and he is quiet, prudent and very competent.
On the grounds that Wu Hui had just been pacified and many ministers had meritorious service and should be promoted, Shangshu requested to resign.
Emperor Wu refused to listen and sent his servants to announce the decree. He refused to go to the throne and issued a thick edict to urge him.
Li Yin had no choice but to come out to deal with political affairs.
When Taikang passed away in the third year of his life, Emperor Wu issued an edict to send censors to monitor the funeral procession and mourn him, and the title of Mi was established.
The crown prince asked Wang Zan, the prince of the family, to write a condolence article. The writing style and content were very beautiful.
Emperor Wu later remembered Li Yin's noble integrity and told Shao: The late Situ Li Yin, Taichang Peng Guan, was loyal, noble and frugal. After his death, his family had no money left. He rewarded Li Yin's family with two million yuan and one thousand dendrobiums of grain, while Peng Guan's family was given half of it.
Three sons: Li Gu, Li Zhenchang, and Li Xiu.
Li Gu, whose courtesy name was Wanji, served as a Sanqi Lang. He died before Li Yin, and his son Li Zhi inherited the title.
Li Zhi, whose courtesy name was Yandao, served successively as Minister of Sanqi, General Jianwei, and Grand Administrator of Yangping.
Chief Li Zhen arrives at Taipuqing.
Li Xiu was appointed as Huangmen's minister and his concubine.
Lu Qin, named Ziruo, was from Fanyang Zhuo.
His grandfather Lu Zhi was a minister during the Han Dynasty.
His father, Lu Yu, served as Sikong during the Wei Dynasty.
Confucianism has been prominent for generations.
Lu Qin was indifferent and far-sighted, specializing in classics and history. He was promoted as a filial and honest man. However, if he did not leave, Cao Shuang, the general of Wei, recruited him as a subordinate official.
Cao Shuang's younger brother once had some instructions. Lu Qin told them that they should act in accordance with the law. Cao Shuang strongly agreed and punished his younger brother.
Served as Shangshu Lang.
Cao Shuang was killed and Lu Qin was dismissed from office.
Later, he became a censor, inherited his father's title of Marquis of Daliting, and was promoted to the prefect of Langxie many times.
When Emperor Xuan was appointed as Taifu, he was recruited as a Zhonglang and was appointed as Yangping Prefect. He was promoted to the governor of Huaibei and the general of Fubo. He had great political achievements.
He was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi and a great minister of agriculture. He was promoted to Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and was granted the title of Marquis of Liang Dynasty.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and appointed Lu Qin as the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Mianbei, General Pingnan, and Jiejie. He also gave Zhuifeng Tao a sleeping chariot each, two horses for the second son-in-law, riding equipment, knives, mirrors and armor for the imperial men, horses, etc., as well as 300,000 yuan in money.
Lu Qin was generous and fierce in the military town, and the border areas were safe and sound.
He was summoned to serve as a servant of the minister, a servant, a captain of the chariot, and the leader of the official department.
Because he was poor, he was given a hundred pieces of silk.
Lu Qin is a talented person and enjoys the reputation of being honest and fair.
Xianning died in the fourth year. The edict said: Lu Qin followed the right path and was honest and upright.
Excellent in both civil and military affairs, he is famous in China.
Keep secrets in hand and be fair in dealing with matters.
Work diligently both internally and externally, and do your best.
I am devastated by his tragic passing.
As a posthumous gift to General Wei and the three divisions of Kaifu Yitong, he was given a coffin, a set of court clothes, a piece of regular clothes, 50 pieces of cloth, and 300,000 yuan in money.
Mi Hao Yuan.
Because Lu Qin was loyal and noble, and did not run any property. After his death, his family had no real estate, so he was given a special reward of 500,000 yuan to build a house.
He also issued an edict saying: The late King Ji of Sikong, General Lu Qin of the Wei Army, and Yang Xiao, the general of the Lingdian Army, have always been poor. After their deaths, their families had no money left.
There has been a famine in Zha recently, and I heard that these families were particularly in need, so each of them was given three hundred dendrobiums of grain.
Lu Qin served as a local official successively, not advocating fame, but only aiming at fair governance.
The salary is distributed to relatives and old friends, and the family property is not managed.
According to the etiquette and regulations, the wife passed away, built a shabby house, and completed the mourning outside.
He has written dozens of poems, poems and essays, and the title of the book is "Xiao Dao".
Heir to son Louvre.
Lufu, whose courtesy name is Ziyun, first gave up his life to the prince.
A poisonous sore on his hand was amputated, leaving him disabled.
But the imperial court valued him very much and asked him to serve as a doctor of the imperial family, a wine minister, and a secretary-supervisor, but he refused.
Lu Qin's younger brother Lu Jue, also known as Zihu, was appointed as Weiweiqing.
Lu Jin, the son of Lu Cui.
Lu Zhi, whose courtesy name was Zidao, was initially recruited as a public official and a minister, and later served as Yeling.
When Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was guarding Ye, he liked his talents and entrusted him to his confidants, so he became the mastermind.
King Sima Jian of Qi raised troops and sent envoys to inform Sima Ying.
Sima Ying summoned Lu Zhi for discussion, and Lu Zhi said: King Zhao is tyrannical and willfully rebels, and everyone in the world hates him.
Now His Highness is in charge of the three armies, and he responds to sudden emergencies on a regular basis.
Those who seek to suppress rebellion will flee without a fight.
However, military matters are of great importance and are a matter of caution for saints.
The virtuous should be commended and valued, so that they can be popular among the public.
Sima Ying strongly agreed with him, re-selected his staff, hired high-level subordinate officials, enlisted Lu Zhi as a consultant to join the army, and appointed Zuo Changshi as his replacement, in charge of documents.
Sima Ying's forward commander Zhao Xiang was defeated by Sima Lun. The soldiers were frightened and most people advocated surrendering to Chaoge.
Lu Zhi said: Now that our army is defeated and the enemy has just won, they will surely relax their vigilance and become arrogant. If we stand still, the three armies will be afraid of failure. I am worried that they will not be able to use it.
Moreover, how can there be no victory or defeat in a war? We should choose elite troops to travel under the stars and night to catch the enemy by surprise. This is a clever strategy in using troops.
Sima Ying obeyed him.
Sima Lun was defeated, Lu Zhi advised Sima Ying: The King of Qi is known as a millionaire, and he is at loggerheads with Zhang Hong and others. His Highness crossed the Yellow River directly. This is a great achievement. No one can compare with His Highness, but now the King of Qi has to co-administrate the government with His Highness.
I heard that two heroes cannot coexist, and fame cannot coexist. Now it is best to ask the concubine to go back to visit her because she has a minor illness, to praise the king of Qi, and to slowly win over the people of the world. This is the best policy.
Sima Ying adopted his suggestion, so she returned to the feudal country on the grounds that her mother was ill, and handed over the important task to Sima Tong.
As a result, it has received widespread praise and people's aspiration.
The imperial court granted Lu Hu the title of Dadanzhao, and added casual cavalry as regular attendants.
Sima Xian, the king of Hejian, adopted Li Han's suggestion and wanted to eliminate the two kings and make Sima Ying the crown prince. He sent someone to report to Sima Ying. Sima Ying was about to agree, but Lu Zhijin tried to stop him and refused to listen.
When Sima Gang was destroyed, Sima Ying controlled the government and became ambitious.
Because Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, was involved, he could not do whatever he wanted and wanted to get rid of him secretly.
At that time, there was a rebellion by Zhang Chang in Jingzhou, and Sima Ying petitioned for a personal expedition, and the court agreed.
After Zhang Chang and others were destroyed, he returned to attack Simocong.
Lu Jinjin admonished him and said: "You have made great achievements in restoring national unification in the past. When the situation is settled, you should attribute it to the King of Qi. You will reject the reward of Nine Tins and give up political power. You will help the hungry people in Zhai, Yangzhou, and bury the bones of Huangqiao. These are all great benevolent deeds. There will be no one in the world who does not rely on you."
The rebels invaded and disturbed Jing and Chu. Now you have wiped them out, and the south has been peaceful. You have returned in triumph, stationed outside the pass, and entered the court as a civilian official. This is the cause of the overlord.
Sima Ying didn't listen.
After Sima Yi's death, Ying Shangzhi appointed Lu Zhi as the Secretary Supervisor and stayed in Ye to participate in the affairs of the prime minister's house.
The emperor was defeated by Dangyin, and Sima Ying sent Lu Jin to lead troops to greet the emperor.
Wang Jun attacked Ye, and Lu Zhi persuaded Ying to send the emperor back to Luoyang.
At that time, there were still 15,000 soldiers. Lu Zhiye regrouped and they were all lined up at dawn. However, Mrs. Cheng was still attached to Ye and refused to leave, so Yingti could not decide.
After a while, everyone dispersed, leaving only Lu Zhi, his son Lu Mi, his nephew Lu Sui, and Wu Ben in the palace, a thousand people. Lu Zhi once again urged Sima Ying to set off early.
At this time, there was a Taoist priest named Tong, who was called Saint, and the concubine believed in him.
When he was called in, he ordered two glasses of wine, drank them, and threw the glasses away, so he decided to use Lu Jin's plan.
But the men and horses dispersed again. Lu Zhi searched among the camps and got several deer carts. Sima Governor Han Xuan summoned Huangmen and got more than a hundred people.
Lu Zhi came to see the emperor, and the emperor asked him: What is the reason for such a defeat?
Lu Zhi replied: The thieves are still eighty miles away from Ye, but the soldiers were frightened and dispersed. My brother now wants to send His Majesty back to Luoyang.
The emperor said: Very good.
So we set off in an ox cart.
Hao Chang, the captain of the Tun Cavalry School, first led 8,000 troops to guard the bandits. The emperor summoned him. When the emperor arrived at Ji County, Hao Chang arrived with a strong force.
Lu Zhi was happy that the military power had been restored, and he wrote a letter of pardon from the emperor to celebrate with the people.
When he arrived in Luoyang, Lu Zhi asked Man Fen to serve as the commander of the Sili school.
Most of the people who had fled returned, and all the officials were basically in place. The emperor was very happy and rewarded him with two hundred pieces of Lu Jin silk, a hundred catties of cotton, a set of clothes, and a crane silk robe.
At first, Sima Xian, king of Hejian, heard that Wang Jun had raised troops and sent right general Zhang Fang to rescue Ye.
Zhang Fang heard that King Sima Ying of Chengdu was defeated and garrisoned in Luoyang. He did not dare to advance and launched troops to plunder and plunder. He secretly wanted to move the capital to Chang'an and burned down the ancestral temples and palaces, so he determined to move the capital.
Lu Zhi said to Zhang Fang: In the past, Dong Zhuo was tyrannical and burned Luoyang. The voice of resentment still exists for a hundred years. Why do you inherit him?
So give up.
Zhang Fang forced the emperor to go to his camp.
The emperor wept and got into the carriage, with only Lu Zhi at his side, and said: "Your Majesty, you should listen to your right general regarding matters today."
I am weak and timid, and I don’t know what to do to help His Majesty. I only know how to be loyal and stay with you.
After staying in Zhang Fang's camp for three days, he headed west. Lu Zhi followed him to Chang'an.
Sima Ying was deposed and Lu Zhi was dismissed from office.
When Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, welcomed the emperor, Sima Yi told the emperor to ask Sima Ying to return to Ye. He appointed Lu Zhi as the prefect of Wei County and added General Zuo to guard the north with Sima Ying.
When they arrived in Luoyang, they encountered Pingchang Company Ma Mo sent forward to protect Feng Song to resist Sima Ying.
Sima Ying returned to Chang'an. Before she arrived, she heard that Sima Ji had killed Zhang Fang and asked Sima Yue for peace.
Sima Ying lived in Huayin. Lu Zhi arrived in Chang'an, entered the palace to apologize, and immediately went to Wuguan to meet Sima Ying.
He fled to Nanyang, but was driven back to Hebei by Liu Tao.
When Sima Ying died, the officials and his family fled, and only Lu Zhi personally attended the funeral. People at that time praised him.
Sima Yue appointed Lu Zhi as a military counselor and offered wine, and was promoted to Weiwei. In the last years of Yongjia, he was appointed minister.
Luoyang fell, and Lu Zhi led his wife and children to the north to join Liu Kun, the governor of Bingzhou.
When he arrived in Yangyi, he was captured by Liu Can and killed in Pingyang together with his second sons Lu Mi and Lu Jiu.
The eldest son Lu Chen.
Lu Chen, whose courtesy name is Ziliang, has a clear mind, quick wit and insights. He likes "Lao" and "Zhuang" and is good at writing articles.
He married Princess Rongyang, the daughter of Emperor Wu, and served as Prince Consort, but the princess died before the marriage was consummated.
Later, he was promoted to scholar in the state and conscripted into Taiwei.
When Luoyang fell, he followed Lu Zhi to the north and attached himself to Liu Kun. He and Lu Zhi were captured by Liu Can.
Liu Can occupied Jinyang and left Lu Chen to join the army.
Liu Kun gathered some scattered troops and led Yi Lu's cavalry to attack Liu Can.
Liu Can was defeated and Lu Chen was able to return to Liu Kun. His parents and brothers who were in Pingyang were all killed by Liu Cong.
Liu Kun was appointed Sikong, with Lu Chen as chief clerk, and was appointed as Zhonglang.
Liu Kun's wife was Lu Chen's aunt. She loved him and valued his talents and family status.
In the last years of Jianxing, he followed Liu Kun to Duan Pichan.
Duan Pichen occupied Youzhou exclusively, with Lu Chen as his chariot.
Duan Pi Tan was defeated soon after he killed Liu Kun.
At that time, the road to the south was blocked, Duan Mobo was in western Liaoning, and Lu Chen went to join him.
In the early years of the Yuan Dynasty, Duan Mobo exchanged envoys with the Jin Dynasty. Lu Chen's envoy petitioned for Liu Kun, and the text was profound, so the court offered condolences and sacrifices.
Lu Chen was recruited many times as the Minister of Sanqi Zhongshu, but was retained by Duan Mobo and was not allowed to cross south.
Duan Mobo died and his younger brother Duan Liao succeeded to the throne. Lu Chen lived in a foreign country for nearly twenty years.
Shi Jilong conquered Liaoxi, and Lu Chen was captured by Shi Jilong. He was appointed as the minister of Zhongshu, the prince of the state, the minister of Zhongshu, and the supervisor of Zhongshu.
Ran Min killed Shi, and Lu Chen followed Ran Min's army and was killed in Xiangguo. He was sixty-seven years old. That was the sixth year of Yonghe.
Lu Chen was the son of a famous family. He had long had a reputation for his high talents and cleanliness, and was highly respected by people at the time.
At the time of the war in the Central Plains, Cui Yue from Qinghe, Xun Chuo from Jiechuan, Pei Xian from Hedong, and Fu Chang from Beidi were all trapped in foreign countries. Although they were very prominent in the later Zhao Dynasty, they were always ashamed of it.
President Lu Chen said to his sons: After my death, I will only be called Sikong Zhonglang of Jin Dynasty.
He wrote "Sacrifice", commented on "Zhuangzi", and collected essays, all of which have been passed down to the world.
Cui Yue, courtesy name Taoist, was the great-grandson of Wei Sikong Cui Ta and Liu Kun's nephew.
Together with Lu Chen, he worked as a lieutenant in Xingxi Sikong, and later served as Kengui Zhezuo Shi.
If you fall into Pengzhao, you will also become a high official.
There are other biographies in the books of Baozhong, Xian and Chang.
Huabiao, whose courtesy name is Weirong, was from Gaotang, Pingyuan. His father, Hua Xin, was of noble character and served as Wei Taiwei.
When Huabiao was twenty years old, he was appointed as a Sanqi Huangmenlang and was promoted to the rank of Attendant several times.
In the early years of the Zhengyuan Dynasty, Shi Bao came to the court and praised Gaogui Xiang Gong, thinking that Wei Wu was reborn.
Everyone present was sweating profusely at that time. Hua Biao was afraid of the impending disaster and repeatedly said that he had to go home because he was ill, so he was spared the disaster.
Later he was promoted to minister.
He was given a fifth-class title and named Guanyang Bo.
Because the supplies for the funeral were not complete, he was dismissed from office.
During the Taishi period, he was appointed Prince Shaofu, changed his post to Guang Luxun, and was promoted to Taichang Qing.
A few years later, he requested to retire due to old age and illness.
The edict said: He is pure and upright, has good conduct, and has the beauty of maturity. He has handled government affairs for many years and dare not slack off.
He requested to retire due to serious illness and his attitude was sincere.
Now let him grant what he asked for, and he will be rewarded with a reward of 200,000 yuan by the Taizhong doctor. The bed, tent, mat, and seat will be the same as those of Jiuqing, and a wooden fence will be set up in front of the door to block the passage of people and horses.
Known for his unswerving determination, Situ Li Yin, Sili Wang Hong and others all lamented the indifference and tranquility of Jianzhi, and believed that distance should not be determined by high or low.
He died in August of the first year of Xianning at the age of seventy-two. Mi was named Chen and was given imperial robes by imperial edict.
He has six sons: Hua Du, Hua Cen, Hua Wei, Hua Jian, Hua Dan and Hua Jian.
Hua Hao, whose courtesy name is Changjun, has a quick mind.
Father-in-law Lu Yu presided over the election and did not mention in-laws, so Hua Yu was not allowed to be an official at the age of thirty-five, and was appointed Zhongshu Tongshilang very late.
In the early years of Taishi's reign, he was promoted to redong servant servant.
He was treated politely by Genduo when he was young, and served successively as Huangmen Shilang, Sanqi Changshi, Qianjun General, Shizhong, Nanzhonglang General, and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Hebei.
When his father was seriously ill, he returned home and died of illness. According to the old rule, one must return to one's post after the burial, but Jianxiang refused to return, violating the emperor's will.
At first, there were three guests in the district, so Hua Hao was sent to the county magistrate Yuan Yi to register his name, and the three guests were all used as slaves.
When Yuan Yi was convicted of bribery, the verdict document was confusing and absurd. It no longer stated that slaves were used as guests, but directly said that three slaves were sent to Jiyu, and Yuan Yi was also the son-in-law of the Lu family.
Furthermore, Zhongshu Jian Baoxi once asked Hua Fu to marry his daughter on behalf of his son. Because he did not agree, he held a grudge, so he secretly reported to the emperor that there were too many people who had given bribes and they could not all be punished. The closest person should be punished, so he suggested that Hua Yu would be suitable.
Because Hua Mi had violated the imperial edict, Hua Yu was dismissed from his official position and deprived of his title and fief during Hua Yu's mourning period.
Dahonglu He Zunqi reported that Hua Huan should be exempted from being an ordinary citizen and should no longer inherit the title. He requested that Hua Zhou's legitimate grandson Jie should be his heir.
Relevant departments reported that: Hua Yu's original identity and title were revoked for committing crimes. This is only a temporary provision.
If he is a legitimate son, it will be written in the name book and he will not be allowed to have any heirs. This is more severe than the punishment.
When princes break the law, they should be dealt with fairly according to the Eight Disciplines, and their penalties should be reduced or reduced.
The inheritance by a legitimate son does not constitute the crime of lifelong abolition. To abrogate the title is too much. According to the law, he should be allowed to succeed.
The edict said: When a prince dies, his son takes the throne one year later. This is the ancient system.
When he ascended the throne and deposed him, his title and life were lost. What is more serious than a punishment?
Besides, the reason why I punished him was to rectify his greed for money, and I didn’t do it according to the rules.
You cannot understand my intention, but instead secretly change the etiquette and ignore the law. I ordered him to be abolished, and you restored him. This is inconsistent.
So the relevant departments submitted a petition to remove the dissidents from their official positions, and Shao ordered them to be atonement.
Hua Hun's direct grandson should be granted the title, but he escaped, cut off his hair and pretended to be crazy, becoming mute and unable to speak. Because of this, he was able to take office, and people praised him.
Hua Pi has been living in seclusion at home for almost ten years, educating his children and grandchildren, and teaching and reading classics.
He collected important matters from scriptures and compiled them into "Shanwen", which became popular in the world.
He and Chen Xie built a pig pen next to the house. The emperor once saw him when he was out and asked why. He told the truth and the emperor sympathized with him.
Later, the emperor went to the Yuntai of the mausoleum and saw the Hua Dian Alfalfa Garden, with its vast streets and streets, which made him very nostalgic.
After the general amnesty in the early years of Taikang, Hua Yu was able to inherit the title.
A long time later, he was appointed as the captain of the city gate and promoted to the general of Zuowei.
A few years later, he served as secretary-supervisor of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he added Shizhong, Guanglu Dafu, Shangshu Ling, and became a duke.
Yang Jun summoned Hua Mi back, but he did not arrive on time, and the relevant departments reported his dismissal.
Soon he was promoted to the prince's young master's position, and he was appointed as a regular attendant. He acted according to etiquette and learned the true meaning of the master's teachings.
Later, when he got old and became seriously ill, he was ordered to treat his illness and was promoted to Guanglu Doctor and Kaifu Yitong.
Yin Han, the mother of Zaoshi River, asked for her daughter to be betrothed to Hua Fu's grandson Hua Tao after the purchase, but Hua Yu refused. After the purchase, she hated him very much, so she could not take the position of the three princes.
He died at the age of seventy-five and was named Yuan.
Three sons: Hua Hun, Hua Lei, and Hua Heng.
Huahun, whose courtesy name was Jinglun, inherited his father's title. He was honest and simple. He served successively as a minister and minister, and died in office.
His son, Hua Tao, succeeded him as Gong Ling and fell into the hands of Hu Qin.
Hua Hui, courtesy name Jingshu, served as Yin of Henan.
Together with Xun Lai and Xun Zu, they avoided thieves and arrived at Linying. Father and son were killed at the same time.
Hua Heng, whose courtesy name was Jingze, was famous for his erudition and his innocence.
Married Princess Rongyang, the daughter of Emperor Wu, and served as Prince Consort.
In the early years of Wuchen's reign, the crown prince was established. Jie Heng was selected as the crown prince's guest and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 100 households.
Situ was requisitioned by the labor movement as a cangcao, and then served as the minister of Sanqi. He was promoted to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi and the middle marshal of the Northern Army many times. Soon he was appointed as the leader of the army and became the regular servant of Sanqi.
When Emperor Min ascended the throne, he appointed Hua Heng as Shangshu and became Duke of Jueyuanling County.
Soon, Liu Cong approached Chang'an and ordered Hua Heng to serve as general of the town army and lead Yingchuan as prefect to provide foreign aid.
Hua Heng gathered the rebels and got 2,000 men. Before he could move to the west, Guanzhong was lost.
At that time, the group of thieves was strong, and the prefectures and counties where they were located were fleeing one after another. Hua Heng also wanted to abandon the county Shudu, but his cousin Hua Yi was killed by Emperor Yuan, so he hesitated.
First, write a letter to General Wang Dao, who will report to Emperor Yuan.
Emperor Yuan said: Brothers are not guilty, let alone uncles!
Hua Heng was immediately recalled and replaced by Guang Luxun.
After Hua Heng arrived, before he had time to appoint him, he was changed to General of the Guard, added to the rank of Sanqi Changshi, and the Honshu Dazhongzheng.
Soon Ren Taichang was discussing a suburban sacrifice.
Diao Xie, the minister of state, and Du Yi, the son of the state, thought it was necessary to return to Luoyang and hold sacrifices in the suburbs.
Hua Heng believed that since Emperor Mo Xian lived in Xu, he should offer sacrifices in the suburbs of Xu, and that the sacrifices should be held locally.
Situ Xun's group, Hussar General Wang Dao and Hua Heng agreed, so they decided to sacrifice in the suburbs.
Not long after, he proposed to resign because he was seriously ill. The edict stated: Taichang is in charge of the ancestral temple and the sacrifices are very solemn, but Hua Heng is seriously ill and cannot preside over it himself.
Confucius said, "If I don't participate in sacrifices, it's like there are no sacrifices. What's more, this itself is too often a duty!"
Now Hua Heng is appointed as Tingwei.
Soon, Gat entered.
In the early years of Taining, he was promoted to general of hussars, appointed as regular attendant of Sanqi, and supervised all military affairs including stone, water and land.
Wang Dun reported that Hua Heng was appointed as the guard of the army, but he was seriously ill and refused to take up the post.
He was appointed as Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and also served as the crown prince's Taibao.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he added Sanqi regular attendants and led the princes to offer wine.
In the early years of Xianhe, all the titles and titles granted to him by Emperor Min were cancelled. Hua Heng also used Wang Dungong to claim the title of Marquis of Yuanling County, and then received Taichang.
During Su Jun's Rebellion, Hua Heng served the emperor and went to Shitou together. He suffered hardships and was in embarrassment for a year.
At the beginning, Hua Heng was appointed as the Grand Central Officer of the state, while his fellow villager Ren Rang was frivolous and indulgent, and was deposed by Hua Heng.
When Ren Rang was in Su Jun's army, most of the powerful people were killed by him. When he saw Hua Heng, he was very respectful and did not do anything wrong.
After Zhong Ya and Liu Chao died, it would be Hua Heng's turn, and Ren Rang tried his best to save them, so he was able to escape.
When the Yuan Emperor joins the Yuan Dynasty, he will establish a queen.
After the war, all the ancient books were destroyed, leaving no basis for the wedding ceremony.
Hua Heng explored the old scriptures, compiled etiquette, and established the ritual system of the Yong court in the suburban temple, all of which were implemented.
He was promoted to Dr. Zuo Guanglu and opened the mansion, but the regular attendants remained as usual. He refused and refused to take up the post.
When he passed away at the age of sixty-nine, he was given the title to Shizhong, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu, with the honorific title Mi.
Hua Heng is cautious and frugal. Although he is in a high position, he often lives in plain clothes and eats vegetables, especially when he is old.
When he died, his family had no money and only had hundreds of volumes of books, so people respected him very much.
His son Hua Jun succeeded him and became Shangshu Lang.
Jianyu's son welcomes him and stays with him for a long time.
Hua Wei, whose courtesy name is Shu Jun, is knowledgeable and has a good reputation at a young age.
Emperor Wen appointed him as a general, requisitioned him as a subordinate official, replaced him as Shangshulang, and changed his position to charioteer and zhonglang.
In the early years of Taishi, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
He was promoted to the crown prince's concubine and appointed as the prefect of Anping.
Because his parents were old and refused, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, responsible for the writing of Zhongshu, and was promoted to the rank of Shizhong under the leadership of Dr. Guozi.
In the last years of Taikang, Emperor Wu indulged in wine and sex and suffered from many diseases.
When the illness got better, Hua Jiao and her courtiers came up to express their congratulations, and took the opportunity to remonstrate in a cryptic manner: "The holy body is getting better, everyone is celebrating and rejoicing."
We are ignorant and secretly believe that we must not miss any detail so that we will have no regrets. When victory is in sight, we think of happiness as hard-won, so that our country can make rapid progress.
I only hope that Your Majesty will be infinitely sage and wise, and ponder over the regrets that may occur unintentionally, so as to gain everlasting happiness.
Be indifferent and kind, maintain your spirit, be open-minded, don't hate worldly conventions, and don't ignore the words of officials, then you will always be rich and happy, and the world will be lucky!
The emperor himself wrote in Shao Shu: "Recuperate by yourself, don't think about it."
In the early years of Yuankang, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanchang Ting.
After killing Yang Jun, he was granted the title of Marquis of Lexiang and was promoted to Shangshu.
Later, Hua Wei was learned and knowledgeable, wrote books and evaluated, and had the ambition to be a good historian. He was changed to Secretary Supervisor, and he was added as a regular servant of casual cavalry, and he was ranked alongside Zhongshu.
The organization is located in the Shangshu Province, and he is in charge of Zhongshu, Sanqi, writing and formulating etiquette, examination of music and rhythm, astronomy and arithmetic, Shangshu and disciples' writing.
At first, Hua Wei thought that the "Han Chronicles" was complicated and expressed his ambition to rewrite it.
Just in time to become a minister, specializing in officialdom, I was able to read all kinds of classics, so I was basically ready. Beginning with Emperor Guangwu and ending with Emperor Xiaoxian, it lasted for one hundred and ninety-five years. There were twelve volumes of Emperor's Chronicles, two volumes of Queen's Chronicles, ten volumes of Ten Canons, seventy volumes of biographies, and three volumes of genealogy, preface and catalogue, totaling ninety-seven volumes.
Huajiao believed that the queen and the emperor were one, and it was wrong to put the queen at the end of the biography of her relatives in previous history, so she changed it to the queen's biography, which came after the emperor's biography.
It was also changed from Zhi to Dian because of the "Yao Dian".
The whole book was renamed "Book of the Later Han Dynasty" and was submitted to the imperial court. Shao ordered the courtiers to discuss it.
At that time, Zhongshu supervisor Xun Xu, Zhongshu Linghe Wei, Taichang Zhang Hua, and Shizhong Wang Ji all thought that Hua Wei's writing was simple and historical, and that it had the style of Sima Qian and Ban Gu, so they hid it in a place dedicated to secret books.
Later, Taiwei Runan Wang Sima Liang and Sikong Weigan were appointed as the prince's masters. They had to explain it to the prince once and were allowed to implement it.
Hua Wei wrote hundreds of thousands of comments, refutations, poems and poems. What he said about the official system, the prince should return to the palace and stabilize the frontier, the sacrifice to pray for rain, the bright hall to open the Yong, the dredging of rivers, the appointment of Du Shuiguan to visit Yu's footprints, the etiquette of the queen's silkworm rearing, the appointment of Changqiu official, most of the things were implemented.
Yuankang passed away in the third year of his life and was given posthumously to the Shaofu, with the title of Mi Jian.
Huajiao loves to drink and often gets drunk.
He died before completing the Ten Codes. The secretary supervisor He Shaoshang asked Hua Wei's son Hua Che to be his assistant and asked him to complete the work. He died before completing the work.
Later, secretary-supervisor Miao Zheng proposed to appoint Hua Chang, Hua Wei's youngest son, as his assistant author. He finally completed the Ten Codes and wrote biographies of the Wei and Jin Dynasties. He and his author Zhang Zai were both historians.
During the Yongjia Rebellion, the classics were lost, but more than thirty volumes of Hua Wei's books are still preserved.
Hua Wo has three sons: Hua Yi, Hua Che, and Hua Chang.
Hua Yi succeeded him and became an official in the internal history of Changle.
Hua Chang has a quick mind and his articles are worth thousands of words.
Encountering war, he took refuge in Jingzhou and was killed by thieves at the age of forty.
Shi Jian, courtesy name Lin Bo, was a native of Yanci, Leling.
He was born into a poor family, has noble aspirations and is fair in dealing with things.
When he was an official in the Wei Dynasty, he served successively as Shangshu Lang, Shi Yushi, Shangshu Zuocheng, and Yushi Zhongcheng. He corrected many current affairs and personnel, and the emperor was afraid of him. He served as governor of Bingzhou, Jiajie, and Zhonglang general who protected the Huns.
Emperor Wu accepted Emperor Wei's abdication and granted Shi Jian the title of Tang Yangzi.
He was summoned to serve as Sili Xiaowei, and was changed to Shangshu.
At that time, Qin and Liang were defeated by foreigners, and Shi Jian was sent to supervise the military affairs of Longyou. He was dismissed from his post for falsely reporting military exploits.
Later he served as general of Zhennan and governor of Yuzhou. He was convicted of falsely reporting the number of enemies killed during the campaign against Wu.
The edict said: In the past, Yunzhong's Wei Shang was punished for beheading an incorrect number of people, and Wuya General Tian Shun committed suicide by overreporting the number of prisoners. This is a fraud and bad law, which is hated by ancient and modern times.
Shi Jian is a minister, and I trust him very much.
In the past wars in the west, he blatantly deceived the court and rewarded him with defeat, but in the end he was not investigated.
Shortly after he was dismissed during this period, he was reactivated, hoping to make up for his past mistakes, but he still committed fraud with his subordinates.
As a minister, where is the friendship?
The relevant departments were right to report it, but I can’t bear to think about it in retrospect.
Now he will be sent home and will not be allowed to use it again for life, but he will not be deprived of his title and fief.
A long time later, he was appointed Guangluxun, and then Sili school captain. Soon after, he was promoted to Youguanglu doctor, Kaifu, and Situ.
In previous generations, banquets were held to show the importance of the three princes when they were enthroned.
Since the end of the Wei Dynasty, it has no longer been implemented.
By the time of Shijian, Shao Ling was restored and became a system.
In the last years of Taikang, he was appointed Sikong and served as the crown prince and tutor.
When Emperor Wu died, Shi Jian and Zhang Shao, the Central Guardsman, supervised the tomb.
At that time, Grand Sima and Runan King Sima Liang were suspected by Taifu Yang Jun and did not dare to go to express condolences and stationed outside the city.
At this time, someone reported that Sima Liang wanted to send troops to attack Yang Jun. Yang Jun was very frightened and asked the Queen Mother to order the emperor to write the Shao Shu personally, and ordered Shi Jian and Zhang Shao to lead the soldiers guarding the mausoleum to attack Sima Liang.
Zhang Shao was Yang Jun's nephew, so he led his troops to urge Shi Jian to send troops quickly. Shi Jian thought that this would not be the case, so he held his troops back and sent someone to spy on Sima Liang. Sima Liang had returned to Xuchang by another way, so Yang Jun stopped his action, and everyone who discussed it praised Shi Jian.
After guarding the mausoleum, he was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an County.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was appointed Taiwei.
In his eighties, impassioned, he thought of himself as a teenager: people praised him.
He died soon after and was named Yuan.
His son, Shi Chou, had a lowly character, inherited the title, and served as the captain of the Tunqi School.
Wen Xian, also known as Changqing, was a native of Qi, Taiyuan, and a descendant of Wen Xu, the captain of the Han Qiang School.
His grandfather Wen Hui was the governor of Yangzhou during the Wei Dynasty.
His father Wen Gong served as the prefect of Jinan.
The six brothers are famous all over the world and are known as the "Six Dragons".
Wen Xian was famous for his intelligence when he was young. King Sima You of Qi recruited him as a subordinate official and was promoted to Shangshu Lang.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was appointed governor of Yuzhou. He was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi and was promoted to minister several times.
When Sima Jian, King of Qi, assisted in the administration, because Wen Xian was Sima You's old subordinate and was particularly close to him, he was appointed Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
It turned out that Zhang Hua was killed, and Ji suggested that his title be reinstated.
Someone raised an objection, and Shi Xian retorted: From the time of the Emperor of Heaven onwards, the admonishment officials all have their faults, and they cannot be blamed on one person.
Therefore King Lei said: If someone is not close to him, who can bear it if he dies for himself?
Rick killed the two concubines, Chen Qi established Yangsheng, and the Han Dynasty killed the Lu family, but it took many years for them to establish their affairs.
No one can do whatever they want within a few months while the victim is still alive.
At the meeting in Shiqian Hall, Zhang Hua was the only one to give advice.
The prime ministers are at odds and cannot take advantage of the situation to promote good deeds. Isn't it difficult to expect Zhang Hua to command them to follow closely?
Moreover, now the queen only framed the prince and did not take part in the internal trouble, so she was ignorant of etiquette.
Moreover, the queen and the emperor are one and the same, and they respect the same emperor. Her crime is to frame the prince, which is not considered treason, and according to etiquette, she should not be attacked.
Now it is unreasonable to equate Zhang Hua's failure to depose the queen who framed the prince with Zhao Dun's failure to attack the thief who killed the king, and to belittle and condemn him.
Zhang Hua was eventually able to regain his title.
Later, he served as a servant in the campaign against Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, and was granted the title of Duke of Daling County, with a settlement of 1,800 households.
He was appointed as the governor of Jizhou and later became a general. Fanyang King Sima Rao defeated Xuchang and took charge of Jizhou himself, but Wen Xian avoided him.
When Emperor Hui went to Chang'an, he appointed Wen Xian as his official secretary, but he refused to go.
When Emperor Hui returned to Luoyang, he was recruited as the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and he was appointed as a regular attendant on casual cavalry.
Before the appointment, Emperor Hui died and Emperor Huai ascended the throne. He was appointed doctor Zuo Guanglu, opened the mansion, and led the Situ. People commented that he was promoted too quickly.
He died of illness shortly after taking office and was given to Situ as a gift. Mi was given the title Yuan.
He has three sons: Wen Zhi, Wen Yun and Wen Yu.
Shizhi was named Jingqi and was appointed as Taifu Xicao.
Shiyun's courtesy name was Jingxian, and he was appointed as the prince's wife.
Shiyu, courtesy name Jingsi, married the eldest princess of Wu'an and became the official of Zuo Guanglu.
Shi Chen said: In the middle of the Jin Dynasty, the achievements of several generations were inherited, the great cause of unification was established, and there were many talents and wise men.
These few people either live in Taiwan Province because of their reputation, or they become the prince's master because of their high reputation. They are not talents for a while, so how can they be like this.
It is a pity that they remain silent when discussing the truth, and they are alone in saving the world and the country. They are outspoken about their good intentions, which is beyond praise.
However, when he retreated from himself and promoted the virtuous, Uncle Lin promoted the virtue of giving and giving; to govern the country and family, Uncle Xuan followed the rules of filial piety.
Ziruo's Confucian virtues, his majestic appearance and unswerving determination, and his blessings are passed down to the world, isn't it great!
Shi Jian was promoted because of his fairness and straightness, while Wen Xian was famous for his virtuous character. They lived up to the crisis and did not lose their reputation.
Suihan knows how tall the pines and cypresses are, and he is talking about these people.
Praise said: Let the dense mausoleum be, and the filial piety is the vast land.
Qin is both liberal and elegant, and his appearance is also chaste and solemn.
We learn from each other and are more competitive than Dong Sumu.
Resonating with the sound of jade, competing for fragrance.
