◆Zheng Xingzhuan, Zheng Xing, courtesy name Shaogan, was born in Kaifeng, Henan.
He studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" when he was young, and "Zuo Shi Zhuan" in his later years. He accumulated knowledge, thought deeply, and understood the gist of the book. All his classmates regarded Zheng as their teacher.
During the Tianfeng period, he led his students to teach Liu Xin the meaning of "Zuo Shi Zhuan". Liu Xin praised Zheng Xing's talent and asked Zheng Xing to write regulations, chapters, exegesis, and correct "Santong Li".
When Gengshi came to the throne, he appointed Si Zhi Li Song as acting prime minister and entered Chang'an first. Li Song appointed Zheng Xing as chief historian and sent him back to pick up the emperor and move the capital.
Some of the generals in Gengshi were from Shandong, and they all advised him to stay in Luoyang.
Zheng Xing advised the emperor: Your Majesty raised troops from Jingchu, and the government had not yet been implemented. Once the country was established, the heroes of Shanxi were vying to kill Wang Mang, and opened the door to welcome Your Majesty in the suburbs. What was the purpose?
This is because the people of the world were suffering from Wang Mang's tyranny and missed the old virtues of Han Emperor Gaozu.
If you don't appease the people for a long time now, I'm afraid that the people will be alienated and thieves will rise again.
"Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Huan of Qi ascended the throne as "Qi Xiaobai enters Qi", but is not called Qi Hou because he has not yet gone to the temple to worship his ancestors.
Those who are discussing now want to pacify Chimei first and then enter the pass. They do not know the root and fight for the ends. I am afraid that the country's guards will be transferred to Hangu Pass. Even if they sleep in Luoyang, how can they be content with pillow mats?
Emperor Gengshi said: I have made up my mind to go west.
He worshiped Zheng Xing as an admonishment official and sent him to gather in Guanxi, Shuofang, Liangzhou and Yizhou. After returning, he worshiped him as the governor of Liangzhou.
It happened that someone rebelled in Tianshui and attacked and killed the county guard. Zheng Xing was dismissed from his post.
At that time, Chimei entered the pass and the road to the east was blocked, so Zheng Xing went west to join Kaixiao. Weixiao humbly invited Zheng with courtesy, but Zheng Xing felt aggrieved and said he could not afford to be ill.
Wei Xiao boasted about himself and often compared himself to King Wen of Zhou, so he discussed with the generals and established himself as king.
When Zheng Xing heard about it, he dissuaded Wei Xiao and said: "Spring and Autumn" legend: It is called deafness if the mouth does not speak the words of loyalty, and the ear does not hear the sum of the five tones.
In recent gatherings of generals, could it be that they did not speak words of loyalty? If the general obeyed, could it be that he lacked detailed inspection?
In the past, King Wen of Zhou inherited the moral legacy of his ancestors, coupled with his own intelligence, he was able to serve the Yin Shang Dynasty even if he was two-thirds of the world. When King Wu came to the throne, eight hundred princes unexpectedly gathered in Mengjin, and they all said that Shang Zhou was ready to attack. King Wu of Zhou believed that destiny was still unknown, so he returned to his army and waited for the right time.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had been campaigning for many years, and he also marched in the name of Pei Gong.
Now, although your virtue is clear, it does not have the blessings of the Zhou Dynasty. Although Weiluo is very prosperous, it does not have the merits of the Han Emperor. If you want to launch unachievable undertakings, you will accelerate disaster. I'm afraid you can't do it!
I hope the general will consider this carefully.
Wei Xiao finally did not claim the throne.
Later, official positions were widely set up to enhance their prestige.
Zheng Xing stopped Wei Xiao again and said: "Those generals, ministers, and envoys are all the king's chariot uniforms, not what a minister should have."
Confucius said: Only the vessel and the name can be lent to others.
You cannot lend things to others, and you cannot borrow things from others.
It is not beneficial to practice, it is harmful to reputation, and it does not respect the emperor's intention.
Wei Xiao felt embarrassed and stopped.
When Wei Xiao called his son Wei Xun to serve as a servant and was about to leave, Zheng Xing asked Wei Xun to go home and bury his parents. Wei Xiao refused and moved to Zheng Xing's house to increase his official rank and etiquette.
Zheng Xingjin met with Kui Xiao and said: "I suffered from the Red Eyebrow Rebellion in the past, and because of my old relationship with the generals, I took the liberty to ask to go home to Mingde."
Fortunately, thanks to the great grace of heaven and earth, his life was saved.
I heard the principle of serving relatives is to support parents with etiquette when they are alive, bury them with etiquette after their parents die, and pay homage to them with etiquette. Observe these etiquettes and dare not violate them in the slightest.
Now, because my parents have not yet been buried, I am requesting to retire and return to my hometown. If I increase my official rank and move the house, there will be a lot of delay in the process. This is using my parents as bait, which is too rude. How could the general do this?
Wei Xiao said: Am I not worthy of retaining my old friend?
Zheng Xing said: The general occupies the land of seven counties and has Qiang and Hu people to support this dynasty. There is no more virtue and no more power.
When he is stationed, he is a dedicated ambassador, and when he enters the court, he is a powerful minister.
I, a secular person, do not dare to stay in the depths, seek advancement through the general, and do not worry about not achieving my goal; I entrust the general to seek entry into the court, and do not worry about not receiving the favor personally. This is why I do not go against the general's plan!
I have asked on behalf of my parents not to stop like this. I would like to keep my wife and bury me alone. Why should the general be suspicious?
Wei Xiao said: This is great.
So he urged him to pack his luggage and asked him to go eastward with his wife.
This happened in the sixth year of Jianwu.
Du Lin, the imperial censor, lived with Zheng Xing in Longyou. Du Lin recommended Zheng Xing: I saw that Zheng Xing of Henan Province adheres to justice, likes poetry and books, is knowledgeable, has a firm mind, and has the virtues of Gongsun Qiao and Guan She's father. He should stay with the emperor and master the secrets of the country.
Once upon a time, Zhang Zhong assisted King Zhou Xuan in the Zhou Dynasty, and the poet was very happy.
I hope your Majesty will pay close attention and share your efforts with you.
So Zheng Xing was recruited as Taizhong doctor.
There was a solar eclipse on March 30th of the following year.
Zheng Xing then went to Shudao and said: "Spring and Autumn" believes that when the sky rebels against the time, disasters will occur, when the earth rebels against things, it will become demons, when people rebel against virtue, it will be chaos, and chaos will lead to demon disasters.
Since the past few years, strange phenomena have appeared one after another, and it is assumed that there is a flaw in the service.
According to "Spring and Autumn", there was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first month of Jiashu in the summer of June of the seventeenth year of Lu Zhaogong.
Ancient books say: If the sun goes too far but does not arrive, there will be disasters in the sun, moon and stars. Therefore, all the officials will wear plain clothes, the king will not feast, and will avoid sleeping during the solar eclipse. When the solar eclipse is over, the musicians will play drums, the temple will give coins to the community, and the historian will use words to blame himself.
Now is the time of Mengxia, which is purely for practical purposes. The Yin Qi has not yet occurred, and the disaster will be more serious.
If the country does not have good governance, God's will will be expressed in the sun and moon. When trouble comes, one must be cautious. The key is to choose the right officials based on people's hearts.
In ancient times, Emperor Yao used Gun because he knew he was useless.
Duke Huan of Qi ignored old grudges and appointed Guan Zhong, and Duke Wen of Jin returned to Jin and appointed Gu Tan to seek peace. This was all about choosing people and positions regardless of personal grudges.
Nowadays, many ministers and officials recommend Guo Qianji, the governor of Yuyang, to be the great Sikong, but His Majesty did not make a decision in time. There are many rumors on the road, saying that "the imperial court wants to use meritorious officials", but the meritorious officials are used in the wrong position.
I hope that your majesty will learn from Tang and Yu, and follow the practices of Qi and Jin, so as to achieve the virtue of surrendering to oneself and obeying the crowd, and to promote the good deeds of all ministers.
The conjunction of the sun and the moon is supposed to occur on the first day of each month, but in recent years the solar eclipse usually occurs on the 30th day of the month.
When they come together first and now, the moon moves a little faster.
The sun is a symbol of the king and the moon is a symbol of the ministers. The monarch is anxious and the ministers are anxious, so they move quickly.
There was heavy frost in the first month of this year, and since then it has been mostly cold days. This is also the punishment for quick blame.
God treats a virtuous and sage king as a loving father treats a filial son. Ding Ning warned him and wanted him to reflect on political affairs, so disaster occurred, which was a blessing to the country.
Now that your majesty is wise and your ministers are anxious, you should think more about the policy of soft control, pay attention to the method of "Hong Fan", and listen to opinions widely. Most of the memorials were adopted.
The emperor once asked Zheng Xing about the suburban sacrifice and said: I want to use prophecies to determine it, how about it?
Zheng Xing replied: "I don't understand prophecy."
The emperor said angrily: "If you don't make a prophecy, can you say that the prophecy is wrong?"
Zheng Xing said in fear: "I have never studied prophecies, so I don't think it's wrong."
The emperor's intention was relieved.
Zheng Xing spoke on political affairs many times, followed the scriptures and observed the righteousness, and his articles were gentle and elegant. However, because he did not know how to use prophecies, he could not be reused.
In the ninth year, the emperor sent Zheng Xing to supervise the expedition to the south and Ji Nu camp in Jinxiang. It happened that Cen Peng, the general in charge of the southern expedition, was killed by an assassin. Zheng Xing led his battalion and went with Grand Sima Wu Han to attack Gongsun Shu.
After Gongsun Shu died, the emperor issued an edict to let Zheng Xing stay in Chengdu.
Soon, the imperial censor reported that Zheng Xing was envoys to buy slaves privately, so he was demoted to the position of Lotus Spoon Order.
At this time, after the mourning and chaos, the counties and counties were dilapidated and desolate. Zheng Xing was trying to build a city and cultivate ethics to educate the people, but he was later dismissed from his post due to some circumstances.
Zheng Xing was good at ancient studies, especially the "Zuo Shi" and "Zhou Guan". He was good at calendar calculation. He considered Du Lin, Huan Tan, Wei Hong and others to obtain their will.
Most people who talk about Zuo Shi in the world have Zheng Xing as their ancestor. And Jia Kui autobiographed his father's business, so there is a saying that Zheng and Jia studied it.
After Zheng Xing left Lianshao, he stopped serving as an official. Once he was a guest in the village of Nang. The three princes invited him several times but refused to come out. He died at home. ◆Fan Shengzhuan, Fan Sheng, Yu Bianqing, was from Daijun.
His father died when he was young and he relied on his mother-in-law to make a living.
When he was nine years old, he read "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety". When he was older, he studied "Liangqiu Yi" and "Laozi" and taught the younger generations to learn.
Wang Mang's chief minister, Wang Yi, promoted Fan Sheng to serve as the governor of Cao.
At that time, Wang Mang continued to recruit troops and imposed heavy taxes. Fan Sheng then expressed his opinion to Wang Yi and said: "I heard that if a son does not criticize his parents, it is considered filial, and if a minister does not criticize his superior, it is considered loyal."
Now everyone calls it a pilgrimage, and everyone says that the emperor is fair.
As the saying goes, there is nothing that a wise person cannot see, and there is nothing that a saint cannot hear.
Nowadays, the affairs of the world are obviously better than the sun and the moon, and the vibration is better than the thunder court. However, the court can't see it, and the prince can't hear it. So how can the common people cry out to heaven?
If you don't say what you think is right, then your fault is small; if you do it knowing you are wrong, then your fault is big.
The two are inevitable for the public, and the world should blame you.
The imperial court regards the disobedience of the people far away as a worry, but I think the displeasure of the people nearby is a serious worry.
Now the actions are inconsistent with the season, and things are contrary to the truth. It is like a car running wildly on the overturned road. Going to explore the soup after the incident has failed. The late onset is even more strange, and the late onset is even more terrible.
Now is the beginning of the year, and the people are mobilized for an expedition. Weeds cannot satisfy the hunger, and the fields are deserted and no one is cultivating them. The price of grain has soared, reaching thousands per hu. The officials and the people are in trouble and are not members of the country.
If this continues, it will be like letting people from Hu and Qi guard the gate, and the robbers from Qingzhou and Xuzhou will be close to the tent.
I have something to say that can relieve the world's worries and relieve the people's anxiety. It cannot be conveyed in letters. I hope the emperor will introduce it and state my thoughts.
Although Wang Yi thought Fan Sheng's words were reasonable, he never used them.
Fan Sheng claimed to be ill and asked to retire, but Wang Yi refused to listen and sent him as an envoy to the party.
Fan Sheng met the Han soldiers, so he stayed and did not go back.
In the second year of Jianwu, Emperor Guangwu summoned Fan Sheng to the Huai Palace, where he was named Yilang and promoted to doctor. Fan Sheng declined and said: "I, Liang Gong, the doctor, and Lu Qiang, the prefect of Shanyang, have all studied "Liangqiu Yi".
The two of them are old and have great knowledge of Confucian classics. However, Chen did not retire in time and now stands side by side with Liang Gong. He knows that Lu Qiang is knowledgeable but cannot advance. He is deeply ashamed of the two elders and has no face to see the world.
After reading, I cannot practice, I know but cannot speak, I cannot speak and think of others as my teacher, I am willing to turn down the Ph.D. and give it to Liang Gong and Lu Qiang.
The emperor disagreed, but from then on he paid more attention to him, issued several edicts to introduce him, and often summoned him for visits whenever important events occurred.
At that time, Han Xin was ordered to write a book about Fei Shiyi and Zuo Shi Chunqiu.
In the first month of the fourth year, I met with ministers, officials and doctors in Yuntai.
The emperor said: Dr. Fan can come forward and express his opinion.
Fan Shengsheng immediately replied: "Zuo Family" does not regard Confucius as the ancestor, but it comes from Zuo Qiu Ming, passed down from master to disciple. There is no other person, and it is not the ancestor of the late emperor. There is no reason to establish a doctor.
So he argued with Han Xin and Taizhong doctor Xu Shu until noon.
After Fan Sheng retired from the court, he reported again: I have heard that if the ruler does not follow the archaeological history, he cannot accept the destiny of heaven; if the minister does not tell the old news, he cannot serve the king.
Your Majesty was sympathetic to the deficiencies in the study of Confucian classics, and devoted himself to the art of Confucian classics, always wanting to solicit opinions, so heretics arose.
Recently, a department has asked for a doctor of "Jing's Book of Changes", but none of the deacons below can make grounded corrections.
"Jing's Yi" has been established, "Fei's Yi" is still complaining, and "Zuo's Spring and Autumn" also hopes to be established.
"Jing" and "Fei" have been established, and then there is "Gao". The home of "Spring and Autumn" also has "Zhou" and "Jia".
If "Zuo" and "Fei" can set up doctors, "Gao", "Zou", "Jia", and "Five Classics" are strange. They all ask for the establishment, each has his own insistence, and is surly and contentious.
If you obey, you will lose the right way; if you don't, you will lose people. I'm afraid your majesty will be tired of hearing it.
Confucius said: If you are knowledgeable and make an appointment, you will not betray your husband.
If you learn not to make appointments, you will definitely apostatize.
Yan Yuan said: Use literature to win me over, and use etiquette to make an appointment.
Confucius can be said to know how to teach, and Yan Yuan can be said to be good at learning.
"Laozi" said: Learning the Tao will lead to loss.
Loss means covenant.
He also said: There is no need to worry about learning.
Jue refers to the end of learning.
Nowadays, the two schools of "Fei" and "Zuo" do not have their own masters, but mostly oppose differences. In the previous life of the late emperor, there were bad doubts about this, so although the "Jingshi" school was established, it was immediately abolished.
Do not follow the doubtful way, and do not practice the doubtful thing.
The rise of "Book of Poetry" has a long history.
Confucius even traveled around the country. When he was fifty years old, he returned from Wei to Lu and corrected "Ya" and "Song".
Now His Majesty is creating the world, and the discipline has not yet been established. Although there are academic officials, there are no disciples, the "Book of Poetry" is not taught, the rituals and music are not cultivated, and the establishment of "Zuo Shi" and "Fei Shi" is not a top priority. Confucius said: Attacking heretics will only cause harm.
Ancient books say: Hearing doubts spreads doubts, hearing trust spreads faith, and the way of Yao and Shun remains.
May Your Majesty doubt what the late emperor suspected and believe what the late emperor believed. It is used to show that you have returned to the basics and that you are not self-absorbed.
The reason why things in the world are different is that they are fundamentally inconsistent. "Yi" said: The movement of the world is due to the chastity of the husband.
He also said: Correcting the original principles will make all things work.
The foundation of the "Five Classics" begins with Confucius. I would like to report a total of fourteen things that "Zuo Shi" missed.
Those who raised questions at that time believed that Tai Shigong quoted too much from "Zuo Shi". Fan also wrote a letter saying that Tai Shigong violated the "Five Classics", distorted Confucius' words, and that the "Zuo Shi Chunqiu" could not record thirty-one things.
The edict referred his opinions to the doctors for discussion.
Later, Fan Sheng was accused by his divorced wife and went to jail. After being released from prison, he returned to his hometown.
During the Yongping period, he served as the Liaocheng Order. He was dismissed from his post due to some circumstances and died at home.
◆Chen Yuanzhuan, the eldest grandson of Chen Yuan, was born in Guangxin, Cangwu.
His father, Chen Qin, studied "Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals" and served under Liyang Jiahu. He formed his own family at the same time as Liu Xin.
Wang Mang once learned "Zuo Shi" from Chen Qin and named Chen Qin General Qinnan.
When Chen Yuan was young, he passed down his father's studies and made annotations for "Zuo Shi". He concentrated on thinking and did not even interact with the countryside.
He is a man because of his father's position.
In the early years of Jianwu, Chen Yuan, Huan Tan, Du Lin, and Zheng Xing were all considered authentic by scholars at that time.
At that time, some people proposed to establish a doctor of "Zuo Shi Zhuan". Fan Sheng submitted that "Zuo Shi" should not be established since the "Zuo Shi" was shallow.
After hearing this, Chen Yuan went to court to write a memorial: "Your Majesty uses both civil and military forces to correct chaos. He is deeply aware that the classics and art are full of errors and mistakes, and it is difficult to distinguish the true from the false. Every time he comes to court, he often invites his ministers to discuss the holy way."
Knowing that Zuo Qiuming was a very virtuous man and had been personally educated by Confucius, and that "Gongyang" and "Guliang" were rumored to later generations, he issued an edict to establish "Zuo's Family" and widely solicited opinions, saying that he would not use his own opinions and would do whatever he wanted.
Nowadays, commentators are addicted to the knowledge they have learned, clinging to old news, and stubbornly insisting on false words and deeds, thinking that this is not the way to see the reality with one's own eyes.
"Zuo Shi" studied alone and seldom communicated with others, so he was overshadowed by other people.
The best music is not suitable for everyone's hearing, so the strings are cut off; the best gems are not recognized by everyone, so Bian He weeps.
The virtues of Confucius as a sage cannot be found in this world. What's more, it's natural for a piece of writing to be rejected by those who are similar to it!
Unless His Majesty is so wise, who would be able to detect it. I have seen Dr. Fan Sheng's opinion in Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals that he should not establish a doctor, and he listed with him a total of forty-five incidents of Tai Shigong's treason.
According to Sheng et al., any inconsistency is caused by cutting off small pieces of text and making nitpicks. A slight discrepancy in age is regarded as a major mistake. The omission of some small sections is considered a major flaw. It is nitpicking and fault-finding that covers up the beauty. This is exactly what the saying goes: "small arguments break the truth, small words break the truth".
Fan Sheng and others also said: The former emperor did not regard the Zuo family as his classics, so he did not appoint a doctor. It would be appropriate for the later emperor to follow suit.
Chen Yu thought that if the former emperor had done what he had done and the later emperor had to follow it, then Pan Geng should not move to Yindu, Duke Zhou should not camp in Luoyang, and Your Majesty should not make the capital in Shandong.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowu liked "Gongyang" and Prince Wei liked "Guliang". There was an edict telling the prince to accept "Gongyang" but not "Gongliang". When Emperor Xiaoxuan was still alive, he heard that Prince Wei was good at Gu Liang, so he studied it alone.
After he ascended the throne, he discussed the "Five Classics" in Shiqu and the "Guliang" study emerged, which coexists with the "Gongyang" study to this day.
This means that the first emperor and the later emperor each had their own establishment, and there was no need to imitate each other.
Confucius said: Being pure and thrifty, I follow the crowd; as for bowing down, I violate it.
People with clear eyes have unique views and are not fooled by reds and purples; those who are good at listening have unique hearing and are not confused by purity and turbidity. Therefore, those who are away from the red will not be dazzled by clever tricks and their ears will not be changed by new sounds.
Now the fighting has stopped, the war has stopped, pay attention to the scriptures and sages, consider the study of elegance, adopt the meaning of Confucius's obedience, and the purpose of the Yuan sage's unique opinion, distinguish the clear from the black, establish the "Zuo family" school, explain the accumulated connections of the sages, eliminate the confusion of scholars, make the foundation last to all generations, and no longer be suspicious of the latecomers, then the world will be blessed. Chen Yuan is ignorant and once learned from the teacher.
If you can be summoned in coarse cloth, lie down in the court, recite Confucius's righteous way, and explain Qiu Ming's grievances; if your words are not in line with the scriptures, and your actions are not in line with the ancients, and you can retire and accept severe punishment, even if you die, it is still alive.
After the book was handed over and the emperor's instructions were handed over for discussion, Fan Sheng and Chen Yuan debated again, a total of ten times.
The emperor finally established the "Zuo Family" study, and Taichang selected four doctors, Chen Yuan was the first.
The emperor thought that Chen Yuangang had participated in the debate, so he used him as the secretary to record Li Feng's work. As a result, the Confucian scholars discussed it a lot because of the establishment of "Zuo Shi". There were several debates in the court from the public minister down.
When Li Feng died of illness, the "Zuo Shi" theory was abandoned again.
Chen Yuan was famous for his talent and was promoted to Sikong Litong Mansion.
At that time, the chief minister, Nong Jiang and Feng Shangyan, should be called Sili Xiaowei to supervise Sangong.
The matter was reported to the three governments.
Chen Yuanshang Shudao said: I heard that those who treat ministers as teachers can become emperors, and those who treat ministers as guests can dominate.
Therefore, King Wu made Taigong his master, and Duke Huan of Qi made Guan Yiwu his father-in-law.
Confucius said: All officials listen to the chief minister.
In modern times, Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty treated the prime minister preferentially. Taizong rescued Deng Tong from the prime minister and called him "false power." When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the Han Dynasty declined. He only controlled the country and stole the world. He only relied on his own will and did not trust the officials.
To seize the position of public assistant and undermine the power of the prime minister, to expose others is to make it clear, to attack others' shortcomings is to be straightforward.
Even the servants accuse the ruler, the children disobey their fathers and brothers, the network is secretive and the law is strict, and the ministers are at a loss what to do.
However, Dong Zhong could not stop his rebellion and was killed.
Therefore, a ruler's trouble lies in his own pride, not in his arrogant ministers; his failure lies in his own responsibility, not in trusting others.
Therefore, King Wen had to work hard for Rihao to eat, and Duke Zhou had to hold his hair with his hair. I have not heard of any methods of advocating whistleblowing and strengthening inspections.
At present, there is still no peace in the four directions, and the world is not unified enough. The people are waiting and watching, with their eyes and ears wide open.
Your Majesty should cultivate the holy scriptures of civil and military affairs, inherit the virtues left by the ancestors, work hard for the corporal, and treat the virtuous with humility, but he should not be known as a supervisor, supervisor, and assistant to the public.
The emperor obeyed and sent his advice.
After Li Tong was dismissed from office, Chen Yuan was promoted to Situ Ouyang She's Mansion. He stated several times the affairs of the world and the rituals of suburban temples, which the emperor could not adopt.
He left his job due to illness, died at home due to old age.
◆Jia Kui's biography, Jia Kui, courtesy name Jingbo, was born in Pingling, Fufeng.
Jia Yi, the ninth ancestor, was the teacher of King Liang during the reign of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
Great-grandfather Jia Guang served as the prefect of Changshan. During the reign of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, he moved from Luoyang with an official of two thousand stones.
His father, Jia Hui, studied Zuo Shi Chun Qiu from Liu Xin, Guoyu and Zhou Guan, ancient Chinese Shangshu from Tu Yun, Mao Shi from Xie Manqing, and wrote twenty-one articles of Zuo Shi Regulations.
Jia Kui completely inherited his father's studies. At the age of twenty, he was able to read "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and "Five Classics". He taught his disciples using "Da Xia Hou Shangshu". Although it was ancient learning, he also understood the five schools of "Gu Liang" theory.
Since he was a child, he has always studied in Taiyuan and has no understanding of outside affairs.
Jia Kui was eight feet and two inches tall. Some Confucian scholars made fun of him and said: Jia Kui is always asking questions.
It means that Jia Kui is very tall, but he doesn't know much about the outside world and likes to ask questions about this and that.
He has a cheerful, easy-going personality, is very smart, likes to think, is different and very generous. He especially studied "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and "Guoyu", and wrote fifty-one chapters of "Exegesis" of these two books. During the Yongping period, he dedicated the book to the emperor.
Xianzong attached great importance to it and ordered a copy of it to be hidden in the secret hall.
At that time, a divine bird flew to the palace and the government office with colorful feathers on its head. The emperor felt strange and asked Linyi Marquis Liu Fu what the reason was. Liu Fu couldn't answer, so he recommended Jia Kui, saying that he was very knowledgeable. The emperor then summoned Jia Kui and asked him what the reason was. Jia Kui replied: In the past, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty completed his father's inheritance, the phoenix appeared in Qishan, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty had high prestige, the Rong and Di surrendered, and the divine sparrow also appeared one after another. This was a sign that the Hu people would surrender.
The emperor ordered the historian of Lantai to take out his notes and ask Jia Kui to write an "Ode to the Divine Bird". He also worshiped Jia Kui as his minister and served as school secretary together with Ban Gu, staying with the emperor for consultation.
Suzong ascended the throne and respected Confucian scholarship, especially "Gu Wenshang Shu" and "Zuo Shi Zhuan".
In the first year of Jianchu, he was ordered to give lectures at Baihu Temple in Beigong and Yuntai in Nangong.
The emperor appreciated Jia Kui's lecture and asked him to give full play to the great meaning of "Zuo Shi Zhuan", which was better than Gongyang and Gu Liang's second biography.
Jia Kui then reported it point by point: I would like to select thirty particularly famous places in the "Zuo Shi Zhuan", all of which promote the justice of the king as the minister and the father as the son.
The remaining seventy-eight tenths are the same as "Gongyang Zhuan". Some of the texts are simple and have minor differences, which do not affect the overall content.
As for Ji Zhong, Ji Ji, Wu Zixu, Shu Shu and others, "Zuo Shi" profoundly displays the righteousness of the monarch and his ministers, while "Gongyang" mostly believes that it is through power and change. This is definitely a difference, but injustice has been suppressed for too long and it is impossible to distinguish right from wrong. During the Yongping period, I once wrote a letter about some places in the "Zuo Shi Zhuan" that were consistent with the prophecies. The late emperor did not abandon Chu Cui's words and adopted my words. I wrote a detailed explanation and hid it in the secretariat.
During the Jianping period, Liu Xin, the servant, wanted to establish "Zuo Shi Zhuan", but he did not show his righteousness first, and easily handed it over to Taichang. He thought that he had enough reasons to defeat the Confucian scholars, but the Confucian scholars were dissatisfied and united to resist.
The emperor was filial to the emperor and catered to the public sentiment, so Liu Xin became the governor of Hanoi.
From then on, everyone attacked "Zuo Shi" and became the target of public criticism.
When Emperor Guangwu arrived, he had a unique insight and established two schools, Zuo Shi and Gu Liang. It happened that the ancestors of the two families were not familiar with the study of prophecy, so they gave up halfway.
I believe that the key to preserving the teachings of the previous kings is to educate the people.
Now "Zuo Shi" praises the way of the king and father and despises the ministers. This is to strengthen the weak branches and encourage the itchy to refrain from evil. The principle is very clear and precise, and it is straightforward and logical.
Moreover, during the three dynasties, different things were added or subtracted at any time. The late emperor extensively observed various theories and adopted the strengths of each school.
For example, the "Book of Changes" has the Shi and Meng families, and the Liangqiu family is established; the "Book of Changes" has the Ouyang family, and there are the big and small Xiahou. Now the three biographies are different, and this is also the reason.
In addition, none of the Five Classics can use prophecies to prove that the Liu family is a descendant of Emperor Yao, but the "Zuo Family" alone has clear text that can explain it.
"Five Classics" all say that Zhuanxu replaced Huangdi, and Yao could not be the fire virtue.
However, "Zuo Shi" believed that Shaohao replaced Huangdi, which was the emperor's announcement mentioned in the prophecy.
If Yao could not be fire, then Han could not be red. The insights he invented can very well add some truth. Your Majesty has natural wisdom, established the foundation of the Great Sage, changed the year name, revised the calendar, and set an example for all generations. Therefore, Linfeng reported hundreds of times, and good omens appeared many times. Your Majesty still worked hard morning and night, studying the "Six Arts", and reviewed and verified every detail.
If you pay attention to some abandoned knowledge and expand your knowledge, nothing will be lost.
When the book was presented, the emperor commended him very much. He rewarded Jia Kui with five hundred pieces of cloth and a set of clothes. He ordered Jia Kui to select twenty talented people from Yan and Yan Zhusheng of the "Gongyang" school.
Jia Kui's mother was often ill, and the emperor wanted to give her some extra money. Because there were so many books in the school, he specially took 200,000 yuan and sent Yingyang Hou Ma Fang to deliver it.
He said to Ma Fang: Jia Kui's mother is ill and he has little contact with the outside world. No matter how poor he is, he will become a hungry ghost like Boyi and Shuqi in Shouyang Mountain.
Jia Kui told the emperor many times that the "Old Texts" echoed the exegesis of the classic "Erya". The emperor issued an edict ordering him to write "Ouyang and the Great and Small Xiahou Shangshu's Ancient Texts Are Similar and Differences".
Jia Kui concentrated on writing three volumes, which the Emperor thought was very good.
He was also asked to write "Similarities and Differences between Qi, Lu and Han Poems and "Mao Shi"", and "Zhou Guan's Explanation of the Past".
Jia Kui was promoted to the position of guard.
In the eighth year, he issued an order to all the Confucian scholars to select talented students to study "Zuo Shi", "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi". From then on, the Four Classics became popular in the world.
The disciples and disciples selected by Jia Kui were all granted the title of Qiancheng Kingdom Lang. They studied in the Huangmen Department morning and night, and scholars were envious of them.
Emperor He ascended the throne, and in the third year of Yongyuan, he appointed Jia Kui as Zuo Zhonglang General.
In the eighth year, he also served as a servant, led the cavalry captain and prepared curtains and curtains, and was also in charge of the secretary's office. He was very trusted.
Jia Kui wrote more than a million words of exegesis, exegesis and discussion of classics and difficulties. He also wrote nine articles in total including poems, admonitions, books, lianzhu and wine orders. Scholars admired him very much, and later generations called him Tongru.
However, he did not pay much attention to details, which was somewhat ridiculed by contemporary people, so he did not become a high official. He died in the thirteenth year of Yongyuan at the age of seventy-two.
The imperial court took pity on him and appointed his two sons as prince sheren. ◆The biography of Zhang Ba, named Bo Rao, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
He knew filial piety and humility at a very young age. Even when he was eating or drinking, he was naturally in line with etiquette. The villagers called him Zhang Zengzi.
He was proficient in "Spring and Autumn" when he was seven years old, and wanted to study other classics. His parents said that you are too young to learn so much. Zhang Ba said that I did it for him, so he named him Rao.
Later, he studied "Yanshi Gongyang Chunqiu" with Fan Min, the captain of Changshui School, and then read the "Five Classics" extensively.
At that time, young people Sun Lin, Liu Gu, Duan Zhu and others envied him, so they all bought a house next to Zhang Ba's house to live in so that they could learn from Zhang Ba.
Zhang Ba was elected as the chief minister of Xiaolian, Guangluxun, and was soon promoted. During the Yongyuan period, he became the prefect of Kuaiji. He also appointed Gu Feng, Gongsun Song, and others from the county.
Gu Feng later became the prefect of Yingchuan, and Gongsun Song became the captain of Sili, both of whom were famous.
Others with professional expertise were promoted and hired.
Since then, people in the county have been scrambling to sharpen their moral integrity. Thousands of people are studying the scriptures, and the sound of reciting can be heard on the roads.
At first, Zhang Ba thought that Fan Min had deleted and edited "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" and there were many complicated words, so he reduced it to 200,000 words and changed its name to "Zhang's Studies".
Zhang Ba began to go to Vietnam, but the thieves had not been eliminated and the county was uneasy, so Zhang Ba issued an official document offering a reward. If he used it faithfully, the thieves would surrender without bothering the soldiers.
The nursery rhyme goes: Abandon me Drogo, donate my spear, all thieves will be gone, all officials will be put to rest.
In the third year of his service, Zhang told the official: "The prefect was born as an orphan and became a county governor."
Generally, when the sun is in the middle, it will be tilted, and when the moon is full, there will be losses.
Lao Tzu has a saying: Contentment is not humiliating.
So I asked for sick leave.
Later he was requisitioned and promoted four times to the rank of Attendant.
At this time, the queen's brother, Tiger Guard General Deng Zhi, was a high official in the dynasty. Hearing about Zhang Ba's reputation, he wanted to make friends with him. Zhang Ba hesitated and did not answer, and everyone laughed at him for not knowing current affairs.
Later, when it was time to recuperate, he fell ill and died at the age of seventy.
Before he died, he wrote a suicide note to his sons: Once upon a time, Ji Zi of Yanzhou was on an envoy to Qi State. His son died between Ying and Bo. He was buried on the side of the rough road.
Now that the road to Shu is blocked, it is not suitable to transport it back home, but it can be buried here, which is enough to cover the hair and teeth.
I must follow the principle of quick decay and reflect my wishes.
Throughout your life, you should be respected by others. If you don't arrange yourself well, you will suffer for yourself.
The sons followed their father's orders and buried him in Liang County, Henan Province, where he settled down.
The great craftsman Zhai Youfu and other Confucian disciples traced his life and deeds, and his posthumous title was Xianwen.
