Sima Xiangru was born in Chengdu, Shu County, and his courtesy name was Changqing.
When he was a boy, he liked to read and learn swordsmanship, so his parents named him Quanzi.
After Sima Xiangru completed his studies, he admired Lin Xiangru's character and changed his name to Xiangru.
Initially, due to his family's wealth, he was awarded the position of Langguan, guarded Emperor Xiao Jing, and became a regular servant of martial arts, but this was not his hobby.
It happened that Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty did not like Ci Fu. At this time, King Liang Xiao came to the capital to see Emperor Jing. He was accompanied by people who were good at lobbying, including Zou Yang from Qijun, Meicheng from Huaiyin, and Mr. Zhuang Ji from Wuxian. Xiangru fell in love with these people when he saw them, so he resigned from his official position on the pretext of illness and lived in Liang State.
King Liang Xiao asked Xiangru and other scholars to live together. Xiangru had the opportunity to get along with scholars and lobbyists for several years, so he wrote "Zixu Fu".
Just when King Liang Xiao died, Xiangru had to return to Chengdu. However, his family was poor and he had no occupation that could support his life.
Xiangru always got along well with Wang Ji, the magistrate of Linqiong County. Wang Ji said: Chang Qing, you have been away from home for a long time and are seeking an official position. It is not satisfactory. You can come to see me.
So Xiangru went to Linqiong and lived in the capital pavilion in the city.
The Linqiong County Magistrate pretended to be respectful and visited Xiangru every day.
At first, Xiangru still met each other with courtesy. Later, he lied about being ill and asked his entourage to refuse Wang Ji's visit. However, Wang Ji was more cautious and respectful.
There are many rich people in Linqiong County. For example, the Sun family of King Zhuo has 800 slaves, and the Cheng Zheng family has hundreds of people. The two discussed with each other and said: The county magistrate has a distinguished guest, and we are going to prepare a banquet for him.
The county magistrate was also invited.
When the county magistrate arrived at the Zhuo family, there were already hundreds of guests in the Zhuo family.
At noon, I went to invite Sima Changqing, but he refused to come, saying that he was ill. Linqiong ordered to see Xiangru not come and did not dare to eat. He went to greet Xiangru himself.
Xiangru had no choice but to come to Zhuo's house. All the guests were amazed and envious of his charisma.
When the wine was in full swing, the Linqiong County Magistrate stepped forward, placed the harp in front of Xiangru, and said, "I heard that Chang Qing likes to play the harp very much, and I hope to listen to a piece of music to cheer you up."
After thanking Xiangru, he played one or two pieces of music.
At this time, Zhuo Wangsun had a daughter named Wenjun, who was newly widowed and loved music. So Xiangru pretended to respect each other with the county magistrate, and secretly aroused her love with the sound of the piano.
When Xiangru came to Qiong, he was followed by carriages and horses. He was dignified in appearance, quiet and elegant, and very generous. When Zhuo Wang and Sun's family were drinking and playing piano music, Zhuo Wenjun secretly looked at him through the crack in the door. He was very happy and liked him very much, but he was afraid that he would not understand his feelings.
After the banquet, Xiangru asked someone to reward Wenjun's waiter with a large sum of money to convey his admiration to her.
So Zhuo Wenjun ran away from home at night and eloped with Xiangru. Xiangru and Wenjun hurried back to Chengdu.
When I entered the house, I saw nothing but four walls.
When Zhuo Wangsun learned about his daughter's elopement, he was furious and said: "My daughter is extremely unqualified. I can't bear to hurt her, but I won't give her a cent either."
Some people tried to persuade Zhuo Wangsun, but he still refused to listen.
After a long time, Wenjun felt unhappy and said: "Chang Qing, as long as you go to Linqiong with me, you can make a living by borrowing money from your brothers. Why have you made yourself so miserable?"
Xiangru came to Linqiong with Wenjun, sold all his carriages and horses, and bought a hotel to sell wine.
He also asked Wenjun to personally take charge of the wine shop business in Longqian, while he put on his calf-nosed trousers and worked with the employees, washing wine vessels in the busy city.
When Zhuo Wangsun heard about this, he felt so ashamed that he stayed behind closed doors.
Some brothers and elders talked to Zhuo Wangsun and said, "You have a son and two daughters. What the family lacks is not money."
Now, Wenjun has become the wife of Sima Changqing. Changqing was tired of running away from home. Although he was poor, he was indeed a talent and could be completely relied on. Besides, he is a distinguished guest of the county magistrate, why do you despise him like this!
Zhuo Wangsun had no choice but to give Wenjun 100 slaves, 1 million in money, clothes, bedding and various belongings when she got married.
Wenjun returned to Chengdu with Xiangru, bought land and houses, and became a wealthy family.
After a long period of time, Yang Deyi, a native of Shu County, served as a dog supervisor to serve the emperor.
One day, Emperor Wu read "Zixu Fu" and thought it was well written. He said: "I cannot be at the same time as this author."
Yang Deyi said: My fellow countryman Sima Xiangru claimed that he wrote this poem.
Emperor Wu was very surprised and summoned Xiangru to ask.
Xiangru said: There is such a thing.
However, this Fu only describes the affairs of the princes and is not worth reading.
Please ask me to write a poem about the emperor's hunting trip. After the poem is completed, I will present it to the emperor.
Emperor Wu agreed and ordered the minister to give him a pen and wooden slips.
Xiangru used the fictitious words "Zixu" to state the beauty of the Chu State; "Mr. Wu You" means that there is no such thing, and uses it to refute the Chu State for the Qi State; "Wu Shi Gong" means that there is no such person to clarify the principle of being the emperor.
Therefore, an article was written under the guise of these three people to deduce the prosperous scenes of the emperor and the princes.
The theme of the last chapter of the Fu comes down to frugality, in order to exhort the emperor.
After presenting the gift to the emperor, the emperor was very happy.
The text of the poem says:
The King of Chu sent Zixu as an envoy to the State of Qi. The King of Qi dispatched all the soldiers in the territory, prepared many chariots and horses, and went hunting with the envoy.
After the hunting was over, Zixu went to visit Mr. Wu You and boasted about the incident to him. Wu Shigong happened to be present.
After everyone sat down, Mr. Wu You asked Zixu: "Are you happy hunting today?"
Zixu said: Happy. Is there a lot of prey?
Zixu replied: Very few.
If this is the case, where does the joy come from?
Zixu replied: I am happy that King Qi wanted to boast to me about his many chariots and horses, but I answered him with the grand scene of King Chu hunting in Yunmengze.
Mr. Wuyou said: Can you tell me and listen? Zixu said, "Okay."
The King of Qi commanded thousands of chariots and selected tens of thousands of riders to hunt on the shores of the East China Sea.
Soldiers lined up all over the marshes, animal traps covered the hills, and the animal nets covered the hares. The wheels crushed the big deer to death, shot the elk, and caught the calf of Lin.
The chariots and riders galloped on the salt flats by the sea, and the blood of the slaughtered animals stained the wheels red.
He shot at the beasts and captured a lot of food, and the king of Qi proudly boasted about his achievements.
He looked back at me and said: Chu State also has plains and vast swamps for hunting and hunting. Can it make people have such fun?
Who has more fun, the King of Chu's safari, or me?
I got out of the car and replied, "My dear minister, I am just a humble man from Chu State, but I have been lucky enough to serve as a guard in the Chu Palace for more than ten years. I often go hunting with the King of Chu. The hunting ground is in the back garden of the palace. I can enjoy the surrounding scenery by the way, but I cannot see all the grand scenes. How can I talk about the grand scenery of Daze outside the inner garden?"
King Qi said: Even so, please briefly talk about what you have seen and heard!  I replied: Yes, yes.
I heard that there are seven great lakes in Chu State. I have seen one of them, but not the others.
The one I saw is just the smallest of the seven great swamps, named Yunmeng.
Yunmeng has a radius of 900 miles, and there are mountains in it.
The mountains are winding and twisting, towering and dangerous, with steep peaks and jagged peaks; the sun and moon are either completely obscured or partially obscured; the mountains are scattered, overlapping and disorderly, rising straight up to the blue clouds; the slopes are continuous and sloping, and rivers are connected below.
The soil contained cinnabar, azurite, terracotta, chalk, orpiment, lime, tin ore, jasper, gold, silver, all kinds of colors, dazzling and shining like dragon scales.
The stones there include red jade, rose gemstones, Lin, Min, Kunjue, Yajue, black stones for sharpening, half-white and half-red stones, and stones with red ground and white inscriptions.
There are flowerbeds of cymbidium in the east, in which grow Duheng, orchid, Angelica dahurica, Duruo, Shegan, Ligusticum, calamus, cogongrass, milfoil, sugar cane, and plantain.
To the south there are plains and swamps. The terrain is uneven and sloping. The low-lying land is vast and flat, extending along the river until Wushan is the boundary.
In that high and dry place, there grow blueberries, oat-shaped grasses, bracts, lychees, mugwort, sedges and sedges.
In the low and humid land, there grow foxtail grass, reeds, guinea roses, wild rice, lotus, lotus root, gourds, angustifolia, wormwood, and countless wheat trees growing here.
To the west, there are surging springs, clear pools, and surging water waves. The back waves hit the front waves and rolled forward; lotus flowers and water chestnuts bloomed on the water surface, and huge rocks and white sand were hidden under the water surface.
There are divine turtles, dragon snakes, pig dragons, hawksbill turtles, turtles and turtles in the water.
To the north, there are forests and huge trees in the north of the mountain: cypress trees, nanmu, camphor trees, osmanthus trees, pepper trees, magnolias, yellow tillers, sorbus trees, red-stemmed willows, hawthorn trees, black date trees, orange trees, grapefruit trees, and the fragrance is far overflowing.
There are red apes, macaques, phoenixes, peacocks, phoenixes, jumping monkeys and Shegan in those trees.
Under the trees, there are white tigers, black panthers, crickets, roe deer, female rhinoceros, elephants, wild rhinoceros, Qiongqi, and roe deer.
So he sent warriors like Zhuan Zhu to kill these beasts with bare hands.
The king of Chu then rode a tamed mixed-haired horse, rode a jade-carved chariot, waved a cranked flag with fish whiskers as spikes, and waved a flag decorated with bright moon pearls.
Holding high the sharp three-edged halberd, the left hand holds the engraved Wuhuoming bow, and the right hand holds the powerful arrow in Xia Hui. Bole is the charioteer, and Xian'a is the charioteer.
The chariots moved in ranks, and the cavalry returned to their ranks.
The team continued, neatly and slowly moving forward. So, the King of Chu climbed onto the Yangyun Tower, showing a calm and calm demeanor, maintaining a quiet and comfortable mood.
After the food mixed with peony was prepared, it was presented to the King of Chu for tasting. Unlike the king who runs around all day long, never leaving the car, even cutting pieces of meat, roasting and eating them between the wheels, and taking pleasure in himself.
I thought Qi might not be as good as Chu.
So King Qi was silent and had no words to answer me.
Mr. Wuyou said: Why is this so exaggerated?
You have traveled thousands of miles to come and benefit the State of Qi. The King of Qi mobilized all the soldiers in the territory, prepared many chariots and horses, and went hunting with you. He wanted to work together to hunt animals and make you feel happy. How can it be called boasting?
I asked Chu whether there was any safari in Pingyuan Guangze because I wanted to hear about Chu’s political education and glorious achievements, as well as Mr.’s kind words.
Now, instead of praising the King of Chu for his generous virtues, you talk about Yun Mengze's lofty views, talk about his licentious activities, and show off your extravagance and extravagance. I privately think that you should not do this.
If it is really what you said, it is not a beautiful thing for Chu State.
If the Chu State has these things, and you speak of them, you will publicize the ugliness of the king; if the Chu State does not have these things, but you say that they do, it will damage your reputation, publicize the ugliness of the king, and damage your own credibility. Neither of these two things can be done, but you did it. This will definitely be despised by Qi State, and the reputation of Chu State will also be affected.
Moreover, Qi State faces the sea to the east and Langya Mountain to the south. You can enjoy the beautiful scenery in Chengshan Mountain, hunt in Zhifu Mountain, go boating in the Bohai Sea, and hunt in Mengzhuze. It is adjacent to Sushen in the northeast, and Yugu is the boundary on the left. In autumn, you can hunt in Qingqiu and roam freely overseas. For a Daze like Yunmeng, even if he swallowed eight or nine, he would not feel any congestion in his chest.
As for the extraordinary things, local specialties, rare birds and beasts, all things gathered together, like fish scales gathered together, filling it, it was indescribable, even Yu the Great could not distinguish their names, and the contract could not count their number.
However, the King of Qi was in the position of a prince and did not dare to talk about the joy of hunting and playing, and the vastness of the garden. Your husband is a guest who is being treated as a distinguished guest, so the King of Qi did not answer you with any words. How can you say that he is speechless?
Wu Shigong smiled and said: Chu State is wrong, Qi State may not be right either.
The reason why the emperor asked the princes to pay tribute was not for the sake of wealth, but to allow them to go to the court to state their performance of duties; therefore, the boundaries of the feudal state were divided not to guard the borders, but to prevent the princes from violating laws and regulations.
Nowadays, Qi is a vassal state in the east, but it secretly communicates with Su Shen abroad, abandons the feudal state, crosses the national border, travels across the ocean, and goes hunting in Qingqiu. This behavior is not allowed according to the moral principles that princes should abide by.
Moreover, the remarks of you two gentlemen are not trying to clarify the normal relationship between monarch and ministers, nor are they correcting the etiquette of princes. They are just arguing about the joy of hunting and the vastness of the garden, trying to compete with luxury and debauchery. Not only will this not make your monarch famous or improve his reputation, but it will just reduce his reputation and you will suffer losses.
Besides, how can the things of Qi and Chu be praised?
Gentlemen who have not seen that vast and magnificent scene with their own eyes, haven’t they heard of the Emperor’s Shanglin Garden?
On the left side of Shanglin Garden is Cangwu, and on the right is Xiji. Danshui flows to its south and Ziyuan flows to its north; Ba River and Chan River never flow out of Shanglin Garden, while Jing River and Wei River flow in and out; Feng River, Ha River, Liao River and Liao River twist and turn in Shanglin Garden.
The eight mighty rivers flow in opposite directions and have different postures, running east, west, north and south, flowing from the Jiaoqiu Valley where two mountains face each other, passing through small islets with piles of sand and gravel, passing through forests of osmanthus trees, and flowing through the boundless wilderness.
The water flowed swiftly and powerfully, rushing down the high hills to the narrow mountain pass.
Hitting the boulders and stirring up the zigzag river bank formed by the sand and stones, the water surged up, furious and surging. The river is surging, the current is fast, the waves are crashing and banging; the cross-current is swirling, turning and rushing, making a gurgling sound.
The rapids hit the uneven river bank, roaring and shaking, the water was high, the waves swirled, curled like clouds, and meandered.
Then, the boundless water, twisting and turning slowly and shining silver, rushed to the east and poured into Taihu Lake. The lake overflowed and flowed into the nearby pond. Therefore, Jiaolong, Red Chi, , Li, 鰰, bighead carp, 鰬, 魠, 纺纺, 鱋, and 魶 all raised their dorsal fins, shook their tails, trembled their scales, raised their fins, and lurked in the abyss and rocky valley. Fish and turtles are jumping and making noise, and all living things are gathering in groups. The bright moon and beads shine brightly on the riverside. Shu stones, yellow stones, and crystal stones are piled up layer by layer, dazzling and shining, and accumulated in the water.
Swans, grebes, bustards, geese, grebes, eagles, ibises, owls, grebes, grebes, corvettes, all float in groups on the water.
Let the river float across the river, and the birds drift with the wind, ride the waves, and sway freely. Sometimes, flocks of birds gather on the sandbanks covered with weeds, chattering with cyanine and algae in their mouths, and chewing water chestnuts and lotus roots in their mouths.
So the mountains stood tall and straight, majestic and majestic. Tall trees grow in the vast mountain forests. The mountains are high and steep, with uneven heights.
The ground is covered with sedge and cymbidium, covered with gracilaria, interspersed with sedge and sedge, and covered with zodiac. Dark green sedges grow together, as well as sedge, sedge, and orchid grass. , Manuscript, Shegan, Pijiang, Zanghe, Pi, Orange, Duruo, Sunflower, Fresh Branch, Yellow, Chiang, Piscine, and Green Coriander, all over the vast swamps and spreading on the vast plains. The flowers and plants stretch endlessly, spread widely and multiply, falling in the breeze, revealing their fragrance, exuding a strong fragrance, lush and fragrant, refreshing, and making people feel more fragrant. So I browsed around and watched extensively. Even if I opened my eyes wide, I couldn't make out clearly. I could only see a vast expanse, blurring in and out. Looking around, there was no limit. If I looked carefully, I saw it was vast and boundless.
In the morning, the sun rises from the pond in the east of the garden, and in the evening, the sun sets in the pond in the west of the garden.
In the south of the garden, vegetation still grows even in the harsh winter, and the river surges and churns; the wild animals here include the yak, the yak, the tapir, the yak, the ox, the stag, the elk, the red head, the round title, the qiongqi, the elephant, and the rhinoceros.
In the north of the garden, the river freezes in midsummer and the ground cracks. You can cross the river just by lifting up your clothes. The wild beasts here include unicorn, horn, eagle, eagle, cricket, eagle, eagle, donkey, and mule.
So the palace and villas were spread all over the hillsides and across the valleys. The tall corridors are connected on all sides, and the double floors and rooms are connected by twists and turns of the pavilions. The rafters are painted with flowers and the tiles are decorated with jade. The chariot road is endless, traveling around the corridor. The journey is long, so you must stay in the middle.
The mountains were flattened, palaces were built, and layers of terraces and pavilions were built. There were deep chambers at the bottom of the rocks connected to them. Looking down at the bottom of the mountain, you can see nothing in the distance. Looking up at the sky, you can touch the sky by climbing up to the rafters. Shooting stars flashed past the palace gate, and curved rainbows hung across the window panels and railings.
The green Qiu meanders in the east chamber, and the cart pulled by the elephant walks in the quiet west chamber. The gods rest in the quiet pavilion, and the immortals like us bathe in the sunshine under the southern eaves. Sweet spring water gushes out from the clear room, and the flowing river flows through the courtyard. The river bank is trimmed with huge rocks, which is high, dangerous and uneven.
The rocks are towering and strange, as if they were carved by craftsmen.
Therefore, oranges matured in the summer, and oranges, grapefruits, jellyberries, loquats, jujubes, persimmons, sorbets, magnolia bark, jujubes, bayberries, cherries, grapes, Changdi, quince, lychees and other fruit trees grew in the harem and were planted in the North Garden, stretching to the hills and down to the plains.
The emerald green leaves are swaying, the purple stems are swaying, the red flowers are blooming, and the small scarlet flowers are showing off. The brilliance is prosperous and illuminates the vast wilderness.
There are sand fruit, oak, oak, birch, maple, ginkgo, cotinus, pomegranate, coconut tree, betel nut tree, betel palm, sandalwood, magnolia, sleeper, camphor wood, holly. Some trees are as high as a thousand feet, so thick that several people can hug them. The flowers and branches grow freely and stretched, and the fruits and leaves are huge and dense. Some are gathered together in one place, and some are clustered together. The branches are connected and curled, intertwined and overlapped, lush and intertwined, entangled, held high and horizontal, leaning on each other, the drooping branches spread out, falling flowers flying; the trees are tall and lush, swaying in the wind, graceful and graceful; the wind blows on the grass and trees, making a mournful sound, like the sound of bells, like the sound of pipes.
Trees of varying heights surround the harem; numerous overlapping grasses and trees cover the mountains and fields, growing along the valleys, along the slopes, and down to the low and humid land. As far as the eye can see, there is no limit, and if you look closely, it is endless.
Therefore, black apes and white female monkeys, snub-nosed vervets, big female monkeys, small flying squirrels, flying leeches, tree-climbing squirrels, macaques, monkey-like beards, dog-like apes, and monkey-like larvae all live in the forest, some roaring, some wailing, jumping up and down, as light as flying, interacting with each other, playing together among the branches, bending and twisting, and climbing up to the treetops.
So I jumped over the broken bridge, jumped over the strange forest, picked up the drooping branches, or scattered and ran, or gathered together in confusion, and scattered away.
There are thousands of places like this, where you can come and play, stay in the palace, rest in the annex, the kitchen does not need to be moved, the harem and concubines do not need to follow, and all civil and military officials are ready.
So from autumn to winter, the emperor began to hunt, riding in a car decorated with ivory, driving six white horned dragons, waving colorful flags and waving cloud flags.
A car covered with tiger skins opened the way in front, and a tour guide car escorted behind. Uncle Sun held the bridle and drove the chariot, and Duke Wei served as the charioteer. The bodyguards escorting the Emperor did not follow the right path and moved among the four schools.
Beating the drums in the dense turret, the hunters attack with abandon; the rivers are the hunting fences, and the mountains are the watchtowers. The carriages and horses were galloping, like thunder suddenly rising, shaking the sky and the earth. The hunters dispersed, each chasing his own target. Hunters are marching in a stream, along the mountains and swamps, like clouds and mist, like heavy rain.
Capture leopards alive, fight jackals, kill bears with bare hands, and trample wild sheep. The hunter wears a hat decorated with a stork's tail, trousers with a painting of a white tiger, striped clothes, and rides a wild horse.
Climb to the top of three mountains side by side, walk down rugged slopes, go straight to steep and dangerous peaks, cross valleys and wading in rivers.
They attacked Feilian in a platoon, arranged for the left and right to untie the pigs, killed the Xia clams, stabbed the Meng family with spears, used ropes to trip up the wild boar, and shot the big wild boars.
Arrows are not meant to kill wild beasts at will. When one arrow is shot, it will break the neck and pierce the brain. The bow is not empty, and all the wild beasts fall down in response.
So the emperor rode in his car, wandering slowly and freely, watching the advancement and retreat of the soldiers, and appreciating the general's adapting attitude.
Its speed is so fast that it surpasses the red lightning and leaves the electric light behind. Chase monsters and escape the universe. He bent a good, complex and weak bow, stretched out his arrows filled with white feathers, shot at the swimming owl, and knocked down the dragonfly. Choose a fat beast and shoot the arrow, hitting it exactly where you expect it to.
The bow and arrow separated, and the prey hit by the arrow fell to the ground. Then, the emperor's chariot floated up with its banner raised high, riding the strong wind, overcoming the violent storm, and ascended into the sky to be with the gods. They trampled black cranes, disturbed pheasants, hunted peacocks and luan birds at close range, caught phoenixes, shot down phoenixes, beat phoenixes with bamboo poles, quickly snatched mandarin duck chicks, and captured Jiao Ming.
It wasn't until the end of the road that I turned around and headed back.
Wandering freely, landed in the far north of Shanglinyuan. Go straight ahead and suddenly return to the Imperial Township.
Stepping onto the stone tower, passing by Fengluan Mountain, passing by the magpie, I looked at Lu Han. Next, we arrived at Tangli Palace, rested at Yichun Palace, and then rushed to Xuanqu Palace to the west of Kunming Pool. We rowed a boat decorated with hawks and rippled in Niu Shou Pool. Then go up to Longtai Temple and rest at Xiliu Temple. Observe the hard work and harvest of the scholar-officials, and evenly distribute the prey captured by the hunters.
As for those trampled to death by infantry and chariots, those trampled to death by cavalry, those trampled to death by ministers and their entourage, as well as those beasts that were cornered, exhausted, frightened and fell to the ground, and died without being wounded by the blade, their corpses were crisscrossed, filled the valleys, covered the plains, and filled the swamps, countless of them.
So tired of playing and playing, we held banquets on the pavilions that connected with the sky, and played music in the vast and boundless world. The bell struck thousands of stones, and the bell frame of ten thousand stones was erected; the flag decorated with green feathers was held high, and the big drum made of Lingmao skin was set up; the dance music of Yao was played, and the music of Ge Tianshi was listened to; thousands of people sang together, and ten thousand people were in harmony; the mountains and mausoleums were shaken by the singing, and the water of the rivers was stirred up.
Dances from Bayu, songs from Song and Cai, "Yuzhe" from Huainan, and folk songs from Wencheng and Yunnan were all presented simultaneously and played in turn. The sound of bells and drums came and went, clanging and clanging, shocking and deafening.
The songs of Jing, Wu, Zheng, and Wei, the music of "Shao", "Yi", "Wu", and "Xiang", the indulgent music, the elegant dances of Yan and Ying areas, the high and exciting sounds of "Ji Chu" that can stir up the wind, the performances of actors and dwarfs, the music of Xirong, everything that can be used to make the ears and eyes happy and the mood happy.
Beautiful and sweet music echoed in front of the king, and a beautiful woman with delicate skin stood behind the king.
During my free time in governing the country, I did not want to waste my time, so I followed the way of heaven and came to Shanglin Garden to hunt wild animals and sometimes rest here. For fear of extravagance and extravagance, future generations will continue to follow this path and refuse to stop. This is not an act that will create merit and carry forward the tradition for future generations.
So he canceled the banquet, stopped hunting, and ordered the officials in charge to say: All the land that can be cultivated will be turned into farmland to support the people of Li. Tear down the walls and fill up the trenches so that people in the countryside can come here to make a living.
Even if the Pi Pond is full of fishermen, no one will stop them, and if the palace is free, no one will move in.
Open the granaries, provide relief to the poor people, provide insufficient subsidies, support widows and widowers, and comfort orphans and the elderly without children.
Issue decrees to show kindness to the people, reduce penalties, change systems, change clothes, change the calendar, and start from scratch with the people of the world.
So I chose a good day to fast, put on court clothes, rode in the emperor's car, held high the green flag, and rang the jade bells. Visit the garden of the Six Arts, gallop on the avenue of benevolence and righteousness; visit the forest of "Spring and Autumn", play "Liao Shou" and the music of "Zou Yu", and hold an archery ceremony; shoot a black crane, raise your shield and axe, and dance to your heart's content. The cart carries a sky-high net to catch many elegant people; it is sad for the lamentation of the author of "Cutting Sandalwood", and happy for "Sanghu" to win the talented people. It grooms the appearance in the "Li" garden, wanders around the "Book" garden to appreciate, explains the principles of "The Book of Changes", and releases all kinds of rare birds and monsters in the forest garden. Climbing up to the Mingtang and sitting in the ancestral temple, the king ordered his ministers to tell all the pros and cons of the government, so that all the people in the world would benefit.
At this time, everyone in the world is very happy.
They followed the emperor's teachings, obeyed government orders, followed the trend of the times, and accepted education. The way of sage is vigorously revitalized, the people turn to benevolence and righteousness, and punishments are abandoned and not used. The king's kindness is higher than that of the three emperors, and his achievements surpass those of the five emperors. If political performance reaches this point, safari is a gratifying thing. If you spend all day exposed and galloping in the gardens, mentally exhausted, physically exhausted, abandoning the function of the chariots and horses, damaging the energy of the soldiers, and wasting money from the treasury, but showing no kindness or kindness to the people, only focusing on personal happiness, not caring about the many people, forgetting the affairs of the country, and coveting the hunting of pheasants and rabbits, this is what a benevolent king is not willing to do.
From this point of view, isn’t the hunting behavior of Qi and Chu sad?
Each of the two countries has a land area of ​​only a thousand miles, but the garden covers an area of ​​900 miles. As a result, the grassy fields cannot be turned into cultivated fields, and the people have no food to eat.
They rely on their humble status as princes to enjoy the luxurious pleasures of the emperor. I am afraid that the people will suffer disaster.
So the two gentlemen, Zixu and Wu You, changed their expressions, felt lost, wandered back, left their seats, and said: I am shallow and ignorant, and have no scruples, but I have received a lesson today, and I want to learn from it seriously.
After this fu was written and presented to the emperor, the emperor appointed Xiangru as Lang Guan.
Wu Shi publicly said that Shanglin Garden was vast, with valleys, springs and all things, and Zi Xu said that Yun Mengze had many things. It was extravagant and exaggerated, and it was not what etiquette advocated. Therefore, he deleted the key points, attributed them to the right way, and commented on them.
Xiangru served as Langguan for several years. At that time, Tang Meng was ordered to plunder and open up Yelang and Bozhong to the west. He recruited thousands of officials and soldiers from Ba and Shu counties, and more than 10,000 land and water transportation personnel from Xijun. He also used wartime laws to kill the commander, and the people of Ba and Shu were shocked and frightened.
When the emperor heard about this situation, he sent Xiangru to blame Tang Meng and took the opportunity to tell the people of Ba and Shu that what Tang Meng did was not the emperor's original intention.
The message said:
Announcement to the governors of Ba and Shu: The barbarians have taken military power for themselves, disobeyed the imperial court, and have not been attacking for a long time. They often invade the borders and cause hardships to the scholar-bureaucrats.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he is trying to appease the world and make China peaceful and harmonious.
Then he mobilized his troops and went north to attack the Xiongnu, which shocked the Xiongnu. They surrendered and bowed their knees to seek peace.
Kangju and other countries in the Western Regions also went through translations, communicated with each other, requested to see Emperor Wu, kowtowed reverently, and presented tributes.
Then the army pointed directly to the east, and the king of Minyue was killed by his younger brother.
Then the army arrived at Panyu, and the King of Nanyue sent Prince Yingqi to the court.
The monarchs of Nanyi and the leaders of Xibo often paid tribute and taxes, and did not dare to neglect them. Everyone stretched their necks, raised their heels, admired the court, strived for benevolence and righteousness, and wanted to be the servants of the Han Dynasty. However, the road was far away and mountains and rivers blocked them, so they could not come to pay tribute to the Hanjun in person.
Now, those who disobey have been killed, but those who have done good deeds have not yet been rewarded, so the Zhonglang general is sent to treat them politely and make them submit. As for the levying of 500 soldiers and civilians from Ba and Shu, it was just to offer gifts and protect the envoys from accidents. They did not expect to start a war and cause the disaster of war.
Now, the emperor heard that General Zhonglang actually used wartime laws, which frightened the children of Ba and Shu, and made the fathers and elders of Ba and Shu worried about disaster. The two counties of Ba and Shu also transferred grain to General Zhonglang without authorization. This was not the emperor's original intention.
As for those who were conscripted, some ran away and some killed each other. This was not the moral integrity of a minister.
When the soldiers in the border counties and counties heard the news that the beacon fire was held high and the fumes were lit, they all prepared their bows to shoot, galloped forward, and rushed to the battlefield with their weapons on their backs. Everyone was sweating, fearing that they would fall behind; when fighting, even if they were exposed to sharp blades and risked being hit by stray arrows, they had no hesitation and never thought of turning around and running away. Everyone is angry as if seeking personal revenge.
Are they happy to die but hate to live? Are they not good citizens in their household registration, and are they not the same monarch as Ba and Shu?
It's just that they have deep thoughts, long-term considerations, and are focused on the danger of the country, and like to do their best to fulfill the obligations of their subjects.
Therefore, some of them were rewarded by the talisman-cutting officials, and some of them were given titles, ranked in the ranks of marquises, and their residences were arranged in the east. After their death, they can pass down the dignitary's posthumous title to future generations, and pass on the rewarded land to their descendants. They are very loyal and serious in their work, and they are particularly comfortable as officials. Their good reputation will be spread to future generations, and their outstanding achievements will never be wiped out.
Therefore, virtuous people can smear their liver and brains, and moisten the weeds with their blood without hesitation.
Now they just go to Nanyi as a servant to offer coins and silk, and they kill each other, or they run away and are killed. They die without a good reputation. Their posthumous title should be called Zhiyu. Their shame involves their parents and they are laughed at by everyone in the world.
Isn’t there a huge gap between a person’s magnanimity and his talent?
But this is not just the fault of the conscript. His father and brothers have never given him a very strict education, nor have they carefully set an example for their children. If people lack the virtue of honesty and lack of shame, then the world will not be honest.
Therefore, it was natural that they were sentenced to kill.
The emperor was worried that the envoys and officials would be like that, and he was sad that the unworthy and ignorant people were like this, so he sent messengers to tell the people clearly about the recruitment of soldiers, and took the opportunity to blame them for not being loyal to the court and not dying for state affairs, and reprimanding the three elders and filial brothers for not fulfilling their teaching duties well.
Now is the busy farming season. I have repeatedly troubled the people and have seen the situation in nearby counties with my own eyes. I am worried that the people in the remote valleys and mountains cannot all hear the emperor's voice. When this message arrives, I will quickly distribute it to the people in the county so that they all know the emperor's thoughts. Don't forget it!
After Xiangru's mission was completed, he returned to Beijing and reported to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Tang Meng had captured and opened Yelang, and took the opportunity to open a road to the southwestern Yi. He recruited soldiers from Ba, Shu, and Guanghan, and tens of thousands of people participated in road construction.
It took two years to build the road, but it was not completed. Many soldiers died and the money spent was calculated in hundreds of millions.
There were many opponents among the people of Shu and those in power in the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the princes of Qiong and Zeo heard that Nanyi had interacted with the Han Dynasty and received many rewards. Therefore, most of them wanted to be the servants of the Han Dynasty. They hoped to compare the treatment of Nanyi with the Han Dynasty and asked the Han Dynasty to appoint them to official positions.
The emperor asked Xiangru about this, and Xiangru said: Qiong Ze, Ran, Zhen, etc. are all very close to Shu, and the roads are easy to open. Prefectures and counties were already established during the Qin Dynasty and were abolished only after the founding of the Han Dynasty.
Now that it is really going to be reopened and set up as counties, its value exceeds that of Nanyi.
The emperor thought that Xiangru was right, so he appointed Xiangru as Zhonglang General and ordered Chijie to go on an envoy.
Deputy envoys Wang Ranyu, Hu Chongguo, Lu Yueren and others rode forward in a carriage driven by four horses, relying on officials and property from Ba and Shu to win over the southwestern barbarians.
When Xiangru and others arrived at Shu County, the prefect of Shu County and his officials went to the outskirts to greet Xiangru. The county magistrate, carrying a bow and arrow, opened the way in front of him. The people of Shu were all proud of this.
So Zhuo Wangsun and Linqiong elders all came to Xiangru's door through their connections, offered cattle and wine, and talked happily with Xiangru.
Zhuo Wangsun sighed and thought that it was too late to marry his daughter to Sima Xiangru, so he gave Wen Jun a generous piece of property to share equally with his son.
Sima Xiangru then pacified the southwestern barbarians. The princes of Qiong, Zuo, Ran, Zhen, and Siyu all requested to become ministers of the Han Dynasty.
So the old passes were demolished, and the border was expanded to reach Moshui and Ruoshui in the west, and Zangke in the south. Using this as the boundary, the Lingguan Road was opened, and a bridge was built on Sunshui River, leading directly to Qiong and Zeo.
Xiangru returned to Beijing to report to the emperor, who was very happy.
When Xiangru was sent as an envoy to the southwestern barbarians, most of the elders in Shu County said it was useless to open the door to the southwestern barbarians. Even the court ministers thought this was the case.
Xiangru also wanted to remonstrate with the emperor, but the suggestion had already been made by himself, so he did not dare to remonstrate further, so he wrote an article, pretending to be an elder in Shu County, and used it to challenge the other party.
The article said:
It has been seventy and eight years since the founding of the Han Dynasty. The virtues are abundant and exist in the political affairs of the six generations of kings. The country is powerful and grand. The imperial favor passed down through time is far-reaching and vast. Not only the people at home have benefited, but also foreign countries have received residual favors.
Therefore, the emperor ordered the envoys to march westward. Those who obstructed the army retreated in accordance with the situation. Wherever the wind of morality and education went, they all fell with the wind.
As a result, Ran Yi surrendered, Zou Yi obeyed, Zhe was pacified, Qiong was saved, Siyu was captured, and Baoman was captured. Then he turned the endless stream of chariots and horses around and set off eastward, returning to Beijing to report to the emperor and arriving in Chengdu, Shu County.
At this time, a total of twenty-seven elders, doctors, recommended gentry, and gentlemen came to visit seriously.
After the greetings were over, he took the opportunity to speak: I heard that the emperor's attitude towards the Yi and Di people was just to contain them and prevent them from severing relations.
But now the soldiers of the three counties are exhausted to open the road to Yelang. It has been three years since the road construction was finally completed. The soldiers are already tired from hard work, and the people are no longer rich. Now we have to continue to open the Western Yi, and the people's labor has been exhausted. I am afraid that this matter will not be completed in the end. This is also the burden of the envoy. I am privately worried about you.
Moreover, it has been many years since Qiong, Zuo, and Xibo were aligned with China, and I can no longer remember them clearly.
A benevolent king cannot be recruited with all his benevolence, and a powerful monarch cannot be annexed with all force. Come to think of it, this approach may not work!
Now the property of the good people is cut off to increase the property of the barbarians, which makes the people on whom the Han Dynasty relies suffer fatigue, and they serve the useless barbarians. The despicable people are short-sighted and do not know whether what they say is correct.
The messenger said: How can you say such a thing?
It must be as you said, then the clothing habits of Shujun people will never change, and the customs of Bajun people will never change.
I often hate hearing this.
But the significance of this matter was not originally apparent to onlookers.
My trip is so urgent that I cannot tell you the details. Please give it to the doctors briefly.
Probably there must be extraordinary people in society before extraordinary things happen; only when extraordinary things happen can extraordinary achievements be created.
Extraordinary, of course, it is strange to ordinary people.
Therefore, when extraordinary things begin to occur, people will be frightened; when things succeed, everyone in the world will be safe and peaceful.
In the past, floods surged out and overflowed in all directions, and people moved up and down, which was rugged and restless.
Dayu was worried about this, so he blocked the flood, dug the bottom of the river, dredged the river channel, dispersed the flood, stabilized the disaster, and caused the flood to flow eastward to the sea, so that the people of the world would always be safe.
Are it only the common people who bear such toil?
Dayu was worried and worried all day long, but he also had to work personally. He was so tired that his hands and feet had calluses, his body was so thin that there was no flesh, and his skin was so worn that no hair could grow on it.
Therefore, his wonderful achievements will be prominent in endless future generations, and his reputation has been spread to this day.
Moreover, after a wise monarch ascends the throne, can he only be petty and dirty, bound by grammar, restrained by the world, follow old habits, and please the world?
They should have lofty and magnificent ideas, create achievements, and pass on legal traditions, so as to become an example for future generations to follow.
Therefore, we must work hard to be tolerant and inclusive, and we must diligently think about turning ourselves into a person who can compare with heaven and earth.
Moreover, it is said in the Book of Songs: There is no place in the world that is not the territory of the King of Zhou; there is no one in the four seas who is not the subject of the King of Zhou.
Therefore, within the heaven and the earth, and outside the eight directions, everything is gradually infiltrating and spreading. If there is any living thing that is not nourished by your kindness, the virtuous king will consider it a shame.
Now within the borders, civil and military officials have all gained joy and happiness, without any gaps.
The Yi and Di are countries with different customs, far away from us, and a region with different ethnic groups. It is inaccessible by cars and boats and inaccessible, so political education has not yet reached there, and the social atmosphere is still very low.
If you accept them, they will do things that violate etiquette at the border; if you exclude them, they will do evil in their own country, drive out their kings, reverse the relationship between kings and ministers, and change the order of honor and inferiority. Fathers and brothers will be killed without guilt, young children and orphans will be treated as slaves. The bound people cry, yearning for the Han Dynasty, and complain: I heard that China has the most benevolent monarch, with great virtues, universal benevolence, and everything is in its place. Why have we just been abandoned now?
Lift your heels and long for it, just like people look forward to rain during a severe drought.
Even a violent person would be moved to tears by it, not to mention that the current emperor is a wise man, how could he let it go?
So he sent troops to the north to attack the powerful Xiongnu, and sent envoys to the south to reproach the powerful Yue Kingdom.
The neighboring countries on all sides were taught by benevolence, and the princes of the southern and western barbarians gathered together like fish, with their heads facing the water, willing to receive hundreds of millions of titles from the Han Dynasty.
Therefore, Moshui and Ruoshui were used as barriers, Zangke was used as the boundary, a road to Lingshan was dug, and a bridge was built at the source of Sunshui.
He created a smooth road to morality and passed down the tradition of loving benevolence and righteousness.
We will extend our kindness widely, appease and control the people in remote areas, prevent those who are alienated from being isolated, bring light to the people living in remote and uncivilized areas, eliminate wars here, and eliminate killings there.
Isn't it a matter of happiness to unite the near and far, to achieve peace and happiness inside and outside?
It is the emperor's top priority to save the people from dire straits, respect the emperor's virtues, save the declining society, and inherit the discontinued achievements of the Zhou Dynasty.
Even if the people are working hard, how can they stop?
Moreover, the affairs of an emperor always begin with sorrow and end with pleasure.
In this way, the auspiciousness of receiving the destiny lies in the matter of Tongxi Yi.
Now the emperor is going to enshrine Mount Tai and offer sacrifices to Mount Liangfu, so that the luan bells on the carriages will ring and the sound of music and chants will rise. The virtue of the emperor of Han will be the same as that of the five emperors and that of the three kings.
The onlookers did not see the gist of the matter, just like the wrens flying in the empty sky, while the bird catchers still stared at Yauze. How sad!
So the officials were at a loss, forgetting their purpose of coming and what they had originally wanted to say, and said together with deep emotion: What a convincing virtue the Han Dynasty has! This is what despicable people want to hear.
Although the people are a little lazy, please allow us to set an example for them.
The doctors were melancholy, retreated voluntarily, delayed for a while, and said goodbye.
From then on, someone wrote a letter to accuse Xiangru of accepting bribes from others when he was on an envoy, and as a result, he lost his official position.
He stayed at home for more than a year, and was called to the court as a Langguan.
Xiangru stutters, but is good at writing articles.
He often suffers from diabetes.
After he married Zhuo Wenjun, he became very rich.
When he held an official position, he was not willing to discuss national affairs with the ministers. Instead, he took advantage of his illness to stay at home and did not pursue the official title.
He once followed the emperor to Changyang Palace for hunting. At this time, the emperor liked to personally kill bears and pigs, and chase wild beasts on horseback. Xiangru wrote a booklet to advise him. The booklet wrote: The ministers heard that although all living things are of the same kind, they have different abilities.
I am ignorant and secretly think that if humans have this kind of situation, animals should also have this kind of situation.
Now Your Majesty likes to climb dangerous places and shoot wild beasts. Suddenly, you encounter a nimble and superb beast. When you are unprepared, it attacks violently and rushes towards your chariot and entourage. The chariot has no time to rotate the shaft, and people have no chance to display their skills. Even if you have the skills of Wu Huo and Feng Meng, your talents cannot be used, and withered trees and rotten tree stumps can all turn into disasters.
This is like Hu people and Yue people appearing under the wheel, and Qiang and Yi people following closely behind the wheel. Isn't it very dangerous?
Although it is absolutely safe and harmless, this is not a place that the emperor should approach.
What's more, if you clear the road and then walk, choose the middle of the road to drive your horse to gallop, accidents may sometimes occur, such as the bit in the horse's mouth breaking and the hook of the axle falling off. What's more, it is very easy to trek through the basil and run on the ruins of barren hills. There is the joy of hunting wild beasts in front of you, but you are not prepared to deal with sudden accidents in your heart. It is probably very easy for disaster to occur.
As for belittling the king's noble status, not taking it as a comfort, but willing to appear in a place that is still slightly dangerous despite being fully prepared, I personally think that your majesty should not do this.
Perhaps those who are discerning can see the occurrence of something long before it happens, and those who are wise can avoid it before the disaster occurs. Most disasters are hidden in secret places and occur when people are careless. Therefore, the proverb says: If you accumulate thousands of gold at home, you will not sit under the eaves of the hall.
Although this sentence talks about small things, it can be used to illustrate big things.
I hope your Majesty will pay attention.
The emperor thought that what Sima Xiangru said was very good.
When he passed by Yichun Palace on his return, Xiangru presented a gift to the emperor and expressed his condolences for Qin II's fault.
The words of Fu are:
Climb the long and uneven hillside and walk into the tall palaces.
Looking down at the curved shores and small islands of Qujiang Pond, and looking at the uneven Nanshan Mountains.
The rocks are towering and the space is deep, and the smooth valley is suddenly open and spacious.
The stream flows rapidly away into the wide, low waterside highlands.
Admire the shady beauty of various trees and browse the dense bamboo forest.
Running towards the east mountain, I picked up my clothes and walked through the rapids on the sand and rocks.
Wandering slowly, I passed by II's grave and paid my respects to him.
He himself acted imprudently, which led to the destruction of the country and the loss of his power.
He listened to the slander and refused to wake up, causing the ancestral temple to be exterminated.
Alas!
His moral character was not upright, his tomb was deserted and no one had repaired it, his soul had nowhere to go, and no one offered sacrifices to him; he drifted to an extremely far and boundless place, far beyond the darkness.
The spirit like a monster ascends into the sky and flies far away through the vast nine days.
Alas!
Xiangru was appointed as the mausoleum order of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu not only praised Zixu's deeds, but Xiangru also saw that the emperor loved the immortal way, so he took the opportunity to say: "The deeds in Shanglin are not the most beautiful, there are more beautiful things."
I once wrote "Ode to Your Excellency", but it is not finished. Please allow me to present it to the Emperor after I finish it.
Xiangru believed that the immortals in the legend lived in the mountains, forests and swamps, and were particularly thin in appearance. They were not the immortals the emperor had in mind, so he wrote the "Adult Fu", which wrote: There is an adult in the world who lives in China. The houses are spread thousands of miles away, but they are not enough to make him stop for a while.
Sad about the coercion and hardship of the world, he passed away and wandered into the distance.
Riding on the secondary rainbow decorated with red flags, it floats up carrying the clouds.
Long poles of clouds that look like fireworks are erected, and colorful flags are tied together.
The star of ten days hangs as the streamer of the banner, and the comet hangs as the banner feather.
The flags are invincible in the wind, meandering gracefully and swaying gracefully.
He took a spear and made a flag, and the flagpole was wrapped with a curved rainbow as silk.
The sky was deep red and dark, with surging clouds and floating clouds.
Driving the Yinglong and Xiang chariots, they move forward in a controlled manner, with the red chi and green Qiu as the galloping horses.
Sometimes the dragon's body flexes and rises, soars with its head held high, and gallops at will; sometimes it twists and bulges, coils and curls. Sometimes he shakes his head and stretches his neck, ups and downs and moves forward, sometimes he holds his head high; sometimes he lets himself relax and is self-indulgent, sometimes his head is held high.
Sometimes he advances and retreats suddenly, waving his eyes and sticking out his tongue, like a bird flying away, following each other from left to right; sometimes the dragon's head shakes and bends gracefully, like a frightened rabbit running, like the beams of a house relying on each other.
Or step onto the road amid the hustle and bustle, or fly and jump, galloping forward.
Or flying quickly, chasing each other, as fast as lightning, suddenly bright, the fog disappears, and the clouds disperse.
Cross the East Pole diagonally and climb to the North Pole to interact with the immortals.
After passing through the intricate and winding place, turn right and cross the Feiquan towards the due east.
Summon all the immortals to select them, and arrange them on Yaoguang. Let the Five Emperors be your guides, let Taiyi return, and let Lingyang Ziming be your attendant.
On the left is Xuan Ming, on the right is Han Lei, with Lu Li in front and Yan Huang behind.
Let Prince Qiao be a servant, make Xian Meng Gao a servant, and let Qi Bo be in charge of prescriptions.
Zhurong, the god of fire, serves as a guard, clears the way to defend, eliminates bad spirits, and then moves forward.
There are tens of thousands of cars gathered around me, and their car covers are made of mixed colorful clouds, setting up gorgeous flags.
Let Jumang lead the entourage, I am going to the south to play games.
After passing through Chongshan, I met Tang Yao and visited Yu Shun in Jiuyi.
Chariots and horses criss-crossed each other, and they were galloping forward in a chaotic manner.
Harassment, collision and chaos, the water is boundless and flowing. The mountains are clustered together, and all things are dense and lush, scattered everywhere, and the prosperity is uneven.
Go straight into the rumbling thunder chamber and pass through the rugged ghost valley.
Look across the eight rivers and see the four wildernesses in the distance, cross the Jiujiang River and cross the Five Rivers.
Traveling to and from the Mountain of Fire, floating across the weak water river, the ark crossed Fuzhu, and forded the Liusha River.
Suddenly resting in Congling Mountain, playing in the flooded river, the maidservant Nuwa played the harp and asked Feng Yi to dance.
The sky was dark and unclear, so he summoned Pingyi, the thunder master, to punish the wind god and punish the rain master.
Looking to the west towards Kunlun, I was in a trance, running straight towards Sanwei Mountain.
Push open the heavenly gate and break into the imperial palace, carrying the jade girl back with her.
Climbing Langfeng Mountain and happily stopping to rest is like a black bird flying high and taking a rest.
Wandering on Yinshan Mountain, flying gracefully, until today I saw the Queen Mother of the West with her hair full of white hair.
She wears a jade on her head and lives in a cave. Fortunately, she has a three-legged bird for her to drive.
You must be immortal like this. Even if you can live for eternity, it is not worth being happy.
I turned around and came back. When I reached the end of Buzhou Road, I had dinner in Youdu.
My breath is heavy and I eat the morning glow, chew the Ganoderma lucidum flowers, and eat a little of the Yushu flowers.
Looking up, the body gradually becomes taller and taller, leaping and flying into the sky.
Walking through the reflection of lightning, wading through the torrential rain created by Fenglong Xingyun.
The galloping tour bus and the guide car descended from the sky, leaving the clouds and mist behind and galloping away.
Forced by the narrowness of human society, I slowly walked out of the edge of the Arctic.
Leave the garrison behind in the Arctic Mountains, and surpass the pioneers at the Tianbei Gate.
The lower realm is so deep that you cannot see the earth, and the upper realm is so vast that you cannot see the horizon.
My vision is blurry and my hearing is blurred.
Soar up into the sky and reach the distance, transcend nothingness and exist alone forever.
Now that Xiangru had presented the "Ode to Your Excellency", the emperor was particularly happy. He felt as if he could reach the sky, and his mood was as refreshing as traveling between heaven and earth.
Xiangru has been dismissed from office due to illness and lives in Maoling.
The emperor said: Sima Xiangru is very ill. You can send someone to retrieve all his books; if you don't do this, they will be lost in the future.
He sent Suozhong to Maoling, but Xiangru was dead and there were no books at home.
When I asked Xiangru's wife, she replied: Changqing never had a book.
He often writes books and others take them away, so his home is always empty.
When Chang Qing was still alive, he wrote a book. He said that if an envoy came to pick up the book, he would present it.
There are no other books.
The book he left behind was about Feng Chan, and he dedicated it to his loyal followers.
Suo Zhong presented the book to the emperor again, and the emperor was surprised by the book.
The book says: At the beginning of ancient times, all peoples were born from heaven, and experienced kings of all generations, all the way to Qin.
Follow the footsteps of modern kings and listen to the legacy and reputation of ancient kings. They are numerous and confusing. There are countless people whose reputations and deeds have been destroyed but not praised.
There are only seventy-two monarchs who can succeed Shun and Yu, advocate honorable titles and posthumous titles, and can be granted the title of Zen in Qinshan and be slightly praised.
If one acts in accordance with good principles, no one will not prosper; if one goes against common sense and acts unethically, who can survive?
Before Xuanyuan, time was long, things were unclear, and the details were unknown.
Some of the deeds of the Five Emperors and Three Kings are recorded in the Six Classics books and legends, and we can see the general situation. "Shangshu" says: The king is wise and the ministers are outstanding.
According to this record, it can be said that the sage of the king did not exceed that of Tang Yao, and the virtuousness of the ministers did not compare with Hou Ji.
Houji made great achievements during the reign of Yao of Tang Dynasty, Gongliu became prosperous in the land of Xirong, King Wen reformed the system, made Zhou prosperous, and the way of peace was formed. Although the political achievements of subsequent descendants declined, there has been no voice of resentment for thousands of years. Isn't this a good beginning and a good end?
But there is no other reason why the Zhou Dynasty could be like this. It is just that the previous kings were able to carefully engage in the things they considered and planned, and they were able to rigorously teach future generations.
Therefore, the road opened by the predecessors is smooth and easy to follow; the deep kindness is broad and easy to be abundant; the law is clear and easy to follow; the inheritance of the law is reasonable and easy to inherit.
Therefore, Duke Zhou's achievements flourished during the reign of King Cheng, and his merits surpassed those of King Wen and King Wu.
Judging from its beginning and its end, there are no particularly outstanding achievements that can be compared with the current Han Dynasty.
However, Zhou people still went up to Liangfu Mountain and Mount Tai, established noble titles and gained a respected reputation.
The benevolence of the great Han Dynasty surged out like a fountain, spreading grandly and spreading in all directions. It spreads like clouds and mist, reaching up to the nine heavens and down to extremely distant places in all directions.
All living beings receive kindness, the harmonious spirit spreads widely, and the mighty spirit drifts away. Those who are near are like swimming in the source of grace, and those who are far away are like swimming in the last stream of grace.
The leaders of evil will be obliterated, and those in darkness will gain light. Even all kinds of animals were happy and turned around to face the Chinese court. Then, precious beasts such as Zouyu gathered in the garden, monsters such as Bailin entered the fence, selected a six-tasseled Jiahe in the kitchen for sacrifice, sacrificed a white lin with a branched horn, obtained the treasure tripod left by the Zhou Dynasty and the raised sacred turtles in Qishan, and summoned the divine horse from the swamp to ride the yellow. Ghosts and gods greet the gods and spirits and treat them as guests in the pavilion. Rare things, strange and extraordinary, infinitely varied. It's so admirable that all the auspicious signs are appearing here, but he still thinks that his merits are meager and he dare not praise the matter of being enshrined in Zen.
Once upon a time, when King Wu of Zhou Dynasty was crossing a river, a white fish jumped into the boat. King Wu thought it was a good sign of auspiciousness, so he burned the white fish as a sacrifice to heaven. In fact, this kind of talisman is very small, but because of it, I climbed Mount Tai. Isn’t it too shameful?
The Zhou Dynasty should not have enshrined Zen, but the Han Dynasty should have enshrined Zen, but did not. How far apart are the principles of advancement and concession?
So Grand Sima Jin admonished: Your Majesty nurtures the people of the world with benevolence, and conquers those who refuse to obey with morality. The princes of China are willing to pay tribute, and the barbarians all hold gifts to worship the emperor. The virtues are equal to those of the previous sage kings, and the achievements are the same. The good merits and achievements are generally harmonious. The signs of Fu Rui change in many ways. The periods of fulfillment will come one after another, not just for the first time.
I think the purpose of setting up altars in Mount Tai and Mount Liangfu is to hope that the emperor will come and confer honorary titles to compare with the glory of the previous saints. God's grace and blessings are intended to recommend to heaven with success. Your Majesty's humility and not conferring Zen are cutting off the favor of God, Mount Tai, and Mount Liangfu, making the royal etiquette incomplete, and the officials feel ashamed.
Some people say that the way of heaven is simple and obscure, so rare signs cannot be rejected. If you push it away like this, there will be no opportunity for Taishan to make a mark, and there will be no hope for sacrifices at Liangfu Mountain.
If the ancient emperors were glorified for a moment and then perished, then what else can the narrator say to future generations? And can there be a saying that the seventy-two emperors were granted Zen status?
If you cultivate your moral principles, God will grant you auspiciousness. If you follow the auspiciousness and perform the act of enshrining Zen, it cannot be regarded as exceeding the rites.
Therefore, the sage kings do not abolish the ceremony of Zen, but practice etiquette, respect the earth gods, sincerely appeal to the gods, carve stones on Songshan Mountain to record their merits, in order to commend the most noble status, promote the virtues of the Ming Dynasty, display their titles and honors, and bestow great blessings so that the people can be honored.
The act of enshrining Zen is majestic and grand. It is the grandeur of the world. The great cause of being a king cannot be underestimated.
I hope Your Majesty will preserve it.
Then, the Taoist skills of the recommended gentlemen were combined, so that they could be illuminated by the distant light of the sun and moon, so that they could display their talents as officials and concentrate on running political affairs. It is also necessary to correct the time of the day, narrate human affairs, expound the great righteousness, revise and polish the text, and make it into a classic book like the Spring and Autumn Annals. The old six classics will be followed and added to the seven classics, and spread endlessly, so that it can still inspire loyal and righteous people after thousands of generations, raise microwaves, fly the voice of wisdom, and deliver lush fruits.
The reason why the sages of the previous generation could always maintain a great reputation and were often praised was that when performing the ceremony of enshrining Zen, one should order the aide to report all the great meanings of the enshrinement to His Majesty for viewing.
So the emperor changed his expression as if he had some realization and said, "Okay, I'll give it a try!"
The emperor thought about it, summarized the discussions of the ministers, asked about the specific situation of Feng Chan, recorded the greatness of the favor, and deduced the richness of Fu Rui.
So he wrote a hymn saying:
The sky covering me is filled with clouds.
With universal dew and timely rain, the land can be traveled.
The water that nourishes all things penetrates into the soil, and all living things are nourished. A stalk of good grain bears six ears, so why not accumulate the grain I harvest? Not only does it rain, but it also moistens the earth; it not only moistens me, but also spreads widely.
Everything is bustling and happy, nostalgic and longing for everything.
Famous mountains should have a prominent position and look forward to the arrival of the Holy King.
King, King! Why not perform the ceremony of Zen?
Zou Yu, who is rich in literary splendor, likes my garden; its white texture, black pattern, and its appearance are lovable. Be harmonious and respectful, just like a gentleman. I only heard about its reputation in the past, but now I’m witnessing its arrival. There were no footprints left on the road, which was a sign of auspiciousness from heaven.
This beast also appeared during the time of Yu and Shun, and Yu and Shun prospered because of it.
The fat Bailin once played in the five fields.
It was the tenth month of Mengdong, and the emperor went to the suburbs to offer sacrifices.
Bailin galloped to the king's chariot, and the king used it to burn it to the sky, bringing happiness to heaven.
Before the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, there probably was no such strange thing.
The flexing and stretching yellow dragon ascends to heaven because of encountering holy virtues. The colors sparkle and shine.
The appearance of the dragon body will surely awaken the people.
It is recorded in the "Book of Changes·Tuan Zhuan" that this is the so-called chariot that the emperor was appointed to ride on.
Tian Fu Rui has made it clear that there is no need to warn him again.
It should be entrusted accordingly and tell the king to hold a Zen ceremony. Looking through the classics, we can see that there is a relationship between nature and human society, and the two inspire each other and are harmonious.
The virtue of a wise king is to act conscientiously and cautiously.
Therefore, we must consider decline when we are prosperous, and be aware of danger when we are peaceful and happy.
Therefore, although King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou were in the highest position, they still maintained the virtue of seriousness and respect. During the ceremony, Yu Shun still observed and reflected on his shortcomings and mistakes.
That's the truth. Sima Xiangru had been dead for five years before the emperor began to worship the earth god.
Eight years after his death, the emperor finally offered sacrifices to Zhongyue Mountain first, then to Mount Tai, and then to Liangfu Mountain and Zen Suran Mountain.
Xiangru's other works, such as "The Book of the Marquis of Pingling", "The Dilemma with the Five Young Masters", and "The Book of Caomu" are not included, but his works that are particularly famous among public ministers are included.
Tai Shigong said: "Spring and Autumn" can delve into the most subtle aspects of things, "Book of Changes" is originally subtle but can be explained in a simple way, "Daya" talks about the virtues of princes and the common people, "Xiaoya" ridicules the gains and losses of humble authors, but its rumors can affect court politics.
Therefore, although the external manifestations of words are different, their gentle and enlightening effect is the same.
Although the similar articles contain many false words and exaggerated statements, their main theme is frugality. How is this different from the satirical remonstrance in the Book of Songs?
Yang Xiong believes that among Xiangru's gorgeous poems, there is a one hundred to one relationship between words that encourage luxury and words that advocate frugality. This is like playing the sounds of Zheng and Wei to your heart's content, but playing a little elegant music at the end of the piece.
Doesn’t this detract from the value of Xiangru’s words? I have collected some of his explanatory words and written them in this article.
