Fu Jiezi was from the North and was promoted to an official because he joined the army.
It turns out that both Qiuci and Loulan had killed envoys of the Han Dynasty, which was recorded in "Biography of the Western Regions".
During the Yuanfeng period, Fu Jiezi requested to be sent to Dayuan as an envoy of Junma, and took the emperor's Shao letter to condemn Loulan and Qiuci.
When Fu Jiezi arrived in Loulan, he blamed the King of Loulan for encouraging the Huns to intercept and kill the Han Dynasty envoys. He said: The large army is about to arrive. If you don't encourage the Huns, why don't you report the Huns' envoys to other countries after passing through?
King Loulan expressed his guilt and said: The Huns envoy has just passed by. He should have gone to Wusun and passed through Qiuci on the way.
When Fu Jiezi arrived at Kucha, he blamed the King of Kucha again, and the King of Kucha also admitted his guilt.
Fu Jiezi returned to Kucha from Dayuan. The Kucha people said that the Huns envoy was here after returning from Wusun.
Fu Jiezi took the opportunity to lead his officers and soldiers to kill the Huns envoy.
Fu Jiezi returned to the capital to report the situation, and the emperor issued an edict appointing him as Zhonglang and promoted him to Ping Yue Supervisor.
Fu Jiezi said to the general Huo Guang: Loulan and Qiuci have been capricious many times but have not been condemned. They cannot be used to punish other countries.
When I passed through Qiuci, their king was very close to others and could easily be attacked. I was willing to go and assassinate him, so as to establish my prestige and announce it to other countries.
The general said: "Qiuci country is far away, so let's go to Loulan to test this method for now."
So he told the emperor to send him there.
Fu Jiezi and the soldiers brought gold and silver coins together, claiming that they were gifts to foreign countries.
When they arrived at Loulan, King Loulan seemed unwilling to get close to Fu Jiezi, so Fu Jiezi pretended to leave. After arriving at the western border of Loulan, Fu Jiezi ordered an interpreter to say to King Loulan: The envoys of the Han Dynasty traveled around with gold and brocade to give to various countries. If the king does not come to receive the gift, I will leave for the country to the west.
He immediately took out the gold coins and showed them to the translator.
The translator came back and reported the situation to King Loulan. King Loulan was greedy for the property of the Han Dynasty, so he came to meet the envoy.
Fu Jiezi sat drinking with him and showed him his belongings.
After drinking, Fu Jiezi was drunk and said to King Loulan: The emperor sent me to report some things to the king privately.
King Loulan got up and followed Fu Jiezi into the tent. The two were talking alone. Two strong men stabbed King Loulan from behind. The blades met in the chest. King Loulan died immediately.
His nobles and left and right officials all fled.
Fu Jiezi told them that King Loulan was guilty of the Han Dynasty, and the emperor sent me to kill him. The prince who had been left as a hostage in the Han Dynasty should be replaced as king.
The Han army has just arrived. Don't act rashly. If you make any move, your country will be wiped out!
After that, he took the head of King Loulan back to Beijing to deliver the order. The ministers, generals and others all praised his achievements.
The emperor then issued an edict saying: King Angui of Loulan had acted as a spy for the Huns, secretly spying on the envoys of the Han Dynasty, and sent troops to kill and plunder three guards, including Ma Anle, Guanglu Dafuzhong, and Qi Menlang Suicheng, as well as envoys from Anxi and Dawan.
Fu Jiezi, the supervisor of Pingle, went out as an envoy with the talisman and killed King Angui of Loulan. He hung his head on the north tower and repaid the resentful people with integrity without disturbing the troops and stirring up the crowd.
Fu Jiezi was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang and given to 700 households in the city.
Among the soldiers who assassinated King Loulan, they all replaced their officials as ministers.
After Fu Jiezi died, his son Fu Chang was guilty and could not inherit the title, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the middle of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the descendants of the heroes were renewed, and Fu Chang, the great-grandson of Fu Jiezi, was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang. It was only after Wang Mang's failure that the throne was cut off.
Chang Hui is from Taiyuan.
When he was young, his family was poor, so he volunteered to join the army. He followed Su Wu, the eunuch of Zhizhong, on an envoy to the Huns. They were detained by the Huns for more than ten years and were not able to return until Emperor Zhao.
In order to reward his hard work, the Han Dynasty appointed him Guanglu Doctor.
At this time, Princess Wusun wrote a letter saying: The Xiongnu mobilized their cavalry to colonize the Che Division. The Che Division and the Xiongnu army merged into one to jointly invade Wusun. I hope the emperor will come to rescue us. The Han Dynasty recruited troops and raised horses, and discussed preparations to attack the Xiongnu.
After the death of Emperor Zhao, Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne. In the second year of his reign, Chang Hui was sent as envoy to Wusun.
Princess Wusun and King Wusun both sent envoys to the court, and wrote through Chang Hui that the Xiongnu sent large troops to attack Wusun one after another, captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places, and robbed all the local people. They also sent envoys to threaten to marry Wusun Gonggui, in an attempt to isolate Banjie from Xuansu.
King Wu Zhu was willing to recruit half of the elite troops in the country, equip himself with 50,000 soldiers and horses, and do his best to attack the Xiongnu.
I hope the emperor will send troops to save the princess and King Wusun!
So the Han Dynasty mobilized a large scale of 150,000 cavalry, and the five generals set off in separate directions. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of the Xiongnu".
Chang Hui was appointed as the captain of the school and commanded Wusun's army with the talisman.
King Wusun himself led more than 50,000 cavalrymen under Linghou to march from the west to Yougu Liting, and captured Chanyu's father and his entourage, his sister-in-law and princess, famous princes, cavalry generals and 39,000 subordinates, and captured more than 50,000 horses, oxen, donkeys, mules, camels, and more than 600,000 sheep. Wusun took the captured things himself.
Jusai led more than a dozen officers and soldiers to return to the army with King User. Before arriving at Wusun, the Wusun people stole Chang Hui's official seal and talisman.
Chang Hui returned to the capital, thinking that he would be beheaded.
At that time, the five generals of the Han Dynasty had no merit. The emperor felt that Chang Hui's mission was successful, so he named him Changluo Hou.
He also sent Chang Hui back with gold silk ribbons to reward Wusun dignitaries and meritorious people. Chang Hui took the opportunity to report that the Kucha Kingdom had killed the captain Lai Dan and did not punish them. Please go and attack Kucha. Emperor Xuan did not agree.
General Huo Guang hinted that Chang Hui would make his own decisions based on the situation.
Chang Hui arrived at the Wusun Kingdom with 500 officers and soldiers. When he came back and passed by Kucha, he recruited 20,000 troops from the western country. He ordered his deputy to send 20,000 troops from Kucha to tie up the country. Wusun sent 7,000 troops to attack Kucha from three sides. Before the army could gather together, they sent someone to accuse King Qiuci of killing the envoys of the Han Dynasty in the past.
King Qiuci apologized and said: This is the result of being harmed by the noble Gu Yi when I was the late king. I am not guilty.
Chang Hui said: Even so, Gu Yi must be tied up, and I can let the king go.
King Qiuci tied up Guyi and took him to Chang Hui. Chang Hui killed Guyi and went back.
Later, Chang Hui replaced Su Wu as the vassal state. He was familiar with the situation in foreign countries and worked hard many times with meritorious deeds.
In the middle of the year of Ganlu, the later general Zhao Chongguo passed away, and the emperor appointed Limulus Tomb as the right general, and the official position of the Dian vassal state remained as before.
When Emperor Xuan died, Chang Hui served Emperor Yuan. He died three years later, and his nickname was Zhuang Genyao.
The feudal state was passed down to the great-grandson, and was discontinued in the middle of Jianwu year.
Zheng Ji is from Kuaiji. Because he served in the army and went on several missions to Yousu, he was named Lang.
Dian Mu is a strong and persistent person and is familiar with foreign affairs.
Since the fortress was connected to Youqiu and Kui Luxing was conquered, school captains were set up to work in Quli.
At the time of Emperor Xuan, Zheng Ji worked in Quli as a minister and accumulated grain. He then mobilized armies from various countries to defeat the chariot division. He was promoted to Sima of the Guard and sent to guard the southern road west of Shanshan.
In the middle of the year of Shenjue, internal turmoil broke out among the Xiongnu. The Xianxian Shan, the king of Chu, planned to surrender to the Han Dynasty and sent someone to contact Zheng Ji.
Zheng Ji mobilized 50,000 people from Quli, Qiuci and other countries to meet King Yue Zhu. There were 12,000 people. Xiao Wang sent 12 people to follow Zheng Ji to Hequ. Many people fled. Zheng Ji chased these people and killed them, and then brought the remaining people to the capital.
Emperor Mo granted King Ri Zhu the title of Marquis of Guide.
After Zheng Ji defeated the chariot division, he surrendered and surrendered to the king. His reputation shocked the Western Regions, so he also took charge of the North Road to the west of the chariot division, so he was known as the Protector.
The establishment of Duhu began with Zheng Ji.
In order to commend him for his achievements, the emperor issued an edict saying: Zheng Ji, the captain of the cavalry in the Western Regions, appeased the foreign barbarians, declared his hope and credibility, welcomed the cousin of the Xiongnu Chanyu, King Ri Zhu, and his men, and attacked the Cheshi Douzi City, which was a remarkable achievement.
Zheng Ji was granted the title of Marquis of Anyuan, and was granted food to 1,000 households in the city.
Zheng Ji then established a shogunate in the center of various countries in the Western Regions, and the official office was in Wulei City to pacify the various countries, kill, conquer, appease and recruit them.
The orders of the Han Dynasty were issued to the Western Regions, and construction was started by Zhang Qian and completed by Zheng Ji. These are recorded in the "Biography of the Western Regions".
After Zheng Ji passed away, he was given the title of Marquis Mu.
His son Zheng Guang inherited the title, but he died without a son and the feudal state was abolished.
In the middle of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, among the meritorious officials who were not expelled due to crimes, Zheng Yong, the great-grandson of Zheng Ji, was granted the title of Marquis of Anyuan.
Gan Yanshou, courtesy name Junkuang, was from Yuzhi in the north.
When he was young, he was selected as Yu Lin because he was good at horseback riding and archery. His skills in throwing stones and jumping were unparalleled among his peers. He once jumped into Yu Lin's pavilion, so he was promoted to Lang.
After testing his hand-fighting skills, he was appointed as a disciple. He relied on his strength and was favored.
Soon he was transferred to the post of governor of Liaodong and was dismissed.
The cavalry general Xu Jia recommended Gan Yanshou as a doctor and admonished the doctor. He went to the Western Regions as an envoy to protect the cavalry captain. Together with the deputy captain Chen Tang, he killed Zhizhi Shanyu and was named Yichenghou.
After Gan Yanshou died, Mi was named Zhuanghou.
The feudal state was passed down to his great-grandson. After Wang Mang failed, the feudal state was ended.
Chen Tang, whose courtesy name is Zigong, is from Shanyang Xiaqiu.
When he was young, he liked to read, he was knowledgeable and well-versed in affairs, and he could write good articles.
The family was poor and relied on begging and borrowing money to make a living. He had no moral integrity and was not praised by the people in the state.
Chen Tang went west to Chang'an to seek an official position, hoping to become an eunuch and serve as a prime minister.
A few years later, Zhang Bo, the Marquis of Fuping, dated Chen Tang and admired his talent.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Shao of the Yuan Dynasty ordered the princes to recommend talents, and Zhang Bo recommended Chen Tang.
In order to wait for promotion, Chen Tang did not go to the funeral after his father's death. Sili impeached Chen Tang for not observing filial piety. Zhang Bo's election and recommendation were fraudulent and did not follow the actual situation. He was cut off from 200 households. When he died, he was given the title of Mihou.
Chen Tang was imprisoned and sentenced.
Later, he was recommended to the rank of Lang again and requested to be sent to foreign countries several times.
After a long time, he was appointed as the deputy captain of the Western Regions and went on an envoy to the Western Regions together with Gan Yanshou.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, internal conflicts among the Xiongnu intensified, and five Chanyus competed for the throne. Huhanxie Chanyu and Zhizhi Chanyu both sent their sons as hostages, and the Han Dynasty accepted them.
Later, Hu Hanxie personally went to the Han Dynasty to proclaim himself a vassal to see Emperor Xuan. Zhizhi Chanyu thought that Hu Hanxie was weak and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Just in time for the Han Dynasty to send troops to escort Huhanxie Chanyu back, the Zhizhi moved westward and attacked Huji, Jiankun and Dingling, annexed the three kingdoms and unified them.
Zhizhi Chanyu resented that the Han Dynasty supported Huhanxie Chanyu but did not help him, so he trapped the Han Dynasty envoy Jiang Naishi and others and humiliated them.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Chanyu Zhizhi sent an envoy to pay tribute, and asked him to take away his son who was serving as a servant and was willing to surrender to the court.
The Han Dynasty discussed sending the Wei Si Ma Guji to escort the servant.
Dr. Gong Yu and Dr. Kuang Heng believed that the Spring and Autumn Annals stated that all the requirements of the Yi and Di could not be met. Now Zhizhi Chanyu's heart towards enlightenment is not pure yet, and his place is quite far away. It is best to send an envoy to send his son to the border area and then return.
Gu Ji wrote a letter and said: China and the Yi Di have a bond but never extinguish them. Now that they have raised his children for ten years, the favor has been very great. Now he goes to a remote and empty place without escorting him, and returns when he reaches the frontier. This means that he has abandoned him and no longer loves him, causing them to lose their attachment. It is not appropriate to abandon the previous favor and create subsequent resentment.
The discussants saw that Jiang Naichi had no way to deal with the enemy before, lacked wisdom and courage, and suffered humiliation, so they worried about the minister in advance.
If my minister is fortunate enough to be able to hold on to the strong man's talisman, uphold the sage's orders, and declare his profound kindness, he should not dare to be cruel and cunning.
If he has the heart of an animal and behaves cruelly to his ministers, then the Chanyu will be burdened with deep sins for a long time, and he will definitely flee far away and not dare to approach the border.
It is the interest of the country and the wish of the ministers to lose a person and stabilize the people.
I hope to send him to the Zhizhi court.
The emperor presented Gu Ji's memorial to his superiors. Gong Yu argued again, believing that Gu Ji's visit would definitely bring disaster and trouble to the country, and he could not agree to his memorial.
The right general Feng Fengshi thought it could be dispatched, and the emperor agreed.
After arriving at the royal court of Zhizhi, Shanyu Zhizhi became angry and even killed Gu Ji and others.
Zhizhi Chanyu himself knew that he had betrayed the Han Dynasty, and he also heard that Huhanxie was more powerful, so he fled west to Kangju.
King Kangju married his daughter to Chanyu Zhizhi as his wife, and Zhizhi also married his daughter to King Kangju.
King Kangju respected Zhizhi Chanyu very much, and planned to rely on his power to coerce other countries. Zhizhi borrowed troops several times to attack Wusun, and went deep into Chigu City, killing and plundering the people, seizing livestock and property. Wusun did not dare to pursue them, and the west was empty. There was no one living in the area thousands of miles around.
Zhizhi Chanyu thought he was a great country, had a great reputation and was respected by others, and was proud of his victory. He was not treated politely by King Kangju. In anger, he killed King Kangju's daughter and hundreds of his dignitaries and people. Some of them were cut into pieces and thrown into the Du Lai water.
The people were recruited to build the city, five hundred people were used every day, and it stopped after two years.
He also sent envoys to ask Hesu and Dayuan to pay tribute every year, but they dared not refuse to pay.
The Han Dynasty sent three groups of envoys to Kangju to ask for the bodies of Gu Ji and others. Zhizhi Chanyu trapped the envoys and humiliated them. He refused to obey Shao's order, but wrote a letter through the governor, saying: I am in hardship and danger. I am willing to surrender to the powerful Han Dynasty and send my son as a hostage.
Zhizhi Shanyu was so proud and neglectful.
In the third year of Jianzhao's reign, Chen Tang and Gan Yanshou went to the Western Regions as envoys.
Chen Tang was a calm, brave and resourceful man with many strategies. He liked to build outstanding achievements. Every time he passed through capitals, towns, mountains and rivers, he would often climb to high places to take a look.
After receiving the mission to a foreign country, he planned with Gan Yanshou and said: "The Yi and Di are afraid of obeying the big tribes. This is their nature."
The Western Region originally belonged to the Xiongnu, but now Zhizhi Chanyu has spread far and wide, invading and bullying Wusun, Dayuan and other countries. He often advises Kang Ju and wants to surrender them.
If we can get these two countries, attack Yili in the north, Parthia in the west, and arrange Ji Yuezhi and Shanli Wuyi in the south, within a few years, the situation of several countries with capitals will be critical.
Moreover, their people are fierce, like to fight, and often win. If they are indulged for a long time, they will definitely become a hidden danger in the Western Region.
Although Zhizhi Chanyu was located quite far away, the barbarians did not have solid city walls or powerful swords and crossbows to defend themselves. If they mobilized the officers and soldiers stationed in the fields and led Wusun's troops to attack them all the way to the city, they would have nowhere to go when they fled, and they would not be able to defend in vain. Thousands of years of achievements could be accomplished in one day.
Gan Yanshou also believed that this was the case, so he prepared to submit a memorial to ask for instructions. Chen Tang added: "All major national affairs must be discussed by ministers. Extraordinary strategies are beyond the imagination of ordinary people, and things must not be approved."
Gan Yanshou hesitated and did not listen.
It happened that he had been ill for a long time, so Chen Tang alone relied on the imperial court to mobilize the troops from various countries in the towns and the officers and soldiers of the Che Division and Guowuji Colonel in the field.
When Gan Yanshou found out, he got up in panic and planned to stop him.
Chen Tang got angry, held down his sword and scolded Gan Yanshou, saying: The troops have gathered, do you want to ruin everyone's affairs?
Gan Yanshou had no choice but to obey him. The marching formation was deployed, and three schools of Yangwei, Baihu and Heqi were added. The total number of Han soldiers and Hu soldiers was more than 40,000. Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang submitted a self-impeachment report to the emperor and stated the situation of the use of troops.
On the same day, they led the army to separate routes and divided them into six schools. Three of them crossed Congling from the south road to Dawan. The other three schools were led by the governor himself. They set out from Wensu State, entered Chigu via the north road, passed Wusun, and reached the border of Kangju, all the way to the west of Tianchi.
The deputy king of Kangju, Baotian, led thousands of cavalry and invaded the east of Chigu City. He killed and robbed more than a thousand of King Wusun's people and took away many livestock and property. They encountered the Han Dynasty army at the rear and robbed a considerable amount of the baggage of the troops at the rear.
Chen Tang released the Hu army to attack them, killed 460 people, and obtained the 470 people they had robbed, and returned them to King Yada Wusun. The horses, cattle, and sheep obtained were used for military purposes.
He also captured Yinudu, a prominent figure in Baotian.
When they arrived at the border of Shubu in Kangju, Chen Tang ordered the army not to loot.
He secretly called Tu Mo, a prominent figure in Kangju, to meet him, explained to him the power and credibility of the Han Dynasty, drank wine with him and formed an alliance, and then let him go.
Leading the army forward from the trail, they stopped advancing and set up camp when they reached a place about sixty miles away from Shanyu City.
He also captured Kaimo, the son of Beise, a prominent figure in Kangju, and asked him to serve as a guide.
Beise's son was also the younger brother of Tu Mo's mother. They all resented Shan Yu, so they knew Zhizhi's situation in detail.
The next day he led the army forward again. He was still thirty miles away from the city and stopped to set up camp.
Shanyu sent an envoy to ask why the Han army came, and replied: Shanyu wrote to say that he was in a difficult situation now, and he was willing to surrender to the Han Dynasty and come to the Han Dynasty in person to see him.
The emperor felt sorry for Shanyu who left the vast territory of the Xiongnu and was wronged in Kangju, so he sent the general guard to welcome Shanyu's wife and children. I was afraid that your surroundings would be alarmed, so the army did not dare to go to the city.
Envoys came and went several times to inform each other of the situation.
Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang then reproached Shan Yu and said: "We have come all the way for Shan Yu, but up to now no famous princes or ministers have come to see the general to accept orders. How could Shan Yu ignore the big plan and lose the etiquette of a host towards his guests?"
The army has come a long way, the troops and horses are very tired, and the food and grass are probably running out. I am afraid that they will not be able to return the army on their own. I hope that Shan Yu and the ministers will consider the plan carefully.
The next day, the army advanced to the upper reaches of the Du Lai River in Zhizhi City, three miles away from the city, and stopped to set up camp.
I saw colorful flags erected on Shanyu's city. Hundreds of people wearing mails came to the city to guard the city. They also sent more than a hundred cavalry to run back and forth under the city. More than a hundred infantrymen set up formations like fish scales on both sides of the city gate to teach how to use troops.
The people in the city also called to the Han army: "Come and fight with me!"
More than a hundred cavalry galloped towards the camp. The soldiers in the camp drew their bows and pointed at the cavalry, and the cavalry retreated.
The desert army sent officers and soldiers several times to shoot at the cavalry and infantry at the city gate, and both the cavalry and infantry entered.
Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang ordered the troops to approach the city after hearing the sound of the drums. They surrounded the city from all sides, each with their own tasks, some digging ditches and some blocking the city gates. Those with shields were in front and those with swords, halberds and bows were behind. They shot upwards at the people on the towers, and the people on the towers ran downstairs.
There was also a wooden city outside the Tucheng. The enemy fired from the wooden city, killing some people outside, and the people outside used firewood to burn the wooden city.
At night, several hundred cavalrymen tried to break out of the encirclement, but were shot head-on.
At first, Shanyu heard that the Han army had arrived and wanted to escape, but he suspected that Kang Ju was resentful of him and would act as an internal agent for the Mo army. He also heard that all the Wusun countries had sent troops, so he thought he had nowhere to go.
After Zhizhi Shanyu came out, he went back again and said: It is better to hold on to the city.
The Han army came from afar and could not attack for long.
The Chanyu put on his boring armor and stood upstairs. Dozens of Pi's wives used their bows and arrows to kill the people outside the city.
Someone outside the city shot Chanyu in the nose, and dozens of his ladies were also shot to death.
Shanyu went downstairs, mounted his horse, and moved to Shanyu's inner chamber.
Halfway through the night, the wooden city was penetrated. The people who were wrapped in masks retreated into the earth city, climbed onto the tower and shouted.
At that time, Kang Ju's army of more than 10,000 cavalry was divided into more than ten divisions, surrounded by city walls on all sides, and responded to each other's voices.
At night, they attacked the Han camp several times without success, so they retreated.
When daybreak, fires were set on all sides of the city. The officers and soldiers became happy, shouting loudly to chase the enemy, and shook the earth with the sound of chives and drums.
Kang Jubing retreated.
The Han army pushed large shields from all sides and entered the earth city together.
More than a hundred men and women ran into his inner room.
The Han soldiers set fire to it, and the officers and soldiers scrambled to enter the inner room. Shanyu was injured and died.
Du Xun, the false prime minister of the army, cut off Shan Yu's head and obtained two talismans from the Han Dynasty envoy and the silk book brought by Gu Ji and others.
All things taken will be given to me.
A total of 1,518 people including Dingguan clan, princes and famous kings were killed, 145 people were captured, and more than 1,000 people were surrendered. They were all distributed to 15 kings sent by countries with cities.
So Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang wrote: I have heard that the world should be unified. In the past, there were Tang and Yu, but now there is the powerful Han Dynasty.
Huhanxie Chanyu of the Xiongnu claimed to be the Northern Fan. Only Zhizhi Chanyu rebelled and resisted without being punished. People in the west of Daxia thought that the powerful Han Dynasty could not make Zhizhi Chanyu surrender.
Zhizhi Chanyu cruelly poisoned the people, and his crimes reached heaven.
The ministers Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang led the army of benevolence and righteousness to punish the gods. Relying on the gods of your majesty, the yin and yang were harmonious, the weather was clear and bright, they charged into the battle and defeated the enemy, beheaded Zhizhi Shanyu and killed everyone below the famous king.
The severed head should be hung in the official residence of the barbarians on Guo Street to show people thousands of miles away that anyone who violated the powerful Han Dynasty must be killed no matter how far away they were.
The matter was referred to the judicial department.
Prime Minister Kuang Heng and imperial censor Fan Yanshou believed that Zhizhi Chanyu and the head of the famous king traveled around the country, and the barbarians were all aware of it.
The "Moon Order" says that spring is the time to bury corpses, so it is better not to hang your head.
The cavalry general Xu Jia and the right general Wang Shang thought that in the Spring and Autumn Period, during the Jiagu alliance, You Shi mocked the monarch, and Confucius killed him. It was midsummer at that time, and the beheaded hands and feet were transported out of different families.
It should be hung for ten days before being buried.
The emperor issued an edict saying that the general's opinion was correct.
At first, Zhongshu Ling Shiti wanted to marry his sister to Zhu Sishou, but Gan Yanshou did not agree.
When the prime minister and censor also resented that they acted under the emperor's orders, they all disapproved of Chen Tang.
Chen Tang was usually greedy, and most of the property he seized entered the Han Dynasty and was not handed over in accordance with the law.
Captain Sili sent a letter to the officials on the road, arresting officers and soldiers to investigate the matter.
Chen Tang then wrote a memorial and said: I, together with the officers and soldiers, killed the Zhizhi Chanyu. Fortunately, we were able to eliminate them. When the army returns victorious from thousands of miles away, there should be envoys on the road to welcome the reward.
Now Si Li went against the grain and arrested the officers and soldiers for examination. This was to avenge Zhizhi Chanyu!
The emperor immediately sent officers and soldiers and ordered the counties to prepare food and wine on the road to reward the passing troops.
After returning to the capital, they commented on their merits. Shi Xian and Kuang Heng believed that Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang had used the emperor's orders to mobilize troops without permission, and were lucky to have not been executed. If they were granted titles and granted land, then the envoys who were ordered in the future would rush to take risks to gain luck, cause trouble among the barbarians, and bring disaster to the country. This cannot be done.
Emperor Yuan praised the contribution of Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang in his heart, but it was difficult to go against the opinions of Kuang Heng and Shi Xian, and the matter was not decided for a long time.
The original Zheng Liu wrote to Xiang Shang and said: Zhizhi Chanyu imprisoned and killed hundreds of envoys, officers and soldiers. The matter became an uproar in foreign countries, and he lost his prestige and the respect of others. All ministers were worried about this.
His Majesty became angry and wanted to kill him, but he has never forgotten it.
Gan Yanshou, the governor of the Western Regions, and Chen Tang, the deputy captain, followed the will of the Holy Ming and relied on the blessings of the gods. They led hundreds of barbarian monarchs and the armies of the country with towns. They went through life and death and entered places that no one could go. Only then did they conquer Kangju and conquer Wudao City. Wall, pulled down the banner of Shehou, chopped off the head of Zhizhi Chanyu, hoisted the banner thousands of miles away, and spread his fame to the west of Kunshan. He washed away the shame of Guji and established outstanding achievements. All the barbarians were afraid and surrendered, and everyone was shocked.
When Huhanxie Chanyu saw that Zhizhi Chanyu had been killed, he was both happy and afraid. He rushed towards Fengmuyi, bowed to express his allegiance, and was willing to protect the Northern Fan. He has been a vassal for generations.
They have established achievements for thousands of years and ensured peace for all generations. Among the officials, no one has made greater achievements than them.
In the past, uncle Fang and Jifu, the great officials of the Zhou Dynasty, killed Mi Xun for King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty and brought all the barbarians to submit. "Poetry" says: The noise of the chariots and horses is like thunder. Uncle Fang, who is both noble and honest, conquers the corpses. The wild bushes also surrender out of fear of the power.
"Yi" says: The person who destroys the enemy leader is worthy of praise because he can gain more people of different races.
This is praise for those who kill the culprit so that others who do not want to obey will come to submit.
The shock brought about by the executions of Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang is not as powerful as the killing of leaders mentioned in the Book of Changes or the thunderbolt mentioned in the Book of Songs.
When commenting on great achievements, one should disregard minor mistakes. When promoting something beautiful, one should disregard minor flaws.
"Sima Law" says that rewards for troops should not exceed one month, and it is hoped that those who have made meritorious deeds will quickly receive the reward for their good deeds.
This is due to the emphasis on military exploits and the reuse of talents.
After Jifu returned, the King of Zhou gave him rich things. "Poetry" said: Jifu was very happy because he was invited to the banquet. He received so many blessings because he came back from the land of Hao and his achievements are as long as the sun and the moon.
The Hao land thousands of miles away is still considered far away, let alone thousands of miles away, their hard work has reached the extreme!
Not only were Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang not rewarded with rewards, but they were wronged for their unyielding achievements and suffered long-term frustrations from petty officials. This is not the way to reward meritorious people and motivate soldiers.
In the past, Duke Huan of Qi first had the merit of respecting the Zhou Dynasty, and later he was responsible for destroying the country of Xiang. The gentleman used his merits to cover up his mistakes and concealed the wrong things he had done.
General Li Guangli of the Second Division lost an army of 50,000 men and spent hundreds of millions of dollars. After four years of hard work, he only got 30 horses. Even though he beheaded Queen Wan Mugu, it was not enough to compensate for the expense. Moreover, he also committed many crimes.
Emperor Xiaowu thought that when he went to conquer the enemy thousands of miles away, he should not care about his faults, so he conferred official titles of two princes, three ministers, and two thousand stones to more than a hundred people.
Now Kangju's national power is stronger than that of Dayuan, Zhizhi Chanyu's orders are more important than King Wan's, and their crime of killing the envoy is greater than Dayuan's crime of keeping horses. Moreover, Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang did not bother the soldiers of the Han Dynasty, and did not need to spend a bucket of grain. Compared with the generals of the Second Division, their merits are a hundred times better than his.
Moreover, Chang Hui obeyed Wusun who wanted to attack the Xiongnu, and Zheng Ji welcomed King Yuezhu who came to submit to him, and both of them broke the soil and granted titles.
Therefore, their martial arts and hard work are greater than Uncle Fang and Jifu, their repayment of merit is superior to Duke Huan of Qi and the generals of the Second Division, and the credit for what they have done is greater than that of Anyuan Marquis and Changluo Marquis. However, their great achievements are not commended, and small mistakes are spread everywhere. I deeply regret it!
Uncensored cases should be promptly lifted, allowing them to come and go freely without being held accountable, and be given favors and titles to reward those who have made meritorious deeds.
So the emperor issued an edict saying: The Xiongnu Zhizhi Chanyu betrayed propriety and justice, detained and killed the Han Dynasty envoys, officers and soldiers, which was against the law. How can I forget it?
The reason why he hesitated to go on a conquest was because it was difficult to mobilize the troops and the generals were tired, so they refrained from mentioning this matter.
Now Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang saw that they could take advantage of the opportunity, so they took advantage of the convenience of time, gathered all the countries with towns, and arbitrarily relied on the emperor's order to use troops to conquer the enemy. Relying on the blessing of the gods of heaven, earth and the ancestral temple, they conquered Zhizhi Chanyu and beheaded him, as well as Ban's wife, dignitaries, famous kings and more than a thousand others.
Although they deviated from morality and violated national laws, they did not bother anyone in the country to perform military service, did not use the national treasury's reserves, borrowed the enemy's food to supply the troops, established meritorious service thousands of miles away, shocked all barbarians with their power, and quickly spread their fame all over the world.
Eliminate brutality for the country, cut off the source of war, and stabilize the border.
However, the sorrow of death and injury cannot be avoided. The blame should lie on obeying the law. I deeply feel sorry for this!
Special pardon for Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang's crimes, and do not pursue them further.
Shao ordered his ministers to discuss the reward.
Everyone who discussed it thought that it was appropriate to kill Shan Yu in accordance with military law.
Kuang Heng and Shi Xian believed that Zhizhi originally lost his country and fled abroad. He only stole his name in a deserted place and was not a real Chanyu.
Emperor Yuan followed the old example of Anyuan Marquis Zheng Ji and granted them a settlement of 1,000 households. Kuang Heng and Shi Xian protested again.
So Gan Yanshou was granted the title of Marquis of Yicheng, and Chen Tang was given the title of Marquis of Guan Nei. Each of them was given three hundred households in the city, and a hundred catties of gold.
Offer sacrifices to heaven and the ancestral temple, and grant amnesty to the world.
Gan Yanshou was appointed as the captain of Changshui, and Chen Tang was appointed as the captain of Shesheng.
Gan Yanshou was promoted to the rank of captain of the city gate and captain of the guard army. He passed away in his official position.
Emperor Cheng had just ascended the throne, and Prime Minister Kuang Heng reported again: Chen Tang was ordered to go on an envoy as an official with two thousand stones. He acted among the barbarians without waiting for orders. He did not set strict requirements to set an example for his subordinates. Instead, he took the property he had captured from Kangju and warned the officials not to re-examine the affairs in remote areas.
Even if the matter is pardoned, he is still not suitable for office.
Chen Tang was dismissed from office.
Later, Chen Tang wrote a letter saying that the son sent by King Kangju to serve the emperor was not a prince.
After review and verification, it was indeed the prince.
Chen Tang was imprisoned and should be executed.
Taizhong doctor Gu Yong wrote a letter to defend Chen Tang and said: I heard that the state of Chu had Ziyu as a minister, and Duke Wen of Jin was uneasy because of him; there were Lian Po and Ma Fu in the state, and the powerful Qin state did not dare to plot against Jingxing; in the modern Han Dynasty, there were Zhidu and Wei Shang, so the Xiongnu did not dare to cross the desert and go south.
Judging from these circumstances, the general who defeated the enemy is the country's most effective military minister and cannot be ignored.
So When a gentleman hears the sound of military drums, he thinks of ministers who can lead troops in battle. I privately believe that Chen Tang, the Marquis of Guannei, who was sent to the Western Regions as a deputy governor, resented Zhizhi Chanyu for being inhumane and worried that the king could not punish him. Crossing Wusun, gathered on the Du Lai River, broke through the three-story city wall, beheaded Zhizhi Chanyu, avenged the grudge that had not been able to kill him for ten years, and wiped out the past humiliation of the border officers and soldiers. Their majesty shocked all the barbarians, and their martial arts spread far and wide. Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there has never been such a scene for generals who have conquered foreign countries.
Now Chen Tang broke the law because what he said was wrong, and he has been in jail for a long time. He has not been able to be sentenced for a long time. The law enforcement officials want to use Dapi's criminal law against him.
In the past, Bai Qi was the general of the Qin State. He captured the capital of Ying in the south and killed Tongkuo in the north. Because of a small mistake, he was killed by Du You. The people of Qin mourned for him and all of them shed tears.
Now Chen Tang personally carries weapons and fights thousands of miles away with bloodshed. He sacrifices his military exploits to the ancestral temple and reports to heaven. All warriors admire his integrity.
There is no great sin in committing a sin because of telling something.
"Book of Zhou" says: If you keep in mind the merits of others and forget the faults of others, you will be fit to be a monarch.
Besides, if dogs and horses work hard for people, they can still get shacks built for them in return, not to mention the meritorious officials of the country!
Privately, I worry that your Majesty has ignored the sound of the military drums, failed to understand the meaning of the "Book of Zhou", and forgotten the kindness of building a shack, treated Chen Tang as a mediocre minister, and finally obeyed the officials' decision. Letting the people also have the resentment of the people of Qin is not a way to spur ministers who risk their lives.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor released Chen Tang, revoked his title and became an ordinary soldier.
A few years later, Duan Huizong, the protector of the Western Regions, was surrounded by the Wusun army. People from the post station came on horseback to report, hoping to send troops from countries with towns in the Western Regions and Dunhuang troops to rescue them.
Prime Minister Wang Shang, General Wang Feng and hundreds of officials discussed the matter for several days with no result.
Wang Feng said: "Chen Tang is very good at planning and familiar with foreign situations. You can call him to ask."
The emperor summoned Chen Tang in the announcement room.
Chen Tang contracted typhoid fever when he was attacking Chanyu Zhizhi and could not bend his arms.
Chen Tang went in to see him, and was told by an edict that he should not kneel down and show Duan Huizong's memorial to him.
Chen Tang said: "The generals, ministers and nine ministers are all talented and well-versed in affairs. The junior ministers are weak and sick, and are not qualified to plan major events."
The emperor said: If the country is in urgent need, you should not give in.
Chen Tang replied: I think this matter must not be cause for concern.
The emperor asked: Why do you say that?
Chen Tang said: It takes five Hu soldiers to equal one Han soldier. Why?
Because the Hu people's weapons were primitive and not sharp, their bows and arrows were not sharp.
Now I heard that they have learned many skills from the Han people, but it still takes three people to fight against one Han soldier.
There is also a saying in the Art of War: The enemy must have half as many troops as the host before they can attack him. The number of people surrounding Duan Huizong now is not enough to defeat him. Please don't worry, Your Majesty!
Moreover, the army can travel fifty miles a day with light equipment, but can only travel thirty miles with heavy loads. Now Duan Huizong wants to mobilize the troops from countries with towns in the Western Regions and Dunhuang, and it will take a long time to arrive. This is the so-called revenge army, and it cannot be used in emergencies.
The emperor said: What should we do?
Is relief certain? When will the siege be released?
Chen Tang knew that the Wusun army was a mob and could not attack for a long time. In the past, such things could only last a few days, so he replied: The siege has been relieved!
He counted the days on his fingers and said, "In no more than five days, we will hear the good news."
Four days later, a military letter arrived stating that the siege had been lifted.
The general Wang Feng sent a memorial to appoint him as the chief minister, and Chen Tang was responsible for handling all affairs in the shogunate.
Chen Tang knew the law clearly and was good at analyzing the situation according to the situation. Most of his suggestions were adopted.
Chen Tang often accepted money from others to draft memorials for others, and was eventually dismissed because of this.
At the beginning, Chen Tang and General Xie Wannian were friendly.
Since the time of Emperor Yuan, no more people have migrated to build settlements in the Weiling area.
Emperor Cheng initially built the mausoleum here. A few years later, he liked the place south of Baling Qu Pavilion and rebuilt it again.
Xie Wannian and Chen Tang discussed the matter and believed that during the reign of Emperor Wu, the craftsman Yang Guang satisfied the emperor several times with his construction, and he got the position of the general master craftsman.
The father-in-law's wife lives in Chang'an, and his son also grew up in Chang'an. If he doesn't like the east, he should ask for a move to get a land and house as a reward. This will be beneficial.
Chen Tang thought this was profitable, so he sealed the memorial and presented it to the emperor, saying: The tombs to be initially built are in the capital area, which is the most fertile and beautiful place, and a county can be established.
It has been more than thirty years since the people of the world moved to various mausoleums. There are more and more rich people in Guandong, occupying a lot of good land, driving the poor people, and moving them to the place where the tombs are initially built. This can be used to strengthen the capital, weaken the princes, and make people from middle-class families and below evenly rich and poor. Chen Tang is willing to move to Chuling area with his wife, children and family members to lead the world.
So the emperor followed his plan, and as expected, he first built residential areas in Changling, and then moved the people from inland counties.
Xie Wannian himself proposed that it would take three years to complete the project, but later it was not completed. Most of the ministers said that it was not appropriate to build a city in a package.
The emperor referred the matter to the relevant officials for discussion, and they all said: The Changling project is to fill up the low land and build a mountain with soil. It is estimated that the toilet is still on the flat ground. The transported soil cannot protect the souls in the underworld. If the soil is shallow, it will not be strong on the outside. Tens of thousands of labor are wasted in vain. They even work at night with a fat fire. Transporting soil to Dongshan will be as expensive as the price of grain.
The project has been going on for several years, and everyone in the world has been tired, the country is exhausted, the national treasury is empty, and even the common people are miserable.
The old mausoleum is based on the natural terrain and the original land. The terrain is high and spacious, and it is close to the ancestors. There have been ten years of construction before. The old mausoleum should be rebuilt and the people should not be relocated.
The emperor issued an edict to stop the construction of Changling. This incident was recorded in the "Chronicle of the Emperor".
The prime minister and the censor requested that the newly built residences in the Changling area be abolished, but the petition was not approved. Someone asked Chen Tang: If the residences are not demolished, will there be further relocation?
Chen Tang said: The emperor will listen to what the ministers say for the time being. He will still move again when the time comes.
At that time, Shangxin, the Marquis of Chengdu, was appointed as the assistant to General Sima Wei in political affairs. He usually disliked Chen Tang.
After Wang Shang heard what Chen Tang said, he reported to the emperor that Chen Tang had confused the masses and was put into a prison cell to be punished and examined for various crimes he had committed.
Chen Tang once wrote a letter on behalf of the Cavalry Captain Wang Mang, saying: My father died prematurely, but he did not get a fief. My mother, Mingjun, supported the Empress Dowager, and she worked very hard, so she should be granted a title.
He was actually named the new capital lord.
Later, the Empress Dowager's brother Gou Shen served as the captain of Shuiheng. After his death, his son Gou Ji became the minister. Gou Shen's wife planned to obtain a fief for Gou Ji. Chen Tang accepted the fifty kilograms of gold she gave and agreed to file a memorial for him according to the old practice.
Zhang Kuang, the prefect of Hongnong, embezzled more than one million yuan and was cunning and unscrupulous. He ordered an immediate interrogation. He was afraid of going to jail, so he sent someone to tell Chen Tang.
Chen Dang defended him and agreed to wait until the winter, and he was promised two million as a reward. It was all this kind of thing.
These things were before the amnesty.
Later, a black dragon appeared in Shulai County in winter. Someone asked Chen Tang, and Chen Tang said: This is the so-called Taoist opening.
The emperor traveled in plain clothes several times, but he came and went at the wrong time, so the dragon appeared at the wrong time.
It was also said that the migration was about to start again, and more than ten people spread the word to each other.
The Prime Minister and the Censor impeached Chen Tang for misleading the public and falsely claiming that he attributed the vision to the Emperor. This was not what he should have said, and he had committed a crime of great disrespect.
Tingwei went to Zengshou to make a review. He believed that there was no proper law for punishing the unjust. He punished crimes according to the seriousness of the crime committed. However, his subordinates often used this method but often misjudged the crime. Therefore, the case was brought to Tingwei for trial. There was no precedent to refer to and the matter was reported to the emperor first. This was to correct the punishment and make human life more important.
The Ming Emperor took pity on the people and issued the Shao Order to stop the construction of Changling and not to relocate officials and people. The edict had already been issued.
Chen Tang arbitrarily told others about his conjecture that he would migrate again. Although he was greatly alarmed, the words did not spread widely and there was no chaos among the people, so it cannot be said that he confused everyone.
Chen Tang committed a crime of disrespect by spreading rumors and assuming things that were not true and not what he should have said.
The emperor issued an order saying: Tingwei Zhao Zengshou's review is correct.
Chen Tang had made great achievements in conquering the Zhizhi Chanyu in the past, so he was demoted to a commoner and sent to the frontier.
He also ordered: "The former general who was a great craftsman was unfaithful and unfaithful. He made random lies, increased taxes, levied corvees, and hastily built projects, causing the people to suffer in vain. People died one after another, poison spread among the people, and the people in the country were dissatisfied. Although he was pardoned, he was not suitable to live in the capital."
So Chen Tang and Xie Wannian were sent to Dunhuang together.
After a long time, the governor of Dunhuang wrote a letter saying: Chen Tang personally killed Yingzhi Chanyu before, and he has great prestige in foreign countries, so it is not suitable to approach the frontier fortress.
The emperor ordered him to be moved to Anding.
Yi Lang Geng directly stated the things that were beneficial to the country, and by the way, he defended Chen Tang and said: Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang showed the great Han Dynasty the power of hooking enemies from deep and inviting distant countries. They wiped away the country's many years of shame, conquered the unruly monarchs in remote areas, and captured enemies that were difficult to subdue thousands of miles away. Is there any greater merit than this?
The late emperor commended them, issued wise edicts several times, publicized their merits, changed their reign names, recorded their merits, and passed them on endlessly.
Correspondingly, Nanjun contributed white tigers, and the frontier fortress was safe and sound.
When the late emperor was ill in bed, he still paid attention to them and did not forget them. He sent ministers several times to question the prime minister and immediately rewarded them for their merits.
Only Prime Minister Kuang Heng excluded and refused to record merit, and only granted a few hundred households to Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang. This was the reason why meritorious ministers and soldiers were disappointed.
Emperor Xiaocheng inherited the established career foundation and took advantage of the power of conquests. There was no war and the country was safe and sound. However, the ministers were evil and dishonest, and there were flattering and cunning people in the court. They did not think deeply about the root cause of the trouble, and used it to prevent things that had not yet formed. They wanted to monopolize the majesty of the monarch and crowd out jealousy. As a man of meritorious deeds, Chen Tang was alone and unjustly imprisoned, unable to defend himself. Finally, he was innocent and was abandoned in Dunhuang in his old age. It happened to be on the passage to and from the Western Regions. It was so sad that a minister whose reputation made the enemy flee could suffer disaster in the blink of an eye, and was ridiculed by the remaining enemy prisoners of Zhizhi!
Up to now, all those who have been sent as envoys to foreign barbarians have told the story of Zhi Zhi’s execution to promote the strength of the Han Dynasty.
How can it not be sad to use the merits of others to threaten enemies and to abandon others to make those who speak ill of them happy?
Moreover, when you are in peace, don't forget about danger, and when you are strong, think about decline. Now the country usually does not have the savings that Emperor Wen made through years of frugality that made the country rich, nor does it have the brave and resourceful ministers who captured the enemy who were recommended and appointed by Emperor Wu. There is only Chen Tang!
Even if Chen Tang's death does not reach His Majesty's time, I still hope that the country will increase his contribution and erect a monument on his tomb to encourage people in the future.
Chen Tang was fortunate enough to live in the current era of sage, and his achievements in establishing the country did not last long. Instead, he allowed the evil ministers to push him away, causing him to flee into exile and die without a burial place.
People with far-sighted ideas all consider that Chen Tang's achievements have not been matched by anyone for several generations, and the crimes committed by Chen Tang are all human beings. If Chen Tang is like this, even if someone sheds blood and sacrifices for the country and throws his body on the battlefield, he will still be controlled by his tongue and captured by jealous ministers.
This is the reason why I feel deeply worried about the country.
After the memorial was handed over, the emperor asked Chen Tang to come back, and finally died in Chang'an.
A few years after Chen Tang's death, Wang Mang became the Duke of Anhan and took charge of the government. In his heart, he was grateful for Chen Tang's old kindness and wanted to please the empress dowager, so he honored Emperor Yuan's temple as Gaozong for his contribution to conquering Zhizhi.
In addition, because Chen Tang and Gan Yanshou were not rewarded for their merits in the past, and Du Xun, the prime minister, was not rewarded at all, Gan Yanshou's grandson Gan Qian was granted the title of 1,600 households, Chen Tang was given the additional title of Pohu Zhuanghou, Chen Tang's son Chen Feng was granted the title of Pohuhou, and Du Xun was granted the title of Tuidihou.
Duan Huizong, courtesy name Zisong, was a native of Gui, Tianshui.
In the middle of Jingning's reign, he was recommended by the Five Governments as the Protector of the Western Regions and the Cavalry Commander, Guanglu Guanglu, with the Du Ling Order. People in the Western Regions respected his prestige and credibility.
Three years later, when his term of office expired, he returned to the capital and was appointed the governor of Pei County.
Because Shanyu should come to court, he was appointed as the governor of Yanmen.
A few years later, Duan Huizong was dismissed from office for breaking the law.
Countries in the Western Regions wrote letters expressing their wish to appoint Duan Huizong, and in the middle of the year, Yangshuo was appointed Protector-General.
Duan Huizong was a man of great integrity and valued fame, and he had a good friendship with Gu Yong.
Gu Yong felt pity that Duan Huizong was old and had gone to a distant place to serve as an official, so he wrote to him to advise him: "It is very good to be able to appease the virtue of a distant place and to assume the important position of Protector again!"
With your talents, you can easily obtain the position of prime minister in the capital. Why do you need to go to the side of Kunshan to establish achievements, command hundreds of barbarians, and appease people in foreign lands?
You think deeply, and I have nothing to tell you originally.
Even so, how dare you not say a little bit about what you mean when giving parting words to friends.
Now the benevolence of the Han Dynasty is flourishing, and people from remote areas are coming to surrender. The achievements of Fu, Zheng, Gan, and Chen will never happen again in their lifetime. I hope that my friend you will follow the old practice and not pursue extraordinary achievements. Returning when your term of office is over will be enough to offset the misfortune of Yanmen. Thousands of miles away should put the body first. I hope you will consider my words carefully.
Duan Huizong has already left the border.
All the nations sent their sons to the outskirts of the city to meet him.
Xiao Wusun Wang An said that Duan Huizong made him king in the past. He was grateful for his kindness and planned to visit him. However, the princes stopped him from going, but he refused to listen, so he went to Qiuci to visit him.
All the countries with city walls are close to him and obey him.
Prince Kangju Baosunni led more than 10,000 people and wanted to surrender. Duan Huizong reported the situation and the Han Dynasty sent Wei Sima to meet him.
Duan Huizong dispatched Wu Ji's army to accompany Sima to accept the surrender.
Sima was afraid that there would be too many people surrendering, so he planned to ask those who surrendered to be tied up. Baosunni then became resentful and led everyone to escape.
When Huizong returned after his term expired, he sent Wu Ji's troops without authorization, which delayed the military operation. The emperor went down to Shao to make up for the crime.
He was appointed as the prefect of Jincheng, but was dismissed because of illness.
More than a year later, King Xiao Wusun was killed by his own people, and the Linghous broke into chaos.
The emperor conscripted Duan Huizong as Zuo Cao Zhonglang, General Guanglu, and asked him to pacify the Wusun Kingdom. He appointed Mo Zhen, the younger brother of King Xiao Wusun, as king. He stabilized his country and returned.
The next year, Mo Zhenjiang killed King Wusun, and then he died of illness. The Han Dynasty regretted that it could not kill him personally.
In the middle of the Yuanyan year, Duan Huizong was sent to mobilize Wuji Xiaowei and the troops from various countries to kill the crown prince Fanqiu who was the last general.
Duan Huizong was afraid that after the large army entered the Wusun Kingdom, Fanqiu would be alarmed and that he would not be captured after he escaped, so he left the army he sent in Dianlou and selected thirty capable crossbow-wielding soldiers.
He took the sword with his hand and killed Fanqiu.
Fanqiu's officials and subordinates were frightened and fled back on horseback.
Xiao Wusun Wang Niao Limi, the son of Mo Zhenjiang's brother, led thousands of cavalry to surround Duan Huizong. Duan Huizong told them his intention to kill Fanqiu: Now you surround me and kill me, it's like taking a hair from a Han ox.
The heads of King Wan and Zhizhi are hanging in Guo Street, and you Wusun know this.
The people below King Wusun were frightened and said: "General Mo Zhen has betrayed the Han Dynasty, so it is okay to kill his son." Can't you tell us first so that we can provide him with his last meal?
Duan Huizong said: If you tell King Wusun in advance and let Fanqiu escape and hide, you will commit a serious crime.
If I provided him with food and then handed it over to me, it would be a disservice to my family members, so I didn't inform him in advance.
King Wusun and his men wept and withdrew their troops.
Duan Huizong went back to report the situation. The ministers discussed that Duan Huizong should act according to the situation and use a small force to go deep into the Wusun Kingdom and kill Fanqiu. This demonstrated the country's prestige and should be rewarded heavily.
The emperor gave Duan Huizong the title of Marquis of Guannei and one hundred catties of gold.
At this time, Bei Yuanxu, the younger brother of King Wusun's father, led everyone to harm King Wusun. The Han Dynasty sent Duan Huizong there to work with Sun Jian, the protector, to appease him.
The next year, Duan Huizong died of illness in Wusun Kingdom at the age of seventy-five. All countries in the city mourned him and built ancestral halls for him.
Zan said: From the Yuanshou period, Zhang Qian began to communicate with the Western Regions. In the Dijie period, Zheng Ji established the title of Protector. Until the era of Wang Mang, there were 18 people in total. They were all elected for their bravery and strategy. However, those who had meritorious deeds among them are all recorded here.
Lian Guo was praised for his kindness and trust, Guo Shun was famous for his honesty and fairness, Sun Jian was famous for his dignity in handling affairs, and the rest of them had nothing to praise.
Chen Tang behaved unruly and did not restrain himself, and finally fell into hardship and embarrassment. The commentators pitied him, so they also listed him here.
