Emperor Xiaohuan Liu Zhi, the great-grandson of Emperor Suzong Zhang, his grandfather Liu Kai, Xiaowang of Hejian, his father Liu Yi, Marquis of Liwu, and his mother's family.
After Liu Yi's death, Liu Zhi assumed the title of Marquis of Liwu.
In the first year of this century, Empress Dowager Liang summoned Liu Zhi to Xiamen Pavilion in Luoyang City, intending to marry her sister to Liu Zhi.
When Emperor Zhi passed away, the Empress Dowager Liang and her brother, General Liang Ji, made decisions in the palace. On the seventh day of the intercalary lunar month, Liang Ji was sent to hold the Fujie and carry Liu Zhi into the Nangong Palace in a Wang Qinggai chariot. On this day, he ascended the throne at the age of fifteen.
The Empress Dowager Liang was still in charge of the government.
On the second day of July in autumn, Emperor Xiaozhi was buried in Jingling.
King Liu happy of Qi passed away.
On the 28th, I visited Gaomiao Temple and Guangwu Temple.
In Bingxu, the edict said: People who are filial and honest, and officials who are not greedy and bend the law, should guard the land and herdsmen, prohibit evil and evil, do true and good things, and the foundation of prosperity and enlightenment often comes from here.
The edicts were issued one after another, expressing clear and sincere compassion. However, all units neglected, ignored, and were lazy and careless, and the selection and recommendation were messy, which was unpopular and harmed the people.
Although there have been some slight corrections recently, I have not yet deeply learned the lessons and repented of my past mistakes.
Now the bandits in Huaiyi have not been eliminated, and the troops are attacking one after another, leaving the people tired and haggard, and trapped in the predicament of being on duty. I hope that all officials will benefit the working people and clean up corruption and filth in order to obtain happiness and good fortune.
Only those with an official rank of over a hundred stones, who have served for more than ten years, and who have special talents and special behaviors can participate in the selection.
The descendants of officials who have engaged in corruption and bribery shall not be recommended.
Eliminate the backdoor sources of evil and hypocrisy, and allow those who are honest and upholding morality to stretch their noble integrity.
Everyone should do their part and I will review future performance.
In the ninth month of the 18th month of the 18th month, the emperor's ancestor, King Xiao of Hejian, was named Emperor Xiaomu, his wife Zhao was named Queen Xiaomu, and the emperor's father, Marquis Liwu, was named Emperor Xiao Chong.
On the twelfth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor's mother was honored as a noble person of the Xiao Chong Expo Garden.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Jianhe, there was a solar eclipse.
The imperial edict, Jiu Qing, and Xiaowei each discussed the pros and cons of the government affairs.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
Officials are given one more year's work; men are given the second grade each; fathers, elders, filial brothers, and Litian are each given the third grade; widowers, widowers, orphans, singles, terminally ill, poor and unable to survive are each given five dendrobiums of millet; chaste women are given three bolts of silk.
If the disaster loss is more than four-tenths, no land rent will be collected; if the amount is less than this amount, the land rent will be reduced or reduced according to the actual situation.
In February, many people died of starvation in Jing and Yang prefectures, and the four prefectures were sent to inspect and conduct disaster relief.
Pei Guo reported that Huang Long met Yu Qiao.
On April 11th in the summer, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
The generals, ministers, and lieutenants are ordered to recommend a virtuous and upright person who can speak out and criticize his mistakes boldly.
He also ordered the princes, generals, officials, censors, envoys, Qianshi, Liubaishi, doctors, Yilang, and Langguan to secretly submit letters to report and expose, and to state the benefits and losses.
He also ordered the generals, ministers, counties, and countries to recommend one person each who was very filial and dedicated.
On the 13th, the state and county were ordered not to force or threaten to expel officials.
An official embezzled more than 300,000 yuan and did not show up to correct or impeach the whistleblower. The governor and 2,000 shi were accused of connivance and avoidance.
If someone lent it to Yinshou Pass without authorization, it would be the same crime as murder and he would be abandoned in the market by using fake documents.
On the 27th, the imperial edict was issued that the prisoner of the county and state should be punished with a reduced penalty of one level of death penalty and not be beaten.
Only those who commit rebellion and treason should not invoke this edict.
He also issued an edict: Recently, it took a long time to fill the tombs in Jinling Mausoleum. A lot of labor was required, and the slaves who were sentenced were even more diligent.
These days, it doesn't rain at all, the dense clouds disperse, and there is a drought. Maybe this is the reason.
We now order all prisoners who build tombs to have their sentences reduced by six months each.
This month, the brother of Fuling King Liu Dai's brother, Boquting Hou Liu Bian, was made King of Fuling.
There were earthquakes in six parts of the county, wells overflowed, and houses were damaged and people were killed.
Zhicao was born in Zhonghuang Zangfu, which holds gold and silver.
In June, Taiwei Hu Guang was dismissed and Da Si Nong Du Qiao was appointed as Taiwei.
In July of autumn, King Liu Hong of Bohai passed away. He established Emperor Huan's younger brother, Liwuhou Liu Kui, as King of Bohai.
On August 18, Liang was made queen.
On September 21, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Taiwei Du Qiao was dismissed from his post.
In the tenth month of winter, Situ Zhao Jie was appointed as Taiwei, Sikong Yuan Tang was appointed as Situ, and former Taiwei Hu Guang was appointed as Sikong.
In November, Jiyin reported that a large bird of five colors was seen in Jishi.
On the twelfth day, he was punished with the death penalty of one degree and sent to the border guard.
Liu Wen of Qinghe rebelled, killed the prime minister of the country, and wanted to establish Liu Lian, the king of Qinghe, as emperor. When the incident was discovered, Liu Wen was executed.
Liu Lian was demoted to the rank of Marquis of Wei clan and sent to Guiyang where he committed suicide.
Former Taiwei Li Gu and Du Qiao were both sentenced to death in prison.
Li Jian, a thief from Chen Liu, claimed to be emperor and was killed.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, the emperor crowned him.
On the twenty-fifth day, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
King Liu Jian of Hejian and King Liu Kui of Bohai each received a hundred catties of gold, and all the kings of Pengcheng received fifty catties each; princesses, generals, Sangong, Tejin, Hou, Zhong, two thousand stones, two thousand stones, generals, officials, officials, Congguan, Fan, Guo, Yin, Ma Jiliang, Deng Xiaohou and various ladies were given silks of different sizes. Rice, wine and meat were given to those aged over eighty, and two pieces of silk and three catties of cotton were given to those aged over ninety.
On the Wuchen day of March, the emperor accompanied the Empress Dowager Liang to the residence of General Liang Ji.
The Baima Qiang bandits plundered the Guanghan vassal state and killed the chief officials. The Yizhou governor led a Banzhen barbarian crusade and defeated them.
On the third day of April in the summer, Liu Shuo, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of Prince of Pingyuan. He was enshrined in the honor of the Emperor Xiao Chong, and his wife Ma, the wife of the Emperor Xiao Chong, was honored as the noble lady of Xiao Chong Garden.
Jiahe was born in the place where Da Sinong hid his gold coins.
On the tenth day of the fifth lunar month, a fire broke out in Deyang Hall and Zuoye Gate, where the concubines of the North Palace lived, and the emperor moved to the South Palace.
In June, Qinghe was renamed Ganling, and Jinghou Liu Li, the son of Anping King Liu De, was made King of Ganling.
In the seventh month of autumn, there was a flood in the capital.
Hedong reported that a tree was growing with branches.
In the winter of October, Chen Jing of Changping called himself the "Huang Emperor's Son", established an official office and appointed officials. Guan Bo of Nandun also called himself "Zhenren" and tried to raise an army. Chen Jing and Guan Bo were both killed.
In the spring and March of the third year of Jiashen, Liu Ding, the king of Pengcheng, passed away.
On April 30th in the summer, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, the edict said: "There are so many people who cannot manage themselves, so we set up a king for them and sent some officials to govern them."
If the methods implemented by the king can be supported by the people below, then happiness and auspiciousness will be reflected in heaven. Nowadays, many affairs carried out by ordinary people are chaotic and disorderly, and the symptoms of evil are shown in natural phenomena.
Recently, the solar eclipse has damaged the defects and the sunlight has become dark. I am so frightened that I have to reflect and think privately and cannot live in peace.
Doesn't "The Legend of Gongyang" say that when a solar eclipse occurs, we must cultivate virtue; when a lunar eclipse occurs, we must revise the criminal legal system.
In the past, Emperor Xiaozhang had deep sympathy for the prisoners who were imprisoned or moved far away in the previous generation, so he issued an edict in the first year of Jianchu. All the prisoners received his favor. Those who were exiled to the border areas were allowed to return to their homeland, and those who were subjugated as disciples were exempted from being common people.
Isn’t the late emperor’s virtuous policy worthy of our imitation?
It is hereby ordered that from the first year of Yongjian of Emperor Shun to this year, all those who have done evil, whose relatives have been implicated and punished, and who have officials and civilians moved to the border with reduced penalty of death, will all return to the county; only the family members of the criminals will not obey this order.
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, he ordered the general, Sangong, Tejin, Hou, Qing, and Xiaowei to each recommend a virtuous and upright person who could tell the truth and make criticisms.
On the 19th, the Xianling dormitory was hit by an earthquake.
In autumn, in July, the meat falls like rain in Lian County.
On August 30, the comet appeared in the Tianshi star among the twelve northeastern flag stars.
The capital is flooded.
On September 14, an earthquake occurred.
On the twenty-fifth day, another earthquake occurred, and the edict issued an order for atonement for those who committed crimes under the death penalty and those who fled, and the atonements varied.
Landslides occurred in five places in the county.
In October of winter, Taiwei Zhao Jie was dismissed from his post, and Situ Yuan Tang was appointed as Taiwei, and Da Sinong Hanoi Zhang Xin was appointed as Situ.
On November 20th, the edict stated: I have lost my balance in my administration, resulting in continuous disasters, the sun, moon and stars are unclear, and the yin and yang are reversed.
Restless sleep, heartbroken.
Nowadays, in the poor residences of the capital, the dead are piled up on top of each other. There are dead people everywhere in the streets of counties and counties, which greatly violates the morality of King Wen of Zhou to bury their bodies.
If the deceased has family members but is too poor to bury them, a reward of three thousand will be given to each person, and three pieces of cloth will be given to the deceased; if there are no relatives, they can be buried beside the city, their names will be marked, and a memorial ceremony will be held.
Also, prisoners who are serving their sentences or working hard must be given medicine when they are sick, and those who die must be buried well.
If the civilians are unable to support themselves or are dispersed and relocated, grain relief will be provided as per the existing regulations.
The prefectures and counties must inspect and inspect these, and must show mercy so that the people can live in peace.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the first year of Heping, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Heping.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, the edict said: In the past, the family suffered misfortune, and the late emperor died early. He had long considered the importance of the origin of the original energy of heaven and earth, and deeply thought about the blessings of his descendants. He consulted the Sangong and Jiuqing to examine the fortune and misfortune.
Now that the laws have been established, the great cause of unification can be established, the destiny of heaven and earth will be harmonious, and all nations will be harmonious and peaceful.
The emperor's crown has been crowned and he is about to be entrusted with a big responsibility. However, there are many thefts from all directions, so the government is temporarily postponed to seek peace and tranquility.
Fortunately, all the officials were able to resist the insults, and the remaining ugly creatures were wiped out. The people were harmonious and prosperous, and the whole world was harmonious and united, far and near.
The Duke of Zhou returned to power from afar to observe the righteousness of becoming a king, and the Empress Dowager Mu Yan returned to power to authorize the rule of the late emperor. Taking advantage of today's auspicious day, the emperor claimed control and took charge of everything.
All officials are loyal to their duties and work together to achieve their goals.
If integrity serves the country, the world will be at peace. This is what I expected!
In February, the Fufeng demon thief Pei You claimed to be emperor and was killed.
On the 22nd, Empress Dowager Liang passed away.
In March, the emperor moved to the North Palace. In the Jiawu period, Queen Shunlie was buried.
On May 19th in the summer, the noble lady of the Expo Garden was named Queen Xiao Chong.
In autumn, in July, the Zitong landslide occurred.
On November 24th in winter, he was punished with the death penalty of one degree and moved to the border guard.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Yuanjia, there was an epidemic in the capital, so Doctor Guanglu took doctors and medicines to inspect and treat the disease.
On the 16th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yuanjia.
In February, there was a severe epidemic in Jiujiang and Lujiang.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Liu Jian, the king of Hejian, passed away.
On the third day of April in summer, King Liu De of Anping passed away.
There was a drought in the capital, famine in Rencheng and Liang, and people were eating people.
Situ Zhang Xin was dismissed and Guang Luxun and Wu Xiong were appointed as Situ.
In autumn and July, the Wuling barbarians rebelled.
In October of winter, Sikong Hu Guang was dismissed.
On November 28, there was an earthquake in the capital.
On the 18th day of the intercalary month, Liu Chong, the king of Rencheng, passed away and Taichang Huang Qiong was appointed Sikong.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Wang Jing, the chief historian of the Western Regions, was killed by Yu Yuguo.
On Bingchen, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
On the fourth day of April in the summer, Queen Xiao Chong passed away.
On the 20th, Liu Bao, the king of Changshan, passed away.
On May 12, Empress Xiao Chong was buried in Boling.
On the second day of July in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. In August, Jiyin reported that Huanglong appeared in Juyang, and Jincheng reported that Huanglong appeared in Yun.
On October 28th in winter, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
In November, Sikong Huangqiong was dismissed.
In December, Ren Te was promoted to Zhao Jie as Sikong.
He Min, the governor of Youbei, was imprisoned and executed for corruption.
In the spring and February of the first year of Yongxing, Zhangye reported the appearance of white deer.
On March 12, the emperor arrived at Hongchi.
On May 22nd in summer, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yongxing.
On the 23rd, King Liu Guang of Jinan passed away without any children, and the feudal state was revoked.
In the autumn of July, locust plague occurred in thirty-two places in the county.
The Yellow River flooded.
The people were hungry and poor. Hundreds of thousands of households were displaced, especially in Jizhou.
The edict ordered all localities to provide relief to the poor and hungry people, so that they could live and work in peace of mind.
In October of winter, Taiwei Yuan Tang was dismissed from his post and Taichang Hu Guang was appointed as Taiwei.
Situ Wu Xiong was dismissed, Sikong Zhao Jie was dismissed, Huang Qiong, the imperial servant, was appointed Situ, and Guang Luxun Fangzhi was appointed Sikong.
On the sixth day of November, the imperial edict was issued to reduce the death penalty to the first level in the world and move to the border guard.
In this year, the prefect of Wuling should be persuaded to induce the rebellious barbarians to surrender.
On the twenty-fourth day of the first month of the second year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
On the second day of February, the governor and Erqianshi were allowed to observe mourning for three years.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, there was an earthquake in the capital. The princes, ministers, and lieutenants were ordered to recommend a virtuous and upright person who was willing to criticize and offer opinions.
The edict said: Recently, the stars in the sky have been out of position, the gods on the earth are shaking, disasters and extraordinary phenomena are not accidental, there must be actual things corresponding to them.
We want to clarify politics and hope it will help.
If the carriage and horse clothing system is too extravagant and ostentatious, it should be reduced or omitted.
Counties and counties must remain frugal and reaffirm the original regulations, just as they did during the Yongping period.
In June, the Surabaya River in Pengcheng surged and flowed backwards.
The imperial edict said: "The locust plague has caused damage, floods have occurred one after another, the grain has not been harvested, and the people have no overnight rations. We now order the affected counties to plant turnips widely to supplement the people's food."
There was a locust plague in the capital, and the Qu mountain collapsed in the East China Sea.
On the first day of September, there is a solar eclipse.
The edict stated: The imperial court lost its political balance, droughts fell from the sky, rivers flooded, locusts overran the fields, destroying hundreds of grains, the sun lacked light, and famines occurred again and again.
Counties and counties not affected by the disaster should reserve food for the disaster-stricken areas.
The world is one family, and if the taste is not corrupt, then it is a national treasure.
It is now forbidden to make wine in counties and counties, and worship in temples should be kept as restrained as possible.
Taiwei Hu Guang was dismissed and Situ Huang Qiong was appointed as Taiwei.
In the ninth month of the leap month, Guang Luxun and Yin Song were appointed as Situ.
The crime of death in the world was reduced to the first level, and he moved to guard the border.
Li Bo of Shu County pretended to be a member of the clan and was supposed to be the "Emperor Taichu", but he was executed.
On the ninth day of November in winter, the imperial school went to Linyuan and went to Hangu Pass to reward the elderly people over ninety years old beside the aisle with money.
Taishan and Langfu thief Gongsun Ju and others rebelled and killed the chief officials.
On the fourteenth day of the first spring of the first year of Yongshou, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and the name of Yongshou was changed to Yongshou.
In February, there was a famine in Sili and Jizhou, and people were eating people.
The prefectures and counties were ordered to provide relief to the poor and weak.
If the princes, officials and rich people have accumulated grain, they will be entitled to three-tenths of it to help the warehouses carry out relief. This is the grain of the people and the people, and they will be rewarded in cash.
It is the prince's valley and must be repaid after the new rent is collected.
In April of summer, white crows appeared in Qi.
In June, Luoshui flooded and destroyed Hongde Garden.
Nanyang Dashui.
Sikong Fangzhi was dismissed and Taichang Han Jinyin was appointed as Sikong.
The order was issued to families in Taishan and Langfu who had been invaded by thieves and robbers, not to collect land rent or taxes, and to be exempted from paying taxes and population taxes for three years.
It also ordered the counties and counties to find the corpses of those who were drowned and lost their bodies and bury them; for those who were crushed to death by collisions and drowned, each person over seven years old was given two thousand dollars.
The houses were damaged and the grain was washed away. The particularly poor people were given two husks of grain each.
Landslides occurred in Bajun and Yizhou counties.
In autumn and July, Taishan and Langyi captaincy officers were set up for the first time.
The southern Xiongnu rebelled against Zuo Tatai Qi, Qiqu Bode and others and harassed Meiji. The captain of Anding's vassal state defeated them and eliminated them.
In the first month of spring of the second year, middle officials were allowed to wear mourning clothes for three years.
On February 26th, Liu Zhen, King of the East China Sea, passed away
In March, the barbarians from the vassal state of Shu County rebelled.
In the autumn of July, the Xianbei bandits disturbed the clouds.
Taishan bandit Gongsun Ju and other bandits harassed the three states of Qing, Yan and Xu. He sent Zhonglang General Duan Yu to attack them, break them and kill them.
In November of winter, the right eunuch and the chengguan were appointed.
In December, there was an earthquake in the capital.
At the end of the first month of the spring of the third year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In the fourth month of summer, the Jiuzhen barbarians rebelled. The prefect Ershi attacked and died in battle; he sent Jiuzhen Captain Wei Lang to defeat them.
Restore troops to guard Rinan.
Leap May 30th, solar eclipse. In June, Xiaohuang Gate was used as the guarding order, and redundant servants and archers were set up.
There was a locust plague in the capital.
In autumn, in July, the ground cracked in Hedong.
In November of winter, Situ Yinsong died.
The barbarians rebelled in Changsha and the bandits harassed Yiyang.
Sikong Hanyan was appointed Situ, and Taichang Beihai Sun Lang was appointed Sikong.
On the fourth day of the third month in the first year of Yanxi, the order of Hongdeyuan was established.
On the fourth day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, the generals and ministers and below will receive various rewards.
On the 29th, there was a solar eclipse.
There was a locust plague in the capital.
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yanxi.
On the 12th, Zhongshan was divided into Boling County to commemorate the imperial mausoleum.
Drought ceremony to pray for rain.
On the twenty-fifth day of the seventh month in autumn, the ground in Yunyang cracked.
On the 20th, Taiwei Huang Qiong was dismissed from his post and Taichang Hu Guang was appointed as Taiwei.
In October in winter, I was hunting in Guangcheng, so I went to Shanglinyuan.
In December of winter, Xianbei invaders raided the border, and the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhang Huan led Nan Shanyu to defeat them.
In the spring and February of the second year, the Xianbei bandits raided Yanmen.
On the 29th, King Liu Ben of Fuling passed away.
The Yi invaders in Shu County killed the county magistrate.
In March, the three-year mourning ceremony implemented by the governor and Erqianshi was suspended again.
In summer, it rains a lot in the capital.
In June, the Xianbei bandits raided Liaodong.
In autumn and July, the construction of Xianyang Garden and Chengcheng began.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, Queen Liang passed away.
On the 21st, Queen Yixian was buried in Yiling.
General Liang Ji conspired to cause rebellion. On the fourth day of August, the emperor went to the front hall and ordered the commander Zhang Biao to lead troops to surround Liang Ji's residence. After confiscating the general's seal and ribbon, Liang Ji and his wife committed suicide.
Wei Lieutenant Liang Shu, Henan Yin Liangyin, Tunqi Colonel Liang Rang, Yueqi Colonel Liang Zhong, Changshui Colonel Liang Ji, and dozens of Chinese and foreign clan members were all executed.
Taiwei Hu Guang was dismissed from his post.
Situ Han Jinyin and Sikong Sunlang were imprisoned.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Queen Deng was established, and Yiling was abandoned and turned into a tomb for nobles.
The edict said: Liang Ji was treacherous and cruel, causing chaos in the royal family.
The filial emperor was smart and mature early, but Liang Ji was jealous and fearful, so he committed poisonous crimes without permission.
The Empress Dowager Yongle respected Mo Er personally, and Liang Ji further blocked her from returning to the capital from the Expo Garden. As a result, mother and son could not be reunited to repay the kindness of raising her.
The harm is profound and widespread, and the omens of sin are becoming increasingly serious.
Fortunately, thanks to the power of the ancestors, Shan Chao, Xu Huang, Ju Yuan, Zuo Xuanguan, Tang Heng, Shangshu Ling Yinxun, etc. were indignant and suggested countermeasures, and coordinated actions inside and outside the palace. In an instant, the rebellious owl was eliminated.
This is truly a blessing to the country, and for the hard work of the ministers, meritorious deeds should be announced, celebrated and rewarded to reward the heroes who served the country loyally.
Today, five people including Shan Chao are granted the title of County Marquis, and seven including Yin Xun are granted the title of Ting Marquis. Other old personal benefactors were often knighted.
He appointed Da Si Nong Huang Qiong as Taiwei, Guanglu Dafu Zhongshan Zhu Tian as Situ, Da Honglu Liang Guosheng Yun as Sikong.
Start setting up secretarial supervisors.
On the fifth day of October in winter, the emperor visited Chang'an.
On the 18th, we arrived at Weiyang Palace.
On the 27th, sacrifices were held at the Gaomiao.
On the fourth day of November, worship the Eleven Tombs.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, he appointed Shan Chao, a regular servant of the Central Military Commission, as a general of chariots and cavalry.
On the third day of the twelfth lunar month, the emperor returned from Chang'an and gave each of the people in Chang'an ten pieces of dendrobium millet. Each person in Yuanling has five husks of dendrobium, and every county he visits has three husks of dendrobium.
Shaodang and other eight kinds of Qiang people rebelled and raided Longyou. Duan Yin, the guard Qiang school captain, pursued them in Luoting and defeated them.
Tianzhu came to offer gifts.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year of spring, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 11th, the chariot general Shuang Chao died.
In the first month of the leap year, the Shaodang Qiang rebelled and raided Zhangye. Duan Yin, the captain of the Qiang Guard, pursued them in Jishi and defeated them.
Baima Ling Li Yun was imprisoned to death for speaking out and criticizing the government.
In April of summer, Shangjun reported timely rains.
On May 11th, a landslide occurred in Hanzhong.
On the eighth day of June, Situ Zhutian passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Shengyun was appointed Situ, and Taichang Yu Fang was appointed Sikong.
The barbarians in Changsha raided the county boundary.
In September, the Taishan and Langfu bandits Laonei and others rebelled again and plundered the people. They sent Zhao, the censor Zhongcheng, to supervise the prefectures and counties to attack.
On the 26th, officials with no actual work were ordered to temporarily suspend their salaries, and they would be given as usual in good years.
In November of winter, the Rinan barbarians led their troops to the county to surrender.
Le Jie and Qiang surrounded Yun Street, but Duan Yin defeated them.
Sun Wuji, the Taishan bandit uncle, attacked and killed Duwei Hou Zhang.
In December, Zhonglang was sent to attack Zongzi and defeat them.
Wuling barbarians raided Jiangling, and the chariot and cavalry general Feng Cui went to attack them. Some surrendered and others fled.
Du Shang, the governor of Jingzhou, defeated the barbarians in Changsha.
On the second day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, a fire broke out in the Jiade Hall of Nangong.
On the 29th, a fire broke out in Department C.
Great epidemic.
On the third day of February, a fire broke out in the arsenal.
Situ Shengyun was dismissed from his post and appointed as Situ of Dasinong Zhongfan.
In March, there is no need to serve the right servant and shoot the official.
Taiwei Huang Qiong was dismissed.
In April of summer, Taichang Liu Ju was appointed Taiwei.
On the 26th, Liu Bo, the son of Liu Kaizi, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Rencheng.
On the fourth day of May, the comet appeared in Antares.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, a fire broke out at the Changshou Gate of the original mausoleum.
On the 22nd, hail fell in the capital, as big as an egg.
In June, there were earthquakes in Jingzhao, Fufeng and Liangzhou.
On the 13th, Daishan Mountain and Youlaishan Mountain in Bo County collapsed together.
On the 22nd, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Sikong Yufang was dismissed and former Taiwei Huang Qiong was appointed as Sikong.
The barbarian bandits from Jianwei's vassal state harassed and plundered the people, but Shan Yu, the governor of Yizhou, defeated him.
The Lingwu Qiang and the Xianling tribes rebelled together and plundered Sanfu.
In autumn and July, the capital holds the Autumn Rain Sacrifice.
The salaries of officials below the rank of Gongqing were reduced, and the land rent of Marquis Feng was reduced to half.
It is estimated that the amount of money sold for the official titles of Guanneihou, Huben, Yulin, Tiqi Yingshi, Wu Dafu, etc., each is different.
In September, Sikong Huangqiong was dismissed. Ren Dahonglu and Liu Chong were appointed Sikong.
In the tenth month of winter, Tianzhu came to offer gifts.
Nanyang Huangwu, Xiangcheng Huide, and Kunyang Leji used evil words to deceive people's hearts, and they were all executed.
First, the Shen Di Qiang and various Qiang bandits plundered the two states of Liang and Liang. In November, Zhonglang general Huangfu Gui defeated them.
In December, King Fuyu sent an envoy to present gifts.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the eunuch Youjian Cheng was omitted.
On the 29th, a fire broke out in Nangong Bing Department.
In March, Shen Di and Qiang bandits raided Zhangye and Jiuquan.
On the 30th, King Liu Ci of Jibei passed away.
In April of summer, bandits broke out in Changsha and raided Guiyang and Cangwu.
Frightened horses and fleeing elephants broke into the palace.
Yichou, there was a fire on the east side of the gate of Gongling Tomb.
On Wuchen, a fire broke out at the side door of the palace where Huben was located.
Now, the Ximen of Taixue has been damaged by itself.
In May, a fire broke out in Kanglingyuan's bedroom.
Bandits arose in Changsha and Lingling, and they attacked Guiyang, Cangwu, Nanhai, and Jiaozhi. They sent Yushi Zhongcheng Shengxiu to supervise the prefectures and counties to attack them, but they were unable to overcome them.
On the 18th, there was an earthquake in the capital.
The imperial edict ordered the public and ministers to secretly submit criticisms and suggestions, and to report and expose.
On the 27th, a fire broke out in the Chenglu Office of Zhongzang Prefecture.
On the eighth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in Nangong Chengshan.
The Qiang bandits raided Hanyang. In Longxi and Jincheng, soldiers from various counties attacked and defeated him.
On August 20, the order was issued to reduce the salary of Huben and Yulin to half the salary of those who were retained in official residences by the weak military, and not to give them winter clothes; to the officials and ministers below, they were given half the salary.
The bandits in Ai County burned down the counties in Changsha, invaded Yiyang, and killed the chief officials.
The Lingling barbarians also rebelled and looted Changsha.
Ji Mao, let's go to Langfu Duweiguan.
In the winter of October, the Wuling barbarians rebelled and the bandits looted Jiangling. Li Su, the governor of Nanjun, escaped from the battle and was killed in the busy city. On the 22nd, Taichang Feng Cui was appointed as the cavalry general to attack the Wuling barbarians.
Lend the minister the following salary.
They also exchanged the rent of the prince's land to help pay for the army, and used the money from the government's treasury in Zhuolong Garden to repay it.
In November, Feng Zui defeated the rebels in Wuling.
Jingzhao Huya Captain Zong Qian was imprisoned for corruption.
The Qiang bandits from Yunnan plundered Wuwei, Zhangye and Jiuquan.
Taiwei Liu Ju was dismissed and Taichang Yang Bing was appointed as Taiwei.
On February 11th in the spring of the sixth year, Situ Fan passed away.
On March 22nd, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
He appointed Wei Wei Yingchuan Xu Xu as Situ.
On the fifth day of April in the summer, a fire broke out in the Kangling East Office.
In May, the Xianbei bandits raided the Liaodong vassal state.
On the tenth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in Pinglingyuan.
Guiyang bandit Li Yan and other bandits plundered the county boundary.
The Wuling barbarians rebelled again, and the prefect Chen Feng fought with them, defeating the enemy and forcing them to surrender.
Sun Qiang, the governor of Longxi, attacked the Dian Qiang and defeated them.
In August, General Feng Kui was dismissed from his post.
On October 13th in winter, the imperial school hunted Guangcheng and went to Hangu Pass and Shanglinyuan.
In November, Sikong Liu Chong was dismissed from office.
Southern pirates and bandits plundered the county borders.
In December, Weiwei Zhou Jing was appointed Sikong.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, King Pei Liu Rong passed away.
In the third month of Guihai, a meteorite fell in Hu.
On April 26th in summer, King Liu Cheng of Liang passed away.
On May 19, hail fell in the capital.
On July 22nd in autumn, King Zhao Liu Qian passed away.
There is a dead dragon on Yewang Mountain.
Du Shang, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Lingling and Guiyang bandits and barbarians, defeated and pacified them.
On the fifth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the emperor visited the south.
On the 23rd, I went to Zhangling, visited the old house of the ancestral hall, offered sacrifices to the garden temple, and received rewards ranging from the following.
On the first day of November, we go to Yunmeng and visit the Han River; we turn around and go to Xinye to worship Huyang, Princess Xinye, King Lu Ai, and Shouzhang Jinghou Temple.
Duan Yin, the captain who protected the Qiang, attacked the Dangjian Qiang and defeated them.
On the fourth day of December, the king returned to Luoyang.
In the spring of the eighth year, in the first month of the first lunar month, I sent the official Zuo Xian, a regular servant of the Central Government, to Ku County to offer sacrifices to Lao Tzu.
Liu Kui, King of Bohai, conspired to rebel and was demoted to King of Tartao.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. The princes, ministers, and lieutenants were ordered to recommend virtuous and upright people.
On February 13, a yellow dragon appeared in the Nangong Jiade Office, and a fire broke out in the Qianqiu Long Live Hall.
The servant Zuo claimed that he was guilty and committed suicide.
On the 27th, Queen Deng was deposed.
His uncle Yin Deng Wanshi of Henan and his brother Huben Zhonglang imprisoned Deng Hui to death.
Duan Yu, the captain who protected the Qiang, attacked the Hanjie Qiang and defeated them.
On March 16th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
On April 19th in the summer, a fire broke out in Anlingyuan's bedroom.
On the 22nd, all ancestral halls in the county and country were destroyed.
The Yellow River water in Jiyin, Dongjun and Jibei is clear.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, I left and went to Taishan as the captaincy officer.
On the 22nd, Taiwei Yang Bing passed away.
On June 22nd, the Goushi earthquake occurred.
Hu Lan and Zhu Gai rebelled again in Guiyang, captured the prefectures and counties, and turned to Lingling. Chen Qiu, the prefect of Lingling, resisted them. The emperor sent Zhonglang General Du Shang and the prefect of Changsha to resist Xu and others to fight against Hu Lan and Zhu Gai. They were defeated and killed.
Zhang Xu, the governor of Cangwu, was captured by thieves, and Ren Yin, the governor of Guiyang, was afraid of the enemy and was weak. Both of them were executed in the city.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month, a fire broke out in the Goucheng, Yeting and Shuoping offices behind the Nangong Changqiu and Huan Halls.
In June, Duan Yun attacked and burned Qiang in Huangzhong, defeating the enemy.
In the seventh month of autumn, Chen Fan, the doctor of Taizhong, was appointed as Taiwei.
On the sixth day of August, the county began to order a tax of ten yuan per acre of land.
On September 15th, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In October of winter, Sikong Zhoujing was dismissed from his post and Taichang Liu Mao was appointed as Sikong.
On the 20th, the noble Dou was made queen.
Gai Deng, the demon thief from Bohai, and others were called the Supreme Emperor. They had jade seals, Wang Guibi, and iron certificates. They set up official posts and appointed officials, but they were all killed.
On November 21, a fire broke out in the West Pavilion of Deyang Palace and the North Temple of Huangmen. It spread to Guangxi and Shenhu Gate in the west of Luoyang Palace, burning people to death.
The sect often sent Guan Ba ​​to Ku County to offer sacrifices to Lao Tzu.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.
The princes, ministers, lieutenants, and prefectures are ordered to recommend the most filial persons.
Dai Yi of Pei State obtained a golden seal without any writing, so he and Long Shang from Guangling and others jointly offered sacrifices to the well, made a talisman, and called him "Tai Shang Huang", but he was executed.
On the 19th, the edict stated: The grain harvest has been poor in the past few years, and most of the people are hungry and impoverished. They are also troubled by floods, droughts and epidemics.
Because thieves frequently requisition private manpower and material resources, the situation in Changsha, Guiyang, Lingling and other counties is even more serious.
Disasters, visions, eclipses, and condemnations come one after another.
This was caused by political chaos, and the responsibility rested entirely with me, so I was frequently blamed and punished.
Da Sinong is now ordered to stop the collection of land rent and taxes this year, and any unfinished collection of land rent and taxes from the previous year will no longer be collected.
Counties that have been damaged by floods, droughts, epidemics, and thieves will not collect rent, while other counties will charge half rent.
On the fourth day of March, there was a fire in the capital, and people were surprised and noisy.
Four or five out of ten people in Sili and Yuzhou died of starvation, and even the entire household died, so the three prefectures were sent to distribute grain for relief.
Governor Chenliu committed suicide due to corruption.
In April in summer, the water in the Yellow River in Jiyin, Dongjun, Jibei and Pingyuan is clear.
Situ Xu Xu was dismissed.
In May, Taichang and Hu Guang were appointed as Situ.
In June, the Southern Xiongnu, Wuhuan and Xianbei invaders harassed the nine border counties.
In the autumn of July, Shen Di and Qiang bandits raided Wuwei and Zhangye.
When the imperial edict recommends powerful warriors, the three princes each recommend two people, and the ministers and lieutenants each recommend one person.
Taiwei Chen Fan was dismissed from his post.
On Gengwu day, sacrifices were made to Huangdi and Laozi in Zhuolong Palace.
He sent an envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General Zhang Huan to attack the southern Xiongnu, Wuhuan, and Xianbei.
In September, Guang Luxun and Zhou Jing were appointed as Taiwei.
Cheng Wang Jin, the governor of Nanyang, and Liu Zhi, the governor of Taiyuan, were both executed in the city on false accusations.
Sikong Liu Mao was dismissed from office.
The King of Qin sent envoys to offer gifts.
In the winter of December, the bamboos and cypresses beside Luocheng withered.
Ren Guangluxun and Runan Xuanbang were appointed Sikong.
The Southern Xiongnu and Wuhuan led their troops to surrender in front of Zhang Huan.
More than 200 people including Li Ying, the captain of Sili School, were falsely accused of being party members, so they were imprisoned together and were named Wangfu.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Yongkang, the first Qiang bandits plundered Sanfu, and Zhang Huan, the general of Zhonglang, defeated them and put them down.
When the Jian Qiang bandits raided Wuwei, Duan Yin, the guard of the Qiang army, pursued Luanniao and defeated them.
All the Xiqiang were pacified.
King Fuyu plundered Xuantu, and the prefect Gongsun Yu defeated them.
In April of summer, the first Qiang bandits raided Sanfu.
On May 14, the capital and Shangdang were torn apart.
Lujiang thieves arose and bandits plundered the county boundaries.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. The imperial edict ordered the public, ministers, and lieutenants to recommend virtuous and upright people.
On the eighth day of the sixth lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and all party shackles were lifted, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yongkang.
On the 14th, King Liu Tong of Fuling passed away.
In autumn and August, Wei County reported the growth of golden crops and timely rains.
A yellow dragon was reported in Berkshire.
There are floods in the six states, and the sea water of Bohai Sea overflows.
The prefectures and counties were ordered to give two thousand dollars to each drowned person over seven years old; if the whole family was killed, they would all be buried; if there was grain lost in the drift, each person would be given three dendrobium grains.
In the winter of October, Xianling Qiang bandits plundered Sanfu, and the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhang Huan defeated them.
In November, Xihe reported sightings of white tigers.
On December 23, King Taotao was restored to King Bohai.
On the 28th, the emperor passed away in the front hall of Deyang at the age of thirty-six.
On the 29th, the queen was honored as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager came to court.
This year, the two counties of Boling and Hejian were restored, just like Feng and Pei.
Historians commented: Previous history books said that Emperor Huan loved music and was good at playing the piano and sheng.
Zhuolong Palace Garden is decorated with trees, flowers and plants. Setting up a canopy to offer sacrifices to the Buddha and the Elders may be the so-called "our country is about to perish. Let's listen to the gods!"
When Liang Ji was executed, he was vigorous and angry, and the whole world was eager to rest and recuperate.
However, he doted on the five eunuchs such as Shanchao, who had a thick seal, so that the five evils were rampant and the poison spread everywhere.
If it weren't for Li Ying and other loyal and virtuous righteous men who spoke out and repeatedly killed the traitors, even if Emperor Huan wanted to have the same result as Emperor Xia's attachment to the princes and King Li of Zhou's escape to pig, he would not have achieved the same result.
Historians praised: Emperor Huan came from a distant branch of the Liu family, transcending the order and ascending to the throne of heaven.
The political power was indiscriminately transferred to Shan Chao and other five eunuchs, and the punishment and imprisonment were indiscriminately imposed on Li Gu and other three prisons.
There are three queens and five or six thousand maids. Although the palace was filled with beauties, there were no heirs in the end, and the emperor's body could not be continued.
