Xiang Ji, Xia Xiangren, named Yu.
He was twenty-four years old when he started to fight.
His uncle was Xiang Liang, and Xiang Liang's father was Chu general Xiang Yan, who was killed by Qin general Wang Jian.
The Xiang family has been a general of Chu for generations and was granted the title of Xiang, hence the surname Xiang.
When Xiang Ji was a child, he learned to read and write but failed.
He gave up learning calligraphy and switched to fencing, but failed again.
Xiang Liang was very angry with him.
Xiang Ji said: Characters are only used to remember names.
A sword can only withstand one enemy, so it is not worth learning. You must learn to be able to withstand ten thousand people.
So Xiang Liang taught Xiang Ji the art of war. Xiang Ji was very happy and roughly understood the general idea of ​​the art of war, but he refused to finish it seriously.
Xiang Liang was once implicated in the Yueyang crime case, so he asked Cao Jiu, the warden of Qixian County, to write to Sima Xin, the warden of Yueyang, and the matter was settled.
Xiang Liang killed someone, and he and Xiang Ji went to Wuzhong to avoid their enemies.
None of the talented scholar-bureaucrats in Wuzhong could compare with Xiang Liang.
Whenever there was a large-scale military service or funeral in Wuzhong, Xiang Liang often took charge of the arrangements and secretly used military arrangements to arrange guests and children, so he understood everyone's abilities.
When the First Emperor of Qin visited Kuaiji and crossed Zhejiang, Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji went to watch it together.
Xiang Ji said: I can replace that emperor.
Xiang Liang covered his mouth and said, "Don't talk nonsense, or the whole clan will be beheaded!"
Xiang Liang therefore felt that Xiang Ji was different from ordinary people.
Xiang Ji is more than eight feet tall, can lift a cauldron, and is so talented that the children of Wuzhong already fear him.
In July of the first year of Qin II, Chen She and others revolted in Daze Township.
In September of that year, Yin Tong, the governor of Kuaiji County, told Xiang Liang that Jiangxi had rebelled, and that this was also the time when God would destroy the Qin Dynasty.
I heard that those who strike first can control others, and those who strike last are controlled by others.
I want to send troops and send you and Huan Chu to lead them.
At that time, Huan Chu fled to Zezhong.
Xiang Liang said: Huan Chu died and was hiding outside. No one knew his whereabouts. Only Xiang Ji knew.
Xiang Liang came out and told Xiang Ji to wait outside with his sword.
Xiang Liang went in again and sat with the county guard. Xiang Liang said: "Please allow me to call Xiang Yu in and let him accept the order to recall Huan Chu." The Sheriff said: Okay.
Xiang Liang called Xiang Ji in.
After a while, Xiang Liang winked at Xiang Ji and said, "It's time to take action!"
So Xiang Yu drew his sword and chopped off the head of the governor.
Xiang Liang took the county governor's head and tied the official seal of the county governor on his body.
The guards of the county guard were greatly alarmed and in chaos, Xiang Yu killed more than a hundred people.
Everyone in the mansion was in a state of fear and submission, and no one dared to resist.
Xiang Liang summoned the courageous and powerful officials he was familiar with in the past and made it clear to everyone what he was going to do to raise an army against Qin, so he recruited the soldiers of Wu Zhong to revolt.
He sent people to recruit strong men from the subordinate counties and got 8,000 elite soldiers.
Xiang Liang arranged for the heroes of Wuzhong to be school captains, marquises, and Sima.
One person was not appointed and went to complain to Xiang Liang himself.
Xiang Liang said: There was a funeral some time ago and I asked you to take charge of something. You couldn't handle it, so I didn't appoint you.
So everyone admired Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang was the governor of Kuaiji, and Xiang Ji was the general. Zhenfu subordinate counties and cities.
Zhao Ping, a native of Guangling, was trying to capture the territory of Guangling for King Chen, but he did not surrender.
Hearing that King Chen was defeated and fled, and that Qin soldiers were about to arrive, he crossed the river and asked King Chen to give him orders to worship Xiang Liang as the king of Chu's Shangzhu Kingdom.
Zhao Ping said: Jiangdong has been pacified, so quickly lead troops to the west to attack the Qin army.
Xiang Liang crossed the river with eight thousand men and headed west.
He heard that Chen Ying had captured Dongyang, so he sent an envoy to join forces with Chen Ying to advance westward.
Chen Ying turned out to be the governor of Dongyang. He had always been honest and prudent in the county, and people called him a loyal elder.
Young people in Dongyang killed their county magistrate and gathered thousands of people to elect a leader. When no one was found, they asked Chen Ying to take over.
Chen Ying refused and said he was not qualified, so everyone forcibly elected him as the leader, with 20,000 followers in the county.
The young people planned to elect Chen Ying to be king. In order to distinguish himself from other armies, the soldiers wore green scarves on their heads to signify the sudden rise of the army.
Chen Ying's mother said to Chen Ying: Since I became the daughter-in-law of the Chen family, I have never heard that your predecessors had high officials or noble titles.
It's not a good sign to suddenly gain a lot of fame now.
It's better to belong to something. If things succeed, you can still get a title. If things fail, it's easier to escape because you won't attract the attention of the world.
Therefore, Chen Ying did not dare to become king.
He said to his military officers: The Xiang family has been a general for generations and is famous in Chu.
Now if you want to accomplish great things, you have to use the right general.
If we rely on famous families, we will definitely destroy the Qin Dynasty.
So everyone listened to him and gave the army to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang crossed the Huai River, and generals Yingbu and Pu also led their troops to surrender.
Xiang Liang had a total of sixty or seventy thousand men stationed in Xiapi.
At this time, Qin Jia had established Jingju as King of Chu and stationed himself east of Pengcheng, hoping to resist Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang said to the soldiers: King Chen started the rebellion first, and the battle was not successful. His whereabouts are unknown.
Now Qin Jia betrayed King Chen and established Jingju, which was a treasonous act.
Xiang Liang then marched to attack Qin Jia.
Qin Jia's army was defeated and fled, and Xiang Liang pursued him to Hu Ling.
Qin Jia returned to the army and fought for a day. Qin Jia was killed in battle and his soldiers surrendered.
Jingju fled and died in Liangdi.
Xiang Liang has merged Qin Jia's army and is stationed in Huling, and will lead the army westward.
Zhang Han's army arrived at Li County, and Xiang Liang sent generals Zhujishi and Yu Fanjun to fight with him.
Yu Fanjun died in battle, Zhujishi's army was defeated and fled to Huling.
Xiang Liang then led his troops into Xue County and killed Zhujishi.
Before this, Xiang Liang sent Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Xiangcheng, but Xiangcheng held on and refused to surrender.
After the capture, all the soldiers and civilians who defended the city were killed, and they came back to report to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang heard that King Chen was indeed dead, so he summoned all the generals to Xue County to discuss important matters.
At this time, Pei Gong also raised troops from Pei and went to Xue County.
Fan Zeng, a Juhuan, is seventy years old. He has always lived at home and likes to come up with clever ideas. He went to lobby Xiang Liang and said: Chen Sheng's failure was the right thing to do.
Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, and Chu was the least at fault.
Since King Huai of Chu entered Qin and never returned, the people of Chu still miss him. Therefore, Duke Nan of Chu said, "Although Chu has three households, if Qin is destroyed, it will be Chu."
Now that Chen Sheng is the first to start the rebellion and proclaim himself king instead of a descendant of Chu, his situation will not last long.
Now that you have launched an army to the east of the Yangtze River, the people of Chu are like swarms of bees, all vying to join you. This is because the Xiang family has been Chu generals for generations and can once again establish the descendants of Chu.
Xiang Liang thought he was right, so he found the grandson of King Huai of Chu among the people. He was tending sheep for people. Xiang Liang made him King Huai of Chu and obeyed the people's wishes.
Chen Ying ruled the Shangzhu Kingdom of Chu and had five counties in his fiefdom. Together with King Huai of Chu, he established Xutai as the capital.
Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin.
A few months later, Xiang Liang led troops to attack Kangfu, and together with the troops of Tian Rong and Sima Longqie of Qi State, he rescued Dong'a and defeated the Qin army in Dong'a.
Tian Rong led his army back to his old place and drove away King Tianjia of Qi.
Tianjia fled to Chu State.
Tian Jiao, the prime minister of Tianjia, fled to Zhao.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Jian turned out to be a general of Qi State, but he stayed in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong made Tian Dan's son Tian Shi the king of Qi.
Xiang Liang had already defeated the Qin army in Dong'e, so he pursued him.
He sent envoys many times to urge the Qi army, intending to join forces with it to march westward.
Tian Rong said: Chu killed Tianjia, and Zhao killed Tianjiao and Tianjian, so I will send troops.
Xiang Liang said: Tianjia is the king of a country friendly to Chu. He came to rely on me when he was desperate. I couldn't bear to kill him.
Zhao also did not kill Tianjiao and Tianjian as a condition of exchange with Qi.
So Qi refused to send troops to help Chu.
Xiang Liang sent Pei Gong and Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Chengyang and massacred the county seat.
Xiangxi defeated the Qin army east of Puyang, and the Qin army withdrew its troops and entered Puyang.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu attacked Dingtao.
After failing to capture Dingtao, he led his army to leave, marched westward and captured the territory, reaching Yongqiu, where he defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang but failed to capture it.
Xiang Liang set out from Dong'a and marched westward. When he arrived at Dingtao, he defeated the Qin army again. Xiang Yu and others killed Li You again. Therefore, Xiang Liang despised the Qin army more and more and looked arrogant.
Song Yi advised Xiang Liang: If you win a battle but your generals are arrogant and your soldiers are lazy, you will lose.
Now the soldiers are a little slack and the number of Qin soldiers is increasing day by day. I am worried about you.
Xiang Liang did not listen to the advice.
So he sent Song Yi as envoy to Qi.
On the way, I met Gaoling Junxian, the envoy of Qi State, and asked him: Are you going to see Mr. Wu Xin?
Answer: Yes.
Song Yi said: I conclude that Lord Wu Xin's army must have failed.
If you walk slowly you will avoid death, if you walk fast you will suffer disaster.
Qin Guoran mobilized all its troops to reinforce Zhang Han, attacked the Chu army, and defeated the Chu army in Dingtao. Xiang Liang died in the battle.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu left Waihuang to attack Chenliu, but Chenliu was entrenched and could not capture it.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu discussed with each other: Now Xiang Liang's army has collapsed and the soldiers are afraid.
So he led his troops and marched eastward with Lu Chen's army.
Lu Chen was stationed to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu was stationed to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong was stationed in Dang.
Zhang Han had already defeated Xiang Liang's army and thought that Chu's enemies no longer had to worry, so he crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhao and defeated the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king of Zhao, Chen Yu was the general, and Zhang Er was the prime minister, and they all ran into Julu City.
Zhang Han ordered Wang Li and Shejian to besiege Julu. Zhang Han stationed himself to the south of Julu and built tunnels to transport food to Wang Li and Shejian's army.
As a general, Chen Yu led tens of thousands of soldiers to station in the north of Julu. This was the so-called Hebei Army.
The Chu army was defeated in Dingtao. King Chu Huai was very frightened and went from Xutai to Pengcheng, where he merged with the armies of Xiang Yu and Lu Chen and led them personally.
Lu Chen was appointed as Situ, and his father Ye Qing was appointed as Ling Yin.
He appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, commanding the army of Dang County.
The Qi envoy Gaoling Junxian whom Song Yi met before was still in the Chu army. When he met King Huai of Chu, he said: Song Yi concluded that Wu Xinjun's army must have failed. After a few days, his army did indeed fail.
An army that sees signs of defeat before starting a war can be said to understand military affairs.
King Huai of Chu summoned Song Yi and discussed the matter with him. He was very happy, so he appointed Xiang Yu as the top general, Xiang Yu as the Duke of Lu, as the second general, and Fan Zeng as the last general, to rescue Zhao.
All the other generals belong to Song Yi, and Song Yi is called the Champion of Qingzi.
He walked to Anyang and stayed for forty-six days without moving forward.
Xiang Yu said: I heard that the Qin army surrounded King Zhao at Julu. I quickly led the troops across the river. The Chu army attacked from the outside and the Zhao army responded from the inside. I will definitely defeat the Qin army. Song Yi said: No.
A gadfly that bites a cow cannot harm a louse. Now the Qin army attacks the Zhao army. If they win, they will be exhausted. We will take advantage of the Qin army's exhaustion. If we cannot win, we will lead the army to march westward with drums beating. We will definitely defeat the Qin army.
So it is better to let Qin and Zhao fight each other first.
Wearing armor, holding sharp weapons in hand, charging into battle, Song Yi is not as good as you; sitting down to make plans, you are not as good as Song Yi.
Therefore, an order was issued to the army: Anyone who is as fierce as a tiger, as ruthless as a sheep, as greedy as a wolf, and who is stubborn and disobeys orders will be beheaded.
Song Yi also sent his son Song Xiang to assist the state of Qi, and personally sent him to Wuyan, where he held a banquet with wine and gathered guests.
It was cold and raining heavily, and the soldiers were freezing and hungry.
Xiang Yu said: Originally, we planned to attack Qin together, but we stopped for a long time.
Nowadays, there is famine and hunger, and the people are poor. The soldiers can only eat half a liter of beans, and there is no food in the army. However, Song Yi still holds banquets and receives guests. Instead of leading the army across the river to take Zhao's food on the spot, he says "wait for the Qin army to be exhausted."
With Qin's powerful troops attacking the newly established Zhao State, the result of the development of the situation must be that the Qin army defeats the Zhao army.
Zhao's army was defeated, and Qin's army was stronger. What opportunity could there be to take advantage of exhaustion!
Moreover, the Chu army had been defeated recently, and the king was restless, so he concentrated all the troops in the country under the general's command. The safety of the country was at stake.
Nowadays, we do not care about the soldiers, but only seek selfish interests. This is not a minister who shares the same interests with the country.
Xiang Yu met General Song Yi in the morning, cut off Song Yi's head in his tent, and came out to give orders to the army: Song Yi and Qi State conspired against Chu, and the King of Chu secretly ordered me to kill him.
At this time, the generals were all afraid and surrendered, and no one dared to resist.
It is said that the generals and their families founded the State of Chu.
Now it was the general who executed the rebels again.
The generals jointly elected Xiang Yu as acting general.
He sent people to chase Song Yi's son, and caught up with him in Qi State and killed him.
Xiang Yu sent Huan Chu to report to King Huai of Chu.
King Huai of Chu made Xiang Yu the general, and both Dangyang Jun and General Pu belonged to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu had killed the champion of Qingzi, which shocked the Chu country and became famous among the princes. He sent Lord Dangyang and General Pu to lead 20,000 soldiers across the river to rescue Julu.
After the war was somewhat successful, Chen Yu asked Xiang Yu for more troops.
Xiang Yu led his entire army across the river, scuttled the ships, smashed the cooking utensils, burned the camps, and carried three days of rations to show that the soldiers fought to the death and no one had any intention of coming back alive.
As soon as the army arrived, they surrounded Wang Li, encountered the Qin army, fought nine battles, cut off the Qin army's corridors, and defeated the Qin army. Killed Su Jiao and captured Wang Li.
Shejian refused to surrender to the Chu army and burned himself to death.
At that time, the Chu army was famous among the princes.
At that time, the various princes who came to rescue Zhao had more than a dozen large camps, but they did not dare to send troops easily.
When the Chu army attacked, the princes and generals were watching the battle on the camp.
The soldiers of the Chu army were all equal to ten. The shouts of the Chu soldiers shook the sky, and the soldiers of the princes were frightened.
Having defeated the Qin army, Xiang Yu summoned all the princes and generals. They entered the camp gate and walked forward on their knees, not daring to look up.
From then on, Xiang Yu became the general of the princes' armies, and all the princes surrendered to him.
Zhang Han was stationed at Jiyuan and Xiang Yu was stationed at the south bank of Zhangshui River. The two armies were in a stalemate and there was no fighting.
The Qin army retreated many times, and the Second Emperor sent someone to punish Zhang Han.
Zhang Han was frightened and sent Chief Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
When he arrived in Xianyang, he waited outside the door for three days. Zhao Gao did not receive him, which was a sign of distrust.
Chief Shi Sima Xin was frightened and hurriedly fled back to the army. He didn't dare to take the original route. As expected, Zhao Gao sent people to chase him, but he failed to catch up.
Sima Xin arrived in the army and reported to Zhang Han: Zhao Gao has great power in the DPRK, and the people below cannot make a difference.
Now that the battle can be won, Zhao Gao must be jealous of our achievements; if the battle cannot be won, he will inevitably be executed.
I hope the general will think this through.
Chen Yu also sent a letter to Zhang Han saying: Bai Qi was the general of Qin. He attacked Yan and Ying to the south, killed horses and soldiers to the north, attacked the city and lost ground. He was countless, and in the end he was killed.
Meng Tian was a Qin general who drove the Xiongnu from the north and opened up an area of ​​thousands of miles in Yuzhong. He was eventually killed in Yangzhou.
Why?
There was too much merit, and Qin could not grant titles according to merit, so it used national laws to kill them.
Now that the general has been the general of Qin for three years, he has lost hundreds of thousands of soldiers, and the princes' armies have risen at the same time, increasing their numbers.
That Zhao Gao has always been flattering for a long time. Now the situation is critical, and he is afraid that the second generation will kill him, so he plans to use the national law to kill the general to shirk his responsibility, and to send someone from outside to replace the general to get rid of the disaster.
The general has been away for a long time, and many people in the court are alienated from you. Even if you have merit, you will be killed, and if you have no merit, you will be killed.
Besides, Qin is going to be destroyed, and both the stupid and the smart people know it.
Nowadays, the general cannot express his opinions directly at home, but outside he is the general of a country that is about to perish. He is isolated and helpless and wants to stay for a long time. Isn't it sad?
Why don't the general defect and join forces with various princes, sign a peace treaty, jointly attack Qin, cede the land to the king, sit facing south, and claim to be a lonely Taoist and a widower? Which one is better, or to be killed on the anvil and have his wife killed?
Zhang Han hesitated and secretly sent military commander Shicheng to Xiang Yu's camp to sign a peace treaty.
The peace treaty was not negotiated, so Xiang Yu asked General Pu to lead his troops across Sanhujin day and night, camped on the south bank of Zhang River, fought with the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army again.
Xiang Yu led the entire army to attack the Qin army on the sewage, and defeated the Qin army.
Zhang Han sent people to see Xiang Yu and planned to make a peace treaty.
Xiang Yu summoned the military officials to discuss: The army is short of food and wants to allow him to sign a peace treaty.
All the military officers said, "Okay."
Xiang Yu and Zhang Han made an appointment to meet at the Yin Ruins on the south bank of Huan River.
The alliance had been concluded. When Zhang Han saw Xiang Yu, he broke down in tears and told Xiang Yu all the deeds of Zhao Gao.
Xiang Yu then appointed Zhang Han as King Yong and placed him in the Chu army camp.
The envoy commander Shi Sima Xin was appointed as the general and led the Qin army as the advance force.
The army arrived at Xin'an.
The officers and soldiers of the princes' armies had previously passed through Guanzhong because of their corvee service and guarding the border areas. The Qin soldiers often insulted them. When the Qin army surrendered to the princes' army, the officers and soldiers of the princes' army took advantage of the victory in the war and treated them like slaves and prisoners, torturing and humiliating the Qin officers and soldiers at will.
Most of the Qin officers and soldiers discussed privately: General Zhang and others deceived us into surrendering to the princes' armies. Now we can enter the pass and defeat Qin, which is good; if we can't, the princes' troops will capture us and go eastward; Qin will definitely put our parents and wives to death.
The generals of the princes' armies secretly heard their plan and reported it to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu went to Generals Ying Bu and Pu to discuss: There were still many Qin officers and soldiers, and they were dissatisfied. If they did not obey orders when they arrived at Guanzhong, things would be in danger. It would be better to kill them, and only enter Qin with Zhang Han, Chang Shi Sima Xin, and Captain Dong Yi.
So the Chu army executed more than 200,000 Qin soldiers at night and buried them in the south of Xin'an City.
Xiang Yu is about to capture the Qin Guanzhong area.
Hangu Pass is guarded by soldiers and cannot enter.
When he heard that Pei Gong had conquered Xianyang, Xiang Yu was furious and sent Dangyang Lord and others to attack the pass.
Xiang Yu then entered Hangu Pass and reached the west bank of the water.
Pei Gong garrisoned Ba Shang, but was unable to meet Xiang Yu.
Cao Wushang, the minister on the left of Pei Gong, sent someone to tell Xiang Yu: Pei Gong wants to claim the title of King of Guanzhong, make Ziying his prime minister, and possess all the treasures.
Xiang Yu was so angry that he said: "Tomorrow morning, if we feast our soldiers, we will defeat Pei Gong's army!"
At this time, Xiang Yu had 400,000 troops stationed at Xinfenghongmen, and Peigong had 100,000 troops stationed at Bashang.
Fan Zeng advised Xiang Yu: When Pei Gong was in Shandong, he was greedy for money, lustful and fond of beautiful women.
Now that he has entered the pass, he does not accept property or get close to women. From this, it seems that his ambition is not small.
I asked people to observe the clouds in the sky above him. They were all shaped like dragons and tigers, and were colorful. This was the spirit of the emperor.
Attack quickly and don't miss the chance.
Xiang Bo, Zuo Yin of the Chu State, was Xiang Yu's uncle and had always been friendly with Liu Hou Zhang Liang.
Zhang Liang was following Pei Gong at this time, and Xiang Bo rode to Pei Gong's camp at night. He met Zhang Liang in private, told what happened, and planned to ask Zhang Liang to leave with him.
He said: Don't die with them.
Zhang Liang said: I was ordered by the King of Han to escort Pei Gong. Now that Pei Gong is encountered, it would be unethical to escape, so I have to tell him.
Zhang Liang went in and told Pei Gong everything.
Pei Gong was shocked and said, "What should we do?"
Zhang Liang said: Who gave the king this idea?
Pei Gong said: A boy advised me to guard Hangu Pass and not let the princes' troops come in. I can take all the land of Qin as my own and call myself the king here.
I took him at his word.
Zhang Liang said: "Does the king think that the current military strength is enough to resist King Xiang?"
Pei Gong remained silent and said: Of course his military strength is not as good as Xiang Yu's, so what should we do?
Zhang Liang said: Please let me tell Xiang Bo that Pei Gong does not dare to betray King Xiang.
Pei Gong said: How come you have friendship with Xiang Bo?
Zhang Liang said: Before Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, Xiang Bo and I were friends. He killed someone and I saved him.
Things were in danger now, and luckily he came to tell me.
Pei Gong said: Who is older than you, Xiang Bo?
Who is younger? Zhang Liang said: He is older than me.
Pei Gong said: "You call him in for me. I will treat him like an elder brother."
Zhang Liang came out and invited Xiang Bo.
Xiang Bo went in to see Pei Gong.
Pei Gong raised a glass to Xiang Bo and made a toast to his children's relatives. Pei Gong said: When I entered the pass, I did not dare to have any interests in it. I made a register to register the officials and people, sealed up the treasury, and waited for the general.
Therefore, the purpose of sending generals to guard the pass is to prevent other thieves from coming in and out and unexpected incidents.
I look forward to the arrival of the general day and night, how dare I rebel!
Please explain to the general in detail that I dare not be ungrateful.
Xiang Bo agreed and said to Pei Gong: "You must come early tomorrow morning to apologize to King Xiang."
Pei Gong said: OK.
So Xiang Bo left that night, returned to the army, and reported to King Xiang exactly what Pei Gong said.
Then he said to Xiang Yu: "If Pei Gong doesn't attack Guanzhong first, how dare you come in?"
Nowadays, it is unethical to attack someone who has made great achievements. It is better to treat him kindly.
King Xiang agreed.
The next morning, Pei Gong brought more than a hundred cavalry to see King Xiang. When he arrived at Hongmen, he apologized to Xiang Yu and said: The general and I attacked Qin together. The general fought in Hebei and I fought in Henan. However, I myself did not expect to enter the pass first and conquer Qin, so that I could see the general here again.
Now there is a villain's words, which creates a gap between the general and me.
King Xiang said: This is what Cao Wushang, your Sima of Pei Gong, said, otherwise, why would I be like this?
King Xiang stayed with Pei Gong to drink with him that day.
King Xiang and Bo Xiang sat facing east, and Yafu sat facing south.
Yafu is Fan Zeng.
Pei Gong sat facing north, and Zhang Liang sat facing west.
Fan Zeng winked at King Xiang many times and repeatedly raised his jade ornaments to signal to King Xiang, but King Xiang responded silently.
Fan Zeng got up and went out to find Xiang Zhuang and said to him: "The king is not ruthless. You go in and propose a toast. After the toast is finished, he asks for a sword dance and takes the opportunity to attack Pei Gong in his seat and kill him."
Otherwise, all of you will be captured by him.
Xiang Zhuang went in to toast. After the toast, he said: "The king and Pei Gong are drinking. There is nothing for entertainment in the army. Please allow me to dance with my sword to help." King Xiang said: OK.
Xiang Zhuang drew his sword and danced. Xiang Bo also drew his sword and danced. Xiang Bo often used his body to cover Pei Gong, so Xiang Zhuang did not get the opportunity to assassinate him.
At this time, Zhang Liang came to the military gate and summoned Fan Kuai.
Fan Kuai said: How are things going today?
Zhang Liang said: It is extremely critical.
At this moment, Xiang Zhuang was dancing with his sword, and his intention was always on Pei Gong.
Fan Kuai said: "This is urgent. Please let me in and live and die with Pei Gong."
Fan Kuai immediately entered the military gate with his sword and shield in his hand.
The guard guarding the gate of Jiaogan tried to stop him from entering, but Fan Kuai hit him with his shield, causing the guard to fall to the ground. Fan Kuai entered the big tent, opened the curtain, stood facing west, looked at King Xiang with wide, angry eyes, his hair pointing up, and his eyes broken.
King Xiang straightened his upper body with his sword in his hand and said, "What are the guests here for?"
Zhang Liang said: This is Pei Gong's chariot, Fan Kuai.
King Xiang said: Strong man! Give him a glass of wine.
Give him a large glass of wine.
Fan Kuai thanked him and stood up, drinking it all in one gulp.
King Xiang said: Give him pig legs as a reward. There is a pig leg on the left and right.
Fan Kuai laid his shield on the ground, put the pig's leg on the shield, drew his sword and cut the meat into pieces. King Xiang said: Strong man! Can I drink alcohol again? Fan Kuai said: I am not afraid of death. How can I refuse a glass of wine!
The King of Qin has the heart of a tiger and a wolf. He kills people for fear that he will not be able to kill them all, and uses punishments for fear that the punishment will not be severe, so that everyone in the world will rebel against him.
King Huai of Chu and his generals agreed that the one who conquered Qin first and entered Xianyang would be the king of Guanzhong.
Now that Pei Gong had conquered Qin and entered Xianyang, he did not dare to get close to him for the slightest benefit. He closed the palace and returned to the army to wait for the arrival of the king.
Therefore, generals are sent to guard the pass to guard against other thieves and accidents.
You have worked so hard and achieved great results, but you have not been rewarded by the title, but you listen to gossip and want to kill the meritorious people.
This is the path inherited from the destroyed Qin Dynasty. I personally think that it is not advisable for the king to do this.
King Xiang had no words to reply, only said: Sit down.
Fan Kuai sat down next to Zhang Liang.
After sitting for a while, Pei Gong got up to go to the toilet and took the opportunity to call Fan Kuai out.
After Pei Gong left, King Xiang sent his captain Chen Ping to call Pei Gong back.
Pei Gong said: "We are going out now without saying goodbye. What should we do?"
Fan Kuai said: Don't worry about the details when doing big things, don't pay attention to small humility when doing great gifts.
Nowadays, others are just swordsmen and we are fish and meat, so why say goodbye?
So he left without saying goodbye.
Pei Gong asked Zhang Liang to stay and thank him.
Zhang Liang asked: What did the king bring when he came?
Pei Gong said: I brought a pair of white walls to present to King Xiang, and a pair of jade buckets to give to Yafu, but they were angry and did not dare to offer them.
Give it to them for me. Zhang Liang said: "I obey."
At that time, King Xiang's army was at Hongmen and Pei Gong's army was at Bashang, which was forty miles away from each other.
Peigong abandoned his chariot and escaped on horseback. Fan Kuai, Xia Houying, Jin Jiang, and Ji Xin walked on foot, holding swords and shields, and took the path from Lishan to Zhiyang, copying the path.
Pei Gong said to Zhang Liang: From this road to our military camp, it is only twenty miles.
I guess you can go in after I get to the army. After Pei Gong left, Zhang Liang estimated that Pei Gong had taken a small road and reached the army, so he went in to thank him and said: "Pei Gong can't bear the cup, so he can't come to say goodbye in person." I would like to ask Zhang Liang to offer a white wall to the king and a jade bucket to the general. Xiang Yu said: Where is Pei Gong?
Zhang Liang said: I heard that the king wanted to blame him, so he escaped alone and returned to the army.
King Xiang took the king's wall and placed it on the table.
Yafu took the jade bucket, put it on the ground, drew his sword and struck it to pieces, saying: Alas!
This kid is not good enough to conspire against something big.
The one who seizes King Xiang's world must be Pei Gong, and we all will be captured by him.
When Pei Gong returned to the army, he immediately killed Cao Wushang.
A few days later, Xiang Yu led his troops to the west, slaughtered Xianyang, killed the Qin Dynasty king Ziying who had surrendered, burned the Qin Dynasty palace, and the fire did not go out for three months; he collected the Qin Dynasty's treasures and women, and led his army eastward.
Someone advised King Xiang: "Guanzhong is blocked by mountains and rivers, and is blocked on all sides. The land is fertile. We can build a capital here to establish our hegemony."
King Xiang saw that all the palaces in the Qin Dynasty were burned down and dilapidated. He missed his hometown and wanted to return eastward, so he said: If you don't return to your hometown when you are rich, you will be like walking at night with embroidered clothes. Who can know!
The person who advised King Xiang said, "People say that the people of Chu are like macaques wearing hats to pretend to be human beings, and it is true."
King Xiang heard this and killed the man who persuaded him.
King Xiang sent someone to report to King Huai of Chu for instructions.
King Huai of Chu said: We will do it as agreed.
Xiang Yu respected King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor.
King Xiang wanted to claim the title of king himself, so he first made the princes, generals and ministers kings.
King Xiang said to them: When the world first rebelled, the descendants of the princes were temporarily established as kings in order to attack the Qin Dynasty.
However, I personally wore armor and held weapons, took the lead in the uprising, and slept in the open for three years, destroyed the Qin Dynasty, and brought peace to the world. It was all the strength of the generals and I, Xiang Ji.
Only the Righteous Emperor has no merit, so he should divide the land and make everyone king. The generals all said: OK.
King Xiang divided the world and made the generals princes and kings.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng suspected that Pei Gong would take over the world in the future. But since they had reconciled, they were afraid of violating the original agreement and causing the princes to rebel, so they secretly discussed: The roads between Ba and Shu are dangerous, and the sinners who were moved by the Qin Dynasty all live in Shu.
So he said: Ba and Shu are also Guanzhong areas.
Therefore, he named Pei Gong the King of Han, proclaimed himself the king of Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, and established Nanzheng as his capital.
The Guanzhong was divided into three parts, and was granted to the Qin Dynasty's surrendered king to block the Han king. King Xiang made Zhang Han the King of Yong, proclaimed himself the king west of Xianyang, and built the capital at Feiqiu.
Sima Xin, the long history official, was the warden of Yueyang in the past and was kind to Xiang Liang. The captain Dong Yi initially persuaded Zhang Han to surrender to Chu, so he named Sima Xin the king of Sai and the area east of Xianyang to the Yellow River and established his capital in Yueyang.
He moved King Bao of Wei to the title of King of Western Wei, proclaimed himself king in Hedong, and established Pingyang as his capital.
Xiaqiu Shenyang was Zhang Er's favorite. He conquered Henan first and met the Chu army on the bank of the Yellow River. Therefore, he made Shenyang king of Henan and made his capital Luoyang.
King Cheng of Han still took the old capital as his capital and established Yangzhai as his capital.
Zhao general Sima Yin pacified Hanoi and made many military exploits, so he named Sima Yin King of Yin, proclaimed him king in Hanoi, and established Chaoge as his capital.
He only named King Zhao Xie as acting king.
Zhang Er, Prime Minister of Zhao, had always been a virtuous man, and he followed King Xiang to the Pass. Therefore, Zhang Er was granted the title of King of Changshan, proclaimed the king of Zhao, and established the capital of Xiang State.
Dangyang Jun Yingbu was a general of the Chu army, and he often defeated the entire army bravely. Therefore, he was granted the title of King of Jiujiang and established his capital in Liu Dynasty.
Wu Rui, the king of Po, led the Baiyue troops to assist the princes' troops and followed him into the pass. Therefore, Wu Rui was granted the title of King of Hengshan and established his capital in Zhu.
Gong Ao, the Zhuguo of Emperor Yi, led his troops to attack Nanjun and made great achievements, so he named Gong Ao the King of Linjiang and made Jiangling his capital.
Han Guang, the king of Yan, was moved to be the king of Liaodong.
Yan general Zang Cha once accompanied the Chu army to rescue Zhao, and then followed him into the Pass. Therefore, Zang Tu was granted the title of King of Yan and his capital was established at Ji.
He named Tianshi, the king of Qi, as the king of Jiaodong.
Qi general Tiandu once accompanied King Xiang to rescue Zhao, and then followed him into the Pass. Therefore, Tiandu was made King of Qi and his capital was Linzi.
It turned out that Tian An, the grandson of King Jian of Qi who was destroyed by the Qin Dynasty, captured several cities north of Jishui when Xiang Yu crossed the river to rescue Zhao, and led his army to surrender to Xiang Yu. Therefore, Tian An was named King of Jibei and made Boyang the capital.
Tian Rong had betrayed Xiang Liang many times and was unwilling to lead his army with Chu to attack Qin, so he was not crowned king.
Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, abandoned his seal and left without any entourage. However, he had always heard that he was a virtuous man and had made great contributions to Zhao. He knew that he was in Nanpi, so he sealed the three counties surrounding Nanpi to him.
Fanjun's general Mei Tsien had many military exploits, so he was granted the title of 100,000-household lord.
King Xiang established himself as the overlord of Western Chu, granted nine counties and established his capital in Pengcheng.
In April of the first year of the Han Dynasty, the princes under the command of King Xiang Si dispersed their troops and returned to their respective feudal states.
King Xiang also left the customs and returned to his feudal state. He sent people to move to Emperor Yi, saying: In ancient times, emperors owned thousands of miles of land and had to live upstream.
So he sent envoys to move Emperor Yi to Chen County, Changsha.
King Xiang urged Emperor Yi to leave quickly, but Emperor Yi's officials gradually betrayed him. King Xiang secretly ordered the kings of Hengshan and Linjiang to kill Emperor Yi in the river.
Han Wangcheng had no military merit, and King Xiang refused to let him return to his fiefdom. They went to Pengcheng together, abolished the king's title, changed the title to a marquis, and soon killed him.
When Zang Tu arrived in the feudal state, he expelled Han Guang to Liaodong. Han Guang refused to obey. Zang Cha killed Han Guang in Wujing and took possession of his territory.
Tian Rong was very angry when he heard that Xiang Yu had sealed King Qi's banishment in Jiaodong and appointed Qi general Tian Du as King of Qi. He did not want King Qi to go to Jiaodong, so he rebelled against Qi and attacked Tian Du.
Tiandu fled to Chu.
Qi Gongshi was afraid of King Xiang, so he sneaked to Jiaodong to join the kingdom.
Tian Rong was very angry and sent troops to pursue him and killed him in Jimo.
Tian Rong proclaimed himself king of Qi, marched westward, killed Tian An, king of Jibei, and annexed the three Qi states.
Tian Rong awarded Peng Yue the seal of general and asked him to rebel against Chu in Liang.
Chen Yu secretly sent Zhang Tong and Xia Shuo to advise Qi King Tian Rong: Xiang Yu is the master of the world, it is unfair.
Now the original princes and kings are sealed in bad places and called kings, while his ministers and generals are all placed in good places and called kings. After driving away the original princes and kings, King Zhao went to live in the north. I thought this was unacceptable.
I heard that the king has raised troops and will not accept unjust orders. I hope that the king will help me with some troops and horses and allow me to use them to attack Changshan and restore the status of King Zhao. I am willing to use Zhao as a barrier to Qi.
The king of Qi agreed and sent troops to Zhao.
Chen Yu mobilized all the soldiers from the three counties to attack Changshan together with the Qi army, and defeated Changshan's army.
Zhang Er fled and submitted to the king of Han.
Chen Yu went to Dai to welcome the original King of Zhao when he returned to Zhao.
King Zhao made Chen Yu the acting king.
At this time, the King of Han returned to his army and put down the Three Qin Dynasties.
Xiang Yu heard that the king of Han had annexed Guanzhong and was about to march eastward. Qi and Zhao rebelled against him again, and he was very angry.
He appointed Zheng Chang, the former commander of Wu, as the king of Han to stop the Han army.
Order Xiao Gongjiao and others to attack Peng Yue.
Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao and others.
The King of Han sent Zhang Liang to patrol Han to pacify Han. Zhang Liang wrote to King Xiang saying: The King of Han did not get the fief position he deserved and planned to seize Guanzhong. He will stop the march after fulfilling the original agreement and dare not continue to advance eastward.
Zhang Liang also sent the rebellion proclamation of Qi and Liang to King Xiang, saying: Qi wants to join forces with Zhao to destroy Chu.
Therefore, the Chu army had no intention of advancing westward, and instead went north to attack Qi.
King Xiang asked King Yingbu of Jiujiang to recruit troops.
Yingbu said that he was ill and could not go away, so he sent his generals and thousands of troops to go.
King Xiang resented Ting Bu from then on.
In the winter of the second year of Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu went north to Chengyang, and Tian Rong also led his army to fight Xiang Yu here.
Tian Rong was defeated and fled to Pingyuan, where the people of Pingyuan killed him.
The Chu army marched northward, burning down the houses of Qi State, razing Qi State's city walls, trapping and killing Tian Rong's soldiers, and plundering old and weak women.
In Qi, they captured cities and territories as far as Beihai, burning, killing and plundering everywhere.
The people of Qi united to resist Xiang Yu.
Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng collected the soldiers who had fled from Qi State and gained tens of thousands of soldiers, and rebelled against Chengyang.
King Xiang therefore stayed and attacked Chengyang several times but failed to capture it.
In the spring, the King of Han led an army of five princes, totaling 560,000 men, to march eastward to attack Chu.
When King Xiang heard the news, he immediately ordered his generals to attack Qi, and he led 30,000 elite soldiers southward and crossed Huling from Lu.
In April, the Han army entered Pengcheng, plundered property, treasures and beauties, and held banquets every day. King Xiang marched westward and arrived at Xiao County. He attacked the Han army in the morning, marched eastward and arrived at Pengcheng. At noon, he defeated the Han army.
The Han army retreated and fled into Gushui and Sishui one after another. The Chu army killed more than 100,000 Han soldiers.
The Han army fled south into the mountains, and the Chu army pursued them to the Suishui River east of Lingbi.
The Han army retreated and was forced by the Chu army. They crowded together and many of them were killed and wounded. More than 100,000 Han troops fell into the Sui River, which stopped flowing.
The Chu army surrounded the King of Han on three levels.
At this time, strong winds blew from the northwest, blowing down trees, destroying houses, flying sand and rocks, and the sky was gloomy, rushing toward the Chu army.
The Chu army was in chaos and their formation collapsed, allowing the King of Han to escape with dozens of cavalry. The King of Han planned to pass through Peixian County to pick up his family and go westward; the Chu army also sent people to pursue Peixian County and plunder the King of Han's family members. All the family members fled and could not meet the King of Han.
The king of Han met Xiaohui and Lu Yuan on the road, so he pulled them together in his chariot.
The Chu cavalry chased the King of Han. The King of Han became anxious and pushed Xiaohui and Lu Yuan out of the car. Duke Xi got out of the car and picked them up. He pushed them down and picked them up several times.
Teng Gong said: Although the situation is critical and the car cannot go faster, my children cannot bear to abandon them!
Later, the King of Han finally escaped.
He looked for Taigong and Empress Lu, but could not find them.
Shen Shiqi followed the Taigong and Empress Lu to sneak through the alley, looking for the King of Han, but encountered the Chu army instead.
The Chu army took them back to the military camp and reported to King Xiang, who detained them in the military camp.
At this time, Empress Lu's brother Zhou Luhou was stationed in Xiayi for the Han Dynasty. The king of Han took a small road to Zhou Luhou and collected some of the escaped soldiers.
When they arrived at Xingyang, the defeated armies from all walks of life gathered together. Xiao He also recruited all the old and weak who had no residence in Guanzhong and came to Xingyang, and the momentum was revived.
The Chu army set out from Pengcheng, often taking advantage of the victory to pursue defeated troops, and fought with the Han army between Jing and Suo south of Xingyang. The Han army defeated the Chu army, so the Chu army could not cross Xingyang and advance westward.
King Xiang rescued Pengcheng and chased the King of Han to Xingyang. Tian Heng took the opportunity to regain the state of Qi and made Tian Rong's son Tian Guang the king of Qi.
The king of Han was defeated in Pengcheng, and all the princes turned their backs to Chu.
The Han army was stationed in Xingyang and built a corridor connected to the Yellow River to transport grain from Aocang.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang repeatedly invaded the corridors of the Han army. The King of Han was short of food and panicked. He asked for peace and divided the west of Xingyang back to the Han Dynasty.
King Xiang wanted to agree to him.
Fan Zeng, Marquis of Liyang, said: The Han army is easy to deal with. If you let them go now and don't destroy them, you will regret it later.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng besieged Xingyang.
The King of Han was deeply worried, so he adopted Chen Ping's strategy to drive a wedge between King Xiang and Fan Zeng.
King Xiang's envoy came and prepared a sumptuous banquet with oxen, sheep, and food for him, intending to serve it.
The man serving the food looked at the envoy, pretended to be shocked and said, "I thought it was Yafu's envoy, but I didn't expect that it was King Xiang's envoy."
He brought the food down again and gave King Xiang's envoys some coarse vegetables and rice.
The envoy came back and reported to King Xiang. King Xiang suspected that Fan Zeng was having an affair with the Han army and gradually deprived him of his power.
Fan Zeng was furious and said: The overall situation of the world has been decided, and the king can take care of himself.
Please give me this old bone to take home.
King Xiang agreed to him.
Fan Zeng left, but before he reached Pengcheng, he died of malignant sores on his back.
Ji Xin, the general of the Han army, advised the King of Han: The situation is already very critical. Please let me pretend to be the king and deceive the Chu army for you. The king can take the opportunity to escape from the city.
So the king of Han released two thousand women in armor from the east gate of Xingyang at night, and the Chu army surrounded them on all sides.
Ji Xin rode a yellow-house chariot with a large banner erected on the scale on the left, saying: The food in the city has been exhausted, and the king of Han surrenders.
The Chu army all shouted long live.
The King of Han and dozens of cavalry left the city from the west gate and rushed towards Cheng Gao.
King Xiang saw Ji Xin and asked him: Where is the King of Han?
Ji Xin said: The king of Han has left the city.
King Xiang burned Ji Xin to death.
The king of Han sent the censors Zhou Ke, Cong Gong and Wei Bao to guard Xingyang.
Zhou Ke and Song Gong discussed it and said: It is difficult for Wei Bao, a traitorous king, to defend the city together with him.
They killed Wei Bao together.
The Chu army captured Xingyang City and captured Zhou Ke alive.
King Xiang said to Zhou Ke: "Be my general. I will make you the general and grant thirty thousand households."
Zhou Ke cursed and said: "If you don't surrender to the Han army quickly, the Han army will capture you. You are no match for the Han army."
King Xiang was furious and cooked Zhou Ke to death and killed Duke Cong.
The king of Han escaped from Xingyang, went south to Wan and Ye, and conquered Jiujiang king Yingbu. He collected soldiers as he went, and then entered Chenggao to defend.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang besieged Chenggao.
The King of Han fled, and alone with Teng Gong, they left the north gate of Chenggao, crossed the river and rushed to Xiuwu, arriving at Zhang Er and Han Xin's military camp.
The generals fled Chenggao one after another and followed the King of Han.
The Chu army captured Chenggao and wanted to march westward.
The king of Han sent troops to block the attack in Gong County, preventing the Chu army from advancing westward.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the river to attack the Chu army in Dong'a and killed the Chu general Xue Gong.
King Xiang personally went east to attack Peng Yue.
The King of Han obtained the army of Huai Chuhou and planned to cross the river and go south. Zheng Zhong dissuaded the King of Han, so the King of Han stayed in the river and built a fort.
He sent Liu Jia to lead troops to coordinate with Peng Yue to burn the Chu army's grain.
King Xiang Dongjin defeated Liu Jia and Peng Yue, and Peng Yue escaped.
The king of Han led his army across the river and captured Chenggao. He stationed himself at Guangwu and ate Aocang.
King Xiang had already pacified the East China Sea, led his army back, marched westward, and stationed himself with the Han army at Guangwu, where they had a stalemate for several months.
At that time, Peng Yue repeatedly attacked the Chu army in Liang and cut off the Chu army's food supply. King Xiang was very worried.
He set up a tall chopping board, placed the Grand Duke on it, and told the King of Han: If you don't surrender quickly, I will cook the Grand Duke to death.
The King of Han said: Xiang Yu and I are both ministers from the north. We were ordered by King Huai to become brothers. My father is your father. I must cook and kill your father. So I hope you can give me a cup of meat soup.
King Xiang was very angry and planned to kill the Grand Duke.
Xiang Bo said: "The major events in the world are unpredictable, and those who conquer the world do not care about their families. Even if you kill your grandfather, there will be no benefit, it will only increase the disaster."
King Xiang listened to Bo Xiang.
Chu and Han were in a stalemate for a long time, with no outcome yet. The young and strong worked hard in marching and fighting, while the old and weak were tired of water and land transportation.
King Xiang said to the King of Han: The world has been in turmoil for the past few years. It is just because of the two of us that we are willing to challenge you to a showdown, so as not to make the people of the world suffer in vain.
The king of Han smiled and refused, saying: I would rather fight with wits than with strength.
King Xiang asked the strong men to go out and challenge him.
There was a man named Lou Fan in the Han army who was good at horseback riding and archery. The Chu army sent warriors to challenge him three times, but Lou Fan shot them all to death.
King Xiang was furious, so he put on his armor and held a halberd and came out to challenge.
Lou Fan wanted to shoot him, but King Xiang scolded him angrily. Lou Fan did not dare to look directly, and his hands did not dare to shoot the arrow. He ran back to the camp and did not dare to come out again.
The king of Han sent people to inquire secretly, and found out that the challenger turned out to be King Xiang.
The king of Han was shocked.
So King Xiang approached the Han King's camp and talked with him across the Guangwu Stream. The King of Han listed King Xiang's crimes. King Xiang was very angry and demanded a decisive battle.
The King of Han did not agree. King Xiang's ambushed bow and crossbow hit the King of Han. The King of Han was injured and ran back to Cheng Gao.
King Xiang heard that the Marquis of Huaiyin had captured Hebei, defeated the Qi and Zhao armies, and was about to attack the Chu army, so he sent Long Qie to meet him.
The Marquis of Huaiyin fought with Long Qie, and the cavalry general Guan Ying also attacked Long Qie, defeated the Chu army and killed Long Qie.
Han Xin proclaimed himself King of Qi.
When King Xiang heard that Long Qie's army had collapsed, he panicked and sent Wu She from Xutai to persuade the Marquis of Huaiyin.
The Marquis of Huaiyin refused to obey.
At this time, Peng Yue rose up against Chu again and captured Liang, cutting off the Chu army's food routes.
King Xiang said to Cao Jiu, the chief minister of Haichunhou, and others: Guard Chenggao carefully. Even if the Han army challenges it, do not fight it, just do not let it advance eastward.
I will definitely kill Peng Yue in fifteen days, pacify the Liang region, and then join the general.
So King Xiang led his army eastward and attacked Chenliu and Waihuang during the march.
Waihuang was not captured.
A few days later, Waihuang surrendered. King Xiang was very angry and ordered all men over fifteen years old to go to the east of the city to prepare to kill them. The son of a retainer in Waihuang, who was only thirteen years old, went to advise King Xiang: Peng Yue used force to force the people of Waihuang. The people of Waihuang were very scared, so they temporarily surrendered and waited for the arrival of the king.
When the king arrives, he traps and kills them. Do the people still want to submit?
From here to the east, more than ten cities in the Liang region were fearful and no one was willing to surrender.
King Xiang agreed with his words and pardoned those who were supposed to be killed by Waihuang.
Everyone from Waihuang to Suiyang rushed to surrender to King Xiang after hearing the news.
As expected, the Han army challenged the Chu army many times, but the Chu army did not come out to challenge.
The Han army sent people to insult the Chu army in front of the battle line. They insulted the Chu army for five or six days. The great Sima was very angry and asked the soldiers to cross the Si River. The soldiers had just crossed the halfway point when the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army and captured all the supplies of the Chu state.
The great Sima Cao Jiu and the Chang Shi Xin both committed suicide on the Si River.
The chief minister, Cao Jiu, was originally the warden of Qixian County, and the chief minister, Sima Xin, was originally the warden of Yueyang. They had been kind to Xiang Liang, so King Xiang trusted them.
At that time, King Xiang was in Suiyang. When he heard that Haichunhou's army had failed, he led his army back.
The Han army was besieging Zhongli Mei in the east of Xingyang. As soon as King Xiang arrived, the Han army was afraid of the Chu army and all retreated to dangerous areas.
At this time, the Han army had many soldiers and sufficient food, but King Xiang's soldiers were exhausted and had no food.
The King of Han sent Lu Jia to persuade King Xiang to release the Grand Duke, but King Xiang did not agree.
The king of Han sent Duke Hou to persuade King Xiang, and King Xiang made an agreement with Han to divide the world equally, dividing the west of the chasm to go to Han, and the east of the chasm to Chu.
King Xiang agreed to Duke Hou's request and sent back the parents and wife of the King of Han.
The Han troops all shouted long live.
The king of Han conferred the title of Prince of Ping.
Duke Hou went into hiding and refused to see the King of Han again.
The King of Han said: "This man is a eloquent scholar in the world. Wherever he goes, he can destroy people's countries, so he is named Ping Guojun."
King Xiang had concluded a peace treaty, so he ended the military confrontation and led his army back east.
The King of Han was preparing to return to the west. Zhang Liang and Chen Ping advised the King of Han: "The Han has occupied most of the world, and all the princes have surrendered to us."
The Chu army is exhausted. This is the time when God wants Chu to perish. It is better to take this opportunity to destroy it.
Now let King Xiang go and not attack him. This is the so-called "raise a tiger and bring trouble to yourself".
The king of Han agreed to their suggestion.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han pursued King Xiang to the south of Yangxia. The army was stationed and made an appointment with the Marquis of Huaiyin, Han Xin, and the Marquis of Jiancheng, Pengyue, to attack the Chu army.
Arriving at Guling, Han Xin and Peng Yue's troops did not come to join them.
The Chu army attacked the Han army and defeated the Han army.
The king of Han entered the camp again, dug deep trenches, and defended himself.
The king of Han said to Zhang Zifang: What should I do if the princes do not abide by the agreement?
Zhang Zifang replied: The Chu army is about to collapse. Han Xin and Peng Yue have not been assigned a fiefdom. It is natural that they will not come to join forces.
The king can share the world with them, and he can make them come immediately.
If this is not the case, the development of the situation will be difficult to predict.
If the king can allocate all the area from Chen County to the sea to Han Xin, and allocate the area from Suiyang to Gucheng to Peng Yue, so that they can fight separately, then the Chu army will be easily defeated.
The king of Han said: OK.
So he sent envoys to tell Han Xin and Peng Yue, "Let's work together to attack the Chu army."
After the collapse of the Chu army, the area east of Chen County to the seaside was given to King Qi, and the area north of Suiyang to Gucheng was given to Peng Xiangguo.
As soon as the envoy arrived, Han Xin and Peng Yue both replied: Please let us march immediately.
Han Xin set out from Qidi, and Liu Jia's army set out from Shouchun in parallel, slaughtered the city father, and arrived at Gaixia.
The Grand Sima Zhou Yin betrayed the Chu State and used Shu's troops to massacre six counties. He mobilized all Jiujiang soldiers, Liu Jia and Peng Yue gathered in Gaixia and came to King Xiang's formation.
King Xiang's army built a fortress and lay low, with a small number of soldiers and no food supplies, and the Han army and the armies of various princes were surrounded by heavy soldiers.
At night, he heard the Han troops on all sides singing Chu songs. King Xiang was shocked and said, "Have all the Han troops occupied Chu?"
Why are there so many people in Chu?
King Xiang got up at night and drank wine in his tent.
There was a beautiful woman named Yu who was favored by King Xiang and often took her with him. There is a horse named Zui, and King Xiang often rides it.
So King Xiang sang a tragic song generously, composed a poem by himself and sang: "Strong to lift the mountain, the spirit is overwhelming, but the times are unfavorable and the elegance will not fade away."
What can you do if your glory is not gone? What can you do if you are worried!
After singing it several times, the beauty sang along with him.
King Xiang wept bitterly and shed several lines of tears. The attendants on the left and right also bowed their heads and wept, unable to look up.
So King Xiang mounted his horse, and his strong men on horseback, followed by more than 800 people, broke through the siege that night and galloped southward.
At dawn, the Han army realized this and sent cavalry general Guan Ying with 5,000 cavalry to pursue King Xiang.
King Xiang crossed the Huai River, and there were only more than a hundred cavalry who could follow him. When King Xiang went to Yinling, he lost his way and asked a farmer. The farmer deceived him and said, "Go left."
King Xiang went to the left and fell into a large swamp.
Therefore, the Han army caught up with King Xiang.
King Xiang then led his troops east again. When they arrived at Dongcheng, there were only twenty-eight cavalry left.
The chasing Han cavalry numbered several thousand.
King Xiang himself was probably unable to escape, so he said to his cavalry: It has been eight years since I raised my army, and I have personally fought more than seventy battles. Whoever resists me, I defeat, and whoever I attack surrenders. I have never lost a battle, so I dominate the world.
However, now I am finally besieged here. This is because God wants to destroy me, and it is not my fault in fighting.
Of course I am determined to fight to the death today, and I am willing to fight a happy battle for you. I must win three times, break through the siege for you, kill the enemy generals, and cut down the enemy's flag, so that you will know that it is God who destroyed me, and it is not my fault in fighting.
King Xiang divided his cavalry into four teams, facing all directions.
The Han army surrounded King Xiang on several levels.
King Xiang said to his cavalry: I will kill one of his generals for you.
King Xiang ordered the cavalry to gallop down in all directions and agreed to meet in three places on the east side of the mountain.
So King Xiang shouted loudly and rushed down. The Han army was frightened and collapsed, and King Xiang beheaded a Han general.
At that time, Chiquanhou was a cavalry general and chased King Xiang. King Xiang roared angrily, and Chiquanhou's men and horses were frightened and retreated for several miles. King Xiang and his cavalry gathered in three places.
The Han army didn't know where King Xiang was, so they divided their army into three parts and surrounded King Xiang. King Xiang rode on horseback and killed a captain of the Han army, killing more than a hundred people. He then gathered his cavalry and only lost two cavalrymen.
King Xiang said to his cavalry: How is it?
The cavalry all admired him and said: Just as the king said.
King Xiang wanted to cross the Wu River eastward.
The chief of the Wujiang Pavilion pulled the boat to the shore and waited for King Xiang. He said to King Xiang: Although Jiangdong is small, it stretches thousands of miles and has hundreds of thousands of people, which is enough to call him king.
I hope the king can cross the river quickly.
Now I am the only one who has ships. When the Han army comes here, there are no ships to cross the river.
King Xiang smiled and said: "God wants to destroy me, so why should I cross the river?"
Besides, I crossed the Yangtze River to the west with eight thousand people from Jiangdong, and now no one has come back. Even if the Jiangdong father and brother took pity on me and allowed me to become king, what face would I have to see them?
Even if they don't say anything, don't I, Xiang Ji, feel guilty for not doing it?
King Xiang said to the pavilion chief: I know you are a loyal and honest man.
I have been riding this horse for five years and it is invincible. I once galloped a thousand miles a day. I cannot bear to kill it, so I will give it to you.
He asked the cavalry to dismount and walk, and the soldiers engaged in short-range combat.
Xiang Ji alone killed hundreds of Han soldiers.
King Xiang also suffered more than ten injuries.
He turned around and saw Lu Matong, the cavalry commander of the Han army, and said, "Aren't you my old friend?"
Lu Matong faced King Xiang, pointed out to Wang Yi and said, "This is King Xiang."
King Xiang said: I heard that the Han army put a thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households as a reward for my head. I will do you a favor.
He killed himself and died.
Wang Yi cut off King Xiang's head, and the other cavalry trampled on each other, fighting for King Xiang's body, and killed dozens of each other.
Finally, the lieutenants rode Yang happy and the Sima Lu Matong. The lieutenants Lu Sheng and Yang Wu each got a piece of King Xiang's body.
The five men put their limbs together, and they all belonged to King Xiang.
Therefore, the rewarded land was divided into five parts: Lu Matong was granted the title of Zhongshui Marquis, Wang Yi was granted the title of Du Yanhou, Yang Xi was granted the title of Chiquan Marquis, Yang Wu was granted the title of Wu Fanghou, and Lu Sheng was granted the title of Nieyang Marquis.
After King Xiang's death, all parts of the Chu State surrendered to the Han army, except the city of Lu, which refused to surrender.
The king of Han then led his soldiers to massacre the city of Lu because they adhered to etiquette and sacrificed their lives for their masters. The king of Han showed King Xiang's head to the people of Lu, and the father and brother of Lu surrendered.
Initially, King Huai of Chu granted Xiang Ji the title of Duke of Lu. When Xiang Ji died, Lu City finally surrendered, so King Xiang was buried in Gucheng with the etiquette of Duke Lu.
The king of Han mourned for King Xiang, cried for a while, and then left Lucheng.
The king of Han did not kill any of the Xiang clans.
Xiang Bo was granted the title of Marquis of Sheyang.
Taohou, Pingjinghou and Xuanwuhou are all members of the Xiang clan and are given the surname Liu.
Tai Shigong said: I heard Zhou Sheng said that Shun's eyes probably had two pupils, and I also heard that Xiang Yu also had two pupils.
Is Xiang Yu a descendant of Shun?
Why did it rise so quickly?
The Qin Dynasty was politically corrupt. Chen She was the first to attack, and countless heroes began to compete with each other.
However, Xiang Yu had no basis to rely on, so he took advantage of the situation and started from among the people. In three years, he led five armies of princes to eliminate the Qin Dynasty, divided the world, created kings and princes, and established his own government. He was named "Overlord". Although he did not always maintain his status, there has never been such a thing in modern times.
When until Xiang Yu gave up Guanzhong, missed the Chu land, exiled Yi Emperor and made himself king, complained that the princes betrayed him, it was already difficult to control the situation.
He boasted about his achievements and acted out his own selfish wisdom. He did not follow the example of the ancients and thought that to create an overlord's cause, he needed to use force to run the world. In just five years, he lost his own country and died in Dongcheng. He has not yet awakened and does not condemn himself. This is wrong.
Isn't it ridiculous to use the excuse that God destroyed me because it was not my fault in fighting the war?
