In the Wusun Kingdom, Da Kunmi governed Chigu City and was sent to Chang'an for 8,900 miles.
There are 120,000 households, a population of 630,000, and an army of 188,800 people.
There is a prime minister, a big official, two generals on the left and right, three marquis, one general and a captain, two eunuchs, one official, two senior officials in the house, and one knight.
It went as far as Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, for 1,721 miles, and to the west as far as the hinterland of Kangju and Fan, 5,000 miles.
The land is grassy and flat, rainy and the climate is cold.
There are many pines on the mountain.
The residents do not farm or plant trees, but live with their livestock in search of water and grass, which is the same custom as the Xiongnu.
The country is prolific with horses, and wealthy people have as many as four to five thousand horses.
The people are strong-willed, greedy for money, unfaithful, and have many thieves. This is a powerful country.
He used to submit to the Xiongnu, but later he became powerful and adopted a restrained attitude towards the Xiongnu and refused to go to worship.
It borders the Xiongnu in the east, Kangju in the northwest, Dawan in the west, and the Chengguo Kingdoms in the south.
Zaojie was originally the land of the Sai people. The Dayue clan defeated and drove away the King of Sai to the west. The King of Sai moved to the south of the county, and the Dayue clan occupied the land of the Sai people.
Later, Wusun Kunmo defeated Dayuezhi, and Dayuezhi moved westward and surrendered to Daxia. Wusun Kunmo occupied the original Dayuezhi land, so Wusun residents included Sai people and Dayuezhi people.
At first, Zhang Qian said that Wusun and Da Yueshi were originally in Dunhuang. Although Wusun was now stronger, he could still give them some generous gifts to lure them back to their hometown; and then marry the princess to Kunmo, and!
The emperor urgently wanted to become a country of brothers and used this method to restrain the Xiongnu.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Qian". Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne and ordered Zhang Qian to bring gold coins and treasures to Wusun.
Kun Mo met Zhang Qian with the attitude of the Xiongnu Chanyu. Zhang Qian was very ashamed and angry, and said to Kun Mo: If you don't thank the emperor for giving you a gift, then return the gift to us.
Kunmo stood up and thanked him, but in other respects he remained the same.
At the beginning, Kunmo had more than a dozen sons. The middle son Dalu was very strong and good at leading troops. He led more than 10,000 cavalry and lived elsewhere.
Dalu's brother was the prince, and the prince had a son named Cen Zuo.
The prince died early. Before his death, he said to Kunmo: "Cen Zou must be the prince."
Kunmo was sad and agreed.
Dalu was very angry about this incident, so he captured all the other brothers, led his soldiers to rebel, and prepared to attack Cen Zuo.
Kunmo gave Cen Zuo more than 10,000 cavalry and ordered him to station elsewhere. He also had more than 10,000 cavalry for self-defense.
At this time, the country was divided into three parts, all under the control of Kunmo.
After Zhang Qian handed over the gifts given to Kunmo by the Han Dynasty, he said to Kunmo: If Wusun can return to his hometown, the Han Dynasty will send the princess as Kunmo's wife. The two countries will become brotherly countries and resist the Xiongnu together. The Xiongnu will definitely be defeated.
But Wusun was far away from the Han Dynasty, and the size of the Han Dynasty was unknown. Wusun himself was close to the Xiongnu and had obeyed the Xiongnu for a long time. None of the ministers were willing to move eastward.
Kunmo is old, the country is divided, and power cannot be concentrated. So an envoy was sent to take Zhang Qian back to Chang'an, and at the same time, he offered dozens of horses as a thank you.
The envoy saw that the Han Dynasty had a large population and rich products. After returning home, Wusun respected the Han Dynasty more and more.
When the Xiongnu heard that Wusun had contact with the Han, they were very angry and wanted to attack Wusun.
In addition, the envoys of the Han Dynasty passed south of Wusun to Dayuan and Yuezhi, and they were not stopped on the road.
Wusun was very frightened, so he sent an envoy to offer horses to the Han Dynasty and offered to marry Princess Mo, and the two countries became brothers.
The emperor asked the ministers for their opinions, and the court agreed. Decision: The bride price must be paid first, and then the princess must be sent away.
Wusun gave a thousand horses as a betrothal gift.
During the Yuanfeng period of the Han Dynasty, Xijun, the daughter of King Liu Jian of Jiangdu, was sent to marry Kunmo as a princess. The emperor gave her carriages, horses and royal utensils. He also equipped her with hundreds of officials, eunuchs, maids and servants, and gave her rich gifts.
Wusun Kunmo took Mr. Bin as his right wife.
The Xiongnu also sent women to marry Kunmo, and Kunmo took the Xiongnu girl as his left wife.
After the princess arrived in Wusun, she built a palace to live in. She had gatherings with Kunmo several times a year, drank and ate, and rewarded the nobles around Kunmo with property, silk fabrics, etc.
Kunmo was old and couldn't understand the language. The princess was very sad and composed a song by herself: My family married me to the far side of the sky, and asked King Yan of Wu to come to a foreign country far away.
The dome is the room, the walls are the walls, the meat is the food, and the cheese is the pulp.
Living in this land, I miss you and my heart hurts. I wish you could return to your hometown as a yellow swan.
When the emperor heard about it, he felt pity for her and sent envoys every other year to deliver curtains, brocade and other items.
Kunmo is old and wants his grandson Cen Zuo to marry the princess.
The princess disagreed and wrote to the emperor explaining the matter. The emperor replied: Following the custom of Wusun country, Mo wants to join forces with Wusun to destroy the Xiongnu.
Cen Zuo married the princess.
Kun Mo died, and Cen Zou became king in his stead.
Cen Zuo is an official title, and his name is Jun Xumi.
Kunmo is the king's name, and his name is Liejiaomi.
Later, the king was named Kunmi.
Cen Zuo married the princess of Jiangdu and gave birth to a daughter named Shaofu.
After the princess died, the Han Dynasty sent Jieyou, the granddaughter of King Liu Wu of Chu, to marry Cen Zou for the princess.
Cen Zou's son Nimi by his Hun wife was still young. When Cen Zou was about to die, he passed the throne to his uncle Dalu's son Weng Guimi. He said: When Nimi grows up, he will return the throne to Nimi.
Weng Guimi came to the throne and was named King Fei. He married Jieyou and gave birth to three sons and two daughters: the eldest son was named Yuan Guimi; the second son was named Wannian and was the king of Shache; the third son was named Dalue and was the general of Zuo; the eldest daughter was named Shi and was the wife of King Jiangbin of Qiuci; the younger daughter was named Suguang and was the wife of Ruohulinghou.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, Princess Jieyou wrote to the emperor, saying that the Xiongnu sent cavalry to farm in Cheshi, and that the Cheshi and the Xiongnu united to invade Wusun, hoping that the emperor would rescue them.
The Han Dynasty prepared soldiers and horses to attack the Xiongnu.
When Emperor Zhao died and Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne, Princess Jieyou and Kunmi both sent envoys to write, saying that the Xiongnu invaded and attacked Wusun in succession, captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places, and plundered all the local residents. He also sent an envoy to tell Wusun to send the princess to the Huns as soon as possible, hoping to destroy the relationship between Wusun and Han.
Kunmi is willing to send half of the country's elite troops and prepare 50,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu with all his strength.
I hope the emperor will send troops to rescue the princess and Kunmi as soon as possible.
The Han Dynasty sent an army of 150,000 cavalry, led by five generals.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
The Han Dynasty also sent Lieutenant Chang Hui as an envoy to protect the Wusun soldiers. Kunmi personally led a total of 50,000 knights under the Marquis of Ji to attack the Xiongnu from the west. When the Xiongnu arrived at the royal court of Yougu Li, they captured 40,000 people including Shanyu's father, sister-in-law, Juzi, Ming Wang, Ligu Duwei, Qian Chang, and cavalry generals, as well as more than 700,000 horses, cattle, sheep, donkeys, and camels. Wusun took these trophies away.
When the Han army returned home, Emperor Xuan granted Chang Hui the title of Marquis of Changluo.
This year is the third year of the original year.
The Han Dynasty also sent Chang Hui with valuable belongings and silk fabrics to be given to the nobles of Wusun who had made military exploits.
In the second year of Yuankang, Wusun Kunmi wrote to Emperor Xuan through Chang Hui, saying: I would like to make my grandson Yuan Guimi of the Han Dynasty the heir to the throne, and let him also marry a Han princess, form a double marriage, and sever ties with the Huns. I am willing to use a thousand horses and mules as a betrothal gift.
Emperor Xuan ordered ministers to discuss the matter. Xiao Wangzhi, the great emperor, thought: Wusun is located very far away and there is no guarantee that it will not change. Don't agree to their request.
Emperor Xuan admired Wusun's recent great achievements and found it difficult to sever the established marriage relationship, so he sent an envoy to Wusun to receive the betrothal gift first.
Kunmi, the crown prince, the left and right generals, and the captain sent a delegation of more than 300 people to the Han Dynasty to welcome the young princess.
Emperor Xuan took Princess Jieyou's niece and husband as the princess, and appointed more than a hundred officials, maids, etc. to live in Shanglin Garden and learn the Wusun language.
Emperor Xuan personally came to Pingganguang, met with the Huns envoys and foreign princes, performed a jiaoduan drama, music, singing and dancing, and then sent the princess to the west to marry. The envoy Chang Luohou Guanglu, the doctor Chang Hui assisted, and four people were envoys to send the young princess to Dunhuang.
Before leaving the frontier fortress, they heard that Wusun Kunmi Weng Guimi had died. According to the agreement made by Cen Zou during his lifetime, the Wusun nobles appointed Cen Zou's son Nimi as Kunmi, named Kuangwang.
Chang Hui wrote to Emperor Xuan saying: He wanted to keep the young princess in Dunhuang temporarily. Chang Hui rushed to Wusun and blamed Yuan Guimi for not appointing Yuan Guimi as Kunmi, and then took the young princess back to Chang'an.
The matter was discussed by the ministers, and Xiao Wangzhi said: "It is difficult to make a treaty with Wusun, who is headed by a rat."
Princess Jieyou has been in Wusun for more than 40 years. The relationship between the two countries is not close and the border is not peaceful. This is proved by creation.
Today, the young princess returned to Chang'an because Yuan Gui was not able to stand up. She did not feel sorry for Wusun, and it was also a blessing for the Han Dynasty.
If the young princess does not stop going to Wusun, the corvee will flourish, and this is where the roots begin.
Emperor Xuan accepted this opinion and took the young princess back to Chang'an.
The mad king married Princess Jieyou again and gave birth to a son named Ou Mi. The mad king was at odds with the princess and was cruel and unpopular.
The Han Dynasty sent Wei Si Ma Wei Heyi and deputy candidate Ren Chang to send a servant to Wusun. The princess told the Wusun people that the mad king was dissatisfied and said it would be easy to get rid of him.
So, they planned to have someone kill the mad king with a sword at the cocktail party.
The sword failed to cut accurately, and the mad king was injured, so he mounted his horse and fled.
His son Tao Shenshou led his troops to surround Princess Wei Heyi, Ren Chang and Heyou in Chigu City.
A few months later, Zheng Ji, the governor of the Western Regions, sent troops from nearby countries to rescue him and bundled up Shen Shou and fled.
The Han court sent Zhang Zun, a lieutenant general, to bring medicine to the mad king to treat his injuries. He also gave the mad king twenty kilograms of gold and various silk fabrics.
They also arrested Wei Heyi and Ren Chang, who were transported from Yuli to Chang'an in a prison car and beheaded.
The chariot general Shi Zhangweng stayed in Chigu to investigate the murder of the mad king by Princess Jieyou, Wei Heyi and Ren Chang. The princess was dissatisfied, kowtowed to Zhang Weng, and refused to plead guilty. Zhang Weng threw the princess's hair and cursed.
The princess wrote to Emperor Xuan, and Zhang Weng returned to Chang'an and was executed.
Ji Du, the deputy envoy of the Han Dynasty, led others to treat and nurse the mad king's injuries. When he returned to Chang'an, the mad king led more than ten knights to see him off.
Ji Du returned to Chang'an, knowing that the mad king was guilty and should be beheaded, but failed to get rid of the mad king and was castrated.
When the mad king was injured, Wujiutu, the son of Fat King Weng Guimi's Huns wife, fled to the northern mountains with all the princes, threatening that the Huns soldiers from his grandmother's house were coming soon, so many people surrendered to him.
Later, he attacked and killed the mad king and established himself as Kunmi.
The Han Dynasty ordered the Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian to lead 15,000 troops to Dunhuang. He sent people to measure the terrain, set up markers, dig the Beiqianhou Well, and open a canal to the west to prepare for transporting grain and building warehouses to attack Wujiutu.
Princess Jieyou originally had a waiter named Feng Liao, who knew history books and was familiar with the affairs of the Western Regions. She used to serve as an envoy of the Han Dynasty to various countries in the Western Regions to reward kings and nobles. She was respected and trusted by various countries and was known as Mrs. Feng.
Later, he married the wife of Wusun Youdajiang, who had a close relationship with Wujiutu. At this time, Zheng Ji, the governor of the Western Regions, sent Mrs. Feng to persuade Wujiutu, saying: The Han Dynasty is sending troops to the Western Regions, Wusun will be destroyed, so it is better to surrender early.
Wujiitu was very frightened and said: I just want to keep the title of Xiao Kunmi.
Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty summoned Mrs. Feng to Chang'an to personally inquire about Wusun's situation.
Later, he sent the visitors Zhu Ci and Qimen Gan Yanshou as deputy envoys to send Mrs. Feng back to Wusun.
Mrs. Feng rode in a brocade chariot and served as the official envoy of the Han Dynasty. She conveyed Emperor Xuan's edict and ordered Wujiitu to be sent to Luohou Changhui, the mayor of Chigu City.
Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian returned to Chang'an before leaving the fortress.
Later, the Wujiu Massacre failed to return all the people of the Xihous to their original owners. The Han Dynasty sent Changluohou Changhui to lead three schools to farm in Chigu, and divided the ruling areas within Wusun. Dakunmi had more than 60,000 households, and Xiaokunmi had more than 40,000 households. However, people's hearts were in favor of Xiaokunmi.
Yuan Guimi and Juan Mi both died of illness. The princess wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying that she was homesick in old age and hoped to die in Han.
Emperor Xuan took pity on her and sent someone to welcome her and her three grandchildren to Chang'an.
This year is the third year of Ganlu, and the princess is nearly seventy years old.
Emperor Xuan gave the princess fields, houses, slaves, etc., and she was well supported. The etiquette for meeting the emperor was the same as that for the emperor's own princess.
Two years later, Princess Jieyou passed away, and her two grandchildren stayed in Chang'an to guard the tomb.
Xingmi, the son of Yuanguimi, took the place of Dakunmi. He was still young. Mrs. Feng wrote to Emperor Xuan, hoping to send Wusun as an envoy to assist Xingmi.
Emperor Xuan sent more than a hundred people to escort Mrs. Feng to Wusun.
At first, Han Xuan, the Protector of the Western Regions, reported to Emperor Xuan and suggested that Wusun's officials, officials, and eunuchs be given gold seals and purple ribbons so that they could assist Da Kunmi. Emperor Xuan agreed.
Later, Han Xuan wrote that Xingmi was weak and could remove Da Kunmi and let his uncle Zuo Dajiang Le replace him as Da Kunmi. Emperor Xuan did not agree.
Later, Duan Huizong became the protector of the Western Regions, recruiting the rebellious population of Wusun, and the society was stabilized.
Xing Mi died, and his son Li Mi became Da Kun Mi.
Xiao Kunmi Wu was slaughtered to death, and his son Kaoli was named Xiao Kunmi.
Kaoli was killed by his younger brother Ri Er.
The Han Dynasty sent envoys to Wusun to establish Gaoli's son Anri as Xiaokunmi.
On the second day, he fled to Kangju.
The Han Dynasty moved Jixiaowei to station in Gumo, waiting for an opportunity to attack Japan.
Anri sent Gu Mo Ni and three other people to pretend to be defectors, defected to Yue Er, and assassinated Yue Er.
Lian Baobao, the Protector of the Western Regions, gave Gumon Ni and others twenty kilograms of gold and three hundred bolts of silk fabrics.
Later, Anri was killed by the surrendered people, and the Han Dynasty appointed Anri's younger brother Mo Zhen as Xiao Kunmi.
At this time, the great Kun Mi female Li Mi was strong and vigorous, and all the princes were afraid of him and obeyed him. The Linghous informed the people not to enter the herd area in Kunmi when herding horses and livestock to avoid confusion. The country is very peaceful, just like when Weng Guimi.
General Mo Zhen of Xiao Kunmi was afraid of being annexed by Da Kunmi, so he sent the nobleman Wu Ri to surrender to Feli Mi and assassinate him.
The Han Dynasty wanted to send troops to attack General Mo Zhen, but when he failed to send troops, he sent General Duan Huizong to the Western Regions with gold treasures and silk to make plans with the governor, and appointed Yi Zhimi, the uncle of Fei Li Mi and the grandson of Princess Jieyou, as the great Kunmi.
The Han Dynasty made Xiao Kunmi's servant in Chang'an an official slave.
A long time later, Xihou Nanqi of Dakunmi killed General Mo Zhen, and Anlimi, son of Anri of Xiaokunmi who was originally killed, was established as Xiaokunmi.
The Han Dynasty regretted not being able to kill General Mo Zhen himself, so he ordered Duan Huizong to kill General Mo Zhen's prince Fanqiu.
Duan Huizong returned to Chang'an and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei.
This year is the second year of Yuanyan of Emperor Cheng.
Duan Huizong believed that Linghou Nanqi's killing of Mo Zhenjiang was not for the Han Dynasty, but it was in line with the Han Dynasty's purpose of punishing Mo Zhenjiang, so he petitioned Emperor Cheng to make him a strong guard.
The Han Dynasty blamed Da Lu, Da Li, Da Jian and other officials for being responsible for the murder of Li Mi. They took away their gold-seal and purple ribbons and replaced them with bronze-seal and ink ribbons.
Bei Yuanxun, the younger brother of Mo Zhenjiang, was originally involved in the murder of Da Kunmi's female Li Mi. Later, he led more than 80,000 people to the north and attached himself to Kangju, hoping to use Kangju's troops to annex Dakunmi and Xiaoyu Kunmi.
Both Kunmi were afraid of being humble and honest, so they attached themselves to the protector.
In the second year of Emperor Ai's reign, Dakun Miyi Zhimi and the Xiongnu Chanyu came to Chang'an to pay homage to Emperor Ai. The Han Dynasty felt it was an honor.
During the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, Bei Yuan directly killed Wu Yueling to serve the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty named him Marquis of Guiyi.
Both the big and small Kunmi were weak. Bei Yuanting kept attacking the two Kunmi, and Sun Jian, the guardian of the army, attacked and killed Bei Yuanzhi.
Since Wusun separated the two Kunmi, the Han Dynasty sometimes appeased and sometimes suppressed, and there was no peace for a year.
In the Gumo Kingdom, the king governed Nancheng and extended it to Chang'an for eight thousand one hundred and fifty miles.
There are 3,500 households, a population of 24,500, and an army of 4,500.
There are one Gumohou, Fuguohou, Duwei, left and right generals, left and right cavalry monarchs, and two translators.
It takes 2,021 miles to reach Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Governor. It takes fifteen days to reach Khotan in the south and connect with Wusun in the north.
Produces copper, iron, orpiment and other minerals.
It is six hundred and seventy miles from Cambodia to Kucha.
During the reign of Wang Mang, Wang Cheng of Gumo killed King Wensu and annexed the Wensu Kingdom.
In the Wensu Kingdom, the king governed Wensu City, which was eight thousand three hundred and fifty miles east of Chang'an. There are 2,200 households, a population of 8,400, and an army of 1,500.
There are two auxiliary princes, two generals on the left and right, two captains on the left and right, two knights on the left and right, and two chief translators.
It extends 2,380 miles to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Protectorate, 300 miles to Weitou in the west, and 610 miles to Wusunchi Valley in the north. The land and products are the same as those of the Shanshan countries.
It was bound to Gumo for two hundred and seventy miles.
In the Kingdom of Qiuci, the king governed Yancheng, which was 7,480 miles east of Chang'an.
There are 6,970 households, a population of 81,317, and an army of 21,076.
There are one each of Da Du Wei Cheng, Fu Guo Hou, An Guo Hou, Chu Hu Hou, Que Hu Du Wei, Cha Cha Shi Du Wei, left and right generals, left and right captains, left and right cavalry lords, left and right auxiliary lords, two each from the east, west, south and north Qianchang, three from Quehu Jun, and four interpreters.
It is connected to Jingjue in the south, Qiemo in the southeast, Ganmi in the southwest, Wusun in the north, and Gumo in the west.
There are simple casting and metallurgical techniques, and lead is also produced.
It was sent to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, three hundred and fifty miles away.
Wulei has 110 households, a population of 1,200, and an army of 300.
There is one city captain and one interpreter.
Together with the Protector of Youyue, he governed Wuleiyue.
Three hundred and thirty miles south to Quli.
Quli has a city captain, one hundred and thirty households, a population of one thousand four hundred and eighty, and an army of one hundred and fifty.
It is connected to Yuli in the northeast, Qiemo in the southeast, and Jingjue in the south.
There is a river in the west, five hundred and eighty miles to Qiuci.
From the time when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty opened the Western Regions, he set up school captains to plow and farm fields in Ququ.
At this time, the Han Dynasty continued to send troops for thirty-two years, and its national power was seriously depleted.
During the Zhenghe period, General Li Guang of the Second Division led his army to surrender to the Huns.
Emperor Wu regretted the expedition. At this time, Sang Hongyang, the captain of Susu, together with the prime minister and the imperial censor, told Emperor Wu: Luntai, with its beams of branches and ditches and plows, was the place where the country was founded in the past. The land is vast and the water and grass are rich. There are more than 5,000 hectares of irrigated fields. The climate is mild, the fields are fertile, and irrigation is convenient. Grains grown there mature at the same time as those in the Central Plains.
The neighboring country lacks iron tools such as awls and precious gold and colorful silk ribbons. Mo Mo can use these things to exchange for their grain to supply the field soldiers, so they don't have to worry about food shortages. The ministers and others thought that Mo could send soldiers to Yuan Luntai to consolidate the farmland, and set up three divisions of school captains to protect the troops. Let them draw maps of their respective areas, build irrigation ditches, and plant grain according to the seasons every year. Zhangye and Jiuquan counties each sent fake commanders and soldiers to look out for those who were working in the fields. Riding a fake Sima is within the control of the military commander in the field. If there is an important situation, you can use the post horse to report to the emperor.
If there is food stored in the fields for a year, people who are healthy and willing to migrate can be recruited to the farm. Using the stored food as a basis, they can expand the irrigated field area, build more pavilions, connect the cities to the west, and control the western countries with power, which is very beneficial to assisting the Wusun Kingdom.
The ministers and others can send the Chengchang Branch of the Expeditionary Affairs Bureau to patrol the western border areas, and strictly order the relevant prefects and captains to prepare beacon fires, select soldiers and horses, be cautious and vigilant, and store grain and grass.
I hope your Majesty will send envoys to Western countries so that they will not be uneasy because of fear of the Huns. I will risk my life to speak about this matter.
Emperor Wu issued a Shao Shu and deeply reflected on his past mistakes.
Shaoshu said: In the past, the relevant departments petitioned to increase the civil tax by thirty yuan per person to provide for frontier expenses. This is exacerbating the hardships of the elderly, weak and lonely population.
Today, please send soldiers to Luntai to farm.
Luntai is more than a thousand miles west of Cheshi. When Kailinghou attacked Cheshi, Weixu, Yuli, Loulan and other disciples from the Six Kingdoms in Chang'an returned home first to transport grain and livestock to meet the Han army. Tens of thousands of soldiers from various countries, all led by the king himself, jointly surrounded the charioteer and forced the charioteer king to surrender.
The soldiers from various countries in the Western Region were exhausted and unable to go to the road to supply food to the Han army.
When the Han army captured Cheshi City, they had a lot of food, but they brought it with them and ate it all before they could return to Chang'an. The strong ones ate livestock, while the sick and weak ones died on the roads in thousands.
I sent donkeys and camels from Jiuquan County to carry grain out of Yumen Pass to meet the army.
He also ordered Zhangye County to send officials and soldiers to meet him. The journey was not very far, but there were many stragglers and stranded people.
Once upon a time, I was confused because the military commander Hong sent a letter saying: The Huns tied the front and rear hooves of the horse, put them at the foot of the Great Wall, and rode on the horse shouting: Qin people, I will divide the horses for you. In addition, the Han Dynasty envoys were detained by the Xiongnu for a long time and could not return. Therefore, I sent the general of the Second Division to attack in order to enhance the prestige of the Han envoys.
In ancient times, when officials were involved in making decisions, they would refer to divination and not do anything if it was unlucky.
At that time, I also showed the horse-tying book to the prime minister, the imperial censor, Erqian Shi, various officials, and Lang Wei. I even read it to the commander-in-chief of the county and vassal state, Chengzhong, and Tangponu. They all said that it was very unlucky for the Huns to tie their own horses!
Some people also think that the Huns wanted to show their strength, just like the poor pretending to be rich.
I once consulted the "Book of Changes" and found the hexagram "Great Encounter". The line is nine and five, which indicates that the Xiongnu will be defeated.
The alchemists and Taishi who were picked up by the bus looked at the celestial phenomena and divined fortune-telling, and they all thought it was an auspicious sign, and the Xiongnu would definitely be defeated. It was a rare opportunity.
He also said: If you lead the army in the Northern Expedition, you will definitely overcome the Nitrate Mountain. According to the divination of the generals, the second division general will be the most auspicious.
Therefore, I personally sent General Second Division to attack Fushan and ordered him not to go deep.
Today, it seems that these strategies and omens are contrary to the situation and are really wrong.
Marquis Chonghe captured a Xiongnu detective and said: "I heard that the Han army was coming soon, so the Xiongnu ordered wizards to bury sheep and cattle on the roads and rivers that the Han army must pass through, in order to curse the Han army."
The horses and furs given to the emperor by the Shanyu were all cursed by wizards.
Tying a horse's front and rear hooves is a curse that the Han army will be defeated. It is also a divination, which means that a general of the Han army will be unlucky.
The Xiongnu often said that the Han Dynasty was great, but the Han people could not bear hunger and thirst. Lost a wolf. Go dry sheep.
In the past, when the general of the Second Division failed, the soldiers died, the captured were captured, and the escaped fled, I often felt sad in my heart.
Today, some people suggest that when farming in distant Luntai, pavilions should be built to clear roads. This is an approach that disturbs the toiling world and does not benefit the people.
Today I cannot bear to listen to Luntai Tuntian.
Da Honglu and others discussed again, planning to recruit prisoners to escort the Huns envoy back, and clearly told him to make him a marquis and let him assassinate Shan Yu.
This is a practice that even the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period would not do. Moreover, when the Huns obtained surrendered Han people, they searched them and interrogated them about what they knew.
Nowadays, the control of the border fortress is not strict, and those who leave the country without authorization cannot be prohibited. The officials who are waiting for the troops are forcing the soldiers to hunt and make profits from the skins and flesh of wild animals. The soldiers are working hard, and few people care about the beacon fires. These situations are not reported. Later, people came to surrender or captured prisoners, and we learned about these situations.
The main task now is to strictly prohibit officials from being harsh and cruel to the people, stop the government from increasing taxes without authorization, vigorously develop agricultural production, and implement horse restoration orders to supplement the needs of border defense, but it is enough to meet the needs of border defense.
The prefects and ministers of each county must report the methods of raising horses and plans to improve border defense.
Come to the capital with the officials to discuss.
From then on, the Han Dynasty no longer sent troops to fight. At the same time, the prime minister Che Qianqiu was granted the title of Marquis of Enriching the People, to show that the implementation of the policy of recuperation and recuperation was intended to enrich the people.
At the beginning, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, attacked Dayuan and passed through Ganmi. At that time, Ganmi's crown prince Lai Dan was in Qiuci as a hostage.
Li Guangli blamed Qiuci and said: All foreign countries surrendered to the Han Dynasty, why did Qiuci accept Ganmi's proton?
He took Lai Dan to Chang'an.
Emperor Zhao followed Sang Hongyang's previous suggestion, appointed Lai Dan as the captain, and led his troops to farm in Luntai, which was connected to the plowed fields.
Guyi, a nobleman of Qiuci, said to King Qiuci: Lai Dan originally belonged to our country. Today, he comes wearing the seal and ribbon of the Han Dynasty and comes close to our farmland, which will definitely harm our country.
King Qiuci killed Laidan and wrote a letter to the Han Dynasty to express his guilt. Han failed to inflict punishment.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Changluo Hou Changhui was sent to Wusun as an envoy. On his way back, he took the opportunity to send a total of 50,000 soldiers from various countries to attack Qiuci, condemning the killing of school captain Lai Dan.
King Qiuci confessed and said: "My late king was misled by the noble Gu Yi when he was still alive. I am not guilty."
He captured Guyi and gave it to Chang Hui, who beheaded Guyi.
At that time, Princess Jieyou sent her daughter to Chang'an to learn drums and harps. The Han Dynasty sent its minister Le Feng to escort the princess back to Wusun and passed by Qiuci.
King Qiuci once sent people to Wusun to ask for the princess's daughter, but he has not returned yet.
It happened that the princess passed by Qiuci, so the king of Qiuci kept the princess and refused to let her go. He also sent an envoy to Wusun to report to the princess, and the princess agreed.
Later, the princess wrote to Emperor Xuan, hoping that her daughter would enter the imperial court with the royal family; King Jiangbin of Qiuci also loved his wife, and wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying that he could marry the granddaughter of the Han Dynasty as his son-in-law, and hoped that he could enter the imperial court with the princess's daughter.
In the first year of Yuankang, King Qiuci and his wife came to congratulate him and were both given seals and ribbons.
The lady was called a princess, and Emperor Xuan gave her carriages, horses, drums, dozens of people singing, dancing and making music, and silk treasures worth tens of millions of dollars.
He kept it for a year and sent many gifts back to Qiuci.
Princess Qiuci came to Chang'an several times to congratulate her. She likes the clothes and various systems of the Han Dynasty. After returning to the country, he built palaces, set up sanitation on forbidden roads, called people when going in and out, and beat bells and drums, just like the etiquette of the Han Dynasty. Foreign barbarians all say: A donkey is not a donkey, and a horse is not a horse, just like King Qiuci, he is a mule.
After Jiangbin died, his son Chengde claimed to be Mo's grandson. During the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, he traveled to Chang'an more frequently, and the Han Dynasty treated him very closely.
It is six hundred and fifty miles from Qiuchian to Yuli.
In the country of Yuli, the king governed the city of Yuli, which was six thousand seven hundred and fifty miles away from Chang'an.
There are 1,200 households, a population of 9,600, and an army of 2,000.
There was one each of Marquis Weili, Marquis Anshi, left and right generals, left and right captains, and Jun Hu, and two translators came in.
It is 300 miles from Youqiu Duhuzhi Dan Softball in the west, and connected with Qiancha and Danyuan in the south.
In Weixutian, the king governed Weixucheng, which was seven thousand two hundred and ninety miles east to Kuangxuan.
There are 700 households, 4,900 people, and 2,000 troops.
There is one person each for attacking Hu Hou, attacking Hu Duwei, left and right generals, left and right captains, left and right cavalry kings, attacking Hu Jun, and interpreter chief.
From the west to Wuken, the headquarters of the Western Region Protectorate, it is more than five hundred miles, and to Ogshi, it is one hundred miles.
In the Yanqi Kingdom, the king governed Qucheng and was sent to Chang'an for seven thousand three hundred miles.
There are 4,000 households, a population of 32,100, and an army of 6,000.
There are one person each for attacking Huhou, Quehuhou, Fu Guohou, left and right generals, left and right captains, attacking Hu Youjun, attacking Che Shijun, and Guiyi Cheshijun, two each for attacking Hu Duwei and attacking Hu Jun, and three interpreters.
It is four hundred miles from the Duhu Administration Office in the southwest, one hundred miles from Yuli in the south, and connects with Wusun in the north.
There are many fish in the nearby sea water.
Wu Tanzi left the country, and the king ruled in Lou Valley, 10,330 miles east of Chang'an.
There are forty-one households, a population of two hundred and thirty-one, and an army of fifty-seven.
There is one auxiliary prince and one captain each on the left and right.
Shu connects with Shanhuan, south with Qiemi, and west with Wusun.
In the country of Beilu, the king governed the eastern stems of Yushan Mountain and cultivated them for eight thousand six hundred and eighty miles.
There are 227 households, a population of 1,387, and an army of 422.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, one left and right captain, and one left and right translator.
One thousand two hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
In the Hou Kingdom of Beilu, the king controlled the canals and cultivated grains, extending 8,710 miles east to Chang'an.
There are 462 households, a population of 1,137, and an army of 350.
There are one auxiliary prince, one captain, one chief translator, and two generals.
Shu is connected with Yulishi, the Xiongnu in the north, Jieguo in the west, and Cheshi in the south.
Yu established his country, and the king ruled the inner Danyang carp, which was sent to Xingsan for eight thousand eight hundred and thirty miles.
There are 190 households, a population of 1,445, and an army of 331.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right captain, and one interpreter. The beam is connected to Cheshihoucheng Chang, to the west is Huanglu, and to the north is Licu.
In the Shanhuan Kingdom, the king governed Shanhuan City, which was 8,870 miles away from Chang'an.
There are twenty-seven households, a population of one hundred and ninety-four, and an army of forty-five.
There are one auxiliary prince, one general, one left and right captain, and one interpreter.
In the Pu Lei Kingdom, the king ruled over Shuyu Valley in the west of Tianshan Mountain and was sent to Chang'an for eight thousand three hundred and sixty miles.
There are 325 households, a population of 2,032, and an army of 799.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, and one left and right captain.
It is one thousand three hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
In the kingdom of Puleihou, the king ruled eight thousand six hundred and thirty miles to the east of Xingzhi.
There are one hundred households, a population of one thousand and seventy, and an army of three hundred and thirty-four. There are one auxiliary prince, one general, one left and right captain, and one interpreter.
To the west is the kingdom of Mi, and the king governs Wangtai Valley in the east of Yushan Mountain. In the east, it reaches Danshi eight thousand and six hundred and seventy miles.
There are 332 households, a population of 1,926, and an army of 738.
There are the Marquis of Xiqie Mi, one general on the left and right, and one riding monarch on the left and right.
One thousand four hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Imperial Guard Office.
In the east of the country, the king governed Danlu Valley in the east of Yushan Mountain, and he was as far away as day and night for eight thousand two hundred and fifty miles.
There are 191 households, a population of 1,948, and an army of 572.
Youshujimihou and one captain each on the left and right.
It is one thousand five hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
During the robbery of the country, the king governed the Danqu Valley in the east of Yushan Mountain, extending 8,570 miles east to Chang'an.
There are ninety-nine households, a population of five hundred, and an army of one hundred and fifteen.
There is one auxiliary prince, one captain, and one interpreter.
One thousand four hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Imperial Guard Office.
In the Huhu Kingdom, the king's charioteer, Liu Gu, was eight thousand two hundred miles east of Danxuan.
There are fifty-five households, a population of two hundred and sixty-four, and an army of forty-five.
There is one auxiliary prince and one captain each on the left and right.
One thousand one hundred and forty-seven miles to the west of Duhu Zhizong, and seven hundred and seventy miles to Niezhi.
Shanguo, 7,170 miles from Chang'an to the east.
There are 450 households, a population of 5,000, and an army of 1,000 people.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, one left and right captain, and one interpreter.
It reaches Yuli 240 miles to the west, Yanqi 160 miles to the northwest, Weixu 260 miles to the west, and connects Shanshan and Qiemo to the southeast.
There are iron mines that produce iron. People live in the mountains and go to Yanqi and Weixu to farm and buy grain.
In the country before Cheshi, the king was on patrol, and the river branched around the city, so it was named Kuihui. It lasted eight thousand one hundred and fifty miles in the morning.
There are 700 households, a population of 6,050, and an army of 1,865.
There are one Fuguohou, Anguohou, left and right generals, Duwei, Guihan Duwei, Cheshijun, Tongshanjun, Xiangshanjun, and two translators.
From the southwest, it reaches 1,807 miles from Duhu Zhizong and 835 miles from Og Dong.
In the country behind Cheshi, the king governed Tugu, which was 8,950 miles away from Kenxuan. There were 595 households, a population of 4,774, and an army of 1,890 people.
There is one person each for attacking Hu Hou, the left and right generals, the left and right captains, the Dao Minjun, and the chief translator.
It is one thousand two hundred and thirty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
In the state of Cheshi Duwei, there are forty households, a population of three hundred and thirty-three, and an army of eighty-four.
Cheshi Houcheng Changguo has one hundred and fifty-four households, a population of nine hundred and sixty, and an army of two hundred and sixty.
In the second year of Emperor Wu's reign in the Han Dynasty, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty made King Jiehe of the Xiongnu who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty the title of Marquis of Kailing, and ordered him to lead the Loulan army to attack the Che division. The Xiongnu sent King Youxian to lead tens of thousands of knights to rescue the Che division. The desert soldiers failed in the battle and retreated.
In the fourth year of Zhenghe, the Han sent Chonghehou Ma Tong and led 40,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu north through Che Division; he also sent Kailinghou to lead troops from six countries including Loulan, Yuli and Weixu to attack the Che Division to prevent the Che Division from intercepting Chonghe Hou's army.
The soldiers of the Six Kingdoms surrounded Cha Shi, and the king of Cha Shi surrendered and became a subordinate of the Han Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, the Xiongnu sent another four thousand knights to the Che Division to garrison the fields.
Emperor Xuan succeeded to the throne and sent five generals to lead troops to attack the Huns. The Huns soldiers stationed in Cheshi fled out of fear, and Cheshi resumed contact with the Han.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was very angry and asked the Che Division to send the prince to stay with the Xiongnu as a hostage.
Junsu was the grandson of King Yanqi. He did not want to be held hostage by the Xiongnu, so he fled to Yanqi. King Cheshi made his other son Wu Gui the prince.
Later, Wu Gui became King of Cheshi, married the Huns, and provided information for the Huns to intercept the Han Dynasty's envoys to Wusun.
In the second year of Dijie, the Han Dynasty sent the minister Zheng Ji and the captain Sima Yi to lead the exempted prisoners to plow the fields in Qu, accumulate food, and prepare to attack the chariot division.
At the time of autumn harvest, Zheng Ji and Sima Yi recruited more than 10,000 troops from nearby countries, and together with their own 1,500 soldiers from the field, they attacked Che Division and captured Jiaohe City.
At that time, the chariot king was in Shicheng, north of Jiaohe City, and was not captured. At this time, the Han army ran out of food, and Zheng Ji and others withdrew their troops and returned to Quli to continue farming.
After the autumn harvest was over, Zheng Ji and others sent troops to attack the king of Cheshi in Shicheng.
King Cheshi heard that the Han soldiers were coming, so he went north to the Xiongnu to ask for help, but the Xiongnu did not send any reinforcements.
King Chaushi returned to his country and discussed surrendering to the Han Dynasty with the noble charioteer Su You, but he was afraid that the Han Dynasty would not believe him.
Su You suggested that King Cheshi attack the Xiaopu Lei Kingdom on the border of the Xiongnu, kill the king of Xiaopu Lei, plunder its people, and then surrender to Zheng Ji.
Xiao Jinfu, who was next to the chariot division, followed the Han army and robbed the chariot division. The king of chariot division asked Yu Han for permission to defeat Jin Fu himself.
When the Xiongnu heard that Che Division had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, they sent troops to attack Che Division. When Zheng Ji and Sima Xi led their troops to the north, the Xiongnu soldiers did not dare to advance.
Zheng Ji and Sima Yi left Yihou and twenty soldiers to defend the Cheshi King, while Zheng Ji and others led their troops back to Quli.
The King of Cheshi was afraid that the Huns would come again and he would be killed, so he fled to Wusun on horseback. Zheng Ji welcomed the wife of the King of Cheshi and stayed in Quli.
Zheng Jidong went to Jiuquan and reported the situation to Emperor Xuan. Emperor Xuan ordered him to return to Quli and Cheshi to farm and accumulate a large amount of grain to reassure the countries in the Western Regions and prepare to attack the Xiongnu.
Zheng Ji returned to Quli and sent the wife of Che Shiwang to Chang'an by post. Emperor Xuan rewarded Che Shiwang's wife very generously. Every time he met with the leaders of the ethnic minorities, he often showed them the Han's kindness to Che Shiwang's wife.
So Zheng Ji sent 300 officials to camp in Cheshi.
Some Huns surrendered to Zheng Ji, and the ministers of the Xiongnu Chanyu said: The land in Cheshi is fertile and close to the Xiongnu. If the Han Dynasty gets this land, it will open up fields and accumulate grain, which will definitely be harmful to other people's countries, so they have to fight for this land.
果然匈奴派骑士来攻击汉的屯田吏卒，郑吉就与校尉把在渠犁屯田的吏卒一千五百人都带到车师屯田。但匈奴又增派骑士前来，汉屯田吏卒太少，不能抵挡匈奴的侵袭，就退保于车师城中。

The Xiongnu general went to the city and said to Zheng Ji: The Xiongnu Chanyu must fight for this place, so you should not camp here anymore.
The Huns surrounded Cheshi City for several days before retreating.
Later, the Han Dynasty often sent thousands of cavalry to protect the chariot divisions. Zheng Ji wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying: The chariot troops have reached Quli for more than a thousand miles, separated by rivers and mountains, and close to the Xiongnu in the north. The Han soldiers who were at Quli had no time to rescue them. I hope to increase the number of charioteers and field pawns.
The ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed and thought that the journey of the chariot division was too long and the cost was too great, so they could temporarily withdraw the chariot division and the officials and soldiers from the fields.
Emperor Xuan ordered Luo Hou Changhui to lead the cavalry from Zhangye and Jiuquan counties to more than a thousand miles north of Che Division to promote their might.
After the Xiongnu knights retreated, Zheng Ji left Cheshi City, returned to Quli, and used three captains to farm the fields.
King Cheshi fled to the Wusun Kingdom. Wusun kept King Cheshi and refused to allow him to return home. He sent an envoy to write to Emperor Xuan, saying that he was willing to keep King Cheshi so that when the Huns invaded, they could attack the Huns from the west.
Emperor Xuan agreed.
So the Han Dynasty summoned the former Cheshi Prince Junsu who had fled to Yanqi and established him as King of Cheshi, moved all the people of Cheshi country to Quli, and gave Cheshi's original land to the Xiongnu.
The Cheshi King was close to the field officials in the desert, isolated from the Xiongnu, and at ease, close to the Han.
Later, the Han Dynasty sent the minister Yin Guangde as an envoy to rebuke Wusun and asked the former chariot master Wang Wugui to go to Chang'an together. Emperor Xuan gave the former chariot master Wang Wugui's mansion and lived with his wife Guang.
This year is the fourth year of Yuankang.
Later, Wuji Xiaowei was set up to live in the old place of Cheshi.
In the middle of the Yuan Dynasty, there was a new road in Cheshihou's kingdom, which ran from the north of Wuchuan to Yumen Pass.
Wang Guju, the driver behind the wheel, thought that the new road ran straight through his country, and he was unhappy in his heart.
The location of the new road was connected to the Xiongnu South General's territory. Xu Pu wanted to draw this boundary and report it to the emperor, so he summoned Gu Ju and asked him to help prove it.
But Gu Ju refused, so Xu Pu arrested him.
Guju bribed the Han palace with cattle and sheep several times and asked to let him out, but he was not allowed. There were sparks on the spearheads of Guju's family. Guju's wife Zi Zou said to Guju: "There are sparks on the spearheads. This is military spirit, which is conducive to fighting."
In the past, the former king of chariot division was killed by Sima, the guardian of the army. Today, you have been detained for a long time and you will definitely die too. It is better to surrender to the Huns.
So he escaped from Gaochangbi on horseback and surrendered to the Huns.
Then he went to the country of Tangdou, king of Hu Lai, and was close to the Chishui Qiang, a large species. He was plundered by bandits several times. Tang Dou couldn't win, so he asked the governor for help.
The protector Danqin failed to rescue him in time, and Tang Dou was trapped and critical. He resented Danqin and fled eastward to Yumen Pass.
The guard at Yumen Pass refused to let him in, so he led his wife and more than a thousand people to flee and surrendered to the Huns.
After the Huns took him in, they sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to report the situation to the emperor.
At this time, Wang Mang, the lord of the new capital, was in charge of the government and sent Wang Chang and others as envoys to the Xiongnu to tell Shan Yu that the Western Region belonged to the Han and that the Xiongnu should not accept Tang Dou's surrender.
Chanyu confessed his crime and arrested the two kings and handed them over to the Han envoys.
Wang Mang sent his lieutenant, Wang Meng, to the Edunu Realm in the Western Regions to wait to accept the two kings.
Shan Yu sent envoys to send the two kings to ask Han to absolve them of their sins.
The envoy reported to Wang Mang, but Wang Mang disagreed and ordered the kings of the Western Regions to gather together, set up military formations, and behead the two kings Guju and Tangdou in front of everyone.
Wang Mang usurped the throne. In the second year after the founding of the People's Republic of China, he appointed Zhen Feng, Duke of Guangxin, as your uncle and was about to go to the Western Regions.
When Wang Xuzhili, the queen of the chariot division, heard about it, he discussed with his right general Gu Ta and his left general Xi Nizhi and said: "I heard that Zhen Feng will be the Taibo of the Western Regions and is about to come." As usual, we had to provide the Han envoys with cattle, sheep, food, fodder for their animals, as well as guides and translators. In the past, Wang Qi, the general of the Five Powers, passed by here, but the things he should provide were not yet ready.
Today, the uncle from the Western Regions is here again. Our country is getting poorer and we may not be able to provide supplies.
Want to escape to the Huns.
When Wuji Colonel Daohu heard about this, he called Zhili for questioning. Zhili confessed and was escorted to Qilou City, where the Duhu Danqin was stationed.
Zhili's people knew that Zhili could not come back, so they all sent him off in tears.
Zhili arrived at Qilou City, but Danqin beheaded him.
Zhili's elder brother Hulan, the Marquis of Fuguo, led more than 2,000 Zhili people and drove their livestock. The whole country fled and surrendered to the Huns.
At this time, Wang Mang changed the Seal of the Xiongnu Chanyu to the New Xiongnu Chanyu Zhang. The Chanyu was very resentful about this matter. When Hulanzhi came to surrender, he accepted it and sent troops to attack Che Division together with Hulanzhi. They killed the commander of the rear city of Che Division and wounded Sima, the capital guard. Hulanzhi troops returned to the Xiongnu. At this time, Wuji Xiaowei Daohu fell ill, so he sent Shi Chenliang to lead his troops to garrison in Huanqie Valley to prevent the Huns from invading. Shi Zhong was responsible for transporting grain, Sima Cheng Han Xuan was in charge of each wall, and You Qu was appointed Shang Guan to lead each base. Chen Liang and others discussed and said: Now many countries in the Western Region have rebelled against the Han, and the Huns are about to invade on a large scale. We are probably going to die.
We might as well kill the captain and lead the troops to surrender to the Huns.
So he led thousands of cavalry to the captain's mansion, threatened the pavilions and lit beacon fires, and informed the fortresses separately: "The Huns are coming to attack with one hundred thousand cavalry." Officials and soldiers must take up arms to face the enemy, and those who lag behind must be beheaded!
Three to four hundred people gathered together and stopped advancing a few miles away from the captain's mansion.
At dawn, light the beacon fire. The school captain opened the city gate and beat drums to gather the officials and soldiers. Chen Liang and others took the opportunity to enter and killed the school captain Dao Hu and his four sons, as well as their brothers, nephews, and only the women and children were left alive.
Chen Liang and others stayed in Wuji Xiaowei City and sent people to report the situation to the Xiongnu General Nan. General Nan sent 2,000 knights to greet Chen Liang and others. Chen Liang and others threatened Wuji Xiaowei, officers, men and women, a total of more than 2,000 men and women, to defect to the Huns.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was appointed Chen Liang, and eventually he was made the captain of Wuben.
Three years later, the Chanyu died. His younger brother Wu abandoned the Chanyu and established him as the Chanyu in Xian. He also made peace with Wang Mang.
Wang Mang sent an envoy to bring a lot of gold, treasure, silk and satin to Shan Yu, demanding that Chen Liang, Zhong Dai and others be handed over.
Chanyu arrested a total of twenty-seven people, including Chen Liang, Zhong Dai, Han Xuan, and Ren Shang, as well as Zhiyin, who killed Dao Hu himself, and their wives. They were all put into prison carts and handed over to the Han envoys.
After arriving in Chang'an, Wang Mang burned and killed all these people.
Later, Wang Mang deceived Shanyu again, and the harmonious relationship between the Xiongnu and Han was severed.
The Huns invaded Han's northern border and Han's rule in the Western Regions collapsed.
The Yanqi Kingdom was close to the Xiongnu, and they rebelled against the desert first and killed Danqin, the governor. Wang Mang was unable to send troops to conquer.
It was only in the third year of Tianfeng's reign that he sent General Wang Jun of the Five Powers, Li Chong, the Protector of the Western Regions, and Guo Qin, the captain of the Wuji School, to the Western Regions. All countries in the Western Regions welcomed him in the suburbs and supplied him with food. King Yanqi also pretended to surrender to the Han Dynasty, but secretly prepared his own troops.
Wang Jun and others led more than 7,000 soldiers from Yarkand and Qiuci into several groups and entered Yanqi. Yanqi set up an ambush to intercept Wang Jun and others. National soldiers such as Zhumo, Xianken and Yuti secretly communicated with Nie Yi and jointly attacked Wang Zhui and others, killing all Wang Zhui's officers and soldiers.
Only Wuji captain Guo Qin led another army to Yanqi later.
Yanqi's soldiers had not returned from the battle, so Guo Qin killed all the old and weak in their city and retreated back to the chief's room.
Wang Ling conferred the title of Ginsengzi.
Kuise gathered up the remaining soldiers and retreated to Kucha.
A few years later, Wang Mang died, and Li Chong fled to the Western Regions, which cut off contact with the Central Plains dynasty.
There are fifty countries in total.
There are 376 people in total who have been translated as chiefs, city chiefs, kings, jailers, officials, dalu, baichang, qianchang, captains, ququ, danghu, generals, ministers, marquises, and kings, all wearing seals and ribbons issued by the Han Dynasty.
Kangju, Dayuezhi, Anxi, Shanbin, Wuyi and other countries are not among the fifty countries because they are far away from the desert. If these countries come to Chang'an and make contributions, the Han Dynasty will repay them with considerable wealth and will not rule over them. Zan said: During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he tried to subdue the Xiongnu. However, the Xiongnu threatened the various countries in the Western Region and united with the Southern Qiang, posing a serious problem to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established four counties in Hexi and opened the Yumen Pass to connect the Western Regions to cut off the right arm of the Xiongnu and isolate the connection with the Southern Qiang and Yuezhi.
The Chanyu lost the support of the Western Region countries and the Qiang people, and fled to the distance. There was no royal court of the Xiongnu south of the desert.
After five generations of inaction and recuperation, the world became rich, had abundant financial resources, and had strong military and horse forces.
Therefore, when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty saw rhinos, elephants, and tortoiseshells, he founded seven counties including Zhuya; he was inspired by wolfberry and bamboo sticks and established the counties of Yangke and Yuejun; and when he heard about Tianma and Putao, he opened the road to Dawan and Anxi.
Since its creation, the harem has been filled with treasures such as pearls, tortoise shells, rhinos, and green feathers. Horses of all kinds including Pushao, dragons, fish eyes, and sweats have filled the Yellow Gate. Elephants, lions, fierce dogs, and ostriches have roamed the gardens in droves.
Rare and strange things from far away come from all directions.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty expanded Shanglin Garden, excavated the Kunming Pool, built palaces with thousands of doors and households, built a platform for gods to reach the sky, made tents for armor and armor, tied with beads and biscuits.
Emperor Wu lived here and set up a wine pool and a meat forest to entertain the guests of the surrounding ethnic minorities; he performed the "Bayu" dance, Dulu, "Intestine Ji" in the sea, fish and dragon illusions, costumed horns and other plays.
There are also rewards and gifts, supplies for thousands of miles, and military expenditures, countless.
If the finances were not enough, the state would sell wine, salt and iron, cast platinum and leather coins as money, and levy taxes on vehicles, ships, and livestock.
The people's strength was exhausted, their wealth was exhausted, coupled with the famine years and poor harvests, bandits and bandits appeared together, and the roads were blocked, so Emperor Wu ordered his envoys to wear embroidered clothes, hold axes and iron, and go to various counties to suppress them, and then won victory.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, he gave up farming in Yaluntai and issued a painful edict. Isn't this something that a benevolent saint would regret?
Moreover, on the road leading to the Western Region, there are Bailongdui nearby, Congling far away, and dangerous areas such as body heat, headache, and counties.
The Huainan kings Liu An, Du Qin, and Yang Xiong all believed that this was set up by heaven and earth to divide areas to isolate the inside and outside.
"Shangshu" says "Xirong is the preface", which means that after Yu controlled the floods and divided the nine states, he put the countries of Xirong within a certain range, and did not rely on the emperor's might to make them pay tribute.
The countries in the Western Region each have their own kings and commanders. Their armies are scattered and weak and cannot be unified. Although he once belonged to the Xiongnu, he was not close to them.
The Xiongnu could get their horses, livestock and felt kitchens, but they could not lead them to attack or retreat.
They are isolated from the Han Dynasty and the road is far away. It is not a benefit to get them and it is not a loss to abandon them.
The virtues of the Han Dynasty were created by ourselves and did not come from them.
Therefore, since the founding of Emperor Guangwu, all countries in the Western Regions have longed for the might and virtue of the Han Dynasty and have been willing to submit to them.
Only small countries such as Shanshan and Cheshi were close to the Xiongnu and were still controlled by the Xiongnu.
Other great powers, such as Yarkand and Khotan, sent envoys several times to bring hostages to the Han Dynasty, hoping that they would be allowed to become guardians.
Emperor Guangwu studied ancient and modern history, and based on the situation at that time, he adopted a policy of restraint. He disagreed with the dispatch of the Western Region Protector and also repatriated the hostages from various countries.
Although Dayu demarcated the territory of Xirong, Duke Zhou did not accept the white pheasants of the Yueshang clan, and Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty did not accept thousands of miles of horses, these were all beautiful things done by ancient sages, but Emperor Guangwu's actions all had this meaning, and there was nothing more clever than sending a man to do it.
