◆Propaganda
Xuan Bing, courtesy name Ju Gong, was born in Yunyang, Feng Yi.
He has cultivated high integrity since childhood and became famous in Sanfu.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, when he saw Wang Mang taking power and dictatorship, invading and weakening the Han clan, and showing signs of rebellion, he fled and lived in seclusion in the mountains. The prefectures and counties called him one after another, but he refused to serve because of illness.
Wang Mang was the prime minister, and he didn't respond when he was called.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, he sent envoys to conquer him, but he insisted that he was ill.
Gengshi ascended the throne and was appointed as a servant.
In the first year of Jianwu, he was appointed as Yushi Zhongcheng.
Guangwu specially ordered the censor Zhongcheng to sit together with Sili Xiaowei and Shangshu Ling to sit at a special table, so the capital was called "San Du Si".
In the second year, he was moved to the rank of Sili Xiaowei.
Be sure to give an outline and simplify and omit complicated and demanding items. All officials will respect him.
He is known to be frugal by nature, often wearing cloth clothes and quilts, and eating vegetables and pottery vessels.
The emperor once visited his residence and sighed when he saw it: Although Gong Sheng and Gong She of Chu State were poor, they were not as good as Yunyang Xuan Jugong.
That is to say, they are given daily utensils such as cloth curtains and curtains.
In the fourth year, he paid homage to Situ Sizhi.
The salary earned is often used to adopt relatives.
Those who are lonely and weak are assigned fields, but they do not have the savings to bear the stone.
In the sixth year, he died in the official position. The emperor felt pity for him and appointed his son Xuanbiao as a man.
◆Zhang Zhanchuan
Zhang Zhan, courtesy name Zixiao, was born in Pingling, Fufeng.
He must be dignified, solemn and courteous, and have standards in his movements and actions. When he lives in a secluded room, he must take care of himself. Even if he meets his wife and children, he will be treated as if he met his parents.
When he is in the township party, he must be careful about his words and deeds, and the three assistants will follow his example.
Some people said that he was hypocritical and cunning. After hearing this, Zhang Zhan laughed and said: I am really deceitful. Others are deceiving evil, but I am only deceiving good. Isn’t that okay?
During the reign of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, it was two thousand stones.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he successively served as governor and captain.
At the beginning of Jianwu, he was Zuo Fengyi.
Ceremonies were built in the county, regulations were set up, and political affairs were promoted.
Afterwards, he returned to Pingling and walked forward when he saw the gate of Pingling County.
The chief secretary said: "The Ming Dynasty has a high position and a high moral standard. You should not despise yourself."
Zhang Zhan said: "The Book of Rites" says that when you go to the public gate, Fu Shi leads the carriage.
Confucius was respectful to the township party.
In the country of parents, courtesy is a must. What does it mean to be disrespectful?
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he worshiped Guang Luxun.
When Guangwu came to court, he sometimes seemed listless, and Zhang Zhan often explained and admonished his mistakes.
Zhang Zhan often rides a white horse. Whenever the emperor sees Zhang Zhan, he often says: "Sheng Baima wants to admonish me again."
In the seventh year, he resigned due to illness and became King Guanglu. On behalf of Wang Dan, he became the Crown Prince and Tutor.
After Queen Guo was deposed, she refused to attend court meetings because she claimed to be ill. Instead, she paid homage to the Taizhong doctor and lived in the East Gate, so people at that time called her the Lord of the Middle East Gate.
The emperor expressed condolences and rewards several times.
Later, the great Situ Daishe was executed, and the emperor appointed Zhang Zhan to replace the great Situ.
When Zhang Zhan arrived at the court, he had incontinence of urine. This meant that he was seriously ill and could no longer serve in court, so he gave up.
A few years later, he died at home.
◆Biography of Wang Dan
Wang Dan, whose courtesy name was Zhonghui, was from Guiyang, Jingzhao.
During the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, he served as an official in the prefecture and county.
During Wang Mang's reign, there was no continuous campaign.
The family has accumulated a lot of money, he lives in seclusion to cultivate his ambitions, and he likes to help the poor.
Every year during the farming season, wine and vegetables are often carried in the fields, waiting for those who work hard to comfort them.
Those who are lazy feel ashamed and do not come to Wang Dan, so they all work hard to encourage themselves.
Villages and towns gather together to encourage each other and become prosperous.
For patients who were frivolous, wandering and wasting their careers, Wang Dan often informed his father and elder brothers to give them reprimands and education.
When the person dies, he will give money and take care of him personally.
Those who suffered from bereavement and sorrow often waited for Wang Dan to take care of things for them, and their neighbors took it for granted.
After more than ten years of implementation, its teachings have been greatly harmonious and its customs are solid.
Wang Dan has a clean nature and hates evil and powerful people.
At that time, Chen Zun, the governor of the same county in Henan, was a great hero in Kansai.
His friend was bereaved, and Chen Zun took care of the funeral and sent him a lot of money.
Wang Dan took a piece of string and displayed it in front of the owner, saying: "Wang Dan made this string by himself."
Chen Zun felt ashamed after hearing this.
Since then, he has become famous and wanted to make friends with Wang Dan, but Wang Dan refused.
It happened that former general Deng Yu was marching westward to Guanzhong and there was a shortage of military rations. Wang Dan led his clan to donate two thousand husks of wheat.
Deng Yu recommended Wang Dan to lead Zuo Fengyi. Wang Dan complained that he was ill and ignored the situation, so he was dismissed from his post and later recruited as the prince's young master.
At this time, the great Situ Houba wanted to make friends with Wang Dan. Wang Dan was recruited and sent his son Hou Yu to wait on the road.
Hou Yu got out of the car to greet him, and Wang Dan got out of the car to thank him.
Hou Yu said: My father wants to be friends with you, so what is the point of meeting and paying homage?
Wang Dan said: Your Majesty said this, but Dan did not agree.
A classmate of Wang Dan's son was bereaved and his family was in Zhongshan. Wang Dan's son told Wang Dan that he wanted to go to the funeral to express condolences and to go together. Wang Dan was angry and whipped his son and ordered him to send two pieces of silk to the shrine.
Someone asked why.
Wang Dan said: The difficulty of dealing with people is not easy to explain.
In the world, they are called Guan Zhong and Bao Shu, followed by Wang Ji and Gong Yu.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu ended up with Zhang killing Chen, and Xiao Yu and Zhu Bo later had a rift that never ended, so there are very few people who can start and end well in making friends.
People at the time believed his words.
In the early days, there were people who recommended scholars to Wang Dan, but because of the election, the scholars he recommended later were convicted of crimes, and Wang Dan was implicated and dismissed.
The guest was ashamed and frightened and turned away from Wang Dan, but Wang Dan had no grudges.
Later, Wang Dan was recruited as the Crown Prince and Tutor again, so he called his guests and said to him: Your suicide is because you underestimated my courage, Wang Dan, right?
Do not prepare food for guests as punishment, treat each other as before.
Later he gave way and died at home.
◆Wang Liangzhuan
Wang Liang, courtesy name Zhongzi, was from Lanling, Donghai County.
When he was young, he was studious and studied "Xiao Xiahou Shangshu".
During Wang Mang's time, he refused to serve because of illness and taught more than a thousand students.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Grand Sima Wu Han summoned him, but he did not respond.
In the third year, he was worshiped as an admonishing official. He made several loyal suggestions and was polite in his approach and exit, which was respected by the court.
Moved to be the prefect of Pei County.
When he arrived in Qixian County, he refused to enter the government because he was ill. The officials and his family followed him. Wang Liang wrote a letter saying that he was seriously ill and asked to retire, so he was appointed as Taizhong doctor.
In the sixth year, Dai Xuanbing was appointed as the Great Situ Sizhi.
During his reign, he was respectful and frugal, and his wife did not enter the official residence. She wore cloth quilts and used earthenware.
At this time, Situ Shi Bao Hui went to the East China Sea to pay his respects to his family. He saw a woman wearing a cloth skirt and dragging firewood back from the fields.
Bao Hui said to her: "I am Situ Shi. I came here to get the book. I want to see Mrs. Wang Liang."
The king's wife said: I am Wang's good wife.
It's hard work for Shi Shi, but there are no letters.
Bao Hui then bowed down and returned with a sigh. Everyone who heard this said Wang Liang was praised.
He later returned home due to illness.
A year later, he resumed the expedition and arrived in Xingyang. He was seriously ill and could not move forward, so he visited his friends.
The friend refused to see him and said, "Didn't you get the big position with good advice and clever tricks? Why are you so cowardly and not afraid of trouble?"
So he refused.
Wang Liang was ashamed and complained that he was ill since then.
The imperial edict ordered him to be hired by Hei Xunxun, but he should not do so.
Later Guangwu went to Lanling and sent an envoy to ask Wang Liang what he was suffering from, but he could not answer in words.
The imperial edict exempted his descendants from the corvee service in the city, and he later died of illness at home.
The historian commented: Those who benefit from benevolence will use benevolence to benefit, while those who appreciate righteousness will not use it to harmonize righteousness.
This means that in fulfilling benevolence and righteousness, although the deeds are the same, the true intentions are different.
Ji Wenzi's concubine did not wear silk, and the people of Lu thought it was a good talk.
Gongsun Hong was wearing a cloth quilt and laughed at him for being so deceitful.
The facts are not different, but the reputation and reputation are different, and the opinions are different. Why is this?
Probably it was the difference between physical strength and strength. Xuan Bing and Wang Liang were in privileged positions, but Xuan Bing was willing to be indifferent. Wang Liang's wife could be said to be too frugal to carry the firewood herself.
However, at that time, he was praised for his integrity and his integrity was praised by others. Isn't it true that he should be treated with sincerity?
The saying goes: Believe when you say the same thing, faith comes first; act when you say the same thing, sincerity comes after the order.
That's exactly it.
Zhang Zhan is not afraid of the ridicule of hypocrisy, this means not being hypocritical.
Wang Dan is difficult to understand the way of communication. This is the way of knowing and communicating.
◆The Biography of Du Lin
Du Lin's courtesy name was Boshan, and he was a native of Maoling, Fufeng County.
His father, Du Ye, was the governor of Liangzhou when he became Emperor Ai.
Du Lin has been fond of learning and thinking since he was a child. There are many books in his family, and his uncle Zhang Song and his son are fond of literary talent. Du Lin learned from Zhang Song and became erudite. He was called a Tongru at that time.
At first he was a county official.
Wang Mang failed, and thieves gathered.
Du Lin, his younger brother Du Cheng, Fan Kui and Meng Ji from the same county led all the young and old to Hexi.
On the road, they met thousands of thieves, so they robbed their property, stripped them of their clothes, and drew their swords towards Du Lin and others, preparing to kill them all.
Meng Ji raised his head and said: I am willing to die after finishing my sentence.
Does the general know about gods?
The Red Eyebrows had millions of soldiers and were invincible, but the remaining thieves were ruthless and finally defeated.
Now there are thousands of generals who want to become the overlord. Instead of being benevolent and kind, they will repeat the mistakes of Red Eyebrow. Aren't they afraid of destiny?
The thief then let them go, saving them all from danger.
Wei Xiao had always heard that Du Lin was a man of great ambition and integrity, and he received him warmly and regarded him as his holder of the book.
Later he resigned due to illness and returned his salary and food.
Wei Xiao wanted to force him to accompany him again, but Du Lin claimed that he was seriously ill.
Although Wei Xiao held a grudge, he still wanted to treat him favorably, so he issued an order: "The emperor Du Boshan cannot be his subject, nor can the princes be his friends. In the past, Boyi and Shuqi were shameful and despised Zhou Su. Now, for the time being, we should open up friendly channels from the position of mentor and friend, and act in accordance with his will and integrity."
Although Du Lin was caught in Kui Xiao's net, he never surrendered his ambition.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, his younger brother Du Cheng died, and Kuai Xiao had no choice but to obey Du Lin's care and return eastward.
After letting him go, he regretted it and ordered his assassin Yang Xian to chase him to Longdi to cover him up.
When Yang Xian saw Du Lin pushing a cart carrying his brother's coffin, he sighed: In today's world, who can do justice?
Although I am a villain, how can I bear to kill a righteous man?
So he ran away.
When Guangwu heard that Du Lin had returned to Sanfu, he worshiped him as his censor. He received him and asked him about his old scriptures and the affairs of Xizhou. He was very happy and rewarded him with carriages, horses, clothes and quilts.
The officials knew that Du Lin was highly regarded because of his reputation and virtue, and they all respected and feared him.
The scholar-bureaucrats in the capital all praised him for his erudition and knowledge.
Henan Zheng Xing, Donghai Weihong, etc. are all good at ancient learning.
Zheng Xing once studied under Liu Xin. When Du Lin saw Zheng Xing, he said happily: It is a good thing for Du Lin to get Zheng Xing and others. If Wei Hong gets Du Lin, it will be helpful.
Later, Wei Hong met Du Lin and was impressed by his profound knowledge.
Xu Xun of Jinan initially took Wei Hong as his teacher, and later accepted Du Lin's knowledge.
Du Lin once obtained a volume of "Guwen Shangshu" written in lacquer in Xizhou. He often regarded it as a treasure. Although he was in trouble, he still kept his hands on the volume.
Du Lin took it out to show Wei Hong and others: I was living in war, and I was often afraid that this classic would be unparalleled.
Unexpectedly, Donghai Weihong and Jinan Xu Sheng could still get it and pass it on. This is a way of not falling to the ground.
Although the ancient texts are not current, I hope that all students will have no regrets about what they have learned.
Wei Hong and Xu Xun respected him even more, so ancient prose became popular.
Next year, there will be a big discussion about the suburban sacrificial system. Most people think that Hou Ji will be worshiped in Zhou Dynasty and Yao will be worshiped in Han Dynasty.
The edict was reviewed by the ministers, and all the reviewers agreed, and the emperor agreed.
Du Lin alone believed that the rise of the Zhou Dynasty came from its ancestor Houji, and that the rise of the Han Dynasty was not due to Yao's achievements.
The old system of our ancestors should be carried forward in accordance with the law.
So I decided on Yidulin's initiative.
Later, Wang Liang became the great Situ Sizhi.
Du Lin recommended Fan Kui, Zhao Bing, Shen Tugang and Longxi Niuhan from the same county, and they were all promoted, and many scholars turned to them.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, the direct official position was dismissed, and Du Lin replaced Guo Xian as Guang Luxun.
There are security guards inside, and the three offices are in charge of external affairs. They are careful and cautious, and the elections are fair.
There are those among the doctors who are eager to learn, and they are often introduced to them, filling the hall day and night.
In the fourteenth year, the officials wrote: In ancient times, corporal punishment was harsh and everyone was afraid of laws; today, laws are frivolous, so there are too many treacheries.
We should increase the number of laws and regulations to stop the source.
The edict was sent to the minister.
Du Lin said: If human relations are bruised and insulted, the spirit of loyalty and loyalty will be damaged; if there are many legal nets, then the behavior of trying to escape by chance will arise.
Confucius said: When a government decree is issued to punish those who violate the law, the people only want to avoid punishment but cannot avoid doing evil.
Use virtue to induce people and make them act according to etiquette. Then people will know their shame and take the initiative to restrain themselves and return to the right path.
The wise kings of ancient times were thoughtful and far-sighted, and acted with loyalty in mind. They did not focus on killing many people. The five punishments in the Zhou Dynasty were only three thousand.
At the beginning of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty carefully studied the gains and losses of the previous generations, broke the square to make the round, cut the sculptures into simplicity, abolished the harsh government, and established simple laws. The country was happy and people were generous and virtuous.
Later, more rules and regulations were gradually added, and fault-finding, false accusations and slanders emerged one after another.
The gift of some peaches, fruits, vegetables and eggplants was recorded in the case as evidence of a crime. A small offense that was not harmful to justice actually resulted in beheading. As a result, there were no honest people in the country and no perfect behavior in the family.
As for the law that cannot be forbidden, the order cannot be stopped, and if it is avoided and hidden up and down, the harm will be even deeper.
I think it is better to keep the old system as it is and not to come up with new methods.
The emperor obeyed.
Later, the crown prince Liu Qiang requested to retire and was granted the title of King of Donghai, so he re-elected officials and appointed Du Lin as the king's Fu.
Hunting from the south of the emperor.
At this time, the princes and Fu were introduced several times to receive orders, or to make friends frequently, but were not allowed to respond to the edicts. Only Du Lin was careful and cautious, and would always arrive when called.
Although the rest of the people were not blamed, Du Lin was the only one who received the reward. Du Lin refused to accept the reward, so the emperor respected him even more.
In the second year, Ding Gong was appointed as the Shaofu.
In the 22nd year of Jianwu's reign, he became Guang Luxun again.
Soon, Dai Zhufu became the great Sikong.
Boya Duotong is known as a competent prime minister.
Jianwu passed away in the 23rd year of his life. The emperor personally attended the funeral and appointed his son Du Qiao as his father-in-law.
The edict was issued: The descendants of the princes must restore their original titles, and the descendants of the wise men should dominate the cities.
He appointed Du Qiao as the head of Danshui County.
The historian commented: Power can be used to defend oneself, but loss of power will put oneself in danger; pretending to be deceitful for personal gain, and the trick of deception is exhausted, and the trick is over; but loyalty and sincerity can prevail even in barbaric countries, because the influence of morality on all things is particularly profound.
Therefore, Zhao Dun of the Jin Dynasty was loyal and committed suicide by hoeing his muntjac; Du Lin acted righteously, and the martyr Yang Xian fled by himself and faked his life.
"Book of Changes" says: "He who helps others will believe in him, which is really good."
◆The Biography of Guo Dan
Guo Dan, courtesy name Shaoqing, was born in Rang, Nanyang County.
His father, Guo Zhi, was the prefect of Lujiang when he became emperor and had a reputation for integrity.
Guo Dan became an orphan at the age of seven, and he was careful to be filial. His stepmother took pity on him and sold him clothes and bought property for him.
Later, he studied in Chang'an and bought Hangu Pass. He sighed with emotion: "Guo Dan will not leave the pass unless he rides in the messenger's car."
When he came to the capital, he often gave lectures to the capital, and the Confucian scholars all respected him.
Grand Sima Yanyou invited Guo Dan, but Guo Dan declined because he was ill.
Wang Mang conquered him again, and he and other people fled to the north.
In the second year of Gengshi, the Three Dukes promoted Guo Dan as a capable official and appointed him as an admonishing official. He returned to Nanyang as an envoy holding a talisman and gathered in Anhui to accept his surrender.
It has been twelve years since Guo Dan became a monk. Sure enough, he came out of the customs in a high-speed train and fulfilled his vow when he entered the customs.
Gengshi failed, and all the generals surrendered to Guangwu and were awarded titles. Guo Dan alone protected Ping's county seat, and mourned for Gengshi, wearing mourning clothes to express his condolences.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he fled away. He walked on small roads in shabby clothes, climbed mountains and took risks. He begged to see his wife Gengshi and returned the letter of amulet, so he returned to his hometown.
The prefect Du Shi asked him to serve as a meritorious officer, and Guo Dan recommended an elder from the village to take his place.
Du Shi sighed and said: In the past, the Mingjun prospered and taught, and the ministers gave way. Now the meritorious Cao has promoted the virtuous to replace him, which can be said to be the most virtuous.
He ordered Guo Dan's deeds to be recorded in the prefect's hall as a model for future generations.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the Grand Sima Wu Han summoned him and promoted him to a high-level talent. He was then moved to the state to be a pastoralist, and he was known as Qingping.
He was transferred to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General and moved to the left, Feng Yi.
In the third year of Yongping, he replaced Li Fanjin as Situ.
In the government, he was honest, upright and just, and he was as famous as Hou Ba, Du Lin, Zhang Zhan, Guo Qian and others.
The next year, Deng Rong, the governor of Longxi, was dismissed from his post because there was no basis for his investigation.
Five years later, he died at home.
Age eighty-seven.
Yin Fanqian from Henan had Qingxing and acted as Situ on his behalf.
◆Wu Liangchuan
Wu Liang, courtesy name Dayi, was born in Linzi, Qi State.
When he first became a county official, he congratulated the governor on the first day of the year. The king of his subordinates wanted to raise a cup to celebrate his longevity and falsely praised the merits of the prefect.
Wu Liang knelt down and said: "The king hopes that there will be a treacherous and evil person who will bully the prefect. I hope you won't be punished by him."
The prefect calmed down and stopped.
After the banquet, Wu Liang was promoted to the meritorious officer. Wu Liang was ashamed that Jinyan had been appointed governor, and finally refused to pay him a visit.
At this time, the hussar general Liu Cang, king of Dongping, heard about this and recruited him, temporarily replacing him as Xicao.
Liu Cang respected and loved Wu Liang very much. Shangshu recommended Wu Liang and said: I heard that the most important thing for the country must be to win people; there is no righteous act to repay kindness than recommending wise men.
I saw that Wu Liang, from the state of Qi in the west of my residence, Cao Cao, was a man of honest and solid qualifications, just and honest, thrifty and able to live in poverty. Although he was old, his integrity was not diminished.
It is advisable to prepare a guard position to assist the holy administration.
The minister Liu Cangrong was extremely favored, worried about the great responsibility, and selfishly envied his uncle's loyalty in recommending his retainers to the court. However, he was afraid of Zang Wen's sin of not advancing the virtuous ones, so he dared to express his foolish opinions and violate the sacred authority.
Xianzong said to his ministers in a brief statement: I met Wu Liang on business, and I saw that he had a bright beard and hair, and he was very handsome in clothes.
It is the duty of the prime minister to recommend talented people to help the country. Xiao He promoted Han Xin and worshiped him at the altar without taking any exams.
Today, Wu Liang is appointed as the chief minister.
In Yongping, when the emperor's car was approaching, Hou Yin of Xinyang interfered with the imperial guards. The chauffeur ordered Xu Kuang Gouyin to get on the chariot and imprison the driver.
The edict condemned Xu Kuang, and Xu Kuang tied himself up to plead guilty.
Wu Liang said: "Hou Yin of Xinyang relies on the power of his relatives, violates the rules of the carriage, and does not observe the etiquette of others and ministers. This is very disrespectful."
Xu Kuang enforced the law and was imprisoned instead. I was afraid that the Sanctification Society would be abandoned.
Although the emperor pardoned Xu Kuang, he still made Wu Liangzuo the magistrate of Jiqiu County.
Later he moved to Situ Changshi.
Whenever major issues are dealt with, he always quotes from classics, not seeking to gain the emperor's favor, nor does he conform to current customs in order to gain reputation.
Later he was dismissed due to circumstances.
He paid homage to Yilang again and died in officialdom.
◆The Legend of Chenggong
Shaozi, also known as Chenggong, was born in Langyi aunt.
Shao Gu, when he was eight years old, was working as a herdsman for pigs.
Xu Zisheng in the countryside taught hundreds of students the "Spring and Autumn Classic". When Chenggong was resting, he passed by his hut and listened to the scriptures. Because he had abandoned his pig, he asked him to stay with him.
Collect firewood for the students.
After several years of hard work, I studied diligently.
Once the classics are clear, go home and teach them.
When the world was in chaos, he took his students to escape the chaos in Hanzhong. Later, he and his wife went to Mengyin Mountain and worked hard to farm.
When the millet was almost ripe, some people said that the millet belonged to him. Chenggong did not care about it and let him push it away. From this, he became famous.
All three governments wanted to recruit him, but he didn't answer.
In Yongpingzhong, he was called to the bus, and the bus came to the Imperial Academy. He summoned Chenggong, worshiped him as a doctor, and moved to Zuo Zhonglang General.
He repeatedly expressed his loyalty, stated his political views, and made accurate and cautious discussions. The courtiers were afraid of his integrity, and his reputation spread far and wide among the Huns.
At that time, Beidan sent an envoy to ask to see Chenggong, and Xianzong ordered him to tidy up himself. Chenggong said: The reputation of the Yi Di who dazzled the ministers is not because of me.
If your appearance is ugly, you should not show it to a distant place. You should choose someone with dignity to see you.
The emperor then replaced him with Da Honglu and Wei Ying.
In the seventeenth year of Yongping, he paid homage to the attendant and offered wine.
When he passed away in the first year of Jianchu, Emperor Suzong commended him and gave him a cemetery.
His wife wrote a letter requesting that he be buried in his hometown and be given another 300,000 yuan.
◆Zheng Junchuan
Zheng Jun, whose courtesy name was Zhongyu, was from Rencheng, Dongping.
When I was young, I loved Huang Lao's books.
My brother is a county official and accepts many gifts from others. Zheng Jun repeatedly tried to stop him, but he refused to listen.
Zheng Jun left his job and worked for others. After more than a year, he got money and silk and returned it to his brother.
Said: Once things are used up, you can get them again. If you commit corruption and commit crimes for officials, your life will be over.
Brother is grateful for his words and will be honest and honest in the future.
Zheng Junhao is a responsible person who takes care of his widowed sister-in-law and orphans. He is kind and courteous.
It is often said that he is staying at home due to illness and should not be called up by the state or county.
The county magistrate insisted that he go, so the magistrate falsely claimed that he would come to his home. Zheng Jun went to the magistrate's house immediately, but the county magistrate failed to make him surrender in the end.
Zheng Jun then hid in Puyang as a guest.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Situ Baoyu recruited him. Later, he admitted that he had not arrived.
In the sixth year of his reign, the emperor moved to the minister's office and gave him many loyal words of advice. Suzong respected him very much.
Later, he asked to retire because of his illness. He became Yilang and returned home. Because he was seriously ill, the emperor gave him clothes.
In the first year of Yuanhe, an edict was written to the governor of Lujiang and the prime minister of Dongping: "Yi Lang Zheng Jun, Xiu Xiu is in poverty, he is thrifty and tidy, he keeps secrets in front of him, he retires due to illness, he is good and chaste, and his hair is yellow."
He also went to Anyi to order Mao Yi, who behaved humbly and resigned from illness. His pure style was praised by Dongzhou as benevolent.
"Shangshu" does not say that commending those who have great virtues is good governance.
It is appropriate to give Zheng Jun and Mao Yigu each a thousand husks of dendrobium, and often send condolences to the chief official in August, and give sheep wine to show this unusual behavior.
In the second year, the emperor visited Rencheng in the east and visited Zheng Jun's house in person. He ordered the minister to be given a salary for the rest of his life, so people at that time called him the "white-robed minister".
Yongyuanzhong died at home.
◆Zhao Dianchuan
Zhao Dian, courtesy name Zhongjing, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
His father, Zhao Jie, was a Taiwei. Emperor Huan established him and granted him the title of Marquis of Chuting.
When Zhao Dian was young, he devoted himself to the practice of quietness and frugality, and was erudite in the classics. His disciples came from far away to seek advice from him.
At the beginning of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was recommended by the four palaces and worshiped as Yilang, served as a minister in the palace, and then moved to serve as a minister.
When the emperor wanted to widen the Hongchi, Zhao Dian admonished him: "The water surface of the Hongchi has reached a hundred hectares, and it needs to be widened and dug deeper. This is not to respect Tang Yu and restrain himself, to abide by filial piety and to care for the people."
Emperor accepted his words and stopped.
After his father's death, Zhao Dian took over the throne.
He became the prefect of Hongnong and turned to the right to support the wind.
After official service, he resigned from the official position, and was recruited and worshiped as the captain of the city gate school. He was transferred to the general position of a great craftsman, moved to the Shaofu, and then to the Dahonglu.
At that time, the princes of Enze were granted titles for no merit, and the ministers were displeased, but they did not dare to express their opinions. Zhao Dian alone remonstrated: "Rewards for no merit, those who work hard will not be rewarded, and the superiors will be ashamed and the inferiors will be humiliated, and the celestial phenomena will be disordered."
Moreover, according to the oath of the great ancestor, only the meritorious officials will not be granted the title.
It is advisable to deprive those who have received titles without merit in order to preserve the old system.
The emperor disobeyed.
Soon, he became a servant and moved to Taichang.
Whenever the court had questions about disasters, he was often consulted.
Zhao Dian is right according to the scriptures, and there are no twists and turns or obscurities.
Every time I receive a reward, I always distribute it to the poor in life.
Later, he violated the will by admonishing and fighting, and was dismissed from office and returned to the country.
It happened that when the emperor died, it was stipulated that the feudal princes were not allowed to attend the funeral. Zhao Dian angrily said: "I came to the top from the brown clothes."
Moreover, the magpie can repay the favor, let alone the scholar?
So he took off the seal and ribbon talisman and sent it to the county, and then rode to the capital.
The prefectures, counties and Dahonglu wanted to arrest him and punish him, but the ministers and officials praised Zhao Dian for his loyalty and petitioned Zhao Dian to redeem himself with rent, which was approved by the imperial edict.
再迁长乐少府、卫尉。

The minister also expressed that Zhao Dian devoted himself to his studies and gained extensive knowledge, so he should be prepared to be a national teacher.
Qia died of illness and sent condolences.
Empress Dowager Dou sent an envoy back and presented him with a seal and ribbon, giving him the posthumous title of Xianhou.
