Zhang Liang's courtesy name is Zifang, and his ancestors are Korean.
My grandfather opened land and became the prime minister of Han Zhaohou, King Xuanhui and King Xiangai.
His father, Zhang Ping, was the prime minister of King Li and King Hui.
In the twenty-third year of King Hui's reign, Zhang Ping died. Twenty years after his death, Qin subjugated Han.
Zhang Liang was young and had not been an official in Han.
When Han died, Zhang Liang had 300 slaves in his family. His younger brother died without being buried. He used all his family wealth to seek assassins to kill the King of Qin and avenge Han because his father had been the Prime Minister of Han for five generations.
Zhang Liang once studied etiquette in Huaiyang. He traveled eastward to meet Lord Canghai and found a strong man who made an iron vertebra weighing 120 kilograms.
The Emperor of Qin went on a tour to Bolang Sand. Zhang Liang and his assassins ambushed the Emperor of Qin and accidentally hit the passenger car.
Emperor Qin was furious and searched the world on a large scale, eager to find the thief.
Zhang Liang then changed his name and fled to Xiapi.
Zhang Liang once had time to take a leisurely stroll on the Xiapi Bridge. An old man, wearing coarse cloth, walked up to Zhang Liang and deliberately dropped his shoes under the bridge. He turned back and said to Zhang Liang: "Children, go down and pick up your shoes!"
Zhang Liang was surprised and wanted to beat him.
Because he was old, he endured it and went down to pick up shoes, so he knelt down and offered them to him.
The old man put on his feet and walked away with a smile.
Zhang Liang was very surprised.
The old man left for about a mile, then came back and said: Young people deserve instruction.
Five days later, at dawn, I'll be waiting for you in Xianbao.
Zhang Liang felt strange, knelt down and said: OK.
Five days later, Zhang Liang left at Pingming.
The old man had arrived first and angrily said: "I made an appointment with the old man and arrived late. Why?"
Come on, come see you early in five days.
Five days later, when the rooster crows, go.
The old man arrived first again and yelled angrily: "You're late, what's the matter?"
Go, come back early in five days.
Five days later, Zhang Liang went there in the middle of the night.
After a while, the old man also came and said with a smile: "It should be the same."
He took out a book and said: If you read it, you can become the teacher of the king.
Rise ten years later.
Thirteen years later, the young man came to see me. The yellow stone at the foot of Jibei Gucheng Mountain was me.
Then he left and disappeared.
After dawn, I read the book. It was "Tai Gong's Art of War".
Zhang Liang was surprised and often recited it.
Living in Xiapi, he loves to fight against injustice.
Xiang Bo once killed someone and took refuge with Zhang Liang.
Ten years later, Chen She and others started an uprising, and Zhang Liang also gathered more than a hundred young men.
Jing Ju established himself as the false king of Chu and stayed in Liu.
Zhang Liang wanted to follow him and met Pei Gong on the road.
Peigong led thousands of people to capture Xiapi, and Tuidan followed him.
Centipede worshiped the retired emperor and became the general of the stable.
Egg King lectured Pei Gong on "Tai Gong's Art of War" many times. Pei Gong was very happy and often adopted his strategies.
Zhang Liang told others, but they didn't understand.
Zhang Liang said: Pei Gong is probably a talent given by heaven.
Then he followed him and never left.
Duke Pei went to Xue, met with Xiang Liang, and together they supported King Huai of Chu.
Zhang Liang persuaded Xiang Liang: "You have established a descendant of Chu. Mr. Han, Hengyang Jun, has become a virtuous man. He can be established as king and have many party members."
Xiang Liang sent Zhang Liang to find Han Cheng and establish him as King of Han.
Zhang Liang was appointed as Han Situ, and he and the King of Han led more than a thousand people to the west to conquer Han. They captured several cities, and Qin recovered them all. They went back and forth in Yingchuan to fight guerrillas.
When Pei Gong went south from Luoyang, Zhang Liang led his troops to follow Pei Gong and captured more than ten cities in Han to attack Yang Xiong's army.
Peigong then ordered Han Wangcheng to stay in Yangzhai, and he and Zhang Liang went south to capture Wan and west to enter Wuguan.
Pei Gong wanted to attack Qin's army at Ziguan with 20,000 men. Qiang Liang said: Qin's army is still strong and should not be underestimated.
I heard that the guard general is the son of a butcher, and is easily swayed by merchants and villains.
He hoped that Pei Gong would stay in the fort for the time being and send people ahead to prepare meals for 50,000 people. He also placed more flags on the mountains, set up suspicious soldiers, and sent Li Shiqi to seduce the Qin generals with heavy evidence.
The generals of Qin really wanted to unite and attack Shengyang in the west, and Pei Gong wanted to obey them.
Zhang Liang said: "This is just a rebellion by the generals. I'm afraid the soldiers will not obey."
It would be dangerous to disobey, so it would be better to attack them while they are lax.
Pei Gong then led his troops to attack the Qin army and won a great victory.
Chasing them to Lantian and fighting again, the Qin soldiers were completely defeated.
So when they arrived in Xianyang, Prince Qin Ying surrendered to Duke Pei.
When Pei Gong entered Qin, his palace was filled with curtains, dogs, horses, treasures, thousands of women, and he wanted to stay there.
Fan Sha advised him, but Pei Gong refused to listen.
Zhang Huang said: "Taiwan cannot reach the main road, so! Earthworms can get here."
To rid the world of cruel and cruel people, we should show our true colors through simplicity.
Now that they have just entered the Qin Dynasty, they are content to enjoy themselves, creating what people call "helping Jie to do harm."
Moreover, loyal advice is unpleasant to the ear but beneficial to action, and good medicine is bitter to the mouth and beneficial to the patient. I hope Pei Gong will listen to Fan Sha's words.
Pei Gong then went back to garrison Bashang.
Xiang Yu went to Hongmen to attack Pei Gong. Xiang Bo ran to Pei Gong's army at night and met with Zhang Liang in private, wanting to leave with him.
Zhang Liang said: I am sending Duke Pei to the King of Han. Now the matter is urgent, so it would be unjust to run away.
Then he told Pei Gong everything.
Pei Gong was horrified and said, "What should I do?"
Zhang Liang said: Does Pei Gong really want to betray King Xiang?
Pei Gong said: There is a villain who advised me to hold the pass and not let the princes in, but I can become the king of Qin, so I listened to him.
Zhang Liang said: Does Pei Gong think he can defeat King Xiang?
Pei Gong was silent and said, "What should we do now?"
Zhang Liang then invited Xiang Bo to see Pei Gong.
Pei Gong and Xiang Bo drank wine, congratulated him on his birthday and arranged marriage, and asked Xiang Bo to explain to Xiang Yu in detail that the reason why Pei Gong did not dare to betray King Xiang and controlled the pass was to guard against other thieves.
Xiang Yu later gave up, and the incident was recorded in "Yu Zhuan".
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong became the king of Han and took over the land of Bashu. He rewarded Zhang Liang with a hundred yi of gold and two measures of pearls. Zhang Liang dedicated all of them to Xiang Bo.
The king of Han then asked Zhang Liang to send generous gifts to Xiang Bo and asked him to request the land in Hanzhong.
King Xiang agreed.
When the King of Han went to the feudal state, Zhang Liang was sent to Baozhong and sent Zhang Liang back to Han.
Zhang Liang then persuaded the king of Han to burn down the plank road to show to the world that he had no intention of returning, so as to stabilize King Xiang's heart.
Then he asked Zhang Liang to go back.
While walking, burn the plank road.
When Zhang Liang returned to Han, he heard that Xiang Yu would not let Han Wangcheng return to his country because Zhang Liang followed the Han king, so he went east with him and went to Pengcheng to kill him.
At that time, the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. Zhang Liang wrote to Xiang Yu, saying: The King of Han neglected his duty and wanted to occupy Guanzhong. He stopped as agreed and did not dare to go east again.
He also sent Qi's counter-written letter to Xiang Yu, saying: Qi and Fang will destroy Chu together.
Xiang Yu therefore went north to attack Qi.
Zhang Liang returned to Han Dynasty from the small road.
The king of Han appointed Zhang Liang as the Marquis of Xin, and he attacked Chu from Shu.
When they arrived at Pengcheng, the king of Han failed and returned.
When he arrived at Xiayi, the King of Han dismounted his horse and leaned on the saddle and asked: "I want to give up Guan Yishu to others. Who can make meritorious deeds with me?"
Zhang Liang said: Jiujiang King Bu, a fierce general of Chu, had a conflict with King Xiang. Peng Yue and Qi King Tian Rong rebelled in Liang. These two people can be used in emergencies.
Among the generals of the Han Dynasty, only Han Xin could deliver important tasks and stand alone.
If the land of Guandong is to be given up to these three people, Chu can break it.
The King of Han then sent Sui He to persuade King Bu of Jiujiang, and also sent people to unite with Peng Yue.
When King Bao of Wei rebelled, he sent Han Xin to lead troops to attack north, and then captured Yan, Dai, Qi, and Zhao.
However, it was the power of these three people that finally defeated Chu.
Zhang Liang was often ill and did not lead troops specifically. He often served as a planning minister and was always by his side.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu urgently besieged the King of Han in Rongyang. The King of Han was worried and panicked, and planned with Li Shiqi to weaken the power of Chu.
Li Sheng said: In the past Tang defeated Jie and granted his descendants the title of Qi; King Wu killed Zhou and granted his descendants the title of Song.
Now Qin cannot follow the great road and has destroyed the six kingdoms, leaving no place to stand.
Your Majesty is really able to re-establish the descendants of the Six Kingdoms. They are all grateful to your Majesty for your virtue and righteousness and are willing to be your slaves.
If virtue and justice have been fulfilled, facing south and seeking hegemony, Chu will definitely come to court respectfully.
The king of Han said: OK.
Immediately engrave it, sir, and give it to them.
Before Li Sheng left, Zhang Liang came from outside to see the King of Han.
The king of Han was eating and said: "I have a retainer who is planning to weaken the power of Chu."
He told Zhang Liang all about Li Sheng's plan and said, "What do you think of Zifang?"
Zhang Liang said: Who planned this for Your Majesty?
Your Majesty's affairs are in danger.
The king of Han said: Why?
Zhang Liang said: I asked you to use the chopsticks in front of you to make gestures.
In the past, Tang Wu defeated Jie and Zhou and enfeoffed their descendants, which could kill them.
Can your Majesty put Xiang Ji to death now?
This is the first reason why it doesn't work.
King Wu invaded Yin, commended the families of Shang Rong and Jizi, and sealed the tomb of Bigan. Can your majesty do it now?
This is the second reason why it doesn't work.
Open the granary in Juqiao, distribute the wealth of Lutai, and reward the poor. Can your Majesty do it now?
This is the third reason why it doesn't work.
After the destruction of Yin was completed, the military chariots were put away and turned into Xuan chariots, then turned upside down to show that they would no longer be used. Can your Majesty do that now?
This is the fourth reason why it doesn't work.
Letting the horse rest in the sunshine of Huashan Mountain means that there is nothing you can do. Can your Majesty do that now?
This is the fifth reason why it doesn’t work.
Let the cattle rest in the peach forest and the world will no longer tax you. Can your Majesty do that now?
This is the sixth reason why it doesn't work.
Moreover, travelers all over the world now bid farewell to their relatives, abandon their graves, and leave their old friends to follow Your Majesty, just looking forward to a place so close to you day and night.
Now the descendants of the Six Kingdoms have been enfeoffed, and there is no place in the world that can be enfeoffed again. The wanderers each go back to serve their masters, follow their relatives, and make old friends again. Who will conquer the world with your majesty?
This is the seventh reason why it doesn’t work.
And now only Chu is powerful. If the six countries submit to it again, how can your majesty rule them?
This is the eighth reason why it doesn’t work.
If this strategy is really used, His Majesty's career will be over.
The King of Han stopped eating, spit out the food in his mouth, and cursed: You bastard Confucian scholar, you almost ruined your father's business!
Order the seal to be destroyed immediately.
Later, after Han Xin destroyed Qi, he wanted to establish himself as the king of Qi, but the king of Han became angry.
Zhang Liang persuaded the King of Han, and the King of Han asked Zhang Liang to grant the seal to the King of Qi.
This incident is recorded in "Xin Zhuan".
In the winter of the fifth year, the King of Han pursued the Chu army to the south of Yangxia. The battle was unfavorable and he held fast to the Guling military base. The princes did not come on the appointed date.
Zhang Liang persuaded the king of Han, who adopted his idea, and all the princes came.
This incident is recorded in "Gao Ji".
In the sixth year of Han Dynasty, he was awarded the title of hero.
Zhang Liang had no military exploits. Emperor Gao said: "It is Zifang's credit for strategizing and deciding the victory thousands of miles away."
Select all 30,000 households by yourself.
Zhang Liang said: I started from Xiapi and met the emperor at his residence. This is God entrusting me to your majesty.
Your Majesty adopted the minister's strategy, but fortunately, he expected it to be enough. He hoped that granting a fiefdom would be enough, but he did not dare to bear 30,000 households.
Then Zhang Liang was granted the title of Liuhou, and he was granted the title together with Xiao He and others.
The emperor granted more than 20 titles to the great meritorious officials, but the rest could not be decided day and night and could not be divided among them.
The emperor lived in Luoyang South Palace. From the overpass, he saw the generals often whispering to each other.
The emperor said: What are you talking about?
Zhang Liang said: "Don't your Majesty know?"
This is treason.
The emperor said: The world has just stabilized, why rebel?
Zhang Liang said: Your Majesty rose from the common people and conquered the world with these people. Now that you have become the emperor, you have granted titles to people who were friendly to you, such as Xiao and Cao, and killed people you had always hated.
Nowadays, military officers calculate their merits and enfeoffment is not widespread enough in the world. These people were afraid that His Majesty would not be able to seal them all, and they were also afraid that they would be killed on suspicion of negligence, so they gathered to rebel.
The emperor then said worriedly: What should we do?
Zhang Liang said: Among the people the emperor always resents, all the ministers know, who is the most powerful?
The emperor said: Yong Chi and I have an old enmity. He has embarrassed me with many insults. I want to kill him because he has done so much and I can't bear it.
Zhang Liang said: "Now, hurry up and confer Yong Chi first to show it to the officials. When the officials saw that Yong Chi was conferred first, everyone became firm."
So the emperor served wine, made Yongchi the Marquis of Shifang, and quickly urged the Prime Minister and the Censor to calculate the reward for his merits.
After drinking, the officials all said happily: "Yong Chi has been granted the title of Marquis, so we don't have to worry anymore."
Liu Jing persuaded the emperor to build the capital in Guanzhong, but the emperor was hesitant.
The ministers on the left and right were all from Shandong, and they often advised the emperor to build Luoyang as the capital, saying: "Luoyang has Chenggao in front of it, Dixing in the west, and its back faces the river and faces Luoyang. It is strong enough to rely on."
Zhang Liang said: Although Luoyang has such a dangerous terrain, it is small in area, only a few hundred miles away, the land is not fertile, and it is surrounded by enemies on all sides. This is not a place to use force.
Guanzhong has Dihan on the left, Longshu on the right, thousands of miles of fertile fields, the abundance of Bashu in the south, and the benefits of livestock husbandry in the Hu land in the north. It is difficult to defend on three sides, and open one side to the east to control the princes.
When the princes are in peace, the rivers and Wei canals transport the world's supplies to the west to supply the capital; when the princes are in trouble, they can go down the river, which is enough to transport them.
This is the so-called golden city thousands of miles away, the land of abundance.
Liu Jing is right.
So the emperor set off that day and headed west to build his capital in Guanzhong.
Zhang Liang followed him into the pass. He was very sick, and he did not eat grains to cultivate his health. He stayed in seclusion for more than a year.
The emperor wanted to depose the prince and instead establish Mrs. Qi's son, King Zhao Ruyi.
Many ministers argued but failed to change the emperor's determination.
Queen Lu was afraid and didn't know what to do.
Someone said to Queen Lu: Marquis Liu is good at planning, and the emperor trusts him.
Empress Lu then sent Jiancheng Hou Luze to kidnap Zhang Liang and said: "You have been the emperor's adviser for many years, and now the emperor plans to change the prince every day. How can you sit back and relax?"
Zhang Liang said: In the past, the emperor was fortunate enough to adopt the strategies of his ministers when he was in dire straits. Now that the world is stable, if the prince is replaced because of his preference, what is the use of a hundred of us among our flesh and blood?
Lu Ze insisted and said: Give me an idea.
Zhang Liang said: It's hard to argue.
There are four people who I think the emperor cannot recruit.
The four of them were already old. Because the emperor treated the scholars lightly, they fled to the mountains and kept their righteousness and refused to be Han ministers.
But the emperor respects these four people.
Now if you can really spare no expense on gold, jade, and silk, you can ask the prince to write a letter, resign humbly and arrange a carriage, and then ask the eloquent people to insist on your request, and they should come.
After arriving, they were regarded as honored guests and were often brought to the court to be seen by the emperor. This was a help to the prince.
So Empress Lu asked Lu Ze to send someone with a letter from the prince to greet the four people with humble words and courtesy.
The four of them arrived and lived in Jianchenghou Nahuo.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu rebelled. The emperor was ill and wanted the prince to attack.
The four of them discussed and said: We are here to keep the prince.
The prince leads the troops, things are dangerous.
He then advised Marquis Jiancheng to say: If a prince leads an army, his status will not improve if he has meritorious service, but if he fails to do so, he will suffer disaster from now on.
Moreover, the generals who went on the expedition with the prince were all powerful generals who had brought peace to the world with the emperor. Now letting the prince lead them is like letting a sheep lead a wolf. If they are unwilling to be used, they will definitely have no military exploits.
I heard that if a mother is favored, her son will also be caressed. Now Mrs. Qi is serving the emperor all night, and the king is always in front of him. The emperor said that after all, the unfaithful son cannot be placed above the beloved son, indicating that he will definitely take the place of the prince.
Why don't you quickly ask Empress Lu to find an opportunity to cry to the emperor and say: "Qingbu, a fierce general in the world, is good at using troops. Now all the generals are people of the same generation as your Majesty before. Now the prince is sent to lead them. These people cannot be used. And when Qingbu hears about it, he will beat the drum and march westward."
Although the emperor was ill, he could barely ride in the carriage and supervise them while lying down, and the generals dared not fail to do their best.
Although the emperor worked hard, he could barely make some plans for his wife and children.
So Lu Ze met Empress Lu at night.
Empress Lu found an opportunity to cry to the emperor, and she followed the wishes of the four people.
The emperor said: I have thought about it. I couldn't dispatch the bastard, so I can go there myself.
So the emperor himself led the army to conquer, while the ministers stayed behind and sent them to Ba Shang.
Zhang Liang was ill, so he reluctantly got up and went to Quyou. When he saw the emperor, he said: "I should follow you, but I am very ill."
Chu people are strong, I hope the emperor will be careful not to compete with Chu for supremacy.
Then he persuaded the emperor to let the prince serve as a general to supervise the troops in Guanzhong.
The emperor said that although the ovary was ill, she could barely lie down and teach the prince.
At this time, Shusun Tong had become the Taifu, and Zhang Liang was responsible for the work of the Young Tutor.
In the twelfth year of the Han Dynasty, the emperor returned from defeating Yingbu. He became even more ill and wanted to change the prince more and more.
Zhang Liang refused to listen to his advice and did not go to court because of illness.
Taifu Shusun quoted ancient stories and sacrificed his life to fight for the crown prince's throne.
The emperor pretended to agree to him, but still wanted to change the prince.
When there is a banquet, wine is served and the prince serves.
The four people followed the prince, all in their eighties, with snow-white hair and eyebrows, and distinguished clothes.
The emperor was surprised and asked: "What is this for?"
Four people came forward to answer, each saying his or her name.
The emperor was surprised and said: I invited you, you ran away from me, why are you hanging out with my son now?
The four said: Your Majesty despises the scholars and loves to scold them. We are righteous and will not be insulted, so we are afraid and run away.
Now I heard that the prince is benevolent and filial, respects and cherishes the scholars, and there is no one in the world who would not stretch their necks and be willing to die for the prince, so we came here.
The emperor said: I am honored to trouble you all and finally come to train and protect the prince.
The four of them finished their birthday wishes and left.
The emperor watched them off and called Mrs. Qi to point it out to her and said: I want to change to the prince. These four people will assist him. Their wings are already established and it is difficult to shake them.
Lu is really your master.
Mrs. Qi cried, and the emperor said: Dance Chu dance for me, and I will sing Chu songs for you.
Sings: The swan flies high and rushes thousands of miles.
The wings are ready and they can travel across the world.
Crossing the four seas, so what!
There are bows and arrows, but what’s the use?
After singing a few songs, Mrs. Qi sobbed and cried.
The emperor stood up and walked away, taking away the wine.
In the end, the prince was not replaced. This was due to Zhang Liang's recruitment of these four people.
Zhang Liang followed the emperor to attack Dai, and captured Mayi with a clever plan. When he established Xiao Xiangguo, he calmly discussed many things about the world with the emperor. He did not talk about the rise and fall of the world, so he did not record it.
Zhang Liang then declared: "My family has been the prime minister of Han for generations. When Han died, he spared no expense in his fortune to avenge Han's power against Qin. The world was shocked."
Now, with his three-inch tongue, he is the emperor's teacher, and he is granted the title of ten thousand households, and he is ranked among the nobles. This is the ultimate for common people, and it is enough for Zhang Liang.
I hope to give up the worldly affairs and travel with Chisongzi.
So he studied Taoism and wanted to practice and become an immortal.
When Emperor Gao died, Empress Lu thought Zhang Liang was virtuous, so she forced him to give him a salary, saying: "Life is like a fleeting moment, why do you suffer like this?"
Zhang Liang had no choice but to accept it reluctantly.
Died six years later.
Mi was given the title Marquis Wencheng.
At first, Zhang Liang met the old man who gave him a book on the Xiapi Bridge. Thirteen years later, he passed through Jibei with Emperor Gao and found the yellow stone at the foot of Gucheng Mountain, which he took back and cherished as a sacrifice.
After Zhang Liang died, they were buried together in Huangshi.
Every time when visiting the tomb and Fula, sacrifices are made to Huangshi.
The son will undoubtedly inherit the throne.
In the third year of Xiaowen's reign, he was charged with disrespect. The country being eliminated.
Chen Ping was born in Wuxiang, Yangwuhu.
When I was a child, my family was poor, so I loved reading and studying the knowledge of Huangdi and Laozi.
There are thirty acres of land. Lives with his brother Chen Bo.
Chen Bo often farmed and asked Chen Ping to study abroad.
Chen Ping is tall and beautiful. There is Chen Ping in the world: Why are you so fat when you live in a poor family?
His sister-in-law hated Chen Ping for not farming at home and said, "It's just like eating chaff."
It’s better not to have such a brother-in-law!
When Uncle Chen heard this, he drove his wife away.
When Chen Ping grew up, he could marry a wife, but no one from the rich would marry him, and he would dislike the poor.
A long time later, a rich man in Hulu had a granddaughter. After marrying five times, her husbands died. No one dared to marry her. Su Na wanted to marry her.
There was a big funeral in the city, and the Suping family went to help with the funeral arrangements. They left early and came back late to get more rewards.
Zhang Fu saw him at the funeral and thought he was extraordinary. Chen Ping also left late for some reason.
Zhang Fu followed King Su to his home. He lived in a back alley behind the city wall and used a mat as the door, but there were many dignitaries' cars outside the door.
Zhang Fu went back and said to his son Dan Shi: I want to marry my granddaughter to Chen Ping.
Zhang Zhong said: Chen Ping was poor and did nothing, and everyone in the county laughed at his behavior. Why did you marry your daughter to him alone?
Zhang Fu said: Will a talented person like Chen Ping be poor for a long time?
Finally, he married his granddaughter.
Because Chen Qian's family was poor, they lent him money to hire him and gave him food and wine to finance his marriage.
Zhang Fu warned his granddaughter: Don't serve him carelessly just because he is poor.
Serve your brother Uncle Chen as you serve your father, and serve your sister-in-law as you serve your mother.
Chen Ping married Zhang's daughter, and his resources became richer and his contacts became more extensive.
A community ceremony was held in the village, with Chen Ping presiding over it, and the meat was divided evenly.
The elders in the village said: Chen Ruzi is really good at hosting this!
Chen Ping said: Alas, if Chen Ping were allowed to rule the world, he would be like this meat!
Chen She rose up and proclaimed himself king, sent Zhou Shi to capture the territory, appointed Wei Jiu as king of Wei, and went to war with the Qin army in Linji.
Previously, Chen Ping had bid farewell to his brother Chen Bo and followed some young people to serve Wei Wang Jiu as a servant.
I tried to persuade the King of Wei, but the King did not listen.
Someone framed him and Chen Ping fled.
When Xiang Yu reached the river, Chen Ping followed him. He followed him into the pass and destroyed Qin, and was given the rank of minister.
Xiang Yu went east to Pengcheng and proclaimed himself king, and the king of Han went back east to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
King Yin rebelled against Chu, so Xiang Yu appointed Chen Ping as Lord Xinwu and led King Wei's retainers in Chu to attack. Yin surrendered and returned.
King Xiang asked Xiang Han to worship Chen Ping as the captain and gave him twenty yi gold.
Not long after, Han conquered Yin.
King Xiang was furious and wanted to kill those who suppressed Yin.
Chen Ping was afraid of being killed, so he sealed the gold and seal and sent someone to return it to King Xiang. Su Ping escaped from the road with his sword.
When crossing the river, the boatman saw that he was a handsome man traveling alone, and suspected that he was a fugitive general with gold and jade under his waist. He looked at him and wanted to kill Chen Ping.
Chen Ping was frightened, so he took off his clothes and helped row the boat naked.
The boatman knew he had no money, so he gave up.
Chen Ping then went to Kaiwu to surrender and seek an audience with the King of Han through Wei Chichi, and Mu summoned him.
At this time, Wan Shijun, Gentong Zuozhongjuan, accepted Su Na's visit.
Su Ping and ten others came forward together and gave them food.
The king said: The meeting is over and we can go back to the guest house.
Su Na said: I have something to say, and I can't say anything more than today.
So the king of Han talked with him and appreciated him very much, and asked: What official position do you have in Chu?
Chen Ping said: Become a captain.
On that day, Chen Ping was appointed as the captain, and he was asked to accompany him and take charge of guarding the army.
The generals were all in an uproar and said: One day, the king got a deserter from Chu. He didn't know his rank, so he immediately rode with him and asked him to guard the senior people!
After the King of Han heard about this, he favored Chen Hu even more and took him east to attack King Xiang.
When he arrived at Pengcheng, he was defeated by the Chu army and returned with his troops.
He gathered the scattered soldiers and went to Rongyang, appointed Chen Ping as the sub-general, subordinated to Han Wangxin, and garrisoned in Guangwu.
Zhou Bo, Guan Ying and others framed Chen Ping and said: Although Chen Ping is a handsome man, he is like the jade on his crown, but he may not be talented inside.
I heard that Chen Ping had an affair with his sister-in-law when he was at home. He was not tolerated when he served the king of Wei, so he fled to follow Chu. He failed to follow Chu, so he fled to follow Han.
Now the king respects him, gives him an official position, and lets him oversee the army.
I heard that Chen Ping used generals and sent those with more money to good places and those with less money to bad places.
Chen Ping is a capricious and rebellious minister, and I hope Wang will take notice.
The king of Han doubted him, blamed his ignorance, and asked: Is this possible?
Ignorance said: Yes.
The king of Han said: Why do you say he is a wise man?
He replied: What I am talking about is talent; what your Majesty is asking about is virtue.
Even if he has such virtues as Weisheng and filial piety, it will not be beneficial to the success of victory or defeat. How can your Majesty care about using him?
Now that Chu and Han are at war, I recommend a wise scholar just because his strategy can really benefit the country.
Is there anything suspicious about having an affair with a sister-in-law and accepting bribes?
The King of Han summoned Chen Ping and asked: I heard that your husband served Wei disobediently, served Chu and then left, and now he is friends with me. Can an honest man be so half-hearted?
Chen Ping said: I served the King of Wei, but the King of Wei could not listen to me, so I left him to serve King Xiang.
King Xiang did not trust others, so he appointed the people he liked, either Xiang or his wife's brother, even if there were talented people, he could not use them.
When I was in Chu, I heard that the king of Han was capable of employing people, so I surrendered to the king.
If you come naked and don’t accept other people’s money, you won’t have the capital to do things.
The minister's plan is indeed applicable, and I hope the king will adopt it. If there is nothing applicable, and the money given by the king is still there, please seal it up and turn it over to the public. I can ask to resign and go home.
The King of Han then apologized, bestowed a great deal of property, and became a lieutenant in charge of guarding the army, supervising all the generals.
The generals did not dare to say anything more.
Afterwards, Chu rushed to attack, blocking Han's channels for transporting grain and grass, and surrounded the Han king in Rongyang City.
The King of Han was worried and asked to cede the west of Rongyang for peace.
King Xiang refused.
The King of Han said to Chen Ping: The world is in chaos. When will peace be achieved?
Chen Ping said: King Xiang is a man who respects and cares for others. Scholars who are upright and love etiquette and justice all turn to him.
As for commenting on merit and rewards, he was very stingy, and the scholars did not follow him because of this.
Now the king is arrogant and disrespectful, and honest people will not come; but the king can reward people with noble houses, and many scholars who are smooth, spineless, profit-seeking and shameless will return to the Han.
If each eliminates its two shortcomings and concentrates its two advantages, the world can be settled with a wave of hands.
But the king loves to insult people by nature and cannot get honest people.
Considering that there are places in the Chu army that can divide and chaos, King Xiang's backbone ministers Yafu, Zhong Limei, Long Qie, Zhou Yin and others are just a few people.
If the king can spend tens of thousands of catties of gold, make counter-questions, alienate their monarchs and ministers, and make them suspicious, King Xiang will be jealous and listen to slander, and he will definitely kill each other among himself.
If Han takes advantage of the opportunity and leads his army to attack, he will surely destroy Chu.
The King of Han agreed, so he gave Chen Ping 40,000 kilograms of gold and allowed him to do his work without any hesitation.
Chen Ping spent a lot of money to question the Chu army, threatening that general Zhong Limei and others led troops for King Xiang and made great contributions, but in the end they could not cede territory and become king. He wanted to join forces with Han to remove Xiang's family and divide his territory to become king.
King Xiang was indeed suspicious and sent an envoy to Han.
The Han prepared food and drinks such as Tailuo for him and presented them to him. When he saw the envoy from Chu, he pretended to be surprised and said, "I thought it was Yafu's envoy, but it turned out to be King Xiang's envoy!"
He took it away again and offered it to the envoys of Chu with poor food.
When the envoys returned, they all reported to King Xiang. As expected, they were very suspicious of Yafu.
Yafu wanted to capture Rongyang City quickly, but King Xiang did not trust him and refused to listen to Yafu.
When Ya'fu heard that King Xiang doubted him, he was furious and said: "The world's affairs are basically settled. The king himself caused it!"
Hope pleads for the bones to come home!
Before I got to Pengcheng, I had gangrene on my back.
Chen Ping sent two thousand women to the east gate of Rongyang, and the Chu army launched an attack on them.
Chen Ping and the King of Han went out from the west gate of the city.
So he entered the pass, gathered his soldiers and marched eastward.
In the second year, Hou Xin of Huaiyin destroyed Qi and established himself as the false king of Qi. He sent envoys to inform the king of Han.
The King of Han cursed angrily, and Chen Ping secretly stepped on the King of Han's feet.
The king of Han understood this, so he treated the Qi envoy favorably and asked Zhang Liang to make Han Xin king of Qi.
So Chen Ping was granted the title of Chanfu Township.
Using his strategy, Chu was finally destroyed.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, someone wrote a letter to the King of Chu, Han Xin, for his rebellion. Emperor Gao asked the generals, and the generals said: Send troops quickly to bury that little boy alive.
Zhihu was silent.
When I asked Su Nuan, Su Nuan repeatedly declined and said, "What do the generals say?"
The emperor told him everything.
Chen Ping said: Someone wrote a letter saying that Longxin rebelled. Has anyone heard of this? He said: No.
Chen Ping asked again: Does Han Xin know?
Said: I don’t know.
Chen Ping said: Which one is better between your Majesty’s army and Chu?
The emperor said: It cannot be exceeded.
Chen Ping said: Is there any of your Majesty's generals who can defeat Han Xin in terms of military force?
The emperor said: No one can compare with me.
Chen Ping said: Now the troops are not as strong as Chu Jing, and they are not as good as others, but they send troops to attack him. This is to encourage him to fight. I am privately worried about your majesty.
The emperor said: What should we do?
Chen Ping said: In ancient times, the emperor went on hunting tours and met with the princes.
There is Yunmeng in the south. Your Majesty just needs to go out and pretend to visit Yunmeng and meet the princes in Chen.
Chen was Chu's neighbor to the west. When Han Xin heard that the emperor was traveling for his hobbies, he would definitely go to the outskirts to meet him.
His Majesty took the opportunity to catch him, which was only something a strong man could do.
Emperor Gao agreed and sent an envoy to inform the princes to meet in Chen, saying that I would travel south to Yunmeng.
The emperor immediately left.
When I reached Chen, I was greeted by King Xin of Chu on the suburban road.
Zhihu prepared warriors in advance, and when he saw Han Xin, he caught him and tied him up. The matter is in "Xin Zhuan".
So he met with the princes in Chen.
When he returned to Luoyang, he divided the talismans with the meritorious officials and formulated rewards, and made Chen Ping a Marquis of Household, which lasted for generations.
Chen Ping declined and said: This is not my credit.
The emperor said: I used your master's strategy to defeat the enemy. What else is it but merit?
Chen Ping said: How can I be employed if I am not a minister of Wei Wuwu?
The emperor said: Your husband can be said to have never forgotten his roots!
Then Wei Wuwu was awarded a reward.
The next year, Chen Ping followed the emperor to attack Han Wangxin in Dai.
When he arrived at Pingcheng, he was surrounded by the Huns and had nothing to eat for seven days.
Emperor Gao adopted Su Nu's clever trick and asked Shan Yuban to explain, and he was able to get out of the siege.
Gao Tong escaped, and his plan was so secret that no one in the world knew about it.
Emperor Gao passed by Di Ni in the south, climbed the city wall, saw the large houses, and said: What a magnificent county!
I have traveled all over the world and I have only seen Luoyang and this Xiang!
I turned around and asked the censor: How many household registrations does Qu Ni have?
Answer: There were more than 30,000 households in Taiwan at the beginning. After many wars, many people fled and hid. Now there are more than 5,000 households.
So he issued an edict to the censor and changed the title of Shunuo Zuqu Nihou to enjoy the tax revenue of the whole county and exempted him from the previous feudal household.
Chen Ping followed them from the beginning, and after the world was peaceful, he often followed them as a guard lieutenant to attack Zang Tu, Chen Xi, and Yingbu.
A total of six clever tricks were made, and each time they were successful and increased the number of fiefs.
Some of the tricks are so secret that no one in the world has heard of them.
When Gao Di returned from pacifying Tingbu, he was injured and slowly returned to Chang'an.
King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled, and the emperor sent Fan Sha as prime minister to lead the attack.
After he left, someone said bad things about Fan Sha.
Emperor Gao was furious and said: "Fan Ha saw that I was seriously ill, so he wanted me to die!"
Using Chen Ping's strategy, he summoned Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, to receive the edict under his bed, saying: "Chen Ping sent Zhou Bo to replace Fan Sha to lead the army. When Chen Ping arrived in the army, he chopped off Fan Sha's head!"
The two of them accepted the imperial edict, and before they reached the army, they discussed on the road: Fan Sha is an old friend of the emperor and has made many contributions. He is also the husband of Empress Lu's sister Lu Xu. He is affectionate and noble. The emperor is angry and wants to kill him. I'm afraid he will regret it.
It would be better to imprison him and hand him over to the emperor, and let the emperor kill him himself.
When he was not in the army, he set up an altar and used talismans to summon Fan Sha.
When Fan Sha accepted the imperial edict, he tied him up, loaded him into a chariot and drove him to Chang'an, where he asked Zhou Bo to lead his troops to pacify Yan instead.
On the way to Chenping, I heard that Emperor Gao had passed away. I was afraid that Empress Lu and Lu Xu would be angry, so I took a ride to leave first.
An envoy ordered Chen Ping and Guan Ying to garrison Rongyang.
Chen Ping accepted the edict and immediately ran to the palace, crying sadly, and then reported his work in front of the body. Empress Lu took pity on him and said, "Go out and rest!"
Chen Ping was afraid that the slander would gain momentum, so he firmly requested to be allowed to stay on guard duty in the palace.
The Queen Mother appointed him as a doctor and taught the emperor every day.
After that, Lu Xu's slander did not take effect.
After Fan Sha arrived, he was freed from all charges and restored to his title.
In the fifth year of Emperor Hui's reign, Prime Minister Cao Shen passed away, An Guohou Wang Ling became the right prime minister, and Chen Hu became the left prime minister.
Wang Ling, a native of Pei.
At first, he was a magnate in the county. When Gaozu was humble, he served Wang Ling like his elder brother.
When Emperor Gaozu started an uprising in Pei and invaded Xianyang, Wang Ling also gathered thousands of party members and refused to obey Pei Gong in Nanyang.
When the king of Han returned to attack Xiang Ji, Wang Ling led his troops back to the desert.
Xiang Yu placed Wang Ling's mother in the army. When Wang Ling's envoy came, he asked her to sit facing the east, hoping to recruit Wang Ling to surrender.
Wang Ling's mother secretly sent the envoy, crying: I hope to tell Wang Ling for the old woman to serve the King of Han well. The King of Han is a kind and kind elder, and don't have second thoughts because of the old woman.
I died to see the messenger off.
He fell on his sword and died.
King Xiang was angry and killed Wang Ling's mother.
Wang Ling finally followed the King of Han to pacify the world.
Because he was friendly with Yong Chi, who was Gaozu's enemy, and Wang Ling had no intention of obeying Mo, he later granted Wang Ling the title of Marquis of Anguo.
Wang Ling was arbitrary and had no literary talent, and he liked to be outspoken. After serving as Prime Minister You for two years, Emperor Hui died.
Empress Gao wanted to make a man named Lu king and asked about the king's mausoleum.
Wang Ling said: Emperor Gao killed Baima Mengzhe and said: If he is not the Liu family but becomes king, the whole world will attack him together.
It is against the rules to make Lu the king now.
The Queen Mother was not happy.
When I asked the left prime minister Chen Ping and Jianghou Zhou Bo, they all said: Emperor Gao pacified the world and established his children as kings; now the Queen Mother is exercising the power of the emperor and wants to grant brothers surnamed Lu, and there is nothing wrong with it.
The Queen Mother is happy.
After retreating from the court, Wang Ling scolded Chen Ping and Zhou Bo, saying: We made a blood oath with Emperor Gao in the beginning, aren't you here?
Now that Emperor Gao has passed away, the Queen Mother is the heroine and wants to make Lu the king. You all are flattering and breaking the covenant. How can you have the shame to meet Emperor Gao underground!
Chen Ping said: "I am not as good as you in arguing in front of the court; you are not as good as me in preserving the country and stabilizing the descendants of the Liu family."
Wang Ling was speechless.
So Empress Dowager Lu wanted to depose Wang Ling, and promoted Wang Ling to the position of emperor's tutor on the surface, but in fact she took away his power of prime minister.
Wang Ling was angry, resigned due to illness, and stayed behind closed doors to attend court. He died ten years later.
After Wang Ling was dismissed, Empress Dowager Lu promoted Chen Ping to the position of prime minister of the right, and appointed him as the prime minister of the left by the Marquis of Piyang.
Eating it is also a good thing.
When the King of Han was defeated in the west of Pengcheng, the Chu army took the Emperor Taishang and Empress Lu as hostages, and used them as sacrifices to serve Empress Lu.
Later, after defeating Xiang Ji, he was granted the title of Marquis and was favored by Empress Dowager Lu.
When he becomes the prime minister, he does not assume any official duties and supervises the affairs of the palace. He is like a doctor, and all officials make decisions through him.
Lu Xuchang framed Chen Ping many times because he planned to arrest Fan Sha for Emperor Gao. He said: "As prime minister, I don't care about anything. I drink fine wine every day and molest women."
After hearing this, Chen Ping became more and more indulgent day by day.
When Empress Dowager Lu heard about it, she was secretly happy.
In front of Lu Xu, Chen Ping said: As the saying goes, women and children cannot be heard. I want to know what kind of relationship you have with me. Don't be afraid of being framed by Lu Xu.
Empress Dowager Lu appointed many people named Lu as kings, and Chen Ping pretended to obey.
When Empress Dowager Lu died, Chen Ping and Taiwei Zhou Bo conspired to finally kill the people named Lu and establish Emperor Wen. This was Chen Ping's plan.
After reviewing the food, he was removed from the position. Emperor Wen established him and appointed Chen Ping as the prime minister.
Taiwei Zhou Bo personally led his troops to kill the Lu family, which was a great achievement. Chen Qian gave way to Zhou Bo, so he resigned due to illness.
When Emperor Wen was just established, he felt that Chen Ping was strangely ill and asked him. Chen Ping said: During the reign of Emperor Gao, Zhou Bo's merits were not as good as those of his ministers; when he killed Lu, his merits were not as good as those of Zhou Bo.
I hope to give up my position to Zhou Bo.
Therefore, Taiwei Zhou Bo was appointed Prime Minister of the Right, ranking first; Chen Ping was demoted to Prime Minister of the Left, ranking second.
Chen Ping was given a thousand catties of gold and granted three households.
Not long after, the emperor became more familiar with national affairs. He went to court and asked Zhou Bo, the right prime minister: How many cases are handled in the world in a year?
Zhou Bo apologized and said he didn't know.
How much is the world’s annual food income and expenditure?
Zhou Bo apologized again and said he didn't know.
I was sweating profusely and I was ashamed to answer.
The emperor asked Chen Ping, Prime Minister Zuo.
Chen Ping said: There are people in charge.
The emperor said: Who is in charge?
Chen Qian said: If your Majesty interrupts the case, he will ask the court officials; if he asks about food and money, he will ask Zhi Su Nei Shi.
The emperor said: If everyone has a responsible person, then what are you responsible for?
Chen Ping apologized and said: Minister in charge!
Your Majesty did not know that I was stupid, so he appointed me as prime minister.
The prime minister assists the emperor in adjusting the yin and yang, adapting to the four seasons, and acting in accordance with the laws of all things. He regulates the foreign princes externally, and keeps the people close to him internally, so that the ministers and officials can each assume their responsibilities.
The emperor approved.
Zhou Bo was so ashamed that he went out to scold Chen Ping and said, "Why don't you teach me?"
Chen Ping smiled and said: "You are in an official position, don't you know your responsibilities?"
Moreover, if Your Majesty asks about the number of thieves in Chang'an, do you have to force yourself to answer?
So Jianghou himself knew that his talent was far inferior to that of Chen Ping.
Soon after, Zhou Bo resigned from the post, and Chen Ping became prime minister alone.
In the second year of Xiaowen's reign, Chen Ping passed away and Mi was given the title Xianhou.
The descendant passed down to his great-grandson Chen He, who was abandoned in the market for robbing other people's wives.
The royal mausoleum was also passed down to the great-great-grandson, and the feudal state was abolished because the sacrifice money was not enough.
The Marquis of Piyang was killed by the King of Huainan three years after he was dismissed. Emperor Wen let his son Shenping inherit the title.
The king of Zi rebelled, and Piyang was close to Zi. Shenping surrendered to him, and the feudal state was abolished.
At first Chen Ping said: I mostly plot in secret, which is prohibited by Taoism.
My generation has declined, so forget it. After all, it cannot rise again, because I have many hidden troubles.
Later, the great-grandson Chen Zhang became famous because he was a relative of the Wei family. He hoped to have his title renewed, but in the end he did not get it.
Zhou Bo, a native of Pei.
The ancestors were Kun people who migrated to Pei.
Qedong made a living by weaving silkworm-rearing utensils. He often played the flute for people attending funerals, and used his talents as a leader.
When Emperor Gaozu had just become Duke of Pei, Bo followed him as Zhongjuan to attack Huling and attacked Fangyou.
Fang rebelled, fought with the enemy again, and defeated the enemy.
Attack Feng.
Attack the Qin army in Cishu. He came back and was stationed in Liuhexiao.
Attack Ci again and occupy it.
To capture Xiayi, first scale the city wall. He was given the title of Fifth Doctor.
Attacked Meng and Yu and occupied them.
Attack the rear army of Zhang Han's chariots and cavalry.
Capture the land of Wei.
He captured Yuanqi and Shujin, went to Li, and captured it.
To attack Zhisang, first climb the city wall.
Attack the Qin army in Axia and defeat them.
He pursued him to Puyang and captured Qicheng.
He attacked Duguan and Dingtao, captured Wanqu by surprise, and captured the county magistrate Shanfu.
He captured Linji with a night attack, attacked Shouzhang, went to Juan as a vanguard, and defeated Li You at the foot of Yongqiu City.
When attacking Kaifeng, he got to the city first and gained most of the credit.
After Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang, Pei Gong and Xiang Yu led their troops eastward to Jie.
From the beginning of the uprising in Pei to the time he returned to Ci, it lasted one year and two months.
King Huai of Chu granted Duke Pei the title of Marquis of Wu'an and made him the governor of Jie County.
Peigong worshiped Zhou Bo as his assistant and ordered him to do so.
Following Peiping, he conquered the territory of Wei, and attacked Dongjun Wei in Chengwu, and was defeated. To attack Changshe, first climb the city wall.
Attack Yingyang and Fengshi, cross the river crossing, and attack Zauben's army in the north of Shibei.
Go south to attack Nanyang Shouling and occupy Wuguan and Xiguan.
Attack the Qin army in Lantian. To Xianyang.
Destroy Qin.
Xiang Yu came and made Peigong King of Han.
The king of Han granted Zhou Bojue the title of Marquis of Power.
He followed him into Hanzhong and became a general.
He returned to the army to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties and granted him food and virtue.
Attacking Huaili and being good at confrontation will have the highest merit.
Going north to attack Zhao Bi and Nei Shibao in Xianyang, he achieved the highest credit.
Rescue paint on the north side.
Attack Zhang Ping and Yao Yin's army.
Go west to pacify Dingyi.
Returned to capture Yun and Pinyang.
Besieged Zhang Han in Feiqiu and won. Attacked Yi Jijun to the west and won.
Attack Shangbang.
Head east to guard the Pass.
Attack Xiang Ji.
Attacking Quyu has the highest merit.
Go back to guard Aocang and chase Xiang Ji.
After Xiang Ji's death, he pacified Chudi's swimming and Shuhai counties in Shumian, occupying a total of twenty-two counties.
He returned to guard Luoyang and Luyang, and was rewarded with Zhongli as a food town together with Marquis Yingyin.
As a general, he followed Emperor Gaozu to attack King Zangcha of Yan and defeated him at the foot of Yi City.
Most of the soldiers he led served as Gaozu's pioneers.
Confer nobility as a lord, and analyze the talismans from generation to generation.
There are 8,280 households in Shiyijiang.
As a general, he followed Emperor Gao to attack King Xin of Han in Dai and captured the Huo people.
As a vanguard, he went to Wuquan, attacked the Hu cavalry, and defeated them north of Wuquan.
Turn to Tongqian to attack Han Xin's army and win.
Return to the army and surrender the six cities of Taiyuan.
Hu Qi attacked Han Xin at the foot of Jinyang City, won the victory, and occupied Jinyang.
Later, he attacked Han Xin's army at Bishi and won, chasing the defeated army for eighty miles.
He returned to attack the three cities of Loufan, and then attacked the Hu cavalry at the foot of Pingcheng. Most of the soldiers he led served as Gaozu's pioneers.
Zhou Bo was promoted to Taiwei.
Beaten the cattle and massacred the people of Mayi city.
The general who led his soldiers to kill Chen Xi surrendered on horseback.
He moved to Loufan to attack the troops of Han Xin, Chen Xi and Zhao Li and won.
Captured by Chen Xi, Song Zui and Yanmen were trapped.
Then they turned to attack and captured Yunzhong Shouyao, Prime Minister Ji Jie, and General Bo.
The seventeen counties of Yanmen County and the twelve counties of Yunzhong County were pacified.
Then he attacked Chen Xi in Lingqiu and won. They beheaded Chen Xi, Prime Minister Cheng Zong, General Chen Wu, and Captain Gao Xie.
Pingding Daijun nine counties.
King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled, and Zhou Bo, as prime minister, led Fan Sha's army and captured Ji. He captured Lu Wan's general Da, the prime ministers Yan, Shouxing, Taiwei Ruo, and the imperial censor Shi Tuhundu.
Defeated Lu Wan's army in Shanglan, and then attacked Lu Wan's army in Juyang.
After chasing the Great Wall, they pacified twelve counties in Shanggu, sixteen counties in Youbeiping, twenty-nine counties in Liaodong, and twenty-two counties in Yuyang.
Following Emperor Gao, they captured one prime minister, two prime ministers, three generals and two thousand stones. In addition, they defeated two armies, captured three cities, pacified five counties and seventy-nine counties, and captured one prime minister and one general.
Zhou Bo was a simple and honest man, and Emperor Gao believed that he could be entrusted with important tasks.
Zhou Bo didn't like reading. Every time he summoned scholars and debaters, he would sit facing east and urge: "Tell me quickly."
He simply lacks literary talent to this extent.
Zhou Bo pacified Yan and returned. Emperor Gao had passed away. He served Emperor Hui as a prince. In the sixth year of Emperor Hui's reign, the official position of Taiwei was established and Zhou Bo was appointed as Taiwei.
Ten years later, Queen Gao passed away.
Lu Lu appointed King Tong as the general of Mo Shang, and Lu Chan appointed King Lu as the prime minister. He controlled the power of the country and wanted to endanger the Liu family.
Zhou Bo, together with the prime ministers Chen Ping and Zhu Xuhou Zhang, killed everyone surnamed Lu.
The matter is in "Gaohou Ji".
They then plotted secretly, believing that the young emperor and the kings of Ji, Huaiyang and Hengshan were not the sons of Emperor Hui. Empress Dowager Lu used a trick to pretend that someone else's child was a prince, killed his mother, raised him in the harem, and asked Xiaohui to treat him like a son and establish him as a descendant to strengthen the power of the Lu family.
Now that the Lu surname has been eliminated, if the young emperor grows up and takes charge, we will all be exterminated. It is better to select virtuous princes as emperors.
Then he welcomed the acting king, Emperor Xiaowen.
Dongmou Hou Xingju, the younger brother of Zhu Xuhou Zhang, said: "I have no merit in killing Lu. Please let me clear the palace."
Then he and his servant Ruyin, Duke Teng, entered the palace.
Duke Teng stepped forward and said to the young emperor: "You are not the Liu family, so you do not deserve to be the emperor."
Then he turned around and waved away the halberds on his left and right, and they all put down their weapons and dispersed.
Several people refused to leave, and the eunuch ordered Zhang Shi to inform everyone, and then they left.
Duke Teng called for a chariot to carry the young emperor out of the palace.
The young emperor said: Where do you want to take me?
Teng Gong said: "Go to the Shaofu's residence."
Then he drove the emperor's chariot and horse to the residence to greet the emperor and reported: The palace has been cleared.
When the emperor entered Weiyang Palace, there were ten visitors holding halberds guarding the main entrance of the palace, saying: The emperor is here, what are you doing?
Can't go in.
The Taiwei went to report the matter, then led his troops to leave, and the Emperor went in.
That night, the officials divided into several groups and killed them at the residences of King Jichuan, Huaiyang, and Changshan and the young emperor.
Emperor Wen ascended the throne and appointed Zhou Bo as the right prime minister. He was rewarded with five thousand catties of gold and food for ten thousand households.
More than ten months later, someone advised Zhou Bo: You have killed all the people surnamed Lu and established a king, which is powerful in the world. If you accept a large reward and are in a high position and are satisfied with it, great disaster will come.
Zhou Bo was afraid and felt he was in danger, so he apologized and asked for the seal to be returned.
The emperor agreed.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Chen Ping died, and the emperor appointed Zhou Bo as prime minister.
More than ten months later, the emperor said: Some time ago, I issued an edict to allow the princes to return to the feudal country, but many people did not go. The Prime Minister is my most important person and he wants to lead the princes back to the country for me.
Then he was relieved of his position and returned to the feudal country.
More than a year later, whenever the Hedong governor visited Jiang County, Jiang Hou Zhou Bo himself was afraid of being killed, so he often wore armor and asked his family members to meet him with weapons.
Later, someone wrote a letter accusing Zhou Bo of rebelling, and he was sent to Tingwei to arrest Zhou Bo and convict him.
Zhou Bo was scared and didn't know how to answer correctly.
The clerk slightly insulted him.
Zhou Bo gave the jailer a thousand catties of gold, and the jailer wrote on the back of the wooden slips for him to read. Ask the princess to testify.
The princess was the daughter of Emperor Xiaowen and the wife of Prince Zhou Bo Shengzhi, so the jailer taught him to let the princess testify.
At first, Zhou Bo gave all the land he had sealed to Bo Zhao.
When it became urgent to be arrested, Bo Zhao spoke for him in front of Queen Mother Bo, who also believed that there was no treason.
When Emperor Wen went to court, the Queen Mother threw her turban to Emperor Wen and said: Marquis Jiang held the emperor's seal and led troops in the Northern Army. He did not rebel at this time. Now he lives in a small county, but he wants to rebel!
Emperor Wen had read Zhou Bo's judgment and apologized, saying: "The officials are verifying and releasing him."
So he sent an envoy with a talisman to pardon Zhou Bo and restore his title and title.
Zhou Bo was released from prison and said: I once commanded an army of millions, how did I know that the jailer was so noble?
Zhou Bo returned to the feudal state again. Xiaowen died in the eleventh year, and Mi was given the title of Marquis Wu.
His son Shengzhi succeeded to the throne, but his marriage to the princess was unsatisfactory. He was executed for murder and the feudal state was abolished.
A year later, Emperor Wen selected Zhou Bo's son Yafu, the virtuous governor of Hanoi, and made him a marquis.
Yafu was a punctual person in Hanoi, and Xu Fu gave him a face: "You will be a marquis in three years."
After eight years as a marquis, he became a general and prime minister, in charge of the country, and had a noble status, unique among ministers.
Starved to death nine years later.
Yafu smiled and said: My brother has succeeded his father as a marquis. If he dies, his son will inherit. How can I talk about becoming a marquis?
But if you are as noble as Xu Negiyan said, how can you say that you will starve to death?
Point it out to me.
Xu Negiyan pointed to his mouth and said: "The vertical lines at the entrance are the lines of starvation."
Three years later, his elder brother Jianghou Sheng was found guilty. Emperor Wen selected the virtuous among Zhou Bo's sons. They all recommended Yafu and made him Tiaohou.
Six years after Emperor Wen's reign, the Xiongnu invaded the border in large numbers.
He appointed Zongzheng and Liu Li as the generals and garrisoned at Ba Shang, Zhu Zihou Xu Li as the generals and garrisoned at Jimen, and appointed Hanoi Shou Yafu as the generals and garrisoned at Xiliu to guard against the barbarians.
The emperor personally expressed his condolences to the army. He went to Bashang and the Thorny Gate Army and drove straight in. The following officials rode in and out to greet them.
Then we went to the Binaliu Army. The officers and soldiers in the army were wearing armor, sharpening their swords, drawing their bows and crossbows, and drawing the strings fully. The emperor's pioneers arrived, but they could not get in.
The pioneer said: The emperor is coming!
The captain of the military gate said: The army obeys the general's orders but not the emperor's edicts.
After a while, the emperor arrived, but he couldn't get in.
So the emperor sent an envoy to take the talisman and tell the general: "I want to comfort the army."
Yafu sent word to open the camp gate.
The gatekeeper of the camp asked for the cavalry and said: "The general has stipulated that horses are not allowed to gallop in the army."
So the emperor fastened his horse's reins and walked slowly.
When he arrived at the middle camp, he bowed to the general and his husband and said: "Men in armor do not kneel down to worship. Please allow me to show you military salutes."
The emperor was moved by this, looked solemn, and supported Che Shi. Send someone to announce: The emperor respectfully expresses his condolences to the general.
Leave after the ceremony.
After leaving the camp gate, the ministers were all frightened.
Emperor Wen said: Ah, this is the real general!
Previously, Bashang and Thorny Gate were like child's play, and the general would definitely be attacked and captured.
As for Yafu, can he invade?
Praise him for a long time. More than a month later, all three armies withdrew.
He appointed Yafu as lieutenant.
Before Emperor Wen died, he warned the prince: If there is an emergency, Zhou Yafu can really be appointed to lead the army.
Emperor Wen died, and Yafu became a chariot and cavalry general.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wu Chu rebelled.
As a lieutenant, Yafu performed the duties of a Taiwei and went east to attack Wu Chu.
So he asked the emperor: "The Chu soldiers are strong and agile, and it is difficult to compete with them."
I hope that by abandoning Liang to it and cutting off their food routes, they can conquer it.
The emperor agreed.
Yafu set out and arrived at Bashang. Chang She stopped Yafu and said, "General, go eastward to destroy Wu and Chu. If you win, the ancestral temple will be stable. If you fail, the world will be in danger. Can you adopt my opinion?"
Yafu got out of the car and asked him after saluting.
Zhao She said: The King of Wu has always been rich and has long recruited scholars who are willing to die for service. Now that he knows that the general is going, he will definitely set up an ambush at a narrow and dangerous place, and the secret of war is important. Why doesn't the general go to the right from now on, pass through Lantian, leave Wuguan, and arrive at Luoyang, which is only a day or two away. He can directly enter the weapons warehouse and beat the war drums.
When the princes heard this, they thought the general had fallen from the sky.
The Taiwei acted according to his plan.
When they arrived in Luoyang, they sent a small official to search Sanxingjian, and sure enough they found Wu's ambush.
So he asked Zhao She to be the guard.
After Yafu arrived, he gathered his troops in Rongyang.
Wu Zheng attacked Liang, and Liang was in danger and asked for help.
Yafu led his troops to the northeast toward Changyi and built a stronghold to defend it.
The king of Liang sent an envoy to request Yafu, but Yafu considered the situation and refused to go.
King Liang wrote to Emperor Jing and Emperor Jing issued an edict asking him to save Liang.
Yafu disobeyed Shao's order and defended the camp without sending troops. He sent light cavalry, Gong Gaohou and others to cut off the Wu Chu army's rear food route.
Wu Chu's soldiers were short of food and hungry, and wanted to retreat. They challenged him many times but refused to go out.
At night, there was a commotion in the army, internal attacks and commotion, and they arrived at the tent.
Yafu lay still and couldn't get up.
After a while, it settled down again.
Wu Jun rushed to the southeast corner of the camp, while Yafu Rang guarded the northwest corner.
Soon the enemy's elite troops rushed to the northwest and could not attack.
Wu Chu's army was short of food, so they withdrew their troops. Yafu sent out elite troops to pursue and defeated Wu Wangbi.
Wu Wangbi abandoned his army and fled with thousands of warriors to protect himself in Dantu in the south of the Yangtze River.
Taking advantage of the victory, the Han soldiers finally captured them all, surrendered all counties, and offered a reward of thousands of gold to the King of Wu.
More than a month later, the Yue people chopped off King Wu's head to report.
After a total of three months of attack and defense, Wu Chu was pacified. Then the generals believed that the Taiwei's plan was correct.
From then on, there was a conflict between King Xiao of Liang and Yafu.
After returning, he appointed Taiwei officers.
Five years later, he was promoted to prime minister, and Emperor Jing valued him very much.
The emperor abolished Prince Li. Yafu argued resolutely but failed.
The emperor therefore distanced himself from him.
And every time Liang Xiaowang went to court, he often talked to the Queen Mother about Yafu's shortcomings.
Empress Dowager Dou said: The empress's brother Wang Xin can be made a marquis.
The emperor reproached him and said: In the past, Nanpi and Zhangwu, the first emperors, did not ennoble themselves as marquises, but when their ministers came to the throne, they would do so. Wang Xin could not do so.
Empress Dowager Dou said: In life, everyone acts according to the current situation.
When Dou Changjun was still alive, he could not be granted the title of marquis in the end. After his death, his son Peng Zu was granted the title of marquis.
I regret it very much.
The emperor quickly makes Wang Xin a marquis!
The emperor said: Please allow me to discuss this with the prime minister.
Yafu said: Emperor Gao stipulated that it was not that the Liu family could not be granted the title of king, nor that the Liu family could not be granted the title of marquis without merit.
If he did not abide by the regulations, everyone in the world attacked him. Now, although Wang Xin is the elder brother of the queen, he has no merit and is granted a title, which is against the regulations.
The emperor remained silent and stopped the matter.
Later, King Xu Lu of the Xiongnu and five others surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The emperor wanted to make him a marquis to encourage his descendants.
Yafu said: He betrayed his master and surrendered to your majesty, and your majesty made him a marquis. How can he blame his unruly ministers?
The emperor said: The prime minister's suggestion cannot be adopted.
Then they all conferred the title of marquis on Xulu and others.
Yafu then claimed that the disease was exempting him from the phase.
Soon, the emperor was in the palace and summoned Yafu to reward him with food.
Just a big piece of meat, not chopped meat, and no chopsticks.
Yafu was dissatisfied and turned around to ask the chairman to get his chopsticks.
The emperor looked at him and smiled and said: Doesn't this satisfy your needs?
Yafu took off his hat and apologized to the emperor. The emperor said: Get up.
Yafu walked out quickly in small steps.
The emperor saw him off and said: He is dissatisfied and not a minister of the young master.
Not long after, Yafu's son bought five hundred Shangfang Jiaxun from the work officer for his father, preparing to be buried with him.
The hired workers work hard and are not paid.
The hired workers knew that he secretly bought the emperor's utensils, resented him and informed the court that he wanted to rebel. The matter affected Yafu.
After the letter was submitted, the emperor asked it to be handed over to the officials for investigation.
The officials used the official documents to question Yafu, but Yafu did not answer.
The emperor scolded him and said: I don't need you to answer.
Summoned to the Tingwei.
Tingwei asked, "Why did you build it?"
Yafu said: What I bought is a burial vessel. How can it be made?
The clerk said: Either you want to rebel on the ground, or you want to rebel underground.
The clerk bullied him even more.
At first, the officials arrested Yafu. Yafu wanted to commit suicide, but his wife stopped him. So before he could commit suicide, he was imprisoned in the court, where he did not eat for five days and died of vomiting blood.
The feudal state was abolished.
A year later, the emperor changed the title of Zhou Jian, another son of Jianghou Zhou Bo, to the title of Pingquhou and succeeded Jianghou.
He passed it on to his son Jiande and became the crown prince and tutor. He was dismissed from office because the amount of money offered as an aide was insufficient.
Later he was found guilty and the feudal state was abolished.
Yafu indeed starved to death.
After his death, the emperor made Wang Xin a marquis.
In the second year of the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, in order to inherit the kingdom of Juesi, Zhou Gong, the son of Zhou Bo's great-great-grandson, was granted the title of Marquis of Jiang, with the title of a thousand households in the city.
Zan said: After hearing Zhang Liang's wisdom and bravery, I thought he was tall and majestic, but I didn't know that he looked like a woman.
Therefore, Confucius said that people should be judged by their appearance and made mistakes with Ziyu.
Scholars all suspect ghosts and gods. For example, Zhang Liang got a book from an old man, which was also strange.
Emperor Gaozu was in trouble many times, and Zhang Liang often came to the rescue. Can it be said that it was not God's will?
Chen Ping's ambition was expressed in the society, and he defected to the chaotic Chu and Wei, and finally returned to Yimo and became a counselor.
When he arrived at Empress Lu, many things happened, but Chen Ping was actually safe and managed to live an old age with wisdom.
Wang Ling argued in the court and isolated himself from the world, which was also his own ambition.
When Zhou Bo was a commoner, he was a clumsy and mediocre person. When he became a minister, he helped the country in crisis, killed the surname Lu, established Xiaowen, and became the Yi Zhou of the Han Dynasty. How prominent!
At first, Empress Lu asked about the choice of prime minister. Gaozu said: Chen Ping is resourceful and Wang Ling is a bit straight-forward, so he can assist him; it must be Zhou Bo who can stabilize the Liu family.
He asked the next person again and said, "You can't see anything more than this."
In the end, everyone agreed with these words. What a sage!
