Fan Yun, courtesy name Yanlong, was born in Wuyin, Nanxiang, and was the sixth-generation descendant of Jiewang, the Pingbei general of the Jin Dynasty.
When he was eight years old, he met Yin Yan, the governor of Yuzhou in the Song Dynasty, on the road. Yin Yan saw that his appearance was very unusual, so he invited him to sit with him.
Yin Yan asked him to compose a poem, and he wrote it immediately.
Everyone present was impressed. Fan Yun once studied with his relative Yuan Zhao and worked tirelessly day and night.
Yuan Zhao patted his shoulder and said, "You are bright and cheerful, and you are diligent in studying." He will definitely be a talented person in the future.
Fan Yun has been smart and flexible since he was a child, and he is insightful when dealing with things. He is good at writing articles and is familiar with various literary styles such as letters.
His father, Fan Kang, served in the Ying Mansion and joined the army. Fan Yun lived with his father in Fubao. At that time, Shen Yue from Wuxing, Yu Daizhi from Xinye, and Fan Kangtong were working in Ying Mansion. Fan Yun immediately became good friends after meeting them.
Fan Yun first served as Shuzuo of Xicao in Yingzhou, and then joined the army as Cao Xing of Facao.
Soon Shen Youzhi rebelled and raised troops to besiege Ying City. Fan Kang was appointed Changliu of Ying Mansion at that time and entered the city to take charge of defense, leaving his family members outside the city.
Fan Yun was captured by enemy soldiers, and Youzhi interrogated him personally. His tone was very stern, but Fan Yun's appearance remained unchanged and he answered calmly.
After hearing this, Youzhi smiled and said: "You are such a pleasant child. Go home for now."
The next morning, Youzhi sent for Fan Yun again and ordered him to deliver a message to Cheng Bao.
Some of the defenders in the city advocated killing Fan Yun. Fan Yun said: I have an old mother and a young brother at home outside the city. Their lives are all in Shen's hands. If I disobey orders, they will be harmed. Today I am killed for them, and I am willing to die without any regrets.
Longshi Ryu Shiryong Pingsuo was friendly with Fan Yun and managed to save him from death.
In the early years of Jianyuan of Qi Dynasty, Prince Liang of Jingling became the prefect of Kuaiji, and Fan Yun just started to follow Prince Jingling at that time.
The king didn't know him well. It happened that King Jingling was visiting Qinwang Mountain. The king asked the people around him to identify the ancient characters on the stone inscriptions, but no one could understand them. Only Fan Yun could read the inscriptions. King Jingling was very happy. From then on, Jiang Zhou was favored more than anyone else in the same house.
When King Jingling was appointed Danyang Yin, Fan Yun was summoned to be the chief administrator, and he was highly valued by his close associates.
When he came to see Emperor Gao of Qi, someone happened to offer a white crow. Emperor Gao asked what this meant was a sign. Because Fan Yun was in a low position, he finally replied: I heard that when the emperor worships the ancestral temple, white crows will come.
At that time, the visit to the ancestral temple had just ended.
Emperor Yigao said: Just as you said.
The principle of induction between heaven and man can be so miraculously consistent.
Fan Yun later transferred to the prison of the North and South County Prince to join the military. He also served as the chief secretary and was promoted to the position of Zhonglang in the Shangshu Palace.
When Xiao Ziliang was a Situ, Jianyun joined the military affairs department and was soon awarded the title of Minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, and also the chief of the Honshu Dazhongzheng.
Later, he served as the internal history of Lingling. During his tenure, he was able to keep himself clean and tidy, eliminating many cumbersome government orders and unnecessary expenses, so that the people could live and work in peace and contentment.
Emperor Qi Ming summoned Fan Yun back to the capital. After arriving, he was granted the title of Minister of Sanqi.
He also served as the internal history of Shixing.
There are many powerful and cunning families in Shixing County. If the county governor does not treat them well, they will conspire to kill him together. If they fail, they will drive the governor away.
The border counties of Shixing were inhabited by barbarian tribes, and there were particularly many thieves in these areas. In the past, all the officials in the imperial office wore weapons for self-defense.
After Fan Yun arrived in Shixing, he used his kindness to appease them and removed the surveillance post.
The merchants who came and went could sleep in peace, and the people in the county praised him as a god, so he was promoted to Jiajie, General Jianwu, General Pingyue Zhonglang, and Governor of Guangzhou.
At the beginning, Ji Yun was friendly with Shangshu Pu Shesi Yu, and his younger brother served as the magistrate of Diliao County, entrusting Xian Yi to Lian Nuo for care.
Zhanli is a wealthy family in the county. He was punished by Xu Yi and was flogged. Tan Bao felt humiliated and went to the capital to accuse Fan Yun. Fan Yun was recalled to the capital and convicted and imprisoned. It happened to be an amnesty and he was exempted from punishment.
In the second year of Qi Yongyuan, he was re-appointed as Dr. Guozi.
At first, Ji Yun had met Luan Chandan at the residence of King Tuzao of Zhajing. Yi had lived in a nearby lane, and Liang Gaozu thought highly of him.
When the army opposing Shuhunhou arrived in the capital, Fan Yun was in the city.
After Saihunhou was executed, Zhang Ji, the servant, sent Fan Yun out of the city with a mission. Luan Gaozu kept him and made him serve as a staff officer in the army and strategize. He was also awarded the title of Huangmen Shilang, and worked together with Shen Yue to assist Gaozu.
Soon he was promoted to Grand Sima, joined the army and recorded affairs.
After the establishment of the Liang Dynasty, Fan Yun was promoted to the rank of Shizhong.
At that time, Liang Gaozuna married Qi Shuhunhou's concubine Yu, which seriously affected the government affairs of the court. Fan Yun once made a remonstrance about this, but it was not accepted.
Later, Fan Yun and Wang Mao entered Gaozu's bedroom and remonstrated again: When Mo Xuanzu was in Shandong in the past, he was greedy for wealth and loved beautiful women; but after entering the customs and pacifying the Qin Dynasty, he did not collect property or be intimate with women. Fan Zeng believed that this was because of his lofty ambitions.
Now, Your Majesty, you have just stabilized the world, and everyone in the world admires your reputation. How can you follow in the footsteps of the confused king and be dragged down by women and delay the great event?
Wang Mao also took the opportunity to stand up and bow down and said: "What Fan Yun said is absolutely true. My lord, you must put the world's major events first and you should not regret the future."
Emperor Gaozu was silent after hearing this.
Fan Yun then went to Shu and suggested that Wang Mao should be rewarded with the Yu family. Emperor Gaozu thought that what he said was loyal and upright, so he approved it.
The next day, Emperor Gaozu rewarded Fan Yun and Wang Mao with one million coins each.
In the first year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu of Liang received Zen and ascended the throne. He held a ceremony of burning firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven in the southern suburbs. Fan Yun participated in the ceremony as an attendant.
After the sacrifice ceremony, Emperor Gaozu boarded the chariot and said to Fan Yun: My mood today is just like what the ancients said: being cautious is like driving six horses with rotten reins.
Fan Yun replied: I hope your Majesty will become more cautious every day.
Emperor Gaozu admired Fan Yun very much.
On the same day, he was awarded the title of Changshi of Sanqi and Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. He was also granted the title of Marquis of Xiaocheng County with the title of Marquis of Xiaocheng County, with a settlement of 1,000 households for his meritorious service in assisting the emperor to ascend the throne.
Fan Yun was promoted based on his old friendship with Emperor Gaozu, and his official position was higher than that of other ministers who served. He also devoted his loyalty to assisting the king and tried his best to do everything he could think of.
Emperor Gaozu also appointed him with confidence and boldness, and most of the things asked by Fan Yun were granted.
Fan Yun once accompanied the imperial banquet. Emperor Gaozu said to Xiao Hong, King of Linchuan, and Xiao Hui, King of Poyang: Fan Shangshu and I have been friendly and affectionate as brothers since we were young. Now that I am the lord of the world, this brotherly courtesy has become the relationship between monarch and minister. You should call Fan Yun brother on my behalf.
The two kings left the banquet to pay homage and offered homage, and took a carriage with Fan Yun back to the lower province of Shangshu. People at that time were very proud of Fan Yun.
In this year, the crown prince was established, and Fan Yun took over the crown prince's concubine with his original official position. Soon he was promoted to the right servant of the minister, and he still held the post of official official.
Later, he was found guilty of employing people against the emperor's will and was dismissed from the official position, but still served as a servant.
Fan Yun has an honest and easy-going temperament, and serves his widowed sister-in-law with all his heart and courtesy. All matters at home must be discussed with his widowed sister-in-law before being implemented.
He likes integrity, advocates great deeds, and is dedicated to helping others in distress.
When he was a child, he was friendly with the commander Shi Wangke. Later Wangke died in the official house. The family was poor and did not have a house of his own, so Fan Yun transported the deceased back to his home and personally handled all the funeral arrangements.
When serving Prince Jingling, he received great favor and courtesy. But every time Fan Yun spoke about his achievements and failures in politics, he never showed any flattery.
Ziliang once asked Emperor Wu of Qi to select Fan Yun as the county governor.
Emperor Wu said: Fan Yun is a mediocre man. I heard that he often shows off his talents. I will not pursue it thoroughly now. I should forgive him and go to a remote place to serve.
Ziliang replied: That's not the case.
Fan Yun often advised and taught me, and the documents of his admonitions are still preserved. Please let me get them and present them to you.
When I took a look, I found more than a hundred pieces of paper, all with sincere and candid words.
Emperor Wu sighed infinitely, so he said to Ziliang: I didn't expect Fan Yun to be like this.
You just let him assist you, how can you let him go out to be a county guard?
Prince Qi Wenhui once went to Shutian to watch the harvest of crops. He turned around and said to his entourage: "It turns out that harvesting crops is also worth seeing."
Everyone is just right.
Only Fan Yun said: The busy farming season three times a year is really a long-term hard work. I hope that Your Highness can understand the hardship of farming and not be greedy for one-day pleasure and ease.
After coming out of Shutian, the servant Xiao Mian, who had not known Fan Yun before, approached Fan Yun's car, held his hand and said: I didn't expect to hear words of loyalty again today.
When Fan Yun was in charge of selecting officials, he held a noble and prestigious position. There were piles of letters and documents, and the house was full of guests. However, Fan Yun was able to cope with the situation smoothly without any obstruction. The official documents and instructions were sent out quickly. People at that time admired his intelligence and erudition.
Fan Yun's character was straightforward and easily excited, lacking dignity and solemnity. He showed his right and wrong in his heart rashly, and some scholar-bureaucrats were dissatisfied with him because of this.
At first, when Fan Yun became the county governor, people praised him for his integrity. However, after he became more powerful, he valued giving gifts to others. However, the family had no savings, so whenever he had income, he immediately distributed it to relatives and friends.
In the second year of Tianjian, Fan Yun died at the age of fifty-three.
Emperor Gaozu burst into tears when he heard the news, and immediately drove to express his condolences in person.
The edict was issued and said: Recalling the past makes people feel sad, which is due to deep emotions; besides, his reputation and reputation are still among us, and he is a highly valued minister.
The late Sanqi Changshi, Shangshu Youpuse, and Xiaocheng Hou Fanyun were loyal and upright in the eyes of the law. They made far-sighted plans for national affairs. They had great ambitions in their early years and had a long-standing reputation for their daily work.
Since he took off his turban and became an official, Qingming's political achievements have been very remarkable.
He is indeed the prime minister and assistant minister that everyone looks up to when co-managing state affairs in the DPRK.
His diligent assistance and his righteousness have always been engraved in my heart. Although he is not in charge of military affairs, he is a civil servant who has long discussed and planned government affairs with me.
Just when he had a long way to go and had been supporting the country for a long time, he suddenly lost his life, which really makes people feel infinitely sad.
Officials, titles, ranks, and salaries should be given to complete the beautiful system.
He can be given the posthumous title of Shizhong or General of the Guard, but the title of Pushe or Marquis remains unchanged.
And rewarded with a drum band.
Officials from the Ministry of Rites requested that the title of Mi be added as Xuan, and the emperor ordered that the title of Mi should be changed to Wen.
There are thirty volumes of collected works.
His son Fan Xiaocai inherited the title and became a prince.
Shen Yue, courtesy name Xiuwen, was born in Wukang, Wuxing.
His grandfather, Shen Linzi, was the general of Nanchi Sai.
His father Yilong once served as the prefect of Kuangzhi.
Xuan Hui was executed in the last years of Yuanjia. The young Shen Yue hid in Tibet to avoid persecution. Only after a general amnesty did he avoid exile.
After that, he lived in a foreign country for a long time and faced a life of loneliness and poverty. However, he was determined to learn and worked tirelessly day and night.
His mother was worried that he would become ill from overwork, so she often cut down the lamp oil and extinguished the lights to make him go to bed early.
However, Shen Yue just read during the day and recited silently at night. Finally, he read a lot of books and wrote good articles.
At the beginning, Yibao served as a court official.
Yuanbao Ji Xingsai heard that he was talented and appreciated him very much. When Cai Xingzong was appointed governor of Yingzhou, he invited foreign soldiers from Anxi to join the army and also served as a recorder.
Tomb Emperor Zong often said to his sons: Shen Jishi's conduct can serve as a model for others, and you should learn from him.
Later, Cai Xingzong was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, and he asked someone to join the army in the Zhengxi Record Office to lead the magistrate of Youxian County.
After Cai Xingzong's death, he began to appoint Facao, King of Anxi and Jin Dynasties, to join the army, transfer to foreign soldiers to join the army, and also serve as a recorder.
He became Shangshu Duzhilang.
At the beginning of the investigation, Yimian was the record room of Zhenglu, with the order of Sedang, and the one he served was the king of Mansese.
The prince moved into Shu Palace and was appointed as the captain of the infantry school. He was in charge of the secretary of the East Palace, directing Yongshou Province and collating four books.
During the period of time, there were many talented people in the palace of the prince, but Shen Yue was particularly close and trusted. He went to the palace every morning to pay homage to the prince, and did not come out until the sun was setting in the west.
At that time, the princes went to the East Palace to see the prince, but some of them were not allowed to enter. This matter was often mentioned in the palace.
The prince said: I am always too lazy to get up early. You know this. After listening to your talk, I forget to sleep.
If you want me to get up early, come to the palace early to see me.
He was moved to the crown prince's family, and later he was appointed as an official and a scholar, moved to Zhongshu Lang, Zhongzheng of the city, Situ Youchangshi, and Huangmen Shilang.
At that time, King Jingling was also looking for talented people. Shen Yue, Xiao Chen of Lanling, Wang Rong of Langxie, Xie Tiao of Chenjun, Fan Yun of Nanxiang, Ren Fang of Le'an and others all visited the palace of King Jingling. Everyone in the world praised King Jingling for his ability to know people.
Soon he was appointed as Minister Zuocheng, and then as Yushi Zhongcheng, and he was transferred to the chariot and long history.
In the first year of Longchang, he was promoted to general Ningshuo and prefect of Shuyang in addition to the officials.
When Emperor Ming of Qi came to the throne, Shen Yue was promoted to the title of General of the Auxiliary State, appointed as the Minister of the Five Arms, and moved to the State to offer wine.
Emperor Ming died, and the government returned to the prime minister. Shangshu ordered Xu Xiaosi to let Shen Yue write a decree to dispatch Shao.
He was moved to the left guard general, and soon became a regular servant of Zhi Sanqi.
In the second year of Yongyuan, because his mother was old and petitioned to be relieved of his post, he was awarded the titles of Champion General and Situ Zuo Changshi, and the titles of General Zhenglu and Grand Administrator of Nanqinghe.
At the beginning, when Gaozu was in the west residence of King Jingling, he had an old acquaintance with Shen. After the city of Jiankang was captured, he was sent down to the Hussars and Sima, and he continued to serve as a general.
During the period of Emperor Gaozu's great achievements, ascending the throne and proclaiming himself emperor was the will of God and the people's will. Shen Yue once raised this issue with Gaozu, but Gaozu responded silently.
Another day, Shen Yue spoke to Emperor Gaozu again and said: Today is different from ancient times. We cannot expect everyone to maintain a simple style.
The scholar-bureaucrats all cling to the dragon and the phoenix, hoping to gain a certain amount of merit in order to ensure their fortune.
Now even the children and shepherd boys know that Qi's energy is exhausted, and everyone says that you should take his place.
Moreover, no matter astronomy or human affairs, there are signs of changes in the national destiny, especially since Shuhun Hou Yongyuan.
The prophecy says that if you walk in water, you will become the emperor, and this is clearly recorded.
God's will cannot be disobeyed, and the human heart cannot be lost. If God arranges it this way, even if you want to be humble and courteous, in fact you will not be able to do it. Gaozu said: I am considering this matter.
Shen Yue also said: When Duke Ming first raised his troops between Fancheng and Mianshui, he should have considered this. Now that the emperor's foundation is ready, what else is there to consider?
In the past, King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty crusaded against the Shang Dynasty. When he first entered the court, people called him my king. King Wu did not go against people's wishes and had nothing to consider.
Since Ming Gong came to Jiankang in Kyoto, his Qi has been established. Compared with King Wu of Zhou, it is just different sooner or later.
If you do not decide on your great cause in advance, you will delay the hope of heaven and man, and if anyone raises objections, it will damage your majesty.
Moreover, people are not like gold and stone, and current events are unpredictable.
Should we just leave the title of Duke Jian'an to future generations?
If the emperor returns to the capital and the ministers each have their respective positions, then the status between the monarch and his ministers has been determined, and they will no longer have any dissent.
So if the king is a wise man and is at the top, and the ministers are loyal and fulfill their duties below, how can anyone join you in rebelling again?
Gaozu thought it was right.
After Shen Yue resigned, Gaozu summoned Fan Yun again to ask his opinion. Fan Yun's answer was roughly the same as Shen Yue's.
Emperor Gaozu said: What a wise man sees is so coincident. I will come back tomorrow morning with Shen Xiuwen.
After Fan Yun resigned, he told Shen Yue what Gaozu had said. Shen Yue said: Sir, you must wait for me.
Fan Yun promised. The next day, Shen Yue arrived first, and Emperor Gaozu ordered him to draft a Shao letter for Khotan to ascend the throne.
Shen Yue took out the Shao Shu and the list of candidates that had been prepared in advance from his arms. Gao Zu did not make any changes.
After a while, Fan Yun came from outside. He could not enter the palace gate, so he had to wander outside Shouguang Pavilion, making strange "duh" sounds in his mouth.
When Shen Yue came out, Fan Yun asked: What was the result?
Shen Yue raised his hand to the left, indicating that the matter was settled. Fan Yun smiled and said: "It will live up to expectations."
After a while, Emperor Gaozu summoned Fan Yun and said to him: I have been with Shen Xiuwen all my life, and I didn't think there was anything different about him. Today, I see that he is very intelligent and wise.
Fan Yun said: Ming Gong understands Shen Yue only now, just like Shen Yue understands Ming Gong only today.
Emperor Gaozu said: It has been three years since I started the army. All the meritorious officers and generals have indeed made meritorious service. However, it is you two who can make me achieve my imperial career.
When the Liang Kingdom was established, Shen Yue was a regular servant of Sanqi, a minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and a right-hand servant.
Emperor Gaozu was enthroned by Zen, appointed Shen Yue as a minister and a servant, and was granted the feudal title of Marquis of Changxian County.
He also consecrated Shen Yue's mother, Xie, as Mrs. Jianchang.
On the day he was given the order, his right servant She Fan Yun and more than 20 people came to congratulate him. Everyone in the government and the public considered Shen Yue to be extremely honorable.
Soon he was moved to Zuopushe, Shangshu, and served as a regular attendant as before.
Soon he also led the army and served as a servant.
In the second year of Tianjian's reign, Shen Yue's mother passed away. Emperor Gaozu came to pay his respects in person. Because Shen Yue was old and it was not appropriate for his mother's death to affect his health, Emperor Gaozu sent people from Zhongshushe to stop the guests and persuade him to refrain from mourning.
He was appointed Shen Yue, general of the town army, Danyang Yin, and appointed assistant history officer.
When the period of mourning was over, he moved to Shizhong, Youguanglu, the official, and took charge of Prince Zhan Shi. Yangzhou Dazhongzheng reported to the emperor the eight articles of Shangshu, and moved to Shangshu Ling. He served as Shizhong, Zhanshi, and Zhongzheng.
After repeated submissions of resignation, he was granted the title of Shangshu Zuopushe, Lingzhongshuling, former general, appointed assistant historian, and served as a servant as before.
Soon he was moved to the post of Shangshu Ling and led the prince's young master.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, he was transferred to Dr. Zuo Guanglu and served as Shizhong and Shaofu. He was given the title of a drummer band.
At first, Shen Yue had been in the position of prime minister for a long time and often yearned for the position of the Three Dukes. Current commentaries also believed that he was suitable for this position. However, Emperor Gaozu never agreed. Shen Yue then requested to go out to serve, but the emperor did not allow it.
Shen Yueyu Xu Mian was always friendly, so he wrote to Xu Mian to express his feelings. He said: I was lonely when I was young, and I had no relatives around me to rely on. The past is about to become a thing of the past. I am troubled by hard government affairs morning and night. Although I only hold a humble official position with hard work, it is not for my own selfish gain. I just hope to get a meager salary and let me return to my hometown.
Ten years later, I was ashamed to be appointed as the magistrate of Xiangyang County. No matter from the public or private aspects, I was not qualified for the job. However, I had to rely on the help of others and had to enter the official career with difficulty.
In the late years of Qi Yongming, when he was appointed as the prefect of Shuyang, he was already contented. However, in the early years of Qi Jianwu, the world was turbulent and unstable. Once he left his hometown, he was never allowed to return, making things extremely difficult and difficult.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, when the emperor was in power, the state ordered many people to go out. Therefore, I planned to retire from the world. It was probably okay. At that time, I asked you to express your feelings to Xu Ling on your behalf. I think you have not forgotten it.
Nowadays, the king's way has risen and we are in a prosperous age. The ambitions and wishes of the past have become mistakes again.
Now is the beginning of the founding of the country, and the worship of gods will be repeated in the future. However, I asked to resign and go home, but the emperor was not allowed to do so. If it is really impossible to promote morality and promote the politics of the court, then I will have to look for books and books to discuss the similarities and differences in current affairs.
Since the beginning of the year, my illness has worsened, which has made me even more worried. Perhaps because human life is limited, overwork will inevitably lead to exhaustion, and reaching the twilight years of life will inevitably restrict people's behavior, so I have to try my best to do more things.
From the outside, I still look like a complete person, but my appearance and physical strength are no longer the same. You often need to restrain yourself before you can do something reluctantly.
But after he undressed and lay down on the bed, his limbs were no longer connected to his body.
I often have fever in my upper body and coldness in my lower limbs, which gets worse day by day. I feel stuffy and have a headache when I light a fire to keep warm. Once I encounter cold, I will definitely have diarrhea. After each recovery, my body becomes worse than before, and my condition becomes more serious than the previous time.
In just a few hundred days, the body loses weight, and the holes in the belt often need to be moved, and the arms are held with hands, shrinking by about half a point every month.
Based on this calculation, how long can it be supported?
If he does not rest now, day after day, it will bring irreparable consequences to the court.
I am now going to the court to ask for the rank of resigning and returning to my old age.
If God allows me to live a few more years, give me a healthy body, and have the intelligence and ability to do my job, then I hope to be ordered by the king to serve the country.
Xu Mian proposed to Gaozu and asked him to give him the ceremonial guard of the Three Dukes. Gaozu did not agree and only encouraged him in the ceremonial guard.
Shen Yue was not a drinker by nature and had no hobbies. Although the emperor showed great favor to him, his life was very frugal and simple.
He built a house in Dongtian with a view of the mountains in the suburbs. He once wrote "Residence in the Suburbs" to express his feelings. The words of the poem are: Only those with high moral standards can forget the trivial matters around them and themselves.
People with mediocre intelligence value life above all else.
All animals can roam the wilderness by hiding in narrow caves, and birds first live in their nests and then soar high into the sky.
Chen Wan lived in a back alley and was poor and self-sufficient but was able to prosper in his career. Yan Ying lived in a low-humidity place but had extremely high moral standards.
Gongsun Qiao lived in Saili with benevolence and righteousness, while Feng had great ambitions but disappeared in the west hall.
I do not have the ambition to be a great swan, nor do I have the broad knowledge to govern the affairs of the country.
I just want to live in seclusion in the deep forest like a bird at rest, and I would rather stay in the water like a fish hiding.
There is no interest in many worldly affairs, and there is no extravagant hope for a smooth official career.
Stay in the lonely eastern suburbs and enter the vast wilderness.
I just wish I could walk freely and think freely, and ride the wind and rain across the world.
In the last years of Xiyi's reign, my ancestors migrated.
Abandoning fame and wealth to live in Haihun, he built a residence on the bank of the Yangtze River.
Like Huanghui and Zhasai, they have a long history, and are more transcendent than Qianyi. Some people refused to receive their salary and returned to their gardens and fields, while some people cheered and wanted to have an official career.
Until the Long'an period of Sai Jin Dynasty, there were many disasters and the national destiny was difficult.
People in the world are busy working for fame and fortune, and people are displaced due to political corruption.
The chaos in the market is like tangle, and the crowd is like grass in the sun.
The earth is vast but there is no place to stay, and the sky is high-speed, who can you turn to?
When the emperor was young, the times were difficult and riddled with wounds.
He left the dangerous country and moved to a safe place, and began to live peacefully in Sezuo Xiangtu, closing his doors and living there.
At a time when the emperor was vigorously rising, he followed the trend and displayed his talents.
In accordance with the emperor's decree, he went on a southern tour and drove a carriage on a long road.
Open the gorgeous door and transplant the tall herbs.
Repair the roadside path and face the clear and straight Kuang Cheng.
The fragrance of flowers is refreshing, and there are many injustices in the world.
For four consecutive generations, they have used their meager efforts to worship hundreds of sacrifices.
I lament that my home and country are like a broken house with no guarantee of safety, like a meteorite falling, or like the layers of skin peeling off and blowing in the wind.
Or remove dead branches or cut off thorns, sometimes to the east and sometimes to the west.
He had no choice but to live in Baishe for the time being, and soon sent his wife and children to a wealthy family.
I have always been an upright person, and I really wanted to leave alone.
It reminds me of the ancient people's unforgettable thoughts. I looked at the mountains beside me and thought for a long time.
I should be forgetful of worldly things, but I am bound by ropes to the world.
Ying Shao lamented the worry of the rope many times. Lu Tong once said that the world is like a dust, with endless misfortunes, sadness and depression.
The road will become more steep as it approaches its end, and people's hearts will become broader as they reach their old age.
My heart is as fragrant as orchids, when will I get what I want, like the mighty Yangtze River flowing eastward.
He walked alone and chanted before returning, lingering in the mountains and forgetting to return.
At that time, the king lost his moral character and became extremely cruel and ruthless.
Zhan Mu failed to state it, but Sheng Mo recorded it in detail.
The people's blood flowed all over the ground, just like food sent into a tiger's mouth.
Seeing the sky high and the road far away, there is no way back. Although he is not in a prison, he is killed miserably and his flesh and blood are blurred.
At first I lamented that I didn't realize it at all, but in the end I lamented that I only met him when he was an official.
Soon, God showed mercy and the people of the world were protected.
God bestows talismans on the market. This is a mission given by God.
Just when the princes were born, the foolish king accumulated many evils, and the country suffered serious disasters.
People are generally suffering from the scourge of addiction, and the vast universe is in chaos. He has to do everything by himself and has no time to eat. He often stays up all night and sleeps in his clothes.
He rescued Ma Chang and Xia Hou from the prison, and then traveled to Xuan and Xu.
The mighty virtues cover far and near, and the light shines brightly on the earth.
The holy grace moistens the desert like rain, and the benevolent wind blows far away from the border.
Everyone remembers him for creating the world, and for governing the world with benevolence and righteousness. He is as precious as jade.
It was the golden age of the benevolent monarch's reign, and it coincided with the golden period of the prosperity of the saint's grace.
I would like to express my gratitude to the monarch and his officials for assisting the Holy Dynasty at this time.
However, there was a lack of brave warriors in the Sixth Army, and there were no literati who were good at rhetoric in the court.
The geese and magpies flew south in formation, occupying the rivers and mountains to initiate the emperor's career.
I hope that the prince will regard the three virtues as virtues and encourage all officials to be good at the emperor's duties.
Worrying that all living beings will lose their lives easily, fearing that favor and honor will not last long.
Among those high-ranking officials in previous lives, few could place their affection on the mountains and rivers of their hometown.
Prosperity and wealth reached Chu and Zhao, and arrogance, extravagance and debauchery were not far behind them.
First-class houses were built in Tongchi, and rows of high-class houses stood in Beiqi.
Open the door on the gorgeous threshold, how can the basil field bury it.
Sun Shuao warned his descendants not to live in rich lands for generations, so the He family lived in seclusion in poor mountains and harsh rivers.
After recalling the sage's last words, I feel the same way.
If you don't envy the powerful people in the city, how can you fight for fame and fortune in the butchery?
I just chanted softly in my old room, thankful that although the cabin was dilapidated, it was sheltered from the wind and frost.
For the time being, I went to the remote outskirts of the remote mountains and built a hut with thatched fences to withstand the wind, frost and cold of the countryside.
Create a clearing in the dense forest where hundreds of birds are singing, and build simple thatched huts.
Cut off the branches that obstruct the eaves and destroy the nests that interfere with the tombs.
Digging ditches made the stagnant turbid water crystal clear, and filling in the depressions around the wells made them as smooth as stone.
Plant fragrant citrus and tall poplar trees in Beiqu and Nanpu. Windows and doors were opened in the orchid room, and short walls were built next to the garden.
An arch was made of thorns, and thatch was laid on the ground outside the door.
The courtyard is covered with shade under the large cypress tree, and a fence is built around the fragrant pear trees. Open the door and look out from a distance, open the high ceiling and look to the side to appreciate it carefully.
The running water of the pond is led to the eaves of the hall, surrounded by fields and strange roads running across the hall.
But you can see the green apple grass, duckweed, and green algae floating on the water, the gordonium, the water chestnut, the watergrass, and the wild rice are blowing in the wind; the stone clothing, seaweed, yellow waterlily, and green cattail are in various shapes and styles, each with its own style.
Where the breeze passed, red lotus leaves stirred up waves, and green lotus leaves covered the clear lake surface.
Eating the exquisite fruits will make people rejuvenate without realizing it, shaking their feathers and cultivating in the Qing capital.
On the shore, the purple fern, green foothills, philodendron, and mountain leek are gorgeous and colorful; the wild goose teeth, slug tongues, cow lips, and scorpion heads are all dazzling.
Various wild vegetables cover the north bank of the pond, and brilliant wild flowers bloom all over the back slope of the north tower.
Some water plants cover the water like a curtain, and some ivy climbs along the walls and covers the doors and windows. This is a special garden house, full of strange fields.
Li Heng, the prefect of Wu Danyang, once planted orange tree trunks in Sizhou, and Shi Chong of the Jin Dynasty also planted thousands of mixed fruit trees in Jingu Villa.
Their actions are all caused by luxury and are not something that frugal people can feel happy about.
I just want the garden to be filled with lush vegetation, with sparse green leaves and blooming flowers everywhere, with hundreds of grass growing in the windows and flowing into the corners.
The flowers are in full bloom and the branches and leaves are spreading all over the nine roads.
There are wild flowers all over the ground, some with purple stems and red flowers, some with green stems and stamens, and they are colorful.
The birds in the forest fly up and down freely, leaving their cheerful calls in the sky; different kinds of Chu sparrows chirp and make a lot of noise.
Some birds have mottled tails and colorful wings, and some birds are dressed in green and have red crowns on their heads.
They hide leisurely and contentedly among the dense woods, and suddenly come and go with each other, whining.
The birds on the water include big geese, small geese, deadbirds, and zebras. On cold days in autumn, water owl and drowning eagles swim slowly on the water, and swans and swans look for food in the water.
Light bodies play and jump among the jagged nascent algae; birds fly over the white waves, foaming into beads.
The red carp and green bream in the water shuttle back and forth, and the black and white giant shearwater swims so leisurely.
Some fish have green scales and red tails, and some fish have slender foreheads.
Small fish play on the water, forming ripples, and big fish spray water and raise layers of white waves.
They don't envy the vast rivers and seas, and forget to play beside my house.
The bamboos in the garden stand out in the southeast, which can be called unique in Kyushu.
If they were not transplanted here from Qishui, they were probably transplanted from the orchestra pool.
Autumn cicadas sing among the green leaves, and cold sparrows chatter on the branches.
In the hot summer, the wind blows heavily under the Nanxuan Tower, and in the cold winter, the Beitang Tower is covered with snow.
Recall the journey we have taken in the past and observe the hypocrisy of the world before.
Whenever mysterious things are described as real things, difficult things often appear to be extremely easy.
If you don't stop yourself and seek satisfaction, you will be dragged down by worldly things.
This is what confused scholars in the past, but now it is what I want to avoid.
Discussing the beginning of the Shen Nong clan, people began to dig the ground and sow seeds.
Change the history of living solely on hunting, and start a life of eating grains. These grains are the guarantee for sustaining people's lives.
Trace past records involving the well field system and examine the history of Qianmo in ancient books from previous dynasties.
Yan Hui was able to live in poverty and live happily even though he was eating and drinking. Duke Zhuang of Zheng was empty and lonely even though he lived high in the temple.
I live in seclusion here. Although I don’t have a few hundred hectares of garden, I still have more than fifty acres of farmland.
Caressing and hiding the emotions in my heart and wandering and thinking. Fortunately, I live alone in the courtyard and have something to use.
The old abandoned canals were repaired and water from new canals was used to irrigate the fields in the north.
No longer do you have to eat in a hurry early in the morning before getting dressed, or complain about having to write to the emperor every day.
Abandon the worry of fame and gain, I don’t have to be burdened by officialdom like I used to.
Why should we no longer yearn for the ruins of Wenyang for the sake of Qianshi's salary?
Facing the southeast and looking around, climbing on the mound and looking around.
Although it is only a small hill, it was the place where Wen Jing had banquets.
Driving a carriage drawn by four horses, there was a clear and melodious sound of harriers.
Searching the sky, the earth, the sea and the land, you can see criss-crossing patterns and luxuriant grass.
Why do you become great once you have power? Spending large sums of money is like throwing away a thin thread.
I often try to speak frankly: How can we spread the corrupt practices?
The profound will of a learned man is beyond the comprehension of ordinary human concerns.
Let's change our thoughts and change the route, and look at the direction of the hillock at the ferry on our way back.
On the shore of the fragrant water, people picked up hoes to fight against the powerful Qin. I then passed through Wudi to cross the border, and then took the sea route to Minjun.
When will the three messengers arrive? How nostalgic my hometown is at this moment.
It was indeed a mistake of old age, not of my youth.
The mighty Dongchuan River flows freely, but I am the only one crying sadly.
In the past, I used to randomly visit the sages and traveled here many times on foot.
The accompanying sage rode a mighty horse and followed the left and right dragon boats racing to the shore.
Some attended the banquet, wrote poems and sang, and some drank and drank, sang and laughed.
One day these will all pass away, and the old place of Xiling will become overgrown with vegetation and lose its former prosperity.
I sigh when I see the violent surge, and I watch it from a distance with joy.
It begins with the clanging of bells and stones on the mountain, and ends with fish and dragons scattering in the water.
Think about the orderly rise and fall of the world, so why waste your time just drinking to your heart's content.
Those who have always been distinguished are like Bing Ji, Prime Minister of Wei, Xiao He, and Cao Shen who assisted the government in the Western Han Dynasty, and those who are close to him are like King Xiao of Liang and Gongdan of Zhou.
Although they were famous for a while, they all disappeared together with the frost and mist, scattering like wind and clouds.
Looking at the cemetery in the distance, looking for traces of heroes' hegemony.
Sun Quan was indeed a British king in the late Han Dynasty and the founding monarch of Soochow.
He appointed Man Gen to guard one side, occupied Liao Xuan and established the capital.
It is in vain to face the stone coffin to verify the words, but the result is that disaster spreads.
In an instant, the fields were deserted and overgrown, just like the fields were covered with weeds.
Ants still know how to survive, and foxes can also mourn their own kind, not to mention the common people who have suffered disasters.
Looking at Shushan Mountain again, my heart was filled with a sense of desolation and displeasure.
The former prosperous royal palace garden is actually the remnant of Bowang Garden, the crown prince of the Western Han Dynasty.
The laurel trees stand tall and independent in the jungle, and the fragrant orchids among the many flowers and plants are fluttering in the wind.
The breeze blows softly in front of the terrace, and the moon hangs from the treetops on the waterside pavilion.
The palace's tall arches stand tall and well-proportioned, contrasting with each other.
The kings and three princes rode soap wheel carts slowly through the woods, and played in small boats on the fragrant water.
The past is like passing smoke, and hundreds of years have passed in a blink of an eye.
Nowadays, all the prosperity of the past has been washed away by history. It is not the difference between ancient and modern times.
Looking back to the northeast, we can see numerous buildings and buildings on the high mountains.
Although it seems to be integrated with the mountains and forests from a distance, we can still draw historical lessons from it.
The sky in the distance is filled with clouds and mist, and the tall mountains are reflected in the water.
Riding in a car driven by Ni Ni, I just want to float forever in the starry Tianhe Xiang.
I plan to take a rest in the salty bathing pool and then fly to the Yaotai Wonderland I missed that night. I am not just bragging about my nobility, I just hope to obtain the magical fairy recipe.
Only the majestic Zhongshan Mountain stands tall and straight in front of Kyoto. It is the place where people worship the mountains and rivers. It is full of wind and clouds and nourishes all things.
The shape of the mountain is majestic and beautiful, towering into the clouds, with tall branches brushing the sun and moon; but the mountain is rugged and steep, dotted with strange fallen rocks.
There are rugged and uneven rocks everywhere; the rocks and trees are intertwined and appear in various shapes.
The climbing trails are interspersed in between, and the mountainside is densely covered with caves; it is really a thousand mountains and valleys, overlapping one another, with various scenes.
The strange scenery lingers around the city and continues in the suburbs. In the evening, there is light smoke on the mountain, and in the morning, white mist lingers.
From a close look, the mountains are full of different colors, but from a distance, they are a patch of indigo.
Looking at the tombs of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, seeing the tomb passages that were destroyed and destroyed is really a mixture of emotions.
King Zhou Cheng was wandering around and suffered mistreatment from villains, and King Zhou Kang died at a time when his name was empty, but they were all able to achieve great achievements and create the prosperous age of Cheng Kang; King Zhou Mu was respectful and strict to himself in the court, Zhao Shiyu was in love with Taoist mystical ideas; King Zhou Lie drank too much and caused disaster, and An Shigao made his uncle Guo Yu become a monk and was finally respected by future generations.
These ancestors are so majestic and outstanding, and their majesty dominates the world.
Only a saintly emperor can inherit the emperor's legacy and create a peaceful and prosperous era.
Today's monarchs have inherited the virtues of their ancestors. Looking up at the tombs of their predecessors not only makes people hide their faces and cry.
There is not just one tomb of the ancestors, but the halls of the gods are facing each other.
The sides of the banquet were lined with horses riding on the guests, and fragrant wine flowed everywhere in the hall.
I respectfully invite the Purple Emperor to descend from the sky and go to the bank of the Xiang River to specially invite the beautiful second concubine.
The palace built of osmanthus is surrounded by fragrant smoke, raising jade canes, holding peppercorns to offer rice, and going to Wu Yang in Nanchu to ask for the omen.
Facing the wind, I was in a trance and could only sing loudly. Holding Qiongmao to say goodbye, I stood there for a long time.
I thought about how long and far the journey to heaven is, and how vast and distant the traces of the gods are.
Worry about the furious gust of wind that will make all living beings gather and disperse like foam.
Only the one-vehicle method can take refuge in the Buddha's realm and open the door to Buddhism to reach the realm of Sanming.
If you want to calm down and get rid of the troubles of the world, you will inevitably confuse everyone and then you can understand the situation of sudden enlightenment.
Some people live in huts at the foot of the mountains, or they cut down trees to build huts.
Let the radish grow wildly outside the house, making it dark and dark; the pine branches on the eaves are hidden and covered with green shade.
Since you have understood the truth from leaving this world, you have already put your hunger and thirst aside.
Or you can climb a branch alone and look far into the distance, or you can soar high into the clouds and soar into the sky.
Covering the hut with maotai is like a Taoist family nourishing the sky and highlighting its name.
I am able to forget myself now. Is it just that I hope to repay the virtues that God has bestowed on me in the future? I will sincerely keep them forever.
He accepted the honorable title of old man and was given the gift of respecting the elderly at the university.
But I do lack the high moral character and jade-like qualities that the imperial court has high hopes for.
Long En, who asked the court to leave, once again held a position beyond his power.
I admire the beautiful law of recuperation in old age, and hope to have the leisure to spend my old age peacefully.
Lao Meng was allowed by the court to resign and return home, but was ordered to serve in the crown prince's palace.
At that time, I wished I could return to that simple house and use my free days to fly freely in space like a bird.
I hope I can stay in the Buddhist Kingdom and return to the Taoist place.
Even if a wild beast is close to the steps, he will not panic or fear, and if the pond is full of fish and shrimps, he will not even think about fishing.
Soon after abandoning the mark of the past, I felt like a lost lamb, missing the lost time even more.
Just as an old tree blossoms, its young flowers drop their pistils.
Sometimes it is easier to distinguish the colors of Sushan Danqing because we are in different forests. The sudden gust of wind makes the green mountains all over the mountain mixed with the beauty of purple.
The purple lotus blooming at night and the red lotus standing on the water in the morning are even more fragrant and refreshing when blown by the breeze.
The desolate sound of the wind echoed among the trees in the garden, and the cold moonlight shrouded the bamboo trees in the pool.
The osmanthus branches under the eaves are lush and the autumn chrysanthemums are blooming in front of the courtyard steps.
In winter, ice hangs on Kuangxue Mountain! White snow covers the green pine fields, and the land is vast.
The wild ducks are flying around and can't be driven away, and the wild geese are soaring high in the sky and want to come down to rest.
All the seasonal scenes are really nostalgic, but these foreign objects are so real.
This is the place where my nature rests, and it is also the reason why I admire it and cannot abandon it.
I lament that my temperament has become old, but I am sad and mourning for the country's many sufferings.
The sad thing is that although they are on different paths, they end up in the same place. Fortunately, they have lost all kinds of different directions.
Now I have returned to my love for flowers, birds, insects and fish, and now I am back to living in a simple hut.
There are no beauties from Wu land beside her, and there is no stupid Qin Se in front of her.
Therefore, I spend my remaining years here, spending my whole life here.
I am just worried that it will be difficult to repay the kindness of the gods of heaven and earth, and will not be recorded by the officials of the book; I will be valued by the court in vain, but my merits will not be recorded in the annals of history.
It's really sad, so why bother saying more? Besides, it's not just one thing that makes me feel guilty.
Soon he was granted the title of Special Advancement and was appointed Guanglu, Shizhong and Shaofu as before.
He died in office in the twelfth year of his reign at the age of seventy-three.
The emperor issued an edict as a gift to the official, and also gave 50,000 yuan in money and 100 pieces of cloth to finance the funeral ceremony. Mi was kept in hiding.
Shi Kong has two pupils in his left eye and a purple mole on his waist. He is extremely smart.
He likes reading and has a collection of 20,000 volumes of classics. No one in Kyoto can compare with him.
When he was young and poor, he once borrowed rice from his tribe to apply a hundred dendrobium trees. However, he was insulted by the tribe, so he poured the rice on the ground and turned around to leave.
Later, when he became a high official, he did not bear any grudge and still appointed this clansman as the county minister.
Once I was accompanying a banquet, there was a prostitute who was from the palace of Lord Qi Wenhui.
The birth attendant asked him if he knew any of the guests here.
He replied: I only know Shen Jialing.
After hearing this, he suddenly felt nostalgic and couldn't help but shed tears. Chen Zu also felt sad and stopped the banquet.
Xuan Diao held official positions in the Se, Man, and Chi dynasties. He was familiar with the laws and regulations of the past and had extensive knowledge. At that time, the court often had to listen to his opinions when formulating policies.
Xie Xuanhui is good at poetry, Ren Yansheng is good at writing, and Shen Yue is good at both, but neither can surpass them.
He was arrogant about his talent, obsessed with fame and wealth, relied on his luck to pursue power, and was ridiculed by the Qing Dynasty.
After he became prime minister, he was somewhat contented. Every time he entered an official position, he always begged for concessions, but in the end he could not refuse. Public opinion at the time compared him to Shan Tao during the Wei and Jin Dynasties.
After serving as an official in the Liang Dynasty for more than ten years, he did not recommend any talents to the court, and he did not want to comment much on the gains and losses of the government. He was just obedient.
At first, Emperor Gaozu had an old grudge against Zhang Ji. After Zhang Ji's death, he still talked about it with Shen Yue.
Shen Yue said: "The appointment of Shangshu Zuopushe as governor of Bianzhou can be regarded as punishment. There is no need to mention things that have already passed."
Emperor Gaozu thought that Shen Yue was protecting his family, and said angrily: "You say such things, are you still considered a loyal minister?"
So he took the chariot back to the inner palace.
Yi Bao was so frightened that he didn't realize that Zhidan had already gotten up and returned to the palace, but he still sat there blankly.
After returning home, he was still uneasy and sat down before reaching the bedside. As a result, he fell to the ground while sitting empty and fell ill.
When he was ill, he dreamed that Emperor Qi He cut off his tongue with a sharp sword.
The results of the wizard's inspection were consistent with what he saw in his dream.
So he asked the Taoist priest to write a red seal to the heaven, saying that the Zen Dynasty was not his own idea.
Emperor Gaozu sent Emperor Xu Zang to see Shen Yue, and when he came back, he truthfully reported his illness to Emperor Gaozu.
Before that, Shen Guo had served at a banquet, and it happened that Yuzhou presented a tribute of chestnuts to the emperor, with a diameter of one and a half inches. Gaozu thought it was very strange, and Shen Yue asked: "How many allusions are there about chestnuts in the history books?"
He and Shen Yue wrote down the things they remembered in separate pieces. As a result, Shen Yue had three things less than Gaozu.
After the selection came out, he said to people: This man is going back to protect his past mistakes. If he doesn't let him do three things, he will die of shame.
Emperor Gaozu thought that he had spoken rudely and was disrespectful to the emperor, so he wanted to punish him, but he gave up after Xu Mian tried his best to persuade him.
After hearing about Chi Zhang this time, Emperor Gaozu was furious and sent several envoys to condemn him. Shen Yue died of fear.
A minister gave him Mi Risai, and Zhidan said: "If my feelings are not exhausted, I will hide."
Therefore, silence is turned into trouble.
He wrote 110 volumes of "Book of Jin", 100 volumes of "Song Book", 20 volumes of "Qi Ji", 14 volumes of "Gaozu Ji", 10 volumes of "Yiyan", 10 volumes of "Mi Li", 30 volumes of "Song Wenwenzhi" and 100 volumes of collected works, all of which have been circulated in the world.
He also wrote "Four Tone Spectrum". He thought that the poets in the past had not understood things for thousands of years, but he was able to get to the bottom of his mind and explore its mysteries. He claimed to have reached a magical realm, but Gaozu didn't like it.
Emperor Gaozu once asked Zhou She: What are the four tones?
Zhou She replied: The emperor's sage, the four words sent are the four tones.
However, Emperor Gaozu still did not follow and use Shen Yue's "Four Tone Scores". His sons, Shen Xuan and Shen Yue, had successively served as ministers of Zhongshu, prefect of Yongtai, Situ Zhonglang and Situ Youzhangshi.
After Ju Shen's mourning period expired, he served as a servant of the prince. Later, he resigned due to the death of his mother. During the period of mourning, he only ate vegetables and not grains.
After the mourning period expires, he still does not eat refined japonica rice.
He served as the minister of Huangmen and the commander of Zhongfu Army.
He served as general of Zhaoyuan and internal history of Nankang. During his tenure, he was known for his clean governance.
He died in his official position and was named Gonghou.
His son Shen Sai succeeded him.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen Libu, said: At that time, the Qi Dynasty was almost exhausted, and after Donghun Hou came to the throne, he was brutal and cruel. The people of Li were in a state of panic, always worried that they would die in an instant.
At this time, Gao Dan mobilized the rebel army to save the country in times of crisis, determined to stabilize China, make contributions, strategize, and pin his hopes on people like Zhang Huang and Su Nu.
Later, I met Fan Yun and Shen Bao. They participated in the strategy and assisted Gaozu in completing his imperial career. In addition, Fan Zhong was alert and intelligent, and could assist the court government very well. Shen Yue was talented and knowledgeable, and his reputation was second only to Sima Qian and Dong Hu.
