◆The biography of Liu Ping, named Gongzi, was from Pengcheng, Chu County.
His real name was Kuang, but it was changed to Ping after he became emperor.
During Wang Mang's time, he became a county official, guarding the Qiu chief, and flourished in politics and religion.
Later, when there were thieves in each county, Liu Ping was sent to guard them. Wherever he went, he was controlled. From then on, every county praised his ability.
During the Gengshi period, the world was in chaos, and Liu Ping's younger brother Liu Zhong was killed by thieves.
Later, the thieves suddenly arrived. Liu Ping supported his mother and ran away.
Liu Zhong's posthumous daughter was only one year old. Liu Ping embraced Zhong's daughter and abandoned his biological son.
The mother wanted to go back to get her son, but Liu Ping refused to listen and said: "I cannot support two children, and the second child cannot have offspring." So he left without caring, and hid in Nozawa with his mother.
Liu Ping went out to look for food in the morning. He met a hungry thief and was about to cook him. Liu Ping kowtowed and said, "I will find some wild vegetables for my mother to satisfy her hunger this morning. My mother is waiting for me to survive. I wish I could go back first. When my mother finishes eating, I will definitely come back and let you kill her."
So the tears continued. The thief saw that he was sincere, sympathized with him and let him go home.
When Liu Ping went back, after his mother finished eating, he said to his mother: "I just made an appointment with a thief, so I can't deceive others."
So he returned to the thief. Everyone was shocked and talked to each other: "I often hear about martyrs, but today I actually saw them."
Just go away, we can't bear to eat you. As a result, Liu Ping's life was saved.
In the early years of Jianwu, General Pang Meng of Pingdi made troops in Pengcheng and defeated the governor of the county, Sun Meng.
Liu Ping was working as a county official at that time. He risked his life by lying on Sun Meng's body and suffered seven stab wounds. He was so trapped that he didn't know what to do, so he cried and begged: "I am willing to replace the king with my body." The thieves gathered their weapons and stopped killing, saying, "This man is a righteous man, don't kill him." So dismissed and walked away.
Sun Meng was seriously injured and died. After a while, he came back to life. He was thirsty and looked for water. Liu Ping took blood from his own wound and gave it to him to drink.
After a few days, Sun Meng finally died, so Liu Ping bandaged the stab wound, helped carry Sun Meng's coffin, and sent it back to the county.
Later, Liu Ping was promoted to Xiaolian and became the Prime Minister of Jiyin County. The prefect Liu Yu attached great importance to him and appointed him to the county position.
When the mourning clothes are full, Quanjiao Chang is awarded.
People are grateful for political favors. Some increase wages or taxes, and some reduce the age and enter the service earlier.
The governor and the prefect came to inspect, but there were no prisoners in the prison. Everyone was in his place, and he didn't know what to ask. He just issued the edict and left.
Later he was dismissed due to illness.
In the early years of Emperor Xianzong's reign, Shangshu Pushe Zhongliyi wrote a letter recommending Liu Ping, Wang Wang of Langfu, and Fu Dao, King of Donglai: I personally saw that Liu Kuang, Wang Wang of Langfu, and Fu Wang of Donglai were both seventy years old.
I don't understand them well enough, I just envy them for promoting talented people. In the memorial, there was an edict to recruit Liu Ping and others, and they were given special money to do the work.
After arriving at the imperial court, they all worshiped him as Yilang and were introduced to him many times. Liu Ping was promoted to minister again, and in the third year of Yongping he was promoted to Zongzheng. He recommended famous scholars such as Chenggong and Xun Xun several times.
After eight years in office, Shangshu asked to retire and go home due to old age and illness, and died at home. ◆Zhao Xiaozhuan, Zhao Xiao was named Changnian and was from Peiguoqi.
His father, Zhao Pu, served as General Tianhe during Wang Mang's reign and appointed Zhao Xiao as Lang.
Every time I go home on leave, I often walk in white clothes and carry my own luggage.
I once returned home from Chang'an and wanted to stay overnight at the post office.
The chief of the pavilion first heard that Zhao Xiaohui was passing by and thought that an elderly guest was coming, so he swept the room and waited.
When Zhao Xiao arrived, he did not announce his name. The pavilion chief refused to accommodate him, so he asked: "I heard that the son of General Tian He is coming from Chang'an. When will he arrive?" Zhao Xiao said: It will arrive soon. So he left.
Later, the world was in chaos, and people were eating people.
Zhao Xiao's younger brother Zhao Li was captured by a hungry thief. When Zhao Xiao heard about it, he tied himself up and went to the thief, saying: "Zhao Li has been hungry for a long time and is very thin. He is not as fat as me." The thieves were shocked, so they released them and said to their brothers: "You can go home temporarily and get some food." Zhao Xiao searched for food but failed to find it, so he went back and told the thieves that he was willing to let them cook food.
Everyone found it strange and did not harm him.
The township party admired his loyalty.
When recruiting from prefectures and counties, etiquette must be observed when advancing or retreating.
He was promoted to be filial and honest, so he should not be drafted.
During the Yongping period, he was drafted into the Taiwei Mansion. Xianzong had always heard that Zhao Xiao had good conduct, and issued an edict to grant him the title of admonishing the officials. He was promoted to the rank of Attendant, and then to the rank of Changle Guardsman.
He also called his younger brother Zhao Li to be the censor Zhongcheng.
Zhao Li was also respectful, modest and restrained himself, similar to Zhao Xiao.
The emperor commended their brothers for their virtue and wanted to treat them specially. Zhao Li was ordered to go to Weiwei's Mansion once every ten days, and the eunuch delivered the offerings and told them to have a good time together.
A few years later, Zhao Li died, and the emperor ordered Zhao Xiao to attend the funeral and bury him as an official.
More than a year later, he returned home on leave from the Weiwei. Died at home. ◆ Chunyu Gongzhuan, Chunyu Gong's courtesy name is Meng Sun, Chunyu Ren in Beihai.
He is good at speaking about "Laozi", he is quiet and does not envy fame.
There are fruit trees in the mountains at home. If someone steals the fruit, he will help him harvest it.
He also saw someone stealing seedlings. Chun Yugong was worried that others would be ashamed, so he hid in the grass and waited for the thief to leave before coming out. The villagers were moved.
In Wang Mang's last years, there was famine and war. Chun Yugong's brother Chun Yuchong was about to be cooked by bandits. Chun Yugong asked to be replaced, and both of them were spared from death.
Later, Chunyu Chong died. Chunyu Gong raised his orphans and children, and taught them to learn. If they did not follow the law, he would beat himself with a stick to make the children understand. The children were indeed ashamed and changed their ways. At the beginning, thieves invaded, and the people could not engage in farming. Chunyugong often plowed the fields alone. The villagers tried to dissuade him, saying: The current situation is in great chaos, and life and death are still unknown. Why work in vain and ask for trouble? Chunyu Gong said: Even if I can't gain anything, what loss will it cause to others? Keep on plowing.
Later, the states and counties called for continuous recruitment, but none of them responded. So he lived in seclusion to cultivate his ambition, hiding in the mountains and rivers.
Every move and every turn of the week must be done according to etiquette.
During the Jianwu period, the county promoted him as a filial and honest person, and Sikong promoted him, but he was not worthy. The guest lived in seclusion in Langfu, Guizhou, and Zou Mountains for several decades.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Emperor Suzong issued an edict praising Chunyu Gong for his ordinary conduct, notifying the county to grant him twenty pieces of silk, dispatching a public carriage, and worshiping him as a counselor.
The introduction lasted a whole day, asking him many political questions, and promoted him to the rank of captain of the cavalry in the palace. He was treated with great courtesy.
All the famous people he recommended were recruited by the imperial court.
In the court, he always responded to the political affairs presented by the emperor based on morality. There was not a single conversation between the emperor and him without a good word.
Five years later, he became seriously ill, and the emperor sent people to express condolences. He died in his official position.
The imperial edict was written with praise and praise, and he was given a thousand dendrobium grains and carved stones in the palace to commend him.
His son was given the title of filial piety and the title of Prince Sheren.
◆Jiang Ge's biography, Jiang Ge's courtesy name was Cweng, and he was a native of Linzi, Qi State.
His father died when he was young, and he lived alone with his mother.
When the world was in chaos and thieves broke out, Jiang Ge fled with his mother on his back. He encountered many dangers and often picked wild fruits to survive.
Several times he met thieves, and some wanted to kidnap him. Jiang Ge cried and begged, saying that his mother relied on him to support him. His tone was very sincere and touching.
The thief couldn't bear to invade him, and someone even showed him where to escape, so both mother and son had to survive the disaster safely.
When Jiang Ge arrived in Xiapi, he was so poor that he was barefoot and shirtless. He relied on working to support his mother. He tried his best to provide the necessary things around him.
In the last years of Jianwu, he returned to his hometown with his mother.
At the end of every year, interviews were held in the county. Jiang Ge didn't want to move around because his mother was there, so he pulled the cart by himself in the shaft without using oxen or horses. From then on, the village called him "Jiang Da Duozi".
The prefect once prepared a gift to invite him, but Jiang Ge refused because his mother was old.
After his mother's death, his true nature was about to be extinct. He used to sleep next to the tomb, and when the mourning period expired, he couldn't bear to get rid of her.
The county governor sent a minister to take off his mourning clothes and asked him to become an official.
In the early years of Yongping, Jiang Ge was promoted to Xiaolian and was awarded the title of Taipu of Chu.
After more than a month, he voluntarily abandoned his official position and left.
Chu Wangying sent people to chase him quickly and refused to go back.
He also asked his master to give him gifts, but he refused to accept them.
Later, I went several times in response to Sangong's orders.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Taiwei Mou Rong promoted virtuous and upright people, and Jiang Ge was promoted to Sikong Changshi again.
Suzong treated him with great respect and courtesy, and promoted him to the rank of General of the Five Features.
During every court meeting, the emperor often sent tiger tigers to assist him, and often kept an eye on him when he came to worship.
At this time, Jiang Ge was ill and could not attend court, so the emperor sent an eunuch to bring him wine and food. The favor was very special.
Therefore, Ma Liao, a noble of the capital, and Dou Xian, a lieutenant in the capital, were envious of Jiang Ge's character, and each sent him letters and gifts. Jiang Ge neither replied nor accepted gifts.
The emperor praised him even more.
Later, Jiang Ge wrote a letter requesting to retire and return to his hometown. The imperial court turned him into an admonishing doctor and granted him the title of "Resigning to his hometown." However, Xie fell seriously ill.
During the Yuanhe period, the emperor missed Jiang Ge's good conduct and drafted an edict to Prime Minister Qi: I would like to advise the doctor Jiang Ge. He returned home due to illness. How is his daily life now?
Filial piety is the first of all actions and the beginning of all good deeds.
Whenever the country misses people with lofty ideals, they always think of Jiang Ge.
The county was ordered to use Dendrobium dendrobium as a gift to Juxiao. Every August, officials were sent to express condolences and give him sheep wine until his lifetime.
If something unfortunate happens, use the middle prison to offer sacrifices. From then on, the title of "Ju Xiao" became popular all over the world.
After his death, the imperial edict granted him a thousand dendrobium grains.
◆Liu Banchuan, also known as Liu Banxing, was the great-great-grandson of Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Xuan granted his son Liu Xiao to Chu, making him the Xiaowang.
The filial king gave birth to Wang Yan, which gave rise to Wang Yu, and Yu gave rise to commonness.
From Liu Xiao to Liu Ban, they accumulated benevolence and righteousness, and were famous for generations, and Liu Yu was especially kind and kind.
His mother died in his early years, and his brother Hou Ping from Yuanxiang was still young. Liu Yu raised him personally and often slept and ate with him.
When he became a man, he never left his side.
After Liu Ping died of illness, Liu Yu cried and vomited blood and died a few months later.
At first, Liu Yu was granted a title by the king, but when Wang Mang usurped the throne, he was deposed as an ordinary citizen and lived in Pengcheng.
Liu Ban's father died when he was several years old, and he lived alone with his mother.
Wang Mang failed and the world was in chaos. When Tai Fu heard that Emperor Gengshi had ascended the throne, she went to Chang'an with Liu Ban.
When Gengshi failed, he and Liu Ban turned around during the military revolution. They traveled westward to Long and lived in Wuwei.
Although Liu Ban was young, he was determined to cultivate his moral character and never neglected to recite poems and books.
His mother and uncles believed that living in a remote area, where life and death were unpredictable, they should not study hard and meditate like this. They preached to Liu Ban several times, but Liu Ban still did not change his career.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Kuai Xiao was defeated and Hexi was able to communicate with the mainland. Liu Ban moved his family east to Luoyang and studied Confucian classics under his teacher.
In the second year, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict, conferring Liu Ban the title of Qiuhou, enshrining him as King Xiao, and sending him to the capital.
Later, because the country belonged to the King of Chu, he was granted the title of Marquis of Zhu Qiu.
In the 19th year, the emperor came to Pei and issued an imperial edict to inquire about the character and talents of the princes in the county.
The eunuch recommended Liu Ban, saying that he practiced well and could serve as a model for the princes.
After hearing this, the emperor commended him, so he gave Liu Ban a ribbon, millions of dollars, and hundreds of pieces of silk work.
Twenty years later, he met the driver again in Pei, so he followed the emperor back to Luoyang, gave him grain and other things, and left him as a minister of the temple.
In the first year of Yongping, the country belonged to Pei and he was granted the title of Chaohou.
For several years, Yangzhou Governor Guan Xun recommended Liu Ban to the country. He did not speak unchosen words and acted without any resentment. He should be commended.
Xianzong commended him.
In the tenth year, Liu Ban was summoned to carry out the duties of Jinwu. He went from the emperor to Nanyang and came back to become a court prince.
Next year, he will also serve as the captain of the cavalry school.
At that time, the officials of the five schools were idle, and the houses in the temples were spacious, the carriages and uniforms were clean and gorgeous, and they were well equipped with skills. Therefore, most of them were occupied by clan members and relatives of the emperor.
Every time the holy chariot went out to inspect the country, Liu Ban often sent Hu from Changshui to follow him.
The emperor once wanted to set up Changpingcang, and the ministers thought it was very convenient.
Liu Ban believed that Changpingcang had the reputation of benefiting the people on the outside, but it actually harmed the people on the inside. The wealthy gentry used excuses to cause trouble, and the common people could not benefit from it. It was not necessarily convenient to set up it.
The emperor stopped.
At this time, the imperial court issued an order prohibiting people from engaging in two professions, that is, farmers were not allowed to engage in business. In addition, due to the rinderpest outbreak in the county, farming was implemented in separate areas, and when officials went to inspect, most of the results were inconsistent with the actual situation, making the people very worried.
Liu Banshang said: Due to the official ban on two industries in the county, people with land were not allowed to fish or hunt.
Nowadays, most of the counties along the rivers and lakes plant mulberry and raise silkworms. The people supplement their food rations by fishing and hunting. Besides, there are leisure months in spring, which does not affect farming.
The benefits of fishing and hunting, removing pests from the fields, and contributing to grain production have nothing to do with engaging in the two professions.
In addition, due to cattle epidemic, floods and droughts in the county and cultivated land were reduced, so the edict was issued to order planting in separate areas and to increase the number of acres for the benefit of the people.
However, the officials organized field cultivation in order to increase the yield compared with the previous year, so they also rented out the areas that were not used for farming.
You can order the governor and two thousand stones to be verified. If there is an increase, it will be the same crime as seizing the land. The emperor obeyed them all.
After Suzong ascended the throne, Liu Ban was appointed as the Shaofu of Changle.
In the second year of Jianchu, he was promoted to Zongzheng.
When Liu Ban's wife died, the court gave her many gifts and gave her a cemetery under the Xianjie Mausoleum.
Liu Ban discussed political affairs many times during his reign. His actions in recuperating the nine tribes were particularly significant, and people at the time praised him very much. He died in the third year of Jianchu at the age of sixty.
◆In the biography of Zhou Pan, Zhou Pan's courtesy name was Jianbo, and he was an adult in Runan. A member of the same tribe as the conqueror Zhou Xie.
His grandfather Zhou Ye was the prefect of Tianshui in the early years of Jianwu.
Zhou Pan traveled to the capital when he was young and studied "Guwen Shangshu", "Five Elements of Hong Fan" and "Zuo Shi Zhuan". He liked to talk about etiquette and had good conduct. He would not speak anything that was not in line with the classics. Most Confucian students regarded him as their master.
The family was poor, and it was not enough to support his mother.
I once recited "Poetry" to the last chapter of "Ru Tomb", which was very generous and lamentable, so I dismissed Wei Dai and participated in the recommendation of Xiaolian.
In the early years of Emperor He's reign, he paid homage to him, was appointed city mayor, and was promoted to magistrate of Yangcheng and Chonghe counties. He experienced good political achievements in the three cities. Later, he missed his mother and abandoned his official position and returned to his hometown.
When his mother died, her body was almost destroyed by grief, and her mourning period expired, so she took up residence next to the grave.
The professor often has thousands of disciples.
The government called Zhou Pan three times, and they all thought Zhou Pan was a virtuous man and invited him to come out. Zhou Pan said to his friends: In the past, Fang Hui and Zhifu rejected Yao and Shun and rested their minds at home, not disturbing their health care for glory and profit.
My mother is dead, why do I need foreign objects? So he didn't apply.
In the first year of Jianguang, he was seventy-three years old. Every New Year's Day, the court gathered all the students and gave lectures all day long. So he said to his two sons: The day before yesterday, I dreamed that my master, Mr. Dongli, was talking to me in the underworld. Then he sighed and said: Is my age already over?
If the tomb coffin is large enough to contain the body at the end of life, the outer coffin can be used to hold the inner coffin. Wrap it in clothes and hang it directly into the tomb. Use washed clothes and a scarf. Weave a two-foot-four-inch long bamboo slip and copy an article from "Yao Canon", together with a knife and pen, and place them in front of the coffin to show that you have not forgotten the holy way.
On the 15th of this month, he died without illness. Scholars believe that he was a man who understood destiny.
◆Zhao Zichuan, named Wenchu, was from Yan in Dongjun.
His father, Zhao Chang, has a doctorate.
Zhao Zi's father died when he was young. He behaved filially and was recommended by the prefectures and counties as filial and honest, but he refused.
In the first year of Yanxi's reign, Chen Qi, the chief minister, recommended Zhao Zi, saying that he was extremely filial and moral, so he was promoted to a doctorate.
In the early years of Emperor Ling's reign, Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu were killed by eunuchs, so Zhao Zi resigned due to illness.
Taiwei Yang Ci specially invited him and asked him to use a scarf as jewelry and not add a crown to go in and give lectures to everyone.
Later, he was promoted to high rank and became the governor of Dunhuang several times.
Later, he was dismissed from his post due to illness and returned home, where he personally led his children and grandchildren to make a living in the fields.
One time, robbers came to his house at night to rob him. Zhao Zi was afraid of disturbing his mother, so he went to the door to greet the robbers. The robbers asked him to prepare meals. He declined and said, "My mother is eighty years old. She is sick and needs treatment. The family is very poor and has no food for shelter. Please leave some clothes and food." Apart from his wife, he had nothing. The robbers felt ashamed and sighed, knelt down and said goodbye: "We are too rude and should not intrude on the wise man."
After saying that, they all ran away.
Zhao Zi chased them out to give them something, but failed to catch up.
It became even more famous from then on. The imperial court summoned Yi Lang to pay homage to him, but he was unable to do so. He issued an imperial edict and reprimanded him, and the prefectures and counties greeted him with courtesy. He went back and forth several times before going to answer the call as a last resort.
He also worshiped Zhao Zi as the Prime Minister of the East China Sea.
When he was going to take office, he passed by Xingyang. The county magistrate Dunhuang Cao Fan and Zhao Zi's old Xiaolian were waiting for him on the roadside. So he dropped his seal and ribbon and pursued him to the East China Sea.
After meeting Zhao Zi, he resigned and returned home.
This is how he was valued by people at that time.
When Zhao Zi was an official, he was honest and simple. He paid his salary according to his time. The powerful party was afraid of his frugality.
After serving as an official for three years, he asked to be dismissed due to illness and was appointed as Yilang.
He arrived in the capital while ill, and when he was about to die, he sued his former officials Zhu Zhi, Xiao Jian and others, asking them to use a thin plain coffin and pad it with loess, hoping that the body would decay quickly and return to the earth as soon as possible, and not let his descendants change their plans.
So he wrote a suicide note to his son Zhao Yin and said: "Human beings are alive and must die. This is the decree of heaven and earth, and it is the natural end."
Therefore, wise people see life clearly and believe that life and death are like darkness and light, and life and death are like morning and evening. Therefore, they do not pursue entertainment when they are alive, and they do not feel sad when they die.
The so-called death is just that the vitality leaves the body and the soul wanders everywhere, returning to the original state and returning to nothing. It has disappeared and returned to the dung.
The soil is discarded. Does it still have a nature? Do you want to regulate its thickness and regulate its dryness and moisture?
It's just that the living people can't bear to see the bodies of their loved ones destroyed, so they have to bury the bones.
"Book of Changes" says: In ancient times, those who were buried were clothed with salary and hidden in the middle of the field. The saints of later generations buried them in coffins and coffins. The production of coffins began with the Yellow Emperor.
From the Tao and Tang Dynasties, to the Yu and Xia Dynasties, simplicity was still advocated, some using tiles and some using wood. It was only in the Yin and Shang Dynasties that the number increased.
Inherited from the Zhou Dynasty, the system has two generations.
They also added decorations such as wall wings, used inscriptions to indicate the identity of the deceased, paid attention to etiquette such as including rice, selected the date of the funeral tomb, selected the coffin and used it, and the quilts were also divided into grades and layers. This kind of thing is cumbersome and impractical, and the goods are trivial and difficult to obtain.
However, there are different levels of official rank.
Below Zicheng and Kang, the regulations are slightly different.
During the Warring States Period, it gradually declined, the laws were relaxed, and the upper and lower levels were out of position.
Finally, the Marquis of Jin asked for a tunnel, Uncle Qin buried a living person, Doctor Chen set up a wooden gate, and Sima of the Song Dynasty built a stone and wooden guo.
When the Qin Dynasty came, it violated morality, abolished the system of the three generations, and instituted lewd and evil methods. The country's wealth was wasted under the three springs, manpower wasted on Li's tombs, good games were wasted on dung, and skills were wasted on the strings.
Since the beginning of the people, there has been no such custom of burying the dead in such a generous manner.
Although Zhongni reaffirmed the Zhou rites and Mozi tried to follow the ancient ways, he still could not resist.
Therefore, Chinese people compete with each other, violate the fundamentals of etiquette, engage in the end of etiquette, advocate luxury, abandon simplicity, use all their family wealth to support each other, abolish life and pay attention to death, ignore health care and only care about rich burials. Is this the original intention of the saints in making rituals?
"Ji" says: Although there are etiquette in funerals, mourning is the main thing. He also said: It is better to mourn than to be sad. This is not the case now. I think it is the way to be filial to the emperor, and to use it to express sympathy for the coffin. This is what I dare not do.
In the past, Emperor Shun was buried in Cangwu, but his two concubines refused to follow him. Is there any chance of getting married and staying in the usual place?
If the Holy Lord and Mingjun are like this, let alone the common people, whose etiquette is beyond their reach.
The ancients said that meetings are the same at the same time, but different at different times. Movements and stillness should be in line with etiquette, and situations should be adapted to local conditions.
The kings and grandsons were buried naked, and the bodies of Mo Yi were exposed in the wild, all of which were based on human nature and rationality and valued rapid change.
Liang Boluan's father died and was buried in a banquet. Even after his death, he did not return to his hometown.
Are these people being unfavorable to their relatives and forgetting the principles of loyalty and filial piety?
What's more, I am not moral and sensitive, I have a weak mind and a bright mind. I have the ambition to admire the ancient sages. I am the same as the ancients, and I am not to blame.
Be sure to carry out a light burial and avoid any suspicion.
I am afraid that what you see with your eyes, stomachs, dogs, and ears will make you want to change the funeral and go against my ambitions. Therefore, I adopt the practices of ancient saints from afar and practice them closely to make you aware.
Just dig a ditch that can accommodate the coffin. Bury the coffin as soon as it is returned. There is no need to build a grave on flat ground. There is no need to choose a date, no need to pay homage, no need to mourn beside the tomb, and no need to plant trees at the head of the tomb.
Woohoo boy, please act with encouragement, I have nothing more to say!
When Zhu Zhi and Xiao Jian arrived home for the funeral, their son Zhao Yin couldn't bear to let his father's body merge with the earth, and wanted to change the burial method. Zhi and Jian told his father's last order, so he followed the instructions. At that time, people said that Zhao Zi was a wise man.
