◆Zhang Hao's biography, Zhang Hao's courtesy name was Shuming, and he was a native of Wuyang, Qianwei County. Zhang Liang, the sixth generation ancestor, was the prince's young master during the reign of Emperor Gao and was granted the title of Liuhou.
When Zhang Hao was young, he traveled to the capital to study. In Yongyuanzhong, he returned to the prefecture and served as an official. He established the mansion of General Deng Zhi. He was promoted to Shangshu Pushe five times and served for eight years before becoming the prime minister of Pengcheng.
In the first year of Yongning, he was promoted to Tingwei.
Although Zhang Hao was not a Legalist, he paid attention to punishment and imprisonment, and often argued with ministers to correct doubts and doubts. Most of his opinions were adopted after careful consideration.
At this time, Emperor An deposed the crown prince as King of Jiyin, and Zhang Hao argued with Taichang Huanyan and Taipu about the origins of the throne in the court, but to no avail.
The matter has been recorded in the Biography of Origin.
Zhang Hao withdrew from the imperial court and wrote: "In the past, Jiang Chong, a traitor, made slanderous rumors and rebels, causing the military garden to raise troops, and finally disaster occurred."
Later, Linghu Mao, the third elder of Huguan, wrote a letter saying that the prince had been wronged, and Emperor Wu realized that although he could catch up on his previous mistakes, regretting it would be of no use!
Now that the crown prince is only ten years old, he still does not know the meaning of the nine virtues of the nanny master. He should choose virtuous people to assist him so that he can become the emperor.
The book was submitted but was not accepted.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and appointed Zhang Hao as Sikong. He promoted many talents in office and the world called him a pusher.
At this time, Zhao Teng of Qinghe wrote a letter about the disaster, ridiculed the government, reported to those in charge, and arrested Zhao Teng and others for questioning. More than 80 party members were involved, all of whom should be severely punished for slandering the imperial court.
Zhang Hao's admonishment was: I heard that Yao and Shun set up drums for remonstrance, and three kings set up slander trees. The Spring and Autumn Annals collect good things and write about bad things, and the wise emperor does not inflict crimes on the common people in the grass.
Although Zhao Teng and others violated the law and violated the law, he spoke out of loyalty and integrity.
If he should be killed, the mouths of the people in the world would be blocked, and the source of remonstrances and disputes would be blocked. This is not a way to promote morality and set an example for future generations.
The emperor came to his senses and reduced Zhao Teng's death sentence to one degree, and the others were sentenced to two years of imprisonment.
Four years later, he was removed from office due to disagreement between yin and yang.
In the first year of Yangjia, he was promoted to Tingwei again.
He died in office this year at the age of eighty-three.
The imperial court sent envoys to offer condolences and gave him a burial place in Henan County.
Son Zhang Gang.
◆Zhang Gang's biography, Zhang Gang's courtesy name was Wen Ji, and he was proficient in Confucian classics when he was young.
Although he is a young master, he strictly enforces the integrity of common people.
If he was not praised for his filial piety and honesty, Situ, because of his excellent performance, appointed Gaodi as the imperial censor.
At this time, Emperor Shun indulged the eunuchs, which chilled the hearts of knowledgeable people.
Zhang Gang was excited and sighed with emotion: "The dynasty is full of filth and filth. I cannot step forward to eliminate the country's danger. Even though I am alive, I don't want to!"
So he wrote: "The Book of Songs" says: Don't make mistakes and don't forget, follow the old chapter.
It is said that Cheng Wang Lingde is just following the old regulations. The Han Dynasty was initially prosperous, and during the Zhongxing era, Emperor Wen and Emperor Ming had more prosperous moral education.
Looking at the governance measures at that time, it is obvious that it is not difficult to follow them, but it is just about promoting frugality, adhering to economy, and cultivating one's morality.
A middle official can only serve two people, and the people who serve on the left and right are rewarded with only a few gold coins. He cherishes expenses and respects people, so every family is rich.
Everyone has food and clothing. Yi Di knows that China is prosperous and strong, and upholds trust and morality, so treacherous plots are naturally eliminated and harmony is induced.
But recently, those who do not abide by the old rules and have no merit have been given official titles, making them rich, making them arrogant, and then punishing them. This is not loving people and valuing talents, flattering destiny, and obeying the great road.
Please give your Majesty some holy thought and organize your affairs in order to serve God's will.
The book was sent, but the emperor did not accept it.
In the first year of Han'an, eight envoys were selected to inspect social customs. They were all well-known old Confucian scholars with high status. Only Zhang Gang is young and has the lowest rank.
The rest of the people accepted the order and set off, but Zhang Gang buried his wheel alone in Duting, Luoyang, saying: "The jackals are in charge, why ask the fox!"
The report said: General Liang Ji, Henan Yin Bujie, cited by his relatives, enjoys the country's kindness, is a talent of the common people, and has the responsibility of tutoring the emperor and conducting state affairs. He cannot promote the five religions and support the emperor. He specializes in being a big pig and a snake. He is the chief culprit. He is greedy and cruel, devoted to good things, and indulges in unbridled and unbridled people. He cultivates a group of sycophants and frames Zhongliang.
This is something that cannot be pardoned by the emperor's authority and should be punished with death.
I would like to mention fifteen things about their unruly attitude, all of which are hated by the ministers.
The book came in and the capital was shocked.
At this time, Liang Ji's sister was the queen and was favored by the emperor. Zhu Liang's relatives were all over the court. Although the emperor knew that Zhang Gang was telling the truth, he finally couldn't bear to accept it.
At this time, Guangling thief Zhang Ying and tens of thousands of people killed the governor and two thousand stones, invaded and disturbed Yang and Xu Jian, and for more than ten years, the imperial court was unable to attack them.
Liang Ji then hinted to the minister to appoint Zhang Gang as the prefect of Guangling, hoping to attack and frame him.
In the past, the county guards sent there usually asked the court for more troops and horses, so Zhang Gang sent a bicycle alone to take office.
After arriving, he took only a dozen officials and soldiers to Zhang Ying's position, comforted them, and asked to meet their leader to explain the country's kindness to them.
Zhang Ying was surprised at first and saw Zhang Gang's sincerity, so he came out to pay Zhang Gang a visit.
Zhang Gang was invited to take a seat. Zhang Gang asked Zhang Ying what difficulties he had.
Xiao Yu Zhang Ying said: In the past, most of the two thousand stones were corrupt and cruel, so that the public officials gathered together with anger.
Erqianshi is truly guilty! However, it is also unjust for you to do so.
Now the emperor is kind and wise, and wants to use virtue to quell the rebellion, so he sent me. I think if you can take it as an honor to receive the country's title and salary, I will not be willing to impose punishment on you. Now is really your time to turn misfortune into blessing!
If you know what you should do, but still disobey the court, the emperor will be furious, and soldiers from Jing, Yang, Yan, and Yu will gather. Isn't it dangerous?
If you do not measure the strong and the weak, this is ignorance; if you abandon the good and adopt the evil, this is unwise; if you disobey and follow the example of rebellion, this is disloyal; if you die without heirs, this is unfilial; if you follow evil anyway, this is not straight; if you do not do what is right, this is not courageous. These six points are the key to success or failure. The interests and benefits are interdependent. You can think about it deeply.
After hearing this, Zhang Ying burst into tears and said: "Ignorant people in the remote areas cannot communicate with the court and cannot bear the oppression and bullying of the officials. As a last resort, everyone gathers together and ekes out an ignoble existence, just like a fish swimming in a cauldron, just taking a breather for a while."
Now, after listening to the prefect’s words, it’s time for me, Zhang Ying, to be reborn.
However, since he has fallen into injustice, he is afraid that he will be arrested and killed on the day of surrender.
Zhang Gang made a promise that he would not change forever, and he swore by the light of the sun and moon. Zhang Ying was deeply moved, so he resigned from Zhang Gang and returned to camp.
The next day, more than 10,000 people surrendered face to face with their wives.
Zhang Gangyu rode a bicycle into Zhang Ying's camp, held a meeting, drank and had fun, dismissed the troops, and let everyone go wherever he wanted. He personally found houses for the dismissed personnel and inspected the fields. His sons who wanted to be officials were summoned and summoned.
The favor is pleasing to the eye, and Nanzhou is safe and sound.
The imperial court decided to confer Zhang Gang on merit, but Liang Ji stopped him and refused to do so.
Emperor Jiamei wanted to recruit and promote Zhang Gang. Zhang Ying and others wrote a letter requesting that Zhang Gang be allowed to stay in Guangling, and the court approved their request.
Zhang Gang stayed in the county for one year and died at the age of forty-six.
The common people supported the old and young, and countless people came to the county government to mourn.
Since Zhang Gang fell ill, the officials have prayed for him and said, "Long live Qianqiu, when will I see you again?"
Zhang Ying and more than 500 people dressed in mourning clothes went all the way to Jianwei, where they carried earth and built the tomb.
The imperial court issued an edict saying: Zhang Gang, the late prefect of Guangling, a descendant of the minister, was ordered by the emperor to manage affairs, set an example, induced subordinates, promulgated and publicized the country's moral credit, and made the great thief Zhang Ying lead more than 10,000 people to surrender, eliminating the disaster of war and relieving the hardship of the people. Unfortunately, he died early without being promoted to a high position.
Zhang Ying and others were dressed in mourning clothes and holding mourning sticks, as if their parents had died.
I was very sad about his death. Zhang Gang's son Zhang Xu was made a doctor and given millions of dollars.
◆The biography of Wang Gong, whose courtesy name is Bo Zong, was from Gaoping County, Shanyang County.
It has been a wealthy family for generations.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and moved to the governor of Qingzhou. He impeached several people for embezzlement of two thousand dan. Emperor An commended him and conscripted him into Shangshu.
In the first year of Jianguang, he was promoted to Sili Xiaowei, and in the second year he was promoted to Runan prefect.
In order to advocate moderate politics and love talents, he introduced county people Huang Xian, Chen Fan and others.
Although Huang Xian refused to give in, Chen Fan became an official.
Chen Fan was a man of good temperament. When he first arrived at the house, Wang Gong did not summon him immediately.
So I left a note and went back saying I was sick.
Wang Gong was angry and wanted to remove Chen Fan's name.
The meritorious Cao Yuan Lang asked to see Wang Gong and said: I heard that there is a saying in "Zhuan": If a minister is not understood by the king, he will not dare to stand in the court. Since Chen Fan was introduced as a wise person, he should not be dismissed as inappropriate.
Wang Gong changed his color and said: It's my fault!
So he treated him politely.
Therefore, the late and famous people all admired Wang Gong.
Yuan Lang, whose courtesy name was Fenggao, resigned from the government service several times and did not seek any special conduct, but he enjoyed great fame at the time.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Wang Gong was recruited as his servant and transferred to Taichang.
In the fourth year, he was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to the earthquake.
In the first year of Yonghe, he was appointed Taiwei.
He is serious and prudent when in office. It is not official business, and he does not communicate with the state or county by letters.
Those he appointed were all respected elders in the country.
Wang Gong was deeply concerned about the monopoly of eunuchs and was determined to save the situation. So he wrote a letter to express the harm caused by the eunuchs and asked the emperor to banish them.
The eunuch was so frightened that the guests submitted a petition to falsely accuse Wang Gong of being guilty. Emperor Shun ordered Wang Gong to confess his guilt as soon as possible.
Li Gu, the former minister, was working as a lieutenant for the general Liang Shang at this time, so he wrote to Liang Shang and said: Today I heard that the emperor ordered the prince to admit his guilt. I don't know the extent of the matter.
The prince cultivates himself, maintains strict moral integrity, loves art and literature, does not ask for things he does not deserve, and does not do things he does not do. In vain, because of his chastity and disobedience to the world, he was dissatisfied by some people, and was brutally slandered and framed. When everyone heard this, everyone sighed and trembled.
The three princes have high responsibilities, support the emperor, and are like three platforms. They have no reason to complain to the judge.
With a little bit of energy, just deal with it casually. Therefore, the old laws and regulations stipulate that unless there is a serious crime, there is no need to interrogate.
The prince is calm and intelligent, so he cannot be treated irrationally.
If something unexpected happens suddenly, then the court will have a reputation of being harmful to the virtuous, and all the ministers will lose their responsibility to save it!
In the past, Jianghou Zhou Bo was offended, and Yuan An appealed for him and was acquitted; Wei Shang was found guilty, and Feng Tang appealed for him. Emperor Wen at that time thought that they had done a good job, and this matter was recorded in the biography.
Now the general relies on the emperor in the court and controls the power of the country outside. His prestige is clear, his words are respected, and no one dares to disobey his command. He should come to the rescue and save the prince from difficulties.
As the saying goes: A good man is in trouble and waits for food when he is hungry.
This is the time. Liang Shang immediately told the emperor and the matter was resolved.
Wang Gong reigned for five years. Due to old age and illness, he asked to go home and died at home.
The son's name is Wang Chang. ◆Wang Changzhuan, Wang Chang's courtesy name is Shumao.
When he was young, he was praised for his honesty and integrity. Rarely socializes with people.
In the beginning, he was filial and honest, and he didn't respond to illness.
General Liang Shang was appointed as Maocai, moved to Shangshuling, and then sent as Prime Minister of Qi.
He was conscripted into Sili Xiaowei and transferred to Yuyang Prefect.
Wherever he went, he was praised for his seriousness and shrewdness.
He was convicted and dismissed from office.
At this time, most of the affairs of the imperial court were assigned to the minister. Emperor Huan specifically issued an order to the three Dukes to elect people with merit and ability as minister. Taiwei Chen Fan recommended Wang Chang, saying that he was honest, fair, and inviolable, so he was appointed minister again.
Soon, he was appointed as the governor of Nanyang.
The two thousand stones before him were all afraid of the noble relatives of the Imperial Township, and most of them were incompetent.
Wang Chang hated them deeply, and as soon as he took office, he showed his power. Those who were guilty among them were investigated and exposed one by one. When the imperial court granted amnesty, the matter was resolved.
Wang Chang's old grudges were still lingering, and he established another regulation. If each person who received more than 20 million stolen goods refused to surrender and admit it, all his property would be confiscated. If there was any concealment, officials would be sent to demolish houses, cut down trees, fill in wells and flatten stoves. Some evil forces were greatly shocked.
Zhang Chang, a meritorious scholar, wrote a letter to remonstrate: "The Five Religions are broad and have been written in the classics."
Shang Tang said that when the net is removed from three sides, all directions will submit to his benevolence.
When King Wu entered the Yin Dynasty, he first got rid of Zhou's punishment of cannon burning.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty saw the harsh governance of the Qin Dynasty and only made three chapters of the agreement.
Emperor Xiaowen was moved by Tiying's letter to redeem his father and removed the corporal punishment.
Zhuo Mao, Wen Weng, and Zhao Fu's disciples all hate evil as much as their enemies, but their masters are gentle and kind.
The political voice of benevolence and virtuousness will be passed down to future generations.
Those wise and sage monarchs have a sparse legal network and do not seek strictness. Then the three lights of the sun, moon and stars shine above, and the figures below are delighted.
These words may seem pedantic, but their effect is immediate.
Demolishing houses and cutting down trees is a preparation for harsh and violent measures. Although it is intended to punish bad people and bad deeds, I am afraid that it will have a bad impact on people in distant places.
You have the wisdom and talent, you are as bright as the sun and the moon, and you implement benevolent politics to change the old views in the country. It is as easy as breaking a branch, but it is not as difficult as carrying Mount Tai to cross the North Sea.
Queen Guanglie, Queen Yin and Queen Deng are all new barbarians. Men and women bathed in enlightenment, and the people admired the lingering charm of the style. Since the ZTE, heroes, generals and ministers have prospered from generation to generation.
I think it is better to be kind than to use punishment eagerly, and to be polite and virtuous in seeking adultery diligently.
Shun recommended Gao Tao, and bad people would not dare to be around.
Jin ordered the central army to be appointed as Taifu, and the thieves from Jin State fled to Qin State.
Yu and Rui couldn't solve the problem in prison, so they went to see King Wen. When they arrived in Zhou Dynasty, they saw that the people cultivating the fields gave way to the fields, and the young people gave way to the older ones.
Yu and Rui felt very ashamed and said that what we were fighting for was a shame to the Zhou people.
So they didn't go to see King Wen and gave in to each other. It can be seen that the key to reforming people is morality and not punishment. Wang Chang fully accepted Zhang Chang's advice and implemented lenient governance instead, using torture carefully and administering punishment simply. Enlightenment is great.
Most of the large bureaucratic families in Nanyang County boasted of extravagance and waste. Wang Chang usually wore cloth and leather mattresses, and lost horses and chariots to correct this bad habit.
Liu Biao from the same county was seventeen years old and studied with Wang Chang.
Wang Chang advised: "Don't be too extravagant when it comes to extravagance, do what you do when you're thrifty, don't be forced to do it, and behave according to the Tao. The most important thing is to be within the realm of what's possible and what's appropriate."
It is shameful for Zang Boyu to think that he is a gentleman alone.
You do not pay attention to the clear teachings of the sage Confucius, but you envy Shuyi Boqi's trivial ethics. Don’t you want to value yourself in the world with your purity?
Wang Chang said: In the past, when Gong Yixiu was the prime minister of Lu, he uprooted the sunflowers in the garden and divorced his weaver wife; Sun Shu Ao was prime minister of Chu, and his son was killed by Qiu.
Few people fail by saving.
After listening to Boyi's noble character, corrupt people will become honest, and cowardly people will be determined to improve themselves.
Although I have no virtue, I admire the achievements of the ancients.
Later he was appointed as Changle Guardsman.
In the first year of Jianning, he was promoted to Sikong. Only a few months later, he was dismissed due to floods.
The next year, he died at home.
His son Wang Qian was the general and he Jin had a long history.
Wang Can, Wang Qian's son, is famous for his literary talent.
◆Zhong Hao's biography, Zhong Hao's courtesy name was Jing Bo, and he was a native of Luoyang County, Henan County. Descendants of Zhongshanfu.
His father was the magistrate of Dingtao County and had a fortune of thirty million.
After his father died, Zhong Hao used all the money to help the poor in his clan and county.
Those who strive for fame and wealth, Zhong Hao will not associate with them.
Started to work as a county clerk.
At that time, Wang Chen, the nephew of Yin Tianxin in Henan Province, had a good understanding of people.
Tian Xin said to Wang Chen: Now I have to recommend six filial and honest people. I have received many letters from relatives of high-ranking officials and nobles. I cannot go against their orders. I want to use one of my own to serve the country. Please help me find them.
The next day, Wang Chen sent guests to Dayangguo. He saw Zhong Hao from a distance and thought he was not a mortal. He went back and told Tian Xin, "I have found a Xiaolian for you, who is a member of the Luoyang family."
Tian Xin laughed and said: "The person who should be prayed for to live in seclusion in Shanze and not be an official turns out to be a Luoyang official!"
Wang Chen said: There may not necessarily be strangers in the mountains and rivers, and strangers may not necessarily be in the mountains and rivers.
Tian Xin immediately summoned Zhong Hao in the court and asked him about his duties.
Zhong Hao spoke in an orderly manner, and Tian Xin understood what he said very well, so he called him to act as the chief registrar. Therefore, he promoted filial piety and integrity, and was summoned to the Taiwei Mansion, where he was promoted to a high rank for his outstanding performance.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, he served as the censor.
Many of the eight envoys dispatched at that time, such as Du Qiao and Zhou Ju, the Guanglu officials, were impeached. General Liang Ji and other eunuchs asked each other for help and interceded, and the matter was shelved and stopped.
Zhong Hao believed that his duty was to expose and report, and he was determined to investigate and punish traitors, so he impeached Liu Xuan, the governor of Shu County, and others who were reported by the eight envoys. Their crimes were obvious and they should be sentenced to death.
He also petitioned the four prefectures to order the fathers, brothers, relatives and friends of the four governors who were particularly cruel, despicable and incompetent to be dismissed from office and punished.
The emperor accepted his opinion.
Prince Zhong Hao was selected as Chengguang official.
Gao Fan, the regular attendant, came out of a bicycle to meet the prince. At that time, the prince Du Qiao and others did not want to comply, were hesitant and were so frightened that they did not know what to do.
Zhong Hao held his sword as a chariot and said: The prince is the heir to the country's throne and is related to the life and death of the people.
Now that Chang Shilai has not trusted his orders, how can he know that he is not a traitor?
There is only death today.
Gao Fan had nothing to say and did not dare to answer. He drove up to report to the emperor and ordered the prince to go.
Du Qiao stepped back and sighed, feeling very ashamed of Zhong Hao's prompt decision.
The emperor also praised Zhong Hao for his prudent and correct behavior, and praised him for a long time.
He became the governor of Yizhou from the imperial court.
Zhong Hao is always high-spirited and likes to make meritorious deeds.
After three years in office, he promoted the country's benevolence as far as foreign countries, making it known to places with different customs. The mixed tribes in Minshan all admired the virtues of the Han Dynasty.
Bailang, Mu, Tang, Qiong, and other countries had severed ties with the Han Dynasty since the death of the former governor Zhu Fu; when Zhong Hao took office, they all became naturalized.
At that time, the prefect of Yongchang smelted gold into snakes and presented them to Liang Ji. Zhong Hao exposed and arrested the prefect of Yongchang and reported it to the court as quickly as possible. The second government was afraid of trouble and was cowardly and did not dare to investigate. Liang Ji hated Zhong Hao for this.
Just then, the Bajun people gathered hundreds of party members and claimed to be the King of Heaven. Zhong Hao and the prefect agreed to arrest them, but they failed and many officials were injured.
Liang Ji used this to frame them and announced the arrest of Zhong Hao and Ying Ying.
Taiwei Li Gushang Shujiu said: I heard that the reason why this capture was so harmful was not the fault of Zhong Hao or the promised responsibility. It was actually because the county officials were afraid of breaking the law and being punished, so they forced them to drive away, and the people suffered deeply, leading to this bad result.
There has been an increase in thieves recently, everywhere.
Zhong Hao and Ying Cheng were the first to report the treachery and were immediately punished. I am afraid that this will dampen the enthusiasm of the states and counties to report and impeach. In the future, they will cover up each other and no longer serve the country wholeheartedly.
The Empress Dowager Liang read the memorial, pardoned Zhong Hao and Ying Cheng, and only relieved them of their official duties.
Later, there was turmoil among the Qiang people in Liangzhou, and Zhong Hao was appointed governor of Liangzhou, which was very popular among the people.
Zhong Hao was recruited and promoted, and officials went to the court to retain Zhong Hao as the governor of Liangzhou. The Queen Mother sighed and said: "I have never heard that the governor can win people's hearts like this."
So the request of the Liangzhou officials was approved.
Zhong Hao stayed for another year and was promoted to the prefect of Hanyang. The Rong and Yi men and women were sent to the territory of Hanyang. Zhong Hao bowed to them and thanked them, walking thousands of miles without a car.
Zhong Hao went to Hanyang County and taught Qiang and Hu people, but they themselves prohibited intrusion and plundering property.
He was promoted to the rank of Zhonglang General who was envoy to the Xiongnu.
At this time, Wuhuan of Liaodong rebelled and was transferred to the post of governor of Liaodong. Wuhuan observed the limelight and led his subordinates to surrender, and greeted Zhong Hao on the border.
He was convicted and discharged from office and returned home.
From now on, the commander of the Sili School will recommend Zhong Hao as a virtuous and upright person, but he should not do so.
He was recruited and awarded Yilang, promoted to the prefect of Nanjun, and transferred to Shangshu. When the Huns invaded Bingzhou and Liangzhou, Emperor Huan selected Zhong Hao as the general to conquer Liao.
When Zhong Hao arrived at the camp, he first announced that he would talk about kindness and loyalty, and then he would launch a conquest as a last resort to lure the barbarians to surrender.
Qiang captives who had been imprisoned alive in counties in the past were all sent back.
Sincerely comfort, trust and reward are clear. Therefore, Qianghu, Qiuci, Yarkand, Wusun and other countries came to submit.
Zhong Hao then removed the beacon tower and the waiting facilities, and the border was safe.
He was transferred to the imperial court as the chief minister of agriculture.
In the fourth year of Yanxi's reign, he was promoted to Situ.
The famous ministers Qiao Xuan and Huangfu Gui were recommended as competent prime ministers.
He reigned for three years and died at the age of sixty-one.
The border residents of Bingzhou and Liangzhou all mourned.
When the Xiongnu heard that Zhong Hao had passed away, the whole country was sad.
Every time Chanyu came to pay homage, he would see Zhonghao's grave and weep and offer sacrifices.
The second son: Zhongdai, Zhongfu.
◆In the biography of Zhongdai, Zhongdai was named Gongzu, who was fond of learning and raising his ambitions.
The promotion of filial piety, integrity and talents, and the appointment of Zhao Gongfu were not accepted.
Bus characteristics, illness and death.
At first, Zhong Dai and Li Gu's son Li Xie were recruited as Yilang at the same time. When Li Xie heard that Zhong Dai had died, he was very sad and wrote a letter asking for additional gifts to Zhong Dai.
Said: I heard that benevolence and righteousness flourish, morality flourishes, morality flourishes, politics becomes bright, politics becomes bright, and the people are at peace.
Zhongdai, a virgin who passed away, was simple and easy-going, knowledgeable about affairs, and enjoyed poetry and calligraphy throughout his life. Wealth and honor could not bend his ambition, and all things could not disturb his heart.
His life was short-lived and he died suddenly.
If it weren't for lingering around, they would already be ministers in this generation.
In the past, when a virtuous man died, there would be a ceremony to add gifts. The "Book of Rites of Zhou" says that when a virtuous person dies, there will be an inscription. Zhongdai will not have the honor of being an official in life, and will not have the title of official posthumous title after death.
Although he has not been loyal to the country and has not done anything good, he was selected by the emperor and is known to people far and near that he should receive a special reward.
The court actually did not do this.
◆Zhongfu Chuan, whose name is Yingbo.
He began to work for Sili and was appointed magistrate of Wan County.
At that time, Nanyang County officials liked to play in the market during menstruation, causing harm to the people.
When Zhong Fu went out and met them, he would definitely get out of the car to meet them and make them feel ashamed. From then on, I didn’t dare to come out.
He had a good reputation for being capable in politics and was promoted to Guanglu doctor.
In the first year of Chuping, he replaced Xun Shuang as Sikong.
The next year, he was dismissed from office due to the earthquake and returned to Taichang.
Li Chu and Guo Si rebelled, and the city of Chang'an was destroyed. Many officials fled to avoid the attack of the soldiers. Zhong Fu came out with his sword and said: As a minister of the country, you can't stop the chaos and eliminate violence. Let the thieves rush into the palace and run wherever they want!
So he fought to the death, and his son Zhong Shao.
◆Zhong Shao Zhuan, Zhong Shao is named Shenfu.
Famous at a young age.
In the last years of Zhongping, he served as an admonishing official.
大将军何进准备诛杀宦官，召并州牧董卓，董卓到渑池，何进狐疑，拿不定主意了。

Zhong Shao was sent to issue an edict to prevent Dong Zhuo from entering the capital. Dong Zhuo refused and advanced to Henan.
Zhong Shao went to greet them and comfort them, and persuaded Dong Zhuo to withdraw.
Dong Zhuo suspected that something was going on, so his sergeants threatened Zang Shao with a gun.
Zhong Shao became angry, claimed that there was an edict, and shouted loudly, causing the soldiers to disperse. Zhong Shao stepped forward to question and blame Dong Zhuo, but Dong Zhuo had nothing to say in response, so he had to retreat to Sunset Pavilion.
When He Jin failed, Emperor Xian ascended the throne and made Shao a doctor.
Dong Zhuo had monopolized power and was a powerful villain. He was demoted to Yilang and made governor of Yizhou and Liangzhou.
When his father died in battle and he was unable to take up his post, the period of mourning expired and he was recruited as a Shaofu or Dahonglu, but neither of them accepted it.
He said: My late father died for the country, and as a minister, I cannot drive away the cruelty and avenge the resentment in my heart. How can I show my face to the Lord!
So together with Ma Teng, Han Sui, Zuo Zhonglang Liu Fan, and admonishment official Ma Yu, they attacked Li Chu and Guo Si to avenge their hatred.
He fought with Guo Si at Changping Temple, but failed. Zhong Shao and others died in the battle.
Ma Teng went back to Liangzhou.
◆Chen Qiu Chuan, also known as Chen Qiu, also known as Bo Zhen, was a native of Huaipu County, Xiapi County.
It has been famous throughout the ages.
His father, Chen Yi, was the governor of Guanghan.
When Chen Qiu was young, he read Confucianism extensively and was familiar with laws and regulations.
In the middle period of Yangjia, Xiaolian was promoted and Fanyang Order was promoted.
At that time, the prefect of Wei County hinted that the county would send bribes, but Chen Qiu refused. The prefect became angry and whipped the postal supervisor, hoping to expel Chen Qiu.
The governor refused and said: "In the fifteen cities of Wei County, Du Fanyang has good political performance. Now if I want to expel Chen Qiu, it will arouse discussion among the people in the world."
The governor didn't dare to do this.
Later, he was promoted to a high official in the imperial palace because of his outstanding performance, and was granted the title of Imperial Censor.
At this time, the most cunning bandit in Guiyang, Li Yan, and others gathered to invade and loot the Jing tribe. The prefectures and counties were cowardly and could not stop them. Taiwei Yang Bing recommended Chen Qiu as the prefect of Lingling.
Chen Qiu went to the county to study the methods and strategies of the conquest. In just one month, some of Li Yan and other bandits were eliminated, and some fled.
However, the state soldiers Zhu Gai and others rebelled and joined forces with the Guiyang thief Hu Lan and tens of thousands of people to attack Lingling.
The ground in Lingling was damp, and the city was made of woven wood. It could not be defended or defended, and the people in the county were panicked.
The governor told Chen Qiu that he wanted to send his family members to seek refuge. Chen Qiu got angry and said: "The prefect has taken the tiger talisman of the country and is responsible for governing the country. How can he only care about his wife and son and undermine the authority of the country?"
Besides, behead!
So he gathered all the officials, old and weak, to defend the city together. They used big wood as a string as a bow and feathered spears as arrows. They used a trigger to fire. They could shoot more than a thousand steps away and killed many bandits.
The thieves diverted water to flood the city. Chen Qiu used the terrain in the city to flood the city and drown the thieves. The stalemate lasted for more than ten days, but the thieves could not capture it.
When Zhonglang arrived with reinforcements from Du Shang, Chen Qiu recruited soldiers and together with Du Shang defeated Zhu Gai and beheaded him.
He was given 500,000 yuan and one of Chen Qiu's sons was given the title of Lang.
Promoted to the prefect of Wei County.
Recruiting generals as great craftsmen to build Emperor Huan's mausoleum, saving more than tens of thousands.
He was promoted to the Grand Administrator of Nanyang. He was slandered by a powerful family because of picketing and reporting on powerful bullies. He was summoned to serve as a court official to discuss his crime. He was pardoned and returned home.
He was recruited and appointed as a Tingwei.
In the first year of Xiping, Empress Dowager Dou passed away.
The empress dowager originally moved to Yuntai, Nangong. The eunuchs deeply resented the Dou family and carried the empress dowager's body in a clothes cart and placed it in a cellar in the south of the city for several days.
The ministers Cao Jie and Wang Fu wanted to attend the funeral according to the rites of nobles, but the emperor said: The queen mother has personally appointed me as emperor to inherit the great cause.
"The Book of Songs" says: No virtue will not be repaid, no words will not be repaid.
That is to say, there is no virtue not to repay, and no words not to answer. Can the Queen Mother attend the funeral?
So the funeral was carried out according to the ceremony.
When it was time for the burial, Cao Jie and others wanted to bury the Queen Mother separately and paid for it with Guiren Feng.
The ministers were ordered to convene in the temple, and the minister Zhao Zhong was ordered to supervise the discussion.
Taiwei Li Xian was ill at this time. He stood up from the sedan chair, picked up some longevity peppers, and said to his wife: If the Empress Dowager is not allowed to eat with Emperor Huan, I will not be born again.
When the discussion started, the hundreds of people sitting here all looked at the eunuch. For a long time, no one dared to speak first. Zhao Zhong said: It will be decided at that time.
I blame Gongqing for the following: You look at me, I look at you, but don't say anything.
Chen Qiu said: The empress dowager is virtuous, comes from a good family, and her mother is in the world. There is no doubt that the late emperor should be buried.
Zhao Zhong smiled and said: Chen Tingwei, please take a pen and write down your reasons.
Chen Qiu wrote down his reasons: The Empress Dowager is at ease in her room, she is both smart and maternal.
When he was killed and lost his place, he was elected as the emperor and inherited the ancestral temple, which made the greatest contribution.
When the late emperor passed away, he was imprisoned in Daxing Prison and moved to the empty palace. Unfortunately, he died early. Although the family was convicted, it was not the Queen Mother's business.
Now if the Queen Mother is buried separately, she will lose the hearts of the people in the world.
Moreover, Feng Guiren's tomb was excavated, his bones were exposed, and he was buried with the thieves. His soul was also polluted, and he had no service to the country. How could he be worthy of being worthy of the Supreme Being?
After Zhao Zhong saw Chen Qiu's reasons, he changed his color and sneered at Chen Qiu, saying: "Chen Tingwei suggested this, you are very knowledgeable!"
Chen Qiu said: Since Chen Fan and Dou Wu were unjustly convicted, and the Empress Dowager was imprisoned for no reason, I am often saddened, and everyone in the world is indignant and sighing for this.
I have said this today, and if you are accused of being blamed after the meeting, this has been my wish for a long time.
Everyone below the minister agreed with Chen Qiu's opinion.
Li Xian didn't dare to speak at first, but listened to Chen Qiu's righteous words, and then said loudly: I said it should be like this, and what Chen Qiu said was exactly what I wanted.
Everyone present was ashamed of him.
Cao Jie and Wang Fu argued again, believing that the Empress Liang's family had committed a crime and should not be buried in Yiling. Emperor Wu deposed the Empress Wei and used Mrs. Li as a food ration.
Now that the Dou family has committed a serious crime, can they bury the late emperor together?
Li Xian then went to the court and said, "I believe that Empress Zhang De Dou abused and tortured Gong Huai, and An Si and Yan Hou's family committed crimes, but he and the emperor had no intention of being buried together, and there was no word about demotion in Shun Temple."
As for the Queen of Wei, it cannot be compared with the one abandoned by Emperor Xiaowu.
Now she holds the title of Empress Dowager Changle, and she once came to the court to exercise authority, exercise the power of the emperor, educate the world, and install the current emperor to the throne.
The Queen Mother regards the Emperor as her son, can the Emperor not recognize the Queen Mother as his mother?
A son cannot depose his mother, and ministers cannot demote the emperor. They should be buried together in Xuanling, fully abiding by the old system.
The emperor read the memorial and said to Cao Jie and others: Although the surnamed Dou is immoral, the Queen Mother has virtues for me and should not be demoted.
Cao Jie said nothing more, so the discussion was settled.
Li Xian, courtesy name Yuan Zhen, was from Runan.
From state to county, it rises step by step. He is famous for his integrity and ability; he is loyal to the court, and generally the powerful and flattering people are afraid of him.
In the sixth year, Chen Qiu was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to an earthquake.
He was awarded Doctor Guanglu and then Tingwei and Taichang.
In the first year of Guanghe, he was promoted to Taiwei. After a few months, he was dismissed due to a solar eclipse and was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor.
In the second year, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Yongle, so he secretly planned with Situ Hejian and Liu to kill the eunuchs.
At first, Liu's elder brother, the minister Liu Zhen, conspired with the general Dou Wu to kill the eunuchs, but they were both killed by the eunuchs, so Liu and Chen Qiu formed a conspiracy.
Before the matter got started, Chen Qiu wrote another letter to persuade Liu: "The Duke is a descendant of the clan, and he is the third Duke. He is respected by people all over the world. Can the vassal guard of the country just go along with it and tolerate it without any objection?"
Now Cao Jie and others are doing wanton harm and have always been by your side, and your brother Shizhong was harmed by Cao Jie and others. This is known to the Empress Dowager Yongle.
Now we can transfer Wei Yangqiu from Wei to Sili Xiaowei, and capture and kill Cao Jie and others in turn.
In this way, the emperor will take charge personally and the world will be at peace soon.
In addition, Shangshu Liu Na offended the eunuchs because of his integrity and was transferred to the rank of infantry captain. He also urged Liu.
Liu said: The vicious eunuchs have many eyes and ears, and they are afraid that things will be harmed before things are ready.
Liu Na said: You are the pillar of the country. The country is tilting and is about to collapse. If you don't support it, what's the point of using you?
Liu agreed and conspired with Yang Qiu.
Chen Qiu's younger wife is Cheng Huang's daughter. Cheng Huang works in the palace, and the palace calls her Master Cheng.
Cao Jie and others knew a little bit about Liu and others' plans, so they bribed Cheng Huang with a lot of money and threatened him.
Cheng Huang was forced and frightened, so he told Cao Jie about Chen Qiu's plan. Cao Jie told the emperor the whole situation and said: Liu et al. often interacted with the vassal country and had bad ideas.
She praised the power of Queen Mother Yongle many times and accepted a lot of bribes.
Infantry Colonel Liu Na and Yongle Shaofu Chen Qiu and Wei Wei Yangqiu exchanged letters and plotted against each other.
The emperor was furious and removed Liu Situ from his post. Liu, Chen Qiu, Liu Na and Yang Qiu all died in prison.
Chen Qiu was sixty-two years old.
His son Chen Wangyu was the prefect of Wu County; Chen Wangyu's younger brother Chen Cong was the prefect of Ruyin; his younger brother's son Chen Wanggui was the prime minister of Pei; Chen Wanggui's son Chen Deng was the prefect of Guangling.
