Cao Shen, Marquis of Pingyang, was born in Peixian County.
During the Qin Dynasty, Cao Shen served as the warden of Peixian County, and Xiao He was the chief official. They were already well-known officials in the county.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was the Duke of Pei, Cao Shen followed him as Zhongjuan.
Cao Shen led his army to attack Huling and Fangyu, and attacked the Qin Dynasty's county supervisors' army, greatly defeating the enemy.
He took Xuexian County to the east and attacked the army of the Sishui County Governor to the west of the outer city of Xuexian County.
Then he attacked Huling and successfully captured it.
Cao Shen led his army to move to guard Fang Yu.
Fang Yu had rebelled and surrendered to the king of Wei, so Cao Shen attacked Fang Yu.
Fengyi also rebelled and surrendered to the king of Wei, and Cao Shen went to attack Fengyi again.
Duke Pei bestowed upon Cao Shen the title of Seventh Doctor.
Cao Shen attacked Qin Dynasty Sima Yí's army east of Dang County, defeated him, and captured Shanzhiyi in Dang County, Hufu County, and Qi County.
Cao Shen then attacked the area west of Xiayi, as far as Yu County, and attacked Zhang Han's army.
When attacking Yuan Qi and Kang Fu, Cao Shen was the first to climb the tower.
Cao Shen was promoted to the fifth official position.
He went north to rescue Dong'a, attacked Zhang Han's army, captured Chen County, and pursued to Puyang.
He attacked Dingtao and captured Linji.
He went south to rescue Yongqiu, attacked Li You's army, defeated it, killed Li You, and captured one of the Qin Dynasty's military commanders.
At this time, Qin general Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang's army and killed Xiang Liang. Pei Gong and Xiang Yu led their troops back east.
King Chu Huai appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and commanded the army of Dang County.
Peigong granted Cao Shen the title of Silk Holder and was known as Jiancheng Lord.
Later, Cao Shen was promoted to the magistrate of Yuanqi County and was subordinate to Dang County.
From there, Cao Shen followed Pei Gong to attack the army of the prefect of Dongjun and defeated the enemy south of Chengwu.
They attacked Wang Li's army in the south of Chengyang and fought Wang Li's army in Gangli, defeating them severely.
Chasing the fleeing enemy troops, he went west to Kaifeng, attacked Zhao Bi's army, defeated it, and surrounded Zhao Bi in the city of Kaifeng.
Going west, he encountered the Qin Dynasty general Yang Xiong's army in Qu, defeated it, and captured one of the Qin Dynasty's Sima and Yushi.
Cao Shen was promoted to Zhigui and followed Pei Gong to attack Yangwu, captured the Yuan and Feng clans, blocked the Yellow River ferry, returned to attack Zhao Ben's army, and defeated it to the north of Xixiang.
Following Pei Gong, he went south to attack Jiyi, and fought with Lu Xun, the governor of Nanyang County, east of the outer city of Yangcheng. He broke through Lu Xun's army, captured Wan County, captured Lu Xun, and completely pacified Nanyang County.
Following Pei Gong, he went west to attack Wuguan and Yaoguan, and captured these two passes.
He first attacked the Qin army in the south of Lantian, and then attacked the north of Lantian at night, defeating the Qin army. Then he reached Xianyang and destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
After Xiang Yu came to Guanzhong, he named Liu Bang King of Han.
The king of Han granted Cao Shen the title of Marquis of Jiancheng.
Cao Shen followed the King of Han to Guanzhong and was promoted to general.
He then followed the King of Han and returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. He initially attacked Xiabian, Gudao, Yongxian and Xixian.
They attacked Zhang Ping's army from the south of Haotian, defeated Zhang Ping, surrounded Haodian, and captured Rangxiang.
The troops of Sanqin attacked in the east of Rangxiang and Gaoqiu and defeated them all.
They surrounded Zhang Ping again, and Zhang Ping broke out and escaped from the enemy's camp.
So he attacked the troops of Zhao Bi and Nei Shibao and defeated them.
He captured Xianyang from the east and renamed Xianyang Xincheng.
Cao Shen led his troops to guard Jingling for twenty days. Sanqin sent Zhang Ping and others to attack Cao Shen. Cao Shen sent troops to meet him and defeated the enemy.
The king of Han gave Ning Qin to Cao Shen as a food town.
As a general, Cao Shen led the troops to surround Zhang Han in Feiqiu, and as a lieutenant, he followed the King of Han to Jin Pass.
When they arrived in Hanoi, they captured Xiuwu, crossed the Yellow River from Weijin, and marched eastward to attack Long Qie and Xiang's army at Dingtao and defeated them.
Heading east, they captured Dangxian, Xiaoxian and Pengcheng.
Attacking Xiang Ji's army, the Han army was defeated and fled.
Cao Shen surrounded and captured Yongqiu as a lieutenant.
Han general Wang Wu rebelled in Waihuang and Cheng Chu rebelled in Yan County. Cao Shen led his army to attack and defeated them both.
柱天侯在衍氏反叛，曹参又击败叛军，夺回了衍氏。

Attacked Yuying in Kunyang and pursued to Yeyi.
回军攻打武强，随即又打到荥阳。

Cao Shen served as a general and lieutenant from Hanzhong, following the king of Han to sweep away the princes, until Xiang Yu was defeated and returned to Xingyang, a total of two years.
In the second year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Cao Shen was appointed to act as Prime Minister Zuo and led troops to garrison in Guanzhong.
More than a month later, King Bao of Wei rebelled. Cao Shen, acting as the acting prime minister of Zuo, and Han Xin led their troops eastward to attack Wei General Sun Jun's army in Dongzhang, and defeated Sun Jun's army.
Cao Shen took advantage of the situation to attack Anyi and captured Wei general Wang Xiang alive.
Attacked the King of Wei in Quyang, chased him to Wuyuan, and captured King Bao of Wei alive.
They captured Pingyang, captured the king's mother, wife, and children alive, and captured the entire land of Wei, gaining a total of fifty-two cities.
The king of Han gave Pingyang to Cao Shen as a food town.
Cao Shen later followed Han Xin to attack the army of Zhao Guoxiang Guo Xia Shuo in the east of Wu County, defeated Xia Shuo's army and beheaded Xia Shuo.
Han Xin and Zhang Er, the former king of Changshan, led their troops to Jingxing and attacked Chen Yu, the king of Anjun. At the same time, they ordered Cao Shen to return to the army and besiege Zhao's general Qi in Wu County.
General Qi broke through and fled, but Cao Shen pursued and killed him.
So Cao Shen led his troops to the camp of King Han in Aocang.
By this time, Han Xin had defeated the State of Zhao, became prime minister, and attacked Qi State in the east.
Cao Shen, serving as Prime Minister Zuo, subordinated to Han Xin, defeated Qi Lixia's army and captured Linyi.
The returning army pacified Jibei County and attacked the counties, Luoyin, Pingyuan, Li County and Lu County.
Soon after, Han Xin followed Han Xin to attack Long Qie's army, defeated the enemy, killed Long Qie, and captured his general Zhou Lan.
The state of Qi was pacified and more than seventy counties were obtained in total.
They captured the Prime Minister Tian Guang of the former Qi King Tian Guang, Xu Zhang who stayed behind in place of the Prime Minister, and the former Qi State Jiaodong General Tian Ji.
Han Xin became the king of Qi, led his troops to Chen County, joined the king of Han, and defeated Xiang Yu together, while Cao Shen stayed to pacify the unconquered areas of Qi.
Xiang Yu was dead, the world was at peace, the King of Han became emperor, Han Xin was renamed King of Chu, and the state of Qi was divided into counties.
Cao Shen returned the seal of the Han Prime Minister.
Emperor Gao made his eldest son Liu Fei the King of Qi and appointed Cao Shen as the Prime Minister of Qi.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the titles of the princes were enfeoffed. The imperial court and the princes cut the talismans as proof, so that the titles of the enfeoffed persons could be passed down from generation to generation without being extinguished.
Emperor Gaozu granted Cao Shen 10,630 households in Pingyang as a fiefdom, with the title Marquis of Pingyang, and took back the fiefdoms previously entrusted to Cao Shen.
As the Prime Minister of Qi, Cao Shen led troops to attack Chen Xi's general Zhang Chun's army and defeated the enemy.
Yingbu rebelled. As the Prime Minister of Qi, Cao Shen followed Qi Hui King Liu Fei and led 120,000 troops. Together with Gaozu, he attacked Yingbu's army and defeated the enemy.
They marched southward to Qi County, then returned to the army and pacified Zhuyi, Xiangxian, Xiaoxian and Liuxian.
Cao Shen's achievements: he conquered two vassal states and 122 counties in total; captured two vassal kings, three prime ministers of the vassal states, six generals, and one each of the county guard, Sima, military marquis, and censor.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, he abolished the decree of establishing a prime minister's state in the vassal states and appointed Cao Shen as the prime minister of Qi.
When Cao Shen was the prime minister of Qi, there were seventy cities in Qi.
At that time, the world had just been peaceful, and King Huihui was very young. Cao Shen summoned the elderly and scholars to ask for ways to appease the people. But there were hundreds of scholars in Qi State, and they had different opinions. Cao Shen didn't know how to make a decision.
He heard that there was a Duke Gai in Jiaoxi who studied Huang Lao's theory intensively, so he sent someone to invite him with generous gifts.
After meeting Gai Gong, Gai Gong told Cao Shen that the most important way to govern the country is to be pure and inactive, allowing the people to settle down on their own. He recommended similar things in this regard and stated them all to Cao Shen.
Cao Shen then gave up his main hall and let Gai Gong live in it.
From then on, Cao Shen's method of governing the country was to adopt Huang Lao's teachings, so he served as the prime minister of Qi for nine years. The country of Qi was stable, and people greatly praised him as a wise prime minister.
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, Xiao He passed away.
When Cao Shen heard the news, he told his disciples to pack their bags quickly and said: I am going to the court to become the prime minister.
Soon after, people sent by the imperial court came to summon Cao Shen.
When Cao Shen left, he told the subsequent prime minister of Qi: The prison lawsuits and markets of Qi should be regarded as the sustenance of certain people's actions. These actions should be treated with caution and not interfere easily.
The later prime minister said: Is there nothing more important than governing the country? Cao Shen said: That's not the case.
Prison litigation and the market are both good and evil. If you interfere strictly, where will the bad people stay?
That's why I'm telling you this.
When Cao Shen was humble at first, he had a good relationship with Xiao He; but when they became generals and prime ministers, there was a gap.
When Xiao He was dying, the only good minister Xiao He recommended to Emperor Xiaohui Liu Ying was Cao Shen.
Cao Shen succeeded Xiao He as the prime minister of the Han Dynasty. He did not change anything and followed the laws established by Xiao He.
Cao Shen selected elders from various counties and vassal states who were not good at speaking and acted steadily. After finding them, he immediately summoned subordinate officials who were appointed as prime ministers.
Those among the officials who are demanding about the details of their speech and writing and who want to blindly pursue reputation will be repelled and driven away.
Cao Shen himself drank wine all day long.
The officials and guests below the rank of Qing and Dafu saw that Cao Shen was not paying attention to political affairs, and everyone who came to the door wanted to give him some advice.
But as soon as these people arrived, Cao Shen immediately gave them wine to drink. After a while, some people wanted to say something, and Cao Shen let them drink again. Until they got drunk and left, they were never able to speak out to persuade them. This was customary.
The back garden of the Prime Minister's residence is close to the officials' houses. In the officials' houses, people drink, sing, and shout all day long.
Cao Shen's officials were disgusted by this incident, but they had nothing to do about it, so they invited Cao Shen to play in the back garden. Together they heard the drunken officials singing and shouting wildly. The officials hoped that the Prime Minister would summon them to stop them.
Instead, Cao Shen asked people to get wine, set up a table, and drank heavily. He also sang and shouted in harmony with the officials.
When Cao Cao saw other people's minor faults, he always concealed them, so everything was safe in the prime minister's house.
Cao Shen's son Cao Chang became a doctor.
Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty complained that Cao Xiangguo ignored political affairs, and felt that the prime minister looked down on him, so he said to Cao Cheng: After you go home, try to ask your father privately: Emperor Gao has just passed away, and the emperor is very young. As the prime minister, you drink and have fun all day long, and do not ask the emperor for instructions when something happens. How do you manage the affairs of the country?
But don’t say I told you these words.
Cao Cheng went home during the holidays and stayed with his father in his spare time, translating Emperor Hui's wishes into his own words to persuade Cao Shen.
After hearing this, Cao Shen was furious and slapped Cao Chang two hundred times and said, "Hurry up and enter the palace to serve the emperor. It is not your place to talk about important national affairs."
When he went to court, Emperor Hui scolded Cao Shen and said: Why punish Cao Cheng?
I asked him to advise you last time.
Cao Shen took off his hat and apologized and said: Your Majesty, please think carefully for yourself, who is more saintly and heroic compared with you or Emperor Gao?
Emperor Hui said: How dare I compare with the late Emperor!
Cao Shen said: Your Majesty, do you think my talents are better than those of Xiao He? Emperor Hui said: You are probably not as good as Xiao He.
Cao Shen said: What your Majesty said is correct.
Emperor Gao and Xiao He have brought peace to the world, and the laws have been made clear. Now His Majesty has lowered his clothes and handed over his hands. Isn't it enough for us to abide by our respective responsibilities, follow the original laws and not change them at will? Emperor Hui said: OK.
Take a rest!
Cao Shen served as the Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty for three years.
After his death, he was posthumously named Yihou.
Cao Shen's son, Cao Cheng, succeeded his father as the marquis.
The common people praised Cao Shen's deeds and said: Xiao He formulated laws that were clear and consistent; Cao Shen succeeded Xiao He as prime minister and abided by Xiao He's laws without changing them.
Cao Shen implemented his pure and inactive approach, and the people were peaceful and undisturbed.
Cao Cheng, Marquis of Pingyang, was the imperial censor at that time.
Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne and was dismissed as a marquis.
Cao Cheng died after 29 years as a marquis, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
Cao Cheng's son Cao Qi took over the throne and died after seven years of service. His posthumous title was Marquis Jian.
Cao Qi's son Cao Shi succeeded him.
Cao Shi married Princess Pingyang and gave birth to a son, Cao Xiang.
Cao Shi got sick and returned to the feudal country.
Cao Shi died in his 23rd year as a Marquis, and his posthumous title was Yihou.
Cao Shi's son Cao Xiang succeeded him.
Cao Xiang married Princess Wei Chang and had a son, Cao Zong.
Cao Xiang died in his sixteenth year as a marquis, and his posthumous title was Gonghou.
Cao Xiang's son Cao Zong succeeded him.
In the second year of Zhenghe, Cao Zong was implicated in the mutiny launched by Emperor Wu's crown prince. He was convicted and executed, and the feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: The reason why Cao Shen, the Prime Minister of Cao, has so many military exploits is because he worked with Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin.
When Han Xin was eliminated, only Cao Shen was credited with the military exploits accomplished by other princes.
As the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, Cao Shen strongly advocated purity and inaction, which was completely in line with Taoist doctrine.
After the people suffered from the cruel rule of the Qin Dynasty, Cao Shen gave them a chance to recuperate, so everyone in the world praised his virtue.
