◆Ban Biao's biography, Ban Biao, courtesy name Shupi, was born in Anling, Fufeng.
His grandfather, Ban Kuang, served as a captain of the Yue Cavalry School when he became emperor.
His father, Ban Zhi, served as the prefect of Guangping during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Ban Biao has a serious personality and likes traditional culture.
When he was in his twenties, Gengshi was defeated and fled, and there was chaos near the capital.
At that time, Wei Xiao led everyone to revolt in Tianshui, and Ban Biao followed him to seek refuge.
Once, Wei Xiao asked Ban Biao: "In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was destroyed, the Warring States Period was full of disputes, and the world was torn apart. It took several generations to stabilize."
Will the combination of verticality and horizontality appear again today, or will it be a destiny for a certain person?
Please give me your opinion, sir. Ban Biao replied: The decline and prosperity of the Zhou Dynasty was different from that of the Han Dynasty.
In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was divided into five categories: Duke, Marquis, Uncle, Son, and Male. The princes controlled their own territories and governed their own affairs, just like a big tree, with weak roots and luxuriant branches and leaves. Therefore, later, when there were vertical and horizontal alliances, it was the situation that prompted it.
The Han Dynasty inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty and changed the feudal system into a system of prefectures and counties. The monarch had autocratic authority and his subordinates did not have the power to control the country for a hundred years.
When Emperor Cheng arrived, he used the power of his relatives to reign. Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping reigned for a short time. The three emperors had no children, so Wang Mang usurped the throne and stole the title of the country.
The danger comes from above, and the harm is not as bad as below. Therefore, after Wang Mang actually usurped the throne, everyone in the world stretched their necks and sighed.
For more than ten years, there have been disturbances at home and abroad, and actions have been taken by people near and far, each under the banner of the Liu family, and they have responded in unison.
Nowadays, the states and counties ruled by heroes and heroes do not have the traditional capital of the Seven Kingdoms, but the common people miss the kindness of the Han Dynasty with one voice. The development trend can be imagined. Wei Xiaodao: Sir, your analysis of the situation between the Zhou Dynasty and the Han Dynasty is correct; as for saying that the Han family will definitely revive because the stupid people are accustomed to the Liu surname, it is not necessarily true.
In the past, when the Qin Dynasty lost the world, it was like a deer running away. Liu Bang chased the deer and caught it. Who knew there was a Han Dynasty at that time?
On the one hand, Ban Biao hated Wei Xiao's arrogance, and on the other hand, he lamented the difficult situation, so he wrote an article "On the King's Mandate", believing that Han De succeeded Tang Yao, as evidenced by the efficacious king's talisman, and that the king ascended the throne, not by deception. He wanted to use this to impress Wei Xiao, but Wei Xiao never realized it, so he avoided Hexi.
Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, used him as an official, treated him with great respect, and treated him as a mentor and friend. Ban Biao made suggestions for Dou Rong, served the Han Dynasty, and led the Xihe area to resist Wei Xiao. Later, Dou Rong was ordered to return to the capital. Emperor Guangwu asked: Who was your adviser on the memorial you submitted? Dou Rong replied: It was all done by my colleague Ban Biao. The emperor had always heard that Ban Biao was very talented, so he summoned Ban Biao, promoted him to be the Secretary Maocai, and asked him to be the Order of Xuzhou. However, he was unable to take the post due to illness.
Later, he went several times in response to Sangong's orders.
Ban Biao was both talented and good at writing, so he concentrated on historical records.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Sima Qian wrote the "Historical Records". Since the Taichu period, there has been no writing. Later, some good people connected the deeds at that time, but the writing style is vulgar and is not worthy of being a follow-up to the "Historical Records".
Ban Biao then continued to collect the historical relics of the previous dynasty, and also read some anecdotes from the side, and wrote dozens of later biographies, commenting on the gains and losses with reference to the previous history.
The summary of the article reads: During the Tang and Yu dynasties, according to the records of "The Book of Songs" and "The Book of Books", each dynasty had historians to manage classic works. When it came to the vassal states, each country had its own history. Therefore, "Mencius" said that the history of Chu State is called "Mu Shou Chu", the history of Jin State is called "Cheng", and the history of Lu State is called "Spring and Autumn". Their records of history are all the same. In the era of Duke Dinggong and Duke Ai of Lu, Zuo Qiuming, a gentleman of the state of Lu, collected the history of that time and wrote thirty chapters of "The Biography of the Zuo Family", and based on various materials, he wrote twenty-one chapters of "Guoyu".
There is also a book that records the deeds of emperors, princes, princes, princes and officials from the time of the Yellow Emperor to the Spring and Autumn Period, called "Shiben", with a total of fifteen chapters.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, there were disputes among the seven kingdoms and the Qin State annexed the princes. Thirty-three chapters of "Warring States Policy" were published.
The rise of the Han Dynasty brought peace to the world. Lu Jia, a senior official in Taizhong, recorded the situation at that time and wrote nine chapters of Chu-Han Spring and Autumn Annals.
In the era of Emperor Xiaowu, Taishi ordered Sima Qian to collect "Zuo Shi" and "Guoyu", and delete "Shiben" and "Warring States Policy". According to the current affairs of the Chu and Han states, starting from the Yellow Emperor and going down to the second year of Taishi, he wrote a total of 130 chronicles, family biographies, books, and lists. Ten of them are missing. Sima Qian recorded that from the founding of the Han Dynasty to the last time of Emperor Wu, this is his contribution.
As for the collection of scriptures and biographies, materials scattered among hundreds of schools of thought are found in many rough and schematic parts, which are not as true and detailed as the original ones. It is known for being widely read and widely published, and its discussion is superficial but not solid.
When talking about academics, he praised Huangdi and Laozi and despised the Five Classics; when writing about goods and culture, he despised benevolence and righteousness and was ashamed of poverty; when writing about knight-errants, he despised those who were chaste and heroic and praised those who made meritorious deeds in the world. This is a serious problem, and it harms the righteousness, so it is the reason for being punished by corruption.
However, he is good at describing events, his writing style is fluent but not gorgeous, simple but not crude, his writing quality is commensurate, and he deserves to be regarded as a good historian.
If he were allowed to follow the etiquette and laws of the Five Classics and conform to the saint's standards of right and wrong, that would be enough. Those history books of hundreds of schools all have their merits.
For example, after reading "Zuo Shi", "Guoyu", "Shiben", "Warring States Policy", "Chu-Han Spring and Autumn", and "Tai Shi Gong Shu", people today can know ancient history, and people in future generations can know things of previous generations. It is really the eyes and ears of a saint.
Sima Qian's biography of the emperor is called Benji, his biography of dukes and princes is called his family, and his biography of officials and officials is called his biographies.
He included Xiang Yu and Chen She in this era and his family, while the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan were demoted to biographies. He wrote them carefully, euphemistically and in a very orderly manner.
Sima Qian's works are based on anecdotes from ancient and modern times, and the historical materials throughout the classics are indeed very extensive.
With one person's energy, the content is complex and heavy, so his collection, deletions and clutter are not enough. There are some redundant words and it is not neat enough.
For example, when writing about Sima Xiangru, list the prefectures and counties and write down his names. As for Xiao He, Cao Shen, Chen Ping, and Dong Zhongshu's contemporaries, do not record their names. Some only write the counties but not the counties. Maybe they did not take it into account.
In the future, when writing history, we must strictly check the facts, modify the words, and unify the style. When writing about aristocratic families, only records and biographies are enough.
An ancient book says: Killing insects is the most important thing: these four words are difficult to understand. Killing people, writing "killing people" means "writing history". It can be used as a standard, translated as "history" is to make people see some standards.
The explanation is barely provided for reference. Pleasure and uprightness are the original meaning of "Spring and Autumn".
Ban Biao was promoted to Situ Yukuang Mansion. At that time, the prince's East Palace had just been established, and various kingdoms were opened at the same time, but there were not enough officials and teachers and guards.
Ban Biao said again: Confucius said: People's natures are similar, but the influence of customs is very different.
Jia Yi believes: If you often deal with good people, you have to do good deeds, just like growing up in Qi, you have to speak Qi dialect. If you often come into contact with evil people, you have to do bad things, just like growing up in Chu country, you have to speak Chu language.
Therefore the sage strictly selects his neighbors, paying special attention to the influence of the environment. In the past, when King Cheng of Zhou was a child, he was assisted by Zhou Gong, Shao Gong, Taishi Yi and others when he was away from home; when he was at court, he was assisted by Dadian, Hongyao, Nangong Shi, San Yisheng and others. His left and right sides did not violate the meaning of etiquette. As soon as King Cheng ascended the throne, the world enjoyed unprecedented peace.
Therefore, "Spring and Autumn" states: If you love your son, you should educate him to follow the right path and not to follow evil ways.
Pride and luxury, lewdness and laziness are the root of evil ways.
"The Book of Songs" says: The good idea left to the grandson is the way of peace and respect.
It refers to the precious legacy left by King Wu of Zhou to King Cheng. After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Taizong sent Chao Cuo to use magic to educate the prince, and Jia Yi used "The Book of Songs" and "The Book of Books" to educate the king of Liang. When Zhongzong came, he also asked Liu Xiang, Wang Bao, Xiao Wangzhi, Zhou Kan and others to use articles and Confucianism to educate people below the East Palace, and they chose the right people to promote their moral character and talents.
Nowadays, although the princes and princes have been studying and practicing rituals and music since they were young, the tutors have not yet encountered talents, and the officials and their families are rarely familiar with the old scriptures.
We should widely select famous Confucian scholars with prestige and understanding of political affairs, and use them as princes and tutors. The officials and subordinates of the East Palace and other kingdoms should be fully matched.
According to the old regulations, the prince has ten counties as Tangmuyi, and has security personnel. He will meet once every five days, sit in the carriage, and check the food. It is not the day of the court, and the servants and Zhongyun will just greet him every day. This shows that he is not casual in his behavior and must pay attention to respect in everything.
After the book was submitted, the emperor accepted it.
Later, Situ Lian was selected as the commander of the capital, and he was loved by the officials and the people.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, Ban Biao died in his official position at the age of 52.
He wrote a total of nine Fu, treatises, books, notes and memorials.
