Lian Po was an outstanding general of Zhao State.
In the sixteenth year of King Zhao Huiwen, Lian Po led the Zhao army to conquer Qi, defeated the Qi army, captured Yangjin, and was named Shangqing by King Zhao. He was famous among the princes and countries for his bravery in battle.
Lin Xiangru was a native of the State of Zhao and a retainer of the family of the eunuch Ling Muxian of the State of Zhao.
During the reign of King Zhao Huiwen, he obtained the Heshi Bi from Chu State.
When King Zhao of Qin heard about this, he sent a letter to King Zhao, expressing his willingness to exchange fifteen cities for He's Bi.
King Zhao discussed with General Lian Po and his ministers: If he gave the jade to Qin, it would be impossible for Qin's cities to be obtained and they would be deceived in vain; if he didn't give it, he would be afraid that the Qin army would attack Zhao immediately.
The countermeasures were not discussed, and I tried to find an envoy who could be sent to Qin to reply, but I couldn't find one.
The eunuch ordered Miao Xian to say: "My retainer Lin Xiangru can go to Qin as an envoy."
King Zhao asked: How do you know he can do it?
Miao Xian replied: "I have committed a crime, and I secretly planned to flee to Yan State. My retainer Xiangru stopped me and said: How do you know that the King of Yan will definitely take you in?"
I said to him: I followed the king to meet with King Yan on the border. King Yan held my hand in private and said that he was willing to make friends with you.
Therefore, I knew that He could take me in, so I wanted to go to Him.
Xiangru said to me: Zhao is strong and Yan is weak, but you are favored by King Zhao, so King Yan wants to make friends with you.
Now you are fleeing from the State of Zhao to the State of Yan. The State of Yan is afraid of the State of Zhao. In this situation, the King of Yan will not dare to take you in, and will tie you up and send you back to the State of Zhao.
Why don't you take off your shirt, expose your shoulders and back, lie under the axe, and beg the king to punish you, and you may be lucky enough to be pardoned.
The minister listened to his advice, and the king graciously pardoned the minister.
I privately thought that this man was a warrior and resourceful, and it was appropriate to send him as an envoy.
So King Zhao immediately summoned him and asked Lin Xiangru: "The King of Qin asked for fifteen cities in exchange for my He's Bi. Can you give it to him?"
Xiangru said: Qin is strong and Zhao is weak, so we have to agree to it.
King Zhao said: But what if King Qin gets my jade but doesn't give me the city?
Xiangru said: Qin asked for a city in exchange for bi, and if Zhao refused, Zhao would be at a loss; if Zhao gave the bi but Qin did not give Zhao a city, Qin would be at a loss.
After weighing the two countermeasures, I would rather agree to it and let Qin bear the responsibility for the loss. King Zhao said: Who can be sent as an envoy?
Xiangru said: If your Majesty really has no one to send, I would like to hold the precious jade and go as an envoy.
If the city belongs to the State of Zhao, I will leave the jade to the State of Qin; if the city cannot be returned to the State of Zhao, I will definitely bring He's Bi back to the State of Zhao intact.
King Zhao then sent Lin Xiangru to take He's Bi and march westward to Qin.
The King of Qin sat on the stage to receive Lin Xiangru. Lin Xiangru presented the Heshi Bi to the King of Qin.
The King of Qin was overjoyed and passed the Heshi Bi to his wives, concubines and attendants, who all shouted long live.
Lin Xiangru saw that King Qin had no intention of using the city to compensate Zhao, so he stepped forward and said, "There is a slight flaw on this piece of beautiful jade. Let me point it out to the king."
The King of Qin handed the jade to him, and Lin Xiangru stood back a few steps with the jade in his hand, leaning against the pillar, furious, and said to the king of Qin: The king wants to get the jade, so he sent a message to King Zhao. The king of Zhao summoned all the ministers to discuss, and everyone said: Qin is greedy and relies on its power to get the jade with empty words. I am afraid that we cannot get the city.
As a result of the discussion, they did not want to give the treasure to Qin.
I don’t think ordinary people should deceive each other in their interactions, let alone a big country!
Besides, it is not right to make the powerful Qin unhappy because of a piece of jade.
So King Zhao fasted for five days and sent me to hold He's Bi and respectfully present the credentials in the palace. Why is this so?
It is to show respect by respecting the prestige of a big country.
Now that I have come to your country, your Majesty received me in a public hall with very arrogant etiquette. After getting He's Bi, he passed it to his concubines to watch, just to tease me.
I observed that the king was not sincere in giving King Zhao fifteen cities, so I took back the jade.
If the king must force me, my head will be smashed on the pillar together with Baobi today!
Xiangru holds a jade in his hand, looks sideways at the court pillars, and is about to hit them.
The King of Qin was afraid that he would really break the Heshi Bi, so he apologized to him and firmly asked him not to do so. He also summoned the officials in charge to look at the map and pointed out fifteen cities from a certain place to a certain place to be delivered to Zhao.
Xiangru estimated that the King of Qin was just pretending to give the city to the State of Zhao through deception, but in fact it was impossible for the State of Zhao to obtain it, so he said to the King of Qin: "He's Bi is a treasure recognized by the world. The King of Zhao is afraid of your country and dare not not dedicate it."
King Zhao fasted for five days before presenting the jade. Now the king should also fast for five days and arrange a nine-guest ceremony in the palace before I dare to present the jade.
The King of Qin estimated that this matter could not be taken by force after all, so he agreed to fast for five days and invited Xiangru to stay at Guangcheng Hotel.
Xiangru estimated that although King Qin promised to fast, he would definitely break the promise and not give the city, so he sent his entourage to put on burlap clothes, hide the jade in his arms, escape from the small road, and send the jade back to Zhao.
After King Qin fasted for five days, he arranged a nine-guest ceremony in the palace to invite Lin Xiangru, the envoy of the State of Zhao.
After Xiangru arrived, he said to the King of Qin: Among the more than twenty monarchs of the Qin State since Duke Mu, none of them has ever adhered to the covenant.
I was really afraid that I would be deceived by the king and I would be sorry for the king of Zhao, so I sent someone to take Baobi back. By the small road, I had reached the country of Zhao.
Moreover, Qin was strong and Zhao was weak. The king sent an envoy to the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao immediately sent the jade.
Now, with the strength of your Qin State, you will first cede fifteen cities to Zhao State. How dare Zhao State dare to leave the treasure and offend the king?
I know that the crime of deceiving the king should be punished by death. I am willing to be cooked in the frying pan. I only hope that the king and all ministers will consider this matter carefully.
The King of Qin and his ministers looked at each other with surprise.
Some of the attendants wanted to pull Xiangru down. The King of Qin took the opportunity and said: If you kill Xiangru now, you will still not get the jade, but it will destroy the friendship between Qin and Zhao. Why don't you take this opportunity to treat him well and let him return to the State of Zhao? Would the King of Zhao deceive the State of Qin for the sake of a piece of jade?
Finally, he met Xiangru in the palace, completed the ceremony and allowed him to return home.
After Xiangru returned to the country, King Zhao thought that he was a competent doctor who, as an envoy, would not be bullied by the princes, so he made Xiangru the senior doctor.
Qin did not give the city to Zhao, and Zhao never gave Qin his jade.
After that, Qin attacked Zhao and captured Shicheng.
The next year, Qin attacked Zhao again and killed 20,000 soldiers.
The King of Qin sent an envoy to inform the King of Zhao that he wanted to have a friendly meeting with the King of Zhao in Mianchi outside Xihe.
King Zhao was afraid of Qin and couldn't think of leaving. Lian Po and Lin Xiangru discussed: If the king does not go, it will appear that Zhao is weak and timid.
King Zhao then went to the meeting, accompanied by Xiangru.
Lian Po was sent to the border and said goodbye to King Zhao: Your Majesty's trip, it is estimated that the journey and meeting etiquette, plus the return time, will not exceed thirty days.
If you haven't come back in thirty days, please allow us to make the prince king to put an end to Qin's delusions.
King Zhao agreed with this opinion and went to Mianchi to meet with King Qin.
When King Qin was in high spirits after drinking, he said: "I have heard privately that King Zhao loves music. Please play the harp!"
King Zhao then played the harp.
The historian of Qin came forward and wrote: On a certain day in a certain year, the King of Qin and the King of Zhao drank together and asked the King of Zhao to play the harp.
Lin Xiangru stepped forward and said, "King Zhao has heard privately that King Qin is good at folk music in Qin. Please let me bring a pot of fou to King Qin so that we can entertain each other."
King Qin was angry and refused to agree.
At this time, Xiangru handed the fou forward, knelt down and asked the King of Qin to play.
The King of Qin refused to hit the fou, so Xiangru said: "Within these five steps, I, Lin Xiangru, will splash the blood from my neck on the king!"
The attendants wanted to kill Xiangru, but Xiangru opened his eyes wide and shouted loudly, and the attendants were frightened and backed away.
At that time, King Qin was not very happy, so he had to knock the fou.
Xiangru turned back to greet the Zhao State historian and wrote: On a certain day of a certain month of a certain year, the King of Qin knocked the fou for the King of Zhao.
The ministers of the State of Qin said: Please use the fifteen cities of the State of Zhao as a gift to the King of Qin.
Lin Xiangru also said: Please use the Xianyang of Qin State to present gifts to King Zhao.
The king of Qin could not overwhelm Zhao until the banquet was over.
Zhao State originally deployed a large number of troops to defend Qin State, so Qin State did not dare to take any action.
After the Mianchi meeting, King Zhao returned to the country. He thought that Lin Xiangru had made great contributions, so he named him Shangqing, which was higher than Lianpo.
Lian Po said: I am a general of the State of Zhao, with great achievements in sieges and field battles. Lin Xiangru only achieved some merit through his eloquence, but his status is higher than mine. Besides, Lin Xiangru is a humble person. I feel ashamed and cannot bear to be below him.
He also threatened: If I meet Lin Xiangru, I will definitely humiliate him.
After hearing this, Xiangru refused to meet him.
Whenever Lin Xiangru went to court, he often used illness as an excuse to hide at home, unwilling to compete with Lian Po for ranking.
Not long after, Xiangru went out, and Lin Xiangru went out in a carriage. He saw Lian Po from a distance, and Lin Xiangru quickly asked someone to turn the car around to avoid it.
So Xiangru's disciples came together to express their admonition, saying: "The reason why we leave our relatives to serve you is because we admire your noble integrity."
Now you and Lian Po have the same official position. Mr. Lian speaks evil words, but you are afraid to hide from him. Your fear is too much. A mediocre person is ashamed, let alone a general!
We people have no talent, please let us say goodbye!
Lin Xiangru resolutely persuaded them to stay and said: Who do you think is more powerful than General Lian or the King of Qin?
He replied: General Lian cannot compare with King Qin.
Xiangru said: With the power of the King of Qin, I dare to scold him in the court and humiliate his ministers. Although I, Lin Xiangru, are incompetent, can I be afraid of General Lian?
But I thought that the reason Qiang Qin did not dare to use troops against Zhao was because of the two of us. Now that the two tigers are fighting, they will inevitably not be able to coexist.
The reason why I was so tolerant was to put the country's emergencies first and my personal grievances behind.
When Lian Po heard these words, he took off his shirt, exposed his upper body, carried a thorn stick on his back, and was led by the guests to Lin Xiangru's door to apologize.
He said: I am a rough and humble person, but I never thought that you, General, are so generous!
The two finally reconciled and became friends through life and death.
This year, Lian Po attacked Qi eastward and defeated one of its troops.
Two years later, Lian Po attacked several cities in Qi State and captured them.
In the next three years, Lian Po attacked Wei's Fangling and Anyang and captured them all.
Four years later, Lin Xiangru led his troops to attack Qi and withdrew his troops when they reached Pingyi.
The next year, Zhao She defeated the Qin army at the foot of Yanyu City.
Zhao She was originally an official in the State of Zhao who collected land rent.
When he was collecting taxes, Pingyuan Jun's family refused to pay. Zhao She punished him according to law and killed nine people in charge of Pingyuan Jun's family.
Lord Pingyuan was furious and wanted to kill Zhao She.
Zhao She took the opportunity to persuade and said: "You are a noble son in the State of Zhao. If you allow your retainers to disobey the government's laws now, the laws will be weakened. If the laws are weakened, the country will be weak. When the country is weak, the princes will send troops to invade. If the princes send troops to invade the Zhao country, it will perish. How can you keep this wealth?"
With your status and honor, being able to abide by the law will make the country fair, and fairness will make the country strong. When the country is strong, the Zhao family's regime will be stable. As a noble relative of the Zhao country, will you be despised by the world?
Lord Pingyuan thought he was very talented and recommended him to King Zhao.
King Zhao appointed him in charge of the country's taxation. The country's taxation was very fair and reasonable, the people lived a prosperous life, and the national treasury was also very full.
Qin attacked South Korea and stationed its troops in Lianyu.
King Zhao summoned Lian Po and asked, "Can we send troops to rescue him?"
Lian Po replied: The road is long, dangerous and narrow, making it difficult to rescue.
King Zhao summoned Le Cheng again to ask about this matter, and Le Cheng's answer was the same as Lian Po's.
Zhao She was summoned again to ask. Zhao She replied: "The road is long and dangerous, and the road is narrow. It's like two mice fighting in a hole. Whoever is braver will win."
King Zhao then sent Zhao She to lead the troops to rescue Yan Yu.
军队离开邯郸三十里，赵奢就在军中下令说： 有谁来为军事进谏的就处以死刑。 

The Qin army was stationed to the west of Wu'an. The sound of the Qin army beating drums and shouting for military training shook the roof tiles in Wu'an city.
A scout in Zhao's army asked for urgent help from Wu'an, and Zhao She immediately beheaded him.
Zhao Jun held on to the camp and stayed for twenty-eight days without advancing. Instead, he built more fortresses.
A Qin army spy sneaked into the Zhao army's camp, and Zhao She treated him well with food and drink before sending him back.
The spies reported the situation to the generals of the Qin army. The Qin generals were overjoyed and said: The army stopped advancing thirty miles away from the capital and built additional forts. Yanyu will no longer be owned by Zhao.
After Zhao She dispatched the spies of the Qin army, he ordered the soldiers to take off their armor and quickly march towards Yanyu. It took two days and one night to reach the front line, and ordered the cavalry who were good at shooting to camp at Lilan and Fifuli.
After the military camp was built, the Qin army learned of the situation and immediately rushed to the camp.
A sergeant named Xu Li asked for military advice, and Zhao She said: "Let him come in."
Xu Li said: The people of Qin did not expect that the Zhao army would come here. Now they have come to confront the enemy. Their morale is very high. The general must concentrate his troops and prepare for them.
Otherwise, it will definitely fail.
Zhao She said: Please accept my teachings on military law.
Xu Li said: I request to accept the death penalty.
Zhao She said: I will give the order after I return to Handan.
Xu Li asked for another suggestion, saying: The one who takes the northern hill first will win, and the one who arrives later will fail.
Zhao She agreed and immediately sent 10,000 people to rush up the mountain to the north.
The Qin soldiers arrived later and competed with the Zhao army on Beishan but could not attack it. Zhao She commanded the soldiers to attack fiercely and defeated the Qin army.
The Qin army scattered and fled, so the siege of Yan Yu was lifted and the Zhao army returned home.
King Zhao Huiwen gave Zhao She the title of Ma Fujun and appointed Xu Li as the country's captain.
Zhao She then had the same position as Lian Po and Lin Xiangru.
Four years later, King Zhao Huiwen died and his son King Xiaocheng came to the throne.
In the seventh year of King Zhao Xiaocheng's reign, the Qin army and the Zhao army faced each other in Changping. Zhao She was dead at that time and Lin Xiangru was critically ill. King Zhao sent Lian Po to lead his troops to attack the Qin army. The Qin army defeated the Zhao army several times, but the Zhao army held on to the camp and did not fight.
The Qin army repeatedly challenged. Lian Po ignored it.
King Zhao believed the rumors spread by spies of the Qin army.
A spy of the Qin army said: What the Qin army hates and taboos is that they are afraid that Zhao Kuo, the son of Ma Fujun Zhao She, will become a general.
Therefore, King Zhao appointed Zhao Kuo as his general, replacing Lian Po.
Lin Xiangru said: Your Majesty appointing Zhao Kuo based solely on his reputation is like using glue to seal the tuning posts and then trying to play the harp.
Zhao Kuo can only read the books left by his father and does not know how to be flexible.
King Zhao refused to listen and ordered Zhao Kuo to be his general.
Zhao Kuo has been studying the art of war since he was a child. When it comes to the use of war, he thinks that no one in the world can match him.
He once discussed the use of troops with his father Zhao She. Zhao She couldn't trouble him, but he didn't say he was good either.
Zhao Kuo's mother asked Zhao She what was the reason for this. Zhao She said: Fighting with soldiers is a matter of life and death, but he made it so easy.
It would be fine if the State of Zhao did not use Zhao Kuo as a general, but if he was definitely allowed to be a general, he would definitely be the one who caused the failure of the Zhao army.
When Zhao Kuo was about to leave, his mother wrote to King Zhao saying: Zhao Kuo cannot be made a general.
King Zhao said: Why?
He replied: When I served his father, he was a general at that time. He personally served and served tens of people with food and drink, and he treated hundreds of people as friends. All the rewards given by the king and the royal family were distributed to the military officials and subordinates. From the day he accepted the order, he no longer interfered with family affairs.
Now that Zhao Kuo had suddenly become a general, he faced east to receive his audience. No one in the army dared to look up at him. He took all the gold and silk that the king had rewarded him home and kept them. He also checked for cheap and suitable land and real estate every day, and bought whatever was available.
How does the king think he resembles his father?
The father and son have different minds and hope that the king will not send him to lead the army.
King Zhao said: Just put this matter aside. I have already decided.
Zhao Kuo's mother then said: You must send him to lead the army. If he is incompetent, can I not be implicated?
King Zhao agreed.
After Zhao Kuo replaced Lian Po, he changed all the original rules and regulations and replaced the original military officials.
When Qin general Bai Qi heard about this, he dispatched a surprise force, pretended to be defeated and fled, then cut off the Zhao army's food transport road, split the Zhao army in half, and separated the Zhao soldiers.
After more than forty days, the Zhao army was hungry. Zhao Kuo sent out elite soldiers to fight the Qin army personally. The Qin army shot Zhao Kuo to death.
Zhao Kuo's army was defeated, and hundreds of thousands of troops surrendered to the Qin army. The Qin army buried them all alive.
From the beginning to the end of the Battle of Changping, Zhao State suffered a total of 450,000 losses.
The next year, the Qin army surrounded Handan. The siege lasted for more than a year. Zhao could hardly survive. It was only through the rescue of the Chu and Wei armies that the siege of Handan was lifted.
King Zhao finally did not implicate Zhao Kuo's mother because of her words.
Five years after the siege of Handan was relieved, the Yan State adopted Li Fu's strategy. It was said that all the mature men of the Zhao State died in the Battle of Changping, and their orphans were not yet adults, so the King of Yan sent troops to attack Zhao.
King Zhao sent Lian Po to lead the troops to counterattack, defeated the Yan army in Hacheng, killed Li Fu, and surrounded the capital of Yan.
Yan State ceded five cities and asked for peace, and King Zhao agreed to a truce.
King Zhao gave Wei Wen the title of Lord Xinping to Lian Po, and appointed him as acting prime minister.
Lian Po was dismissed from his post in Changping and returned home. When he lost power, all his original followers left him.
When he was appointed as a general again, the retainers came back again.
Lian Po said: Gentlemen, please come back! The diners said: Alas!
Why are your opinions so backward?
Everyone in the world makes friends based on market transactions. If you have power, we will follow you. If you no longer have power, we will leave. This is a very common truth. What is there to complain about?
After another six years, the State of Zhao sent Lian Po to attack Fanyang of the State of Wei and captured it.
When King Zhao Xiaocheng passed away, Prince Miaoxiang came to the throne and sent Lecheng to replace Lian Po.
Lian Po was furious and attacked Lecheng, but Lecheng escaped.
Lian Po then fled to Daliang in Wei.
The next year, Zhao State attacked Yan State with Li Mu as general and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
Lian Po had lived in Daliang for a long time, and Wei could not trust him.
Since the State of Zhao was besieged by Qin soldiers many times, the King of Zhao wanted to use Lian Po as a general again, and Lian Po also wanted to be appointed by the State of Zhao again.
King Zhao sent envoys to visit Lian Po to see if he could still be employed.
Lian Po's enemy Guo Kai bribed the envoy with a large amount of money, asking him to speak ill of Lian Po when he came back.
After the Zhao envoy met Lian Po, Lian Po ate a bushel of rice and ten kilograms of meat in front of him. He also put on his armor and mounted his horse, indicating that he could still be employed.
The envoy from the State of Zhao went back and reported to King Zhao: Although General Lian is old and still has a good appetite, he pooped three times in a short period of time while sitting with me.
King Zhao thought Lian Po was old and stopped recalling him.
Chu State heard that Lian Po was in Wei State and secretly sent people to meet him.
Although Lian Po became a general of the Chu State, he had no military exploits. He said: I want to command the soldiers of the Zhao State.
Lian Po finally died in Shouchun.
Li Mu was a good general on the northern border of Zhao State.
He was stationed at Yanmen County in Dai for a long time to guard against the Huns.
He had the power to appoint officials as needed, and all taxes and fees from the cities within the defense area were sent to Li Mu's shogunate to fund the army.
He slaughtered several cows every day to reward the soldiers, taught them archery and horseback riding, carefully guarded the beacon tower, sent more personnel to detect the enemy's situation, and treated the soldiers well.
The rules were drawn up and said: If the Huns invade, they must quickly gather their troops and retreat into the camp to defend themselves. Anyone who dares to capture the enemy will be beheaded.
Every time the Xiongnu invaded, the beacon sent an alarm, and they immediately gathered their troops and retreated into the camp to defend themselves, not daring to go out to fight.
After several years like this, there was no loss of men, horses or supplies.
However, the Xiongnu thought that Li Mu was timid, and even the officers and soldiers guarding the border of Zhao State thought that their general was timid.
King Zhao blamed Li Mu, but Li Mu remained the same.
King Zhao became angry, recalled him, and sent others to lead the army on his behalf.
For more than a year, every time the Huns came to invade, new generals would send troops to fight.
They sent out troops to fight, but suffered repeated defeats, resulting in many losses and casualties. Farming and grazing on the border were impossible.
King Zhao had no choice but to ask Li Mu to serve again.
Li Mu stayed behind closed doors and insisted that he was sick.
King Zhao then forced him to command the troops.
Li Mu said: Your Majesty must use me. I should do what I did before, only then can I dare to obey the order.
King Zhao agreed to his request.
When Li Mu came to the border, he still followed the original regulations.
The Huns had nothing to gain for several years, but they still thought Li Mu was timid.
The officers and soldiers on the border receive rewards every day but have no use for them, so they are willing to fight.
So Li Mu prepared 1,300 carefully selected chariots, 13,000 selected war horses, 50,000 warriors who dared to charge into battle, and 100,000 soldiers who were good at shooting, and organized them all for training and combat.
At the same time, large numbers of livestock were allowed to graze everywhere, and the entire wilderness was filled with people grazing.
When a small group of Huns invaded, Li Mu pretended to be defeated. Li Mu deliberately abandoned thousands of people to the Huns.
When Chanyu heard about this situation, he led a large number of troops to invade.
Li Mu ambushed many strange soldiers, spread out his left and right wings to outflank the enemy and counterattacked, defeating the Xiongnu and killing more than 100,000 horses.
He destroyed Xiu, defeated Donghu, surrendered Linhu, and Shanyu fled.
For more than ten years after that, the Huns no longer dared to approach the border towns of Zhao.
In the first year of King Zhao Daoxiang, after Lian Po had fled to Wei State, Zhao State sent Li Mu to attack Yan State and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
Two years later, Pang Nuan defeated the Yan army and killed Ju Xin.
After another seven years, the Qin army defeated and killed the Zhao general Hu Zou at Wu Sui, and killed 100,000 Zhao soldiers.
The State of Zhao then appointed Li Mu as its general, attacked the Qin army in Yi'an, defeated the Qin army, and drove away the Qin general Huan Jue.
Li Mu was named Lord Wu'an.
Three years later, the Qin army attacked Fanwu. Li Mu defeated the Qin army and moved south to resist South Korea and Wei.
In the seventh year since King Zhao moved, the State of Qin sent Wang Jian to attack the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao sent Li Mu and Sima Shang to resist the Qin army.
The State of Qin bribed King Zhao's favored minister Guo Kai with a lot of money to let him carry out counterintuitive schemes and spread rumors that Li Mu and Sima Shang were going to rebel.
The king of Zhao sent Zhao Cong and Qi general Yan Ju to replace Li Mu, but Li Mu refused to accept the order.
King Zhao sent people to secretly arrest Li Mu, killed him, and removed Sima Shang from his official position.
Three months later, Wang Jian took the opportunity to attack the State of Zhao, defeated the Zhao army, killed Zhao Cong, captured Zhao Wangqian and his general Yan Ju, and finally destroyed the State of Zhao.
Tai Shigong said: If you know you are about to die and are not afraid, you must be very courageous; death is not difficult, but how to deal with this death is difficult.
When Lin Xiangru held up a treasure and squinted at the court pillars, and scolded the King of Qin's attendants, considering the situation in front of him, the most he could do was to be killed. However, ordinary scholars often did not dare to behave like this because they were timid and cowardly.
Once Xiangru inspired his courage, his power was unleashed to overwhelm the enemy. Later, he humbly gave in to Lian Po. His reputation was more important than Mount Tai. The wisdom and courage he showed in doing things can be said to be both!
