The five kings of Chu were friends with each other, and they were the younger brothers of the same father.
Likes to read and is versatile.
When I was a child, I studied "Poetry" with Ni Qiuyuan together with Lu Musheng, Bai Sheng, Shen Gong and Fu Qiubo.
Fu Qiu Bo is a disciple of Se Qing.
When they arrived in Taiwan to burn books, they dispersed.
There were four Gaozu brothers, the eldest brother Liu Bo and the second brother Liu Zhong. Uncle Liu died early.
Emperor Gaozu became Duke of Pei, and Jing Ju established himself as King of Chu.
Gaozu asked Liu Zhong and Shen Shiqi to stay and serve the emperor. Liu Jiao, Xiao He, Cao Shen and others went with Gaozu to see Jing Ju. They met Xiang Liang and together they supported King Huai of Chu.
So he attacked Nanyang to the west, entered Wuguan, and started a battle with Qin in Lantian.
When he reached Ba Shang, he made Liu Jiao the king of Wenxin, followed him into the Shu Han Dynasty, returned to the Three Qin Dynasty, and killed Xiang Ji.
After ascending to the throne, Liu Jiao and Lu Wan often served the emperor, coming in and out of the bedroom, and conveying various internal affairs secrets to the outside world.
The emperor's cousin Liu Jia led troops to cooperate with the main force in many battles.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, King Xin of Chu was deposed and his territory was divided into two kingdoms. Liu Jia was made King of Jing and Liu Jiao was King of Chu. They ruled thirty-six counties of Xuejun, Donghai and Pengcheng because of their previous meritorious service.
Later, his second brother Liu Zhong was made acting king, and his eldest son Liu Fei was made king of Qi.
At first, when Emperor Gaozu was humble, he often took refuge and ate at his sister-in-law's house with his guests.
My sister-in-law hated her brother-in-law and guests coming, so she pretended that she had finished the soup and scraped the pot with a spoon, so the guests all left.
Emperor Gaozu then saw that there was soup in the pot, so he resented his sister-in-law.
After the kings of Qi and Dai were established, only Liu Bo's son did not get the title of marquis.
The Supreme Emperor spoke for him, and Gaozu said: I dare not forget to confer him a title because his mother is not kind.
In October of the seventh year, Liu Xin, the son of Uncle Liu, was granted the title of Genjiehou.
When King Yuan arrived in Chu, he appointed Mu Sheng, Bai Sheng, and Shen Gong as middle-level officials.
When he was in high school, Uncle Fuqiu was in Chang'an, and King Yuan sent his son Ying Ke to complete his studies with Duke Shen.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, he heard that Shen Gong was the most proficient in studying "Poetry" and he was appointed a doctor.
King Yuan liked "Poems" and all his sons read "Poems". Duke Shen began to write a biography of "Poems", which was called "Lu Shi".
King Yuan also compiled a biography of "Poems", which is called "Poems of King Yuan". There may still be poems by him in the world.
When he was a queen, he ordered Ying Ke, the son of King Yuan, to be Zongzheng and granted the title of Pihou.
King Yuan died in the twenty-third year of his reign, and Prince Pifei died first. Emperor Wen ordered Zongzheng to ascend the throne to Pihou Yingke, who was the king of Yi.
Duke Shen became a doctor and was relieved of his official duties. He went back with Ying Ke and was appointed as a middle doctor.
After reigning for four years, his son Liu Wu succeeded him.
Emperor Wen favored King Yuan, gave birth to a son, and was given the title of Prince Bi.
Emperor Jing ascended the throne and named five of King Yuan's favored sons in the name of relatives: his son Liu Li was the Marquis of Pinglu, Liu Fu was the Marquis of Xiu, Liu Sui was the Marquis of Shen You, Liu Zhi was the Marquis of Wanqu, and Liu Tiao was the Marquis of Jile.
At first, King Yuan respectfully reiterated his dignity, but Musheng did not like drinking. King Yuan often prepared sweet wine for Musheng every time he served wine.
When Wang Liuwu came to the throne, he often prepared it, but later he forgot to put sweet wine.
Musheng went back and said: You can go!
If I don't serve sweet wine, the king will be indifferent. If I don't leave, the people of Chu will pin me down in the market.
Said to be ill and bedridden.
Duke Shen and Bai Sheng forced him to get up and said, "Don't you just think about the kindness of the late king?"
Now if the king loses a small courtesy, how could he end up like this!
Musheng said: "Yi" says that it is probably God who knows the omens!
Omens are subtle signs of action and early manifestations of good or bad luck.
A gentleman takes action when he sees signs and does not wait until the last moment.
The reason why the late king treated the three of us courteously was because the Great Way still exists; to ignore it now is to forget the Way.
How can you stay with someone who has forgotten the Tao?
Is it just a small gift?
So he said he was ill and resigned.
Only Shen Gong and Bai Sheng remained.
Wang Liuwu gradually became promiscuous, and for twenty years, he committed adultery in private during the period of mourning for Empress Dowager Bo. Shuhai and Xuejun were reduced, so they secretly communicated with Wu.
The two people refused to listen to the advice and were punished by Xu Mi. They were made to wear ocher clothes and hold a pestle to pound a mortar in the market.
Xiuhou sent someone to remonstrate with the king. The king said: Ji's father does not agree with me. After I rise, I will capture Ji's father first.
Marquis Xiu was afraid, so he fled to the capital with his mother, the eldest lady.
In the spring of the 21st year, which was the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, as soon as the documents to reduce the fiefdoms arrived, they responded to King Yu's rebellion.
His state minister, Tang Shi, and his tutor, Tong Wu, tried to persuade him but refused to listen.
He then killed Chi Shang and Guo Wu, raised his troops and joined the Xing army to attack westward, captured Kuibi, and went to the south of Dandan to start a battle with Dannuo, the company commander.
Choosing to block the food roads of the county and Chu, the soldiers were hungry, the king fled and committed suicide by vomiting, and the army surrendered.
When the Han pacified Wu and Chu, Emperor Jing established Zong Zhengping, Marquis of Lu and Liu Li as King of Chu, succeeding King Yuan, who was King Wen.
Four years after his death, his son Liu Dao, King An, succeeded him.
In the 22nd year of his death, his son Liu Zhu, King of Xiang, succeeded to the throne.
Fourteen years after his death, Liu Chun, the son of Prince Jie, succeeded to the throne.
Sixteen years after his death, his son Yanshou succeeded him.
When Emperor Xuan came to the throne, Yanshou believed that King Guangling Liu Xu was the son of Emperor Wu and would be supported if the world changed. He secretly wanted to rely on him and help him, so he married the daughter of King Guangling for his queen's brother Zhao Heqi.
He and He Qi planned: I will join forces with King Guangling. If there is unrest in the world, we will send troops to help and let King Guangling ascend the throne. He Qi will marry the princess and get the position of a prince.
So He Qi was sent with a letter to King Guangling saying: I hope you will increase your eyes and ears, so that you can conquer the world and not fall behind others.
He Qi's father has been writing to report him for many years.
The matter was brought to the attention of Yousi, who verified that the confession was true and Yanshou committed suicide.
Thirty-two years after its founding, the feudal state was abolished.
At first, Liu Fu, the Marquis of Xiu, fled to the capital. Wang Liu Wu rebelled, and Liu Fu and others were dismissed from their positions and their affiliations were removed.
Later, I heard that he had repeatedly advised Liu Wu, so he changed his title to Honghou.
The Dowager Dowager was related to the Empress Dowager Dou. She was afraid of the Shandong bandits and requested to stay in the capital, which was granted by the imperial edict. Liu Fu's son Piqiang and four other people supported her and served as an official in the court.
When the wife passed away, she was given a cemetery and buried in her spiritual household.
Liu Fu passed the kingdom to his great-grandson, but he had no sons and the kingdom was cut off.
Piqiang's courtesy name is Shaoqing. He is also good at reading "Poetry" and can write articles.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he followed Erqianshi Discussion as a clan son and was the head of each clan.
He is pure in heart and has few desires. He often entertains himself with writing and refuses to be an official.
When Emperor Zhao ascended the throne, someone persuaded the general Huo Guang: Didn't the general see what happened to Zhu Lu?
In the position of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, he had exclusive regent power, but he betrayed the clan and did not serve with them, so the world did not trust him, and he eventually perished.
Now that the general is in a high position and the emperor is young, he should make more friends with the clan and work more with the ministers. This is contrary to the way of Zhu Lu, so that disaster can be avoided.
Huo Guang thought it was right, so he chose the available people in the clan.
Pi Qiang's son Liu De was staying in the Prime Minister's Palace for a long time. He was in his thirties and wanted to hire him. Some people said that his father was still there and he was favored by the late emperor.
So he worshiped Bi Qiang as Doctor Guanglu and Guardsman of Kenle. He was already eighty years old at that time.
He was promoted to Zongzheng and died within a few months.
Liu De, named Lu Shu, practiced Huang Lao's skills and had strategies.
When he was young, he discussed political affairs many times and was summoned to Ganquan Palace. Emperor Wu called him Qianliju.
In the early years of Emperor Zhao's reign, he became Zong Zhengcheng and participated in the execution of Liu Ze's imperial edict.
Because his father was Ren Zongzheng, he was changed to Dahonglucheng, and then to Taizhong doctor, and later Zongzheng, and participated in the torture of Shangguan family and Gaizhu.
Liu Dechang held the idea of ​​​​"Laozi" that he would always be content with his content.
After his wife died, General Huo Guang wanted to marry his daughter to him, but Liu De did not dare to marry him for fear of being too prosperous.
Tan, the grandson of Princess Gai, stopped Liu De to complain about the incident. Liu De repeatedly blamed the princess for her inappropriate behavior.
The censor thought that Huo Guang resented Liu De for not accepting his daughter, and guessed that he wanted to impeach Liu De for slandering him and send him to prison, so that he could avoid being a commoner and live in seclusion in the mountains and fields.
Huo Guang was very angry when he heard about it, and reported to the emperor to summon Liu De to guard the Qingzhou governor.
More than a year later, he became Zongzheng again and participated in the establishment of Emperor Xuan. For supporting the establishment of the emperor, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
During the Dijie Festival, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yangcheng due to his close behavior.
His son Anmin became the doctor's assistant, and more than 20 people in the clan became officials and guards because of Liu De.
Liu De was a generous man and was willing to do good deeds. Every time he dealt with Jing Zhaoyin's affairs, he often rehabilitated sinners.
If his family property exceeds one million, he uses it to support his brothers and provide food and drinks for guests, saying: "Wealth is resented by the people."
In the eleventh year of his reign, his son Liu Xiang should be punished for casting fake gold, and Liu De filed a lawsuit.
When he passed away, Dahonglu wrote to Liu De to defend his son's crime. He was unworthy of a minister and should not be given the title of Mi to establish an heir.
Shao Ling said: Give Mi the title of Muhou and establish heirs for him.
When it was passed down to Sun Qingji, he became Zong Zhengtai Chang again.
After his death, his son Liu Cen succeeded to the throne and became a general of Cao Zhonglang, ranking as a school captain. The official arrival is too often.
After death, it was passed down to his son, but when Wang Mang failed, it was discontinued.
Liu Xiang's courtesy name is Zizheng, and his real name is Gengsheng.
When he was twelve years old, he became a chariot man because of his father Liu De'en.
After the crowning ceremony, he was promoted to a doctor of admonishment due to his behavior.
At this time, Emperor Xuan followed the practice of Emperor Wu in the past and recruited famous Confucian and talented people to equip him.
Since Geng Sheng was proficient and able to connect words, he went to the meeting with Wang Guo, Zhang Ziqiao and others to present dozens of poems and poems.
The emperor began to believe in magical alchemy again, and there was "Secretary of Hongbaoyuan in the Pillow" in Huainan.
The book tells about the method of gods instructing ghosts to cast gold, as well as Zou Yan's method of righteousness and longevity. No one in the world can see it, but the reborn father Liu De got it when he was handling the Huainan case during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Gengsheng had read it since he was a child and thought it was strange. He offered it to him and said it could be made into gold.
The emperor ordered him to take charge of Shang Fang's casting, but it cost a lot and the prescription was not effective.
The emperor handed over the reborn to the officials, who impeached the reborn and cast fake gold and sent him to jail to die.
Reincarnation's elder brother, Hou Anmin of Yangcheng, wrote a letter, willing to pay half of the households in the country to atone for Reincarnation's sin.
The emperor also thought he was a genius and punished him by saying that he would have to spend the winter to reduce his death.
Just when he had just established "Guliang Chunqiu" as an academic official, he was recruited to study "Guliang" and lectured on "Five Classics" in Shiqu.
He was also worshiped as a doctor and given to Shi Huangmen. He was promoted to Sanqi, admonished official and given to Shizhong.
Emperor Yuan had just ascended the throne, Taifu Xiao Wangzhi was appointed as the former general, and Young Fu Zhou Kan was appointed as the official Guanglu official. They were both in charge of the secretarial affairs and were highly respected and trusted. Gengsheng was younger than Wangzhi and Zhou Kan, but they thought highly of him and recommended him as a loyal and upright member of the clan, with good knowledge of scriptures. He was promoted to Sanqi Zongzheng, serving as Shizhong, and served as a left and right picker with Jin Chang, the attendant.
The four people worked together to assist in political affairs, but they suffered from the indulgence of their relatives Xu and Shi during their reign, while the eunuchs Honggong and Shi Xian of Zhongshu exercised power.
Wangzhi, Zhou Kan and Gengsheng discussed it and planned to report to the emperor to remove them.
His words were leaked without a report, and he was falsely accused by Xu, Shi, Honggong, and Shi Xian. Zhou Kan and Gengsheng were sent to prison, and He Wangzhi was dismissed from office.
The matter is in "The Story of Hope".
That spring there was an earthquake, and in the summer a guest star appeared between Pleiades and Sekitongue.
The emperor realized something and issued an edict to grant Wang the title of Marquis of Guannei at the invitation of the court.
In the autumn, Zhou Kan and Liu Xiang were recruited and wanted to be appointed as admonishing officials. Hong Gong and Shi Xian reported to them and they were both made Zhonglang.
In winter, the ground shook again.
At that time, the disciples of Hong Gong, Shi Xian, Xu and Shi all looked sideways at Wang Zhi and became more afraid, so they asked his foreign relatives to write a letter about the extraordinary situation, saying:
I heard privately about the former general Xiao Wangzhi and others. They are all loyal and selfless, and want to achieve great governance in the world, but they offend the noble minister.
Now when people on the road hear that Wang Zhi and others have become officials again, and think that they will be framed again, they will definitely say that ministers who have made mistakes should not be used again. This is very wrong.
I heard that the earthquake in the Spring and Autumn Period was because the people in power were too powerful, not because of three ordinary men, and I already understood it.
Moreover, during the reign of Emperor Gao, Ji Bu was guilty and had his clan exterminated. Later, he was pardoned and appointed as a general, and finally became a famous official among Empress Gao and Xiaowen.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, Ni Kuan was imprisoned for a serious crime. According to Daohou Han, he remonstrated: "My Majesty, King Qiu Shou, died before, and your Majesty still regrets it; now that you kill Ni Kuan, you will regret it greatly in the future!"
The emperor was moved by his words, so he pardoned Ni Kuan and appointed him to the position of imperial censor. There was no other censor who could compare with Ni Kuan.
Dong Zhongshu also committed a crime due to privately causing disasters and writings. The master's father reported the matter to the officials and handed it over to the officials for trial. The crime was found to be unjust. Fortunately, he was spared from execution. He became a Taizhong doctor and the Prime Minister of Jiaoxi. He was dismissed from his post because of old age and illness.
The Han Dynasty often issued edicts to ask him about the reform of the charter system.
Zhongshu is the world's master of Confucianism, and his participation in the review and discussion is beneficial to the world.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaoxuan, Xia Housheng was imprisoned for three years for slander and was exempted from being a commoner.
Emperor Xuan also appointed Xia Housheng, the official to the Shaofu, Changxin, and the prince and tutor. He was famous for his outspokenness, and the world praised him.
Most of the ministers like this are similar to this, and it is difficult to describe them one by one.
A minister with faults will live up to the country and benefit the world. This is enough to see from these four ministers.
In the past, when Hong Gong submitted a memorial to Wangzhi and other cases for judgment, there was a major earthquake in March.
Hong Gong wrote a letter saying that he was ill and left the official position, and later he took office again. It was cloudy and snowing. From this point of view, the earthquake was probably caused by Hong Gong and others.
Chen Yu believes that Hong Gong and Shi Xian should be reprimanded to show the punishment for covering up their virtues, and Jin should use Wang Zhi and others to lead the path of sages.
In this way, peace will be widened and the source of disasters will be blocked.
After the report was written, Hong Gong and Shi Xian suspected that it was Reincarnation who had committed the crime, so they asked him to torture the treacherous person.
Sure enough, he confessed, so he was arrested and imprisoned. He was handed over to Tai Fu Wei Xuancheng, admonishment official Gong Yu, and the court officers for torture.
When he was the ninth minister before the impeachment and reformation, he was convicted of scheming with Wangzhi and Zhou Kan to exclude the chariot generals Gao, Xu, and Shi's servants. He slandered his relatives and wanted to repel them and monopolize power alone.
He was a disloyal minister, but he was lucky enough not to be killed, and was requisitioned by grace. He did not repent of his past mistakes, but taught others to say extraordinary things, framed and slandered, and was treasonous.
Reborn as a commoner due to sin.
Wangzhi was also convicted of asking his son to write a letter to redress his grievances. Hong Gong and Shi Xian reported to him that he should go to prison to express his grievances.
Hope to commit suicide.
The emperor felt very remorseful and promoted Zhou Kan to the position of Guanglu Xun. Zhang Meng, Zhou Kan's disciple, became the Guanglu doctor and was trusted by Shizhong.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian were afraid and slandered them several times. Seeing that Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng were in power when they were reincarnated, they hoped that they could be used again. They were afraid that they would overthrow them, so they went to Fengshi to remonstrate:
I was fortunate enough to have a flesh-and-blood relative named Jiu Qing, but I was not cautious in enforcing the law, so I was favored again.
Privately, I saw disasters happening one after another, and the world was out of order, seemingly because of the country.
I wanted not to say it in the end, but I also thought that even if a loyal minister is working at home and farming, he still does not forget the king, which is the righteousness of loyalty.
What’s more, there is also the kinship between flesh and blood, plus the unrequited old kindness!
I wanted to be as honest as possible, but I was afraid of going beyond my duty. However, thinking of the two unpaid kindnesses and the loyalty of my ministers, my foolishness aroused me and I retreated to the farmland. I died without any regrets.
I heard that Shun appointed nine officials, and all the officials gave way to each other, and there was great harmony.
If all the sages are in harmony in the court, then all things will be in harmony in the wilderness.
Therefore, when the flute plays "Shao" nine times, the phoenix flies; when the bell rings and the chime is struck, all the beasts come and dance.
There is no disharmony within the four seas.
When Zhou Wen arrived, the foundation was opened in the western suburbs, and all the sages gathered. There was no one who did not respect harmony, advocated the custom of giving in, and eliminated disputes and lawsuits.
When King Wen passed away, Duke Zhou missed him and praised King Wen's virtues. The "Poetry" said: The beautiful Qing Temple is solemn and harmonious, and famous officials and officials come to participate in the sacrifice; many scholars carry out King Wen's virtues.
At this time, King Wu and Duke Zhou inherited the political affairs, the courtiers were in harmony at home, and all the countries were happy abroad, so they were able to win their favor and serve their ancestors.
"Poetry" says: The guests come in harmony, and when they arrive, they pay homage and offer sacrifices. The princes are connected continuously, and the emperor is dignified and magnificent.
It is said that peace comes from all directions.
The princes are in harmony below, and heaven will retaliate above. Therefore, "Ode to the Zhou Dynasty" says, "Blessings will be many," and it also says, "Give me Lili." Lizi, the wheat, first fell from the sky.
This is all achieved through the use of harmony and the blessing of God.
Later, during the period of You and Li, the court was at odds with each other, and the poet said sadly and worriedly: People do not do good deeds, keep to themselves, and resent each other.
When villains are in power, they obey evil opinions, and competing with each other is a traitor, and betrays the noble man. Therefore, the "Poetry" says: Competing with friends is a traitor, and slandering each other, how sad!
If you plan something good, go against it; if you plan something bad, follow it!
A gentleman sticks to justice alone and does not give in to public criticism. He works hard to do kingly things but is hated and framed. Therefore, the "Poetry" says: He acts diligently and dares not to tell himself about his hard work. He has no sin, but is framed by everyone!
At this time, the moon is eclipsed and has no light. "Poetry" says: On the first day of the lunar month and at the end of the lunar month, there is an eclipse, how ugly it is! He also said: The moon is dim, the sun is dim, how sad are these people now?
The changes in the sky appear above, the changes in the earth move below, the springs boil, and the valleys shift.
"Poetry" says: Hundreds of rivers are boiling, mountain tops are cracking, high banks have become low valleys, and deep valleys have become mountains.
How can those who mourn now not be punished!
The frost falls out of control and does not follow the season. "Poetry" says: There is a lot of frost in the first month, and my heart is sad; people's lies are too powerful!
There are many people who say that they mistake right for wrong.
These are all caused by disharmony, the transformation of virtuous and unfaithful people.
From then on, the world was in chaos, usurpation and murder occurred. King Li fled to pig, and King You was killed. In the last years of King Ping, when Lu Ying just ascended the throne, Dr. Zhou broke away from his brother-in-law and ran away to Lu. However, the "Spring and Autumn" evaded taboos for him and did not say that he came to run. This was the beginning of sad disasters.
From then on, the Yin family's ministers had exclusive power and unbridled power for generations. The princes betrayed the Zhou Dynasty and refused to worship, and the Zhou family was humble.
During the two hundred and forty-two years, there were thirty-six solar eclipses, five earthquakes, two mountain collapses, three comets, no stars at night, one night of stars falling like rain, and fourteen fires.
Changdi entered three countries, five meteorites fell, six hawks flew upside down, there were many elk, worms, worms, gulls and swans came to build their nests, all appeared once.
The day is dark and the trees are frozen. Plums and plums bear fruit in winter.
Frost falls in July, but the vegetation does not die.
Beans freeze to death in August.
Heavy hail fell.
Rain, snow, and thunder mingled in no order.
Disasters such as floods, droughts, hunger, crickets, katydids, borers and other disasters occurred one after another.
At this time, disasters appeared correspondingly. Thirty-six kings were killed, fifty-two kingdoms were destroyed, and the princes fled, unable to save the country.
There were many disasters in the Zhou Dynasty: Jin defeated its army at Maorong and attacked its suburbs; Zheng injured King Huan; Rong arrested its envoys; Wei Marquis Shuo was unable to recruit, but Qi violated the king's order to help Shuo; five officials fought for power, and three monarchs took turns to take the throne, and no one could rectify it.
As a result, it declines and cannot be revived.
From this point of view, harmony leads to auspiciousness; misbehavior leads to disasters; a country with more auspiciousness will be peaceful, and a country with many disasters will be in danger. This is the common law of heaven and earth and the universal meaning of ancient and modern times.
Now His Majesty has created the achievements of three generations, recruiting literary people, being tolerant to others, and allowing them to work together.
Nowadays, the virtuous and the unworthy are confused, there is no distinction between black and white, good and evil are mixed, and loyal and slanderous words are used together.
The memorial was handed over to the bus, and the prisoners were filled with Northern troops.
The courtiers were at odds with each other, contradicted each other, and framed and accused each other.
There were more professors, clerical disputes, mistakes, and a mixture of reputation and reputation.
There are countless things used to confuse the ears and eyes and divert the mind.
Divide into groups and form parties, rely on them everywhere to form a party, and work together to frame upright ministers.
When an upright minister is employed, it is a sign of governance; when an upright minister is framed, it is a sign of chaos.
Taking advantage of this time of chaos, I don't know who to appoint, and disasters occur many times. This is depressing for me.
For those who rely on power, their children are listed in the court like fish scales, and there are many people clinging to them on the left and right. If they gather in front of them, they will definitely be used to criticize and praise them, and in the end, disaster will occur due to their betrayal.
Therefore, the sun and the moon lack light, the frost and snow fall in summer, the sea water boils out, the valleys shift, and the stars move abnormally, all are caused by resentment.
Following the path of the declining Zhou Dynasty, acting according to what the poet ridiculed, but wanting to achieve peace and elegance, making achievements is like walking backward but wanting to be ahead of others.
It has been six years since the early Yuan Dynasty. During the six years of studying the Spring and Autumn Annals, there have not been as many disasters as there are now.
There are disasters in the Spring and Autumn Period, but without Confucius' help, the problem cannot be solved, let alone the Spring and Autumn Period?
The reason why this is so is because the slanderous evil spirits work together.
The reason why slander and evil are used together is because the emperor is suspicious and has appointed wise men to implement good governance. If someone makes false accusations, the wise men will rebuke and good governance will be taken back.
Having a suspicious mind will attract slander and thieves; having an indecisive will will open the door to evil.
When slanderous and evil people advance, they must be repeled by the wise. When the number of evil people increases and the number of upright people decreases, they will be reduced.
So "Yi" has "No" and "Tai".
When the villain's way grows, the gentleman's way decreases, and when the gentleman's way decreases, politics will become increasingly chaotic, so whether it is.
No, it is closed and chaotic.
When the way of a gentleman grows and the way of a villain diminishes, politics will become increasingly stable, so it is Tai.
Tai means understanding and stability.
"Poetry" also said that rain and snow fell one after another, and they were all gone when the sun rose without clouds, which is synonymous with "Yi".
In the past, Gonggong, Jidou, Shun and Yu were in the court of Yao, and the Duke of Zhou, Guan and Cai were serving in the Zhou Dynasty. At this time, people took turns to slander each other, and there was no end to the rumors and slander!
Emperor Yao and King Cheng were able to advance and employ Shun, Yu, and Zhou Gong while excluding Gonggong, Guan, and Cai, so they had great rule and prosperity to this day.
Confucius, Ji and Meng all served as officials in Lu, and Li Si and his uncles and grandsons all served in Qin. Dinggong and Shihuang appointed Ji, Meng, and Li Si to the exclusion of Confucius and his uncles, so they were in chaos and have been humiliated to this day.
Therefore, the beginning of honor and disgrace in ordering chaos lies in the people you trust; since those you trust are already talented people, it lies in their steadfastness.
"Poetry" says that my heart is not a stone and cannot be transferred by others. It means being kind and sincere.
"Yi" says: "I give orders as easily as sweating." It means that giving orders is like sweating. When you sweat, you cannot return.
Now that a good order has been issued and then withdrawn within three months, this is taking back what has been done; if a wise minister is dismissed within thirty years, it is turning a stone.
The Analects of Confucius says: Seeing evil is like testing boiling water.
Now the two palaces are reporting that the person who flatters the sycophants should not be in office, and they will not be rejected after several years.
Therefore, issuing orders is like withdrawing sweat, appointing wise men is like turning stones, and rejecting traitors is like uprooting mountains. Isn't it difficult to hope for the harmony of yin and yang like this?
Therefore, villains peek into the gaps, modify words, use clever words to slander, create rumors, make anonymous documents to slander others, and make noise among the people.
Therefore, the "Poetry" says: I am worried and resentful of the many villains in my heart.
The crowd of villains is indeed hateful.
In the past, Confucius, Yan Yuan and Zigong praised each other and did not form cliques; Yu, Ji and Gaotao recommended each other and did not form cliques for personal gain.
Why?
It's because they are loyal to the country and have no evil intentions.
Therefore, when a sage is in a superior position, he will introduce his kind to gather in the court. "Yi" says, "The flying dragon is in the sky, and the adults gather together."
Those who are above will recommend their kind, and those below will recommend their kind. Therefore, Tang appoints Yi Yin, and the unkind ones stay away, and all the wise people come. This is because they are similar and attract each other.
Now the evil ministers and the virtuous ministers are together in the palace, gathering together to conspire, disobeying good and relying on evil, forming cliques and slanders, and making many scaremongerings, hoping to make the Lord obey his will. If they are accidentally used, it will be the reason why heaven and earth warn in advance and disasters come one after another.
Since ancient times, all wise and sage kings have achieved stability without killing good people. Therefore, Shun had the punishment of banishing the four bad guys, and Confucius had the punishment of killing in two views, and then the holy virtues and education could be implemented.
Now rely on your majesty's wisdom, sincerely ponder the heart of heaven and earth, examine it according to the traces of the killing of two views, look at the hexagrams of "No" and "Tai", examine the poems of rain and snow, choose how Zhou and Tang used talents as a method, think about how Qin and Lu discarded talents as a warning, examine the blessings of good omen, and reflect on disasters Disasters of difference are used to measure the changes of the day. Banish the evil party, break up the dangerous gathering, close the door of the evil group, open the path of righteousness, make decisions and doubts, distinguish hesitations, make right and wrong clear, then you can eliminate many disasters, and all kinds of auspiciousness will come together. This is the foundation of peace and the welfare of all generations.
I am fortunate enough to be able to rely on relatives of the emperor. I have indeed seen the imbalance of yin and yang, and I dare not not report what I heard to the emperor.
I privately speculate on the disasters and disasters in the Spring and Autumn Annals to help with current events, and list the reasons in separate sections, which is not suitable for disclosure.
I would like to risk my life and submit it in a sealed seal.
When Hong Gong and Shi Xian saw his petition, they colluded with Xu and Shi and resented him.
Zhou Kan has a fair and upright temperament. Seeing that he is isolated, he will act in accordance with the right path and not go against the grain.
This summer was cold and the sun was blue and dull. Hong Gong, Shi Xian, Xu and Shi all said that Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng were in power wrong.
The emperor thought highly of Zhou, but he was also suffering from the infiltration of public opinion and was at a loss as to what to do.
At that time, Chang'an ordered Yang Xing to be favored because of his talents and often praised Zhou Kan.
The emperor wanted him to help, so he summoned Yang Xingjian and said, "The courtiers are angry and don't tolerate Guang Luxun. Why?"
Yang Xing was a cunning man and thought that the emperor was suspicious of Zhou Kan, so he obeyed the order and said: "Zhou Kan is not only not allowed in the court, but also in the state."
I saw that everyone heard that Zhou Kan had conspired with Liu Gengsheng and others before, and thought he should be killed. Therefore, I said before that Zhou Kan should not be killed because he was doing favors for the country.
The emperor said: But what crime has this committed that warrants execution?
What to do now?
Yang Xing said: I think I can confer the title of Marquis of Guannei with the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 300 households without letting him take charge of affairs.
It is the most appropriate strategy for Mingzhu not to lose his master's kindness.
The emperor then became suspicious.
When Zhuge Feng, the captain of the city gate school, also spoke ill of Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng, the emperor became angry and dismissed Zhuge Feng from his post.
It's all about his passing.
He also said: Zhuge Feng said that Zhou Kan and Zhang did not behave upright and honest. I did not take pity on them, and it was a pity that their talents could not be put to use. Zhou Kan was demoted to the governor of Hedong and Zhang Meng to the order of Huaili.
The dictatorship of Shi Xian and others was even more powerful.
More than three years later, a fire broke out in Xiaoxuan Temple, and there was a solar eclipse on the last day of this month.
So Zaoshang summoned several people who had said that the sun's change was due to Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng, and they all apologized.
So Xia Shao said: "Zhou Kan, the governor of Hedong, the late emperor respected him and appointed him to be my master."
He has good character, is proficient in Taoism, has integrity in discussion, has perseverance, is sincere and energetic, and truly cares about the country.
Because he cannot flatter the powerful, he is lonely and helpless, his progress and retreat are suppressed, and he ultimately cannot prosper.
In the past, when the ministers saw the disaster, they did not devote themselves to self-cultivation and ponder the cause. Instead, they talked about the natural disaster in a confused way and blamed this person.
I had no choice but to demote him from the court to test him and show his talents.
After Zhou Kan went out, big changes happened again and everyone fell silent.
Zhou Kan had been in power for less than a year, and the three old officials and knowledgeable people praised his virtues. When envoys passed through the county, no one did not praise him. This is enough to show that the late emperor understood talents, and I understand it myself.
The common people then created troubles, criticized and slandered, some of which were tortuous and obscure, and could not be discussed clearly. They also suspected others of the same kind and wanted to harm him, but I did not take any action.
I am forced by the world and cannot concentrate. Previously, there was a disaster in the sky, and I was very frightened.
Now that Zhou Kan is getting old, he may not be able to explain himself. What will he do if he is ostracized by others?
Zhou Kan was summoned to the court.
He was worshiped as Doctor Guanglu, with a rank of two thousand stones, and was in charge of the secretarial affairs.
Zhang Meng became Taizhong's doctor again and served Shizhong.
Shi Xian was in charge of Shangshu affairs, and the five Shangshu were all members of his party.
Zhou Kan rarely saw the emperor, and often communicated through Shi Xian, and all matters were decided through Shi Xian's mouth.
Zhou Kan fell ill with mute disease and died after being unable to speak.
Genti framed him so fiercely that he committed suicide on the bus.
Reincarnation was very painful, so he wrote eight chapters in total, including "Slander", "Essays", "Rescue" and "Ode to the World", using ancient metaphors to express condolences for himself and his kind.
So it was abandoned for more than ten years.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, Shi Xian and others confessed their crimes, so he was reincarnated and used it again, changing his name to Xiang.
Liu Xiang summoned him as Zhonglang as his former Jiuqing, and asked him to lead and protect the three auxiliaries in the capital.
He submitted sealed chapters many times and was promoted to Doctor Guanglu.
At this time, the emperor's uncle Wang Feng, Marquis of Yangping, became the general in charge of the government. He relied on the Queen Mother and specialized in state power. All seven brothers were granted the title of marquis.
There were many major disasters at that time, and Liu Xiang believed that it was the fault of his relatives Guisheng and Wang Feng brothers who were in power.
The emperor was carefully studying "Poems" and "Books", reading ancient texts on the blackboard, and ordered Liu Xiang to be the secretary of the "Five Classics" in the school.
In Liu Xiangkun's "Shangshu" and "Hongfan", Jizi stated for King Wu the fulfillment of blessings and misfortunes of the five elements of yin and yang.
Liu Xiang collected the ancient records of Fu Rui's disasters from the Spring and Autumn Kingdom to the Qin and Han Dynasties, deduced what happened, and added explanations of misfortunes and blessings, and wrote out the fulfillment of divination, arranged by category, each with its own entries, a total of eleven articles, titled "Hong Fan's Five Elements Biography", and reported it to the emperor.
The emperor knew in his heart that Liu Xiang was loyal and sincere, and he originally made this comment because of the Wang and Feng brothers, but in the end he could not take away the Wang family's power.
After a long time, Changling was built, but it could not be completed for many years, and it returned to Yanling. The system was luxurious.
Liu Shangshang admonished:
I heard the "Book of Changes" said: When you are safe, you don't forget the danger; when you survive, you don't forget the destruction. Therefore, your own peace and the country can be protected.
Therefore, a virtuous monarch observes the ending and the beginning extensively, understands the truth thoroughly, and makes a clear distinction between right and wrong.
The king must be familiar with the three traditions and understand that the destiny given by destiny is broad and not limited to one surname.
Confucius was talking about "Poems", and the officials who arrived in Yin were so good and agile that they held a ceremony in Zhoujing to drink wine and help the sacrifices. They sighed: How great is the destiny of heaven!
Good deeds must not be passed on to descendants, because wealth and honor are impermanent; if this is not the case, then why should the princes be vigilant and cautious, and why should the people be advised and encouraged?
Probably because he was sad that Wei Zi served the Zhou Dynasty, and deplored Yin's demise.
Even with the sage of Yao and Shun, it could not teach a son like Danzhu; even with the virtue of Yutang, it could not teach Jie and Zhou who were the last descendants.
From ancient times to the present, there is no country that is immortal.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu destroyed Qin and established his capital in Luoyang. After understanding Liu Jing's words, he thought that his virtue was not as good as that of Huang, but more virtuous than that of children, so he moved his capital to Laosheng, relying on Gu's virtues and using the dangers of fortress.
The short and long ways of the world are judged by virtue, so they often tremble and dare not avoid death.
This is probably what King Cong meant when he said "wealth is impermanent".
Emperor Xiaowen stood on the Ba Mausoleum, facing the water to the north. He felt sad and miserable. He turned around and said to the ministers: Ah!
Use Beishan stone to make the coffin, cut off the wadding and put it between the utensils, and paint it well. How can you shake it?
Zhang Shizhi said: If there is something worth asking for in the wrapping, even if it is as strong as Nanshan, there will still be cracks to drill through; if there is nothing worth asking for in the wrapping, even if there is no stone coffin, what is the sadness?
Death has no end, but countries rise and fall, so if you explain it, you are planning for the infinite future.
Xiaowen realized that he was buried lightly and did not build a mountain tomb.
"Yi" says: In ancient times, burials were covered with firewood and hidden in the wilderness without making graves or planting trees.
Later generations of saints used coffins instead.
Making coffins began with the Yellow Emperor.
Huangdi was buried in Qiaoshan, and Yao was buried in Jiyin. The tombs were both small and the burial goods were meager.
Shun was buried in Cangwu, and his two concubines had no attendants.
Yu was buried in Kuaiji, and the original order of everything on the ground was not changed.
There is no burial place in Yin Tang.
Dukes Wen, Wu, and Zhou were buried in Bi, Duke Mu of Qin was buried under the Prayer Hall of Yongliquan Palace, and Chuilizi was buried in the arsenal. There are no tombs in either of them.
This is the plan that the Holy Emperor, the Ming King, the Wise Lord, the Wise Lord, and the wise men have thought deeply about and spread to the infinite.
Their virtuous ministers and filial sons also obeyed the orders and were buried sparingly. This was indeed the ultimate expression of loyalty and filial piety in serving their emperor and father.
Duke Zhou was the younger brother of King Wu, and it was very meager to bury his brother.
Confucius buried his mother in Fang, and praised the ancient people who built tombs instead of building tombs. He said: Qiu is a person who travels around in the east, west, north, and south, so he must not leave marks.
A four-foot grave was made, but it collapsed when it rained.
The disciple repaired it and told Confucius. Confucius cried and said: I heard that in ancient times, tombs were not repaired.
Probably to criticize them.
Yanling Jizi returned to Qi State. His son died. He was buried between Ying and Bo. There was no spring water in the ground. He used the clothes he wore at that time to bury him and made a grave to cover the pit. The height could be as high as the elbow. He cried: "The flesh and blood return to the earth. This is fate, and the soul is everywhere."
Ying and Bo were more than a thousand miles away from Wu, and Ji Zi refused to bury him and return home.
Confucius went to see it and said: "What Yanling Jizi did is very polite."
Therefore, Zhongni was a filial son, Yanling was a loving father, Shun Yu was a loyal minister, and Zhou Gong knew how to be a younger brother. They buried the monarch and their relatives with very little money; they were not frugal, but in line with etiquette.
Sima Huan of the Song Dynasty made a stone coffin, but Zhongni said that it would be better to let it decay as soon as possible.
Lu Buwei, the prime minister of Qin, gathered his wise men to write the Spring and Autumn Annals, which also talked about the principle of thin burial. They were all sensible people.
When he arrived at the King of Wu's house, he was buried without ceremony. More than ten years later, the Yue people dug up his tomb.
By the time of the Qin Dynasty, the five kings Huiwen, Wu, Zhao and Yanxiang had built large tombs and buried many of them, but they were all dug up and their bodies were exposed. It was very sad.
The First Emperor of Qin was buried in the mountain curve of Lishan Mountain. Three springs were cast below, and a mountain tomb was built above. It was more than fifty feet high and more than five miles around. The stone coffin was made into a palace villa, human anointing was made into lamps and candles, mercury was made into rivers and seas, and gold was made into geese.
The treasures buried, the mechanical ingenuity, the magnificence of the coffins, the grandeur of the palaces are endless.
He also killed many palace people and buried tens of thousands of craftsmen alive.
The world was built with the pain of labor. The construction of Lishan Mountain was not completed, and Zhou Zhang's millions of troops had already arrived below.
Xiang Ji burned his palace buildings, and everyone who went there dug out.
Later, the shepherd boy lost his sheep, and the sheep went into the storage room. The shepherd boy held up a fire to look for the sheep, but the coffin caught fire and burned down.
From ancient times to the present, there has been no grander funeral than that of the First Emperor. Within a few years, he suffered the disaster of Xiang Ji externally and the disaster of Mu Shu internally. Isn’t it very sad!
Therefore, the more virtuous people are buried, the more modest their burials are, and the more intelligent people are buried, the simpler their burials are.
Those without moral wisdom will be buried thickly, their tombs will be high, their palaces and temples will be more ornate, and they will be dug up more quickly.
From this point of view, the test of light and darkness, and the good and bad luck of funerals, are clearly visible.
Zhou De had declined and was extravagant, but King Xuan was wise and rejuvenated. He instead saved palace expenses and reduced the size of his temple.
The poet praised him, such as the poem "Si Qian". The first chapter says that the palace follows the system, and the next chapter says that there are many descendants.
When he came to support Yan Gong, he decorated the ancestral temple and built many platforms. His descendants were extinct twice. The Spring and Autumn Annals ridiculed him.
Zhou Xuan prospered like this, while Lu and Qin became extinct like this. This is the gain and loss of luxury and frugality.
陛下即位，亲身从事节俭，开始建第一个陵，形制约小，天下没人不称赞贤明。

When it came to moving to Changling, the low places were filled up, the earth was piled up into mountains, and the tombs of the people were opened, totaling tens of thousands, and cities were built. The time was tight and the cost was hundreds of millions and hundreds of millions.
The dead are holding grudges underground, while the living are grieving on the ground. The resentment has become yin and yang, coupled with famine, there are hundreds of thousands of people dead and in exile. I am very sad.
If the deceased has a spirit, opening someone else's tomb will do a lot of harm; if he has no spirit, then there is no need to enlarge it?
Discussing with the wise people makes everyone unhappy, and makes the people complain when they see it; if it is just to please the stupid and indulgent people, why do it?
Your Majesty is very kind and sincere, and extremely intelligent and knowledgeable. He should carry forward the virtues of the Han family, carry forward the good deeds of the Liu family, and glorify the Five Emperors and Three Kings. However, he competes with the monarchs of the Qin Dynasty for luxury, compares with graves, and pleases the eyes of fools. He only pursues temporary beauty, goes against the wishes of wise men, and loses peace for all eternity. I am privately ashamed of your Majesty.
Please observe the system of the sage Huang Di, Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, Wen, Wu, Zhou Gong, and Zhongni from above, and understand the thoughts of Mu Gong, Yanling, Chuili, and Zhang Shizhi from the bottom.
Emperor Xiaowen cut the tombs thin and buried them lightly, using frugality to calm the gods, which can be followed. Qin Zhao and the First Emperor added mountains and buried them in large sums, which caused worries due to extravagance, which is enough to serve as a warning.
The scale of the original mausoleum should be based on the opinions of the ministers to stabilize the people.
After the book was written, the emperor was very moved by Liu Xiang's words, but he could not act according to his opinions.
Liu Xiang saw that the customs were more extravagant, while the likes of Zhao and Wei were of humble origin and transcended etiquette.
Liu Xiang believed that Wang's teachings started from the outside and from the near.
So he excerpted the virtuous concubines and chaste wives recorded in the "Poems" and "Books", who made the country and family prosperous and could be imitated, as well as those whose pampering led to chaos and destruction, and compiled them into "Biography of Women", a total of eight chapters, to warn the emperor.
He also extracted biographical stories and wrote "New Preface" and "Shuo Yuan", a total of fifty chapters.
He wrote many times to comment on his gains and losses, and to state the Dharma and precepts.
I wrote dozens of times to help with reading and make up for the shortcomings.
Although the emperor could not adopt them all, he often sighed in admiration for his words in his heart.
At that time, the emperor had no heir, and political affairs were controlled by the Wang family. The disaster gradually became serious.
Liu Xiang admired Chen Tang's resourcefulness and had a close relationship with him. He said to him alone: ​​"The disaster has reached this level, and the relatives are getting stronger. If it continues to develop, it will definitely endanger the Liu family."
I have the same surname as the last branch, and I have received indifference in many lifetimes. As an elder of the clan, I have served the emperors of three dynasties.
The emperor thinks that I am an old minister of the late emperor, and treats me with courtesy every time he comes to see me. If I don't say anything, who should?
Liu Xiang then wrote a sealed memorial and strongly remonstrated:
I heard that there are no monarchs who do not want peace, but they are often in danger; there are no monarchs who do not want the country to last forever, but they are often destroyed. This is because they have lost the way to manage their ministers.
When a minister holds power and presides over the affairs of the country, he will always be a disaster.
In the past, Jin had six ministers, Qi had Tian and Cui, Wei had Sun and Ning, and Lu had Ji and Meng. They had always been in charge of state affairs and held power from generation to generation. Later, Tian finally replaced Qi; the six ministers divided Jin; Cui Zhu killed the country Jun Guang; Sun Lin's father and Ning Shi expelled their monarch Yan and killed the monarch; Ji's family performed the dance of Eight Yi in the court, and the three families had a feast with "Yong", monopolizing state affairs together, and finally expelled Zhao Gong.
The Yin family, the official of Zhou Dynasty, took charge of the government affairs, which caused chaos in the royal family. Zichao and Zimeng were established one after another, and it took several years to stabilize.
Therefore, it is said that the royal family is in chaos, and it is also said that the Yin family killed the prince to subdue it. It is really powerful.
"Spring and Autumn" lists successes and failures and records misfortunes and blessings. Many of these are caused by the rise and fall of yin and the decline of yang, and the subordinates have lost their way of serving as ministers.
Therefore, "The Book" says: If ministers act arrogantly, it will be harmful to your family and your country.
Confucius said that when the salary is removed from the official office and the political power is controlled by the officials, it is a sign of danger.
The uncles of King Zhao of Qin, Marquis Zhou, Jingyang and Ye Yang, monopolized the state affairs. With the power of the Queen Mother, the three people were more powerful than King Zhao, and their families were richer than the state of Qin. The country was in danger, but Qin could still survive after understanding Fan Sui's words.
The second generation appointed Zhao Gao, he indulged himself in power and blocked the ministers. Finally, Yan Le looked at the barbarians and the Qin Dynasty was destroyed.
This is a recent thing, and it was replaced not long ago by indifference.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Zhu Lu did not follow the right path and respected each other as king without permission.
Lü Chan and Lü Lu took advantage of the Empress Dowager's favor to occupy the positions of generals, control the soldiers of the Northern and Southern armies, and had the honorary position of kings of Liang and Tang. They were arrogant and unsatisfied and wanted to endanger the Liu family.
Relying on the loyal ministers Jianghou, Zhuxuhou and others, they used all their sincerity to eliminate them, and then the Liu family found peace again.
Now there were twenty-three people of the Wang family riding in the Zhulunmei chariot. The tent was filled with green mink and purple cicadas, sitting in rows on the left and right of the emperor.
The general was in charge of affairs, and the five princes were arrogant and extravagant. They acted arbitrarily and acted arbitrarily. They acted selfishly but relied on the way of public administration. They relied on the dignity of Shu Palace and the family affection of their nephews to achieve a prestigious position.
Shangshu Jiuqing, prefectures, animal husbandry and county guards all came from their sects. They were in charge of secrets and formed cliques for personal gain.
Those who praise them will be promoted, and those who disobey will be killed; those who lobby will explain for them, and those in power will speak for them.
Exclude the clan, isolate and weaken the public clan, and especially those who are intelligent must be slandered and not used.
He prevented the clan members from assuming their responsibilities and did not allow them to serve the court, for fear that they would compete with him for power. He mentioned King Qu and King Gai many times to make the emperor confused, and avoided mentioning Lu and Huo.
There are Guan and Cai's plans in the heart, but outside they are relying on the words of Duke Zhou, brothers are in power, and clans are colluding.
From ancient times to the Qin and Han Dynasties, there were no relatives who were as noble as the Wang family.
Even Zhou Huangfu, Qin Zhouhou, Han Wu'an, Lu, Huo, Shangguan and others can't compare with them.
When things flourish, extraordinary changes must appear first, as subtle manifestations of their people.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaozhao, the stone from Guanshan stood on Tongshan, and the fallen willow tree stood up again in Shanglin.
After Chu Xuantong came to the throne, at the tomb of the Wang family's ancestors in Jinan, the catalpa pillars sprouted branches and leaves, stretching upwards beyond the house. The roots are inserted into the ground, and even if the stone stands and the willow stands erected, it cannot be more obvious than this.
The power of things cannot be both great at the same time, and the Wang family and Shengqu are also incompatible. If the one below is as stable as Mount Tai, then the one above is in danger of laying eggs.
As a descendant of your ancestors, your majesty protects the ancestral temple, but you let the throne pass to the hands of a foreign relative and become a slave. Even if it is not for yourself, what will the ancestral temple do!
For a woman to regard her husband's family as her home and her parents' home as her home, this is not the happiness of the empress dowager.
Emperor Xiaoxuan did not give his uncles Pingchang and Lechang the power, just to keep them safe.
A wise person can bring about blessings invisibly and eliminate disasters before they begin. He should issue clear edicts, promote virtue, introduce clan members, be close and trustworthy, alienate relatives, do not give them authority, remove them all and let them return home, imitate the behavior of the previous king, appease relatives generously, and preserve their clan. This is indeed the wish of the East Palace and the blessing of the maternal family.
The Wang family will exist forever, keep their title and fortune, and the Liu family will be stable for a long time without losing the country. This is a great plan to make the inner and outer surnames harmonious and have endless descendants.
If we don't act in this way, the Tian family will meet again today, and the Liuqing will definitely rise in the Han Dynasty and become a worry for future generations. It is so obvious that we have to think deeply and think about it early.
"Yi" said: If the king is not careful, he will lose his ministers; if the ministers are not careful, they will lose their lives; if the secrets are not careful, they will not succeed.
Your Majesty, please think deeply, carefully review military and state affairs, observe the lessons of the past, gain trust through compromise, maintain peace for eternity, maintain the ancestral temple, and serve the Empress Dowager for a long time. The world is very honored.
After the book was written, the emperor summoned Liu Xiang, sighed and said to him: "You can rest for now, I will consider this matter."
Liu Xiang was appointed as the captain of the middle base.
Liu Xiang was a simple man without dignity, honest and quiet, and liked the way of sages. He did not interact with the secular world and devoted himself to the study of classics. He recited books and biographies during the day and observed the stars at night. Sometimes he would not sleep until dawn.
During the Yuan Dynasty, a comet swept over Shujing, and Minshan Mountain in Shu County collapsed and blocked the Yangtze River.
Liu Xiang believed that this kind of vision was not good, and his discussion on it was recorded in "Five Elements Chronicles".
His thoughts were endless, and he wrote again: I heard that Emperor Shun warned Boyu not to be as arrogant as Danzhu; Zhou Gong warned Cheng Wang not to be like King Zhou of Yin.
"Poetry" said that Yin's reference was not far away. In the era of Queen Xia, it also said that Tang took Jie as a warning.
The Holy Emperor and King Ming often used defeats and chaos to warn themselves, and did not shy away from ruining prosperity. Therefore, I dare to state my foolish opinions to the best of my ability. Your Majesty, please pay attention and observe.
In the 242nd year of the Spring and Autumn Period, there were thirty-six solar eclipses, especially during the reign of Duke Xiang. There was one eclipse in about three years and five months.
From the rise of the Han Dynasty to Jingning, it was particularly frequent during the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, about once every three years and a month.
I have told you many times that there should be a solar eclipse, and now there have been frequent solar eclipses for three consecutive years.
Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, there have been eight eclipses in twenty years, about once every two years and six months, which is rare in ancient and modern times.
Visions vary in size, thickness, and divination, and divination varies in severity. The sage uses this to decide questions.
"Yi" said: Observe astronomy to examine the changes of the times.
In the past, Confucius answered Duke Ai of Lu and mentioned that Xia Jie and Yin Zhou were tyrannical in the world. Therefore, if there were errors in the calendar, the position would be lost, and Meng Zou could not calculate it. These were all changes caused by the change of surnames.
During the last years of Qin Shihuang's second year, the sun and moon eclipse each other, mountains and tombs collapse, stars appear in Meng Yue in the four seasons, Taibai stars move across the sky, and there are thunders without clouds, meteors shine in the night, Yinghuo attacks the moon, fires burn the palace, wild crows play in the court, the capital gate collapses inwards, giants appear in Lintao, meteorites fall in Cambodia, comets sweep over Dajiao, and Dajiao disappears.
Looking at the words of Confucius and examining the vision of the violent Qin Dynasty, the destiny of heaven is indeed terrifying.
When Xiang Ji failed, the comet also swept across Dajiao.
When Han invaded Qin, five stars gathered in Shujing, which was a sign of conquering the world.
During the period of Xiaohui, there was a rain of blood, the sun and the moon were in conflict, the light disappeared, and stars appeared.
During the reign of Xiaozhao, there was a lying stone on Mount Tai standing on its own, the dead willows in the forest grew again, and a big star like the moon moved westward, with many stars following it. This was a huge disaster.
The sign of Xiaoxuan's rise was that the Tengu traveled westward with the Milky Way between them. It was often cloudy without rain for more than 20 days, which was a disaster that would not end well in Changyi.
All are recorded in "Han Ji".
Observing the changes of Qin and Han, Hui and Zhao had no descendants, and Changyi could not die well. Looking at Xiaoxuan's succession, isn't it very obvious that God made a choice?
Emperor Gaozong and King Cheng also had the disaster phenomenon of pheasants uprooting trees, and they could reflect on the cause. Therefore, Emperor Gaozong could have a hundred years of blessings, and King Cheng had the retribution of a wind blowing in the opposite direction.
The retribution of the gods, like shadows and echoes, is universally known.
I have the good fortune to be in the royal branch, and I have truly seen that your majesty has the virtue of generosity and wisdom. I hope to eliminate the great disaster, promote the beautiful voice of Zhisai and Sheng Wang, and come to respect the seal area, so I sincerely committed several capital crimes.
Nowadays, solar eclipses are particularly frequent, comets sweep through the beam well, and the light of the solar eclipse rises to the purple palace. All knowledgeable elders are shocked. This is a big disaster.
It is difficult to write down this matter one by one, so the "Book of Changes" says that "the words cannot be fully expressed in the book, and the meaning cannot be fully expressed in the words", so the hexagrams are set up to point out the line images, and then the meaning is stated.
"Book" says that it is difficult to understand astronomy when people use pictures to explain it. Although I have presented pictures, I still need to speak orally before I can understand. I hope that I can point to the pictures and explain them in my free time.
The emperor summoned him, but was ultimately unable to appoint him.
Every time Liu Xiang was summoned, he said that the public family is the branches and leaves of the country. When the branches and leaves fall off the trunk and roots, there will be no protection; now the same surname is alienated, the mother party is in dictatorship, Fulu has left the official office, and power is in the hands of outsiders. This is not the way to make the Han clan strong and the private family weak, to preserve the country and stabilize future generations.
Because Liu Xiang could be trusted by the emperor, he often praised the clan and satirized the Wang family and the ministers in office. His language was very painful and out of sincerity.
The emperor wanted to appoint Liu Xiang as the ninth minister many times, but he was not supported by the reigning Wang family and the prime minister's censor, so he was not promoted. He served as a lieutenant for more than thirty years and died at the age of seventy-two.
Thirteen years after his death, Wang replaced Mo.
Liu Xiang's three sons were all eager to learn: the eldest son Liu Ji taught "Yi" and became an official and became a county governor; the second son Liu Ci served as Jiuqing Cheng and died young; the youngest son Liu Xin is the most famous.
Liu Xin, whose courtesy name was Zijun, was summoned as a child because he was proficient in "Poems" and "Books" and could write articles. When he met Emperor Cheng, he worked in the eunuch's office and served as a Huang Menlang.
During the Heping period, he was ordered to take charge of the school's secretaryship with his father Liu Xiang, and studied the biographies of the six arts, including Zhuzi, poetry, mathematics, and technology.
After Liu Xiang's death, Liu Xin became the captain of the middle base again.
When Emperor Ai just came to the throne, the Grand Sima Wang Mang recommended Liu Xin as a talented and virtuous clan member. He was promoted to the Taizhong doctor in the poem, promoted to the captain of the cavalry, and the Guanglu doctor of the chariot. He had a distinguished status and was favored.
He was also responsible for the affairs of the "Five Classics" and completed his father's work.
Liu Xin collected the six arts books and classified them into "Seven Strategies".
"Yiwenzhi" contains it.
Both Liu Xin and Liu Xiang began to study "Yi". During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Liu Xiang was asked to study "Gu Liang Chun Qiu" in Shao. After more than ten years, he became proficient in it.
When he was appointed secretary at Liu Xin School, he saw the ancient text "The Biography of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period" and liked it very much.
At that time, Prime Minister Shi Yinxian was able to study "Zuo Shi" and revised the scriptures and biographies together with Liu Xin.
Liu Xin roughly studied with Yin Xian and Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin and inquired about righteousness.
At first, "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was mostly composed of ancient characters and ancient sayings, which scholars passed down and interpreted for exegesis. When Liu Xin studied "Zuo Shi", he quoted the biographies to explain the scriptures and invented each other. From then on, it also had the meaning of chapters and sentences.
Liu Xin was also calm and strategic. Both his father and his son were fond of ancient times. He was knowledgeable and had a strong memory, surpassing others.
Liu Xin believed that Zuo Qiuming's likes and dislikes were the same as those of a saint, who had seen the Master with his own eyes, while Gongyang and Gu Liang, who were seventy years old, heard rumors and saw with their own eyes, the details were slightly different.
Liu Xin attacked Liu Xiang many times, but Liu Xiang could not blame him, but he still adhered to the meaning of "Gu Liang".
When Liu Xin was approached by the emperor, he wanted to make "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu", "Mao Shi", "Yi Li" and "Guwen Shangshu" a scholar.
Emperor Ai asked Liu Xin to discuss his purpose with the doctors of the Five Classics. Some of the doctors refused to debate with Liu Xin. Liu Xin then wrote to Dr. Taichang, reproaching him and saying:
In the past, after the decline of Tang Dynasty and the fall of Yu, three generations of sage emperors and Ming kings succeeded each other and prospered one after another.
The Zhou Dynasty's family declined, rituals and music were not upright, and it was so difficult to preserve the great road.
Therefore, Confucius was worried that the road would not be accessible, so he traveled to various countries to apply for jobs.
After returning from Wei to Lu, music was corrected, and "Ode to Ya" was given its proper place; "Yi" was published, "Book" was prefaced, and "Spring and Autumn" was written to record the way of the emperor.
When the master died and the subtle words became extinct, the seventy sons died and the righteousness was perverse, and they encountered the disputes in the Warring States period, they abandoned the etiquette of Pengdou and started to travel in military formations. The Kong family's Taoism declined, and Sun Wu's magic flourished.
It gradually declined until the violent Qin Dynasty, when scriptures were burned, Confucian scholars were killed, laws were enacted to ban books, praising ancient people for being punished, and Taoist magic became extinct from then on.
The rise of the Han Dynasty was far away from the Holy Emperor Mingwang, and the Zhongni Dao was extinct, so the laws could not be followed.
At that time, there was only one Shusun Tong who roughly formulated the etiquette. There was only the book of divination "Yi" and no other book in the world.
By the time of Xiaohui, the law on banning books was abolished, but ministers Jiang, Guan and others were all warriors wearing armor and did not take it seriously.
When Emperor Xiaowen arrived, he began to let Chao Cuo, an acquaintance, learn "Shang Shu" from Fu Sheng.
"Shang Shu" was just taken out from the wall of the house and was broken and scattered. The book is still there now. At that time, the master just passed on the interpretation and recited it.
"Poetry" began to sprout.
There are many books in the world, all of which are the interpretations of various scholars. They are also widely established as academic officials and have doctorates for them.
The only Confucian scholar in the Han Dynasty was Jia Yi.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowu, there were senior teachers from Zou, Lu, Liang, and Changchang who explained "Poems", "Li", and "Spring and Autumn", all of whom arose during the Jianyuan period.
At this time, one person cannot exhaust the scriptures alone. Some are proficient in "Ya" and some are proficient in "Song". Only by cooperation can everyone complete the lecture.
"The Oath of Thailand" came out later, and the doctor collected and recited it.
So the edict said: I am very worried about the collapse of rites and the destruction of music and the missing of slips.
At that time, it had been seventy or eighty years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, and it was already far away from all the classics.
When King Lu Gong excavated the old residence of Confucius and wanted to build a palace, he found ancient texts in the broken walls. There are thirty-nine chapters in "Yi Li" and sixteen chapters in "Shu".
After the Tianhan Dynasty, Kong Anguo offered them, but encountered the witchcraft's haste and had no time to execute them.
As for the "Spring and Autumn" edited by Zuo Shiqiu Ming, they are all ancient texts and old books, with as many as more than 20 chapters. They are hidden in a secret house and have not been published.
Emperor Xiaocheng felt sorry for the incomplete academic work, which was very different from the original book, so he published the old collection and revised the old text. Using these three kinds of books, he revised the scriptures passed down by the academic officials. Some of the scriptures were simplified and some were misedited.
After sending orders to the people, it was found that the teachings of Dan Gong of Lu Li, Guan Gong of Zheng Hui, and Yongsheng of Jiaodong were the same, but they were suppressed and not implemented.
This is something that makes the wise pity and the gentlemen sad. In the past, scholars did not consider the incompleteness of books, and made do with what they had. Analyzing words and speaking were cumbersome, and scholars could not master a skill until they were old.
They explain and recite biographies without words, believe in inferior teachers and criticize the past events. As for the important events of the country, such as the ceremony of setting up Yong, sealing Shan, and patrolling hunting, they are confused and don't know what should be done.
We still have to be clingy and conservative, with selfishness that is afraid of being exposed, instead of obeying the public spirit of kindness and righteousness, or being jealous and not thinking about the truth, following the same people, listening to the voices to agree with right and wrong, suppressing these three kinds of knowledge, thinking that "Shangshu" is complete, saying that Zuo did not interpret "Spring and Autumn", isn't it very sad!
Nowadays, the saints are virtuous and connected with the gods. They inherit the throne and inherit the industry. They also regret that the articles are messed up. There are so many scholars. Although they understand the true feelings, they are still hesitant and modest, and they are willing to be like the gentlemen.
Therefore, an edict was issued to debate whether the "Zuo Shi" could be established, and close ministers were sent with orders to help the weak. Together with two or three gentlemen, they worked together in the hope of reestablishing the abandoned scriptures.
This is not the case now. He hides his deep stubbornness and refuses to debate. He simply annihilates it by not reciting it. He wants to block the remaining avenue and extinguish the subtle knowledge.
You can share the results with him, but it is difficult to consider starting a business with him. This is what ordinary people do, not what celebrities and gentlemen do.
Moreover, the late emperor personally talked about the affairs of these families. Now the emperor has examined and found out that those ancient texts and old books have been verified. The internal and external are consistent. Is it possible to just give up?
If etiquette is lost, look for it among the people. Aren’t ancient texts better than the people?
In the past, Dr. Ouyang was included in the "Book", Gongyang was included in the "Chunqiu", and Shi and Meng were included in the "Yi". However, Emperor Xiaoxuan also widely established the "Gu Liang Chunqiu", "Liangqiu Yi", and "Xiahou Shangshu". Although the meanings and purposes are different, they are still set together.
Why?
Rather than abandon it because it is wrong, it is better to establish it because it is wrong.
Explanation of the biography: The way of civility and martial arts does not fall to the ground, but is in the world; a wise person remembers the big aspects, and the unworthy person remembers the small aspects.
Nowadays, the opinions of these families have different meanings. How can they be partial?
If it is necessary to be arbitrary and deferential, to form cliques within the same sect, to be jealous of the true way, to disobey the clear edict, to lose the holy will, and to be overwhelmed by the discussions of civil servants, I very much hope that these two or three gentlemen will not do this.
His words were very profound, and the Confucian scholars were very resentful.
At this time, Gong Sheng, a famous scholar and Guanglu doctor, deeply blamed himself for Liu Xin's letter to the emperor, hoping to ask for the bones to go home.
As for the Confucian scholar Shi Dan, Da Sikong, he was also furious and reported to Liu Xin that he had changed the old rules and slandered the teachings established by the late emperor.
The emperor said: Liu Xin wants to promote Taoism, how can it be regarded as slander?
From then on, Liu Xin offended the ministers in power and was slandered by the Confucian scholars. He was afraid of being killed, so he asked to go out of Beijing to serve as an official and become the governor of Hanoi.
Because the clan should not be in charge of Sanhe, he was transferred to Wuyuan Prefecture, and later to Zhuojun, and served as prefecture of three counties in total.
A few years later, he was dismissed from the official position due to illness, and he was appointed as the captain of the stable state.
When Emperor Ai died, Wang Mang took charge. When he was young, Wang Mang and Liu Xin were both Huangmenlang, so they valued him and reported it to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother left Liu Xin to serve as the Taizhong doctor of Youcao, and he was promoted to the rank of Zhongbao Xiaowei, Xihe, Jingzhaoyin, put him in charge of Mingtang Piyong, and was granted the title of Hongxiuhou.
He was in charge of the scholar's fortune teller, studied music rhythms and calendars, and wrote the "Three Unifications Calendar".
At first, Liu Xin changed his name to Xiu in the first year of Jianping, and his courtesy name was Uncle Ying.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, Liu Xin became the national advisor, and everything that follows is in the "Mang Biography".
Praise: Zhongni lamented that talented people are rare, isn’t it true?
After Confucius, there were many people who wrote books, but only Meng Ke, Sun Kuang, Dong Zhongshu, Sima Qian, Liu Xiang, and Yang Xiong. These gentlemen were all knowledgeable and well-versed in ancient and modern times, and their comments were beneficial to the times.
Legend has it that if a saint does not appear, there must be someone famous in the world.
Isn't it reasonable? Liu's "Hongfan Lun" develops the "Da Zhuan" and shows that heaven and man respond accordingly; "Qi Lue" distinguishes art and literature and figures out the clues of hundreds of schools of thought; "Santong Calendar" determines the divisions of the sun and the moon. The ultimate foundation and profound meaning.
ah!
Liu Xiang's warning about mountains and mausoleums is very sad to see today!
How clear it is to point out the matter of the Catalpa Pillar to infer the failure of prosperity!
Isn’t it true that people with direct faith and more knowledge are what the ancients call beneficial friends?
