Chen Sheng, courtesy name She, was born in Yangcheng.
Wu Guang, courtesy name Shu, was from Yangxia.
When Chen She was young, he and others were hired to farm.
Once I was resting on the ridge of the field. I was frustrated for a long time and said: If you become rich, no one should forget the other.
The fellows who were employed laughed and asked: "You are hired to plow the fields. What wealth do you get?"
Chen Sheng sighed and said: Alas, how can a sparrow know the ambition of a swan?
In the autumn and July of the first year of Qin II, the government fine-tuned the households on the left side of Juli Lane to guard the border and went to Yuyang with 900 people. Chen Sheng and Wu Guang both served as village chiefs.
When we walked to Qidaze Township, it was raining heavily and the roads were blocked, so we probably missed the registration deadline.
If you miss the deadline, you will be beheaded according to the law. Chen Sheng and Wu Guang said together: "To escape now is to die. To rise up and do something big is to die. The same is to die. Is it okay to die in state affairs?"
Chen Sheng said: The people of the world have suffered from the violent Qin rule for a long time.
I heard that the second emperor was a young son and should not succeed to the throne. The son Fusu should succeed.
Fusu could not be established as crown prince due to repeated admonitions, so the First Emperor sent him to lead troops elsewhere.
Now it was heard that he was not guilty, and II killed him.
The common people had heard that Fusu was a capable person, but they didn't know that he was dead.
Xiang Yan was a general of the Chu State. He had made many meritorious deeds and loved his soldiers. All the people of the Chu State loved him.
Now if we pretend to be Fu Su and Xiang Yan and take the lead for the people of the world, many people should respond.
Wu Guang thought he was right.
So he went to divination.
The fortune tellers understood their intentions and said: All your affairs will come true and you will achieve great success.
But you have to ask ghosts and gods for divination!
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang were very happy. After thinking about the matter of asking ghosts, they said: This is to teach us to gain prestige among people through ghosts and gods.
So they wrote the words "King Chen Sheng" on the silk with cinnabar, and secretly stuffed it into the belly of the fish that others had picked up with a fishing net.
It was strange that the soldiers of the garrison bought fish and cooked it, but found the silk book in the fish's belly.
Chen Sheng also privately asked Wu Guang to go to the shrine in the woods where he was stationed. He lit a fire at night, pretended to be a fox and howled and shouted: "Great Chu is rising, King Chen Sheng."
The garrison soldiers were frightened and restless at night.
The next morning, the garrison soldiers were talking about this everywhere, pointing and looking at Chen Sheng and Wu Guang.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang have always been considerate of others, and many people in the garrison were willing to listen to their orders.
The general escorting the garrison was drunk. Wu Guang deliberately threatened to run away many times to anger the general and let him humiliate him in public to anger everyone.
As expected, the general whipped Wu Guang.
When the general drew his sword, Wu Guang rose up to grab the sword and kill the general.
Chen Sheng also came to help, and together they killed the two generals.
He summoned his subordinates and said: "You are caught in the rain and have missed the deadline. If you miss the deadline, you should be beheaded."
If we had not killed them, sixty-seven out of ten people would have died while guarding the border.
Moreover, a strong man must not die but must leave a great name in the world.
How can princes, generals and prime ministers be born with such talent?
Subordinates all say: Accept orders respectfully.
So they pretended to be princes, Fusu and Xiang Yan, and staged an uprising to obey public opinion.
The garrison soldiers all had their right arms exposed and were known as Da Chu.
They built a high altar and swore an oath, and used the heads of generals as sacrifices.
Chen Sheng established himself as general and Wu Guang as captain.
Attacked Daze Township and captured it.
He recruited troops to attack Qixian and captured it.
He sent Ge Ying from Fuli to lead troops to attack the Yisu area of ​​Qixian County, attack Liao, Zheng, Ku, Zhe, Qiao and other counties, and captured them all.
While marching, they continued to recruit and expand their troops. By the time they reached Chen County, there were six to seven hundred tanks, more than a thousand cavalry, and tens of thousands of infantry.
When Chen County was attacked, neither the county guard nor the county magistrate was present, leaving only the Shou Cheng to resist in Qiaomen.
Unable to win, Shou Cheng died in battle, so he entered the city and occupied Chen County.
A few days later, Chen Sheng ordered to summon the three elders of the township officials and local gentry to gather for a meeting.
The three elders and the squires all said: General, you are wearing boring armor and holding sharp weapons in your hands. You crusade against the unjust, eradicate the violent Qin, and rebuild the Chu Kingdom. In terms of merit, you should be called the king.
So Chen Sheng was proclaimed king and known as Zhang Chu.
At this time, all counties and counties were suffering from the tyranny of Qin officials and killed their officials in response to Chen She.
So Wu Guang was appointed acting king and led the generals to attack Rongyang westward.
He ordered Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu from Chen County to capture Zhao, and ordered Deng Zong from Ruyin to capture Jiujiang County.
At this time, thousands of Chu rebels gathered together and it was impossible to count them.
Ge Ying arrived in Shucheng and established Xiang Qiang as King of Chu.
Ge Ying later heard that Chen Sheng had been established as king, so he killed Xiang Qiang and returned to report.
As soon as he arrived in Chen County, Chen Sheng killed Ge Ying and ordered Wei people from Zhoushi to go north to capture Wei.
Wu Guang surrounded Rongyang. Li You was appointed governor of Sanchuan County and guarded Rongyang, which Wu Guang could not capture.
So Chen Sheng summoned domestic heroes to discuss countermeasures and appointed Cai Ci, the Lord of Shangcai Renfang, as the Shangzhu Kingdom.
Zhou Wen was a wise man in Chen County. He once served as the Japanese official in Xiang Yan's army, and also served Chun Shenjun. He claimed to be familiar with military affairs.
Chen Sheng awarded him the seal of general and ordered him to lead his army westward to attack Qin.
Soldiers and horses were recruited along the way to Hangu Pass. Sometimes there were thousands of chariots and hundreds of thousands of soldiers. They arrived at the theater and stationed themselves.
Qin II ordered Zhang Han, the young governor, to pardon the prisoners serving in Lishan and the sons of slaves, and sent them all to attack the Chu army and defeated them.
Zhou Wen was defeated, retreated from Hangu Pass, and garrisoned Caoyang.
For more than two months, Zhang Han led his troops to pursue and defeat Zhou Wen, and they retreated to garrison in Tsui Pond.
After more than ten days, Zhang Han attacked and defeated them.
Zhou Wen committed suicide and the army lost its combat effectiveness.
When the military minister arrived in Handan, he proclaimed himself King of Zhao, Chen Yuren was appointed as the general, and Zhang Er and Zhao Sao were appointed as the left and right prime ministers.
Chen Sheng was angry, captured Wu Chen and other family members, and planned to kill them.
Zhuguo Cai Ci suggested: If the Qin Dynasty kills the family members of King Zhao, generals and prime ministers before the Qin Dynasty declines, it is equivalent to adding another Qin Dynasty as an enemy. It is better to seal him with power.
King Chen sent an envoy to Zhao to congratulate him, and then transferred the family members of the military officials and others who were under house arrest to the palace.
Zhang Ao, Zhang Er's son, was granted the title of Lord of Chengdu and urged Zhao soldiers to quickly march to Hangu Pass.
The king of Zhao, the generals and ministers discussed it and said: It is not the original intention of the Chu State that the king calls Zhao king.
After Chu defeated Qin, it was inevitable that troops would be added to Zhao. A better idea would be not to march westward, but to send generals north to capture the land of Yan to expand our territory.
Zhao State defends the Yellow River in the south, and there are vast areas of Yan and Dai in the north. Even if Chu State defeats Qin, it will not be able to conquer Zhao State. If the Chu State cannot defeat Qin, it will definitely pay attention to the Zhao State.
Zhao State can take advantage of the decline of Qin and Chu to achieve success in the world.
King Zhao thought it was right, so he did not send troops westward. Instead, he sent Han Guang, a former soldier of Shanggu County, to lead his army north to attack Yan.
The wealthy nobles of the old Yan State advised Han Guang: "The land of Chu has a king, and the land of Zhao has a king."
Although the land of Yan is small, it is a country with thousands of troops and chariots. I hope that the general will establish himself as the king of Yan.
Han Guang said: My mother lives in the State of Zhao, so I can't do it. The Yan people said: The State of Zhao is worried about Qin in the west and Chu in the south. His power cannot restrain us.
Moreover, as Chu State was so powerful, it did not dare to harm the family members of the generals and kings of Zhao. How could Zhao State dare to harm the generals’ families now?
Han Chen thought he was right, so he made himself king of Zhe.
A few months later, Zhao Er escorted King Yan's mother and family members back to the Kingdom of Yan.
At this time, countless generals from all over the country were attacking cities and territories.
Zhou Shi marched north to Di County. Tian Dan, a native of Di County, killed the magistrate of Di County and proclaimed himself the king of Qi. He raised troops in Qi and attacked Zhou Shi.
Zhou Shi's army was defeated and returned to Wei, intending to make Ningling Junjiu, a descendant of the original Wei king, the king of Wei.
At that time, Guan was with Chen Sheng and could not go to Wei.
After Wei was pacified, people wanted to establish Zhou Shi as King of Wei, but Zhou Shi refused.
The envoy traveled back and forth between King Chen and Wei five times, and Chen Shengcai agreed to make Ningling Junjiu King of Wei and send him back to Wei.
Zhou Shi finally became the prime minister.
General Tian Zang and others jointly planned and said: Zhou Zhang's army has been defeated. The Qin army will come sooner or later. We have surrounded Rongyang City for a long time and cannot attack it. Once the Qin army arrives, it will definitely suffer a huge defeat.
It is better to leave a small number of troops behind, enough to surround Rongyang, and mobilize all the elite troops to attack the Qin army.
Now the acting king Wu Guang is arrogant and does not understand military tactics. He cannot work with him. If he does not kill him, the whole matter may be ruined.
Therefore, under the pretense of King Chen's order, they executed Wu Guang and presented Wu Guang's head to Chen Sheng.
Chen Sheng sent an envoy to give Tian Zang the seal of Chu State's Ling Yin and appointed him as a general.
Tian Zang sent his generals Li Gui and others to garrison outside Rongyang City. He led his elite troops to the west to meet the Qin army in Aocang.
The two sides fought, Tian Zang died in the battle, and the army collapsed.
Zhang Han marched to attack Li Gui and others at Rongyang City and defeated them. Li Gui died in battle.
Deng Yue, a native of Yangcheng, led his army in Tan County and was defeated by another army of Zhang Han. Deng Yue led his army and fled to Chen County.
Wu Feng, a native of Liao County, led his army and was stationed in Xu County. Zhang Han defeated him and Wu Feng fled to Chen County.
Chen Sheng killed Deng Shuo:
When Chen Sheng first became king, Qin Jia from Ling County, Dong Yan from Liao County, Zhu Jishi from Fuli, Zheng Bu from Qilu, and Ding Ji from Xu County all independently raised armies and led their troops to surround the governor of Shuhai County in Tan County.
When King Chen heard about it, he appointed Wu Ping Junpan as a general to oversee all the armies in Tancheng.
Qin Jia established himself as Grand Sima and did not want to be subordinate to Lord Wu Ping. He told the military officers: Lord Wu Ping is young and does not understand military affairs, so don't listen to him!
Therefore, it was falsely reported that King Chen ordered Wuping Junpan to be killed.
Zhang Han had defeated Wu Feng and attacked Chen County. Cai Ci, the king of Shangzhu State, died in the battle.
Zhang Han then advanced to attack Zhang He's army in the west of Chen County.
Chen Sheng personally went into battle to supervise the battle. The army was defeated and Zhang He died in the battle.
In December, Chen Sheng went to Ruyin and transferred to Xiachengfu. His coachman Zhuangmai killed him and then surrendered to the Qin army.
Chen Sheng was buried in Ci County, and Mi was named King Yin.
Lu Chen, Chen Sheng's old minister, later became a general in the factory. He established a "Cangtou Army" with heads wrapped in green scarves. They raised troops in Xinyang, conquered Chen County, killed Zhuang Mai, and made Chen County the capital of Chu.
At first, Chen Sheng ordered Song Liu, a native of Liao County, to lead his army to pacify Nanyang and enter Wuguan.
After Song Liu captured Nanyang, he heard the news of Chen Sheng's death, and Nanyang was captured by the Qin army again.
Song Liu could not enter Wuguan, so he went east to Xincai and met the Qin army. Song Liu led his army to surrender to Qin.
Qin took Song Liu to Xianyang, and his chariot was broken to show the public.
When Qin Jia and others heard that Chen Sheng was defeated, they appointed Jing Ju as King of Chu and led his army to Fangyu County, preparing to attack the Qin army in Jiyin.
He sent Gongsun Qing to the King of Qi to join forces and march together.
King Qi said: King Chen was defeated and his life and death are unknown to this day. How could Chu state establish a king without asking me for permission?
Gongsun Qing said: The king of Qi established a king without asking for instructions from the state of Chu. Why did the state of Chu have to ask the state of Qi for instructions to establish a king?
Moreover, Chu State was the first to cause trouble, so it should be the order of the world.
So Tian Dan killed Gongsun Qing.
Qin's left and right captains led their troops to attack Chen County again, and the county seat was captured.
Lu Chen's army was defeated, so he recruited troops and regrouped. They met the troops of Dangyang Lord Yingbu, who was a thief in Poyang, and attacked the Qin army's left and right captains, defeated them at Qingbo, and once again made Chen County the capital of Chu.
It happened that at this time Xiang Liang made Xin, the grandson of King Huai of Chu, the King of Chu.
Chen Sheng reigned as king for six months.
When he first became king, his old friends who had worked with him as farm servants heard about this and rushed to Chen County. They knocked on the palace door and said, "I want to see Chen She."
The palace chief wanted to tie him up.
After repeated explanations by him, he was granted pardon, but he was still not informed.
When King Chen went out, he blocked the road and shouted Chen She's name.
When Chen Sheng heard the shouting, he summoned him and drove back to the palace with him.
Entering the palace, he saw the halls, houses, curtains and curtains. The guest said: "There are so many! Chen She has become king, and the palace and mansion are so luxurious!"
The people of the Chu State called Duo Huo She the king, so it spread throughout the world that Chen She was the first person to create a sentence.
This guest came in and out more and more freely, talking about Chen Sheng's past events at will.
Someone advised Chen Sheng: "This guest of yours is ignorant and talks nonsense, which damages your dignity."
Chen Sheng then killed the guest.
As a result, all Chen Sheng's old acquaintances left voluntarily, and no one was close to Chen Sheng from now on.
Chen Sheng appointed Zhu Fang as the Zhongzheng official and Hu Wu as the Siguo official, in charge of the affairs of the ministers.
When the generals captured the city and returned to Chen County to answer their orders, those who did not comply with the orders were arrested and punished, and harshness and severity were regarded as loyalty.
Anyone who has a bad relationship with these two people will be punished arbitrarily by them themselves without being handed over to the relevant officials for interrogation.
Chen Sheng trusted these two people, so the generals did not attach themselves to Chen Sheng.
This is the reason why Chen Sheng failed.
Although Chen Sheng died, the princes and generals he appointed and sent finally destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu arranged a family to guard Chen She's tomb in Ci, and they still slaughter animals on time to offer sacrifices to him.
After Wang Mang failed, he stopped offering sacrifices.
Xiang Ji, whose courtesy name is Yu, is a native of Xiaxiang.
When he first joined the army, he was twenty-four years old.
His uncle is Xiang Liang, and Xiang Liang's father is Xiang Yan, a famous general of Chu State.
The Xiang family had been generals of Chu for generations and were granted the title of Xiang, hence their surname.
When Xiang Ji was young, he learned to read and write but had no success, so he gave up. He also learned swordsmanship, but had no success, so he gave up again.
Xiang Liang was very angry with him.
Xiang Ji said: Knowing characters is enough to remember a name.
Sword fighting against one person is not worth learning. I want to learn how to resist tens of thousands of people.
Therefore, Xiang Liang was surprised by his ambition and taught Xiang Ji the art of war. Xiang Ji was overjoyed and refused to finish the lesson even after knowing a little about it.
Xiang Liang was once hunted by officials in Liangyang, so he asked Cao Qian, the clerk of Qixian Prison, to write to Sima Xin, the clerk of Liyang Prison, and the matter was settled.
Xiang Liang once killed someone, and he and Xiang Ji went to Wuzhong to avoid revenge.
The talents of the wise officials in Wuzhong are all inferior to Xiang Liang.
Whenever there was a big corvee or funeral in Wuzhong, Xiang Liang often took charge of it and secretly used military skills to organize guests and disciples to understand their talents.
Qin Shihuang traveled eastward to Kuaiji and crossed Zhejiang. Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji watched together.
Xiang Ji said: We can replace that guy!
Xiang Liang covered his mouth and said, "Don't talk nonsense, it will destroy the entire clan!"
Xiang Liang therefore thought that Xiang Ji had extraordinary ambitions.
Xiang Ji was eight feet two inches tall, could lift a cauldron, and was extremely talented and courageous. All the children in Wuzhong were afraid of Xiang Ji.
In the first year of Qin II, Chen She and others revolted in Daze Township.
In September of this year, Yin Tong, the acting governor of Kuaiji, always believed that Xiang Liang was a virtuous person, so he summoned him to discuss matters.
Xiang Liang said: The places west of the river have rebelled. This is the time when God is going to destroy the Qin Dynasty.
If you strike first you can subdue someone, if you act later you will be subdued.
Yin Tong sighed and said: I heard that Mr. Xiang comes from a family of Chu generals, so great things can only be done with your feet!
Xiang Liang said: There was a strange scholar Huan Chu in the land of Wu. He fled among the lakes. No one knew where he lived. Only Xiang Ji knew.
Xiang Liang went out and asked Xiang Yu to wait outside with his sword.
Xiang Liang went in again and said to the county guard: "Please summon Xiang Yu and let him accept the mission to summon Huan Chu."
Xiang Ji came in. Xiang Liang winked at Xiang Ji and said, "It's time to take action!"
So Xiang Ji drew his sword and beheaded the governor.
Xiang Liang held the head of the county magistrate and wore the seal of the magistrate.
The governor's entourage on the left and right became panicked and rioted, and Xiang Yu hacked and killed more than a hundred people.
Everyone in the yamen was so scared that no one dared to stand up.
Xiang Liang summoned the capable officials he was familiar with before and explained that this was going to cause a big event, so he mobilized the soldiers of Wuzhong.
He sent people to recruit strong men from the subordinate counties, and got eight thousand elite soldiers. Xiang Liang appointed the heroes of Wuzhong as school captains, military marquises, and Sima.
There was a man who was not appointed and went to argue with Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang said: Some time ago, someone died and I asked you to take charge of something, but you failed to do it, so you were not appointed.
Everyone admired him.
So Xiang Liang served as the general of Kuaiji, and Xiang Ji served as the deputy general, patrolling the subordinate counties.
In the second year of Qin II, Zhaoping from Guangling attacked Guangling for Chen Sheng, but failed to capture it.
He heard that Chen Sheng was defeated and fled, and Qin general Zhang Han arrived immediately. He crossed the river and pretended to ask King Chen to order him to grant Xiang Liang the title of Chu Shangzhu.
Xiang Liang then led eight thousand people across the Yangtze River and marched westward.
At this time, he heard that Chen Ying had occupied Shuyang, and Xiang Liang sent an envoy to ask to join him and march westward together.
Chen Ying was originally a meritorious official in Dongyang County. He lived in the county town. He was always honest and prudent, and people respected him as an elder.
The young people in Dongyang killed the county magistrate and gathered thousands of people to elect a leader. However, there was no suitable person, so they invited Chen Ying.
Chen Ying excused himself because he had no talent, so everyone made Chen Ying the leader, and 20,000 people in the county followed him in the uprising.
Everyone wanted to support Chen Ying as king and wrapped their heads in green cloth to mark that they were a new army.
Chen Ying's mother said to him: Since I became the daughter-in-law of the Chen family, I have never heard that your ancestors met any prominent figures.
It's not a good sign to suddenly become famous now. It is better to belong to others. If things succeed, you can still be granted a title. If things fail, it is easy to avoid because you are not a famous person in society.
Chen Ying did not dare to claim the throne and said to his officers: "The surname Xiang has been a general for generations and is very famous in the Chu Kingdom." If you want to do big things now, the coach must be this kind of person.
We rely on famous families and the destruction of the Qin Dynasty is certain.
So everyone obeyed his words and put the troops under Xiang Liang's command.
Xiang Liang crossed the Huaihe River, and generals Yingbu and Pu also brought their troops to join him.
A total of 60,000 to 70,000 people were stationed at the craft.
At this time, Qin Jia had already elected Jing Ju as the king of Chu, and stationed troops in Pengcheng with their faces restrained, hoping to resist Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang told the officers: King Chen started the rebellion first, and the battle was unfavorable. His whereabouts are unknown.
Now Qin Jia betrayed King Chen and supported Jing Ju, which was a treasonous act, so he marched to attack Qin Jia. Qin Jia's army was defeated and fled, and Xiang Liang pursued him to Hu Ling.
Qin Jia returned to the army and fought for one day. Qin Jia died in the battle and the army surrendered.
Jingju fled and died in Liangdi.
Xiang Liang annexed Qin Jia's army and garrisoned Huling. Will he lead his troops to the west?
Zhang Han's army arrived in Li County, and Xiang Liang sent Zhujishi and Yu Fanjun, generals from another army, to fight.
Yu Fanjun died in battle, Zhujishi's army was defeated and fled to Huling.
Xiang Liang led his army into Xue County and killed Zhujishi.
Xiang Liang had previously sent Xiang Yu to attack Xiangcheng separately. The officers and soldiers of Xiangcheng held on and could not be captured for a while.
After conquering them, Xiang Yu buried them all alive and then came back to report to Xiang Liang. When Xiang Liang heard that King Chen was indeed dead, he summoned all the generals to Xue County to discuss military affairs.
At this time, Pei Gong also raised troops in Peixian County and came to attend the meeting.
Fan Zeng, a seventy-year-old native of Juhu, who was always good at coming up with unexpected plans, went to persuade Xiang Liang and said: "Chen Sheng's failure is inevitable."
The Qin Dynasty destroyed six kingdoms, and Chu was the most innocent. Since King Huai went to Qin and never returned, the people of Chu missed him to this day. Therefore, Duke Nan of Chu said: Even if there are only three families left in Chu, Chu will definitely be the one who destroys Qin. Now Chen Sheng is the first to rise up and proclaim himself king without supporting the descendants of King Chu. His power cannot last long.
Now you have raised troops in Jiangshu, and the reason why the generals in Chu are swarming to follow you is because your family has been the generals of Chu for generations and can support the descendants of the King of Chu again.
So Xiang Liang found the grandson of King Huai of Chu from the people, who was tending sheep for others, and supported him as King Huai of Chu to comply with the people's wishes.
Chen Ying served as the Shangzhu State of Chu State, granted five counties, and established Xutai as the capital with King Huai.
Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin and led his army to attack Kang's father.
At the beginning, Zhang Han killed Qi King Tian Dan in Linpu, and Tian Jia established himself as Qi King.
Tian Dan's brother Tian Rong retreated to Shu'a, and Zhang Han pursued and surrounded Tian Rong's army.
Xiang Liang led troops to rescue Shu'a and defeated the Qin army in Shu'a.
Tian Rong went back with his troops and expelled King Tianjia of Qi. Tianjia fled to Chu State. Tian Jiao, the prime minister of Tianjia, fled to Zhao.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Xian was originally a general of Qi State, but he lived in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong supported Tian Dan's son Tian Shi as King of Qi.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army in the Dong'a area and pursued it.
Several envoys were sent to urge the Qi army to march west together: Tian Rong said that if Chu killed Tian Jia, Zhao would kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian. We just sent troops.
Xiang Liang said: Tianjia is the king of the allied countries. He came to me in desperation and couldn't bear to kill him.
The State of Zhao also refused to kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian to make a deal with the State of Qi.
Qi finally refused to send troops to help the Chu army.
Xiang Liang sent Xiang Yu and Pei Gong to attack Chengyang from another route and massacred the entire city.
Moving further west, the Qin army was defeated east of Puyang, and the Qin army withdrew its troops and retreated into Puyang City.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu attacked Dingtao. Dingtao was not captured, so he withdrew, captured the territory to the west, and reached Yongqiu, where he defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang, but Waihuang was not captured.
Xiang Liang set out from Dong'a, and when he arrived at Dingtao, he defeated the Qin army again. Xiang Yu and others killed Li You again, showing contempt for the Qin army even more, showing a proud look.
Song Yi advised Xiang Liang: If you win a battle, if the generals are proud and the soldiers are lazy, they will fail.
Now the soldiers are a little lazy, and the number of Qin soldiers is increasing day by day. I am worried about you.
Xiang Liang ignored him and sent Song Yi as envoy to Qi.
Song Yi met Qi's envoy Gaoling Junxian on the road and asked him: "Are you going to see Jun Wu Xin?"
Answer: Yes.
Song Yi said: I am convinced that Lord Wu Xin's army will definitely fail.
If you go slowly, you will avoid death; if you go quickly, you will suffer disaster.
Sure enough, the Qin Dynasty mobilized all its troops to reinforce Zhang Han. The soldiers attacked the Chu army at night and defeated the Chu army in Dingtao. Xiang Liang died in the battle.
Peigong and Xiang Yu withdrew from Waihuang and attacked Chenliu, but Chenliu's army and people held on and failed to capture it.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu discussed with each other: Now Xiang Liang's army has collapsed and the soldiers are afraid.
He retreated eastward with Lu Chen's troops.
Lu Chen garrisoned Pengcheng Shumian, Xiang Yu garrisoned west of Pengcheng, and Peigong garrisoned Ci County.
Zhang Han had already defeated Xiang Liang's army, so he thought that Chu's troops were not strong enough to worry about, so he crossed the Yellow River and headed north to attack Zhao and defeated the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king, Chen Yu was the general, and Zhang Er was the prime minister. They all fled into Julu City.
Qin generals Wang Li and Shexian surrounded Julu. Zhang Han's army was stationed to the south of them and built a tunnel to transport military supplies to them.
Chen Yu led tens of thousands of soldiers to the north of Julu, forming the so-called Hebei Army.
Gao Lingjun, the envoy from Qi State whom Song Yi met, met King Huai of Chu and said: Song Yi believed that Lord Wu Xin would be defeated. After a few days, he was indeed defeated.
An army can see the signs of failure before engaging in battle. This can also be said to understand the art of war.
The King of Chu summoned Song Yi to discuss important matters with him. He liked him very much and appointed him as General Bu; Xiang Yu was called Lu Gong and served as the second general; Fan Zeng served as the last general.
The generals of all ministries were subordinate to Song Yi and were called Qing Zi Champion.
He went north to rescue Zhao and marched to Anyang, but stopped and did not advance.
In the third year of Qin II, Xiang Yu said to Song Yi: Now the Qin army besieged Zhao State in Julu. We quickly led our troops to cross the Zhang River. The Chu army attacked their outer perimeter, and the Zhao army responded inside. It is certain to defeat the Qin army.
Song Yi said: No.
The same effort you put into swatting cattle worms should not be used to kill lice.
Now the Qin army attacks the Zhao army. After the victory, the army will be tired. We can take advantage of their fatigue. If we cannot win, we should lead the troops to march westward with great fanfare. We will definitely be able to overthrow the Qin Dynasty.
Therefore, it is better to let the Qin and Zhao armies fight each other first.
Wearing armor and holding a halberd, Song Yi is not as good as you; sitting down to make decisions, you are not as good as Song Yi.
So he issued an order to the army: Anyone who is as fierce as a tiger, as stubborn as a sheep, as greedy as a wolf, and who is stubborn and disobeys the mission will be beheaded.
Then he sent his son Song Xiang to assist the King of Qi, and personally sent him to Wuyan to hold a grand banquet.
It was cold and rainy at that time, and the soldiers were cold and hungry.
Xiang Yu said: We should have attacked the Qin army together, but he stayed for a long time without advancing.
Now that the year has been famine and the people are poor, the soldiers can only eat half beans and half vegetables, and there is no food in the army. However, he drinks and holds a party, does not lead the troops across the river to eat Zhao's food, and joins forces with Zhao to attack Qin. However, he said that using their fatigue and the strength of the Qin Dynasty to attack the newly-established Zhao, they would definitely defeat Zhao.
Zhao State was occupied and the Qin army became stronger. How could there be any opportunity to take advantage of exhaustion!
Moreover, our army has suffered a defeat recently, and the king is restless, so he concentrates all the troops in the country and hands them over to the general. The safety of the country is at stake.
Now he has no sympathy for the soldiers, but seeks personal gain. He is not a minister of the country.
When Xiang Yu came to see General Song Yi in the morning, he beheaded Song Yi in the tent. He went out of the tent and issued an order to the army, saying: Song Yi conspired with the state of Qi to rebel against Chu. The king of Chu secretly ordered me to kill him.
All the generals were in awe and no one dared to resist.
It is said: It was the general's family who first supported the king of Chu, and now it is the general who has killed the rebellious ministers and traitors.
So everyone supported Xiang Yu as acting general.
He sent people to chase Song Yi's son, chased him to Qi State and killed him.
Huan Chu was sent to report the situation to King Huai, and King Huai sent an envoy to appoint Xiang Yu as the general.
After Xiang Yu killed the champion of Qingzi, he became powerful in Chu country and his reputation spread among the princes.
He sent Lord Dangyang and General Pu to lead 20,000 troops across the Zhang River to rescue Julu.
The battle was somewhat successful, and Chen Yu asked for reinforcements.
Xiang Yu then led all his troops across the Zhang River.
After crossing the river, they sank all the ships, smashed the pots, burned the forts, and ordered the soldiers to carry only three days of dry food each, in order to express to the soldiers that they would fight to the death and have no intention of returning it.
So as soon as they arrived at Julu, they surrounded Wang Li, fought with the Qin army nine times, cut off their grain transport corridor, defeated the Qin army, killed Su Jiao, and captured Wang Li.
Shexian refused to surrender to the Chu army and burned himself to death.
At this time, the Chu army dominated the princes.
The reinforcements from the princes came to rescue Julu from more than a dozen camps, but they did not dare to send troops.
When the Chu army attacked the Qin army, all the generals of the princes' armies were watching from the ramparts.
The soldiers of the Chu army were all equal to ten, and the sound of killing was loud.
Everyone in the princes' army was trembling and frightened.
After defeating the Qin army in this way, Xiang Yu summoned the princes and generals. When they entered the camp gate, they all walked forward on their knees, and no one dared to look up.
From then on, Xiang Yu became the general of the princes, and all the soldiers of the princes were subordinate to him.
Zhang Han's army is stationed in Jiyuan, and Xiang Yu's army is stationed in Zhangnan. The two armies are in a stalemate and have not yet fought.
The Qin army retreated several times, and Qin II sent someone to question Zhang Han.
Zhang Han was frightened and sent commander Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
Sima Xin arrived in Xianyang and waited at Simamen for three days. Zhao Gao did not receive him because he was distrustful.
Sima Xin, the chief minister, was frightened and fled back to the army, not daring to take the original route.
As expected, Zhao Gao sent someone to chase him, but failed to catch him.
Sima Xin returned to the army and reported: Prime Minister Zhao Gao is in power in the court, and the people below cannot do anything.
If we can win the battle now, Zhao Gao will definitely be jealous of our achievements; if we can't win the battle, we will inevitably die.
Ask the General to think carefully about this situation.
Chen Yu also wrote to Zhang Han, saying: Bai Qi was a Qin general. He conquered Yan and Ying in the south, pitted Zhao Kuo's army in the north, captured countless cities and territories, and was sentenced to death.
Meng Tian was a Qin general who drove the Huns from the north and opened up thousands of miles of land in Yuzhong, but was killed by Yang Zhou.
Why?
With too much merit, the Qin Dynasty could no longer give them the highest reward, so they found an excuse to kill them according to national law.
Now that the general has been the general of Qin for three years, he has lost hundreds of thousands of troops, and the princes' armies are revolting in increasing numbers.
Zhao Gao has always been flattering and flattering for a long time. Now the situation is critical and he is afraid that the second generation will kill him. Therefore, he wants to use the national law to kill the general to avoid his responsibility, and send someone to replace the general to relieve him of his troubles.
The general was out for a long time, and there were many rifts in the court. He would die even if he had merit, and he would be killed if he didn't. Moreover, God is going to destroy the Qin Dynasty, and both wise and foolish people can see clearly.
Now the general cannot give direct advice at home, and he has become a general who has subjugated his country outside. Isn't it pitiful that he is alone and wants to stay for a long time?
Why don't the generals change sides, join forces with the princes to attack Qin, and establish themselves as kings? Which is better than laying down the ax and anvil and having his wife and children killed?
Zhang Han was hesitant, so he secretly sent military commander Shi Cheng to send an envoy to Xiang Yujun to ask for a peace treaty.
Before the peace treaty was concluded, Xiang Yu sent General Pu to lead his troops across Sanhu Ferry, stationed in Zhangnan, engaged the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army again.
Xiang Yu led the entire army to attack the Qin army in Shuishui and defeated them.
Zhang Han sent people to see Xiang Yu and ask for a peace treaty.
Xiang Yu summoned his officers to discuss: We were short of food and wanted to agree to their peace proposal. The officers all said: OK.
Xiang Yu held talks with Zhang Han at the Yin Ruins south of Huan River.
After signing the covenant, Zhang Han met Xiang Yu and told Zhao Gao's various actions with tears in his eyes.
Xiang Yu then made Zhang Han King Yong and placed him in the Chu army.
Let Chief Shi Sima Xin serve as the general and lead the Qin army as the vanguard.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu led more than 300,000 soldiers from the princes and marched all the way to capture the city, reaching Henan, and then reaching Xin'an.
When the officers and soldiers of the princes' armies passed by Qin for corvee service or guarding the frontier, the officers and soldiers of Qin's army were often rude to them. When the Qin army surrendered to the princes, many of the officers and soldiers of the princes' armies took advantage of the victory and treated Qin's officers and soldiers as slaves and captives, torturing and insulting Qin officials and soldiers at will.
Many officers and soldiers of Qin secretly discussed: General Zhang and others tricked us into surrendering to the princes. If we can enter the pass and defeat Qin, it would be a great thing; if not, if the princes' army captures us and goes to the east, the Qin Dynasty will definitely kill our parents, wives and children.
The generals secretly listened to these discussions and reported them to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu summoned Ying Bu, General Pu and others to discuss: There are still many Qin officers and soldiers, and they are dissatisfied. If they don't obey the command in Guanzhong, the situation will be dangerous. It is better to kill them, and only enter Qin with Zhang Han, Chang Shi Sima Xin, Captain Dong Yi and others.
So the Chu army unexpectedly killed more than 200,000 Qin soldiers at night.
When Xiang Yu's army passed Hangu Pass, they were guarded by soldiers and could not enter.
Hearing that Pei Gong had captured Xianyang, Xiang Yu was furious and sent Dangyang Lord and others to attack the key problem.
Xiang Yu then entered Hangu Pass and arrived at Hongmen to the west of the water. He heard that Pei Gong wanted to be the king of Guanzhong and possess the treasures of the Qin Dynasty's treasury alone.
Fan Zeng, Ya's father, was also furious and advised Xiang Yu to attack Pei Gong.
So a banquet was held for the soldiers to have a good meal and prepare for fighting the next day. Xiang Bo is Xiang Yu's uncle and has always been close to Zhang Liang.
Zhang Liang followed Pei Gong at this time, and Xiang Bo rushed to Pei Gong's camp overnight and told Zhang Liang everything.
Zhang Liang took Xiang Bo to see Pei Gong and asked Xiang Bo to relieve Xiang Yu's suspicion.
The next time, Pei Gong led more than a hundred cavalry to Hongmen to pay homage to Xiang Yu, and explained: The Qin Dynasty's treasury was sealed, and the army retreated to Ba Shang to wait for the king. The seclusion was to guard against thieves and not to violate the king's kindness.
Xiang Yu had given up the idea of ​​killing Pei Gong. Fan Zeng still wanted to kill Pei Gong. Thanks to Zhang Liang and Fan Sha, he was spared.
For details, see "Gaodi Ji".
A few days later, Xiang Yu led his troops to sack Xianyang, killed Qin's prince Ying, and burned the palace of Qin. The fire did not go out for three months. He seized the treasures and beauties of Qin and headed east. The people of Qin were greatly disappointed.
At this time, Han Sheng persuaded Xiang Wangdao: "Guanzhong relies on dangerous mountains and rivers, is surrounded by fortresses, and has fertile land. It can be used as a capital to dominate."
King Xiang saw that the palaces of the Qin Dynasty were all burned and dilapidated, and he missed his hometown and wanted to return to the east. He said: If you don't return to your hometown if you are rich and noble, it will be like walking at night wearing brocade clothes.
Han Sheng said: People say that the Chu people are like monkeys wearing human hats, and it is true.
When King Xiang heard about it, he killed Han Sheng.
At the beginning, King Huai made an agreement with the generals that whoever entered Tongguan first could become king in the pass.
Xiang Yu had betrayed the alliance. King Xiang sent someone to ask King Huai for instructions. King Huai said: "We will do it as agreed before."
Xiang Yu said: King Huai was established by my Lord Wu Xin of the Xiang family. He has no merit, so how can he be the leader of the alliance and establish an alliance?
At the beginning of the war in the country, he temporarily supported the descendants of the princes as kings in order to attack the Qin Dynasty.
However, I personally wore armor and held a gun, was the first to start the uprising, lived in the open air for three years, destroyed Qin and brought peace to the world. It was all because of the strength of the generals and me!
Even though King Huai has no merit, he should still be given land and respected as king. All the generals said: OK.
So Xiang Yu ostensibly respected King Huai as the Righteous Emperor, saying: In ancient times, those who were kings had thousands of territories, and they must have settled in the upper reaches of the water.
So he moved King Huai to Changsha and established Chen County as his capital.
Then divide the world's fiefdoms and let the princes call themselves kings.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng suspected that Pei Gong wanted to occupy the world. After they had reconciled, they were worried about breaking the contract and fearing that the princes would betray them, so they secretly planned: The roads in Bajun and Shujun are difficult and dangerous, and all the people exiled by the Qin Dynasty are in Shu.
So he said: Bajun and Shujun are also the seven places in Guanzhong.
Therefore, he established Pei Gong as the king of Han and took over Bajun, Shujun and Mozhong.
And the Guanzhong was divided into three parts, and the Qin Dynasty surrendered to the king to stop the Han king.
Zhang Han was granted the title of King Yong and took over the area west of Xianyang.
Chief Shi Sima Xin, the former warden of Luyang, had been kind to Xiang Liang; Captain Dong Yi had originally persuaded Zhang Han to surrender to the Chu army.
Therefore, Sima Xin was made King of Sai, with the territory from Xianyang to the Yellow River; Dong Yi was made King of Zhai, with Shangjun.
He changed the title of King Bao of Wei to King of Western Wei and took over Hedong.
Xiaqiu Gong Shen Yang was a close minister of Zhang Er. He conquered Henan first and met the Chu army at the Yellow River. Therefore, Shen Yang was made king of Henan.
Zhao general Sima Yin pacified Hanoi and made many meritorious deeds. He appointed Sima Yin as a Yin Gong and took control of Hanoi.
He changed the title of King Zhao Xie to acting king.
Zhang Er, the Prime Minister of Zhao, had always been a virtuous man, so he followed him into the Pass. He made Zhang Er the King of Changshan and took over the land of Zhao.
Dangyang Jun Yingbu was appointed as a general of Chu, and he was often brave enough to defeat all the armies. He established Yingbu as the king of Jiujiang.
Fan Jun Wu Rui led hundreds of Cantonese troops to assist the princes, and then followed him into the pass, making Wu Rui the king of Hengshan.
Gong Ao, the Zhuguo of the Yi Emperor, led troops to attack Nanjun. He made many contributions and established Gong Ao as the King of Linjiang.
The title of King Han Guang of Yan was changed to King of Liaodong.
Yan general Zang Tu followed the Chu army to rescue Zhao State, and then followed him into the Pass and established Zang Tu as King of Yan.
The title of King Qi Tianshi was changed to King of Micelle.
Qi general Tian Du followed him to rescue Zhao State, and then followed him into the Pass and established Tian Du as the king of Qi.
Tian An, the grandson of Tian Jian, the king of Qi who was destroyed by the Qin Dynasty, captured several cities in Jibei when Xiang Yu was crossing the river to rescue Zhao. He led his troops to surrender to Xiang Yu and established Tian An as the king of Jibei.
Tian Rong betrayed Xiang Liang and refused to send troops to follow the Chu army to attack the Qin army, so he did not seal it.
Chen Yu left his general seal and left without following him into the pass, but he always knew that he was a virtuous man and had made great contributions to the Zhao State. He knew that he was in Nanpi, so he granted him the seal of the three counties around Nanpi.
Fan Jun's general Mei Guo made a lot of contributions, so he was granted the title of 100,000 households.
King Xiang proclaimed himself the Overlord of Western Chu, took over nine counties in the Liang-Chu region, and established his capital at Pengcheng.
The princes each went to the feudal country.
When Tian Rong learned that Xiang Yu had changed the title of Qi King Tian Shi to Miaojie and made Qi general Tian Du the king of Qi, he was furious and refused to let Tian Shi go to Miaojie. He took advantage of the situation to occupy Qi territory to rebel against Chu, and attacked Tiandu head-on.
Tiandu fled to Chu.
King Tianshi of Qi was afraid of King Xiang, so he fled to Miaojie to take office.
Tian Rong became angry and pursued Jimo and killed him. Tian Rong established himself as King of Qi.
Granted the seal to General Peng Yue and asked him to rebel against Chu in Liang.
Peng Yue killed Tian An, the king of Jibei.
So Tian Rong annexed the land of Sanqi.
At this time, the king of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han had annexed Ding Guanzhong and was about to move in. Qi and Liang had betrayed him. He was furious, so he appointed Zheng Chang, the former magistrate of Wu County, as King of Han to resist the Han army, and ordered Xiao Gongjiao and others to attack Pengyue.
Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao and others.
At that time, Zhang Liang pacified Han and wrote to King Xiang, saying: The King of Han has lost his due title and hopes to get Guanzhong. As the covenant said, he stopped military operations and did not dare to enter.
He also handed over the rebellion proclamations of Qi and Liang to King Xiang. Therefore, King Xiang had no intention of advancing westward and instead attacked Qi north.
King Xiang asked King Ying of Jiujiang to recruit troops. Yingbu said that he was ill and would not go, so he only sent his generals and several thousand people to go.
In the second year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu secretly ordered Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill Emperor Yi.
Chen Yu secretly sent Zhang Tong and Xia Shuo to lobby Qi King Tian Rong: "It is unfair for Xiang Yu to dominate the world." Now, I think it is impossible to seal the original princes in a bad place, and seal his ministers and generals in a good place, drive away the original king Zhao, and let him live in the north.
I heard that the king raised an army and refused to listen to Xiang Yu's unreasonable orders. I hope that the king will fund me, Chen Yu, with some troops so that I can attack Changshan, restore King Zhao's original territory, and let our country serve as a barrier for Qi.
The King of Qi agreed and sent troops to Zhao.
Chen Yu mobilized all the troops from the three counties to join forces with the Qi army to attack Changshan and defeated the Changshan army.
Zhang Er fled and surrendered to the king of Han.
Chen Yu welcomed the original King of Zhao Xie back to Zhao from Daidi.
Therefore, King Zhao made Chen Yu the acting king.
Xiang Yu arrived at Chengyang, and Tian Rong also led the troops to fight.
Tian Rong failed in the battle and fled to Pingyuan. The people of Pingyuan killed him.
Xiang Yu then marched north, burned and razed the cities and houses of Qi State, killed all the surrendered soldiers of Tian Rong, and robbed the old, weak and women of Qi State.
They fought all the way to the Beihai area and were devastated and destroyed wherever they went.
The people of Qi gathered to rebel against Xiang Yu.
At this time, Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng gathered tens of thousands of scattered soldiers from Qi to fight against Chu in Chengyang.
King Xiang therefore stayed and fought many times, but failed to capture it.
The King of Han commanded an army of five vassal states, totaling 560,000 men, to attack Chu.
When King Xiang learned of this, he ordered his generals to attack Qi, and personally led 30,000 elite soldiers to march southward from Lu County to Huling.
The Han army had already invaded Pengcheng, plundered goods, treasures and beauties, and prepared wine and feasts every day.
King Xiang launched an attack from Xiao County and went east to Pengcheng in the morning. At noon, he defeated the Han army.
The Han army was defeated on all fronts and squeezed into the valley and swimming rivers one after another.
The Han soldiers fled south to the mountains, and the Chu army pursued them to the Suishui River southeast of Lingpi.
The Han army retreated and was squeezed by the Chu army, resulting in heavy deaths.
More than 100,000 Han soldiers fell into the Sui River, and the Sui River was blocked and stopped flowing.
The king of Han was able to escape with dozens of cavalry.
See "Gaodi Ji" for details.
Taigong and Empress Lu were looking for the King of Han from the alley, but they ran into the Chu army.
The Chu army took them back together, and Xiang Yu placed them in the military camp.
The King of Han gradually gathered the defeated armies from all directions, and Xiao He also mobilized the soldiers from Guanzhong to go to Rongyang and fight between Jingyi and Suoting in the south of Rongyang, defeating the Chu army.
Therefore, the Chu army could not cross Rongyang and advance westward.
The desert army stationed in Rongyang and built corridors to obtain Aocang's grain.
In the third year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang repeatedly invaded and captured the desert army corridors. The King of Han was short of food and asked for peace, dividing the west of Rongyang and returning it to the Han.
King Xiang wanted to accept the peace offer, but Fan Zeng, Marquis of Liyang, said: The Han army is easy to deal with. If you don't attack now, you will regret it later.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng quickly surrounded Rongyang.
The King of Han was worried and gave Chen Ping 40,000 taels of gold to drive a wedge between King Xiang and his ministers.
See "Chen Ping Biography" for details.
King Xiang therefore suspected Fan Zeng and gradually deprived him of his power.
Fan Zeng was furious and said: The world's affairs have been generally decided, the king can do it himself!
I hope you will give me some old bones to return to my hometown.
King Xiang promised him. Fan Zeng set out on his journey, but before he reached Pengcheng, he contracted sores on his back and died.
Therefore, the Han general Ji Xin deceived the Chu army by falsely claiming that the King of Han was going to surrender to Chu, so the King of Han was able to escape from the west gate with dozens of cavalry.
The king of Han sent Zhou Ke, Congong and Wei Bao to guard Rongyang.
The king of Han entered the Pass to the west to gather his troops, and then went south to Wan County and Ye County. He recruited Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang to gather the fleeing soldiers while marching.
After Xiang Yu heard about it, he immediately led his troops southward.
The king of Han strengthened the barriers and did not fight with him.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the Suishui River, fought with Xiang Sheng and Duke Xue in Xiapi, and killed Duke Xue.
So Xiang Yu went east to attack Peng Yue.
The king of Han also led his army to the north and garrisoned Chenggao.
After Xiang Yu defeated Peng Yue, he led his troops to the west, captured Rongyang City, cooked and killed Zhou Ke, killed Congong, captured Han Wangxin, and then led his army to besiege Chenggao.
The King of Han escaped from Chenggao, escaped alone with Teng Gong, crossed the Yellow River north, rushed to Xiuwu, and reached the army of Zhang Er and Han Xin.
The Chu army then captured Chenggao.
The King of Han took control of Han Xin's troops and stayed. He sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to cross Baima Jin and enter the Chu land. They assisted Peng Yue in defeating the Chu army in the west of Yan County, burned the Chu army's accumulated military supplies, and captured more than a dozen cities in Liang.
After Xiang Yu heard about it, he said to Cao Jiu, the commander-in-chief of Haichunhou: Guard Chenggao carefully. If the Han army challenges, don't fight them. Just prevent them from advancing.
I will definitely pacify Liang within fifteen days and then come back to join the general.
So he led his troops eastwards.
In the fourth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu personally led his army to attack Chenliu and Waihuang, but Waihuang failed to capture them.
It took a few days for the Waihuang people to surrender. King Xiang ordered all men over the age of fifteen to come to the city and prepare to trap and kill them.
The retainer of the magistrate of Waihuang County had a son who was thirteen years old. He went to persuade Xiang Wangdao: Peng Yue forced the Waihuang people to kidnap. The Waihuang people were afraid, so they temporarily surrendered and waited for the king.
When the king comes and kills them all, will the people have the heart to submit?
From here to the east, people in more than ten cities in Liang were afraid and refused to surrender.
King Xiang thought his words were reasonable, so he pardoned the foreigner who wanted to kill him.
When Suiyang Yishu and other local people heard about this situation, they all rushed to submit to King Xiang.
As expected, the Han army challenged the Chu army many times, but the Chu army did not fight.
The Han army sent people to insult the Chu army. Five or six days later, Da Sima became angry and ordered his troops to cross the flood.
When the soldiers had just crossed the halfway point, the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army, and took away all the Chu army's property.
Both the Grand Sima Cao Jiu and the Chief Sima Xin committed suicide by the flood.
Cao Jiu was originally a prison officer in Qixian County, and Sima Xin was originally the king of Sai. King Xiang trusted them.
At this time, King Xiang arrived in Suiyang. When he heard that Cao Jiu and others were defeated, he led his troops to turn around.
The Han army surrounded Zhong Zhengmi to the east of Rongchang. Xiang Xing led his army to arrive. The returning army was afraid of the Chu army and all rushed to the dangerous area.
Xiang Yu's army was also stationed in Guangwu County for defense, so he made a high table, placed Liu Taigong on it, and announced to the King of Han: "If you don't surrender quickly, I will cook and kill Taigong Liu."
The King of Han said: King Xiang and I faced north together to accept King Huai's order, and we became brothers. My father is your father.
I'm going to cook your father to death, so I hope you'll give me a cup of broth.
King Xiang was furious and wanted to kill the Grand Duke.
Xiang Bo said: Major events in the world are unpredictable, and those who compete for the world do not care about the whole family. Even if you kill him, there will be no benefit, it will only add disaster.
King Xiang obeyed him.
King Xiang then sent someone to tell the King of Han: "The world has been in trouble for several years, just because of the two of us. We hope to challenge the King of Han to a showdown, so that we don't have to suffer in vain for the people of the world!"
The King of Han smiled and declined: "I would rather fight with wits than with strength."
King Xiang ordered his warriors to go out to challenge him.
The Han army had Loufan barbarians who were good at riding horses and archery. The Chu soldiers challenged them for three rounds, and the Loufan archers shot them dead.
King Xiang was furious, so he put on his armor and held a halberd to challenge.
When the archer in Loufan was about to shoot an arrow, King Xiang scolded him with angry eyes.
The shooters in the building did not dare to look or shoot. They ran back to the camp and never dared to come out again.
The king of Han sent someone to inquire about the situation and found out that the challenger was King Xiang. The king of Han was shocked.
When King Xiang was dispatched, he approached the King of Han and had a conversation with each other facing the Guangwu Stream. The King of Han listed several of King Xiang's ten major crimes.
The incident is recorded in "Gaodi Ji".
King Xiang was angry, and the ambush archers shot King Han.
The king of Han ran into Chenggao.
At this time, Peng Yue repeatedly attacked Liang, cutting off the food supply of the Chu army. Han Xin also captured Qi and was about to attack the Chu army.
Xiang Yu sent his nephew Xiang Ta as general and Long Qie as deputy general to rescue Qi.
Han Xin defeated and killed Long Qie, pursued the defeated army to Chengyang County, and captured Qi King Tian Guang.
Han Xin took the opportunity to proclaim himself King of Qi.
When Xiang Yu heard the news, he became frightened and sent Wu She to persuade Han Xin to surrender.
The incident is recorded in "Han Xin Zhuan".
At this time, a large number of soldiers were sent to the Han Pass, and there was a lot of food. King Xiang's soldiers were tired and had little food.
The King of Han sent Duke Hou to lobby King Xiang, and King Xiang made an agreement with the King of Han: the world would be divided equally, and the land to the west of the divide would belong to the Han State, and the land bounded by the divide would belong to the Chu State, and the parents, wives, and children of the King of Han would be returned to him.
After the agreement, Xiang Yu gathered his troops and returned.
In the fifth year of King Han's reign, the Han army marched to pursue Xiang Yu's army and reached Guling County, but was defeated by Xiang Yu again.
The king of Han used Zhang Liang's strategy to mobilize the troops of King Han Xin of Qi and Pengyue of Jianjian Hou. He also asked Liu Mai to lead his troops into Chu territory and surrounded Shouchun.
The great Sima Zhou Yin betrayed the Chu State and led all the soldiers of Jiujiang to follow Liu Mai, welcome Ying Bu, and join all the princes of Qi State, Liang State and so on.
Xiang Yu's army built a fortress under the Gaixia. With a small number of soldiers and no food, the Han army and the princes' soldiers surrounded the Chu army.
At night, when he heard the Han army singing Chu songs from all sides, Xiang Yu was shocked and said: "Have all the Han armies obtained Chu's land?"
Why are there so many people in Chu!
So he got up and drank wine in the tent.
There was a beautiful woman named Yu, who was often favored and followed; there was a horse named Zui, who was often ridden.
At this time, Xiang Yu sang a tragic song generously. He composed a poem and sang: "The strength of the mountain is overwhelming, but the times are unfavorable and the glory will not fade away."
What can you do if your glory is not gone? What can you do if you are worried?
Singing several times, the beauty sang along.
Xiang Yu shed several lines of tears, and all the attendants also wept, unable to bear to look up.
So Xiang Yu mounted his horse, accompanied by more than 800 of his strong men on horseback. They broke out of the encirclement and headed south that night, their flying horses galloping.
At dawn, the Han army found out and ordered the cavalry general Guan Ying to lead five thousand cavalry to pursue him.
When Xiang Yu crossed the Huai River, his cavalry could only keep up with more than a hundred people.
When Xiang Yu arrived at Yinling, he lost his way and asked a farmer. The farmer lied to him and said: "Go left."
To the left, they fell into a large swamp, so the Han army caught up.
Xiang Yu led his troops eastward again, and when they arrived at Shucheng, there were only twenty-eight cavalry left.
The Han cavalry chased thousands of people. Xiang Yu himself expected that he would not be able to escape, so he said to his cavalry: It has been eight years since I started my army. I have fought more than seventy battles. All the enemies I fought were defeated, and all the enemies I attacked surrendered. I have never been defeated. Only then can I dominate the world.
However, today I am finally trapped here. This is because God wants to destroy me, and it is not the fault of the war.
I will fight to the death today. I am willing to fight happily for you. I will win three times in a row, kill the generals, chop down the flags, and then die in battle. Let you know that it is God who wants to destroy me, and it is not my fault in fighting.
So he divided his troops into four teams and charged in all directions, forming a circular formation with their weapons and sharp blades pointing outwards. The Han army has been heavily surrounded.
Xiang Yu said to his cavalry: I will kill one of his generals for you.
The cavalry were ordered to gallop down in all directions, and they agreed to gather in three places at the edge of the mountain.
So Xiang Yu shouted loudly and galloped down, and the desert army dispersed, so he killed a Han general.
At this time, Yang Xi let Lang ride and chased Xiang Yu. Xiang Yu turned around and shouted angrily. Yang happy himself and his horse were frightened and retreated for several miles.
Xiang Yu and the knights met in three places.
The Han army didn't know where Xiang Yu was, so they divided into three groups and re-encircled him.
Xiang Yu continued to run and killed another Han captain, killing dozens or hundreds of people.
He gathered his cavalry and lost only two.
Xiang Yu asked the cavalry: "How is it?"
The cavalry all said in admiration: Just as the king said.
At this time, King Xiang led his troops eastward to cross the Wu River.
The chief of the Wujiang Pavilion stopped his boat and waited for him, and said to Xiang Yu: Although the river is small, the land stretches thousands of miles, and the people are hundreds of thousands, it is enough to be king.
I hope your Majesty will cross the river quickly.
Now I am the only one with a boat. The desert army has arrived and there is no boat to cross the river.
King Xiang smiled and said: "God wants to destroy me, so why should I cross the river?"
Moreover, eight thousand of Jiang Shu's descendants and I crossed the Yangtze River to march westward, and now no one has returned. Even though Jiang Shu's father and elders love me and regard me as their king, what face do I have to see them?
Even if they don't say it, don't I feel ashamed deep down in my heart?
So he said to the pavilion chief: I know you are a kind person. I have been riding this horse for five years. It is invincible. I once traveled thousands of miles in a day. I can’t bear to kill it, so I will give it to you!
So he ordered the cavalry to dismount and walk, holding short weapons to fight.
Xiang Ji killed hundreds of Han soldiers alone, and Xiang Yu was also injured in more than ten places.
Looking back, I saw Lü Matong, the cavalry commander of the Han army, saying: "Aren't you an acquaintance of mine?"
Lü Matong faced King Xiang, pointed it out to Wang Yi and said: "You are King Xiang!"
King Xiang said: "I heard that the king of Han offered a reward of gold for my head and granted ten thousand households in the city." Let me give you some kindness!
He killed himself and died.
Wang Yi took off Xiang Yu's head. Dozens of others trampled on each other and fought for Xiang Yu's body, killing each other.
In the end, Yang happy, Lu Matong, the doctor Lu Sheng and Yang Wu each got one of Xiang Yu's limbs.
Therefore, the fiefdom was divided and all five people were granted the title of marquis.
The king of Han buried Xiang Yu in Gucheng according to the title of Lu Gong.
None of the branches of the Xiang family were killed.
Xiang Bo and four other people were granted the title of marquis, and were given the surname Liu.
Praise: Previously, Mai Yi’s "On the Passage of Qin" said:
Qin Xiaogong occupied strong natural barriers such as Mount Wei and Hangu Pass, and owned a vast area of ​​Yongzhou. The monarchs and ministers clung to their bases to spy on the power of the Zhou Dynasty. They were determined to sweep the world, encompass the whole country, encompass the four seas, and annex all directions.
At this time, Shang Yang assisted him, established laws and systems internally, rewarded farming and weaving production, rectified defense and combat armaments, implemented alliances externally, and instigated other vassal states to fight against each other.
So the Qin people easily obtained a large area of ​​land west of the Yellow River.
After the death of Qin Xiaogong, King Huiwen, King Wu, and King Zhaoxiang inherited the old legacy and followed the policies of their ancestors. They captured the desert in the south, occupied Bashu in the west, cut off the fertile lands of the princes in the east, and captured the dangerous prefectures and counties.
The princes and states were deeply fearful and uneasy, so they formed an alliance and attempted to weaken Qin. They did not hesitate to use precious items, precious treasures, and fertile land to recruit talents from all over the world.
They joined forces to resist Qin.
At this time, the state of Qi had Lord Mengchang, the state of Zhao had Lord Pingyuan, the state of Chu had Lord Chunshen, and the state of Wei had Lord Xinling.
Four wise men were created, all of them were wise and loyal, generous and humane, respected the wise and valued talents. All countries formed an alliance and united the armies of Han, Wei, Yan, Zhao, Song, Wei, Zhongshan and other countries.
So the talents of the Six Kingdoms, including Ning Yue, Xu Shang, Su Qin, and Du He, made suggestions; Qi Ming, Zhou Zui, Chen Zhen, Zhao Hua, Lou Sui, Zhai Jing, Su Li, and Leyi came to contact each other; Wu Qi, Sun Bin, Dai Ta, Er Liang, Wang Liao, Tian Ji, Lian Po, and Zhao She led the army.
Once, with ten times the land of Qin and a million troops, they boarded Hangu Pass and attacked Qin. Qin opened the gate to attack the enemy, but the armies of the nine kingdoms fled and did not dare to advance.
Qin didn't waste a single arrowhead, and all the princes were exhausted.
So the alliance collapsed, the treaty was ruined, and they scrambled to cede land to bribe Qin.
Qin then had sufficient power to take advantage of the disadvantages of the various vassal states, pursue the fleeing troops, and drive away the defeated troops. Millions of corpses lay on the battlefield, and the shields were levitated by the blood. Relying on the favorable terrain and convenient opportunities, he slaughtered the entire world and divided the territories of each country. Then the strong countries asked for surrender, and the weak countries entered the dynasty and became vassals.
It continued to King Xiaowen and King Zhuang Xiang. Their reign was short and no major events happened in the country.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he strengthened the great achievements of his father and ancestors for six generations. He wielded a long whip to control the world, conquered the east and west weeks and destroyed the princes and countries. He ascended to the throne of heaven and held the power to rule the world. He held a staff to whip the world and was powerful all over the world.
Seize the Baiyue area to the south and establish Guilin County and Xiang County.
The princes of Baiyue tied ropes around their necks, bowed their heads and obeyed orders, allowing the officials of the Qin Dynasty to drive them.
He also sent Meng Tian to the north to build the Great Wall and garrison the border fortress, and drove back the Xiongnu for more than 700 miles. The Hu people did not dare to go south and ravage the Central Plains, and the remaining scholars from the Six Kingdoms did not dare to raise troops to take revenge.
Therefore, Qin Shihuang abandoned the methods of governing the country by the previous kings and burned the books of various schools of thought to fool the common people.
Destroy the famous cities of the six countries, kill the heroes of each country, collect the weapons of the world and concentrate them in Xianyang, destroy the swords, guns and arrowheads, and cast twelve bronze figures to weaken the resistance of the people of the world.
Then, guard Jianshan Mountain as the city wall, rely on Tonghui as a protective city wall, guard the city hundreds of millions of meters high, and use the bottomless deep stream below as a solid barrier.
Good generals with strong crossbows guarded the military key points, loyal ministers and elite soldiers, equipped with sharp weapons, guarded the passes and questioned the passers-by.
The world was at peace, and Qin Shihuang thought for nothing that the situation in Guanzhong was dangerous and that there was a golden city thousands of miles away. This was the foundation for his descendants to become emperors one after another.
Qin Shihuang is dead, but his remaining power still shocks remote areas. However, a poor man like Chen She, who lived in a shabby house with urns as windows and ropes on the door shafts, worked as a farmhand, and was sent as a prisoner to guard the border, was not as talented as the average person, did not have the wisdom of Confucius and Mozi, and did not have the wealth of Tao Zhu and Yidun.
Once he joined the ranks of soldiers, he rose up among the garrison troops, led the exhausted garrison troops, and led a team of several hundred people to turn around and attack Qin.
They chopped down trees to use as weapons and held high bamboo poles as flags. People from all over the world gathered like a storm to respond. Carrying grain, they took part in the uprising like a shadow. Heroes from the vast area east of Yin Mountain rose up at the same time, thus destroying the royal family of the Qin Dynasty.
Besides, Qin's empire has not shrunk or become weak, and Yongzhou's geographical advantages and the dangers of Yinshan Mountain and Hangu Pass remain as strong as ever.
Chen She's status and prestige were not as high as those of the monarchs of Qi, Chu, Yan, Zhao, Han, Wei, Song, Wei, and Zhongshan; his hoes and halberd handles were not sharper than hooks and spears; the few hundred men assigned to guard the border were far less powerful than the armies of the Nine Kingdoms; his foresight, marching, and combat command skills were not comparable to those of previous generals.
However, success and failure are different changes, and the achievements are completely opposite. Why?
Just imagine that the vassal states east of Mount Jiang were compared with Chen Sheng in measuring length, size, power, and strength. It would be impossible to say the same thing or compare with Chen Sheng.
However, the Qin State developed into a powerful country with tens of thousands of chariots by virtue of its mere territory. It suppressed the other eight states and caused all the princes to come to worship. It took more than a hundred years to finally regard the world as its home, and Jianshan and Hangu Pass as its palace walls.
However, Chen Sheng was the first to attack, and all the ancestral temples of Qin were destroyed. Emperor Qin II and Ziying were killed, making everyone laugh at the world. Why is this?
Because benevolence and righteousness are not practiced, the situation of attacking and defending is different.
Zhou Sheng once said that Shun's eyes had double pupils. I also heard that Xiang Yu also had double pupils. Is Xiang Yu a descendant of Shun?
Why this sudden rise? The Qin Dynasty made a mistake in its political order, and Chen She was the first to attack. Heroes swarmed in and fought with each other, countless of them.
However, Xiang Yu did not have a large-scale fiefdom, but he took advantage of the momentum among the people. After three years, he led the five princes to destroy the Qin Dynasty, divided the world and shocked the sea.
When he betrayed the covenant of "whoever enters Guanzhong first will be king of Guanzhong", missed Chu's return, expelled Emperor Yi, and complained that the princes and kings betrayed him, his situation became difficult.
He was arrogant about his military exploits and showed off his personal wisdom instead of following the example of the ancient sages. He began to think that he was doing the business of an overlord and wanted to use force to conquer the world. As a result, he lost his country in five years and died in Shucheng. He still didn't realize it and didn't blame himself for his mistakes. He even said that God wanted to destroy me. It was not the fault of the soldiers. Isn't it ridiculous?
