In the third month of Guimao, the fourth year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, the moon violated the great star Antares.
Divination said: The heart is the location of the king of heaven, and the emperor hates this kind of astrology.
In June Jiashen, Venus appears during the day.
Liu Xiang's "Five Chronicles" said: Venus belongs to Shaoyin and is weak and cannot act independently, so it uses self-deficiency as a boundary and cannot move through the sky.
Day will appear after the movement of the sky. This astrological phenomenon heralds war, death, rebellion, and the change of monarchs; strong countries will become weak, and small countries will become strong.
When he was sent, Sun Quan accepted the title conferred by Emperor Wei, but he raised troops to resist and defend.
On December Bing of this year, the moon clashed with the great star Antares.
Ditto for divination.
In the tenth month of the fifth year of Huangchu, Venus appeared during the day, and the divination was the same as above.
Jupiter also entered the Taiwei Yuan and went retrograde, taking a total of 149 days to come out.
Divination says: If five stars enter Taiwei Yuan, and if they enter from the right for more than thirty days, the monarch will be in great trouble.
Another way to say it is: There will be forgiveness.
In May of the seventh year, Emperor Wen died, and Emperor Ming ascended the throne and granted amnesty to the world.
In the fifth month of the sixth year of Renxu, Mars entered Taiweiyuan and reached Renshen. It was close to Jupiter and violated the right law enforcement star. It was not until Guiyou that it left Taiweiyuan.
Divination says that if the person enters from the right for more than thirty days, the ruler will be in great trouble.
He also said: If the moon and five stars clash with the law enforcement stars on the left and right, the minister will be in trouble.
Another saying is: Those who enforce the law will be killed. This situation is particularly severe when Venus and Mars appear.
In November, the prince Cao Jian, king of Dongwuyang, died.
In the first month of the seventh year, Cao Hong, the hussar general, was exempted from civilian status.
In April, Xia Houshang, the general who conquered the south, died.
In May, Emperor Ming died.
"Shu Ji" records that Emperor Ming asked Huang Quan: The world is divided, who is the orthodox?
The answer is: It should be verified by celestial phenomena.
In the past, when Mars was in the heart, Emperor Wen passed away, but Wu and Shu were safe and sound, and creation was a test.
There is no record of Mars residing in the heart in the Three Kingdoms history books. It may be that Mars entered Taiweiyuan.
In August, Wu State besieged Jiangxia and invaded Xiangyang. General Xuan Emperor rescued Xiangyang and killed Wu general Zhang Ba and others.
In May of the fifth year of Emperor Taihe's reign, Mars invaded the house.
Divination says: There are four stars in the house, which are the positions of ministers and generals. If the moon and five stars oppose or reside here, the generals will be in trouble.
In July of this year, the chariot general Zhang He pursued Zhuge Liang and was killed by Zhuge Liang.
In December, Taiwei Hua Xin died.
In November of this year, the moon clashed with the star Regulus.
Divination said: The heroine is in trouble.
In the third month of the sixth year of the lunar calendar (Yihai), the moon clashed with the star Regulus again.
On Bingyin in November, Venus appeared in the Southern Dipper during the day, and it always appeared after more than eighty days.
The divination said: There will be a war in the state of Wu.
The next year, Sun Quan sent Zhang Mi and others to lead an army of tens of thousands. Emperor Ming granted Gongsun Wenyi the title of King of Yan. Wen Yi killed Zhang Mi and others and captured his army.
In the first month of the third year of Qinglong, Queen Mother Guo passed away.
In the third month of the second year of Qinglong, Xin Mao, the moon violated the Yugui constellation.
Yugui is in charge of killing.
Divination said: There will be many diseases among the people, and the country will be in trouble.
He also said: The minister is worried.
In the summer and winter of the Qing Dynasty, diseases were prevalent.
In May of the fourth year, Situ Dong Zhao died.
In May of this year, Venus appeared during the day for more than thirty days.
Judging from the dial, it is estimated that it is either the Qin and Wei areas or the Chu area.
At the time of the dispatch, Zhuge Liang occupied the south of the Wei River and confronted Emperor Xuan; Sun Quan attacked Hefei, and also sent Lu Yi, Sun Shao and others into the Huai River and Mian River area, and the emperor personally marched eastward.
The Kingdom of Shu originally belonged to Qin, so wars between Chu and Qin occurred in the Qin and Wei regions.
It was already the seventh month of the new year, and the moon violated the gate.
Divination says: There will be a fire.
In July of the third year, a fire broke out in Chonghua Hall.
At the end of June of the third year, Saturn opposed the iron star of Jingsu.
In the Wuxu period, Venus clashed with Jingsu Iron Star again.
Divination said: Whenever the moon or five stars oppose the Jingsu Iron Star, it indicates war disaster.
Another theory is: Weapons such as axes and velvet were used, and ministers were killed.
In the seventh month of the month, Saturn clashes with the star Dongjing.
Divination says: When Saturn enters the Jing constellation, the respected person will be in trouble.
Traveling close to the stars is traveling in the underworld.
Divination said: There will be floods and the grain will not be harvested.
In the summer of the first year of Jingchu, there was a flood and the grain was damaged.
In the tenth month of the Renshen year, Venus appeared during the day and resided in Osu. After more than two hundred days, Venus often appeared during the day.
The divination says: Osu corresponds to the land of Yan, and there will be a war.
On Wuchen in December, the moon clashes with Gouqin.
Divination said: The king is in trouble.
At the end of the first month of the fourth year, Saturn clashed with the Iron Star in Jingsu.
On Guimao in March, Saturn clashes with the star Shujing.
Jisi, Venus and the moon add their shadows, and day appears.
In May of Renyin, Venus clashed with the first star on the left side of Aldebara.
Divination said: Bisu symbolizes the border army and is responsible for punishment.
In September, the Hu tribe Abishi sent troops outside the Liangzhou Pass to invade other small countries. Zhang, the captain of the Western Regions, attacked him and killed and captured tens of thousands of people.
In July of this year, during Jiayin, Venus opposed the star Regulus.
Divination said: The heroine is in trouble.
In the first year of Jingchu, Queen Mao passed away.
In February Yiyou of the first year of Jingchu, the moon violated the second star in the house.
Divination said: The general is in trouble.
In July of the year of sending, Situ Chenjiao died.
In April of the second year, Situ Hanji died.
In Xinmao, the seventh month of the year of Han, Venus appeared during the day, lasting more than 280 days.
At this time, Gongsun Wenyi established himself as King of Yan, appointed hundreds of officials, and sent troops to fight against the court. Emperor Xuan attacked and eliminated him.
In February of the second year of Ji Chou, the moon violated the Antares star and the central star.
On May 11th, the moon clashed with the distance star and the central star again.
Case star divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
If it conflicts with the star in front, the prince will be in trouble.
In the first month of the third year, Emperor Ming died.
The prince was established and finally deposed.
In October of this year, the moon violated Jisu.
Divination said: The general will die.
In April of the first year of Zhengshi, the chariot general Huang Quan died.
In the eleventh month of the leap year, Guichou, the moon clashes with the central star of the heart.
In the fourth month of the first year of the reign of Emperor Zhengshi, the moon violated the first star of Pleiades.
In October Gengyin, the moon clashed with the four stars of the Pleiades and the Big Dipper.
The divination said: The moon is in conflict with the Pleiades, making the land unrestful.
In June of the second year, A Miao'er and others from Xianbei invaded the west. Wang Yan, the governor of Dunhuang, defeated them and killed more than 20,000 people.
In three years, he killed the Xianbei commander and more than a thousand people.
In September Guiyou of the second year, the moon clashed with Yugui's northwest star.
In the second month of the third year, Dingwei invaded Southwest Star again.
Divination says: There will be an edict granting money.
Another way of saying it is: The minister is in trouble.
In March of the third year, Taiwei Man Chong died.
In the first month of the fourth year, the young emperor performed a crowning ceremony and gave money to the ministers in varying degrees.
In October and November of the fourth year, the moon violated the Jingsu Iron Star twice.
In the next month, Emperor Xuan attacked Zhuge Ke, but Zhuge Ke abandoned the city and fled.
In February of the fifth year, Cao Shuang conquered Shu.
In the eleventh month of the fifth year of Guisi, Saturn clashed with the star Kangsu.
Divination said: There are princes who have lost their feudal states.
In the seventh month of the seventh year, Ding Chou, the moon clashed with the Zuojiao star.
Divination said: There will be war in the world, and General Zuo will die.
In July Yihai, Mars clashes with the Aldebaran star.
Divination said: There will be war on the border.
Another way of saying it is: Punishment will be used.
In the first month of the ninth year of Xinhai, the moon clashed with the southern star of Kangsu.
The divination said: A war broke out.
Another way of saying it is: The general dies.
In July, Guichou, Saturn will oppose the closed star.
Divination says: It is not suitable for the monarch to leave the palace.
In the first year of Jiaping, the emperor paid a visit to the imperial mausoleum, and Xuantong petitioned to kill Da Chui and others.
Chen Tong spent the night in the wild and lost his power.
In the sixth month of Renxu, the first year of Chongchu, Venus clashed with Shujing Suju star.
Divination said: The court is out of control and the ministers are in chaos.
In April Xinsi, Venus clashed with Yugui.
The divination said: The minister will be killed.
Another way of saying it is: A war broke out.
At the end of March of the second year, Venus once again violated the star Jingsu.
In July of the third year, Wang Jun and Chu King Cao Biao had a conspiracy, and they were both executed, and the king lost his authority.
In May of the summer of the 13th year of Xingzhuhudan, the sun reached the north, and Mars moved against the normal path and entered the south dipper.
In autumn and July of the same year, Mars violated the third star of Kuisu and moved eastward.
"Han, Jin, Spring and Autumn" says it is "retrograde".
The case star divination says: If Mars enters the South Dou, King Yu will die within three months.
Another saying is: Mars moves against the normal path, and the king of the country will die.
In the second year of Taiyuan, Sun Quan died. This is the fulfillment of astrology, so "Three Kingdoms" records it under the state of Wu.
At that time, Wang Peng planned to make King Xuanbiao of Chu the emperor. He said that there were other stars in the Dou constellation, and there should be people who suddenly became noble. In this way, he asked people who knew the stars how to ascend.
Cha Chenglu suspected that there was a reason, and wanted to make him happy. He did not say that Yuli had died or died, but said that Huainan belonged to the Chu region, and the divination of Xingyu and Chu was the same, so there should be an emperor rising, so Wang Suan's plan was confirmed.
In the twelfth month of the second year of Taisu, the moon clashed with Yugui.
In the fourth month of the third year of Wuyin, the moon violated Dongjing Su.
In the ninth month of the fifth month, the moon clashes with the star Kangsu.
Divination said: The general will die.
Another way to say it is: There will be war.
This month, Wang Jun, King Cao Biao of Chu and others were killed.
In July, Queen Zhenya passed away.
In March of the fourth year, the generals of the State of Wu led their troops to invade. Zhuge Dan, the general of Zhendong, defeated them and drove them away.
In July of this year, there was a ghost on Moon Street.
In September Yisi, the moon clashed with Yugui again.
At Guiwei in October, Mars clashes with the southern star of Kangsu.
Divination said: The minister will cause chaos.
In the eleventh month of the fourth year, at the end of the eleventh month, the moon once again clashed with the ghost constellation, the Corpse Accumulation Star.
In Wuwu, June of the fifth year, Venus clashed with Spica.
Divination said: The minister has a conspiracy, but it will not succeed.
In Gengchen, the moon clashes with Ji Xing.
Zhan said: The general is dead.
In July, the moon clashes with the star Jingsu.
On Bingwu, the moon again haunts the northwest star.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
On Guiyou day in November, the moon clashes with the Shujing star.
Zhan said: The general is dead.
In the first month of the first year of Zhengyuan, Qiu Jian, the general in Zhendong, and Wen Qin, the governor of Yangzhou, rebelled, but they both failed and were killed.
In February, Li Feng, his brother Li Yi, the queen's father Zhang Ji and others conspired to cause rebellion. When the incident was revealed, they were all executed and the queen Zhang was deposed.
In September, the young emperor was deposed as King of Qi.
General Jiang Wei of Shu State attacked Longxi, and General Guo Huai of Chariot and Cavalry defeated him.
On Wuwu in February of the 1950s in Gaogui Township, Mars attacked the first star at the west end of the north corner of Shujing.
In the seventh month of the first year of Zhu Ling, on Yimao, Mars clashed with Shujing Suo Xing.
In Renxu, the moon again violated the iron star of Shujing.
In the eighth month of Xinhai, the moon violated Jisu.
In the ninth month of the first year of Taiping, Sun Liang, the deposed emperor of Wu State, Venus invaded Nandou. This is recorded in "Wu Zhi".
Divination says: If Venus opposes the constellation Dou, there will be war in the country and some ministers will rebel.
The next year, Zhuge Dan rebelled.
Another year. Sun Sui deposed Sun Liang.
Both Wu and Wei were at war.
On Dingsi in the ninth month of the first year of Ganlu, the moon invaded Jingsu.
In the sixth month of the second year, the moon clashed with the central star of the heart.
In the eighth month of Renzi, Jupiter clashed with the hungry star of Jingsu.
In September, Gengyin, Jupiter moves against the normal path and sits above the iron star of Jingsu.
In October Bingyin, Venus clashes with the star Kangsu.
Divination said: If the rebel ministers cause trouble, the king will be in trouble.
In May of the first year of Jingyuan, Youcheng Ji killed Gao Guixiang and Zhuge Dan was executed for his rebellion, which were all fulfilled by the astrology.
In March of the second year of the year of Gengzi, Venus clashed with Jingsu.
Divination said: The court is out of control and the ministers are in chaos.
That night, Jupiter clashed with Jingsu again.
Divination said: War breaks out.
In the first year of Jingyuan, Gaogui Township was defeated.
In the eighth month of the third year of Renchen, Jupiter opposed the Yugui star.
Divination said: Weapons such as axes and swords were used, and ministers were killed.
In April of the fourth year of Jiashen, Jupiter once again violated the southeast star of Yugui.
Divination said: The southeast star of Gui constellation governs war, and Jupiter enters Gui constellation, and the ministers will be killed.
In the first year of Jingyuan, he killed Wang Jing, the minister.
In February of the first year of Emperor Jingyuan of Yuan Dynasty, the moon clashed with Jianxing.
Case star divination: The moon and the five stars clash with the Jian star, causing ministers to frame each other.
After that, Zhong Hui and Deng Ai conquered Shu, and Zhong Hui framed Deng Ai.
In April of the second year, Mars entered Taiweiyuan and violated the right law enforcement star.
Divination said: The monarch is in great trouble.
Another way of saying it is: The minister is in trouble.
In October of the fourth year, Jupiter resides in the house.
Divination said: The general will be in trouble.
Another way of saying it: There will be an amnesty.
The next year, Deng Ai and Zhong Hui were both killed, and all of Shu were pardoned.
Five years later, Emperor Yuan abdicated.
In September of the fourth year of Emperor Xianning's reign, Venus should have appeared but did not.
The divination said: This is called loss of life. If the army is defeated, the country must be destroyed.
At this time, Yang Hu petitioned to attack Wu, and Wu Tong agreed.
In November of the fifth year, the army set off, and Venus appeared in the west in the evening.
In March of the first year of Taikang, the Wu army was defeated. Sun Hao pleaded guilty, and the state of Wu was destroyed.
In March of the eighth year of Taikang, Mars resided in the heart.
Divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
In April Yiyou of the first year of Taixi, Emperor Wu died.
In April of the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, Mars resided in Taiwei Yuan on the 60th day.
Divination said: If the princes and three princes plot against the king, some ministers will be killed.
Another saying is: The emperor lost his country.
In the spring of this year, Venus resided in Bisu, and it took more than a hundred days to arrive. Divination said: There is a worry about urgent orders.
Another way of saying it is: The prime minister is about to die.
It also indicates unrest on the border.
Later, he was framed and killed after buying it.
At the end of October of the sixth year, Venus Baihua appeared.
In June of the ninth year, Mars resides in the heart.
Divination said: Emperors hate to send horoscopes.
In August, Mars enters the Feather Forest.
Divination said: The Imperial Army will be launched on a large scale.
Afterwards, Emperor Hui was deposed as the Supreme Emperor, and soon the three kings launched an army to attack King Sima Lun of Zhao. King Sima Lun of Zhao sent Chinese troops to fight against the opponent for several months.
In March of the first year of Yongkang, the Zhongtai stars separated and Venus appeared during the day.
The divination said: If the stars are abnormal, the three princes will be in trouble.
Venus appears during the day, and ministers do not abide by their principles.
This month, Empress Jia killed the prince. Soon after, King Zhao Sima Lun deposed and killed Empress Mai, and beheaded Sikong Qianghua.
In May of the year of Han, Mars entered the South Dou.
Divination said: The prime minister is about to die and a large-scale war breaks out.
The fighting star corresponds to Yuli.
During the period of the Han Dynasty, Sima Lun, the king of Tuohuo, was the prime minister. In the second year, he usurped the throne, and the three kings raised an army to attack him.
In the second year of Tai'an, Shi Bing captured Mo.
In August of the Qian year, Mars entered Jisu.
Divination says: If the king loses his throne, war will break out.
The next year, King Zhao Sima Lun usurped the throne and changed the reign name.
In February of the second year, Venus appeared from the west and retrograded into Shujing.
Zhan said: The court is out of control and the ministers are in chaos.
At this time, King Sima Gang of Qi raised troops to attack King Sima Lun of Zhao. King Sima Lun of Zhao was eliminated. King Sima Tong of Qi controlled a large number of troops and did not meet the emperor. He monopolized power and was arrogant and extravagant. He was killed the next year.
In the first year of Yongning, from the first month to the leap month, the five stars crossed the sky, moving vertically and horizontally, losing their regularity.
"The Legend of the Star" says: The sun belongs to Yang, symbolizing the way of kings; the star belongs to Yin, symbolizing the way of ministers.
When the sun rises, the stars disappear. Ministers cannot have exclusive power.
When the stars appear in the morning during the day, they are called Jing Tian. This kind of astrology predicts that ministers will not abide by their ministerial principles and that the king will change.
Now all the five stars are passing through the sky, which is unprecedented in the changes in celestial phenomena.
Shi's statement is: If the stars appear in the daytime, if the country does not perish, there will be great chaos.
After that, the three princes and the princes alternated in power, and the two emperors went into exile, so that the six barbarians became kings and occupied China alternately, which has never been recorded in the classics.
In April of this year, Jupiter appeared during the day.
In May, Venus appears during the day.
Divination is the same as before.
In July, Jupiter resides in the void and dangerous constellations.
Divination says: If Jupiter resides in a false or dangerous constellation, there will be war disasters.
The two constellations of emptiness and danger correspond to Qi Earth.
Another saying is: If you live in an empty place, there will be famine; if you live in a dangerous place, there will be many corvees and the people's financial resources will be exhausted.
When Chen Xing entered Taiwei Yuan, it was predicted that there would be civil strife. Another theory was that the ministers would kill each other.
Venus resides in Youyemen, and the divination says: There will be wars, rebellions, and bandits.
On Wuwu in August, Saturn clashed with the Left Law Enforcement Star and the Shangxiang Star. The divination said: The Shangxiang will be troubled.
Mars resides in the Pleiades, and divination says: Traveling to Wei will bring disaster.
The stars and stars live in Yugui, and the divination says: There will be disaster in Qin.
At the end of September, the moon clashes with the left corner star.
Divination said: The king is in trouble.
Another saying is: General Zuowei dies, and there is war in the world.
In April Guiyou of the second year, Jupiter appeared during the day.
Divination said: It indicates that the minister will be strong.
At the beginning, Sima Tong, the king of Qi, stabilized Kyoto and stayed to assist the government, so he became arrogant and arrogant.
This month, the king of Chengdu and the king of Hejian sent a message to the king of Changsha, Sima Yi, to attack him. King Sima Wang of Qi fought with King Sima Yi of Changsha, captured and burned the palace, King Sima Tong of Qi was defeated, and his party was reduced from the clan.
He also killed his brother Sima Sai, the general of the army, and more than 20 of his subordinates.
In the second year of Tai'an, the King of Chengdu attacked the King of Changsha. As a result, public and private affairs were in dire straits, and the people were exhausted.
In February of the second year of Tai'an, Venus entered the Pleiades.
Divination said: The world is in chaos and wars are on the rise on a large scale.
In July, Mars enters Shujing.
Divination says: War breaks out and the country is in chaos.
In the autumn of the year of Han, Venus resided in General Taiweiyuan.
Divination said: The general died in the war.
In the winter of this year, the king of Chengdu and the king of Hejian captured Luoyang.
In August, Sima Yi, king of Changsha, brought Emperor Hui to fight against the two kings.
In the first month of the third year, Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, detained Sima Yi, king of Changsha, and Zhang Fang killed him again.
In the first month of the third year, Mars entered the Nandou, and the divination was the same as that of the first year of Yongkang.
In July, Chen Zhen, the general of the left guard, led his troops and led Emperor Hui to attack the King of Chengdu. The army was defeated and the enemy soldiers approached the emperor's chariot.
At this time, groups of thieves arose in the world, and Zhang Chang was particularly powerful.
In the seventh month of the first year of Yongxing, Venus violated the two constellations of Jiao and Kang, and passed through the four constellations of Fang, Xin, Wei, and Ji.
In September, enter Nandou.
Divination says: If it conflicts with Spica, the world will be at war; if it conflicts with Kang, there will be a big war, and the ruler will be in trouble; if it enters Fang and Heart, it indicates war and death; if it conflicts with Wei and Ji, the heroine will have worries.
Another way of saying it is: The world is in chaos.
Entering the South Dou, there is war and death.
Another way of saying it is: The general rebelled.
The areas attacked and defended by Venus correspond to the areas of Yanzhou, Yuzhou, Youzhou, Jizhou and Yangzhou.
In July of this year, there was a battle of Dangyin.
In September, Wang Jun killed He Yan, the governor of Youzhou, and attacked Yecheng. Yecheng was captured, and Yanzhou and Yuzhou became places of military disputes in the world.
Chen Min disrupted the Yangzhou area again.
Liu Yuanhai, Shi Le, Li Xiong and others all rose from humble and humble positions to occupy states and counties.
Queen Yangshi was imprisoned and deposed many times, all of which were fulfilled by astrology.
In April of the second year on Bingzi, Venus opposed the Wolf star.
Divination says: War breaks out on a large scale.
In September, Jupiter resides in Dongjing.
Divination said: There is a war, and Jingsu corresponds to the land of Qin.
In this year, Gou Xi defeated Gongshi Fan, Zhang Fang defeated Sima Cheng, King of Fanyang, and the generals of Guanxi attacked Sima Yi, King of Hejian. Sima Yi escaped, and King Shuhai met and killed him.
In April of the first year of Guangxi's reign, Venus deviated from its normal path and entered the two constellations of Wei and Ji from Yi.
Divination said: Venus deviates from its normal path and moves north, which is called reverse birth.
Either there was a defeated army, or there must be a massacre of the people in the city.
In May, Ji Sang attacked Yecheng. Feng Song, the governor of Wei County, went out to fight and was severely defeated. Ji Sang killed Sima Teng, King of Eastern Yan, killing more than 10,000 people and burning down all the palaces of Cao Wei.
In the ninth month of the year of Lu, Mars resides in the heart.
Divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
In Jihai, Saturn resides in the two constellations of the house and the heart.
Divination says: Saturn resides in the house. There will be many disasters and death; if it resides in the heart, the country will be in chaos, and the world will be forgiven.
When he was dispatched, Sima Yue monopolized power, but was finally eliminated for not observing etiquette and law, which was the fulfillment of civil strife.
In November, Emperor Hui died, and Emperor Huai ascended the throne and granted amnesty to the world.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, the stars dispersed.
According to Liu Xiang, the stars in the sky are symbols of people with official positions; those little nameless stars belong to the category of ordinary people.
This is a sign that bureaucrats and people will be relocated and dispersed.
After that, the world was in chaos, and many bureaucrats and people migrated and died.
In the first month of the second year, Gengwu, Venus was hidden and did not appear. In the second month, Gengzi, it appeared in the east in the morning. This is called appearing when it should but not appearing. The divination is the same as the previous one.
After that, the army was defeated, countless generals were killed, the emperor died in the Hu people's court, and China fell and fell.
In the first month of the third year of Gengzi, Mars attacked Ziweiyuan.
Divination said: There will be a king who dies in the wilderness, and it also indicates that fire will burn down the palace.
Taishi ordered Gaotang to report that the emperor's chariot should be relocated, otherwise Luoyang would be lost.
In June of the fifth year, Liu Yao and Wang Mi entered Kyoto, burned the palace and ancestral temple, captured Emperor Huai and returned to Pingyang.
For three years, Saturn stayed in the South Dipper for a long time.
Divination says: Where Saturn stays for a long time, that country will be blessed.
When he was sent, General Anshu and King Langxie began to own the land of Yangzhou.
In November of the same year, an earthquake occurred. Chen Zhuo believed that it was the fulfillment of the earthquake.
In October of the fifth year, Mars resides in the heart.
In the sixth month of the sixth year of Dingmao, Venus violated Taiweiyuan.
Divination said: An army will enter the emperor's court. The emperor hates this horoscope.
In July, Emperor Huai was killed in the Xiongnu court, and the whole country was in mourning.
In July of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, Venus clashed with Nandou.
Divination said: There will be wars between Wu and Yue, and those with high positions will be in trouble.
In February of the second year of Jiashen, Mars clashed with Dongjing Su.
The divination said: War breaks out and respected ministers kill each other.
On Ji Mao in August, Venus will oppose the big star Regulus.
Divination said: There will be trouble in the harem.
In the fifth month of the third year of Wuzi, Venus entered Taiweiyuan and violated the General Star.
Divination said: The emperor personally led the army, and the general was killed.
In September, Venus will oppose Nandou.
In October 11th, Mars resided in Dongjing Su, south of the Five Princes, and lingered for a total of thirty years.
Divination says: If Mars resides in the well for more than twenty days, those with high positions will be in trouble.
He lived and guarded five princes, and some of them were killed.
In March of the first year of Yongchang, Wang Dun led the troops from Jiangzhou and Jingzhou to attack Kyoto. The imperial army fought and was defeated. Emperor Yuan just thanked him.
So he killed the guard general Zhou Ti, the minister Ling Chouyuan, and the hussar general Qiao Ruomo.
Also, General Liu Wei of Zhenbei fled.
In April, he also killed Sima Cheng, the governor of Xiangzhou, Qiao Wang, and Gan Zhuo, the general of Zhennan.
In the leap twelfth month, Emperor Yuan died.
In the first month of the third year of Emperor Taining's reign, Mars went retrograde and entered Taiweiyuan.
Divination said: It portends war and death, and the emperor hates this astrology.
In the leap eighth month, Emperor Ming died.
Two years later, Su Jun rebelled, attacked and burned the palace. The Queen Mother died due to worries, and the Emperor was kidnapped and placed under house arrest in Stone City. War broke out far and near, and it took four years for the emperor to calm down.
On Bingchen of the first month of the sixth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the moon entered the South Dou.
Divination said: There will be war.
This month, Shi Le killed and plundered the people of Lou and Wujin counties.
The next year, Shi Le's subordinates plundered Nansha and Haiyu.
In November of the Qian year, Mars resides in the Stomach and Pleiades constellations.
Divination said: There is a war in the Zhao and Wei areas.
In July of the eighth year, Shi Le died and Shi Jilong declared himself emperor.
At the time of sending, even though Er Shi assumed the title of emperor, the stars, whether strong or weak, always resided in the Pleiades and had nothing to do with Taiwei and Zi Palace.
In March of the eighth year, the moon entered the South Dou.
It is the same as the divination in the sixth year.
In the seventh month of the Qian year, Shi Le died, Peng Biao ascended the throne, Husheng cultivated the fortress, and Huquan returned to Tai and Zhao.
So Zhi sent Governor Diebi to lead his army to rescue Tong Bi. However, Jie Biao failed and was killed, and Die Gui retreated.
Also, they attacked each other and destroyed Shi Sheng and Guo Quan.
In July of this year, Mars entered the Pleiades.
Divination said: King Hu is about to die.
Another saying is: There is a war in Zhao.
This month, Shi Le died, and Shi Jilong captured many places.
In August, the moon clashes with the Pleiades again.
Divination said: The land of Hu is not peaceful.
In the third month of the ninth year of the lunar month, Jihai, Mars entered the Yugui constellation and violated the Jishi star.
The divination said: The war occurred in the northwest, and there were troops destroyed and generals killed in battle.
In June and August, the moon clashes with the Pleiades again.
Although Hucong inherited the throne of Husu during the period of the Han Dynasty, Huconong was monopolistic and tyrannical. In November, he deposed Shi Hong and proclaimed himself emperor. He then imprisoned Shi Hong and killed him.
In the second month of the first year of Shengchen, in Jihai, Venus clashed with Pleiades.
Divination says: War breaks out and there is drought in the middle of the year.
In April, Shi Jilong's plundering cavalry arrived in Liyang. The imperial court appointed King Situ to lead the Grand Sima to rectify the army and defend the key points.
During the war, Shi Jilong besieged Baokui again.
June, drought.
In Bingxu, the third month of the year, the moon entered the Pleiades.
Divination said: King Hu is about to die.
On August 18th, Mars entered Shujing Su.
Divination says: If there is no war, war will begin; if there is war, war will stop.
In November, the moon opposes the Pleiades.
In the first month of the second year of Xinhai, the moon violated the second star in the south of Fangsu.
In August, the moon clashes with the Pleiades again.
In September Gengyin, Venus clashes with Nandou, so white paintings appear.
Divination said: Dou symbolizes the prime minister and corresponds to Yangzhou. Venus' opposition to it is a sign of death and mourning.
The appearance of daylight indicates that ministers will not abide by their duties, and it also indicates war and death.
After that, Shi Jilong assumed the title of King of Heaven and sent 70,000 troops. They set out from Longxi in February of the fourth year and attacked Duan Liao at Ji and Murong Zhu at Jicheng. However, they failed. Murong You defeated his general Ma Qiu, captured Duan Liao and killed him.
In the seventh month of the third year, the moon clashed with the stars in the house.
In August, Mars enters Yugui and clashes with the corpse star.
In Jiaxu, the moon clashed with the star from Dongjing.
In September Wuzi, the moon clashes with Jianxing.
In April of the fourth year, Venus appeared during the day and resided in Liusu.
Divination said: It foretells war and ministers not obeying the rules of ministers.
The next year, Shi Jilong launched a large-scale attack on the area south of Mianshui, so the imperial court was on strict alert inside and outside.
In the fifth month of the Wuxu year, Mars clashed with the right law enforcement star.
Divination said: The minister is about to die, and the ruler is in trouble.
In September, Venus will oppose the right law enforcement star again.
Star divination: The five stars have the same disasters, especially Venus and Mars.
In November, Wuzi, Venus clashes with the upper star in the house.
Zhan said: The prime minister is worried.
At the end of April in the fifth year, the moon violated the Aldebaran star.
Divination says: War breaks out.
On the seventh day of the seventh month, the moon clashes with the stars in the house.
Divination said: The general will be in trouble.
In this month of Gengshen, Prime Minister Wang Dao died, and Yu Bing took his place to assist in political affairs.
In August, Taiwei Xi Jian died.
There was also the defeat in the battle of Zhu City in Nanshui, and more than 10,000 people were exiled.
In the first month of the sixth year, General Yu Liang died.
On the day of Jiachen in March of the sixth year, Mars clashed with Taiweiyuan Admiral Star.
Divination said: The general is in trouble.
In April, Ding Chou, Mars opposes the right law enforcement star.
Divination says: Those in power are in trouble.
In June Yihai, the moon clashes with the central star of Altair.
Divination said: The general will be in trouble.
At this time, Shangshu ordered He Chong to be the Minister of Law Enforcement. He was reprimanded and wanted to avoid being blamed. The next year, he asked to be appointed Zhongshu Ling.
On Bingwu in April of this year, Venus opposed the Aldebaran star.
Divination says: War is about to begin.
Another way of saying it is: The heroine is in trouble.
On Yimao in June, Venus will oppose the big star Regulus.
Divination said: The heroine is in trouble.
In March of the seventh year, Queen Du passed away.
In the third month of the seventh year at Renwu, the moon invaded the house.
In April, Ji Chou, Venus enters Yugui constellation.
In May, Venus appears during the day.
In the Xin Chou month of August, the moon clashes with Yugui constellation.
In June of the eighth year, Mars opposed the second star in the house.
Divination said: The deputy prime minister will be worried.
In the eighth month of Renyin, the moon clashes with Bisu.
Divination said: If the lower class offends the upper class, war will break out.
In October, the moon covers the star Aldebara again.
Ditto for divination.
Two years after his death, the chariot and cavalry general Chen reported his death.
Zuoyi sent a large number of troops to plan the conquest of Shi Jilong. Yiyi controlled the power and all the ministers in the court were afraid of him.
On Renwu, the first month of the first year of Emperor Kang's reign, Venus entered the Pleiades.
Divination said: There will be war in the land.
He also said: War breaks out in the world.
On April Yiyou, Venus appears during the day.
A year later, Shi Jilong killed his son Shi Sui, sent generals to invade and capture Didao, and stationed troops in Jidong to prepare to attack Murong Xian.
In the second year, Jupiter clashed with Tianguan.
Anxi General Yu Yi wrote to his brother Yu Bing: Jupiter is attacking Tianguan, and divination says that Guandi and Liang will be separated. There have been no other changes in Jiangdong recently, and the Yangtze River waterway is not difficult. However, Shi Jilong retreated twice in a row and failed to communicate with messengers. This is another proof that the sky is confused and does not distinguish between black and white.
In the leap month Yiyou of this year, Venus is in conflict with Dou.
Divination says: If there is a funeral, people in the world will receive titles and salaries.
In September, Emperor Kang died, and the prince ascended the throne, granted a general amnesty to the world, and granted him a title.
On Ding Chou, the first month of the first year of Yonghe, Emperor Mu, the moon entered Bisu.
Divination says: War breaks out on a large scale.
Wuyin, the moon invades Tianguan.
Divination said: There are rebellious ministers who change the emperor's laws.
On Xinsi in May, Venus appears during the day and resides in Dongjing.
Divination said: The ministers are powerful and there is war in Qin.
In Xinchou in June, the moon enters Taiweiyuan and conflicts with the southwest star of the constellation Tradus.
Divination says: Some of the assistant ministers will be dismissed.
In July and August, the moon opposes Bisu.
Divination is the same as above.
At the end of the day, the moon clashes with Yugui's constellation.
Divination said: Some ministers will be killed.
In September, Gengwu, the moon clashes with Bisu again.
At the beginning of this year, Yu Yi lived in Xiangyang.
In July, Yu Yi fell ill and was about to die, so he made his son Yuanzhi the governor of Jingzhou to replace him.
Yuanzhi was soon dismissed.
The next year, Huan Wen led his army to attack Shu, captured Li Shi, and sent him to Kyoto.
Shu was originally part of the Qin State during the Warring States Period.
In the second month of the second year of Renzi, the moon clashed with the stars in the house.
In April Bingxu, the moon clashed with the stars in the house again.
In August Renshen, Venus will oppose the left law star.
On Renwu, the first month of the third year, the moon clashed with the fifth star of the South Dipper.
Divination said: The general is about to die, and the ministers who are close to him will leave.
In the fifth month of Renshen, the moon clashes with the fourth star of the South Dipper and then enters Kuisu.
Divination said: There will be war.
Another way of saying it: There will be an amnesty.
In June, the moon opposes the star Dongjing.
Divination said: The general is about to die, and the country is in trouble.
Wuxu. The moon opposes the five princes.
Divination said: Some of the princes will be killed.
In September Gengyin, Venus clashes with the fifth star of the Nandou.
Divination says: There will be funerals and wars.
In July 4, Bingshen, Venus clashed with the left law enforcement star.
In Jiayin, the moon invades the house.
Ding Si, the moon enters the South Dou and attacks the second star.
Yichou, Venus opposes the left law enforcement star.
Divinations are all the same as above.
On the first day of October, the moon clashes with Kang Su.
The divination said: War is about to break out and the general will die.
In November, the moon clashes with the General Star.
In June of the third year, there was a general amnesty for the guilty.
This month, Chen Kui attacked Shouchun and returned after failure.
In July, the remaining bandits from Di and Shu rebelled and disrupted the Yizhou area.
In September, Shi Jilong attacked Liangzhou.
In the fifth year, Chu Pei, the general who conquered the north, died.
In April of the fourth year, Venus entered the Pleiades. At this time, the northern ethnic minorities and Jin were attacking each other, and Zhao was fighting continuously, which was particularly fierce.
In July, Venus opposes Regulus.
Divination said: If the incident occurs in Fangdi, it also indicates war and death.
In Jiayin, Venus conflicts with the house.
In the tenth month of Jiaxu, the moon clashed with Kang Su.
The divination said: War is about to break out and the general will die.
In August, Shi Jilong's prince Shi Xuan killed his younger brother Shi Tao, and Shi Xuan also died.
In November, the moon clashes with the General Star.
In the first month of the fifth year, Shi Jilong went beyond his duties and proclaimed himself emperor. He died soon after.
At the end of April in the fifth year, Venus clashed with Shujing.
Divination said: There is war in Qin.
In September 1898, Venus clashed with the left corner star.
Divination said: It indicates war.
In October, the moon opposes the Pleiades.
Divination said: The barbarians are in trouble and the general will die.
In August of the Han Dynasty, Chu Su went on a northern expedition and his army failed.
In October, more than 20 military camps in Guanzhong launched a mutiny and surrendered to Jin.
Shi Zun captured Nanyang.
In November, Ran Min killed Shi Zun and killed more than 100,000 Hu people, causing chaos in Zhao and Wei.
In December, Chu Ai died.
For eight years, Liu Xian, Fu Jian, and Murong Jun all went above and beyond their duties to claim the title.
During Yin Hao's Northern Expedition, his army was defeated and he was dismissed.
In February of the sixth year of the Xinyou month, the moon violated the great star Antares.
Divination said: People with high status have worries, which corresponds to Yuzhou.
Ding Chou, the moon violates the house.
Divination said: The general and the prime minister are in trouble.
In June, Ji Chou, the moon clashes with the Pleiades.
Divination is the same as above.
At Yiwei, the moon invades the seats of the five princes.
Divination is the same as above.
In the seventh month of Renyin, the moon began to appear from the west and opposed the Zuojiao star.
Divination says: The general dies.
Another saying is: There is war in the world.
At Ding Wei, the moon clashed with Jisu.
Divination said: The general will die.
Bingyin, Mars clashes with Iron Star.
Divination said: Some ministers will be killed.
On Xinmao in August, the moon clashes with the left corner star.
Venus appears during the day and resides in the South Dipper.
The moon opposes the right law star.
Divination is the same as above.
In the first year of Han Dynasty, Situ Cai Mo was dismissed as a civilian.
In February of the seventh year, Venus opposed the Pleiades.
Accounting is the same as above.
On Yimao in March, Mars enters the Yugui constellation and conflicts with the Jixi star.
Divination says: Noble people will be troubled.
At the end of May, Mars clashes with the star Regulus.
Divination said: The heroine is in trouble.
Venus enters Bikou and offends the left thigh.
Divination said: The general and prime minister will bear the consequences predicted by this horoscope.
In June Yihai, the moon clashes with Jisu.
Divination said: There is a war in the country.
Bingzi, the moon clashes with Dou Su.
Ding Chou, Mars enters Taiweiyuan and offends the right law enforcement star.
On Gengwu in August, Venus will attack Regulus.
Wuzi, Venus opposes the right law enforcement star.
Divination is the same as above.
In the seventh year, Liu Xian killed Shi Zhi and his generals, and chaos broke out east of Mount Lu. The plague was widespread and many people died.
In March 1888, the moon clashed with the star Regulus.
Guichou, the moon enters the South Dou and conflicts with the second star.
In May, the moon clashes with the heart star.
In June Guiyou, the moon invades the house.
In the seventh month of Renzi, Jupiter clashed with the Shujing distance star.
Zhan said: There will be civil unrest and war will arise.
In August Wuxu, Mars enters Yugui.
Divination says: Loyal ministers will be killed.
Bingchen, Venus enters the South Dou and attacks the fourth star.
The divination said: The general is in trouble.
Another version is: The prime minister was dismissed.
On Yisi, February of the ninth year, the moon entered the South Dou and violated the third star.
On the Wuchen day of March, the moon invades the house.
In August, Jupiter opposes the southeast star in the constellation Georgi.
Divination says: War breaks out.
At this time, the emperor was young, his mother issued the Shao Order, the generals had conflicts with the prime minister, and wars broke out continuously. Murong Jun went beyond his duties and became known as the King of Yan. He continued to fight.
In the first month of the tenth year, Yi Mao, the moon eroded the Pleiades stars.
Divination said: There is war in the Zhao and Wei areas.
Guiyou, Saturn covers the hungry star.
Divination says: Weapons are used.
In February Jiashen, the moon clashes with the great star Antares.
Divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
On Gengwu in July, Venus appears during the day.
Judging from the dial, the disaster occurred in the Qin and Zheng areas.
In Xinyou in September, Venus clashes with the left law enforcement star.
At this time, Huan Wen was arbitrary and arbitrary, and many ministers in the DPRK were under coercion.
In April, Huan Wen attacked Fu Jian and defeated the army stationed at Xiaoliu.
In December, Murong Ke attacked Qi.
In March of the eleventh year of Xinhai, the moon covered the stars in Regulus.
Divination is the same as above.
In the fourth year of Gengyin, the moon clashed with the southern star of Niu.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
At the end of August, Venus clashes with the Tianjiang River.
Divination said: The crossing of the Yellow River is blocked.
In the sixth month of the twelfth year of Gengzi, Venus appeared during the day and resided in Shujing.
Ditto for divination.
At the end of the day, the moon clashes with the hungry star.
In August Guiyou, the moon covers Jian Xing.
On Wuyin in September, Mars entered Taiweiyuan and violated the star of General Xibo.
In November, Ding Chou, Mars clashes with Taiwei Yuan Dongfan’s upper phase star.
In November of the twelfth year, Qi was captured, Duan Chong was captured, and more than 3,000 people were killed.
In the third year of Yonghe's reign, Xianbei invaded the Hebei and Hebei areas.
In the first year of Shengping, Murong Jun occupied Linzhang and completely owned the areas of Youzhou, Bingzhou, Qingzhou and Jizhou.
The generals along the Yellow River fled and were cut off by the Yellow River ferry.
At the time of dispatch, the local princes each held great power, and wars continued throughout the country.
In the fourth month of Renzi in the first year of Shengping, Venus entered Yugui constellation.
Dinghai, the moon covers the second star in the west of Yuanxi in the south of Jingsu.
Divination said: There is war in Qin.
Another way of saying it is: The general dies.
In the sixth month of the 18th month, Venus appears during the day and resides in Zhen constellation.
Ditto for divination.
Zhensu corresponds to the land of Chu.
Renzi, the moon violated Bisu.
Divination said: There is a war on the border.
On Xinsi day of July, Mars will attack the Tianjiang star.
Divination said: The crossing of the Yellow River is blocked.
In November, Jupiter will oppose the house.
Divination said: There will be disaster in Yuzhou.
In May of that year, Fu Jian killed Fu Sheng and declared himself king of heaven.
In December, Murong Jun entered Ye and settled there.
In August of the second year, Xie Yi, the governor of Yuzhou, died.
In February of the second year of Xinmao, Saturn opposed Xuanyuan Star.
Divination said: The monarch hates this kind of horoscope.
During the Sino-Japanese War, the moon invaded Dongjingsu.
In the Xinyou month of June, the moon invades the house.
At the end of October, Venus opposes the Weeping Star.
Divination says: There will be great weeping.
In the first month of the third year, Renchen, Mars opposed the star of Zhiguan.
The case star divination says: The monarch is in trouble.
In March Yiyou, Mars moves against the normal path and conflicts with Gou Ling.
Case star divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
In June, Venus will oppose Cambodia.
In July Yiyou, Mars clashes with the Tianjiang River.
In Bingxu, Venus clashes with Yugui constellation.
Divinations are all the same as above.
Wuzi, the moon opposes the central star of Altair.
The divination said: The morning glory is a heavenly general. If it attacks the central star, the general will die.
At the end of August, Venus clashes with the big star Regulus.
Jiazi, the moon clashes with the Aldebaran star.
Divination said: There is a war on the border.
Another way of saying it is: A person in a lower position offends a person in a higher position.
In October of the third year, Zhuge You led his navy into the Yellow River and was severely defeated.
Xie Wan, the governor of Yuzhou, entered Yingshui. The army dispersed and returned, and Xie Wan was deposed as a civilian.
In November, King Situ Kuaiji requested that his title be lowered by three ranks because the place guarded by Zheng Tan and Xie Jiang was captured.
In the first month of the fourth year, Murong Jun died, and his son Fucha was crowned king.
Tomb Rongjian killed Shangshu Lingdantun and others.
In the first month of the fourth year, Yihai, the moon violated the central star of Altair.
In June of Xinhai, Mercury clashed with Regulus.
Divination said: The heroine is in trouble.
Before long, Venus entered the right door of Taiwei Yuan and came out from the end door.
Divination says: The noble person will lose power.
Another way to say it is: There is a war.
He also said: When you come out of Duanmen, the ministers do not follow the rules of ministers.
In August Wushen, Venus will oppose Di.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
In Bingchen, Mars clashes with the star of Admiral Xifan in Taiweiyuan.
On Renwu in September, Venus enters the mouth of Nandou and conflicts with the fourth star.
Divination said: There will be funerals, pardons, and ministers will receive titles and salaries.
In December, Jiayin, Mars clashes with the house.
Bingyin, Venus appears during the day.
Gengyin, the moon clashes with the closed star. Divination said: The monarch hates this kind of horoscope.
On Yisi, the first month of the fifth year, Saturn moved against the normal path and violated Taiwei Yuan.
In May of Renyin, the moon violated Taiweiyuan.
Gengxu, the moon clashed with Jianxing.
Divination said: Ministers plot against each other.
During the Imperial War, Yin Hao's army failed and he was eventually demoted.
On the day of Xinhai, the moon clashes with the constellation Altair.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
In June of Guihai, the moon clashes with the northeast star of Di.
Divination says: The general will be responsible for the results of the horoscope.
In the first month of the fifth year, Beizhonglang general Xi Tan died.
In May, the emperor died, Emperor Ai ascended the throne, granted amnesty, and granted titles to ministers, and Queen Chu lost power.
In July, Murong Ke attacked Lu Hu, the governor of Jizhou, and Lu Hu fled to Rongyang.
At this time, General Huan Wen stationed his army in Wan. When he heard that Lu Hu had failed, he returned.
In the sixth month of the fifth year of Guiyou, the moon covered the northeast star of Di.
Divination said: The general is responsible for the results of the horoscope.
In September Yiyou, the moon covers Bisu.
Divination said: There is a war on the border.
At the end of the tenth month, the moon clashes with the Aldebaran star.
Divination says: The person in the lower position will offend the person in the upper position.
He also said: There is a war on the border.
In August, Fan Wang was dismissed.
In the first year of Longhe, Murong Bei led his army to attack Heyin.
In the seventh month of the third year of Emperor Xingning's reign, the moon invaded Nandou.
Divination said: The heroine is in trouble.
Jupiter opposes Yugui.
Divination said: The king is in trouble.
In October, Venus appears during the day and is in the constellation.
Divination said: Kangsu is a sign of the court, there will be war and death, and the ministers will have power.
In May of the following year, Queen Yu passed away.
In the first month of the second year of Haixi Taihe, Venus entered the Pleiades.
In five years, Murong Bei was wiped out by Fu Jian and occupied the four prefectures of Si, Ji, You, and Bing.
In the leap month of the sixth year, Mars resides at the end gate of Taiwei Yuan.
Divination said: The emperor will lose his country.
He also said: The princes and three princes plot against their monarch.
Another saying is: A minister was beheaded.
On Xin Mao, the moon clashes with Antares, the great star.
Divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
In November, Huan Wen deposed the emperor. He also submitted a memorial requesting that King Wuling be killed. Emperor Jian Wen refused, so Huan Wen moved him to Xin'an. This was a sign of the minister's strong power.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Xian'an, Emperor Jian Wen's reign, Mars entered Taiwei Yuan against the normal path and had not yet left in the third month of that year.
Divination said: The country is not peaceful and there are worries.
At this time, Emperor Jian Wen was forced by Huan Wen.
At the end of May of the second year, Venus crossed the sky.
Divination says: War breaks out.
Jupiter's shape and color are like Venus.
Divination says: If it runs according to normal rules, evil things will stop; if it changes color and does not run according to normal rules, the monarch will not be blessed.
Jupiter should be small and dull in midsummer, which is an abnormality.
It also indicates that the minister is strong.
In June, Venus appears during the day and resides in the Big Dipper.
Yiyou, Venus opposes Yugui.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
In July, Emperor Jian Wen died. Huan Wen used the power of his army to seize power and executed Wang Tanzhi and others. The court was under intimidation both inside and outside.
Also, when Yu hope entered the capital and Lu Xi entered the palace, they were both executed.
In the first month of the first year of Xiaowu Ningkang, Wushen, the moon covered the star of the heart.
The case star divination said: The disaster is not with the emperor, but with Yuzhou.
Another way of saying it is: The monarch hates this horoscope.
On Bingwu in March, the moon covers the fifth star of the South Dipper.
Divination said: The minister will be in trouble and someone will die.
Another way of saying it is: The general dies.
July. Huan Wen died.
In September Guisi, Mars enters Taiweiyuan.
During the period of time, the heroine presided over the government, and there were many shortcomings in the government affairs.
It's the end of the leap month in the second year, and the moon covers the southern star of Altair.
Divination said: General Zuo died.
In Jiashen in December, Venus appears during the day and resides in Di.
Disu corresponds to Yanzhou.
On Bingwu in May of the third year, Beizhonglang general Wang Tan died.
In the sixth month of the third year of Xin Mao, Venus clashed with Shujing Su.
Divination said: There is war in Qin.
In September Wushen, Mars covers the left law enforcement star.
Divination says: The law enforcement minister dies.
In the first year of Taiyuan, Fu Jian captured Liangzhou.
In October of the second year, Shangshu ordered Wang Biao to die.
In April Bingxu of the first year of the fifth year on the left, Mars opposed the third star of the South Dipper.
Bingshen covers the fourth star again.
Divination said: War breaks out on a large scale and there is famine in the Central Plains.
Another way of saying it is: There is forgiveness.
In August Guiyou, Venus appears during the day and resides in Di.
Di Su corresponds to Barbarian industry.
In September, Mars opposes the Weeping Star and then enters the Feather Forest.
Divination said: The emperor is crying, and the army in the country is rising.
It's the end of November, and the moon covers the star Spica.
Divination said: There is war in the world.
Another way of saying it is: The country is in trouble.
In February of the second year, Mars lived in Yulin.
Divination says: The Praetorian Guards rise on a large scale.
On Renwu in the ninth month, Venus appears during the day and resides in Spica.
Spica corresponds to Yanzhou.
In May of the first year of Shengping, there was a general amnesty.
In August of the third year, the former Qin army attacked Fan, Deng, Xiangyang, and Pengcheng.
In February of the fourth year, Xiangyang fell and Zhu Xu was captured.
In April, Wei Xing fell, and the enemy troops gathered in Guangling and Sanhe, numbering between 50,000 and 60,000.
So armies from all walks of life guarded the key points, and Danyang Yin stationed troops to guard Kyoto.
In June, the governor of Yanzhou attacked the Taiwan army and defeated the enemy.
At this time, troops were deployed continuously inside and outside the Central Plains, and agricultural harvests failed year after year.
In November of the fourth year of Dingsi, Venus opposed the crying star.
Divination said: The emperor will cry.
On Bingzi in July of the fifth year, Mercury opposed Regulus.
Divination says: The heroine will bear the consequences predicted by this horoscope.
In the ninth month of Guiwei, Queen Wang passed away.
In the ninth month of the sixth year on Bingzi, Venus appeared during the day.
In November of the seventh year, Venus appeared again during the day and resided in the constellation Dipper.
Divination said: There will be war and death in Wu.
In the fourth month of the eighth year, Venus appeared again during the day and resided in Rigel.
Divination said: There will be war and death in Wei.
This month, Huan Chong conquered the Mianshui and Mozhuo areas, and Huanhao attacked Shu. They captured the cities and seized the land.
In August, Dengjian personally led an army of millions, and in September, he captured Zuiluo.
In October, Liu Kongzhi defeated Li Jian's general Zhu Sheng, killed him, and killed and captured more than 10,000 people.
Xie Xuan and others defeated Diechu in Feicheng, killed his younger brother Chuhuang, and the army in Dengli fled.
In June of the ninth year, Empress Dowager Chu passed away.
In August, Xie Xuantun stationed troops in Jianqiu to govern Zhongzhou.
In the seventh month of the ninth year, Bingxu, Venus appeared during the day.
On November 4th, daylight appears again.
In the fourth month of the tenth year, Yihai, he appeared again in Bisu and Pleiades during the day.
The divination said: There will be war and death in Wei.
At this time, Fu Jian's army fled, and Zhao, Wei and Wei successively attacked each other with troops. Fu Jian was killed by Yao Chang.
In March of the eleventh year of Wushen, Venus appeared during the day and resided in Shujing.
Divination said: There is a war on the platform, and the ministers are powerful.
In the sixth month of Jiashen, he appeared in Yugui Su again during the day.
Divination said: There is war in Qin.
At this time, Wei, Xingzuo, and Lideng continued to use their troops to attack each other.
On Jiawu, Jupiter appears during the day and resides in the stomach constellation.
Divination said: There is a war in Lu, and the ministers are powerful.
十二年，慕容垂攻打东阿，翟辽攻打迥上，型逦在宝宣称帝，荭登在胧上自立为帝，旦光占据遍业土地。

In the sixth month of the twelfth year, Guimao, Venus appeared during the day and resided in Liusu.
On Gengwu in October, Venus appears during the day and resides in the constellation Dou.
On Bingxu, the first month of the thirteenth year, daylight appeared again.
In December, Mars resides in Spica and Kangxi, and its shape and color are powerful and majestic.
Divination says: If Mars is abnormal, officials will disregard the law and princes will disrupt political affairs.
From then on, Murong Chui, Zhai Liao, Yao Chang, Fu Deng, and Murong Yong all relied on the army to strive for victory.
In the first month of the fourteenth year, the demon thieves in Pengcheng pretended to be emperor again in Huangqiu, and Liu Laozhi destroyed them.
In March, Zhang Dao captured Hexiang, surrounded Mount Tai, and drove Qinzhi away.
In this year, Zhai Liao captured Rongyang and seized the land of Chen and Xiang.
At this time, there were many shortcomings in political affairs, and the monarchy was in decline.
In April Yisi of the fourteenth year, Venus appeared in Liusu during the day.
On Xin Mao in the sixth month, daylight appeared in Yisu again.
In the ninth month of the ninth month, Bingyin appeared in Zhensu again during the day.
In December, Mars enters Yulin.
Divination is the same as above.
In the fifteenth year, Zhai Liao invaded and plundered the land of Sizhou and Yanzhou. The armies from all walks of life repeatedly attacked without success. Murongchui also seized the land of Bing, Ji and other states.
In July, there was a drought.
In August, floods occurred in various counties, and there was another locust plague in Yanzhou.
In the ninth month of the 15th year of Guiwei, Mars entered Taiweiyuan.
In October, Venus enters the Feather Forest.
On the first day of April in the sixteenth year of Guimao, Venus appeared during the day.
In November, Guisi, the moon covers the star in front of the heart.
Divination said: The prince is in trouble.
At this time, the prince often fell seriously ill.
In July of the seventeenth year of the year Ding Chou, Venus appeared during the day.
In October, daylight appears again.
In June of the eighteenth year, daylight appeared again.
In May of the nineteenth year, he appeared in Liusu again during the day.
On the Xinyou day of June, Yugui appeared again during the day.
In September, he appeared in Zhensu again.
In June of the 20th year, Mars entered the sky.
Divination says: There will be a great famine.
On Dinghai in July, Venus appeared in Taiwei Yuan during the day.
Divination says: If Venus enters Taiweiyuan, the country will be in trouble.
The appearance of day indicates war and death.
At the end of the twelfth month, the moon clashed with the star Zhiguan, the star Shuxian, and the star Xixian.
Divination says: The Shuanxing star governs the heart, abdomen, throat, and tongue, and the Shuxian star and Xixian star govern conspiracy.
In February 21, Renshen, Venus appeared during the day.
On Guimao in March, Venus appeared in Yulin even during the day.
Divination says: There will be powerful ministers, war, death, and the rise of Chinese troops.
In March, Venus appears in the stomach during the day.
Divination said: The Chinese army will rise.
On Renwu in April, Venus enters the sky.
Divination says: It predicts famine.
In June, Jupiter opposes the Weeping Star.
Divination says: There is something to cry about.
In September of this year, Emperor Xiaowu died.
In the first year of Long'an, Wang Gong and others launched an army to coerce the imperial court, so martial law was imposed inside and outside the imperial court and Wang Guoshi came to answer him.
Floods and droughts occurred in successive years, riots occurred in the three directions, and the people were hungry.
In the first month of Guihai in the first year of Emperor Long'an, Mars opposed the Weeping Star.
Divination says: There is something to cry about.
In April, Ding Chou, Venus appears during the day and resides in Dongjing.
Divination said: There is a defeated army in Qin.
In June, Yao Xing attacked Luoyang, and Xi Hui sent troops to rescue him.
In the winter of Qian Nian, Yao Chang died and his son Yao Lue came to the throne.
King Tuoba Gui of Wei ascended the throne in Zhongshan.
In August of this year, Mars resided in the Jingsu Cymbal star.
Divination said: Some ministers will be killed.
On Wuchen day in June of the second year, the sundial moved abnormally when the star was photographed.
Jupiter appears during the day and resides in the stomach constellation. This is the division of Yanzhou.
In June of that year, Xi Hui sent Deng Qifang and others with 10,000 troops to attack Youchaxuan in Taiwan. After the failure, they returned.
In the leap month, Venus appears during the day and resides in Yulin.
Ding Chou, the moon opposes the east phase star.
In the fifth month of the third year, the moon covered the stars again.
In Xinwei, Mercury clashes with the big star Regulus.
Divination is the same as above.
In September of the second year, Yu Kai and others mobilized the army and petitioned Wang Yu and others to be killed, so martial law was imposed inside and outside the court.
In June of the third year, Luoyang was captured by Qian Fortress.
But the main attack was on Xiaye and Yiye, killing Yin Zhongkan and others.
Sun En gathered his troops, captured Kuaiji, and killed Nei Shi.
In the Xinyou month of the fourth year of the lunar month, the moon clashed with the Weeping Star.
In the first month of the fifth year, Venus appears during the day.
It appeared during the day in Douxiu in December last year until Yimao this month.
Case horoscope: The disaster occurred in Wu and Yue areas.
In the seventh month of Guihai, the Arcturus star scattered and shook in five colors.
Divination said: The princes and kings are scattered.
On Ding Mao, the moon invades the sky.
Divination said: The emperor is in trouble.
In September, Gengzi, Mars will attack Shaowei and stay in Baogao.
Divination says: The secluded person will be killed.
In October Jiazi, the moon clashes with the Shuci phase star.
In July of the same year, the Empress Dowager Li passed away.
In October, the demon thieves defeated Gao Yazhi in Yuyao, and seven or eight out of ten people died.
In the fifth year, Sun En attacked prefectures and counties, killed the internal officials, arrived at Saidan, and then marched on Zhaxun, so martial law was imposed inside and outside the court.
Sun En's faction attacked Lu Zuo, killing more than 3,000 people, and retreated to defend Yuzhou. At this time, Xingzheng pursued and defeated him.
In September, Huan Xuan's memorial arrived, violating the emperor's will and bullying the emperor.
In October, Sima Yuanxian reorganized the navy on a large scale and planned to use the navy to attack Huanxuan.
In the first month of the first year of Yuanxing, Lu Xun claimed to be General Zhenglu and led Sun En's remaining army to seize the lands of Yongjia and Jin'an.
In February, Emperor An put on military uniform and dispatched the Western Army.
In March, Huanxuan captured Kyoto, killed Sima Yuanxian, and exiled the Taifu King Sima Daozi of Kuaiji.
On Wuzi, the third month of the first year of Yuanxing, Venus clashed with the constellations of the five princes, and then appeared during the day.
Divination said: Some of the princes will be killed.
On Wuyin day of the seventh month, Mars resides in Shujing.
Mars opposes Yugui and accumulates corpses.
Divinations are all the same as above.
In August Bingyin, Venus covers the right law enforcement star.
In the ninth month of Guiwei, Venus clashes with Jinxian star.
Zhan said: Those who recommended talented people were killed.
In February of the second year, Jupiter opposed the star of the Western Admiral.
On the first day of June, the moon covers the fourth star of the Dipper.
The divination said: Within three years, the minister will be killed.
In August, Guichou, Venus opposes the second star in the north of Fangsu.
In September, Ji Chou, Jupiter will oppose the Jinxian star, and Mars will oppose the West General star.
In October of Jiaxu, Venus clashed with Weeping Star.
In November, Dingyou, Mars will oppose the east ascending star.
On December Yisi, the moon covers the second star of Regulus.
Divination is the same as above.
In the winter of the first year, Wei defeated Yao Xing's army.
In December of the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne, exiled Emperor An and Queen He to Xunyang, and demoted Queen He of Yong'an to Lord Lingling.
In February of the third year, Liu Yu had all the Huan clan executed.
In the first month of the third year of the lunar month, Mars moved against the normal path and violated the star in the west of Taiwei Yuan.
Divination said: The emperor fought in the countryside and his prime minister died.
On Bingchen in February, Mars moves against the normal path and is located northwest of the left law enforcement star.
The divination says: The Minister of Law Enforcement was killed.
On April Jiawu, the moon covered the second star of Regulus.
In the fifth year of Renshen, the moon covered the second star of the Dipper, and Saturn entered the Yulin.
Divination is the same as above.
On Bingchen in February of the year of dispatch, Liu Yu killed Huan Xiu and others.
At the end of March, Huan Xuan was defeated, forced to flee, and sent troops to conquer the west.
Xin Si killed Zuo Pu and shot Wang Yu, and Huan Xuan kidnapped the emperor and took him to Jiangling.
In May, Huanxuan went down to Zhengrongzhou, and the rebel army destroyed him.
Huan Zhen also captured Jiangling, kidnapped and imprisoned the emperor.
In July, Queen He of Yongan passed away.
In the third month of the first year of Yixi, the moon covered the left law enforcement star.
Ditto for divination.
Dingyou, the moon covers the star in front of the heart.
Divination said: There will be disaster in Yuzhou.
Venus opposes Shujing.
Zhan said: There is a war in Qin.
In Gengchen of July, Venus appears during the day and resides in Yisu and Zhensu.
Zhan said: It indicates that the minister is strong and there will be war and death in Jingzhou.
At the end of August, the moon clashes with the first star of the Dipper constellation.
Divination said: There is war in the world.
Another way of saying it is: The minister is in trouble.
In September, Mars will attack Shaowei.
The divination said: The hermit was killed.
Gengyin, Mars opposes the right law enforcement star.
Guimao, Mars is in conflict with the left law enforcement star.
Divination is the same as above.
In November Bingxu, Venus opposed the Gou Ling star.
Divination says: The mouthpiece is in trouble.
On Ji Mao in December, Jupiter clashes with the Tianjiang River.
Divination said: There will be war and the crossing of the Yellow River will be blocked.
In November, Wei Yong, the governor of Jingzhou, died.
In February of the second year, Sima Guochang and others captured Yiyang.
In April, Yao Xing attacked Qiu Chi Gong Yang Sheng, but Yang Sheng defeated him.
In September, Sima Rongqi, the governor of Yizhou, was killed by his soldier Yang Chengzu.
In December of the third year, Situ Yangzhou governor Wang Mi died.
In the first month of the fourth year, Sima Zun, the Taibao King of Wuling, died.
In March, Zuo Pu shot Kong Anguo and died.
From then on, the political power was controlled by Liu Yu, and the emperor was just a puppet.
In February of the second year, Venus opposed the South Dou constellation.
Divination says: War breaks out.
Ji Chou, the moon clashes with the star behind the heart.
Divination said: There will be disaster in Yuzhou.
In April Guichou, the moon clashes with the general star in the west of Taiweiyuan.
At the end of the day, the moon clashes with the second star south of Fangsu.
In Yichou, Jupiter opposes Tianjiang.
Divination said: There will be war and the crossing of the Yellow River will be blocked.
At the end of the fifth month, the moon clashes with the star Spica.
Divination said: General Zuo dies, and there will be war in the world.
In Renyin, Mars clashes with Di Su.
Divination said: Di is a palace, and there will be troubles in it.
On Gengwu in June, Mars clashes with the second star in Fangbei.
In August Guihai, Mars clashes with the fifth star of the South Dipper.
Ding Si, street criminal Jianxing.
Divination said: Main battle.
On Renwu in September, Mars will oppose the Weeping Star, and then the Weeping Star.
In February of this year, during the Jiaxu period, Sima Guochang and others captured Yiyang.
Also, Murong Chao invaded Xuzhou and Yanzhou. In the first month of the third year, he invaded northern Xuzhou and reached Xiapi.
In December, Situ Wang Mi died.
In the first month of the fourth year, Sima Zun, King of Wuling, died.
Five years later, Murong Chao invaded Huaibei again.
In April, Liu Yu's army attacked him and captured Linqu.
He also surrounded Guanggu and captured it.
On Bingzi of the first month of the third year, Venus Baihua appeared and resided in Kui Su.
In February Geng Shen, the moon covers the star behind the heart.
Ditto for divination.
At the end of the fifth month, the moon clashes with the star Spica.
Ji Chou, Venus appears during the day and resides in Rigel.
Divination said: There will be war and death in Yizhou, and the ministers will be strong.
On Ji Mao in August, Venus clashes with the left law star.
In Xin Mao, Mars clashes with the left law enforcement star.
In the ninth month of Renzi, Mars clashes with Jinxian star.
In August of this year, Liu Jingxuan conquered Shu and returned without success.
In March of the fourth year, Zuo Pu shot Kong Anguo and died.
In July, Sima Shusong and others captured Zoushan, and Xu Yong, the governor of Lu County, defeated him and drove him away.
Yao Lue sent troops to attack Helianbobo and was severely defeated.
Five years later, Liu Yu attacked Murong Chao and eliminated him.
In the first month of the fourth year of Gengzi, Mars Street violated Tianguan.
At the end of the fifth month, the moon covers the second star of the Dipper.
In Renzi, Saturn opposes the Tianlin star.
Divination said: There is a famine in the world, and there is little food in the warehouses.
June is ugly. Venus opposes the star Taiwei Yuanxi.
On Yimao, he violated the left law enforcement star again.
In October Wuzi, Mars enters Yulin.
Divinations are all the same as above.
In the fifth year, Liu Yu attacked Murong Chao, and the armies of the north and the south continued to operate after that.
In the second month of the fifth year, Jiazi, the moon violated the Pleiades.
The divination said: The land of Hu is not peaceful, and the emperor defeated the Huns.
In May, Jupiter entered the Yulin.
In the ninth month of Renyin, the moon clashes with Pleiades.
In October, Mars will oppose Di.
Leap month Ding You, the moon clashes with Pleiades.
In Xinhai, Mars clashed with Gou Qian.
Today, the moon covers the great star Antarctica.
Divination said: The emperor hates this kind of horoscope.
In April of the year of dispatch, Liu Yu attacked Murong Chao.
In October, King Tuoba Gui of Wei was assassinated.
In May of the sixth year, Lu Xun approached the suburbs, and the palace guards put on boring armor.
In the third month of the sixth year of Dingmao, the moon covered the second star in the south of the house.
Disaster will befall the minor prime minister.
Now, the moon has covered the fifth star of Dipper again.
The divination says: The host is fighting against Wu, and war breaks out in the land of Wu.
Venus opposes the five princes.
Divination said: Some of the princes will be killed.
In May, the moon covers the fifth star of the Dipper.
In Jihai, the moon covers the third star of Pleiades.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
Another saying is: There is a meeting in white clothes.
In June, Ji Chou, the moon clashes with the second star south of Fangsu.
On Jiawu, Venus appeared during the day.
In the seventh month of the seventh month, the moon clashes with Yugui.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
Another saying is: There is a war in Qin.
On Renwu in August, Venus will oppose the big star Regulus.
Jiashen, the moon clashes with the star in front of the heart.
Disaster struck Yuzhou.
Bingxu, the moon clashes with the fifth star of Dipper.
Ditto for divination.
Dinghai, the moon covers the southern star of Niu.
Divination said: There will be widespread killing in the world.
Yiwei, Venus clashes with Shaowei.
On Bingwu, Venus appears during the day, staying in the small sky.
In September Jiayin, Venus clashes with the left law enforcement star.
Ding Chou, Saturn opposes Bijiu.
Divination said: There is a war on the border.
In March of this year, Xu Daofu, the governor of Shixing, rebelled.
In April, Lu Xun invaded the Xiangjiang River area, captured Baling, and led his army to approach Kyoto.
This month, Zuo Pushe Meng Chang was afraid that the imperial army would be defeated, so he committed suicide by drinking poison.
In December of the seventh year, Liu Fan beheaded Xu Dao and Du Huidu killed Lu Xun and sent their heads to Kyoto.
In June of the eighth year, Liu Daogui died while he was serving as the governor of Yuzhou.
In August, Queen Wang passed away.
In September, Yanzhou governor Liu Fan and Shangshu Zuopushe Xiehun confessed and were killed.
Liu Yu went west to conquer Liu Yi and cut off his head to show to the public.
In December, Zhu Lingshi, the governor of Yizhou, was sent to conquer Shu.
Xin Chou in April of the seventh year, Mars enters Yugui.
Divination said: There is war in Qin.
Another saying is: There is disaster in Yongzhou.
In June, Venus appears during the day and resides in the wing constellation.
In Jihai, Saturn clashes with Tianguan.
Divination said: The ministers are plotting against the monarch.
In August, Venus opposes the second star Fangsunan.
In November Bingzi, Venus will oppose the crying star.
In the seventh month of the new year, Zhu Lingshi conquered Shu. The Shu people rebelled again, and Zhu Lingshi conquered them again and destroyed them.
In the seventh month of the eighth year of Guihai, the moon covered the second star in the north of the place.
At the end of the day, the moon clashes with the hungry star in Jingsu.
In August Wushen, the moon clashes with the Weeping Star.
In October 1911, the moon covered the Tianguan star.
Divination said: There will be war.
In November, Ding Chou, Saturn will oppose Shujing.
Divination says: People in high positions will be troubled.
In December, Guimao, Saturn clashes with the star Jingsu.
In August of the Qian year, Queen Wang passed away.
In September, Liu Fan and Xie Hun were killed, and Liu Yi was conquered and eliminated.
In December, Zhu Lingshi destroyed Shu.
In February of the ninth year, Mars entered Yugui.
Divination says: There will be war and death.
Venus opposes Nanhe.
Divination says: War breaks out.
On Renchen in May, Venus will oppose the right law star and appear during the day.
On Gengwu in July, the moon covers the hook.
Divination says: The minister with the mouthpiece will be in trouble.
On Gengwu in September, Jupiter clashes with Xuanyuan Star.
Ji Chou, the moon clashes with the left star of Spica.
At this time, Liu Yu acted arbitrarily and the war continued.
In October, Liu Yu attacked Sima Xiuzhi, but the imperial army was at a disadvantage, so Xiuzhi and others fled to Chang'an.
On Dingmao, the first month of the tenth year, the moon clashed with Bisu.
Divination said: There are generals who blame their families for their sins.
On the first day of February, the moon clashes with the North Star in the house.
In the fifth month of Renyin, the moon clashes with the southern star of Altair.
Yichou, Jupiter opposes Xuanyuan Star.
Divination is the same as above.
In June Bingshen, the moon covers Di Su.
Divination said: The general died because of this, and there were people in the country who were killed.
In July Gengchen, the moon clashes with the Tianguan star.
Divination says: War breaks out.
Mars opposes the star Jingsu.
When Saturn opposes the constellation of Yugui, it will stay in the constellation of Yugui.
Divination says: People in high positions are in trouble, and the ancestral temple will be relocated.
In August, the moon covers the southern star of Altair.
Ditto for divination.
In September, Saturn will oppose Yugui.
Divination said: The king is in trouble.
Ding Si, Venus enters the Yulin.
In December, the moon clashes with the Xixian star.
Divination said: There is a conspiracy.
In the eleventh year, Lin Yi invaded Jiaozhou, and the Jiaozhou army resisted and defeated him.
On Dingsi day in March of the eleventh year, the moon entered Bisu.
Divination says: War is rising in the world.
Another saying is: There is a war on the border.
Ji Mao, Mars enters Yugui.
On Bingwu of the leap month, Saturn enters Yugui again.
Divination said: It foreshadows drought, epidemics, and chaos in government by ministers.
On Guimao in May, Mars enters Taiweiyuan.
Jia Chen, against the right law enforcement star.
At the end of June, Venus clashed with Shujing.
Divination said: There is war in Qin.
Wuyin, Moon Street offenders and ghosts.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
In the Xin Chou month of July, the moon clashes with Bisu.
Ditto for divination.
In the eighth month of Renzi, the moon clashes with Di Su, and the divination is the same as above.
Geng Shen, Venus moves along the orbit and enters Taiwei Yuan from Youyemen.
Ding Mao, covering the left law enforcement star.
In November of Guihai, the moon enters Bisu.
Ditto for divination.
Yiwei, the moon enters Yugui, with a halo around it.
In May of the twelfth year of Jiashen, Jupiter stayed between Fangsu and Xinsu, which was the dividing line of Song Dynasty.
Liu Yu began to be granted the title of Duke of Song Dynasty.
In June of Renzi, Venus moved along its orbit and entered the right gate of Taiweiyuan.
Jisi, the moon clashes with Bisu.
Ditto for divination.
In July, the moon opposes the Ox constellation.
In October Bingxu, the moon enters Bisu.
In the fifth month of the thirteenth year, Bingzi, the moon struck Xuanyuan.
Ding Hai, violated Qian Niu Su.
Guisi, Mars opposes the right law enforcement star.
In August, the moon clashes with Altair.
Ding Mao, the moon violates Taiwei Yuan.
Divination said: The king is in trouble.
In the ninth month of Renchen, Mars clashes with Xuanyuan.
In October Wushen, the moon clashes with Bisu.
Zhandu is the same as above.
The moon opposes Jisu.
Divination said: The country is in trouble.
In Jiayin, the moon clashes with Bisu.
Ditto for divination.
On Yimao, Saturn clashed with Taiweiyuan and stayed there for more than seventy days.
Divination said: This is a warning for a king who will perish his country.
In Renxu, the moon violated Taiwei Yuan.
In the 3rd month of the 14th year of Guisi, Venus clashed with the constellations of the five princes.
In May, Gengzi, the moon invades Taiweiyuan.
On the first day of the seventh month, Mars clashes with Yugui.
Divination said: There is war in Qin, and it also predicts drought, war, and death.
He also said: Those in high positions will be in trouble, and the changes in the ancestral temple also indicate that the ministers will cause chaos in the government.
At this time, Liu Yu acted arbitrarily and raised troops to fight many times. Famines and droughts occurred one after another, and he finally replaced Jin.
Ding Si, the moon invades Dongjing Su.
Divination said: The general will die.
In the sixth month of August, Venus will attack Regulus.
On Guiyou, Saturn entered Taiwei Yuan and violated the right law enforcement star, so it stayed in Taiwei Yuan for more than 200 days before leaving.
Divination said: Saturn staying in Taiwei Yuan is a sign of losing the king, and there are princes and kings who have been demoted.
At the end of September, Venus entered Taiweiyuan and violated the left law enforcement star.
Ding Si, the moon entered Taiwei Yuan.
Divination says: People in high positions will be troubled.
In October Jiashen, the moon enters Taiweiyuan.
At Guisi, Mars entered Taiweiyuan and violated the Xifan Admiral Star. It still followed the orbit and arrived at Zuoye Gate. It stayed for twenty days and then moved against the normal path.
In July of the twelfth year of Yixi, Liu Yu attacked Yao Hong.
In August of the thirteenth year, Yao Hong was captured, and the prefectures of Si, Yan, Qin, and Yong were all pacified.
In the fourteenth year, Liu Yu returned to Pengcheng and accepted the title of Song Gong.
In November, Zuo Pu shot and killed former general Liu Mu.
The next year, the enemy from the west invaded Chang'an. Zhu Lingshi, the governor of Yongzhou, and other armies were wiped out. The imperial army abandoned the fortress and retreated eastward.
In December, Sai Tong died.
In the first year of Emperor Gong Yuanxi's first year, Bingwu in the first month, Renyin in the third month, and Bingshen in the fifth month, all the moons violated Taiwei Yuan, and the capital was the same as above.
On Yimao, Mercury will attack Xuanyuan.
In Gengchen in June, Venus clashes with Taiweiyuan.
On Jimao in the seventh month, the moon clashed with Taiweiyuan and Venus appeared during the day.
From the first year of Yixi to the present, Venus has transited the sky nine times and the sun has eclipsed four times, all starting from the top. This is a sign that dynasties change, monarchs change, and ministers lose their monarchs.
On this day and night, Venus opposed the Weeping Star.
On December 4th, the moon and Venus both enter the Yulin.
On Gengwu in February of the second year, Saturn violated Taiweiyuan.
Zhandu is the same as above.
In July of the first year, Liu Yu accepted the title of King of Song.
In June of the second year, Emperor Gong gave up the throne to Song Dynasty.
In the ninth month of the third year of Huangchu, Emperor Wen of Wei Dynasty, the guest star appeared in the left gate of Taiweiyuan. Zhan said: If the guest star appears in Taiweiyuan, there will be war and death in the country.
In October, Emperor Wen conquered Sun Quan southward.
Since then, there have been many battles.
At the end of the tenth month of the sixth year, a star appeared in Shaowei and passed by Xuanyuan. Fortune telling indicates war and death, and is a sign of eradicating the old and establishing the new.
At that time, Emperor Wen was stationed in Guangling, and Xin Chou personally wore a bell armor to inspect the army.
In May of the following year, Emperor Wen died.
On Bingyin, the 11th month of the sixth year of Taihe, Emperor Ming, a star appeared in Yisu, close to the General Star of Taiweiyuan.
Zhan said: It indicates war and death.
Gan said: The country corresponding to the star or comet will suffer its disasters.
Yisu corresponds to Chu and is Sun Quan's territory.
The next year, Sun Quan had the defeat of Liaodong.
In the third year, Zhuge Liang entered Qinchuan.
Sun Quan sent troops to camp in key areas along the Yangtze River and Huaihe River. Sun Quan surrounded Xincheng himself to respond to Zhuge Liang, and the emperor went eastward to attack Sun Quan.
In the tenth month of the fourth year of Qinglong, a star appeared in Jiashen, three feet long.
Yiyou also appears in the east.
In the eleventh month of the 11th month, a comet appeared and attacked the constellations of the Eunuch and the Celestial Annals.
Zhan said: Dachen is the king of heaven, and there is death in the world.
Liu Xiang's "Five Chronicles" said: "Spring and Autumn" records say that the stars are in the east, not in such and such a constellation, because the comet is not located in any constellation.
The eunuch constellation is in Tianshiyuan, which indicates that there is war inside and outside.
The Zodiac sign foretells earthquakes, and stars and comets foretell the loss of troops.
In June of the first year of Jingchu, an earthquake occurred.
In September, Wu general Zhu Ran besieged Jiangxia.
Queen Mao passed away.
In the first month of the second year, he attacked Gongsun Wenyi.
In the first month of the third year, Emperor Ming died.
In August of the second year of Jingchu, a comet appeared in Zhangsu. It was three feet long, traveled westward in the opposite direction, and disappeared after forty-one days.
Account as above.
Zhang Su corresponds to Zhou.
In October Guisi, the guest star appears in Weisu, moving in the opposite direction, and is located in the north of Li Gong and the south of Teng Ser.
In Jiachen, the guest star invades the Zong star.
Jiyou, the guest star disappears.
Divination said: Where guest stars come and go, there will be war and death.
Xuxu and Weisu symbolize the ancestral temple and the tomb.
If the guest star is close to the Li Gong constellation, then there will be a great funeral in the palace, which is a sign of going to the ancestral temple to see the deceased king.
In the first month of the third year, Emperor Ming died.
On the tenth day of the tenth month of the first year of the reign of Emperor Zhengshi, a comet appeared in the west, located in Osu. It was three feet long, passed by the constellation Altair, and attacked Venus.
In November, Jiazi will invade the Yulin constellation.
Divination said: Osu corresponds to Yandi, which corresponds to Wu, and Niusu also corresponds to Wuyue.
Venus symbolizes the general, and Yulin represents the military soldier.
This heralded a funeral for Wu Yue and the Chinese army launched.
In May of the second year, Wu sent three generals to invade the border area.
Sun Deng, Prince Wu, died.
In June, Emperor Xuan attacked Zhuge Ke in Anhui.
The Taiwei was so favored that he died.
In the eighth month of the sixth year, a comet appeared in the Big Dipper. It was two feet long and white in color. It traveled to Zhangsu and disappeared for a total of twenty-three days.
In the eleventh month of the seventh year of Guihai, the comet appeared again in Zhensu, one foot long, and disappeared for a total of one hundred and fifty-six days.
In March of the ninth year, a comet appeared again in the Pleiades. It was six feet long, blue-white in color, and its radiance pointed to the southwest.
In the seventh month, the comet appeared again in Yisu, was two feet long, traveled to Zhensu, and disappeared in a total of forty-two days.
According to the star divination of the case: As for the stars, Zhang Su corresponds to Zhou, Yi Su and Zhen Su correspond to Chu, and Pleiades corresponds to Zhao Wei.
Comet is a sign of eradicating the old and replacing the old with the new, and it also heralds war and death.
In the first year of Jiaping, Emperor Xuan executed Cao Shuang's brothers and their accomplices, and all three tribes were wiped out. Chen Bing, the capital's chief, was killed.
In the third year, he killed King Xuanbiao of Chu and attacked Yupeng again.
The donkey belongs to Shuchu. All the princes and kings of Wei were imprisoned in Ye.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Chunuo, in the eleventh month of Guihai, a star appeared in the Yingshi constellation. It was full of energy and moved westward. It disappeared in ninety days.
Divination says: There will be war and death.
Room accommodation is a sign of the harem, and there will be rebellion in the harem.
In the second month of the fourth year, Dingyou, the comet appeared in the west, residing in the Wei constellation, five or six feet long, white, with a glow pointing southward, crossing Rigel, and disappeared in twenty days.
In November of the fifth year, the comet appeared again in Zhensu. It was five feet long and located west of the law enforcement star on the left side of Taiwei Yuan. Its glow pointed to the southeast and disappeared for a total of one hundred and ninety days.
Case horoscope: The stomach constellation corresponds to Yanzhou.
Participate in the host war.
Taiweiyuan is the imperial court of the emperor.
The law enforcement star symbolizes the ruling minister.
Stars and comets herald war and death, and were signs of eradicating the old and establishing the new.
In February of the first year of Zhengyuan, Li Feng, Li Feng's brother Li Yi, the queen's father Zhang Ji and others plotted to cause rebellion, and they were all killed and the queen was deposed.
In September, the young emperor was deposed as King of Qi.
In November of the first year of the first year of Zhenggong in Gaogui Township, white clouds appeared from beside the South Dou Zuo, several feet wide and spanning the entire sky.
Wang Su said: This is Chi You's flag. There will probably be a rebellion in the southeast!
In the first month of the second year, a comet appeared in the constellation corresponding to Wu Chu, extending northwest to the horizon.
Zhendong General Ceqiu Jian and others occupied Huainan and rebelled, but Emperor Jing conquered them and put them down.
Case horoscope: Chi You's flag appears, and the emperor conquers all directions.
After that, he conquered Huainan and pacified Bashu in the west.
The year it was created was the first year of Wufeng, Sun Liang, the king of Wu.
Dou Su and Niu Su correspond to Wu Yue.
Case horoscope: Wu has war and death, which are signs of eradicating the old and establishing the new.
In the third year of Taiping, Sun Ban surrounded the palace with a large army and deposed Sun Liang as King of Kuaiji. Therefore, "Three Kingdoms" was recorded in "Wu Zhi".
Huainan and Jiangshu were in the same territory as Yangzhou, so changes occurred in Wu and Chu.
The Chu region, including Huainan in the Wei state, suffered the same disasters as Wu.
Therefore, Qiu Jian believed that the star was the response to his rebellion, so he raised an army to rebel and failed.
Three years later, in the second year of Wei Ganlu's reign, Zhuge Dan rebelled again in Huainan, and Wu sent generals to rescue him.
When the city fell, Zhuge Dan's army and Wu's army each died tens of thousands of people, which was still the fulfillment of the previous Changxing.
In November of the second year of Amrita, the comet appeared in Spica, white.
Divination said: The comet appears between the two stars of Spica and is white in color. It indicates that the army will rise but not fight, and the country will suffer a great loss.
In the first year of Jingyuan, Duke Gaogui was killed by Chengji.
In the tenth month of the fourth year of Ding Chou, the guest star appeared in the center of Taiwei Yuan, turned to the southeast, passed Zhensu, and disappeared in seven days.
Divination said: If the guest star appears in Taiweiyuan, there will be war and death.
In the first year of Jingyuan, Duke Gaogui was killed.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, in Renyin, a comet appeared in Kangsu. It was white, five inches long, turned to the northwest, and disappeared forty-five times.
Divination said: It indicates war and death.
Another saying is: When a comet appears in Kangsu, the emperor loses his virtue.
In four years, Zhong Hui and Deng Ai attacked Shu and captured it.
The two generals rebelled and were killed.
In May of the second year of Xianxi, a comet appeared in Wangliang constellation, more than one foot long, white, pointing to the southeast, and disappeared twelve times in total.
Divination said: Wang Liang is the emperor's charioteer.
When a comet sweeps over it, it is a sign of dynasty change, a sign of eradicating the old and establishing the new.
White indicates mourning.
Wang Liang lived in Dongbisu, which corresponds to Bingzhou.
In August, Emperor Wen died.
In December, Emperor Wu accepted Emperor Wei's abdication.
In Bingxu, the first month of the fourth year of Taishi reign of Emperor Wu, a comet appeared in Zhensu. It was bluish-white, moving northwest and then eastward.
Divination says: It indicates war and death, and Zhensu corresponds to Chu.
In March, the Empress Dowager Wang died.
In October, Wu invaded Jiangxia and Xiangyang.
In September of the fifth year, a star appeared in the Purple Palace.
Divination as above.
The Purple Palace is the inner palace of the emperor.
Ten years later, Empress Wu Yuanyang died.
In the twelfth month of the tenth year, a star appeared in Zhensu.
Divination said: War breaks out in the world, and Zhensu corresponds to Chu.
During the Jiaxu period in June of the second year of Xianning, the star B appeared in Disu.
Divination says: The emperor loses his virtue and the political power changes.
Disu corresponds to Yanzhou.
In July, the star Bor appears at Arcturus.
Arcturus is the seat of the Emperor of Heaven.
In August, the star Pi appears in Taiweiyuan and moves to the Wings, Big Dipper, and Tripod.
Divination said: Taiweiyuan is the emperor's court, and those in high positions hate this horoscope.
Another saying is: There are princes and kings who have changed.
Yisu corresponds to Chu.
The Big Dipper is in charge of killing and punishment, and the three pedestals symbolize the three gods.
In the first month of the third year, the star B appeared in the west.
In March, the star Pi appears in the Wei constellation.
The stomach corresponds to Xuzhou.
In April, the star B appears in the female constellation.
The female throne is a symbol of the harem.
In May, the star appears in the east again.
In July, the Buxing star appears in the Purple Palace.
Divination said: The world will change its monarch.
In April of the fourth year, Chiyou Banner appeared in Shujingsu.
Two years later, the three parties united to attack the state of Wu, which was its fulfillment.
In March of the fifth year, the Buxing star appeared in Liusu.
In April, the star B appeared again in the Female Throne.
In July, the Buxing star appears in the Purple Palace.
Divination says: Foreign ministers are above the monarch.
Liusu corresponds to Sanhe.
Arcturus, Taiwei, Purple Palace and Female Throne are all symbols of the emperor.
The fall of Wu in the second year was its fulfillment.
The star portends war and death.
In this campaign to conquer Wu, all the armies from Sanhe, Xu, and Yanzhou were dispatched to fight in the land of Wu and Chu. More than a dozen officials below the prime minister and governor of Wu were killed, and tens of thousands of partial generals, lieutenants, and those who charged into battle were beheaded. This was the fulfillment of astrology.
In August of the second year of Taikang, the star appeared in Zhangsu.
Divination said: It indicates war and death.
In November, the star Pi appears in the constellation Regulus.
Divination says: The harem will bear the consequences predicted by this horoscope.
In the third month of the fourth year of Wushen, the Bixing star appeared in the southwest.
This year, Sima You, the king of Qi, Sima Ling, the king of Rencheng, Sima Dian, the king of Langxie, and Sima, the king of Xindu, died.
In September of the eighth year, the star B appeared in the southern constellation of the Dipper, tens of feet long, and disappeared after more than ten days.
Divination says: Nandou is in charge of the title and salary, and the country will be in great trouble.
Another theory is that when the Buxing star appears in Douxiu, the emperor becomes seriously ill, the country's political power changes, the world is in chaos, and war breaks out.
In April of the first year of Taixi, the guest star lived in the Purple Palace.
Divination said: It indicates war and death.
In the last years of Taikang, Emperor Wu was addicted to wine and sex, which made him sick.
This month, Emperor Wu died.
In the first year of Yongping, Empress Jia killed Yang Jun and his accomplices. They were all reduced to three tribes, and Empress Dowager Yang was also killed.
They also killed Sima Liang, king of Runan, Cui Taibao, and Sima Zhang, king of Chu. This was the fulfillment of the royal family's military mourning.
In April of the fifth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the B star appeared in Kui, moved to Xuanyuan constellation and Taiweiyuan, and passed through Sandai constellation and Tailing constellation.
Divination said: Kui Su corresponds to Lu, and also symbolizes the defenders of the treasury, Xuanyuan represents the harem, Taiwei Yuan represents the emperor's court, Santai symbolizes the three divisions, and there is a corpse star in the Tailing constellation, which governs death and funeral matters.
Then the arsenal caught fire and the Xiqiang rebelled.
Five years later, Sikong Zhanghua was killed, Empress Jia was deposed and sentenced to death, and Lu Gong Jia Mi was killed.
Two years later, King Sima Lun usurped the throne.
So the three kings raised an army to attack King Sima Lun, and more than 100,000 soldiers died in the battle.
In March of the first year of Yongkang, the demon star appeared in the south.
Divination said: The demon star appears, and a war will arise in the world.
This month Empress Jia killed the prince. Soon after, King Zhao Sima Lun deposed and killed Empress Jia, beheaded Sikong Zhanghua, deposed Emperor Hui and made himself emperor.
So the three kings rose up together and took turns controlling the power of the court.
In December of the same year, the comet appeared in the west of Altair, pointing towards Tianshiyuan.
Divination says: Altair is the starting point of the sun, moon and five stars. The appearance of comets from the constellation is a sign of changing the era and title.
Tianshi is also known as Tianfu, also known as Emperor Banner, and the Emperor's Constellation Star is among them.
In the second year, King Zhao Sima Lun usurped the throne and changed the era. He was soon destroyed by the army.
In April of the second year, a comet appeared in the constellation corresponding to Qi Di.
Zhan said: There are wars and deaths in Qi.
At this time, King Sima Gang of Qi raised troops to attack King Sima Lun of Zhao.
King Zhao Sima Lun was eliminated, Sima Tong controlled the army, did not meet the emperor, monopolized power, and was arrogant and licentious.
The next year, he was killed.
In April of the first year of Tai'an, a comet appeared during the day.
March of the second year. The comet appears in the east, pointing towards the Throne.
Divination said: This is a sign of war, death and mourning.
The three pedestals symbolize the three gods.
In the first month of the third year, Sima Yue, king of Donghai, imprisoned Taiwei and Sima Yi, king of Changsha, and Zhang Fang killed him again.
In May of the first year of the Prime Minister's year, the guest star was in the Bi constellation.
Divination said: The emperor has no heir.
Another saying is: A minister was killed.
At this time, the princes and kings controlled the army. Later, Emperor Hui lost his direct bloodline and eventually had no heir.
In August of the second year, the star B appeared in Pleiades and Bi.
Divination said: It indicates war and death.
Pleiades and Bisu correspond to Zhao and Wei.
In October, Ding Chou, a star appears in the Beidou.
The divination said: Xuanji changed the throne and the emperor left.
He also said: The powerful vassal states sent out armies, and the vassals competed for power.
After that, the princes and kings fought and all came true.
In the second year, Emperor Hui died.
In the seventh month of the fourth year of Xianhe reign of Emperor Cheng, a star appeared in the northwest, clashed with Dou, and disappeared on the 23rd.
Divination said: It indicates war.
In December, Guo Mo killed Liu Yin, the governor of Jiangzhou, and Yingtan, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Shufu and killed him.
At this time, Husheng began to go beyond his duties and became emperor.
On Xinsi day of the first month of the second year of Shengchen, the comet appeared in the west in the evening and resided in Kuisu.
Divination said: It indicates war and death.
Kui Su was also in charge of the border troops.
In the first month of the third year, Shi Jilong surpassed his duties and became the king of heaven.
Four years later, Shi Jilong attacked Murong Gong without success.
After Hu Conglong's army retreated, Jicha continued to pursue him and defeated Aita.
During the Japanese period, Murong Xian claimed to be a vassal state, which was the fulfillment of the border soldiers.
In the second month of the sixth year of Gengchen, a star appeared in Taiwei Yuan.
In March of the seventh year, Queen Du died.
On November 6, the first year of Chen Tong Nuu Ni, a comet appeared in Kangsu, seven feet long and white.
Divination said: Kangsu symbolizes the imperial court and governs war and death.
In the second year, Emperor Kangdi died.
In the eleventh month of the fifth year of the reign of Tong Chengmian, a comet appeared in Kangsu.
The glow points to the west, white, and one foot long.
In the first month of the sixth year of Ding Chou, the comet appeared again in Kangsu.
Divination says: It portends war, death, disease, and plague.
In August of the fifth year, Chu Pei campaigned north, but his army failed.
In November, Ran Min killed Shi Zun and killed more than 100,000 Hu people, causing chaos in the Central Plains.
In December, Chu Si died, and the plague became widespread in the next year.
On Dinghai in the fifth month of the second year of Shengping, the comet appeared in the constellation of Scorpius, residing in the stomach constellation.
Divination said: It indicates war, death, eradication of the old and establishment of the new.
The appearance of a ship in the sky heralds the invasion of foreigners.
Another saying is: it indicates a flood.
In May of the fourth year, a flood broke out.
Five years later, Emperor Mu died.
In the eighth month of the first year of Xingning, Emperor Ai, the star B appeared in Spica and Kangsu, and entered Tianshiyuan.
Case horoscope: Foretells war and death.
In the first month of the third year, Queen Wang passed away.
In February, Emperor Ai died.
In March, Murong Ke captured Luoyang, and Shen Jin and others died in the battle.
In February of the fourth year of the year when you hit the main wing of You, the guest star appeared in the west wall of the Purple Palace and disappeared in July.
Divination says: The guest star resides in the Purple Palace, which indicates that the minister will kill the monarch.
In the sixth year, Huan Wen deposed the emperor as Duke of Haixi.
On Dingsi of the first month of the second year of Kongchen's reign, there was a star named Buxue that appeared in the two constellations of Nu and Xu, passing through the constellations of Di, Kang, Jiao, Zhen, Yi, and Zhang.
By Bingxu in March, the comet appeared in Disu.
In September, Ding Chou, the star appears in Tianshiyuan.
Divination said: It indicates war and death.
In July of the first year of Taiwu, Dong Jian captured Tui Yuwang.
In March of the eleventh year of Taiyuan, the guest star resided in the Southern Dipper and disappeared in June.
Divination says: There will be war and there will be pardon.
Since then, there have been frequent wars in Si, Yong, Yan, and Ji states.
There was a general amnesty in the first month of the twelfth year, and another general amnesty in the eighth month.
In the seventh month of the 15th year of Renshen, there was a star named Bo that appeared in Beihe garrison. It passed through Taiweiyuan, Three Platforms and Wenchang constellations, and entered the Big Dipper constellation. It was white and more than ten feet long.
In the eighth month of August, the Buxing star entered the Purple Palace and disappeared.
Divination said: Beihe garrison is also called Humen, and there will be war and death in the Hu area.
Sweeping through Taiwei and entering Ziwei, the emperor bears the consequences of this astrology.
Santai symbolizes the Three Gongs, Wenchang symbolizes the generals and prime ministers, and the three Gongs of generals and prime ministers are prone to disaster.
Entering the Big Dipper, the princes were killed.
Another saying is: Sweeping the Beidou, powerful vassal states send out their armies, the vassals compete for power, and those in high positions are in trouble.
In the twenty-first year, Emperor Xiaowu died.
In the first year of Long'an, Wang Gong, Yin Zhongkan, Huan Xuan and others sent out troops together in the name of killing Wang Guobao.
The court obeyed them and killed Wang Guobao and his cousin Wang Xu. As a result, Sima Daozi lost power and chaos broke out.
In February of the 18th year, the guest star appeared in central Ojuku and disappeared in September.
The divination said: There will be war and death in the land of Yan.
Twenty years later, Murong Chui's son Murong Bao attacked the Northern Wei Dynasty and was defeated, with tens of thousands of people killed.
In the twenty-first year, Murong was dying, and the Yan Kingdom declined.
In September of the 20th year, there was a fluffy star shaped like pink catkins, moving to the southeast, passing through the female constellation, the virtual constellation, and finally the crying star.
The divination said: If the Peng star appears, within three years, a minister who caused trouble will be executed in the market.
When he was sent, Wang Guobao was in trouble in the court.
In September of the 21st year, Emperor Xiaowu died.
In the first year of Long'an, Wang Gong and others dispatched troops, and the court executed Wang Guobao and Wang Xu.
In the second month of the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a star in Kuisu. It was three feet long and went north to the Hedao constellation and the Zi Palace Xifan.
Divination said: The comet sweeping over the emperor's court and the Hedao constellation is a sign of a change of monarch.
The star B passes through the Three Thrones and enters the Big Dipper.
Divination is the same as above.
On Wuyin in December, the star B appears in the constellations Guansuo, Tianshiyuan and Tianjin.
Divination said: The distinguished minister died in prison, and there were wars and deaths inside and outside the court.
The Tianhe Ferry was cut off by thieves, and the king's way was blocked in the world.
Case horoscope: The disaster occurred in Wuyue.
In February of the fifth year, Sun En's army rebelled and attacked the prefectures and counties.
So security inside and outside the imperial court was tight, military formations were arranged, troops were stationed to guard, and the Huaihe River crossing was blocked with fences.
In September, Huan Xuan's memorial was sent to the imperial court, disobeying the imperial edict and bullying the emperor.
Later, Huanxuan usurped the throne and disrupted the capital. Famine prevailed, leading to cannibalism and the people being displaced and died. This was all the fulfillment of astrology.
In October of the first year of Yuanxing, a white guest star appeared in the west of Taiwei Yuan. Enter Taiweiyuan in December.
The divination said: The army entered the emperor's court.
In December of the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne, exiled the emperor and queen, and moved them to Xunyang, and demoted Queen He of Yong'an to Lord Lingling.
In February of the third year, Liu Yu wiped out all the Huan clan.
In the fifth month of Jiashen in the eleventh year of Yixi, two comets appeared in Tianshiyuan, sweeping over the Emperor constellation star and residing in the north of Fangsu and Heart.
Fang Su and Xin Su correspond to the Song Dynasty.
Astrology: Those who get the handle of the comet will prosper. This is a sign of eradicating the old and bringing in the new, and the rise of Song generals.
In the fifth month of the fourteenth year of Gengzi, a star appeared in the middle of Beidou Kui.
In the seventh month of Guihai, the comet appeared in the west of Taiweiyuan. The handle of the comet started from the bottom of the upper phase star, and its radiance gradually grew to more than ten feet, and then swept across the Big Dipper, Ziweigong and Zhongtai stars.
Divination said: If the comet appears in Taiwei Yuan, the country will perish and the world will change its monarch; if it enters Beidou and Ziwei, the palace will be empty.
In the fourteenth year, Liu Yu returned to Pengcheng and accepted the title of Song Gong.
In December, Emperor An died.
In the first month of the first year of Emperor Gong's reign, a star appeared in the west of Taiweiyuan.
Divination said: It is a sign of changing destiny.
After one year of creation, Song Dynasty owned the world.
In the thirteenth year of the reign of Emperor Shu, Zhuge Liang led an army to attack the state of Wei, and the army was stationed south of the Wei River.
There is a long star that is red and has horns. It falls from northeast to southwest and is thrown into Zhuge Liang's military camp. It is thrown in three times and comes back twice. It is big when it is thrown in and small when it comes back.
Divination said: The two armies are facing each other, and large meteors flying over the military camp and falling into the military camp are signs of defeat.
In September, Zhuge Liang died in the army. The general's camp was burned down and he retreated. The commanders turned against each other and killed each other.
In the second year of Emperor Jingchu of Wei Ming Dynasty, Emperor Xuan besieged Gongsun Wenyi in Xiangping.
On the night of Bingyin in August, there was a large meteor that was dozens of feet long, white, with a mane, running from the east of Shoushan to the north, and fell in the southeast of Xiangping City.
Divination said: When besieging a city, if meteors fly over or fall into the city, the city will be captured.
He also said: When a meteor falls, there is a battlefield where it falls.
He also said: Wherever a meteor falls, the country changes its owner.
In September, Wenyuan broke through and escaped, and was killed at the place where the meteor fell. The people in the city were massacred, and the army was buried alive.
In June of the fourth year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, two large meteors appeared in the west, flowing in the north and south directions respectively. The stars shone on the ground and made a rumble.
Case star divination: Meteor is a noble envoy. If the star is big, the envoy has a high status.
In the first year of Han Dynasty, Zhong Hui and Deng Ai captured Yili. These two stars are probably the symbols of the two commanders.
The two commanders turned away from each other, which was another fulfillment of the two stars flowing north and south respectively.
Zhonghui rebelled, and the three armies were angry and rumbling, which was a sign of the anger of the soldiers and generals.
In the seventh month of the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, the stars fell like rain, all falling to the west.
Divination said: The falling stars indicate the rebellion of the people.
Falling to the west is a sign that the Wu people surrendered to Jin.
In the second year, Lianxiu, the governor of Xia Dan of Wu State, led more than 2,000 subordinates to surrender.
In the eighth month of the ninth year of Sechen, the stars fell like rain.
"Liu Xiangzhuan" says: This is a sign that the lower part is separated from the upper part.
Three years later, Wu Tong died and Sai Tong ascended the throne, and the world was in chaos.
In the ninth month of the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign in Yuankang, the Wanshi arrow moved toward the northeast and stretched to the sky.
At midnight in the sixth month of the sixth year, there was a false arrow running from Beidou Kui to the southeast.
The case horoscope says: Use chaos to deal with chaos.
Beidou is in charge of killing, and Wu Shi comes out of Beidou Kui. The one in the middle is in charge of killing, and there are signs of dishonesty.
After that, King Sima Lun of Zhao killed Tui Jie and Tomb Jie, deposed Hou Gen, used the opportunity to deal with the unjust case of the prince, and took advantage of the situation to usurp the throne himself, so that he was executed, all of which were the fulfillment of the rebellion.
Another theory is that it was the fulfillment of the rebellion of Qi Wannian, the leader of the Di tribe.
In the eleventh month of the second year of Lisai, a star fell from the sky to the north during the day. Its light turned white and it made a sound like thunder.
Case star divination: The star is named Yingshou.
Where the battalion leader is, there is a large-scale war and bloodshed below.
The next year, Liu Yuanhai and Shi Le attacked to seize jobs and massacred many people.
Wang Kui raised troops from Kui and Fa, and led the Ubei people to attack and seize Jianmu. Many people died.
Making a sound like thunder is a sign of anger.
In the seventh month of the first year of Chengji, a star fell and made a sound.
In October of the second year, another star fell and made a sound.
Account as above.
After that, the Central Plains was lost.
In May of the first year of Guangsai, the useless arrows flowed to the southwest.
At this time, Si Qusu went west to defeat Hui Dan's army, welcomed the emperor's chariot, and soon arrested Longhuang, Yukeng and others. He indulged Wu Jun's thoughts and the people hated him.
After his death, Shi Le burned his body and coffin, which was the fulfillment of the horoscope.
In the ninth month of the first year of Jintong Chengtai, there was a big star like the sun, flowing from southwest to northeast, followed by small stars like buckets. The sky turned red and the sound was like thunder.
Divination said: Meteor is a noble envoy, and the big star has a high status.
In the fifth month of the year of Han, Mi killed Danwulu, the king of Dongyan, and then occupied the north of Donghui.
In November, He Yu was sent as general to conquer the north to guard the west of Yecheng.
Danzhen and others defeated Shuzhan and killed him in Biyilu.
So Danzhen was appointed as the prefect of Jie, and his younger brother Danlan was appointed as the prefect of Julu.
The small star follows the big star, which is a sign of the young general and deputy commander.
Siken Yue hated that Wei Deng Yishu and Wang Yuandeng were favoring Mi to the south, so he rewarded these places to Dan Zhen and others, and they were robbed and had nothing.
Making a thunderous sound is a sign of anger.
In the tenth month of the fourth year of Gengzi, a big star fell to the northwest and made a sound.
Soon Emperor Huai was in trouble in Qianyang.
In the fourth month of Renchen in the third year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Wu Shi emerged from Xusu and Weisu and disappeared from Yisu and Zhensu.
Divination said: The place touched by the vain arrow is the place where the world will attack.
Yisu and Zhensu correspond to Jingzhou.
In the second year of Taining, Wang Dun killed Sima Cheng and Gan Zhuo, kings of Qiao. Wang Dun was beheaded after his death, which was the fulfillment of the vain arrow touching Yisu.
In the seventh month of the first year of Yongchang, there was a meteor as big as an urn, more than a hundred feet long, green and red, coming from the west, with its tail divided into more than a hundred branches, some scattered.
At that time, Wang Dun was in rebellion, which was a sign that the people were scattered and fleeing.
In the sixth month of the third year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, there was a meteor as big as two Beidou Kui, green and red, illuminating the ground. It came out from Kuisu and disappeared in the north of Lousu.
Astrology: It indicates famine and no food to store.
This month, the drought is severe and the grains are not ripe.
On the first day of the second lunar month in the sixth year of the lunar calendar, a large meteor illuminated the ground. It came out of Tianshi Yuan and moved westward into Taiwei Yuan.
Divination says: People of high status will bear the consequences predicted by this horoscope.
In June of the eighth year, Emperor Cheng died.
In the sixth month of the eighth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, at Xinsi, before the sun set, there was a meteor as big as three Beidou Kui, traveling southeast from Chensi.
Judging from the dial scale, the area between Jisu and Dousu probably corresponds to the land of Yan.
Case Star Divination: This is the leader of the camp.
Below the camp head, blood was flowing.
At this time, Murong Jun assumed the title of Dayan and continued to attack and fight.
In April Guiwei of the tenth year, there was a meteor as big as a bucket, red and yellow, coming out from the constellation Vega and disappearing in the constellation Cepheid, making a thunderous sound.
Zhan said: There was a war between Yan and Qi, and the people were scattered and fled.
In the twelfth month of the Qian year, Murong Jun occupied Linzhang and owned all the land in You, Bing, Yi, and Ji states.
The generals who followed Dong Hui fled and dispersed, and were cut off by the Dong River ferry.
Murong Ke attacked Qi.
In November of the second year of Fuxing, the arrows flowed from southeast to northwest, and half of the sky was long.
In the tenth month of the fourth year of Gengxu, the Tengu appeared in the southwest.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war and blood will be shed.
In the tenth month of Renshen, the fourth year of Ji Saisu, a large meteor fell to the west, making a thunderous sound.
The next year, envoys were sent to remove Yuan Zhen from being a commoner.
When Danzhou attacked Huahua, Tongzhen died of illness. His son Zhijin succeeded his father and asked Fu Jian for help.
Huan Wen defeated Fu Jian's army.
Six years later, Shouchun City fell.
On the tenth day of the tenth month of the sixth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, Benxing flowed to the southeast through Yisu and Zhensu, making a thunderous sound.
Divination said: There is a war in Chu land, the army is defeated and the people are in exile.
In December, the former Qin Dynasty Fu Jian's Jingzhou governor Liang Cheng and Xiangyang governor Yan Zhen led their troops to attack Jingling. Huan Shiqian defeated them, captured Jian Zhen alive, beheaded 7,000 people, and captured tens of thousands.
The sound is like thunder, which is a sign of the general's anger.
In the leap month of the thirteenth year, the Dog Star fell from the northeast and made a sound.
Divination says: There will be a big war and blood will be shed.
From then on, Murong Chui, Zhai Liao, Yao Chang, Fu Deng, and Murong Yong all relied on military power to strive for victory.
In the first month of the fourteenth year, Pengcheng demon thieves took false names again in Huangqiu, and Liu Laozhi eliminated them.
In March, Zhang Dao captured Hexiang and Taishan, attacked Qinzhi and drove him away.
In the third month of Jiayin in the fifth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there were many red meteors traveling westward, passing through the Altair constellation, Xuzuo, Weizuo, Tianjin constellation, Gedao constellation, and crossing Taiwei and Zi palace.
Divination said: The stars are symbols of human beings. If they travel westward in large numbers, they are a sign of the generals migrating westward.
Passing through the emperor's court indicates that the monarch is weak, the ministers are strong, and the monarch cannot control the armies of the princes.
In May of this year, Sun En invaded Wu County and killed the internal historian.
In June, we arrived at Jingkou.
Therefore, the imperial court was heavily guarded inside and outside, military formations were arranged, and troops were stationed to guard him. Liu Yu pursued and defeated him.
In July of the first year of Yuanxing, there was a serious famine and people were cannibalizing.
Sixty-seven-tenths of the people in the east of Zhejiang fled into exile. The population of Wujun and Wuxing was reduced by half, and tens of thousands fled westward.
In October, Huanxuan sent generals to attack Liu Gui, defeated him and drove him away.
Liu Gui fled to Qingzhou.
On the night of Renyin in the twelfth month of the first year of Emperor Hui's Yongxing reign, there were red clouds across the sky, and there was a faint banging sound.
In October of the second year of the year, red clouds appeared in the north, stretching across the entire sky from east to west.
Divination said: All indicate large-scale war.
There is a banging sound, which is a sign of anger.
Since then, the country has been in chaos and war.
In Jiashen in December of the first year of Guangxi, there were white clouds like a rainbow, extending from the center of the sky to the north and reaching the ground. They appeared in the night and disappeared after five days.
Divination says: A war will arise.
In the second year, Wang Mi raised troops in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and Ji Sang rebelled in the north of the Yellow River, causing disaster to the whole country.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, two strips of white clouds appeared from the north and south, rising from the ground to the sky and passing through the center of Rigel's throne.
Divination said: A large-scale war will occur in the world.
In March of the fourth year, Sima Yue arrested and killed Miao Yin and others.
Also, the three parties were in chaos and fighting continued.
In March of the fifth year, Sima Yue died in Miping City. Shi Le defeated his army, killing more than 100,000 people.
In June, Kyoto was burned down and Emperor Huai was taken prisoner to the Xiongnu court.
It was already night in October of the first year of Emperor Min's Jianxing reign, and red clouds illuminated the northwest.
Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Du Sou's party members in Shicheng and the army was defeated.
