◆The biography of Du Gen, whose courtesy name is Bojian, was from Dingling County, Yingchuan County.
His father, Du An, whose courtesy name was Boyi, was ambitious and upright when he was young. He entered Imperial College at the age of thirteen and was known as Qitong.
The dignitaries and relatives of the capital were all envious of his reputation. Some wrote to him, but Du An kept them in the wall without opening them.
Later, when the noble family and guests were arrested for the crime, Du An opened the folder and took out the book. The seal was still the same as before. Finally, he was not harmed. People at that time respected him very much.
He was the prefect of Ba County and had a strong political voice.
Dugan has an upright and down-to-earth nature and is impatient.
In the first year of Yongchu, he was elected as Xiaolian and appointed as a doctor.
At that time, Queen Hexi and Deng were in charge of the government, and the power was in the hands of their relatives.
Du Gen believed that Emperor An was old and should be in charge of political affairs, so he and his contemporaries wrote a letter to directly remonstrate.
The Queen Mother was furious, arrested Dugan and others, packed them in leather bags, and beat them to death in the palace.
Because Dugan was famous, the law enforcement officers quietly told the killers not to use too much force. Later, they pulled him out of the city in a car and Dugan regained consciousness.
The Queen Mother had the body examined, and Du Gen faked his death. For three days, maggots appeared in his eyes, so he was able to escape and work as a busboy in a hotel in the mountains of Yicheng.
For a total of fifteen years, the restaurant knew that he was a good person and treated him with respect.
When Deng was executed, everyone around the emperor said that Du Gen and others were loyal.
The emperor said that Du Gen was dead, so he issued an edict to the world to recruit his descendants.
As soon as Du Gen returned to his hometown, he was recruited into the public car and appointed as an imperial censor.
First, Cheng Xushi, an official from Pingyuan County, admonished the Queen Mother to return to power and was convicted. At this time, he and Du Gen were recruited and elected as Shangshu Lang, and both of them were appointed.
Someone asked Dugan: When you were in trouble before, everyone in the world sympathized with your loyalty and you had many friends. Why did you suffer like this?
Dugan said: "It is impossible not to leave traces among the people. If I are discovered accidentally, disaster will befall my relatives and friends, so I did not do this."
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was promoted to the prefect of Jiyin.
He resigned from office and returned home. He died at the age of seventy-eight.
According to the legend of Yishi, Yishi, whose courtesy name is Ji Ming, was studious when he was young and was familiar with Taoism.
During the Yanguang period, Fan Feng, the imperial minister, and Wang Sheng, the emperor's wet nurse, jointly slandered the crown prince and deposed him as King Jiyin.
Cheng Yishi wrote letters of defense one after another, saying that Fan Feng and Wang Sheng framed the crown prince and deceived the emperor.
The emperor refused to listen to him, so Fan Feng and others framed him with a serious crime and sent him to prison to be executed. An edict only removed him from his official position and released him to his own county.
When King Jiyin was established, he became Emperor Shun. Sikong Zhang Haobi promoted him.
Zhang Hao recommended Cheng Yi as Yilang because he defended the crown prince's dethronement before his death.
Cheng Yishi himself thought that his contribution was not great, and he was embarrassed to accept the position, so he asked to go back.
The three public forces frequently conquered and conquered, but they should not respond.
The minister's servant She Yuyi thought highly of Cheng Yishi and wanted to recruit him to participate in the government affairs, so he wrote a letter to recommend him and conscripted him as Yilang.
Later, the minister ordered Zuo Xiong and Pushe Guo Qian to appoint him as minister again.
He was unsmiling and unsmiling in the court, and all the officials respected and loved him.
◆The biography of Luan Ba, named Shuyuan, was from Huang County, Wei County.
Good Taoism.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was a eunuch and served in Yeting. It is not his wish to be an official because he is a member of the Huang family.
He has a simple and upright temperament, and studies Confucian classics. Although he is a middle-ranking official, he does not associate with the regular attendants.
Later, the yang energy was unblocked and the body returned to its original shape. He reported to the emperor and requested to quit the eunuchship. He was elected as a doctor and moved to Guiyang as the governor.
Because Guiyang County was located in the southern border area and was not familiar with the classics, it established marriage and funeral etiquette for officials, established schools, and rewarded progress.
Even if they are minor officials, they are all allowed to study and take exams, and they will be promoted or given officials according to their abilities.
His political affairs were clear and he served for seven years. He asked to go home due to illness.
Li Gu, the governor of Jingzhou, recommended Luan Ba's political achievements, recruited Yilang, acted as Dr. Guanglu, and inspected the prefecture and county with Du Qiao, Zhou Ju and other eight people.
Luan Ba ​​sent him back to Xuzhou and then moved him to Yuzhang as governor.
There are many ghosts and monsters in the mountains and rivers in the county, and the people in the mountains often spend money to pray.
Luan Ba ​​had Taoist skills and could drive ghosts and gods, so he completely destroyed the sacrifices in those halls and exterminated the treacherous witches, so the monsters were naturally eliminated.
At first, the people were a little scared, but later they became peaceful.
He was appointed as the prime minister of the country. Wherever he went, he made political achievements and recruited ministers.
When the emperor died, he built the Xianling Mausoleum.
There are occasional tombs of villains on the left and right sides of the mausoleum. The majors wanted to destroy them, so Luan Ba ​​wrote letters repeatedly to remonstrate.
At this time, the Empress Dowager Liang was in charge of the government and issued an edict to interrogate Luan Ba: It had been a few days since the death of Emperor Daxing. When choosing a cemetery, it was necessary to save it. The cemetery was only twenty hectares, but Luan Ba ​​said something about the main person destroying the tomb.
Since it is not the truth, he should go to bed without retribution. However, Luan Ba ​​was stupid and liked to use himself. He also went to the court to slander the imperial court. He acted boldly and recklessly. This trend should not last long.
Luanba was convicted and imprisoned. He should be punished and not allowed to be an official. He was sent back home.
More than twenty years later, Emperor Ling came to the throne. General Dou Wu and Taifu Chen Fan assisted the government and recruited Yilang.
Chen Fan and Dou Wu were killed, and Luan Ba ​​was relegated to Yongchang Prefect because he was their ally.
He impeached himself based on his merits, but could not do it because of his illness. He wrote a letter of extreme remonstrance, complaining about the unjust case of Chen Fan and Dou Wu.
The emperor was angry, issued an edict, and arrested Jiao Tingwei.
Luan Ba ​​committed suicide, and his son Luan He became the governor of Yunzhong.
◆The biography of Liu Tao, Liu Tao's courtesy name is Ziqi, his famous name is Wei, he was a native of Yingyin County, Yingchuan County, and the successor of Liu Bo, the Zhen King of Jibei Province.
Liu Tao is a simple man and doesn't pay attention to details.
The friends you make must be of like-minded people. Everyone has different hobbies, so even if they are rich, they will not seek the same; if they have the same feelings and tastes, they will not change their intentions even if they are poor or lowly.
Liu Kai, who belonged to the same clan, was famous for his elegance and virtue, and he only thought highly of Liu Tao.
At that time, the general Liang Ji was in power, Emperor Huan had no sons, and there were many years of famine and disasters.
Liu Tao was studying in Taixue at this time, and Shangshu said: I heard that if people don't have heaven and earth, they can't live. If there are no people in heaven and earth, there is no spirit. Therefore, the emperor cannot be established without people, and people cannot have peace without the emperor.
Heaven and the Emperor, Emperor and man, are like head and feet, they depend on each other to walk.
I think that the Emperor is old and virtuous, at the height of his power, inherits the ever-lasting celebrations, follows the unchanging system, does not look at wars, does not listen to the sound of chariots, and does not suffer from natural disasters, nor does earthquakes or solar eclipses damage the Holy Body. Therefore, if you despise Sanguang's mutation, God will ignore it even if he is angry.
I think that Gaozu raised an army from the common people, cleaned up the evil government of Qin, eliminated all kinds of forces that wanted to be kings and hegemons, gathered the scattered people, rescued the dying and healed the wounded, and then he became an emperor. He made great contributions!
It’s very hard! Fu Ze left the throne and passed to His Majesty.
Your Majesty, instead of adding luster to the laws of your ancestors, ignored your great ancestor's diligence in conquering the world, borrowed sharp weapons at will, and neglected the power of the state, allowing ordinary villains to torture the people and harm the country. No matter far or near, everyone suffered from their abuse.
Therefore, heaven sent disasters and warnings to the emperor, but the emperor still did not wake up, causing tigers and leopards to dig holes in the field one after another, and jackals to "raise their children" in the spring. Is this what Tang Yao and Yu Shun meant when they governed the country and cherished the people?
Moreover, now the shepherds, guards and chief officials are greedy for money, like big pigs and snakes, devouring the country's wealth like silkworms eating mulberry leaves; money is the soul of redressing injustice, and poor people can only be ghosts of hunger and cold. The high-ranking family suffers the disaster of death, the wealthy family suffers the crime of demon rebellion; the dead are sad in their graves, and the sorrow and sorrow of life are all over the world; these are the things I often sigh over.
Moreover, when the Qin Dynasty was about to fall, those who were upright and admonished were often killed, while those who flattered and flattered were often rewarded. Good words were not dared by loyal officials to speak, and the fate of the country came from the words of those who harmed others. After appointing Zhao Gao as the order of Chefu, Yan Le was able to conspire with Zhao Gao to murder Hu Hai in Xianyang.
Power cannot be controlled or known by oneself. Power cannot be exercised by oneself and does not care. The situation of success and failure is the same in ancient and modern times. Please look at the collapse of Qiang Qin from a distance and the chaos of Emperor Ai and Ping from a closer look. Gains and losses are obvious, and they are disasters and blessings.
clearly visible. I also heard that in times of crisis, it is not the benevolent who cannot help them, and in troubled times, it is not the wise that cannot save them. Therefore, Wu Ding used Fu Shuo to eliminate the disaster of cauldron ears and pheasants, and his position was peaceful; King Xuan of Zhou used Zhongshan Fu to resolve the chaos of King Yi and King Li.
Zhu Mu, the former Jizhou governor of Nanyang, and Li Ying, the former Wuhuan captain and a native of the same county, were both upright and honest, with pure moral character.
Zhu Mu used to be in Jizhou. He enforced the law fairly, destroyed the traitors and wiped out the whole territory.
Li Ying served as Mu Shou, leading by example, managing the army and fighting, and his reputation spread far and wide in the north.
They are truly outstanding supporting talents of ZTE and the pillars of the country.
He should be asked to return to the imperial court and assist the royal family. He should be the same as Qi Yao, the light will shine, and he will control all countries and bring peace to the world.
If I dare to say such inappropriate words in a government that refuses to remonstrate, I will be destroyed like frost meeting the sun.
First I felt sad for the world, but now the world should feel sad for my stupidity!
The book was sent to the emperor, but the emperor did not accept it.
At that time, someone wrote a letter saying that because the goods were light and the money was thin, the country was poor and it should be recoined to make big money.
The emperor issued an order to discuss this matter with all officials in the four prefectures and the Imperial Academy.
Liu Tao made a proposal and said: The ancestors of the sages and kings worked in heaven and walked with the people.
When you make great achievements, everyone is happy to do it; when you mobilize troops and mobilize people, the soldiers are happy to obey orders. For example, when the spiritual platform was built, the common people came to participate as if they were sons. When King Wu of Zhou promoted the brigade, the soldiers were as happy as a bird catching algae. Every move is timely and in line with humanity.
I have read the imperial edict to make money and know that in order to unify opinions on priorities, the emperor visited the common people and spared no expense to the poor and lowly. Probably the most worrying thing now is not money, but the hunger of the people.
The principle of raising people is to ensure that they have food to eat first, and only then do they have money to spend. The ancient kings observed the heavenly phenomena, nurtured all things, and taught the people to work on time. The men worked hard to cultivate the fields, and the women did not give up.
In this way, the way of kings and ministers can be practiced, and the teaching of kings can be passed.
In this way, food is a national treasure and the most valuable thing for the people.
In recent years, good crops have been completely eaten by locusts.
Textiles cannot meet public or private needs. What we are anxious about is two meals a day, and what we are afraid of is the endless labor of the country. How can we talk about the thickness of the money and the weight of the baht! Even if the gravel is now turned into gold, the tiles are turned into Bian He's jade, and the people are thirsty and have nothing to drink, and the hungry have nothing to eat, even though the virtues of the three kings and the civilization of Tang and Yu can not guarantee that there will be no internal chaos in the country!
The people can live without money and goods for a hundred years, but they cannot live without food for a day. So food is the most urgent need.
People who talk about money and goods do not know that agriculture is the foundation. They always say that making money is the most convenient. Some even want to take advantage of the opportunity to defraud and benefit the country.
The country's financial interests had been almost obtained, and they fought more wantonly, so the coining of money took place.
About ten thousand people minted money, and one person took it, but it still couldn't be supplied, let alone now one person minted money, and ten thousand people took it!
Even if the yin and yang are used as charcoal, and all things are used as copper, the people who do not eat, and the officials who are not hungry are still unable to satisfy this endless greed.
If we want to ensure that the people have enough food and clothing, the key is to stop labor and prohibit deprivation. In this way, the people will have plenty without working hard.
The Emperor Shengde sympathizes with the sorrow and sorrow of the people at home and feels that the world's wealth is exhausted. He wants to mint money to unify the currency to solve this difficulty. This is like raising fish in a boiling pot or perching birds in a burning tree.
Water and wood are the places where fish and birds live. If they are used at the wrong time, they will burn to death.
Please, Your Majesty, reduce the exploitation of the people and discuss the matter of making money later. Listen to the songs of the people, interview the sorrows of passers-by, watch the eclipse of the sun and moon, the misalignment of the stars, and the collapse of mountains and rivers.
The people of the world and the major events of the country can all be seen clearly here, without any confusion. I once read "Poetry" and read the chapter about the wild geese flying in the wild, describing the hard work of the people. It was really pitiful.
Hundreds of walls must be built at the same time, regardless of the life and death of the people. I sighed and couldn't bear to read it.
Recently I heard the cries of hungry and toiling warriors, which are more miserable than the songs of wild geese.
So I think back to the time when the daughter of the Lu State's Qi House was crying while leaning on a pillar. She probably saw that the conscription in the State of Lu was too heavy, the people's life was too hard, and the country was in danger of collapse?
I read the poem "White Horse" in the Book of Songs, and I was so worried and anxious that I couldn't sleep.
Now the vast land cannot be cultivated, and the people have no food to eat. A group of harmful people, sharpened their heads to get in, took over the power and position of the country, and ran rampant in the world. The crows plundered and swallowed all the flesh and bones, leaving no one satisfied.
I am really afraid that laborers and poor craftsmen will suddenly rise up in the middle of their work, roll up their sleeves, throw away their axes, and raise a cry. The sorrowful and resentful people will respond. All directions will fall apart, and the country will be in ruins. Even a piece of money as big as a foot square cannot save it.
The national danger is like lifting a cauldron as big as a letter ox, hanging on the slender and withered wooden tip. This is the reason why the poet misses his country and can't help crying.
I am a wild man from Dong Ye who is secretly ignorant of the true meaning. I will ask you this question and my answer will be as above. He knew that he would be punished and be ridiculed by everyone in the world.
The emperor finally stopped minting money.
Later, Liu Tao promoted Xiaolian and appointed him as the chief of Shunyang.
There were many traitors and cunning people in the county. When Liu Tao took office, he declared that he would recruit those brave, powerful and unafraid of death among the officials, no matter whether they were desperadoes or hidden bad guys. Therefore, more than ten people, including the Jiejie swordsman Guo Yan, came to apply.
Liu Tao denounced their past sins and wanted to see how they behaved in the future. He asked them to recruit their friends and get hundreds of people, all fully armed and waiting for orders.
So those cunning criminals were investigated and brought to justice, just like gods.
He was dismissed from office due to illness. The officials and the people missed him and made a song: I am depressed and unhappy, thinking about me, Mr. Tao, when will I come again to make peace for the people.
Liu Tao was familiar with Shangshu and Chunqiu and made annotations for these two books.
He highly praised the Shangshu and ancient texts of Xia Houjian, Xiahousheng and Ouyang Hebo, and corrected more than 700 text, and named it "Chinese Shangshu".
Not long after, he was granted the title of Imperial Censor.
Emperor Ling heard about his name for a long time and summoned him several times.
At that time, Julu Zhangjiao pretended to be a great road and deceived the people. Liu Tao, Fengche Captain Lesong and Yilang Yuan Gong jointly wrote a letter saying: The ancestors and kings used the eyes and ears of the people in the world to see and hear, so there is nothing that cannot be seen or heard.
Now Zhang Jiao's party members are countless.
In the past, Situ Yang Ci obtained an imperial edict, instructing the prefectures and counties to protect and deport refugees. Because Yang Ci was not in office, Zhang Jiao's gang members were not arrested.
Despite the pardon, they still did not disband.
The four parties secretly said that Zhang Jiao and others sneaked into the capital and inquired about the government affairs of the court. They were like animals and responded to each other.
The prefectures and counties were afraid and did not want to report to the court. It's just that you sue me and I sue you, but you won't publish it in writing.
It should be clearly stated that anyone who captures Zhang Jiao will be rewarded as a national scholar.
Anyone who sees Zhang Jue and does not arrest him shall be guilty of the same crime as Zhang Jue.
The emperor never woke up and ordered Liu Tao to compile the regulations of the Spring and Autumn Annals.
In the second year, Zhang Jiao rebelled and the world was in turmoil. The emperor recalled Liu Tao's words and made Liu Tao the Marquis of Zhongling Township. He moved to Shangshu Ling three times.
Because the person he recommended would be a minister and it was not suitable to be ranked with him, he requested that he be placed outside the official establishment and become an idle person. Appointed as a servant.
Because of his many heartfelt admonitions, the powerful ministers were afraid of him and transferred him to Jing Zhaoyin.
When you take office, you should spend tens of millions of dollars to repair the palace. The so-called "money to repair the palace" is "money to buy an official position". Liu Tao was poor and considered it shameful to spend money to buy an official position. He did not work because of illness.
The emperor valued Liu Tao's talents, forgave him his sins, and conscripted him into a position of admonition to the officials.
At that time, the country's situation was becoming more and more dangerous day by day, and foreign invaders and internal thieves were extremely arrogant. Liu Tao was worried about the collapse of the country and said to Shu: "I heard that an emergency is coming, so you can't speak slowly, and you can't speak quietly when you talk about heartbreaking things."
In front of the country, there was Zhang Jiao who caused chaos, but later he was plundered by the border bandits. As soon as I heard Yu Shu's urgent voice, my heart burned like fire and my whole body trembled.
Nowadays, the Xiqiang bastards appoint generals without authorization. Most of them are officials from Duan Yingshi. They are familiar with war, know the situation of mountains and rivers well, and are full of deceit.
I was once worried that they would surprise me and copy the Western Army's retreat from Hedong and Feng Yi, and then go east to Hangu to take advantage of the high ground and take advantage of the danger.
Now they have indeed attacked Hedong, and what is terrible is that they have turned to attack Beijing.
In this way, the road to the south was cut off, the troops of the chariot and cavalry generals were isolated and helpless, Guandong was frightened, and the four sides were shaken. No one came to order, no one answered the call, and although Tian Dan and Chen Ping's strategies were ineffective, they did not work.
I once played on the stage. We must immediately stop the tax transfers in various counties, hoping for stability. The matter was handed over to the competent authorities and has been shelved to this day without anyone asking.
Now the common people in the three counties have fled, heading south to Wuguan and north to Hugu. They are all falling apart. I'm afraid they are still to come.
Now there are only three to four tenths left. The soldiers and civilians are mourning each other. The people have the idea of ​​​​escape and retreat to death, but have no strategy of going to the front line to fight for survival.
The enemy in the west gradually moved forward and was very close to our position. The Hu cavalry had already arrived at the cemeteries.
General Zhang Wen is strong and brave, but the leadership is pressing day and night, and the army has no backup. If it fails, it will be irreparable.
I know that I am annoying when I talk too much, but I still keep talking because when the country is peaceful, I will be happy. If the country is in chaos, I will die first.
Here are eight urgent matters today. Please adopt them immediately. The so-called eight things mainly mean that the country is in chaos, all due to eunuchs.
The eunuchs were anxious, and they framed Liu Tao, saying: "In the past, when Zhang Jiao's incident happened, both edicts and grace were used. From then on, everyone repented."
Now that there is peace in all directions, Liu Tao hates the lack of political clarity in the court and talks about Zhang Jiao as a monster. The prefectures and counties did not report it. How did Liu Tao know this?
We suspect that Liu Tao is in contact with thieves.
So Liu Tao was arrested and imprisoned in the Huangmen North Temple Prison. He was tortured and whipped every day. Liu Tao knew that he would definitely die.
He said to the envoy: What did the imperial court say when it made me the Marquis of Zhongling Township?
Now he is being framed for it. What is hateful is that he cannot be in the same class as Yi Yin and Tai Gong, but he is in the same generation as Wei Zi, Ji Zi and Bigan.
If one dies by holding one's breath, there will be no one in the world who is not grieved.
Liu Tao wrote hundreds of thousands of words, and also wrote "Qi Yao Lun", "Kuang Laozi", "Anti-Han Fei", "Reply to Mencius" and letters on current affairs, doctrines, poems, memorials, notes, and debates, totaling more than 100 articles.
At this time, Situ Donghai and Chen Dan also died together with Liu Tao without guilt. Chen Dan was praised for his loyalty and held the position of three ministers.
In the fifth year of Guanghe's reign, officials were ordered to report those who caused harm to the governor and Erqian Shi based on the folk songs.
At that time, Taiwei Xu Youyou and Sikong Zhangji looked at the eunuch's face and took bribes. Although the eunuch's children and guests were corrupt and despicable, they didn't dare to ask. Instead, they falsely reported and accused twenty-six of the governors of small counties in remote areas who were honest and had good governance.
Officials and people went to the capital to complain. Chen Dan and Yilang Cao Cao wrote to Cao Cao, saying: "The ministers are too protective of people related to them. The so-called report is to let the owl go and imprison Luan Feng."
What he said was true, so the emperor ordered Xu Youhou and Zhang Ji to go. Because of this, those who were convicted of rumors were awarded the rank of Yilang.
The eunuch had a grudge and framed Chen Dan for death in prison.
◆Li Yunzhuan, Li Yunzi Xingzu, a native of Ganling County.
He is eager to learn and has good communication with yin and yang.
He was promoted to Xiaolian at first and then magistrate of Baima County.
In the second year of Emperor Huan's reign of Emperor Yanxi, he executed the general Liang Ji. Shan Chao and five other people were granted the title of marquis because of their merit in killing Liang Ji. He also appointed Bo, a popular woman from Yeting, as the queen. Within a few months, the queen's family was awarded huge rewards to the four people who were granted the title.
At this time, there were many earthquakes and various disasters struck one after another.
Li Yunping had always been upright and worried about the danger to the country, and he couldn't bear it in his heart. As a last resort, he publicly reported it to the emperor and sent a copy to the Sangong Mansion.
The memorial said: I heard that the queen is the mother of the world, and her virtue is comparable to the spirit of the earth. The Queen wins someone, Yu? Fire, wind, and cold all come, and no one can be found. The earth will tremble, and the palace will be shaken.
There have been many disasters in recent years! God’s warning is beyond measure!
It has been three hundred and sixty-four years since Emperor Gaozu was appointed. During the first week of the emperor's period, Huang Jing will appear on his behalf. Anyone with the surname Chen, Xiang, Yu, Tian and Xu cannot hold military power as a Taiwei or Taifu.
All measures are vital and must not be taken carelessly.
Rewards based on merit should be worthy of the name.
Although Liang Ji was in power, acting arbitrarily and tyrannizing the world, it was as easy as asking a minister to kill him if he was found guilty.
It's just that he was good at appointing advisers to more than ten thousand households. If Gaozu knew about it, would he agree?
Will the Northwest generals disintegrate?
Confucius said: The emperor is truth.
This means that the emperor must examine everything. Nowadays, official positions are in disarray, villains are promoted to higher positions due to flattery, bribes are given and accepted, and the political education is carried out in public, which is getting worse every day. The memorial was issued without being reviewed by the emperor.
Could it be that the emperor didn’t want to be honest?
After the emperor read the memorial, he became furious and ordered the officials to arrest Li Yun. The Shangshu Protector-General escorted him to the Huangmen Beisi Prison with armed force, and ordered Zhongchang Attendant Guan Ba ​​and Yu Shi Tingwei to interrogate him.
At that time, Hongnong Wuguandu and Du Zhong took pity on Li Yun and wrote a letter willing to die on the same day as Li Yun.
The emperor became even more angry and sent Du Zhong to the court.
Dahonglu and Chen Fan came to Li Yun's rescue and said: Although Li Yun did not know what should be said and what should not be said, and even violated the emperor's will, his original intention was to be loyal to the emperor.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu tolerated Zhou Chang's remonstrances, and Emperor Cheng pardoned Zhu Yun's death penalty.
Killing Li Yun today, I am afraid that the incident that the predecessors ridiculed King Zhou of Pibi Ganxin will happen again today!
So he dared to offend Long Lin and speak out recklessly.
Taichang Yang Bing, Luoyang Mayor Mu Mao, and doctors all went to Shu to request Li Yun's rescue.
The emperor was very angry, and the people in charge reported that these people were disrespectful.
An edict was issued to severely reprimand Chen Fan and Yang Bing, remove them from their official positions and send them back to the fields; Mu Mao and Shangguan were demoted to two levels.
At this time, the emperor was in Zhuolongchi, Guan Ba ​​Shang reported to Li Yun and other matters.
Guan Ba ​​requested: "Li Yun is a foolish scholar in the countryside, and Du Zhong is a small official in the county. They are not worthy of being punished because of their temporary arrogance."
The emperor said to Guan Ba: "The emperor's desire is not true. What are you talking about!" Does Chang Shi want to forgive them?
Xiao Huangmen approved his memorial. Li Yun and Zheng Zhong both died in prison.
Later, Jia Cong, the governor of Jizhou, visited the county, went to Li Yun's tomb to worship, and carved a stone to commemorate him.
The historian commented: Li has five kinds of admonishment: ironic admonishment, obedient admonishment, quell admonishment, pointing admonishment, and trapping admonition, among which satirical admonishment ranks first.
Borrowing objects to express one's feelings and writing articles to state one's intentions, the most important thing is that the meaning is clear, the language is smooth, and the truth is pure.
Why are you so eager to show off and gain fame?
Li Yun is a commoner in the grassland who does not understand the principle of losing his virginity if he keeps secrets from his ministers. He dares to publicly report to the emperor and the three princes, regardless of life and death. Is this what the madmen in ancient times were like?
If he fails to gain the emperor's trust and remonstrates with the emperor, the emperor will think that the remonstrance is slander against him. So when speaking, you should understand the difficulties of speaking!
◆The biography of Liu Yu, named Jiji, was from Guangling.
His great-great-grandfather was King Jing of Guangling.
His father, Liu Bian, was the prefect of Qinghe.
When Liu Yu was young, he was fond of studying Confucian classics, and was particularly good at the art of astronomy, calculus, and arithmetic. The prefecture and county invited him politely and refused to go.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, Taiwei Yang Bing praised him as a virtuous and upright man. When he came to the capital, he wrote a letter saying: I think that the Eastern Kingdom is humble. Because I am a descendant of the Liu family, I am exempted from corvee service and not sent to the army.
The late Taiwei Yang Bing knew that I had read some classics, so he thought highly of me and recommended me as a virtuous and upright person. He really hoped that I could make some contribution to the country.
Yang Bing's talents for the country were not put to use, and unfortunately he died too early.
When I was in the countryside, I heard some songs about proud ministers who brutally harmed the people. There were sighs and sighs everywhere. The most bitter and unpleasant smell made people cry.
I am happy to be recommended. When answering the emperor's questions, I should express my feelings with complete loyalty and not dare to deceive others.
I sincerely ask Your Majesty to take a moment to look at the facts of the past and today. Why do people lament and sigh, and why does heaven change?
Most of the positions of the princes are in the twenty-eight constellations of the Dharma, guarding the four directions for the emperor, and the celestial phenomena shine. This is a major event related to the rise and fall of the country.
Nowadays, the eunuchs are so evil that they are tearing apart the soil and making marquises. They are also vying to create offspring and inherit the title. Some beg sons from estranged relatives, and some buy sons on the street. This goes against the founding principles of inheriting the family.
In ancient times, the emperor married nine daughters at a time, and the daughters were kept in an orderly manner without any confusion. Hetu conferred heirs in the ninth house.
Nowadays, beauties and seduces fill the harem, and they are provided with treasures and ornaments. They eat without working. The palace is empty, the energy is exhausted, and all kinds of diseases occur.
The country is consumed and the body is damaged.
The characteristics of heaven and earth are that the yin and yang are in the correct period. If the yin and yang are not separated, floods or droughts will occur. "The Book of Songs" says: Five days are the limit, six days are not enough.
I made an appointment to come back in five days, but still haven't come back in six days. This is a song of women missing their husbands. Confucius recorded it.
What's more, these palace maids have been hiding in the deep palaces since they were young. You can imagine their resentment.
In addition, eunuchs such as Chang Shi and Huang Men also took many wives and concubines, and their malicious spirit created monsters and sins.
Pedestrians on the road said that officials robbed other people's girls and then married them and then abandoned them. Everyone was frightened by this.
Who doesn't know? Such rumors would never happen without reason.
Zou Yan was no more than an ordinary man, and Qi was no more than an ordinary woman. Zou Yan was loyal and yet he was wronged, and Qi was crying over her husband's body, which caused frost in the fifth month and the city collapsed in seven days. What's more, such a large group of people were complaining and resentful. Wouldn't they be sensitive to it?
In the past, Qin Shihuang built Afang Palace, and many people committed crimes in the country.
Nowadays, the princes have more and more mansions, which are very ingenious. They dig mountains and dig stones. They do not care whether they are busy in farming or not. They are forced to use harsh criminal laws and threaten them with the laws of the country.
The people are originally innocent, but they can be charged at will; the people originally have land, and they can rob it at will.
The state and county governments interrogate prisoners individually, and bribery for adultery are all ways for officials to make money.
The common people could not express their sorrows and grievances, so they rose up to join the bandits, and the government therefore used arms to attack them.
Poor people even sold their heads to get rewards, fathers and brothers mutilated each other's bodies, and husbands and wives separated each other.
Isn't it sad to be in such poverty and persecution?
Also, the emperor is as noble as Beichen and the lord of the country, but he casually walks into the homes of some people and enters the eunuch's room. The guests therefore buy things in the city, the streets are noisy, and rape and indulgence are reached to the extreme.
Now that the three princes are in office, they are all knowledgeable and highly virtuous people. However, they are only upright themselves and cannot be of much help to the emperor. It is not that they lack knowledge and ability, but they are afraid of the death penalty.
I think the emperor appointed seven ministers, including three ministers, Qianyi, Houcheng, Zuofu and Youbi.
The purpose is to open up the path of remonstrance and open up the books of the Jin and Teng historians in the Eastern Preface, follow the civil and military methods of Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, and make the world prosperous and peaceful, depose those bad guys who flatter and do evil, and abandon the voices of Zheng, Wei and Mimi. In this way, the natural government will be peaceful, and the people will be universally enlightened.
I sincerely express my feelings, but there is nothing worthy of the emperor's choice in what I say. I am afraid that I will offend the emperor and be very frightened. After the emperor's death, the general Dou Wu wanted to kill the eunuchs. He appointed Liu Yu as his minister and Yin Xun as his minister, and they planned together.
When Dou Wu failed, Liu Yu and Yin Xun were both killed, which is recorded in "The Biography of Dou Wu".
Yin Xun, courtesy name Boyuan, was from Henan.
His great-uncle Yin Mu once served as Taiwei, and Yin Mu's grandson Yin Song once served as Situ.
Yin Xun is a man of uprightness and perseverance.
When I was studying in my youth, every time I read about loyal ministers and righteous men, I would often discard the book and look up to the sky and sigh.
I think that my conduct is not in line with the times and I am not subject to the etiquette of the state, county and government.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he was drafted for his moral character and moved to the ministerial order.
In the middle of Yanxi period, the general Liang Ji was killed. The emperor summoned Yin Xun to deploy various positions. He was very talented and was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang Township.
Pu Shehuo, Shangshu Zhang Jing, Ouyang Shen, Li Wei, Yu Fang, and Zhou Yong were all granted the title of Tinghou.
Yin Xun was later promoted to Jiuqing. He was dismissed from his post due to illness and was awarded the title of Shizhong.
In the eighth year, Zhongchang's servants such as Ju Yuan and Zuo Xuan were dismissed from office because of their convictions, and their fiefdoms were removed. Because of this, Yin Xun was deposed from his title.
After Liu Yu was killed, the eunuchs burned all his letters, thinking they were wrong remarks.
Liu Yu's son Liu Wan passed on Liu Yu's studies and knew about divination and could point out the causes of disasters.
It is said that it is square and it should not be done.
◆Xie Bi Chuan, courtesy name Fuxuan, was a native of Wuyang County, Dongjun.
Zhongzheng is upright and upright, and he is admired and respected by his hometown clan.
In the second year of Jianning, an imperial edict was issued to recruit virtuous men. Xie Bi, Chen Dun of Donghai, and Gongsun Du of Xuantu all passed the examination and were awarded the title of doctor.
At this time, a green snake appeared in the front hall, and the strong wind blew down the trees. He ordered the officials below to report their mistakes in political affairs.
Xie Bi sent a secret report and said: I heard that harmony comes from virtue, and evil comes from political failure.
God has issued a warning, and the emperor must think about his faults; if there are shortcomings in politics and religion, traitors should be punished. Snakes are born from Yin energy and are similar to dragons. Dragons have scales and are the symbols of armored soldiers.
"Hong Fan Zhuan" says: When Jue is extremely weak, he will suffer from the sins of snakes and dragons.
It is said that if the emperor is weak, snakes and dragons will appear strangely. Also, the star Yinghuo is guarding Kangxing, lingering around, as if there are conspiracies by the ministers on the left and right to cause trouble. I wonder who is your most trusted person when the emperor is leisurely and working in the palace on weekdays.
They should be repelled as soon as possible to eliminate God's warning.
I also heard that a snake is a symbol of auspiciousness for a woman.
I think the empress dowager decided to go deep into the palace to support the emperor. The "Book" said: Father, son, brother, the sins are not related to each other.
Could it be that the Queen Mother was involved in Dou's execution?
She was imprisoned in the palace, and her sorrow touched the heart of heaven. If she died of illness, how could the emperor show his face to the people of the world?
In the past King Xiang of Zhou could not respect his mother, so Rong and Di invaded her.
Emperor Xiaohe never ceased the kindness of Empress Dou, and was praised by all generations.
The empress is the son of a person, and now he recognizes Emperor Huan as his father. Can he not recognize the Queen Mother as his mother?
"The Deed of Assistance to the Gods" says: The emperor performs filial piety and the barbarians are at peace.
Now the border is getting smaller day by day, and wars are ongoing. If we don't practice filial piety, what can we do to save it?
Your Majesty, please admire Yu and Shun's teachings of governing the world with filial piety, and meditate on "Kaifeng" to comfort your mother.
I also heard that the country has set up honorary rewards to reward those who have meritorious deeds. Founding a country and carrying on a family, don’t use it for villains.
Now the hero has lived abroad for a long time and has not been promoted to an official position. My mother actually enjoys a big title because of her personal favor. Strong winds and hail are also due to this.
The late Taifu Chen Fan also assisted the emperor and served the country diligently. He worked day and night without slacking off at all.
However, he was actually framed by a group of bad guys and was massacred indiscriminately. The cruelty was so extreme that the whole world was shocked. Chen Fan's students and former subordinates were also either imprisoned or banished.
Chen Fan is dead and cannot be redeemed!
His family members should be moved back to their place of origin and the internet ban should be lifted.
Prime Minister Taifu is an important weapon of the country and the lifeblood of the country.
Now among the four princes, only Sikong Liu Chong is not a liar and keeps himself clean, while the rest are just some of the bandits who live in a state of solitude. They are incompetent and must do bad things.
They can be dismissed or dismissed due to the occurrence of disasters.
Recruiting the former Sikong Wang Chang and Changle Shaofu Li Ying to jointly manage political affairs. In this way, the disasters of the common people can be eliminated and the country can be peaceful.
I am a commoner in the mountains and I don’t know the country’s laws. The emperor told me not to hide anything, that is to say, I don’t have any worries. How dare you not speak freely and forget your taboos?
I beg the emperor to punish me for my sins.
The people around the emperor were disgusted by what he said and sent him to serve as the prime minister of Guangling Prefecture.
Later, he resigned from office and returned home.
Cao Shao, the nephew of Cao Jie, the official minister of Zhongchang, was the governor of Dongjun and hated Xie Bi. So under the guise of other matters, he was arrested, tortured and interrogated, and died in prison. At that time, people mourned his death.
In the second year of Chuping, Zhao Qian, the captain of the Sili school, appealed to Xie Bizhongjie and asked for revenge for his resentment, so he arrested Cao Shao and killed him.
