Among the five types of etiquette, the third type refers to the etiquette for guests, including meetings with emperors and gatherings of princes. Since the Zhou Dynasty, the etiquette system for sending people has become more and more complicated.
Since the Qin Dynasty burned books and harassed Confucian scholars, the laws and regulations of the past dynasties were incomplete.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, Shusun Tong began to be sent to formulate etiquette, referring to the etiquette of the previous generations, but there were often changes. There is a formal ceremony in Modai etiquette. On the first day of the first lunar month, at less than seven quarters of the night, the bell rang to accept gifts. Dukes and princes stood on both sides of the court with gifts. Officials with a salary of more than two thousand dan went to the palace to shout long live, and then played music and feasted.
When Emperor Wu of Wei established his capital in Ye, he held a formal ceremony in Wenchang Hall, using the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, and set up hundreds of lanterns.
The Jin Dynasty accepted the mandate of heaven, and Emperor Wu revised the etiquette of the first lunar month of the first lunar month. This is what the "Xianning Notes" talks about.
Fu Xuan's "Yuan Hui Li" said: After examining the dispatch training of the Xia Dynasty, integrating the regulations of the Yin, Shang and Zhou dynasties, and adopting the old rituals of the Qin and Han Dynasties, we formulated the etiquette for the first lunar month of the first lunar month.
This shows how eclectic it is.
"Xianning Note": On the day before the first day of the first lunar month, the relevant officials should keep their duties.
Less than ten minutes into the night, all the officials gathered and the torches in the courtyard were lit.
He went to court to congratulate, stood up, reported, and congratulated the queen.
After retreating, enter through the Yunlong Shuzhonghua Gate and sit in the wing in front of the Cambodian Gate.
At less than seven quarters of the night, all the officials, including the Langguan who received the gift, including the officials in charge of documents, stood in order, and the guards on the steps were like a ceremony for the emperor to arrive in front of the palace.
The timer was less than five quarters, and officials such as Ye Zhe, Pu She, and Da Honglu reported to the ministers that they were in their places.
The timer ran out, and the waiter announced that everything was ready outside.
The emperor came out, bells and drums played music, and officials at all levels knelt down to worship.
Taichang led the emperor to ascend the throne, the bells and drums stopped, and officials at all levels stood up.
Da Honglu knelt down to report and ask for congratulations.
The master of ceremonies sang praises to the emperor and invited him to the palace.
Da Honglu knelt down and sang praises. The vassal king's ministers presented a piece of white jade to each other and paid two obeisances to congratulate him.
Taichang informed Wangdu to go to the palace.
The visitor led them to the hall and sat down facing the emperor.
The emperor stood and the king bowed twice.
The emperor sat down and bowed twice again.
Kneeling, he placed the jade in front of the throne and bowed twice again.
After the ceremony, the audience led them down the hall and back to their original seats.
The chief minister sang praises and the emperor invited the Taiwei and others.
So Gong, Tejin, Xiongnu Nanchanyu, and General Jinzi faced the west of Dahonglu, and the officials with two thousand stones, two thousand stones, thousand stones, and six hundred stones faced the west of Daxingling, and they all knelt down facing north.
Honglu sang praises, and Taiwei, Zhongerqianshi and others presented jade, fur, silk, lambs, wild geese, and wild ducks, and paid two obeisances to congratulate him.
Taichang sang praises to the emperor and invited the Duke and others to come to the palace.
The Master of Ceremonies guided the Duke to General Jinzi and went to the palace.
The emperor stood and all the ministers knelt down twice.
The emperor sat down and the ministers bowed twice more.
Kneeling, he placed the jade, fur and silk in front of the emperor's throne and bowed twice again.
After the ceremony is completed, the visitors are guided down the hall and back to their original seats.
When the duke presents the jade to complete the ceremony, he will sing praises to His Highness at the same time. The etiquette is the same for those who have received two thousand stones or less.
After completing the ceremony, gifts were given to Zhi Lang. Zhi Lang handed over jade and silk to the visitor, and lambs, wild geese, and wild geese to the eunuch.
Tai Leling knelt down and begged to play elegant music, and the music was played in order.
Cheng Huang ordered a chariot to be sent out. The emperor got into the chariot tiredly and all the ministers were seated.
At six quarters during the day, guests from all ethnic groups enter in order, and after bowing twice, they sit down.
Three-quarters of an hour after the car drove in, it came out again, with bells and drums playing music.
The visitors and servants knelt to present the memorial and invited the ministers to come to the hall.
The visitor guided the prince to the palace with two thousand stones, but the thousand stones and the six hundred stones stayed in place.
The visitor guided the king to the wine vessel, poured out the longevity wine, and handed it to the attendant on his knees. The waiter knelt down and placed the wine in front of the emperor's seat, and the king withdrew.
The king poured the wine himself and placed it in front of his throne. The visitor knelt down and reported that someone from the vassal king's subordinates raised a glass and wished the emperor a long life.
Music was played from all directions, and the ministers paid two more obeisances.
After drinking, pray twice more.
The visitor guided the king and others back to their original positions.
The people at the steps of the palace were announced to be seated, and all the ministers knelt to agree.
Shizhong, Zhongshu Ling and Shangshu Ling respectively served longevity wine in the hall.
The ceremonial music was played, and the eunuch ordered the ministers to drink wine.
The royal wine was brought to the steps, and the eunuch ordered him to kneel down and give it to the waiter, who then kneeled and brought it to the throne.
So he distributed wine to all officials.
Tai Le ordered him to kneel down and play the "Song of Deng", and then he retired after playing three times.
The eunuch ordered to kneel down and ask for the royal meal to be prepared. When the meal was delivered to the steps, all the officials stood up.
Taiguan Ling knelt down with a spoon and handed it to Situ, and knelt down with rice and handed it to Da Sinong. Shang Shi took the case and handed it to Chijie, who knelt and placed it in front of the throne.
The ministers sat down.
Tai Le ordered him to kneel down and play the "Shiju Music".
In the Tai Palace, the dining table for hundreds of officials was filled with food.
After eating, Tai Le ordered me to kneel down and play, "Please come in."
The pieces are played in sequence.
The advocating order came forward and knelt down to play, please recommend everyone's talents in order.
So the officials in charge of registers in each county were summoned to the front to accept the emperor's order at the foot of the stairs.
After the banquet and music were over, a visitor knelt down and played, "Please leave the court and rest."
The bells and drums played, and the ministers faced north and knelt down twice before leaving the palace.
Then when the timer reaches less than seven quarters at night, it is called morning congratulations, and when the timer reaches three quarters during the day, it is called a day meeting when hundreds of officials serve longevity wine.
In addition, thirty female musicians were arranged to play Chinese music outside the yellow tent.
The Yangtze River is unsettled, and there are no more morning greetings.
When the timer reaches less than ten quarters at night, the Xuanyang Gate is opened, and the palace door is not opened until early in the morning. When the timer reaches five quarters during the day, the emperor does not come out to accept congratulations.
The people the Crown Prince came out to meet included people who were descendants of the previous three dynasties and were named princes and nobles above the prince level.
During the New Year's Day gathering, a wine vessel called a white tiger bottle was set up in the palace lobby, with a white tiger painted on the cover. If someone could speak out and give advice, he would open the bottle and drink.
According to the etiquette, the white tiger bottle is left over from the ritual of toasting after the banquet. The white tiger cover is made into a white tiger bottle and is a matter for future generations, which expresses fearlessness.
Under the system of the Wei Dynasty, kings of vassal states could not meet the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Ming, those who came to court had special permission and could not be regarded as routine.
During the Taishi period, the relevant officials reported: From all the princes and countries, those who came to the palace to pay homage to the princes and below were to go to the east, west, north, and south twice for a round. Three years later, there was one round, and after one week, it started again.
If something happens temporarily, the meeting will be continued in the second year.
After the second court meeting, you can only come to the DPRK again after three years, and you cannot violate the regulations on the number of court visits.
The etiquette for court meetings is to hold the jade in person, just like the old court system.
In the years when they are not in court, they each send their ministers to visit and pay their respects.
The emperor is ready to play.
The princes east of the Yangtze River did not go to their own country. Some of them accepted appointments and lived in other places. Just like the etiquette of two thousand stones for the chief of a prince or the governor, there was no system for paying court and greetings, so this etiquette was invalid.
In the Han Dynasty, because Emperor Gao pacified the Qin Dynasty in October, we tentatively set October as the beginning of the year.
When Emperor Wu arrived, although the first month of the Xia Dynasty was adopted as the beginning of the year, there were still banquets on the first day of every month, and on the first day of October, there were still banquets.
The etiquette of the banquet is that within seven quarters of the night, congratulations and gifts are received. The princes present jade, two thousand stones for lambs, two thousand stones for geese, and four hundred stones or less for wild geese.
The third prince went up to the palace with the jade in his hands and went to the throne, facing north.
Taichang announced that the emperor stood up for the three princes.
The third prince fell to his knees.
The emperor sat down and stepped forward to offer the jade.
All the officials congratulated him, and more than two thousand stones went to the palace to shout long live and raise their glasses. When the meal is served, the apprentice holds the soup, and the big farmer holds the rice, and plays music to serve the meal.
The officials accepted the rewards, the banquet began, and music was played loudly, just like the ceremony on the first day of the first lunar month.
Wei and Jin received congratulations from the four princes and officials at all levels on the winter solstice, and held small court gatherings.
The scale of court etiquette is second only to New Year's Day.
In ancient times, there were no emperors who did not patrol the territory.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Wen, the world was divided into three parts, and border wars were frequent. The emperor's chariots were frequently dispatched, and no year was peaceful. They were probably dealing with immediate events, and were not based on the laws of the previous dynasties.
Emperor Ming visited the east three times in total. He visited the old people and provided relief to the poor in the places he passed. Sometimes he gave grain and silk as rewards, just like the ancient emperors during their inspection tours.
In the first year of his reign, Man Gong visited Luoyang County and gave different rewards to the elderly and local farm officials.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he issued an edict to the two thousand chief officials of the governor, saying: In ancient times, emperors inspected the mountains in all directions every year, and then the leaders of the two princes in the east and west reported their duties, or else they sent envoys to inspect.
Therefore, even the remote and subtle things are not kept in the dark. The situation below is grasped by the above, and the will of the above is known from afar. The men and women who have become widowed have all found their destination. Therefore, the customs and achievements passed down, and the good reputation have been preserved to this day.
I have been on the throne for several years, and I feel like I am standing in front of a deep valley. I get up early, be greedy for darkness, and be wary of fear. I can't fall asleep at dawn. I sit and wait for dawn, worrying about natural and man-made disasters in all directions, and I feel sad about it.
Self-encouragement, self-discipline, and hope that everything will be done properly.
I often worry that officials are emotional and unable to show sincerity, state affairs are complicated and insufficiently considered, and there are political and legal errors, but I cannot see them all.
The people are at fault, and the responsibility lies with me.
It's just that the years are hard, and there is no time to take care of inspections. The people are not stable, so how can we sympathize with them?
Now I am sending an envoy, the deputy minister Huangmen, to accept the mission and set out in all directions, traveling all over the world, personally meeting with the governor's two thousand officials, clarifying my mind, visiting and searching for the pros and cons of things, investigating political enlightenment, and asking about the sufferings of the world.
The classics of the Zhou Dynasty say: A book is written about the benefits and harms to the people; a book is written about the people's etiquette, political affairs, and whether punishments and prohibitions are reasonable; a book is written about riots, evil, and violations of laws; a book is written about epidemics, deaths, famines, and poverty; a book about health, happiness, harmony, and peace is written.
I also prepared articles and memorials, so that I could draw from ancient times as clearly as if I were doing it myself.
Great men and gentlemen, each do your best, concentrate on your affairs, good strategies and plans, harsh words and warnings, all tell the messenger, do not hide anything.
I am humbly waiting for your opinions, please work hard to satisfy my wishes.
The new etiquette, including patrolling the mountains in all directions, burning firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, looking at mountains and rivers, and reporting on the establishment of palaces, are all the same as those in the past.
When the princes met with the emperor, the guests and gift recipients were treated as if they were at court, without flags.
Zhiyu believes: In the etiquette of court meetings, when princes meet the emperor, they each set up their own flags.
The round shape of the flag is used to distinguish the title and show the majesty of the rank.
The Book of Songs says: When a gentleman arrives, he observes his flag.
A new liturgy should be instituted and flags set up as in the ancient liturgy.
The emperor wrote a letter to Shao agreeing with him.
However, this etiquette was not implemented until the end of the Jin Dynasty.
Feng Hui's statement cannot be found in the classics.
In the ritual system, there are sacrifices to heaven for the things in the sky, and sacrifices to the earth for the things on the earth. Because the sacrifice to the sky on famous mountains is successful, the phoenix descends and the turtle and dragon arrive.
The emperor patrolled the territory, went to famous mountains in all directions, burned firewood to worship heaven, and reported success in business. The things were similar but different.
The prophecies and other theories that predict good and bad fortunes all say that the emperor worshiped heaven at Mount Tai, worshiped earth at Liangfu, and changed the dynasty and country title.
Qin and Mo implemented the Yi ceremony, and the history books of the previous dynasties each described the ceremony system.
During the Taihe period of Emperor Wei Ming, Jiang Ji, the guardian of the army, reported: Among the emperor's grand ceremonies, going out for patrols was ranked first; the ceremony of announcing ancestors and gods and offering sacrifices to heaven and earth was ranked first.
Therefore, since ancient times, when dynasties changed and people accepted the destiny, there was no one who did not go to Liangfu, no one who did not climb Mount Tai, no one who did not write down his name that will be passed down forever, and no one who did not fail to record the moment when heaven and man meet.
Therefore, Sima Xiangru said that since the beginning of written records, some of the seventy-two generations of kings have followed the laws of the previous generations, and some have left teachings for future generations.
Tai Shigong said that it was the fault of the officials that the emperor had sage ideas but did not announce them.
So if the beautiful virtues of the original creation are not inscribed on the stones of Liangshan, it will not be able to show the emperor's achievements and show the immortal scenery to all the people.
The proverb says that praising the virtues of Yao and Shun in front of the king is like a son praising someone else's father in front of his biological father.
Today, the Wei Dynasty inherited the shortcomings and chaos of the feudal feudal regimes, saved the country from the hardships of exile, inherited the decline of the past millennium, and continued the neglected cause of a hundred generations.
Starting from Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen, and ending with the Emperor himself, we have therefore referred to the achievement of morality and justice in heaven and earth and the upholding of the enlightenment of the gods.
God's retribution presents an auspicious scene. Compared with ancient times, there is no similar example.
As for how many generations have passed until now, no big ceremony has been held.
Perhaps it can be deduced that his ambition is to wipe out the remaining thieves and clean up the remaining filth, and he has no energy to take care of this matter.
If that is the case, if Sanmiao is disobedient by the Yangtze River, Shun should abolish the ritual of patrolling. If Xu Yi is tyrannical in Huaisi, King Sheng of Zhou should abolish the ritual of patrolling Daiyue.
Besides, last year's defeat of Wu at the Han River in the Zujiang River, and this year's defeat of the Shu army in Longxi, the shock and defeat to the enemy was incomparable, and it would not affect Feng Chan's affairs.
This etiquette has been abandoned for a long time and cannot be determined in a short time.
It should be left to the minister to write out this etiquette in a comprehensive way, and to predict the year and moment through divination, so that it can be announced to heaven so that the people of the world can be satisfied.
I was serving in the military and could not fulfill this big wish, so I risked my life to express my thoughts.
The edict said: Hearing Jiang Ji's words made me sweat down to my feet.
Since the beginning of the world, more than seventy monarchs have been granted the title of Zen.
Therefore, Tai Shigong said that although there are kings who accept the destiny of heaven, their achievements cannot be spread everywhere, so they have been neglected for more than a thousand years in the middle and hundreds of years in the recent ones. This etiquette defect has not been recorded.
What virtue do I have to dare to do this?
Does it mean that there is no such thing in the world, but I have the ambition to climb Tongshan Mountain!
I dare not deceive God.
What Jiang Ji said is beautiful, but it doesn't help me.
It is enough for the Minister of Public Affairs, Chang Shu, to read it. There is no need to discuss the matter any more, and there is no need to reply to this edict.
Although the emperor rejected Jiang Ji's memorial, he actually sent Zhitanglong to draft the etiquette of the sealing ceremony. Since the world was not unified, he did not want to hold a grand ceremony soon. When Gao Tanglong died, the matter was dropped.
When Emperor Wu pacified Wu and unified the country, in the ninth month of the first year of Taikang, Shangshu ordered Wei Xuan, Shangshu Zuopushe Shantao, Shangshu Youpushe Wei Shu, Shangshu Liu Sai, Sikong Zhanghua and others to report: We heard that since the beginning of mankind, there have been princes, but the number of years cannot be recorded.
To establish virtue, save the world, and promote benevolence and righteousness, there are seventy-four families who have climbed Mount Tai for this purpose, and there are fourteen people who know their names.
Their names and deeds were lost, and there were too many to remember without leaving any reputation.
The virtues of the Jin Dynasty began with Chong Li, who assisted Zhuan Xu, and by the Xia and Shang Dynasties, a system of inheritance from generation to generation was established in heaven and earth.
In the Zhou Dynasty, there was no stopping building meritorious deeds.
Jin's virtue increased, and the people in the world helped the Mingsheng, and the Shu Han was pacified externally. Within the four seas, people's hearts turned to Jin, and military victory actually relied on virtue.
When he arrived at your majesty, he was appointed by fate to receive the throne and expand his great cause. The people admired and followed him.
Only along the Yangtze River, Dongting Lake, Yuan River, and Xiang River, there are thugs who have relied on natural dangers and have been disobedient for generations.
His Majesty's miraculous strategic judgment ordered the army to go out for a crusade. As soon as the army showed its power, it was wiped out and pacified in dozens of days.
Binding evil people and pardoning their transgressions, clouds flowing, rain spreading, gathering around us from all directions, the influence of reputation and education reaches all parts of the world.
Even Huang Xuan's conquests, Yu the Great's far-reaching strategies, and the prosperity of the Zhou Dynasty could not exceed today's!
As for the writings on stone tablets that promote the way of saints, they are famous for their records in previous generations. They use numbers to represent objects and events to illustrate speeches. Even the ancient Hetu Luoshu does not show any signs beyond this.
We should hold grand ceremonies, salute at Zhongyue, sacrifice to heaven and earth at Mount Tai and Liangfu, issue orders to promote virtue, clarify the most noble position, enjoy blessings from heaven, treat the people sincerely, carve a mark for thousands of years, and spread a reputation that will be passed down to future generations, so that no one will not be inspired by it for a hundred generations.
This is the grand cause of the emperor and the greatest wish of God and man.
The edict said: Although the fleeing enemy invaders have been eliminated, there is still an alarm for the external blockage, and the people inside are still uneasy. There should be no discussion about the deeds of great virtue.
Wei Cui and others reported again: "Now it reaches the sea and the desert in the west. In the north of the desert, there is no one in the north and south who does not come to submit. The vast territory of Dayu's time has indeed been passed."
The moral relationship between heaven and man has been completed, and Weiwei's achievements have been established. It is time to formulate etiquette for the earth gods, climb Mount Tai to offer sacrifices, and express sincerity to heaven in order to repay the desire to enter the gods.
Begging to act according to the previous memorial.
The edict said: Nowadays, yin and yang have not been reconciled, criminal laws and government decrees are not yet appropriate, and the people have not yet returned to their destination, how can they write down their own deeds and report success!
The edict does not allow it.
Wei Cui and others reported again: We have heard that those who are in the position of emperors must have the spirit of heaven and must adapt to the destiny; those who have made achievements in helping the people must have a grand and virtuous appearance, and have a ceremony to report success to heaven.
You can't cheat if you don't have merit, and you can't be humble if you have merit. This has been the truth since ancient times.
However, the edict showed humility and repeatedly declined the ceremony of conferring Zen status. Although there was virtue, he declined without taking credit.
The duty of the Three Gongs is to be in charge of heaven and earth. In fact, they are in charge of people and national affairs, and draw opinions from them.
Therefore, in the Han Dynasty, if someone was granted the title of Zen, he would not be responsible for this matter unless he had this official position.
Our previous memorials mainly stated the achievements of our ancestors, and in compliance with the destiny of heaven, His Majesty's virtues gathered together from all over the world. We speculated that the ancient times and the present should be revised, and this etiquette should be revised.
As for the determination of the year and month, it must be discussed by the Taiwei, Taifu, Situ, Sikong, General, etc., and then reported.
The edict stated: Although the south of the Yangtze River was pacified by the raids, the credit was due to those involved and was not enough to report success to heaven.
It is hoped that the princes of all countries will consider Guangda Enlightenment to stabilize the Central Plains, so that the people can gain peace and allow them to rest and recuperate.
This is my wish from morning to night, and I have nothing else to answer for you.
Wei Cui and others reported again: We have heard that the kings of the three dynasties of Tang and Yu who made great achievements in saving the world, all of them obeyed the will of heaven, coordinated the will of the people below, climbed mountains, went to Liangfu, and did not refuse to do things, probably they cannot refuse.
Nowadays, His Majesty’s meritorious service exceeds that of a hundred kings, and his virtue is unmatched. His magnificent achievements and outstanding career are certainly not something that we can clearly comment on.
However, the imperial edict was too modest, repeatedly self-deprecating, not responding when the time came, and giving up good names without taking credit, which caused major ceremonial deficiencies in the dynasty and blocked the ardent hopes of the gods, making the laws of the Jin Dynasty different from those of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors.
We really dare not follow the edict. Please implement it according to the previous memorial.
The edict said: Now is the time to jointly consider the promotion of great righteousness and improve various achievements. Let’s wait until later. I have nothing to reply to the various claims.
The princes and relevant officials reported again: Since ancient times, the sage emperors have spread their glory all over the world. They have worshiped heaven and earth at famous mountains. There are seventy-four kings recorded in historical records.
After Shun Yu gained control of the world, he patrolled the mountains in all directions and personally implemented their moral principles.
The "Book of Changes" records the investigation of customs in the four directions, the "Li" records climbing famous mountains to report success to heaven, and the "Book of Songs" praises mountain climbing for sacrifices. All are recorded in historical policies.
King Wen of Zhou worked for Yin as the Western Bodhisattva. Duke Zhou only owned one Lu among the vassal states. They either offered sacrifices to heaven at Qishan Mountain or enshrined Zen in Tongshan. By virtue of virtue alone, they could do so.
Since then, there have been countless people who did not have enough merit but went beyond the etiquette to become Zen. Their names have not been lost and have been passed down to this day.
What's more, Emperor Gaozu Xuan created the imperial career and unified the overseas; Emperor Shizong Jing assisted the great achievements and brought peace to China; Emperor Taizu Wen accepted the destiny and founded the Jin Dynasty, wiped out and pacified the Shu Han; His Majesty responded to the way of heaven and raised a new dynasty, unified the world and the four corners of the world, spread his blessings to the people, and was powerful in all directions.
In the past, the Han Dynasty lost its laws and regulations and was at odds with the three kingdoms of Wu and Shu. Since the war began, it has been nearly a hundred years. The terrain has been difficult and the customs have been different, and the people's wishes have been cut off.
Nowadays, the unfettered enemy invaders have been pacified in two generations. If they are not clever and brave, and follow the original intention of God, who can achieve such great achievements!
We are fortunate enough to have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, to personally experience this great change, to witness peace, justice and beauty to the extreme. Who should we pass it on to?
We should follow the instructions sent by the previous dynasties and imitate the ancient times. We should carve stones on Mount Tai to record our achievements, climb mountains to report successes to heaven, promote the system of rituals and music, correct the regulations of sacrificial places, make our name famous for generations, and honor our ancestors. Therefore, I risk my life to report this endless wish to the emperor. Please tell Taichang and prepare the etiquette. The emperor also issued an edict saying: What is discussed is indeed a grand event of the past dynasties, but it cannot be implemented at present. This matter will not be mentioned again.
Emperor Ai came to the throne and wanted to respect Princess Zhang.
Huan Wen thought that she should be called Tai Madam.
Shangshu Pushe Jiangbu commented: Yu Shun pursued the nature of benevolence and filial piety and devoted himself to the etiquette of serving his relatives. As a result, he obtained the noble status of the King of Heaven and became rich all over the world. But Gusou had no place to establish himself and no title.
A heart of filial piety fills the sky. She would rather endure her father's low status than use a badge to make him prominent. Isn't it because there is no reason for a son to knight his father, which makes no sense in terms of logic and cannot express his family affection?
"Spring and Autumn Classic" says that Ji Jijiang married into the capital, and "Biography" says that for parents, even though their daughter is the Queen of Heaven, she still calls her "Ji Jijiang". This means that the dignity of the daughter will not affect the parents.
Some people think that if the dignity of children does not affect their parents, then why did King Wu give additional titles to King Tai, Wang Ji, and King Wen?
The virtues of the three kings of the Zhou Dynasty matched those of heaven and earth, and the rise of the emperor's deeds began from that time.
Therefore, King Wu admired and pursued the achievements of previous generations, so according to the destiny, he added a king's title to respect his ancestors, indicating that it was not because of the son's honor that it affected the parents.
According to "Li", the young cannot give eulogies to praise the elders, the lowly ones cannot make eulogies to praise the noble ones, and the young and lowly people cannot commend the older and noble ones, so how dare they give them honorary titles!
Mozu revered the Grand Duke because he understood the words in the family motto. Xun Yue believed that there was no greater filial piety than respecting the father, so he applied the son's noble status to his parents. The words in the family motto were wrong.
As for the filial piety chapter, you don't need to buy a noble person with a distinguished title, but give more gold, silver, coins, silk and silk. It's not that a son fails to fulfill his filial piety, it's because the saint's code cannot be exceeded.
In the Spring and Autumn Period, when a concubine inherited the throne, his mother could be called Madam.
Is it possible that we should not be cautious when conferring titles on mothers because of our sons? Should we report to the ancestors of the ancestral temple and grant titles based on the orders of the previous monarchs?
I think the edict should go to court and confer the honorable lady as the Crown Princess.
Nowadays, when the emperor orders nobles to be conferred titles, it means that the son is conferring titles on his mother.
If a nobleman faces north and kneels before receiving a title, it means that the mother has become her son's minister.
Heaven is superior and earth is inferior, this is stipulated by fame and position, mother is noble and son is humble, this is the order of human relations.
Although it is intended to make the noble status higher, it actually makes her lower; although the national code is clarified, it is actually abolished.
Moreover, every move of the king must be recorded by the historian.
If the recorded policies and strategies were shown to future generations, it would probably not go well!
I think it should be reported to the temple of Sutra, saying that noble people are extremely benevolent and virtuous, and should use special etiquette to repay the kindness of upbringing.
According to the order of the ancestor's spirit, the matter does not depend on oneself.
Although the concubine and empress are the names of the monarch's spouses, there are wives and nine concubines starting from the empress, and none of them are called concubines.
It is not unfair for Duke Huan to say that the title should be promoted to Tai Fu.
If you think the title of Madam is not enough, you can call her the Crown Princess.
Huang means the king, and the king and his wife both make sense in terms of name and etiquette.
The emperor specially sent a letter to Shao to worship the imperial concubine.
On Bingchen in March, Wang Tian, ​​the eunuch and Taibao, was awarded the jade seal ribbon and ceremonial clothes, which were exactly the same as those of the Queen Mother.
He also issued an edict saying: The court minister did not show respect to the concubine. Is this in line with etiquette?
Taichang Jiang Di commented: If the status and title are not the highest, the greatest respect should not be paid.
Emperor Xiaowu posthumously awarded Concubine Zheng of Kuaiji the title of Empress Dowager Jianwen to show his respect, and issued an edict asking whether a tomb should be established.
Wang Shi replied: According to the three generations of ancestors who followed Zhongzong Jing, no tombs were opened, so we just need to change the cemetery system.
When the Empress Dowager Chu was managing the affairs of the court, she discussed the etiquette when entering the palace.
Ji Wang and Wang Biao both thought: Lu Ling, Huan Zi still followed the way of being a son, let alone the Queen Mother!
There is no etiquette for visiting the emperor's father.
The discussion of the eight officials including Shangshu held that: To strictly follow the rules of being a child is detrimental to kingship, and to completely follow the rules of monarchs and ministers is detrimental to filial piety.
In the court, you are like a king and a minister, and when you meet in private, you are respectful to your father. This is fair.
The precedent in Han and Wei is that the crown prince declares his vassalage to the emperor.
Xinli believes that since the prince is named after the son and is also called a minister, it is unreasonable to have two titles: minister and son, so the system of the prince calling himself a minister should be abolished.
Zhiyu believes: "The Classic of Filial Piety" states that to serve the king as one would serve one's father, it is both a minister and a son, so there is nothing wrong with calling him a minister. New etiquette should be formulated, and the crown prince should call his ministers as before.
Shaoshu complied.
In Wuchen, March of the third year of Taining, Emperor Ming made Prince Sima Yan the crown prince.
Guisi, Shaoshu says: According to the rites, no one is born noble, so the emperor's eldest son is equal to a scholar.
However, since the Han and Wei Dynasties, the crown prince has been respected, officials have been called ministers to him, and court ministers have paid homage to him. This is very unfounded.
I used to be in Shugong and didn't have time to reform.
Now that Sima Yan is young, ministers who are good at flattering have come to him first and will make him get used to what he sees day by day and think that it is all natural. Is this something that can educate him?
The person in charge discussed it with the ministers and officials inside and outside, so that the matter must comply with etiquette.
Shangshu Ling Bian Yi commented that: "The Rites of Zhou" states that the queen and the prince do not meet the emperor, which shows that the etiquette system is the same as that of the monarch, both to respect the crown prince and to distinguish the eldest son of the royal family from others.
For now, I have to serve the prince like a king and have to bow to him.
If the prince is humble, he should pay his respects.
I think the establishment of the crown prince, the sacrifices and reports to heaven and earth, and the rightful position as crown prince, how can it be equivalent to meeting the prince as guest and host?
The rules of Mo and Wei should be preserved and the whole dynasty should worship together.
followed his advice.
During the Taiyuan period, Shangshu Fushu issued an official document inquiring about the etiquette and clothing worn by princes and princes when meeting the crown prince.
Che Yin, the official in charge of the Imperial Palace, discussed and said: The ministers of the imperial court should wear red robes and turbans and bow before the prince.
There is no such record in the scriptures. The former Taifu Yang Hu wrote a letter to congratulate the prince and said that kowtowing was a capital crime. This was evidence of kneeling and worshiping.
In addition, in the third year of Taining, an edict was issued to discuss this etiquette. Shangshu ordered Bian Yi to say that the rules of Han and Wei should be retained and the whole dynasty should worship together.
Wearing red clothes and crowns is only suitable for those in the imperial dynasty, so wearing a headscarf is enough.
Most of the discussions at the court were the same.
In the twelfth year of Taiyuan, there was a discussion about the status of the descendants of the two kings and the status of the prince.
Doctor Yu Hongzhi and Shangshu participated in the discussion and both believed that Chen Liu was an honored guest of the country.
Although the crown prince is the crown prince of the country, he is still in the position of minister. King Chenliu should be ranked above the crown prince.
Sima Qin, the king of Chenliu, said that he had been ill for many years and asked to be dismissed. He ordered Dr. Li Guan to discuss the matter.
Doctor Cao Dan said: Sima Kan, as the master of sacrifices, did not preside over the date of the sacrifices, which should be the same as that of Mu Zi and Meng Ji.
Wang Biaozhi said: The descendants of the two kings should not be deposed easily.
There is no record in the biographies of anyone who had already become a king and retired due to illness. This shows that there was no such ritual system in ancient times.
Meng Ji and Mu Zi were about to become kings, which was different from the situation of King Chenliu.
In the fourth year of Xiankang's reign, Emperor Cheng went to the palace and sent envoys to pay homage to Taifu, Taiwei and Sikong.
"Notes on the Instrument", Tai Le is guarding the musical instrument in the palace.
Playing music in the courtyard is not a sacrificial banquet, so there is no system for setting up music.
Taichang Cai Mo commented: If things are done respectfully, the etiquette will be complete, and if the etiquette is complete, there will be a music system.
Music is used to show respect for things and to demonstrate principles, not for sensory pleasure. Therefore, music is also used in crown ceremonies, not just banquets.
There is music at the banquet, which is also used to show respect to the guests.
Therefore, Yu Zhi went to Chu as an envoy, and Chu Zi held a banquet in honor of him. Yu Zhi declined and said: "I will not forget the friendship of my previous monarchs, and gave me great etiquette and a full set of music. Judging from his words, we can know that there was music at the banquet."
Dukes and ministers are people who are highly valued by the king, so they stand up for them on the throne, get off the chariot for them, and call them uncle when speaking.
"The Biography" says that the minister of state is the deputy of the monarch, so he appoints the son of the envoy. The emperor came to the palace in person, and hundreds of officials accompanied him in the procession, which meant that he was respectful to the matter.
In ancient times, music was used when the king of heaven hosted banquets to entertain envoys from vassal states, appointed generals, and dispatched envoys.
Therefore, the "Preface to Poems" says: "The emperor is beautiful" is a poem sent by the king to envoys.
He also said: "Cai Wei" is used to send garrison troops, "Chu Cha" is used to comfort returning generals, and "Zhang Du" is used to comfort returning soldiers, all of which are played and sung.
Nowadays, the importance of appointing ambassadors and paying homage to ministers is different from ministers of vassal states.
Light rituals do require music, and heavy rituals are also appropriate.
Therefore, when sending envoys to the palace in person, they should play music with bells and chimes.
The discussion and memorial follow his opinions.
The old rule in the Han and Wei Dynasties was that when the prince's concubines paid homage to his wife, the wife did not respond.
The new rituals believe that there is no ritual that cannot be reciprocated, and the system is changed so that concubines and duchess' wives reciprocate the concubines' bows.
Zhiyu believes that: According to etiquette, a concubine serves his wife just like a daughter-in-law serves her mother-in-law. I have to mourn for my wife for one year, but my wife does not have the corresponding etiquette. It can be seen that showing respect is the same as being a daughter-in-law, but even more despicable.
With different status and status, there is no reward in the first place.
There is no courtesy that cannot be reciprocated. This is not the case.
The purpose of distinguishing between concubines and concubines by the saints of the past generations was to cut off the trend of supremacy and supremacy.
Despite strict precautions, there are still cases of deviance and violation of etiquette.
New rituals should be made, naturally just like the old ones.
Shaoshu agreed with his opinion.
Among the five rites, the fourth is military. The military is used to achieve peace abroad and tranquility at home.
But military affairs are a bad thing, so hunting is used for exercises.
In the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, on the day of the Beginning of Autumn, after the suburban ceremony, the majestic martial arts began to be displayed, and the sacrificial animals were killed at Shumen and dedicated to the mausoleum and ancestral temple.
The ceremony was that the emperor drove a military chariot with a white horse and red hyenas, and personally held a crossbow to shoot the sacrifices, and the sacrifices were young deer.
The Dazai Ling and the visitor each loaded the deer into the car and quickly took it to the mausoleum and the ancestral temple.
Returning to the palace, he sent envoys to deliver silk and silk rewards to the military attachés.
The ceremony of military attaches training and practicing battle formations.
The etiquette of beheading sacrifices is called Chu Liu.
The officers and soldiers all practiced the sixty-four formations of Sun Wu's Art of War.
After the troops were withdrawn, the officials below the duke lined up in Luoyang's front street. The emperor arrived. The officials below the duke bowed down and bowed. The emperor got off the car. The duke saw the emperor's face and then returned to the palace.
There is a saying in ancient times that says to get off the car, so it is only implemented at this time.
This was probably a common ritual in the Han Dynasty.
In the 21st year of Emperor Xian's reign, Wei officials reported: In ancient times, martial arts were practiced throughout the four seasons during the breaks in farming.
Modai Xijing inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty. There were no martial arts exercises in three seasons, and there was only a martial arts examination in October.
Nowadays, the war has not subsided, and the soldiers and civilians are familiar with military affairs, so there is no need for drills in all seasons.
However, an auspicious day was chosen at the beginning of autumn to review the carriages and soldiers on a large scale. It was called a military parade. On the one hand, it conformed to the etiquette name, and on the other hand, it inherited the system of the Han Dynasty.
The memorial was approved.
This winter, during the military parade, the King of Wei personally mastered the golden button war drum to direct the advance and retreat.
In the first year of Yankang, Emperor Wen of Wei became King of Wei.
At the beginning of autumn in the sixth month of the year of sending, there was a military parade in the suburbs of Shu. The ministers presided over the ceremony and praised it. The king of Wei used a canopy for his chariot and personally directed the rhythm of the golden war drum.
In October of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Wei Ming, there was another military parade.
In September of the fourth year of Taishi, the first year of Xianning, the fourth year of Taikang, and the winter of the sixth year, Emperor Wu visited Xuanwu Temple in person and reviewed the troops on a large scale, but did not personally direct the advance or retreat.
After Emperor Hui, this etiquette was abandoned.
In the fourth year of Wutong Youxing, Shaoshu ordered the left and right guards and various military camps to practice and make wild goose feather battles according to the ceremony of Da Xi.
During the Xianhe reign of Emperor Cheng, Shaoshu ordered all internal and external armies to compete in an open field in the southern suburbs, so that place was called the fighting field.
From then on, the local governors Huan, Yu and other leaders often conducted military parades and drills, but the imperial court no longer had such things.
The precedent of the Han and Wei Dynasties is that when generals are sent out to fight, Fu Jielang will confer Fu Jie and ax iron in the court hall.
Later, the new etiquette formulated by Xunjie and others was to send generals, the emperor personally visited the palace, and the minister awarded the talisman, ax and cymbal. This was based on the ancient military book where the emperor appointed generals and had to kneel and push carts for them as a grand courtesy.
Among the five rites, the fifth one is Jia, which means that the principles of banquet, crown ceremony and wedding are complete.
At the end of the Zhou Dynasty, the society was in turmoil. The rites and regulations of the shooting ceremony and banquet held by the emperor in the court with the princes as guests were rarely practiced anymore, and the methods of crown ceremony, wedding and food had many changes.
Although "Zhou Rites" contains etiquette for clothing and crowns, there is no record of the emperor's crown.
In addition, "Etiquette" says that the crown ceremony for princes began in the late Xia Dynasty.
Both Wang and Zheng believed that the chaos at the end of the Xia Dynasty led to the usurpation of the throne and regicide, so they formulated the crown ceremony of duke and marquis, which proved that there was indeed no crown ceremony of emperor.
There is no crowning ceremony for a doctor. In ancient times, titles were only awarded after the age of fifty. How could there be a crowning ceremony for a doctor?
People in the Zhou Dynasty could not possess both political integrity and talent until they were fifty years old. At that time, using them to serve as officials was like performing official duties.
Therefore, for divining dates and guests, a crown ceremony was performed on the east side of the lobby to indicate the seniority, and a memorial ceremony was performed at the guest seat. Three crowns were crowned to show nobility.
However, since the Mo Dynasty, the princes of the emperor have adopted this etiquette.
Jiazi and Bingzi of the first lunar month are auspicious days, and the crowning ceremony can be performed, and the ceremony follows the crowning ceremony.
Emperor Mo Shun crowned him, and also used Cao Baoxin's new rites. The clothes were first crowned with silk cloth, and then he was crowned with Xian, then Que Bian, Wu Bian, and then Tongtian crown. They were all in Gaomiao, and he visited Shizu Temple according to the etiquette.
From the prince to the prince, only the crown of virtue is added.
According to this article, the original wearing of cloth crowns was based on the ancient system and was crowned in the ancestral temple.
Emperor Yi was crowned once.
This theory is that when a person is crowned three times, it means he has achieved something.
As for the emperor's princes, there is no record of the number of times they were crowned. This is because the emperor will rule the world and has a supreme status and complete morals. How can he be the same as a scholar?
The crown prince is crowned twice, and the prince and the eldest son of a prince are crowned three times.
Sunfan thinks it was once and twice, respectively, which are both wrong.
"Etiquette" says: The month is auspicious, the child is auspicious, because the year is good, and the month is auspicious.
For example, Duke Xiang of Lu performed the crowning ceremony in winter, and Emperor Hui of Han performed the crowning ceremony in March, which shows that there are no fixed months.
Since Hou Mo, the emperor's crowning has always been in the first month.
In the leap September of the second year of Xianning, an envoy was sent to crown King Sima Cambodia of Runan, indicating that it was not necessarily the first month.
According to the crown ceremony, it was held in the ancestral temple. However, Emperor Wu and Emperor Hui crowned the prince, and the prince went to the ancestral temple to pay homage to his ancestors. This ceremony was also imitated in the ancestral temple.
When Emperor Mu and Emperor Xiaowu were about to perform the crowning ceremony, they would first offer silk to the ancestral temple, and then pay homage to the ancestral temple again after the crowning ceremony.
When Emperor Hui became the crown prince, the crowning ceremony was to be held. Emperor Wu came to the palace in person and sent Sima Gui, the Prince of Gaoyang, who was also the situ, to crown the crown prince. Hua Yu, the captain of the Tunqi School, who was also the Guanglu doctor, was the master of ceremonies for the crowning ceremony.
Several emperors from Jiang Shu will perform the crowning ceremony, with musical instruments set up in advance and hundreds of officials accompanying them.
A big bed was laid in the palace in advance, and the royal order handed the crown, turban, hairpin, and uniform to the attendants. The Taiwei was responsible for tying the turban, and the Taibao crowned the king.
When the coronation was about to take place, the Taiwei knelt down and read the congratulations: "It's an auspicious month and auspicious day, the coronation begins."
The emperor respectfully thought about the great imperial cause.
Respect Wu Tian and imitate the four directions of heaven and earth.
Everything follows the ancestors and there is no end.
May you live a long and prosperous life, may Sasuke be blessed.
After the coronation, the attendant wore a black hatband. The attendant took off the emperor's crimson gauze clothes and put on the royal robes and crown.
When the matter was over, the Taibao led the ministers to toast the birthday, and everyone below the princes shouted long live three times before retreating.
According to the "Etiquette Notes", it is just a turban and crown added once.
In the tenth year of Taishi, Sima Cheng, the king of Nangong, was fifteen years old. According to the old etiquette, he should be crowned.
The officials discussed and reported: "Li, you enter youth at the age of fifteen, and the king gives birth to a son at the age of fifteen, which illustrates the appropriate time for crowning."
In addition, Han and Wei sent envoys to crown kings, which was not an ancient system.
So it was decided that all kings would be crowned at the age of fifteen and no more envoys would be sent.
Wang Biaozhi said that "Li" and "Zhuan" record that the crowning ceremony took place in the ancestral temple.
After he was crowned emperor, he went out by car to the Ancestral Temple to salute and report the success.
This is probably also imitating the ceremony in the ancestral temple.
In the fourth year of the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, he established the Queen Zhen family. The ceremony of that time has not been preserved.
In the second year of Xianning reign of Emperor Wu, the emperor came to the palace in person and sent a Taiwei to purchase the title of Empress Yang and marry her into the mourning queen.
For this reason, there was an amnesty, and there were different rewards for the princes and below, and all officials gave gifts.
In the eighth year of Taikang's reign, officials reported: As a wedding gift, the emperor's wedding used black coins, silk, and eight horses.
The princes used black coins and silk, plus bi and four horses.
The doctor used black coins and silk and added sheep.
In the Zhan Dynasty, fur horses were displayed in the atrium as gifts. The emperor added grain and the princes added Zhang. According to the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty, the use of bi was changed to the use of Zhang. Others, such as sheep, wild goose, wine, rice, silk and silk, remained the same.
For the weddings of princes, five pieces of coins and silk were added to the betrothal gifts, wedding gifts, and wedding gifts. The husband's family had to prepare all four horses for the wedding ceremony.
Only Zhang, the government prepared to send him away.
Shangshu Zhu Zheng commented: According to the old rules of the Wei Dynasty, the emperor and princes used fur horses as gifts for display in the atrium. The emperor added grain and the princes added Dazhang.
Empress Modai made a betrothal gift, which included two hundred catties of gold and twelve horses for the queen.
The lady has fifty pounds of gold and four horses.
One hundred and ninety bolts of silk were used as wedding gifts for kings and princesses of the Wei Dynasty.
With the rise of the Jin Dynasty, three hundred bolts of silk were used as a precedent.
Shaoshu said: When a princess gets married and comes to her husband's family, it is not appropriate to prepare all the items for her. Just give her enough money.
Only to Zhang, others will follow precedent.
In the second year of Emperor Xiankang's reign, the emperor came to the palace in person and sent envoys Zhuge Hui, who was also the Taibao, and the leading general, and Kong Yu, who was also the Taiwei and the guard general, to prepare wedding gifts and pay homage to Queen Du.
On the day he entered the palace, the emperor went to the Tai Chi Hall and the ministers congratulated him.
Congratulations are not a rule of etiquette.
For an emperor's wedding, the etiquette is not customized.
In "Spring and Autumn", the tomb master married the queen in Ji, and the explanations in "Gu Liang Zhuan" and "Zuo Zhuan" are different from "Gongyang Zhuan".
Judging from the deeds left by the Han and Wei dynasties, they are all missing or omitted.
When Emperors Wu and Hui married empresses, Jiang Shu no longer relied on the "Yi Notes".
Therefore, Emperor Cheng was about to marry Empress Du, and Taichang Huaheng began to discuss the ceremony with the doctor.
According to Du Yu's "Zuo Zhuan" annotation, the officiant only provides the funds for the wedding.
In addition, King Ling of Zhou proposed to the State of Qi, and the Marquis of Qi asked Yan Huanzi for an answer. Huanzi replied: How many people are born to a couple who do not have daughters but have sisters and aunts? Let’s say how many daughters the former king and his father have sent.
In this way, the emperor's orders can be issued, and the ministers' answers can be directly communicated.
Ancient Confucian scholars believed that Zuo Qiuming recorded these things in detail, which probably refers to the etiquette of imperial marriages.
Therefore, Emperor Cheng went to the palace and sent an envoy to marry the queen in the name of the emperor. However, the "Yi Notes" were not completely preserved.
In the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, he married Queen Chu, but according to "Yi Zhu", there were no flags with ox tails as decorations on the steps of the palace.
The royal historian in the palace said: To marry the queen today, the items used by Empress Chenggong when she entered the palace are in accordance with the "Etiquette Notes" that the emperor wears Gong robes and a crown when he goes to the palace. There is no oxtail flag. Please decide accordingly.
Another case, in the past, when I married Queen Gong, I only made the Qinglong flag, and the rest were royal items.
Now it happened that the previous dynasty sent envoys, and the Wanniu flag was set up. The Yatou flag and Bihan flag were used elsewhere, so there is no flag today.
Shao Shu said: The reason why we should dress according to etiquette and go to Tai Chi Hall is because we should be respectful to the beginning of something, so the etiquette must be complete.
Now why do we have to remove ceremonial items due to replacement or lack of important items?
Besides, when Empress Gong’s memorial tablet entered the ancestral temple, the late emperor issued an edict stating that the empress’ etiquette should be downgraded and that it was not appropriate to set up the Five Ox Flag, but today the Five Ox Flag was set up again!
Since there is no Wanniu flag, items such as the Yatou flag and the Dihan flag are easy to prepare.
He also issued an edict saying: It is difficult to imitate the old ritual system, and it is not appropriate to complete it today.
Reserves in the warehouse should only be used for military state expenses.
The ceremonial clothing items are slightly prepared, and the other multi-purpose utensils are out of use.
In the first year of Emperor Mu's rise to peace, he will marry Queen He.
Taichang Wang Biaozhi quoted scriptures and many precedents to determine the wedding, and deeply opposed the statement in "Gongyang Zhuan" that the emperor was not the master of the wedding.
He also said: There is no emperor within the four seas who is not his ministers or concubines. Although they still have the affection of father and brother, and the wisdom of teachers and friends, they are definitely ministers.
The starting point of advocating the Three Cardinal Guidelines is to determine the etiquette between heaven and earth. How can anyone enjoy the honor of the Father in Heaven but have to marry a wife according to the orders of his subordinates?
How can one hold such a humble position as a minister yet have to preside over great ceremonies in the name of Heavenly Father?
Looking at ancient etiquette, no emperor implemented such a system; looking at modern historical records, no emperor did so.
It is emotionally disturbing and morally unreasonable.
In the second year of Xianning, when the Empress Dowager was married, the Empress Dowager Hongxun was in a position of high authority and her mother came to the world. However, there was no document ordering relatives and ministers to solemnize the marriage for Emperor Wu's father and brother.
We also looked at what had been done in the Jin Dynasty and found that Xianning had precedents of not calling father, brother, brother and mentor, so the etiquette proposed by Xian Kang Huaheng was in line with the old system.
I think that today’s ritual system for marrying a queen should be completely based on Xiankang’s precedent.
So I obeyed him.
The etiquette established by Hua Heng was based on the old system of the Han Dynasty and the system already implemented in the Jin Dynasty. Therefore, Wang Biaozhi mostly followed Xiankang. It is for this reason.
The only item for a married woman's family to not play music for three days was because it was considered disrespectful for Xiankang officials to congratulate her.
Therefore, only the etiquette performed in the Xianning Year was used, and no congratulations were given.
As for the rituals such as the six rites and slips of the ancestral temple, they were all formulated by Wang Biaozhi.
The document sealed with a seal to accept the betrothal gift said: The emperor consulted He Qi, the former Taiwei, who joined the army.
The Qi of Heaven and Earth begins with the management of human relations, involving husbands and wives, and the worship of Heaven and Earth ancestral temples.
After discussing with the ministers, they all agreed that everything should be in accordance with the old regulations.
Nowadays, envoys are sent to hold the festival, Taichang Biaozhi, and Zongzhengzong accept the gifts according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor has given a wonderful order to visit my humble family and ask for marriage proposals for the emperor to choose.
The daughter-in-law of He Zhun, my great-grand cousin and former Sanqi servant, never neglected her lessons and dressed like an ordinary person.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
When the former Taiwei joined the army, He Qi, a subordinate of the Marquis of Duxiang, kowtowed and bowed twice to receive Shao Shu.
In order, there is a document asking about the name and etiquette, which says: The emperor said: Ask a certain official about a certain surname.
Heaven and earth cooperate, adhering to God's will to lead the people, correcting the reputation internally, and must wait for a beautiful family to reaffirm the old rules.
Today I sent an envoy to someone named Chi Jie, Taichang, and Zong Zheng to ask for their names according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor has a wonderful order, and someone has arrived to read the Shao Shu in the palace again and ask me about famous people.
The daughter of my clan is born from my parents, the great-great-granddaughter of the former ministers Guanglu and the Marquis of Yulou He Zhen, the great-granddaughter of the governor of Yuzhou and the Marquis of Guanzhong He Pang, the granddaughter of the Anfeng Prefect and the Marquis of Guanzhong He Bao, and the sent daughter of the Sanqi Minister He Zhun.
On the maternal line, she is the great-granddaughter of Zuocheng Kongzhou, the former minister of the previous ministers, and the seventeen-year-old granddaughter of Kong Yi, the Marquis of Guannei, the former minister.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
The following is Najili's document, which says: The emperor said: Consult a certain official with a certain surname.
People first make plans and divination, and then they all say that they are chaste and auspicious and respectfully follow the ceremony.
Today we are sending envoys to hold the festival, someone from Taichang, and someone from Zongzheng to accept the honor according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor's beautiful order is to send someone to re-read the imperial edict, and the fortune will be good.
My humble clan cannot bear worry and fear.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
The following is the document for collecting gifts, which says: The emperor said: The daughter of a certain official with a certain surname has the virtue of being a mother, has a graceful figure, like a mountain and a river, is suitable for worshiping the ancestral temple, and will forever continue the blessings given by God.
Using black and red fur and silk, horse and sheep money bis, the ceremony was held according to the regulations.
Today we sent envoys Chijie, Situ, and Taichang to accept the levy according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor issued a beautiful order, condescended to marry someone of low status, honored me with his status as a lord, expressed his favor with laws and etiquette, and prepared gifts and orders.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
The following is a document asking for a gift, which says: The emperor said: Consult a certain official with a certain surname.
Make plans with the ministers, use yarrow and big tortoises for divination, there is nothing unlucky, everything is in accordance with the laws and etiquette.
Today I am sending an envoy to hold someone, someone from Taichang, and someone from Zongzheng to ask for an appointment according to the etiquette.
The master said: The emperor issued a beautiful order and asked someone to re-read the palace edict, and Ji Wei can marry her one day.
I obey the rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
In order are the documents for personal greetings, which say: The emperor said: Consult a certain official with a certain surname.
The year and month are auspicious, and the only auspicious day is to follow the etiquette to welcome the bride.
Today we will send an envoy, a Taibao, or a Taiwei to welcome the bride according to etiquette.
The host said: The emperor issued a beautiful order to send someone to re-read the palace edict. When the month is auspicious, gifts will be prepared to welcome the bride.
All the princes and ministers came, accompanied by hundreds of deputies and ministers.
My family is humble, humiliating and accepting great gifts, and we are sincere and frightened.
Follow rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
When someone kneels down to receive Shao Shu, everyone responds as before.
When Emperor Xiaowu married the king and queen, the etiquette was similar to this.
For etiquette such as nacai, asking for names, naji, asking for dates, and personal greetings, one white goose and one white sheep are used, and twelve husks of wine and rice are used.
Only one sheep was used as a gift, three pieces of black silk, two pieces of crimson silk, two hundred pieces of silk, two tiger skins, two million dollars, one jade bi, six horses, and twelve husks of wine and rice.
This is what Zheng Xuan called the Five Wild Geese and Six Rites.
As for the system of jade and horses, the number of gifts prepared is different from the memorials in the Taikang Year.
In ancient wedding ceremonies, wine was used to worship gods, and Zheng's three sacrificial poems are all preserved.
In the first year of Shengping's reign, the government asked if drumming music should be played in the ceremony to welcome the Queen.
Dr. Hu Ne commented: There is no record of the emperor's departure from the palace in the "Ritual Notes", there is no place for music and propaganda, and there is no provision for raising flags and bells.
Taichang Wang Biaozhi believed: There is no music at weddings.
Advocacy is also the general name of music.
The reason why there is no explanation in the "Etiquette Notes" is that it can refer to the wedding.
Now the instruments should be prepared but not played.
This statement was adopted at that time.
In the second year of Yonghe's marriage to the queen, they discussed whether to congratulate her or not.
Wang Shu said: Wedding is a beautiful etiquette.
"Spring and Autumn Annals" says: Marrying a wife is a great blessing, not an ordinary good fortune. "Chuanqiu" also says: "Zheng Guozihan went to the Jin Kingdom to congratulate his wife."
Neighboring countries congratulate each other, let alone ministers!
Looking at it this way, we should congratulate him, but not within three days.
Now, it is also an opportunity to pay homage to ancestors and complete the rituals in the ancestral temple to congratulate them.
Wang Biaozhi commented: "There is no music or congratulations at the wedding. This is a clear text in the Rites."
The "Spring and Autumn Annals" states that Zihan went to Jin to congratulate his wife, but there is no record in the "Spring and Autumn Classic", and the "Chuanqiu" does not say that it was a ritual.
"Li" says that if you marry your wife and do not play music for three days, it means that you can naturally play music after three days.
As for not congratulating, there is no limit of two days, and I am afraid there is no etiquette for congratulating after three days.
He also said: The reason why the Book of Rites says to congratulate those who get married is because there are words of congratulations at banquets.
I think there is no etiquette for going out of your way to congratulate someone, but there is the morality of giving gifts to celebrate together, just like what is popular in the world today.
There was ultimately no congratulations at that time.
Emperor Mu wanted to marry the queen in September, which was a taboo month.
Fan Wang asked Wang Biaozhi and replied: "There is no Ji month in the etiquette records. I dare not say there is no month just because I haven't seen it."
Doctors Cao Dan, Xun Na and others all said that there is no record of the forbidden month and there should be no hindrance.
Wang Qia said: If there are taboo months, there should also be taboo years.
In the twelfth year of Taiyuan, the government asked the prince if he should give a gift to the ministers after he visited the ancestral temple to congratulate him?
Che Yin, a doctor of Guozi, said: All the high officials and ministers participated in the grand ceremony, showed respect and made great gifts, and there was no need to give gifts.
Only the princes and the governor of the state cannot see the big gift in person. If they don't send wine and meat as sacrifices, they can't express their sincerity, so they should give gifts.
Just like the New Year's Day celebration, all the princes would give gifts, and the court ministers would just give them jade.
Yu Hongzhi, a doctor of Taixue, commented: In the third year of peace in Xianning, several kings of Puyang were newly ennobled. The officials asked them to follow the precedent and allow the kings and princesses from the capital to attend the court celebration before giving gifts.
Now the Crown Prince is the crown prince of the country, it has been established, and the whole world celebrates together.
I think congratulations should be given.
Xu Miao agreed.
It is also quoted that once there is a prince, it will be celebrated like this.
There are precedents for giving gifts to princes and kings and to newly built palaces. They have already paid homage and toasted to birthdays, so there should be no doubt.
Since the capital was moved to Liaodong, when a prince got married, he would receive a piece of jade and two tiger skins as gifts. It is not clear why this standard was established.
Perhaps the tiger is used to represent its power and the colorful fur, and the jade is used to symbolize the gentle and mellow character.
Guizhang is also a beautiful jade, and the leopard skin is beautiful in color to represent a gentleman.
Wang Jin's acceptance speech said: Red and black silk, pairs of fur geese and lambs.
When the former Han Dynasty hired a queen, they paid 200 jins of gold and 12 horses, and had no intention of using sheep.
Zheng's "Praise for Wedding Objects" says that sheep means auspiciousness, so the use of sheep in marriages began in the late Han Dynasty.
The emperor's six rites do not yet use sheep.
Therefore, during the Taikang period, officials reported: For the prince's marriage, the gift of red and black silk, eight sheep and horses.
In the tenth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he will marry his third wife and ninth concubine.
Officials reported: According to the rites, the queen's betrothal gift is made of grain, and there is no system for concubinage betrothal gift.
The edict said: The invitation can be based on Wei's precedent.
So he went to the palace in person and sent envoys Chijie and Taichang to pay homage to the third lady, and Zhongcheng, the censor, to pay homage to the ninth concubine.
The etiquette of Mo and Wei stipulates that the princess lives in the palace, and the person who marries the princess comes to the palace to get married.
Sikong Wanglang thought it was not possible, but he changed his mind later.
During the Taiyuan period, a tiger and leopard skin were used as a gift for the princess. Could it be said that the wedding etiquette did not show the status of the prince, so tiger and leopard skins were used to show respect for the matter?
In "Li", there is a record of the three kings performing elder care rituals for the elderly with high virtues in schools. There are also systems of food and drink rituals, which were all abandoned in the late Zhou Dynasty.
In March of the second year of Yongping reign of Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, the emperor personally began to lead his ministers to perform retirement ceremonies at Taixue, and held a shooting ceremony to select scholars for sacrifices.
Prefectures, counties, and roads implement the rural drinking etiquette in schools. They all offer sacrifices to the sages and teachers Zhou Gong and Confucius, and use cattle, sheep, and pigs as sacrifices.
The same goes for the first month of winter.
In the second year of Wei Gaogui's hometown, Ganlu, the emperor personally led officials from various departments to implement the etiquette of providing for the elderly.
So Wang Xiang became the "three elders" and Zheng Xiaotong became the "five watchers".
The "Ritual Notes" on respecting the elderly have not survived, but the etiquette of the Han Dynasty still exists.
In December of the sixth year of Taishi reign of Emperor Wu, the emperor visited Taixue in person and held a village drinking ceremony.
The edict said: The etiquette has been abandoned for a long time, and today the ancient laws are taught again.
A hundred pieces of silk were given to Taichang, and cattle and wine were given to the prime minister, doctors and students.
In the third year of Xianning and the ninth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, this ceremony was held again.
During the reign of Wei Zhengpan, King Bian asked Taichang to worship the sages and teachers in Taixue every time he gave lectures on the scriptures, instead of doing it himself.
When Sai Tongdan became the crown prince, when Prince Minhuai finished his lectures on the scriptures, they all personally performed sacrifices at the Imperial College. The crown prince toasted to his ancestor, and the concubine toasted to Yan Hui.
Emperor Cheng, Emperor Mu and Emperor Xiaowu also paid homage in person.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, because Taixue was far away south of the river, relevant officials discussed setting up a temporary branch of Taixuetang in Zhongtang in accordance with the precedent of the first year of Shengping.
At that time, there was no re-establishment of Guozisheng, and the relevant officials reported that one hundred and twenty more students should be established.
Imperial students will select sixty people from among the existing people, and Imperial students will select sixty people from the descendants of ministers for the time being, and then let it go when the matter is over.
The memorial was approved.
After the ceremony of worshiping the sages and teachers was completed, they met with officials of sixth rank and above.
According to the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, on the first day of the third month of spring, officials and common people bathed in the east flowing water to ward off bad luck and wash away dirt.
Since the Wei Dynasty, only the third day of March has been used, and Shangsi is no longer used.
From the officials in the imperial court to the common people, they all bathed by the Luo River.
King Sima Lun usurped the throne, and the three of them gathered in Tianquan Pool to kill Qiang Zheng.
Baotong also gathered in Tianquan Pool to compose poems.
Duokan said: The stone ditch in the south of Tianquan Pool diverts the water from the ditch, and the stones are piled up on the west side of the pool to become a bathing place.
Put the wine cup into the water and drink it when the cup is stopped in front of others. It is not called "qushui".
Emperor Yuan also issued an edict banning all kinds of gambling equipment for three days.
Haixi established Liubeiqushui in Zhongshan and invited hundreds of officials, all of which were created in the same way.
September 9, horseback riding and archery.
Some people say: Autumn belongs to the golden season, and learning martial arts and practicing archery is like the etiquette of the beginning of autumn.
