◆Biography of Wu You, courtesy name Ji Ying, a native of Changyuan County, Chenliu County.
His father, Wu Hui, was the governor of Nanhai.
When Wu You was twelve years old, he followed his father to the official residence.
Wu Hui wanted to use bamboo slips to write scriptures, but Wu You dissuaded him and said: "Now that you have passed Wuling, you will see the seaside in the distance. The customs here are simple, but there are many rare and rare things. The imperial court is suspicious of them above, and the powerful and powerful people below want to possess them."
If your book is finished, it will need many vehicles to carry it.
Once upon a time, Ma Yuan was falsely accused of transporting coix back home, saying that all he transported were pearls and rhinoceros. Wang Yang was good at carriages and horses, and was well-dressed. He was very good at traveling, but he could not carry anything more than a bag, and others said he could make gold.
Therefore, the place of suspicion was the most cautious place for ancient sages. After hearing what he said, Wu Hui stopped writing scriptures, stroked Wu You's back and said, "My surname is Wu, and I have had a son for generations!" At the age of twenty, Wu You's father died, and the family did not have a single stone of food savings, but he did not accept gifts from others.
He often herds pigs in the Changyuan swamp and hums scriptures.
When he met his father's friend, he was asked: You are the son of Erqianshi but you are doing such a despicable job. Even if you don't feel ashamed, how can you be worthy of your underground father? Wu You said thank you and herded the pigs as before.
Later, he was promoted to Xiaolian, and when he was about to leave, a wine ceremony was held in the county to see him off. Wu You went over the altar and talked and laughed with Xiaoshi Yongqiu Huang Zhen for a long time, and they became friends and said goodbye.
The county meritorious officer thought Wu You was arrogant and rude, so he asked the prefect to reprimand him.
The prefect said: Wu Jiying can know people, so don't talk about it for now. Huang Zhen later promoted him to Xiaolian and appointed him as the new chief of Cai. The world praised him for his integrity and integrity.
At this time, Gongshamu came to the capital to visit the Imperial Academy and had no food to eat, so he changed his clothes and worked to pound rice for Wu You.
Wu You was greatly surprised when he talked to him, so he arranged to meet him at a place where rice was pounded.
Wu You cited the four qualities of Guanglu, honesty, simplicity, humility and frugality, and moved to Jiaodong to be the Marquis.
At this time, Dai Hong's father was the county magistrate in Jibei Province. Dai Hong was sixteen years old and lived with him in the prime minister's house.
Whenever Wu You visited the garden, he often heard voices chanting, and he treated him strangely and kindly. He also made friends with him. After all, Dai Hong became a Confucian scholar, became famous in the East, and became the prefect of Jiuquan.
Wu You was a benevolent and simple person in politics and led by example.
When common people have disputes, they often reflect behind closed doors and then settle the case, admonishing them with morality, and sometimes going to the village in person to urge reconciliation.
From then on, there were fewer disputes among the people, and the officials were virtuous and refrained from deception.
The stingy husband Sun Xing secretly took money from the people and bought clothes for his father. His father took the clothes and got angry and said: "With such a good appearance, how can I have the heart to deceive him?" Urge him to confess his sins.
Sun Xing was ashamed and afraid, so he took his clothes and surrendered to the pavilion.
Wu You moved the people around him and asked him why. Sun Xing told him everything his father said.
Wu You said: You have received a bad reputation because of your father. It is said that you will know what kind of person you are by looking at your mistakes.  He sent him back to thank his father and gave him the clothes he bought.
Another man from Anqiu, Guanqiu Chang, was walking in the city with his mother. He met a drunkard and insulted his mother. Guanqiu Chang killed the drunkard and ran away. Qiu tracked him to Jiaodong and captured Guanqiu Chang.
Wu You called Chief Guanqiu and said: "My son's mother has been insulted. This is a shameful thing."
However, a filial son must consider the consequences of his anger, and his actions must not harm his parents.
Now you are angry behind your parents' back and kill people in daylight. It is unjust to pardon you; but you cannot bear to be punished even more. What should you do? Chief Guanqiu tied his hands with weapons and said: "The state makes laws, but I personally break the laws. Although you have pity on me, you cannot show mercy."
Wu You asked Guanqiu if he had a wife. Answer: I have a wife but no son. So he moved to Anqiu and arrested the wife of Chief Guanqiu. When his wife arrived, he released the shackles of Chief Guanqiu and made her sleep with him in prison. As a result, his wife became pregnant.
When the execution came at the end of winter, Chang Guanqiu cried and said to his mother: "I have failed my mother and deserve to die. How should I repay Jun Wu?" So he bit off a finger and swallowed it, and said with blood: If my wife gives birth to a son, I will name him Wu Sheng. He said that I will swallow my finger before I die as an oath, and I will tell my son to repay Mr. Wu. Hanged himself to death.
In the ninth year of Wu You's stay in Jiaodong, he was transferred to the post of Prime Minister of Qi, and General Liang Ji recommended him as Chang Shi.
Later, Liang Ji falsely accused Li Gu, the commander-in-chief, and Wu You heard about it. He went to see Liang Ji and argued for Li Gu, but Liang Ji refused to listen.
At that time, Ma Rong of Fufeng was sitting and writing a memorial for Liang Ji. Wu You said to Ma Rong: Mr. Li's crime was committed by your hands.
If Mr. Li is executed, how can you show your face to the world? Liang Ji got angry and went into the house, but Wu You left without saying goodbye.
Liang Ji appointed Wu You as Prime Minister of Hejian, so he resigned and returned home. He no longer worked as an official. He personally watered the garden vegetables and taught his disciples with scriptures.
Died at the age of ninety-eight.
The eldest son, Wu Feng, was the governor of Lelang; the youngest son, Wu Kai, was the new commander;
◆The biography of Yandu, whose courtesy name is Shujian, was born in Tao, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he learned "Zuo Shi Zhuan" from Tang Xidian in Yingchuan and could recite it in just ten days. Tang Xidian respected him very much.
He also learned from Ma Rong, had extensive knowledge of classics and hundreds of schools of thought, was able to write articles, and was very famous in the capital.
He was elected as Xiaolian and appointed as the Marquis of Pingyang.
When he arrived, he repaired Gong Sui's tomb, erected tomb inscriptions, and selected Gong Sui's descendants to serve as officials in the fields. Because the teacher passed away, he abandoned his official position to attend the funeral, and the five prefectures recruited him, but he failed.
Emperor Huan was recruited by doctors and given the post of Yilang, and he worked on writings in Dongguan with Zhu Mu and Bian Shao.
When he was promoted to minister, Emperor Huan asked him many times about political affairs. He did not tell others the actual situation, and his every move followed the rules and regulations.
He was promoted to Zuo Feng Yi and transferred to Jing Zhaoyin. Advocate for the government to be tolerant and benevolent, and care for the people. Selecting people with moral cultivation to participate in political affairs, the county and the people love each other, and the third assistant praised his political achievements.
In the past, Chen Liubianfeng was a Jingzhaoyin, and he also had a reputation for being capable. People in the county made up a colloquial saying: There are three kings in front of him, Zhao and Zhang, and two kings in the back are Bianyan.
At this time, the prince fell ill and ordered the counties to seek precious medicines. General Liang Ji sent guests with letters to sell bezoars in Jingzhao.
Yan Du opened a letter to arrest the guests, saying: "The general is the empress's maternal wife. The prince is sick and must submit a medical prescription. Should we send the guests thousands of miles to seek profit?"
So he killed the guests. Liang Ji felt ashamed, but he couldn't say that the officials followed Liang Ji's wishes and wanted to cause trouble.
Yandu was dismissed from his post due to illness and returned home, teaching in the alley where he lived to make ends meet.
At that time, some people were confused about the issue of which benevolence and filial piety came first, so Yandu discussed it. He said: It seems that there are many opinions on the debate about benevolence and filial piety. Everyone quoted scriptures and obtained factual evidence. It can be said that it was a profound discussion.
Human benevolence and filial piety have the same origin. They govern all people's words and deeds. There is no need to care about the importance of baht and the importance of baht. It is necessary to distinguish which is ahead and which is behind.
If you want to make a rough distinction between the two, generally speaking, filial piety is about nurturing relatives, and benevolence extends to all things.
Being transitive means making a contribution to society, and raising relatives means that moral cultivation lies within oneself.
If you have few things to do for yourself, your contribution to society is multifaceted.
From this point of view, the role of benevolence is broad.
However, things sometimes become obvious because of their insignificance, and things sometimes become obvious because of their obscurity.
As far as the body is concerned, the ears are for hearing sounds, the eyes are for observation, the legs are for walking, and the hands are for defense. Although their functions are exposed, it is the heart that gives orders.
As far as things are concerned, the growth of grass and trees begins with buds and eventually becomes lush, with branches and leaves spread out and flowers blooming like brocade. However, it is not like this at the end, but what makes it grow like this is the roots of grass and trees.
A benevolent person has filial piety, just like a body has a confidant, branches and leaves have roots.
Therefore, the ancient saints said: Filial piety is the scripture of heaven, the righteousness of earth, and the conduct of man.  A gentleman concentrates on the basic work. Once the foundation is established, the Tao will emerge.
Be filial to your parents, respect your elders, this is the basis of benevolence. However, this matter is so big that it is difficult to be comprehensive, and the nature of the matter is biased. Therefore, due to the different methods, things rarely have both. If we must discuss their merits and demerits, then benevolence should be based on the sparse branches and leaves, and filial piety should be based on the heart, body, and roots. In this case, there is no need to argue.
Some people say that filial piety comes first and benevolence comes later, which is not what Zhongni meant after Yan Hui and Zeng Shen.
Mostly benevolence and filial piety come from the same source. Pure virtue is already there, benevolence or filial piety can be called whatever you want, such as Yu Shun and Yan Hui.
If this is not the case, they will each have their own purposes and cannot always be praised as beautiful. For example, Gong Liu is a man of benevolence and virtue, and Zeng Shen is praised for his filial piety.
Zeng Shen and Min Sun regard filial piety and brotherhood as the highest virtue, Guan Zhong regards the nine princes as benevolent merits, no matter how good they are, Yan Hui and Zeng Shen are the first, and Guan Yiwu is not the greatest in the examination of merit.
According to this, everyone is called according to his own name.
Li Wende, the former governor of Yue, usually had a good relationship with Yan Du. At this time in the capital, he said to the ministers: "Yanshu Jian has the talent of a king's assistant, but he can't gallop a thousand miles. What can be done?"
I want the ministers to recommend him. Yandu heard about it and wrote to Li Wende to stop him, saying: The Tao will be abandoned. This is destiny!
I heard that you wanted to request a return to Dongguan for me. Although you meant a lot, you really didn’t dare to take it seriously.
I usually get up before dawn and wash myself. After washing, I sit in the living room.
In the morning, I read Fu Xi and Wen Wang's "Yi", Yu and Xia's books, the laws and rituals of Gong Dan, and browsed Zhong Ni's "Spring and Autumn".
In the afternoon, I wandered around the inner steps, chanted the Book of Songs in the Nanxuan Hall, and read the books of hundreds of schools of thought in my spare time.
The voice is loud and clear, the ears are full of eloquence, the literary talent is brilliant and the eyes are full of things, and all things are numerous, and I am happy to enjoy it alone.
At this time, I didn’t know that heaven was the cover and the earth was the cover. I didn’t know that there were still people in the world and that I still had a body.
Although Gao Jianli sings while building a building as if no one else is around, Gao Feng reads a book and does not know that it is raining heavily, they are not comparable to me.
Since I was young, I have believed that as a minister, I must not fall into disloyalty; as a son, I must not fall into unfilial piety; when making friends with people whose status is higher than mine, I must not flatter myself; when making friends with those whose status is below me, I must not be contemptuous. If you do this to the point of death and meet your ancestors underground, you will not feel ashamed.
If you don't know how to do good things in this way, I'm afraid it's like teaching Yi to shoot and not being able to use small skills as merit.
You must not lose your roots and abandon what you have created.
Later, he was imprisoned by the party.
In the first year of Yongkang, he died at home.
The villagers painted his image in Qu Yuan Temple.
Yandu made many corrections to the scriptures. Post-Confucianism takes piety as the standard.
He has written a total of twenty poems, treatises, inscriptions, books, responses, tables and teachings.
◆Shi Bi's biography, Shi Bi's courtesy name was Gongqian, and he was a native of Kaocheng County, Chenliu County. His father was Chen Chang. During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was promoted to Shangshu and County Sheriff because of his eloquence and flattery.
Shi Bi was eager to learn when he was young and had hundreds of classmates.
He was appointed as an official in the state and county, recruited into the government, and promoted to the rank of Marquis of the Northern Army.
At this time, Emperor Huan's younger brother Bohai King Kui behaved sinisterly and eccentrically, did not abide by the law, and was arrogant and indulgent.
Shi Bi was afraid that his arrogance would lead to chaos, so he secretly wrote to Emperor Huan, saying: I heard that emperors should use power to show their relatives, even if they are close relatives, and restrain them with laws, even if they are in a noble position.
In this way, harmony will flourish and the kindness of flesh and blood will flourish.
In the past, King Xiang of Zhou indulged his younger brother Gan Zhaogong, and Emperor Xiaojing made King Xiao of Liang arrogant and arrogant. Both of these two younger brothers were doted on, which eventually led to rebellion, the disaster of exile in Zhou, and the assassination of Yuan An in Han.
I heard that Prince Bohai, by virtue of being the emperor's close relative and relying on the emperor's favor, lost the important responsibility of serving the emperor. He was arrogant and did not abide by the law. He gathered some violent and lawless people outside, drank and had fun inside, and went in and out without restraint. Impermanence, the people who are with him are all people whose words and deeds are inconsistent. Some are prodigal sons who are no longer wanted in the family, and some are ministers who have been exiled from the court. There must be a rebellion, with Yang Sheng persuading King Xiao of Liang to seek a Han heir, and Wu Bei persuading King Huainan to rebel.
The state secretary did not dare to impeach and picket him, and Fu Xiang could not fulfill his responsibilities as a supporter.
The emperor was deeply attached to brotherhood and could not bear to stop him. He was afraid that if this situation continued, the harm would be even greater.
Please publish my memorial and show it to all officials so that I can clearly state his fault in the court, and then the emperor will issue an order to the public to deal with it appropriately.
The law decided the crime, and then the emperor couldn't bear the edict to increase the punishment. I still persisted in my opinion and didn't impose any additional punishment.
In this way, the holy dynasty did not compromise the closeness of flesh and blood, and Bohai still enjoyed the celebration of being a feudal country.
Otherwise, I am afraid that if the prison breaks out, the messenger will look at each other on the road, and it will be impossible to save.
My duty is to be in charge of the imperial troops, to guard against extraordinary incidents, and to know the situation in the vassal country. This is an offense against a relative, and the crime cannot be punished.
He was so angry that he risked death to report to the emperor.
The emperor couldn't bear to investigate because of his close relatives.
Later, Liu Kui was convicted of treason and demoted to King Taotao.
Shi Bi was promoted to Shangshu and became Pingyuan Prime Minister.
At this time, the imperial court issued an edict to report people who were related to the party members. There were hundreds of people reported by the prefecture and state, but Shi Bi was the only one who did not report them.
The edicts sternly reprimanded the prefectures and counties, and the officials were shaved off and flogged.
Sitting in a guest house, he asked Shi Bi: "The edict punishes party members, and the purpose is sincere."
Qingzhou belongs to the six counties of Jinan, Le'an, Qiguo, Donglai, Pingyuan, and Beihai. Five of them have Party members. The neighboring country of Ganling is also divided into the north and the south. What reason does Pingyuan have to say that there are only Party members? Shi Bi said: The former king's realm regulated the world, and the realms were divided into different areas. The water and soil were different, and the customs were different.
Other counties have it, but the plain has none. How can it compare?
If, according to the orders of the superiors, one frames good people, tortures them to extract confessions, inflicts arbitrary punishments, and acts recklessly, then every person in Pingyuan County will be a party member.
The only option for me is death, which is something I can't do. Engage was furious and immediately arrested the county officials and threw them into prison. At the same time, Shi Bi was reported to the court.
When the party ban was eased, Shi Bi used his salary to atone for his sins, and he saved more than a thousand people.
When Shi Bi was in power, he dealt hard blows to the powerful and bullies, but for the common people, if they committed crimes, he tolerated them and pardoned them.
Shi Bi was promoted to the governor of Hedong, and he was issued an expedient edict to promote filial piety and integrity. Shi Bi knew that many powerful people would seek connections and use the back door, so he ordered in advance to cut off correspondence.
As expected, Hou Lan, the minister in charge of Zhongchang, sent letters to express favors and asked to borrow salt tax, but he was not received for many days.
The person who sent the letter then said that he had other matters to visit Shi Bi, so he gave him Hou Lan's letter.
Shi Bi was furious and said: The governor has an important responsibility and should be elected as a soldier to serve the country. Who are you? It is unbecoming to cheat like this! He ordered the people around him to take him out and beat him with hundreds of blows. More than a dozen people from the government, including the prime minister and the governor, came to the court to persuade him, but Shi Bi ignored him.
He was handed over to Anyi Prison and tortured to death on the same day.
Hou Lan was very resentful, so he forged an urgent edict and sent it to Sili, slandering Shi Bi and slandering the court, and sent him to the court in a prison car.
None of the officials dared to approach him. Only the former Xiaolian Pei Yu was sent between Gu and Mian, and shouted loudly by the side of the road: The Ming Dynasty destroyed the tyrannical ministers and elected virtuous talents to serve the country. If you commit a crime in this way, you can be famous on bamboo and silk. I hope you don't be afraid. Shi Bi said: Who said tea tastes bitter? It is as sweet as shepherd's purse.
In the past, people cut their necks and died without regret. When Xia Tingwei ordered him to be imprisoned, officials from Pingyuan rushed to the court to complain.
Then Wei Xun, a filial and honest man, disfigured his appearance, changed his clothes, pretended to be a family boy, and looked after Shi Bi.
Shi Bi was framed and should abandon the market.
Wei Xun and the people in the same county sold the temple and residence in the county, paid bribes to Hou Lan, and were able to reduce the death penalty by one degree and sent him to Zuoxiao for labor reform. At that time, people ridiculed this matter and said: "Isn't it stupid for Pingyuan to bribe to avoid the king's crime?"
Tao Qiuhong said: Once upon a time, King Wen was imprisoned here by Zhou. Min Yao and San Yi gave birth to gold to Zhou, and Zhou absolved King Wen of his crime. Shi Bi suffered a disaster, and a righteous man offered a treasure because of it. What can be doubted about this!
The scoffers have nothing to say. Shi Bi returned home after serving his sentence and stayed behind closed doors due to illness.
He Xiu was recommended by the ministers many times. He Xiu also praised Shi Bi for his ability to govern the country and that he should be appointed prime minister and was recruited as Yilang.
Hou Lan and his group hated him.
In Guanghezhong, he became the Prime Minister of Pengcheng and died of illness.
Pei Yu ascended to the rank of Minister.
The historian commented: Strong characters are rarely tolerant and tolerant; benevolent and soft people, because they value emotions, mostly lack integrity.
When Wu Jiying sees other people's misfortune, she looks like a Confucian when she speaks with regret. How brave she is when she is jealous, passionate and generous, and destroys power and evil!
Benevolence means loving things, righteousness means retreating from oneself, what a moral person!
As the saying goes: If you save a thousand people, your descendants will be granted official titles. Shi Bi was a strict official, and more than a thousand so-called party members were implicated in the whole plain, and his descendants were declining. This cannot be regarded as a conclusion.
◆The biography of Lu Zhi, named Zigan, was a native of Zhuo County, Zhuo County.
He is eight feet two inches long and has a voice like a bell.
When he was young, he was a classmate of Zheng Xuan in Ma Rong. He was well versed in ancient and modern studies, and he liked to study intensively and did not like to carve out chapters and sentences.
Ma Rong belonged to a wealthy family, and in front of the lecture hall there were women singing and dancing. Lu Zhi studied with Ma Rong for several years without turning his eyes, so Ma Rong respected him.
After studying, he returned home and taught behind closed doors.
He has a resolute character and a strong sense of integrity. He often cherishes the ambition of making contributions and makes achievements. He is not good at exchanging gifts and can drink a stone at a time.
At that time, the queen's father, the general Dou Wu, had proclaimed himself Ling Emperor and had just taken charge of the country's confidential affairs. The court was discussing the idea of ​​ennobling Luzhi.
Although Lu Zhi was a commoner, he thought Dou Wu had a good reputation, so he wrote a letter to persuade him: I once heard that widows did not worry about their weft, and girls in lacquered houses leaned on pillars and lamented. What they were worried about was not their own affairs, but they were all worried about the country and thinking deeply. This is the noble and patriotic feeling of a gentleman.
Scholars should have upright friends, in order to discipline each other and prevent themselves from falling into injustice.
"The Book" says to consult with the common people. "Poetry" chants: Ask questions about people who collect firewood.
I, Lu Zhi, have been reading the late king’s books for a long time. How dare I begrudge my unreasonable words?
Now to the Han Dynasty, you are just like Zhou Gongdan and Zhao Gong in the Zhou Dynasty. You established the Holy Lord and had relations with the world. Public opinion considers your contribution and takes it as the most important thing.
The world is looking at you, listening to you with its ears, saying that based on the facts of the past, there will be blessings in scenery.
According to the principle of "Spring and Autumn", if a queen has no children, she should choose the elder among her relatives to be her prince; if they are of the same age, they should choose those with good moral cultivation; if they have the same moral cultivation, then it depends on divination.
Now that the same clan has succeeded him, he wears a pattern ultimatum and establishes it in an orderly manner, what credit does it have?
Is it possible to take credit for one's own strength?
You should resign from the great reward and preserve your reputation.
Moreover, in recent times, if Zuo is not strong enough, he still seeks heirs from outside, which can be said to be dangerous.
There is unrest in all directions, and thieves are taking advantage of the opportunity. Hengyue, Bojie, and thieves are particularly numerous. There may be a rebellion in which the Chu people threaten Zibi, and Zhou Qing and Yin Shili will seize the prince's throne.
We should arrange the official positions of the princes according to ancient rituals, recruit the prince's beloved sons, and recruit the talented people of the clan. We should promote moral education and righteousness externally, stop the greed for power internally, select talented people, and appoint and ennoble them at any time. This is a way to strengthen weak branches.
Dou Wu cannot use it.
The prefecture and county called for orders many times, but Lu Zhi refused to respond.
In Jianning, he was recruited as a doctor and then began to serve as an official.
In the fourth year of Xiping's reign, the Jiujiang barbarians rebelled. The four prefectures elected Lu Zhicai, a civil and military officer, as the prefect of Jiujiang. The barbarians surrendered honestly.
Resigned due to illness.
He wrote "Shangshu Zhangju" and "Exegesis of the Three Body Problems".
At this time, Taixue's "Shijing" was established to correct the text of the "Five Classics". Lu Zhi then wrote a letter saying: When I was young, I studied ancient studies from Ma Rong, the prefect of Tongru Xiannan County, and I knew a little bit about the complexity of the current "Book of Rites".
I used to think that the meanings of the scriptures in "The Rites of Zhou" were eccentric, so I rashly made annotations for them. I was too poor to write them down. I hoped that I could go to Dongguan with two other scholars, rely on the public's financial resources and food, and concentrate on research, sort out the chapters and sentences of the "Book of Rites", examine the errors in the "Book of Rites", review the sacred scriptures, and publish the correct inscriptions.
The ancient liberal arts and science struggle are close to the facts, and the popular customs are suppressed and settled in elementary schools. Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, scholars such as Ban Gu, Jia Kui, and Zheng Xing and his son have all appreciated etiquette and poetry.
Now "Mao Shi", "Zuo Shi", and "Zhou Li" each have biographies, which are mutually reinvented with "Spring and Autumn". Doctors should be established as academic officials to encourage future generations and promote the thoughts of saints.
When the Southern Barbarians rebelled, Lu Zhi was appointed governor of Lujiang because he had shown kindness to the people in Jiujiang.
Lu Zhi clearly understood that what should be done in politics is not to disturb the people, to be peaceful and to promote the general principles.
For more than a year, Ren Yilang was recruited again, and he stayed in Dongguan with the admonishing officials Ma Rishidan, Yilang Cai Yong, Yang Biao, Han Shuo and others to correct the biographies of the Five Classics and supplement the Han Ji.
The emperor thought that this was not a top priority, so he was transferred to the position of Attendant and promoted to Minister.
In the first year of Guanghe, a solar eclipse occurred. Lu Zhi sent a secret message to advise: I heard in the "Five Elements Biography" that when the sun is dark and the moon appears, it means the moon is moving in front of the sun, which is called a moon sign.
This is a reflection of the arrogance of the subordinates when the emperor is relaxed. That is to say, the monarchy is relaxed, so the solar eclipse is dark.
"Spring and Autumn Biography" says that the emperor avoids the sun and goes to bed, which means the time to avoid a solar eclipse.
The solar eclipse passed in just a short time. Recently, the solar eclipse has been past noon. After the eclipse, it was still covered by clouds and mist.
In recent years, there have been earthquakes and comets and stars seeing each other.
I heard that the Han Dynasty relied on fire for virtue and enlightenment on Kuanming.
Getting close to women and believing in framing Zhongliang should be strongly opposed, because fire is afraid of water!
Looking at the changes this year, it turns out that Yang has lost its way and has been invaded by Yin. There should be a way to eliminate and prevent disasters.
I would like to briefly describe the eight things: one is to use good things, the other is to ban, the third is to guard against evil, the fourth is to prepare for bandits, the fifth is to cultivate etiquette, the sixth is to obey Yao, the seventh is to guard against inferiors, and the eighth is to spread benefits.
To utilize talents, states and counties should strictly select virtuous people, appoint them according to their talents, and elect them responsibly.
The vast majority of people originally banned and imprisoned by the party are not guilty and can be pardoned and forgiven, and unjust, false and wrongly convicted can be vindicated.
Yu Feng, the Empress of the Song Dynasty died of grief and anger because of Wang Fu and Cheng A's frame-up. His father and brothers were all executed for their innocence, and their bodies were abandoned and not allowed to be buried. This was all the reason for the occurrence of epidemics and famine.
They should be ordered to be cleaned up to put the wandering souls to rest.
Bei Kou, the prince's family, tax cuts, want to cause chaos because of poverty, extraordinary changes must occur, they should be provided with sufficient living supplies to prevent disasters.
To practice rituals, we should recruit moral people, such as Zheng Xuan, to explain the great law of heaven and earth in "Hong Fan" and eliminate disasters and disasters.
Zun Yao, the governor of the county now, will be transferred several times a month. He should be promoted to the bright ones and deposed to the quiet ones according to their performance, so as to distinguish between the capable and the incompetent. Even if the merit examination cannot be carried out in nine years, the performance examination at three years old will do.
My Majesty, it is forbidden to entertain guests, give gifts, solicit favors, or engage in relationships. All matters involving recommending talents and recommending talents shall be entrusted to the competent departments.
To spread profits, as an emperor, you should not have personal savings, but should promote major events and eliminate trivial details.
The emperor did not adopt it.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban bandits arose. The four prefectures elected Lu Zhi as Bei Zhonglang General. He held the Imperial Court and protected Wuhuan Zhonglang General Zong Yuan as his deputy. He led the five sergeants of the Northern Army and mobilized soldiers from all the counties to conquer the Yellow Turbans.
In several consecutive battles, he defeated the thief commander Zhang Jiao and captured more than 10,000 men.
Zhang Jiao and others fled to Guangzong. Lu Zhi built trenches and made ladders. Guangzong city was about to be conquered. The emperor sent Zuo Feng of Xiaohuangmen to the army to observe the situation of the thieves. Some people persuaded Lu Zhi to send money and goods to Zuo Feng, but Lu Zhi refused.
Zuo Feng returned to the court and said to the emperor: "Guangzong's thieves are easy to defeat. Lu Zhonglang established a stronghold, stopped attacking, and waited for heaven to punish him."
When the emperor heard about it, he was furious and sent a prison car to recall Lu Zhi, who was sentenced to a reduced sentence of death. After the cavalry general Huangfu Song defeated the Yellow Turban bandits, he praised Lu Zhi's strategy in commanding the army. Huangfu Song relied entirely on Lu Zhi's planning and strategy, and thus achieved success.
This year, Lu Zhi was appointed minister again.
When the emperor died, the general He Jin planned to kill the eunuchs, so he summoned Dong Zhuo, the governor of the state, to scare the queen mother.
Lu Zhi knew that Dong Zhuo was vicious and difficult to control and would definitely cause trouble, so he firmly opposed it, but He Jin refused to listen to him.
When Dong Zhuo arrived in the capital, he indeed trampled the imperial court and ignored it. A meeting of hundreds of officials gathered in the court hall to depose the emperor and establish a new one.
No one from the officials came out to say a word, and Lu Zhi alone protested and disapproved.
Dong Zhuo became angry, dissolved the meeting, and prepared to kill Lu Zhi, as mentioned in the "Biography of Dong Zhuo".
Lu Zhi had always been friendly with Cai Yong. Cai Yong was previously exiled to Shuofang, and Lu Zhi alone wrote a letter to appeal for him.
Cai Yong was close to Dong Zhuo at this time, so he went to intercede for Lu Zhi.
He also said to Dong Zhuo, "Lu Shangshu is a great Confucian scholar in the country and is popular among the people. If we kill him first, the whole world will be shocked and frightened."
Dong Zhuocai did not kill him, but only removed Lu Zhi's official position. Lu Zhi asked to go home because he was old and sick. He was afraid that Dong Zhuo would plot against him, so he came out of the village in disguise.
Sure enough, Dong Zhuo sent people to chase him, but he couldn't catch up to him.
Lu Zhi lived in seclusion in Shanggu and did not interact with the world.
Yuan Shao, the shepherd of Jizhou, asked him to be his military advisor.
He died in the third year of Chuping.
When he was about to die, he ordered his son to bury him in a cave without a coffin, only with a single silk cloth attached to his body.
He wrote a total of six steles, edicts, tables and notes.
During the Jian'an period, Cao Cao went to the north to attack Liucheng. When he passed through Zhuo County, he told the guardian: "The late Beizhong Lang General Lu Zhi was famous all over the world. His knowledge was admired by Confucianists. He was a model for intellectuals and a pillar of the country."
Once upon a time, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty entered the Yin Dynasty and granted Shang Rong his residence. When Zheng Guozi was born, Zhongni shed tears for him.
When I come to this state, I like its lingering charm.
According to the great righteousness of "Spring and Autumn", the descendants of sages should be treated with special gifts.
Emergency officials were dispatched to clean the tomb, ask questions about his descendants, and hold memorial ceremonies to commend his virtues. Lu Zhi's son Lu Yu was also famous in his time.
The historian commented: Wind and frost can identify the nature of grass and trees, and when the country is in crisis, the integrity of the country can be revealed. Lu Gong's loyalty is obvious.
Bee stings arose in the arms, and thunder shook around the body. Even though they were brave and powerful, such as Meng Ben, Xia Yu, Jing Ke, and Zhuan Zhu, they did not hesitate to lose their normalcy.
When Lu Zhi drew his white sword under Yan Pavilion, he pursued the emperor in the Hejin area, braved the sword and went to kill him, regardless of life and death, without thinking about anything.
A gentleman's loyalty and righteousness are always consistent and unwavering, no matter in a hurry or emergency or in an extremely difficult and difficult environment.
◆The biography of Zhao Qi, whose courtesy name is Bingqing, was from Changling County, Jingzhao County.
His first name was Zhao Jia, and he was born in Yushitai, so he was given the nickname Taiqing. Later, he took refuge and changed his name to show that he would not forget his homeland.
When Zhao Qi was young, he was a proficient in Confucian classics and had many talents. He married the daughter of Fufeng Ma Rong's brother.
Ma Rong was a relative of a wealthy family. Zhao Qi despised them and refused to meet Ma Rong. Shizhou County is feared by people for its integrity and evil.
When he was in his thirties, he fell seriously ill and was bedridden for seven years. He thought that he would not survive, so he made a will and told his brother's son: "A man is born in the world and lives in seclusion without the ethics of Xu You. Being an official does not have the merits of Yi Yin and Lu Shang. God has not granted me a long life, so what else can I say!"
You can place a round stone in front of the tomb and engrave a stele saying: There was a hermit in the Han Dynasty whose surname was Zhao Mingjia.
When there is ambition but no time, fate! No way!
Later he recovered from his illness.
In the second year of Yongxing's reign, he was conscripted as Sikong Peng. He suggested that Erqianshi should be removed from office and serve his parents, and the court accepted it.
Later, he was conquered by the general Liang Ji and suggested to Liang Ji a strategy of profit and loss to seek talents, but Liang Ji did not adopt it.
He was recommended to manage the drama and appointed as the chief of the Pi family.
It happened that Liu Lijun, the governor of Hedong, was replaced by Zuo Sheng, the elder brother of Zhongchang Shizuo. Zhao Qi hated eunuchs and thought it was shameful to work with him, so he returned to the west that day.
Jingzhao Yin Yandu once again regarded him as a meritorious officer.
At first, Tang Wangxuan, the elder brother of Tang Heng who served as a regular servant, was appointed as the captain of Huya in Jingzhao. People in the county thought that Tang Wangxuan was appointed the captain of Huya not because of his virtue, so they all despised him and insulted him.
Zhao Qi and his brother Zhao Xi belittled him many times, and Tang Wang Xuan hated him very much.
In the first year of Yanxi, Emperor Xuan of the Tang Dynasty was Zhaoyin of the capital. Zhao Qi was afraid of a disaster, so he ran away with his nephew Zhao Jian.
As expected, Wang Xuan of Tang Dynasty arrested Zhao Qi's family members, framed them for committing serious crimes, and killed them all.
Zhao Qi then fled in all directions, passing through Jiang, Huai, Hai, and Dai, hiding his name and selling cakes in Beihai City.
At this time, Anqiu Sun Song, who was more than 20 years old, saw Zhao Qi while wandering in the city. He thought he was not an ordinary person. He stopped the car and asked Zhao Qi to get in. Zhao Qi's face turned pale with fear. Sun Song then lowered the curtains on the car and ordered the driver to drive away the pedestrians.
He asked Zhao Qi quietly: "Looking at you, you are not a cake seller." He also asked Zhao Qi that your face suddenly changed. You either have a serious grudge or you are a desperado.
I, Beihai Sun Binshi, have a whole family and can help you. Zhao Qi had always heard of Sun Song's reputation, so he told Sun Song the actual situation and went to Sun's house together.
Sun Song first told his mother: When traveling, I gained a good friend. Then he welcomed Zhao Qi to the upper hall and entertained him very cordially.
He hid Zhao Qi in the compound wall for several years, and Zhao Qi wrote twenty-three chapters of "Etun Song".
Later, all the Tang clans died and the imperial court granted amnesty to Zhao Qi.
When the three mansions heard that Zhao Qi was back, they recruited him at the same time.
Nine years later, he responded to Situ Hu Guang's order.
When the Southern Xiongnu, Wuhuan, and Xianbei rebelled, Zhao Qi was promoted to the governor of Bingzhou.
Zhao Qi wanted to submit a strategy for guarding the frontier, but before he could do so, he was dismissed from office due to party affairs and wrote "On the Control of Bandits".
At the beginning of Emperor Ling's reign, he was imprisoned by the party for more than ten years.
In the first year of Zhongping, troops from all directions rose up, and the imperial edict was issued to select the former governor and those with civil and military talents among the two thousand stones. Zhao Qi was recruited and appointed as Yilang.
Chariot and Cavalry General Zhang Wen marched westward to Guanzhong, and asked Zhao Qi to be appointed as the chief official and to garrison An Ding.
General He Jin appointed Zhao Qi as the governor of Dunhuang. When they arrived at Xiangwu, Zhao Qi and several newly appointed governors of various counties were captured by the thief Bian Zhang and others.
The thief wanted to force Zhao Qi to become the commander, but Zhao Qi used deceit to avoid it and returned to Chang'an.
He presented the emperor to the Western Capital, was appointed Yilang again, and was promoted to imperial servant.
Li Chu took over the dictatorship and sent Taifu Ma Rishidan to appease and comfort the world, with Zhao Qi as his deputy.
Ma Rishi went to Luoyang alone, and did not send Zhao Qi to preach the country's orders. In the counties and counties he went to, the people said happily: "Today I saw the messenger riding on his horse."
At this time, Yuan Shao, Cao Cao and Gongsun Zan were competing for Jizhou. When Yuan Shao and Cao Cao heard that Zhao Qi had arrived, they personally led their troops hundreds of miles away to welcome him. Zhao Qi promoted the emperor's kindness and the principle of withdrawing troops to pacify the people. He also wrote to Gongsun Zan, explaining the pros and cons.
Yuan Shao and others led their troops back, and they all met Zhao Qi in Luoyang to welcome the emperor.
Zhao Qinan came to Chenliu and fell seriously ill. After two years, the date did not show up.
In the first year of Xingping, an imperial edict was issued to recruit Zhao Qi. Just as the emperor was about to return to Luoyang, he first sent General Dong Cheng to repair the palace.
Zhao Qi said to Dong Cheng: Now the country is divided into parts. Only Jingzhou has a large territory and a good local situation. It connects to Bashu in the west and ends in Jiaocheng in the south. It has a good harvest every year and the army's household registration is still intact.
Although I, Zhao Qi, am forced by Li Chu's order, I am determined to serve the country. I want to take an ox cart to the south to tell Liu Biao that he can lead troops to defend the court and work together with the general to assist the royal family.
This is a way to save the people. Dong Cheng sent Zhao Qi to Jingzhou to supervise the grain leasing.
When Zhao Qi arrived, Liu Biao sent troops to Luoyang to help repair the palace, and there was an endless stream of transportation of weapons, food and grass.
At this time, Sun Song was also a guest at Liu Biao's place, but Liu Biao did not treat him politely. Zhao Qi then told Liu Biao that Sun Song had extraordinary virtues, because they were both the governor of Qingzhou.
Zhao Qi stayed in Jingzhou because he was old and sick.
Cao Cao was now Sikong, so he appointed Zhao Qi as Sikong on his behalf.
Guang Luxun Huandian and Shaofu Kong Rong wrote to recommend Zhao Qi, so he appointed Zhao Qi as Taichang.
He was more than ninety years old and died in the sixth year of Jian'an.
Zhao Qixian made the earthen tomb by himself, and painted four images of Jizha, Zichan, Yan Ying, and Shuxiang as guests. He also painted his own image as the main one, and wrote eulogies for them all.
He ordered his son to say: On the day I died, sand was gathered in the tomb to make a bed. White cloth was spread over it, and a sheet was covered with it. On the same day, it was buried. Zhao Qi wrote many narratives, including "Mencius Chapters" and "Sanfu Juelu", which have been passed down to the world.
