Xiaoxian Emperor Liu Xie, the neutron son of Emperor Ling.
Why did the queen harm the beautiful mother?
In April of the sixth year of Zhongping, the young emperor Liu Bian ascended the throne and was granted the title of King of Bohai. He was also granted the title of King of Chenliu.
On the first day of September, Liu Xie became emperor at the age of nine.
Moved the Queen Mother to Yong'an Palace.
Amnesty to the world.
Change Zhaoning to Yonghan.
On the third day of the lunar month, Dong Zhuo killed the Empress Dowager He.
At the beginning, there were six servants in the palace and six servants in Huangmen.
Give the minister a person from the family of the minister of Huangmen, down to Huangmen, as a minister to supplement the offices led by the eunuchs and serve in the palace.
On September 12, Taiwei Liu Yu was appointed as Grand Sima.
Dong Zhuo appointed himself Taiwei, and added Fu Yue and Huben.
On the 13th, Yang Biao, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed Sikong.
On the 21st, Huang Wan, the shepherd of Yuzhou, was appointed as Situ.
Envoys were sent to pay homage to the late Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu.
On the third day of October in winter, Queen Lingsi was buried.
Baibo bandits raided the east of the river, and Dong Zhuo sent his general Niu Fu to attack.
On the first day of November, Dong Zhuo appointed himself Prime Minister.
In December of 1898, Situ Huang Wan was appointed Taiwei, Sikong Yang Biao was appointed Situ, and Guang Luxun Xun Shuang was appointed Sikong.
The captain of Fufeng was omitted and the captain of Han'an was set up.
The imperial edict abolished the titles of Guangxi, Zhaoning and Yonghan in the third year, and returned them to the sixth year of Zhongping.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Chuping, the prefectures and counties in Shandong raised troops to attack Dong Zhuo.
On the tenth day of the first lunar month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
On the third day of February, Dong Zhuo killed Hongnong King Liu Bian.
Baibo bandits raided Dongjun.
On the fifth day of February, Taiwei Huang Wan and Situ Yang Biao were dismissed from their posts.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Dong Zhuo killed Wu Qiong, the captain of the city gate, and Zhou Mi, the captain of the military governor.
He appointed Guang Luxun and Zhao Qian as Taiwei, and appointed his servant Wang Yun as Situ.
On February 17, the capital was moved to Chang'an.
Dong Zhuo drove all the people in the capital to move westward and entered the Pass, while he stayed in Biguiyuan.
On February 22nd, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
On the fifth day of March, the emperor entered Chang'an and went to Weiyang Palace.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Dong Zhuo burned palaces, temples and people's homes in Luoyang.
On March 18, Dong Zhuo killed the Grand Tutor Yuan Wei and the Imperial Servant Yuan Ji, and wiped out their relatives.
In May of summer, Sikong Xunshuang passed away.
In Xinchou in June, Dr. Guanglu was appointed Sikong Fu.
Dahonglu Han Rong, Shaofu Yinxiu, Zhijinwu Hu Muban, General Wu Xiu, the great craftsman, and Yueqi captain Wang Gui'an gathered in Guandong. Later general Yuan Shu and Hanoi prefect Wang Kuang captured and killed them respectively. Only Han Rong was spared.
Dong Zhuo destroyed five baht coins and exchanged them for small coins.
On November 14th in winter, Saturn, Mars, and Venus converge in Ojuku, one of the twenty-eight constellations.
This year, the stewards requested that the three empresses He Di Mu Zong, An Di Gong Zong, Shun Di Jing Zong, and Huan Di Wei Zong have no merit and should not be called the clan; and the three empresses Gong Huai, Jing Yin, and Gong Min were not legitimate, and if they were not suitable for the title, they were all asked to have their titles revoked.
Emperor Xian’s edict said: Yes. Sun Jian killed Wang Ruiyou, the governor of Jingzhou, and Zhang Zi, the governor of Nanyang.
On the sixth day of the first lunar month of the second year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
On February 12, Dong Zhuo appointed himself Grand Master.
Yuan Shu sent general Sun Jian to fight Dong Zhuo's general Hu Zhen in Yangren, and Hu Zhen's army was severely defeated.
Dong Zhuo then excavated the tombs of emperors in Luoyang.
In the fourth month of summer, Dong Zhuo entered Chang'an.
June 23, earthquake.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Zhongfu was dismissed from his post, and Chunyu Jia of Jinan, the official of Guanglu, was appointed as Sikong.
Taiwei Zhao Qian resigned and appointed Taichang Ma Rishidan as Taiwei.
In September, Chi You, who is like a comet and then curves like a flag, with yellow upper part and white lower part, appears in the corner of the twenty-eight constellations.
On the first day of October in winter, Dong Zhuo killed the guard Zhang Wen.
In November, the Qingzhou Yellow Turban Army raided Taishan, and the Taishan Prefect Ying Shao defeated them.
The Yellow Turban Army turned around and raided Bohai. Gongsun Zan fought with them in Dongguang and defeated them severely.
This year, someone died in Changsha and was resurrected after a month.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Ding Chou issued a general amnesty to the whole world.
Yuan Shu sent general Sun Jian to attack Liu Biao in Xiangyang, and Sun Jian died in the battle.
Yuan Shao and Gongsun Zan fought at Jieqiao, and Gongsun Zan's army was defeated.
On April 23rd in summer, Dong Zhuo was executed, and his father, mother, and wife clans were wiped out.
Situ Wangyun acted as the Secretary, took charge of the government affairs, and sent envoy Zhang Zhong to appease and comfort the people in Shandong area.
The Qingzhou Yellow Turban Army killed Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, in Dongping.
Cao Cao, the governor of Dongjun, defeated the Yellow Turban Army in Shouzhang and forced them to surrender.
On the tenth day of the fifth lunar month, there is a general amnesty.
On May 20th, Huangfu Song, the general who conquered the west, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry.
Dong Zhuo's generals Li Chu, Guo Si, Fan Chou, Zhang Ji and others rebelled and attacked the capital.
On the first day of June, Chang'an City was captured. Taichang Zhongfu, Taipu Lu Xu, Taihong Lu and Zhou Huan, Chengmen Colonel Cui Lie, and Yueqi Colonel Wang Qi all died in the battle. More than 10,000 officials and civilians died.
Li Chu and others all called themselves generals.
On the second day of June, there is a general amnesty.
Li Chu killed Huang Wan, the captain of Sili School. On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, Situ Wang Yun was killed; Huang Wan and Wang Yun were both exterminated.
On June 19, former general Zhao Qian was appointed as Situ.
On the 13th day of the seventh month in the autumn, Taiwei Ma Rishidan was appointed as Taifu, acting as Shangshu.
In August, Ma Rishishan and his servant Zhao Qi were sent to hold talismans to express condolences and appease the world.
He appointed Chariot and Cavalry General Huangfu Song as Taiwei.
Situ Zhao Qian leaves.
In September, Li Chu appointed himself General of Chariots and Cavalry, Guo Si as General of the Rear, Fan Chou as General of the Right, and Zhang Ji as General of Zhendong.
Zhang Ji left the capital and was stationed in Hongnong.
On September 29, Sikong Chunyujia was appointed as Situ, and Guanglu doctor Yang Biao was appointed as Sikong and acted as minister.
In December of winter, the Taiwei Huangfusong was dismissed from his post, and Zhou Zhong, the Guanglu doctor, was appointed as the Taiwei and participated in the affairs of the general secretary.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fourth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse. On the fourteenth day of the first lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In March, Yuan Shu killed Chen Wen, the governor of Yangzhou, and occupied Huainan.
The outhouse of Xuanping City Gate in Chang'an collapsed on its own.
On May 22nd in the summer, there was no cloud but thunder.
In June, strong winds and hail fell in the Fufeng area.
Huashan collapsed.
Taiwei Zhou Zhong was dismissed from his post, and his servant Zhu Jun was appointed as Taiwei to act as minister.
Quexuan, a bandit from Xiapi, claimed to be the emperor.
Lots of rain.
Pei Mao, the imperial censor, was sent to interrogate the prisoners imprisoned under the imperial edict, and to pardon those detained for misdemeanors.
On June 20th, the star Tengu moves northwest.
In the ninth month of the ninth lunar month, there were more than 40 Confucian scholars in the program of selecting scholars by subject. The higher rankings were awarded the title of doctor, the lower rankings were awarded the title of prince, and the lower rankings were given away without any arrangement.
The imperial edict said: Confucius lamented that if he did not study academics, he would forget the knowledge he knew day by day.
Nowadays, the old Confucian scholars are over sixty years old. They have left their hometowns to make a living and cannot engage in specialized careers.
I have pity and sympathy for them when they were married in childhood and went to school empty-handed in old age.
Those who fail in the examination will be accepted as princes.
In the winter of October, a ceremony was held at Taixue. Emperor Xian went to the gate of Yongfu City to watch the ceremony in person. He rewarded the doctor with the following money and materials.
On October 22, there was an earthquake in the capital.
Comet appears in Tianshi star.
Sikong Yang Biao was dismissed and Taichang Zhao Wen was appointed as Sikong.
Gongsun Zan killed the Grand Sima Liu Yu.
December 23, earthquake.
Sikong Zhao Wen was dismissed, and on December 27, Weiwei Zhang happy was appointed as Sikong.
In this year, Langyi King Liu Rong passed away.
On the thirteenth day of the first spring month of the first year of Xingping, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Xingping.
On the 16th, the emperor crowned him.
On the fifth day of the second lunar month, the imperial concubine Wang was posthumously honored as Queen Linghuai. On the seventh day of the second lunar month, she was buried in Wenzhao Mausoleum.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the emperor plowed the fields.
In March, Han Sui and Ma Teng fought with Guo Si and Fan Chou at Changpingguan. Han Sui and Ma Teng failed. Liu Fan, the general of Zuo Zhonglang, and Zhongshao, the former governor of Yizhou, were killed in the battle.
On the first day of June in summer, the four counties of Liangzhou and Hexi were divided into Yingzhou.
On the second day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake; on the third day of the lunar month, there was another earthquake.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. The emperor did not enter the main hall, did not use weapons, and ignored the government for five days.
Great locust plague.
On the seventh day of July in autumn, Captain Zhu Jun was dismissed from his post.
On the 13th, Taichang Yang Biao was appointed as Taiwei, acting as Shangshu.
There is a severe drought in Sanfu area from April to July.
The emperor went into the main hall to worship the sky and pray for rain, and sent envoys to clean up and examine the prisoners, and to forgive the minor criminals in custody.
At this time, a handful of grain cost 500,000 yuan, and a handful of beans and wheat cost 200,000 yuan. People were so hungry that they ate people, and their bones were piled up everywhere.
The emperor sent Hou Wen, the imperial censor, to take out the rice and beans from Taicang, the capital, and give rice porridge to the hungry people, but the number of dead among the hungry people was not reduced after many days.
The emperor suspected that the relief was false, so he personally measured the rice and beans in front of his seat and tried to make rice porridge. As a result, he found that the quality and quantity of Hou Wen's rice porridge were not real. Liu Ai, one of the servants, was sent to question the person in charge.
Therefore, the minister ordered the following officials to go to the Provincial Central Government Office to admit their mistakes, and asked Hou Wen to be arrested for investigation and verification.
The emperor issued an edict saying: If Hou Wen cannot bear to be tried by the prison officer, he will be punished with fifty canes. From then on, most of the hungry people received full relief.
In August, Feng Yiqiang rebelled and invaded the subordinate county. Guo Si and Fan Chou defeated them.
In September, the mulberry trees grow again and people can eat.
Situ Chun left in Jia.
In October of winter, the city gate of Chang'an collapsed on its own.
Wei Wei Zhao Wen was appointed as Situ to act as the minister.
In December, Anding and Fufeng were divided into Xinping counties.
In this year, Yangzhou governor Liu Yao fought with Yuan Shu's general Sun Ce in Qu'a. Liu Yao was defeated and Sun Ce occupied Jiangdong.
Taifu Ma Rishidan passed away in Shouchun.
On the eleventh day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
On the third day of February, Li Ju killed Fan Chou and attacked Guo Si.
On March 25, Li Chu forced Emperor Xian to go to his military camp and burn the palace.
On April 23rd in the summer, Emperor Xian made the noble Fu Shi his queen.
On April 26, Guo Si attacked Li Chu and shot an arrow in front of the tall building where Emperor Xian lived.
On this day, Li Chu moved Emperor Xian to Beiwu.
A major drought occurs.
On Renwu in the fifth month, Li Ju became the Grand Sima.
On the Gengwu day of June, Zhang Ji came to Chang'an from Shaanxi to persuade Li Ju and Guo Si to make peace and stop attacking each other.
In the autumn of the seventh month, Emperor Xian set out from Chang'an to return to Luoyang.
Guo Si appointed himself General of Chariots and Cavalry, Yang Ding as General of the Rear, Yang Feng as General of Xingyi, Dong Cheng as General of Anji, and together they served Emperor Xian.
Zhang Ji was a hussar general and was still stationed in Shaanxi after his return.
On the sixth day of August, Emperor Xian arrived at Xinfeng.
On the first day of October in winter, Guo Si sent his general Wu Xi to burn down the school building where Emperor Xian lived at night. Forced and threatened Xiandi.
Yang Ding and Yang Feng fought with Guo Si, and Guo Si was defeated.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Xian arrived in Huayin and slept in the south of the avenue.
This night, there is a red air band crossing the purple palace constellation.
Zhang Ji returned and joined forces with Li Chu and Guo Si.
On the third day of November, Li Chu, Guo Si and others chased Emperor Xian. A fight broke out in Dongjian, and Wang Shi was defeated. Guang Luxun Deng Quan, guard captain Sun Rui, Ting Lieutenant Xuanbo, Dachangqiu Miao Si, infantry captain Wei Jie, Shizhong Zhu Zhan, and Shesheng captain Ju Zi were killed.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Xian arrived in Caoyang and slept in the fields.
Yang Feng and Dong Cheng led Baibo generals Hu Cai, Li Le, Han Xian and the Xiongnu Zuoxian King to Bei, and led their troops to meet Emperor Xian. They fought with Li Chu and others, and defeated Li Chu.
In December Gengchen, Emperor Xian continued to move forward.
Li Chu and others came to pursue again, and the king's army was defeated. Li Chu and others killed the people who looted the palace, and Shaofu Tian Fen and Da Sinong Zhang Yi were all killed in the battle.
Emperor Xian marched to Shaanzhou and crossed the Yellow River at night.
In Yihai, Emperor Xian arrived at Anyi.
This year, Yuan Shao sent general Qu Yi to fight Gongsun Zan in Baoqiu, and Zan's army was defeated.
On the seventh day of the first month of spring in the first year of Jian'an, he offered sacrifices to God in the suburbs of Anyi and granted amnesty to the world, changing the Yuan Dynasty to Jian'an.
In February, Bai Boshuai attacked General Dong Cheng.
On the first day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, Emperor Xian arrived to hear the news.
On the first day of July in autumn, Emperor Xian arrived in Luoyang and went to his hometown to serve Zhao Zhong at his residence.
On the fourteenth day, sacrifices were made to heaven in the suburbs and a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 16th, I visited the Ancestral Temple.
On the eighth day of August, Emperor Xian went to the Yang'an Hall of Nangong.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Zhang Yang, the general of Anguo, was appointed as the Grand Sima, Han Xian as the Grand General, and Yang Feng as the Chariot and Cavalry General.
At this time, the palace was burned down, and the officials cut off the thorns and lived among the walls.
The prefectures and counties each had strong soldiers, but food supplies were not transported. Many officials were hungry, and the officials below the minister went out to eat their own crops to satisfy their hunger. Some starved to death between the walls, and some were killed by the soldiers.
On August 18, Cao Cao, the general of Zhendong, took the post of Sili Xiaowei and Shangshu on his own initiative.
Cao Cao killed his servants Zhong Taichong, Shangshu Feng Shuo and others.
Dong Cheng, the general of the Wei Dynasty, was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state. Thirteen people including Fu Wan were appointed as lieutenants, and Ju Zi was given as the prefect of Hongnong.
On the 27th, the capital was moved to Xuchang, Jisi, and Emperor Xian arrived at Cao Cao's military camp.
In September, Taiwei Yang Biao and Sikong Zhangxi left.
On November 25th in winter, Cao Cao appointed himself Sikong and acting general of chariots and cavalry, and all officials obeyed him.
In the spring of the second year, Yuan Shu claimed to be the emperor.
In March, Yuan Shao appointed himself general.
In the summer of May, there was a locust plague.
In autumn and September, the Han River overflows.
There was a famine this year, and people in the Jianghuai River were cannibalistic.
Yuan Shu killed Chen Wang Liu Chong.
Sun Ce sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the summer and April of the third year, Pei Mao, the envoy, was sent to lead Duan Xuan, the general of Zhonglang, to attack Li Chu and annihilate Li Chu's father, mother and wife.
Lu Bu rebelled.
In November of winter, thieves killed the great Sima Zhang Yang.
On December 24, Cao Cao attacked Lu Bu in Xuzhou and killed him.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, Yuan Shao attacked Gongsun Zan in Yijing and captured him.
General Dong Cheng of Wei was appointed general of chariots and cavalry.
In June of summer, Yuan Shu died.
This year, the ministers began to set up left and right servants.
Li E, a woman from Wuling, died for fourteen days and was resurrected.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the cavalry general Dong Cheng, the partial general Wang Fu, and the Yue cavalry captain Zhong Ji received a secret edict from Emperor Xian to kill Cao Cao, and the incident was leaked.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Cao Cao killed Dong Cheng and others, destroying his father, mother, and wife clans.
In the seventh month of autumn, Prince Liu Feng was made King of Nanyang.
On the 12th, Nanyang King Liu Feng passed away.
On the first day of September, there is a solar eclipse.
Emperor Xian ordered the Three Dukes to recommend two people who were of the highest filial piety, and the Jiuqing, Xiaowei, and Prime Minister each recommended one person.
They are all secretly submitting letters to state their interests in government affairs, and there should be no taboos.
Cao Cao and Yuan Shao fought in Guandu, and Yuan Shao was defeated and fled.
On October 12th in winter, the comet appeared in Daliangxing.
Liu Zhi, King of East China Sea, passed away.
This year, Sun Ce passed away, and his younger brother Sun Quan inherited the business he left behind.
In the spring of the sixth year, on the first day of the second lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. On May 21, in the summer of the seventh year, Yuan Shao passed away.
He contributed domesticated elephants to the country.
This year, Vietnamese men transformed into women.
In October of the eighth year of winter, Gongqing welcomed the winter solstice for the first time in the northern suburbs, and the Music Officer General Chapter began to resume the Eight Yi Dance.
For the first time, direct officials were set up to supervise Zhongdu officials.
On the second day of August in the ninth year of autumn, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shang, pacified Jizhou, and took charge of Jizhou's pastoralist.
In October in winter, the comet appears in Dongjingxing.
In December, rewards of gold and silk were given to the three princes and below. From then on, the reward was given once every three years, which became a regular system.
In the first month of the spring of the tenth year, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Tan in Qingzhou and killed him.
In April of summer, the Black Mountain bandit Zhang Yan led his troops to surrender.
In the autumn and ninth month, the particularly poor among the officials were given gold and silk in varying amounts.
In the first month of spring of the eleventh year, a comet appeared in the Big Dipper.
In March, Cao Cao defeated Gao Gan in Bingzhou and captured him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhang Meng, the governor of Wuwei, killed Handan merchants, the governor of Yongzhou.
In this year, Liu Rongzi Liu Xi, the deceased king of Langji, was established as the king of Langji.
The eight feudal states of Qi, Beihai, Fuling, Xiapi, Changshan, Ganling, Jibei and Pingyuan were revoked.
In the autumn and August of the twelfth year, Cao Cao defeated Wuhuan in Liucheng and beheaded his king Tadun.
On the third day of October in winter, the comet appeared in the Quail's Tail star.
On the 17th, Yellow Turban thieves killed Jinan King Liu Binbei.
In November, Gongsun Kang, the governor of Liaodong, killed Yuan Shang and Yuan Zhao.
In the first month of the spring of the thirteenth year, Situ Zhao Wen was dismissed from office.
In the sixth month of summer, the three public officials were dismissed and the prime minister and censor were appointed.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Cao Cao appointed himself prime minister.
In the seventh month of autumn, Cao Cao marched south to conquer Liu Biao.
On August 24, Guang Luxun and hope Yanli were appointed as censors.
On the 29th, Cao Cao killed Kong Rong, the Taizhong official, and wiped out his relatives.
This month, Liu Biao died and his youngest son Liu Cong was established. Liu Cong surrendered Jingzhou to Cao Cao.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
Cao Cao led the navy to conquer Sun Quan, and Sun Quan's general Zhou Yu defeated Cao Cao in Wulin and Chibi.
In the winter of October of the 14th year, there was an earthquake in Jingzhou.
On the first day of the second lunar month in the spring of the fifteenth year, there was a solar eclipse.
On September 15, in the autumn of the 16th year, Cao Cao fought with Han Sui and Ma Chao in Weinan. Han Sui and others were defeated and Guanxi was pacified.
This year, King Zhao Liu She passed away.
In the summer of the 17th year, in the fifth month of Guiwei, Ma Teng, the Weiwei Lieutenant, was executed, and his father, mother, and wife clans were exterminated.
June 29th, solar eclipse. In autumn, in July, the Jishui and Yingshui rivers overflow.
Locust plague.
In August, Ma Chao captured Liangzhou and killed Wei Kang, the assassin.
On September 21st, the prince Liu Xi was made the King of Jiyin, Liu Yi was the King of Shanyang, Liu was the King of Jibei, and Liu Dun was the King of the East China Sea.
In the twelfth month of winter, the comet appeared in the Five Princes Star.
On the third day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 18th year, the names of Yan, Yu, Qing, Xu, Jing, Yang, Yong, Yi, and Ji Jiuzhou in "Yu Gong" were restored.
On the tenth day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, Cao Cao established himself as Wei Gong and added Jiuxi.
It rained heavily.
King Liu Wanggui of Zhao was transferred to King Boling.
This year, Suixing, Zhenxing, and Yinghuo three stars entered the Taiwei Star Wall.
Liu He, King of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the nineteenth year, in the summer of April, a drought occurred.
In May, there is a lot of rain.
Liu Bei defeated Liu Zhang. Occupied Yizhou.
In October of winter, Cao Cao sent general Xia Houyuan to attack Song Jian in Mubaohan and captured Song Jian.
On November 20th, Cao Cao killed Queen Fu and destroyed her family and two princes.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 20th year, the noble Cao family was made queen.
Grant the title of nobility to the men in the world, each one is one level; the three elders, filial piety, and Li Tian are each two level.
The princes, princes and ministers are given the following valleys, each of which is different.
In the seventh month of autumn, Cao Cao captured Hanzhong and Zhang Lu surrendered.
On April 25, in the summer of the 21st year, Cao Cao promoted himself as King of Wei.
On the first day of May, there is a solar eclipse. In autumn and July, the Xiongnu Nan Chanyu came to worship.
In this year, Cao Cao killed Liu Xi, the king of Langfu, and the feudal state was revoked.
In the summer and June of the 22nd year, Hua Xin, the prime minister's military advisor, became the censor.
In winter, comets appear in the northeast.
There was a pandemic this year.
On the sixth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 23rd year, Shaofu Geng Ji and Prime Minister Sizhi Weihuang launched an army to kill Cao Cao. He failed and was wiped out, including his father, mother and wife.
In March, the comet appears in the east.
On February 30, spring of the twenty-fourth year, there was a solar eclipse.
In the fifth month of summer, Liu Bei captured Hanzhong.
In the seventh month of autumn, Gengzi, Liu Bei claimed to be the King of Hanzhong.
In August, the Han River overflows.
In November of winter, Sun Quan captured Jingzhou.
On the 23rd of the first month of the spring of the twenty-fifth year, King Cao Cao of Wei passed away.
His son Cao Pi succeeded to the throne.
On the first day of February, there was a solar eclipse. In March, it was changed to Yankang.
On October 13th in winter, Emperor Xian abdicated and King Cao Pi of Wei became emperor.
Emperor Xian was granted the title Duke of Shanyang, with a fiefdom of 10,000 households, and his status was higher than that of the princes and kings. He refused to submit to Wei Emperor Cao Pi's duties, and did not kneel down when receiving Wei Emperor's orders. He worshiped heaven and earth in the suburbs with the emperor's chariots and costumes. The Han Dynasty's ancestral temples, ancestral tombs, and sacrifices in the twelfth lunar month were all according to the Han Dynasty system. The capital was built in Zhuolu City, Shanyang.
The four princes Liu Xi, Liu Yi, Liu and Liu Dun who were granted the title of king were all demoted to the rank of marquis.
The next year, Liu Bei proclaimed himself emperor of Shu, and Sun Quan also claimed to be king of Wu, so the world became divided into three parts: Wei, Shu, and Wu.
On the sixth day of March in the second year of Wei Qinglong, Duke Shanyang abdicated one by one and died of Han Xian Emperor Liu Xie. It took a total of fourteen years from abdication to death. At the age of fifty-four, he was given the posthumous title of Emperor Xiaoxian.
On August 20, he was buried in the Zen Mausoleum of Xiuwu County, Huaizhou with the rites of the Emperor of the Han Dynasty. A residential area was set up to guard the cemetery, and officials were appointed to manage the cemetery.
The eldest son of Emperor Xian died early, his grandson Liu Kang was in his fiftieth year, and Emperor Wu of Jin died in the sixth year of Taikang.
Liu Kangzi and Liu Jin were established for four years, and Taikang died in the tenth year of his reign.
In the 21st year of Liu Qiuli's reign, Liu Jinzi, Emperor Huai of Jin Dynasty Yongjiazhong was killed by barbarians, and the feudal state was revoked.
Historians commented: "The Biography of the Zuo Family" states that the tripod is a sacred tool passed down to the country. Although it is small but heavy, it is a treasure of the gods and cannot be taken away.
If the royal family does not build it, evil spirits are rampant, and although the divine tripod is large but light, and people carry it on their backs, this will be the time when the country's destiny is exhausted and cannot be revived.
Since the time of Emperor He of the Han Dynasty, politics and religion have been gradually lost, and the world has long hated Han virtues. How can this disaster be completely pushed to Xian Emperor Shan Yanggong and blame him alone?
Historians praise: Emperor Xian was born at the wrong time, he was displaced, and the country suffered.
The Han family's four hundred years of rule over the world were finally lost in his hands, and he could only be a guest of Wei Emperor Cao Pi, just like Emperor Yao's son Danzhu was a guest of Emperor Shun.
