The people of these Yi countries wear their hair in buns, cultivate fields, and live together in towns and villages. The places outside them, from Tongshi in the west to Yiyu in the north, are called Xi and Kunming. The people here put their hair on their heads and move around with the grazing livestock. They have no fixed place of residence and no commander. They move for thousands of miles.
Going northeast from Wei, there are so many rulers that one can count them by ten, among which Yi and Zuo are the most powerful. Going northeast from Zuo, there are so many rulers that one can count them by ten, among which Ran Zhen is the most powerful.
Their custom is that some are indigenous people and some are immigrants, all in the west of Shu County.
Going northeast from Ranjun, there are so many kings that you need to count them by ten. Among them, Baima is the most powerful, and they are all of the same kind as the Di tribe.
These are all barbarians outside Bajun and southwest of Shujun.
When King Wei of Chu was king, he sent General Zhuang Qi to lead his army up the Yangtze River and captured the areas west of Bajun, Shujun and Qianzhong County.
Zhuang Qi is a descendant of the former King Zhuang of Chu.
Zhuang Qi arrived at Dianchi Lake, which has a radius of three hundred miles, is surrounded by flat land, and is fertile and rich for thousands of miles.
Zhuang Qi relied on the power of his army to pacify the place and made it subordinate to the Chu State. Zhuang Qi wanted to return to Chu State to report the situation, but just as Qin State attacked and captured Bajun and Qianzhong County of Chu State, the road was blocked and could not pass, so he returned to Dianchi Lake and became the king of Dian with the help of his army. He changed his clothes and obeyed local customs, so he became the ruler of the Dian people.
During the Qin Dynasty, Chang Yan briefly opened the Five Feet Road and set up some officials in these countries.
After more than ten years, the Qin Dynasty perished.
When the Han Dynasty was established, these countries were abandoned, and the original boundaries of Shu County were used as fortresses.
Some people from Bajun and Shujun secretly went out to trade in exchange for horses from Zuo, boy servants and yaks from Bo. Therefore, Bajun and Shujun were particularly wealthy.
In the sixth year of the founding of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wang Hui of Daxing attacked Dongyue. The Dongyue people killed Ying, the king of Dongyue, and reported to the Han Dynasty.
Wang Hui relied on his military power to send Fan Yang to Tang Meng to tactfully inform South Vietnam of the Han Dynasty's intention to send troops.
Nanyue gave Tang Meng some wolfberry sauce produced in Shu County. Tang Meng asked where it came from. Nanyue said: It came via the Zoke River in the northwest. The Zoke River is several miles wide and flows under Panyu City.
Tang Meng returned to Chang'an and asked the merchants in Shu County. The merchants said: Only Shu County produces wolfberry sauce, and many people secretly take it out to make deals with Yelang.
Yelang is close to the Zoke River. The river is hundreds of paces wide and can be used for boating.
Nanyue wanted to use property to make Yelang belong to him, but his power reached directly to his fellow soldiers in the west, and he could not use Yelang like his subordinates.
Tang Meng wrote to the emperor and said: The King of Nanyue rides in the yellow house's carriage, with the flag of Zuohu flying on the carriage. His land is more than 10,000 miles from east to west. In name, he is a foreign minister, but in fact he is the lord of a state.
Nowadays, most of the waterways from Changsha and Yuzhang County are blocked, making it difficult to move forward.
I have privately heard that Yelang has more than 100,000 elite soldiers. He can take boats down the Zoko River and attack them while they are not paying attention. This is a wonderful trick to subdue South Vietnam.
If we can really use the power of the Han Dynasty and the wealth of Bashu to open the road to Yelang and set up officials there, it will be very easy.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty agreed with Tang Meng's proposal and appointed him Lieutenant General Lang. He led a thousand troops and more than 10,000 people in charge of food and baggage. He entered Yelang from Bafu Pass and met Yelang Hou Duotong.
Tang Meng gave him many rewards, enlightened him with the power and kindness of the Han Dynasty, and agreed to set up officials for them, making his son an official equivalent to a county magistrate.
People in the small towns next to Yelang were all coveting the silk fabrics of the Han Dynasty. They thought that the road from the Han Dynasty to Yelang was difficult and they would not be able to possess them after all, so they temporarily accepted Tang Meng's covenant.
Tang Meng returned to the capital and reported to the emperor, who then changed Yelang to Qianwei County.
After that, soldiers from Ba and Shu counties were dispatched to build a road from Bo to the Zoke River.
Sima Xiangru, a native of Shu County, also told the emperor that Qiong and Zeo in Xiyi could be established as counties. The emperor sent Sima Xiangru to Xiyi as a lieutenant general and told them clearly that the imperial court would treat them in the same way as Nanyi and set up a captain and more than a dozen counties for them to belong to Shu County.
At this time, Bajun, Shujun, Guanghanjun, and Hanzhongjun opened roads to the southwestern Yi, and there were many soldiers guarding the border and people transporting supplies and military rations.
After several years, the road was not repaired. The soldiers were tired, hungry, and suffered from dampness, and many died. The southwestern barbarians rebelled many times, dispatching troops to attack, spending money and manpower, but there was no commotion.
The emperor was worried about this, so he sent Gongsun Hong to observe and inquire in person.
Gongsun Hong returned to Beijing to report to the emperor, claiming that it was unfavorable.
When Gongsun Hong became the censor, the Han Dynasty was building Shuofang County in order to use the Yellow River to expel the Huns. Gongsun Hong took the opportunity to repeatedly state the harm of developing the southwestern barbarians, so he could temporarily stop development activities and concentrate on dealing with the Xiongnu.
The emperor ordered the cessation of activities against the Western Yi, and only set up two counties and one captaincy in Yelang, Nanyi. He ordered Qianwei County to protect itself and gradually improve its county system.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Bowang Hou Zhang Qian returned from his mission to Daxia. He said that when he was in Daxia, he had seen cloth produced in Shu County and bamboo sticks from Qiongdu. He asked people about the origin of these things. The person who answered said: They were obtained from the Shendu Kingdom in the southeast. The road from here to there is thousands of miles, and you can do business with merchants in Shu.
Some people heard that there was a country called Shendu about two thousand miles west of Qiongdi.
Zhang Qian took the opportunity to talk about how Daxia was in the southwest of the Han Dynasty, admired China, and was worried that the Xiongnu would block their main transportation routes with China. If a road to Shu could be opened, the road to Shendu would be convenient and short, which would be beneficial and harmless to the Han Dynasty.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ordered Wang Ranyu, Bai Shichang, Lu Yueren and others to find a shortcut from the west of Xiyi to find the Shendu Kingdom.
When they arrived in the Dian Kingdom, King Changqiang of Dian stayed with them and sent more than ten groups of people to the west to find a way for them.
More than a year later, all those who were looking for a way were blocked by the Kunming Kingdom and could not reach the Shendu Kingdom.
The King of Dian said to the envoys of the Han Dynasty: Which one is bigger, the Han Dynasty or our Dian Kingdom?
When the Han Dynasty envoy arrived at Yelang, Yelang also raised such a question.
This is because the roads are impassable. Each of them thought he was the master of a state and did not know the vastness of the Han Dynasty.
When the envoys of the Han Dynasty returned to the capital, they tried their best to say that Dian was a great country and worthy of getting close to them and joining the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty paid attention to this matter.
When the South Vietnamese rebelled, the emperor sent Marquis Chiyi to dispatch the Nanyi troops in the name of Jianwei County.
Qie Lanjun was afraid that after his army traveled far, neighboring countries would take the opportunity to plunder his old and weak people, so he rebelled with his army and killed the Han Dynasty envoys and the prefect of Jianwei County.
The Han Dynasty mobilized eight captains from Bajun and Shujun who originally wanted to attack South Vietnam, and led the criminals who had been pardoned to join the army to attack Qielan and pacify it.
Just as South Vietnam had been conquered, the eight lieutenants of the Han Dynasty had not yet moved south along the Zangke River, so they led their troops to withdraw and killed Tou Lan during the march.
Toulan was a country that often blocked the transportation routes between the Han Dynasty and the Dian Kingdom.
After Toulan was pacified, Nanyi was pacified and Zoke County was established there.
Yelanghou began to rely on Nanyue. After Nanyue was destroyed, just as the Han army came back to kill the rebels, Yelanghou went to the capital of the Han Dynasty to meet the emperor.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty named him King Yelang.
After the destruction of Nanyue, and the execution of Lord Qielan and Lord Qiong by the Han Dynasty, as well as the death of Marquis Zhe, Ran and Zhen were shocked and panicked, and they asked the Han Dynasty to become ministers and appoint officials for them.
In the Han Dynasty, Qiongdu was set up as Yuesi County, Zhedu was set up as Shenli County, Ran and Zhan were set up as Lunshan County, and Baima in the west of Guanghan was set up as Wudu County.
The emperor sent Wang Ranyu to use the military power of destroying Nanyue and killing the Nanyi rulers to tactfully persuade the Dian king to come to see the emperor.
The King of Dian had an army of tens of thousands. Next to him in the northeast were Lao Jin and Mi Mo. They both had the same surname as the King of Dian. They relied on each other and refused to listen to advice.
Lao Jin and Mi Mo repeatedly offended Han Dynasty envoys and officers and soldiers.
In the second year of Yuanfeng reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the emperor mobilized the troops from Bajun and Shujun to attack and destroy Laojin and Mimo, and the army approached the Dian Kingdom.
The King of Dian had good intentions towards the Han Dynasty from the beginning, so he was not executed.
The King of Dian then left Xiyi, led the country to surrender to the Han Dynasty, requested to appoint officials for them, and went to Beijing to meet Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
So the Han Dynasty established the Dian Kingdom as Yizhou County, gave the Dian King a royal seal, and still ruled over his people.
There were hundreds of princes in southwestern Yi, but only the princes of Yelang and Dian accepted the royal seal.
Dian is a small country that was most favored by the Han Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: Did the ancestors of Chu have a salary and position given by God?
During the Zhou Dynasty, their ancestor Wan Xiong became the teacher of King Zhou Wen. Later, Xiong Yi was granted the title of King Zhou Cheng to the land of Chu barbarians and established his country. By the time the Zhou Dynasty declined, the territory of Chu State was known as five thousand miles.
The Qin State destroyed its princes, and only the descendants of the Chu State still had the King of Dian.
The Han Dynasty killed the southwestern barbarians, and most of the countries there were wiped out. Only the King of Dian was favored by the Emperor of Han.
But the beginning of the pacification of Nanyi was the sight of Gojiang in Panyu and the sight of Qiong Bamboo Staff in Daxia.
Xiyi was later divided into the west and south, and was finally divided into seven counties by the King of Han.
