"Yi" says: After heaven and earth, there are all things; after all things, there are men and women; after men and women, there are couples.
Morality between husband and wife is supreme. The Zhou etiquette system is that the emperor establishes concubines, including three wives, nine concubines, twenty-seven wives, and eighty-one royal wives, to decide the issue of women's education in the world.
Therefore, "Huanyi" says: The emperor and the emperor are like the sun and the moon. Yin and Yang complement each other.
In the early Yi Dynasty, the titles of Qin were followed. The emperor's mother was called the empress dowager, the emperor's wife was called the empress, and the remaining women were given titles such as beauty, beloved, eighth son, and seventh son.
When I arrived at the ridge stem, I was sure that there would be a total of fourteen titles such as Jieyu.
Since the Wei and Zhi dynasties, the titles of the queen mothers have followed the rules of the Mo Dynasty; from the wife down, the titles have increased or decreased in each generation.
When Emperor Gaozu brought order to the troubled times and restored normalcy, he drew lessons from the precedent of extravagance and excess that led to the country's subjugation. He ate poor food and wore simple clothes, and was frugal in everything he did.
His first wife died early, the position of queen has always been vacant, and the number of concubines has not changed much.
Taizong and Shidan came from the heirs of the emperor who was enfeoffed outside the country, and the concubines had all died before, and they did not build boudoirs for the concubines to increase their number. The few who are writing the records now are just as backup.
Yue's quiet title has a bad name and a person who traces his marriage. Grandfather pounded it, and the salt magistrate was selected for the fortress.
The queen's biological mother, Mrs. Xiao, was Saitong's cousin.
The queen became Saitong's concubine during Sai Chengtai's reign, and gave birth to King Lu Deng of Xuanwu in Changsha, Lu Ti of King Zhao of Yongyang, and then Zhidan.
At the beginning, the queen was in the house when she suddenly saw the flowers growing in Changpu in front of the hall. They were shining with a brilliance that was not found in this world.
The queen looked at it in surprise and said to the waiter: Have you seen it?
He replied: I haven’t seen it.
The queen said: I have heard that anyone who can see will gain wealth.
So he hurriedly picked it up and swallowed it.
Gaozu was born this month.
On the night when she was about to give birth, the queen saw that there were many people with clothes lined up in the hall.
Next, they gave birth to Xiao Chang, King Xuan of Hengyang, and his daughter-in-law, the chief official of Zhan Xingzhao.
In the seventh year of Taishi's reign in the Song Dynasty, he died in Tongxiali's residence in Moling County and was buried in Dongcheng Mountain in Wujin County.
On the first day of the first year of Tianjian, on the first day of the fourth month, Jiachen said, the additional honorific title was Queen, and the title of Mi was presented.
His father, Mu Zhi, also named Sijing, was the sixth-generation grandson of Zhang Hua, Sikong of Jin Dynasty.
Great-grandfather Zhang Yu was punished because of Zhang Hua's involvement. He was transferred to Xingzhi, but was recalled before he got there.
After crossing the river in the south, he was appointed as the prime minister and the prince gave up his family.
When Mu Zhi was young, he was upright, elegant and knowledgeable.
During the Song, Yuan and Jia years, he served as a member of the Communist Party of China.
He had a good relationship with Jiang Zhan, the official minister, and Yuan Shu, the prince Zuo. Yuan Shu recommended him to Zhao Xing Wang Sutong, and he was deeply accepted by the media.
Chuiwa realized that a disaster would happen to him, and wanted to avoid the disaster, so he asked Jiang Zhan to go out to work.
Jiang Zhan was about to appoint him to Shuxian, but he insisted on requesting to go to Yuanjun. After a long time, he was appointed as General Ningyuan and Governor of Jiaosha.
He has extraordinary achievements in governing local areas.
Later, when the governor died and the territory was in chaos, Chuiwa calmed down with dignity, and the territory was peaceful.
After Emperor Severn heard about this, he praised him and was about to appoint him as the governor of Manye. He died of illness just before he was sent.
His son Hongji, whose courtesy name was Zhenyi, was appointed as Zhenxi and joined the army. He died in office.
Gaozu became the emperor, and he posthumously gave Mu his official title of Guanglu Doctor and a gold medal.
He also issued an edict saying: The late uncle Qi Zhenxi joined the army. His moral character was pure and elegant. He was a noble and famous person in his early years. However, he did not live long after he was born. His early death concealed his glory.
When I was young, I encountered hardships and severe circumstances. Although I said that my nephew could achieve great status, I did not give him a chariot used by the emperor. Now that I am talking about the person who is gone forever, it is really emotional and sad to see him.
He can be posthumously given the title of Ting Wei Qing.
Hongzhan had no sons, so his uncle and younger brother Hongce made his third son Zhang Lan his heir. There is another legend.
Empress Xiao Yan, Emperor Wu of Liang Dynasty, was named Hui and was a native of Jinxiang, Gaoping.
His grandfather, Xi Shao, served as the son of the emperor and served as the teacher of King Shu Hai.
His father, Xi Ye, was appointed as the crown prince and died early.
At first, the queen's mother, Princess Xunyang, had just become pregnant, and her dream indicated that she should have a son.
When the queen was born, a red light shone in the room and all the utensils were illuminated. The family members thought this was strange.
The wizard said that the daughter's brilliance was abnormal and would be a harm to the family, so he held an exorcism ceremony for her by the water to remove the evil stains.
The queen was smart when she was young, good at official script, and liked reading histories and biographies.
There is no one who is not proficient in spinning, embroidery, sewing and other things that are popular among women.
After the Song Dynasty, the deposed emperor was about to marry her as his queen; at the beginning of the Qi Dynasty, Anlu King Xiao Mian wanted to marry her again. Xi refused them all on the pretext of women's diseases, and then stopped.
At the end of Jianyuan, Gaozu was able to get engaged to her.
They gave birth to Princess Yuyao of Yongxing, Princess Yuwan of Yongshi, and Princess Yuzhi of Yongkang.
In the first year of Chengtai's reign, he served as the governor of Zong Maggot. He arrived at the town first and then went to greet the queen.
Not long after arriving in the state, he died in his official residence in Xiangyang in August of the first year of Yongyuan at the age of thirty-two.
This year he was buried in Dongchengshan Mountain, Wujin County, Nanshuhai, South Xuzhou.
In the second year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, the Qi Dynasty elevated the ancestral position to the title of Prime Minister, granted ten counties and Liang Gong titles, and issued an edict to grant the queen the title of Liang Gong Concubine.
When Gaozu became emperor, he added the title of queen to her.
When a minister decided on her title of Mi, Shen Mian, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and Minister of Right Pushe, suggested: "It means that the title of Mi will be preserved in honor, and the purpose is to make it immortal forever."
The former empress responded to the peace of the Jade Rabbit and was filled with the aura of the earth. She had a feminine demeanor to set an example, and her appearance and posture were naturally deep.
A match made in heaven, righteousness first builds a bridge, but the divine way has been covered up early, and the good fortune of ascension is blocked. Her noble virtues should be followed to show the grand ceremony of the country.
Here we respectfully follow the "Mi Law" to determine that being loyal and pure is called virtue, and being noble and good at etiquette is called virtue.
She should be titled Empress De.
The emperor Shao ordered to obey.
Her tomb is called Xiuling.
The queen's father, Xi Ye, was posthumously named Doctor Jin Ziguanglu by imperial edict.
Zhengluan married Princess Xunyang, the daughter of Emperor Wen of the Song Dynasty, and was demoted to the title of Lord of Songzi County in the early days of Manchu.
Zheng Yan's son, Su Fan, joined the army as a reporter in Linchuan, the Chinese army.
Taizong's Queen Jian, named Wang, was named Lingbin and was from Linyi, Langxie.
His grandfather, Wang Jian, was a Taiwei and Duke Wenxian of Nanchang.
The queen was gentle, wise and virtuous when she was young. After meeting her, her uncle Wang Wei said: "She is a role model for women in our family."
In the eleventh year of Tianjian, she became Princess Jin'an.
They gave birth to Prince Ai, Prince Zuolian of Nanjun, and Princess Chengshan of Changshan.
In October of the third year of Zhongdatong, she was established as the Crown Princess.
In March of the third year of Li Zha's reign, he died in Chengfu Province at the age of forty-five.
In this year, Taizong ascended the throne as emperor, and she was given the title of empress and Mi Jian.
In September of the first year of Dabao, he was buried in Zhuangling.
Before this, there was an imperial decree saying: Empress Jian's funeral should be within a time limit.
In the past, the Ba Mausoleum in Xijing was hidden by the mountains; the Shouling Mausoleum pre-built by the emperors and empresses of the Eastern Han Dynasty was just built according to the flow of water.
I came to power at a time when times were difficult, with famine and famine, and the people were tired. I was planning to personally set an example for my subordinates, setting an example of honesty, honesty, and simplicity for a long time.
The Zhuang Mausoleum being built now must be frugal.
He also ordered Xiao Zifan, the doctor of Jin Ziguanglu, to write a mourning poem.
His father, Wang Qian, whose given name was Si Ji and whose real name was Xuancheng, was the same as the partial name of Emperor Qi Gao, so he changed it.
With his status as a young master, he was recruited from his family and served as a foreign minister. He was later promoted to the title of Prince Xima, inherited his ancestral title and was named the Duke of Nanchang County, and served as the prefect of Yixing.
He returned to Beijing and served as a hussar councilor. He was promoted to Huangmenlang many times, and Situ You had a long history.
He is calm and simple by nature and does not like to cater to the world.
He once said to the disciples calmly and calmly: As for my family's family status, it is a so-called ordinary clan. Naturally, I can advance along the flow and according to my seniority. There is no need to be demanding.
At the end of Yongyuan Dynasty, he was promoted to Shizhong, but he did not accept it.
When Emperor Gaozu's domineering government was established, he was introduced to serve as Grand Sima to consult and join the army. He was soon promoted to the rank of Shizhong and led the Yue Cavalry School Lieutenant.
After accepting the abdication, Zhizu issued an order: Ting Jian's sacrifices for generations continued until Zong Zhou, and Le Yi's entrustment of land was still evident in Dalian.
It turned out that Duke Lu Dan, the Taiwei, had a good heart and followed the right path. He helped the emperor establish Qi in the chaotic times. He assisted and supported the emperor with wise strategies, just like the wise ministers of the past.
Although Zifang prospered as the emperor's teacher and Wen Ruo prospered as the emperor's assistant, they could not surpass him.
I accept the destiny of the country and ascend to the throne of God, and rise according to the circumstances. However, the destiny of the new country, the wealth, the rewards and punishments should be systematic.
The use of words to praise the past generations shows respect for the magnificent cause, not just the great achievements, and also means remembering the benevolent government.
You can confer the title of Marquis to the Duke of Nanchang County and grant the title of a thousand households.
Wang Hua inherited his ancestral title and was promoted to Duzhi Shangshu.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the prefect of Saikui, and soon he was transferred to Chengyuan.
In the eighth year, he entered Beijing and served as Taifu Qing, led the rear army general, and was promoted to Taichang Qing.
In the eleventh year, he was promoted to Zhongshu Ling, and was appointed as a regular attendant.
At that time, the property owner built the Da Aijing Temple in Zhongshan. Wang Hua's old villa was next to the temple, with more than 80 hectares of fertile land. It was the land granted by his ancestor Wang Zun, the prime minister of Jin Dynasty.
The leader of Zhitan sent a letter to inform the emperor of his intention to buy acres of land from Wang Hua, hoping to give it to the temple.
Wang Qian responded to the emperor's wishes and said: I will not sell the cultivated land; if this is the emperor's order to take it, then I dare not say anything.
His response was again dismissive and informal.
So Emperor Gaozu was very angry and asked the market to evaluate the price of the acres of land, and then forced him to repay him according to the value.
Because this matter violated the emperor's will, he was transferred out of the capital and appointed as the prefect of Wuxing.
In the county, he was ill and did not work.
Later, he was recalled to the imperial court and re-appointed as the minister of the branch. He was given the title of Shizhong and served as the captain of Shesheng school.
He later resigned due to the death of his mother.
He died in October of the third year of his life at the age of forty-nine.
An imperial edict was issued and he was posthumously granted the title of Shizhong and Jin Ziguanglu Doctor, with the title of An.
His son Wang Gui inherited the ancestral title, and there are other legends.
Emperor Gaozu's concubine Ding, whose name was Lingguang, was from Qiao State and had lived in Xiangyang for generations.
Your concubine was born in Fancheng. When she was born, there was a strange divine light and the house was filled with purple smoke, so she was named after "Light".
The fortune teller said: This daughter will be rich.
When Gaozu came to her state, Ding introduced her to Gaozu through others.
The noble concubine was only fourteen years old at the time, so Gaozu married her.
When your concubine was born, she had a red mole on her left arm, which was treated but not removed. When she was sent away, it suddenly disappeared for no apparent reason.
She served Empress De carefully and respectfully. Once, she seemed to see gods and figures beside the tables enshrining sacred and Buddhist scriptures. She felt strange in her heart.
After the rise of Emperor Gaozu's rebel army, Crown Prince Zhaoming was born during the period of the Han Dynasty, and both the noble concubines and the prince stayed in the state city.
京都地区平定后，才回到京都。

In May of the first year of Tianjian, a minister asked her to be made a noble lady, but she had not yet been formally registered. In August of that year, she was made a noble concubine, with a status above the third lady, and lived in Xianyang Hall.
When the crown prince was established, a minister reported: According to etiquette, a mother's status depends on her son.
The mother who gave birth to the crown prince would not allow people to disrespect her.
In June of the first year of Song Taiyu, he advocated that all officials use their status as officials to respect the emperor's biological mother, Concubine Chen. In this way, when Emperor Ming of the Song Dynasty was in power, all officials would respect her.
I privately believe that the mother’s status as a noble person is due to her son, and the meaning is recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals.
The Crown Prince assists the emperor, and everyone in the territory treats him with the courtesy of an official. Since the Crown Prince has been treated with courtesy, disrespect for his biological mother is not allowed.
But for the emperor's concubines, the principles of the inner palace have always been separate from those of the outside world. According to laws and precedents, there is no reason to show respect to them.
Nowadays, the crown prince is smart, and the etiquette of the prince has been in place for a long time. The principle that the mother is more precious than the son has the original laws.
Although the princes, concubines and princesses have the same status as the concubines, they should also respect the concubines with the same etiquette as respecting the crown prince.
During the Song, Yuan and Jia years, the officials of Shixing and Wuling Kingdoms all used their status as officials to respect the crown prince's biological mothers Pan Shufei and Lu Shuyuan.
For the ministers in the palace, although the noble concubine was not the wife of the princes, the principle of sending justice was actually the same. It was the same principle as the Song, Tai and Henan dynasties advocated that all officials use their status as officials to respect the biological mother of the respectful emperor.
It is believed that the respect performed by the prince's officials should be the same as the etiquette of the officials. They should respectfully hold the note and kowtow at the Shenhu Gate; they should congratulate during the New Year and festivals, and the same is true.
Women have nothing to do outside the confines of the boudoir. If congratulations involve inquiries, notes, etc., the official in charge can report it.
The rule for women, from a moral perspective, is that they cannot be independent. If they are not attached to their husbands, they should be attached to their children.
The principle of bringing glory to one's relatives should be the principle of bringing glory to one's relatives to the extreme, so that the biological mother does not enjoy the treatment that a son enjoys.
Therefore, in "Spring and Autumn", anyone who is named a wife by the emperor should have the same ceremonial grade and salary as his son.
Although the kings of various feudal states are different from the princes, the principle of respecting and obeying the venerable is not different. The principles based on the previous generations are all expressed in the historical facts of the previous generations.
If a noble concubine gives birth to a prince, it can consolidate the great cause of the country. The etiquette system should be the same as that of the prince. This is indeed the system of the previous generation.
It is found that the concubines were established in the previous generation, and their status was second to the queen, and their title was incomparable; for the third-class position, their status was on par with the prime minister, and their title was equal to that of the princes and kings.
The etiquette of this noble concubine is already higher than that of hundreds of officials in the imperial court. Moreover, as the biological mother of Prince Shugong, as a role model for motherhood, her etiquette should exceed ordinary standards.
Moreover, as the spouse of the prince, the princess should also follow the established laws; if she surpasses her husband's mother as a wife, it will violate the order of priority.
Therefore, it is believed that the rules for noble concubines are the same as those for princes.
From then on, she had the laws and etiquette of a noble concubine, and was the same as the prince, and her words were called orders.
The noble concubine was kind and forgiving by nature, and when she lived in the palace, she was loved by everyone from the people who received the chariots to the servants below.
She doesn't like gorgeous decorations, her utensils are not rare and luxurious, and she never asks private questions about her relatives.
When Emperor Gaozu promoted Buddhism, his concubine refused to eat meat and ate only vegetable meals for a long time.
On the day she was ordained, sweet rain and dew fell in front of the temple, stretching one to five feet in length.
The basic meanings of the scriptures and doctrines established by Emperor Gaozu were all derived from her. She was particularly proficient in the Pure Name Sutra.
The tributes and rewards received were used for rituals.
He died on Gengchen day in the eleventh month of the seventh year of his life. His coffin was placed in Linyun Hall of Shu Palace at the age of forty-two.
Zhang Lan, the official in charge of the official affairs department of Shao Dynasty, wrote a condolence poem and said: The coffin has been opened, the sweet-scented osmanthus wine vessel is still in the void, the emperor's curtain has been drawn, and the clothes with the lady's decoration are about to ascend to heaven.
At the beginning of her birth, the light and electricity of Tianshu Star surrounded the suburbs, and the divine light illuminated the houses.
By the time she was about to get married, she already had a good heart and showed her beauty and gentleness; her fame spread to Qiayang, and her reputation spread throughout Zhonggu.
The emperor's great virtues spread throughout the country, and sacrificial activities were respectfully enhanced; the feminine fashion of sending talents came to an end, and the emperor's fashion began to prevail.
She behaved in a consultative manner, and her words were quoted from historical books; making her family docile and friendly, she became a model of national law.
She received such love and shouldered a heavy responsibility, and she returned to her heart from then on; she decorated the colorful jade with feathers, and the jade made an elegant sound when it shook.
She thinks about fasting devoutly every day, and thinks about proverbs at the end of each month; how can she not be careful, because the bright sunshine of heaven is shining on her.
She does not decorate the ribbon of her hat, and the pattern of her sacrificial gown has long been torn. Who else can accomplish great things except her? Her beautiful laws will shine forever.
The moon is upright and clear, and the stars in the Purple Palace are also clear; she extends her kindness to her subjects without harming others, and her longing for virtuous people does not let them be buried.
Be able to engage in frugality personally, only use piety to clarify the truth, do not play with gold and jade, and do not throw away bamboo baskets.
Auspicious benevolence spreads and evolves, and rewards model good friends and virtuous people; it creates prosperity, exceeds enlightenment, cultivates Lu, and cultivates Yan.
The issue of women's education is being discussed and the legal status of women is clarified. Unfortunately, Xuanchi has been closed long ago and Xiang and Yuan have been buried.
The queen's white dress has lost its splendor, and the bright red silk frame has disappeared; longing gathered in the prince's womb, and the grief in the prince's palace was deep. Alas, how sad!
If the tortoise's sign is good, he will bless and guide her away; the officials line up in order, and the prince follows him slowly and slowly.
The dim light of the sun has obscured the spirit of spring, and the desolate wind makes people depressed; they reluctantly leave the deep palace courtyard, and stand for a long time waiting for the renovation of the newly built ancestral temple. Alas, how sad!
The fine decorations on the colorful flags are unfolded, the clothes of the deceased on the funeral car are shaken and straightened, the gold vessels imitating the gods are condensed with pain, and the mournful music pipes are played to condense the sorrow.
Beautiful utensils were left in the camp, and the overlapping palace doors were closed in the corridors; the concubine's room was as warm as before, and the elegant palace was dark and protected from the sun. Alas, how sad!
The side rooms in the palace were morally noble, and the red tubes contained joy; morality changed the fashion of the Yu Dynasty, and the merits outweighed the achievements of the Tang Dynasty.
He is gentle and virtuous, and his virtues are passed down; he devotes himself to heaven and earth regardless of day or night. Alas, how sad!
If there is a memorial, please give me the title of Mu.
After Taizong ascended the throne as emperor, he added the title of Empress Dowager Mu to her.
The empress dowager's father was stubborn. In his early years, he became an official and became the governor of Kuiye.
Emperor Gaozu's doctor, Zhao Yao, was named Quanwu. His original surname was Hu. He was from Hejikung Yao.
King Zha Shi'an took her as his concubine.
After Dong Guang's defeat, she was brought into the palace by Donghun Hou.
After Jianchenyuan was pacified, Zhidan accepted her as a palace maid.
In August of the seventh year of Yue, she gave birth to Shidan.
Soon he was granted the title of Xiurong, and he often followed Shizu out of the capital and lived in the fiefdom.
In June of the sixth year of Zuo Hui's reign, she died in her inner chamber in Jiangzhou at the age of sixty-seven.
In November of this year, he was buried in Tongwang Mountain in Jiangning County.
Mi Hao announced.
After Shidan ascended the throne as emperor, a minister asked her to honor her as the Empress Dowager Wenxuan.
In the second year of Cheng Sheng's reign, the Empress Dowager's late father, Man Man, asked Lingshi to posthumously grant him the official title of Sanqi Changshi, Zuowei General, and the posthumous title of Marquis of Wukang County, with a fiefdom of 500 households; his mother, Mrs. Chen, was the wife of the Marquis of Wukang.
Concubine Xu of Shizu, whose name was Zhaopei, was from Tan in the East China Sea.
His grandfather was a filial heir, and he became a Taiwei and Duke Wenzhong of Zhijiang.
His father, Xu Nu, served as an official and became a general in military affairs.
In December of the 16th year of Tianjian, she was named Princess Xiangshu.
The eldest son Fang Deng and Princess Hanzhen of Yichang were born.
In May of the third year of Taiqing, he was ordered to commit suicide and was buried in Waguan Temple, Jiangling.
Shi Chen said: The empress supported the royal customs morally, and the customs spread throughout the world. This was probably derived from the meaning of "Ge Tan" and "Guan Ju".
As for Mu Guifei, her beautiful glory has long been displayed. She gave birth to a prince and encouraged the Sixth Palace with her own virtue. It is wonderful.
The ancestor's concubine Xu had no virtue and brought about her own destruction. That's right.
