Since ancient times, only those who have received destiny can become kings, and the rise of kings does not depend on destiny through divination!
This situation was particularly prevalent in the Zhou Dynasty and can still be seen in the Qin Dynasty.
When the kings of the Han Dynasty came to Beijing to inherit the throne, they were also left to the fortune tellers.
As for the emergence of diviners, they began to appear since the rise of the Han Dynasty.
Lord Sima Ji is from Chu State.
He was doing divination in the east city of Chang'an.
At this time, Song Zhong was appointed as a doctor, and Jia Yi was appointed as a doctor. One day, the two of them went out to the court to take a bath and take a break. While walking, they discussed and learned the governance methods of the previous kings and saints, and extensively explored the world and human affairs. The two looked at each other and sighed.
Jia Yi said: I heard that ancient saints, if they were not officials in the court, must be among the ranks of diviners and doctors.
Now, I have seen the three princes, nine ministers and the sergeants and officials of the court, and I can know their talents, learning and character.
Let’s try to observe the soothsayer’s style.
The two of them went to the city in the same car and visited the divining restaurant.
It had just rained, and there were very few people on the road. Lord Sima Ji was sitting leisurely in the pavilion, with three or four disciples accompanying him, explaining the principles of heaven and earth, the movement of the sun and the moon, and the origin of good and bad luck in yin and yang.
The two doctors bowed twice to Lord Sima Ji.
Master Sima Ji looked at their appearance and saw that they seemed to be knowledgeable people, so he returned the courtesy and asked his disciples to lead them to sit down.
After sitting down, Sima Jizhu re-explained what he had said before, analyzed the origin and end of heaven and earth, the movement of the sun, moon and stars, distinguished the differences between benevolence and righteousness, listed the signs of good and bad luck, and talked about thousands of words, all of which were logical.
Song Zhong and Jia Yi were surprised and understood. They adjusted their crowns and belts, straightened their clothes, sat respectfully, and said, "I see your appearance and listen to your conversation. I have never seen anything like this in the world of today."
But why is your current status so low and why is your career so dirty?
Sima Jizhu laughed loudly and said: "It seems that the two doctors are people with Taoism. How could they say such superficial words and use such crude words now?"
What kind of person do you think a sage is?
Who do you think is a noble person?
Why do you regard me, an elder, as humble and dirty?
Song Zhong and Jia Yi said: Noble official positions and generous salaries are valued by the world, and worthy people enjoy them.
The position your husband is in now is not that kind of status, so he is considered to be in a lowly position.
What is said is not true, what is done is not effective, and what is taken is inappropriate, so it is dirty.
Diviners are despised by the world.
People all over the world say: fortune tellers often use exaggerated and grotesque words to cater to people's wishes; they falsely raise people's fortunes to please people's hearts; they fabricate disasters to make people sad; they use ghosts and gods to defraud money; they are greedy for rewards to benefit themselves.
These are behaviors that we consider shameful, so we say they are lowly and dirty. Lord Sima Ji said: "You two sit quietly for now."
Have you seen those wholesale boys?
If the sun and moon shine, they will walk; if the sun and moon do not shine, they will not walk. Ask them about the eclipses of the sun and moon and the good and bad fortunes of people, and they can't explain it.
From this point of view, there are too few people who can distinguish the virtuous and the unworthy.
All sages who serve as officials follow the path of integrity, advise the king with correct words, and abdicate if their advice is not accepted. They praise others without expecting anything in return, hate others without caring about others' resentment, and always take the convenience of the country and the people as their own duty.
Therefore, if you are not qualified, you will not do it even if you are given an official position; if it is not his fault, you will not accept money.
Now the sages you call are people who are worthy of being ashamed of themselves.
They worship in a low voice and speak servilely; they seduce each other with power and induce each other with interests; they form cliques for selfish interests and exclude righteous men in order to gain respect and reputation and enjoy public salaries; they seek personal interests, distort the monarch's decrees and plunder the property of farmers; they rely on their official positions to show off their power, use decrees as their own tools, pursue private interests, and are retrograde and violent: they seem to be no different from those who threaten others with a sharp knife.
When he first became an official, he tried his best to use cunning tricks, cover up false merits, and use flashy documents to deceive the king in order to climb to a high position; after being appointed to an official position, he refused to let wise men state his merits, but boasted about his own merits, made false claims true, turned nothing into something, and changed less into more, in order to gain something. They are powerful and high-ranking; they eat and drink a lot, have fun everywhere, have everything they want, ignore their parents and relatives, only engage in illegal activities and harm the people, squander freely, and waste their public wealth: This is actually a group of people who are robbers without using bows and spears, attack others without using swords and arrows, abuse their parents without being convicted, and kill the king without being punished.
Why do you think they are wise and wise people?
Robbery occurs but cannot be stopped; barbarians cannot be subdued without restraint; evil cannot be curbed if evil arises; public affairs are depleted but cannot be rectified; the four seasons are not in harmony but cannot be adjusted; the year is bad but cannot be adjusted.
If you have talent and study but do not do it, this is disloyalty; if you do not have talent and study, you will live in an official position, enjoy the emperor's salary, and hinder the status of the worthy, this is stealing the official position. Those who have connections will be promoted to official positions, and those who have money will be treated with courtesy and respect. This is called hypocrisy.
Haven't you ever seen an owl flying with a phoenix?
The orchid zhixiong was not abandoned in the wilderness, but the wormwood grew densely into a forest, causing the gentleman to retreat and not be famous. This was caused by the princes in power.
Telling without doing anything is the true intention of a gentleman.
Nowadays, fortune tellers must imitate the heaven and earth, take the changes of the four seasons, comply with the principles of benevolence and righteousness, distinguish strategies, judge hexagrams, rotate the zodiac disk, divination and hexagrams, and then explain the power of heaven and earth, the good and bad success or failure of human affairs.
In the past, when the kings stabilized the country, they would first use turtles to divine the sun and the moon, and then dare to govern the people on behalf of heaven; they would choose the right day before entering the capital; when a child was born in the family, he would first divine the good or bad fortune, and then he would dare to raise it.
From Fuxi's creation of the Eight Diagrams, King Wen of Zhou evolved it into 384 lines and then the world was brought to great rule.
King Gou Jian of Yue imitated King Wen's Bagua and defeated the enemy's country and dominated the world.
From this point of view, what is there to worry about in divination?
As for the divination practitioner, it is a sign of etiquette to clean up and then set up a seat, straighten the crown and belt, and then talk about good and bad things.
Their words allow ghosts and gods to enjoy the sacrifices, loyal ministers to serve their king, filial sons to support their parents, and loving fathers to raise their children. This is a sign of morality.
And if the inquirer spends dozens or hundreds of money out of moral reasons, the sick may be cured, the dying may be alive, the disaster may be avoided, things may be successful, and the daughter-in-law may be able to live a healthy life: Is this kind of merit only worth tens or hundreds of money!
This is what Lao Tzu said: A person with great virtue does not think he is virtuous, so he is virtuous.
Today's fortune tellers do a lot of good things to others but receive little gratitude from others. Is what Lao Tzu said different from what the fortune tellers do?
Zhuangzi said: A gentleman has no worries about hunger and cold inside, and no worries about being robbed outside. He is prudent and rigorous when he is in a superior position, and he is not jealous of others when he is in a lower position. This is the way of a gentleman.
Nowadays, fortune tellers are engaged in a profession that does not require piles of savings, no treasury for storage, and no carriages for migration. The equipment is simple and light, can be used when staying, and will not be used up.
Even Zhuangzi's behavior cannot be better than that of wandering in the endless world with endless things. Why do you say that divination is not allowed?
When the sky is not enough to the northwest, the stars move to the northwest; when the earth is not enough to the southeast, the sea is used as a pool; the sun must move westward at noon, and the moon must be waning when it is full; the holy way of the former kings suddenly exists and then disappears.
And the two doctors require that the fortune teller must be truthful in his words. Isn't this enough to make people confused?
Have you ever seen a lobbyist or an advocate?
Thinking about problems, making decisions and planning, you must rely on this kind of people. However, they cannot please their master with just a few words, so they must refer to the previous kings in their speeches and quote ancient times in their discussions; they may consider problems, make decisions and plans, or praise the success of the previous king's career, or describe their failures and corruption, so as to make the master's mind either happy or fearful, so as to realize their desires.
There is nothing more powerful than false boasting.
But if you want to make the country rich and powerful, have a successful career, and be loyal to the king, it won't work if you don't do this.
Today's diviners answer people's questions and educate people's ignorance.
How can those who are ignorant and confused become wise with just one sentence!
Therefore, never tire of talking.
Therefore, the Qiji cannot ride in the same carriage as the tired donkey, the phoenix does not flock with the swallows and the sparrows, and the sage does not ride with the unworthy.
Therefore, a gentleman always stays in a humble and inconspicuous position to avoid the public, hides himself to avoid the shackles of human relations, secretly observes the moral conformity of the world, eliminates all kinds of harm, shows the nature of God, helps God to nurture living beings, and hopes for more benefits without seeking any status or honor.
You two are just casual commentators, how can you know the truth of the elders!
Song Zhong and Jia Yi were in a daze and seemed to be lost after hearing this. They were at a loss, looked melancholy, and could not speak.
So he got up and dressed, bowed twice and said goodbye to Lord Sima Ji.
The two of them walked without knowing the difference between east, west, north and south. When they went out, they had to get into the car by themselves, lying on the railing, not daring to raise their heads, and could never catch their breath.
Three days later, Song Zhong saw Jia Yi outside the palace gate, and took him away from everyone to talk about it. He said with emotion: The higher the morality, the safer it is, and the higher the power, the more dangerous it is.
In a prominent position, death is imminent.
Even if the divination does not work, it will not be deprived of the refined rice that it deserves; if the advice for the king is not thorough, there will be no place for him to stand.
The two are too different, just like the sky and the earth are completely different.
This is just as Lao Tzu said: Namelessness is the origin of all things in the world. Ha!
The sky and the earth are vast and boundless, and all things are prosperous and happy. Some are safe and some are dangerous. No one knows where he should live.
How qualified are you and I to comment on them?
The longer they live, the happier they will be. Even Zhuangzi's ideas are not different from this.
After a long time, Song Zhong went on a mission to the Xiongnu but returned before he arrived, and was therefore convicted of a crime.
Jia Yi was the tutor of King Huai of Liang. King Huai of Liang accidentally fell off his horse and died. Jia Yi took the blame and went on a hunger strike and died with hatred.
These are all examples of pursuing glitz and risking one’s life.
Tai Shigong said: The reason why diviners in ancient times are not recorded is because most of their deeds are not found in documents.
When Sima Ji is the master, I will write down his words and deeds in a chapter.
Mr. Chu said: When I was a Langguan, I once visited the city of Chang'an and saw wise officials engaged in the profession of divination. I observed their daily life, walking and sitting up naturally and decently. They often dressed up their clothes and hats to receive the people in the countryside, and they had the wind of a gentleman.
When I met women who liked to solve doubts and enjoyed divination, I treated them seriously and never smiled.
Since ancient times, sages have escaped from secular society. Some live in desolate depressions, some live among the people and keep silent about worldly affairs, and some live in seclusion among diviners to protect themselves.
Sima Jizhu was a wise official of the Chu State. He studied in Chang'an and was proficient in the "Book of Changes". He was able to state the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi. He had extensive knowledge and far-sightedness.
Judging from his responses to the two noble men and his quotations from ancient Ming kings and sages, he was not a person with shallow knowledge and low abilities.
As for those who are famous for their divination as a profession, they can often be found everywhere.
The biography says: Wealth is the first, followed by nobles; now that they are noble, each of them still needs to learn a skill to stand in the society.
Huang Zhi is a doctor and Chen Junfu is a woman. They are famous for their good horse fortune.
Zhang Zhong and Qu Chenghou of Qi State were famous all over the world for being good at stabbing with swords.
Liu Changru is famous for being good at looking after pigs.
The Chu family of Xingyang became famous because he was good at fortune-telling.
There are many people who are famous for their skills. They all have a demeanor that is higher than the world and surpasses ordinary people. How can we say it all?
So it is said: If it is not the right place, nothing will grow if it is planted; if it is not in line with his intention, nothing will be accomplished if he is taught.
When elders educate their children, they should look at what they like. If their preferences are inclusive of the way of life, they should follow their preferences and take advantage of the situation to cultivate them.
Therefore, it is said: What kind of house to build and what name to give to the son are enough to show the ambition of the scholar-bureaucrat; when the son has a job to settle down in the world, the father can be called a wise man.
When I was a Lang Guan, I worked in the same yamen as my colleagues who were waiting for the imperial edict to be Lang Guan. They said: During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, he summoned various experts in divination to ask whether it would be possible to marry a daughter-in-law on a certain day.
The Five Elements family says it's okay, the Kanyu family says it's not possible, the Jianchu family says it's unlucky, the Congchen family says it's a big misfortune, the Li family says it's a minor misfortune, the Tianren family says it's a small auspiciousness, and the Tai family says it's a big auspiciousness.
Each family debated the disputes and could not make a decision. They could only report the relevant situation to the emperor.
The emperor ordered: To avoid the taboo of death, the opinions of the Five Elements experts should be used as the basis.
This is why people adopt the advice of the Five Elements Master.
