Mr. Wei's name is Wuji, he is the youngest son of King Wei Zhao and the half-brother of King Wei Anli.
After the death of King Zhao, King Anli came to the throne and named the son Lord Xinling.
At that time, Fan Sui fled from Wei to Qin and served as Qin Prime Minister. Because he was resentful that Wei Qi Qu beat him almost to death, he sent Qin troops to besiege Daliang and defeated the Wei troops stationed in Huayang, causing Wei general Mang Mao to flee in defeat.
The king of Wei and his son were very anxious about this matter.
The prince was kind, generous, courteous and virtuous. Regardless of whether the scholars had talent or talent, he interacted with them courteously. He never dared to look down on the scholars because of his wealth.
Therefore, scholars from thousands of miles around rushed to join him, and he attracted 3,000 diners.
At that time, the princes and states did not dare to invade Wei for more than ten years because of the virtuous son and the large number of guests.
One time, the young master and the King of Wei were playing chess, and an alarm came from the northern border, saying that Zhao State was sending troops to invade and would enter the border.
The king of Wei immediately put down his chess pieces and summoned the ministers to discuss countermeasures.
The prince dissuaded the king of Wei and said: "The king of Zhao is just hunting, not invading the border."
Then he continued to play chess with King Wei as if nothing had happened.
But the king of Wei was frightened and did not focus on playing chess at all.
After a while, news came from the north saying: King Zhao is just hunting, not invading the border.
King Wei was greatly surprised when he heard this and asked: How did the young master know this?
The young master replied: One of my diners can go deep into the secrets of King Zhao. If King Zhao takes any action, he will report it to me immediately, so I know about it.
From then on, the king of Wei was afraid of the young master's talents and did not dare to use him to handle national affairs.
There was a hermit named Hou Ying in the state of Wei. He was seventy years old and came from a poor family. He was the gatekeeper of the east gate of Daliang City.
When the prince heard about this man, he sent someone to see him and wanted to give him a generous gift.
But Hou Ying refused to accept it, saying: I have cultivated my moral character and insisted on integrity for decades, but after all, I cannot accept the prince's financial gift because I am a poor janitor.
The young master then held a banquet and entertained the guests.
After everyone came and sat down, the young master took the carriage, horses and entourage, vacated the left seat in the carriage, and went to the east gate in person to greet Mr. Hou.
Mr. Hou tidied up his shabby clothes and hats, then got into the car and sat in the distinguished seat vacated by the young master. He had no intention of being humble at all, and wanted to observe the young master's attitude.
But the young master held the horse's reins more respectfully.
Mr. Hou said to the young master again: I have a friend who is in the slaughterhouse in the market. I would like to give him a ride and take me to visit him.
The young master immediately drove to the market. Mr. Hou got out of the car and went to meet his friend Zhu Hai. He squinted at the young master and deliberately stood there for a long time, chatting with his friend and secretly observing the young master.
The young master's face became more cheerful.
At this time, the generals, prime ministers, clan ministers and distinguished guests from Wei State were all sitting in the hall, waiting for the young master to raise their glasses to start the banquet.
Everyone in the market saw the young master holding the reins and driving the car for Mr. Hou.
The young master's entourage secretly scolded Mr. Hou.
Mr. Hou saw that the young master's expression remained unchanged, so he said goodbye to his friend and got into the car.
After arriving home, the young master led Mr. Hou to sit on the upper seat and introduced Mr. Hou to all the guests with praise. All the guests in the hall were surprised.
When everyone was drunk, the young master stood up and walked to Mr. Hou to toast his birthday.
Mr. Hou took the opportunity and said to the young master: Today I, Hou Ying, have made things difficult for the young master.
I am just a man who holds the gate and locks it at the east gate of the city, but the young master has resigned himself to carriages and horses and personally welcomes me in the public. I should not visit my friend again, but today the young master condescends to accompany me to visit him.
But I also wanted to make the young master famous, so I deliberately stopped the young master's carriage and horse in the market for a long time, and used the opportunity to visit friends to observe the young master. As a result, the young master became more humble.
People in the market thought that I was a villain, but they thought that the young master was a noble person who could treat the corporal with courtesy.
After the banquet ended, Mr. Hou became the prince's distinguished guest.
Mr. Hou said to the young master: The butcher Zhu Hai I visited is a virtuous man, but people don't understand him, so he is hidden among the butchers.
The young master went to visit Zhu Hai many times, but Zhu Hai deliberately refused to pay his respects and thank him. The young master thought this person was strange.
In the 20th year of King Anli of Wei, King Zhao of Qin had defeated the Zhao army in Changping, and then marched to besiege Handan.
The young master's sister is the wife of King Zhao Huiwen's brother Pingyuan Jun. She has sent letters to the King of Wei and the young master many times, asking for reinforcements from Wei.
The king of Wei sent General Jin Bi to lead an army of 100,000 people to rescue Zhao.
After King Zhao of Qin learned the news, he sent an envoy to warn King Wei: I am about to capture Zhao. It is only a matter of time. Who among the princes dares to save Zhao will definitely mobilize troops to attack it first after capturing Zhao.
The King of Wei was very frightened, so he sent people to stop Jin Bi from advancing further. He left the army to camp in Yecheng, nominally to save Zhao, but in fact he adopted a two-sided strategy to wait and see how the situation would develop.
The envoys of Lord Pingyuan came to Wei one after another, and they were often in urgent need. They blamed Mr. Wei and said: "The reason why I, Zhao Sheng, voluntarily rely on Wei to marry with Wei is because you have noble moral principles and can enthusiastically help others out of danger."
Now Handan is in danger, and sooner or later it will surrender to Qin, but Wei's reinforcements have not come yet. How can the young master help others get out of danger?
Besides, even if you don't take Zhao Sheng seriously, and abandon me to surrender to Qin, wouldn't you pity your sister?
The young master was extremely worried about this matter and repeatedly asked the King of Wei to send troops as soon as possible. He also asked the guests and debaters to try their best to persuade the King of Wei.
Because the King of Wei was afraid of Qin, he always refused to listen to the prince's opinion.
The prince estimated that he would not be able to obtain the consent of the King of Wei to send troops after all, so he decided that he could not let Zhao fall while alive, so he invited guests, gathered more than a hundred chariots, and planned to rush to the battlefield with the guests to fight to the death with the Qin army and die together with the Zhao people.
When the young master led the convoy through the east gate, he went to see Mr. Hou and told Mr. Hou everything about his plan to fight the Qin army to the death.
Then he said goodbye to Mr. Hou and prepared to go on the road. Before leaving, Mr. Hou said: "Young master, please work hard, I can't accompany you, old minister."
The young master walked for several miles, feeling unhappy, and said to himself: I have treated Mr. Hou well enough, and everyone in the world knows it. Now I am about to die, but Mr. Hou didn't say a word to see me off. Did I treat him wrongly?
So I drove back and wanted to ask Mr. Hou.
When Mr. Hou saw the young master, he smiled and said, "I knew the young master would come back."
He went on to say: The young master is famous all over the world for being hospitable and loving people.
Now that there is a crisis, the army that wants to go to Qin is like throwing meat to a hungry tiger. What is the use?
If this is the case, why are we guests used?
The young master treated me with great affection, but I did not see him off when he left, so I knew that he would be angry and I would come back.
The young master bowed to Mr. Hou twice in a row and then asked for countermeasures.
Mr. Hou asked the others to leave and talked secretly with the young master, saying: I heard that Jin Bi's military talismans are often placed in the King of Wei's bedroom. Among the wives and concubines, Ru Ji is the most favored.
I also heard that Ru Ji's father was killed. Ru Ji's desire for revenge had been building up for three years. All the ministers from the King of Wei on down wanted to avenge Ru Ji, but they failed.
For this reason, Ruji once cried to the prince, and the prince sent a retainer to cut off the enemy's head and present it to Ruji respectfully.
If Ru Ji wanted to die for the young master, she had no choice but to do so, but she just had no chance to act.
If the young master really asks Ru Ji for help, Ru Ji will definitely agree, and then he will be able to obtain the tiger talisman and seize the military power of Jin Bi. The north can save the Zhao State, and the west can resist the Qin State. This is the achievement of the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period.
The young master followed Hou Ying's plan and asked Ruji for help.
Sure enough, Ruji stole Jin Bi's military talisman and gave it to the young master.
The young master got the military talisman and was about to go on the road. Mr. Hou said: When a general is fighting abroad, he has the power to make decisions. He may not accept some of the king's orders in order to benefit the country.
When the young master arrives there, even if the two numbers match and are verified to be correct, Jin Bi still refuses to hand over the military power to the young master and instead asks the King of Wei for instructions. Then things will be in danger.
My friend the butcher Zhu Hai can go with you. This man is a strong man.
If Jin Bi obeys, that would be the best; if he doesn't obey, Zhu Hai can kill him.
After hearing these words, the young master cried.
Upon seeing this, Mr. Hou asked: "Master, are you afraid of death?"
Why are you crying?
The young master replied: Jin Bi is a brave, powerful and experienced veteran of Wei State. When I went to him, I was afraid that he would not obey orders and would definitely kill him. Therefore, I cried sadly. Why am I afraid of death?
So the young master went to ask Zhu Hai to go with him.
Zhu Hai smiled and said: I am just a butcher who kills animals in the market, but the young master came to greet me many times. The reason why I did not return my greetings and thank you is because I think small etiquette is of no use.
Now that the young master is in danger, it is time for me to sacrifice my life for him.
So he set out on the road with the young master.
The young master went to say goodbye to Mr. Hou.
Mr. Hou said: I should have gone with you, but I am too old to make the trip.
Please allow me to calculate the date of your journey. On the day you arrived at the Jinbi Military Headquarters, I faced the north and cut my neck to death to express my loyalty to see the young master off.
The young master then set out on the road. When he arrived at Yecheng, the young master took out his military talisman and pretended to send an order from King Wei to replace Jin Bi as the general.
Jin Bi combined the military talisman and verified that it was correct, but he still doubted the matter. He raised his hand and stared at the young master and said: Now I command an army of one hundred thousand troops stationed on the border. This is an important task related to the fate of the country. Today you come to replace me alone. What's going on?
About to refuse to accept the order.
At this time, Zhu Hai took out the forty kilograms of iron vertebrae hidden in his sleeves and killed Jin Bi with one vertebrae. The young master then took command of Jin Bi's army.
Then he organized the troops and issued an order to the army: If father and son are in the army, the father should go home; if brothers are in the army, the eldest brother should go home; and if the only son has no brothers, he should go home to support his parents.
After reorganization and selection, 80,000 elite soldiers were obtained. Kaiba attacked the Qin army on the front line.
The Qin army broke up the siege and retreated, so Handan was saved and Zhao was saved.
King Zhao and Lord Pingyuan came to the suburbs to greet the young master. Mr. Pingyuan led the way, carrying a pouch full of arrows for the young master.
King Zhao thanked him twice and said: "None of the wise men from ancient times can catch up with the young master."
At this time, Mr. Pingyuan no longer dared to compare himself with others.
After the young master said goodbye to Mr. Hou, on the day he arrived at the Yecheng military camp, Mr. Hou actually faced north and cut his throat to death.
The King of Wei was angry that the young master had stolen his military talisman, and falsely conveyed the king's order to kill Jin Bi. The young master knew this.
Therefore, after repelling the Qin army and saving the Zhao State, he asked his generals to return to the Wei State with their troops, while the young master himself and his retainers stayed in the Zhao State.
King Zhao Xiaocheng was grateful to the young master for his righteous deed of seizing the military power of Jin Bi under the pretext of entrusting the king's orders to protect the Zhao state, so he discussed with Lord Pingyuan and awarded five cities to the young master.
After hearing the news, the young master felt arrogant and complacent.
One of the disciples persuaded the young master: There are things that cannot be forgotten, and there are things that cannot be forgotten.
If others are kind to you, you should not forget it; if you are kind to others, please forget it.
Moreover, under the pretense of King Wei's order, he seized the military power of Jin Bi to rescue Zhao State. This was considered a meritorious service to Zhao State, but it was not considered a loyal minister to Wei State.
However, the young master felt that he had achieved merit and felt that it was great. I privately thought that the young master really shouldn't do it.
After hearing this, the young master immediately blamed himself, as if he was ashamed.
The State of Zhao held a grand welcome banquet. The King of Zhao cleaned the steps of the palace, went to the door to greet the distinguished guests in person, performed the host's etiquette, and led the young master into the west steps of the palace.
The young master walked sideways, repeatedly refusing to give in, and took the initiative to ascend the hall from the east steps.
At the banquet, the young master said that he was guilty, sorry for the Wei State, and had no merit in the Zhao State.
King Zhao drank with the young master until evening. He was still embarrassed to talk about the conferment of five cities because the young master always blamed himself for giving in.
The young master finally stayed in Zhao State.
King Zhao rewarded the prince with the city of Haoyi. At this time, the king of Wei also returned the city of Xinling to the prince.
The young master is still in the state of Zhao.
The young master heard that there were two talented and virtuous people in Zhao who were not engaged in politics. One was Mao Gong who was hiding among the gamblers, and the other was Xue Gong who was hiding in the hotel. The young master wanted to see these two people, but the two men hid and refused to see the young master.
When the young master found out where they were hiding, he walked quietly to interact with these two people. They both enjoyed their acquaintance and were very happy.
Lord Pingyuan learned about this situation and said to his wife: At first I heard that my wife's brother Wei Gongzi was an unparalleled sage, but now I heard that he was doing random things and associating with the gang of gamblers and hotel clerks. The young master is just an ignorant and reckless person.
Lord Pingyuan's wife told the young master these words.
After hearing this, the young master said goodbye to his wife and prepared to leave, saying: "I heard that Lord Pingyuan was virtuous, so I betrayed King Pingyuan and rescued Zhao State, which satisfied Lord Pingyuan's request."
Now I know that Mr. Pingyuan's interactions with others are just a bold act to show his wealth. He is not looking for wise men and talents.
Since I was in Daliang, I have often heard that these two people are talented. When I arrived in Zhao State, I was afraid that I would not be able to see them.
I am still afraid that they will not want me when I am dating them. Now Mr. Pingyuan actually regards dating them as a humiliation. Mr. Pingyuan is not worth getting to know.
So I packed my bags and prepared to leave.
The lady told Lord Pingyuan everything the young master said. After hearing this, Lord Pingyuan felt ashamed and took off his hat to the young master to apologize, resolutely retaining the young master.
When the guests of Lord Pingyuan heard about this, half of them left Lord Pingyuan and joined the young master. All the scholars in the world also went to the young master and joined his family.
Mr. Pingyuan's guests were so admired by his conduct that they all came to his door.
The young master stayed in the State of Zhao for ten years and did not return to the State of Wei. When Qin heard that the young master was staying in Zhao, he sent troops eastward to attack Wei day and night.
The king of Wei was extremely anxious about this matter, so he sent envoys to invite the young master to return to his country.
The young master was still worried that the King of Wei would be angry with him, so he warned his guests: "Anyone who dares to deliver the message for the envoys of the King of Wei will be put to death."
Since all the guests had deserted Wei and came to Zhao, no one dared to persuade the young master to return to Wei.
At this time, Duke Mao and Duke Xue went to see the young master and said: The reason why the young master is respected in Zhao and famous among the princes is just because of the existence of Wei.
Now the Qin State is attacking the Wei State. The Wei State is in danger, but the young master does not care. If the Qin State breaks through the beams and razes the ancestral temple of your ancestors, how can the young master still have the face to live in the world?
Before he finished speaking, the young master's expression immediately changed and he told the driver to quickly hitch up the carriage and go back to rescue Wei Guo.
When the King of Wei saw the young master, the two of them couldn't help but shed tears. The King of Wei gave the young master the seal of general, and the young master officially assumed the highest position of commanding the army, the general.
In the thirtieth year of King Anli of Wei, the prince sent envoys to inform various princely states of his appointment as general.
When the princes learned that the young master had become the general, they all dispatched their own troops and generals to rescue Wei.
The young master led the armies of the five vassal states and defeated the Qin army south of the Yellow River, causing the Qin general Meng Ao to flee.
Then they took advantage of the victory and pursued it as far as Hangu Pass, trapping the Qin army in Hangu Pass, so that they did not dare to leave the pass again.
At that time, the reputation of the young master shocked the world, and guests from various princely states presented their art of war. The young master put them together and signed his name, so it is commonly known as "Wei Gongzi's Art of War" in the world.
The King of Qin was worried that the young master would further threaten the state of Qin, so he used thousands of kilograms of gold to go to Wei for bribes, find Jin Bi's former retainers, and asked them to slander him in front of the King of Wei: The young master has been in exile for ten years and is now a general of Wei.
The young master will also take this opportunity to decide to become king. The princes are afraid of the young master's power and prestige, and are planning to come together to support him as king.
The Qin State carried out rebellion many times, using the spies of the Wei State in the Qin State, pretending not to know anything and asking them to congratulate the young master and ask if he had been established as the king of Wei.
The king of Wei heard these slanderous words about the young master every day and could not help but believe them. Later, he actually sent someone to replace the young master as general.
The prince himself knew that he was being deposed for slander again, so he excused himself from going to court because he was ill. He feasted with the guests at home all night long, drank hard liquor, and often hung out with women. He spent four years having fun day and night, and finally died of illness due to excessive drinking. In this year, King Wei Anli also passed away.
When the King of Qin received the news that the young master was dead, he sent Meng Ao to attack Wei, captured twenty cities, and began to establish Dongjun.
From then on, Qin gradually invaded Wei's territory like eating mulberry leaves. After eighteen years, it captured Wei Wangjia, massacred the soldiers and civilians of Daliang, and destroyed the capital.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was in a low status, he heard many times that Mr. Wei was virtuous and talented.
After he ascended the throne and became emperor, he often went to worship the prince every time he passed by Daliang.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, he returned from the front line where he defeated the rebel general Yingbu. When he passed through Daliang, he settled five families for the young master to guard his tomb and let them worship the young master according to the four seasons every year from generation to generation.
Tai Shigong said: When I passed by the ruins of Daliang, I looked for the so-called Yimen.
It turns out that Yimen is the east gate of Daliang City.
There are indeed many gentlemen in the world who are hospitable and like people, but only Lord Xinling can make friends with those people who are hidden in every corner of society. It makes sense that he does not feel ashamed to make friends with the lower class.
His reputation far exceeds that of the princes, and it is indeed true.
Therefore, every time Gaozu passed through Daliang, he ordered the people to offer sacrifices to him without interruption.
