Xiao Zike, whose courtesy name was Jingchong, was the second son of Lanlingru, Xiao Yi, the king of literature in Yuzhang of the Qi Dynasty.
During the Yongming Dynasty, he was named Marquis of Nankang County because he was a prince.
When he was twelve years old, he wrote "Gaosong Fu" with his cousin King Situ Jingling. The guard Gongjian saw him and admired him very much.
He first served as General Ningshuo and Grand Administrator Jinduo. During the Jiangan period, he moved to General Fu Guo and Grand Administrator Wujun.
Grand Sima Wang Jingze raised troops in Kuaiji to rebel. In the name of supporting Zijian, Dandantong summoned more than 70 Wang Tan brothers to the Western Province and planned to kill them at night.
Shizi abandoned Wu County and fled back. He rushed to the capital that day, so Emperor Ming did not harm them. Appointed Wang Yan as the crown prince's concubine.
Donghunhou ascended the throne, moved to the post of secretary supervisor, led the right army general, and soon became the minister.
In the second year of Zhongxing Dynasty, he moved to the post of auxiliary to consult the country and join the army.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was demoted to viscount, appointed as a regular attendant of the cavalry, and a captain of the infantry. However, he was not appointed because of illness. He was moved to the post of Guanglu doctor, and soon he was appointed as the chief historian of Situ Zuo.
Fan and others, disciples of Xiao Zike, once came to court to express gratitude for their affairs. Emperor Gaozu received them in the Hall of Wende and calmly said to them: I want to say a few words to you brothers.
The most precious thing in the world is fame and fortune, but it cannot be obtained by force.
If there is no luck, even with Xiang Ji's strength, he will eventually fail.
Therefore, Mo Ai's "The Theory of King's Destiny" says: What he sought was just a gold, but he ended up tossing and dying in a ravine.
You should not not read this book.
Emperor Xiaowu of the Song Dynasty was jealous by nature, and all of his brothers with a slight reputation were poisoned to death for no apparent reason. The only one who survived was Liu Ziye.
As for the ministers of the imperial court, they may be killed on suspicion of destiny, which is a mistake, and innocent victims follow one after another. However, there are also those who doubt a person's destiny but cannot kill him, or who do not know that a person has a destiny but do not doubt him. At that time, although he doubted your grandfather, he did not know how to treat him.
This is when people are suspected but not killed.
There are also people who are not suspected. For example, Emperor Ming of the Song Dynasty was exempted because of his mediocrity and inaction, but he was saved because he was suspected.
Then again, I was already two years old at that time, how could he know that I should be where I am today.
You should know that people with destiny cannot be harmed by humans, and even if you want to harm them, you cannot succeed.
When I first pacified Jiankang City, people inside and outside the court advised me: Times have changed, people must be united, and punishments must be implemented.
I acted according to this theory at that time, who would say it’s not possible!
I was saying that since the founding of Jiangzuo, if we want to change dynasties, we must kill each other. This is damaging to harmony, so the national destiny cannot be broad and long-lasting as usual.
The so-called lessons of Xia's demise are right in front of us, and the descendants of Yin should take them as a warning.
This is the first meaning.
Furthermore, although the Qi Dynasty and the Liang Dynasty were revolutionary dynasties, their principles were different from previous revolutionary dynasties.
Although your brothers and I have not mourned each other for two generations, our clan relationship is not far apart.
Don't say that brothers are very close. Some brothers deal with each other, and some don't deal with each other. What's more, how about estranged relatives who are in mourning?
At the beginning of the founding of the Qi Dynasty, we experienced joys and sorrows together, and I also have a sincere heart. You brothers are young and should not be familiar with me.
You and I, brothers, are from the same family, why don't we think about this and act like we are strangers on the road?
This is the second meaning.
What I have today is not what I originally wanted.
Moreover, Emperor Qi Ming wants to slaughter your family and put your brothers in extremely difficult situations. I raised an army to attack him, not only to shame myself, but also to avenge your brothers.
If you could bring order to things in the reign of Emperor Ming and Marquis Donghun, how could I not lay down my weapons and support them even though I was raising troops under Fan and Deng?
Now I have avenged you and changed the dynasty. I hope you brothers will repay me as much as possible.
Moreover, I took advantage of the turbulent political situation to replace Emperor Ming and unify the world, not to seize your family's world.
In the past Liu Wangyu claimed to be Danshi's son. Guang Genzao said that even if Emperor Sheng were to be reborn, he would not be able to regain the world, let alone Ziyu.
In the early years of the Liang Dynasty, someone advised me to kill him, and I replied as follows: If he had destiny, I could not kill him; if he had no destiny, why did he do it in such a hurry? This would just show my immeasurability.
Cao Zhi is the grandson of Emperor Wu of Wei and the son of King Chen Si. Serving Emperor Wu of Jin can become a loyal minister of the Jin Dynasty. This is your example.
You are members of the clan, and your friendship is different from his, so you can treat each other calmly, and you should no longer harbor any external intentions.
If you wait a little longer, you will know my wish.
It is also reported that Zhao Shuzu, the eunuch who was in charge of the account books in Neizhai during the king's reign, was appointed commander of Taizhai in the early years of Tianjian. In Shouguang Province, Emperor Gaozu called his uncle and said: I knew you in Beidi. Because you are an old friend, I often entrust you.
Have you seen the princes from Beidi recently?
My uncle replied, "I have been working here a lot recently and rarely go out. Even if I go out temporarily, I have no time to go there."
Emperor Gaozu said: If you see the princes of Beidi, tell them what I mean: Although I have changed the dynasty, I still feel the same family as them. However, the foundation of the country today is not stable yet, so I have not appointed the princes. Not only is it inappropriate for me, but I also want to stabilize the princes.
Let them sit back and relax, and they will see my heart later.
The great-uncle immediately went out to announce the imperial edict in detail.
Xiao Zike soon became the prefect of Yongjia.
Returning to the capital, he was appointed Guanglu Qing, Secretary and Supervisor.
He served as General Mingwei and Prefect of Lingling.
In the seventeenth year, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of the auxiliary country.
In the first year of Pongyang, he was moved to Zong Zhengqing.
Three years later, he was moved to the post of Du Guan Shangshu.
Four years later, he was transferred to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
In the sixth year, he was moved to Prince Zhan Shi.
In the second year of Datong, he served as General Ningyuan and Prefect Yuxing.
Three years later, he died in Shedi, Danjun County, at the age of fifty-two.
The imperial edict was issued posthumously to Shi Zhong and Zhong Shu Ling.
The name of Mi is Gong.
There were sixteen Wang Ke brothers, all of whom served as officials in the Liang Dynasty.
There were five talented people: Zi Ke, Zizhi, Zixian, Ziyun and Zihui.
Wang Deng once said to those close to him: "My brothers are all good at literature and history. Don't bother me to guide them. As long as you give up your business and make no mistakes, you will be satisfied."
Wang Deng also dabbled in learning when he was young, and was good at writing articles, but then abandoned his original intention, so no collection of essays was handed down.
Ziyao is also very famous. During the Taiqing period, his official position reached the rank of official. He came to Dongyang to escape the war, but was later stolen and killed.
Zifan, whose courtesy name was Jingze, was the sixth younger brother of Zike.
In the 10th year of Yongming reign of the Qi Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Qiyang County and was granted the title of Prince Washing Horse.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was demoted to Viscount, granted the title of military recorder, and joined the army. He was then appointed as Prince Xi Ma, and soon moved to the position of Master Situ. He resigned due to the death of his biological mother.
Wang Huang had a filial nature, and was famous for being excessively sad and damaging to his health during mourning.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed as the chief secretary of Situ. After repeated promotions, he was appointed as Yan Yin Cheng, the crown prince.
He served as the prefect of Jian'an, and was appointed as the Grand Sima of the Imperial Household of Cao in the capital, where he worked as a lieutenant.
The king loved people with literary talents, and Wang Yan received special favors. He once said: "He is a genius in the clan."
He was asked to compile the "Thousand-Character Essay". The diction was very beautiful, and Cai Peng of the Wang Mingji Office made annotations for the essay.
From then on, all articles in the government were drafted by him.
When the king died, Zifan moved to Xuanhui to consult and join the army. The army guard came to congratulate the king, who was good at history.
Zheng was good at his duties and Yan Yin, he was also appointed as the chief official of Zhengtan Xinwei and led Yin Cheng.
After serving as an official for more than ten years, he never left the feudal prince's palace. He often felt sorry for himself. However, all his brothers had obtained high positions, and he could not balance himself. When he came to serve in the palace this time, he wrote a letter and said: I am ashamed to be the chief officer of the feudal lord at this time. I have been inferior to others in Heman, and I have been promoted since then.
Because old and young are different at the same time, and rise and fall on different days, although they receive grace, they are still ashamed of their old age.
When Wang Zheng was young, his talents and names were roughly similar to those of his younger brothers Wang Ti and Wang Zhou, but their elegance and appearance were not as good as theirs. Therefore, their paths to becoming officials were divided into pros and cons.
Every time I read "Moshu", five of Du Xu's brothers became senior officials. But the middle brother, Zhu Zhenguan, did not become a big one but was the most famous. He often sarcastically compares himself to others.
Soon after, he was appointed Sima, the fallen king of Xuanhui. Before he could take up the post, he was awarded the title of Zhongsan doctor and moved to Guanglu and Tingweiqing.
He served as general Rong Zhao and direct internal history of Zhou Dynasty.
He returned to the capital and was awarded the title of Taizhong doctor, and was moved to the position of secretary and supervisor.
Taisai ascended the throne and appointed Dr. Guanglu, who was given a gold medal and purple ribbon. However, he was not accepted because he forced the thieves to do so.
This year, Empress Jian was buried, and he was asked to write a memorial article together with Zhi Kuanglan. After Zuo Sai read it, he said: Although the funeral will not be held today, this article is no less good than in the old days.
Soon he fell ill and died at the age of sixty-four.
After the thief was put down, Shizu posthumously presented him with the title of Golden Ziguanglu.
Mi Hao Wen.
There are thirty volumes of collected works before and after.
The second son, Xiao Pang and Xiao Que, could write articles when they were young.
When Taizong was in the East Palace, he once consulted King Shaoling to plan for the scribes named Xiao, and Xiao Pang and Xiao Que were among them.
Xiao Pang was appointed as a lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace, and in the Imperial Palace of the Chinese Army, he passed away before Xiao Fan.
Xiao Que, during the Taiqing Dynasty, was the official of Xuancheng Wangyou, and Situ You was the chief historian.
After the thief was put down, he went to Hongzhi and died in Kansai.
Xiao's inscription is Ji Yan, who is Wang Deng's eighth younger brother.
He was smart when he was young, and Sesaiduo valued him and loved him more than other sons.
When he was seven years old, he was named Kongdu Tibao.
At the end of the fifth year of Cheng Dynasty, he was awarded Shizhong according to the regulations for princes to appoint officials.
In the early years of Tianjian, his title was reduced to viscount.
Lei Jing was promoted to serve as a foreign soldier in Anxi, joined the army in Renwei Jishi, Situ was in charge of bookkeeping, and Taiwei recorded affairs.
Xiao Ti has outstanding appearance and is eight feet tall.
Eager to learn and good at writing articles.
He once wrote "Hongxu Fu", and the minister ordered Shen to meet him and praise him: "It can be said that he has a noble sentiment of Mingdao, which is of the same level as "Youtong Fu".
He also collected "Hou Mo" from many schools, examined the similarities and differences between them, and became a school.
He also initiated the compilation of "History of Qi". The book was completed, reported to the public, and ordered to be delivered to the Secret Pavilion for collection.
Lei Jing was promoted to Yaoyao and served as Prince Zhongsheren, Jianchenling, Shaoling Wangyou, Danyan Yincheng, Zhongshulang, and Shouzong Zhengqing.
He was appointed as the internal history of Luochuan, and was awarded the title of Huang Menlang in the capital.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to the position of chief and minister.
Emperor Gaozu loved his son very much and admired his talent, and he admired his manner and conversation. Whenever he sat with him at the imperial banquet, he would look back and ask him questions.
Zeng Calmly said to Zixian: I compiled "General History". If this book is compiled, other history books can be abandoned.
The king's answer to the question said: "Zhu Xing clearly stated the "Yi" Dao, abandoned "Ba Suo", and described the official prescription. In addition to "Jiu Qiu", the emperor's compilation was consistent with this, and Shan Sheng's works appeared again today.
People at the time thought this was a very clever answer.
In three years, he became a doctor of Guozi as his own official.
When he was directly responsible for the compilation of classics and meanings, there was no academic officer. Zihao was appointed as a doctor of Guozi. There was one teaching assistant in the above list, and ten students of Guozi were appointed.
He also started compiling Zhidan's collection and "Ordinary Northern Expedition".
In the next year, he was moved to the post of Guozi Jijiu, and was also appointed as a servant. He continued to expound the "Five Classics" written by Gao Dan in terms of knowledge.
In the fifth year, he was moved to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but his position as a minister remained the same.
Xiao Xi has a solemn and simple personality and is very proud of her talents.
When he was in charge of selecting officials, when he saw the nine-class guests, he ignored them and just waved his fan. Privately, the gentry and officials hated him.
However, Sai Saiping always valued his character, and when he was still in the palace, he often had banquets with him.
Zixian got up and went to the toilet. Taizong said to the guests: I heard that a strange person appeared recently, but today I found out that it was Xiao Shangshu.
He was valued as such.
In the third year of Datong, he served as General Renwei and Grand Administrator of Chengxuan. He died within a few days of arriving in the county at the age of forty-nine.
The edict said: General Renwei, Zixian, the governor of Wuxing County, has an outstanding demeanor and is the best talent among the royal family.
Not long after I was granted the title of official, he passed away suddenly, which made me sad.
It can be given as a posthumous gift to Shizhong and Zhongshu Ling.
You can cry now.
Please give him the nickname Mi when he is buried. The emperor himself wrote Shao Ling and said, "If you are proud of your talents, you should give him the nickname Mi."
Zixian once wrote a "Preface to his Autobiography", which roughly states: I am a friend of the King of Shaoling, and I am ashamed to return to the capital. Compared with my predecessors, I am like Tang Le and Song Yu of Chu State, and Yan Zhu and Zou Yang of Han Dynasty.
Looking back on my life, I really like the words of poetry and prose. Although I have not become famous, my heart is satisfied.
But like climbing high and looking far away, saying goodbye to people returning by the water, the windy spring morning, the moonlit autumn night, the early geese, the first call of the oriole, the blossoming and falling leaves, such scenery is so emotional in my heart when it appears before my eyes, and I often can't control myself.
In previous lives, Jia Yi, Fu Yi, Cui Si, Ma Rong, Handan Chun, Miao Xi, Lu Cui, etc. all became famous because of their articles, so I have repeatedly praised them: The scenery is beautiful today, can you write poems with rich literary talent? After the poem was written, the emperor's decree came again: He can be called a talented man. After I left the table, I said to people: The favor of being praised cannot be obtained by hope.
How does 逭 compare with Maiyi?
I'm afraid he can't be my equal.
Whenever I make something, I seldom put in the effort to conceive it. I have to let the inspiration come to me without trying too hard to brew it.
The only poem he has written since he was young is the "Hongxu", which has many genres and various writing styles. It is highly praised by those who like it, so his reputation can easily spread far and wide.
Zixian's works include 100 volumes of Houmo Shu, 60 volumes of Qi Shu, 5 volumes of Ordinary Northern Expedition, 30 volumes of Guijian Biography, and 20 volumes of collected works.
The second sons, Xiao Xu and Xiao Kai, became famous at a young age.
Xiao Xu, during the Taiqing period, served as an official in the prince's family, became a concubine, and was in charge of records.
When Hou Jing rebelled, he died in the city.
Xiao Kai, who was born in the country at the beginning, had the best performance in strategy, and was recommended as a scholar by Zhou Xiang.
He started out as a secretary, moved to the prince's office, and became the royal registrar, the prince's horse washer, and resigned after his father's death.
After the period of mourning was over, the mourning period was over and he was given the title of Prince Washing Horse. He was moved to the position of Zhongsheren and was in charge of records.
Lei Jing was promoted to the position of King Xuancheng's Wenxue, Zhongshu Lang, Prince's family magistrate, and in charge of records.
Xiao Kai's talent and reputation were considered to be equal to those of his father. When Taizong was in the East Palace, he had already summoned him to receive him.
At that time, the concubine Xie Gu went out to guard Jian'an and held a farewell banquet in Xuanyou Hall. He summoned the talented scholars at that time to compose poems, using the same fifteen dangerous rhymes. Xiao Kai wrote the poem first, and the poem's diction was beautiful.
Taizong Yu Wang Ling of eastern Hunan said: Wang Jun is a veteran in writing articles. His descendants have Xiao Kai to praise him. He is indeed a talented man.
Previously, Gu Yewang, a doctor of Taixue, was ordered to write the "Yupian". Emperor Taizong thought it was inappropriate for him to write a detailed book. Because Xiao Kai was knowledgeable and could write better words, he asked him and his bachelor to delete it.
He was moved to the post of concubine, but before he was appointed, he was moved to the post of official official.
In the second year of Taiqing, he was moved to the post of Censor Zhongcheng.
Soon after, Hou Jing rebelled, and Xiao Kai moved to the city to serve as a minister. Soon after, he died in his official position at the age of forty-four.
The anthologies have all disappeared.
Ziyun, whose courtesy name was Jingqiao, was Zike's ninth younger brother.
When he was twelve years old, in the fourth year of Jianwu in the Qi Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xinpu County. He wrote memorials of respect and acceptance by himself, which showed his literary talent.
In the early years of Tianjian, his title was reduced to viscount.
He grew up and was diligent in studying. Since there was no complete book recording history in the Jin Dynasty, he started writing books at the age of twenty.
Ziyun had a quiet temperament and was unwilling to become an official.
When he was thirty years old, he was recruited from his family as a secretary.
He was moved to the position of Prince Sheren, compiled "Xin Ji of Shu Gong" and presented it to him, and ordered him to be rewarded with silk silk.
Lei Jing was promoted to the post of Beizhong Lang, a foreign soldier, and joined the army. He was the king of Jin'an in literature, the chief secretary of Situ, and the Yin Cheng of Danyang.
At that time, King Shu of Xiang was appointed as Jingyin, and he deeply appreciated and loved him. The two were like common acquaintances.
He was moved to the position of Prince of Luling, Beizhong Lang, to consult with the army, and concurrently served as Minister Zuo Cheng.
In the first year of Datong, he was awarded the title of Huang Menlang, and soon he was promoted to General Qingche and concurrently Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the second year, he was appointed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
Three years later, he was moved to the position of chief and servant.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was transferred to the post of Taifuqing.
Three years later, he served as General Zhenwei and Internal History of Linchuan.
In the county, he was praised for his harmonious management of affairs, and all the officials liked him.
He returned to the capital and was appointed as a regular servant of casual cavalry, and soon he was appointed as a servant again.
In the second year of Datong, he moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and a minister of state, and led the Dazhongzheng of Xuzhou in the south.
Immediately he was appointed as a waiter again, and his duties as a minister and official remained as before.
In the early years of the Liang Dynasty, all sacrifices to temples and temples in the suburbs were made with solid-colored whole animals without the fur removed. The music and lyrics for the sacrifices were all written by Shen Yue and are still in use today. Ziyun was the first to suggest the revision of the music and lyrics.
He started by saying: The Holy Lord respects the customs, and the sacrifices in the suburban temples are solemn and solemn, which is very popular among the people in the western neighboring countries. It can be compared with the deeds of Zhou Gong and Confucius. During the sacrifice, the processed and hairless animal skins are placed in the altar to communicate with the gods.
I have been working part-time as a Zhaiguan recently, and when I heard the songs sung by musicians during sacrifices, they were still old songs for sacrificial animals whose furs had not been removed.
The Shiliao official who worshiped the heaven in the circle hill also said "Shi prepares the animal bolt"; the northern suburbs performed "Jie Ya" to worship the heaven, and also sang "The sacrifice of the jade hole prepares"; the ancestral temple worshiped and sang, and said "I sacrifice to clean"; the food and celebration music played in the three dynasties still chanted "Red tail and green scales", the singing was accompanied by drums and bells, and the dispatch was not in line with the grand system.
The minister, who is in charge of Confucianism, thinks that singing this way is suspicious and is not sure whether the music should be changed?
The imperial edict said: This is because the supervisor sticks to narrow experience and does not know how to adapt and make emergency corrections.
Then he asked Ziyun to write some music poems.
The imperial edict said: The lyrics used for sacrificial rituals in suburban temples should be the elegant and ancient words in the imperial edicts, and should not be mixed with the simple words in the history books; and there are many errors in what Shen Yue wrote.
Ziyun replied to the edict: "To play grand music and songs to worship the ancestral temple of heaven and earth, and to use elegant names for music, we should adopt them from the Five Classics. The sage has become a religion."
However, the music poems compiled since the Han Dynasty are not all based on classics; those compiled by Shen Yue are even more crude and messy.
The minister changed the ten songs composed by Shen Yue, but he only knew that the animal pegs used for sacrifice had been replaced by leather, so the lyrics should be changed and the lyrics should still be continued, not avoiding the customs and deviating from the actual situation.
After obeying the order, I was able to broaden my horizons.
I have always been mediocre and stubborn, but now I suddenly understand. I respectfully follow Cheng's decree and completely correct Shen Yue's organization.
Only the Five Classics are used as the basis, followed by Erya, Zhouyi, Shangshu, and Dadaili. This is a category of classics and imperial edicts, and can also be used in foolish ways.
I also explored the books written by Yao and Shun in the Tang Dynasty, including "Song" of Yin Dynasty and "Ya" of Zhou Dynasty. They were mainly praising, but each described current events.
Daliang changed dynasties and the world obeyed, Yan Wu cultivated literature, made rituals and music, and promoted the Xia, Yin, and Zhou dynasties. However, the lyrics written by Shen Yue were only immersed in praising the beauty of holy virtues and did not describe the creation of the dynasty.
"Ya" and "Song" are precedents, and Shen Yue's arrangement is inconsistent with the style.
According to the music theory, rules and threads prescribed by the imperial edict, as soon as a person with profound and subtle literary thoughts and the ability to govern the world appears, it is like the sun and moon hanging in the sky, indelible classics, and the education of ritual and music was made in the peaceful and prosperous times.
I would like to collect them one by one and show their meaning according to the circumstances to show the appropriateness of the production.
I have thought deeply about it for many days, and now I have completed it and respectfully submit it.
Used together with the edict.
Ziyun was good at writing cursive official script and was regarded as a model by the world. He said that he was good at imitating Zhong Yao and Wang Xizhi and slightly changing his handwriting.
In reply to the edict: I used to have no ability to appreciate, so I decided it was precious according to the opinions of the world, so I imitated Wang Xianzhi's calligraphy for many years.
When he was twenty-six years old, he compiled the "Book of Jin" and wrote "The Biography of Two Kings". He wanted to write a comment on the writing style of cursive script, but it was not satisfactory and he failed to write it. He only briefly commented on Feibai style writing style.
It has been more than ten years since I first saw the imperial edict "On Calligraphy", a volume in which I commented on the calligraphy style and thoroughly understood the shape of the characters; I also thought that Wang Xizhi was inferior to Zhong Yao, just like Wang Xianzhi was inferior to Wang Xizhi.
After thinking about it, I realized that the rules of official script were first changed by Wang Xianzhi, and Zhong Yao was the one who standardized everything.
Since then, I feel that my writing skills have improved.
His calligraphy was highly praised by Emperor Gaozu. He once commented on Ziyun's calligraphy: "The pen is strong and straight, the heart and hand are in harmony, the skill is beyond Du Du, and the physical beauty is better than Cui Wei. He should compete with Zhong Yao."
He was appreciated like this.
In the seventh year, he served as General Renwei and Grand Administrator of Shuyang.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he returned to the capital and was awarded Zong Zhengqing.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was again appointed as Shizhong and Guozi Jijiu, and led the Dazhongzheng of Xuzhou in the south.
In the second year, Hou Jing invaded the palace city, and Ziyun fled to the people.
In March of the third year, the palace city was lost. He fled eastward to Jinling and died of starvation in the monk's room of Xianling Temple. He was sixty-three years old.
His works include 110 volumes of "Book of Jin" and 20 volumes of "New Records of the East Palace".
The second son Xiaote was named Shida.
He became famous very early and was good at cursive calligraphy.
Emperor Gaozu once said to Xiao Te: Zijing's calligraphy is not as good as Wang Baozhi's.
Seeing Xiao Yi's handwriting recently made Qing feel threatened.
His official titles include Zuolang, Prince Sheren, Xuanhui, and the Zhongjun Records Office.
He took up the post of Haiyan Order, but was dismissed for some reasons.
At the age of twenty-five, he died in front of Wang Yun.
Zihui, whose courtesy name is Jingguang, is Ziyun's younger brother.
When he was young, he dabbled in book history and was also talented in literature.
He started as a member of the imperial family and served as a minister of Sanqi, and moved to the office of Nanzhonglang.
Served as Lin'an Order.
He has a quiet temperament and few hobbies. He once participated in the Chongyun Hall to listen to the "Three Wisdom Sutra" lectures, and came back to write "Lectures on Fu" as a memorial, which was highly praised.
He moved to Anxi to serve as a consultant to King Wuling of Anxi Province, and brought in new orders. He was transferred to Yitong to serve as a member of the imperial family, and to serve as the chief historian of Hussar. He died.
Chen Libu Shangshu Yao Chari: In the past, Aiqiao changed the fate of Lianqu by relying on his military power, and changed the calendar of the Wei Dynasty by relying on the Prime Minister. This is different from the ancient Zen teachings, which were passed down by virtue, so they suppressed the clans of the previous generation and cut off the popularity of the people.
However, Liu Ye and Cao Zhi were still prominent in the new dynasty; in the end, their surnames became obsolete in Saichi.
The Qi Dynasty was a relative of the Song Dynasty, but it wiped out all the Song Dynasty clans.
Its short-term national fortune may be caused by this reason.
The revolution of the Liang Dynasty did not adopt the practices of the previous dynasty, so the Zike brothers and their followers were given positions according to their talents. They were all nobles in the dynasty and did not abandon them because they were old people. Is it just that the Wei Dynasty was dim and the Jin Dynasty was obvious.
Therefore, a gentleman knows that the great ancestor is magnanimous and his magnanimity surpasses that of previous generations.
