Yuan Faseng is a relative of the Wei family.
His ancestor was Emperor Daowu of the Northern Wei Dynasty.
His father, Zhong Kui, was named King of Jiangyang.
Fa Seng served as an official in the Northern Wei Dynasty, serving successively as Guanglu doctor, and later as envoy Chijie, governor of Xuzhou military affairs, Xuzhou governor, and guarding Pengcheng.
In the fifth year of ordinary times, the Wei family was in chaos. Fa Seng occupied Pengcheng and proclaimed himself emperor. He punished dissidents, established various princes as kings, and arranged generals, hoping to revive the Northern Wei Dynasty.
Soon after the civil strife in the Northern Wei Dynasty was calmed down, the monks were about to attack the monks. The monks were afraid, so they sent envoys to express their submission to the Liang Dynasty and asked him to become a vassal of the Liang Dynasty. Emperor Gaozu agreed and appointed him Shizhong and Sikong.
When the Northern Wei army approached him, Fa Seng asked to return to the Liang Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Yi, a member of Zhongshushe, to greet him.
When he came to Liang Dynasty, he was extremely favored.
At that time, he was attracting people who had returned, and he was friendly to those who surrendered. He also gave the Dharma monk a house, female music, and gold and silk.
When Fa Seng was in the Northern Wei Dynasty, he had been a border guard official for a long time. Every time he invaded and plundered, he killed many people. He asked for troops to be sent for self-defense. Shao ordered him to have hundreds of guards wearing armor and weapons, and they were prohibited from entering and leaving the palace.
In the second year of Datong, he was appointed as the champion general.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was transferred to the general of chariots and cavalry.
In four years, he was promoted to Taiwei and received gold and purple light.
At that time, he was established as the lord of the Eastern Wei Dynasty, but he did not return to the Wei Dynasty. He was appointed as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, general of Hussar, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and governor of Yingzhou.
In the second year of Datong, he was recruited as Shizhong, Taiwei, and general of the army division. He died at the age of eighty-three.
The two sons, named Jinglong and Jingzhong, followed Fa Seng into the Liang Dynasty during the ordinary years.
Jinglong was granted the title of Duke of Chuanyang County, with a settlement of thousands of households, and served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Guangyue, Jiaogui and other thirteen states' military affairs, General Pingnan, General Lang of Huyue Zhonglang, and Governor of Guangzhou.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as Shizhong and General Anyou.
In the fourth year, he was appointed as the General of Zhengbei and the Governor of Xuzhou, and was granted the title of King of Pengcheng.
In the early years of the Taiqing Dynasty, he also served as envoy Chijie, governor of Guangyue Jiaogui and other military forces in thirteen states, general of the southern expedition, general of Pingyue Zhonglang, and governor of Guangzhou. He traveled to Leishou and died of illness at the age of fifty-eight.
Jing Zhong was granted the title of Duke of Zhijiang County, with thousands of households living in the city, and was appointed as Shizhong and Right Guard General.
In the third year of Datong, the number of new towns was increased to 2,000 households, and a female musical instrument was also given.
He served as Chijie, governor of Guangyue and other thirteen states' military affairs, general Xuanhui, general Pingyue Zhonglang, and governor of Guangzhou.
During the Zuohui period, he was recruited as Shizhong and Zuowei General.
His elder brother Keelung also served as governor of Guangzhou.
Hou Jing started a rebellion. He thought Jing Zhong was a member of the Yuan family, so he sent an envoy to persuade him and promised to make him the leader of the country.
Jing Zhong then raised his troops to respond to Hou Jing.
At that time, Chen Baxian, the governor of Xijiang, and Wang Huaiming, the governor of Chengzhou, and others launched an army to attack Jingzhong. Baxian announced to Jingzhong's soldiers: Because the traitors of Yuan Jingzhong and Yuan have united from the north to the south and are plotting to harm the country, the imperial court has sent Xiao Bo, Duke of Qujiang, as the governor to control this state.
After hearing this, everyone abandoned their armor and dispersed. Jing Zhong hanged himself and died.
Yuanshu, whose courtesy name was Junli, was also a close relative of the Northern Wei Dynasty.
His grandfather was Emperor Xianwen.
His father Yuan Xi was granted the title of King of Xianyang.
Yuan Shu served as an official in the Wei Dynasty and served as Zong Zhengqing. At the time when Erzhu Rong was in rebellion, Yuan Shu returned to the country in the eighth year of Tianjian.
In the sixth year of ordinary life, when the Yuan Dynasty monk returned to the court, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of Ying, Si, and Huo, the three states of military affairs, the general of Yunhui, and the governor of Ying state.
After conquering the Southern Barbarians and pacifying them, he was appointed as a regular servant of the Sanqi and General of Anxi, and granted 500 additional households.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as Shizhong and Zhenyou General.
In the fourth year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, general of Zhenbei, and governor of Beichai military affairs, and he also added a department of advocacy. Let him attack Jiu Wei and capture Zhong Ji in Tanjian.
Dugu, the general who sent Jiuqiao at that time, came to help as he wished, so he surrounded Yuanli. The city was captured and he was arrested. He died angrily in the Northern Wei Dynasty at the age of forty-eight.
During the Datong period, Zi Yuanzhen requested to follow Cui Changqian, the Wei envoy, to Ye to bury his father. After returning, he was appointed Prince Sheren.
In the early years of Zuo Zha's reign, Baoliang surrendered and invited his relatives from far away to be the king of the country. Shao Ling made Zhen the king of Xianyang and sent him back to the north with the etiquette of the emperor. At that time, Hou Jing failed and returned.
Yuan Yuanda was also a branch of Wei Shu.
His grandfather was Emperor Ming Yuan.
His father was named King Leqian.
Yuanda served as an official in the Northern Wei Dynasty, serving as Zhongshu Ling and the governor of Ying Zhao.
In ordinary years, the army went north to attack Yiyang, hoping to reach the territory of Xianzhou and submit it. He was granted the title of Duke of Leping, with a settlement of thousands of households, and was given the mansions of wealthy nobles and female musicians.
Later, he served as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Xiangzhou, general Pingnan, and governor of Xiangzhou.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as Shizhong, Taizhong doctor, and Yizuo general.
In the third year of Datong, he died at the age of fifty-seven.
Wang Shennian was from Qi, Taiyuan.
When he was young, he was fond of Confucianism, especially Buddhist scriptures.
He started as an official in the Northern Wei Dynasty and served as the governor of the state. Soon he was promoted to the prefect of Yingchuan, and he took over the county and returned the money.
When the Wei army arrived, he crossed the river with his family and was granted the title of Marquis of Nancheng County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Soon after, he was appointed as the internal history of Ancheng, and successively as the internal history of Wuyang and Xuancheng, all of whom made remarkable achievements in politics.
He returned to the capital and was appointed Taipuqing.
He served as Chijie, governor of the military affairs of Qing and Ji states, general Xinwu, and governor of Qing and Ji states.
Wang Shennian has an upright temperament, and the prefectures and counties he has visited will prohibit unnecessary temples.
At that time, there was Shilu Mountain near the sea in the northeast of Qing and Jizhou. There used to be a temple. The witch deceived the people. People from far and near came to pray. There was a lot of waste. When the money came to send parcels, they ordered the temple to be demolished, and the customs changed.
In ordinary years, he launched a large-scale Northern Expedition and was recruited as a right-guard general.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, and minions general, but the right guard remained as before.
He fell ill and died at the age of seventy-five.
Shaoling gave posthumously to his own official, the governor of Hengzhou, and also gave a piece of propaganda.
Mi's name is Zhuang.
Wang Shennian was good at riding and shooting when he was young, and he never failed in his old age. He once held two swords and shields in front of Emperor Gaozu, passed them from left to right, galloped back and forth, and his martial arts skills overwhelmed the crowd.
At that time, there was Yang Hua, who was able to shock the army and cavalry. It was a moment of great success. Emperor Gaozu deeply admired them.
The son respects his career, and his official position reaches the rank of Imperial Servant.
After his death, he posthumously awarded General Xinwei, governor of Qingzhou and Jizhou, and a volume of advocacy.
The second son, Seng Bian, has another biography.
Yang Hua was from Qiuchi, Wudu.
His father, Big Eyes, was a famous general in the Northern Wei Dynasty.
Yang Hua was brave and handsome when he was young. Empress Dowager Hu of the Northern Wei Dynasty forced him to commit adultery. Yang Hua was afraid of disaster, so he led his troops to surrender.
Empress Dowager Hu recalled that he could not control him, so she composed "Yang Baihua's Song" for him, and asked the palace people to sing with arms and legs all day and night. The song was extremely sad.
After Yang Hua participated in many expeditions and had military exploits, he served as a taipuqing, led by the prince Zuowei, and was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang County.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing rebelled, and Yang Hua wanted to establish a moral integrity. However, his wife and children were captured by thieves, so he surrendered and died in the thieves' territory.
Yangkan, named Zuxin, was a descendant of Liangfu in Mount Tai and a descendant of Yangxu, the prefect of Nanyang in the Han Dynasty.
Grandfather Yang Gui, when Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty was appointed as the governor of Xuzhou, he was recruited to serve as a wine minister and a great official.
It happened that Xue Andu surrendered to Jiugui with the cutting ball, and Jiugui was trapped in the ravine. Jiuwei awarded him the title of General of Wei and Governor of Yingzhou.
His father, Yang Zhi, served as a servant in the Northern Wei Dynasty and was a doctor named Jin Ziguanglu.
When Yang Kan was young, he was tall and handsome, seven feet eight inches tall. He was very fond of literature and history, and was well versed in books and memorials. He was especially fond of Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals and Sun Wu's Art of War.
When he was twenty years old, he followed his father to make military exploits in Liang Cong.
Tanji teased Li Nianwen and was gradually promoted to a special general.
At that time, Mo Zhe Niansheng, a Qiang people in Qinzhou, occupied the state and rebelled, proclaiming himself the emperor. He sent his younger brother Tiansheng to lead his troops to capture Qizhou, and then invaded Yongzhou.
Yang Yi was appointed as a partial general, and he went to fight under Lu Xuanyu. He was patrolling in the ditch and waiting for an opportunity to shoot Tiantian. Tiantian was shot and fell down, and his soldiers immediately dispersed.
Due to his merit, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, Zhengshu general, Shudaoxingtai, Taishan prefect, and was promoted to the title of Jupinghou.
At the beginning, his father had many wishes to return to the south, and often said to the disciples: How can one stay in a foreign land for a long time in his life? You should return to Shu Dynasty.
Yang Kanzhi will help fulfill his father's wish.
Yang Dun, the governor of Yanzhou, was Yang Kan's cousin. When he learned of this secretly, he resisted Yang Kan based on the state's territory.
Yang Kanyuzu led 30,000 elite troops to attack him. He failed to capture the city, so he built more than ten cities to guard it.
The rewards and official positions given by the imperial court were the same as those of Yuan Fa Seng.
Yang Yaren and Wang Bian were sent to lead an army to pick him up, and Li Yuanlu transported food and weapons to him.
When Emperor Wei learned of this, he sent an envoy to confer the title of General of Hussar, Situ, and Taishan County Duke to Yang Kan. He was appointed governor of Yanzhou. Yang Kan killed the envoy in public.
The people of Wei were shocked and ordered servant She Yuhui to lead his troops to deliver 100,000 troops. Gao Huan, Ji Zhuyangdu and others came one after another and surrounded Yangkan with more than ten layers inside and outside. Many of Yangkan's soldiers were killed and wounded.
The bows and arrows in the camp fence were exhausted, and the army from the south broke out at night. They fought and marched for a day and a night before leaving Wei territory.
When they arrived at Zakou, there were still more than 10,000 soldiers and 2,000 war horses. They were about to enter the Southern Dynasty. The soldiers sang mournfully all night long.
Yang Kan then declined and said: "You miss your homeland, so you should not follow me. I hope you can decide whether to stay or leave, and we will say goodbye here."
So the soldiers bowed and resigned.
Yang Kan arrived in the capital in the third year of Datong, and was appointed envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, Commander Xiaqiu to conquer all military affairs, General Anbei, and Xuzhou governor. His brother Yang Mo and his three younger brothers Yang Chen, Yang Gei, and Yang Wu were all appointed governors.
Soon after, he was appointed as the commander-in-chief to attack the military forces in the north and sent troops to guard Richeng. At this time, Chen Qingzhi lost the battle and Yangkan's troops stopped advancing.
In this year, Shaoling appointed him as Chijie, General Yunhui, and governor of Qingji Prefecture.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, Shaoling appointed him as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of Xiaqiu Zhujun, general Anbei, and governor of Yanzhou, and followed Taiwei Yuanfaseng to attack the north.
Dieseng announced in advance: I have an old friendship with Yang Kan, and I hope to go with him.
Emperor Gaozu summoned Yang Kan to ask him about the strategy of the Northern Campaign, and Yang Kan stated his aggressive strategy in detail.
Gaozu therefore said: I know that you are willing to go with the Taiwei.
Yang Kan said: I left the north and returned to the court. I often wanted to serve the court, but I really didn't want to go with this monk.
Although the northerners call me a Chengren, the southerners have already called me a northerner. Now I am traveling with Dharma monks, and the same kind of people are still following each other. This not only goes against my original intention, but also makes the Huns look down on the Han people.
Zhi Sip said: The imperial court needs your companions today.
So in the lower Shao Dynasty, he appointed Jianyi as Sima of the army.
Zhidan said to Fucu: The post of Army Sima has been abandoned for a long time, and now it is reserved for you.
Marching to Guanzhu, Yuansu defeated the mourning division at Zhanqiu.
The northern expedition was stopped and he was appointed as a servant.
In the fifth year, he was granted the title of Marquis of Gaochang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaochang County, with a thousand households living in the city.
In the sixth year, he served as General Yunhui and Grand Administrator.
The customs of the country and ridge favored rebellion, and the successive governorships failed to stop it. Yang Kan came and attacked, killing the leaders Chen Cheng, Cheng Mai and others. As a result, the county was purged and no one dared to commit rebellion.
Soon, he was recruited as the prince's left guard.
In the third year of Datong, Emperor Gaozu was lucky enough to visit Le Yuyuan, and Yang Kan attended the banquet.
At that time, the Shaofu reported that a new two-edged sword was made, which was two feet and four feet long and one foot and three inches in circumference. Emperor Gaozu gave Yang Kanma to him to try out the sword.
Yang Kan mounted his horse and stabbed left and right. His performance was so wonderful that Emperor Gaozu praised him. He also compiled thirty rhymes of "Wu Yan Shi" for Yang Kan to read. Yang Kan improvised the poem in response to the imperial edict. After reading it, Emperor Gaozu said: I heard that people with benevolence have courage. Now I have seen that people with courage have benevolence. It can be said that Confucius and Mencius followed the trend, and the virtuous people have not stopped.
In the sixth year, he was moved to the post of Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the eighth year, he was moved to the post of Du Guan Shangshu.
At that time, He Jingrong was in power, and he was also in Shangshu Province, but Yang Kan never visited him.
The eunuch Zhang Sengyin visited Yang Kan, and Yang Kan said: My bed is not something someone can sit on.
He didn't even go to receive him, but the public praised him for his chastity.
In the ninth year, he served as envoy Chijie, general Zhuangwu, and governor of Hengzhou.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was recruited as a servant.
At this time, the imperial court raised troops for the Northern Expedition, and appointed Yang Kanzhijie and Champion to supervise the construction of the Hanshan Weir fortifications. The weir was built in only twenty days.
Yang Kan persuaded Marshal Zhenyang Hou to take the water to attack Pengcheng, but was not accepted. Soon reinforcements from Shu Wei arrived in large numbers. Yang Kan repeatedly advised Zhenyang Hou to take advantage of Shu Wei's troops to attack from afar. The next morning, he also advised him to go out to fight, but he did not listen. Yang Kan led his soldiers to guard the weir.
After the defeat of all the armies, Yang Kan's soldiers formed a formation and slowly withdrew.
In the second year, he was appointed as the governor of the capital.
Hou Jing rebelled and captured Liyang. Emperor Gaozu asked Yangkan about his strategy to attack Hou Jing.
Yang Kan said: The signs of Hou Liang's rebellion have long been revealed. Perhaps he will rush into the capital and occupy the quarry quickly, so that King Shaoling can attack Shouchun.
Hou Liang's advance was not allowed to move forward, and when he retreated and lost his base camp, the mob naturally disintegrated.
The discussants said that Hou Jingwei did not dare to approach the capital immediately, so they put aside his strategy and ordered Yang Kan to lead more than a thousand cavalry to guard the country's gate.
When the army of Semi arrived, they chased back Yun and dug into the city to assist King Xuanji in supervising all the military forces in the city.
At that time, as many troops as possible arrived suddenly, people rushed into the city, public and private personnel were in chaos, and there was no order.
Yang Kan then separated them and put them on guard, and put them all under surveillance by the clan members.
Soldiers rushed into the arsenal to pick up their own weapons and inspect their armor. The officials in charge could not stop it. They had to stop it only when Fu Tan ordered several people to be killed.
When the thieves approached the city, everyone was frightened and shocked. Yang Kan pretended to have received a letter from outside the city, saying that reinforcements led by King Shaoling and Marquis of Xichang had arrived nearby.
Everyone is at peace.
The thieves attacked Shuye Gate and set the fire very vigorously. Yang Kan personally directed the resistance, poured water on the fire, and the fire subsided. He drew his bow and killed several people before the thieves retreated.
He was appointed as a sergeant and general as a military advisor.
Shao Ling once presented five thousand taels of gold, ten thousand taels of silver, and ten thousand pieces of silk as gifts to the soldiers, but Yang Kan refused.
More than a thousand people were rewarded with private money.
The thief made a pointed wooden donkey to attack the city, but the arrows and stones could not subdue it, so Yang Kan made a pheasant tail torch, put an iron arrow on it, poured oil on it, threw it on the wooden donkey and burned it, and soon the wooden donkey was burned.
The thieves then piled mountains of earth on the east and west sides of the city. They stood on the mountains and watched the city wrap around. The people in the city were shocked. Yang Kan ordered tunnels to be dug under the mountains of earth and the earth was transported away secretly. The mountains of earth could not be piled up.
The thieves also made a cart for climbing the city, which was more than ten feet high. They wanted to climb the city and shoot inwards. Yang Kan said: The cart is high and the soil in the ditch below the city is empty.
When the truck started to move, he fell down and everyone admired him.
Since the thieves could not win with frequent attacks, they built a long siege.
Zhu Yi and Zhang Wan discussed how to attack the bandits. Emperor Gaozu asked Yang Kan for his opinion, and Yang Kan said: "No."
The thieves had been attacking the city for many days, but since they could not capture it, they built a long siege to lure out the surrendered people in the city.
If we attack him now, if we send out few troops, we will not be able to defeat the thieves. If we send out more troops, if we lose, our own people will overrun each other, and the city gates will be narrow and the bridges will be small, which will definitely lead to great setbacks. This is to show weakness to the thieves, rather than to display the king's power.
Emperor Gaozu did not listen to his advice, so he sent more than a thousand men to fight. Before they could fight, they retreated. As expected, they fell into the water while fighting for the bridge, and most of them died.
At the beginning, Yang Kan's eldest son, Yang Lu, was captured by Hou Jing. Now he was brought to the city for Yang Kan to meet. Yang Kan said to the thief: I just destroyed the clan to serve the king, and I still hate it. How can I care about this son? I hope you can kill him early.
After meeting for a few days, Yang Kan said to Yang Lu: I thought you would die for a long time, how come you are still alive?
I pledged my life to the country and swore to die on the battlefield. Your life and death cannot determine my progress or retreat.
So he drew his bow and shot at him.
The thief was moved by Yang Kan's loyalty and did not harm Yang Yang.
Hou Jingqianyi and Fu Shizhe called Yang Kanyu and said to him: "The king Hou came from afar to greet the emperor. Why did he refuse behind closed doors and not accept him in time?"
The minister is a minister of the country and should report to the court.
Yang Kan said: After General Hou fled from the Eastern Wei Dynasty, he returned to the country and allowed him to guard the Great Wall in the north with heavy troops and serve as a high-ranking official to express his trust. What hardships did he have that suddenly led to the recruitment of troops?
Now we drive the mob down to the foot of the royal city, let the captive horses drink from the Huai River, and point their bows and arrows at the imperial palace. Is there any minister who can do this?
I have been greatly favored by the country, so I should only follow the imperial court's strategy and eliminate the treacherous and evil people. I should not accept idle talk and open the door to salute the robbers.
Please thank the prince and think about yourself as soon as possible.
Shi Zhe also said: The prince has done his best to serve the king, but the court does not know about it. He is planning to report to the Supreme Being in person in order to eradicate the treacherous ministers in the court. Since you are in the army, why would you bring your armor to the court?
Yang Kan said: The Holy Sage has ruled the world for about fifty years. He has a clear understanding of affairs and is holy and wise. There is no dark place where he cannot shine. Who is able to be a treacherous person in the court?
If you want to cover up your sins, how can you do it without sophistry?
Moreover, the prince personally raised his white sword and pointed it at the capital, doing his duty to the king. Is this what he did?
Shizhe was speechless, so he said: In the north, I have admired his grace and character for a long time. Every time in my life, I regret that I have not been able to get the opportunity to talk sincerely. I hope I can take off my military uniform and meet him.
Yang Kan took off his helmet for him, and Shizhe looked at him for a long time before leaving.
He was admired by the northerners just like this.
Later, it rained heavily and the earth and mountains in the city collapsed. The thieves took advantage of the situation and were about to attack the city. The fierce fighting could not be stopped. Yang Kan ordered more torches to be thrown to form a fire city to cut off the thieves' approach. They calmly built the city on the outside so that the thieves could not advance.
In December, he fell ill and died in Taiwan at the age of fifty-four.
The imperial edict gave the coffin for the official to be used after his death, 500 pieces of cloth and silk each, and 3 million in money. He also gave it as a posthumous gift to the ministers, the generals who guarded the army, and a propaganda section.
When Yang Kan was young, he was brave and mighty, with extraordinary physical strength. The bow he used had a draw strength of more than ten stones.
I once climbed up the wall of Yao's temple in Yanzhou, reaching up to five fathoms, and there were seven traces across it.
There were several stone figures at Siqiao, eight feet high and ten meters thick. Yang Kan raised the stone figures and struck them with each other, and they were all smashed.
Yang Kan has a luxurious temperament and is good at music. He wrote two songs, "Lotus Picking" and "Table Song", which are very innovative.
The family was filled with concubines and concubines who were extremely extravagant and extravagant; there was a zheng player named Lu Taixi, who wore a plucked deer's antler claws that were seven inches long; a dancer named Zhang Jingwan, whose waist was only one foot and six inches, and it was said at the time that this person could dance in the palm of his hand.
There is also Sun Xingyu, who can turn his waist and put his head on the ground, and hold the hosta on the mat with his mouth.
The emperor rewarded him with the singer Wang E'er, and the prince also rewarded him with the singer Ren Qu. Both of them could sing extremely wonderful and strange songs. No one could equal them at that time.
When I first went to Hengzhou, I built three small houses with beams between the two ships. They were decorated with pearls and jade, with gorgeous paintings, curtains, and female musicians. They unmoored the boats at high tide and placed wine by the water. Along the edge of the pond, the crowds of people watching were crowded.
During the Datong period, Danlu, an envoy of Yue, and Chaitan were classmates in the north. One Shao ordered Yangkan to invite Yangfei to a banquet.
There were more than three hundred guests, and the utensils on the table were all made of gold and jade. Three female music pieces were played. At night, more than a hundred maids and maids held gold candles.
Yang Kan cannot drink alcohol, but he likes to socialize with guests, drinking with them all day long, and getting drunk with them.
With a generous temperament and talent, Zeng Nan returned to Liankou and held a banquet. There was a guest named Zhang Rucai who got drunk and caught fire on the boat. More than 70 boats were burned, and the gold and silk burned were beyond the limit.
After Yang Kan heard about it, he didn't care at all and ordered him to keep drinking.
Rucai was afraid and ran away by himself. Yangkan comforted him and let him come back, treating him as before.
The third son is the sheep.
Yangou's name is Zipeng.
After Yang Kan was in Taipei, the city fell and he fled to Yangping. Hou Jing called him back and treated him well.
When Hou Jing's rebellion failed, Yang Hao secretly tried to harm him, so he fled with him.
After Hou Jing was defeated in Songjiang, he only had three boats left and went to sea to go to Mengshan.
When I was sent to the castle, I was tired and had a nap during the day. Sheepman said to the sea master: Where is the Mengshan Mountain in this place?
Just listen to me.
So he sailed the ship straight to Jingkou.
When they arrived at Hudouzhou, Hou Jing woke up and was shocked. He asked the people on the shore. The people on the shore said that Guo Yuanjian was still in Guangling. Hou Jing was overjoyed and was going to seek refuge.
Yang Mo drew his sword and scolded the navy commander, telling him to sail to Jingkou.
Hou Jing wanted to dive into the water, but Yang Min stabbed him with a knife. Hou Jing fled into the boat and stabbed the boat with a knife. Yang Min stabbed him to death with a knife.
The ancestor of the emperor appointed Yang Min as the permanent attendant of Zhijie and Tongzhi Sanqi, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Qingji and Hebei provinces, the general Mingwei, and the governor of Qingzhou. He was granted the title of Duke of Changguo County, with a settlement of 2,000 households. He was given five million yuan in money, five thousand stones of rice, and one thousand pieces of cloth and silk each. He also led the governor of Shuyang.
He conquered the fallen uranium and was appointed as a regular servant of the Sanqi.
After pacifying Xia Sheng, he was appointed governor of Western Jinzhou.
Defeated Guo Yuanjian in Dongguan and moved him to the post of envoy Chijie, general Xinwu, and governor of Eastern Jinzhou.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, the Western Wei Dynasty besieged Jiangzuo, but Fuou failed to arrive when he came to help. He followed Wang Tanqi to conquer Xiao Bo in Lingtong. When he learned that Taiwei Sengbian was defeated, he returned, was defeated by Hou Tian, ​​and was killed in Yuzhang. He was twenty-eight years old.
Yang Yaren, whose courtesy name is Xiaomu, is from Juping, Taishan.
When he was young, he was brave, resolute and courageous, and served as an official in the county.
During the ordinary years, he led his brothers to join Liangqu from Cunxu and was granted the title of Marquis of Guangjin County.
After conquering the Qing and Qi areas, he made great achievements. He was later appointed as a member of the Standing Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Grand Administrator of Liyang.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs, General Xinwei, and governor of Qiaozhou.
In the seventh year of Datong, he was appointed as the prince Zuowei Lian, and served as Chijie, governor of the Southern and Northern Divisions of the four states of Henan and Chu, general of Qingchao, and governor of Beisi Prefecture.
Hou Jing surrendered, and ordered Ya Rendu to lead 30,000 elite troops including Huan Hezhi, the governor of Tuzhou, and Zhan Haizhen, the governor of Renzhou, to go to Xuanhu to pick up Hou Jing. He was also appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the seven prefectures including Yusi, Huaiji, Yinying, and Xiyu, and the governor of the two prefectures of Yu, to guard Xuanhu.
At this time, Hou Jing was defeated in Guoyang, and the Eastern Wei army gradually approached. Crow Ren was afraid that the food shipment would not be able to catch up, so he returned to the Northern Division and apologized. Emperor Gaozu was furious and blamed him. Crow Ren was afraid, so he stationed troops in Huaishang again.
When Hou Jing rebelled, Yaren led his troops to aid the court.
In the second year of Taiqing, after Hou Jing betrayed the alliance, Yaren, Tang Bochao and Nankang Wang Huili jointly attacked the thieves in Shufu City, but were defeated by the thieves.
When Taicheng fell, Yaren met Hou Jing and was left by Hou Jing to serve as Minister of the Five Arms.
Yaren often wanted to cheer up, and said to those close to him: As a mediocre person, I have been favored by the court, but I have not yet repaid the favor.
The country was overthrown, but I couldn't die, so I was living an ignoble existence until now.
If I die now, I have no regrets.
As he spoke, he wept, and everyone who saw him was grieved for him.
Three years later, he fled Jiangxi. His original tribe was filled with hundreds of people to welcome him. He was about to go to Jiangling and then to Dongguan, where he was killed by Xun Bodao, the former governor of Xuzhou in the north.
Shi Chen said: Emperor Gaozu carried out reforms in response to the destiny of heaven, inherited the throne, and hoped for a great destiny for the country. He was infiltrated by might and virtue, and all of them were attracted. They all sacrificed their lives for the country and went on to succeed him.
When people like Yuan Fa Monk enter the country, they are given favors. They have important positions and great responsibilities, and live a luxurious and beautiful life.
However, Yang Kan and Ya Ren were loyal to the country when they encountered the wars during the Taiqing period.
Yang Kan refuses to give in in the face of danger, while Ya Ren upholds his righteousness and destiny. It can be said that his ambition is as firm as a pines and bamboos, and his heart is as unwavering as iron and stone. This is what ancient martyrdom is like.
