Duke Hu of Chen was a descendant of Emperor Shun of Yu.
When Shun was still a commoner, Yao married his two daughters to him and lived in Guirui. His descendants took the name of this place as their surname and named them Gui.
After Shun's death, the empire was passed to Yu, and Shun's son Shangjun was made a prince.
In the late Xia Dynasty, the titles of Shun's descendants were intermittent.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated King Zhou of Yin, he once again searched for Shun's descendants. He found Guiman and sealed him in Chendi to worship Emperor Shun during his lifetime. This was Duke Hu.
Hu Gong died, and his son Shen Gong Xihou succeeded to the throne.
When Duke Shen died, his younger brother Xianggong Gaoyang succeeded him.
After the death of Xianggong, he appointed Duke Shen's son Tu as king, who was called Duke Xiao.
When Duke Xiao died, his son Shen Gong Yurong succeeded to the throne.
Duke Shen was in the reign of King Li of Zhou Dynasty.
Duke Shen died, and his son You Gong Ning succeeded to the throne.
In the 20th year of Duke You, King Li of Zhou fled to the Pigland.
In the twenty-third year, Duke You passed away, and his son Li Gongxiao succeeded him.
In the sixth year of Ligong, King Xuan of Zhou came to the throne.
In the thirty-sixth year, Li Gong died and his son Wu Gongling succeeded to the throne.
Duke Wu died in his fifteenth year and was succeeded by his son Yi Gong.
This year, King You of Zhou came to the throne.
Duke Yi died after reigning for three years, and his younger brother Ping Gongxie succeeded him.
In the seventh year of Ping Gong, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, and the capital of Zhou Dynasty moved eastward to Luoyi.
The state of Qin began to become a vassal state.
In the twenty-third year, Duke Ping died and his son Wen Gongyu succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, he married a daughter of Cai Guo and gave birth to his son Tuo.
Ten years later, Duke Wen died and his eldest son, Duke Huan Bao, succeeded him.
In the twenty-third year of Duke Huan, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the twenty-sixth year, the Wei people killed Wei Jun Zhouxu.
In the thirty-third year, the people of Lu killed Duke Yin of Lu.
In the thirty-eighth year of the first lunar month, on Jiaxu day or Jichou day, Duke Huan Bao passed away.
Since the mother of his younger brother Tuo was from Cai, the people of Cai killed their fifth father and Duke Huan's prince Fu for Tuo, and supported Tuo as his successor, Duke Li.
When Duke Huan was seriously ill, civil strife broke out and the people were dispersed, so another obituary was sent.
In the second year of Duke Li's reign, his son Jing Zhongwan was born.
When Taishi of the Zhou Dynasty was passing through the state of Chen, Chen Ligong asked him to use the "Book of Changes" to predict his son's fortune. The hexagram he got was "Guan Gua" changed to "No Gua". Zhou Taishi said: This is called being able to see the glory of the country, which is conducive to being a guest of the emperor.
He will probably replace Chen Guo and take possession of the country for himself, right?
Not in Chen country, probably in another country?
This wouldn't happen in his own lifetime, but probably in the lifetime of his descendants, right?
If it happened in another country, it must be in the country with the surname Jiang.
Because the surname Jiang is a descendant of Taiyue.
Things cannot develop fully in both aspects. It will probably take until the fall of Chen State that his descendants will prosper, right?
Duke Li of Chen married a woman from the State of Cai, who committed adultery with a man from the State of Cai. Duke Chen Li also went to the State of Cai many times to have sex with other women.
In the seventh year, the three younger brothers of Prince Huan, who was killed by Duke Li, were named Yue, Lin, and Chujiu. They asked the Cai people to seduce Duke Li with beautiful women. Then the three of them killed Duke Li together with the Cai people, and Li Yue became the king, which is Duke Li.
Duke Li was the son of Duke Huan.
Duke Li died five months after he ascended the throne, and his second brother Lin succeeded him as Duke Zhuang.
Duke Zhuang died after reigning for seven years, and his youngest brother Chujiu succeeded him as Duke Xuan.
In the third year of Xuangong's reign, King Wu of Chu passed away, and the state of Chu began to become stronger.
In the seventeenth year, King Zhou Hui married Chen Jun's daughter as his queen.
In the twenty-first year, Duke Xuan later gave birth to a son named Ji, whom he favored. Duke Xuan wanted to make him the prince, so he killed the original prince Yu Kou.
The imperial bandit had always liked Li Gong's son Wan, but Wan was afraid that he would be harmed, so he fled to Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi wanted Chen Wan to be his minister. Chen Wan said: As a minister living abroad, I am lucky enough not to do hard work. It is the favor you have given me. I dare not hold a high official position.
Duke Huan asked him to be an official of work and integrity.
Qi Yizhong wanted to marry his daughter to Chen Wan, so he first performed a divination. The divination said: Husband and wife are like male and female phoenixes flying together, with loud and clear chirps.
The descendants of the surname Gui will thrive in the country of the surname Jiang.
After the Five Dynasties, he will be prosperous and his status will be on par with the chief ministers.
Eight generations later, no one can compare with it.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Huan of Qi attacked the State of Cai, and the State of Cai was defeated. The Qi soldiers took advantage of the situation and invaded the territory of the State of Chu, heading south to Zhaoling. The army passed by the State of Chen when returning to Qi.
Chen Guo's official Yuan Taotu suspected that the Qi army was harassing them across the border, so he deceived Duke Huan of Qi and said that it would be better to return to Qi via the east road along the coast.
The road to the east was very dangerous. When Duke Huan of Qi learned the truth, he was furious and had Yuan Taotu arrested.
This year, Duke Xian of Jin forced his own prince Shen Sheng to death.
Forty-five years later, Duke Xuan died, and his son Qian succeeded him as Duke Mu.
In the fifth year of Duke Mu, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the 16th year, Duke Wen of Jin defeated the Chu army in Chengpu.
In this year, Chen Mugong died, and his son Gong Gongshuo succeeded to the throne.
In the sixth year of Duke Gong of Chen, Shang Chen, the crown prince of Chu, killed his father, King Cheng of Chu, and established himself as king, King Mu of Chu.
In the eleventh year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the eighteenth year, Gonggong Chen passed away and his son Lingping Guo succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Chen Ling, King Zhuang of Chu came to the throne.
In the sixth year, Chu State conquered Chen State.
In ten years, the state of Chen made peace with the state of Chu.
In the fourteenth year, Chen Linggong, Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu, Chen Guo's officials, all committed adultery with Xia Ji, and even wore Xia Ji's clothes to make fun of in court.
The doctor Xieye advised: "The king and ministers are so promiscuous, how can the people follow their example?"
Chen Linggong told Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu this. They asked to kill Xie Zhi, but Chen Linggong did not stop them, so they killed Xie Zhi.
In the fifteenth year, Chen Linggong, Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu drank and had fun at Xia Ji's house. Chen Linggong joked to the two of them: Xia Zhengshu looks like you.
The two retorted, "He looks like you too."
Xia Zhengshu was very angry after hearing this.
After Linggong came out after drinking, Xia Zhengshu hid at the door of the stable and shot Linggong with an arrow.
Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu were so frightened that they fled to Chu State, and Ling Gong Prince Wu also fled to Jin State.
Xia Zhengshu established himself as Marquis of Chen.
Xia Zhengshu used to be a doctor of Chen State.
Xia Ji is the wife of Uncle Yu and the mother of Xia Zhengshu.
In the winter of the first year of Chen Chenggong, King Zhuang of Chu led the troops of the princes to attack Chen on the grounds that Xia Zhengshu had killed Chen Linggong.
And he said to Chen Guoren: Don't be afraid, I just want to kill Xia Zhengshu.
However, after killing Xia Zhengshu, he took advantage of the situation to annex Chen State and occupied it as a county of Chu State. All the officials of Chu State congratulated King Zhuang of Chu for this.
At this time, Uncle Shen came back from Qi as an envoy and did not express his congratulations.
King Zhuang of Chu asked him why he was like this, and Uncle Shen replied: As the saying goes, someone takes a cow to take a shortcut and tramples on other people's crops. The owner of the field chases him and snatches the cow back to him.
It is indeed sinful to take a shortcut and trample on someone's field, but isn't it too much to take his cattle away because of this?
Now the king regards Xia Zhengshu's killing of the king as unjust, so he conscripted the troops of the princes to attack Xia Zhengshu to uphold justice. However, after the incident, he occupied Chen State and coveted other people's land. How can he command the world in the future?
So I don't congratulate you.
After hearing this, King Zhuang of Chu said: Well said!
So the crown prince Guiwu who brought back Chen Linggong from Jin State was made Lord of Chen, and he governed Chen State as in the past. He was Chen Chenggong.
When Confucius was reading history, he saw a passage in which Chu State restored sovereignty to Chen State, and he said: King Zhuang of Chu is truly a virtuous man.
He despises the kingdom of a thousand chariots but values ​​a helpful word.
In the eighth year, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
In the twenty-ninth year, Chen State betrayed its alliance with Chu State.
In the 30th year, the king of the Communist Party of Chu conquered the state of Chen.
In this year, Chen Chenggong died, and his son Ai Gong weakly succeeded to the throne.
The king of Chu dismissed his troops and returned home because of the funeral of Chen Guo.
In the third year of Ai Gong's reign, Chu soldiers surrounded Chen State and later spared Chen State.
In the twenty-eighth year, the princes of Chu surrounded and killed King Jia Ao of Chu and established himself as King of Chu, namely King Ling of Chu.
In the thirty-fourth year, at first, Duke Ai of Chen married a wife from the state of Zheng. The eldest concubine gave birth to Crown Prince Shi, and the shao concubine gave birth to her son Yan.
Duke Ai also had two favored concubines. The eldest concubine gave birth to a son named Liu, and the younger concubine gave birth to a son named Sheng.
Duke Ai loved Liu the most and entrusted him to his younger brother Situ Zhao to take care of him.
After Duke Ai fell ill, in March, Zhao killed Prince Mourning and made Liu Liu the crown prince.
Duke Ai was very angry and wanted to kill Zhao, so he sent troops to surround Duke Ai. Duke Ai hanged himself to death.
The final move was to make Liuli the king.
In April, Chen State sent envoys to Chu State to report his death.
When King Ling of Chu heard that Chen was in civil strife, he killed Chen's envoys and sent his son Qiji to raise troops to conquer Chen. Chen Junliu fled to Zheng.
In the ninth month, Chu soldiers surrounded Chen.
In November, Chen Guo was destroyed.
The prince of Chu was ordered to give up his illness and become the Duke of Chen.
When the prince was killed, his son, named Wu, fled and went to Jin.
Duke Ping of Jin asked Taishi Zhao: Is Chen really going to perish?
Taishi Zhao replied: Chen Guo is a descendant of Zhuan Xu.
The Chen family will eventually perish when they gain political power in Qi.
The ancestors of Chen State from Mu to Gushang did not disobey the destiny.
Shun paid great attention to promoting virtue.
When Sui arrived, he abided by his way from generation to generation.
During the reign of Duke Hu, the Emperor of Zhou gave him a surname and ordered him to worship Emperor Shun of Yu.
Moreover, the descendants of Shengde's emperors will surely be passed down to a hundred generations.
The lineage of Yu and Shun has not yet reached a hundred generations, maybe it will continue to develop in Qi State?
In the fifth year after King Ling of Chu destroyed Chen, Prince Qiji of Chu State killed King Ling and established himself as King of Chu, that is, King Ping.
King Ping had just ascended the throne, and wanted to be friendly and gain the support of the princes, so he found Wu, the son of the former crown prince of Chen Guo, and made him the Marquis of Chen, which is Chen Huigong.
After Hui Gong ascended the throne, he dated back to the year of Ai Gong's death and took over the Chen Guoji as the first year. At this time, Hui Gong's reign was actually five years in vain.
In the tenth year of Duke Hui's reign, a fire broke out in the state of Chen.
In the fifteenth year, King Liao of Wu ordered Prince Guang to attack the state of Chen, capture Hu and Shen, and then return.
In the twenty-eighth year, King Wu Helu and Wu Zixu defeated Chu and invaded the capital of Ying.
In this year, Chen Huigong died, and his son Huai Gong Liu succeeded him.
In the first year of Huai Gong, after King Wu conquered Chu, he stationed himself in Yingdu and summoned Chen Huai Gong.
Duke Huai wanted to go, but Chen Guo's doctor said: The king of Wu has been very satisfied recently, but although the king of Chu escaped, he was an old friend of Chen and could not betray the friendship between Chen and Chu.
Duke Huai declined the meeting on the pretext of being ill.
In the fourth year, King Wu summoned Duke Huai again. Duke Huai was afraid and had to go to Wu.
The king of Wu was angry that Chen Huaigong did not come last time, so he detained him and finally died in the state of Wu.
Chen Guo then appointed Yue, the son of Duke Huai, as king, who was named Duke Min.
In the sixth year of Min Gong's reign, Confucius arrived in the state of Chen.
King Wu Fu Chai attacked Chen State and returned after capturing three cities.
In the thirteenth year, the State of Wu came to attack Chen State again. The State of Chen asked the State of Chu for help. King Zhao of Chu led troops to rescue him. He garrisoned Chengfu, and the Wu army withdrew.
In this year, King Zhao of Chu died in Chengfu.
At that time Confucius was still in the state of Chen.
In the fifteenth year, Song State destroyed Cao State.
In the 16th year, King Wu Fuchai launched a northern expedition to Qi State and defeated the Qi army in Ailing. He also sent someone to summon Chen Hou.
Chen Minggong was afraid and went to the state of Wu.
Therefore, Chu State conquered Chen State.
In the twenty-first year, Tian Chang, the official of Qi State, killed Duke Jian of Qi State.
In the twenty-third year, Bai Gongsheng of Chu State killed his commanders Zixi and Ziqi, and attacked King Hui of Chu.
Ye Gong of Chu State defeated Bai Gong, and Bai Gong committed suicide.
In the twenty-fourth year, King Hui of Chu regained his kingdom, raised his troops in the Northern Expedition, killed Duke Min of Chen, and then destroyed the state of Chen and made it the capital of Chu.
This year, Confucius died.
Duke Donglou of Qi State was a descendant of Dayu of Xia Dynasty.
During the Shang Dynasty, its feudal status was intermittent.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated Yin Zhou, he searched for Yu's descendants. He found Donglou Gong and sealed him in Qi to offer sacrifices to the Xiahou clan.
Gong Donglou gave birth to a son, Gong Xilou, Gong Xilou gave birth to a son named Gong Ti, and Gong Ti gave birth to a son who planned to marry Gong Gong.
It was during the era of King Li of Zhou that the Duke of Suyuan was in power.
She plans to marry Gong Gong and give birth to his son Wu Gong.
Duke Wu died in his forty-seventh year and was succeeded by his son Duke Jing.
In the twenty-third year of Duke Jing's reign, his son Gong Gong succeeded him.
Duke Gong died after eight years in office and was succeeded by his son De Gong.
Duke De died in the eighteenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Huan Gonggu Rong succeeded him.
Duke Huan died in the seventeenth year of his reign and was succeeded by his younger brother Xiao Gong.
Xiaogong died in the seventeenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Wen Gongyigu succeeded him.
Duke Wen died in the fourteenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Ping Gongyu succeeded him.
Ping Gong died in the eighteenth year of his reign, and his son Yu Gongcheng succeeded him.
Duke Yao passed away in the 12th year of his reign, and his son Yin Gong begged to succeed him.
In the seventh month, Yin Gong's younger brother killed Yin Gong and established himself as king, namely Li Gong Gong.
Li Gong died in the 19th year of his reign, and his son Li Gongwei succeeded him.
In the fifteenth year of Duke Min's reign, King Hui of Chu destroyed the state of Chen.
In the sixteenth year, Min Gong's younger brother Quelu killed Min Gong and established himself as king, namely Ai Gong.
Duke Ai died after reigning for ten years, and Duke Min's son succeeded him by imperial decree.
Chugong died after reigning for 12 years, and his son Jian Gongchun succeeded him.
One year after Duke Jian came to the throne, which was the forty-fourth year of King Hui of Chu, Chu destroyed Qi State.
Qi State fell thirty-four years later than Chen State.
The descendants of Shun were granted the title of Chen by King Wu of Zhou, but were exterminated by King Hui of Chu. This is recorded in "Aristocratic Family". After Yu's descendants, King Wu of Zhou granted him the title of Qi, and King Hui of Chu destroyed it, which is recorded in "Aristocratic Family".
The descendants of Qi are the Yin and Shang royal family, which are recorded in "Benji".
After the fall of the Yin Dynasty, the Zhou Dynasty granted its descendants to the Song Dynasty, and King Min of Qi destroyed the Song Dynasty, which is recorded in "Shijia".
The descendants of Hou Ji are the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty. King Qin Zhao destroyed the Zhou Dynasty, which is recorded in "Benji".
Some of Gaotao's descendants were sealed in the lands of Ying and Liu. King Chu Mu destroyed them, and there is no genealogical record. The descendants of Boyi were granted the title of Taigongwang in Qi during the reign of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty. The Chen family destroyed it, which is recorded in "Shijia".
Chui, Yi, Kui and Long, their descendants do not know where they were sealed, and no one has heard of them. The above eleven people were all famous ministers of merit and virtue during the reign of Yao and Shun; the descendants of five of them have been emperors, and the rest are famous princes.
Teng, Xue, and Zou were feudal states during the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties. They were small and not worth mentioning, so they were not included in the list.
During the reign of King Wu of Zhou, there were more than a thousand people who were granted the title of marquis or uncle.
After King You of Zhou became King Li of Zhou, the princes used their strength to attack each other and annexed each other.
There are countless small countries such as Jiang, Huang, Hu, and Shen, so they are not recorded in historical biographies.
Tai Shigong said: Shun's morality has reached its extreme!
He abdicated the throne to Xia Yu, and his descendants could still enjoy sacrifices through the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
After the State of Chu destroyed the State of Chen, Tian Chang took over the power of the State of Qi. Finally, it was still a feudal state, which lasted for hundreds of generations, with prosperous descendants and many people who were granted land.
As for Yu, his descendants were the kings of Qi during the Zhou Dynasty. They were very weak and not worth mentioning.
After King Hui of Chu destroyed Qi, King Goujian of Yue, a descendant of Yu, revived.
