Empress Dowager Lu was Gaozu's humble wife and gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and his daughter, Empress Dowager Lu Yuan.
When Emperor Gaozu became the king of Han, he found Qi Ji in Dingtao. He loved her very much and gave birth to King Ruyi of Zhao Yin.
Emperor Xiaohui was kind and weak, but Gaozu thought he was not like him, so he often wanted to depose the prince and make Qi Ji's son Ruyi, thinking that Ruyi was similar to himself.
Qi Ji was favored and often followed Emperor Gaozu to Guandong. She cried day and night and wanted to make her son the crown prince to replace the original crown prince.
Empress Lu was getting older and often stayed behind. She rarely saw Gaozu, and their relationship became increasingly estranged.
Ruyi was granted the title of Queen Zhao, and almost replaced the prince many times. Fortunately, the ministers' remonstrances and Liu Hou's strategy prevented the prince from being abolished.
Empress Lu was a strong and resolute person. She assisted Emperor Gaozu in pacifying the world and killing ministers, mostly thanks to Empress Lu.
Empress Lu had two older brothers, both of whom were generals.
The eldest brother Zhou Luhou died in the line of duty, and his sons Lu Tai were granted the title of Lihou, Lu Chan was granted the title of Jiaohou; the second brother Lu Shizhi was granted the title of Jiancheng Marquis.
On April 25, the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he died in Changle Palace. The prince inherited the title of Emperor Gaozu and succeeded him as emperor.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu had eight sons: the eldest son Liu Fei, who was the brother of Emperor Xiaohui and had a different mother than Emperor Xiaohui, was named King of Qi; the rest were younger brothers of Emperor Xiaohui. Liu Ruyi, the son of Qi Ji, was named King of Zhao, Mrs. Bo's son Liu Heng was named King of Dai, the other sons of Ji's concubines were Liu Huifeng, King of Liang, Liu Youfeng, King of Huaiyang, Liu Changfeng, King of Huainan, and Liu Jianfeng, King of Yan.
Gaozu's younger brother Liu Jiao was granted the title of King of Chu, and his elder brother's son Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu.
Wu Chen, the son of Fan Jun Wu Rui, a hero who was not a descendant of the Liu family, was granted the title of King of Changsha.
Empress Lu resented Madam Qi and her son King Zhao the most, so she ordered Madam Qi to be imprisoned in Yongxiang, and summoned King Zhao to the capital.
The envoy went back and forth several times. Zhao Xiang Jianpinghou Zhou Chang said to the envoy: Emperor Gao entrusted King Zhao to me. King Zhao is still young.
I heard that the Queen Mother resented Mrs. Qi and wanted to summon King Zhao to kill him together. I dare not send King Zhao away.
Moreover, King Zhao was also ill and could not go there according to the imperial edict.
Empress Lu was furious and sent someone to summon Prime Minister Zhao to the capital.
When Prime Minister Zhao was summoned to Chang'an, he sent someone to summon King Zhao again.
King Zhao came and had not yet reached the capital.
Emperor Xiaohui was kind and knew that the Queen Mother was angry, so he went to Ba Shang to greet King Zhao in person, and returned to the palace with King Zhao, where he ate and lived with King Zhao.
The Queen Mother wanted to kill King Zhao, but could not find a chance.
In December of the first year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Emperor Xiaohui went out to hunt in the morning.
King Zhao is young and cannot get up early.
The queen mother heard that King Zhao was alone at home, so she sent someone to give him poisoned wine to drink.
When Emperor Xiaohui returned at dawn, King Zhao was already dead.
So Liu You, the king of Huaiyang, was moved to the throne of Zhao.
In the summer, an edict was issued to pursue Yi Lihou's father as Lingwuhou.
The Queen Mother cut off Mrs. Qi's hands and feet, gouged out her eyes, burned her ears with fire, gave her dumb potion, made her live in the toilet, and named her "Ren Pig".
After a few days, Emperor Xiaohui was asked to watch the pigs.
When Emperor Xiaohui saw it, he inquired and found out it was Mrs. Qi, so he burst into tears and became ill and couldn't get up for more than a year.
He sent someone to see the Queen Mother and said: This is not what people do.
As the son of the Queen Mother, I have no face to govern the world.
From then on, Emperor Xiaohui drank and enjoyed himself every day and did not listen to the affairs of the court, so he became ill.
In the second year, King Yuan of Chu and King Hui of Qi both came to see him.
In October, Emperor Xiaohui and King Qi held a banquet and drank wine in front of the Queen Mother. Emperor Xiaohui believed that King Qi was his elder brother, so he placed him in the top position, just like the etiquette of ordinary people.
The Queen Mother was very angry, so she had two glasses of poisoned wine poured in front of her, and asked King Qi to get up and drink to celebrate his birthday.
King Qi stood up, and Emperor Xiaohui also stood up. He took the wine glass and wanted to celebrate the Queen Mother's birthday together.
The Queen Mother was so alarmed that she got up and poured out the wine in Emperor Xiaohui's cup.
King Qi felt strange and did not dare to drink the glass of wine. He pretended to be drunk and walked away.
When I asked later, I found out that it was poisoned wine. King Qi was very frightened, thinking that he could not escape from Chang'an, and was very worried.
The internal historian of Qi advised the King of Qi: The Queen Mother only gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.
Now you own more than seventy cities, while the princess only has a few restaurants.
If you dedicate a county to the Queen Mother, as the princess Tang Muyi, the Queen Mother will definitely be happy, and you will definitely have nothing to worry about.
So the King of Qi presented Chengyang County and respected the princess as the Queen Mother.
Queen Lu was very happy and agreed to King Qi's request. She held a banquet at King Qi's official residence and drank happily. After the banquet, she asked King Qi to return to the feudal country.
In three years, the construction of Chang'an City began. In four years, half of it was completed. In five years and six years, it was all completed.
The princes came to the capital to gather.
In October, the princes congratulated the emperor.
On August 12, in the autumn of the seventh year, Emperor Xiaohui passed away.
During the mourning ceremony, the Queen Mother cried but did not shed any tears.
Zhang Pijiang, the son of Liuhou, who was fifteen years old at the time, was serving as a servant. He said to the prime minister: The Queen Mother only has one son, Emperor Xiaohui. Now that she has passed away, she does not cry sadly. Do you know the reason?
The prime minister said: What is the reason?
Zhang Bijiang said: The emperor has no adult son, and the queen mother is afraid of you ministers.
Now you request to appoint Lu Tai, Lu Chan, and Lu Lu as generals to command the Northern and Southern armies. Only when all the Lu family members enter the court and gain real power in the court can you ministers escape from disaster.
The prime minister followed Zhang Piqiang's plan.
The queen mother was so happy that her cries began to mourn.
Lu's power began to rise from then on.
Implement amnesty for the world. On September 5th, Emperor Xiaohui was buried.
The prince ascended the throne and became emperor, and visited the mausoleum of the great ancestor.
In the first year, all orders from the imperial court came from the Queen Mother.
The mother-in-law is exercising the authority of the emperor and intends to make the Lu family's children kings. She first inquires about the royal mausoleum of the right prime minister.
Wang Ling said: Emperor Gao killed the white horse and swore an oath with the ministers: If he is not a descendant of the Liu family and becomes king, everyone in the world will destroy him.
It is against the oath to make a descendant of the Lu family king now.
The Queen Mother was very unhappy.
Ask Zuo Prime Minister Chen Ping and Jianghou Zhou Bo.
Zhou Bo and others replied: Emperor Gao brought peace to the world and made his children kings. Now that the Queen Mother is in charge of the court, she can make her brothers and the children of the Lu family kings. There is nothing wrong with that.
The Queen Mother became happy and returned to the palace.
Wang Ling scolded Chen Ping and Jianghou, saying: Were you not present when we made a blood oath with Emperor Gao?
Now that Emperor Gao is dead, the Queen Mother comes to court as a heroine and intends to make the children of the Lu family kings. Even if you want to flatter and break your oath, how can you have the face to go to Jiuquan to see Emperor Gao after your death?
Chen Ping and Jianghou said: "Today we openly oppose in front of the Queen Mother and fight hard in the court, we are not as good as you; when it comes to protecting the country and stabilizing the kingship of Liu's descendants, you are not as good as us."
Wang Ling was speechless.
In November, the Queen Mother wanted to depose Wang Ling, so she made him the emperor's tutor and deprived him of his powers as prime minister.
Therefore, Wang Ling claimed that he was ill and was dismissed from office and returned home.
Then Chen Ping, the prime minister of the left, was made the prime minister of the right, and Marquis Piyang Shenshi was made the prime minister of the left.
Prime Minister Zuo did not manage government affairs and asked him to supervise the affairs of the palace, just like a doctor.
Therefore, Shen Shiqi was favored by the Queen Mother and often made decisions on government affairs. The ministers relied on him to decide important matters.
Then he pursued Li Hou's father as the King of Wuwu, intending to use this as the beginning of making the Lu family's children kings.
In April, the Queen Mother planned to make the children of the Lu family a marquis, so she first made Feng Wuze, a great minister of the Great Ancestor, the Marquis of Bocheng.
Princess Lu Yuan died and was given the posthumous title of Queen Mother Lu Yuan.
Her son was named King of Lu.
The father of King Lu was Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping.
Liu Zhang, the son of King Hui of Qi, was granted the title of Zhu Xuhou, and Lu Lu's daughter was married to him.
Prime Minister Qi Shou was granted the title of Marquis of Pingding.
Yang Chengyan of Shaofu was granted the title of Wuhou.
Then they named Lu Zhong as Peihou, Lu Ping as Fuliuhou, and Zhang Mai as Nangonghou.
The Queen Mother wanted to make Lu's children kings, so she first made Liu Qiang, the son of Emperor Xiaohui's harem, the King of Huaiyang, Liu Buyi the King of Changshan, Liu Shan the Marquis of Xiangcheng, Liu Chao the Marquis of Zhi, and Liu Wu the Marquis of Huguan.
The Empress Dowager signaled to the ministers in a low voice, and the ministers requested that Li Hou Lutai be granted the title of King Lu, and the Empress Dowager agreed.
After the death of Lu Shizhi, Marquis of Kang in Jiancheng, his son who had inherited the title was found guilty and was deposed. His younger brother Lu Lu was granted the title of Marquis of Huling and succeeded Kang Marquis.
In the second year, King Changshan died, and his younger brother Liu Shan, Marquis of Xiangcheng, was appointed King of Changshan and his name was changed to Yi.
In November, King Lu Tai died. He was posthumously named King Su, and Prince Lu Jia was made king on his behalf.
For three years, nothing significant happened.
In the fourth year, Lu Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Linguang, Lu Ta was granted the title of Marquis of Yu, Lu Gengshi was granted the title of Marquis of Zheng Qi, and Lu An was granted the title of Marquis of Lu Cheng. In addition, five princes, prime ministers and ministers were granted the title of marquis.
When Xuanpinghou's daughter was Empress Xiaohui, she had no son, so she pretended to be pregnant, brought a beautiful son and called her son, then killed the child's mother and made the child the prince.
Emperor Xiaohui died and the prince ascended the throne as emperor.
When the emperor grew up, he heard that his biological mother had died and that he was not born to the queen, so he said: How can the queen kill my biological mother and call me her son?
I haven't grown up yet. When I grow up, I will rebel against her.
When the Queen Mother heard this, she was deeply worried. She was afraid that he would rebel, so she imprisoned him in Yongxiang. She said that the emperor was very ill and the courtiers around him could not see the emperor.
The Queen Mother said: Anyone who can rule all the people in the world should cover everything like the sky and accommodate all things like the earth. The emperor will comfort the people with joy and love, the people will serve the emperor happily, and the emotions from above to below will be harmonious, and the world will be governed.
Now that the emperor has been ill for a long time and is confused and confused, he cannot be the emperor's successor and worship the ancestral temple. It is not acceptable to entrust the world to him. Someone should be found to replace him.
The ministers all kowtowed and said: The Empress Dowager has really thought deeply about stabilizing the ancestral temple and the country for the benefit of the people of the world. We all kowtow and follow your edict.
The emperor was deposed and the queen mother secretly murdered him.
On May 11th, Liu Yi, king of Changshan, was made emperor and his name was changed to Hong.
The reason why the year is not changed and is called the first year is because the Queen Mother is autocratic in world affairs.
Liu Chao, the Marquis of Zhi, was the king of Changshan.
The official position of Taiwei was set up, and Jianghou Zhou Bo was appointed as Taiwei.
In August of the fifth year, King Huaiyang died, and his younger brother Liu Wu, Marquis of Huguan, was granted the title of King of Huaiyang.
In October of the sixth year, the Queen Mother said that King Lu Jia was usually arrogant and indulgent, so she deposed him and made Lu Chan, the younger brother of King Su Lu Tai, the king of Lu.
Summer, amnesty for the world.
Liu Xingju, the son of King Hui of Qi, was granted the title of Marquis of Dongmou.
In the first month of the seventh year, the Queen Mother summoned King Zhao Liuyou to the capital.
Liu You married Lu's daughter as his queen. He did not like her but liked other concubines. This Lu family's daughter was jealous and left angrily. She went to the Queen Mother to speak ill of him, falsely accused him of committing a crime, and said that King Zhao had said: "How can Lu family be crowned king?"
After the Queen Mother reaches 100 years old, I will definitely destroy them.
The Queen Mother was furious and summoned King Zhao to the capital.
King Zhao came to the capital and placed him in his official residence. He did not receive him and ordered his guards to surround him and deny him anything to eat.
Some of his subordinates secretly brought him food, and they were arrested and tried for crimes. King Zhao was hungry, so he sang: "Zhu Lu has the power, the Liu family is in danger; you are coercing the princes, forcing me to marry the Lu family's daughter as my concubine."
My concubine is jealous and slanders me for committing a crime; she slanders my daughter and brings chaos to the country, but the emperor doesn't understand.
I have no loyal ministers, otherwise why would I lose my feudal kingdom?
In the wilderness of suicide, Heaven must uphold justice in its affairs!
Alas, I have no regrets. I would rather kill myself as soon as possible.
I starve to death for the sake of the king, who has mercy on me?
Lu is unreasonable and has no choice but to ask God to avenge me.
On the 18th, King Zhao was imprisoned and died, and he was buried next to the graves of the people of Chang'an using the etiquette of ordinary people.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse and the day was dark.
The Queen Mother was disgusted and unhappy, so she said to the attendants: "It must be because of me."
In February, Liu Hui, the king of Liang, became the king of Zhao.
King Lu Lu Chan moved to the throne and became King Liang. King Liang did not go to the feudal state to take office, but stayed in the capital as the emperor's tutor.
The emperor's son Liu Tai, Marquis of Changping, was made King Lu.
Liang was renamed Lu, and Lu was renamed Jichuan.
The Queen Mother's sister Lu Yu had a daughter who was the wife of Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, who was a general.
The Empress Dowager conferred the title of king on a descendant of the Lu family. She was afraid that General Liu would cause chaos after her death, so she named Liu Ze King Langxie to comfort him.
Liu Hui, the king of Liang, was moved to the state of Zhao and became king. He was very unhappy.
The Queen Mother took Lu Chan's daughter as King Zhao's queen.
The queen's attendant officials are all members of the Lu family. They use their power exclusively to spy on King Zhao, but King Zhao cannot do whatever he wants.
King Zhao had a beloved concubine, and the queen sent someone to kill her with poisoned wine.
So King Zhao composed four chapters of poetry and asked the musicians to sing.
King Zhao was deeply saddened and committed suicide in June.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she thought that King Zhao had abandoned the ancestral ethics for women and would no longer allow his descendants to inherit the throne.
Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping, died. Because his son Zhang Yan was the King of Lu, Zhang Ao was given the posthumous title of King Lu Yuan.
In autumn, the Queen Mother sent an envoy to tell King Dai that she wanted to move him to Zhao to become king.
King Dai declined, hoping to guard the borders of Dai's country.
Grand Tutor Lu Chan and Prime Minister Chen Ping all said that Marquis Lu Lu of Wu Xin was in the highest position and ranked first in the order. Please make him the King of Zhao.
The Queen Mother agreed and honored Lu Lu's father, Kanghou, as King Zhao Zhao.
In September, King Liu Jian of Yan Ling died. He had a son born from beauty. The Queen Mother sent people to kill the son. King Yan Ling had no heirs and the kingdom was abolished.
In October of the eighth year, King Lu Su's son Lu Tong, the Marquis of Dongping, was made King of Yan, and Lu Tong's younger brother Lu Zhuang was granted the title of Marquis of Dongping.
In March, Empress Lu held an exorcism ceremony. When she came back and passed by Zhi Road, she saw something like a black dog entrenched under Empress Gao's arm. Suddenly she couldn't see it again.
After divination, it was said that King Zhao was causing trouble as he wished.
So I got a problem with my high back armpits.
Because her grandson Zhang Yan, King of Lu Yuan, was young and lost his parents prematurely, he was alone and weak in power, so he made Zhang Ao's two sons from his former concubines marquis, Zhang Xi was named Xindu Marquis, and Zhang Shoufeng was named Lechang Hou, in order to assist Zhang Yan, King of Lu Yuan.
Zhang Shi, the great emissary of the Central Government, was also granted the title of Marquis of Jianling, and Lu Rong was granted the title of Marquis of Zhuzi.
Those Ling and Cheng who were served by eunuchs in the palace were all granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, and each of them had a settlement of 500 households.
In July, Queen Gao's condition worsened, so he ordered King Lu Lu of Zhao to be the general to command the Northern Army; King Lu Chan of Lu commanded the Southern Army.
Empress Dowager Lu warned Lu Chan and Lu Lu: After Emperor Gao brought peace to the world, he made an agreement with his ministers that if he claimed the title of king because he was not a descendant of the Liu family, the people of the world would destroy him together.
Now that Lu is the king, the ministers are indignant.
I am about to die, the emperor is still young, and I am afraid that the ministers will launch a rebellion.
You must control the army and protect the palace. You must not mourn me or be controlled by others.
On August 1, Empress Gao died, leaving an edict to reward each of the princes and kings with one thousand catties of gold. The generals, prime ministers, princes, and officials were all rewarded with gold according to their rank.
Amnesty to the world.
The king of Lu, Lu Chan, was the prime minister, and Lu Lu's daughter was the queen.
After Gao Hou was buried, Prime Minister Zuo judged him as the emperor's Taifu.
Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang were very powerful, and Dongmuhou Liu Xingju was his younger brother. They were both younger brothers of King Qi Ai and lived in Chang'an.
At that time, a group of people from the Lu family were monopolizing power and wanted to cause chaos, but they were afraid of Jianghou, Guan Ying and other ministers of the former Gaodi and did not dare to initiate it.
Zhu Xuhou's wife was the son and daughter of Lu Lu and knew their plot secretly.
He was afraid of being killed, so he privately sent someone to tell his brother, King Qi, that he wanted him to send troops to the west, kill the descendants of the Lu family and establish himself as emperor.
Zhu Xuhou planned to join the ministers to respond to the King of Qi.
The King of Qi wanted to send troops, but his prime minister refused to comply.
On August 26, the King of Qi was about to send someone to kill the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister Zhao Ping rebelled and planned to attack the King of Qi. The King of Qi took the opportunity to kill his Prime Minister, so he sent troops eastward and used deception to capture King Langxie's army. He led both armies to march westward.
This incident is recorded in "Qi Mourning the Family of King Hui".
The King of Qi wrote to the princes and kings: Emperor Gao pacified the world and made his children kings. King Hui Hui made him the king of Qi.
When King Hui Hui passed away, Emperor Xiaohui sent Zhang Liang, the Marquis of Liu, to make me the King of Qi.
Emperor Xiaohui passed away and Empress Gao came to power. She was old and listened to the opinions of Lu's group and deposed the emperor without authorization. She also killed three Zhao kings one after another, abolished Liang, Zhao and Yan, and used the title of Lu's children as kings. Qi was also divided into four parts.
The loyal ministers gave advice, but the empress was confused and refused to accept it.
Now that Empress Gao has passed away, the emperor is still young and cannot govern the world, so he can only rely on ministers and princes. However, the Lu family prides itself on its position, gathers troops, uses its majesty to intimidate the loyal ministers of the princes, and orders the world under the pretext of imperial edicts. Therefore, the Liu family's ancestral temple is in danger.
I led the army to the court to eliminate those who should not be king.
When the Han court heard the news, Prime Minister Lu Chan and others sent Yingyin Marquis Guanying to lead an army to attack the King of Qi.
When Guan Ying arrived in Xingyang, he discussed with others that the Lu family had taken control of the army in Guanzhong and wanted to eliminate the Liu family and establish themselves as emperor.
If I defeat Qi's army now and go back to resume my life, this will further strengthen the Lu family's power.
So Guan Ying stationed troops in Xingyang and sent envoys to inform the king of Qi and the princes of other countries. We must unite with them, wait for Lu's rebellion, and get rid of Lu together.
After the King of Qi heard the news, he withdrew his army to the western border of Qi State, waited for the news, and acted as agreed.
Lu Lu and Lu Chan wanted to launch a rebellion in Guanzhong, but they were afraid of Suihou, Zhu Xuhou and others internally, and externally they were afraid of the armies of Qi and Chu. They were also worried about Guan Ying's rebellion, so they planned to wait until Guan Ying's army fought with Qi's army before launching a rebellion.
At this time, King Liu Tai of Jichuan, King Liu Wu of Huaiyang, King Liu Chao of Changshan, and King Lu Yuan, grandson of Empress Lu, who were nominally younger brothers of the Young Emperor, all did not return to the country due to their young age and lived in Chang'an.
Zhao Wang Changlu and Liang Wang Lu Chan each commanded troops and lived in the Northern and Southern Army. They were both from the Lu family.
No one among the princes and ministers felt that they would be able to save their lives.
Taiwei Jianghou Zhou Bo could not enter the military camp to take control of the army.
The Marquis of Qu Zhou, Li Shang, was old and sick, and his son Li Ji was friendly with Lu Lu.
Jianghou discussed the strategy with Chen Ping, the prime minister, and sent people to kidnap Li Shang, and asked Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu and say: Emperor Gao and Queen Lu jointly pacified the world. The Liu family was granted nine kings, and the Lu family was granted three kings. They were all agreed upon by the ministers. This matter has been notified to the princes, and they all think it is appropriate.
Now that the Queen Mother is dead and the Emperor is young, and you wear the seal of King Zhao, you do not return home quickly to defend the country, but as a general, you lead the army to stay here, and you are suspected by the ministers and princes.
Why don't you return the general's seal and hand over the army to the Taiwei?
And ask the King of Liang to return the seal and ribbon of the Prime Minister, make an alliance with the ministers, and go to his own kingdom. In this way, the King of Qi will definitely stop his troops, the ministers can be stable, and you can sit back and relax, and be king for thousands of miles, which will be beneficial to future generations.
Lu Lu believed in Li Ji's suggestion and planned to return the general's seal and return the army to the Taiwei.
They sent people to tell Lu Chan and the elders in the Lu clan. Some of them thought it was appropriate, while others said it was inappropriate. They hesitated and had not made up their minds.
Lu Lu trusted Li Ji very much and often went hunting with him.
Once when he passed by his aunt Lu Yu's house, Lu Yu was furious and said: If you give up the army as a general, the Lu family will have no place to settle down.
So he took out all the jewels and valuables and threw them away in the hall, saying: "Don't guard these things for others."
Prime Minister Zuo reviewed the food and was dismissed.
On the morning of August 10, Pingyang Marquis Cao Cheng, who acted as the imperial censor, met with Prime Minister Lu Chan to discuss matters.
The doctor ordered Jia Shou to go to Qi State as an envoy and came back. He accused Lu Chan and said: "You didn't go to your own country earlier. Even if you want to leave now, can you still do it?"
He told Lu Chan all about Guan Ying's alliance with Qi and Chu and planned to exterminate the Lu family, and urged Lu Chan to enter the palace quickly.
When Pingyang Hou heard these words, he rode on horseback and reported to the prime minister and Taiwei.
The Taiwei wanted to enter the Northern Army, but he couldn't.
Xiangping Hou Jitong was in charge of Fujie, so the Taiwei asked him to pass the imperial edict on the occasion of the festival, so that the Taiwei would join the Northern Army.
The Taiwei then asked Li Ji and Liu Jie, the Dianke, to advise Lu Lu: "The emperor sent the Taiwei to lead the Northern Army and wants you to go to your own country. Return the general's seal as soon as possible and leave here. Otherwise, a big disaster will happen to you."
Lu Lu believed that Li Ji would not deceive him, so he took off the general's seal and gave it to Dianke, and gave the military power to the Taiwei.
After the Taiwei took control of the army, he entered the army gate and ordered the army to say: Those who support the Lu family should bare their right arms, and those who support the Liu family should bare their left arms.
All the sergeants and soldiers in the army showed their left arms and supported the Liu family.
When the Taiwei came to the Northern Army, General Lu Lu had already taken off his general seal and left, so the Taiwei commanded the Northern Army.
However, there were still Confederate forces that were not under control.
Marquis Pingyang heard what Jia Shou said to Lu Chan and told Prime Minister Chen Ping about Lu Chan's plot. Prime Minister Chen Ping asked Zhu Xuhou to assist the Taiwei.
The Taiwei asked Zhu Xuhou to guard the camp gate.
The Marquis of Pingyang was sent to tell the Weiwei: Don't let Prime Minister Lu Chan enter the palace gate.
Lu Chan didn't know that Lu Lu had left the Northern Army, so he entered Weiyang Palace and wanted to cause trouble, but he couldn't enter the palace gate and wandered back and forth there.
Pingyang Hou was worried that he would not be able to win, so he ran off on horseback and told the Taiwei about the situation.
The Taiwei was still afraid that he would not be able to defeat Lu's group, so he did not dare to publicly declare to kill Lu, so he dispatched Zhu Xuhou and said to him: Enter the palace quickly to protect the emperor.
Zhu Xuhou wanted some troops, and the Taiwei assigned him more than a thousand soldiers.
Zhu Xuhou entered the gate of Weiyang Palace and saw Lu Chan in the palace.
At dusk, they attacked Lu Chan, but Lu Chan escaped.
A strong wind blew in the sky, so Lu Chan's officials were in confusion and did not dare to resist.
Zhu Xuhou chased Lu Chan and killed him in the toilet of the doctor's palace.
Zhu Xuhou had already killed Lu Chan, and the emperor sent an audience to express condolences to Zhu Xuhou. Zhu Xuhou wanted to seize the letter of loyalty, but the visitor refused, so Zhu Xuhou rode with him in a car, used the letter of justice to drive away, and killed Lu Gengshi, the guard of Changle Palace.
When he came back, he drove into the Northern Army and reported to the Taiwei.
The Taiwei stood up to congratulate Zhu Xuhou and said: "We are only worried about Lu Chan. Now that he has been killed, the overall situation of the world has been decided."
Immediately, people were sent to arrest the men and women of the Lu family respectively, and all of them, old and young, were executed.
On September 11, Lu Lu was captured and beheaded, and Lu Yu was beaten to death with whips and sticks.
He sent people to kill King Lu Tong of Yan and deposed King Zhang Yan of Lu.
On September 12, the emperor's tutor was appointed as the prime minister of the left.
On September 18th, the king of Jichuan was moved to Liang, and Liu Sui, the son of King You of Zhao, was made king of Zhao.
He sent Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang to tell the King of Qi about the execution of the Lu family and asked him to withdraw his army.
Guan Ying's army also withdrew from Xingyang and went to the capital.
The ministers discussed with each other privately: The young emperor, the king of Liang, the king of Huaiyang, and the king of Changshan are not really the sons of Emperor Xiaohui.
Empress Lu used deception to call other people's sons the sons of Emperor Xiaohui, killed the child's mother, raised him in the harem, and made Emperor Xiaohui his son, the heir to the emperor and the king, in order to strengthen the power of the Lu family.
Now that the Lu clan has all been wiped out, if the person they appointed becomes emperor, when he grows up and takes power, all of us will be killed.
It is better to choose the wisest among the kings and make him emperor.
Some people say that King Qi Yaohui is the eldest son of Emperor Gao, and now his legitimate son is the King of Qi. Looking at the origin from the perspective of close relatives and concubines, King Qi is the eldest grandson of Emperor Gao and can be established as emperor.
The ministers all said: The Lu family committed evil acts as a relative, almost endangering the Liu family's ancestral temple and destroying the heroes. Now the Sijun of Queen Qi's mother's family is a bad person. If King Qi is made emperor, another Lu family will appear.
He wanted to make him the king of Huainan, but he thought he was young and his mother's family was also very vicious.
Everyone said: King Dai is one of the sons of Emperor Gao who is still alive. He has the longest career and is a kind, filial and generous man.
Queen Mother Bo's family is cautious and kind-hearted.
Moreover, the one with the longest standing was already justified. In addition, the king's benevolence and filial piety were known all over the world, so it was completely appropriate to establish him as emperor.
So they secretly summoned the king to the capital together.
The king sent someone to say goodbye.
The envoy went to greet him for the second time, and then King Dai rode a carriage pulled by six horses. On Jiyou day at the end of September, he arrived in Chang'an and stayed at King Dai's official residence.
The ministers all went to pay homage, presented the emperor's seal to the king, and unanimously honored the king as the emperor.
Dai Wang repeatedly declined, but the ministers insisted on their request, and Dai Wang finally agreed.
Liu Xingju, the Marquis of Dongmou, said: I have no merit in getting rid of the Lu family. Please let me clean up the palace.
He and his servant Ruyinhou Tenggong entered the palace, stepped forward and said to the young emperor: "You are not from the Liu family, so you should not be made emperor."
So he turned around and ordered the guards holding halberds on the left and right of the young emperor to put down their weapons and leave.
Several people refused to lay down their weapons. Zhang Ze, the leader of the eunuchs, went to speak and they also laid down their weapons.
Duke Teng called for a chariot to drive the young emperor out of the palace.
The young emperor said: Where do you want to drag me?
Duke Xi said: Go out and live.
The young emperor was placed in Shaofu accommodation.
Then he used the Emperor's Dharma to go to Daiwang Guanxie to greet the Daiwang.
Report to the king: The palace has been cleaned up.
King Dai entered Weiyang Palace that night.
There were ten visitors holding halberds guarding the main entrance and saying, "The emperor is here, what are you doing in there?"
Dai Wang told the Taiwei about the situation.
The Taiwei went to explain, and all ten of the visitors put down their weapons and walked away.
The king then entered the palace to listen to political affairs.
At night, the officials separately killed King Liang, King Huaiyang, King Changshan and the young emperor in the official residence.
On behalf of the king, he was established as the emperor.
He died in the 23rd year of his reign and was posthumously named Emperor Xiaowen.
Tai Shigong said: During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Gao, the people were freed from the suffering of the Warring States Period. The emperor and ministers all wanted to recuperate and rule by doing nothing. Therefore, Emperor Xiaohui dropped his clothes and handed over his clothes. Empress Gao used the heroine to act as the emperor. Political affairs did not go out of the door, and the world was peaceful.
Punishment was rarely used and the number of sinners was few.
The people are diligent in farming and have more food and clothing.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty first started to rebel, Lu Pheasant became his wife.
After the world was pacified, Empress Lu began to dominate and prosper secretly.
Empress Lu was a stoic person with a cruel and suspicious personality. She poisoned King Liu Fei of Qi with poisoned wine, and cruelly cut off Concubine Qi's hands and feet and called her a human pig. When Emperor Hui died, Empress Lu pretended to cry and was not sad.
He appointed his relatives with the same surname to rule the world privately.
Kill the ministers, cut off the Liu family's queens and their heirs, harm the people, and make them miserable.
