Wuhuan was originally from the Donghu tribe.
In the early Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu Maodun eliminated Donghu, and the remaining people guarded Wuhuan Mountain, so they took Wuhuan as their tribal title.
The custom of Wuhuan is to be good at horseback riding and archery. Wuhuan people are mainly engaged in hunting birds and animals.
The Wuhuan people graze on water and grass and have no fixed residence.
They used felt tents as houses, with doors opening eastward toward the sun.
They ate meat, drank cheese, and made clothes from the hairs of birds and animals.
They attach great importance to young people and despise the elderly. They have a strong temperament and are not open-minded.
When he gets angry, he kills his father and brothers, but never kills his mother, because her mother has her own tribe and her father and brothers have no one to take revenge.
Anyone who is brave and strong and can handle decisive battles and lawsuits is elected as the leader of the tribe. The leader is not inherited from generation to generation.
Each town has its own small leader, and hundreds or thousands of towns form a tribe.
When the tribal leader called for something, he would carve wood as a talisman. Although there was no writing, the tribesmen did not dare to violate it.
The Wuhuan people do not have a fixed surname, and the surname is the name of the strong leader.
From the leader down, people herd livestock and run their own industries, and they did not rely on each other.
In terms of marriage, they first rob the woman and live together, sometimes for half a year or hundreds of days, and then give the woman cattle, horses, sheep and other livestock as betrothal gifts.
When a son-in-law follows his wife back to his parents' home, he pays homage to the people in his wife's family every day, regardless of his superiority or inferiority, but does not pay homage to his wife's parents.
After working as a servant in his wife's house for a year or two, his wife's house gave them many things to send their daughter away, and all daily necessities and belongings were prepared for them.
The custom of the Wuhuan people is to marry their stepmother and have an affair with their widowed sister-in-law. However, after their death, the stepmother and sister-in-law are buried together with their original husbands.
In terms of strategy, they listen to women's opinions, and only make their own decisions when fighting.
Father and son, men and women sit face to face.
They think it is easy to shave off their hair.
Women only grow their hair when they get married, and it is separated and coiled on both sides of the head. The headdress is made of Jujue, which is decorated with gold and jade, just like the Gebuyao in the Central Plains.
Women could embroider leather and weave woolen fabrics.
Men can make bows and arrows, saddles and harnesses, and smelt copper and iron to make weapons.
The boring land is suitable for planting Biaozi and Aunt.
The bunches are like fluffy grass, and the fruits are like rice. They will mature in ten months.
When the Wuhuan people saw the flying black beasts being pregnant and giving birth, they used this to distinguish the four seasons.
Wuhuan's custom is to respect death in battle. They use coffins to collect corpses and have mourning and crying rituals, but when they are buried, they send them off with singing and dancing.
They kept a fat dog and led it with a colorful rope. They also took the horse and clothes and belongings of the deceased and burned them with fire to send the deceased away. This meant that they entrusted the dog to escort the soul of the deceased back to Chishan.
Chishan is thousands of miles away in the northwest direction of Liaodong, just like the souls of people in the Central Plains return to Mount Tai after death.
They respected the gods and ghosts and offered sacrifices to the heaven and earth, the sun, the moon, the stars, the mountains and rivers, and those who had a strong reputation among their ancestors.
They sacrificed cattle and sheep, and burned them all to death after the sacrifice.
The Wuhuan people stipulate that those who disobey the tribal leader shall be punished with death; if those who invade and kill each other, let the tribes themselves avenge each other. If the revenge is endless, report to the tribal leader and let the enemy bring horses, cattle, and sheep to redeem his life;
There are many vipers in Wuhuan, located southwest of Dingling and northeast of Wusun.
Since Wuhuan was defeated by Maodun, his tribe has been lonely and weak. They often surrender to the Xiongnu. They send cattle, horses, and sheep skins every year. If they are not ready after the deadline, their wives and children are often captured.
When Emperor Wu sent Hussar General Huo Qubing to attack the left area of ​​the Xiongnu, he moved the Wuhuan people outside the fortress in the five counties of Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi and Liaodong to spy on the Xiongnu's movements for the Han Dynasty.
The leaders of the Wuhuan tribe paid homage to the emperor once a year. At this time, they began to set up Wuhuan captains with a salary of two thousand dan. They held the emperor's talisman to supervise Wuhuan and prevent Wuhuan from interacting with the Xiongnu.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Wuhuan gradually became stronger and stronger, so he dug up the tomb of the Xiongnu Chanyu in order to avenge his hatred of Maodun.
The Huns were furious and went east to defeat Wuhuan.
After General Huo Guang learned about it, he sent General Fan Mingyou of Liao to lead 20,000 cavalry from Liaodong to intercept the Huns, but the enemy captives had already retreated.
Taking advantage of the fact that Wuhuan had just been defeated, Fan Mingyou attacked Wuhuan, killed more than 6,000 Wuhuan people, and returned with the heads of three princes in Dandan.
From then on, Gu Huan attacked Sister Hu again, but was always defeated by Ming You.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, the Wuhuan people gradually surrendered and guarded the border.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, Wang Mang wanted to attack the Xiongnu and mobilized twelve troops. He sent Shuyu general Yan You to command Wuhuan and Ding Ling's troops to garrison Daijun, leaving all their wives and children as hostages in the county.
The Wuhuan people were dissatisfied with the local conditions and feared that the long-term garrison would be endless, so they repeatedly asked to be allowed to leave.
Wang Mang refused to let them go, so the Wuhuan people fled and rebelled, and in turn looted their property. Each county killed all Wuhuan's hostages, and Wuhuan and Wang Mang forged a hatred.
The Xiongnu took the opportunity to lure Wuhuan chieftains to serve as officials and win over others to join them.
In the early days of Guangwu, Wuhuan and the Xiongnu jointly sent troops to invade the border, and the areas bounded by Daijun suffered particularly serious damage.
The Wuhuan people live close to the border. They set out from their felt tents in the morning and arrived at the city at dusk. Every household in the five counties was harmed. Counties were destroyed and people were displaced.
Wuhuan in Baishan, outside the Shanggu border fortress, was the most powerful and wealthy.
In the 21st year of Jianwu's reign, the imperial court sent Fubo General Ma Yuan to lead 3,000 cavalry from Wuruan Pass to attack Wuhuan.
Wuhuan learned the news in advance and all fled one after another. Ma Yuan chased them and killed more than a hundred Wuhuan people and returned to the army.
The Wuhuan people followed Ma Yuan to attack again, but Ma Yuan fled back day and night. By the time he entered the border fortress, more than a thousand horses were dead.
In the 22nd year, the Xiongnu were in civil unrest. Wuhuan took advantage of the Xiongnu's weakness and defeated the Xiongnu. The Xiongnu moved thousands of miles north, and the area south of the desert was completely empty. The emperor bribed Wuhuan with money and cloth.
In the twenty-fifth year, Hao Dan, the leader of Wuhuan in western Liaoning, and other 922 people led his tribe to Fumo and went to the court to pay tribute, offering slaves, cattle and horses, bows and arrows, and the skins of tigers, leopards, and minks.
When he was sent, ethnic minorities from all over came to worship and celebrate in an endless stream. The emperor ordered a grand banquet to be held to express condolences to them and reward them with treasures.
Some Wuhuan people were willing to stay as guards, so the emperor named eighty-one Wuhuan leaders as princes and commanders, letting them live in the fortress and distribute them in the border counties. He asked them to recruit people from their own tribes and provide them with clothing and food. The Wuhuan people then scouted for enemy movements for the Han and helped Mo attack the Xiongnu and Xianbei.
At that time, Situ Peng Ban Biao reported: The Wuhuan people are naturally frivolous and cunning, and like to be bandits. If they are indulged for a long time without anyone to supervise them to surrender and gather, they will definitely invade and plunder the people living there. I am afraid that I will not be able to control them if they are only given to the subordinates who accept the surrender.
I foolishly thought that it would be best to re-establish the Wuhuan captain, which would indeed be beneficial to the Wuhuan people's surrender and gathering, and reduce the country's worries about the border.
The emperor accepted this suggestion. So in Micheng in Shanggu, Wuhuan captains were established again, a military general's office was opened, and Xianbei was also commanded. He also rewarded the sons of the Wuhuan people who were held hostage, and traded with them all year round.
By the time of Emperor Ming, Emperor Zhang, and Emperor He, the Wuhuan people were guarding the frontier and nothing happened.
In the summer of the third year of Emperor An's reign, more than a thousand Wuhuan people from Yuyang and Hu people from Youbeiping invaded Daijun and Shanggu.
In the autumn of this year, Wuhuan of Yanmen led the king Wuhe, together with the Xianbei leader Qiulun and others, and the Guduhou of the Southern Xiongnu, with more than 7,000 cavalry, they invaded Wuyuan and fought with the Wuyuan prefect at Gaoqu Valley in Jiuyuan. The Han army was defeated and the county officials were killed.
The imperial court then sent the cavalry general He Xi, the Liao general Liang Dong and others to attack Wuhe, and they were defeated.
There was no need to beg for surrender, and the Xianbei people fled back beyond the frontier fortress.
From then on, the Wuhuan people gradually became closer to the Han, and the imperial court granted the Wuhuan tribal leader Rong Zhumo the title of pro-Han captaincy.
In the winter of the fourth year of Emperor Shun's reign in Yangjia, Wuhuan invaded Yunzhong and intercepted more than a thousand ox-carts of merchants on the road. Geng Ye, the general of Liao Dynasty, led more than 2,000 people to pursue the Wuhuan people. The battle was unfavorable, and they fought again in Shanan, killing 500 people.
The Wuhuan people then surrounded Geng Ye in Lanchi City. The imperial court then mobilized 2,000 trace-seeking soldiers and 1,000 soldiers from the Duliao camp to cooperate with the garrison in Shangjun to conquer Wuhuan, and the Wuhuan people retreated.
In the fifth year of Yonghe, Wuhuan's tribal leaders Ajian, Qiangqu and others and Julongwusi from the left of the southern Xiongnu rebelled. Zhang Dan, the central general, defeated and killed them, and the rest all surrendered.
During the Yongshou period of Emperor Huan, the Wuhuan people in Shuofang rebelled with Xiuzhu Tuge. Zhonglang attacked Zhang Huan and pacified the enemy.
In the summer of the ninth year of Yanxi, Wuhuan, together with Xianbei and the Southern Xiongnu, invaded nine counties along the border. They rebelled at the same time. Zhang Huan conquered the enemy, and they all left the border fortress.
In the early years of Emperor Ling, there was a tribal leader named Nanlou in Shanggu, who had more than 9,000 tribes of tribes, and there was a leader named Qiu Liju in western Liaoning, with more than 5,000 tribes of tribes, and they all called themselves kings. In addition, Su Puyan in Liaodong had more than a thousand tribes and called himself King Qiao; Wuyan in Youbeiping had more than 800 tribes and called himself King Hanlu: they were both brave and strong and had many strategies.
In the fourth year of Chongchuo, the governor of Protozoa Mountain rebelled. He joined Qiu Liju's tribe and proclaimed himself King Mitian Anding. He then became the marshal of the Wuhuan people in each county and invaded and plundered the four prefectures of Qingzhou, Xuzhou, Youzhou and Jizhou.
In the fifth year, the imperial court appointed Liu Yu as the shepherd of Youzhou. Liu Yu offered a reward for recruiting people to cut off Zhang Chun's head, and the northern states were pacified.
During the Chuping reign of Emperor Xian, Qiu Liju died. His son Lou Ban was young, and his nephew Tadun, who knew how to use troops and had strategies, succeeded Lou Ban and took charge of the Wuhuan people in three counties. All the people obeyed his orders.
In the early years of Jian'an, Yuan Shao, the shepherd of Jizhou, was at loggerheads with former general Gongsun Zan. Tadun sent an envoy to Yuan Shao to request peace, and then sent troops to help Yuan Shao attack Gongsun Zan and defeated Gongsun Zan.
In the name of the imperial court, Yuan Shao granted Tadun, Nanlou, Su Puyan, Wuyan and others the Chanyu seal and ribbon.
Later, Nanlou and Su Puyan led their troops to support Louban as Chanyu and Tadun as king, but Tadun was still responsible for making suggestions.
Yan Rou from Guangyang was trapped in Wuhuan and Xianbei since childhood, and was attached and trusted by the Wuhuan and Xianbei people. Yan Rou then used the Xianbei tribe to kill Wuhuan captain Xing Ju and replace him.
Yuan Shao favored Yan Rou and comforted her, so as to stabilize the northern border.
When Yuan Shao's son Yuan Shang failed, he defected to Tadun.
During the period of the Han Dynasty, more than 100,000 officials and people from Youzhou and Jizhou defected to Wuhuan. Yuan Shang wanted to rely on Tadun's troops to plot to seize the Central Plains again.
Catching up with Cao Cao to pacify the north of the Yellow River, Yan Rou led the Xianbei and Wuhuan people to surrender, and Cao Cao immediately appointed Yan Rou as the school captain.
In the twelfth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao personally conquered Wuhuan and defeated Tadun in Liucheng. He killed Tadun and captured more than 200,000 enemy prisoners.
Yuan Shangyu, Lou Ban, Wu Yan and others all fled to Liaodong. Gongsun Kang, the governor of Liaodong, killed them all and gave their heads to Cao Cao.
The remaining more than 10,000 cities and towns were all moved to the Central Plains.
Xianbei is also a branch of Donghu. The Xianbei people also rely on Xianbei Mountain, so they use this as their clan name.
The language and customs of the Xianbei people are the same as those of Wuhuan.
Only when they get married, they shave their heads first and meet in large numbers by the Raole River in the last month of spring. After eating and drinking, they have sex.
The birds and animals there are different from those in the Central Plains. There are wild horses, salamanders, and horned oxen. Bows can be made from the horns of these cows, which are called horn-end bows among the people.
There are also mink, uranium, and mole. Their skin and hair are very soft, so people all over the world use them to make valuable furs.
In the early Han Dynasty, Xianbei was also defeated by Maodun and fled far away to the frontier fortress in Liaodong, adjacent to Wuhuan, but had no contact with the Han.
In the early years of Chesi, Yu maggot was so powerful that he led Panbei and Guhuan to invade and plunder the northern border, killing and plundering officials and people. There is no peace for a year.
In the 21st year of Jianwu's reign, Xianbei and the Xiongnu entered Liaodong. The prefect of Liaodong, Ji Xu, defeated the enemies and killed or captured almost all of them. The incident has been recorded in the "Biography of Ji Xu".
The Xianbei people were shocked and frightened from then on. When Shan Yu returned to the desert in the south, the enemies in the north were isolated and weak. In the twenty-fifth year, Xianbei exchanged envoys with Han.
From then on, the governor, Pianhe, and others came to see Jixu and asked for help. Jixu asked them to attack the Zuoyi Yuzi tribe of the Northern Xiongnu and killed more than 2,000 people.
Why did he send troops to attack the enemy in the north year after year? When he returned, he always took the enemy's head and went to Liaodong to receive rewards.
Thirty years ago, Xianbei tribe leaders Yu Qiuzui, Mantou and others led their tribes to the capital to worship and celebrate. They admired the virtues of the Han Dynasty and submitted to the imperial court.
The emperor made Qiuben king and Mantou a marquis.
At that time, Wuhuan, Xinzhiben and others from Chishan in Yuyang invaded Shanggu many times.
In the first year of Yongping, Jixu bribed Pianhe again, attacked Xinzhiben, defeated and killed Xinzhiben. In this way, the tribal leaders of Xianbei all came to submit and went to Liaodong to receive rewards. Qingzhou and Xuzhou gave them 270 million yuan every year as a regular practice.
During the Ming and Zhang dynasties, the Xianbei people guarded the border and nothing happened.
During the reign of Emperor Yongyuan, the general Dou Xian sent the right commander Geng Kui to defeat the Huns, and the Northern Chanyu fled. The Xianbei people therefore moved and occupied the territory where the Huns lived.
There are still more than 100,000 tribes left by the Xiongnu. They all call themselves Xianbei people, and Xianbei gradually becomes stronger and stronger.
In the ninth year, the Xianbei people from Liaodong attacked Feiru County. The prefect Ji Shen was defeated and convicted, and died in prison.
In the thirteenth year, the Xianbei people from Liaodong invaded Youbeiping, and then entered Yuyang, but were defeated by the Yuyang prefect.
In the first year of Yanping, Xianbei invaded Yuyang again. The prefect Zhang Xian led hundreds of people out of the frontier to pursue the enemy. Yan Shuo, a trooper and horseman, dissuaded him and said: "The road ahead is difficult and blocked, and the enemy's strength is difficult to estimate. It is best to build a military camp for the time being and send light cavalry to detect the enemy's movements."
Zhang Xian's spirit was very strong. He was very angry and wanted to kill Yan Shou.
So he marched into the army, but encountered an enemy ambush and attacked. All the soldiers fled. Only Yan Shuo fought hard. He suffered more than ten wounds on his body and died after killing several enemies with his own hands.
Zhang Xian was shot by a stray arrow. Wei Fu, the chief official, and Xu Xian, the meritorious officer, both rushed to save Zhang Xian and died together on the battlefield.
Empress Dowager Deng issued a policy letter praising Zhang Xian and others, and rewarded Zhang Xian's family with 600,000 yuan, and appointed two members of his family as Langs; Yan Shuo, Wei Fu, and Xu Xian were each rewarded with 100,000 Yuan, and each family appointed a son as Lang.
During the Yongchu period of Emperor An, Yan Liyang, the leader of the Xianbei tribe, went to the court to pay homage and celebrate. Empress Dowager Deng gave Yan Liyang the seal and a three-horse red carriage, and asked him to live near Micheng where Wuhuan Colonel lived, and trade with the Hu people. Therefore, two buildings in the north and south were built to accept surrenders and hostages.
One hundred and twenty tribes in Xianbei each sent people to serve as hostages.
After that, the Xianbei people sometimes surrendered, sometimes rebelled, and fought with the Xiongnu and Wuhuan.
In the autumn of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the Xianbei people from Liaodong surrounded Wulu County. The prefectures and counties combined forces to hold on and transfer people, livestock, grain, and property. The Xianbei people got nothing.
They also attacked Fuli camp and killed county officials.
In the fourth year, Xianbei Lianxiu and others in western Liaoning actually burned down the gates of the city and invaded and plundered the people.
Wuhuan tribe leader Yu Zhiju and others had always had a grudge against Lian Xiu, so they united with the troops from Liaoxi County to attack Lian Xiu. They defeated Lian Xiu and killed 1,300 people. All the living people, cattle, horses and property were captured by the Han army.
In the autumn of the fifth year, more than 10,000 Xianbei cavalry from Daijun invaded through the border fortress, divided their forces to attack the cities, burned down the government offices, and killed county officials.
So the imperial court fine-tuned the troops along the border and the soldiers of Liyang Camp to garrison the Shanggu to guard against Xianbei.
In winter, Xianbei entered Shanggu and attacked Juyongguan. The imperial court once again mobilized troops from border counties, soldiers from Liyang Camp, soldiers who hunted for traces, infantry and cavalry, a total of 20,000 people, to guard various key places.
In the autumn of the sixth year, the Xianbei troops entered the Macheng border fortress and killed county officials. General Deng Zun of the Liao Dynasty sent three thousand soldiers who were searching for traces and shot. He and Zhonglang General Ma Xu led the army of Nan Shanyu to join forces with troops from western Liaoning and Youbeiping. They went out of the border fortress to pursue the Xianbei people. They defeated Xianbei and gained a lot of people, cattle, sheep, and property.
The imperial court also recruited 3,000 soldiers who were searching for traces and 3,000 horses, and sent them to the military camp of General Du Liao to garrison.
In the first year of Yongning, the leaders of the Xianbei tribe in western Liaoning, Wu Lun and Qizhi Tar, led their tribes to surrender to Deng Zun and offer tribute.
The emperor issued a letter from Shao and granted Ulun the title of king and the princes of Tartar. They were rewarded with different amounts of colorful silks.
In the autumn of the first year of Jianguang, he went to Tartar and rebelled, and invaded Juyong. Cheng Yan, the prefect of Yunzhong, attacked him to Tartar, but was defeated. The meritorious Cao Yang Mu defended Cheng Yan with his body and died together with Cheng Yan.
The Xianbei troops therefore surrounded Xu Chang, the Wuhuan captain in Macheng.
Geng Kui, the general of the Liao Dynasty, and Pang Shen, the governor of Youzhou, mobilized soldiers from Guangyang, Yuyang, and Zhuojun to rescue in two ways. Xu Chang quietly left the city at night, joined forces with Geng Kui and others to attack, attacked the enemy's surrounding troops, and relieved the siege.
Since Yuli killed the governor many times, his courage and determination became stronger, and he had tens of thousands of cavalry capable of fighting.
In the winter of the first year of Yanguang, Xianbei invaded Yanmen and Dingxiang, and then attacked Taiyuan, looting and killing people.
In the winter of the second year, he went to Tartar and personally led more than 10,000 cavalry into the border post of the Eastern Territory. The troops were divided into several groups and attacked the Southern Xiongnu in Manbai. During the battle, the king died in the battle, and more than 1,000 people were killed.
In the autumn of the third year, he went to Tartar and invaded Gaoliu, defeated the Southern Xiongnu and killed King Jianjiang.
In the autumn of the first year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, Xianbei Qizhi Tartar invaded Dai County, and the prefect Li Chao died in the battle.
In the spring of the next year, Zhonglang sent Zhang Guo to lead Nan Shanyu's more than 10,000 infantry and cavalry out of the frontier, defeated them to the Tartars, and obtained more than 2,000 kinds of baggage from them.
At that time, more than 6,000 cavalrymen from Xianbei in Liaodong also invaded Liaodong and Xuantu. Wuhuan captain Geng Ye mobilized troops from the border counties and Wuhuan led the kings out of the border fortress to attack Xianbei, killing hundreds of people and obtaining a large number of people, cattle, horses and various utensils. The Xianbei leader then led 30,000 troops to Liaodong to beg for surrender.
In the third and fourth years of Yongjian, the Xianbei people invaded Yuyang and Shuofang many times.
In the autumn of the sixth year, Geng Ye sent Sima to lead thousands of Hu soldiers to the frontier fortress and defeated the Xianbei people.
In winter, the governor of Yuyang sent Wuhuan troops to attack Xianbei, killing 800 people and gaining cattle, horses and people.
Wuhuan's hero Fu Shuguan was brave and strong. Every time he fought against Xianbei, he always went deep into the enemy's formation. The emperor issued an edict and gave him the title of "leading all the kings".
In the winter of the first year of Yangjia, Geng Ye sent Wuhuan's close desert captain Rong Zhumo and Duogui and other princes to go out to the frontier to outflank and attack Xianbei. He killed many enemies and got a lot of things back. The imperial court gave Du Gui and others below the rank of leader of the kings, marquises, and chiefs, and rewarded them with different amounts of colorful silk and silk.
Xianbei later invaded the vassal state of Liaodong, so Geng Ye moved the garrison to Wulu City in Liaodong to resist Xianbei.
In the spring of the second year, the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhao Chou led Fu Shen, the Marquis of the Bone Capital of the Southern Huns, and others to go out to the frontier to attack Xianbei. They defeated the Xianbei people and killed many Xianbei people. They obtained a lot of things. The emperor issued an edict and gave Fu Shen a golden seal, purple ribbon and various amounts of silk fabrics.
In autumn, the Xianbei people crossed the border fortress and entered Macheng. The Daijun governor attacked the Xianbei people, but failed to win.
Later, he died, and the Xianbei people's raids and invasions gradually decreased.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, there was a man named Tan Shihuai in Xianbei. His father was Touluhou. He served in the Xiongnu army for three years, and his wife gave birth to a child at home.
After returning from Tou Luhou, he felt strange and wanted to kill the child.
The wife said that she once walked in broad daylight and heard thunder. She looked up to the sky. A hailstone happened to fall into her mouth. She swallowed it and became pregnant. Ten months later, she gave birth to a child. This child must have something extraordinary, so it was best to raise him up temporarily.
Hou Lu refused to listen and threw the child away.
The wife privately told her parents' family that she wanted them to adopt her and name her Tanshihuai.
When Tan Shihuai was fourteen or fifteen years old, he was brave, strong and resourceful.
The leader of another tribe robbed his grandfather's cattle and sheep. Tan Shihuai chased them on horseback and fought them. He was invincible and chased back all the robbed cattle and horses.
From then on the people in the tribe were afraid of obeying him. So Tan Shihuai issued legal prohibitions and judged right and wrong. No one dared to violate it, and he was finally promoted as the leader of the tribe.
Tan Shihuai then established his royal court by the Geqiu River in Danhan Mountain, more than three hundred miles north of Gaoliu. Tanshihuai's men and horses are very powerful, and the tribal leaders in the east and west all submit to Tanshihuai.
Tanshihuai took this opportunity to plunder the Han border areas to the south, defended against Ding Ling in the north, repulsed Fuyu in the north, attacked Wusun in the west, and occupied all the Xiongnu's original territory. It was more than 14,000 miles long from east to west and more than 7,000 miles wide from north to south. Mountains, rivers, swamps and salt ponds were all under its jurisdiction.
In the autumn of the second year of Yongshou, Tan Shihuai led three or four thousand cavalry to invade Yunzhong.
In the first year of Yanxi, Xianbei invaded the northern border.
In winter, the imperial court sent the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhang Huan to lead Nandanyu out of the border to attack Xianbei and killed 200 people.
In the second year, the Xianbei people broke into Yanmen again, killed hundreds of people, and looted wantonly.
In the summer of the sixth year, more than a thousand Xianbei cavalry invaded the Liaodong vassal state.
In the summer of the ninth year, Xianbei actually dispatched tens of thousands of cavalry into the nine counties along the border, killing and plundering officials and people. So the imperial court sent Zhang Huan to attack the Xianbei invaders, and the enemies left the border fortress.
The imperial court had been worried about Xianbei for a long time, but could not stop it, so it sent an envoy with a seal and ribbon to make Tanshihuai king, hoping to make peace with him.
Tanshihuai refused to accept it, and the invasion and plunder became more and more serious.
Then Tanshihuai himself divided the territory into three parts, from Youbeiping Yishu to Liaodong, more than 20 cities connected with Fuyu and Jiaqi were the Shu part, more than 10 cities from the west of Youbeiping to Shanggu were the middle part, and more than 20 cities from the west of Shanggu to Dunhuang and Wusun were the west part, each with a leader under their jurisdiction, and they all belonged to Tanshihuai.
After Emperor Ling came to the throne, the counties along the three prefectures of Youzhou, Bingzhou, and Liangzhou were not invaded and looted by Xianbei for a year, and countless people were killed and plundered.
In the winter of the third year of Xiping's reign, when Xianbei entered Lisi, the prefect Xia Zhi led Xiuchu Tuge to pursue and defeat the Diesheng Emperor's army.
The imperial court transferred Li Yu to the post of Colonel Hu Wuhuan.
In the fifth year, Xianbei invaded Youzhou.
In the summer of the sixth year, Xianbei invaded the borders of the three states.
In autumn, Xia Yu wrote a letter saying: Xianbei has invaded the border. There have been more than thirty cases since spring. Please fine-tune the troops from various counties in Youzhou to attack Xianbei from the border. In one winter and two springs, the enemy will be able to be wiped out.
The court did not agree.
Before this, Tian Yan, the captain of the Qiang Guards, was convicted but was pardoned. He wanted to establish his effectiveness, so he asked Wang Fu, the permanent attendant, to help him become a general. Wang Fu therefore discussed sending troops to join forces with Xia Yu to conquer the enemy. The emperor then appointed Tian Yan as the general of Zhonglang who defeated Xianbei.
Many among the ministers disagreed. The emperor then summoned the ministers to discuss the matter in the court.
Yilang Cai Yong expressed his opinion: "Shangshu" warns against barbarians disturbing China, and "Book of Changes" records that Gaozong conquered the ghosts. The Zhou Dynasty sent troops to attack Jianxi and Manjing, and the Han Dynasty sent troops to Tianyan Mountain and Hanhai.
Conquering other races has a long history.
However, times have similarities and differences, situations have conditions that can and cannot be done, so plans have gains and losses, things have successes and failures, and they cannot be treated the same.
Emperor Wu had a far-reaching strategy and was determined to open up the four borders. He conquered Baiyue in the south, conquered the powerful Hu people in the north, attacked Dawan in the west, and annexed North Korea in the east.
Emperor Wu relied on the savings of Emperors Wen and Jing and the prosperity of the country. Within a few decades, the government and the people were all in poverty.
Therefore, the state implemented the exclusive interests of selling salt, cast iron and liquor, and promulgated laws to reward those who reported rich households concealing their property and to increase taxes. The common people could not bear it, so they rebelled and became thieves. The Kanto region was in turmoil and the roads were interrupted.
Zhizhi envoys wearing embroidered clothes left the capital at the same time holding the E.
Soon after the emperor came to his senses, he stopped the war, dismissed the servitude, and made the prime minister a Marquis of the Rich People.
Therefore, Zhufu Yan said: No one who thinks only about winning the war and is busy with the war will not regret it.
With King Sejong's prowess, his generals virtuous and brave, his wealth and tribute, and the vast and far-reaching lands he developed, he still felt regretful.
What's more, now that both human and financial resources are insufficient, things are far worse than before.
Since the Xiongnu escaped, Xianbei has become strong and prosperous. It has occupied the original place of the Xiongnu. It claims to have an army of 100,000, has strong financial resources, and has become more and more scheming.
In addition, border security was lax and there were many omissions in the laws and prohibitions. All the fine copper and iron were owned by the enemies; the Han people who escaped capture were their main planners. Xianbei's weapons were sharp and his horses were fast, both of which were superior to the Xiongnu.
Duan Ying used to be an excellent general. He was familiar with military affairs and good at fighting. He had fought against the Western Qiang people for more than ten years.
Now Xia Yu and Tian Yan's talents and strategies may not exceed Duan Frequency, and the Xianbei tribe is no weaker than before.
And they planned to spend two years out of thin air, thinking that they could succeed. If the armies of the two sides fought and caused disaster, how could it be stopped?
Many people must be recruited to transport things endlessly. This will exhaust the power of the Central Plains and increase the strength of the barbarians.
Disasters on the frontier are like scabies on the hands and feet; poverty in the middle plains is like sores on the chest and back.
At present, the thieves in the county cannot be stopped, let alone such enemies can be subdued?
In the past, Emperor Gaozu endured the humiliation he suffered in Pingcheng, and Empress Lu put aside the humiliation caused by the Xiongnu's contemptuous letters. Compared with now, which one is more serious?
The mountains and rivers created by heaven, the Great Wall built by the Qin Dynasty, and the border walls built by the Han Dynasty were all used to separate domestic and foreign countries and distinguish different customs.
As long as there is no disaster that would embarrass or humiliate the country, is it necessary to argue with ants and cunning enemies?
Although Xianbei is sometimes defeated, can they all be wiped out?
And now the emperor is so busy that he doesn’t even have time to eat? He who wants to win may not win, and he who is skeptical may not lose.
Everyone thinks it is dangerous, and wise people will not adopt it; where the opinions of the court are doubtful, wise monarchs will not implement them.
In the past, when Liu An, the king of Huainan, dissuaded the conquest of Yue, he said: The emperor's army only conquers but does not fight, which means that no one dares to resist.
If the people of Yue risk their lives to fight against the emperor, and those soldiers of humble origins are unprepared and return in defeat, even if they get the head of the king of Yue, I will still feel ashamed of the big man.
And if you plan to sacrifice the people in exchange for numerous enemies, and use the emperor's prestige to suffer the humiliation of foreign barbarians, even if it is as they say, it is already dangerous, not to mention that the success or failure cannot be estimated?
In the past, Zhuya County rebelled, and Xiaoyuan Huanghu adopted Zitu's opinion and issued an edict saying: Dieya rebelled. Now everyone's opinions include that some can be attacked, and some think that they should be given up.
I thought about it day and night. I felt ashamed that my authority could not be implemented, so I wanted to conquer Zhuya. I made adjustments according to the changes of the times, and I was worried about thousands of people.
Which one is more important than the hunger of the people in the world or not conquering the distant barbarians?
The sacrifices in the ancestral temple cannot be fully prepared in years of famine, let alone avoiding insults that are not hatred?
Now Guandong is very poor and cannot provide relief for them, and they are preparing to start a war. It is not just the working people.
Therefore, Zhuya County was abolished.
This is the voice of benevolence issued by Emperor Yuan.
Sympathy for the people and the urgent need for relief, even complete counties and many counties have given up, not to mention that the outside of the border has never been a place where the people live!
Li Mu was good at strategies for guarding the border; Yan You gave the key to his views on guarding the border.
The achievements they left behind are still there, and the articles are still there. According to the strategies they mentioned and the plans of the previous emperors, I think it is okay.
The emperor refused to accept it, so he sent Xia Yu to set off from Gaoliu, Tian Yan to set off from Yunzhong, and Xiongnu Zhonglang General Zang Man to lead Nandanyu to set off from Yanmen. Each of them led 10,000 cavalry and divided into three groups to go out of the frontier for more than 2,000 miles.
Tan Shihuai ordered the leaders of the three tribes to lead their troops to fight. Xia Yu and others were defeated and lost their talismans and baggage. Each of them fled back with dozens of cavalry. Seventy-eight out of ten people died.
Three generals were conscripted into prison by the imperial court in prison cars, and they used money to redeem themselves as ordinary people.
In winter, Xianbei invaded Suxi.
In the winter of the first year of Guanghe, Xianbei invaded Jiuquan again, and everyone along the border was poisoned.
The population of Xianbei was increasing day by day, and agriculture, animal husbandry, and hunting could no longer satisfy the needs of the people. Tan Shihuai inspected the area in person. He saw that the Wuhousai River was hundreds of miles wide and stagnant. There were fish in the water, but there was no way to get them.
Tan Shihuai heard that the Japanese were good at fishing with gangs, so he attacked the Japanese eastward and obtained more than a thousand Japanese. He moved them to live by the Qin River and asked them to fish to make up for the lack of food.
During the Guanghe period, Tan Shihuai died at the age of forty-five, and his son Helian inherited the position.
He Lian's ability was not as good as his father's, and he invaded and plundered the Han border many times. He Lian was greedy and dissolute by nature, and the lawsuit was unfair, and half of the people betrayed him.
Later, when he went out to attack Beidi, a man from Lian County who was good at archery hit Helian and was shot to death immediately.
Helian's son Qianman was young, and Helian's nephew Kuixi succeeded to the throne.
Later, when Huaman grew up, he competed with Yanqu for the country, and the tribe was divided and disbanded.
After the death of Huang Nu, his younger brother Bu Dugen succeeded to the throne.
Since Tanshihuai, the leaders of various tribes have been inherited from generation to generation.
The argument goes: The barbarians from all directions are violent and mutually powerful.
The Xiongnu were powerful during the Moxing period, and the Xiqiang were ferocious during the Zhongxing period.
But between Emperor Ling and Emperor Xian, Wuhuan and Xianbei were successively stronger, Tanshihuai was brave and fierce, occupying all the Shanyu's territory, and Tadun was extremely fierce, openly occupying the land in western Liaoning.
They invaded across the Central Plains, causing disasters to the people, and there was no peace in any period.
However, the superior strategies for subduing and controlling foreigners have not been heard of in the past dynasties; the strategies of the Zhou and Han dynasties are only good at middle and low strategies.
Could it be that the number of days has caused such a result?
Zan said: Wuhuan and Xianbei were watching and harming the moral integrity of our northern border court, so they were tamed; when the times were declining, they turned away.
