Liu Biao, courtesy name Jingsheng, was born in Gaoping, Shanyang, and was a descendant of King Lu Gong.
Liu Biao was more than eight feet tall, with a gentle appearance and a burly build.
Together with Zhang Jian and others from the same county, he was slandered and discussed as "Ba Gu". The emperor issued an edict to arrest the party members and punish them, but Liu Biao escaped without being caught.
After the party ban was lifted, Liu Biao was summoned by General He Jin as an assistant.
In the first year of Chuping, Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, killed Wang Xu, the governor of Jingzhou, and issued an edict appointing Liu Biao as the governor of Jingzhou.
At that time, there were many bandits of the same clan in the south of the Yangtze River, and Yuan Shu's troops were stationed in Luyang to block the road. Liu Biao could not reach Jingzhou, so he rode into Yicheng alone and invited Kuai Yue from Nanjun and Cai Mao from Xiangyang to discuss countermeasures.
Liu Biao said to Kuai Yue: Although there are many thieves in the same clan, no one will join them. If Yuan Jie takes advantage of them, disaster will inevitably come.
I want to recruit troops, but I'm worried that I can't combine them. What strategy should I use?
Kuai Yue replied: When governing peace, benevolence and righteousness should be the first priority; when governing war, the first priority should be to use contingency strategies.
The army does not have a large number of people, the important thing is to get the right talents.
Yuan Shu was proud and had no strategy, and most of the thieves gathered from his own clan were greedy and cruel.
Among them are people who I usually support. If I send someone to tell them the benefits, they will definitely lead their troops over.
You kill the cruel ones among them and appoint the talented ones among them. Once your prestige and kindness are established, people will come to you carrying their children in swaddling clothes.
The soldiers gathered and the people surrendered. Jiangling was captured in the south and Xiangyang was defended in the north. The eight counties under Jingzhou's jurisdiction could be pacified with a single proclamation.
Even if Yuan Gongli arrives, there is nothing he can do.
Liu Biao said: Yes.
So he asked Kuai Yue to send people to lure the leaders of thieves from his own tribe. Fifteen people came, killed them all and captured their tribes by surprise.
Only when the Jiangxia thieves Zhang Hu and Chen Li gathered their troops to occupy Xiangyang City, and Liu Biao sent Kuai Yue and Pang Ji to inform them, did they surrender.
Everything south of the Yangtze River was pacified.
Many prefects and county magistrates heard about Liu Biao's reputation, and many of them took off their seals and ribbons and left.
Liu Hu then organized his troops in the fortress area to observe changes in the current situation.
There was a gap between Yuan Shu and his cousin Yuan Shao, and Yuan Shao was friends with Liu Biao, so Yuan Shu and Sun Jian jointly attacked Liu Biao from the north and south.
Liu Biao was defeated, and Sun Jian then surrounded Xiangyang.
Just as Liu Biao's general Huang Zu came to rescue him, Sun Jian was shot by a stray arrow and died, and the rest of the people retreated.
When Li Cui and others entered Chang'an, in winter, Liu Biao sent envoys to pay tribute to the emperor.
Li Ji appointed Liu Biao as the General of Zhennan and the Shepherd of Jingzhou, and made him a Marquis of Wu, holding the Emperor's Talisman as his aid.
In the first year of Jian'an, the hussar general Zhang Ji fled from Guanzhong to Nanyang, attacked Lucheng along the way, and was shot to death by a flying arrow.
Officials and subordinates from Jingzhou came to celebrate.
Liu Biao said: Zhang Ji came because he was in embarrassment, and the master did not treat him politely, which resulted in a fight. It was not my idea to send him away. I accept condolences but not congratulations.
He sent people to receive Zhang Ji's troops. The soldiers were very happy and surrendered to Liu Biao.
In the third year, Zhang Xian, the governor of Changsha, led Lingling and Guiyang counties to betray Liu Biao. Liu Biao sent troops to besiege him, defeated Zhang Xian and pacified these areas.
In this way, the area that Liu Biao expanded was very wide. It connected with Wuling in the south and Han in the north. It was thousands of miles in radius and had more than 100,000 armored warriors.
At first, the people in Jingzhou were prone to harassment. In addition, there was shock and fear in all directions, and bandits were rampant, so there was turmoil everywhere.
Liu Biao summoned and persuaded well, and used force and appeasement in a coordinated manner. Among the thieves, the cunning and cunning old thief even helped him, and he leveled everything within ten thousand miles. Everyone, young and old, was convinced by him.
Thousands of scholars and literati from Guanxi, Yanzhou, and Yuzhou came to seek refuge. Liu Biao gave comfort and relief, and these people were fully supported.
So Liu Biao established a school and extensively visited people with Confucianism. People like Qi Muhe, Song Zhong and others wrote chapters and sentences of the "Five Classics", which is called Houding.
Liu Biao cared for the people, supported the scholars, and calmly defended Jingzhou.
When Cao Cao and Yuan Shao were confronting each other in Guandu, Yuan Shao sent people to ask for help. Liu Biao agreed, but he did not send troops or reinforce Cao Cao, and wanted to wait and see the changes in the world.
Han Song, a Nanyang native, and Liu Xian, a lieutenant in charge, persuaded Liu Biao: Now heroes are competing with each other, two powerful people are confronting each other, and the key to the world lies with you.
If you want to make a difference, raising troops when they are tired is a feasible way; if you don't want to do this, you must choose appropriate measures. How can you have an army of 100,000, sit back and watch the success or failure of others, refuse to rescue others when they ask for help, and refuse to submit to wise people when you see them!
In this way, the resentment of both parties will be concentrated on you, and I'm afraid it will be impossible for you to obtain neutrality.
Cao Cao is good at using troops, and most of the wise and outstanding people defect to Cao Cao. This situation will definitely defeat Yuan Shao, and then mobilize his troops to attack the Yangtze River and Han River area. I am afraid that the general will not be able to resist.
The best way at the moment is to surrender the entire Jingzhou to Cao Cao. Cao Cao must value the grateful general. You can enjoy the status of fortune and wealth for a long time and pass it on to future generations. This is an extremely perfect strategy.
Kuai Yue also tried to persuade Liu Biao.
But Liu Biao was hesitant and sent Han Song to Cao Cao to see what was going on.
Liu Biao said to Han Song: Now I don't know who can pacify the world, but Cao Cao supports the emperor to make Xu County his capital. You can go and see the truth for me.
Han Song replied: In my opinion, with Cao Gong's wisdom, he will definitely be able to realize his wish to unify the world.
If the general wants to submit to Cao Cao, he can send me. If he is undecided, I go to the capital and the emperor offers me an official position. If my refusal is not accepted, then I will become the emperor's minister and the general's former subordinate.
When you are with the Emperor, you will be loyal to the Emperor, and I will no longer devote myself to you.
I hope you reconsider.
Liu Biao thought that he was afraid of sending an envoy and forced him to go.
After arriving in Xu County, the emperor appointed Han Song as his minister and prefect of Lingling.
After returning, Han Song strongly praised the kindness of the emperor and Cao Cao, and persuaded Liu Biao to send his son to serve.
Liu Biao was furious, thinking that Han Song had double-minded intentions, so he displayed his troops, insulted Han Song, and prepared to kill him.
Han Song's expression remained unchanged as he slowly recounted what he had said before leaving.
Liu Biao's wife Cai knew Han Song's virtues and dissuaded Liu Biao.
Liu Biao was still furious, so he tortured and killed Han Song's entourage.
Liu Biao learned that Han Song had no other intention but to imprison him.
In the sixth year, Liu Bei came from Yuan Shao and defected to Jingzhou. Liu Biao treated Liu Bei favorably and made friends with him, but he could not use him.
In the thirteenth year, Cao Cao personally led an army to conquer Liu Biao but did not reach Jingzhou.
In August, Liu Biao died of malignant sores on his back.
Liu Biao had been in Jingzhou for nearly twenty years, and his family had no extra savings.
Liu Biao had two sons: Liu Qi and Liu Cong.
At first, Liu Biao thought Liu Qi looked like him and liked him very much. Later, he married Liu Cong's niece, Cai's niece. Cai then liked Liu Cong and hated Liu Qi. Liu Biao heard words slandering Liu Qi and praising Liu Cong every day.
Liu Biao loved his second wife deeply, so he believed and accepted these words every time.
In addition, Liu Biao's brother-in-law Cai Mao and nephew Zhang Yun were both placed in important positions by Liu Biao, and they were also close friends with Liu Cong.
Liu Qi felt that he was not safe and once discussed with Zhuge Liang, a man from Langxie, how to protect himself.
Zhuge Liang didn't answer at first.
Later, the two climbed up the tall building together, and then Liu Qi asked someone to take away the ladder. He said to Zhuge Liang: Today, the sky can't be seen from the top, and the ground can't be seen from the bottom. The words that came out of your mouth reached my ears. Can you speak?
Zhuge Liang said: "Don't you see that Shen Sheng is in danger at home and Chong'er is safe when he lives abroad?"
Liu Qi realized in his heart and secretly planned a way out. It happened that Huang Zu, the governor of Jiangxia under Liu Biao, was killed by Sun Quan, so Liu Qi asked to take over the position.
When Liu Biao was seriously ill, Liu Qi came back to visit him. Because Liu Qi was kind and filial by nature, Zhang Yun and others were afraid that they would have a father-son relationship after seeing Liu Biao. Liu Biao once again wanted to let him succeed, so he said to Liu Qi: The general has ordered you to govern Jiangxia. This responsibility is of great importance.
If you leave your subordinates and come here without permission, you will definitely be scolded.
It is not filial piety to ruin your father's interest and aggravate his illness.
So he blocked the door and prevented him from seeing Liu Biao.
Liu Qi left in tears, and many people sighed after hearing this.
In this way, Liu Cong succeeded to the throne.
Liu Cong awarded Liu Qi the seal of the feudal lords. Liu Qi became angry and threw the seal to the ground, preparing to take advantage of the funeral to make trouble.
Just as Cao Cao's army arrived in Xinye, Liu Qi fled to the south of the Yangtze River.
Kuai Yue, Han Song and Dong Cao's Fu Xun persuaded Liu Cong to surrender to Cao Cao.
Liu Cong said: Now that I have the entire territory of Chu State with you, I can preserve the career of the late emperor and use it to observe the situation in the world. Why not?
Fu Xun said: There are important principles for rebellion and surrender, and there are certain situations between strong and weak.
It is rebellious to fight against the emperor as a minister; to rely on the newly created Chu land to resist the central power will be dangerous; to antagonize Cao Gong for Liu Bei's sake is not worth it.
These three aspects are all shortcomings, and if you want to use them to resist the king's army, this is the road to inevitable destruction.
How does the general compare with Liu Bei?
Liu Cong said: I am not as good as him.
Fu Xun said: If Liu Bei's ability is not enough to resist Duke Cao, then even if he owns the entire Chu land, he cannot protect himself.
If Liu Bei is strong enough to resist Duke Cao, then Liu Bei will not be under your control.
I hope the general won't doubt it.
When Cao Cao's army reached Xiangyang, Liu Cong asked for the surrender of the entire Jingzhou, and Liu Bei rushed to Xiakou.
Cao Cao appointed Liu Cong as the governor of Qingzhou and made him a marquis.
Fifteen people including Kuai Yue were granted the title of marquis.
Then Cao Cao released Han Song from prison. Because of his high reputation, he treated him with special courtesy and asked him to list the talents in Jingzhou. All those he recommended were promoted and appointed.
Appoint Han Song as Da Honglu and treat him as a friend.
Kuai Yue was appointed Guang Luxun, and Liu Xian was appointed Shangshu Ling.
At first, Liu Biao made friends with Yuan Shao, but Deng Yi tried to dissuade him from doing so, but Liu Biao refused to listen. Deng Yi resigned on the pretext of illness and did not serve as an official while Liu Biao was alive. Cao Cao appointed him as a servant. Many others have become high-ranking officials.
Cao Cao was later defeated in Chibi, and Liu Bei wrote a letter recommending Liu Qi to be the historian of Jing.
He died the following year.
The argument goes: Yuan Shao initially won many people because of his heroic and chivalrous behavior, so he had the intention of becoming the hegemon. All the people in the world who could serve as soldiers and hold high the banner were all in the name of the Yuan family.
When it comes to a decisive battle with the enemy on the battlefield, the brave people will fight for him; if there is foresight behind the curtain, the wise people will plan for him.
How powerful are the conditions on which he relies!
Han Fei said: Being fierce but not gentle, insisting on going your own way when it comes to mistakes and liking to fight for victory, despising the son born from a legitimate wife and valuing the son born from a concubine, this can be said to be a sign of destruction.
Liu Biao's morality was not higher than that of others, but he was as stupid as a puppet if he wanted to lie down and accept the fate of God and imitate the three-part world.
Praising: Yuan Shao has a magnanimous and elegant appearance, and Liu Biao is also considered a loyal elder.
One dominates north of the Yellow River, and the other shows off his strength in the southern part of the Central Plains.
The warships in Han River are as dense as a school of fish, and the war horses in Jizhou are as numerous as clouds.
From this, I wanted to spy on the prophecies, aspire to the throne, worship heaven, and worship the gods of society. Although it was said that it was God's will, it also relied on human faith.
People who rely on their own strength rarely succeed. What can people who sit and talk talk expect?
Uncertainty in choosing between legitimate son and favor leads to ruin of reputation and ruin of career.
