Yuan Ang is from Chu, and his courtesy name is Si.
His father once worked with bandits and later moved to Anling.
During the period of Empress Lu, Yuan An once served as Lu Lu's retainer.
When Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, Yuan An's brother Yuan Kuai recommended him to be the lieutenant.
Jianghou Zhou Bo became the prime minister. After the pilgrimage, he hurried out of the court, very satisfied with his ambitions.
The emperor was very respectful to him and often sent him off in person.
Yuan Ang remonstrated and said: What kind of person do you think Prime Minister Jianghou is?
The emperor said: He is an important minister of the country.
Yuan An said: Jianghou is what is usually called a hero, not an important minister of the country. The important ministers of the country can live and die with the emperor.
When Empress Lu was in power, the Lu family was in power and granted the title of king without authorization. As a result, the Liu family's world was barely held together like a thin ribbon and was almost severed.
During this period, Jianghou Zhou Bo was the Taiwei and held military power, but could not correct the collapse of the Han Dynasty.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers jointly opposed the Lu family. The Taiwei took control of the military and happened to have the opportunity to succeed, so he was what is usually called a hero, not an important official of the country.
If the Prime Minister shows a proud look towards the Emperor, but His Majesty humbly gives in, both the minister and the Lord are violating etiquette. I privately think that Your Majesty should not adopt this attitude.
Later in the court meeting, the emperor gradually became more majestic, and the prime minister gradually became more awe-inspiring.
Soon after, the prime minister resented Yuan Ang and said: I have a relationship with your brother Yuan Kuai, but now you are slandering me in the court!
Yuan An also did not apologize to him.
When Jianghou was dismissed from his position as prime minister and returned to his feudal state, someone in the feudal state wrote a letter accusing him of treason, so Jianghou was summoned to Beijing and imprisoned in prison. Some princes in the royal family did not dare to speak for him. Only Yuan Ang declared that Jianghou was not guilty.
Jianghou was released, and Yuan An made a lot of efforts.
Jianghou then made a heart-to-heart friendship with Yuan An.
When Liu Chang, the king of Huainan, came to Beijing to see him, he killed Piyanghou. He was also quite arrogant in his dealings with others.
Yuan Ang advised the emperor: If the princes are too arrogant, disaster will inevitably occur. Their fiefdoms can be appropriately reduced.
The emperor did not adopt his opinion, and King Huainan became even more arrogant.
When it was discovered that the prince of Chaiwu, the Marquis of Jipu, was preparing to rebel, he was investigated and punished. This incident implicated King Huainan, who was recruited, and the emperor demoted him to Shu and transported him in a prison car.
Yuan An was serving as Zhonglang General at that time, so he advised him: Your Majesty has always been arrogant and indulgent to the King of Huainan without any restrictions, which has led him to the current situation, and now he has suddenly defeated him.
The King of Huainan is an upright man. If he encounters a cold wind and dies on the way, his Majesty will be thought that the world is too big to tolerate him, and he will be infamous for killing his younger brother. What will he do then?
The emperor refused to listen and finally did so.
King Huainan died of illness when he arrived at Yongdi. When the news came, the emperor neither ate nor drank, and cried very sadly.
Yuan An entered and kowtowed to apologize.
The emperor said: Because your opinions were not adopted, this result was reached.
Yuan An said: Your Majesty, please relax yourself. This is already in the past. Can you still regret it?
Besides, Your Majesty has three behaviors that are above the world. This incident is not enough to ruin your reputation.
The emperor said: What are the three behaviors that make me higher than others?
Yuan An said: When Your Majesty was living in Dai, the Queen Mother was ill. For three years, Your Majesty never closed his eyes or took off his clothes to sleep. Any decoction that His Majesty had not personally tasted was not allowed to be given to the Queen Mother.
It was difficult for Zeng Shen to do this as a poor man, but now His Majesty has practiced it as a king, which is much better than Zeng Shen's filial piety.
When Zhu Lu was in power, ministers acted arbitrarily, but Your Majesty rode six inferior horse-drawn carriages from Dai to the capital where disaster and fortune were unpredictable. Even brave men like Meng Ben and Xia Yu could not compare with Your Majesty.
His Majesty arrived at Dai Guo's guest house in the capital. He resigned to the throne of emperor twice while facing west, and resigned to the throne of emperor three times while sitting facing south.
Xu You resigned to the world only once, but His Majesty resigned to the world five times, which was more than Xu You's four times.
Besides, Your Majesty demoted the King of Huainan to make him suffer some hardship and make him correct his mistakes. However, because the officials were not cautious in protecting him, he died of illness.
Then the emperor felt relieved and said: What should we do in the future?
Yuan Ang said, "The King of Huainan has three sons. It's just up to your Majesty's arrangement."
So Emperor Wen made all three sons of King Huainan kings.
As a result, Yuan Ang became famous in the court.
Yuan An often praised righteousness and spoke impassionedly.
Because the eunuch Zhao Tong was favored by the emperor more than once, he often secretly hurt Yuan Ang, which made Yuan Ang worried.
Yuan An's nephew Yuan Zhong served as an attendant knight, guarding the emperor with talismans. Yuan Zhong persuaded Yuan Ang: "Fight with him and insult him in the court, so that his slanderous words will have no effect."
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty went on a tour, and Zhao Tong accompanied him in the car. Yuan Ang lay in front of the car and said: I heard that the people who accompany the emperor on the tall chariot are all heroes in the world.
Although the Han Dynasty lacks talents today, why does Your Majesty only want to ride in the same carriage with people who have been cut by swords and saws?
So the emperor smiled and asked Zhao Tong to get off, and Zhao Tong got out of the car with tears in his eyes.
Emperor Wen went up the mountain from Baling and planned to run down the steep slope in the west.
Yuan An was riding a horse, leaning against the car and holding the horse's reins.
The emperor said: Is the general afraid?
Yuan An said: I have heard that people with rich families do not sit close to the eaves when they sit, and people with rich families do not lean on the railings of the balcony when standing. A wise monarch does not take chances when facing danger.
Now Your Majesty lets the six horses of the driver gallop down the high slope. If the horses are frightened and the vehicle is damaged, even if Your Majesty looks down on yourself, how can you be worthy of the Emperor and the Queen Mother?
The emperor finally stopped.
The emperor arrived at Shanglin Garden, followed by Queen Dou and Mrs. Shen.
When they were in the palace, Mrs. Shen often sat at the same table.
This time, when it was time to sit down, Director Lang arranged the seats, and Yuan Ang pulled Mrs. Shen's seat back a little.
Mrs. Shen was angry and refused to sit down.
The emperor was also angry, stood up, and returned to the palace.
Yuan An stepped forward to persuade him and said: "I heard that there is a difference between high and low, so that there can be harmony between the superior and the inferior."
Now that Your Majesty has confirmed the Queen, Mrs. Shen is just a concubine. How can the concubine and the Lord sit at the same table?
In this way, the distinction between dignity and inferiority is lost.
Besides, Your Majesty loves her so much, so reward her heavily.
The method His Majesty used to pamper Mrs. Shen actually became the root cause of her harm.
Hasn't your majesty seen human pigs before?
The emperor was happy, summoned Mrs. Shen, and told her what Yuan Ang said.
Mrs. Shen gave Yuan Ang fifty catties of gold.
However, Yuan An could not stay in the court for a long time because of his many outspoken admonitions, so he was transferred to the post of Captain of Longxi.
He was kind and caring to the soldiers, and they all rushed to serve him.
After that, Yuan Ang was promoted to prime minister of Qi.
He was also appointed as the prime minister of the state of Wu. When saying goodbye and setting off, Yuan Zhong said to Yuan An: King Wu has been arrogant for a long time, and there are many treacherous people in the country.
Now if you want to expose and punish their crimes, they will either write a letter to accuse you or stab you to death with a sharp sword.
The terrain in the south is low-lying and humid, so you'd better drink wine every day, don't care about anything, and just persuade King Wu from time to time not to rebel.
This way you might just get away with it.
Yuan An adopted Yuan Zhong's strategy, and the King of Wu treated Yuan An favorably.
When Yuan An asked for leave to go home, he met the Prime Minister Shen Tujia on the road and got out of the car to worship him. The Prime Minister only expressed his gratitude from the car. When Yuan An returned home, he felt ashamed in front of his subordinate officials, so he went to the Prime Minister's house and asked to see the Prime Minister.
It took a long time for the prime minister to come out to see him, so Yuan Ang knelt down and said, "I hope others will avoid him and meet him alone."
The prime minister said: If what you are talking about is a public matter, please go to the official office to discuss it with the chief minister, and I will report your opinion; if it is a private matter, I will not accept private conversations.
Yuan Ang knelt down and persuaded him: "As prime minister, please weigh yourself. How do you compare with Chen Ping and Jianghou?"
The prime minister said: I am not as good as them.
Yuan Ang said: Well, you even said you are not as good as them.
Chen Ping and Jianghou assisted in protecting Gaozu, pacifying the world, becoming generals, killing Zhu Lu, and preserving the Liu family. You only used the bow and crossbow to become a low-level warrior, and then promoted to captain. You accumulated merit and became the governor of Huaiyang. You did not come up with any strange tricks, and made military exploits in attacking cities and seizing land, and fighting in the wild.
Besides, His Majesty came from Dai. Every time he went to court and Lang Guan submitted a memorial, he never stopped to listen to their opinions. If the opinions could not be adopted, he would put them aside. If the opinions were acceptable, he would adopt them. No one would not praise and praise them.
What is this for?
He wanted to use this method to attract the wise scholar-bureaucrats in the world.
Every day the emperor hears things he has never heard before, understands truths he has never understood before, and becomes wiser and wiser day by day; now that you have closed the mouths of the people in the world, you are becoming more stupid day by day.
If you use a wise monarch to supervise a foolish prime minister, the day when you will suffer disaster is not far away!
The prime minister then bowed twice and said: I am a vulgar and vulgar person, but I am not smart. Fortunately, I have been taught by the general.
Shen Tujia invited Yuan An into the inner room to sit with him and treated him as an honored guest.
Yuan An had always disliked Chao Cuo. As long as Chao Cuo was around, Yuan An would leave. As long as Yuan An was around, Chao Cuo would also leave. The two never talked together.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty passed away and Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, Chao Cuo became the imperial censor. He sent officials to investigate Yuan An's acceptance of Wu Wang Liu Bi's property and punish him according to the seriousness of the crime.
The emperor issued an edict to demote Yuan An to a commoner. News of Wu Chu's rebellion reached the capital, and Chao Cuo told the Prime Minister: Yuan An received a lot of money from the King of Wu and specifically covered it for him, saying that he would not rebel.
Now that the rebellion has become a fact, I plan to request Yuan Ang be punished. He must have known the plot of rebellion.
The Prime Minister said: Punishing him before the matter is exposed may interrupt the rebellion conspiracy.
Now that the rebels are marching westward, what is the benefit of punishing Yuan Ang! Besides, Yuan Ang shouldn't have any conspiracy.
Chao Cuo hesitated.
Someone told Yuan Ang about this. Yuan Ang was afraid and went to see Dou Ying overnight to explain to him the reasons for King Wu's rebellion, hoping to confront him personally in front of the emperor.
Dou Ying went to the palace to report to the emperor, and the emperor summoned Yuan Ang to the palace to meet him.
Chao Cuo was right in front of him. When Yuan An asked the emperor to meet him alone without others, Chao Cuo retreated, feeling very resentful.
Yuan Ang explained in detail that the King of Wu rebelled because of Chao Cuo. Only by killing Chao Cuo immediately to apologize to the King of Wu could the Wu army stop.
These words of his are all recorded in "The Biography of Wu Wangbi".
The emperor appointed Yuan An as Taichang and Dou Ying as general.
The two men have always been friends.
When the King of Wu rebelled, the prestigious people living in the mausoleums and the wise officials in Chang'an City were vying to attach themselves to the two of them, and hundreds of cars followed behind them every day.
After Chao Cuo was executed, Yuan Ang went to Wu as an envoy as Taichang.
The King of Wu wanted him to serve as a general, but Yuan Ang refused.
The king of Wu killed him and sent a captain to lead 500 men to surround Yuan Ang in the army.
When Yuan An was the Prime Minister of the State of Wu, a Cong Shi secretly had an affair with Yuan An's maid. Yuan An knew about it but did not reveal it, and treated Cong Shi as before.
Someone told Cong Shi that Yuan Ang knew about his affair with his maidservant, and Congshi fled home. Yuan Ang chased Congshi in his car, and gave him his maidservant, still calling him Congshi.
When Yuan An was sent as an envoy to Wu and was besieged, Sima happened to be the captain who besieged Yuan An. Sima sold all the belongings he carried and used the money to buy two loads of strong-flavored wine. It happened to be cold and the besieging soldiers were hungry and thirsty. They drank too much wine and the soldiers guarding the southwest corner of the city were drunk. Sima Cheng led Yuan An up at night and said: You can go, the King of Wu expects to kill you tomorrow.
Yuan Ang didn't believe it and said, "What do you do?"
Sima said: I am the one who originally had an affair with your maid in the history.
Yuan Ang then thanked him in surprise and said: "You are lucky to have your parents here, I can't let you get in trouble because of this."
Sima said: Just leave. I will run away and hide my parents. Why should you worry?
So he cut the tent of the military camp open with a knife and led Yuan Ang out of the road blocked by the drunken soldiers.
Sima and Yuan Ang parted ways and went in opposite directions. Yuan Ang took off his knot and carried it in his arms. He leaned on his staff and walked for seven or eight miles. At dawn, he encountered Liang's cavalry and fled on horseback. Finally, he returned to the court to report.
The Wu-Chu rebels had been defeated, and the emperor changed the title of Pingluhou Liu Li, the son of King Chu Yuan, to the king of Chu, and Yuan An became the prime minister of Chu.
Yuan Ang once wrote a letter to make suggestions, but they were not accepted.
Yuan Ang was exempted from official duties due to illness and lived at home, hanging out with the villagers and playing cockfighting and dog racing games with them.
Ju Meng, a native of Luoyang, once visited Yuan An, who received him warmly.
A rich man from Anling said to Yuan An: I heard that Ju Meng is a gambler. Why do you want to associate with him?
Yuan An said: Although Ju Meng was a gambler, when his mother passed away, there were more than a thousand guest cars at the funeral. This was also because of his extraordinary qualities.
Besides, everyone is in danger.
When you are in danger or something urgent knocks on the door, you don't use the excuse of having your parents around to shirk it, and you don't have to refuse by not being at home because of something. The only people the world looks up to are Ji Xin and Ju Meng.
Nowadays, you are often followed by several cavalrymen. If there is an emergency, can these people be relied upon?
Yuan An scolded the rich man and stopped communicating with him.
After everyone heard this, they all praised Yuan An.
Although Yuan Ang stayed at home, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty often sent people to ask him about strategies.
The King of Liang wanted to become the heir to Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, and Yuan An persuaded him. After that, the discussion stopped. The King of Liang resented Yuan An and once sent someone to assassinate Yuan An.
The assassin came to Guanzhong and asked what kind of person Yuan An was. Everyone was full of praise.
The assassin then went to see Yuan An and said: I accepted the money from King Liang to assassinate you. You are a generous man and I cannot bear to assassinate you.
But there will be more than ten groups of people coming to assassinate you in the future. I hope you will be more prepared!
Yuan Ang felt very unhappy, and many strange things happened one after another at home, so he went to Mr. Piao to ask for fortune telling.
When returning home, the assassins from Liang Kingdom who were sent later stopped Yuan An outside the outer city gate of Anling and assassinated him.
Chao Cuo was from Yingchuan.
I once studied the punishment naming theories of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang from Mr. Zhang Hui of Zhi County, and I was classmates with Song Meng and Liu Li from Luoyang.
With his proficiency in classics, he served as Taichang's anecdote.
Chao Cuo was an upright and severe man.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, there was no one in the world who studied "Shangshu". I only heard that Mr. Fu from Jinan was a doctor from the original Qin Dynasty and had studied "Shangshu". He was too old to answer the call, so Emperor Wen ordered Taichang to send people to study with him.
Taichang sent Chao Cuo to Mr. Fu to study Shangshu.
After he came back from his studies, he took the opportunity to report to the emperor things that benefited the country and the people, and quoted and explained "Shang Shu".
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty issued an edict and appointed Chao Cuo as the prince's family minister, family official, and prince's family magistrate.
Chao Cuo won the favor of the prince with his eloquence, and the prince's family called him "the wise man".
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Chao Cuo wrote many times about reducing the power of the princes and amending the laws.
After dozens of petitions, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty did not accept them, but he believed that he had unique talents and was promoted to a middle doctor.
At that time, the prince praised Chao Cuo's strategy, but Yuan Ang and most of the other great heroes did not like Chao Cuo.
After Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he appointed Chao Cuo as his internal historian.
Chao Cuo repeatedly requested the emperor to discuss political affairs with him alone. Emperor Jing always obeyed and favored him more than Jiu Qing. Chao Cuo revised many laws.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia was dissatisfied, but did not have enough power to harm him.
I plan to write a memorial about Chao Cuo's fault this time and request that Chao Cuo be executed. Chao Cuo heard the news and asked to go to the emperor alone that night and explained the matter to the emperor in detail. Prime Minister Shen Tujia went to court and took the opportunity to report Chao Cuo for cutting open the wall of Taishang Temple to make a door without permission, and asked the emperor to hand him over to the Tingwei for execution. The emperor said: The wall that Chao Cuo built was not the wall of Taishang Temple, but the wall on the open space outside the temple, so that it would not violate the law.
The Prime Minister apologized.
After leaving the court, he angrily said to Chang Shi: I should have killed him first and then reported it to the emperor, but instead I reported him first and was betrayed by this guy. It was a big mistake.
The prime minister finally fell ill and died, making Chao Cuo even more prominent.
Chao Cuo was promoted to the imperial censor, and requested that the feudal lords' fiefdoms be reduced accordingly for their crimes, and the counties and cities on the borders of each vassal state be recovered.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor ordered the ministers, princes and royal family to discuss it together. No one dared to criticize Chao Cuo's suggestion. Only Dou Ying argued with him, so there was a gap between him and Chao Cuo.
The decree revised by Chao Cuo had thirty chapters, and the princes all shouted against it and hated Chao Cuo.
When Chao Cuo's father heard the news, he came from Yingchuan and said to Chao Cuo: The emperor has just succeeded to the throne, and you have taken power, infringing and weakening the power of the princes, alienating other people's flesh and blood, and people are talking and resenting you. Why do you do this?
Chao Cuo said: Things should be like this. Otherwise, the emperor will not be respected and the country will not be peaceful.
Chao Cuo's father then said: If this continues, the Liu family will be at peace, but our Chao family will be in danger. I will leave you and go back.
He took poison and died. Before he died, he said: I can't bear to see disaster involving myself.
Ten days after Chao Cuo's father died, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, in the name of killing Chao Cuo.
When Dou Ying and Yuan Ang came forward, the emperor ordered Chao Cuo to wear court clothes and execute him in Dongshi.
After the death of Chao Cuo, Duke Deng of Yezhe Pushe served as a school captain. When he attacked Wu Chu's army, he served as a general.
After returning to the capital, he wrote a letter reporting the military situation and went to see the emperor.
The emperor asked: "You came from the army and heard that Chao Cuo was dead. Did Wu Chu's army retreat?"
Deng Gong said: The King of Wu has been deliberately rebellious for decades. He was angry because you reduced his fiefdom, so in the name of killing Chao Cuo, his original intention was not Chao Cuo.
Besides, I'm worried that all the scholars in the world will shut up and never dare to speak out again.
The emperor said: Why?
Deng Gong said: Chao Cuo was worried that the princes would become too powerful and could not be subdued, so he asked to reduce the fiefdoms of the princes in order to favor the court. This is the benefit of all generations.
The plan had just started to be implemented, but he was actually killed, which blocked the mouths of loyal ministers internally, and avenged the princes externally. I privately think that it is not advisable for your Majesty to do this.
At this time Emperor Jing was silent for a long time and said: "What you said is right. I also regret this."
So Deng Gong was appointed as the lieutenant of Chengyang.
Deng Gong was from Chenggu and had many unexpected ideas.
During the Jianyuan period, the emperor recruited virtuous people, and the ministers all recommended Deng Gong. At that time, Deng Gong was dismissed from office, and he became the ninth minister from his leisure time at home.
A year later, he resigned and returned home, claiming to be ill. His son Deng Zhang was very famous among the court ministers for studying the theories of Huangdi and Laozi.
Tai Shigong said: Although Yuan Ang is not easy to learn, he is good at understanding and understanding. He takes benevolence as his essence and often praises righteousness and is impassioned.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty had just ascended the throne, his talents happened to be at the right time, so they could be put to use.
The current situation was constantly changing. When Wu Chu rebelled, he proposed to kill Chao Cuo.
Although his suggestions were adopted and implemented, he was no longer used by the court.
People who love fame and show off their talents end up getting into trouble because of their pursuit of fame. When Chao Cuo was making the prince's family orders, he made many suggestions but they were not adopted. Later, he took power and revised many laws of the country.
The princes launched a rebellion, but Chao Cuo was not eager to correct the crisis, but wanted to avenge himself, which resulted in his death.
As the saying goes: If you change the ancient laws and mess up the routine, you will either die or escape. Are you talking about people like Chao Cuo?
