Ji An, whose courtesy name is Changru, was born in Puyang County.
His ancestors were favored by the king of the ancient Wei Kingdom.
By the time he was the seventh generation, he had been serving as ministers and officials in the court for generations.
Ji An relied on his father's recommendation. During the reign of Emperor Xiao Jing, Ji An became the prince Xima. He was respected by others because he was a serious man.
When Emperor Jing died, the prince succeeded to the throne and appointed him as the official of the audience.
There was an attack between the Minyue and Ouyue people in East Vietnam, and the emperor sent Ji An to inspect.
Before he reached Dongyue, he turned back when he reached Wuxian and reported: The Dongyue people are attacking each other because the local folk customs are so aggressive that it is not worth bothering the emperor's envoys to inquire.
A fire broke out in Hanoi County, burning more than a thousand households. The emperor sent Ji An to inspect.
He came back and reported: Ordinary people there accidentally catch fire. Because the houses are densely packed, the fire spreads, so there is no need to worry.
When I passed through Henan County, I saw that the local poor were suffering from floods and droughts. There were more than ten thousand families affected by the disaster, and some even went as far as father and son eating each other. So I took advantage of the talisman I held and ordered the distribution of grain stored in the official warehouse of Henan County to provide relief to the local victims.
Now I request that the talisman be returned and bear the responsibility of falsely preaching the imperial edict.
The emperor believed that Ji An was a virtuous person, so he was exempted from guilt and was transferred to Xingyang County Magistrate.
Ji An thought it was a shame to be a county magistrate, so he resigned and returned home claiming illness.
When the emperor heard the news, he summoned Ji An to serve as a senior official in the imperial court.
Because he repeatedly expressed his opinions to the emperor, he was still not allowed to stay in the court for a long time and was released as the prefect of Donghai County.
Ji An admired Taoism, managed the government and handled civil affairs. He liked to be clean and tidy, and entrusted all matters to the capable county magistrates and book historians he selected.
When he manages county affairs, he just supervises his subordinates to act in accordance with general principles and does not pay attention to details.
He was frail and sickly and often lay indoors without going out.
In more than a year, Donghai County became very peaceful and peaceful, and people praised him very much.
After the emperor learned about it, he summoned Ji'an back to the capital to serve as the Lord Commander, and he was treated similarly to Jiu Qing's treatment.
He strives to govern by doing nothing, and promotes the big ideas without adhering to the legal provisions.
Ji An is very arrogant when dealing with others, does not pay attention to etiquette, contradicts people in person, and cannot tolerate other people's mistakes.
He would be close to and friendly to those who were congenial to him; he would be impatient to meet those who were incompatible with him, and therefore the scholars would not want to rely on him.
But Ji An was eager to learn and good at doing chivalry, and he paid great attention to his ambition and integrity. He usually lives at home and has good and pure conduct; when he enters the court, he likes to speak out and give advice, repeatedly offending the emperor's face, and often admires the conduct of Fu Bai and Yuan An.
He had good relations with Guan Fu, Zheng Shi and Zong Zheng and Liu Qi.
They were also unable to stay in their official positions for a long time because of their repeated remonstrances.
Just when Ji An was appointed Lord Commander and Lieutenant-in-Chief, the Queen Mother's younger brother Wu'anhou Tianfu became prime minister. When high-ranking officials with an annual salary of two thousand dan came to visit him, they all knelt down and bowed down, but Tian Fu actually refused to return the courtesy.
But when Ji An asked to see Tian Fu, he never bowed down and often bowed to him.
At this time, the emperor was recruiting literary scholars and Confucian scholars, saying what I wanted, Ji An replied: "Your Majesty has many desires in his heart and only practices benevolence and righteousness on the surface. How can he truly imitate the political achievements of Tang Yao and Yu Shun!"
The emperor was silent, angry in his heart, and then stopped courting with a sudden change of expression. The ministers were all frightened and worried about Ji An.
After the emperor retired from the court, he said to the ministers around him: This is too much, Ji An is too stupid and straightforward!
Someone among the ministers blamed Ji An, and Ji An said: Is it true that the emperor appointed ministers such as public ministers and hundreds of officials to be submissive and flattery, and put the monarch in a dilemma that goes against the right path?
What's more, I am already in the position of Jiuqing. Even though I cherish my life, what if I harm the important affairs of the court?
Ji An was sick and had been ill for three months. The emperor had repeatedly granted him leave to recuperate, but his illness never recovered.
The last time he was very ill, Zhuang Zhu asked for leave on his behalf. The emperor asked: How is Ji An?
Zhuang Zhu said: There is nothing extraordinary about letting Ji An become an official and deacon.
However, he can assist the young monarch, stick to the established cause, use inducements to prevent him from coming, use threats to prevent him from leaving. Even if someone claims to be as brave as Meng Ben and Xia Yu, he cannot regret his integrity. The emperor said: Yes.
In ancient times, there were so-called loyal ministers who ensured peace and security, and Ji An was very similar to them.
General Wei Qing entered the palace, and the emperor sat beside the bed to see him.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong usually asked to see him for something, but the emperor sometimes didn't even wear his hat.
As for Ji An's visit, the emperor would not receive him without wearing a good hat.
The emperor was once sitting in a majestic military tent. When Ji An came to report on official business, the emperor was not wearing a hat. When he saw him, he hurriedly hid in the tent and sent a close servant to approve his memorial.
Ji An was respected and respected by the emperor to this extent.
As soon as Zhang Tang became a court official by changing the criminal law, Ji An repeatedly questioned and accused Zhang Tang in front of the emperor, saying: As a minister, you are unable to carry forward the achievements of the late emperor, and you are unable to curb the evil desires of the people in the world. Safeguarding the country and enriching the people, and keeping the prisons empty of criminals are neither of these two things.
On the contrary, you try your best to do the wrong thing and make others guilty in order to achieve your own career. How dare you change the rules and regulations set by Emperor Gaozu?
If you do this, you will lose your descendants.
Ji An often argued with Zhang Tang. When Zhang Tang argued, he always deliberately delved into the provisions and demanded details. Ji An, on the other hand, was upright and serious in his speech, high-spirited and unwilling to give in. He scolded Zhang Tang angrily and said: "Everyone in the world said that an official with swords and pens should never be allowed to hold the position of public minister. It is true."
If we act according to what Zhang Tang said, people in the world will be so frightened that they will stand with their feet together and not dare to take a step, and they will not dare to look directly at him!
At this time, the Han Dynasty was conquering the Xiongnu and recruiting ethnic minorities in various places.
Ji An tried to keep the country in peace, and often took the opportunity to advise the emperor to propose peace with the Huns instead of raising troops to fight.
The emperor was devoted to Confucianism and respected Gongsun Hong, but he didn't care about it.
When domestic troubles arose, and low-level officials and lawless people tried their best to evade justice, the emperor decided to separate the laws and enforce strict laws. Zhang Tang and others continued to report important cases to win the emperor's favor.
And Ji An often slandered Confucianism and criticized Gongsun Hong and others face to face for being treacherous at heart but clever outside, in order to please the emperor to win favor; the swordsman and penman were dedicated to studying the legal provisions and slandering them with clever words to frame others as guilty. , preventing the truth from being revealed, and using victory in prison as capital to claim credit, so the emperor relied more and more on Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang. Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang hated Ji An deeply, and even the emperor disliked him and wanted to kill him for an excuse.
Gongsun Hong became the prime minister and suggested to the emperor: There are many dignitaries and royal family members living in the right inner history area, which is difficult to manage. It is not that a minister with a good reputation cannot take on this important task. Please appoint Ji An as the right inner history.
Ji An served as the internal history of You for several years. During his tenure, his political affairs were in order and never neglected.
The general Wei Qing has become more and more noble. His sister Wei Zifu became the queen, but Ji An still treated him as an equal.
Someone advised Ji An: "The emperor wanted all the officials to be subordinate to the general. Now that the general is respected and valued by the emperor, his status is even more noble. You must kneel down and worship him."
Ji An replied: "Because the general has guests who bow his hands and salute, does that make him disrespected?"
When the general heard what he said, he thought Ji An was even more virtuous. He asked him many times for advice on difficult matters in the country and the court, and regarded him better than people he had always known.
Liu An, the king of Huainan, conspired to rebel and was afraid of Ji An. He said: "Ji An loves to speak out and give advice. He sticks to his integrity and is willing to die for justice. It is difficult to tempt him with unfair things."
As for persuading Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, it was as easy as removing a covering or shaking off the falling leaves.
When today the emperor has conquered the Xiongnu many times and achieved great success, and Ji An advocated making peace with the foreigners without raising troops to conquer, he would not listen even more.
When Ji An was enjoying the treatment of Jiuqing, Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang were just ordinary petty officials.
When Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang became more prominent and equaled Ji An in official positions, Ji An again accused and slandered them.
Soon, Gongsun Hong was promoted to prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Pingjin; Zhang Tangguan was promoted to Yushi Dafu; the former county magistrates and book historians under Ji An were also at the same level as Ji An, and some were re-employed and even surpassed him in status.
Ji An was narrow-minded and impetuous, and it was impossible not to complain at all. When he met with the emperor, he stepped forward and said: Your Majesty appoints ministers like a pile of firewood, and the later ones are piled on top.
The emperor remained silent.
After a while Ji An retreated, and the emperor said: A person cannot be without knowledge. After listening to Ji An's words, his stupidity became more and more serious.
Not long after, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu led his troops to surrender to the Han Dynasty, and the court conscripted 20,000 vehicles to pick them up.
The government had no money, so they borrowed horses from the people.
Some people hide their horses so that they cannot gather them together.
The emperor was furious and wanted to kill the magistrate of Chang'an.
Ji An said: The magistrate of Chang'an County is not guilty. As long as he kills me, the people will be willing to sacrifice their horses.
Moreover, if the Xiongnu generals betrayed their monarch and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, the court could slowly ask the counties along the way to prepare chariots and horses to pick them up in order. Why would it disturb the whole country and make our people exhausted to serve the surrendered soldiers of the Xiongnu generals?
The emperor was silent.
When King Hunxie arrived with his troops, more than 500 merchants were sentenced to death for doing business with the Huns.
Ji An asked for the opportunity to be interviewed, and met the emperor in the Gaomen Hall of Weiyang Palace. He said: The Huns attacked our fortresses on the main roads and severed the friendly relations between the relatives. Our country sent troops to conquer them. Countless people died and were injured in the battle, and tens of billions of money were spent.
I foolishly thought that when your Majesty captured the Huns, he would reward them as slaves to the families of those who died in the army, and would also give them the captured property, in order to thank the people of the world for their hard work and satisfy the people's wishes.
Even if this is not possible now, and King Hunxie leads tens of thousands of people to surrender, he should not spend all the property in the official treasury to reward them, recruit honest and dutiful people to serve them, and treat them like darlings.
How could the ignorant people know that if they allowed the Huns to buy goods in Chang'an City, they would be regarded as illegally smuggling property out of the customs by law enforcement officers who are obsessed with legal provisions and be sentenced?
Even though Your Majesty cannot seize the Huns' supplies to comfort the people of the world, you still have to use harsh laws to kill more than 500 ignorant people. This is the so-called practice of "protecting the leaves and damaging the branches." I privately think that Your Majesty's move is undesirable.
The emperor was silent and disagreed, and then said: I haven't heard Ji An's words for a long time. Today he talked nonsense again.
A few months later, Ji An was convicted of violating a minor law. When the emperor granted him amnesty, he was only dismissed from office.
So Ji An retired to the countryside.
A few years later, when the country changed the minting of five-baht coins, many people minted coins privately, especially in the Chu region.
The emperor believed that Huaiyang County was an important transportation route to Chu, so he conscripted Ji An and appointed him as the prefect of Huaiyang County.
Ji An prostrated himself on the ground and declined the imperial edict, refusing to accept the seal. The emperor issued edicts many times to force him to accept the order.
The emperor issued an edict to summon Ji An. Ji An cried and said to the emperor: I thought that my bones would be abandoned in the ditch after my death and I would never see your majesty again. I never expected that your majesty would accept me and appoint me.
I am often sick, and my physical strength is not up to the demands of the post of governor. I hope that the middle-aged man will go in and out of the forbidden gates of the palace to correct your mistakes and make up for your shortcomings. This is my wish.
The emperor said: "Don't you look down on the position of the governor of Huaiyang County?"
I now summon and appoint you.
Due to the tense relationship between the local government and the people in Huaiyang, I have no choice but to use your authority and ask you to stay at home and manage it.
After Ji An said goodbye to the emperor, he went to visit Li Xi, the great minister. He said: I was abandoned in a foreign county and can no longer participate in the affairs of the imperial court.
However, Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, was clever enough to block other people's criticism, and cunning enough to cover up his own mistakes. He used clever flattery words and strong arguments to find faults. He refused to speak uprightly for the people of the world, and devoted himself to catering to the emperor's thoughts.
If the emperor didn't want it, he would slander it; if the emperor wanted it, he would take the opportunity to praise it.
He likes to cause trouble and fiddle with laws and regulations. In court, he is deeply treacherous to cater to the Lord's will, and outside the court, he blackmails officials who harm society to strengthen his power.
You are the ninth minister. If you don't advise the emperor as soon as possible, both you and him will be killed.
Li Xi was afraid of Zhang Tang and never dared to remonstrate with the emperor.
Ji An managed the county affairs as he had in the past, and the politics of Huaiyang County became clear.
Later, Zhang Tang was indeed ruined. After the emperor learned what Ji An had said to Li Xi, he found Li Xi guilty and ordered Ji An to enjoy the salary treatment of the princes and ministers and still be in charge of Huaiyang County.
Ji An died seven years later.
After Ji An's death, because of Ji An's relationship, the emperor appointed his younger brother Ji Ren to be promoted to the rank of Jiu Qing, and his son Ji Yan to be promoted to the minister of the princes and states.
Ji An's aunt's son Sima An was also the prince Xima when he was young. He was good at juggling legal provisions and was skillful in serving as an official. His official position reached Jiuqing four times, and he died while serving as the governor of Henan County.
Because of him, ten of his brothers were promoted to the rank of two thousand shi at the same time.
Duan Hong from Puyang initially served Gaihou Wang Xin. Wang Xin recommended Duan Hong, and Duan Hong was promoted to Jiuqing twice.
But the officials in Puyang's hometown all respected Ji An and were content to live under him.
Zheng was born in Chen County with a courtesy name of Zhuang.
His ancestor Zheng Jun once served as a general under Xiang Ji. Soon after Xiang Ji died, he belonged to the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Gaozu ordered all Xiang Ji's former subordinates to call him by his first name when referring to Xiang Ji. Zheng Jun alone refused to accept the edict.
Emperor Gaozu decreed that those who were willing to address Xiang Ji by his first name would be worshiped as senior officials, and Lord Zheng was driven away.
Zheng Jun died during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen.
Zheng Zhuang took pleasure in being a chivalrous man and rescuing Zhang Yu from danger, and his reputation spread throughout Liang and Chu.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, he served as Prince Sheren.
During every five-day holiday, he often bought horses in the suburbs of Chang'an, rode on horseback to visit old friends, invited and thanked guests and friends, and stayed up all night long, always worrying about omissions.
Zheng Zhuang loves Taoism and admires elderly and virtuous people. His affection is as intense as if he is afraid that he will never see them again.
He is young and has a humble official position, but his close friends are all from his grandfather's generation and are famous people in the world.
After Emperor Wu came to the throne, Zhengzhuang was promoted step by step from the lieutenant of Lu State, the prefect of Jinan Qun, and the prime minister of Jiangdu to the right internal history of Jiuqing.
Due to his improper opinions on the dispute between Wu'an Hou Tianfan and Wei Qihou Dou Ying, he was demoted to Zhan Shi and was later transferred to Da Nong Ling.
When Zheng Zhuang was doing the internal history of You, he warned his subordinate officials: If there are visitors, no matter they are noble or lowly, they are not allowed to wait at the door.
He respects the host's hospitality and subordinates himself to the guests with his noble status.
Zheng Zhuang was an upright person and did not purchase any private property. He only relied on his official salary and rewards to provide for his elderly friends. The gifts he gave to others were only a few meals in bamboo utensils.
Whenever he goes to court and has the opportunity to give advice to the emperor, he will be praised by the most respected people in the world.
He recommended scholars and his subordinates, prime ministers and officials, and talked about them with great interest. He often praised them as more capable than himself.
He never addressed the officials by their first names, and when talking to his subordinates, he was so humble as if he was afraid of hurting them.
When I heard that others had good ideas, I recommended them to the emperor for fear of delaying the matter.
Therefore, scholars and well-known elders in the vast area east of Miao Mountain all praised his virtues.
Zheng Zhuang was sent to inspect the breach of the Yellow River, and he asked for five days to prepare his luggage.
The emperor said: I heard that Zheng Zhuang traveled thousands of miles without food. Why did he ask for time to prepare his luggage?
Although Zheng Zhuang was popular with outsiders, he often agreed to obey his master's wishes in court and did not dare to express his views on right and wrong too clearly.
In his later years, the Han Dynasty conquered the Xiongnu and recruited ethnic minorities in various places. The world spent a lot of money and the country's financial and material resources were even more scarce.
The people recommended by Zheng Zhuang and their guests were responsible for transportation for the great peasant order, and they owed a lot of money.
Sima An was appointed as the prefect of Huaiyang County and reported the matter. Zheng Zhuang was held responsible for this. After atonement, he was demoted to a civilian.
Soon, he entered the Prime Minister's Mansion and held the temporary post of chief historian.
The emperor thought that he was old and asked him to be the governor of Runan County.
A few years later, he died in office.
Zheng Zhuang and Ji An were originally ranked among the nine ministers. They were honest in government and had pure conduct at home.
Both of them were dismissed from office during the process, their families were poor, and their guests gradually declined.
When he became a county magistrate, there was no property left in his family after his death.
Because of him, as many as six or seven of Zheng Zhuang's brothers and descendants have reached the rank of two thousand shi.
Tai Shigong said: Because Ji An and Zheng were so virtuous at that time, when they were powerful, the number of guests would be ten times greater, but when they were powerless, the situation was completely the opposite. If they were like this, let alone ordinary people!
Zhai Gong of Xiajun County once said that when he first served as a court official, his house was full of guests; but when he lost his official position, the outside became so deserted that people could gather to catch birds.
After he was reinstated, the guests wanted to see him again, so Zhai Gong wrote on the gate: "One death and one life are all friendships."
One is poor and the other is rich, which is a state of acquaintance.
One is noble and the other is humble, friendship is about seeing each other.
Ji An and Zhengzhuang also had this misfortune, how sad!
