Xia Yu's name was Wen Ming.
Yu's father was Gun, Gun's father was Emperor Zhuanxu, Zhuanxu's father was Changyi, and Changyi's father was Huangdi.
Yu is the great-great-grandson of Huangdi and the grandson of Emperor Zhuanxu.
Neither Yu's great-grandfather Changyi nor his father Gun ascended to the throne, but served as ministers to the emperor.
When Emperor Yao was in power, the floods were so powerful that they surrounded the mountains and covered the hills. The people were very worried about this.
Yao was looking for someone who could control the floods, and all the ministers in the four mountains said that Gun could do it.
Yao said: Gun, a man who disobeyed the destiny and destroyed his own people, is of no use.
The four mountains all said: In comparison, among the ministers, no one is stronger than him. I hope you will let him try.
So Yao followed Siyue's advice and appointed Gun to control the flood.
Nine years later, floods are still raging and water control has not achieved any results.
At this time, Emperor Yao asked someone else to control the floods, and he found Shun again.
Shun was appointed to take charge of the emperor's government affairs and visited all directions.
During his inspection, Shun saw that Gun was ineffective in controlling the floods, so he killed Gun at Yushan.
Everyone in the world believed that Shun's punishment of Gun was correct.
Shun also promoted Gun's son Yu to continue his father Gun's career in flood control.
After Yao's death, Emperor Shun asked Siyue: Is there anyone who can fulfill Yao's cause well and hold an official position?
It is said that if Boyu is allowed to be Sikong, he will definitely be able to complete Yao's deeds well. Emperor Shun said: Yes!
That's it!
Therefore, he appointed Yu and said: Go and calm down the water and soil, and work hard!
Yu bowed his head and thanked him, and humbly gave way to Qi, Houji and Gaotao.
Shun said: You'd better go and handle your affairs quickly!
Yu was smart, quick-witted, and diligent. He abided by morality and was kind and amiable. His speech was honest and trustworthy, his voice was in tune, his behavior was in line with the law, and the standards of weighing were set by Yu.
He is diligent and serious, and is a model for all officials. Yu accepted Emperor Shun's order and took office together with Yi and Hou Ji. He ordered the princes and officials to recruit civilians to carry out water and soil control work. He set up signs along the way and measured the appearance of mountains and rivers.
Yu was saddened by the fact that his father Gun was killed for failing to control the floods. Therefore, regardless of fatigue and exhaustion, Yu did not dare to enter his house even after passing by his house several times for thirteen years.
He lived simply in food and clothing, and tried his best to worship ghosts and gods.
They lived in simple houses and spent their money on water conservancy projects such as building canals and digging ditches. He traveled by car on land, took a boat by water, rode a sled on muddy roads, and wore toothed shoes when walking on mountain roads. He holds a yardstick and a rope in his left hand, a rule and a rule in his right hand, and also carries instruments for measuring the four seasons and determining directions, which he uses to develop Kyushu, open up roads to Kyushu, build embankments of Kyushu lakes, and measure the veins of mountains in Kyushu.
He asked Boyi to distribute rice seeds and teach the people to plant them in low-lying and humid places.
Later, Houji was asked to provide relief to the people who could not ensure food and clothing.
In places where food is scarce, some regions are allowed to transfer their surplus grain to food-deficient areas, so that all princes have food to eat within their borders.
Yu also inspected the unique products of various places to determine their tribute, and also inspected the convenient transportation conditions of mountains and rivers in various places.
Yu's journey to supervise flood control began in Jizhou.
Jizhou: Hukou has been controlled, and Liangshan and its branches will be controlled next.
After managing Taiyuan, it was then repaired to the south of Taiyue Mountain.
After controlling Qinhuai, they continued to the Hengshui and Zhangshui areas.
The soil in Jizhou is white and soft. The taxes here belong to the upper class, that is, the first class, sometimes mixed with the second class. The fields belong to the middle class, that is, the fifth class.
The Changshui and Weishui rivers have been dredged, and the land around Daluze can be cultivated.
The Tori tribe in the northeast paid tribute to the nobles for the skins of exotic animals.
They followed the sea route to pay tribute, and when sailing south along the coast, they saw the Jieshi at the right corner, so they turned west and sailed straight into the Yellow River channel.
Between Jishui and the Yellow River is Yanzhou: the nine rivers in this area have been unblocked, Leixia has accumulated into a large lake, and Yongshui and Jushui will also flow into this lake. Mulberries are planted on the land and silkworms are raised, so the people can live in the flatlands from the highlands where they moved to avoid floods.
The soil of Yan is black and fertile, the vegetation on it is lush and the trees are tall.
The fields here are listed in the sixth class, and the taxes are in the ninth class.
After thirteen years of farming, we can be like other states.
The soil here is white and fertile, the seashore is wide and contains alkali, and the fields are mostly saline-alkali land.
The fields belong to the upper and lower classes, that is, the third class, and the taxes belong to the middle and upper classes, that is, the fourth class.
The tributes in this area include salt, fine kudzu cloth, seafood, and stones for grinding jade, as well as silk, hemp, lead, pine, and jade-like stones from the Tai Valley. The Laiyi area can be used for grazing, so livestock products are tribute there, as well as baskets containing tussah silk used to make piano strings.
Its tribute route was shipped directly from Wenshui to Jishui.
The area between the coast in the east, Mount Tai in the north, and Huai River in the south is Xuzhou. The Huai River and Yishui River in this area have been controlled, and crops can be grown in Mengshan and Yushan.
Ohnozawa has accumulated into a lake, the water in the Dongyuan area has receded, and the land has leveled off.
The soil here is red, sticky and fertile, and the vegetation growing here is very lush.
The fields were ranked in the second class, and the taxes were in the fifth class.
The tributes in this area are the five-color soil used by the emperor to build altars to worship heaven, the five-color pheasant feathers from the Yu Valley, the solitary tung tree that is a specialty of the south of Yishan Mountain and can be used to make harps, the floating rock on the shore of Surabaya, the pearl oysters and fish products from Huaiyi, and the fine and clean black and white silk held in bamboo baskets.
它进贡路线是水路，从淮水运入泗水，再转入菏水。

Starting from the Huaihe River in the north and reaching the sea in the southeast is Yangzhou. The Pengli area has merged into a lake, which serves as a habitat for swan geese returning south every year.
The Songjiang, Qiantang, and Puyang rivers enter the sea there, and the waters of Taihu Lake are stabilized.
Now the land is covered with bamboo forests, and beautiful grasses and tall green trees can be seen everywhere. The soil here is moist, the fields are ranked ninth, and the taxes are seventh, sometimes sixth.
The tributes from this state include three colors of copper, as well as jade and gemstones such as Yao and Kun, as well as bamboo, ivory, leather from exotic animals, feathers of rare birds, tails of jingniu, and a kind of clothing called "huifu" presented by the Daoyi people, as well as brocade with shell-shaped patterns in baskets as tribute, and oranges and grapefruits that were properly packaged as tribute.
These tributes entered the Huaihe River and Sishui via the sea and the Yangtze River.
To the south from Jingshan to Hengshan is Jingzhou: this area has the Yangtze River and the Han River flowing into the sea.
Most of the many tributaries of the Yangtze River have fixed river channels, the Tuo River and the Laishui River have been channeled, and the Yunze and Mengze rivers have also been regulated.
The soil here is moist, the fields are in the lower middle, that is, the eighth class, and the taxes are in the upper and lower classes, that is, the third class.
The tribute items include feathers, oxtails, ivory, leather, three-color copper, as well as chun wood, cypress wood, juniper wood, and cypress wood, as well as rough and fine grinding stones, nipstone and cinnabar for arrowheads, especially bamboo wormwood for arrow shafts. Hechu wood is the most famous specialty product paid tribute by the three vassal states near the Han River. There are also green grass wrapped and placed in boxes for filtering wine during sacrifices, colorful fabrics held in bamboo baskets, and ribbons used to thread beads. Sometimes the giant tortoises produced in Jiujiang were paid tribute according to orders.
When paying tribute, they passed through the Yangtze River, Tuoshui River, Lun River, and Han River, then traveled overland for a while, then entered Luoshui River, and then turned into Nanhe River.
Between Jingzhou and the Yellow River is Yuzhou: Yishui, Luoshui, Zhangshui, and Jianshui have all been dredged and poured into the Yellow River. Xingbo has also merged into a lake. Heze has also been dredged and the embankment of Mingduze has been built.
The soil here is soft and fertile, while the lowlands are fertile and solid black soil.
The land belongs to the upper middle class, that is, the fourth class, and the taxes belong to the upper middle class, that is, the second class, and sometimes it is the first class.
They paid tribute to lacquer, silk, fine kudzu cloth, hemp, and fine silk wadding in bamboo baskets. Sometimes they paid tribute to stones used for making jade chimes according to orders. When paying tribute, they took the waterway and entered the Yellow River through Luoshui River.
Between the southern foot of Mount Huashan and Heishui is Liangzhou: Wenshan and Jizhongshan are now ready for farming, the Tuoshui and Xunshui rivers have been dredged, the roads in Caishan and Mengshan have been repaired, and water control in the Heyi area has also achieved results.
The soil here is blue-black, the fields are in the lower and upper grades, that is, the seventh grade, and the taxes are in the lower and middle grades, that is, the eighth grade, and sometimes they are also in the seventh or ninth grade.
The tributes include beautiful jade, iron, silver, hard iron for carving, stone for making arrowheads, chime stones for making chimes, as well as bears, scorpions, and foxes.
The tributes of the Zhipi Tribe were transported from the Western Qingshan Mountains of Xirong through the Huan River, then transported by diving boat, into the Mianshui River, and then walked a mountain road into the Wei River, and finally crossed the Yellow River to the capital.
Between Heishui and the west bank of the Yellow River is Yongzhou: the weak water has flowed westward after treatment, and the Jingshui River merged into the Wei River. Qishui and Jushui also merge into the Weishui, and Fengshui also flows into the Weishui.
The roads in Jingshan and Qishan have been opened, and the roads from Zhongnan Mountain and Dunwu Mountain to Niaoshu Mountain have also been completed.
The management projects on plateaus and troughs have achieved results, and have been managed all the way to the Tonozawa area.
The Sanwei Mountain area is now habitable, and the San Miao people are also very obedient.
The soil here is yellow in color, soft and fertile, the fields are in the upper category, that is, the first grade, and the taxes are in the middle and lower category, that is, the sixth grade.
The tributes are beautiful jade and beautiful stones. When paying tribute, they took the waterway from the foot of Jishi Mountain, followed the river to the Xihe River between the Longmen Mountains, and gathered in the Weishui Bay. The Zhipi tribe lived in Kunlun Mountain, Zhizhi Mountain, Qusou Mountain and other places. At that time, the Xirong countries also surrendered.
Yu opened nine mountain roads: one started from Qishan and Qishan all the way to Jingshan and crossed the Yellow River; one ran from Hukou Mountain and Leishou Mountain to Taiyue Mountain; one ran from Diizhu Mountain and Xicheng Mountain to Wangwu Mountain; one started from Taihang Mountain and Changshan Mountain to Jieshi Mountain, and entered the sea to connect with waterways; One runs from Xiqing Mountain, Zhuyu Mountain, and Niaoshu Mountain to Taihua Mountain; one runs from Xiong'er Mountain, Waifang Mountain, and Tongbai Mountain to Fuwei Mountain; one runs from Jizhong Mountain to Jingshan Mountain; one runs from Neifang Mountain to Dabie Mountain; and one runs from the south of Wenshan Mountain to Hengshan Mountain, crosses Jiujiang, and finally reaches Fuqianyuan Mountain.
Yu channeled nine large rivers: he channeled the weak water to Heli, and caused the downstream of the weak water to flow into quicksand.
The black water was channeled, passed through Sanwei Mountain, and flowed into the South China Sea.
The Yellow River is channeled, starting from Jishi Mountain, to Longmen Mountain, south to Huayin, then turning eastward through Diaizhu Mountain, continuing eastward to Mengjin, then eastward through Luoshui and entering the river mouth, until Dapi; then it turns northward through Huishui, reaches Daluze, and then divides into nine rivers in the north. These nine rivers merge into one river downstream, called Nihe, and finally flow into the sea.
Starting from Jizhong Mountain, Yangshui is channeled. It flows eastward to become the Hanshui River, and then flows eastward to become the Canglangshui River. It passes through the Sanyangshui River and reaches the Dabie Mountains. It turns south and flows into the Yangtze River. Then it flows eastward to join the Penglize Water, and continues eastward to become the Beijiang River and flows into the sea.
Starting from Wenshan, the Yangtze River is channeled, branching off to the east as a tributary called Tuoshui River, then going east to reach Lishui River, passing through Jiujiang, and arriving at Dongling. It flows diagonally eastwards to the north, meets the water of Penglize, and continues eastward to become Zhongjiang River, and finally flows into the sea.
It diverts the Dian River and flows eastward to become the Jishui River. It flows into the Yellow River. When the two rivers meet, they overflow into the Yingze River. It passes eastward through the north of Taoqiu, continues eastward to Heze River, and then flows northeastward to join the Wenshui River, and then flows northward into the sea.
Starting from Tongbai Mountain, the Huai River is channeled eastward to join the Sishui River and Yishui River, and then flows eastward into the sea.
The channel of the Wei River starts from Niaoshu Tongxing Mountain, goes east to join the Feng River, then east to join the Jing River, then east through Qishui and Ju River, and flows into the Yellow River.
The Luoshui River is diverted from Xiong'er Mountain to the northeast to join the Jianshui River and the Xishui River, and then to the east to join the Yishui River, and then to the northeast to flow into the Yellow River.
All the mountains, rivers and rivers have been tamed. From then on, the nine states were unified and everyone within the four borders could live. Roads were opened in the nine mountains, the water sources were dredged in the nine rivers, and embankments were built in the nine lakes. The princes from all over the world could come to the capital for alliance and pilgrimage.
Each tax official has his or her own responsibilities, and taxes must be collected in various places. Taxes must be collected with caution and based on the fertility of the land, and must be collected within the nine states of China. He divided the princes among the nine states, gave them land and surnames, and ordered: "You must respect my virtues first, and you must not violate my various measures."
The area five hundred miles away from Suifu is the key service, that is, the area that is bound and obeyed by the emperor: within three hundred miles of Suifu, one must abide by the teachings and live in peace; the area within two hundred miles away is the place where prisoners are exiled.
The area five hundred miles away should be conquered as desolate areas, that is, the remote areas on the far side were guarded by the emperor; the areas within three hundred miles closer should be conquered as desolate and backward, where people could come and go without restriction; and the area within two hundred miles further away would be the place where prisoners were exiled.
In this way, with the sea to the east, the desert to the west, and from north to south, the emperor's prestige and education reached the remote frontiers in all directions.
So Emperor Shun gave Yu a piece of black jade representing the color of water in recognition of his merits in flood control, announcing to the world that the flood control was successful. The world will be peaceful and stable from now on.
Gaotao held the official position of law enforcement sergeant and governed the people.
When Emperor Shun went to court, Yu, Boyi, and Gaotao talked together in front of Emperor Shun.
Gao Tao expressed his opinion and said: If you follow morality unswervingly, you can achieve wise strategies and unite your ministers.
Yu said: That’s right, but what should we do?
Gao Tao said: Oh, you must be careful about your self-cultivation and have long-term plans to make all tribes honest, loving, obedient and orderly. In this way, many knowledgeable people will work hard to assist you. From the near to the far, you must start from yourself. Yu thanked Gao Tao for his kind words and said: "Yes."
Gao Tao said: Oh, and achieving virtue lies in being able to understand people and appease the people. Yu said: Ha!
Like this, even Emperor Yao would probably find it difficult.
If you can understand people, you are wise, and you can properly arrange official positions for them; if you can appease the people, you are benevolent, and the people will love you.
If you can understand people and be benevolent, why worry about Huan Dou? Why exile Youmiao? Why worry about the hypocritical and flattering villain who speaks sweet words?
Gao Tao said: Yes, that's true.
A person's behavior should be checked based on nine virtues. Let's talk about these nine virtues now.
He went on to say: The nine virtues begin with action. They are generous yet dignified, gentle yet firm, honest yet respectful, talented yet cautious, kind yet resolute, upright yet kind, easy yet sharp, decisive yet practical, strong yet reasonable. If you carry forward these nine virtues and stick to them for a long time, that will be great!
If you can declare three of these virtues every day and work hard morning and night, the minister will be able to keep his fief.
If you solemnly and respectfully practice the six virtues every day, and conscientiously assist the king in his affairs, the princes will be able to keep their feudal kingdoms.
If these nine moral qualities can be fully possessed and implemented universally, talented and virtuous people can be appointed as officials, and all officials can handle their government affairs seriously.
Don't let evil tricks succeed.
If an unsuitable person is placed in an official position, it is called disrupting a major event ordained by God.
God punishes the guilty with five types of punishments.
Most of what I said is feasible, right?
Yu said: If I act according to your words, I will definitely achieve results.
Gao Tao said: My talent is shallow, I just hope to help promote the way to govern the world.
Emperor Shun said to Yu: Come on, Yu, tell me your opinions.
Yu bowed humbly and said, "Oh, what did I say?"
All I think about all day is hard work.
Gao Tao asked: What does it mean to be diligent and hardworking?
Yu said: The flood was surging and mighty, surrounding the mountains and submerging the hills. The people were severely affected by the water.
I walked on land and rode in cars, walked in water and rode boats, walked in swamps and rode wooden sleds, and wore iron-toothed shoes when walking on mountain roads. I climbed over mountains and ridges, set up wooden stakes, and marked the mountains.
Together with Yi, I gave the people rice and fresh meat.
Nine rivers were channeled into the sea, and field ditches were led into the rivers.
Together with Ji, he helped the people who had difficulty eating food.
When food is scarce, food is transferred from areas with surplus food to areas with food shortage, or people are asked to move to areas with food.
The people settled down and all the vassal states were well governed.
Gao Tao said: Yes, these are your great achievements. Yu said: Ah, Emperor!
As the lord of all peoples, you must be cautious, act steadily and appropriately, and supplement it with virtue, and everyone in the world will respond and support you.
If you follow God's orders with a quiet heart, God will give you good luck again and again.
Emperor Shun said: Ah, a capable minister, a capable minister!
The right ministers are my arms and my eyes and ears.
I want to help the people of the world, you have to help me.
I will observe the images of the ancients, the sun, the moon, and the stars, and make the hierarchical patterns on their clothing. You must carefully identify them.
I want to listen to the six tones, five tones, and eight tones to examine whether the politics there are desolate, so that I can choose the opinions of all parties. You should listen carefully.
If there is anything inappropriate in my words or deeds, you must correct me.
Don't flatter me in person and then accuse me when you get back.
I respect the ministers who assist me front and back.
As for those sycophants who make trouble, as long as the monarch's virtues are truly implemented, they will be eliminated. Yu said: Yes.
If you don't do this, good people and bad people will all be lumped together without distinction, and great things will not be accomplished.
Emperor Shun said: "Don't be like Danzhu, who is arrogant and arrogant. He only cares about dissolute entertainment, sailing on waterless land, and gathering people at home to commit adultery, so that he will no longer be able to inherit the throne."
I will never leave this kind of person alone. Yu said: When I married Tushan's daughter, I went to control the floods only four days after the wedding. I never raised my child Qi from birth, so I could make the work of controlling the water and soil successful.
I helped the emperor to set up five vassals, covering an area of ​​5,000 miles, and appointed chiefs to all the twelve states in the world. The territory extends to the four seas. I set up a leader in each of the five vassal states. They all performed their duties and all had merits. Only Sanmiao was stubborn and had no merits. I hope you, the emperor, will remember this.
Emperor Shun said: Use my moral teachings to enlighten them, and your work will make them submit!
Gao Tao therefore respected Yu's merits and ordered the world to learn from Yu.
Those who disobey orders will be punished.
Therefore, Shun's moral education was further developed.
At this time, Kui played music, the spirits of the ancestors came to appreciate it, the princes showed courtesy to each other, birds and beasts flew and danced around the palace, and after playing "Xiao Shao" nine times, the phoenix was summoned. All the beasts danced, and all the officials were loyal and harmonious.
Emperor Shun then sang: "Follow the mandate of heaven, implement virtuous government, comply with the times of heaven, and act with caution and prudence."
He also sang: The ministers are high-spirited, the emperor is working hard, and the careers of all officials are prosperous!
Gao Taozuo bowed his head and said loudly: You must remember to take the lead and work hard to do your duty, be careful about your laws, and handle all kinds of affairs seriously!
So he continued to sing: The emperor is wise and wise, the ministers are all virtuous, and everything in the world is prosperous!
He also sang: The emperor has no big ideas, the ministers are slack, and everything in the world is ruined!
Emperor Shun paid homage and said, "Yes!" We will all work hard to handle our respective affairs from now on!
At this time, the world respected Yu for his expertise in scale and music, and respected him as the Lord of the Gods of Mountains and Rivers, meaning an emperor who could issue orders on behalf of the Gods of Mountains and Rivers.
Emperor Shun recommended Yu to heaven as the heir to the throne.
Seventeen years later, Emperor Shun died.
After three years of mourning, Yu took refuge in Yangcheng in order to give up the throne to Shun's son Shangjun.
But all the princes in the world did not go to worship Shang Jun and came to worship Yu.
Only then did Yu inherit the throne of the Son of Heaven, and he accepted the worship of all the princes from the south. His country name was Queen of Xia, and his surname was Si.
After Emperor Yu established himself as emperor, he appointed Gao Tao as his successor, recommended him to heaven, and entrusted him with state affairs. However, Gao Tao died without succeeding him.
Yu sealed the descendants of Gaotao in Ying and Liu, and some in Xu.
Later, he used his benefits and granted him state affairs.
Ten years later, Emperor Yu visited the east and arrived at Kuaiji, where he died.
Spread benefit to the world.
After three years of mourning, Yi gave up the throne to Yu's son Qi and went to the south of Jishan Mountain to escape.
Yu's son became virtuous, and all the people in the world turned to him.
When Yu died, although he passed the throne of emperor to Yi, because Yi had not been assisting Yu for long, the world did not obey him.
Therefore, all the princes left Yi and went to pay homage to Qi, saying: "We will make Emperor Yu's son king."
So Qi inherited the position of emperor, and this was Emperor Qi of Xia.
Emperor Qi of the Xia Dynasty was the son of Yu, and his mother was a daughter of the Tushan clan.
After Qi ascended the throne, some members of the Hu clan did not come to join him, so Qi went on an expedition and fought a battle at Gandi.
Before the battle began, Qi made an oath called "Gan's Oath" and summoned the generals of the six armies for admonishment. Qi said: Sigh!
Generals of the Sixth Army, I declare an oath to you: Mr. Youhu despises the five constant principles of benevolence, righteousness, etiquette, wisdom, and faith, and deviates from the righteous way of heaven, earth, and man. Therefore, God will cut off his great destiny.
Now I respectfully carry out God's punishment for him.
If the archer on the left side of the chariot does not shoot the enemy from the left, and the swordsman on the right side of the chariot does not kill the enemy from the right, he is disobeying the order.
If the driver cannot keep the horses and chariots in order, he also disobeys orders.
Whoever obeys the command will be rewarded in front of the ancestors and gods; whoever disobeys the command will be killed in front of the community gods, and their wives and children will be killed together.
So the Youhu clan was eliminated, and everyone from the world came to worship him.
After the death of Emperor Qi of the Xia Dynasty, his son Emperor Taikang succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Taikang spent all day playing and hunting without caring about civil affairs. As a result, he was exiled by Yi and lost his country. His five brothers waited for him on the north bank of Luoshui River but did not wait for him, so they composed "Song of the Five Sons".
After Taikang passed away, his younger brother Zhongkang succeeded to the throne. This was Emperor Zhongkang. When Emperor Zhongkang was in power, the ministers Xi and He who were in charge of the four seasons of heaven and earth indulged in drinking and messed up the four seasons and days of each year.
Yin was ordered to conquer him and wrote "Yin Zheng".
After Zhongkang's death, his sons succeeded to the throne.
The emperor died and his son Emperor Shaokang succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Shaokang died and his son Emperor Yu succeeded him.
Emperor Yu died and his son Emperor Huai succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Huai died and his son Di Mang succeeded to the throne.
Di Mang died and his son Di Xie succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Xie died, and his son Emperor Buhang succeeded him.
The emperor died, and his younger brother, the emperor, succeeded him.
The emperor passed away and his son, the emperor, succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Jin died, he made his son Kong Jia, the emperor's son who refused to surrender, as emperor. This was Emperor Kong Jia.
After Emperor Kong Jia succeeded to the throne, he was fond of ghosts and magical arts and engaged in promiscuous things.
Xiahou's power gradually declined, and the princes betrayed him one after another.
Two dragons descended from heaven, one female and one male. Kong Jia could not feed them, and he could not find anyone who could feed them.
The Tao Tang family had declined, and a descendant named Liu Lei learned how to tame dragons from someone who knew how to raise dragons, so he went to serve Kong Jia.
Kong Jia gave him the surname Yulong and asked him to accept the fiefdom of the descendants of the Wei family.
Later, the female dragon died, and Liu Lei secretly made meat sauce and presented it to Kong Jia.
After Xia, Kong Jia sent people to ask for the dragon. Liu Lei was afraid and ran away.
After Kong Jia's death, his son Di Gao succeeded to the throne.
After Di Gao's death, his son Di Fa succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Fa died, his son Emperor Lugui succeeded him, and this was Jie.
When Emperor Jie was in power, many princes had defected to Xia one after another since Kong Jia was in power. Jie did not practice virtue and used force to harm the officials, which made the officials unbearable.
Jie summoned Tang and imprisoned him in Xiatai, but later released him.
Tang practiced virtue and all the princes came to join him. Tang then led his troops to conquer Xia Jie. Xia Jie fled to Mingtiao and died in exile.
Jie said to people: I regret that I did not kill Tang in Xiatai, which caused me to end up like this.
In this way, Tang ascended to the position of emperor, replaced the Xia Dynasty, and took over the world.
Tang sealed the descendants of Xia, and in the Zhou Dynasty, sealed them in Qidi.
Tai Shigong said: Yu's surname was Si, and his descendants were enfeoffed in various places and used the country's surname as their surname, so there are Xiahou surnames, Youhu surnames, Younan surnames, Zhexiu surnames, Tongcheng surnames, Bao surnames, Fei surnames, Qi surnames, Zhen surnames, Xin surnames, Ming surnames, and Zouge surnames.
It is said that Confucius once corrected the almanac of the Xia Dynasty, and many scholars passed down the "Xia Xiaozheng".
From the time of Yu Shun and Xia Yu, the regulations on paying tribute and paying taxes have been complete.
Some people say that Yu gathered the princes in the south of the Yangtze River. Because he died while assessing the merits of the princes, he was buried there. Therefore, Miao Mountain where Yu was buried was renamed Kuaiji Mountain.
Kuaiji means accounting.
