The southern Xiongnu Kuluo corpse chased Qian Chanyu, whose name was Bi. He was the grandson of Huhanxie Chanyu and the son of Wuzhu Liuruo Qian Chanyu.
After Huhanxie, his sons served as Chanyu in order. When Bi's youngest uncle Xiaochanyuyu was appointed, Bi was appointed as the stone king of Tatar and commanded the southern border and Wuhuan.
In the early years of Jianwu, Peng Chong rebelled in Yuyang. Chanyu joined forces with Peng Chong, and then he had the power to make Lu Fang the emperor and asked him to live in Wuyuan. In the early years of Guangwu, he was busy pacifying the Central Plains and had no time to deal with overseas affairs.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Liu Sa, the Marquis of Guide, was ordered to send envoys to the Huns. The Huns also sent envoys to pay tribute. The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang General Han Tong to pay a return visit to the Huns and presented them with gold coins to continue their former friendship.
However, the Shanyu was arrogant, compared himself to Maodun, and spoke arrogantly and arrogantly to the Han envoys. However, the emperor still treated the Xiongnu as usual.
At first, envoys from both sides had frequent exchanges, but the Huns, together with Lu Fang, invaded the northern border many times.
In the ninth year, the emperor sent Grand Sima Wu Mo and others to attack the Xiongnu. It lasted for a year without any achievements. Instead, the Xiongnu became more powerful, and their looting and cruelty increased day by day.
In the thirteenth year, the Xiongnu invaded Hedong, and the prefectures and counties were unable to stop it.
So the population on the borders of Youzhou and Bingzhou was gradually moved to Changshan Pass and Juyong Pass, but the left side of the Xiongnu then moved into the fortress.
The imperial court was very worried about this, so it added thousands of soldiers to each county in the border area, built a large number of sentry boxes and set up beacons for monitoring the enemy's situation.
The Xiongnu heard that the Han had offered a reward for Lu Fang's capture and were eager to obtain property and cloth, so they sent Lu Fang back to surrender in the hope of receiving a reward.
However, Lu Fang only claimed the credit for his return and did not say that he was sent by the Huns. Shanyu was too ashamed to reveal his plan, so the court did not reward the Huns.
Therefore, the Xiongnu was very angry. Within twenty years, the Xiongnu invaded and invaded Shangdang, Fufeng, and Tianshui.
In the winter of the 21st year, the Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and Zhongshan again. They killed and plundered a large number of people and looted many things. There was no longer peace in the northern border.
At the beginning, Shanyu's younger brother Shiguli King Yitu knew that the dental master should be King Zuoxian in order.
King Zuo Xian was Shanyu's successor.
Chanyu wanted to pass the throne to his son, so he killed Zhiya Master.
The dentist is Wang Zhaojun's son. Zhaojun, whose courtesy name is Qiang, is from Nanjun.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Zhaojun was selected into the harem as a woman from a good family.
At that time, Hu Hanxie came to court, and the emperor ordered five palace maids to be given to Hu Hanxie.
Zhaojun had been in the palace for several years, but he was not favored by the emperor. He was filled with grief and anger, so he requested to go to the Huns through the Yeting Order.
When Hu Hanxie was leaving, the court held a grand gathering, and the emperor summoned five maids to show Hu Hanxie.
Zhaojun was beautiful and well-dressed, and her beauty shone throughout the palace. Zhaojun wandered around, alarming everyone around the emperor.
The emperor was shocked when he saw it, and wanted to keep Zhaojun, but he could not break his promise, so he had to give Zhaojun to the Xiongnu.
Zhaojun had two sons.
After Hu Hanxie died, the son of the previous Pi clan succeeded to the throne and wanted to marry Zhaojun. Zhaojun wrote to the court asking for his return. Emperor Cheng asked Zhaojun to obey the customs of the Hu people, so Zhaojun became the Hou Shanyu Ban clan.
When Bi saw Zhiya Master being killed, he complained: According to the order of brothers, King Yougu Li should succeed to the throne; according to the identity of a son, I am the eldest son of the predecessor Shanyu, so I should succeed.
Therefore, he was filled with suspicion and fear, and rarely attended gatherings in the royal court.
The Chanyu became suspicious of him and sent two Guduhou to monitor Bi's army.
In the twenty-second year, Shanyu Yu died, and Yu's son Zuoxian Wang Wuda Qianhou became the Shanyu.
Wu Daqianhou died again, and his younger brother Zuoxian Wang Punu was established as Chanyu.
Bi failed to become a chanyu and was already filled with resentment.
Moreover, there have been droughts and locusts in the Xiongnu country for several consecutive years. Thousands of miles of land have become bare, all vegetation has died, and the population and livestock have no food to eat. Coupled with the plague, people! More than half were killed and attrited.
The Chanyu was afraid that the Han would take advantage of his weakness, so he sent an envoy to Yuyang to request peace.
So the imperial court sent Li Mao, the lieutenant general, to pay a return visit to the Huns.
Danbi secretly sent Han Guo Heng to take the Xiongnu map, and in the 23rd year of Jianwu, he went to the prefect of Xihe to demand submission to the Han.
The two Guduhous gradually became aware of Bi's intention, and they happened to hold a sacrifice in Longcheng in May, so they reported to Shanyu that King Dian Tarri Zhu had always wanted to do something unfavorable to Shanyu, and if he was not killed, the country would be in trouble.
At this time, Bi's younger brother gradually came to Shanyu's side. After hearing this, he immediately reported to Bi.
Bi was very frightened, so he gathered eight troops from the southern border under his control, numbering 40 to 50,000 people, and planned to wait for the two Gudu Hous to return and kill them.
When Guduhou was about to arrive, he discovered Bi's plan and fled on horseback alone, reporting the situation to Shanyu.
Shan Yu sent ten thousand cavalry to attack Bi. Seeing that Bi was outnumbered, he retreated without daring to advance.
In the spring of the 24th year of Jianwu, the eight ministers discussed together to establish Bi as Huhanxie Chanyu. Since Bi's grandfather once surrendered to the Han Dynasty and gained peace, they planned to use the name of Huhanxie Chanyu.
So Bi came to Wuyuan Fortress and expressed his willingness to be a barrier for the Han to resist the enemies in the north.
The emperor accepted the opinion of Geng Guo, the general of the Fifth Palace, and agreed.
In the winter of that year, Bi Zi established himself as Hu Hanxie Chanyu.
In the spring of the 25th year, Shanyu sent his younger brother Zuoxian Wang Mo to lead more than 10,000 troops to attack Beidan Shanyu's younger brother Zuoxian King Dianta, and captured Zuoxian King Dianta alive. He also defeated Beidan's army, merged more than 10,000 people from Beidan's tribe, and obtained 7,000 horses and 10,000 cattle and sheep.
Bei Shanyu was frightened and retreated a thousand miles.
At first, the emperor built chariots that could be driven by a few oxen. They built a watchtower on the chariot and placed it on the fortress to resist the Huns.
At that time, people who saw the chariot talked among themselves and said: The prophecy said that in the ninth generation of the Han Dynasty, Beidi would be retreated thousands of miles. Is this what it was talking about?
By this time, the territory had indeed been opened up. The northern Dukes of Diantargu and Yougudu led more than 30,000 tribesmen to defect to Nandanyu. Nandanyu once again sent envoys to the court, proclaimed himself as a vassal, presented the treasures of the country, asked for envoys to be sent to supervise and protect him, and sent his son to serve at the court to conclude the previous alliance.
In the twenty-sixth year, the emperor sent his lieutenant general Duan Chen and his deputy captain Wang Yu as envoys to Nandanyu. They established themselves in Nandanyu court, which was eighty miles away from the western frontier fortress of Wuyuan.
Chanyu then invited the Han envoys to meet him.
The messenger said: The Chanyu should lie down on the ground and worship the edict.
Shanyu looked back and forth for a long time before lying on the ground and proclaiming his vassal.
After paying homage, the Chanyu had to translate and tell the envoy: The Chanyu has just ascended the throne and feels really ashamed in front of his subordinates. I hope the envoy will not condescend to the Chanyu in front of everyone.
Seeing this, Guduhou and others shed tears.
Duan Chen and others came back to answer their orders, and the emperor sent a letter to Shao to follow Nan Danyu to live in Yunzhong.
Chan Yu sent an envoy to submit a letter and presented two camels and ten horses with colorful coats.
In the summer, the northern enemy captured by the Southern Danyu, the Tatar Zuoxian King, led his troops and the five southern Gudu princes, more than 30,000 people in total, rebelled and returned to the north. They jointly established the Tatar Zuoxian King as the Shanyu at a place more than 300 miles away from the northern Danyu court.
More than a month later, they attacked each other, and all five Guduhous died. King Zuo Xian then committed suicide. The sons of these Guduhous defended themselves.
In autumn, Nan Shanyu sent his son to serve in the court and presented a memorial to the court.
The emperor issued an edict to give Shan Yu a crown, clothes, gold seals, green ribbons, a small carriage with green feathers on the cover, a gorgeous carriage with four horses, swords and bows, three sets of black talismans, two auxiliary carriages, gold, exquisite silk, ten thousand pieces of silk, ten thousand pounds of silk cotton, musical instruments, drum carts, seven halberds, mail, weapons, food and various sundries.
They also transported 25,000 dendrobium rice noodles and 36,000 cattle and sheep from Hedong to help the southern Xiongnu.
Zhonglang was ordered to set up an Jifu Shi under his command, who would lead fifty prisoners who had been released from the shackles, follow the Shanyu with weapons and arrows, and participate in handling lawsuits and investigating news.
At the end of the year, Shanyu always sent someone to present a memorial and send his son to serve in the court. The Zhonglang would bring one of his servants to the court.
The imperial court also sent an audience to escort the previous son who had entered the court to serve in the imperial court back to Shan Yuting. The two sides met on the road.
On the first day of the first lunar month, the court held a pilgrimage to celebrate. After paying homage to the mausoleum and the ancestral temple, the Han Dynasty sent the Chanyu envoy back, ordered the envoys to escort him, and gave the Chanyu a thousand pieces of colored silk, four ends of brocade silk, ten pounds of gold, and a eunuch to make it for the emperor. He made jam, as well as oranges, tangerines, longans and lychees, and gave various colored silks and silks to the Chanyu's mother, all the Pi family members, the Chanyu's sons and the meritorious people among the left and right kings, the kings of Guli and the princes of Gudu, totaling ten thousand pieces.
Every year as a routine.
According to the custom of the Xiongnu, there are dragon temples three times a year, usually on Wuyue of the first month, fifth month, and ninth month to worship the gods.
Since Nan Danyu surrendered to the Han Dynasty, he also offered sacrifices to the Han Emperor. He took this opportunity to convene various ministries to discuss state affairs and hold horse and camel races for fun.
The most honorable among the Xiongnu ministers is King Zuo Xian, followed by King Zuo Guli, followed by King You Xian, followed by King You Guli, which is called the Four Corners; followed by King Ri Zhui of the Left and Right, followed by the Thousand Kings of Wen Yu of the Left and Right, followed by King Jianjiang of the Left and Right, which is called the Six Corners: They are all sons and brothers of the Chanyu, and they will become the Chanyu in order.
Ministers with different surnames have the title of Left and Right Guduhou, followed by the Left and Right Zhizhuguduhou, and others have various official titles such as Rizhu, Qiequ, and Dangchu, each of which determines the position and order based on the power and the number of tribes.
Shanyu's surname is a virtual conjunction.
There are four different surnames: Huyan, Xub, Qiulin, and Lan. They are famous clans in the Xiongnu country and often intermarry with the Shanyu.
Hu Xian is on the left, Lan and Xu Bu are on the right. They are responsible for judging cases and accepting lawsuits. They will verbally inform Shanyu of the severity of the judgment. There are no documents or books in that bundle.
In the winter of the 26th year, the sons of the five Gudu lords who had rebelled before led 3,000 troops to defect to the south. The Northern Shanyu sent cavalry to pursue them and captured them all.
Nan Shanyu sent troops to resist, but the battle was unfavorable.
The imperial court then issued a letter from Shao asking Shanyu to move to Meiji, Xihe, and sent Zhonglang Duan Chen and deputy captain Wang Yu to stay in Xihe to protect Shanyu, and to set up an official office, engage in work, and make history for Shanyu.
He also ordered Xihe Changsheng to lead 2,000 cavalry and 500 unchained prisoners every year to help Zhonglang guard Shanyu, stationed in the winter and withdrawn in the summer. From then on, it was a regular practice.
It also exempted the eight border counties from all taxes and labor. After Nan Danyu settled in Xihe, he also set up various princes and princes to help the Han Dynasty resist and guard the border.
Nan Danyu sent the Gudu Marquis of Han clan to garrison in the north, King Youxian to garrison Shuofang, Dangyu Gudu Marquis to garrison Wuyuan, Huyan Gudu Marquis to garrison Yunzhong, Lang clan Gudu Marquis to garrison Dingxiang, General Zuo Nan to garrison Yanmen, and Li Ji Gudu Marquis to garrison Daijun. They all commanded their troops to serve as the eyes and ears of the county to detect movements.
Bei Shanyu was very frightened and returned many Han people who had been kidnapped as a sign of friendship.
Every time their plundering troops passed near the south, or turned back and passed the post where the desert soldiers were scouting the enemy's situation, they always apologized and said: We are fighting the fugitive Dian Tayue King Zhu, and we are not daring to invade the Han people.
In the twenty-seventh year, Bei Shanyu sent an envoy to Wuwei to request peace. The emperor summoned the ministers to discuss the matter in the palace, but they could not make a decision.
The crown prince said: Southern Danyu had just surrendered, and the enemies in the north were afraid of being attacked, so they listened attentively and tried to submit to justice.
Now that the imperial court cannot send troops, but instead communicates with the enemy captives in the north, I am afraid that Nan Shanyu will have second thoughts, and the enemy captives in the north who are willing to surrender will not come to surrender again.
The emperor thought it was reasonable and told the prefect of Wuwei not to accept Bei Shanyu's envoy.
In the twenty-eighth year, the Northern Huns once again sent envoys to the court, presenting horses and furs, begging for marriage again, and asking for music from the Han Dynasty. They also asked the Hu people from various countries in the west city to come together to pay tribute and worship. The emperor handed the matter over to the Sangong Mansion to discuss the matter of payment and reply.
Situ Peng wrote to Ban Biao, saying: I heard that Emperor Xiaoxuan ordered the generals guarding the border to say: The Xiongnu is a big country, full of changes and deceptions.
If you interact appropriately, you can win the negotiation; if you fall into their scheme, you will be despised and bullied by them in turn.
Now when the Northern Xiongnu saw that the Southern Danyu had come to surrender, they were afraid that we would plot against them, so they begged for peace many times, brought cattle and horses from far away to do business with the Han, and repeatedly dispatched famous princes and paid many tributes. These were all used to show their wealth and strength to the outside world and to deceive us.
The more I saw that the Xiongnu contributed more, the more empty the Xiongnu country became, and the more urgent the Xiongnu's request for surrender and closeness became, and the more powerful their fear became.
However, since it is unable to help the south, it is not appropriate to cut off contact with the north. According to the principle of Huairou, Yu Lishu cannot leave without reply.
The minister thought that he could give them some rewards, which were roughly equivalent to the value of what they had given, so he publicly informed them of the results of the actions of Huhanxie and Zhizhi of the previous generations.
The wording of your reply must be appropriate. Now submit the drafted manuscript together and say: The Chanyu has not forgotten the kindness of the Han, recalled the old alliance with his ancestors, and plans to establish peace with the Han in order to assist himself and stabilize the country. His strategy is very clever, and we express our appreciation for the Chanyu.
In the past, the Xiongnu rebelled many times, and Huhanxie and Zhizhi hated each other. They were both rescued and protected by Emperor Xiaoxuan, so each of them sent their sons to serve in the court and guard the borders in the name of the vassal state.
After that, Zhizhi was resentful and rebellious, cutting off the favor of the court. However, he returned to Han and became closer to him, and his loyalty and filial piety became more and more obvious.
By the time the Zhi branch was eliminated in the Han Dynasty, the Huhan family finally preserved the country and passed on the throne to their descendants, who inherited the throne from each other.
Now Nan Danyu led his troops to submit to the south and returned to the desert.
He thought that Huhan was the legitimate eldest son and should be established as a Chanyu in order. Instead, he was deprived of his position and was suspected of betraying him. He repeatedly asked Mo to send troops to send troops to wipe out Beidan in the royal court. All kinds of strategies were put forward.
The imperial court considered that it could not accept one-sided words, and because Northern Danyu had paid tribute in consecutive years and wanted to establish a peace marriage, it rejected Southern Danyu's request without agreeing, in order to fulfill Shanyu's idea of ​​loyalty and filial piety.
The Han Dynasty ruled all the nations with its might and faith. As long as the moon shined, all the people there were the concubines of Mo.
Many barbarians with different customs have no moral distinction between closeness and alienation. Those who obey and submit will be praised and rewarded, and those who betray and disobey will be punished with elimination. The consequences of good deeds and evil deeds are as follows: Huhanxie and Zhizhi are examples.
Now that Chanyu wants to make peace and has expressed his sincerity, why is he suspicious and wants to lead all the countries in the Western Region to pay tribute and meet with him?
The countries in the Western Regions belong to the Xiongnu, what is the difference between those belonging to the Han?
Chanyu had many military revolts in succession, and the country was depleted of money. The tributes were only enough to pay for courtesy, so why offer horses and furs?
Now send someone to bring five hundred pieces of colorful silk, a set of bow and arrow collection equipment, and four arrows to give to Shanyu.
He also gave each of Zuo Guduhou and You Guli King who presented the horse four hundred pieces of colorful silk and a horse-killing sword.
Shan Yu mentioned earlier that the yu, se, and konghou given to Hu Hanxie by the late emperor have been damaged, and he hopes to be rewarded again.
Considering that Shanyu's country has not yet stabilized, he is practicing martial arts, and his top priority is to attack and fight. The Yuse is not as useful as a good bow and sword, so he did not bring it with him.
I am not begrudging the Shanyu with small items, but consider that what I want is suitable for the time, and the messenger informs the Shanyu of the situation.
The emperor adopted all Ban Biao's opinions.
In the twenty-ninth year, tens of thousands of sheep were given to Nandanyu.
In the thirty-first year, the Northern Huns sent envoys again as before. The emperor replied to Shanyu with a seal, giving him colored silk and silk, but did not send an envoy.
When Bi Liwei Chan passed away nine years later, Duan Chen, the general of Zhonglang, led his troops to express his condolences, offered wine and rice as a memorial, and assigned troops to protect the southern Xiongnu.
Bi's younger brother, King Zuoxian, was appointed as a chanyu. The emperor sent an envoy with a seal to comfort him. He was given a seal and ribbon, a crown and a turban, three sets of crimson single clothes, a child's knife and a webbing. He also gave him four thousand pieces of colored silk, which were given to officials below the king and Guduhou.
From then on, whenever the Shanyu passed away, it was a common practice for the Han Dynasty to pay condolences, pay homage, offer condolences and reward him.
Qiu Fuyou Qian Shanyu Mo succeeded to the throne in the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty and died a year later. His younger brother Khan established him as Shanyu.
Yifa Yu considered Qian Chanyu Khan and established him as Chanyu in the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty.
In the second year of Yonghu, the Northern Xiongnu guard Yuqiu led more than a thousand people to surrender.
Shanyu Khan in the south died after reigning for two years, and Shanyubi's son succeeded him.
Ai Tong's corpse chased Hou Qian Shan Yu Shi, who was established as a Shan Yu in the second year of Cheng Nuo.
In the winter of the fifth year, Li Bao and his six or seven thousand cavalry entered Huyuan Fortress, then invaded Yunsheng and attacked Yuanxing, but were repulsed by Nan Shanyu. You returned to Changshi District Fortress to rush to rescue, and the enemy Cao Cao retreated.
Chanyu Shi died in the fourth year of his reign, and Chanyu's son Mo Li became a Chanyu in his tomb, which was Qiu Chuchelin Qian Chanyu.
A few months later, Kuan died again, and Shanyu Shi's younger brother Changli became Shanyu.
Hu Xie's corpse chased the marquis Qian Chanyu to grow up, and he was established as a Chanyu in the sixth year of Yongping.
At that time, the Northern Huns were still powerful and invaded the border many times, which made the court worried.
It happened that Beidan Yu wanted to do business and sent envoys to request peace. Xianzong hoped to have contact with them and not invade again, so he agreed to the peace.
In the eighth year, Xianzong sent Yueqi Sima Zheng Zhong as an envoy to the north as a return visit. However, Xubu Guduhou and others in the south knew that the Han and the enemy in the north sent envoys to each other. They must be suspicious and resentful, and planned to rebel. They secretly asked the Northern Huns to send troops to welcome them through the envoys of the Northern Huns.
Zheng Zhong went out of the fortress, suspecting that the situation had changed, and secretly conducted reconnaissance and indeed caught Xu Bu's envoy, so he wrote a letter saying that it was best to reset the generals to prevent the two captives from the north and the south from colluding.
From then on, the Du Liao military camp was set up, and the Zhonglang general Wu Tang was also in charge of the affairs of the Du Liao general. He appointed deputy colonel Lai Miao, left colonel Yan Zhang, and right colonel Zhang Guo to lead the soldiers of Liyang's Huya Camp to garrison in Wuyuan Manbai.
He also sent Qin Peng, the Cavalry Commander, to lead his troops to garrison in Meiji.
In the autumn of this year, the enemy in the north sent 2,000 cavalry to reconnoiter Shuofang, and they made boats out of horse hides, hoping to pick up the rebels in the south. Because the Han were on guard, they retreated with their troops.
They invaded and plundered border counties many times, and set fire to the cities. They killed and took many people captive. The city gates in Hexi were closed during the day. The emperor was very worried.
In the sixteenth year, the emperor mobilized troops from the border counties on a large scale and sent generals out of the fortress in four directions to conquer the Huns in the north.
Nan Shanyu sent Zuoxian Wang Xin to follow Taifu Jixi and Wu Tang out of Gaoque in Shuofang to attack Gaolin Wenyudu King in Zhuoxie Mountain.
When the enemy captives learned that the Han army was coming, they all fled across the desert. Ji Xu and Wu Tang were convicted and dismissed because they did not arrive at Zhuoxie Mountain. The imperial court appointed the Cavalry Captain to come to Miao and capture the generals of Liao.
This year, the Northern Xiongnu entered Yunzhong and then arrived at Yuyang. The prefect Lian Fan repelled the enemy.
The emperor issued an edict and sent the envoy Gao Hong to recruit troops from three counties to pursue them, but found nothing.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Lai Miao was transferred to the post of prefect of Jiyin, and the imperial court appointed Geng Bing, the general who conquered the west, to also take charge of the general of Liao.
At that time, King Wenyu Du of Gaolin led his troops back to live in Zhuoxie Mountain. After learning about it, Nan Shanyu sent light cavalry and troops from border counties and Wuhuan to attack Lai Miao, killing hundreds of people and surrendering three to four thousand people.
This year, the southern Huns were suffering from locusts and there was a severe famine. Suzong provided food relief to more than 30,000 poor people in the south.
In the seventh year, Geng Bing was transferred to Jinwu, and the imperial court appointed Deng Hong, the governor of Zhangye, and the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the eighth year, Jiliusi, the leader of Sanmulouzi of the Northern Huns, and others led 38,000 people, 20,000 horses, and more than 100,000 cattle and sheep, and surrendered at the Wuyuan border gate.
In the first year of Yuanhe, Meng Yun, the prefect of Wuwei, wrote a letter saying that Bei Shanyu wanted to gather with officials and people for trade again. The emperor wrote to Shao Shu and asked Meng Yun to send post envoys to greet and express condolences to those who accepted Bei Shanyu.
So Beidan sent King Daqiequyi Mozi and others to drive more than 10,000 cattle and horses to trade with Han merchants.
From time to time, princes and leaders would come, and the counties where they went would prepare official residences for them and give them rewards and preferential treatment.
After Nan Danyu learned about it, he sent light cavalry from Shangjun to intercept and plunder the population, plunder cattle and horses, and drive them into the fortress.
In the first month of the second year, the Northern Huns leaders Cheli, Zhuo Bing and others fled into the fortress, a total of seventy-three cases.
At that time, the enemies in the north were weak and depleted, and their tribes rebelled. The Xiongnu in the south attacked in the front, Ding Ling invaded their rear, Xianbei attacked on the left, and the Western Regions invaded on the right. The Northern Huns were unable to stand on their own and had to retreat far away.
Shanyu Chang died in the 23rd year of his reign, and Shanyu Khan's son Xuan succeeded to the throne.
Yitu Yulu Qiandan Yuxuan, succeeded to the throne in the second year of Yuanhe.
One year later, Shanyu sent more than a thousand soldiers to hunt. When they arrived at Zhuoxie Mountain, they suddenly met King Wenyu Du in the north. The two sides fought and returned with the head of King Wenyu Du.
In winter, Meng Yun wrote a letter saying: The enemy captives in the north had made peace with each other before, but they went to plunder them in the south again. The northern Shanyu thought that the Han had deceived them, and discussed attacking the border fortress. I thought it would be best to return the people plundered from the south to the north, so as to give them psychological comfort.
Suzong adopted the opinion of his servant Yuan An and agreed to Meng Yun's petition.
So the emperor issued an edict saying: In the past, Miao and Maochou were hostile to the great powers of the Central Plains. They have been at war with each other for a long time.
Although there was a name for marriage in the past, it had no effect at all in the end.
The people living in dangerous places suffered many hardships. The father fought in the front and the son died in the back.
Weak women boarded the sentry box at the border fortress, while children who lost their parents cried on the roadside.
Isn't it sad that an old mother and a widowed wife make false sacrifices, swallow their tears, and long for the return of their souls outside the desert?
Book legend: The reason why the Yangtze River and Dahai can become the leaders of all rivers is because the Yangtze River and Dahai are lower than other rivers.
What is there to think of as a shame in being humbled a little?
What's more, now that the status of monarch and minister with the Xiongnu has been determined, the Xiongnu obeyed their words, made clear their oaths, and sent tribute many times. How can we violate our faith and act as the wrong side?
General Du Liao and General Pang Fen were ordered to return double the number of prisoners taken from the south to the north.
When people in the south killed northern captives and captured prisoners, they were still rewarded according to their merits as usual.
So Nan Shanyu ordered the prince of Dian Ta to lead thousands of light cavalry out of the fortress to attack the enemy in the north, and killed and captured a thousand people.
The enemies in the north believed that the south was treated favorably by the Han, and they also heard that thousands of people were captured and surrendered every year.
In the first year of Zhanghe, Xianbei entered the left area to attack the Northern Huns, defeated the Northern Huns, killed Youliu Chanyu, stripped off the Chanyu's belt and returned.
There was a great rebellion in Yuting in Beidan. Fifty-eight tribes including Qu Lan, Chu Bei and Hu Duxu, with a population of 200,000, of which 8,000 were able to serve as soldiers, surrendered in Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang and Beidi.
Chan Yuxuan died in the third year of his reign, and Chan Yu Chang's younger brother Tuntu He established him as Chan Yu.
Xiulan's corpse was chased by the marquis and Shanyu was stationed in Tuen to slaughter He. Zhanghe succeeded to the throne in the second year of his reign.
At that time, there was great chaos among the enemies in the north. Coupled with locusts and hunger, people continued to come to surrender.
Nandanyu was preparing to annex Beidanyu Ting, but just when Suzong died, Empress Dowager Dou exercised the power of the emperor.
In July of this year, Shan Yu wrote a letter saying: The kindness I have received from the court from generation to generation is incalculable.
Emperor Xiaozhang had far-reaching plans and wanted to establish great achievements, so he ordered Wuhuan and Xianbei to attack the enemies in the north, cut off the heads of the Chanyus, and attack and destroy their country.
Xu Qu and others, who had just surrendered, came to the court and said: Last year in mid-March, they attacked the Beilu King's Court. The Bei Shanyu was severely wounded by the southern army. He was afraid of Ding Ling and Xianbei, so he fled far away and relied on the west bank of the Anhou River.
In the first month of this year, Marquis Gudu and others jointly established the Chanyu's half-brother, King Youxian, as the Chanyu. The people in the north all fell apart because of the brothers' competition for the position of Chanyu.
The ministers discussed strategies with the kings, Gudu lords, and the leaders who had just surrendered. They all agreed that we should take advantage of the division and struggle among the enemies in the north, send troops to attack, defeat the north, complete the south, and merge into one country, so that the Mo family would never have to worry about the north.
On the eighth day of this month, Yousuzuri Zhuxantang, who had just surrendered, came all the way from Beidan Yuting to surrender to his ministers. He said that most of the enemy tribes in the north wanted to submit to the imperial court, but they were ashamed to defect to themselves, so no one came.
If you send troops to attack quickly, someone will definitely respond.
If we don't send troops this year, I'm afraid they will become one again.
I consider that since my late father fled to the desert, he has been favored by the court and has strictly guarded the border for us, set up scouts, and sent a large army to protect us for forty years.
I grew up in the Han Dynasty, where I could eat food as soon as I opened my mouth, and the rewards I received throughout the year were often measured in hundreds of millions. Although I dropped my clothes and fell asleep peacefully, I was ashamed that I did not repay the favor and serve the court according to righteousness.
The minister is willing to recruit elite troops from the country and the tribes that were originally from the Hu people and have just surrendered. He sends Wang Shizi of Guli on the left and Xuzi, king of Rizhu on the left, to lead more than 10,000 cavalry from Shuofang. King Anguo of the left and King Jiaolesu of Daqiequ on the right lead 10,000 cavalry to set off from Juyan, agreeing to meet up with the Northern Huns in December.
The minister led the remaining 10,000 troops to garrison Wuyuan and Shuofang border gates as resistance and defense.
The minister has always been ignorant and shallow, and coupled with the lack of troops, he is not enough to defend internal and external defenses.
It is hoped that the imperial court will send Jinwu Geng Bing, General Deng Hong of the Liao Dynasty, and the prefects of Xihe, Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang, and Shangjun to join forces in the northern expedition, so that the Beidi prefect and the Anding prefect can respectively garrison key places. It is hoped that with the power of the Shengming Emperor, the northern part can be pacified in one fell swoop.
The victory or defeat of my country will basically be this year.
I have ordered all the ministries to organize their troops and horses, and when the time comes to worship the gods in September, they will all gather on the bank of the Yellow River.
I hope Your Majesty will understand your grief and judge it!
The Queen Mother showed Shan Yu's memorial to Geng Bing.
Geng Bingjin said: In the past, Emperor Wu used all the power in the world to make the Xiongnu surrender, but he did not catch the right opportunity, and the matter ultimately failed. During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Hu Hanxie came to surrender, so the people on the border were at peace and became one family inside and outside, and the people were able to recuperate and live for more than sixty years.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, changed the title of the Xiongnu, endlessly consumed and harassed them, Shan Yu sent his talents to betray them.
Guangwu accepted the destiny and appeased and accepted the Xiongnu, so that the destroyed counties along the border were restored.
Both Wuhuan and Xianbei wanted to submit to Deyi, and they shocked the barbarians everywhere, and their effect reached such a state.
Now we are fortunate to have a God-given opportunity. The enemies in the north are divided and fighting each other. Using barbarians to attack barbarians is beneficial to the country, so we should agree.
Geng Bing went on to say that he had been favored and should devote himself to the country.
The Queen Mother agreed to his request.
In the first year of Yongyuan, Geng Bing was appointed as the general to conquer the west. He and the cavalry general Dou Xian led 8,000 cavalry, plus 30,000 cavalry from the troops of General Du Liao and the tribe of Shanyu in the south. They went out from Shuofang to attack the northern enemies and defeated the Huns.
Bei Shanyu escaped, and more than 200,000 people were captured.
The matter has been recorded in detail in "The Biography of Dou Xian".
In the spring of the second year, Deng Hong was promoted to Da Honglu, and the imperial court appointed Huangfuleng, the governor of Dingxiang, to also take charge of the general of Liao.
The Southern Danyu also wrote a letter requesting the destruction of the Northern Danyu Ting, so he sent Zuo Guli Wang Shizi and others to lead eight thousand cavalry from the left and right to leave the country from Elu Pass. Zhonglang sent Geng Tan to guard the Southern Xiongnu army.
When they arrived at Zhuoxie Mountain, they left behind their baggage and divided them into two groups, each leading light troops to attack in two directions.
The left arm went north through the West Sea to the north of Heyun, and the right arm bypassed the Tianshan Mountains from the west of the Xiongnu River and crossed the Ganwei River to the south. The two armies met and surrounded Bei Shanyu at night.
Beidan was shocked and led more than a thousand elite troops to fight.
Shanyu was injured and fell off his horse, but he mounted his horse again and led dozens of cavalry to escape lightly, but he could only escape.
Obtaining the jade seal from Chanyu, he captured Ban and his five sons and daughters, killed eight thousand people, and brought back several thousand prisoners.
At that time, the south was victorious, captured prisoners, and accepted those who surrendered. Therefore, the tribe was the most powerful. It controlled 34,000 households, with a population of 237,300 people. There were 50,170 people capable of serving as soldiers. As usual, the general Zhonglang had two officers under him. Because there were many new surrenders, Geng Tan wrote a letter requesting that the number be increased to 12.
Three years later, Bei Shanyu was defeated again by Geng Kui, the right commander, and fled to an unknown place.
His younger brother Yu Longzhan, King of Youguli, established himself as a chanyu and led several thousand tribesmen under King Youwen of Yuta and Guduhou. They lived in Puleihai and sent envoys to knock on the pass to submit.
General Dou Xian wrote a letter requesting that he be established as the northern chanyu in addition to Tartar, and the imperial court adopted this opinion.
In the fourth year, he sent Geng Kui to confer the seal ribbon to Shanyu, and rewarded him with four jade swords, a carriage with four horses, and a hood decorated with green feathers. Like the old practice of the Southern Danyu, he sent the Zhonglang General Ren Shang to hold Fu Jie to garrison Yiwu and protect the Northern Shanyu.
Just as he was about to help Shan Yu return to Beidan Yuting, Dou Xian was killed.
In the fifth year, Yu Chutar rebelled and returned to the north. The emperor sent General Shi Yuyan and more than a thousand cavalry to pursue him together with Ren Shang. They lured Yu Chutar back and killed him, wiping out his tribe.
Chan Yutun Tuhe died in the sixth year of his reign, and Chan Yu Xuan's younger brother An Guo succeeded to the throne.
Shanyu Anguo was established as Shanyu in the fifth year of Yongyuan.
Anguo initially served as King Zuoxian but was not praised by others.
Prince Zuo Guli has always been brave, intelligent and resourceful. Both his predecessors, Shan Yuxuan and Tuntu He, liked his boldness and courage, so they sent him to lead troops out of the fortress to attack Beidan Yuting many times. When he came back, he was rewarded, and the emperor also looked at him differently.
Therefore, people in the country respect Shizi and do not join Anguo.
Anguo was jealous of his master and wanted to kill him.
Those Hu people who had just surrendered were driven and looted many times by their masters when they were outside the fortress, and most of them resented their masters.
Anguo therefore appointed the people who had surrendered to conspire with them.
An Guo had been established as Chanyu, and his master was changed to King Zuoxian in order. He found out that Chanyu had a conspiracy with the people who had just surrendered, so he lived on the border of Wuyuan.
Every time Shanyu would gather in Longting to discuss matters, his master always excused himself from going because he was sick.
After Huangfuleng found out, he also protected him and refused to send him, which made Shanyu even more resentful.
In the spring of the sixth year, Huangfuleng was removed from his post, and the imperial court appointed Zhu Hui, the commander-in-chief of Jinwu, and the general of Liao Dynasty.
At that time, the Chanyu was at odds with Du Chong, the general of Zhonglang, so he wrote to Du Chong. Du Chong hinted to the governor of Xihe and asked him to withhold the memorial from the Chanyu so that he could not let the court hear his opinions.
Du Chong took the opportunity to write to Zhu Hui, saying: Nandan Yu Anguo alienated the original Hu people and became close to the people who had just surrendered. He wanted to kill Zuo Xian Wang Shizi, Zuotai Qiequ Liu Li and others.
Moreover, those who surrendered on the right planned to coerce Anguo to rebel, and asked Xihe, Shangjun, and Anding to take precautions.
Emperor He handed the memorial to the ministers for discussion. Everyone believed that the barbarians were capricious. Although it was difficult to predict and know, they would not dare to move when the army was gathered.
Now it is best to send a strategic envoy to Shan Yuting to join forces with Du Chong, Zhu Hui and the prefect of Xihe to observe his movements.
If there are no other changes, you can order Du Chong and others to go to Anguo, summon the ministers around Shanyu, blame the brutal people among Shanyu's tribe who harmed the border, and jointly review their crimes.
If they are unwilling to obey, ask Du Chong and others to adopt a contingency method. After the matter is over, they will consider giving rewards based on the etiquette of host and guest. This can also show prestige to the barbarians.
The emperor adopted this opinion.
So Zhu Hui and Du Chong sent troops to Shan Yuting.
When Anguo Yehuo heard that the Han army had arrived, he was shocked. He left his tent and left. He then led his army and the Hu people who had just surrendered to kill his master.
The master learned about it in advance and led the entire tribe into Manbai City.
Anguo chased him to the city gate, but the city gate was closed and he could not enter the city.
Zhu Hui sent officials to inform Anguo to reconcile with them, but Anguo ignored them.
Since Manbai City could not be captured, Anguo led his troops to garrison Wuyuan.
Du Chong and Zhu Hui therefore mobilized cavalry from various counties to pursue Anguo. They pursued Anguo very closely. Anguo's tribe was very panicked. Anguo's uncle Hou Xiwei and others were worried that they would be killed together, so they killed Anguo.
Anguo reigned for one year, and Shan Yushi's son Shizi succeeded him.
Tingdu's corpse chased Hou Qianchanyu's master and made him a Chanyu in the sixth year of Yongyuan.
Five or six hundred Hu who surrendered attacked the master at night. Wang Tian of Anjitun led the soldiers guarding Shanyu to fight with them and defeated them.
The newly-surrendered Hu people in Japan alerted each other, and more than 200,000 people in the fifteen tribes rebelled. They forced Dian Ta, the son of his predecessor Chanyu, to station Tuen Tuhe, and expelled King Fenghou as Chanyu. Then they killed and plundered officials and people, burned down the posthouses and tents, and marched towards Shuofang with their baggage, intending to cross the desert north.
The imperial court then sent General Deng Hong of the Chariot and Cavalry, Lieutenant of the Yue Cavalry School Feng Zhu, and General Zhu Hui of the Liao Dynasty to lead the Yulin Army on the left and right, soldiers from the Five Schools of the Northern Army, pursuit troops from the prefectures, and troops from border counties, and Wuhuan Colonel Ren Shang led the troops of Wuhuan and Xianbei, totaling 40,000 people, to attack the rebels.
At that time, Nan Danyu and Zhonglang General Du Chong were stationed in the Priest City. Feng Hou led more than 10,000 cavalry to attack and surround the Priest City and could not capture it.
In winter, Deng Hong and others arrived at Meiji, and Fenghou crossed the dangerous point on the ice and retreated to Manyi Valley.
Nan Danyu sent his son to lead 10,000 cavalry and Du Chong's 4,000 cavalry, together with Deng Hong and others, to pursue Fenghou in the big city fortress, killing more than 3,000 people, and capturing more than 10,000 people or surrendering.
Feng Zhu divided his troops to pursue Fenghou's other tribes, killing more than 4,000 people.
Ren Shang led the eight thousand cavalry of the Xianbei capital guard Su Bamo and the Wuhuan leader Wu Ke to intercept Fenghou in the Manyi Valley, and once again defeated the enemy.
A total of more than 17,000 enemies were killed before and after.
Fenghou then led his troops out of the fortress, but the Han army could not catch up.
In the first month of the seventh year, the army reorganized.
Feng Zhu led the Huya Camp to stay in Wuyuan, dismissed the troops of Xianbei, Wuhuan, and Qianghu, and named Su Bamo the king of the army, and rewarded him with gold and silk.
Deng Hong returned to the capital, but lost his chance of fighting because of his stay, and was imprisoned to death. Later, the emperor learned that Zhu Hui, Du Chong, and the Hu people were at odds with each other, and prevented the Shanyu from writing a letter, which caused the Shanyu to rebel. They were all recruited to the capital, where they died in prison. The imperial court appointed Pang Fen, the governor of Yanmen, to also serve as the general of the Liao Dynasty.
Feng Hou divided his troops into two groups outside the country. He himself commanded the right group to station at the foot of Zhuoxie Mountain, and the left group to station in the northwest of Shuofang. The two groups were several hundred miles apart.
In the winter of the eighth year, the Hu people on the left became suspicious of each other and betrayed each other. When they returned to Shuofang Fortress, Pang Fen greeted them, expressed condolences and accepted them.
Among them, 4,000 were able to fight, and more than 10,000 were weak and young. All of them surrendered, and the court placed them in various counties on the northern border.
Nandanyu initially conspired with Anguo because Wu Juzhan, the king of Yudu in Youwen, wanted to torture Wu Juzhan. Therefore, Wu Juzhan led thousands of people to rebel again and fled to Juquan outside the Great Wall into the Zuotai Valley, harming officials and people.
In autumn, Pang Fen, Feng Zhu and troops from various counties attacked Ujuzhan, and Ujuzhan's tribe surrendered. So they moved Ujuzhan's tribe and more than 20,000 other people who surrendered to Anding and Beidi.
After Feng Zhu came back, he was promoted to general master craftsman.
Fenghou's tribe was hungry and impoverished, and was attacked by Xianbei. They were desperate and many people fled into the fortress, Luo Yi.
Master Shanzi passed away four years after his reign, and Shan Yuchang's son Tan succeeded him.
Wan's corpse was chased by Qian Chanyu Tan, and he was established as Chanyu in the tenth year of Yongyuan.
In the twelfth year, Pang Fen was transferred to Henan Yin, and the imperial court appointed Wang Biao, the prefect of Shuofang, to also take charge of the general of Liao.
Nan Danyu sent troops to attack Fenghou for several consecutive years, and obtained many prisoners and other things. The number of people recovered successively was calculated in thousands, and Fenghou became more and more embarrassed.
In the 16th year, Northern Shanyu sent envoys to the court to pay tribute, hoping to make peace and conclude the old alliance with Huhanxie.
Emperor He did not agree because he did not have the courtesy in the past, but he gave Beidan Yu many rewards and did not send an envoy in return.
In the first year of Yuanxing, Beidan sent envoys to Dunhuang to offer gifts. He said that the country was poor and could not prepare sufficient gifts. He hoped that the imperial court would send an ambassador and he would send his son to serve in the imperial court.
At that time, Empress Dowager Deng was in charge of the imperial court and did not respond to Bei Shanyu's envoys. She only gave rewards.
In the summer of the third year of Yongchu, Han Cong, a Han Chinese, followed Nan Danyu into the court. After returning, he persuaded Nan Danyu that there was a big flood in Guandong and all the people were starving to death. We could take the opportunity to attack.
The Chanyu believed what he said and sent troops to rebel and attack Zhonglang General Geng Zhong in Meiji. In autumn, Wang Biao passed away.
In winter, the imperial court sent the chariot general He Xi and the deputy lieutenant general Pang Xiong to attack Shanyu.
In the spring of the fourth year, Tan sent more than a thousand cavalry to invade Changshan and Zhongshan. The imperial court appointed Liang Dong, the captain of the Western Regions, who also took charge of the Liao general, and Geng Kui, the Liaodong prefect, defeated the enemy.
The incident has been recorded in detail in "The Biography of Liang Dao" and "The Biography of Geng Kui".
Chanyu was horrified when he saw the Han army advancing from all directions at the same time. He turned around and asked Han Cong: You said that all the Han people were dead. Where did they come from?
So he sent an envoy to beg for surrender, and the Han army agreed.
The Chanyu took off his hat, barefooted, and knelt before Pang Xiong and others, saying that he had committed a capital crime.
The imperial court then pardoned the Chanyu and treated him as before. The Chanyu returned to the Han more than 10,000 Han men and women who had been captured by the Qiang and those Han who had been captured by the Qiang and sold to the Xiongnu.
In the fifth year, Liang Dong was dismissed from his official position, and the imperial court appointed Geng Kui, the governor of Yunzhong, to also serve as the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Geng Kui was removed from his post, and the imperial court appointed Wuhuan captain Deng Zun as the general of the Liao Dynasty.
Deng Zun was the cousin of the Empress Dowager, so he became the real general of Du Liao.
In the fourth year, Fenghou was defeated by Xianbei and his tribe dispersed, all defecting to the north.
In the spring of the fifth year, Fenghou led more than a hundred cavalry to escape and surrendered at Shuofang Border Pass. Zheng Zun submitted a letter to move Fenghou to Yingchuan County.
In the first year of Jianguang's reign, Deng Zun was dismissed from his position, and Geng Kui was once again replaced by Geng Kui as the general of Du Liao.
At that time, Xianbei invaded the border. Geng Kui and Wen Yudu King Huyouhui led the people who had just surrendered to the border to conquer Xianbei.
After the class, he ordered all ministries to guard dangerous places.
But Geng Kui frequently recruited these people, so the newly surrendered people were resentful and discussed rebellion.
Shanyu Tan died in the twenty-seventh year of his reign, and his younger brother promoted him to Shanyu.
Geng Kui was dismissed again, and the imperial court appointed Fadu, the Taiyuan prefect, to take over as the general of Liao.
The corpse of Wujihou was pulled out by the Chanyu, and he was established as the Chanyu in the third year of Yanguang.
In the summer, the leaders of the Azu and others who had just surrendered rebelled and threatened Hu Youhui to leave together. Hu Youhui said: I am old and have suffered the kindness of the Han. I would rather die than follow you!
Those people wanted to kill him, but someone rescued him, and Hu Youhui was saved from death.
The A tribe and others fled with their wives, children and baggage. Zhonglang sent Ma Yi troops and Hu cavalry to pursue the A tribe and defeated the A tribe. Almost all the A tribe's men and horses were killed or threw themselves into the river. More than 10,000 horses, cattle, and sheep were obtained.
In winter, Fadu died.
Four years later, Fu Zhong, the prefect of Hanyang, took over as general.
Fu Zhong died again this winter.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, the imperial court appointed Pang Shen, the governor of Liaodong, to take over as general.
Before this, most of the fortresses west of Shuofang had not been repaired, so Xianbei invaded the south many times and killed King Jianjiang.
Worried and frightened, Chanyu wrote a letter asking for the restoration of the fortress, and Emperor Shun agreed.
So the imperial court sent troops from the Liyang Camp to garrison the northern border of Zhongshan, added troops to the border counties, stationed troops at the border fortress, and taught the soldiers to practice fighting and archery.
Shan Yuba died in his fourth year on the throne and was succeeded by his younger brother Hugh Li.
If you go to Te Ruo Shi, you will be the Chanyu Xiuli. In the third year of Yongjian's reign, you will be established as the Chanyu.
In four years, Pang Shen was promoted to Da Honglu, and the imperial court appointed Shu Ping, Prime Minister of Song and Han Dynasties, to take over as the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the second year of Yangjia, the Song and Han Dynasties were promoted to imperial servants, and the imperial court appointed Wuhuan captain Geng Ye to take over as the general of Du Liao.
In the first year of Yonghe, Geng Ye was summoned by the imperial court due to illness, and Ma Xu, the Qiang guardian captain, took over as the general of Du Liao.
In the summer of the fifth year, Wu Si, Che Niu, king of Julong, and others from the left tribe of the Southern Xiongnu rebelled, leading more than 3,000 cavalry to invade Xihe. Then they invited King Xian of You, and a total of 7,8,000 cavalry surrounded Meiji, killing Shuofang and Daijun's long history.
Ma Xu, Zhonglang General Liang Bing, and Wuhuan Colonel Wang Yuan mobilized border troops as well as Wuhuan, Xianbei, and Qianghu troops. The total number of troops was more than 20,000. They took the enemy by surprise, attacked and defeated them.
Wu Si and others then regrouped and captured the city.
The emperor sent an envoy to rebuke the Chanyu, proclaiming his kindness and faith, and asking the Chanyu to recruit the rebels to surrender.
Shanyu did not participate in the plan. He took off his hat, gave up his tent, and went to Liang Bing to plead guilty.
Because Liang Bing was recruited, Chen Gui, the governor of Wuyuan, took over as Zhonglang General.
Chen Gui believed that Chanyu failed to manage his subordinates well, so he forced Chanyu, and both Chanyu and his younger brother King Zuo Xian committed suicide.
Shanyu Xiuli reigned for thirteen years.
Chen Gui also wanted to move Shan Yu's close relatives to inland counties, so the people who surrendered became even more suspicious.
Chen Gui was imprisoned and removed from his post.
General Liang Shang believed that the Qiang and Hu had recently rebelled and their followers had just gathered, making it difficult to subdue them with force. It was best to use the method of surrender, so he submitted a memorial saying: The Huns invaded and rebelled, knowing that they had committed a capital crime. When the birds and animals were desperate, they all knew to save their own lives. Moreover, the Xiongnu race was multiplying and prosperous, and it was impossible for them all to be wiped out. Now the grain transshipment is increasing day by day, and the three armies are tired and toiled, leaving the country empty and using it abroad, which is not good for the Central Plains.
I saw that Ma Xu, the general of the Liao Dynasty, had always been strategic, and had been in charge of the border for a long time. He was deeply familiar with the essence of military affairs. Every time he received a letter from Ma Xu, he agreed with my strategy.
It is best to order the horses to dig deeper trenches, raise the barriers, use kindness and faith to recruit the Huns to surrender, publicly offer rewards, and explain the matters we jointly abide by.
In this way, these races can be brought into submission, and the country will be safe.
The emperor adopted his opinion and issued an edict asking Ma Xu to recruit and surrender the rebellious Huns.
Liang Shang wrote another letter to Ma Xu and others, saying: The Central Plains is stable, and we have forgotten the war for a long time.
Excellent cavalry meet in the wild, fight with swords, connect arrows, and decide the outcome at the moment. This is what Rong Di is good at but it is the shortcoming of the soldiers of the Central Plains.
Using powerful crossbows, climbing over city walls, holding on with strong fortifications, and waiting for the enemy to weaken were the strengths of the Central Plains soldiers but the shortcomings of Rong Di.
You should first try your best to use your own strengths to observe the changes in the opponent, set up bounties and public rewards, declare to the Huns that they can repent, and do not covet small achievements and destroy the big strategy.
Ma Xu and all the counties followed Liang Shang's words.
In this way, King Youxian's subordinate Yi Ta and other 13,000 people came to surrender to Ma Xu.
In autumn, Julongwusi and others established Julongwang Cheniu as the chanyu.
Wu Si went to the east to attract Wuhuan, and to the west he gathered Qiang Rong and various tribes of Hu people, with a total of tens of thousands of people. He defeated the Huya Camp in Jingzhao, killed the captains and army commanders in Shangjun, and then invaded and plundered Bingzhou, Liangzhou, Youzhou, and Jizhou.
So the imperial court moved the prefecture of Xihe to Lishi, the prefecture of Shangjun to Xiayang, and the prefecture of Shuofang to Wuyuan.
In the winter, he sent Zhonglang General Zhang Dan to lead Wuhuan's troops in Youzhou and troops from various county barracks to attack the rebels Che Niu and others. They fought in Mayi and killed 3,000 enemies, capturing a large number of people, weapons, cattle and sheep.
Che Niu and others led the leaders of various tribes and Guduhou to beg for surrender, but Wusi still led his tribe and Wuhuan troops to invade the border and plunder.
In the spring of the sixth year, Ma Xu led 5,000 Xianbei cavalry to Gucheng to attack Wusi, killing hundreds of people.
Zhang Dan was brave and courageous by nature, and he was good at caring for soldiers, so the soldiers in the army were willing to sacrifice their lives for him.
They were connected with ropes, suspended from each other, and climbed over the Tianshan Mountains. They defeated Wuhuan, killed all their main leaders, recaptured the people of the Han Dynasty, and obtained a lot of livestock and property.
In the summer, Ma Xu was dismissed again, and the imperial court appointed Wu Wu, the captain of Chengmen School, to take over as general.
In the autumn of the first year of Han'an, Wusi, Dianqiantaiqi, Qiequbode and others looted the Bingzhou area again.
Hu Lanruo's body was expelled from the Chanyu Douluo Chu before he was in the capital, and he was established as a Chanyu in the second year of Mo'an.
The emperor came to the palace in person, and Dahong held the talisman to pay homage to Shanyu and lead him to the palace.
The emperor gave Chanyu a carriage with a green hood and four horses, a drum carriage, a small carriage that could be sat on, horses for the auxiliary carriage, handles, swords made of white jade, and various sundries, and gave him two thousand pieces of colorful silk.
Gold, colorful silks and various utensils were given to people below the Pi family of Shanyu, as well as two shielded carriages and horses for women to ride on.
He also sent a general named Xingzhonglang to escort Nandanyu back to Nandanyu's court.
The emperor issued an edict that Taichang, Dahonglu and the servants from various countries gather outside the gate of Guangyang to see him off, hold a banquet to reward them, perform songs and dances, and perform hundreds of operas with each other.
Emperor Shun came to Hutao Palace to watch.
In the winter, Zhonglang recruited people from Masai to assassinate Julong Wusi and sent his head to Luoyang.
In the first year of Jiankang, Mazai sent troops to attack Wusi's other associates, killing 1,200 of them.
More than 700,000 Wuhuan people came to surrender to the horse nest, bringing incalculable baggage, cattle and sheep.
Chanyu Doulou Chu died in his fifth year of reign.
The corpse of Yiling was expelled to the Chanyu Juche'er, and he was established as the Chanyu in the first year of Jianhe.
In the first year of Yongshou, the Xiongnu Zuo Dianqian Taiqi, Qiequ Bode and others rebelled again and invaded and plundered Meiji and Anding. Zhang Huan, the captain of the vassal state, defeated Taiqi and Bode and forced them to surrender.
The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Huan".
In the first year of Yanxi, all the tribes of the Southern Shanyu rebelled, and then Wuhuan and Xianbei invaded the nine counties along the border. The court appointed Zhang Huan as Beizhonglang General to conquer the enemy, and all the tribes of the Shanyu surrendered.
Zhang Huan thought Shanzi was incapable of managing state affairs, so he imprisoned him and wrote a letter asking King Zuo Guli to be appointed Shanyu.
Emperor Huan wrote in Shao Shu: "Spring and Autumn" recommends following the right path. Ju Che'er surrendered wholeheartedly. What crime did he have to be deposed?
Hope to return him to Shan Yuting.
Shanyu Juche'er died in the twenty-fifth year of his reign, and his son succeeded him.
If Tu Teruo's body was expelled, he would become a Chanyu. In the first year of Xiping, he was established as a Chanyu.
In the sixth year, Shanyu and Zhonglang general Zang Man left Yanmen to attack Tanshihuai in Xianbei, but they returned with a heavy defeat.
One year after he was created, Shanyu died, and his son called Zheng to succeed him.
The Chanyu called for a campaign, and in the first year of Guanghe he was established as the Chanyu.
In the second year, Zhonglang's general Zhang Xiu could not get along with the Chanyu, so he killed Huzheng without authorization and appointed Qiangqu, the king of Youxian, as the Chanyu.
Because Zhang Xiu killed Shan Yu without asking for permission in advance, the court summoned him in a prison car to the court captain to receive punishment.
Chanyu Qiangqu, he was established as Chanyu in the second year of Guanghe.
In the fourth year of Zhongping, the former Zhongshan governor Zhang Chun rebelled, and then led the Xianbei troops to invade the border counties.
Emperor Ling issued an edict to mobilize the troops of the Southern Xiongnu and assigned them to Youzhou Mu Liu Yu to lead the attack on Zhang Chun.
Chanyu sent King Zuo Xian to lead the cavalry to Youzhou. The people in Youzhou were afraid of Chanyu's endless troops. In the fifth year of Zhongping, more than 100,000 people including Fuluo and Xiuzu of Youjun rebelled and attacked and killed Chanyu.
Shanyu Qiangqu reigned for ten years, and his son Youxian King Yufuluo succeeded to the throne.
Zhizhi drove the Shanyu to Fuluo, and in the fifth year of Zhongping, the people in the country rebelled, killed his father, and together they established Xubu Guduhou as the Shanyu. Yu Fuluo appealed to the court himself.
Just when Emperor Ling died and the world was in chaos, Chanyu led thousands of cavalry and Bai Bo bandits to invade various counties in Hanoi.
At that time, the people gathered in crowds to defend themselves, but Xubu did not benefit from looting, and the troops were severely damaged.
Xu Bu wanted to return to his country again, but the people in the country would not accept it, so he had to live in Hedong.
Xubu Guduhou died after serving as Chanyu for one year. Therefore, the position of Chanyu was vacant in Nandan Yuting, and the old prince was in charge of domestic affairs.
Chanyu Yu Fuluo died in the seventh year of his reign, and his younger brother Huchuquan succeeded him.
Chanyu Huchuquan, established as Chanyu in the second year of Xingping.
Because his brother was expelled from Fuluo and could not return home, he was plundered by Xianbei many times.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian returned east from Chang'an. King Youxian went to Bei and Baibo bandit commander Han Xian and others to protect the emperor and resist the attack of Li Cui and Guo Si.
When the emperor returned to Luoyang, he moved the capital to Xu County, and then returned to Bei.
In the 21st year, Shanyu came to worship. Cao Cao took the opportunity to leave him in Ye County and sent him to Bei Huiguo to manage the southern Xiongnu.
The argument goes: In the early Han Dynasty, when Mao Dun was cruel and cunning, the race became strong and prosperous.
Emperor Gaozu was powerful throughout the world, but he was besieged and embarrassed in Pingcheng.
Taizong was politically clean and punished appropriately. He did not wash away his shame or vent his anger.
Emperor Xiaowu repeatedly opened up the frontier, determined to attack the Huns, appointed generals vigorously, set battle flags like stars, and lined up waiting troops in the suburbs. The beacon fire went straight to Ganquan Palace. However, the Huns army still shot through the air with flying dust and entered and exited the border. Emperor Wu exhausted the country's military strength and exhausted the world's wealth. It took more than ten years to defeat the Huns.
Although the enemy invaders suffered heavy losses, Mo's fatigue and losses were roughly the same as those of the Huns.
Emperor Xuan caught up with the internal divisions and conflicts in the imperial court of the enemy, and Hu Hanxie came to surrender. So he accepted the Xiongnu and showed mercy to them. He used them to guard the border and removed the border guards so that the hard-working troops and people could rest.
Horses pulled the emperor's chariot, and bells and drums rang on the banks of the clear Wei River. The emperor faced south and accepted the worship of the Chanyu. There was no trace of the Huns cavalry in Shuofang and Yishui for more than sixty years.
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne and disturbed the Rong and Yi. Then came the Gengshi Rebellion, and China was torn like silk.
Since then, the Huns have gained their ambition, and they have become greedy and vicious again. They take the opportunity to invade and attack, causing harm to the border.
In the early days of the ZTE, the Xiongnu continued their former friendship. Envoys continued to return visits, and there were often carriages and horses loaded with gold and silk on the road. However, the Chanyu was arrogant and arrogant, becoming more arrogant and invading the mainland more and more seriously.
Because Shizu was busy pacifying the Central Plains, he had no time to take care of the enemies in the desert and beyond the Great Wall, so he endured the shame and considered the danger and just wrote a letter to apologize to him.
Then the people of Youzhou and Bingzhou were moved to increase the number of troops stationed on the border.
When Guandong gradually calmed down and Long and Shu were at peace, those brave and powerful generals all stamped their feet on the ground, rolled up their sleeves and stretched out their arms, vying to comment on the affairs of Wei Qing and Huo Qubing.
The emperor was tired of fighting and took the time to rectify Wende, but he did not agree.
In the future, the Xiongnu will compete for the position of Shanyu, and the king will come to submit. They are willing to form friendship like Huhanxie, block the main road of Beidi, and profess their vassal status in the name of vassal, promising to forever be a barrier to the Han Dynasty.
The emperor combined various strategies and accepted the king in a friendly manner.
So the emperor issued an edict to the relevant officials to open the northern border and select fertile land and places with water and grass for them to live.
He immediately sent General Zhonglang as an envoy to govern the Xiongnu with strict laws.
He made clothes for them, completed the rituals and music regulations, and gave the Chanyu seals and ribbons to establish his status.
So the Xiongnu split, and there were two royal courts, the north and the south.
The hatred between the north and the south was deep, so they would spy on each other's gaps, draw their bows and raise their weapons, detect each other's movements, gather like clouds, and disperse like crows, and attack each other quickly, to the point of defeat and defeat, causing heavy casualties. There was no peace for a year, but the border areas of Han Dynasty were all safe.
Later, he often sent troops to join forces to pursue the Xiongnu. He ordered Dou Xian, Geng Kui and others to advance at the same time. They all adopted bold and changeable strategies and formulated unexpected tactics. They divided their forces in several directions and tried their best to attack the enemy's lair. They chased the defeated and fleeing enemies for more than three thousand miles. Finally, they defeated the Xiongnu who held the Dragon Temple, burned their tents made of woolen fabrics, and buried the Xiongnu's ten horns. , detained Guan, carved stones to record his merits, and sang songs to cheer the class teacher.
The Chanyu was shocked and frightened, and did not dare to breathe. He fled to Wusun territory covered with blankets, and there was no trace of the Huns north of the desert.
If we take advantage of this opportunity and situation, take advantage of the Xiongnu emptiness, return the southern enemy captives to the Yinshan Mountains, and bring back the west of the Yellow River into the country, we can use Guangwu's expedient strategy, and we can prevent the Rongjie from bringing chaos to the Central Plains, so that Geng's strategy will not be vain in this world, and Yuan An's opinions can be adopted by future emperors.
However, Dou Xian was arrogant about his many victories, ignored the strategy of governing the world, was ruthless and unjust, and specialized in authority and favors, so he re-established the northern chanyu and let him return to his former royal court.
There is still such deep resentment when it comes to things in the past!
From then on, due to improper planning, the Xiongnu sometimes betrayed and sometimes surrendered, and the harm caused by it cannot be overstated!
This continued to future generations and became a regular habit, eventually causing China to be engulfed and the imperial capital to be in ruins. Alas!
A difference of a thousand miles starts from a millimeter; the root cause of gains and losses cannot be eradicated for generations!
Zanri: Since Bao Chu is divided, important documents are seldom reported.
But his ambitions were hard to change and he eventually returned to a state of chaos.
