Wei Qing, courtesy name Zhongqing.
His father, Zheng Ji, was from Pingyang, Hedong Province. He served as a county official and worked as an errand in the Pingyang Hou family.
Pingyang Hou Cao Shou married Princess Yang Xinchang, the sister of Emperor Mowu.
Zheng Ji had an affair with his master's servant Wei Wei and gave birth to Wei Qing.
Wei Qing had an elder brother, Wei Changjun, and an elder sister, Wei Zifu. Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu in Princess Pingyang's family, so Wei Qing assumed the surname Wei.
Wei's eldest daughter is Junru, her second daughter is Shaoer, and her third daughter is Wei Zifu.
Wei Zifu's younger brother Bu Guang took the surname Wei.
Wei Qing was considered a member of Pingyang Hou's family and returned to his father's home when he was a child.
His father made him herd sheep, and his aunt's sons treated him as a slave and were not counted among their brothers.
Wei Qing once followed someone to the prisoner's room in Ganquan Palace. A prisoner who was being tortured came to him and said, "You are a noble person. If you become an official, you can become a marquis."
Wei Qing smiled and said: "A son born from a slave would be very satisfied if he could not be beaten or scolded. How could there be such a good thing as becoming a prince?"
When Wei Qing grew up, he became a knight of the Pingyang Hou family and followed Princess Pingyang.
In the spring of the second year of Jianyuan, Wei Qing's sister Wei Zifu entered the palace and was favored by the emperor.
Queen Chen is the daughter of the eldest princess. She has no son and is jealous of others.
The eldest princess heard that Wei Zifu was favored and was pregnant. She was jealous of her and sent people to arrest Wei Qing.
Wei Qing was working as an errand in Jianzhang Palace at that time and was not yet famous.
The eldest princess caught Wei Qing, imprisoned him, and wanted to kill him.
Wei Qing's friend Qi Lang Gongsun Ao and the warriors went to snatch him out, and Wei Qing avoided death.
When the emperor heard about this, he summoned Wei Qing and asked him to be the eunuch of Jianzhang Palace and serve as a minister.
When his half-brothers became prominent, the rewards amounted to thousands of gold in a few days.
Jun Ru married Grand Servant Sun He as his wife.
Wei Shaoer originally had an affair with Chen Zhang, and the emperor summoned Chen Zhang to make him an official.
Gongsun Ao thus became more prominent.
Wei Zifu became the emperor's wife.
Wei Qing became a doctor in Taizhong.
In the sixth year of Yuanguang, Wei Qing served as the cavalry general and attacked the Xiongnu and sent troops to Shanggu County; Gongsun He served as the light chariot general and left Yunzhong County; Taizhong doctor Gongsun Ao served as the cavalry general and left Dai County; Wei Wei Li Guang served as the Xiaocai general and left Yanmen County.
Each army has one cavalry. Wei Qing marched to Longcheng and annihilated hundreds of enemy troops.
The cavalry general Gongsun Ao lost 7,000 cavalry, and the guard Li Guang was captured alive by the enemy, but fortunately escaped. Both of them were sentenced to death and made atonement by becoming commoners.
Gongsun He also had no military exploits.
Only Wei Qing conferred the title of Marquis of Guannei.
After that, the Huns continued to invade the borders.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
In the spring of the first year of Yuanshuo, Mrs. Wei gave birth to a son and was made queen.
In the autumn of this year, Wei Qing led 30,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu and sent troops to Yanmen Pass. Li Xi sent troops to replace the county.
Wei Qing annihilated thousands of enemy troops.
The next year, Wei Qing sent troops to Yunzhong County, west to Gaoque, and to Longxi. He annihilated thousands of enemy troops, captured more than a million livestock, and drove away King Aries and King Loufan.
In the Han Dynasty, the Henan area was designated as Shuofang County.
Thirty-eight hundred households were assigned the title of Marquis of Changping to Wei Qing.
Su Jian, a lieutenant under Wei Qing, was granted the title of Pinglinghou, and Zhang Cigong was granted the title of Antouhou.
He sent Su to build Shuofang City.
The Emperor said: The Huns violated the laws of nature, violated human relations, bullied their elders, abused the elderly, took theft as a profession, defrauded barbarians, plotted conspiracies, relied on force, and repeatedly invaded the borders. Therefore, the imperial court sent troops and generals to combat their crimes.
Didn't the "Book of Songs" say, "I attacked the enemy and reached Taiyuan; the chariots rumbled and built a city in the north."
Now the cavalry general Wei Qing crossed the Xihe River to Gaoque, annihilated 2,300 enemy troops, captured their supplies and animals as spoils of war, and was granted the title of lord. Then he marched westward to pacify the Henan area, patrolled the old fortress of Yuxi, crossed Ziling, built a bridge over the Beihe River, leveled Puni, defeated Fuli, killed the elite enemy soldiers, and captured 3,017 soldiers who were hiding in ambushes.
Capture and question the prisoners, know where the enemy is, capture all the soldiers, drive back more than a million horses, cattle and sheep, and return the entire army. An additional 3,800 households were granted the title of Wei Qing Shiyi.
After that, the Xiongnu invaded Daijun, Yanmen, Dingxiang, Shangjun, and Shuofang in successive years, killing and plundering many people.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
In the spring of the fifth year of Yuan Shuo, the Han Dynasty ordered the cavalry general Wei Qing to lead 30,000 cavalry out of Gaoque. Wei Wei Su Jian served as the guerrilla general, Zuo Nei Shi Li Ju served as the strong crossbow general, Tai servant Gong Sun He served as the cavalry general, and acting Prime Minister Li Cai served as the light chariot general. They were all under the control of the cavalry generals and sent troops to Shuofang.
Daxing ordered Li Xi and Antou Hou Zhang Cigong to serve as generals, and they both sent troops to Beiping County.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu faced Wei Qing and other troops, thinking that the Han army could not reach him, so he got drunk. Han soldiers arrived at night and surrounded King Youxian. King Youxian was frightened and fled overnight. He took only one of his concubines and hundreds of strong cavalry and fled northward through the Han army's encirclement.
The Han Dynasty Qingqi Colonel Guo Cheng and others chased for hundreds of miles, but failed to catch up. They captured more than ten people under King Youxian, more than 15,000 men and women, and tens of millions of livestock. So Wei Qing led his army back.
When the army arrived at the frontier, the emperor sent an envoy to hold the seal of the general, and appointed Wei Qing, the general of chariots and cavalry, as the general in the army. All the generals put their troops under the command of the general, and the general established his official title and returned.
The Emperor said: General Wei Qing personally led his soldiers in the battle and achieved a great victory. He captured more than ten Xiongnu kings and granted 8,700 additional households in Wei Qing's food town.
He also granted Wei Qing's sons Wei and his wife the title of Marquis of Yichun, Wei Busuo as the Marquis of Yin'an, and Wei Deng as the Marquis of Fagan.
Wei Qing resolutely refused and said: I am fortunate to be able to serve in the army. Relying on His Majesty's divine power, our army's great victory is all due to the hard work of all the captains.
Your Majesty has graciously granted me the title of a new city, but my sons are still little babies with no merit, and have been granted the title of three princes by the emperor. This is not the original intention of the guilty minister to encourage the soldiers to fight hard.
How dare the three brothers, Mr. and Mrs. Wei, accept the title!
The emperor said: I have not forgotten the merits of all the captains. I should have done this now.
So he ordered the censor to say: "Gongsun Ao, the captain of the guard army, followed the general to attack the Huns three times. He often coordinated the various ministries, united the generals, captured the Xiongnu king, and made Gongsun Ao a coqihou."
Duwei Han said that he followed the army and sent troops to attack the palace of the Xiongnu Youxian King. He approached the enemy commander's flag and fought hard, captured the little king, and granted Han said the title of Long'ehou.
The cavalry general Gongsun He followed the general and captured the Xiongnu king, and made Gongsun He the Marquis of Nanmao.
The light chariot general Li Cai followed the general to capture the Hun king twice, and named Li Cai the Marquis of Le'an.
School captains Li Shuo, Zhao Buyu, and Gongsun Rongnu each followed the general three times, and they all captured the Xiongnu king. Li Shuo was granted the title of Zhizhihou, Zhao Buyu was granted the title of Suichenghou, and Gongsun Rongnu was granted the title of Congpinghou.
Generals Li Ju and Li Xi, as well as captains Dou Ruyi and Zhonglang Jiang Wan, all had military exploits and were granted the title of marquis within the pass. Li Ju, Li Xi and Ruyi each had three hundred households.
In the autumn of Qian year, the Huns invaded Daijun and killed the captain.
In the spring of the next year, General Wei Qing came out of Dingxiang County, and Heqi Hou Gongsun Ao served as the lieutenant general, and Grand Servant Sun He served as the left general. Xihou Zhao Xin served as the front general, Weiwei Su Jian served as the right general, Lang Zhongling Li Guang served as the rear general, and left internal history Li Ju served as the strong crossbow general. They were all under the command of the general, and they annihilated thousands of enemy troops and returned.
More than a month later, they all went out to Dingxiang County to attack the Huns, and wiped out more than 10,000 enemy troops in total.
The right general Su Jian and the former general Zhao Xin had more than 3,000 cavalry. They met Shanyu's army alone. They fought with them for more than a day and the Han army was almost exhausted.
Former general Zhao Xin turned out to be a Huns. After surrendering to the Han Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xi. At this time, he saw that the situation was critical and the Huns came to lure him again, so he led his remaining cavalry of about 800 people to surrender to Chanyu.
The right general Su Jian's entire army was destroyed, and only he escaped and returned to the general's camp.
The general asked Jun Zhenghong, Chang Shi'an, Yilang Zhouba and others about the crimes committed by Su Jian: What crime should Su Jian deserve?
Zhou Ba said: Since the general sent out troops, he has not killed his deputy general. Now that Su Jian has abandoned his troops, he can be killed to show the majesty of the general.
Hong Hean said: No!
The Art of War says: No matter how powerful a small unit is, it will still be defeated by a powerful enemy. Now Su Jian used thousands of people to resist Shan Yu's tens of thousands. After fighting for more than a day, the soldiers did not dare to have second thoughts.
He came back to plead guilty but wanted to kill him. This approach was equivalent to telling those who came after him not to come back again after losing the battle. Su Jian should not be killed.
The general said: I am fortunate to serve in the army as a relative of the emperor, and I am not afraid of losing prestige. But Zhou Ba tried to persuade me by trying to establish his prestige, which was very unsatisfactory as a minister.
Even if a minister has the power to kill generals, wouldn't it be good if a minister with a high position and a favored position dare not use his power to kill outside the country's borders? Instead, he goes back to report to the emperor and let the emperor handle it on his own, thus showing that the minister does not dare to take power?
The officers all said yes.
So Su Jian was put into a prison car and sent to the emperor's patrol.
This year, Huo Qubing began to become a marquis.
Huo Qubing was the son of General Wei Qing's sister Wei Shaohao.
His father, Huo Zhongru, had an affair with Wei Shao'er and gave birth to Huo Qubing.
When Queen Wei came to her favor, Wei Shaoer married Zhan Shichenzhang.
Huo Qubing was the son of the queen's sister, and he became a servant at the age of eighteen.
Because he was good at horseback riding and archery, he accompanied General Wei Qing on two expeditions against the Huns.
According to the emperor's order, the general assigned him a group of strong soldiers and appointed him as the captain of Piao Yao. He led 800 light cavalry warriors hundreds of miles away from the army led by Wei Qing to win military exploits and kill many enemies.
At this time Emperor Wu said: Huo Qubing, the captain of Piaoyao School, annihilated 2,028 enemies, captured alive the prime minister and the householder, killed Shanyu's grandfather's Jiuruohou Chan, captured Shanyu's uncle Luo Gu and others alive, and won the title of the entire army twice for his merits. He named Huo Qubing the champion with 2,500 households.
Hao Xian, the prefect of Shanggu, went on four expeditions with the general, killing 1,300 enemies, and made him the final profiteer.
The knight Meng Ji also had military exploits and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a title of enfeoffment to 200 households.
In this year, the Han Dynasty lost two troops led by Su Jian and Tan Xin, and Zhao Xin, the Marquis of Xi, surrendered to the Huns. His military achievements were not many, so Wei Qing was not able to increase his title.
The right general Su Jian returned to the court. The emperor did not kill him, but asked him to spend money to atone for his sins and serve the people.
The emperor gave Wei Qing a thousand pieces of gold.
At this time, Mrs. Wang was favored by Emperor Wu. Ning Cheng persuaded Wei Qing: The reason why the general enjoys the title of ten thousand households despite not having great merit, and his three sons are all named marquis, is because of Queen Wei.
Now that Mrs. Wang is favored by the Emperor but her relatives are not wealthy, I hope you can give the daughter of the Emperor to Mrs. Wang's mother as a birthday gift.
So Wei Qing spent five hundred gold to celebrate the birthday of Mrs. Wang's mother.
When Emperor Wu heard about this, he asked Wei Qing. Wei Qing told the truth, and Emperor Wu appointed Ning Cheng as the captain of Shuhai County.
Captain Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing on the expedition. Because he had been on an envoy to Daxia and lived among the Xiongnu for a long time, he served as a guide for the troops. He knew where the water and grass were fertile, so the troops did not suffer from hunger and thirst. Because he had served as an envoy to a distant country before and had meritorious service, Emperor Wu named him Bowang Hou.
In the third year after Huo Qubing was granted the title of Marquis, that is, in the spring of the second year of Yuanshou, he was appointed as General of Hussars. He led 10,000 cavalrymen from Longxi to attack the Xiongnu, and achieved great military exploits.
Emperor Wu ordered: General Hussar led his soldiers across Wu Zheng to attack the Xiongnu Yapu tribe. They crossed the Hunu River and passed through five Xiongnu kingdoms. They had a lot of baggage and a large number of people and horses. They gave leniency to those who surrendered and almost captured the son of the Xiongnu Chanyu.
After six days of fighting, they crossed Yanzhi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, fought hand-to-hand with the enemy, and fought hard at the foot of Gaolan Mountain. They killed King Zhelan, beheaded King Luhou, killed the stubborn enemies, and captured all the others. They captured the son of King Hunxie, the Prime Minister, and the captain, killing the enemy and capturing 8,960 people in total, and captured King Xiutu's golden man offering sacrifices to heaven. About seven-tenths of his soldiers suffered casualties. 2,200 households were granted the title of Huo Qubing Shiyi.
In the summer of this year, Huo Qubing and Heqihou Gongsun Ao sent troops from Beidi County in two directions.
Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and Lang Zhongling Li Guangze also sent troops from You Beiping County in two groups.
Li Guang led 4,000 cavalry to the destination first, and Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry to arrive later.
King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led tens of thousands of cavalry to surround Li Guang's tribe. Li Guang fought fiercely with the enemy for two days, suffering over half casualties and killing even more enemies.
It was not until Zhang Qian's troops arrived that the Huns retreated.
Because Zhang Qian's troops were slow to move, he should be beheaded to atone for his sins and serve the people.
After Huo Qubing set out from the north, he went deep into the Xiongnu region. Heqihou Gongsun Ao took the wrong route and was unable to join forces with Huo Qubing. Huo Qubing led his army to the Qilian Mountains and killed many enemies.
Emperor Wu ordered: General Hussar crossed the Gouqi River and Juyanze, arrived at Xiaoyueshi, captured the Qilian Mountains, and showed off his force in Kunde. He captured Shanyu's King Shanhuan and King Tutu, as well as the ministers and captains who led their troops to surrender, a total of 2,500 people. It can be said that he can surrender leniently and knows how to stop after success.
In this victory, 30,200 people were beheaded and captured, including five Xiongnu kings, fifty-nine people including the queen mother, Shan Yuque clan, and princes, and sixty-three prime ministers, generals, officials, and captains. Huo Qubing's soldiers suffered approximately three-tenths casualties. Huo Qubing was granted the title of 5,400 households.
The captains who followed Xiao Yuezhi to fight were given the title of Zuo Shu Zhang.
Eagle Strike Sima Zhao Ponu twice followed the general Hussar to kill King Pu Pu and capture King Jiqie. General You Qianqi captured one person each of the Xiongnu King and the Queen Mother, and four princes and one person, and captured 3,330 enemies. The last time he captured 1,400 enemies, he was granted the title of Congpiaohou.
Gao Bushi, the school lieutenant, followed General Hussar and captured eleven people below Prince Huyu Qi, and captured 1,768 enemies. Gao Bushi was granted the title of Marquis of Yiguan.
Most of the school's servants were granted the title of Huiquhou due to their military exploits.
Gongsun Ao, the Marquis of Heqi, was delayed on the march and was unable to join forces with the General of Hussar. He should be beheaded to atone for his sins for the people.
The troops led by many veteran generals were not as good as Huo Qubing. The soldiers led by Huo Qubing often selected brave and skilled men to supplement their troops. He himself also dared to go deep into enemy areas and often galloped in front of the army with his strong soldiers. His troops were also lucky enough to never encounter great danger.
However, those veterans often fall behind and cannot get good fighting opportunities.
From then on, Huo Qubing became more and more favored by Emperor Wu and became more prominent, and his status was equal to that of General Wei Qing.
After this battle, Chanyu was very angry that King Hunxie was stationed in the west and was defeated by the Han army many times. King Hunxie lost tens of thousands of soldiers, all of which were attacked by the hussar generals. He wanted to summon King Hunxie and kill him.
King Hunxie discussed with King Xiutu and others about surrendering to the Han Dynasty, and sent Han representatives to negotiate on the border in advance.
At this time, the general Li Xi was preparing to build a castle on the bank of the Yellow River. He captured the envoy of King Hunxie and immediately sent someone to report to the emperor in a messenger car.
Emperor Wu was worried that the Huns were pretending to surrender and took the opportunity to sneak attack on the border, so he ordered Huo Qubing to lead his army to greet them.
Huo Qubing's troops crossed the Yellow River and faced King Hunxie's army from a distance. When King Hunxie's subordinates, King Bi and General Bi, saw the Han army, many of them did not want to surrender and fled one after another.
Huo Qubing immediately flew into the Huns camp, met King Hunxie, killed eight thousand people who were trying to escape, and asked King Hunxie to take a post chariot alone to the emperor's patrol residence first, and then led King Hunxie's troops to cross the Yellow River. The number of Huns who surrendered was tens of thousands, said to be one hundred thousand.
When they arrived in Chang'an, the emperor used money and goods as rewards worth hundreds of thousands.
Granted King Hunxie a city of 10,000 households and granted him the title of Marquis of Luo Yin.
His sidekick King Hudu Ni was named the Marquis of Xiamo, Yanzhi was the Marquis of Huiqu, Qinli was the Marquis of Heqi, and Dadang Hudiao was the Marquis of Changle.
At this time, Emperor Wu commended Huo Qubing for his contribution and said: General Huo Qubing led his troops to conquer the Xiongnu. The Hunxie King and his subjects in the western region came to surrender. Qubing aided them with military rations and led more than 10,000 archers to kill the fierce and fierce enemies. He killed more than 8,000 enemies and surrendered 32 foreign kings.
Our soldiers were not injured, but one hundred thousand people surrendered sincerely.
Thanks to the hussar generals' repeated battles, the border areas on the Yellow River were almost free of worries. Use 1,700 households to confer the title of hussar general.
Reduce half of the border guards in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun to reduce the corvee burden on the people of the world.
So the surrendered Huns were placed south of the Yellow River outside the pass in the five northwest counties, allowing them to maintain their own customs and habits as vassal states of the Han Dynasty.
Next year, the Xiongnu invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang counties, killing and plundering more than a thousand Han Dynasty people.
In the second year, Emperor Wu discussed with the generals and said: Xihou Zhao Xin made suggestions for Chanyu and always believed that the soldiers of the Han Dynasty could not easily stop across the desert. Now we send out a large army and we will definitely win.
This year is the fourth year of Yuanshou.
In the spring, Emperor Wu sent General Wei Qing and General Huo Qubing to lead 50,000 cavalry each, followed by hundreds of thousands of infantry and transport troops. Those soldiers who dared to fight to the death and were not afraid of going deep into the enemy's lines belonged to Huo Qubing.
Huo Qubing began to prepare to set off from Dingxiang and directly attack Shan Yu's tribe.
Later, when the prisoners were captured, they said that Chan Yu was in Shumian, so the emperor ordered Huo Qubing to set off from Daijun and Wei Qing to set off from Dingxiang.
The doctor ordered Li Guang to be the front general, Grand Servant Sun He to be the left general, Lord Pangshi to be the right general, and Pingyang Marquis Cao Xiang to be the rear general, all under the command of General Wei Qing.
Zhao Xin gave Shan Yu a plan and said: The Han army has just crossed the desert, and the soldiers and horses are very tired. We can just sit back and take the prisoners.
So Chanyu transported all the baggage to a place far north, and deployed only his elite troops in the north of the desert to wait for the Han army.
At this time, Wei Qing's troops were more than a thousand miles away from the fortress. When he saw Shan Yu leading his army and waiting for the Han army, Wei Qing ordered his soldiers to surround the Han army with Wugang chariots and sent 5,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu army. The Huns also sent more than 10,000 cavalry to attack.
At this time, it was sunset, strong winds blew, sand and gravel blew in the face, and the two armies could not see each other. The Han army sent troops on the left and right to outflank the list.
Chanyu saw that there were many desert soldiers and they were strong and powerful. It would be unfavorable for the Xiongnu to fight. So he took advantage of the dusk and rode a cart pulled by six mules, leading hundreds of strong cavalry to break through the siege of the Han army and escape to the northwest.
By this time it was already dark, and the Han army and the Xiongnu army were fighting each other, causing considerable casualties on both sides.
The left colonel of the Han army captured the prisoners and confessed that Shan Yu had escaped before dark. The Han army then sent light cavalry to pursue them all night, with Wei Qing following closely behind.
The Huns soldiers scattered and fled.
At dawn, the Han army pursued Shan Yu for more than 200 miles without catching up with Shan Yu. They killed more than 10,000 enemies and arrived at Zhao Xincheng in Yinyan Mountain. They obtained the rations accumulated by the Xiongnu to feed the troops.
The army stayed here for a day before returning. Before leaving, they burned all the remaining food.
During the battle between Wei Qing and Shan Yu, former general Li Guang and right general crossed his troops and marched from the east, sometimes taking the wrong path.
They were not encountered until General Wei Qing led his army back to the south of the desert.
Wei Qing wanted to send someone to the court to report the situation, and ordered Chang Shi to question Li Guang based on the charges listed in the document. Li Guang committed suicide.
Zhao Shiqi redeemed his sins for the people.
Wei Qing returned to the frontier fortress. Wei Qing killed more than 19,000 enemies in total.
At this time, the Xiongnu tribe could not find the Chanyu for more than ten days, so King Youguli established himself as the Chanyu.
Chanyu later found his tribe, and King Youguli removed the title of Chanyu.
Huo Qubing's cavalry and baggage were equal to those of General Wei Qing, but he had no lieutenants.
They all appointed Li Gan and others as senior colonels and deputy generals. He attacked more than 2,000 miles from Daihe Youbeiping County, directly targeting the Xiongnu Zuoxian King's army, and his contribution to killing and capturing the enemy exceeded Wei Qing's.
After returning from the expedition, the emperor said: Hussar general Huo Qubing led his army to the expedition. He personally led the captured Huns soldiers with few utensils and went deep into the desert. He crossed the river to capture Zhang Qu, the Shanyu minister alive, and killed King Beiche Qi. He then turned to attack Zuo General Shuang and captured the enemy's flags and drums. They also crossed the Nanhou Mountain and the Gonglu River, and captured three people, including the Tuntou King and the Han King, and eighty-three people including the general, the prime minister, the householder, and the captain. They worship heaven at Langjuxu Mountain and worship earth at Guyan Mountain. Climb the mountain and overlook the Hanhai Sea. They captured 70,443 prisoners and suffered about two-tenths of their own soldiers. He also seized rations from the enemy and marched very far without having rations.
Five thousand eight hundred households were granted the title of Hussar General.
As a subordinate of General Hussar, Lu Bode, the right governor of Beiping, met in Xingcheng. On time, he followed General Hussar to Mount Yu, killing the enemy and capturing 2,800 people. The road was sealed and Bode was named Pi Lihou.
Weishan, the captain of the Northern Territory, followed General Hussar to capture the Xiongnu king alive, and named Weishan the Marquis of Yiyang.
The original Marquis of Guiyi, because King Chun restored Lu Zhi, and King Loupei Yi Jixuan fought with the Hussar General for their meritorious service, restored Lu Zhi as Du Hou, and Yi Jixuan as Zongli Hou.
Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, and Zhao Anji, the Marquis of Changwu, had followed General Hussar for their military exploits, and were granted three hundred households each.
Both Xie, the prefect of Yuyang, and Li Gan, the captain of the school, captured the enemy's flags and drums and were given the title of Marquis of Guannei. Xie was given a settlement of 200 households, and Li Gan was given a settlement of 200 households.
The school captain Xu Zi was given the title of Zuo Shu Zhang.
The officers and soldiers of Huo Qubing's army received many promotions and rewards.
However, Wei Qing was not granted a title, nor were any of his officers and soldiers.
Only Chang Hui, the governor of Xihe County, and Suicheng, the governor of Yunzhong County, were rewarded. Then he was given the same position as the prime minister of the princes and kingdoms, and was given 200 households in the city and 100 catties of gold. It was given to Chang Huijue as the Marquis of Guannei.
When the two armies of Wei Qing and Huo Qubing went to the outside of the Great Wall, the border officials inspected a total of 140,000 official and private horses, but after the war, less than 30,000 horses returned to the Great Wall.
The imperial court set up the position of Grand Sima, making both Wei Qing and Huo Qubing the Grand Sima.
This decree was enacted to make the rank and salary of the hussar general equal to that of the general.
From then on, Wei Qing's power gradually declined while Huo Qubing became more prominent.
Many of Wei Qing's old friends and guests went to seek refuge with Huo Qubing, and most of them received official titles, but Ren An refused to leave.
Huo Qubing was taciturn, courageous and daring to do anything.
Emperor Wu once asked him to learn the art of war from Wu Qi and Sun Wu. He replied: When fighting, you only need to look at strategy, and there is no need to learn ancient art of war.
Emperor Wu built a mansion for him and asked him to check it out. He replied: If the Huns are not eliminated, there will be no home for them.
Therefore, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty paid more attention to and favored him.
However, Huo Qubing had been serving as a servant by the emperor's side since he was very young. He was used to being pampered by nobles and did not care much about the soldiers.
When he led his troops on an expedition, the emperor would send eunuchs to bring him dozens of carts of daily necessities. When he came back, he would throw away the remaining rice and meat, but some of the soldiers would starve.
When fighting outside the Great Wall, the soldiers lacked military rations, and some were so hungry that they could not get up, but Huo Qubing still had to open a field to play football.
There are many such things.
General Wei Qing was a kind man, loved his soldiers, was humble and courteous, and relied on his kindness and meekness to please the emperor, but there was no one in the world who praised him.
Huo Qubing died in the third year after he sent troops in the fourth year of Yuanshou, that is, in the sixth year of Yuanshou.
Emperor Wu was very sad and dispatched soldiers in black clothes from the subordinate countries to line up from Chang'an to Maoling. A tomb was built for him in Mao Cemetery, shaped like Qilian Mountain.
He was given the title Mi, combining the two meanings of Wu and Guangdi and called him Marquis Jinghuan.
His son Huo Shan took the title of prince, and Huo Shan was named Zihou. Emperor Wu loved him and hoped that he would become a general when he grew up.
Huo Shen later served as the captain of Fengche and died while accompanying the emperor to offer sacrifices to Mount Tai.
Because Huo Shan had no sons, the feudal state was abolished.
After Huo Qubing's death, Wei Qing's eldest son, the Marquis of Yichun, Wei and his wife, were removed from the title of marquis for breaking the law.
Five years later, the two younger brothers of the Wei couple, the Marquis of Yin'an, Wei Buyi, and the Marquis of Fagan, Weideng, both lost their positions due to insufficient gold sacrifices.
Two years later, the feudal kingdom of champion Hou Huo Qubing cut off his successor.
Four years later, in the fifth year of Yuanfeng's reign, Wei Qing died and Mi was named Liehou.
The eldest son Wei and his wife inherited the title of marquis, but six years later they broke the law and were exempted from the title of marquis.
He died fourteen years after the self-defense Qingwei defeated the Shan. During this period, he did not attack the Xiongnu again because the Han Dynasty had few troops and horses. In addition, he conquered the two Vietnams in the south, conquered Korea, attacked the Qiang in the west, and conquered the southwestern barbarians. Therefore, he did not attack the Xiongnu for a long time.
At the beginning, after Wei Qing became famous, Cao Shou, the Marquis of Pingyang, suffered from a serious illness and returned to the feudal country. The eldest princess asked: Who is the most virtuous among the princes?
Everyone on the left and right talks about General Wei Qing.
The princess smiled and said: He grew up in my family and often followed me on horseback. What about him?
The people on the left and right said: Now you are extremely noble.
So the eldest princess told the queen what she wanted, and the queen told her truthfully. The emperor ordered Wei Qing to marry the eldest princess, and they were buried together after their death in a tomb built like Lushan Mountain.
General Wei Qing attacked the Xiongnu seven times in total, killing and capturing more than 50,000 enemies.
After fighting the Huns, they recovered the area south of Hetao and established Shuofang County.
Additional rewards will be added, totaling 16,300 households; the three sons will be granted the title of marquis, each with 1,300 households, for a total of 20,200 households.
Nine lieutenants and captains were appointed marquis, and fifteen specially dispatched generals. Li Guang, Zhang Qian, Gongsun He, Li Cai, Cao Xiang, Han Shuo, and Su Jian all had their own biographies.
Li Xi, a native of Yuzhi, served Emperor Jing.
Eight years after Emperor Wu took the throne, he was promoted to General Caiguan and stationed in the military district. Six years later, he was promoted to General and led his army to attack Baochao from Weisun. Three years later, he served as a general and accompanied the general to attack Xiuli, but he had no military exploits.
He served as a general three times and later often served as a diplomat.
Gongsun Ao, a native of Yiqu, served Emperor Jing as a Langguan.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Wu's accession to the throne, he was appointed as a cavalry general and sent troops from Dai County. Seven thousand people were killed because of the soldiers. He should be beheaded according to law and become a commoner after atonement.
Five years later, he followed the general as a school captain and was granted the title of Heqihou.
A year later, he followed the general as a lieutenant general and attacked Dingxiang again, but had no military exploits.
Two years later, as a general, he attacked the Northland and fell behind the hussar general. He wasted the opportunity to fight and should be executed. After atonement, he was made a civilian.
Two years later, he followed the general as a school captain, but without success.
Fourteen years later, he built the surrender city with the post of General Ingan.
Seven years later, he attacked the Huns again as General Yin Gan and arrived at Yuwu. Because the soldiers suffered too many casualties, he was handed over to the officials for trial and executed. He pretended to be dead and ran away, hiding among the people for five or six years.
After being discovered, he was imprisoned again.
Because his wife was implicated in the crime of witchcraft, the family was exterminated.
He served as general four times in total.
Li Ju, a native of Yunzhong, served Emperor Jing.
Seventeen years after Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne, he served as the strong crossbow general with the official position of Zuo Neishi.
A year later, he was appointed General Qiannu.
Zhang Cigong, a native of Hedong, followed the general as a school captain and was granted the title of Antou Marquis.
After the Queen Mother died, he was appointed as a general and garrisoned the Northern Army.
A year later, he followed the general.
He served as general twice, but later broke the law and lost his position.
Zhao Xin was demoted as the Xiongnu Prime Minister and was granted the title of Marquis. In the eighteenth year after Genzao succeeded to the throne, he served as a former general. When he fought with Bao Chu, he was defeated and surrendered to Li Chu.
Zhao Shiqi was a native of Panyue.
In the eighteenth year of Emperor Wu's succession to the throne, he followed the general as a lord and captain and killed 660 enemies.
In the third year of Yuanshou, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannai and a hundred catties of gold.
In the second year, he was appointed as the general on the right. He followed the general to attack and declare the enemy. If he lost his way, he should be beheaded and atone for his sins as a commoner.
Guo Chang, a native of Yunzhong, served as a lieutenant following the general.
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng's reign, Yi Taizhong, a senior official, became General Ba Hu and stationed in Shuofang.
After the troops withdrew, they attacked Kenlong again, but to no avail and took away military power.
Xun Shen was a native of Guangwu, Taiyuan. Because he was good at driving, he served as a servant and served as a lieutenant many times with the general.
In the third year of Wuqian's reign, he was promoted to General Zuo and led his army to attack Huang Dao, but in vain. He was executed for the crime of seizing General Lou Chuan.
General Huo Qubing attacked the Xiongnu six times in total, four of which were with the rank of general, killing and capturing more than 110,000 enemies.
King Hunxie led tens of thousands of people to surrender to the Han Dynasty and opened up the Jiuquan area in Hexi Province. The invasion of the Xiongnu from the west was further reduced.
He was rewarded four times for curing diseases, totaling 17,700 households.
Six of his subordinates, including captains and officers, were awarded the rank of marquis due to meritorious service, and two were promoted to generals.
Lu Bode, a native of Pingzhou, Xihe, served as the governor of Beiping on the right and followed General Hussar, and was granted the title of Marquis of Pili.
After the death of General Hussar, Bode was promoted from the official position of Weiwei to General Fubo. He defeated Zhidian and increased his rewards.
Later, he broke the law and lost his position.
Later, he was appointed Captain of Qiannu, stationed in the camp for a long time, and died in his post.
Bao Nu, a native of Taiyuan.
He once fled to the Xiongnu, and soon returned to the Han Dynasty, where he served as a hussar general and Sima.
He attacked the north and was granted the title of Marquis of Congpiao. He lost his position because he did not have enough gold for the sacrifice.
A year later, he was appointed general of the Xionghe River and attacked the Xiongnu to the water of the Xionghe River, but to no avail.
A year later, he captured King Loulan and was granted the title of Marquis of Zunye.
Six years later, General Junji led an army of 20,000 to attack the Xiongnu Zuo King.
The king of Zuo fought with him and surrounded Zhao Ponu with 80,000 cavalry. Ponu was captured and the entire army was wiped out.
After living in the Xiongnu for ten years, he fled back to the Han Dynasty with his prince Anguo.
Later, he committed the crime of witchcraft and his clan was reduced.
From the rise of the Wei family, the general Wei Qing was first granted the title of marquis, and later five of his descendants became marquises.
Twenty-four years later, all the five princes lost their feudal status.
During the Yanchi period, King Lu failed and Mi Sui perished.
There is another legend that Huo Qubing's younger brother, Riguang, was a noble person.
Zan said: Ji Jian once reproached Jie Gui and said: The general is very noble, but no one of the wise scholar-officials in the world praises you. I hope the general will observe the methods of ancient famous generals in recruiting wise men and encourage yourself more!
Wei Qing thanked him and said: After the White Wei Hous Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tian recruited many guests, the emperor often felt resentful.
This practice of treating scholar-bureaucrats favorably, recruiting virtuous people, and rejecting unworthy ones is the power of the ruler.
The ministers only obey the law and perform their duties, so why bother to recruit scholars?
The hussar generals also imitated this idea and restrained themselves prudently. This is how generals Wei and Huo acted as generals.
