Wang Gui, courtesy name Weiming, was from Linyi, Langxie.
His grandfather Wang Jian was a Taiwei during the Qi Dynasty and was named Nanchang County Duke, while Mi was named Wenxian Gong.
His father, Wang Qian, served as a doctor in Jinziguanglu and was named the Marquis of Nanchang.
When Wang Gui was eight years old, his biological mother died. During the mourning period, Wang Gui was extremely sincere and filial. Every time Taiwei Xu Xiaosi saw him, he was moved to tears by his filial piety and called him a filial boy.
Wang Gui's uncle Wang Chen also thought highly of him. He once said: "My son is my family's horse."
When Wang Gui was twelve years old, he had a general understanding of the meaning of the Five Classics.
When I grow up, I love learning more and become more eloquent.
Wang Gui was promoted as a scholar by the state, and the county chose him as the chief registrar.
Wang Gui was recruited from his family to serve as Secretary Lang, and was promoted to Prince Sheren, An Younan Kang Wang's chief secretary, and Prince Xima.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, the imperial court rebuilt the Taiji Hall. After it was completed, Wang Gui presented the "New Hall Fu" with exquisite diction.
He was appointed Secretary Cheng.
He successively served as the Prince's Zhongsheren, Situ Zuoxi, and worked as a Zhonglang.
Xiao Gang, king of Jin'an, came to the capital to serve as the governor of Southern Xuzhou. He strictly selected his subordinate palaces, and Wang Gui was selected as Yunhui to consult and join the army.
After a long time, Wang Gui came to the capital again to serve as the prefect of Xin'an, but he resigned because his father died.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nanchang County and was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu.
The emperor ordered Wang Gui, Chen Jun Yin Gou, Langxie Wang Xi, Fan Yang and Zhang Mian to serve the prince together. Prince Zhaoming treated them all with courtesy.
At that time, the King of Xiangdong was appointed as the capital of Beijing, and he and the court officials gathered for a banquet. During the banquet, the King of Xiangdong asked Wang Gui to make drinking orders.
Wang Gui replied calmly: This has not happened since the Jin Dynasty moved to Jiangzuo.
At that time, Te Jin Xiao Chen and Jin Zi Fu Zhao were present, and they all thought that Luo's words were very insightful.
In the early years of ordinary times, Chen Qingzhi conquered Luoyang during his Northern Expedition. All the officials in the court congratulated him. After Wang Gui retired from the court, he said: Taoism says that it is not difficult to get things started, but it is difficult to achieve achievements.
Jie Kou is like a wandering spirit. It has lasted for a long time. Wenwen conquered, gained and lost, and Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty failed in the end. We went deep into the enemy's territory alone, without backup, and went deep into the area occupied by Jie Kou. Our troops could not be connected and our supplies could not be sustained. This battle would bring disaster.
Soon the imperial army was completely wiped out. His thorough understanding of things is much like this.
In the sixth year, Emperor Gaozu hosted a banquet in the Wende Palace to pay farewell to Yuan Jinglong, the governor of Guangzhou. He issued an edict to the ministers to compose poems, stipulating that they should all write one hundred lines of poems. Wang Gui picked up his pen and wrote the memorial immediately, and the poems were very beautiful.
Emperor Gaozu admired Wang Gui's talents very much and appointed him as a minister in Shao that day.
In the third year of Datong, Wang Gui was moved to the post of Minister of the Fifth Army, and soon he was also appointed as the infantry captain.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, Wang Gui came to the capital to serve as general Zhenwei's hussar and chief historian of Jin'an.
That year, King Jin'an was established as the crown prince, and Wang Gui then became the prefect of Wu County.
The home of the chief secretary, Rui Zhenzong, was in Wu, and all the previous governors were devoted to fawning over him. When Wang Gui took office, Zhenzong went home on vacation. Wang Gui treated him very distantly, and then returned to Kyoto. He secretly reported to the king that he ignored the political affairs of the county.
So Wang Dan soon changed his post to Zuo Min Shangshu. More than a thousand officials and people from Wu County in the capital requested Wang Gui to stay in his post. They petitioned three times, but the emperor refused.
Soon Wang Gui concurrently served as the general of the right army in the name of Zuo Min Shangshu. Without any appointment, he was appointed as the regular servant of the Sanqi, the prince's concubine, and concurrently as the infantry captain.
Wang Gui resigned due to illness and refused to take up the post, so he built a house in Songxi Temple to live.
In the second year of his reign, Wang Nie passed away at the age of forty-five.
The emperor posthumously awarded him the rank of Sanqi Changshi and Guanglu Doctor. He also gave him 200,000 yuan and 100 pieces of cloth to organize his funeral, and gave him a Mi title.
The crown prince went to Wang Guiling to cry and mourned, and ordered: "The king died suddenly last night, which is really sad."
His charm is beautiful and upright, his appearance is dazzling and outstanding, no one can compare with him within a thousand miles, and no one can match his erect and outstanding appearance.
His writing is eloquent and unrestrained, his talents are rich and learned, he is unrestrained and unrestrained, his talent is lofty, he loves the mountains and rivers, and he enjoys himself. He is really an outstanding person!
His short life passed quickly, and now he has returned to the dark nine springs, like a golden knife that has lost its light, and the Huai River has stopped flowing and dried up.
In the middle of last winter, I was saddened by the death of Liu Zun. In the early winter of this year, I came to commemorate Wang Nie and grieve for the deaths of my friends. It is indeed not empty talk!
Yu Nie collected different versions of "Book of the Later Han" from various schools, annotated 200 volumes of the "Sustained Book of Han" and 20 volumes of collected works.
Wang Gui's son Wang Bao, also named Ziyuan. Wang Bao was able to write articles when he was seven years old.
Grandfather Sikong Yuan Ang loved him and said to the guests: This child will become a distinguished nephew of our family.
At the age of twenty, Wang Bao was promoted as a scholar and served as Secretary Lang. The prince left his post because his father died.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nanchang, and was appointed as King Wenxue of Wuchang, Prince Xima, and concurrently as the Guanji of Shu Palace. He was promoted to Situ Shi, Secretary Cheng, and left the capital to serve as the internal history of Ancheng.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing captured the capital. Xiao Daxin, the governor of Jiangzhou Dangyang, led the entire Jiangzhou to rely on the rebels. The rebels turned to invade Nanzhong, but Wang Bao still stood firm in Ancheng to fight against the rebels.
In the second year of Dashi, Emperor Shizu ordered Wang Bao to be recruited and rushed to Jiangling. After Wang Bao arrived in Jiangling, Emperor Shizu appointed him as General Zhongwu and Internal History of Nanping. He was soon promoted to Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and Shizhong.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, Wang Bao was promoted to the position of right servant of Shangshu. He then participated in the selection of officials and became a minister.
That year, he was promoted to Zuopushe and participated in the selection of officials as before.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, Jiangling was captured and he surrendered to the Zhou Dynasty.
Wang Bao wrote "Young Training" to warn his sons.
One chapter says:
Tao Shiheng said: In the past, Dayu did not value the jade with a full-foot diameter, but he cherished every inch of time.
Why don't literati recite poems and books, and why don't warriors ride horses and shoot arrows?
If in those long nights of cold winter and long days of midsummer, you can keep your room quiet, build the courtyard walls high, and there are no other people coming and going in your home, you can just sit in your house and recite aloud.
If you study with this spirit, you will become a disciple of Zhongni; if you write with this attitude, you will become a disciple of Jia Yi.
In ancient times, there were inscriptions on the bowls. There are warning words written on the desk and the walking stick. Look at it and follow it whether you are advancing or retreating.
"The King of Poetry" says: No one has a good beginning, but few can persist to the end.
A person must be consistent in his conduct. Don't violate benevolence in haste. This is indeed what a gentleman says!
Confucianism originally emphasizes the hierarchy of superiority and inferiority, and the difference between good and bad etiquette.
It is a natural rule that the king should face south and his ministers should face north. When offering sacrifices, use odd numbers for Ding Zu and even numbers for Peng Dou. This is the principle of the coordination of Yin and Yang.
Taoism, on the other hand, does not pay attention to the body, abandons cleverness, benevolence and righteousness, abandons the body, and abandons wisdom.
The teachings of Buddhism, practicing asceticism, cutting off worldly thoughts, understanding the principles of life and death, following the teachings of the Buddha, discerning cause and effect, can become a saint while living in the secular world. Even though there are such differences in the purposes of each religion, the ultimate goal is to enlighten all sentient beings.
From the time I first entered school to the age of knowing my destiny, I not only advocated Confucianism, but also believed in Taoism and Buddhism. Since the Jin Dynasty moved to Jiangzuo, the three schools of Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism have not been annihilated. If you can continue to practice, this is my wish.
At the beginning, Liu Yu of Pei State, Nanyang Zongmao and Wang Bao were all assistant ministers of Zhongxing in the imperial court and participated in the planning and decision-making together.
Liu Yu, whose courtesy name is Zhongshi, is the seventh generation descendant of Yin Liu Zhenchang in Danyang, Jin Dynasty.
When he was young, he was well-behaved, talented and thoughtful.
He participated in the archery response as an imperial ceremonial student and achieved outstanding results. He was appointed as Ning Hailing. He was gradually promoted to the Prince of Xiangdong to join the army, and was transferred to the Zhongji Office.
During the Zuochang period, Crocodile rebelled, and Shidan followed the emperor's will and took matters into his own hands on the upper reaches of the river. Most of the documents were drafted by Liu Yu, who also tried his best to be loyal, and was highly appreciated and favored by Shizu.
He successively served as Minister Zuocheng and Yushi Zhongcheng.
In the second year of Cheng Sheng's reign, Liu Yu moved to serve as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and Guozi Jijiu. The other official positions remained the same as before.
The character Zong is Yuan.
His eighth-generation ancestor Zongcheng served as the governor of Yidu during the Jin Dynasty. During the Yongjia Rebellion, the imperial court moved eastward, so his descendants lived in Jiangling.
When he was young, Zong Mao was smart and eager to learn, and he studied tirelessly day and night. People in his hometown called him "Boy Bachelor".
In ordinary years, he served as the secretary of the Prince of Xiangshu's palace and the secretary's office. He was transferred to the prison and still in charge of the secretary.
Zong Nao successively served as the county magistrate of Linru, Jiancheng, Guangjin and other places, and later served as the founder of Jingzhou.
After Shizu ascended the throne, he was appointed as Shangshu Lang, and granted him the title of Marquis of Xin'an County, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
Zong Mao was repeatedly promoted to the position of Doctor of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Minister of the Five Soldiers, and Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, Jiangling was captured, and both he and Liu Yao belonged to the Zhou Dynasty.
Wang Cheng, whose courtesy name was Anqi, was the son of Pu Shejian.
He was proficient in "Book of Changes" at the age of seven, and was elected as a replacement for the country's son.
At the age of fifteen, he participated in shooting shooting and achieved excellent results, and was awarded the title of Secretary Lang.
He successively held the posts of Prince Sheren, Nankang Wang Wenxue, Shaoling Wangyou, and Prince Zhongsheren.
He left his job because his father died.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed as a member of Zhongshe, and was repeatedly promoted to the position of Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu and Doctor of Guozi.
At that time, the sons of high-ranking officials, nobles, and wealthy people all boasted to each other about their writing skills. Few people specialized in Confucian classics. Only Wang Cheng loved Confucian classics and made speeches, which showed that he was an eloquent Confucian scholar.
He taught students in school and explained the classic meanings of "Li" and "Yi".
In the fifth year of Zhongdatong, Wang Chengqian was appointed as the chief and attendant, and soon he was transferred to the post of Guozi Jijiu.
Wang Cheng's grandfather Wang Jian and father Wang Liao both held the position of serving as ministers. Three generations of their ancestors and grandchildren have served as princes of the state to offer wine. This did not happen to the previous generation, and contemporary people think it is a great honor.
After a long encounter, Wang Cheng left the capital and served as General Rongzhao and Prefect of Shuyang.
Wang Cheng managed political affairs with kindness and benevolence, and both officials and people loved him.
Wang Cheng died in Shuyang County less than one year after serving. He was forty-one years old.
The imperial court gave Mi a title of Zhang Zi.
Wang Cheng naturally despises the backbone of powerful people.
At that time, the right-guard general Zhu Yi was in power in the court. Whenever Zhu Yi went home on vacation, his door was often filled with cars and horses, and there was a constant flow of people coming to visit him.
At that time, Wei Jun Shen Ying liked to speak out and criticize the powerful. He often pointed to Zhu Yi's gate and said: "Everyone who comes and goes from Bao Baomian is here for profit. The only person who can't come to Bao Xiang is Wang Shuyang."
Xiao Shuyang is Wang Cheng's younger brother Wang Zhi.
At that time, only the two brothers Wang Cheng and Chu Xiang did not go to Zhu Yi's house, and people praised them for this.
Chu Xiang, courtesy name Shiju, was born in Yangzhai, Henan.
His great-grandfather Chu Yuan was the Grand Prime Minister of Qi Dynasty at that time, and he gave it to Duke Wen Jian as a gift to assist the Qi family.
Grandfather Chu Zhen, posthumously gifted it to Taichang and Mi Muzi.
Father Chu Xiang, courtesy name Jingzheng.
When Chu Xiangcai was just a few years old, his parents died one after another. He was devastated and described as being as thin as an adult. His relatives were very surprised.
When he grew up, Chu Xiang became knowledgeable, elegant, and thoughtful.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Chu Xiang was by-elected as the son of the country.
Chu Xiang was recruited from his family as Secretary Lang, and later moved to the position of Prince Sheren and Minister of the Palace of Secretaries.
He left the capital and served as the internal history of Ancheng. When he returned to the capital, he served as the prince's Xima and Zhongsheren. He was promoted to the prince many times and worked as a Zhonglang, a Huangmen minister, and the chief historian of the Zhenyou Yuzhang king.
Soon after, he entered the capital and served as chief and attendant.
Chu Xiang was upright, handsome and graceful, with clear features and bright eyes. Standing among his colleagues, he would be looked at by everyone.
In the fourth year of Taitong, he left the capital and served as General Ningyuan and Wang Changshi, doctor of Beizhong Langlu. He died in office three years later.
His cousin Xie Gao wrote an epitaph for him, summarizing Chu Xiang's character: Du Hongzhi admired his appearance, and Yu Zisong felt inferior to him. His conduct is noble and pure, like the breeze and the bright moon.
Commentators believe that it describes Chu Xiang's character.
Chu Xiang was originally a student of the country and had excellent grades.
He mourned for his father and served as Secretary Lang after his term expired. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to Prince Sheren and Xuancheng King's Registrar.
In the fifth year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu hosted a banquet in Leyou Garden to entertain the ministers, and issued a special edict to King Chu Xiangyu to compose a poem of twenty rhymes, with a limit of three moments to complete it.
Chu Xiang completed it impromptu and presented it to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu was very surprised. On the same day, he ordered Chu Xiang to be transferred to Xuancheng Wang Wenxue, and soon he was transferred to Xuancheng Wangyou.
At that time, Xuancheng Wang You and Xuancheng Wang Wenxue were two ranks higher than other kings' subordinate officials. Therefore, Emperor Gaozu promoted Chu Xiang to this position, which was said to be a good story at the time.
Chu Xiang came to the capital and served as the prefect of Yixing. He was honest in government, kept himself clean, reduced complicated and harsh government decrees, and eliminated flashy and extravagant expenses. The people's lives were very peaceful.
There was an old tree in the West Pavilion of Yixing that had been dead for many years. After Chu Xiang arrived in Yixing, the tree suddenly sprouted new branches and leaves. The people thought that they were moved by his good governance.
When his term expired, officials and people went to the capital to request that he be re-elected, and the emperor agreed.
Soon, the imperial court recruited Chu Xiang as the official official. When Chu Xiang left the county, the people, old and young, followed him out of the country. People cried and said goodbye to him.
When Chu Xiang was the official, he was fair and honest, and would not change his opinions because of other people's requests and instructions. People praised him for his fairness and fairness.
Soon, he was transferred to the position of servant, and soon he was transferred to the position of regular servant of Sanqi, leading the Yulin Supervisor and serving the East Palace.
Later, he went to Beijing to serve as the prefect of Jinling. He served for less than one year and was dismissed due to official business.
Soon he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi and served in Shu Palace.
In the second year of Taiqing's reign, he moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Officials.
That winter, Hou Jing besieged the palace city. Chu Xiang mourned for his mother in the besieged city. He died of grief at the age of forty-four.
The emperor sent him to Shao as a posthumous posthumous title as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Chu Xiang had a filial piety when he was young.
When he was serving as an attendant, his mother was very ill. He asked the monks to pray for his mother. Suddenly he saw a strange light outside the door in the middle of the night and heard the sound of snapping fingers in the air. When it was dawn, his mother's illness was cured.
People think this is due to Chu Xiang's sincerity.
Xiao Jie, courtesy name Mao Jing, was born in Lanling.
His grandfather, Xiao Sihua, served as the third secretary of the Kaifu Yitong and the minister of Pushe during the Song Dynasty.
His father Xiao Huipu was the Minister of Zuo Min during the Qi Dynasty.
Xiao Jie has been smart, savvy, and knowledgeable since he was a child. He has extensively read classics and history books, and is also good at writing articles.
In the late years of Qi Yongyuan, he first became an official as Zuo Lang.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as Prince Sheren.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, he was moved to the post of Shangshu Jinbulang.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, he was transferred to the position of host and guest, and then left the capital to serve as Wu Ling. He had outstanding political achievements and a high reputation.
The King of Xiangdong heard about Xiao Jie's reputation and wanted to make friends with him, so he asked the emperor to let Xiao Jie be his subordinate official.
Three years later, the imperial court appointed Xiao Jie as the King of Eastern Hunan to consult and join the army.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Jie was appointed as the minister of Huangmen.
In the second year of Datong, King Wuling became the governor of Yangzhou and appointed Xiao Jie as the governor of the governor. Xiao Jie was praised by the court for his integrity during his tenure.
Emperor Gaozu said to He Jingrong: Xiao Jie is very poor, and a county can be given to him to govern.
Before He Jingrong could answer, Emperor Gaozu said: There has been no good governor in Shixing County recently, and the people on the mountain are very unsettled. Xiao Jie can be appointed as the governor.
Therefore, Xiao Jie left the capital and served as the prefect of Shixing.
After Xiao Jie took office, he openly handled cases that violated laws and regulations, and spread virtue policies widely, and soon the territory was peaceful.
In the seventh year of Datong, Xiao Jie was recruited as a Shaofu Qing, and soon he was added as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
It happened that there was a vacancy in the palace, and the official department recommended Wang Yun and four other people, but none of them met the emperor's liking. Emperor Gaozu said: "There has been no one in the palace for a long time, so Xiao Jie should be appointed."
Xiao Jie was knowledgeable and had an extraordinary memory. He often made corrections when dealing with the emperor, and Gaozu valued him very much.
Later, Xiao Jie was moved to the position of Minister of the Capital. Whenever there was a major national event, Gaozu would always seek his advice first.
Emperor Gaozu said to Zhu Yi: This man is a prime minister.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Jie resigned due to illness and requested to retire. Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to commend him, but refused to allow him to retire.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing fled from Guoyang and fled to Shouyang. Emperor Gaozu ordered the defense chief Wei An to accept him.
When Xiao Jie heard about this, he went to the court to remonstrate and said: "I am recovering at home. I heard that Hou Jing was defeated in Guoyang and surrendered alone. Your Majesty did not regret the trouble he caused before, but instead ordered to accept him."
I heard that the nature of evil people will not change, and all evil people in the world are the same.
In the past, Lu Bu killed Ding Yuan and defected to Dong Zhuo, and eventually killed Dong Zhuo and became a traitor; Liu Lao betrayed Wang Gong and submitted to the Jin Dynasty, but later betrayed the Jin Dynasty and caused disaster.
What is the reason for this?
The ambition of a wolf will never be tamed and close; the metaphor of raising tigers will bring disaster, which means that those who raise tigers will definitely be eaten by hungry tigers.
Hou Jing has the heart of an animal, like a murderous arrow.
With his fierce and cunning talent, he won the favor of Gao Huan and stole the position of the three princes, becoming the dominant local governor. However, before Gao Huan's grave was dry, he immediately turned around and rebelled.
The strength to rebel was not enough, so he fled to Kansai for his life. Yuwen did not accept him, so he took refuge with us again.
Your Majesty had previously accepted him like a river, not rejecting a trickle. The reason was that you wanted to entrust him with the important affairs of the country, let him surrender the barbarians, attack the Huns, and hope to win the battle.
Now that he has lost his army and his land, he is just a common man on the border. Your Majesty, you love this common man and abandon the friendly exchanges with allied countries. I think this is an approach that should not be taken.
The emperor also hopes that Hou Jing will cheer up again and contribute to the court in his later years. I think Hou Jing must not be an old minister who can contribute to the country.
He abandons his homeland like taking off his shoes without any care, and betrays the king like throwing away grass and grass without any emotion. How could he know how to admire Shengde and be a loyal minister of Jianghuai?
The signs of trouble are obvious and there is nothing to doubt.
If this is the case on the one hand, there is no need to state other similar things one by one.
I am old and sick, and I should not interfere in the affairs of the state without authorization. However, when the son of Chu State was about to die, he had the loyalty to build the city of Ying. When Shi Yu, the guardian of the country, was about to die, he also had the integrity to admonish the emperor with his corpse.
I am ashamed to be a veteran of the clan, and I dare not forget my due loyalty.
The old minister sincerely hopes that your majesty will be kind enough to forgive my sins and think about what I have said.
Emperor Gaozu sighed after reading the seal, but in the end he did not adopt his idea.
Xiao Jie was arrogant by nature and seldom interacted with others. He only wrote poems, drank wine and enjoyed the scenery with his clan brother Xiao Qiang, cousins ​​Lu Paixai and Lu Ji, cousin Jiao Ao and others. At that time, people compared their gatherings to the Xie family's Wuyi tour.
At the beginning, Emperor Gaozu invited more than 20 of his descendants to drink wine and compose poems. They were punished with a pint of wine because they did not write the poems. They drank them all with folded shields, but their expressions did not change, and they talked and laughed freely.
Xiao Jie died at home when he was seventy-three years old.
Xiao Jie's third son, Xiao Yun, initially served as an envoy to the Wei Dynasty as a regular servant of Sanqi. After returning to the court, he served as the crown prince's concubine. Later, his official position was promoted to Guanglu doctor.
Xiao Qia, also known as Hongcheng, is Xiao Jie's cousin.
His father, Xiao Huiji, was the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel during the Qi Dynasty and was famous in previous generations.
Xiao Qian was smart and perceptive when he was young. When he was seven years old, he could read "Chu Ci" fluently and without any mistakes.
As an adult, he loved learning, read a wide range of books, and was good at writing articles.
During the next year of Qi Yong, he was born in Yuanzi and was appointed Mingjing by Gao. He was recruited from his family as Zuo Lang and was promoted to Xizhong Lang to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as the chief secretary of the former army of Poyang King and the official of Shangshu Koubu. He was also promoted to Prince Zhongsheren.
Xiao Jie left the capital and was appointed as the governor of Southern Xuzhou. South Xuzhou is an important town close to the capital, with thousands of officials, and those who have served as officials here have become extremely rich.
When Xiao Qian took office, he was honest and dedicated to the public affairs. He would not accept gifts from others. His wife and children would inevitably suffer from hunger and cold.
He returned to Beijing and served as Sikong, Zhonglang, and Jian'an internal historian. He was dismissed from his post after being found guilty.
After a long time, he was re-appointed as Shi, the commander of the guard army. Beizhonglang consulted to join the army, and was promoted to the position of Taifuqing, Situ, King Sima of Linchuan.
In the early years of the ordinary year, Zheji was appointed as a regular servant of Yuanwai Sanqi and also as a censor Zhongcheng. He was dismissed due to official business.
Soon after, he was appointed as a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi.
Xiao Qia was talented and quick in writing when he was young. The inscriptions ordered by Emperor Gaozu to write Huitai and under the pagodas of two temples are very beautiful.
In the second year of ordinary life, he was promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi, and went to the capital to serve as General Zhaoyuan and Prefect of Linhai.
He is honest and fair in government, does not advocate majesty and ferocity, and the people feel very comfortable.
He returned to Beijing and was appointed Situ Zuo as the Chief Historian. He was also ordered to write the "Dangtuyan Stele" with rich and gorgeous diction.
Ordinary six years, Xiao Qia died in office at the age of fifty-five.
The emperor ordered the funeral to be held in mourning in the capital, and he was given 20,000 yuan and fifty pieces of cloth for his family to attend the funeral.
Xiao Qia authored twenty volumes of collected works, which are widely circulated in the world.
Chu Qiu, courtesy name Zhongbao, was born in Yangzhai, Henan.
His great-great-grandfather, Uncle Du, served as the general who conquered the captives and the governor of Yongzhou during the Song Dynasty. His grandfather Chu Ai served as Dazai and joined the army as a foreign soldier. His father, Chu Ji, was appointed as the crown prince. These people all married princesses from the Song Dynasty.
Chu Qiu's father died when he was young. His family was poor, but he was dedicated, studious, and quick-thinking.
Liu Jingsu, King Jianping of Song Dynasty, was executed during the reign of Chengluan, leaving only one daughter alive.
His old subordinates He Changjuan and Wang Siyuan heard that Chu Qiu was noble and loyal, so they married the girl to him and continued to spread his reputation.
Chu Qiu became an official in the Qi Dynasty. At first, he served as Zhenglu Xing and joined the army. Soon he acted on behalf of Fa Cao and was promoted to the title of Princess Qujiang of the Right Army.
Chu Qiu came out of Beijing to serve as the magistrate of Liyang. During his tenure, he was honest and upright, and he only lived on his salary.
Later, he was appointed as the chief administrator of Pingxi.
In the early years of Tianjian, Chu Qiu was promoted to Prince Xima, Sanqi Shilang, and Zhongshu General Shiren.
He came to the capital to serve as the Jiankang Order, and resigned after his mother died. Later, the imperial court asked him to recuperate during the mourning period and take up his original post, but he resolutely refused to take up the post.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed Beizhonglang to consult and join the army. Soon he was promoted to Zhongshulang, and also served as Zhongshu Tongshiren.
Chu Qiu was also awarded the title of General Yunqi, and was promoted to concurrently serving as Tingwei and Guangluqing. As before, he also served as Zhongshu General and Shiren.
Later he was promoted to censor Zhongcheng.
Chu Qiu has a fair and strong character. Nothing can make him give in. He is very qualified as the censor Zhongcheng.
In ordinary four years, he went to Beijing to serve as the chief historian of Beizhong Lang and the prefect of Nanlanling. Then he went to Beijing and served as a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, and also served as the supervisor of Yulin.
In ordinary seven years, he was promoted to the position of Taifuqing, and soon he was promoted to Duguan Shangshu.
During the reign of Zhongdatong, he went to Beijing to serve as Renwei, Prince Changshi of Linchuan, and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia. He did not go to his post because of illness.
The imperial court appointed him as Guanglu doctor, but before he accepted it, he was appointed as Taifu Qing and an infantry captain.
Soon he was promoted to be the regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, secretary supervisor, and leader of books.
Later, he was promoted to Situ Zuo Changshi, and his positions of regular attendant and author remained unchanged.
Since Sun Li in the Wei Dynasty and Jianyu in the Jin Dynasty, Chu Qiu has been the official assistant to the three princes.
Soon after, he left the capital and served as General Zhenwei, Qingche, Hedong Wang Changshi, and his mother's mother Lu Taishou. After entering the capital, he served as a regular attendant on the cavalry and led the infantry.
Soon, Shang Biao requested to resign from his official position, but the emperor issued an edict not to allow it.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Guanglu Doctor, and he died in office at the age of seventy.
Liu Ru, whose courtesy name is Xiaozhi, was born in Anshangli, Pengcheng.
His grandfather, Liu Meng, served as Sikong during the Song Dynasty and followed Duke Zhongzhao of Mi.
His father, Liu Chan, was Taichang at the time of Qi Dynasty, and Mi was the son of Jing.
Liu Ru was smart and alert when he was young and could write articles at the age of seven.
When he was fourteen years old, he was in mourning for his father. He was so emaciated due to grief that his tribe and villagers were surprised by this.
After the mourning period was over, his uncle Liu Zhen was appointed as the prefect of Yixing County. He took him to his post and often sat him beside him and said to his guests: "This child is the pearl of my family."
As an adult, Liu Ru was personable and had a gentle and gentle temperament. Even his family members had never seen him moody or angry.
The state chose him as its chief registrar.
At the beginning of Liu Ru's career, he served as the Central Military Law Enforcement Officer Cao Xing and joined the army. At that time, Shen Yue of the town army heard about his reputation and selected him as the chief secretary. He often traveled and gathered with him to compose poems. Shen Yue admired his literary talent very much.
Liu Ru was promoted many times to serve as the prince's sheren, the chief secretary of the Linchuan king of the Chinese army, the prince's horse washer, and the lieutenant in the Shangshu palace.
He came to Beijing as Tai Mo Ling and had a clean and honest political performance during his tenure.
After he returned to Beijing, he was appointed as King You of Jin'an, and then as Prince Zhongsheren.
Liu Ru liked to write articles when he was young, and he was agile by nature. He once wrote "Li Fu" by the emperor's side.
Later, when he was serving a banquet in the Shouguang Hall, Gaozu ordered his officials to compose poems. Liu Ru and Zhang Shu were both drunk at the time, and before the poems were completed, Gaozu took Liu Ru's hand and wrote poems to make fun of them: Zhang Shu is a handsome man from the southeast, and Liu Ru is a talented man from Luoyang. He should have written it as soon as he picked up the pen. Why is it so late?
He was so closely respected by Emperor Gaozu.
Liu Ru was transferred to the post of Zhongshu Lang, and also served as Zhongshu general secretary.
Soon he was moved to the position of Prince's family magistrate, and other official positions remained unchanged.
Liu Ru left the capital and served as the chief historian of Xuanhui, King of Jin'an, led Danyang Yincheng, and moved to the position of prince's concubine and minister of official affairs.
He came out of Beijing to serve as the chief historian of Qingche Xiangshu King, and served as the magistrate of Kuaiji County. He was dismissed due to official business.
Soon he was re-appointed as the royal secretary, the minister of Sanqi, and the minister of Guanglu.
Lei Jing was promoted to the post of Shaofu Qing, Situ Zuo Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng. He was considered qualified for the position.
In the second year of Qutong's reign, he moved to the position of regular attendant of Sanqi.
In the third year of Datong, he moved to Zuo Min Shangshu and led the infantry school captain.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, Liu Ru came to Beijing and served as Renwei, Prince Changshi of Linchuan, Grand Administrator of Jiangxia, and General Jia Zhenwei.
In the fifth year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as General Ningyuan and Situ Zuo Changshi. Before he was awarded the official title, he was appointed Duguan Shangshu and led the right army general.
In the fifth year of Datong, he served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
That year, he went to Beijing to serve as General Mingwei and Landing Prefect.
The political affairs are managed smoothly and smoothly, and he is praised by the officials and the people.
In the seventh year of Datong, he entered Beijing as a servant and led the right army.
At that time, he was appointed Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but resigned because his mother died.
Before the mourning period was over, he died of excessive grief at the age of fifty-nine.
Mi was named Filial Son.
When Liu Ru was young, he was as famous as his cousins ​​Bao and Xiaochuo. Bao died young and Xiaochuo was dismissed from office many times for crimes. Their status was not high, only Liu Ru was famous.
Liu Ru is the author of twenty volumes of collected works.
Liu Ru's son Liu Cu, who served as a scholar, died young.
Liu Ru has two younger brothers: Liu Lan and Liu Zun.
Liu Lan, whose courtesy name was Xiaozhi, was proficient in "Lao" and "Yi" at the age of sixteen.
He was appointed Zhongshu Lang. Because he was in mourning for his biological mother, he lived in a thatched hut next to the cemetery. He ate a light vegetarian diet for two years, did not taste salt and sauce, and wore only single cloth clothes in winter.
Worried that he could not bear the grief during the mourning period, his family secretly placed a charcoal fire under his bed in the middle of the night. Liu Lan fell asleep because there was a heater in the room. When he woke up and found out about this, he howled and cried to the point of vomiting blood.
Emperor Gaozu heard that he had the utmost filial piety and visited him many times.
After the period of mourning expired, he was appointed as Minister Zuocheng.
Liu Lan was a smart person. He had a history of 700 people. He could remember the names of people he met.
Liu Lan was an honest and fair official with no selfish motives.
His brother-in-law, Yushi Zhongcheng Chuyan, and his cousin, Libu Lang Liu Xiaochuo, often accepted bribes while in office. Liu Lan reported to the emperor for impeachment, and both of them were removed from their official positions.
Liu Xiaochuo resented Liu Lan and once told people: Dogs bite passers-by, but Liu Lan bites his own family.
Liu Lan came to Beijing to serve as Shixing's internal history and manage political affairs. He worked hard to remain clean and honest.
After he returned to Beijing, he was appointed Minister Zuocheng and died in office.
Liu Zun's courtesy name is Xiaoling.
When he was young, he was noble, elegant, knowledgeable, of good conduct, and good at writing articles.
At the beginning of his career, Liu Zun was appointed as a writer, and the prince gave up his duties. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to the office of Jin'an Wang Xuanhui and Yunhui, and received great courtesy. He later transferred to the post of governor of Southern Xuzhou.
King Jin'an later served as the governor of Yongzhou, and selected Liu Zun to join the army at Anbei Consultation and lead the county magistrate.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, King Jin'an was established as the crown prince, and then Liu Zun was appointed as the concubine.
Liu Zuncong followed King Jin'an first in the feudal town and later in the Cambodian palace. Because of his past kindness, he received special favor. No one could catch up with him at that time.
In the first year of Datong, Liu Zun died in office. The crown prince deeply mourned him and felt sorry for his passing. He wrote an edict to Liu Zun's cousin Yang Xianling Liu Xiaoyi saying:
Liu Zun, the concubine among the virtuous cousins, passed away suddenly. How can I express my sorrow in words?
He is filial to his parents, loving and loving to his brothers. If you stick to the right path in life and in life, you will have virtues like jade inside, and your appearance will be as clear as water.
His good reputation spread among his friends, and he was consistent in his words and deeds.
He is knowledgeable in literature and history, has good moral character in his heart, and writes rich and gorgeous words, weaving them into chapters and making them colorful.
He not only showed his humble nature, but also felt at ease in the position that was wasted. He never visited the public ministers, invited private friends, secretly made friends, and sought fame and fortune. Therefore, Xin Ta did not recommend him, and Du Wu failed to understand him, so that he was in Ruan Fang and Huan. The official position that Ye Wang once held has been in flux for more than five years. His colleagues have been promoted, and most of the juniors have been promoted. However, he enjoys himself, sticks to his quiet life, and does not care about his salary. Such unwavering ambition can never be found easily.
Just like observing treasures in the West River and standing alone in the East River, what is recorded in ancient books will never exceed this kind of virtue.
In the past, when I was in Hannan, Liu Zun was re-elected as secretary, and when I took the position of Zhu Fang, he was again serving as chief.
On a good day with beautiful scenery, a clear breeze and a bright moonlit night, riding on a moor boat and listening to the ibis's whine, he never failed to accompany me and never failed to meet me.
During the banquet, when the wine was in full swing, we expressed our aspirations and wrote poems together, commented on the virtuous and virtuous, and discussed literature and history. The ancients said that there are three beneficial friends, and he was indeed that kind of beneficial friend.
He promoted education in small counties, and his virtues did not need to be reiterated repeatedly, but could make the people remember him for a long time when he left his post. Everyone had a heart of benevolence, so that docile wild pheasants could be seen everywhere in the wild, flying like a majestic phoenix feather. This shows Liu Zun's good governance, which is enough to verify that he has all kinds of virtues and talents.
By the time I entered the East Palace, we were able to meet and talk frequently. Being in Bowang Garden, I had no guests to interact with, and the supervisor was responsible for my moral education, and there were many etiquette regulations, so I had to accompany me as an old friend. Now that this old friend has passed away, it is really sad and sad. It is false to say that God only helps good people. Is this how God rewards people?
I can imagine how your heavy heart of pain and mourning can be stopped.
The person has passed away, and there is nothing I can do about it. When I put down my pen, I feel even more sad and sad.
Yesterday I wanted to write an epitaph for Liu Zun and compile a collection of his essays at the same time.
But I am weak in talent and cannot spread his reputation while he is alive so that he can show his talents. What benefit does writing inscriptions and compiling collections of essays for him now do to the dead?
It's just that I can't stop feeling this deep pain.
Liu Qian, also known as Xiaoyi, was the younger brother of secretary supervisor Liu Xiaochuo.
His father passed away when he was young. He and his brothers encouraged each other to study diligently. They were all good at writing articles.
Xing Maolong often said that the third brother's articles were good, and the sixth brother's poems were good. The third brother was Liu Xiaoyi, and the sixth brother was Liu Xiaowei.
In the fifth year of Tianjian, Liu Qian was promoted as a scholar.
He first became an official in Zhenyou and served as King Facao Xing of Shixing in Zhenyou. He joined the army and followed the palace to Yizhou, where he also served as a recorder.
King Shixing came to Beijing to serve as the Central Fujun, and Liu Qian was transferred to the position of Chief Secretary and then to the position of Zhonglang of Shangshu Palace.
The emperor ordered him to write the "Golden Statue Stele of Pingping Temple in Yongzhou", which is very magnificent and gorgeous.
Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an, came out of the capital to guard Xiangyang, and appointed Liu Xiaoyi as the Anbei Gongcao Shi. He resigned because of his mother's death.
The king of Jin'an established him as the crown prince, and Liu Xiaoyi's period of mourning expired. He was then appointed crown prince Xima and moved to Zhongsheren.
Liu Qian left the capital and served as General Rongzhao and Yangxian Ling. He had many acclaimed political achievements, so he was promoted to Jiankang Ling.
In the third year of Datong, he moved to Zhongshu Lang and was demoted due to official duties. He was appointed as an advisor to Anxi to join the army and also served as a regular attendant on casual cavalry.
When he returned to Beijing as an envoy to Wei, he was appointed Zhongshu Lang.
Soon, he temporarily served as the chief historian of Situ You, the chief historian of Ningyuan, and the governor of Langye County in Pengcheng.
He was repeatedly promoted to the position of Minister Zuocheng and Yushi Zhongcheng. When he was in office, he was fearless in impeaching ministers. People at that time praised him.
In the tenth year of Datong, Liu Qian left the capital and served as General Fubo and Prefect of Linhai.
At this time, laws and regulations were relaxed, and many people did not abide by the ban.
As soon as Liu Xiaoyi took office, he announced the legal provisions and worked hard to appease the people. The territory soon settled down and the customs and sentiments of the people changed greatly.
In the first year of Zhong Datong, he came to Beijing and served as the governor of the capital.
In the first year of Taiqing, he came to Beijing and served as General Mingwei and Internal History of Yuzhang.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing invaded the capital. Liu Xiaoyi sent his son Liu Li to lead 3,000 soldiers from Yuzhang County to follow Wei Can, the former governor of Hengzhou, to the capital for rescue.
In the third year of Taiqing, the capital fell. Liu Xiaoyi was forced by Zhuang Tie, the former Liyang governor, and lost Yuzhang County.
In the first year of Dashi, Liu Xiaoyi died of illness at the age of sixty-seven.
Liu Xiaoyi is a generous person, and her conduct at home is also very sincere and dedicated.
His second brother Liu Xiaoneng died young, and he served his widowed sister-in-law very respectfully. No matter whether it is a big or small matter at home, you must first ask your sister-in-law before making a decision.
He and his wife support and serve his sister-in-law every day and have never behaved disrespectfully.
The world praised him for this.
Liu Xiaoyi wrote twenty volumes of collected works, which were passed down to later generations.
Liu Xiaoyi's fifth brother, Liu Xiaosheng, successively served as the Facao of Shaoling, the chief bookkeeper of Anxi, the king of eastern Hunan, and Zuo Cheng, the minister.
He left the capital to serve as the prefect of Xinyi, but was dismissed due to official business.
After meeting for a long time, he was again appointed as Minister Youcheng and concurrently as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
After returning to Beijing as an envoy to the State of Wei, he was appointed as the chief historian of Xiao Ji, King of Wuling in Anxi, and the prefect of Shu County.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing captured the capital, and Xiao Ji usurped the throne in Shu County and proclaimed himself king, appointing Liu Xiaosheng as Shangshu Pushe.
During the Chengsheng period, he followed Xiao Ji and sent troops to Xiakou. After the defeat, he was arrested and imprisoned.
Soon the emperor forgave him and appointed him as Situ Youzhangshi.
Liu Xiaoyi's sixth brother, Liu Xiaowei, first took up an official position as the Facao of Prince An in Anbei, and was transferred to the position of Chief Registrar. He resigned because of his mother's death.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed Prince to Wash Horses. He was promoted to Zhongshe Ren and Shuzi, and was given the title of Commander-in-Chief.
In the ninth year of Datong, Baique gathered in the East Palace, and Liu Xiaowei sang a beautiful ode to this event.
During the Taiqing period, he moved to the position of concubine, and concurrently served as general secretary.
During Hou Jing's rebellion, Liu Xiaowei escaped from the siege and followed Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, to the west. He arrived in Anlu and died of illness.
Liu Xiaoyi's seventh brother Liu Xiaoxian served as King Wuling's Facao and Chief Secretary. King Wuling moved to Yizhou to be the governor. He followed the palace to Yizhou and was transferred to the Anxi Record Office.
During the reign of Prime Minister Liu Xiaosheng, he and his brother Liu Xiaosheng followed Ji's army out of the gorge. After the defeat, they went to Jiangling. The emperor appointed him as the Huangmen Minister and moved him to the position of Minister.
Both brothers are good at writing five-character poems, so they are valued by the world.
Due to the war, his collected works have not been completely preserved.
Yin Yun was named Guanshu and was a native of Changping, County Chen.
He has a free and easy temperament, and does not stick to trivial matters, but he does not interact with others casually, and there are no idle guests in his home.
Yin Yun is determined to make progress, diligent and studious, and well-read.
When he was young, He Xian of Lujiang saw him and admired him very much.
During the Yongming Dynasty, Wang Xing of Yidu joined the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as the chief secretary of Xizhonglang and the royal recorder of Houjun Linchuan.
In the seventh year of Yujian, he moved to Tongzhi Sanqi Shilang and Zhongshu Tongshisheren.
In the 10th year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the Minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, Zuocheng of Shangshu, and Sheren of Zhongshu. He was moved to the position of Doctor of Guozi, Minister of Prince Zhaoming, Changshi of Xizhonglang Yuzhang Wang, Lingqieyan Yincheng, and was promoted to Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, Secretary Supervisor, and Situ Zuochangshi.
Ordinarily for six years, he served as the Bachelor of the East Palace.
After three years of mastership, he died at the age of fifty-nine.
Xiao Ji, also known as Dexuan, was the son of Duke Jiang Yaoxin of Qiqu.
He could write articles at the age of ten.
Xiao Ji lost his father very early and had nine younger brothers, all of whom were young. Lu Ji loved his younger brother very much. The brothers had a deep relationship and lived in harmony. Scholars in both the government and the public knew about his virtues.
He has a gentle temperament and does not fight with others. His family is poor, but he can work hard to be self-reliant.
He loves learning and is good at cursive script.
Lao Gongze, the governor of Yiye, was an old subordinate of Di Liaogong.
Every time he saw Xiao Ji, he would tell people: This son of Duke Qu Jiang can be said to be Huan Lingbin reborn.
When Yang Gongze passed away, Xiao Ji wrote an admonition for him. He was only fifteen years old at the time. Shen Yue read his article and praised it greatly. He said to Xiao Ji's uncle Cai Hu: Yesterday I saw your nephew's admonishment for Yang Gongze. It is no less than Xie Xiyi's article. It is the fulfillment of Qujiang Gong's good deeds and left a blessing.
Xiao Ji became an official and served as Zuo Lang, King of Luling Literature, Zhonglang of the Shangshu Palace, Prince Sheren, in charge of records. He moved to the position of Prince Zhongshuzi, Zhongshu Shilang, and Shangshu Zuocheng.
In his later years, he devoted himself to advocating Buddhism.
Xiao Ji served as the prefect of Xin'an, and the county had many strange mountains and rivers, which suited his hobbies. He traveled around according to his temperament, and then made notes about it.
He died in office.
Xiao Ji's son Xiao Wei, whose courtesy name was Yuan Zhuan, was also talented in literature. He became the crown prince and passed away his family to Yongkang.
Shi Chen said: "People like Wang Gui are all famous. When the opportunity comes, they each show their talents. What a beautiful thing!"
The "Dangtuyan Monument" written by Xiao Qiajiang was praised by literati, and Liu Xiaoyi and his brothers became famous for their articles. From this, a gentleman can know that there is talent for cutting!
