Among the rulers of Nanyi, Yelang is the largest. To the west, Mimo is the largest, and Dian is the largest. From Dian to the north, Qiongdu is the largest.
People in these countries all wear cone-shaped buns, cultivate fields, and have their own small towns and villages.
In addition, from Tongshi in the west to Yeyu in the north, they are named Lun and Kunming. They all have braided hair and move around with the grazing livestock. They have no fixed residence and no ruler. Their range of activities is about several thousand miles.
From Song to the northeast, the king's length is calculated by ten, and the migration and extraction are the largest.
From Judu to the northeast, the ruler's length is calculated by ten, and Ran Xiao is the largest.
Among the customs there, some are settled and some are migrating.
To the west of Shu County, from Ranji to the northeast, the king's length is calculated by ten, and the white horse is the largest. These are all Di tribe.
The above are all barbarians outside the southwest of Bajun and Shujun.
At first, King Chu Wei sent General Zhuang Cuo to lead his army up the Yangtze River and captured the area west of Bajun and Qianzhong County.
Zhuang Qi is a descendant of King Zhuang of Chu. Zhuang Chu arrived at Dianchi Lake.
Dianchi Lake has a radius of three hundred miles, and beside the pool is flat land, fertile and fertile, with a radius of several thousand miles. Zhuang Zhen relied on the power of his army to pacify this area and make it belong to the Chu State.
Zhuang Jiao planned to return to Chu State to report, but the Qin State attacked Chu State and captured Bajun and Qianzhong County of Chu State. The road was blocked and he could not return, so he relied on his army to become king in Yunnan. Zhuang Jiao changed her clothes and followed the customs of Nabu in order to rule the barbarians in Nabu.
During the Qin Dynasty, this area was captured, the Five Feet Road was roughly opened, and officials were appointed for some countries in this area.
After more than ten years, the Qin Dynasty perished.
By the rise of the Han Dynasty, all these countries were abandoned and the original borders of Shu were used as passersby.
Some people from Bajun and Shujun secretly went out to do business in this area in exchange for horses from the capital, slaves and yaks from the Fen tribe. As a result, Bajun and Shujun became prosperous.
In the sixth year of the founding of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wang Hui was ordered to attack Shuyue. The Shuyue people killed King Ying of Dongyue and then told Wang Hui.
Taking advantage of his military power, Wang Hui sent Pan Yang to order Tang Meng to euphemistically inform Nanyue of the Han Dynasty's intention to launch an army.
The people of southern Guangdong entertained Tang Meng with wolfberry sauce from Shu. Tang Meng asked about the origin of the wolfberry sauce. The answer was: It was brought from Pangkejiang in the northwest. The Yangke River is several miles wide and flows under Panyu City.
Tang Meng returned to Chang'an and asked businessmen in Shu, only to learn that only Shu produced wolfberry sauce, and many Shu people secretly sold it to Yelang.
Yelang is close to the Pangke River, which is more than a hundred paces wide and can be used for boats. The people of Nanyue used their property to make Yelang surrender. The influence of Nanyue reached directly to the west of Tongshi, but they still could not use Yelang like a vassal.
Tang Meng then wrote to Emperor Mowu saying: The king of Nanyue took the yellow house and decorated the left banner. He occupied a territory of more than 10,000 miles from east to west. In name, he was a vassal of the country, but in fact he was the lord of a state.
Now Changsha Kingdom and Yuzhang County are going to conquer, and most of the waterways are cut off and difficult to navigate.
I heard that Yelang's elite troops, perhaps numbering 100,000, sailed down the Yangke River by boat to catch them by surprise. This was a clever trick to subdue southern Guangdong.
If we rely on the strength of the Han Dynasty and the wealth of the two counties of Ba and Shu, it will be easy to open the road to Yelang and set up officials for those places.
The emperor agreed to Tang Meng's suggestion.
So Tang Meng was appointed as Lieutenant General Lang, leading a thousand soldiers and more than 10,000 servants carrying food and baggage. Entering Yelang from Baduguan, he immediately met Yelang Hou Duotong.
Tang Meng rewarded Duotong heavily, told him the stakes, and agreed with Duotong to appoint officials to Yelang and let Duotong's son hold an official position similar to a county magistrate.
The small countries near Yelang all coveted the Han Dynasty's silk, and believed that the Han Dynasty's road to this area was difficult and dangerous, and they would not be able to possess them after all, so they temporarily accepted the alliance between Duotong and Tang Meng.
Tang Meng reported to the court, and the court designated the location of Yelang and these small countries as Jianwei County.
The Han Dynasty recruited infantrymen from Bajun and Shujun to build roads from Fendao to the Yangke River.
Sima Xiangru, a native of Shu County, also wrote a letter saying that counties could be established in the Qiongdu and Jiadu areas of Xiyi.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Sima Xiangru to go to the Xiyi area as a lieutenant general and inform the Xiyi people of the court's intentions. The situation was the same as that of Nanyi. The imperial court appointed a county captain to Nahuo and established more than ten counties under the management of Shu County.
At this time, the four counties of Ba, Shu, Guangmo, and Hanzhong were building roads leading to the southwestern Yi region, and the transportation of grain and wages required for road construction was difficult.
After several years, the road was not repaired. Many of the soldiers who built the road died due to fatigue, hunger, and the heat and humidity. There were many rebellions in the southwestern barbarians. They mobilized troops to attack the rebels, but they spent money and resources without any results.
These situations made the emperor very worried, so he sent Gongsun Hong to those places to inspect and understand.
Gongsun Hong came back and reported that there was no benefit in setting up county officials there.
When Gongsun Hong served as the censor, the imperial court was building Shuofang County and driving out the Xiongnu according to the Yellow River. Gongsun Hong and others took the opportunity to state the damage caused by the campaign against the southwestern barbarians, and believed that the campaign against the southwestern barbarians could be temporarily suspended in order to concentrate on dealing with the Xiongnu.
The emperor agreed with these suggestions, abolished the officials in the Xiyi area, and only established two counties and one captain in the Nanyi area, allowing Jianwei County to protect itself and gradually improve its county system.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Zhang Qian, the Marquis of Bowang, said that when he was on a mission to Daxia, he saw the bundles of cloth produced in Shu and the bamboo sticks produced in Qiong Mountain. He asked where they came from, and he replied: They came from Shendu country in the southeast. Shendu country is about several thousand miles away from this place. I bought them from Shu merchants there.
He also heard that there was a country about two thousand miles west of Qiong Mountain.
Zhang Qian took the opportunity to declare that Daxia was located to the southwest of the Han Dynasty. It envied China and suffered from the Xiongnu blocking its communication with the Han Dynasty. If the road to Shu could be opened, it would be convenient for Shendu to communicate with the Han Dynasty, which would be beneficial to the Han Dynasty.
Therefore, the emperor ordered Wang Ranyu, Bai Shichang, Lu Yueren and more than ten people to search for a small road and set out from the southwestern Yi area to find the country of Shendu.
When they arrived in the Dian Kingdom, they were retained by Dang Qiang, the king of Dian, who sent people to the west to find a way for them.
After more than four years, all the explorers were blocked by Kunming Yi, and no one could pass.
The King of Dian asked the envoy of the Han Dynasty: Which one is bigger than the Han Dynasty and our Dian Kingdom?
When the Han Dynasty envoy arrived at Yelang, the Marquis of Yelang also asked the same question. These princes all thought they were kings of a state and had no idea of ​​the vast territory of the Han Dynasty.
After the envoy came back, he tried his best to declare that Dian was a great country in Nabo and could definitely attract its attachment.
The emperor also paid attention to this matter.
When the Southern Guangdong rebellion came, the emperor ordered Chiyihou to recruit the Nanyi army through Jianwei County. The leader of Qielan was worried that his army would go away during the expedition, and nearby countries would take the opportunity to plunder their own old and weak people, so he and his tribe launched a rebellion and killed the Han Dynasty envoys and the governor of Jianwei County.
The Han Dynasty dispatched criminals from Bajun and Shujun, who were supposed to attack southern Guangdong, and the Eighth School Lieutenant to attack Qielan.
Just in time to catch up with the defeat of South Vietnam, the eight lieutenants of the Han Dynasty did not go down the Yangke River as originally planned. Zhonglang generals Guo Chang and Wei Guang led their troops back and took advantage of the march to punish Qielan, who had blocked the Han Dynasty's road to the Dian Kingdom. He killed tens of thousands, and then pacified Nanyi and used the land as Yangke County.
Yelanghou relied on Nanyue at first. After the fall of Nanyue, the Han Dynasty's army returned and punished the rebellious countries. Yelanghou went to Beijing to see the emperor, who named him King Yelang.
After the fall of Southern Guangdong, the Han Dynasty killed Qielan and Qiongdu Lord, and also killed the Lord of Zhadu. The leaders of Ran Xiaoyi were shocked and panicked, and asked to submit to the Han Dynasty and let the Han Dynasty appoint officials. Therefore, the Han Dynasty designated the residence of Qiongdu Yi as Guangdong County, the residence of Zhadu Yi as Shenli County, the residence of Ran Xiaoyi as Wenshan County, and the residence of Baima Yi to the west of Guanghan County as Wudu County.
The emperor ordered Wang Ranyu to persuade the Dian king to join the dynasty with the military situation of destroying Eastern Guangdong and conquering the southern barbarians.
The King of Dian has tens of thousands of tribesmen, and in the northeast there are Laoshen and Mimo. They have the same surname as Dian and rely on each other. They do not listen to the advice about the King of Dian entering the dynasty.
Lao Shen and Mi Mo repeatedly offended the envoys, officials and soldiers of the Han Dynasty.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the emperor mobilized troops from Bajun and Shujun to attack Laoshen and Mimo. The troops came to Dian Kingdom.
Since the King of Dian was originally friendly with the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty did not execute him.
The King of Dian broke away from the Western Yi, and the whole country surrendered to the Han Dynasty. He asked the Han Dynasty to appoint officials and go to Beijing to see the emperor. So the Han Dynasty made Nahuo a Yizhou county and gave the king of Dian the royal seal so that he could still rule his people.
There were hundreds of leaders of the southwestern barbarians, but only the leaders of Yelang and Dian received the royal seal.
Dian is a small country that was most favored by the Han Dynasty.
Twenty-three years later, in the first year of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, the people of Liantou and Guzhen in Yizhou rebelled and killed the chief officials.
More than 30,000 people from 24 countries including Pang Ke, Tan Zhi, and Tong Bing also rebelled.
The Han Dynasty sent Captain Shuiheng to mobilize more than 10,000 soldiers from Shu and Jianwei counties to attack Qunke and completely defeat the rebels.
Three years later, Guzhen and Ye Yu rebelled again. The Han Dynasty sent Shuiheng Captain Lu Pihu to lead county troops to attack the rebels.
Before Lu Pihu's army could advance to Yeyu and Guzhen, the barbarians killed the prefect of Yizhou and took advantage of the victory to fight Lu Pihu. More than 4,000 Han soldiers died in battle or drowned.
The next year, he sent troops such as Wang Ping and Dahong Tian Guangming to attack, completely defeating the rebels in Yizhou, capturing and killing more than 50,000 people, and capturing more than 100,000 livestock.
The Emperor said: Gou Ding Hou Neng Bo led the leaders and people of the small country under his jurisdiction to attack the rebels. He captured and killed them with meritorious service, and established Nang Bo as the King of Xuan Ding.
Dahonglu Tian Guangming was rewarded with the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 300 households.
A year later, the Di people in Wudu County rebelled. The imperial court dispatched Jinwu Ma Shijian, Long'ehou Han Zeng and Dahonglu Tian Guangming to lead troops to attack the rebels.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty in Heping, Wang Xing of Yelang, Wang Yu of Gouding, and Hou Yu of Luwo raised their troops to attack each other.
The governor of Yangke requested to attack Yelang Wang Xing and others. Those who discussed troop deployment believed that the road was too far to attack, so the imperial court sent Zhang Kuangchijie, a Taizhong doctor from Shu County, to reconcile the conflicts between the barbarian princes.
Yelang, Wang Xing and others did not obey the orders of the Han Dynasty officials. They carved wooden figures that looked like Han Dynasty officials and stood on the roadside to shoot.
Du Qin said to General Wang Feng: Taizhong official Zhang Kuang sent an envoy to reconcile the disputes between the barbarian princes. The princes accepted the Shao Order of the Han Dynasty, but further attacked each other, despised the Han Dynasty envoys, and were not afraid of the country's power. This shows the effect of reconciliation.
Worried that the people who discussed sending troops were weak and insisted on reconciliation, the prefect observed the movements of the barbarians and reported to the police only when something happened.
Like this, it will take a few more months for the barbarian princes to organize their tribes and stubbornly adhere to their own strategies. They have many followers and are extremely angry, and they will definitely kill each other and eliminate them.
If he knows that he has committed a crime, he will suddenly become mad and rebellious and kill the prefect or captain. Traveling far and deep into hot, humid and poisonous weeds areas, even if there are generals like Sun Wu and Wu Qi, and warriors like Meng Ben and Xia Yu, is equivalent to being plunged into fire and water. If you go there, you will definitely be scorched and submerged, and you will not be able to use your wisdom and courage.
It would be too expensive to defend them in the field.
They should take advantage of the fact that their crimes have not yet been committed and there is no doubt that the Han Dynasty is going to attack them. They should secretly order the governors and captains of nearby counties to select soldiers and war horses. Da Sinong will allocate grain to key places in advance and select competent governors to go there. In the cool autumn, they will enter the area and kill the most unruly princes.
If you think that sage kings will not tire China with barren land and useless people, you should abolish the establishment of Naguo County, abandon the people of Naguo, sever relations with the princes of Naguo, and no longer have contact with them.
If the achievements made by the late emperor cannot be destroyed, we should eradicate the disaster when it is budding. Wait until the disaster has already occurred, and then go out to attack, hundreds of millions of people will suffer.
At this time, General Wang Feng recommended Chen Li, Sima of Jincheng, as the prefect of Yangke County.
Chen Li was a native of Linqiong. He had previously served as the magistrate of Lianran County and the magistrate of Buwei County. The barbarians were afraid of him.
When Chen Li arrived at Qunke, he informed Yelang Wang Xing of the court's intentions, but Xing did not obey the order. Chen Li requested to attack him.
Before receiving approval, Chen Li accompanied dozens of officials to the lower counties. When they arrived at Qie Tong Pavilion of Yelang Kingdom, they summoned Yelang Wang Xing. Yelang Wang Xing led thousands of people there. When they arrived at Qie Tong Pavilion, Yelang Wang Xing and dozens of Yijuns went in to see Chen Li.
Chen Li condemned and scolded them, and took the opportunity to kill King Yelang.
The princes who followed Yelang King said: The general killed the rude people who did not abide by the law and eliminated harm for the people. They hope to show Yelang King Xing's head to the public.
The head of King Yelang Xing was displayed to the public, and all the people of King Yelang laid down their weapons and surrendered.
King Yu of Gouding and Hou Yu of Luwo were frightened, so they paid a thousand bushels of dendrobium and some cattle and sheep to reward the officers and soldiers of the Han Dynasty.
When Chen Li returned to Pangke County, Yelang Wang Xing's father-in-law Weng Zhi and his son Zie Wu gathered up the remaining soldiers and forced twenty-two nearby cities to rebel.
In winter, Chen Li asked to recruit all the barbarians, and he would lead an army to attack Wengzhi and others separately from the captain and Chang Shi.
Weng Zhi relied on the steep terrain as a fortress. Chen Li used extraordinary troops to cut off Weng Zhi's route of transporting food and wages, and sent out questioners to seduce Weng Zhi's tribe.
Captain Wannian said: The army has not fought decisively for a long time, and the cost and supply cannot keep up.
So he led his army to attack alone. The attack failed and he fled to Chen Li's military camp.
Chen Li was angry and reprimanded Wan Nian under the banner of the general and ordered him to resist the enemy.
Captain Wannian returned to fight again, and Chen Li led his army to rescue him.
At this time, there was a severe drought, and Chen Li attacked to cut off the water channel.
So the barbarians beheaded Weng Zhi together and came out with Weng Zhi's head to surrender.
Chen Li had already pacified Xiyi, and the emperor summoned them to the capital.
When he caught up with thieves in Bajun, he appointed Chen Li as the prefect of Bajun, with Zhong Two Thousand Stones in his official position. The court rewarded him with the title of Zuo Shu Zhang.
Later, he was appointed as the prefect of Tianshui County. He encouraged the people to devote themselves to farming and mulberry trees, and he was the most outstanding in the world. The court rewarded him with forty pounds of gold. He entered the court and served as General Zuo Cao Wei and Captain of the Guards. He died in office.
Wang Mang usurped the throne, changed the system of the Han Dynasty, and demoted King Gouding to the title of Marquis of Gouding.
Wang Han of Gouching was resentful, and Zhou Qin, the great Yin of Yangke County, killed Han by deceitful means.
Hand's brother Cheng then attacked and killed Zhou Qin, and the prefectures and counties sent troops to fight back against the Gouding barbarians, but they could not subdue them.
The barbarians on the three sides were worried about the invasion, so they all rebelled and killed Chenglong, the great Yin of Yizhou County.
Wang Mang sent Pingman general Feng Mao to mobilize officials and soldiers from Bajun, Shujun and Qianweijun. Collect enough taxes from the people to attack the Yizhou barbarians.
Three years after the expedition, seven out of ten people died of disease and plague, causing unrest in Bajun and Shujun.
Wang Mang summoned Feng Mao to kill him.
Ningshi General Lian Danyuyong was reassigned to Mu Shixiong, and he mobilized cavalry from Tianshui and Longxi counties and 100,000 officials and civilians from Guangmo, Ba, Shu, and Jianwei counties, plus 200,000 people transporting military supplies, to attack the rebels.
When they first arrived, they killed thousands of people. Later, the transportation of military supplies could not keep up, and the soldiers became hungry and sick. Tens of thousands of people died in three years.
Moreover, Ren Gui, a barbarian from Jun County, Guangdong, killed the prefect Mei Gen and established himself as the king of Qiong Valley.
After Wang Mang failed to catch up with him, Han Guangwu Zhongxing killed Ren Gui and restored his original title.
Zhao Tuo, King of Southern Guangdong, was a native of Zhending County.
After Qin unified the world, he pacified Yangyue, established Guilin County, Nanhai County and Xiang County, and moved the people who were punished to Nahuo to live together with the Cantonese people.
Thirteen years later, during the reign of Qin II, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai County, fell ill and was about to die. He summoned the magistrate of Long County, Tuo Tuo, and said to him: I heard that Chen Sheng and others started an army to rebel, and the heroes rebelled against Qin and established themselves as kings. Nanhai County is in a remote place, and I am afraid that the bandit army will capture it.
I wanted to send troops to cut off the new road, defend myself, and observe the movements of the princes, but unfortunately I fell seriously ill.
The Panyu area is backed by mountains, the terrain is difficult, and it is thousands of miles in radius. With the help of many Central Plains people, it can also become the lord of a state and establish a country.
There is no one among the officials in the county who is worthy of my seeking advice, so I have invited you here to tell you what I think.
The relevant documents were immediately issued to Tuo Tuo, and he was asked to act as Nanhai County Lieutenant.
After Ren Xiao's death, Tu Tuo immediately issued a message, notifying Hengpu, Yangshan, Huangxiguan and others: The bandits' army is about to attack. Please cut off the passage immediately and gather troops to defend yourself!
So he used legal means to gradually kill the officials appointed by the Qin Dynasty, and appointed his cronies to perform their duties.
After the fall of the Qin Dynasty, Tuo Tuo attacked and annexed Guilin County and Xiang County, and established himself as King Wu of Southern Guangdong.
After Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty pacified the world, due to the continuous wars in the Central Plains and the hard work of the people, he spared Zhao Tuo and refused to punish him.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the Han Dynasty sent Lu Mai to establish Zhao Tuo as the king of southern Guangdong. He made a talisman with him and asked him to coordinate the security and control of Guangdong and avoid causing trouble on the southern border. Southern Guangdong borders the Changsha Kingdom of the Han Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Gao, officials from relevant departments petitioned to prohibit the Southern Guangdong Kingdom from purchasing ironware in the Guan market.
Tu Tuo said: Emperor Gao made me the king of Nanyue, and the two sides exchanged envoys and goods. Now Gaohou listens to the slanderous ministers, regards the barbarians as aliens, and cuts off the circulation of artifacts. This must be the strategy of King Changsha. He wants to rely on the Han Dynasty to destroy Nanyue, swallow up Nanhai County, and rule together for his own benefit.
Therefore, Zhao Tuo proclaimed himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue and sent troops to attack the border areas of Changsha and defeated several counties.
Empress Gao sent General Long Luhou Zhou Zao to fight back. It was a hot and rainy day. Many soldiers were infected with the plague and the army could not cross the mountains.
More than a year later, Queen Gao died, and the Han Dynasty stopped military operations.
Tu Tuo took the opportunity to threaten Minyue and Xiouluo with force and bribe them with property, thereby enslaving them and making them belong to Nanyue.
In this way, the south of Guangdong reaches more than 10,000 miles from east to west.
Tu Tuo then rode in Zuohuan of Huangwu, proclaimed himself emperor, and competed with the emperor of Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, when the emperor had just begun to rule the world, he sent envoys to all the princes and foreign princes to inform them of his plans after entering the imperial court from Daiguo and becoming emperor, so that everyone would know about the emperor's holiness.
Therefore, a tomb guard house was set up for the tomb of Zhao Tuo's parents in Zhending, and sacrifices were made on time.
He summoned Zhao Tuo's cousins ​​and won them over with official posts and rewards.
He also issued an edict and ordered Prime Minister Chen Ping to recommend people who could be sent as envoys to Southern Guangdong. Chen Ping said that Lu Jia had been on an envoy to Southern Guangdong during the reign of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Wen summoned Lu Jia, appointed him Taizhong doctor, and appointed an emissary as deputy envoy. Emperor Wen's letter to Zhao Tuo said: The emperor respectfully greets the King of Nanyue with the most sincere heart.
I was not the legitimate son of Emperor Gao, but was sent to govern the country of Dai in the north. Due to the long distance and my own isolation and ignorance, I never exchanged envoys with southern Guangdong.
Emperor Gao passed away and left his ministers. Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne. Empress Gao personally took charge of the government. Unfortunately, she fell ill and her illness became increasingly serious. Therefore, the politics were harsh and unconventional.
The Lu family rebelled and deliberately violated laws and regulations. They could not rule alone, so they regarded other people's children as the heirs of Emperor Xiaohui and implemented puppet politics.
Relying on the blessing of the gods of the ancestral temple and the efforts of the heroes, the Lu family has now been exterminated.
I have repeatedly abdicated the throne, but the ministers did not allow it, so I had to establish myself as emperor, and now I have ascended the throne.
I once heard that you wrote to General Longluhou Zhouzao, requesting that your brothers in Zhending be found and that the two generals in Changsha be withdrawn.
In accordance with the request in your letter, I have withdrawn General Boyang Hou Chen Bi, your brother in Zhending, and I have also sent people to comfort and repair the tombs of your ancestors.
I heard before that you sent troops to attack the border and continued to cause trouble.
At that time, Changsha State suffered a disaster, and Nanjun suffered even more. Even your Nanyue State could only benefit?
We must sacrifice a large number of soldiers, harm excellent generals and officials, and cause the common people's wives to lose their husbands, their sons to lose their fathers, and their parents to lose their sons. This is what I cannot bear to do.
I wanted to add the intersecting border between Han and Southern Guangdong to Southern Guangdong, so I asked the relevant officials. The officials said that the boundary line was created by Emperor Gao to demarcate the land of Changsha, so I could not change it without authorization.
The officials said: The land obtained by the King of Nanyue is not enough to make the Han Dynasty large, and the wealth obtained by the King of Nanyue is not enough to make the Han Dynasty rich. The south of the country is ruled by the King of Nanyue.
Despite this, you are called the emperor, and the two emperors stand side by side, but you did not send an envoy's car. This is a competition for position; fighting without humility is what virtuous people do not do.
I hope that we can put aside our past grievances and that from now on and forever, the two sides will communicate with each other as before.
Therefore, I sent Lu Mai to quickly express my thoughts to you. I hope you will accept my opinion and stop creating border troubles.
Now I present fifty pieces of thick cotton clothes, thirty pieces of medium cotton clothes, and twenty pieces of thin cotton clothes as a gift to you. I hope you will enjoy more music and dance to entertain yourself, relieve your sorrow, and soothe neighboring countries such as Fujian, Guangdong, and Ouluo.
When Lu Jia arrived in Nanyue, the King of Nanyue was very frightened, so he kowtowed and apologized, willing to obey the order of the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, to be a vassal of the Han Dynasty forever, and to perform the tribute duty.
At the same time, he ordered the people in the country to say: I heard that two heroes cannot stand together, and two sages cannot coexist in the world.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was a wise emperor.
From now on, the Southern Guangdong Kingdom abolishes the imperial title and Huangwu Zuohu.
He also wrote to Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty and said: After the death of the barbarian chief and old minister Tuo Mei, he paid homage and wrote to His Majesty the Emperor: I was an official in the past in Guangdong. Emperor Gao fortunately gave me his seal and made me the king of southern Guangdong, so that I could serve as a minister abroad and pay tribute on time.
Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne, and he could not bear to abandon me because of his benevolence and righteousness, so he rewarded me very generously.
After Gaohou personally took charge of the country's affairs, he got close to the villains, listened to the words of the slanderous officials, and regarded the barbarians as aliens. He issued an order saying: Iron tools and other metal farm tools such as iron tools are not given to the barbarians in southern Guangdong. If horses, cattle, and sheep are given, only male ones will be given, not females.
I lived in a remote place, and my horses, cattle, and sheep were all old. I knew that not performing sacrifices would be a capital crime, so I sent Nei Shifan, Lieutenant Gao, and Yu Shiping to send letters of thanks three times, but there was no response. I also heard rumors that my parents' tombs had been destroyed, and that my brothers and clan had been convicted and executed.
The officials discussed with each other and said: Now you cannot rise up in the Han Dynasty in the interior, and there is nothing to show your superiority outside, so I changed my title to emperor, but I will only proclaim myself emperor in southern Guangdong and dare not harm the world.
When Empress Gao heard that I had changed my title to emperor, she was very angry. She expelled Nanyue from her vassal status and cut off the communication between envoys from both sides.
I secretly suspected that the king of Changsha was slandering me, so I dared to send troops to attack the border of Changsha.
Moreover, the south is low and humid. Among the barbarians, there is Xiou in the west. The half-naked people are actually called kings in the south. Fujian and Guangdong in the east have only a few thousand people, and they are also called kings. Half of the people in Changsha in the northwest are barbarians, and they are also called kings.
So I dare to steal the emperor's title arrogantly and enjoy myself.
I personally pacified hundreds of cities, with a radius of thousands of miles, and more than a million soldiers, but why did I declare myself a vassal to the Han Dynasty?
Because I dare not disobey my ancestors.
I have been in Guangdong for forty-nine years, and now I have a grandson.
However, I get up early and lie down late, sleep poorly, eat poorly, my eyes dare not look at the gorgeous colors, and my ears dare not listen to the sound of bells and drums. All these are caused by my inability to serve the Han Dynasty.
Now the Emperor has taken pity on me and restored my original royal title, so that I can communicate with the Han Dynasty as before. I will die in peace. From now on, I will change my title and never dare to call myself emperor again!
I respectfully presented a pair of white jade stones, a thousand kingfishers, ten rhinoceros horns, five hundred purple clams, a bottle of cinnamon beetles, forty pairs of emeralds, and two pairs of peacocks through the envoy.
I will worship again after my death and express my feelings to His Majesty the Emperor.
Lu Jia came back to report, and Emperor Wen was very happy.
Until the time of Emperor Xiaojing, Tuo Tuo proclaimed himself a minister and sent envoys to pay homage to the emperor on time.
However, the King of Nanyue continued to use the title of emperor in his own country; he only proclaimed himself king when envoys paid homage to the emperor, and accepted the emperor's orders like other princes and kings.
In the fourth year of the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Hu, the grandson of Tu Tuo, became the king of Southern Guangdong.
In the third year, Ying, the king of Fujian and Guangdong, raised his troops to attack the cities on the border of southern Guangdong.
The King of Nanyue sent a letter to the Han Dynasty saying: Nanyue and Minyue are both vassals of the emperor, and they cannot send troops to attack each other without permission.
Now Shu Yue is raising troops to attack Nan Yue without authorization. I dare not send troops, so I ask the emperor to issue an edict.
So Emperor Wu praised Nan Yue for his loyalty, abiding by his duties and not breaking the rules, so he sent troops for it and sent two generals to attack Fujian and Guangdong.
Before the Han army could cross the mountains, Yu Shan, the younger brother of the King of Fujian and Guangdong, killed Ying and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, so the two generals stopped their troops.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Yan Zhu to explain the imperial intention to the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue, Zhao Hu, kowtowed and said: How could the emperor send troops to conquer Fujian and Guangdong for me? Even if I die, I will not be able to repay the emperor's kindness!
Send the prince to the imperial guard together with the infant.
Zaihu said to Yanzhu: The country of Southern Guangdong has been attacked by invaders. Your envoy, please go ahead. I am getting ready day and night to go to court to see the emperor.
After Yan Zhu left, the ministers of Southern Guangdong advised Zhao Hu and said: The Han Dynasty sent troops to attack Fujian and Guangdong, and also used this to intimidate Southern Guangdong.
Moreover, the late king once said that when serving the emperor, one only needs to be courteous. The most important thing is not to be deceived by the good words of the Han Dynasty envoys and enter the court to pay homage to the emperor.
Once you enter the court to pay homage to the emperor, you will not be able to come back again. This is a situation of national subjugation.
So Zhao Hu pretended to be ill and did not go to the court to pay homage to the emperor.
More than ten years later, Tread Hu did become seriously ill, and Prince Tread Yingqi asked to return to the country.
After Zai Hu died, he was given the title King Wen.
When Zhao Yingqi succeeded to the throne of Nanyue, he collected the seals of his ancestors who had pretended to be Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen.
When Te Yingqi was in Chang'an, he married a woman named Do from Handan and gave birth to his son Te Xing.
After he ascended the throne, he sent a letter to the Han Dynasty, requesting that a woman surnamed Zhu be the queen and Zhao Xing be the heir to the throne.
The Han Dynasty sent envoys many times to tactfully persuade Chang Yingqi to go to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but he still liked to monopolize the power of life and death and do whatever he wanted. He was afraid that after going to the court to pay homage to the emperor, he would be bound by the laws of the Han Dynasty like the princes in the mainland, so he insisted on pretending that he was ill. He has always refused to go to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but sent his son Zhao Cigong to serve as a guard in the court.
After Zhao Yingqi's death, he was given the title of King Ming.
Prince Zhao Xing ascended the throne, and his mother Zhu became the queen mother.
Before Queen Mother Kill became Tang Yingqi's wife, she had an affair with An Guo Shaoji from Baling County.
After the death of Zhao Yingqi, in the fourth year of Yuanding, the Han Dynasty sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother to enter the court to pay homage to the emperor. They also sent debaters, admonishing doctor Zhongjun and others to state their case. The warrior Wei Chen and others assisted in decision-making. Weiwei Lu Bode led his troops to station in Guiyang County to wait for the envoy.
The King of Southern Guangdong, Zhao Xing, was young, and the Queen Mother Zhu was from the Central Plains. An Guo Shaoji was on an envoy this time and had an affair with the Queen Mother. People in South Guangdong knew about this, and most of them did not rely on the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother was afraid that something might happen, so she wanted to rely on the power of the Han Dynasty to persuade the King of Nanyue and his favored ministers to request that the country belong to the Han Dynasty.
So he sent a letter through an envoy, requesting that the princes in the mainland should go to the court to pay homage to the emperor once every three years, and that the border defenses should be removed.
At that time, the emperor approved the request and gave Nanyue Prime Minister Lu Jia the silver seal, as well as the internal history, lieutenant, and Taifu seals. Nanyue could choose the other official positions by himself, and the Han Dynasty did not grant seals and ribbons.
The original corporal punishments of tattooing, tattooing, etc. in Southern Guangdong were abolished and the laws of the Han Dynasty were adopted instead.
The envoys of the Han Dynasty stayed to control southern Guangdong.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother packed their belongings and valuable gifts in preparation for entering the court.
Prime Minister Lu Jia is very old. He has served as prime minister to three generations of kings. There are more than 70 people in the clan holding important positions. The men of the Lu family all marry the princess's daughters, and the women all marry the royal children and are married to King Cangwu of Qin.
Lu Jia was very powerful in the Nanyue Kingdom. The people of Guangdong trusted him and mostly acted as their eyes and ears. He was more popular than the King of Nanyue.
The King of Nanyue sent a letter to the Han Dynasty. Lu Jiaduo tried to dissuade him, but the king did not listen.
Lu Jia then felt rebellious and repeatedly excused himself from seeing Han envoys because of illness.
The envoys all watched Lu Jia, but the situation was not conducive to kill him.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were also afraid that Lu Jia and others would attack first, and wanted to murder Lu Jia and others through the authority of the Han Dynasty envoys.
So a banquet was held to invite the envoys of the Han Dynasty, and all the ministers from southern Guangdong sat and drank with them.
Lu Jia's younger brother was a general and led the army to wait outside the palace.
After pouring the wine, the Queen Mother said to Lu Jia: Southern Guangdong belongs to the Han Dynasty, which is beneficial to the country, but Prime Minister, you think it is disadvantageous. Why?
He wanted to anger the Han Dynasty envoys.
The envoys were hesitant, looking at each other and never daring to make a move.
Lu Jia noticed that the atmosphere at the banquet was different from usual, so he immediately got up and went out.
The Queen Mother was furious and wanted to kill Lu Jia with a spear, but was stopped by the King of Nanyue.
So Lu Jia came out and returned to his home under the protection of the army led by his younger brother. He claimed to be ill and refused to meet the king and the Han envoys, so he plotted to cause trouble.
The King of Nanyue had no intention of killing Lu Jia, and Lu Jia knew this, so he did not raise any issue for several months.
Only the Queen Mother wanted to kill Lu Jia, but was unable to do so.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard about this, he blamed the envoy for being cowardly and unable to make a decision.
He also believed that the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother had already attached themselves to the Han Dynasty, and that only Lu Jia was causing trouble, so it was not worth sending troops, so he planned to send Zhuang Shen and 2,000 people to deal with it.
Zhuang Shen said: If you go for friendly purposes, a few people will be enough; if you go for war, two thousand people will not be able to accomplish anything.
Thinking it was not feasible and refused, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty did not ask Zhuang Shen to go.
Han Qianqiu Fenran, a strong man in Jiaxian County and former Prime Minister of Jibei Kingdom, said: "Since Nanyue is only a small army, and the king of Nanyue is the internal response, only Lu Jia is in trouble. I am willing to get 300 warriors, and I will kill Lu Jia in return."
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Han Qianqiu and Yu Le, the younger brother of the Queen Mother of Nanyue, to lead 2,000 people to Nanyue.
After the Han Dynasty army entered the territory of Nanyue, Lu Jia finally launched a rebellion and ordered the Nanyue Kingdom to say: The king is young and the Queen Mother is from the Central Plains. She also had an affair with the Han Dynasty envoy. She wanted to belong to the Han Dynasty. She dedicated all the treasures of the former king to the Han Dynasty emperor to flatter herself. She also brought more entourage. After arriving in Chang'an, they all were plundered and sold into slavery.
The Queen Mother was seeking her own short-term gain, but she did not care about the Zhao family and her long-term plans for future generations.
Lu Jia and his brother then led troops to kill the queen mother, the king, and all the Han Dynasty envoys.
He sent people to inform King Cangwu of Qin and his prefectures and counties, and appointed Zhao Jiande, Marquis of Shuyang, the son of Qi's eldest son, King Ying of Ming Dynasty, and his wife in Guangdong, as king.
After the troops led by Han Qianqiu and others entered southern Guangdong, they captured several small cities.
After that, Nanyue simply got out of the way and provided them with food. When they reached a place about forty miles away from Panyu, Nanyue sent troops to attack Han Qianqiu's army and annihilated them.
Lu Jia sent people to seal the Han Dynasty envoy's talisman in a box and put it on the border fortress. He pretended to be friendly and said some deceptive words to express his apology, and at the same time sent troops to garrison the key places.
So Emperor Wu said: Although Han Qianqiu did not succeed, he was still the top military leader, and he named his son Han Yannian the Marquis of Cheng'an.
Zhu Le, whose sister was the Queen Mother of Nanyue, was first willing to belong to the Han Dynasty and named Da Le's son Zhu Guangde the Marquis of Le.
Then he promulgated a special pardon for Shao and said: The emperor is weak and the princes are fighting each other. The "Spring and Autumn" satirizes the ministers for not fighting for the emperor against the rebels.
Lu Jia, Tong Jiande and others rebelled and became self-proclaimed with peace of mind. Now they ordered 100,000 people from Guangdong and the Louchuan navy south of the Yangtze and Huaihe rivers to attack them.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuan Ding, Weiwei Lu Bode was General Fubo and set out from Guiyang County and went down to Huangshui; Lieutenant Yang Pu, the Lord Commander, was General Louchuan and set out from Yuzhang County and went down to Hengpu; two southern Guangdong people who originally surrendered to the Han Dynasty and were granted the title of Marquis They were General Ge Chuan and General Xia Lai. They set out from Lingling County, left the water and arrived at Cangwu. They sent Marquis Chiyi to use the pardoned prisoners in Bajun and Shujun to mobilize Yelang's army and go down to the Yangke River. All the soldiers and horses came to Panyu to join forces.
In the winter of the sixth year of Yuan Ding, Lou Chuan General Yang Pu led his elite troops to first attack Xunqiu, broke through the stone gate, and obtained Nanyue's ships and food. Taking advantage of the victory, they advanced and defeated Nanyue's vanguard. With an army composed of tens of thousands of Cantonese, they waited for Fubo General Lu Bode to join forces.
General Fubo led the pardoned sinners. Due to the long journey, he missed his military term. Only more than a thousand people joined General Louchuan, so they marched together.
General Lou Chuan was in the lead. When they arrived at Panyu City, both Quan Jiande and Lu Jia were guarding the city.
General Lou Chuan chose the favorable terrain and stationed himself in the southeast of the city, while General Fubo stationed in the northwest of the city.
It happened that at night, General Lou Chuan defeated the Nanyue army and set fire to the city.
People in southern Guangdong have heard of General Fubo's reputation for a long time, but they didn't know how many troops he led because it was dark.
General Fubo then set up his military camp and sent envoys to recruit the southern Guangdong people to surrender. Those who surrendered were given seals and ribbons, and then he released them and asked them to recruit other southern Guangdong soldiers.
General Lou Chuan fought hard to attack and burn the enemy troops, but instead drove them into General Fubo's camp.
By dawn the next day, all the people in the city surrendered to General Fubo.
Lu Jia, Tong Jiande and several hundred of their followers fled to the sea at night.
General Fubo inquired about the surrenderers and found out where Lu Jia and others had fled, so he sent people to chase them.
The former school captain and Sima Suhong captured Zhao Jiande and was granted the title of Marquis of Haichang for his merits; Nanyue Langguan Duji captured Lu Jia alive and was granted the title of Marquis of Lincai for his merits.
The king of Cangwu, Zhao Guang, had the same surname as the king of Nanyue. Hearing that the Han army was coming, he surrendered to the Han Dynasty and was named Suitaohou.
Shi Ding, the magistrate of Jieyang County in southern Guangdong, surrendered to the Han Dynasty and was named Andaohou.
The southern Guangdong general Bi Qu led his troops to surrender and was granted the title of Knee Marquis.
Weng, the governor of Guilin County in southern Guangdong, persuaded more than 400,000 people in Ouluo to surrender and was named the Marquis of Xiangcheng.
The armies of General Ge Chuan and Xiase and Yelang's army dispatched by Marquis Chiyi have not yet moved south, but Nanyue has been pacified.
So the Han Dynasty established nine counties there: Dan'er, Zhuya, Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen and Yuenan.
Fubo General Lu Bode increased the number of fiefs.
Yang Pu, the building general, was awarded the title of General Lianghou because of his ability to charge into battle and his courage to attack fortresses.
Starting from the time when Zhao Tuo, the captain of Nanhai County, established himself as the King of Nanyue, it lasted for ninety-three years for five dynasties and the Nanyue Kingdom was destroyed.
The ancestors of King Wuzhu of Fujian and Guangdong and King Yao of Shuhai of Guangdong were both descendants of King Goujian of Guangdong, and their surname was Liu.
After Qin unified the world, he deposed them as rulers and designated their territory as Minzhong County.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wu Zhuheyao led the Cantonese people to seek refuge with Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fanyang County. He was the so-called Fanjun and followed the princes to overthrow the rule of the Qin Dynasty.
At that time, Xiang Yu held the power of commanding the princes and did not establish Wu Zhu and Yao as kings, so they did not join Xiang Yu.
The Han attacked Xiang Yu, but Wu Zhu and Yao led the Cantonese to help the Han.
In the fifth year of the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Wu Zhu was re-established as the King of Fujian and Guangdong. He took charge of the former Minzhong County and established his capital in Ye.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, he listed the contributions of the Guangdong people during the reign of Emperor Liu Bang of the Han Dynasty. He believed that the Fujian monarch Yao had made great contributions and his people were willing to rely on him, so he made Yao the King of the East China Sea and established his capital in Shuou. People called Yao Shuouyu.
After several generations, in the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, King Liu Bi of Wu launched a rebellion and wanted to unite Fujian and Guangdong. However, Fujian and Guangdong refused, and only Dongou followed Wu.
After Wu was defeated, Dong Ou accepted the bribe of the Han Dynasty and killed Wu King Liu Bi in Dantu to atone for his sins. Therefore, Dong Ou was not punished by the Han Dynasty.
Liu Ju, the son of King Wu Liu Bi, fled to Fujian and Guangdong. He resented Shu Ou for killing his father and often encouraged Fujian and Guangdong to attack Dong Ou.
In the third year of Jianyuan, Fujian and Guangdong sent troops to besiege Shu'ou, and Shu'ou sent people to report to the emperor.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Taiwei Tian Wei for advice, and Tian Wei replied: It is a common thing for the Cantonese people to attack each other, and it is not worth the trouble of the Han Dynasty to come to rescue.
Yan Zhu, a senior official in the Central Military Commission, refuted Tian Wei and believed that he should be rescued. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Yan Zhu to mobilize troops from Kuaiji County to rescue Shu Ou from the sea. For details, see the "Biography of Yan Zhu".
Before the Han army reached Shuou, Fujian and Guangdong had already withdrawn their troops.
Shu Ou requested that the whole country move to the interior, and was allowed to do so, so Shu Ou moved all his people to live between the Jianghuai River and the Huaihe River.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Fujian and Guangdong attacked Nanyue. Nanyue obeyed the emperor's constraints and did not dare to send troops without authorization, but reported the situation to the Han court.
Emperor Wu sent Wang Hui, the great general, to set out from Yuzhang, and Han Anguo, the great minister, to set out from Kuaiji, both of whom served as generals.
Before the Han army crossed the mountains, King Ying of Fujian and Guangdong had already sent troops to occupy dangerous places to resist.
Ying's younger brother Yu Shan discussed with the clan and said: King Ying of Fujian and Guangdong sent troops without permission without asking the emperor for instructions, so the emperor sent troops to punish him.
The Han Dynasty's army has a large number of people. Even if we are lucky enough to win, more will come later, and they will not stop until the Fujian and Guangdong countries are wiped out.
Now the king is killed to apologize to the emperor. If the emperor withdraws his troops, the country of Fujian and Guangdong will be preserved.
If the emperor does not allow it, we will fight with all our strength, and if we fail, we will flee to the sea. Everyone said: OK!
He immediately stabbed the king to death with a spear and sent an envoy to deliver his head to King Hui of Daxing.
Da Xing said: The purpose of our coming is to kill the king of Fujian and Guangdong.
The head of the King of Fujian and Guangdong has been sent, and the goal has been achieved without fighting. There is nothing more advantageous than this.
So he took advantage of the situation to stop military operations, notified the army of Nong Han Anguo, and at the same time sent an envoy to report to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty with the head of the King of Fujian and Guangdong.
Emperor Wu issued an edict ordering the two generals to stop their troops, saying: King Ying of Fujian and Guangdong committed evil first, but Wu Zhu's grandson Yao Junchou did not participate in it.
So he sent a lieutenant general to establish Chou as the king of Yue Yao and worship the ancestors of Fujian and Guangdong.
Because Yu Shan killed Ying, he gained great prestige in the Fujian and Guangdong kingdoms. Many people relied on him, so he secretly proclaimed himself king. King Yao Chou could not control the situation.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard about this, he felt that it was not worth sending troops again because of Yu Shan, so he said: Yu Shan took the lead in killing Ying to save the army from the fatigue of fighting.
So Yu Shan was made King of Shuyue, standing side by side with King Chou of Yao.
In the fifth year of Yuanding, Nanyue rebelled against the Han Dynasty. Yu Shan wrote to the emperor, asking for permission to lead 8,000 soldiers to attack Nanyue Prime Minister Lu Jia and others with General Yang Pu.
After Shu Yue's army arrived in Jieyang, they stopped advancing on the grounds of heavy sea waves. They took a wait-and-see attitude and secretly sent people to contact Nanyue.
After the Han Dynasty army broke through Panyu City, General Yang Pu sent a letter to Emperor Mowu, expressing his willingness to lead an army to attack Dongyue.
Emperor Wu thought that the soldiers were very tired and did not agree to Yang Pu's request. He ordered the troops to stop and left the soldiers and horses of each battalion to garrison and wait for orders in Meiling, Yuzhang.
In the autumn of the next year, Yu Shan heard that General Yang Pu of Lou Chuan had requested to attack him. The Han Dynasty army was stationed in the border area and was about to attack Shuyue. So he sent troops to guard the path of the Han Dynasty army. He gave General Ju Li and others the title of "General Tunmo" and sent them to attack Baisha, Wulin and Meiling, killing three lieutenants of the Han Dynasty.
At that time, Zhang Cheng, the chief agricultural officer of the Han Dynasty, and Hou Chi of Yuanshanzhou led their troops to garrison there, but they did not dare to send troops to attack, but retreated to a safe place. Both of them were executed for the crime of cowardice and fear of the enemy.
Yu Shanbai carved a seal with the words "Emperor Wu", proclaimed himself emperor, deceived his countrymen, and spread arrogant remarks.
Emperor Mowu sent General Han Shuo of Henghai to send troops from Juzhang to cross the sea and attack from the east; General Yang Pu of Louchuan sent troops from Wulin, and Lieutenant Wang Wenshu sent troops from Meiling. The Cantonese Yan and Jia who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty and were made marquises were named Gechuan and General Xiase sent troops from Ruxie and Baisha respectively. In the winter of the first year of Yuanfeng, soldiers and horses from all walks of life invaded Shuyue.
Shuyue had originally sent troops to guard the dangerous place, and sent General Lianbei to guard Wulin. He defeated several lieutenants of General Louchuan and killed some officials.
Qian Tang, a soldier of General Louchuan, killed General Yibei and was named Yu'erhou.
General Lou Chuan himself did not lead his troops to Wulin.
Wu Yang, the former Marquis of Yan of Guangdong, was in the Han Dynasty before. The Han Dynasty sent him back to persuade Yu Shan, but Yu Shan refused to listen.
When Han Yue, the general of Henghai, led his army to Shuyue, Wu Yang led 700 people in his fiefdom to rebel against Yu Shan and attack Shuyue's army in Hanyang City.
In addition, Hou Ao of Yuan Shuyue Jiancheng and King Yao Jugu planned to kill Yu Shan together and led his troops to surrender to General Henghai.
Therefore, in the Han Dynasty, Jugu was granted the title of Marquis of Cambodia, with a settlement of 10,000 households; Ao was granted the title of Kailinghou; Wu Yang was granted the title of Maoshihou; General Han Shuo of Henghai was granted the title of Yingdaohou, and Henghai captain Liu Fu was granted the title of Liaoyinghou.
Liu Fu was the son of Liu happy, the communist king of Chengyang. He was originally named Haichanghou, but was deprived of his title for breaking the law. He did not make any meritorious service in the army. He was named a Hou just because he was a member of the royal clan.
There was also a large army of General Dongyue. When the Han Dynasty army invaded, he abandoned his army and surrendered, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuxi.
Zuo Huangtong, the former general of Ouluo, killed King Xiyu and was granted the title of Marquis of Xiayuan by Ce.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty said: The land of Shuyue is narrow and dangerous, while Fujian and Guangdong are strong and capricious. He ordered the military officials to move all the Cantonese people to the Jianghuai area.
The land of Shuyue was deserted.
King Man of Korea was from Yan.
In the early days of Danguo, he captured the Zhenflies and Qipans and made them surrender. They also set up officials and built defensive fortresses there.
After the destruction of Youyou, Huangdao became the outer territory of Liao Saipad.
After the establishment of Han, because the emperor's territory was far away and difficult to defend, the original frontier castle of Yaliaodong County was rebuilt. The east was bounded by the Yan River, and the west of the Ju River belonged to the Yan Kingdom of the Han Dynasty.
King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled against the Han Dynasty and fled to the Xiongnu. Wei Man also fled. He gathered more than a thousand tribesmen, dressed in barbarian clothes, and fled eastward through the border fortress. They lived in the upper and lower castles in the empty land of the original Qin Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Gao, when the world had just been peaceful, the prefect of Liaodong County agreed that Wei Man would serve as a foreign minister to manage the barbarian tribes outside the Great Wall and prevent them from harassing the border areas. If the barbarian princes wanted to go to court to pay homage to the emperor, they should not obstruct them.
The prefect reported this agreement to the emperor, and the emperor agreed. Therefore, Weiman was able to use force and property to invade and subjugate the surrounding small barbarian countries. Zhenfan and Lintun all came to submit, and thousands of miles around were under Weiman's control.
After Wei Man's death, the throne passed to his grandson Wei Youqu through his son. The number of refugees from the Han Dynasty attracted by North Korea increased, and the King of North Korea had never visited the court to see the emperor. The princes of Zhenfan and Chen wanted to submit a letter to see the emperor, but they were blocked by North Korea and were not allowed to go.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han Dynasty sent He He to give instructions to Youqu, but Youqu always refused to accept the emperor's edict.
Shehe left North Korea, walked to the border, and when he came to the shore of the Yan River, he ordered the driver to assassinate the young North Korean king who was escorting him. Then he immediately crossed the Dian River, drove into the fortress, and returned to the court to report to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty that he had killed a North Korean general.
Emperor Wu believed that Shehe had a good reputation for killing enemies, so he refused to blame him and appointed Shehe as the eastern captain of Liaodong County.
North Korea resented Shehe and sent troops to attack and killed Shehe.
Emperor Wu recruited imprisoned criminals, pardoned their crimes, and allowed them to attack North Korea.
In the autumn of the first year of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent general Yang Pu and 50,000 soldiers from Qijunzhi across Bohai. General Xun Shen of the left sent troops from Liaodong to jointly attack Wei Youqu.
Youqu sent troops to seize the strategic location. A soldier named Duo under General Zuo was leading the Liaodong troops to take the lead. The troops were defeated and dispersed.
Duo turned around and ran away, but was beheaded according to military law.
General Lou Chuan led 7,000 soldiers to Wangxian City first.
You Qu commanded the defense of the city. When he found out that General Lou Chuan had few soldiers, he went out to attack General Lou Chuan's troops. General Lou Chuan's troops were defeated and fled.
General Yang Pu lost his troops and fled to the mountains. He stayed there for more than ten days, gradually looking for and gathering the scattered soldiers, and regrouped.
General Zuo attacked the Korean army west of the Yan River but was unable to win.
Because the two generals were unfavorable in the battle, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Weishan to North Korea to persuade Youqu to surrender by using his military power.
When Youqu saw the envoy of the Han Dynasty, he kowtowed and apologized, saying: I am willing to surrender, but I am afraid that the two generals will kill me through deception. Now that I have seen the real talisman, please allow me to surrender.
He sent the prince to the court to apologize, donated 5,000 horses, and presented military rations to the Han army in Korea.
North Korea sent 10,000 soldiers with weapons to escort the prince. Just as he was about to go through tears, envoy Wei Shan and General Xun Zhi, the left general, suspected that the North Korean army was going to cause rebellion, so they said: Since the prince has surrendered, the soldiers who came to escort him should be ordered not to carry weapons. The prince also suspected that the envoy and General Zuo were setting up a trap to kill him, so he did not cross Shishui and returned with his troops.
Wei Shan came back to report to the emperor, and the emperor killed Wei Shan.
General Xun Shen of the left defeated the Korean army guarding Nianshui, marched forward, drove to the foot of Wangxian City, and surrounded the northwest side of the city.
General Lou Chuan also went to join forces and stationed himself in the south of the city.
Youqu then held on to the city, and the Han army failed to capture Wangxian City for several months.
General Xun Shen of the left was originally a servant and was favored by the emperor. The Yan and Dai soldiers he led were very strong. They had just won the battle of the Dian River. Many soldiers in the army were arrogant and underestimated the enemy.
The Qi soldiers led by General Yang Pu of Louzhou had many people fleeing when they crossed the sea. He fought with Youqu first and suffered a disastrous defeat. He also lost many soldiers. The soldiers were afraid of the enemy and the general felt ashamed. Therefore, he besieged Youqu, often with the purpose of making peace.
General Zuo stormed Wangxian City, and the North Korean ministers secretly sent people to secretly agree to surrender to General Lou Chuan. They sent messages back and forth, but no final decision was made.
General Zuo repeatedly agreed with General Lou Chuan on the time to attack the city, but General Lou Chuan wanted to fulfill his agreement with the North Korean minister as soon as possible, so he always refused to join forces with General Zuo.
General Zuo also sent people to look for opportunities to surrender North Korea, but the North Korean ministers refused to surrender to General Zuo and were willing to submit to General Louchuan. Therefore, Generals Yang and Xun could not get along well with each other.
General Zuo suspected that General Lou Chuan had committed the crime of losing his army first, and now that he was on good terms with North Korea but North Korea refused to surrender, he might have a conspiracy to betray the Han Dynasty, but he had not yet taken action.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty said: The general could not break the enemy's advance, so I sent Weishan to persuade Youqu to surrender. Weishan could not be arbitrary, but made things worse with General Zuo, and finally broke the agreement of Youqu's surrender.
Now the two generals are besieging Wangxian City and cannot work together, so the problem has not been solved for a long time.
So Gongsun Sui, the former prefect of Jinan County, was sent to correct the mistakes of the two generals, and he could act flexibly according to the situation.
Gongsun then arrived in North Korea. General Xun Shen of the Left said: North Korea should have been captured long ago. The reason why it could not be captured was that General Lou Chuan repeatedly failed to meet up as scheduled.
He also told Gongsun Sui in detail that he had always suspected that General Lou Chuan was planning to rebel. He also said: The situation is so serious now. If we don't arrest him, he may become a big harm. General Lou Chuan will not only rebel against the Han Dynasty, but he will also join forces with North Korea to destroy our army.
Gongsun Sui also thought this was the case, so he used talismans to invite General Lou Chuan to General Zuo's camp in the name of "discussing military affairs". He then ordered General Zuo's subordinates to capture him and merge his troops under General Zuo's command.
Gongsun Sui reported the matter to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, who killed Gongsun Sui.
After General Zuo had unified the two armies, he immediately attacked the Korean army.
Joseon Prime Minister Luren, Han Tao, Ni Xiangcan, and General Wang Xia discussed with each other: Originally we wanted to surrender to General Lou Chuan, but now General Lou Chuan has been captured, and only General Zuo will unite the two armies, and the battle will become more intense. I am afraid we are no match for him, and our king refuses to surrender.
So Han Tao, Wang Ying, and passers-by all fled to the Han Dynasty military camp and surrendered.
Passers-by died on the way.
In the summer of the third year of Yuanfeng, Nixi Xiangcan sent people to assassinate King Youqu of Korea and came to the Han camp to surrender.
Before Wang Xiancheng was captured, the ministers who turned out to be Youqu rebelled again and attacked the disobedient officials.
Taosu, the general of the left, sent You Qu's son Wei Chang and Lu Zui, the son of a North Korean minister who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, to inform the people of North Korea and killed Cheng Ji, thus finally pacifying North Korea and setting up four counties: Zhenfan, Lintun, Lelang and Xuantu.
In the Han Dynasty, Shen was granted the title of Marquis of Pingqing, Han Tao was the Marquis of Qiuju, Wangxia was the Marquis of Pingzhou, and the Chief of Guard was the Marquis of Ji.
Lu Zui was named Marquis of Juyang because his father Lu Ren died on the way to surrender to the Han Dynasty and he was very meritorious.
Xun Shen, the general of the left, was recalled to the court and was beheaded in public for the crime of competing for power, jealousy of power, and violating military plans.
General Yang Pu also thought that he should wait for General Zuo after he led his army to the column, but he attacked first without authorization, causing serious losses and was sentenced to death. He paid for his sin and was spared from death and became a civilian.
Zan said: The ancestors of Chu and Guangdong have had feudal lands for generations.
By the time of Dansu's decline, Chu's territory had a radius of five thousand miles, and Bao Jian also dominated the princes with Guangdong.
Qin swallowed up all the princes, but Chu still had this king.
The Han Dynasty punished the southwestern barbarians, but only the sea bream was favored again.
When Sai Yuedan was destroyed and migrated, Biyan Zhoupan and others were still granted the title of Wanhuhou.
The development of the three parties was initiated by ministers of good deeds.
Therefore, the expansion of southwestern barbarians began with the advocacy of Tang Meng and Sima Xiangru, the expansion of Guangdong and Guangdong began with the initiative of Yan Zhu and Zhu Maichen, and the expansion of Korea was triggered by Shen He.
It was a time when the country was rich and the army was strong, so every operation was successful, but it also came at a considerable price.
Looking back at Taizong and Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty comforting Zhao Tuo, isn't it just like what the ancients said: using courtesy to attract people with two minds, and using virtue to attract people who rely on danger!
