Wu Zixu, a native of Chu State, was a famous official.
Wu Yuan's father is Wu She, and Wu Yuan's brother is Wu Shang.
His ancestor was named Wu Ju, who gained prominence because he served King Zhuang of Chu with his upright and outspoken advice, so his descendants were very famous in Chu State.
King Chu Ping's crown prince was named Jian. King Chu Ping appointed Wu She as his Tai Fu and Fei Wuji as his Young Fu.
Fei Wuji was not loyal to Prince Jian.
King Ping sent Wuji to Qin to marry the prince. Because the Qin girl was beautiful, Wuji hurried back and reported to King Ping: "That woman is a peerless beauty. The king can marry her himself and give the prince another wife."
King Ping married the daughter of Qin himself, doted on her extremely, gave birth to a son named Zhen, and married Prince Jian.
After Fei Wuji used Qin's beauties to flatter King Ping of Chu, he took the opportunity to leave the prince and serve King Ping.
He was also worried that one day King Ping would die and Prince Jian would kill him if he succeeded to the throne, so he tried his best to slander Prince Jian.
Prince Jian's mother was from the state of Cai and was not favored by King Ping of Chu.
King Ping also became more and more alienated from Prince Jian, and sent Prince Jian to garrison the city father and defend the border.
Soon, Fei Wuji spoke ill of Prince Jian in front of King Ping day and night. He said: The prince will not be without resentment because of Qin Nu. I hope the king will be more defensive.
Since the prince has been stationed in the city, commanding the army and communicating with the princes, he is preparing to enter the capital to cause trouble.
King Ping of Chu summoned his tutor Wu She back for interrogation.
Wu She knew that Fei Wuji had said bad things about the prince in front of King Ping, so he said: How can the king alienate his close relatives just by bad words about a villain who is trying to stir up trouble?
Fei Wuji said: If the king doesn’t stop it now, their conspiracy will succeed and the king will be arrested!
So King Ping became angry and imprisoned Wu She. At the same time, he ordered Sima Fenyang, the father of the city, to kill Prince Jian.
Before they arrived, Fenyang sent someone to tell the prince in advance: The prince should leave quickly, otherwise he will be killed.
So Prince Jian fled to the Song Dynasty.
Fei Wuji said to King Ping: Wu She has two sons, both of whom are virtuous. If they are not killed, they will become a disaster to the Chu State.
You can use his father as a hostage to summon them, otherwise it will become a future trouble for the Chu State.
King Ping sent an envoy to Wu She and said: If you can call your two sons, they will live. If you don't call, you will be killed.
Wu She said: Wu Shang is a generous and kind man. If you call him, he will definitely come; Wu is a rebellious person who endures humiliation and heavy burdens and can achieve great things. He knows that if he comes and is captured, he will definitely not come.
King Ping refused to listen and sent for Wu She's two sons, saying: "Come, I will save your father's life; if you don't come, I will kill Wu She now."
Wu Shang planned to go, but the military officer said: The King of Chu summoned us brothers, but he did not intend to let our father live. He was worried that we would escape and cause trouble in the future, so he used our father as a hostage to deceive us.
As soon as we arrive, we will be executed together with our father.
What good can come from my father's death?
If we go, we will not be able to take revenge.
It is better to escape to other countries and use the power of other countries to wash away the shame of my father. There is no point in dying together.
Wu Shang said: I know that I will not be able to save my father's life in the end.
But I only regret that my father called us to survive. If we don’t go, we will not be able to wash away the shame in the future, and we will eventually be ridiculed by everyone in the world.
He said to the soldier: You can escape, you can avenge your father's murder, and I will die there.
After Wu Shang was arrested, the envoy wanted to arrest Wu Zixu again. Wu Zixu drew his bow full and aimed his arrow at the envoy. The envoy did not dare to come forward, so Wu Zixu ran away.
He heard that the prince was in Song Dynasty, so he went to follow him.
When Wu She heard that Zixu had escaped, he said: "The kings and ministers of Chu will suffer from the war."
When Wu Shang came to the capital of Chu, King Chu Ping killed Wu Shang and Wu She together.
After Wu Zixu arrived in the Song Dynasty, he happened to encounter a rebellion by the Hua clan in the Song Dynasty, so he fled to the Zheng Kingdom with Prince Jian.
The kings and ministers of Zheng were very friendly to them.
Prince Jian went to the State of Jin again. Jin Qinggong said: Since the relationship between the Crown Prince and the State of Zheng is friendly, it means that the State of Zheng trusts the Crown Prince. If the Crown Prince can provide us with internal support, if we attack from the outside, we will definitely destroy the State of Zheng. After destroying the State of Zheng, we will entrust it to the Crown Prince.
So the prince returned to Zheng.
The time was not yet ripe for the incident, and the prince was planning to kill a person who followed him because of personal matters. This person knew his plan and told Zheng Guo about it.
Zheng Dinggong and Zichan killed Prince Jian.
Prince Jian had a son named Sheng.
After the incident, Wu Zixu was frightened, so he fled to Wu with Sheng.
When they arrived at Zhaoguan, the officers and soldiers of Zhaoguan wanted to arrest them, so Wu Zixu and Sheng each escaped on foot alone, and almost couldn't escape.
The pursuers are behind.
Wu Zixu fled to the river. There was a fisherman riding a boat on the river. Knowing that Wu Zixu was in danger, he crossed Wu Zixu across the river.
After Wu Zixu crossed the river, he took off the sword he carried with him and said, "This sword is worth a hundred gold. I will give it to you, old man."
The fisherman said: According to the law of Chu, whoever catches Wu Zixu will be rewarded with 50,000 dan of grain and the title of Zhigui. Is it a sword worth only a hundred gold?
Refuse to accept it.
Before Wu Zixu could escape to the capital of Wu State, he fell ill and had to stop on the way to beg for food.
When he arrived at the capital of Wu, King Liao of Wu had just come into power and Prince Guang was the general.
Wu Zixu asked to see the King of Wu through Gongzi Guang's relationship.
After a long time, King Ping of Chu got so angry because Zhongli, a border town of Chu State, and Beiliang, a border town of Wu State, both raised silkworms, and the women from the two places fought each other over picking mulberry leaves, so that the two countries launched armies to attack each other.
The state of Wu sent Prince Guang to attack the state of Chu, and after conquering Zhongli and Juchao of Chu state, they returned.
Wu Zixu persuaded King Liao of Wu: Chu State can be conquered, and he hopes to send his son to attack Chu State again.
Prince Guang said to the King of Wu: Wu Zixu's father and brother were killed by the Chu State, and I persuaded the king to attack the Chu State in order to avenge his personal revenge.
Attacking Chu may not necessarily defeat it.
Wu Zixu knew that Gongzi Guang had domestic ambitions and wanted to kill King Liao of Wu and establish himself as king. In this case, he could not persuade him with external military actions, so he recommended Zhuanzhu to Gongzi Guang, while he left the court and went to the countryside to farm with Prince Jian's son Sheng.
Five years later, King Ping of Chu died.
At the beginning, the beauty of Qin State that King Ping took from Prince Jian gave birth to a son named Zhen. When King Ping died, Zhen succeeded King Ping to the throne. This was King Zhao.
King Liao of Wu took advantage of Chu's funeral and sent Zhu Yong and Gai Yu to lead troops to attack Chu.
The Chu State sent troops to cut off the Wu army's retreat, preventing the Wu army from returning home.
The Kingdom of Wu was empty, so Prince Guang ordered Zhuan Zhu to assassinate King Liao of Wu and proclaimed himself king. This was the King's House of Wu.
After Helu became independent, and his wish came true, he recalled his military officers, worshiped him as a pedestrian, and discussed national affairs with him.
Chu State killed its ministers Pei Wan and Bozhou Li. Bo Zhouli's grandson Bo Pei fled to Wu State, and Wu State also appointed Bo Pei as a high official.
Previously, the two princes sent by King Liao of Wu to attack the Chu State were cut off and could not return home. Later, when they heard that Helu had killed King Liao of Wu and proclaimed himself king, he led his army and surrendered to the State of Chu. The State of Chu granted Shu land to them.
In the third year after Helu proclaimed himself king, he mobilized his army, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei to attack Chu State, occupied Shudi, and captured the two generals who had betrayed Wu State.
So Helu wanted to take advantage of the victory and march into the capital of Ying. General Sun Wu said: "The people are very tired and cannot continue. Let's wait for the opportunity."
He withdrew his troops and returned home.
In the fourth year of Helu, the state of Wu attacked the state of Chu and captured the six lands and the land of Hao.
In the fifth year of Helu, the State of Wu attacked the State of Yue and defeated it.
In the sixth year of Helu, King Zhao of Chu sent his son Nang Wa to lead an army to attack Wu.
The state of Wu sent Wu Zixu to fight, defeated the army of the state of Chu in Yuzhang, and captured the Chu state's Juchao.
In the ninth year of Helu, King Helu of Wu said to Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said that Ying was not to be invaded. What is the situation now?
Zixu and Sun Wu replied: General Nang Wa of Chu is greedy for money, and both Tang and Cai resent him.
If the king must attack Chu on a large scale, he must first get help from Tang and Cai.
Helu listened to their advice and dispatched all the troops to attack Chu together with Tang and Cai, and faced off with the Chu army on both sides of the Han River.
King Wu's younger brother Fu Gai led the army and asked to accompany him on the expedition. King Wu refused, so Fu Gai used five thousand of his men to attack Chu general Zichang. Zichang was defeated and fled, heading straight to Zheng.
So the Wu army took advantage of the victory and advanced, and after five battles, they reached the capital of Ying.
On Ji Mao day, King Zhao of Chu fled.
The next day, King Wu entered the capital of Ying.
After King Zhao of Chu fled, he came to Yunmeng. Here King Zhao was attacked by bandits and fled to Yundi.
Dou Huai, the younger brother of Duke Yun Douxin, said: "King Ping killed our father. Isn't it also okay for us to kill his son?"
Duke Yun was worried that his brother would kill King Zhao, so he fled to other places with King Zhao.
Wu soldiers surrounded everywhere and said to the people everywhere: The descendants of the Zhou Dynasty in the Han River Basin were all wiped out by the Chu State.
When the others wanted to kill King Zhao, Wang Ziqi hid him and pretended to be King Zhao to frustrate them.
The hexagrams showed that it would be unlucky to hand over King Zhao to the Wu army, so he declined the offer and did not hand over King Zhao.
At first, Wu Zixu and Shen Baoxu were close friends. When Wu Zixu escaped, he said to Baoxu: I must overthrow the state of Chu.
Bao Xu said: I must save Chu State.
When Wu soldiers invaded the capital of Ying, Wu Zixu searched for King Zhao but could not find him, so he dug up King Ping's grave, dragged out his body, and whipped him three hundred times before stopping.
Shen Baoxu fled to the mountains and sent people to say to Wu Zixu: "You are going too far to take revenge like this!"
I have heard: Although many people can conquer Heaven, God's anger can also destroy people.
You were originally a minister of King Ping, and you personally served him as a minister, but now you have gone so far as to insult a dead man. Isn't this the height of cruelty?
Wu Zixu said to the visitor: "Tell Shen Baoxu for me: I am old and have reached the end of my life." Because I am eager for revenge, I will act against the will and reason.
So Shen Baoxu went to Qin to report the critical situation and asked Qin for help, but Qin refused.
Shen Baoxu stood in the Qin court and cried day and night without interruption for seven days and seven nights.
Duke Ai of Qin sympathized with him and said: Although the King of Chu is an unprincipled and ignorant king, how can he not preserve the Chu Kingdom with such ministers?
So he sent 500 chariots to save Chu and attack Wu.
In June, he defeated Wu's army in Jidi.
Just when King Wu stayed in Chu for a long time to look for King Chu Zhao, Helu's younger brother Fugai fled back to the country and proclaimed himself king.
When Helu heard the news, he abandoned Chu and rushed back to attack his brother Fugai.
Fugai was defeated and fled to the state of Chu.
King Zhao of Chu saw that there was an internal turmoil in the state of Wu, so he fought back to the capital of Ying and granted Tangxi to Fugai, calling him the Tangxi clan.
The Chu State fought against the Wu Army again and defeated the Wu Army. The King of Wu returned to his country.
Two years later, Helu sent Prince Fucha to lead an army to attack Chu and seize the territory.
The Chu State was afraid of another large-scale attack by Wu's army, so it left Ying City and moved its capital to Pouyi.
At this time, Wu State used the strategies of Wu Zixu and Sun Wu to defeat the powerful Chu State in the west, suppressed Qi and Jin in the north, and surrendered Yue in the south.
Four years after Fu Chai attacked Chu and took over, Confucius became the Prime Minister of the State of Lu.
Five more years later, the Wu army attacked Yue.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his troops to fight, and defeated the Wu army in Gusu. He injured King Wu's toe in Helu, and the Wu army withdrew.
The wound in Helu worsened and became serious. When he was about to die, he said to Prince Fucha: Will you forget that Goujian killed your father?
Fu Chai replied: I dare not forget.
That night, Helu died.
After Fu Chai succeeded to the throne as King of Wu, he appointed Bo Pi as Grand Administrator to train soldiers.
Two years later, he attacked the Yue State and defeated the Yue army at Fuqiu. King Gou Lu of Yue took the remaining defeated generals to live on Kuaiji Mountain. He sent the official Wen Zhong to present Dazai Pei with heavy gifts and asked for peace. He entrusted the state power to the Wu State and was willing to be the slave of the Wu State.
King Wu was about to agree to Yue's request, but Wu Zixu advised him: King Gou Jian of Yue is a hard-working man. If you don't annihilate him now, you will definitely regret it in the future.
The King of Wu did not listen to Wu Zixu's advice, but adopted Dazai Pi's strategy to negotiate peace with Yue.
In the fifth year after negotiating peace with Yue, King Wu heard that Qi Jinggong had died, ministers were vying for power, and the new king was weak, so he sent his army to attack Qi in the north.
Wu Zixu advised: Gou Jian does not eat two kinds of meat dishes in one meal. He mourns the dead and condolences the sick, and plans to make a difference.
If this man doesn't die, he will definitely be a disaster for the state of Wu.
Now that the state of Wu has the state of Yue by its side, it is like suffering from a heart disease.
Isn't it ridiculous for the king to devote himself to attacking Qi without first eradicating Yue?
The king of Wu did not listen to Wu Zixu's advice and attacked Qi. The Qi army was severely defeated in Ailing, so he overawed the kings of Zou and Lu and returned home.
From then on, Wu Zixu followed Wu Zixu's strategies less and less.
In the next four years, Wu Wangbei planned to go north to attack Qi. King Gou Jian of Yue adopted Zigong's strategy and led his troops to help Wu fight and presented precious treasures to Dazai Pei.
Dazai Pei accepted bribes from Yue many times. He liked and trusted the King of Yue more and more, and spoke good words for the King of Yue in front of the King of Wu day and night.
The King of Wu always believed and adopted Dazai Pei's strategies.
Wu Zixu advised the King of Wu: "The Yue State is a serious concern. Now I believe in the exaggerated, cunning and deceitful words, and I want to take credit for attacking Qi State."
Even if Qi was conquered, it would only occupy a stone field, which was of no use at all.
Moreover, "Pangeng's Edict" says: Those who violate etiquette and disrespect the king's orders must be completely exterminated so that they cannot carry on the family lineage. Don't let them influence the good people in this city.
This is why the Shang Dynasty flourished.
I hope the king will give up Qi and attack Yue first; if not, it will be too late to regret now.
The King of Wu did not listen to Wu Zixu's advice and sent him as an envoy to Qi.
Before Zixu left, he said to his son: I have repeatedly warned the king, but the king did not listen. I have now seen the end of the Kingdom of Wu. It would be meaningless for you and the Kingdom of Wu to be destroyed.
He entrusted his son to Bao Mu of Qi State and returned to Wu State to report to the King of Wu.
The Grand Prime Minister of Wu State, Pi, had a quarrel with Wu Zixu for a long time, so he took the opportunity to speak ill of Wu Zixu in front of the King of Wu: Wu Zixu is a tough and vicious man, without friendship, jealous and vicious, and his resentment may lead to serious disasters.
The last time the king wanted to attack Qi, Wu Zixu thought it was impossible. The king finally sent troops and won a major victory. Zixu felt ashamed that his strategy was not adopted, but he felt resentful.
Now the king is about to attack Qi again, but Wu Zixu is too arbitrary and stubborn to stop him, corrupting and slandering the king's cause. He only hopes that Wu's defeat will prove his clever strategy.
Now the king personally went on an expedition and mobilized all the armed forces of the country to attack Qi. However, Wu Zixu's advice was not accepted, so he stopped going to court and pretended to be ill and did not go with the king.
Your Majesty, you must be on guard, as this can easily lead to disaster.
Moreover, I sent people to investigate secretly. When he was on a mission to Qi, he entrusted his son to the Bao family of Qi.
As a minister, he is not satisfied at home, and relies on the princes outside. He thinks that he is the adviser of the former king. Now he is not trusted, and he is often depressed and resentful.
I hope your Majesty will find a solution to this matter as soon as possible.
King Wu said: Without your words, I would have doubted him.
He sent an envoy to give Wu Zixu the engraved sword and said: "You use this sword to commit suicide."
Wu Zixu looked up at the sky and sighed: Alas!
I slandered the villain Bo Pei and wanted to cause trouble, but the king came to kill me.
I made your father king.
Before you were confirmed as the heir to the throne, the princes were vying to be crown prince. I fought to the death in front of the late king and could hardly get the crown prince's position.
After you became the crown prince, you also promised to give me a portion of the Kingdom of Wu, but I have no hope that you will repay me. But now you actually listened to the bad words of a flattering villain and killed your elders.
So he told his close followers: You must plant a catalpa tree on my tomb so that it can grow up and make a coffin. Goug out my eyeballs and hang them on the east gate of Wu's capital to watch how the Yue invaders enter the capital and destroy Wu.
So he committed suicide and died. When the king of Wu heard this, he was furious, so he put Wu Zixu's body in a leather bag and floated it in the river.
The people of Wu State sympathized with him and built an ancestral hall for him by the river. Therefore, they named this place Xushan.
After King Wu killed Wu Zixu, he attacked Qi.
The Bao family of Qi killed their king, Duke Ai, and assisted Yang Sheng as king.
King Wu planned to attack the Bao family, but he withdrew his troops before winning.
Two years later, King Wu summoned the kings of Lu and Wei to meet at Lugao for an alliance.
The next year, he headed north and gathered the princes in Huangchi to give orders to the Emperor of Zhou.
At this time, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked the state of Wu, killed the prince of the state of Wu, and defeated the army of the state of Wu.
When King Wu heard the news, he returned to his country and sent envoys to negotiate peace with Yue with rich and valuable gifts.
Nine years later, King Gou Jian of Yue finally destroyed the state of Wu, killed King Wu Fu Chai, and killed Dazai Pei because he was disloyal to his king, accepted valuable bribes from foreign countries, and secretly became close to the state of Yue.
The son of Prince Jian of Chu, who had fled with Wu Zixu, lived in the state of Wu.
When King Wu Fu Chai was in power, King Hui of Chu wanted to summon Sheng back to Chu.
Ye Gongju advised: Sheng loves bravery and secretly seeks out warriors who dare to die. He may have selfish motives!
King Hui didn't listen to his advice, so he finally called Sheng back and let him live in Yan, the border town of Chu. Known as Bai Gong.
Three years after Duke Bai returned to Chu, King Wu killed Wu Zixu.
Not long after Duke Bai returned to Chu State, he resented Zheng Guo for killing his father, so he secretly recruited warriors who dared to die to avenge Zheng Guo.
After returning to Chu State for five years, he asked the King of Chu to attack Zheng State. Yin Zixi, the order of Chu State, agreed to his request.
However, Jin had already sent troops to attack Zheng before it sent troops. Zheng sent people to Chu to ask for rescue. King Chu sent Zixi to rescue Zheng and made an alliance with Zheng before returning.
Bai Gongsheng was angry and said: My enemy is not Zheng Guo, my enemy is Zixi!
Bai Gongsheng sharpened the sword himself. Someone asked him: What do you use it for?
Bai Gongsheng replied: "I want to use it to kill Zixi."
When Zixi heard about this, he smiled and said: "Bai Gongsheng is like a bird's egg, what can he do!"
Four years later, Bai Gongsheng and Shi Qi suddenly assassinated Ling Yin Zixi and Sima Ziqi in the court.
Shi Qi said: "I can't do it without killing King Hui of Chu."
So, King Hui of Chu was kidnapped and taken to Gaofu.
Shi Qi's follower Qu Gu fled to the palace where Mrs. Zhao lived, carrying King Hui of Chu on his back.
When Ye Gong heard that Bai Gongsheng was in trouble, he led his people to attack Bai Gongsheng.
Bai Gongsheng and his group were defeated, and Bai Gongsheng fled to the mountains and committed suicide.
Shi Qi was captured and asked where Bai Gongsheng's body was. If he didn't tell him, he would be boiled to death.
Shi Qi said: If things succeed, you will be the prime minister; if they fail, you will be boiled to death. This is the duty you should fulfill.
In the end, he refused to tell where Bai Gongsheng's body was.
So, Shi Qi was boiled to death. Find King Hui of Chu and make him king.
Tai Shigong said: Resentment is too powerful for human beings!
The king cannot have enmity with his ministers, let alone those with the same status!
If Wu Zixu died with his father Wu She, what would be the difference between him and an ant?
Give up small righteousness, wash away the big shame, and let your reputation be passed down to future generations. How sad!
When Wu Zixu was in distress by the river and begging along the road, did his mind forget the hatred of Yingdu for a moment?
Therefore, who can achieve such a level without being a man of upright character and temperament who can exercise restraint and patience to achieve fame!
If Duke Bai had not established himself as king, his achievements and strategies would probably be endless!
