Uncle Kang of Wei State was named Feng, and he was the half-brother of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty. They also had a younger brother named Ran Ji, who was the youngest.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated Yin Zhou, he granted the remnants of Yin Zhou to King Zhou's son Wu Geng Lufu, making him the same as the princes, so that they could worship their ancestors and pass them on from generation to generation.
Because Wu Geng had not fully obeyed, King Wu was worried that Wu Geng had rebellious intentions, so he sent his younger brothers Guan Shu and Cai Shu to monitor and assist Wu Geng's father to appease the people.
After King Wu died, King Cheng was young and still in his infancy.
Zhou Gongdan took charge of state affairs instead of King Cheng.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected Zhou Gongdan, so they launched a rebellion with Wu Genglu's father to attack Chengzhou.
Zhou Gongdan asked King Cheng to organize an army to attack the state of Yin, killed Wu Genglu's father and Guan Shu, exiled Cai Shu, and granted Wu Geng Yin's remnants to Kang Shu, making him the king of Wei. He lived between the Yellow River and Qishui River, which was the ancient capital of the Shang Dynasty, Yinxu.
Zhou Gongdan was worried that Uncle Kang was young and would have difficulty maintaining his rule, so he repeatedly warned Uncle Kang: You must find talented, prestigious, and experienced people in the Yin Dynasty, and learn from them the history of the rise and fall of the Yin Dynasty, and you must care for and care for your own people.
He also warned Kang Shu that the reason for Zhou's demise was that he drank excessively, indulged in pleasure, and indulged in female sex. Therefore, the chaos in the reign of King Zhou began from here.
Zhou Gongdan also wrote "Zi Cai" in accordance with the principle that craftsmen must use rules when making woodenware, as a guideline for rulers to follow.
Therefore, it was called "Kang Gao", "Jiu Gao" and "Zicai", and was used to teach Uncle Kang.
Uncle Kang used these principles to govern the feudal country, stabilize and harmonize his people, and the people were very happy.
After King Cheng came of age, he personally took charge of the political power, appointed Uncle Kang as the Sikou of the Zhou Dynasty, and gave him many treasures and sacrificial vessels to commend Uncle Kang's virtues.
After Uncle Kang's death, his son Kang Bo became the king.
After Kang Bo's death, his son Kao Bo became the king.
After Kaobo's death, his son Sibo became the king.
After the death of Sibo, his son Boli became the king.
After Bo's death, his son Jing Bo became the king.
After the death of Jingbo, his son Zhenbo became the king.
After the death of Zhenbo, his son Qinghou was established as the king.
Because the Marquis of Qing bribed the King of Zhou Yi with generous gifts, the King of Yi ordered the King of Wei to be named Marquis.
Qinghou died in the twelfth year after he became the king, and his son Lihou became the king.
In the thirteenth year of Lihou's reign, King Li of Zhou fled to the land of Hu, and Duke Zhao and Duke of Zhou took charge of the political power together, which was named "Republican Administration".
In the twenty-eighth year of Lihou, King Xuan of Zhou was established as the emperor.
In the forty-second year, Marquis Li died, and Prince Gong Boyu became the king.
Gongbo's younger brother He Zeng was favored by Marquis Li. Marquis Li gave He a lot of property. He then used these properties to bribe warriors and attacked Gongbo Yu in Lihou's cemetery. Gongbo was forced to flee to the tomb of Lihou and commit suicide.
The people of Wei buried Gongbo next to Lihou's tomb and called him Gongbo. They established He as the king of Wei, and he was named Wu Gong.
After Duke Wu came to the throne, he reorganized Uncle Kang's government affairs, and the people lived in peace and harmony.
In the 42nd year, Quan Rong killed King You of Zhou. Duke Wu personally commanded the generals to assist the Emperor of Zhou in quelling the invasion of Quan Rong and established military exploits. King Ping of Zhou ordered Duke Wu to declare himself duke.
In the fifty-fifth year, Duke Wu passed away, and his son Zhuang Gongyang became the king.
In the fifth year of Duke Zhuang's accession to the throne, he married a daughter of the State of Qi as his wife. The daughter of Qi was beautiful but childless.
Duke Zhuang then married Chen Guonv, who gave birth to a son who died in infancy.
Chen Nu's sister was also favored by Duke Zhuang and gave birth to a son named Wan.
After Wan's mother passed away, Duke Zhuang asked his wife Qi to raise Wan and made Wan the prince.
Duke Zhuang also had a beloved concubine who gave birth to a son named Zhouxu.
In the eighteenth year of Duke Zhuang, Zhouxu grew up and liked military affairs, so Duke Zhuang appointed him as a general in the army.
Shi Jue, the high minister of the Wei State, kindly came to admonish Duke Zhuang and said, "My son is fond of military affairs. Please make him a general. From now on, troubles will arise."
Duke Zhuang refused to listen. In the twenty-third year, Duke Zhuang passed away and the crown prince was established as the king. This is Duke Huan.
In the second year of Duke Huan, his younger brother Zhou Xu was arrogant and extravagant. Duke Huan deposed him and Zhou Xu fled abroad.
In the thirteenth year, Duan, Zheng Bo's younger brother, attacked his elder brother but failed to win and fled. Zhouxu asked for friendship with him.
In the 16th year, Zhouxu gathered the fugitives of Weiguo to attack and kill Duke Huan. Zhouxu himself established himself as the king of Weiguo.
Because Zheng Bo's brother Duan wanted to attack the state of Zheng, Zhouxu asked Song, Chen, and Cai to jointly support Duan, and the three countries all agreed to this request.
Zhouxu had just ascended the throne. Because he was fond of military affairs and killed Duke Huan, all the people in the Wei Dynasty hated him.
Because Duke Huan's mother lived in Chen State, Shi Que pretended to be friendly with Zhouxu. The Wei army marched to the outskirts of the capital of Zheng State. Shi Que and Chen Hou conspired and sent their right minister Chou to offer food to Zhouxu. They took the opportunity to kill Zhouxu in Pu, and brought Duke Huan's younger brother Jin back to Wei State from Xingdi and established him as king. This is Duke Xuan.
In the seventh year of Xuangong's reign, the people of Lu killed their king Yin Gong.
In the ninth year, the governor of the Song Dynasty killed his own monarch Shang Gong and his doctor Kong Fu.
In the tenth year, Zhuangbo Quwo of Jin State also killed his own king Aihou.
In the eighteenth year, Yi Jiang, the beloved wife of Duke Xuan, gave birth to a son named Ji, who was made the crown prince. Xuan Gong sent You Gongzi to teach him.
The right prince married a beautiful girl from Qi for the prince. The beauty was not married to Ji Baitang, but she was seen by Duke Xuan. Seeing the beauty of the girl from Qi, Duke Xuan liked her very much, so he married her himself and married another girl for the prince.
After Duke Xuan got the daughter of Qi, the daughter of Qi gave birth to sons Zishou and Zishuo. Duke Xuan sent Mr. Zuo to teach them.
After the death of Prince Ji's mother, Mrs. Xuan Gong and Zi Shuo jointly slandered and framed Prince Ji in front of Duke Xuan.
Duke Xuan originally hated the prince because he had snatched his wife, and he had long wanted to destroy him.
When he heard the bad things about the prince, he was so angry that he sent the prince Ji as an envoy to Qi and secretly ordered the thieves to intercept and kill Ji on the border.
Duke Xuan sent an envoy to Prince Bai Ya and warned the thieves on the border to kill the person holding Bai Ya's envoy as soon as they saw him.
Prince Ji was about to leave for the Kingdom of Qi. Zi Shuo's brother Zi Shou, the prince's half-brother, knew that Zi Shuo hated the prince and the king wanted to get rid of the prince, so he said to the prince: The thieves on the border will kill you as soon as they see you holding the Baiji envoy, prince. Prince, please don't go!
The prince said: It is absolutely not okay to go against the orders of your fathers to protect yourself.
So he went to Qi without hesitation.
Seeing that the prince did not listen to the advice, Zi Shou had no choice but to steal his Bai Ya envoy and drive to the border before the prince.
Seeing that the previous agreement had come true, the thief killed him.
After Zishou was killed, Prince Ji arrived again and said to the thief, "I am the one who should be killed!"
The thief then killed Prince Ji and repaid Duke Xuan.
Duke Xuan made Zi Shuo the crown prince.
In the 19th year, Duke Xuan died, and Prince Shuo became the king. This was Duke Hui.
The two young masters on the left and right were indignant at Zi Shuo being established as king. In the fourth year of Duke Hui, the left and right sons resented Duke Hui for slandering and murdering Prince Ji and establishing himself on his own. They launched a riot, attacked Duke Hui, and appointed Prince Ji's younger brother Qian Mou as king. Duke Hui fled to Qi.
In the eighth year of the reign of King Qianmou of Wei, Duke Xiang of Qi was ordered by the Emperor of Zhou to lead all the vassal states to jointly attack the Kingdom of Wei. He sent Duke Hui of Wei back to his country and killed the left and right young masters.
Wei Jun Qian Mou fled to Zhou Dynasty, and Duke Hui ascended the throne again.
Duke Hui fled three years after he was first established as king, and returned to defend his country eight years later, for a total of thirteen years.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Hui was dissatisfied with Zhou's acceptance and resettlement of Qian Mou, and he joined forces with Yan to attack Zhou.
King Hui of Zhou fled to Wen, and Wei and Yan jointly established King Hui's younger brother as king.
In the twenty-ninth year, Zheng Guo escorted King Hui back to Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Hui of Wei passed away, and his son Yigong Chi became the king.
After Duke Yi ascended the throne, he liked to raise cranes and spend money on sexual pleasures.
In the ninth year, Zhai attacked Wei Guo. Wei Yigong led his army to resist, but some soldiers betrayed him.
The ministers said: If the king likes cranes, then send cranes to fight against the Zhai people!
So the Zhai people invaded the Wei State and killed Duke Yigong.
Yigong was the king, and the people and ministers were all dissatisfied.
From the time when Hui Gong Shuo, the father of Duke Hui, attacked and murdered the prince Ji and established himself as the king until Duke Yi, the people and ministers often wanted to overthrow them. Finally, they finally destroyed the descendants of Duke Hui and made Shen, the son of Qian Mou's younger brother Zhao Bowan, the king. He was Duke Dai of Wei.
Dai Gongshen died in the first year of his reign.
Duke Huan of Qi led the princes to attack Zhai because of the many turmoils in the Wei State. He built a castle in Chuqiu for the Wei State.
Duke Wen fled to Qi due to the turmoil in the Wei Dynasty, and the people of Qi sent him back home.
At first, when the people of Zhai killed Duke Yi, the people of Wei took pity on him and wanted to raise another descendant of the prince Ji who was murdered by Duke Xuan. However, Ji's son had died, and Zishou, who died in Ji's place, had no children.
Prince Ji had two brothers of the same mother: one was named Qian Mou. Qian Mou had been the king of Wei for eight years in place of Duke Hui, and was later driven out of Wei by Duke Hui. The other was named Zhao Bo.
Both Zhaobo and Qian Mou had died long ago, so the Wei people made Zhaobo's son Shen the Duke of Dai. After the death of Duke Dai, the Wei people made his younger brother Rui the Duke Wen.
When Duke Wen came to the throne, he reduced the people's taxes, clearly judged the crimes of prisoners, worked hard, and shared the joys and sorrows with the people, thus winning the hearts of the people.
In the sixteenth year, Jin Gongzi Chong'er passed by Weiguo. Duke Wen did not treat Chong'er politely.
In the seventeenth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Wen died, and his son Cheng Gong Zheng became the king.
In the third year of Chenggong's reign, Jin wanted to borrow a road from Wei in order to save Song Dynasty, but Chenggong refused.
Jin then changed its route and crossed the Nanhe River to rescue Song.
The Jin State conscripted troops from Wei. Doctor Wei wanted to agree, but Duke Cheng refused.
The official Yuan Yao attacked Duke Cheng, who fled to the state of Chu.
In order to avenge Duke Wen's rudeness when he passed by Wei State and Wei's failure to rescue Song State, Jin Wengong Chong'er attacked Wei State and gave part of Wei State's land to Song State. Duke Cheng of Wei had to flee to Chen.
Two years later, Duke Cheng went to Emperor Zhou to ask for help in returning to his country and met Duke Wen of Jin.
Jin sent people to kill Chenggong with poisoned wine. Chenggong bribed the person in charge of the poisoning in the Zhou royal family to let him use less poison, so that he could avoid death.
Soon, the King of Zhou petitioned Duke Wen of Jin on behalf of Duke Cheng. Duke Cheng was finally sent back to Wei, where he killed Yuan Yao and Wei Jun fled.
In the seventh year, Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
In the twelfth year, Duke Cheng went to see Duke Xiang of Jin.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the twenty-sixth year, Qi Bingzha killed his king Yigong.
In the thirty-fifth year, Duke Cheng passed away, and his son Mu Gongtian became the king.
In the second year of Duke Mu's reign, King Zhuang of Chu attacked Chen and killed Xia Zhengshu.
Three years later, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the state of Zheng, and the Marquis of Zheng surrendered.
King Zhuang of Chu released him again. In the eleventh year, Sun Liangfu crusaded against Qi to rescue Lu and regained the invaded territory.
After the death of Duke Mu, his son Ding Gong Zang was established as the king.
In the twelfth year of the reign of Duke Dinggong, he passed away, and his son Xian Gong became the king.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Xian asked the musician Cao Cao to teach his concubine to play the piano. The concubine played poorly, so Cao Fei beat her as punishment.
Because the concubine Xian Gong favored him, she spoke ill of Cao in front of him and deliberately slandered Cao. Gong Xian also whipped Cao three hundred times.
In the eighteenth year, an announcement was made to invite Sun Wenzi and Ning Huizi to a banquet, and they went as scheduled to wait.
It was getting late, and before Xian Gong went to summon them, he went to the garden to shoot wild geese.
The two of them had no choice but to follow Duke Xian to the garden. Duke Xian talked to them before he took off his clothes. They were very angry at his rude behavior and went to Suyi.
Sun Wenzi's son accompanied Duke Xian to drink many times, and Duke Xian asked the musician Cao to sing the last chapter of "Qiaoyan" in "·Xiaoya".
The musician Cao originally hated Duke Xiang for beating him three hundred times before, so he sang this poem, hoping to anger Sun Wenzi and take revenge on Duke Xiang of Wei.
Wenzi told Dr. Wei Zang Boyu about this, and Zang Boyu said: "I don't know."
So Sun Wenzi drove away Duke Xian.
Duke Xian fled to the state of Qi, and the state of Qi settled him in Juyi.
Sun Wenzi and Ning Huizi jointly appointed their younger brother Qiu as the king of Wei. This was Duke Shang.
After Shang Gongqiu came to the throne, he granted Sufeng to Sun Wenzi Lin's father.
In the 12th year, Ning happy and Sun Lin's father came to attack each other due to competition for favor. Duke Shang asked Ning happy to attack Sun Lin's father.
Lin's father fled to the state of Jin and asked the state of Jin to escort Duke Xian back to his country.
At that time, Duke Xian was in the state of Qi. When Duke Jin of Qi heard the news, he and Duke Xiang of Wei went to Jin to ask for help in returning to Wei.
Jin then went to attack Wei and induced Wei to form an alliance with Jin.
Duke Shang of Wei went to meet Duke Ping of Jin. Duke Ping arrested Duke Shang and Ning happy, and then sent Duke Xian of Wei back to his country.
Duke Xian fled for twelve years and returned to his homeland.
In the first year of the reign of Emperor Xiangong, Ning happy was executed.
In the third year, Ji Zi of Yanling of the State of Wu was on an envoy and passed by the State of Wei. When he saw Zang Boyu and Shi Xi, he said: There are many gentlemen in the State of Wei, so this country will not be in trouble.
He passed by his place of residence again, and Sun Lin's father played the chime for him and said: "I am not happy, the music is very sad, this is where the Weiguo is in turmoil!"
In the same year, Duke Xiang passed away, and his son Xiang Gong was appointed king.
In the sixth year of Duke Xiang, King Ling of Chu met with various princes. Duke Xiang excused himself from going to the meeting because he was ill.
In the ninth year, Duke Xiang passed away.
At the beginning, Duke Xiang had a concubine who was very favored. After she became pregnant, she dreamed that someone said to her: I am Uncle Kang. I will let your son enjoy the title of Weiguo. Your son should be named Yuan.
When I woke up, I was very surprised and asked Kong Chengzi.
Chengzi said: Uncle Kang is the founder of Weiguo.
When my concubine gave birth to a child, and it turned out to be a boy, she told Duke Xiang about the dream.
Duke Xiang said: This is arranged by God!
So they named the boy Yuan. It happened that Mrs. Xiang Gong had not given birth to a son, so she named Yuan his legitimate son. This was Duke Lin.
In the fifth year, Duke Linggong met with Duke Zhao of Jin.
In the sixth year, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed King Ling and established himself as king of the country, calling him King Ping.
In the eleventh year, a fire broke out in Wei.
In the thirty-eighth year, Confucius came to the state of Wei, and the state of Wei gave him the same salary as when he was in the state of Lu.
Later, Confucius had a conflict with the king of Wei and left.
Soon, he traveled to Weiguo again.
In the thirty-ninth year, Prince Kuai Chi had a grudge against Nan Zi, the wife of Duke Lin, and wanted to kill Nan Zi.
Kuai Chi discussed with his retainer Xi Yangtian and asked Xi Yangtian to kill his wife during the court meeting.
When things came to a close, Xiyang regretted not taking action.
Kuai Kui winked at him several times, but when his wife noticed it, she was very frightened and shouted: "The prince wants to kill me!"
Duke Linggong was furious, and the prince Kuai Chi fled to the Song Dynasty, and soon fled to the Zhao family of the Jin Dynasty.
In the spring of the forty-second year, Linggong went on an outing and asked Ziying to drive.
Ying is the youngest son of Linggong, whose courtesy name is Zinan.
Duke Ling resented the prince for fleeing, so he said to Ying: "I will make you the prince."
Ying replied: Ying is not qualified enough to humiliate the country. You can think of other ways!
In the summer, Duke Linggong passed away. His wife made Zi Ying the crown prince and said, "This is Duke Linggong's order!"
Ying replied: "The son of the fugitive prince Kuai Chi is here, so I dare not take on this important task."
So the people of Wei established themselves as kings, which was called becoming a duke.
On the day of Yiyou in June, Zhao Jianzi wanted to send Kuai Kai back to his country, so he asked Yang Hu to send more than ten people to dress up as people from the Wei State and wear mourning clothes, pretending to come from the Wei State to the Jin State to greet the prince. Jianzi saw Kuai Kai off.
When the guards heard the news, they organized an army to attack Kuai Kui.
Kuai Chi could not return to the defense, so he had to run to his base to defend himself, and the defenders also stopped attacking.
Four years after leaving public life, Qi Tianqi killed his own king, the son.
In the eighth year, Qi Baozi killed his own monarch, Duke Ai.
Confucius came from the state of Chen to the state of Wei.
In the ninth year, Kong Wenzi asked Kong Zhongni for military advice, but Zhongni refused to answer.
Afterwards, the Marquis of Lu sent people to welcome Zhongni, and Zhongni returned to the state of Lu.
At the beginning of the twelfth year, Kong Yu Wenzi married the sister of the crown prince Kuai Chi and gave birth to her.
Kong Wenzi's servant Hun Liangfu was handsome and handsome. After Kong Wenzi's death, Hun Liangfu had an affair with Kui's mother.
When the prince was staying, his mother asked Hun Liangfu to go to the prince's place.
The prince said to the good husband: If you can help me return to my country, I will repay you by giving you a carriage for the doctor to ride in, and I will also forgive you three capital crimes.
Wearing purple clothes, bare fur clothes, and carrying a sword are not among the capital crimes.
The two made a covenant, and the prince also allowed his mother to be the wife of a good husband. In the leap twelfth month, Liangfu and the prince returned to the capital and temporarily stayed in Kong's outer garden.
In the evening, two people dressed in women's clothes and with scarves on their heads came in a car, driven by the eunuch Luo.
Luan Ning, the retainer of the Kong family, interrogated them about their names. They claimed to be concubines from their in-laws' family, so they successfully entered the Kong family's house and went straight to Boji's residence.
After dinner, Kui's mother went to Kong Kui's residence first, holding a gun. The prince and five others, wearing armor and carrying a boar, followed behind.
Bo Ji forced Kui into a corner, forced him to form an alliance, and hijacked Kui onto the stage, forcing him to summon his ministers.
Luan Ning was about to drink, but before the barbecue was cooked, she heard a messy noise and sent someone to tell Zhong Yu.
The escort drove him in a car, drank wine and ate barbecue, and escorted him when he was on duty and fled to the state of Lu.
Zhong You arrived after hearing the news and was about to enter Kong's house, where he met Zi Gao who had just escaped from Kong's house. Zigao said: The door is closed.
Zilu said: I will go and have a look for now.
Zigao said: It's too late, don't follow Kui and suffer.
Zilu said: If you enjoy your meager salary, you cannot watch him suffer without saving him.
So Zigao ran away.
Zilu was about to go in, and when he came to the door, Gongsun dared to close the door tightly and said, "Don't go in again!"
Zilu said: You must be Gongsun!
Taking other people's profits and avoiding other people's dangers.
I can't do this. Enjoying other people's salaries will definitely save them from danger.
At this time, a messenger came out, and Zilu took the opportunity to go in.
Zilu said: How can the prince need Kong Kui as his helper?
Even if he is killed, someone must take his place and attack the prince.
He also said: The prince lacks courage. If he sets fire to the stage, he will definitely release Uncle Kong.
When the prince heard this, he was very frightened and asked Shi Qi and Yu Xiao to step down and block Zi Lu. They struck Zi Lu with their swords and cut off Zi Lu's hat tassel.
Zilu said: When a gentleman dies, his hat cannot fall to the ground.
With that said, he fastened his hat and tassel and died.
After hearing the news of the turmoil in Weiguo, Confucius said: Alas!
Chai will come back, right?
But you, died.
Kong Kui finally made Prince Kuai Chi the king of the country. This was Duke Zhuang.
Duke Zhuang's father, Kuai Chi, was in exile. When he was on the run, he resented the officials for not welcoming him as king.
After he came to the throne in the first year, Duke Zhuang wanted to kill all his ministers, saying: "I have been away for a long time, have you heard about it?"
The ministers wanted to cause trouble, so Duke Zhuang had to give up.
In the second year, Confucius of Lu State passed away.
In the third year, Duke Zhuang climbed up the city wall and saw Rongzhou. Said: Why did the soldiers build cities?
The people of Rongzhou were very worried about his words.
In October, the people of Rongzhou told Zhao Jianzi that Jianzi was besieging Weiguo.
In the eleventh month, Duke Zhuang fled, and the guards made Prince Banshi their king.
The state of Qi attacked the state of Wei, captured Master Ban, and made the young master the king.
In the first year of Wei Junqi's reign, Wei Shimangui drove Qi away and fled to Qi State.
When Wei was on duty, he returned from Qi to Wei and became the king.
At first, he fled after being away for twelve years and had to return after being away for four years.
In the first year of his reign, he rewarded those who fled with him.
After he had been in power for twenty-one years and died, Chugong's uncle Qian drove out Chugong's son and established himself as the king of the country. This is Duke Mourning.
In the fifth year of mourning for the Duke, he passed away, and his son Jing Gongfu became the king.
In the 19th year, Duke Jing passed away, and his son Zhao Gongjiu became the king.
At this time, the Three Jin Dynasties became stronger and stronger, and Weijun was like a small prince, attached to the State of Zhao.
In the sixth year of Zhaogong's reign, Prince Qi killed Duke Zhao and established himself as king. This was Duke Huai.
In the eleventh year of Duke Huai's reign, the prince killed Duke Huai and established himself as king. This was Duke Shen.
Duke Shen's father was Gongzi Shi. The suitable father is Mr. Jing.
In the forty-second year, Duke Shen passed away, and his son declared himself the king of the country.
In the eleventh year, Duke Sheng died, and his son Chenghou Tianli became the king.
In the eleventh year of Chenghou's reign, Gongsun Yang entered Qin.
In the sixteenth year, Wei was demoted to Hou.
In the twenty-ninth year, Chenghou passed away, and his son Pinghou became the king.
Pinghou died in the eighth year, and his son Heijun became the king.
In the fifth year of his reign, the successor was demoted to the title of "Jun", and he only had the title of "Puyang".
In the forty-second year, the heir passed away, and his son Huaijun became the king.
In the thirty-first year, Huaijun paid homage to Wei, and Wei imprisoned and killed Huaijun.
Wei changed and established a successor, Jun's younger brother, who was Yuan Jun.
Yuan Jun was the son-in-law of Wei State, so Wei State established him.
In the fourteenth year of Yuanjun, Qin captured the eastern territory of Wei, and Qin began to set up Dongjun in this area. He also moved Weijun to Yewang County and merged Puyang into Dongjun.
In the twenty-fifth year, Yuanjun passed away, and his son Junjiao became the king.
In the ninth year of Junjiao, Qin annexed the world and Ying Zheng was established as the first emperor.
In the twenty-first year of the Qin Dynasty, the second emperor of Qin deposed Weijun, Junjiao became an ordinary commoner, and the Weiguo lineage was completely cut off.
Tai Shigong said: I read the records of the family and read that the crown prince of Duke Xuan of Wei was killed because of his wife. His younger brother Zishou and the crown prince gave in to each other and fought to die. This is the same as the prince Shen Sheng of Jin who did not dare to declare Li Ji's fault because he was afraid of hurting his father's feelings.
However, it is so sad to finally die!
Some fathers and sons kill each other, and some brothers destroy each other. Why is this?
