Emperor Taizong's Jianwen was named Gang, with the courtesy name Shizuan and the nickname Liutong. He was the third son of Emperor Gaozu and the half-brother of Prince Zhaoming.
He was born in Xianyang Hall on October 28th, the second year of Tianjian.
In the fifth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jin'an and had a settlement of 8,000 households.
In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was appointed General Yunhui, leading the military garrison in Shitou, and considered setting up advisers.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, governor of the military affairs of the five states of southern and northern Yanzhou, Qing, Xu, and Hebei, general Xuanyi, and governor of southern Yanzhou.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as General Hui and Danyang Yin.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the seven states of Jing, Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, Yi, and Ning. He was also the captain of the Southern Barbarians and the governor of Jingzhou. He remained the general.
In the 14th year of Tianjian's reign, he was transferred to be the commander-in-chief of Jiangzhou's military affairs, General Yunhui, and Jiangzhou governor, and his integrity remained unchanged.
In the 17th year of Tianjian's reign, he was recruited as General Xizhonglang to lead the military garrison in Shitou. Soon he was appointed General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin, as well as Shizhong.
In the first year of Fongfeng, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Yi, Ning, Yong, Liang, Southern, Northern Qin, and Shaqizhou armies, and governor of Yizhou. Before he took office, he was appointed General Yunhui and governor of Southern Xuzhou.
In the ordinary four years, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of the four prefectures of Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, as well as the military affairs of Jingling and Sizhou Suijun in Yingzhou, the general of Pingxi, the captain of Ningman, and the governor of Yongzhou.
In ordinary five years, he was promoted to General Anbei.
In the seventh year of ordinary life, he was promoted to the commander-in-chief and commanded the military affairs of Jing, Yi and Nanliang states.
In this year, Ding's mother, Mu Guifei, died. She presented her views in a memorial and issued an edict to return to her post.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, an imperial edict was issued to provide a section of vocal music in accordance with precedent.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as the governor of Nanyang and Xuzhou's military affairs, the hussar general, and the governor of Yangzhou.
On April 6, the third year of Zhongdatong, Prince Zhaoming passed away.
On May 28th, he issued an edict: If you are not selfless, you cannot govern the country; if you do not love the people, you cannot rule the world.
Therefore, Yao was able to make a worthy person better than Shun, and recommended him as long as he was virtuous; King Wen abandoned Boyi Kao and established King Wu, and his glory shone in all directions.
Nowadays, Daizong is desolate, the country's fortunes are difficult, but the honest and honest customs are still strong, and the people are not governed. How can people who are not wise and talented, capable of both literature and martial arts shoulder the important responsibilities of the country?
Wang Gang of Jin'an, the connotation of the article does not need to be learned. It is natural to do good deeds and respect your elders. Prestige and favor are spread to the outside. The inner virtue is smart and witty. The queens are attached to beauty. Within the realm, they are united.
Suitable for being crown prince.
On July 7, I went to the main hall to give advice and worship. Because of the renovation of the East Palace, I temporarily lived in the East Palace.
In September of the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he moved back to the East Palace to live.
On May 2, the third year of Taiqing, Emperor Gaozu passed away.
On the 28th, he became emperor.
Issued an edict: I suffered misfortune due to the loss of my father.
The Emperor Daxing suddenly abandoned all the kingdoms, admired his name, and was in a lost place.
I have little virtue, but I am above all people. I am lonely and miserable, and I don’t know who to trust. I am relying on my vassal, so the country is stable.
I sincerely follow the late Emperor's will and bring benefits to the common people across the country.
The sentences of convicted criminals nationwide can be reduced or exempted.
On the 29th, an edict was issued: It is advisable to adopt loose policies to cultivate things, and to govern the people should bring them blessings. To prosper the king, he is not a slave.
Some started to serve the country, but were captured and taken as prisoners; some were on the border, and their homes were ransacked and robbed for no reason.
In the struggle between countries, what are the crimes of the people!
I am ignorant and created the great cause of Chenghong. Since I govern the country and transform the universe, why do I plan to let them become bandits alone!
All living northern slaves in each state, as well as their wives and children, should be released.
On the 30th, the posthumous title was given to the princess as Queen Jian.
On June 2, he was appointed Sikong, the successor king of Nankang.
On the third day, King Daqi of Xuancheng was established as the crown prince.
On the 8th, Duke Daxin of Dangyang was granted the title of Prince of Xunyang, Duke of Shicheng was granted the title of Prince of Jiangxia, Duke Ningguo was granted the title of Prince of Nanhai, Duke Dalian of Lincheng was granted the title of Nan Commandery, Duke Dachun of Xifeng was granted the title of Prince of Anlu, Gong Da of Xingan was granted the title of Prince of Shanyang, and Duke Linxiang was granted the title of Prince of Yidu.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Yuan Jingzhong, the governor of Guangzhou, planned to respond to Hou Jing. Chen Baxian, the governor of Xijiang, led troops to attack him. Yuan Jingzhong committed suicide. Chen Baxian welcomed Xiao Bo, the governor of Dingzhou, as the governor.
On the 15th, Wu Prefecture was established in Wu County, and King Dachun of Anlu was appointed as the governor.
On the 17th, he was appointed Sikong Nankang's successor king as Huili and Shangshu Ling, Nanhai Wang Dalin was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou, and Xinxing Wang Dazhuang was appointed as the governor of South Xuzhou.
This month, a great famine occurred in Jiujiang, and four or five out of ten people were cannibalistic.
On August 20, Xiao Yuanzao, the general who conquered the east, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of South Xuzhou, passed away.
On October 25th in winter, an earthquake occurred.
In December, Baekje sent envoys to donate local products.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the first year of Dabao, no court meeting was held due to national mourning.
Edict: The state is a selfless and sacred object. In the past, three emperors and five emperors came to the throne out of necessity.
Therefore, the emperor's success, the saint's busy schedule, and the magnificence of the crown may all come from one thing.
Emperor Taizu Wen had great ambition and started a foundation like Xibo.
Emperor Gaozu Wu was able to coordinate the two rituals and make all things known in the universe.
Seeing the deep crisis in the late Qi Dynasty, the loss of human relations, and the disaster of Tongqi Li entering the Yuan Dynasty, the monarch had an insatiable desire, so he should be happy to push his luck, follow the wishes of the common people, and rely on them to avenge this hatred and shame.
Things are not done for personal gain, but really belong to the people, so they are accomplished without taking credit. They live in humble palaces, eat vegetarian food, have great kindness, and have been issued many edicts from Fenyang.
It has been four centuries now, and there is no one to call it.
I am ignorant, lonely and thorny, my soul has been exhausted, and my ambition is incomplete. He looked down at Yin, trying to inherit the great cause.
Hanging flags are too thin to be used as metaphors.
The pain is so painful that I can't help but feel it.
Fangdang Xuanmo was bowing, but he was worried about something else.
That is to say, the king's path is not straight and the country's destiny is difficult, so it is necessary to rely on the prime minister and assistants to promote government affairs.
The number is built at the end of the journey, but the old chapter is suppressed.
The sentences of convicted criminals across the country can be reduced or exempted, and the fourth year of Taiqing can be changed to the first year of Dabao.
On the seventh day, it rained and yellow sand fell.
On the 9th, Taibai passed through the sky and disappeared on the 11th.
The Western Wei Dynasty invaded Anlu, arrested Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, and captured all the lands east of Han Dynasty.
On the 16th, the moon appeared in the daytime.
On the 23rd, Qianjiangdu ordered Zu Hao to revolt, attack Guangling, and kill the traitor Dong Shaoxian, the governor of Nanyanzhou.
Hou Jing personally led the water infantry to attack Zu Hao.
On February 3, Hou Jing captured Guangling, and Zu Hao and others were killed.
On the 6th, King Dachun of Anlu was appointed governor of Dongyangzhou.
After inspecting Wuzhou, it was still changed to a county as before.
The edict is issued: Recently, there have been intrusions and disturbances in the east of the country, and Jiangyang is turbulent. The prime minister is planning and planning, and the warriors are working hard to clear Wu and Hui, stabilize Ji and Yan, and there is nothing to do in the capital.
Martial law can be lifted by high-ranking officials of the imperial court, both inside and outside the palace.
On the 25th, Ren Shangshu Pushe Wang Ke was appointed Zuo Pushe.
This month, Wang Lun of Shaoling arrived at Xiakou from Xunyang. Wang Ke, the governor of Yingzhou, Nanping, transferred Yingzhou to Wang Lun of Shaoling.
On the 26th, Hou Jing forced Taizong to visit Xizhou.
On the 22nd day of the fifth month of the Xia Dynasty, General Zhengbei, Kaifu Yi and the Third Division Poyang Successor Wang Fan died.
From spring to summer, there was a great famine, with people eating people, and the situation in the capital became even more serious.
On June 3rd, he was appointed Prince of Nanjun in Dalian to conduct affairs in Yangzhou.
On the 22nd, Yang Yaren, the former governor of Sizhou, fled from Shangshu Province to Xizhou.
On the 20th day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, the thieves went to Taiwan and Ren Yue invaded Jiangzhou. The governor of Xunyang, King Daxin, surrendered to Ren Yue.
This month, Dalian, the king of Nanjun, was appointed governor of Jiangzhou.
On August 17, Wang Yi of eastern Hunan sent his leading general Wang Sengbian to lead his troops to approach Yingzhou.
In Yihai, Hou Jing proclaimed himself Prime Minister and made twenty counties the King of Han.
Wang Lun of Shaoling abandoned Yingzhou and fled.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Hou Jing forced Taizong to visit Xizhou and hosted a private banquet. He named himself the general of the universe and the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Liuhe.
The prince Dajun was made the king of Xiyang, Dawei was the king of Wuning, Daqiu was the king of Jian'an, Daxin was the king of Yi'an, Dazhi was the king of Suijian, and Dahuan was the king of Leliang.
On the 26th, Hou Jing killed Huili, the successor king of Nankang.
In November, Ren Yue marched into Xiyang, divided his troops and invaded Qichang, arrested Wang Xian of Hengyang, escorted him to the capital, and killed him.
Wang Yi of eastern Hunan sent Xu Wensheng, the governor of Ningzhou, to lead an army to resist Ren Yue.
Zhang Biao, a soldier in front of the king of Nanjun, revolted in Ruoxie Mountain in Kuaiji and conquered the counties in eastern Zhejiang.
In the spring and February of the second year of Dabao, Wang Lun of Shaoling fled to Dongcheng, Anlu. He was attacked by the Western Wei Dynasty and was defeated and died.
In March, Hou Jing personally led his troops to invade westward.
In three days, we set out from the capital, from Shitou to Xinlin, with the bow and stern connected to each other.
In April, arrived in Xiyang.
In Yihai, Hou Jing sent puppet generals Song Zixian and Ren Yue to attack Yingzhou respectively.
Bingzi arrested the governor Xiao Fangxu.
On the 21st, Hou Jing invaded Baling. Wang Sengbian, the leading general sent by Wang Yi of eastern Hunan, fought continuously but failed to win.
On May 11, King Yi of eastern Hunan sent guerrilla general Hu Seng and Xinzhou governor Lu Fahe to reinforce Baling. Hou Jing sent Ren Yue to lead an army to resist the reinforcements.
On June 2, Monk Hu and others broke through Ren Yue's defense and captured Ren Yue.
On the third day, Hou Jing broke the siege and escaped late at night. Wang Sengbian led his troops to pursue Hou Jing.
On the 18th, he attacked Krushan City and captured Wei Situ Zhang Huaren and Yi's fellow disciple Hong Qing.
On the 19th, they encircled and captured Yingzhou and captured the bandit commander Song Zixian and others.
The old generals of Poyang King mobilized their troops and attacked the fake Yitong Yuqing in Yuzhang. Yuqing was defeated and fled.
On the 16th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Hou Jing returned to the capital.
On the 30th, Wang Sengbian stationed his troops in Huancheng, but the thieves went to Jiangzhou and Fan Xirong abandoned the city and fled.
On August 5, Wang Sengzhen and Zheng Chong from Jinxi launched an army to attack the county. Xiahou Weisheng, the puppet governor of Jinzhou, and Yi Tongren Yan fled.
On the 17th, Hou Jing sent Wei Wei Qing Peng Jun and Xiang Gong Wang Senggui to lead troops into the palace, deposed Taizong as King of Jin'an, and imprisoned him in Yongfu Province.
Twenty people including Crown Prince Daqi, Xunyang Wang Daxin, Xiyang Wang Dajun, Wuning Wang Dawei, Jianping Wang Daqiu, Yi'an Wang Daxin and Xunyang Wang Zhuer were killed.
The false edict of Emperor Taizong was passed on, and the Zen throne was given to Wang Dong, the heir of Yuzhang. All the convicted criminals in the country were commuted or exempted from their sentences, and their reign names were changed.
He sent people to kill Nanhai Wang Dalin in Wujun, Nanjun Wang Dalian in Gushu, Anlu Wang Dachun in Kuaiji, and Xinxing Wang Dazhuang in Jingkou.
On October 2nd in winter, Emperor Taizong said to his confidant Yin Buyai: I dreamed last night that I was swallowing dirt, and Aiqing tried to explain it to me.
Yin Buhui said: In the past, Chong'er accepted the donated clods of soil and eventually returned to the state of Jin.
Your Majesty, what you dreamed about was exactly this kind of auspicious talisman.
When Wang Wei and others toasted Emperor Taizong, they said: "I thought that Your Majesty has been worried and angry for a long time, so I offer you longevity wine."
Emperor Taizong smiled and said: "Shou wine can't fully express this state of mind!"
So they all presented them with fine wines, delicacies, music and pipa, and drank with Emperor Taizong.
Emperor Taizong knew that he was bound to die, so he got very drunk and said: I never thought that the joy of drunkenness could reach such a state!
When he was drunk and sleeping, Wang Wei and Peng Jun put a bag filled with soil on top of him, and Wang Zuan sat on the bag. In this way, Taizong died in Yongfu Province at the age of forty-nine.
The thieves posthumously named him "Emperor Ming", and the temple was called "Gaozong".
On March 21, the third year of Dabao, Wang Sengbian led hundreds of former officials to the Zi Palace and ascended to the imperial court. The ancestors worshiped him as "Emperor Jianwen" and the temple name was "Taizong".
On April 29th, he was buried in Zhuangling.
When Taizong was imprisoned, he narrated his life story on the wall: Lanling Xiao Shizuan, a man of integrity and integrity, established himself and pursued morality. From beginning to end, there was no change. The country was in turmoil and wars continued.
There is no place that is dark and uninhabited, let alone the sun, moon and stars! This happens many times, who knows what the fate will be like!
He also wrote two poems, "Lianzhu", with extremely sad lyrics.
When he was young, Taizong was smart, witty and knowledgeable. His knowledge and understanding were beyond ordinary people. He was able to compose at the age of six. Emperor Gaozu marveled at his precocity and did not believe it was true, so he interviewed him personally. As expected, his diction and style were excellent.
Emperor Gaozu sighed: This child will become Dong'a of my family.
When you grow up, you will be broad-minded and ambitious, and will not easily reveal your emotions.
The cheeks are square and plump, and the beard and temples are like a painting. If you look at him, your eyes will be scorching.
Read ten lines at a glance.
The thoughts of hundreds of characters from nine genres are never forgotten and kept in mind. Articles, words and poems can be written in one stroke.
He is erudite in Confucianism and good at metaphysics.
From the age of eleven, he has been familiar with various government affairs of the country, and has been praised for his many attempts to deal with foreign affairs.
During the period of mourning for Mu's noble concubine, she became extremely thin due to the grief of her loss. It was as if she was leaning on her bones and she was sobbing non-stop. The mats she sat on were all soaked with tears and rotted.
In Xiangyang, the Northern Expedition was launched, and several armies including Chief Shi Liujin, Sima Dong Dangmen, Zhuangwu General Du Huaibao, and Zhenyuan General Cao Yizong were dispatched to attack the enemy. They pacified Nanyang, Xinye and other counties. Li Zhi, the governor of Jingzhou in southern Wei, occupied Anchang City and surrendered, expanding his territory by more than a thousand miles.
When he was appointed to supervise the country and Fujun, he showed great tolerance and magnanimity. He was responsible for handling the case files without making any mistakes.
Attract and recruit literary people, never tire of appreciating and receiving them, often discuss books, and then write articles.
The "Explanations of the Five Classics" compiled by Emperor Gaozu was once recited in Xuanpu, and the audience was moved by both the government and the public.
Yahao wrote a poem, and his preface reads: I was addicted to poetry when I was seven years old, and I have never slacked off since I became an adult.
However, the injury was minor and it was called "uterine body" at that time.
He wrote five volumes of "The Biography of Prince Zhaoming", thirty volumes of "The Biography of the Kings", twenty volumes of "Li Dayi", twenty volumes of "Laozi Yi", twenty volumes of "Zhuangzi Yi", one hundred volumes of "Changchun Yiji", and three hundred volumes of "Magic Treasure Lianbi".
Shi Chen said: Taizong was smart and wise when he was young. His beautiful knowledge has been spread for a long time. His talents are beyond the past and present.
Because the article was influenced by the frivolous and flashy writing style of the time, it was not appreciated by gentlemen.
When Taizong cultivated his morality in the Eastern Dynasty and his reputation spread throughout the country, and when he succeeded to the throne, he truly possessed the virtues of a human king.
Just when Taizong was governing the country like Emperors Wen and Jing, his fate was unlucky as shown in "Tuen" and "Pi". He was controlled by traitors and could not display his talents. He finally met the cruel ending of Emperor Huai and Emperor Min of Jin. How sad!
