In the first year of Yongning, Liu Bao, son of Emperor An, was made crown prince. His mother, Mrs. Li, had been killed by Queen Yan. In the third year of Yanguang, the prince's wet nurse Wang Nan and kitchen supervisor Bing Ji were killed after being framed by Wang Sheng, Jiang Jing, and Fan Feng. Liu Bao sighed repeatedly, leading Wang Sheng and others to fear consequences and frame him, resulting in his deposition as King of Jiyin.

When Emperor An died in March of the fourth year of Yanguang, Liu Yi became emperor. Liu Bao was barred from attending the funeral, causing him to wail and refuse food, moving officials inside and outside. After Liu Yi's death, Empress Dowager Yan's brother Yan Xian and Jiang Jing plotted to secretly not announce the mourning and conscript another prince. Liu Bao closed the palace gates and defended himself. On the fourth day of November, an earthquake struck sixteen places. That night, Sun Cheng and others killed Jiang Jing, Liu An, and Chen Da, welcoming Liu Bao to ascend the throne at age eleven.

The ministers reported that due to treacherous ministers, the emperor had become a vassal king, but destiny favored the Han family. The emperor succeeded to the throne according to heaven's will and the people's wishes. He ordered the organization of rituals. Yan Xian's brothers led troops into the North Palace but were fought by Guo Zhen, who killed Yan Jing. On the fifth day, envoys seized the seal, and the emperor arrested and executed Yan Xian and his brothers. On the sixth day, the palace gates were opened. On the ninth day, an order was issued that only close relatives of Yan Xian and Jiang Jing would be punished.

The emperor visited Gaomiao and Guangwu Temple. He ordered the use of Baoxie Road instead of Ziwu Road. Liu Yi was buried with royal rites. Sikong Liu was dismissed, and ministers were rewarded. Tao Dun was appointed Sikong. A major epidemic occurred in the capital. The edict deposing Liu Bao as King Jiyin was returned. In the first year of Yongjian, a general amnesty was granted, with various rewards and exemptions. Empress Dowager Yan passed away. Taifu Feng Shi, Taiwei Liu Xi, and Situ Li were dismissed. Queen Ansi was buried. Taichang Huanyan was appointed Taifu; Zhu Chong was appointed Taiwei; Zhu Qian was appointed Situ.

The Zhongqiang in Longxi rebelled but were defeated by Ma Xian. Governors were ordered to verify officials and organize border fortifications. Liu Xian was made King of Jinan. Ren Weiwei was appointed general of chariots and cavalry. Xianbei bandits raided Daijun, killing Li Chao. The emperor began to order Sangong and Shangshu to report state affairs. Prisoners with capital crimes were moved to border areas. Sikong Taodun was dismissed. Xianbei invaded border areas. The Liyang Battalion was sent to garrison the northern border of Zhongshan. Five captains of crossbow divisions were selected. Tingwei Zhang Hao was appointed Sikong. Due to severe epidemic, common people lost half of their field rent.

In the second year, King Liu Hong of Le'an paid homage. King Liu Zhang of Changshan passed away. Xianbei raided Liaodong and Xuantu. Grain relief was provided to poor people in four prefectures. Geng Ye led Nan Shanyu to attack Xianbei and defeated them. There was a drought. Shule State sent envoys. Imperial concubine Li was given the posthumous title of Queen Gongmin. Ban Yong and Zhang Lang attacked Yanqi, Yuli, and Weixu, defeating them. A solar eclipse occurred. Taiwei Zhu Chong and Situ Zhu Chong were dismissed. Liu Guang was appointed Taiwei; Xu Jing was appointed Situ. King Liu Cheng of Xiapi passed away.

In the third year, an earthquake struck the capital and Hanyang. The edict provided compensation for the injured. Land rent and population tax were not collected in Hanyang. Dr. Guanglu was sent to inspect and provide grain loans. There was a drought. King Liu Xian of Jinan passed away. A fire broke out in the Mausoleum Mausoleum. Xianbei raided Yuyang. Grand Tutor Huan Yan was dismissed. In the fourth year, an edict granted amnesty and restored official ranks. The emperor was crowned. Rewards were given. Officials were ordered to inspect civilians cutting rocks. The prefect of Guiyang presented a pearl, which was returned. Rain fell in five states. Envoys were sent to verify the deceased. Taiwei Liu Guang and Sikong Zhang Hao were dismissed. Stability was restored in Beidi and Shangjun. Pang Can was appointed Taiwei; Wang Gong was appointed Sikong. Situ Xu Jing was dismissed. Xianbei plundered Shuofang. Liu Qi was appointed Situ. Kuaiji was divided into Wu County. Kumi Kingdom sent envoys.

In the fifth year, Shule, Dayuan, and Shache sent envoys. There was a drought in the capital. Poor people were exempted from border guard duties. Locust plagues struck. Prisoners were sent to guard borders. Hou Banshi was executed for killing his wife. In the sixth year, King Liu Kai of Hejian passed away. Yiwu's farming was restored. The Imperial Academy was repaired. Geng Ye attacked Xianbei and defeated them. The King of Khotan sent his son. An edict exempted land rent in Hebei due to disasters. Rinan Waiye Tiaoguo and Shan State sent envoys. A guest star appeared near Altair. The King of Khotan sent his son again.

In the first year of Yangjia, Queen Liang was established. Rewards were given. Pirate Zeng Jing plundered Kuaiji. The queen paid homage to temples. There was a drought. Prayers were held for rain. Grain was loaned to Hebei. An edict prayed to mountains and rivers. Demon thief Zhang He plundered forty-nine counties. The emperor held a great shooting ceremony and granted amnesty. Liu Hui of Fuling passed away. Taishi Ling Zhang Heng made bronze instruments. Taixue disciples were increased. Ninety senior scholars were appointed. Xianbei raided Liaodong. Wolves devoured women in Wangdu and Puyin. The county was ordered to recommend filial and honest officials over forty. King Liu Chang of Dongping passed away. Xuantu County's tuntian divisions were restored. Lang officials over forty could participate in elections. A guest star appeared in Tianyuan. The governor and Erqianshi were selected by Taiwei, Sikong, and Situ. A fire broke out at Gongling Mausoleum. Xiyuan was built.

In the second year, seed rations were lent to Wu County and Kuaiji. Wang Chou attacked Xianbei and defeated them. Forty-eight old Confucian scholars were appointed. The southwestern Longnan captaincy was restored. An earthquake struck the capital. An edict acknowledged natural disasters and sought advice. Sikong Wang Gong was dismissed. Kong Fu was appointed Sikong. Shule presented lions and oxen. Luoyang collapsed. There was a drought. Taiwei Pang Shen was dismissed. Shi Yan was appointed Taiwei. Xianbei invaded Daijun. A sacrificial ceremony was held in Piyong.

In the third year, due to drought, prisoners were not questioned. Yizhou thieves killed princes. Sima attacked the Xiongnu and captured the Chanyu's aunt. An edict granted amnesty and rewards. Zhongqiang bandits raided Longxi and Hanyang. Feng Xu defeated them. Situ Liuqi and Sikong Kongfu were dismissed. Huang Shang was appointed Situ; Wang Zhuo was appointed Sikong. Wudu blocked the Tun Qiang and attacked.

In the fourth year, eunuchs were allowed to adopt sons. There was a drought. Ma Xian attacked Zhong Qiang. Taiwei Shi Yan was dismissed. Liang Shang was appointed general; Pang Shen was appointed Taiwei. King Liu Kuang of Liang passed away. King Liu Deng of Jibei passed away. A solar eclipse occurred. Wuhuan raided the clouds. Geng Ye was surrounded in Lanchi but rescued. An earthquake struck the capital.

In the first year of Yonghe, King Fuyu paid homage. An edict acknowledged disasters and sought advice. Sacrifices were held in Mingtang. A locust plague struck Yanshi. A fire broke out in Chengfu Palace. Taiwei Pang Shen was dismissed. Xianglin barbarians rebelled. Wang Gong was appointed Taiwei. Wuling barbarians rebelled. The captain of Guanghan defeated the Baima Qiang. Li Jin defeated the rebels. King Liu Yi of Beihai passed away. Sikong Wangzhuo passed away. Guo Qian was appointed Sikong. An earthquake struck the capital. Rinan barbarians rebelled. Soldiers from Jiuzhen and Jiaozhi rebelled. Mars opposed the Southern Dipper. Jiangxia thieves killed the magistrate. The emperor visited Chang'an and provided relief. He visited Weiyang Palace. Sacrifices were held at Gaomiao and the Eleven Tombs. An earthquake struck the capital. The emperor returned to Luoyang.

In the third year, earthquakes struck the capital, Jincheng, and Longxi. Taibai opposed Mars. Cai Bo harassed county boundaries. Dr. Guanglu was sent to inspect Jincheng and Longxi. Cai Bo surrendered. An earthquake struck the capital. Yangzhen rebelled but was killed. King Liu Zun of Langfu passed away. Zhu Liang and Zhang Qiao calmed Rinan barbarians. King Liu Duo of Jibei passed away. Situ Huangshang was dismissed. Liu Shou was appointed Situ. The general and three princes were ordered to recommend capable individuals. Qiang invaders burned Jincheng but were defeated by Ma Xian. A solar eclipse occurred.

In the fourth year, Zhang Kui, Zang Zheng, and Yang Ding were executed. An earthquake struck the capital. Ma Xian attacked the Shaodang Qiang and defeated them. A general amnesty was granted. Liu An was made King of Jibei. There was a drought in Taiyuan. Dr. Guanglu was sent to inspect. The emperor hunted in Shanglin Garden and visited Guangcheng Garden.

In the fifth year, an earthquake struck the capital. King Liu Hong of Zhongshan passed away. Wusi and Cheniu rebelled but were defeated by Ma Xu. A solar eclipse occurred. Frozen Qiang bandits robbed Sanfu. Prisoners were allowed to atone. Fufeng and Hanyang built barriers. Taiwei Wang Gong was dismissed. Huanyan was appointed Taiwei. Xihe, Shang, and Shuofang counties moved their capitals. Julongwusi established Cheniu as chanyu. Zhang Dan defeated Cheniu.

In the sixth year, Ma Xian was defeated by Qie Dong Qiang. The king and marquis were exempted from rent. Gongtang Qiang raided Longxi. A comet was seen. Zhao Chong defeated Gongtang Qiang. Sikong Guo Qian was dismissed. King Liu Zheng of Hejian passed away. Zhao Jie was appointed Sikong. King Liu Wuji of Qi passed away. Zhang Dan defeated Wuhuan and Qianghu. Gongtang Qiang raided the north. Common people borrowed money from wealthy households. Liang Shang passed away; Liang Ji became general. Various Qiang raided Wuwei. A solar eclipse occurred. Anding and Beidi moved their capitals. Zhang Qiao acted as general of chariots and cavalry.

In the first year of Han'an, a general amnesty was granted. The general and ministers were ordered to recommend virtuous individuals. Chenghua stables were set up. Julong Wusi rebelled. Du Qiao and others were sent to inspect prefectures. Zhang Ying invaded Guangling. Taiwei Huan Yan and Situ Liu Shou were dismissed. Zhang Qiao left. Zhao Jun was appointed Taiwei; Hu Guang was appointed Situ. Wu Meng was selected. Zhang Ying surrendered.

In the second year, Shan Zang and Shan Guo sent envoys. Zhao Chong and Zhang Gong defeated He Qiang. Yinghuo opposed Saturn. Douluo Chu was appointed Southern Danyu. Prisoners were allowed to atone. Officials' salaries were reduced. Alcohol sales were prohibited. Zhao Chong defeated Shaodang Qiang. Ma Chen assassinated Julong Wusi. Yang and Xu bandits attacked. 180 earthquakes occurred in Liangzhou.

In the first year of Jiankang, an edict acknowledged earthquakes and provided relief. King Liu Guang of Pei passed away. Wei Ju defeated rebellious Qiang. Nanjun and Jiangxia bandits plundered. Ma Chen defeated the southern Xiongnu. Prince Liu Bing was made crown prince. King Liu Yanping of Qinghe passed away. Fan Rong and Zhou Sheng plundered. The emperor passed away at age thirty. Historians commented on Emperor Shun's reign.

Emperor Chong Liu Bing ascended the throne at age two. The Queen Mother handled state affairs. Zhao Jun was appointed Taifu; Li Gu was appointed Taiwei. Emperor Shun was buried. Earthquakes struck the capital, Taiyuan, and Yanmen. Virtuous individuals were recommended. Qiu Teng was executed. Yin Yao and Deng Xian were killed by bandits. Rinan barbarians attacked. King Liu Yi of Changshan passed away. Liu Kang was imprisoned. Xu Feng and Ma Mian attacked. Prisoners were moved. Huang Hu attacked Hefei. Xianling Tomb was excavated. Zhao Chong died in battle.

Emperor Chong died at age three. Liu Zuan was summoned. He became emperor at age eight. Emperor Chong was buried. Zhang Ying rebelled again. Xu Feng attacked. A general amnesty was granted. Liu Dao of Pengcheng passed away. Qiang surrendered. Ma Mian was killed. Prayers were held for rain. King Liu An of Jibei passed away. Lu Gong besieged the city but was defeated. An edict acknowledged drought and provided relief. Xie An killed Xu Feng. Xianbei harassed Dai County. King Liu Dai of Fuling passed away. Lujiang bandits attacked. Taifu Zhao Jun passed away. Han Zhao was imprisoned. Teng Fu defeated Zhang Ying. Zhao Xu was executed. Hua Meng was killed.

In the first year of Benchu, an edict emphasized virtue and punishment. Wang Xi was imprisoned. Relief was provided to Jiujiang and Guangling. Confucian scholars were recommended. Children of officials were sent to school. King Le'an was transferred to King Bohai. Seawater overflowed. Relief was provided. Taibai clashed with Yinghuo. A general amnesty was granted. Liang Ji poisoned Emperor Zhi, who died at age nine. Li Gu was dismissed. Hu Guang was appointed Taiwei; Zhao Jie was appointed Situ; Liang Ji participated in the general secretary. Yuan Tang was appointed Sikong. Historians praised Emperor Shun but noted his decline. Emperor Zhi was killed by Liang Ji.