Tang Shuyu of Jin State was the son of King Zhou Wu and the younger brother of King Zhou Cheng.
At first, when King Wu of Zhou was with Shu Yu's mother, Shu Yu's mother dreamed that God said to King Wu of Zhou: I will give you a son named Yu, and I will give him the land of Tang.
When Mrs. Wu Wang gave birth to the baby, she saw that the word "Yu" was written on the palm of her hand, so she named her son Yu.
After the death of King Zhou Wu, King Zhou Cheng succeeded to the throne, civil strife broke out in Tang Dynasty, and Duke Zhou destroyed Tang Dynasty.
One day, King Cheng of Zhou and Shu Yu were playing together. King Cheng cut a tung tree leaf into the shape of a jade and gave it to Shu Yu, saying: Use this to entrust you.
Shi Yi then asked to choose an auspicious day to make Shu Yu a prince.
King Zhou Cheng said: I was joking with him!
Shi Yi said: The emperor has no jokes.
As long as it is said, the historian must record it truthfully, complete it according to etiquette, and play music to praise it.
So King Cheng of Zhou granted the land of Tang to Shu Yu.
Tang Dynasty is located east of the Yellow River and Fen River, with a radius of hundreds of miles, so Shuyu is also called Tang Shuyu. His surname is Ji and his courtesy name is Ziyu.
Uncle Tang's son Xie was the Marquis of Jin.
The son of the Marquis of Jin, Ning, was the Marquis of Wu.
The son of Marquis Wu was the Marquis of Cheng.
Chenghou's son Fu was Lihou.
Lihou's son Yijiu was Jinghou.
After Jinghou, the age of Jin can be calculated.
From Tang Shuyu to Jinghou in the Five Dynasties, there is no record of the number of years they reigned.
In the 17th year of Jinghou, King Li of Zhou was brutal and violent, and the people of the country were in turmoil. King Li fled to the pigs, and the ministers presided over government affairs, so it was called "Republic".
In the eighteenth year, Jinghou passed away and his son Lihou Situ succeeded to the throne.
In the fourteenth year of Lihou, King Xuan of Zhou had just ascended the throne.
In the eighteenth year, Marquis Li died, and his son Xianhou came to the throne.
Xianhou died in the eleventh year, and his son Muhou, King Fei, came to the throne.
In the fourth year after Mu Hou ascended the throne, he married Qi's daughter Jiang as his wife.
In the seventh year, Muhou conquered the territory.
The lady gave birth to the prince and was angry.
In ten years, he conquered thousands of acres and made great achievements.
Mu Hou also had a younger son, named Chengshi.
The teacher from Jin Dynasty said: "What a strange name the king gave to his child!"
The prince's name is Qiu, and Qiu means hatred.
The younger son is called Chengshi. Chengshi is a big name and means success.
The name is given by itself, but things have their own rules.
Now, the names of the eldest son and the concubine are exactly the same. Will Jin be able to avoid chaos in the future?
In the twenty-seventh year, Hou Mu died, and his younger brother Uncle Shang established himself as king, and Prince Qiu was forced to flee.
In the third year of Uncle Shang's reign, King Xuan of Zhou passed away.
In the fourth year, Muhou's prince Qiu led his followers to attack Uncle Shang and established himself as the king of the country. This was Wenhou.
In the tenth year of Marquis Wen, King You of Zhou was ignorant and immoral. Dogs and soldiers killed King You of Zhou, and the royal family of Zhou moved eastward.
Qin Xianggong began to be classified as a prince. In the thirty-fifth year, Wenhou Qiu died, and his son Zhaohou Bo came to the throne. In the first year of the reign of Emperor Zhaohou, Marquis Wen conferred the title of Quwo to his younger brother.
Quwo City is larger than Yicheng.
Yicheng was the capital of Jinjun.
When he became a master, he was granted the title of Uncle Huan in Quwo.
Jinghou's concubine Luan Bin assisted Uncle Huan.
At that time, Uncle Huan was already old and respected virtue, so the people of Jin State all attached themselves to him.
The gentleman said: The turmoil in Jin State is in Quwo.
It is bigger than its roots and has won the hearts of the people. If there is no chaos, what are you waiting for!
In the seventh year of Zhaohou, Pan's father, the minister of Jin, killed the king Zhaohou and was going to meet Uncle Huan Quwo.
Uncle Huan also wanted to go to the Jin capital, but the Jin people sent troops to attack Uncle Huan.
Uncle Huan was defeated and returned to Quwo.
The people of Jin jointly established Ping, the son of Zhaohou, as the king of the country. This is Xiaohou.
Xiaohou killed Pan's father.
In the eighth year of Xiaohou's reign, Uncle Huan of Quwo passed away, and his son Huan inherited Uncle Huan's title. He became Uncle Zhuang of Quwo.
In the fifteenth year of Xiaohou's reign, Quwo Zhuangbo killed the king of Jin Xiaohou in Yicheng.
The Jin people attacked Quwo Zhuangbo, and Zhuangbo returned to Quwo again.
The people of Jin also made Xiaohou's son Qie their king, and he became the Marquis of E.
In the second year of Ehou's reign, Duke Yin of Lu had just ascended the throne.
Ehou passed away in the sixth year of his reign.
When Quwo Zhuangbo heard that the Marquis of E of Jin had passed away, he raised troops to attack the capital of Jin.
King Ping of Zhou sent Duke Guo to lead an army to attack Zhuangbo in Quwo, but Zhuangbo fled back to Quwo to defend himself.
The people of Jin jointly established Guang, the son of Ehou, as the king of the country. This is Aihou.
In the second year of Aihou's reign, Uncle Zhuang of Quwo passed away, and his son succeeded him to the throne. This was Duke Wu of Quwo.
In the sixth year of Aihou's reign, the people of Lu killed their own king, Duke Yin of Lu.
In the eighth year of Aihou's reign, the Jin State invaded Xingting.
Xingting and Quwo Wu Gong planned together. In the ninth year, they arrived at the Fen River to attack Jin and captured Jin Aihou.
So the Jin people made Aihou's son Xiaozi their king, and he became Xiaozihou.
In the first year of Xiaozi's reign, Duke Wu of Quwo ordered Han Wan to kill the captured Jin Aihou.
Quwo became more and more powerful, and Jin had nothing to do with it.
In the fourth year of Jin Xiaozi's reign, Quwo Wu Gong deceived Jin Xiaozi and killed him.
King Huan of Zhou sent Guo Zhong to attack Duke Wu of Quwo. Duke Wu fled back to Quwo, and Marquis Ai of Jin's younger brother Min was made Marquis of Jin.
In the fourth year of Jin Houmin's reign, the Song Dynasty arrested Zheng Zhong's Ji Zhong and forced him to establish Tu as the king of Zheng.
In the 19th year of the Marquis of Jin, the Qi people Guan Zhifu killed his own monarch Qi Xianggong.
In the twenty-eighth year of the Marquis of Jin, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
Duke Wu of Quwo attacked Jin Hou Min, destroyed Jin, and dedicated all the treasures of Jin to King Zhouli. King Li appointed Duke Wu of Quwo as the king of Jin and listed him as a prince, so Duke Wu annexed the entire land of Jin and made it his own.
Duke Wu of Quwo had been on the throne for thirty-seven years before he changed his title to Duke Wu of Jin.
Duke Wugong of Jin began to move to the capital of Jin State, including the previous accession to the throne in Quwo, for a total of thirty-eight years.
Duke Wu claimed to be the great-grandson of the late king Muhou of Jin and the grandson of Uncle Huan Quwo.
Uncle Huan was the first to be granted the title of Quwo.
Duke Wu is the son of Uncle Zhuang.
It was a total of sixty-seven years from the time when Uncle Huan was first granted the title of Quwo to the time when Duke Wu destroyed the state of Jin. Duke Wu finally replaced the state of Jin and became a vassal.
Duke Wu died in the second year after he replaced the king of Jin. Including his reign in Quwo, he died in a total of thirty-nine years.
His son Xian Gong Gui Zhu came to the throne. In the first year of Xian AD, King Hui of Zhou's brother Tuan attacked King Hui. King Hui fled and lived in Liyi of Zheng State.
In the fifth year, Duke Xian of Jin attacked Li Rong and obtained Li Ji and Li Ji's sister, whom he loved very much. In the eighth year of the Jin Dynasty, many princes from Jin State had fled to Guo State. Therefore, Guo Gong once again attacked Jin State, but failed to win.
In the tenth year of Xiangong's reign, Jin wanted to attack Guo, but Shi Jiang said: Let's wait until it has its own civil strife!
In the twelfth year, Li Ji gave birth to Xi Qi.
Duke Xian planned to depose the prince, so he said: Quwo is the place where the ancestral temple of our ancestors is located, while Pu is close to Qin and Qu is close to Zhai. If the princes are not allowed to guard those places, I will be worried.
So Duke Xian asked Prince Shen Sheng to garrison Quwo, Prince Chong'er to garrison Pu, and Prince Yiwu to garrison Qu.
Xi Qi, the son of Duke Xian and Li Ji, lived in Jiang, the capital of the country.
Therefore, the people of Jin knew that the prince would not be able to ascend the throne.
Prince Shen Sheng's mother was Qi Huangong's daughter, named Qi Jiang, who had died long ago.
Shen Sheng's half-sister is Mrs. Mu Gong of Qin.
Chong'er's mother was a woman of the Hu family in Zhai.
Yiwu's mother is the sister of Chong'er's mother.
Duke Xian had eight sons in total. Prince Shen Sheng, Chong'er, and Yi Wu were all virtuous and of high moral character.
After Duke Xiang had Li Ji, he alienated his three sons.
In the 16th year, Duke Xiang of Jin established two armies.
Xian Gong commanded the upper army, Prince Shen Sheng commanded the lower army, Zhao Su drove the chariot, and Bi Wan served as the right guard. They successively conquered and destroyed Huo, Wei, and Geng.
After the whole army returned to Jin, Xian Gong helped the prince build a city in Quwo, gave the land of Geng to Zhao Su, and gave the land of Wei to Bi Wan, making them officials.
Shilai said: Prince, you can no longer be established as king.
Duke Xian gave you all the capital of the late monarch and granted you the title of minister. He raised your salary to the extreme in advance. How could he make you the king again?
The prince might as well run away to avoid disaster.
Isn’t it okay for the prince to imitate Taibo Wu? In this way, you can still get a good reputation.
The prince did not listen.
Guo Yan, the doctor who conducted divination, said: Bi Wan's descendants must have great development.
Ten thousand means a full number; Wei means vast.
The reward of Wei was given to Bi Wan because God was blessing Bi Wan.
The emperor has tens of thousands of people, and the princes have tens of thousands of people. Now that Biwan is enfeoffed in the vast land of Wei, to match the full number in his name, he will definitely get many subjects.
At first, Bi Wan was divining his own official fortune in the Jin Kingdom, and encountered the "Tuen Gua" and evolved it into the "Bi Gua".
Xin Liao's divination said: This is auspicious. The "Tun" hexagram predicts solidity and depth. Nothing is more auspicious than this.
His descendants will surely prosper.
In the seventeenth year, the Marquis of Jin asked Prince Shen Sheng to attack the Gaoluo clan in Dongshan.
Rick came to admonish Duke Xian and said: The prince is the one who offers sacrifices to the ancestral temple and the country, and checks the king's meals in the morning and evening, so he is called Zhongzi.
When the monarch wants to travel, the prince should stay behind. If someone stays behind on his behalf, the prince should follow. Following the monarch when going out is called Fujun, and staying behind in the capital is called supervising the country. This is an ancient system.
The commander-in-chief of the army must concentrate on planning; issuing orders to the army is the sole responsibility of the monarch and his ministers, not the prince's business.
The command of the army lies in obeying the general's orders. If the prince has to ask the king for instructions when everything happens, there is no dignity; if he acts arbitrarily, it is unfilial. Therefore, the king's legitimate son cannot command the army.
It is wrong for the king to appoint the prince as the commander of the army. Commanding the army will make the prince lose his majesty. How can he be reused in the future?
Duke Xiang said: I have several sons, but I have not yet decided who will be the crown prince.
Rick withdrew without answering and went to see the prince.
The prince asked: Am I going to be deposed?
Rick said: "Prince, please work hard. I will let you command the army. What I am afraid of is that I will not be able to complete the task. Why should I abolish you?"
Moreover, as a son of man, you should be afraid that you will not be able to fulfill your filial piety, and you should not be afraid that you will not be able to be established as a king.
If you pay attention to your own moral cultivation and do not blame others, you can avoid disasters.
The prince commanded the army, and Duke Xian asked him to wear separate clothes of different colors on the left and right, and wear a golden jue.
Rick said he was sick and did not follow the prince.
The prince then went to attack Dongshan.
In the 19th year, Duke Xian said: When our ancestors Zhuang Bo and Wu Ping quelled the turmoil in Jin, Guo often helped Jin to attack us, and also hid the escaped princes of Jin. If they really rebelled and did not attack us, they would leave future troubles for their descendants.
Therefore, Duke Xiang asked Xun Xi to drive Qu Chan's four-horse horse to borrow a road from the state of Yu.
The state of Yu agreed to borrow the road, and Jin went to attack the state of Guo, captured Xiayang and returned home.
Duke Xian said to Li Ji privately: I want to depose the crown prince and let Xi Qi take his place.
After hearing this, Li Ji cried and said: The prince has been appointed, the princes have already known it, and the prince has commanded the army many times, and the people have all joined him. How can you abolish the eldest son and establish a concubine just because of me? If you must do this, I can only commit suicide.
Li Ji pretended to praise the prince, but secretly slandered the prince and wanted to make her son the prince.
In the twenty-first year, Li Ji said to the prince: The king once dreamed of Qi Jiang. Prince, you should go to Quwo immediately to sacrifice your mother, and when you come back, offer the meat to the king.
So the prince rushed to Quwo to sacrifice his mother. After returning to the capital of Jin, he presented the gizzard meat to Duke Xian.
Duke Xian went out hunting at that time, so the prince put the meat in the palace.
Li Ji sent people to put poison on the flesh.
Two days later, Duke Xian returned to the palace from hunting. The chef offered the pork belly to Duke Xian. Duke Xian wanted to enjoy it, but Li Ji stopped him and said, "The pork belly comes from a far away place. You should try it."
The cook poured the pork belly on the ground, and the ground protruded; the chef threw the pork belly to the dog, and the dog died immediately after eating it; the cook gave the pork belly to the eunuch, and the eunuch also died.
Li Ji cried and said: Why is the prince so cruel!
Even his own father wanted to kill him to take his place, let alone others?
Besides, you are already old and you only have a few more days left to live. The prince can’t wait to kill you!
Li Ji then said to Duke Xian: The prince did this only because of Xi Qi and me.
We, mother and son, would rather hide in another country or commit suicide early than let my mother and son be killed by the prince in vain.
When you wanted to get rid of him, I opposed you; but today, I realize that I was totally wrong.
After the prince heard about this, he fled to the new city. Duke Xiang was very angry and killed the prince's teacher Du Yuanqian.
Someone said to the prince: "It was Li Ji who put the poison in the flesh. Why doesn't the prince explain it clearly himself?"
The prince said: My father is old. Without Li Ji, he will have trouble sleeping and eating tasteless.
If I tell the truth, my father will definitely be very angry with Li Ji. This won't work.
Someone said to the prince again: Then you should flee to other countries as soon as possible.
The prince said: Who can accept me if I run away with this crime?
I had no choice but to commit suicide.
On Wushen Day in December, Shen Sheng committed suicide in Xincheng.
At this time, Chong'er and Yiwu came to see the king.
Someone told Li Ji: These two young masters hate you for framing and killing the prince.
Li Ji was very frightened, so she spread a rumor to Xiang Gong, saying: Shen Sheng put poison into the flesh of the brachium, and the two young masters knew about it in advance.
Chong'er and Yiwu were also frightened when they heard Li Ji's rumors, so Chong'er ran to Pu and Yiwu ran to Qu and personally protected their cities with tight security.
当初，献公让士蒍给两位公子修筑蒲、屈城墙，现在还未修筑成功。

Yi Wu reported this to Duke Xian, who was very angry with Shi Lai.
Shilai apologized and said: There are few bandits in the border city, why do we need to build the city wall?
After Shilai retreated, he sang: The fur of the fox fur coat is scattered. There are three masters in a country. Who will I obey?
Shilai finally repaired the city.
After Shen Sheng died, the two young masters went back to defend their own cities.
In the twenty-second year, Duke Xian was very dissatisfied with the two young masters leaving without saying goodbye. He thought they really had a conspiracy, so he sent troops to attack Pucheng.
There was an eunuch named Bo Di in Pucheng who asked Chong'er to commit suicide immediately.
Chong'er climbed up the wall and escaped. Bo Di chased him and cut off Chong'er's sleeves.
Chong'er was able to escape and reached Zhai.
Duke Xian sent people to attack Qu again, but the people of Qucheng defended with all their strength and were not captured.
This year, the Jin State borrowed a road from Yu to attack Guo.
Gong Zhiqi, the official of the Yu State, advised Yu Jun: "You cannot lend the road to the Jin State, otherwise the Jin State will destroy the Yu State."
Yu Jun said: Jin has the same surname as me, so it should not attack my country.
Gong Zhiqi said: Tai Bo and Yu Zhong were both sons of the King Tai. Tai Bo fled and therefore failed to inherit the throne.
Guo Zhong and Guo Shu were both sons of Wang Ji and ministers of King Wen. Their achievements were recorded in the royal family and kept in the hands of the officials in charge of the alliance.
If you are determined to destroy the Guo State, how can you cherish the Yu State?
Besides, can Jin be closer to the Yu State than to the Uncle Huan and Uncle Zhuang families?
Uncle Huan and Uncle Zhuang's family had no sins, but Jin Jun actually killed them all.
The relationship between Yu State and Guo State is like the relationship between lips and teeth. When the lips are dead and the teeth are cold,
Jun Yu refused to listen to Gong Zhiqi's advice and agreed to the Jin State.
Gong Zhiqi left the Yu Kingdom with his entire family.
In the winter of this year, the Jin State destroyed the Guo State, and Guo Gongchou fled to Zhou Jing.
When the Jin army returned, they attacked and destroyed the State of Yu. They captured the Duke of Yu and his senior officials Jing Bo and Baili Xi as dowries for the Duke's daughter Qin Muji, and sent people to handle the sacrifices of the State of Yu.
Xun Xi gave Xiangong the famous horse that he had given to Yu Jun in the past, and he dedicated it to Xiangong. Xiangong smiled and said: "The horse is still my horse, but it is also old!"
In the twenty-third year, Duke Xian sent Jia Hua and others to attack Qucheng, and all the people in Qucheng fled.
Yi Wu planned to flee to Zhai.
Ji Rui said, "No, Chong'er is already there. If you go today, Jin will definitely mobilize troops to attack Zhai. Zhai is afraid of Jin, and disaster will endanger you."
You might as well flee to Liang. Liang is close to Qin and Qin is strong. After our king dies, you can ask Qin to send you back.
So Yiwu ran to Liang State.
In the twenty-fifth year, the state of Jin attacked the state of Zhai. Because of Chong'er, the state of Zhai also attacked the state of Jin from Zhisang. As a result, the state of Jin retreated.
During this period, the Jin State became stronger, occupying Hexi to the west, bordering Qin State, Zhai State to the north, and Hanoi to the east.
Li Ji's sister gave birth to a son.
In the summer of the twenty-sixth year, Duke Huan of Qi held a grand alliance meeting with the princes in Kuiqiu.
Duke Xiang of Jin left late due to illness. Before he arrived at Kuiqiu, he met Zai Kong of Zhou Dynasty.
Zaikong said: Duke Huan of Qi has become more and more arrogant and domineering. He does not try his best to practice virtuous government but tries every means to invade far away places. The princes are not satisfied.
It's better not to go. Duke Huan of Qi can't do anything to Jin.
In addition, Xian Gong was ill and returned to Jin.
Soon, Duke Xiang fell seriously ill, so he said to Xun Xi: I asked Xi Qi to inherit the throne, but he is still young and the ministers are not convinced. I am afraid there will be trouble. Can you support him? Xun Xi said: Yes.
Duke Xian said: "What do you use as proof?"
Xun Xi replied: Even if you come back after death, I will still not feel ashamed when I am alive. This is the proof.
Therefore, Duke Xian entrusted Xi Qi to Xun Xi.
Xun Xi served as the prime minister and presided over state affairs.
In the ninth month of autumn, Duke Xiang passed away.
Rick and Pi Zheng wanted to take Chong'er back and use the three princes' followers to cause trouble, so they said to Xun Xi: The three resentful families are about to cause trouble. There are Qin people outside and Jin people inside to help them. What are you going to do?
Xun Xi said: I cannot break my promise to the late king.
In October, Rick killed Xi Qi in the mourning place. At that time, Duke Xian had not yet been buried.
Xun Xi planned to die, but someone suggested that he should make Xi Qi's younger brother mourn his son and assist him. Xun Xi then made a mourning son and buried Duke Xian.
In November, Rick killed his mourning son in the court, and Xun Xi also committed suicide.
The gentleman said: "The Book of Songs" says that if a white stone has spots, it can be polished, but if it is wrong, it cannot be saved. This is Xun Xi!
Xun Xi did not break his promise.
At the beginning, when Duke Xian was about to attack Li Rong, Turtle Bu said, "Slanderous words can cause harm."
After defeating Li Rong and getting Li Ji, Duke Xian doted on her so much that he actually caused chaos in the Jin Kingdom.
Rick and others have killed Xi Qi and Dao Zi, and sent people to Zhai State to welcome the young master Chong'er, intending to support him.
Chong'er thanked him and said: "I escaped from Jin against my father's orders. After my father passed away, I couldn't attend the funeral according to the etiquette of a son. How could I dare to return to my country and take the throne? Please ask the doctor to appoint someone else instead."
The person sent came back to report to Rick, who sent someone to Liang Kingdom to meet Yi Wu.
Yiwu wanted to return to Jin, but Lu Sheng and Cherui said: "It is hard to believe that there are still young masters in the country who can ascend the throne, but they go abroad to find them."
I guess it would be very dangerous not to go to Qin in order to use the power of a powerful country to return to Jin.
So Yiwu asked Cherui to bribe Qin with generous gifts, and agreed: If I can return to Jin, I am willing to dedicate Hexi of Jin to Qin.
Yiwu also wrote a letter to Rick saying: If I can really ascend the throne, I am willing to seal the city of Fenyang to you.
Duke Mu of Qin sent troops to escort Yi Wu back to Jin.
When Duke Huan of Qi heard about the civil strife in Jin, he also led the princes to Jin.
The Qin army and Yi Wu also arrived at the Jin State at this time. The Qi State asked Peng Peng to join the Qin State in sending Yi Wu back to the Jin State and made him the king of Jin. This is Hui Gong.
Duke Huan of Qi returned to Qi after arriving at Gaoliang of Jin.
In the first year of Yiwu, Hui Gong sent Pi Zheng to apologize to the King of Qin and said: I promised you the land of Hexi. Now I am fortunate to return to the country and become the king.
The minister said: The land was left by the ancestors. You are on the run, so why should you arbitrarily grant it to Qin?
My efforts were in vain, so I apologized to Qin.
At the same time, Yiwu did not grant Fenyang City to Rick, but instead took away his power.
In April, King Zhou Xiang sent Duke Zhou's father-in-law to meet the officials of Qi and Qin to visit Duke Hui of Jin.
Because Chong'er was on the run, Duke Hui was afraid that Rick would launch a coup, so he ordered Rick to die and said to him: Without you Rick, I cannot ascend the throne.
Even so, you have also killed two kings and a high official. Isn’t it too difficult to be your king?
Rick replied: How can you rise up without destroying the first?
You want to kill me, can't you find an excuse?
You actually said such a thing!
I just obey.
After saying that, Rick committed suicide with his sword.
However, Pi Zheng was spared this difficulty because he went to Qin to apologize and did not come back.
Jin Jun re-interred Prince Shen Sheng according to etiquette.
In autumn, the fox suddenly arrived in Quwo and met Shen Sheng's ghost. Shen Sheng asked him to ride with him and told him: "Yi and I are rude. I want to ask the Emperor of Heaven to give the entire Jin to Qin, and Qin will sacrifice to me."
Hutu replied: I heard that gods do not enjoy sacrifices that are not from one's own clan. So, wouldn't your sacrifices be cut off?
Please think about it carefully!
Shen Sheng said: Well, I want to ask the Emperor of Heaven again.
Ten days later, a shaman will appear to me in the west of the new city.
Hu Tu agreed to Shen Sheng, and Shen Sheng disappeared.
When Hutu went to the west of Xincheng as scheduled, he saw Shen Sheng. Shen Sheng told him: The Emperor of Heaven has promised to punish the sinners, and he will be defeated in Han Yuan.
So the children sang a song: Prince Gong has been reburied. In the next fourteen years, the Kingdom of Jin will not be prosperous. The prosperity is his elder brother.
Pi Zheng was sent to Qin as an envoy. When he heard that Rick had been killed, he said to Duke Mu of Qin: "Lu Province, Quecheng, and Ji Rui are indeed unwilling to bribe Qin with Hexi."
If we can bribe them with some property, negotiate with them, drive away the king of Jin, and send Chong'er back to Jin, then things will definitely succeed.
Duke Mu of Qin agreed to him, and sent him and Pi Zheng to return to Jin, and bribed the three of them with large sums of money.
The three of them said: "We are rich and talkative. Pi Zheng must have betrayed us to Qin."
So the three of them killed Pi Zheng, Rick, and Doctor Qiyu, Pi Zheng's party member.
Pi Zheng's son Bao fled to Qin and asked Qin to attack Jin, but Duke Mu did not listen.
After Hui Gong ascended the throne, he violated the agreement to give Qin land and grant Li Ke, and killed Qi Yu. The people of Jin were disobedient.
In the second year, Zhou sent Duke Zhao to visit Duke Hui of Jin. Duke Hui was arrogant in etiquette, and Duke Zhao laughed at him.
In the fourth year, there was a famine in Jin State and it begged Qin to buy grain.
Duke Mu of Qin asked Baili Xi, and Baili Xi said: Natural disasters occur frequently and may occur in all countries. It is the moral duty of the country to provide disaster relief and help neighbors.
Jin should be helped.
Pi Zheng's son Bao Que said: We should take this opportunity to attack Jin.
Duke Mu of Qin said: The king of Jin is indeed guilty, but why are the people of Jin guilty?
Qin finally sold the grain to Jin, and the grain was continuously transported from Yongcheng to Jiangcheng of Jin.
Five years later, there was another famine in Qin and asked to buy grain from Jin.
The king of Jin discussed the matter with his ministers, and Qing Zheng said: The king came to the throne with the strength of the Qin State. Later, after you ascended the throne, you broke the oath to give the Qin State the land west of Hexi.
There was a famine in the Jin State, and the Qin State sold us grain. Today, the Qin State is in famine, and they ask to buy Jin State's grain, and we give it to them. Is there any doubt?
Why bother to discuss it?
Guo She said: Last year, God gave Jin to Qin, but Qin didn't know how to seize Jin and instead sold us grain.
Today, God gave Qin to Jin. Should Jin go against God's will?
Qin should be attacked.
Duke Hui adopted Guo She's plan and instead of giving Qin food, he sent troops to attack Qin.
Duke Mu of Qin was very angry and sent troops to attack Jin.
In the spring of the sixth year, Duke Mu of Qin led an army to attack the state of Jin.
Duke Hui of Jin said to Qing Zheng: The Qin army has penetrated deeply into our country. What should we do?
Qing Zheng said: Qin escorted you back to the country, but you broke the agreement and refused to give Qin land. When Jin was in famine, Qin immediately sent food to help us. When Qin was famine, Jin not only refused to provide aid, but wanted to take the opportunity to attack others. Shouldn't the Qin army go deep into the country today?
The Jin State conducted divination on the people who drove the vehicles and served as escorts, both of whom were Qingzheng Ji.
Duke Hui said: Qing Zheng is a little rude.
So he let Buyang drive the car and his servants served as guards and marched into Qin.
On the day of Renxu in the ninth month, Duke Mu of Qin and Duke Hui of Jin fought in Han Yuan.
Duke Hui's heavy horse was stuck in the mud and could no longer run. When the Qin army arrived, Duke Hui was very embarrassed and asked Qing Zheng to drive the horse.
Qing Zheng said: If you don't follow the divination, shouldn't you also fail?
After saying that, Qingzheng left.
Duke Hui instead asked Liang Yaomi to drive the car, while Guo She served as his guard to attack Duke Mu of Qin.
Duke Mu's brave soldiers defeated the Jin army. The Jin army retreated, allowing Duke Mu of Qin to run away. Instead, the Qin army captured Duke Hui of Jin and brought him back to Qin.
The State of Qin will kill him and sacrifice him to heaven.
Jin Jun's sister is Mrs. Mu Gong. She is wearing mourning clothes and crying.
Duke Mu said: You should be happy to have captured the Marquis of Jin, but now you are sad.
Besides, I heard that Jizi said when he saw Uncle Tang had just been enfeoffed, his descendants would be prosperous. How could Jin be destroyed?
Therefore, Duke Mu of Qin formed an alliance with the Marquis of Jin in the royal city and allowed him to return to Jin.
The Marquis of Jin also sent Lu Sheng and others to report back to the people: Although I can return to Jin, I don't have the face to see Sheji. Let's choose an auspicious day for Ziyu to ascend the throne!
The Jin people cried sadly when they heard this.
Duke Mu of Qin asked Lu Province: Are the people in Jin harmonious?
Lu Sheng replied: There is no harmony.
The people were afraid of losing their king, causing civil strife, and sacrificing their parents, but were not afraid of Ziyu's accession to the throne. They all said: They must avenge this, and would rather serve the Rong and Di.
But those nobles loved their king very much and knew that he was guilty. They were waiting for Qin's order to send the king back. They said: They must repay Qin's kindness to Jin.
Because of these two situations, the state of Jin was not in harmony.
So Duke Mu of Qin changed the residence of Duke Hui of Jin and gave Duke Hui of Jin seven prisons as a gift to sacrifice.
In November, Qin sent Duke Jin back.
After the Marquis of Jin returned to Jin, he killed Qing Zheng and reorganized government affairs.
Discussed with the ministers: "Chong'er is away, and most of the princes think he is beneficial and receive him."
The king of Jin wanted to send people to Di to kill Chong'er.
Chong'er heard the news and ran to the state of Qi.
In the eighth year, Duke Hui of Jin asked Prince Yu to serve as a hostage in the state of Qin.
When Duke Hui fled to Liang State, Liang Bo married his daughter to Duke Hui and gave birth to a boy and a girl.
Uncle Liang divined for them that the boy would be a minister and the girl would be a concubine, so the boy was named Yuan and the girl was named concubine.
In ten years, Qin State destroyed Liang State.
Liang Bo liked to build large-scale construction projects and build cities and ditches. The people were exhausted and complained. They frightened each other many times and said, "The Qin army is coming." The people were too frightened, and Qin finally destroyed Liang.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Hui of Jin fell ill. He had several sons.
Prince Yu said: My mother's natal family is in Liang. Today Liang is destroyed by Qin. I am despised by Qin abroad and has no help at home.
My father is seriously ill and bedridden. I am worried that the Jin officials will look down on me and ask me to make another prince the prince instead.
So Prince Yu and his wife discussed escaping back together.
The Qin woman who served the prince said: "You are the prince of a country, and you are being humiliated here."
The King of Qin asked me to serve you in order to stabilize your heart.
You can run away, I won't drag you down, and I won't make it public.
Prince Yu then ran back to Jin.
In September of the fourteenth year, Duke Hui of Jin passed away and Prince Yu came to the throne. This was Duke Huai.
Prince Yu escaped, and Duke Mu of Qin was very angry, so he approached Prince Chong'er and wanted to escort him back to become the king.
After Prince Yu came to the throne, he was worried that Qin would come back to attack Jin, so he ordered those who fled with Chong'er from Jin to return to Jin on time. If he failed to return within the time limit, his entire family would be killed.
Hutu's sons Mao and Yan both followed Chong'er in Qin, but Hutu refused to call them back.
Duke Huai was very unhappy and imprisoned Hutu.
Hu Tu said: My son has served Chong'er for many years. Today you ordered him to be called back. This is turning them against their own monarch. How can I educate them in the future?
Duke Huai finally killed Hutu.
Duke Mu of Qin then sent an army to escort Chong'er back to the state of Jin. He sent people to notify the party members in Luanzhi and Quegu to act as internal agents, killed Duke Huai of Jin in Gaoliang, and sent Chong'er back.
When Chong'er came to the throne, he was Duke Wen.
Duke Wen of Jin, Chong'er, was the son of Duke Xian of Jin.
Since childhood, he has liked to make friends with virtuous scholars. At the age of seventeen, he had five friends with high moral character and outstanding talents: Zhao Shuai; Hu Yan Jiufun, who was Wen Gong's uncle; Jia Tuo;
Chong'er had grown up since Duke Xian became the crown prince.
When Duke Xiang came to the throne, Chong'er was twenty-one years old.
In the thirteenth year of Xiangong's reign, Chong'er lived in Pucheng to defend Qin because of Li Ji.
In the 21st year of Xiangong's reign, Xiangong killed Prince Shen Sheng. Li Ji slandered and framed Chong'er. Chong'er was frightened and ran back to Pucheng to defend himself without saying goodbye.
In the twenty-second year of Xiangong's reign, Xiangong asked the eunuch Lu Ting to kill Chong'er quickly.
Chong'er climbed the wall to escape, but the eunuchs chased him and cut off Chong'er's sleeves.
Chong'er fled to the state of Di. Di is the homeland of Chong'er's mother. At this time Chong'er was forty-three years old.
Since then, five of his friends, as well as dozens of unknown people, have come to Di with him.
Di conquered Jiuru and captured two of Jiuru's women. He married the older woman to Chong'er and gave birth to Bomin and Shuliu. He married the younger woman to Zhao Shuai and gave birth to Dun.
Chong'er lived in Di for five years, and Duke Xian of Jin passed away. Rick had killed Xi Qi and Daozi, and asked people to welcome Chong'er, hoping to make Chong'er the king.
Chong'er was worried that he would be killed, so he resolutely refused and did not dare to return to Jin.
Later, the Jin State welcomed Chong'er's younger brother Yiwu and supported him. This was Duke Hui.
In the seventh year of Duke Hui, Duke Hui was afraid that Chong'er would weaken his throne, so he asked the eunuch Lu Ding to lead the warriors to murder Chong'er.
After Chong'er learned about the situation, he discussed with Zhao Shui and others: I fled to Di not because it could help me, but because it was short and easy to reach, so I stayed here temporarily.
After resting here for a long time, I hope to move to a big country.
Duke Huan of Qi liked good deeds, was determined to dominate, and was considerate of the princes.
Now that I have heard that Guan Zhong and Xi Peng have passed away, and Duke Huan of Qi is also eager to recruit capable people to assist him in his hegemony, why don't we go there?
So, Chong'er embarked on the road to Qi State again.
When leaving Di, Chong'er said to his wife: If I don't come back in twenty-five years, you can remarry someone else.
The wife smiled and replied: In twenty-five years, the cypress trees on my grave will have grown up.
Even so, I'm still waiting for you.
Chong'er lived in Digong for twelve years before leaving.
When Chong'er passed by the state of Wei, Duke Wen of Wei did not treat him politely.
After leaving Weiguo, when passing by Wulu, he felt hungry and begged for food from the villagers. The villagers put soil in a container and dedicated it to him.
Chong'er was very unhappy, and Zhao Shui said: Earth symbolizes that you will own land in the future, and you should accept it with courtesy.
When Chong'er arrived in the state of Qi, Duke Huan of Qi entertained him generously, married the daughter of the clan to Chong'er, and accompanied him with twenty four-horse carriages. Chong'er felt very satisfied here.
Chong'er lived in Qi for two years. Duke Huan died. Just as Shu Dao and others started civil strife, Duke Xiao of Qi came to the throne, and the armies of various princes came to invade Qi many times.
Chong'er lived in Qi for a total of five years.
Chong'er fell in love with the wife he married in Qi and had no intention of leaving Qi.
One day Zhao Shui and Jiu were discussing the matter of leaving Qi under a mulberry tree.
Chong'er's wife's maid heard their secret conversation at the mulberry tree and secretly told her master after returning to the house.
Chong'er's wife actually killed the maid and advised Chong'er to leave quickly.
Chong'er said: "Man is born to seek comfort and enjoyment. Why bother with other things? I will die of old age together and cannot leave."
The wife said: You are the son of a country, and you came here when you were desperate. These followers of yours regard you as their life.
You don't return home quickly to repay your hard-working ministers, but you are greedy for women. I am ashamed of you.
Besides, if you don’t pursue it now, when will you succeed?
She, Zhao Shui and others used a trick to get Chong'er drunk and drove him away from Qi State in a car.
After walking for a long time, Chong'er woke up. As soon as he found out the truth of the matter, he became furious and took up arms to kill the culprit.
The criminal said: It is my wish to succeed in your career by killing me.
Chong'er said: If things don't work out, I will eat your flesh.
The offender said: Even if the matter fails, my meat is fishy and smelly, how can it be worth eating by you?
So Chong'er calmed down his anger and continued to move forward.
Chong'er passed by the state of Cao. Duke Cao did not treat him politely and wanted to peek at Chong'er's threats.
Li Ningji, an official of Cao State, said: "Young Master Jin is a wise and capable man, and he has the same surname as us. He passed through our country in poverty. Why is he so rude?"
The public servant did not listen to the advice.
Yingji secretly gave Chong'er food and put a piece of jade under the food.
Chong'er accepted the food and returned the jade to Yingji.
Chong'er left the state of Cao and came to the state of Song. Song Xianggong had just been defeated by the Chu army and was wounded in the battle of Hongshui. Hearing that Chong'er was a wise man, he received Chong'er with the courtesy of a prince.
Sima Gongsun Gu of the Song Dynasty had a good relationship with the criminals and said: The Song Dynasty is a small country and it has just suffered a defeat. It is not enough to help you return home. It is better to go to a big country.
Chong'er and his party then left the Song Dynasty again.
When Chong'er passed by the state of Zheng, Duke Wen of Zheng did not treat him politely.
Doctor Zheng Shuzhan advised the monarch: "The prince of Jin is wise, and his followers are all the pillars of the country, and they have the same surname as us."
The State of Zheng was separated from King Li, and the State of Jin was separated from King Wu.
The king of Zheng said: There are too many young masters who have escaped from the vassal states passing through our country. How can we receive them according to etiquette?
Shuzhan said: "If you don't treat me politely, it's better to kill him, so as not to become a trouble for us in the future."
Zheng Guojun did not listen.
Chong'er left the state of Zheng and went to the state of Chu. King Cheng of Chu entertained him with the courtesy given to princes, but Chong'er declined and did not dare to accept it.
Zhao Shui said: You have been in exile for more than ten years. Small countries despise you, let alone big countries.
Today, Chu is a great country that insists on treating you favorably, so don’t give in. This is God protecting you.
Chong'er then met with King Cheng of Chu according to the etiquette of princes.
King Cheng received Chong'er well, and Chong'er was very humble.
King Cheng said: How will you repay me when you return to China?
Chong'er said: "Your Majesty has many rare birds and animals, pearls, jade, silk and silk. I don't know what gift to repay."
King Cheng said: Even so, you have to repay me with something, right?
Chong'er said: If you have no choice but to encounter you in the plains or lakes and swamps, please stay away for the sake of the king.
Ziyu, the general of the Chu State, said angrily: Your Majesty treats Mr. Jin too well. Today Chong'er made rude remarks. Please kill him.
King Cheng said: Mr. Jin has a noble character, but he has been in exile for too long. His followers are all talents of the country. This is a gift from God. How can he be killed?
Besides, what could he be asked to say instead?
Chong'er lived in Chu for several months, and the prince of Jin, Yu, fled from Qin. Qin resented him and wanted to invite Chong'er to Qin when he heard that Chong'er lived in Chu.
King Cheng said: The State of Chu is far away from the State of Jin, and we have to pass through several countries to reach the State of Jin.
Qin is on the border with Jin, and the king of Qin is very wise. Go to Qin!
King Cheng gave Chong'er many gifts to see him off.
When Chong'er arrived in Qin, Duke Mu of Qin married five women from the same clan to Chong'er, including the wife of the former Duke Yu.
Chong'er didn't want to accept the young master's expropriation of his wife. Sikong Jizi said: "His country will be attacked, let alone his wife!"
Moreover, you accepted this woman in order to marry Qin and return to Jin. You actually stick to small etiquette and forget the big shame!
Chong'er then accepted the young master's wife.
Duke Mu of Qin was very happy and had a banquet with Chong'er in person.
Zhao Shuai recited the poem "Millet Miao".
Duke Mu of Qin said: I know you want to return to Jin as soon as possible.
Zhao Shui and Chong'er left their seats, thanked them again and said: "We, the helpless ministers, rely on you, just like hundreds of grains looking forward to the good rain that knows the season."
It was the autumn of the fourteenth year of Duke Hui of Jin.
Duke Hui died in the ninth month and Ziyu came to the throne.
In November, Duke Hui of Jin was buried.
In December, Jin officials Luan Zhi, Que Gu and others heard that Chong'er was in Qin, so they secretly came to persuade Chong'er, Zhao Shui and others to return to Jin. There were many people who acted as internal correspondents.
So Duke Mu of Qin sent troops to escort Chong'er back to Jin.
When the king of Jin heard that the Qin army was coming, he also sent troops to resist.
But the people secretly knew that Prince Chong'er was coming back.
Only Hui Gong's old ministers, Lu's nephew and Qerui, were unwilling to let Chong'er ascend the throne.
Chong'er fled for nineteen years and finally returned to Jin. He was sixty-two years old at this time, and most of the Jin people returned to him.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, the State of Qin escorted Chong'er to the bank of the Yellow River.
The offender said: I followed you around the world and made many mistakes.
I know it myself, let alone you?
I beg you to leave from now on.
Chong'er said: If I come back to Jin Dynasty and I don't agree with you, please ask He Bo to testify!
So Chong'er threw the jade into the Yellow River and broke the oath with his son.
At that time, Jie Zitui was also an entourage and was in the boat. He laughed and said: It is true that God is supporting the rise of the young master, but Zifeng thinks it is his own merit and demands it from the king. It is so shameful.
I don't want to be in the same league as him.
After saying that, he hid himself and crossed the Yellow River.
The Qin army surrounded Linghu, and the Jin army was stationed at Luliu.
On the day of Xinchou in the second month, the offender formed an alliance with the officials of Qin and Jin in Xun.
On Renyin day, Chong'er entered the Jin army.
On Bingwu day, Chong'er arrived in Quwo.
On the day of Dingwei, Chong'er went to Wugong to pay homage and ascended the throne as the king of Jin. This was Duke Wen.
The ministers all went to Quwo.
Huai Gongyu fled to Gaoliang.
On Wushen day, Chonger sent people to kill Duke Huai.
Lu Sheng and Cherui, former ministers of Duke Huai, did not join Duke Wen in the first place and were afraid of being killed, so they conspired with their followers to set fire to the palace where Duke Wen lived and kill him.
Duke Wen was completely unaware of this.
However, the eunuch Lu Tie, who had wanted to kill Wen Gong earlier, knew about the plot and wanted to tell Wen Gong about the plot in order to get rid of his earlier sins, so he asked to see Wen Gong.
Duke Wen refused to see him and sent someone to reprimand him: "You cut off my sleeves about Pucheng."
Later, I went hunting with Di Jun, and you tracked and killed me for Hui Gong.
Hui Gong promised you three days to arrive, but you arrived in one day. How fast?
Think about it carefully.
The eunuch said: I am a person who has been castrated. I dare not serve the king half-heartedly or betray my master, so I have offended you.
You have returned to China. Is this the case with Pu and Zhai in the Han Dynasty?
Moreover, Guan Zhong shot Duke Huan of Qi's hook, but Duke Huan still relied on Guan Zhong to dominate.
Today, I, a sinner, want to tell you something important, but you don't see it, and disaster will befall you again.
So Wen Gong met him, and he told Wen Gong in detail about the plot of Lu Nephew, Qerui and others.
Duke Wen wanted to summon Lu and Que, but Lu, Que and others had many followers. Duke Wen was worried that the people of the country might betray him just after he returned, so he hid his identity and went to the royal city to meet with Duke Mu of Qin. The people of the country were completely unaware of his actions.
On Jichou Day in March, Lu, Que and others rebelled and burned down the palace where Wen Gong lived, but did not find Wen Gong.
Duke Wen's guards fought with them, but Lu, Que, and others wanted to lead their troops to escape. Duke Mu of Qin seduced Lu, Que, and others, and killed them on the banks of the Yellow River. The state of Jin returned to peace, and Duke Wen was able to return to Jin.
In the summer, Duke Wen took his wife back from Qin, and the wife given to him by Qin finally became his wife.
Qin also sent 3,000 people as guards to guard against civil strife in Jin.
Duke Wen fixed up government affairs, extended favors to the people, and rewarded those who had fled and meritorious ministers. Those who had made great achievements were granted the title of city, and those who had made minor merits were awarded titles.
Before Duke Wen could finish the reward, King Xiang of Zhou was forced to live in Zheng State because his younger brother, the prince, had led him to escape, so he came to Jin State to ask for help.
The Jin Kingdom had just settled down and wanted to send troops, but was worried about unrest in the country. Therefore, Duke Wen rewarded the fugitives who followed him before it was his turn to hide Jie Zitui.
Jie Zitui did not ask for a salary, and it was not his turn to receive a salary.
Jie Zitui said: Duke Xian has nine sons, only the king is still alive.
Duke Hui and Duke Huai had no close followers, and they were despised both at home and abroad. God had not allowed Jin to perish, so there must be a monarch. Who else could preside over Jin's sacrifices besides the monarch?
God is indeed helping you to rise, but isn't it ridiculous for two or three people to think that they are the ones who took the credit?
If someone steals someone else's property, he can still be called a thief. How much more can he say that he is a thief who is greedy for God's merit and thinks that he is his own merit?
The subordinates cover up their sins, the Lord rewards the traitors, and the superiors and subordinates deceive each other. It is difficult for me to get along with them!
Jiejietui's mother said: "Why don't you also ask for a reward? Who will you blame if you die?"
Jie Zitui said: I hate those people, and if I imitate their behavior, the sin will be even greater.
Besides, I have already expressed my complaint and will never eat his salary.
Mother said: How about letting Mr. Wen know about your situation?
Jie Zitui replied: Words are flower decorations on everyone's body. The body wants to be hidden, so why use flower decorations anymore?
Putting on floral decorations is about showing yourself off.
Jie Zitui's mother said, "Can I do what you said?"
Then I'll hide with you.
Mother and son never showed up again until their deaths.
Jie Zitui's followers felt pity for him, so they hung a sign at the entrance of the palace, which read: If a dragon wants to go to heaven, it needs the help of five snakes.
The dragon has gone deep into the clouds, and the four snakes have each entered their own palaces. Only one snake is sad and resentful alone, and ultimately cannot find its own place.
When Duke Wen came out of the palace, he saw these words and said: This is Jie Zitui.
I was worried about the royal family and had not yet been able to consider his merits.
So Duke Wen sent someone to call Jie Zitui, but Jie Zitui had already escaped.
Duke Wen asked about Jie Zitui's residence and heard that he had entered Mianshang Mountain. So, Duke Wen sealed the entire Mianshang Mountain to Jie Zitui, and called it Jie Tui Field as his fief, and named it Jieshan, in order to record my sins and commend talented people.
Uncle Hu, an incompetent man who fled with Duke Wen, said: Your Majesty, you have rewarded the meritorious officials three times but it has not been my turn. May I ask what I am guilty of?
Duke Wen reported back: Teach me with benevolence and righteousness, advise me with morality and kindness, and you should be highly rewarded.
Assisting me with actions finally brought me success, which deserves a lesser reward.
He took on the danger of bows and arrows and made great contributions to me, which should be rewarded again.
If you only use your labor to serve me without making up for my mistakes, you should be rewarded again.
After these three rewards are over, it will be your turn.
The people of Jin were very happy when they heard Duke Wen's words.
In the spring of the second year, the Qin army was stationed by the Yellow River and was about to escort the King of Zhou back to Beijing.
Zhao Shui said: If you want to become the overlord, it is better to escort the King of Zhou back to the capital and respect the King of Zhou.
Zhou and Jin have the same surname. If Jin does not escort King Zhou back to the capital first and falls behind Qin, it will not be able to issue orders in the world.
Today, respecting the king of Zhou is the capital of Jin's dominance.
On the first day of the third month, Jin sent troops to Yangfan, surrounded Wen, and escorted King Xiang of Zhou to the capital of Zhou.
In April, Jin killed Wang Zidai, the younger brother of King Xiang.
King Zhou Xiang gave the land of Hanoi and Yangfan to the State of Jin.
In four years, King Chu Cheng and other princes surrounded Song State. Gongsun Gu of Song State rushed to Jin State to ask for help.
Xian Zhen said: To repay Song Xianggong's kindness of gifting horses and make Jin dominate the princes, this is the battle today.
Hu Yan said: Chu State has just occupied Cao State, and has married Wei State for the first time. If we attack Cao State and Wei State, Chu State will definitely rescue us, and Song State will be saved from disaster.
So the Jin State organized three armies. Zhao Shuai recommended Que Gu to command the middle army, and Que Zhen assisted him; Hu Yan was sent to command the upper army, and Hu Mao assisted him, and Zhao Shuai was appointed minister; Luan Zhi commanded the lower army, and Xian Zhen assisted him;
In December of winter, the Jin army first captured the east of Taihang Mountain and granted the original city to Zhao Shuai.
In the spring of the fifth year, Duke Wen of Jin wanted to attack the state of Cao and asked the state of Wei to borrow a road, but the people of the state of Wei refused.
The Jin army had no choice but to cross the Yellow River from the south to attack Cao State and crusade against Wei State.
In the first month of the first month, the Jin army captured Wulu.
In February, the Marquis of Jin and the Marquis of Qi formed an alliance in Lianmen.
Marquis Wei requested an alliance with Jin, but the Jin people refused.
The Marquis of Wei wanted to form an alliance with the Chu State, but the people of the country opposed it. As a result, the Marquis of Wei was kicked out to please the Jin State.
The Marquis of Wei lived in Xiangniu, and the young master bought Wei to defend the country. The Chu State rescued the Wei State, but failed to win.
The Marquis of Jin surrounded the State of Cao.
On Bingwu in the third month, the Jin army invaded the capital of Cao and listed the crimes of Cao Jun because Cao Jun did not listen to Li Weiji's words, but instead used 300 beauties in a gorgeous car.
Duke Wen ordered the army not to enter the home of Lifuji's clan in order to repay his kindness.
Chu surrounded Song, and Song asked Jin for help.
If Duke Wen wanted to rescue Song, he should attack Chu. Because Chu had been kind to Duke Wen, Duke Wen did not want to attack Chu. He wanted to give up the rescue of Song, but Song had been kind to Jin, so Duke Wen was hesitant about this move.
Xian Zhen persuaded: Seize Cao Bo and distribute the lands of Cao and Wei to the Song State. Chu must be anxious about this, and the Chu State will inevitably give up the Song State.
So Wen Gong listened to Xian Zhen's opinion, and King Chu Cheng really led his army to leave the Song Dynasty.
Ziyu, the general of Chu State, said to King Cheng of Chu: Your Majesty, you have been too kind to Jin State. Now that Duke Wen knows that Chu State has close relations with Cao State and Wei State, he deliberately attacks them. This is contempt for the king.
King Cheng said: The Marquis of Jin has been on the run for nineteen years. He has been trapped for too long and finally returned to Jin. Because he has experienced all kinds of hardships and dangers, he is able to treat his people well. God bless him and he is unstoppable.
Ziyu still asked for troops and said: "I don't dare to make any achievements, I just want to stop the slanderous remarks."
The king of Chu was very angry and gave him only a small army.
So Ziyu asked Wanchun to tell the state of Jin: Please restore the status of Weihou and save the state of Cao. I will also lift the siege of the state of Song.
The offender said: "Ziyu is too rude. My king only gets one share, but their ministers get two. I cannot agree to this condition."
Xian Zhen said: Being able to make people's hearts calm is called courtesy.
A word from Chu State can bring stability to three countries, but a word from you can bring about the destruction of these three countries. We are being rude.
Not agreeing to the Chu State means giving up the Song State.
It is better to privately agree to restore Cao and Wei in order to seduce Chu, detain Wanchun to anger Chu, and make plans based on the outcome of the war.
The Marquis of Jin imprisoned Wanchun in Weiguo, and privately promised to restore Caoguo and Weiguo.
Cao and Wei sent envoys to notify them of breaking off diplomatic relations with Chu.
Ziyu of Chu State was very angry and attacked the Jin army. The Jin army continued to retreat. The army officials asked: "Why are you retreating?"
Duke Wen said: When we were in Chu State, we made a covenant to stay away from each other during war. Can we break it?
The Chu army also wanted to retreat, but the ministers disagreed.
On Wuchen Day in April, Duke Song, General Qi, General Qin and Marquis of Jin were stationed in Chengpu.
On the day of Jisi, they fought with the Chu army. The Chu army was defeated, and the defeated ministers fled with the remaining soldiers.
On Jiawu Day, the Jin army returned to Hengyong and built a palace for King Zhou Xiang in Jiantu.
At first, Zheng Guo had aided Chu State, but now that Chu State had failed, Zheng Guo State was very frightened and sent people to request an alliance with the Marquis of Jin.
Therefore, the Marquis of Jin formed an alliance with Zheng Bo.
On the last day of the fifth month, Duke Wen of Jin dedicated the captives of Chu to the king of Zhou. There were a hundred armored four-horse chariots and more than a thousand infantry.
King Zhou Xiang asked Prince Hu to declare the Marquis of Jin as the overlord, and rewarded the Marquis of Jin with a gold-decorated cart, a pair of red bows, a hundred red arrows, ten pairs of black bows, a thousand black arrows, a bottle of fragrant wine, a jade spoon and three hundred warriors.
The Marquis of Jin thanked him many times before finally bowing and accepting.
King Zhou wrote "The Order of the Marquis of Jin Wen": The king said: You use morality and justice to make the princes harmonious and show the achievements of King Wen and King Wu. King Wen and King Wu were able to carefully cultivate beautiful virtues, which moved heaven and spread among the people.
Therefore, God bestowed the emperor's career on King Wen and King Wu, and the favor was passed down to future generations.
My elders care about me and allow me to inherit the legacy of my ancestors and preserve the throne forever. So Jin Wengong became the hegemon, and on the day of Guihai, Prince Hu formed an alliance with the princes in the palace.
The Jin State burned the Chu army's positions, and the raging fire did not go out for several days. Duke Wen sighed.
The ministers on the left and right said: After defeating Chu, you are still worried. Why?
Duke Wen said: I heard that only saints can be calm after winning a battle, so I am afraid.
Besides, Ziyu is still here, how can I be happy?
Ziyu returned in defeat. King Chu Cheng complained that he did not listen to him and only focused on fighting Jin, so he blamed Ziyu and Ziyu committed suicide.
Duke Wen of Jin said: I attacked Chu from the outside, and Chu killed the generals from the inside, and the internal and external response was echoed.
Only then did Duke Wen look happy.
In June, the Jin people resumed their status as Weihou.
On Renwu day, the Marquis of Jin crossed the Yellow River and returned to the north.
Jin Wengong discussed meritorious deeds and rewarded them, and Hu Yan was the top meritorious one.
Some people say: The war in Chengpu was Xian Zhen's strategy.
Duke Wen said: During the war in Chengpu, Hu Yan advised me not to lose my credibility.
Xian Zhen said: The most important thing in fighting is victory. I won after listening to Xian Zhen's words.
However, this is only a temporary statement. Hu Yan is talking about the merits of thousands of generations. How can the benefits of a moment exceed the merits of thousands of generations?
Therefore, Hu Yan deserves the first credit.
In winter, the Marquis of Jin met with the princes in Wendi and wanted to lead the princes to meet King Zhou Xiang.
The Marquis of Jin was worried that he was not strong enough and that there might be traitors among the princes, so he sent someone to tell King Zhou Xiang to go hunting in Heyang.
On the day of Renshen, the Marquis of Jin led the princes to pay homage to King Xiang in Jiantu.
Confucius read history and saw this record about Duke Wen, saying: The princes have no right to summon the king of Zhou. The reason why I wrote this incident in the "Spring and Autumn Annals" as "The Emperor of Zhou was hunting in Heyang" is to keep it secret.
On Ding Chou day, the princes surrounded Xu.
Someone among Cao Bo's ministers advised the Marquis of Jin: "Qi Huan's alliance with the vassal states was to support the countries of the opposite sex. Now, the monarch, you are allying with the vassals to destroy the countries with the same surname."
The descendants of Shu Zhenduo of Cao State, and the descendants of Uncle Tang of Jin State.
He united the vassal states but destroyed Shi Di's state. Unbecoming etiquette.
The Marquis of Jin was happy and restored Cao Bo's status.
So the Jin State began to establish a three-marching military system.
Xun Lin's father led the middle march, Xian Gu commanded the right march, and Xian Mi commanded the left march.
In the seventh year, Duke Wen of Jin and Duke Mu of Qin besieged Zheng State together. The reason was that Zheng State was rude to Wen Gong when he passed by Zheng State when he was fleeing, and Zheng State aided Chu State in the Battle of Chengpu.
Jin State surrounded Zheng State and wanted to capture Shuzhan.
Shuzhan committed suicide after hearing about it.
The people of Zheng took Uncle Zhan's body and told the king of Jin.
But Jin Jun said: I will only be willing to get Zheng Jun.
The State of Zheng was afraid, so he secretly sent an envoy to Duke Mu of Qin, saying: "Destroy the State of Zheng and strengthen the State of Jin. Jin will gain something, but Qin will not gain much."
Why don't you give up the state of Zheng and become friendly with Zheng?
Uncle Qin agreed and withdrew his army, and Jin also withdrew its army subsequently.
In the winter of the ninth year, Duke Wen of Jin passed away, and his son Duke Xiang Huan came to the throne.
Uncle Zheng also passed away that year.
Someone in the state of Zheng betrayed his country to the state of Qin. Duke Mu of Qin led his army to attack the state of Zheng.
In December, the Qin army passed by the suburbs of the Jin capital.
In the spring of the first year of Xiang AD, the Qin army passed by the capital of Zhou and was very rude. Wang Sunman ridiculed Qin for not knowing etiquette.
When the Qin army arrived in the Hua Kingdom, Xian Gao, a great businessman from the Zheng state, was about to go to Zhou Jing to do business. He met the Qin army on the way and rewarded the Qin army with twelve cows.
The Qin army was shocked, thinking that Zheng Guo already knew about the sneak attack, so they hurried back to their country, and only after destroying Hua Guo by the way did they return.
Xian Zhen of the Jin State said: Uncle Qin did not listen to Uncle Jian's plan and violated the people's will. We can attack it at this time.
Luan Zhi said: It is impossible to attack Qin before repaying its kindness to the late emperor.
Xian Zhen said: The Qin State bullied me, who had just lost his father, and attacked the country with the same surname as ours. What kind of favor should we repay?
So Jin State attacked Qin State.
Duke Xiang wore black mourning uniform and entered the army.
In April, the Jin army defeated the Qin army in Confucius and captured the three Qin generals Meng Mingshi, Xiqiji, and Bai Yibing before returning to the Jin state.
So Duke Xianggang of Jin buried Duke Wen in black mourning clothes.
Duke Wen's wife was a woman from the state of Qin. She told Duke Xiang: "The state of Qin wants to get these three generals and kill them."
Duke Xiang agreed and sent back the three generals.
After Xian Zhen heard about it, he said to Duke Xiang: "A disaster is about to happen."
Xian Zhen went to chase the three generals.
The three generals crossed the Yellow River and got on the boat. When they saw Xian Zhen, they kowtowed and thanked him, and finally left without returning.
Three years later, the State of Qin sent Meng Ming to attack the State of Jin. In order to avenge the defeat in Confucius, he captured the territory of the State of Jin and then withdrew his troops.
In the fourth year, Duke Mu of Qin sent a large army to attack the state of Jin, crossed the Yellow River, captured the royal officials, and built the tombs of the fallen soldiers in Miao Mountain before leaving.
The Jin State was very panicked and did not dare to come out again, so they had to hold on to the city.
In five years, the Jin State attacked the Qin State and captured the new city, avenging the failure of the king's official position.
In the sixth year, Zhao Shuichengzi, Luan Zhenzi, Jiu Ji, Zifu and Huo Bo all died.
Zhao Dun replaced Zhao Shui in charge of government affairs.
In August of the seventh year, Duke Xiang passed away.
Prince Yigao is still young.
Because the people of Jin were in trouble many times, they chose an older king.
Zhao Dun said: I established Xianggong's younger brother Yong.
Yong Wen was kind and old, and the late emperor liked him. Moreover, he was close to Qin, which was originally a friendly neighboring country.
If you establish good people, the country will be stable; if you serve the elders, the country will be successful; if you serve the people your ancestors like, you will be filial; if you keep friends with old friends, the country will be stable.
Jia Ji said: Yong is not as happy as his brother.
Chen Ying is favored by the two monarchs. If she has a son, the people will feel at ease.
Zhao Dun said: Chen Ying is humble and his status is lower than the nine concubines. What prestige can his son have?
Besides, she is loved by two kings, which is chaos.
As the son of the late emperor, Le could not seek refuge in a big country but live in a small country. This would be isolation.
The mother is in chaos, the son is isolated and has no dignity; Chen is small and far away from Jin, and cannot get help. How can he be a king?
So Jin sent a scholar to Qin to meet Prince Yong.
Jia Ji also sent people to the state of Chen to recall Gongzi Le.
Zhao Dun deposed Jia Ji because Jia Ji killed Yang Chufu.
In the tenth month, the Jin State buried Duke Xiang.
In November, Jia Ji fled to Zhai.
That year, Duke Mu of Qin also passed away.
In April of the first year of the Ling Dynasty, Duke Kang of Qin said: When Duke Wen just returned to the Jin State, the Jin State had no guards to protect him, so the disasters of Lu Sheng and Qi Rui happened.
So, Qin sent many guards to Prince Yong.
Miao Ying, the mother of Prince Yigao, carried the prince to the court day and night, howling and crying, saying: "What is the crime of the late king?"
What sin do his heirs have?
You abandon your legitimate son and look for the monarch outside. Where do you plan to put the prince?
After Miao Ying left the court, he ran to Zhao Dun's residence with the prince in his arms, kowtowed and said: "The late king entrusted this child to you. He once said that this child will be successful. I just accepted your gift. If he is not, I will resent you."
Now that the late king has passed away, the words are still ringing in my ears, and now you want to abandon the prince, how can you do that?
Zhao Dun and other ministers were afraid of Miao Ying and were afraid of being persecuted, so they turned their backs on Yong who greeted him and established the crown prince Yigao, who was Duke Ling.
At the same time, troops were sent to resist the army of Qin escorting Gongzi Yong.
Zhao Dun became a general and led his army to attack Qin, and defeated the Qin army at Linghu.
He was disdainful first and then fled to Qin.
In the autumn, the kings of Qi, Song, Wei, Zheng, Cao, and Xu all visited Zhao Dun and made an alliance at Hu. This was because Duke Linggong had just ascended the throne.
In four years, Jin attacked Qin and captured Shaoliang, and Qin also captured Jin's Concubine.
In the sixth year, Duke Kang of Qin attacked Jin and captured Jima.
The Marquis of Jin was very angry and sent Zhao Dun, Zhao Chuan, and Queque to attack Qin. They launched a battle in Hequ, and Zhao Chuan made great achievements.
In the seventh year, the six ministers of Jin were worried that attending meetings in Qin would often cause civil strife in Jin, so they pretended to ask Wei Shouyu to oppose Jin's surrender to Qin.
Qin sent Suihui to Wei, so he captured Suihui and brought him back to Jin.
In the eighth year, King Qing of Zhou passed away. Due to the vying for power among the officials, no obituary was issued to the various vassal states.
The Jin State sent Zhao Dun to lead 800 chariots to quell the chaos in the Zhou Dynasty and support King Kuang.
This year, King Zhuang of Chu just ascended the throne.
In ten years, the people of Qi killed their own king Yigong.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Ling grew up and became very extravagant. He plundered people's wealth and used color paintings to decorate the palace walls.
Shooting people from a high platform and having fun watching people avoid the projectiles.
When the cook failed to boil the bear's paws, Duke Lin became angry and killed the cook. He asked the women to carry the body of the cook and throw it out past the court.
Zhao Dun and others went to the meeting to give advice many times, but Duke Linggong didn't listen at all. Later, they saw the dead man's hand again, so they went to give advice again.
Suihui went to persuade him first, but Duke Ling didn't listen.
Duke Linggong was very worried and asked Chu Qi to assassinate Zhao Dun.
The door of Zhao Dun's inner room was open. Jiu Lin saw that Zhao Dun's residence was extremely simple, so he stepped out and sighed: "Killing loyal ministers and disobeying the king's orders are all the same crime."
After saying that, he hit his head against a tree and died.
At the beginning, Zhao Dun often hunted in Shoushan and once saw a very hungry man under a mulberry tree.
This person's name is Shi Miming.
Zhao Dun gave him some food, but he only ate half of it.
Zhao Dun asked him why he hadn't finished eating, and Shi Miming replied: I have been a minister for three years. I don't know if my mother is still alive, so I want to leave the remaining half to my mother.
Zhao Dun thought he was very filial and gave him some rice and meat.
Soon, Shi Miming became the chef of Jin Linggong. But Zhao Dun didn't know that Shi Miming was Jin Jun's chef.
In September, Jin Linggong hosted a banquet for Zhao Dun and ambushed his soldiers to kill him. When Shi Miming found out, he was worried that Zhao Dun would be too drunk to stand up and escape, so he stepped forward to persuade Zhao Dun: The king rewards you with wine, just drink three glasses.
He wanted Zhao Dun to leave before he could and avoid suffering.
Zhao Dun had already left, but before Linggong's ambush soldiers could gather together, he released a vicious dog named Ao.
Shi Miming killed the dog with his bare hands for Zhao Dun.
Zhao Dun said: Abandoning people and using dogs, although they are ferocious, what's the use!
However, Zhao Dun didn't know that Shi Miming was secretly protecting him.
After a while, Duke Linggong commanded the ambushed soldiers to chase Zhao Dun, and signaled Miming to fight back against Duke Linggong's soldiers. The soldiers could not move forward, and Zhao Dun finally escaped.
Zhao Dun asked Shi Miming why he saved him, and Shi Miming said: I am the hungry man under the mulberry tree.
Zhao Dun asked for his name, but he did not tell him.
Shi Miming therefore hid away.
Zhao Dun escaped, but not beyond the borders of Jin.
On Yichou Day, Zhao Dun's younger brother, General Zhao Chuan, killed Duke Ling in Taoyuan and welcomed Zhao Dun back.
Zhao Dun has always been respected by others and is very popular among the people. Duke Ling was young and extravagant, and the people did not follow him, so he was easily killed.
Zhao Dun regained his previous status.
Dong Hu, the Taishi of Jin State, wrote: Zhao Dun killed his own king.
And take this record to the court for everyone to see. Zhao Dun said: It was Zhao Chuan who killed the king, and I am not guilty.
Taishi said: "You are the official. You ran away but did not escape from the borders of Jin. When you came back, you did not kill the rebels. Who are you?"
Later, Confucius heard about this and said: Dong Hu was an excellent historian in ancient times. He wrote according to the law without concealing anything.
Xuanzi is an excellent doctor, and he is willing to bear a bad reputation in order to abide by the law. Unfortunately, if Zhao Dun escapes from the country, he will be exempted from the crime.
Zhao Dun asked Zhao Chuan to welcome Heibu, the younger brother of Duke Xianggang, from Zhoujing and let him ascend the throne. This was Duke Cheng.
Duke Cheng was the youngest son of Duke Wen, and his mother was a woman from the Zhou royal family.
On the day of Renshen, Duke Cheng went to Wugong to pay homage to his ancestors.
In the first year of his reign, the Zhao family was granted the title of official of the public clan.
Jin State attacked Zheng State because Zheng State betrayed Jin State.
Three years later, when Uncle Zheng came to the throne, Zheng surrendered to Jin but abandoned Chu.
The King of Chu became angry and attacked Zheng Guo, but Jin State came to rescue him.
In the sixth year, Jin attacked Qin and captured Chi, the general of Qin.
In the seventh year, Duke Cheng of Jin competed with King Zhuang of Chu for hegemony and met with the princes in Huyi.
Chen Guo was afraid of Chu State and did not go to the meeting.
The state of Jin sent Zhongxing Huan to attack the state of Chen, so he rescued the state of Zheng, fought with the state of Chu, and defeated the Chu army.
That year, Duke Cheng died and his son Duke Jing came to the throne.
In the spring of the first year of Jingdong, Xia Zhengshu, a senior official of the Chen State, killed his monarch Linggong.
In the second year, King Zhuang of Chu attacked the state of Chen and killed Zhengshu.
In the third year, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the state of Zheng, and the state of Zheng asked for help from the state of Jin.
The State of Jin sent Xun Linfu to command the middle army, Suihui to command the upper army, Zhao Shuo to command the lower army, and Chu Ke, Luan Shu, Xian Gu, Han Jue and Gong Shuo to assist them.
In June, the Jin army rushed to the Yellow River.
Hearing that the Chu State had surrendered to the Zheng State, Zheng Bo took off his shirt and exposed his arms to form an alliance with the Chu State. The Chu army returned. Xun Lin's father wanted to return to Jin with his troops.
Xiangu said: We have finally come to rescue Zheng Guo. We must not arrive until we arrive, otherwise the general will become disloyal.
The Jin army finally crossed the Yellow River.
The State of Chu had surrendered to the State of Zheng, and wanted to make a name for itself by drinking horses from the Yellow River, so it left the State of Zheng.
There was a battle between the Chu and Jin armies. Zheng had just surrendered to Chu and was afraid of Chu. Instead, he helped the Chu army attack the Jin army.
The Jin army was defeated and retreated to the Yellow River. The soldiers fought for boats to cross the river. There were many chopped off fingers in the boats.
The Chu State captured the Jin general Zhi Xiang.
After the Jin army returned to the state of Jin, Lin's father said: I am a general. If the Jin army failed, I should be killed. I asked for the death penalty.
Jin Jinggong wanted to agree to him.
He then said: In the past, Duke Wen fought with the state of Chu in Chengpu. When King Chu Cheng returned to the state of Chu, he killed the general Ziyu, which made Duke Wen happy.
Today, Chu State has defeated our army, and we have killed our own generals. This is helping Chu State to kill Chu State’s enemies.
Jin Jinggong gave up after hearing these words.
In the fourth year, Xiangu caused the Jin army to suffer a defeat on the bank of the Yellow River because of his first suggestion. He was afraid of being killed, so he fled to Zhai and discussed with Zhai State to attack the Jin State.
When the Jin State found out, they killed Xiangu's entire family. Xiangu is the son of Xianzhen.
In the fifth year, the Jin State attacked the Zheng State because it aided the Chu State.
At that time, King Zhuang of Chu was very powerful, so he defeated the Jin army by the Yellow River.
In the sixth year, the state of Chu attacked the state of Song, and the state of Song asked the state of Jin for help, and the state of Jin wanted to rescue. Bo Zong offered his advice and said: The Kingdom of Chu is being promoted by heaven and cannot be stopped.
So the Jin State sent Xie Yang to lie and claim to rescue the Song State.
The people of Zheng captured Xie Yang and handed him over to the state of Chu. The state of Chu rewarded him with a lot of property and asked him to tell lies, so that the state of Song would be defeated quickly.
Xie Yang pretended to promise and finally told Song Guo what Jin Jun said.
The state of Chu wanted to kill him, but someone watched and remonstrated, so the state of Chu released Xie Yang.
In the seventh year, the Jin sect Suihui destroyed Chidi.
In the eighth year, the state of Jin sent Choke as envoy to the state of Qi.
Qi Qinggong's mother watched from upstairs and laughed.
The reason for this was that Ke Ke was hunchbacked, the envoy from Lu was lame, and the envoy from Wei was blind in one eye. In this way, Qi Jun also sent the same disabled person to guide the guests.
Chuke was very angry and returned to the Yellow River and swore: "I will not retaliate against Qi. He Bo will come to witness!"
Chuke returned to Jin and asked the king of Jin to attack Qi.
After Jin Jinggong asked about the reason for the attack, he said: If you have grievances, how can you disturb the country?
Jin Jun didn't listen.
Wei Wenzi asked to resign due to old age and recommended Choke, who took charge of the country.
In the ninth year, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
The Jin State attacked Qi State, and Qi State sent the prince to Jin State to be a hostage, so the Jin army stopped attacking.
In the spring of the eleventh year, Qi attacked Lu and captured Long.
The state of Lu asked the state of Wei for help. Both Wei and Lu bribed Jin for help through Queke.
The Jin State sent Chuke, Luan Shu, and Han Jue with 800 chariots to jointly attack the Qi State with the Lu and Wei States.
In the summer, Jin State and Qi Qinggong fought in An. Qinggong was injured and trapped, so he exchanged seats with his right guard, got off the car to find water, and escaped.
The Qi army was defeated and fled, and the Jin State pursued the defeated troops until they reached the capital of Qi.
Qinggong offered his treasures to seek peace, but Jin did not agree.
Choke said: We must get Xiao Tong's nephew as a hostage.
The envoy from Qi State said: My nephew Xiao Tong is Qing Gong’s mother. Qing Gong’s mother is like Jin Jun’s mother. Why must I get her?
You are so unfaithful that you request another war.
As a result, Jin Cai agreed to make peace with Qi and left.
Duke Shen of Chu secretly married Xia Ji and fled to the state of Jin. The king of Jin worshiped the witch as the doctor of Xingyi.
In the winter of the twelfth year, Duke Qing of Qi arrived in Jin. He wanted to honor Duke Jin of Jin as king, but Duke Jin refused to accept the offer.
The Jin State began to set up six armies, and Han Jue, Gong Shuo, Zhao Chuan, Xun Zui, Zhao Kuo, and Zhao Zhan were all granted the title of minister.
Zhi Feng also returned to Jin from Chu. In the thirteenth year, Duke Cheng of Lu went to pay homage to the king of Jin. The king of Jin was very rude. King Lu left angrily and betrayed Jin.
The Jin State attacked the Zheng State and captured Si.
In the fourteenth year, a landslide occurred in Liangshan.
The king of Jin asked Bo Zong, who thought it was not worth making a fuss about.
In the sixteenth year, the general of Chu State resented Wu Chen and killed Wu Chen's entire family.
The wizard was very angry and wrote a letter to his son saying: You will definitely be exhausted all your life!
So Wu Chen asked to be sent as an envoy to the State of Wu, so that his son could be a traveler of the State of Wu and teach the soldiers of the State of Wu how to ride in a car and use the army.
Wu and Jin began to have contacts and agreed to attack Chu together.
In the seventeenth year, Jin Jinggong killed Zhao Tong and Zhao Kuo and destroyed their families.
Han Jue said: How can we forget the contributions of Zhao Shui and Zhao Dun?
How can we cut off their incense?
Therefore, Jin Jinggong made Zhao Wu, the concubine of the Zhao family, a descendant of the Zhao family and gave him the city.
In the summer of the 19th year, Jinggong was seriously ill and made Prince Shouman the king. This was Duke Li.
A month later, Jinggong passed away.
In the first year of Li Gong, because he had just ascended the throne, Li Gong wanted to make an alliance with the princes, so he made an alliance with Qin Huan Gong across the Yellow River.
After returning home, Qin broke the alliance and discussed with Zhai to attack Jin.
In the third year, the State of Jin sent Prime Minister Lu to condemn the State of Qin, and took the opportunity to attack the State of Qin with the princes.
The troops arrived at Jingshui, defeated the Qin army at Ma Tun, and captured the Qin general Cheng Cha.
In the fifth year, Que Qi, Que Ji, and Que Zhi slandered Bo Zong, and the king of Jin killed him.
Bo Zong caused this disaster because he liked to speak out and give advice, so the people no longer trusted Duke Li.
In the spring of the sixth year, the state of Zheng betrayed the state of Jin and formed an alliance with the state of Chu. Duke Li of Jin was furious.
Luan Shu said: We cannot lose the princes in our generation.
So Jin sent troops to attack Zheng.
Duke Li personally commanded the army and crossed the Yellow River in May.
When he heard that Chu troops were coming to rescue him, Fan Wenzi asked Duke Li to withdraw his troops.
Quezhi said: If you send an army to attack the rebels and avoid strong enemies, you will no longer be able to give orders to the princes.
As a result, the state of Jin went to war with the state of Chu.
On the day of Guisi, the Jin army shot the King of Chu in the eye, and the Chu army was defeated at Yanling.
Zifan gathered the remaining soldiers to appease the Chu army, and wanted to fight Jin again. Jin was very worried about this.
The King of Gong summoned Zifan, and Zifan's waiter Shu Yanggu proposed a toast to him. Zifan was drunk and could not go to see the King of Gong.
The king of the Communist Party was very angry and blamed Zifan, who was shot dead.
The king of the Communist Party then led his troops back to Chu.
As a result, the state of Jin became powerful and powerful among the princes. Duke Li of Jin wanted to take this opportunity to command the world and seek hegemony.
Duke Li had many concubines. After returning home, he wanted to remove all ministers from their posts and appoint the brothers of his concubines.
There was an elder brother named Xu Tong who was fond of a concubine, and he had a conflict with Que Zhi. In addition, Luan Shu resented Que Zhi for defeating the Chu army without using his own tactics, so he sent someone to secretly apologize to the Chu state.
The Chu State sent people to deceive Duke Li, saying: In fact, the Chu State was summoned to participate in the battle at Yanling, but they wanted to cause chaos and welcome Prince Zhou to the Jin State to ascend the throne.
It just so happened that the allies were not ready, so it didn't work out.
Duke Li told Luan Shu the quotation, and Luan Shu said: "This may be the case. Your Majesty, you might as well try sending him to the capital of Zhou and investigate secretly."
As expected, Duke Li sent Qi to Zhou Jing.
Luan Shu asked Prince Zhou to meet Quezhi again, but Quezhi didn't know that he had been betrayed.
Duke Li verified the matter and believed that Quezhi really wanted to rebel, so he hated Quezhi and wanted to kill him.
In the eighth year, Duke Li went hunting and drank with his concubine. However, he killed a pig and offered it to Duke Li. The eunuch took it away, but he shot the eunuch to death.
Duke Li was very angry and said: "Ji Zi has bullied me!"
He planned to kill San Que, but he didn't do it yet.
Que Qi wanted to strike first and attack Duke Li, saying: "Although I may die, the king will also suffer."
Quezhi said: If you are loyal, you cannot betray the monarch; if you pursue fame, you cannot harm the people; if you are brave, you cannot stir up trouble.
Who will help me if I lose these three virtues?
I'd better die.
On Renwu in the twelfth month, Duke Li asked Xu Tong to lead 800 soldiers to attack and kill Sanque.
Xu Tong took the opportunity to kidnap Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan at the court, saying, "If you don't kill these two people, disaster will definitely fall on you, the king."
Duke Li said: "I killed three ministers in one morning. I can't bear to kill any more."
Xu Tong replied: But others will have the heart to kill you.
Duke Li refused to listen and apologized to Luan Shu, explaining that he was just punishing Que for his crimes: the officials were all reinstated.
The two kowtowed and said, "I'm so lucky, so lucky!"
Duke Li appointed Xu Tong as his minister.
On Yimao Day of the leap month, Duke Li went to Jiangli's house for a visit. Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan sent their party members to attack and arrest Duke Li, imprison him, and kill Xu Tong. They also sent people to welcome Prince Zhou back from the capital of Zhou and made him king. This is Duke Ao of Jin.
In the first year of the mourning period, on Gengshen day of the first month, Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan killed Duke Li and buried him with only a cart.
Duke Li died after being imprisoned for six days. Ten days after his death, on the Gengwu day, Zhixian welcomed the master Zhou to Jin. When he arrived at Jiang, Shaji and the officials formed an alliance to support the master Zhou. This was Duke Mourning.
On Xinsi day, I went to Wugong to worship.
On Yiyou day in the second month, Prince Zhou ascended the throne.
Mourning Duke Zhou's grandfather Jie was the son of Duke Xianggang of Jin. He failed to succeed to the throne and was known as Uncle Huan. Uncle Huan was the most beloved by Duke Xianggang.
Huan Shu gave birth to Hui Bo Tan, and Tan gave birth to mourning Gong Zhou.
Duke Zhou was only fourteen years old when he came to the throne.
Duke Mourning said: Both my grandfather and father failed to succeed to the throne and took refuge in Zhou Dynasty, where they died.
I thought I was alienated and never aspired to be the King of Jin.
Today, the officials have not forgotten the wishes of Wen Gong and Xianggong and supported me, a descendant of Uncle Huan. I rely entirely on the power of my ancestors and the ancestors to inherit the sacrifices of the Jin Dynasty. How dare I not work conscientiously!
I hope the doctors will help me well!
So he expelled the seven ministers who were disloyal to the king, repaired the old achievements, extended favors to the people, and supported the descendants of the heroes when Duke Wen returned to Jin.
In autumn, Jin attacked Zheng.
The Zheng army was defeated, and the Jin army invaded Chen again.
Three years later, Jin State met with the princes.
Duke Mou asked the ministers who could be appointed, and Qi Xi recommended Jie Hu.
Jie Hu is Qi Xi’s enemy.
The duke then asked who else there was, and Qi Xi recommended his son Qi Wu.
The gentleman said: Qi Xi can be regarded as impartial.
Don’t avoid your enemies when recommending people outside, and don’t avoid your sons when recommending people inside.
While meeting with the princes, the Duke's brother Yang Gan disrupted the military formation, and Wei Jiang killed his driver.
The duke was very angry, and some people advised him to remonstrate with him. The duke finally realized that Jiang was very virtuous, appointed him to take charge of government affairs, and sent him to make peace with Rong. Rong finally became very close to the state of Jin.
In the eleventh year, Duke Mourning said: Since I appointed Wei Jiang, I have met with the princes nine times and reconciled with Rong Zhai. This is all due to Wei Zi.
The emperor gave him a band, but he declined three times before accepting it.
In winter, Qin State captured the oak trees of Jin State.
In the fourteenth year, the Jin State sent Liu Qing to lead the princes to attack the Qin State, crossed the Jing River, and defeated the Qin army until they left at Chulin.
In the fifteenth year, Duke Mou asked Shi Kuang about the principles of governing the country.
Shi Kuang said: Only benevolence and righteousness are fundamental.
In the winter, Duke Du passed away and his son Ping Gongbiao came to the throne.
In the first year of Ping Dynasty, Jin State attacked Qi State, and Qi Linggong fought with Jin State in Mixia. The Qi army was defeated and fled.
Yan Ying said: Since the king has no courage to continue fighting, why not stop fighting?
Qi Jun then left.
The Jin State pursued Linyi in hot pursuit, surrounded Linyi, burned all the houses in the outer city, and killed all the people in the outer city.
The Jin army reached Jiaoshui in the east and Yishui in the south. The Qi army held on to the city, and the Jin army retreated.
In the sixth year, Duke Xiang of Lu went to pay homage to the king of Jin.
Luan of Jin committed a crime and fled to Qi.
In the eighth year, Duke Zhuang of Qi secretly sent Luan Zhao to Quwo and sent troops to follow him.
When the Qi army went to the Taihang Mountains, Luan Zhao rebelled from Quwo Nei and attacked Jiang.
Jiang was unsuspecting and Ping Gong wanted to commit suicide. Fan Xianzi stopped Ping Gong and sent his own soldiers to attack Luan Cheng. Luan Cheng was defeated and fled to Quwo.
The Quwo people attacked Luan Zhao, and Luan Zhao was killed. The Quwo people also eliminated Luan Zhao's clan party.
Luan Zheng's grandson Luan Shu.
When he entered Jiang, he discussed it with Wei.
When Duke Zhuang of Qi heard that Luan Zhao had failed, he returned, captured Chaoge of Jin, and left in order to avenge the battle of Linyi.
In the tenth year, Cui Shu of Qi State killed his king Zhuang Gong.
The Jin State took advantage of the turmoil in the Qi State, and Gaotang defeated the Qi army and left in order to avenge the Taihang Battle.
In the fourteenth year, Yanling Jizi of Wu State came to Jin State as an envoy. He talked with Zhao Wenzi, Han Xuanzi, and Wei Xianzi. Afterwards, he said: The political power of Jin State will finally fall into the hands of these three families.
In the 19th year, Qi State sent Yan Ying as envoy to Jin State, and Yan Ying talked with Shu Xiang.
Shuxiang said: Jin is now in the last days.
Ping Gong levied heavy taxes on the people and built ponds and pavilions but did not engage in political affairs. The power of the country has fallen into the hands of private individuals. Can the Jin Kingdom last long like this?
Yanzi agreed.
In the twenty-second year, the Jin State attacked the Yan State.
In the twenty-sixth year, Duke Ping died and his son Zhao Gongyi came to the throne.
Duke Zhao died in the sixth year.
The six ministers of Jin were strong, but the official family was weak.
His son Qing Gong died and came to the throne.
In the sixth year of Qinggong, King Zhou Jing passed away, and the princes competed for the throne.
The six ministers of Jin quelled the chaos in the Zhou royal family and supported King Jing.
In the ninth year, Lu Ji's family expelled their king Zhaogong, and Zhaogong was forced to live in Qianhou.
In the eleventh year, the states of Wei and Song sent envoys to request the state of Jin to send Lord Lu back home.
Ji Pingzi bribed Fan Xianzi privately. After Xianzi accepted the bribe, he said to Jin Jun: Ji is not guilty.
In the end, Jin did not send Lu Zhaogong back to his country.
In the twelfth year, the grandsons of Qi Xi, the Duke of Jin, and the sons of Shu Xiang, slandered each other in front of the king of Jin.
The Six Ministers wanted to weaken the monarch's power, so they killed everyone in the two families in accordance with the criminal law, divided their fiefdoms into ten counties, and each appointed his own son to be a doctor.
The power of the Duke of Jin became weaker, and the six ministers became stronger.
In the fourteenth year, Qinggong passed away and his son Dinggongwu came to the throne.
In the eleventh year of Dinggong's reign, Yang Hu of Lu State fled to Jin State, and Zhao Yang and Jianzi stayed with him.
In the twelfth year, Confucius became the prime minister of Lu.
In the fifteenth year, Zhao Yang made an agreement with Wu, the Handan doctor, to move Weigong's Wumian family to Jinyang. Handan's father and brother refused. Zhao Yang thought he was unfaithful and wanted to kill Wu. Wu, Zhongxingyin and Fan Jishe attacked Zhao Yang together, and Zhao Yang fled to Jinyang to defend.
Jin Dinggong surrounded Jinyang.
Xun Yue, Han Buxin, and Wei Chi had enemies with Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin, so they mobilized their troops to attack Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin.
Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin rebelled. The Jin army attacked them and defeated Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin.
Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin fled to Chaoge and defended the city.
Han Buxin and Wei Chi apologized to the king of Jin on Zhao Yang's behalf, so the king of Jin pardoned Zhao Yang and restored his position.
In the 22nd year, Jin defeated Fan Jishe and Zhonghangshi, and these two people fled to Qi.
Thirty years ago, Duke Dinggong and Fu Chai, the king of Wu, met in Huangchi and competed to be the leader. Zhao Yang was a trader at the time and finally made the king of Wu the leader.
In the thirty-first year, Tian Chang of the state of Qi killed his own king, Duke Jian, and appointed Duke Jian's younger brother Ao as Duke Ping.
In the thirty-third year of Jin Dinggong's reign, Confucius passed away.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Ding died, and his son Chu Gongzhi came to the throne.
In the seventeenth year of his absence, Zhibo, Zhao Yang, Han Buxin, and Wei Chi jointly incorporated the territories of Fan Jishe and Zhongxingyin into their own fiefs.
Chugong of Jin was furious and appealed to Qi and Lu, hoping to take the opportunity to attack the four ministers. The four ministers panicked and counterattacked Chugong.
He was forced to flee to Qi State and died on the way.
So Uncle Zhi made Duke Zhao's great-grandson Jiao the king of Jin, and this was Duke Ai.
Duke Ai's grandfather Yong was the youngest son of Duke Zhao of Jin, and his nickname was Dai Zi.
Dai Zi gave birth to Ji.
Ji had a close relationship with Zhibo, but he died early. Therefore, Zhibo wanted to annex the Jin Kingdom, but he did not dare to do so, so he made Ji's son Jiao the king of Jin.
At that time, all government affairs of the Jin State were decided by Zhibo, and Duke Ai of Jin could not control the government affairs.
Therefore, Zhibo took possession of Fan Jishe and Zhongxingyin's territory, becoming the most powerful among the six ministers.
In the fourth year of Duke Ai, Zhao Xiangzi, Han Kangzi, and Wei Huanzi jointly killed Zhibo and annexed all his lands.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Ai passed away and his son You Gong Liu came to the throne.
When Duke You was in power, the kings of Jin were afraid of the officials due to their weakness, and instead worshiped the kings of Han, Zhao and Wei.
The king of Jin only occupied Jiang and Quwo, and the rest were merged into the three Jins.
In the fifteenth year, Wei Wenhou ascended the throne.
In the eighteenth year, Duke You raped a woman and went out of the city at night, where he was killed by bandits.
Marquis Wen of Wei sent troops to quell the civil strife in Jin, and appointed Duke You's son Zhi, who was Duke Lie.
In the nineteenth year of Duke Lie, King Weilie of Zhou granted the states of Zhao, Han, and Wei the title of prince, and made them all princes.
In the twenty-seventh year, Lie Gong passed away, and his son Xiao Gongqi came to the throne.
In the ninth year of Duke Xiao's reign, Marquis Wu of Wei had just ascended the throne and attacked Handan. He failed to win and left.
In the seventeenth year, Duke Xiao passed away and his son, Duke Jing, came to the throne.
This year is the first year of King Qi Wei.
In the second year of Jinggong, Marquis Wu of Wei, Marquis Han Ai, and Marquis Zhao Jing destroyed the Jin Kingdom and divided the Jin land into three parts.
Jinggong became a commoner, and the state of Jin stopped offering sacrifices.
Tai Shigong said: Jin Wengong was a wise monarch in ancient times. He lived in exile for nineteen years and lived in extreme poverty. When he came to the throne, he gave rewards and forgot about Jie Zitui. What about those arrogant and extravagant monarchs?
After Duke Linggong was killed, Duke Cheng and Duke Jin were extremely strict, and Duke Li was even more harsh. The officials were afraid of execution, so troubles occurred frequently.
After the mourning of Duke Jin, the state of Jin became weaker and weaker day by day, and the six ministers took over the power exclusively.
Therefore, it is not easy for a king to control his subjects!
