Jia Yi, a native of Luoyang, was famous locally for his ability to recite poems and write articles when he was eighteen years old.
When Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, heard that he had excellent talents and studies, he summoned him to his sect and thought highly of him.
Not long after Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, he heard that Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, had the best political performance in the country. He was from the same hometown as Li Si and had learned from Li Si, so he recruited him as a court captain.
Tingwei recommended that although Jia Yi was young, he was well versed in the books of various schools of thought.
Emperor Wen of Han called Jia Yi to become a doctor.
At this time, Jia Yi was in his twenties and the youngest among the Ph.D.
Every time Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty ordered the questions to be discussed, the older doctors could not say anything, but Jia Yi could answer them one by one, and everyone felt that they had said what they meant. The doctors then thought that Jia Yi had outstanding talents.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty liked him and promoted him unusually, and within a year he was promoted to Taizhong doctor.
Jia Yi believes that the Han Dynasty has been established for more than 20 years and the country is peaceful and harmonious. The calendar should be revised, the colors of carriages and horses should be changed, the legal system should be formulated, the names of official positions should be determined, and rituals and music should be revitalized.
So he drafted regulations for various ceremonies, using yellow as the color of nobility, using a five-character seal for the official seal, confirming the title of the official position, changing all the old systems, and Jia Yi reported to the emperor.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was cautious and had no time to implement it.
However, the changes in various laws and regulations and the fact that various princes moved to their own feudal states were all proposed by Jia Yi.
So Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty discussed with his ministers and let Jia Yi take the position of public minister.
Jianghou, Guanhou, Dongyanghou, Feng Jing and others were jealous of him and slandered him: "This young man in Luoyang is young and has little knowledge. He wants to monopolize power and causes chaos in many things."
Because of this, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty later alienated him, did not adopt his opinions, and made him the Prince of Changsha.
Jia Yi left because he was demoted, and his will was not exerted. When crossing the Xiang River, he wrote a poem in memory of Qu Yuan.
Qu Yuan was a wise minister of the Chu State. He was slandered and exiled. He wrote "Li Sao Fu" and wrote at the end: Forget it!
There is no one in the country who understands me.
So he threw himself into the river and died.
Jia Yi remembered and mourned him, so he compared himself with Qu Yuan.
His poem reads:
In accordance with the emperor's decree, I went to Changsha to take up my post.
I once listened with humility to others saying that Qu Yuan committed suicide by throwing himself into the Miluo River.
Now I come to the bank of the Xiangjiang River to use the water of the Xiangjiang River to express my grief and condolences to Qu Yuan.
A lot of worldly slanderous words are thrown at you, sir. You can only throw yourself into the river and destroy your body.
How sad! You were born at the wrong time and did not encounter a good era.
The magical bird hides or flies away, but the hawk flies in the sky.
There are people in the world who say that Bian Sui, who was not greedy for the world and drowned to death, and Boyi, who did not eat Zhou millet and starved to death, are greedy. Instead, they say that the great thieves Zhi and Jiao are honest. They argue that the famous sword Mo Xie in ancient times is very sharp and slow, while ordinary lead and iron knives are very sharp. well!
You are so silent and helpless that you are being persecuted for no reason.
He gave up the Zhou Ding treasure that was passed down to the country, but regarded the broken earthen jar as a treasure.
A tired ox is used to drive the shaft, and a lame donkey is used to pull the cart harness; a horse with drooped ears pulls an overweight salt cart.
With Yin people's hats as shoes, can this chaotic situation last long? Hee! Mr. Qu Yuan, who is suffering! You are the only one who has suffered these disasters. Declare: Come on!
Who in the country can understand you? Sir, if you are sulking alone here, who can you tell your innermost thoughts?
If no one understands it, it should fly high and disappear into the distance like a phoenix bird, retiring on its own.
Imitate the dragon hidden in the abyss, hide yourself deep in the water and cherish yourself. How can the dragon associate with water bugs, fish, shrimps, toads, leeches, earthworms and the like?
To stay away from the filthy realm and cherish it yourself, you must cherish the virtues passed down by the saints!
If a horse can be tethered and controlled by others, how is it any different from a dog or a sheep?
You have encountered all kinds of persecution and misfortunes because you did not keep yourself clean and stay away from this dirty world!
You can travel around the land of China and choose a wise king to assist him. Why do you have to miss Chu State?
A gentleman like a phoenix can fly thousands of miles into the sky, and will only come down when he sees a wise king with glorious virtues. When he sees signs of danger in his shortcomings and despicable virtues, he immediately flaps his wings and flies away.
How could a large fish that could swallow a boat be accommodated in a stagnant puddle with only a dozen feet in length and width?
The big fish swimming back and forth in rivers and lakes will inevitably be attacked by mole crickets and ants once they swim into stagnant puddles.
In Jia Yi's third year as the Tutor of Changsha, an owl flew into Jia Yi's room and stopped next to his seat.
The owl is like a cuckoo and is an unlucky bird.
Jia Yi had been demoted and came to live in Changsha. Changsha was low-lying and humid. Jia Yi was often sad and thought that his life would not be long, so he wrote poems to comfort himself.
Fu wrote:
On the evening of the 23rd day of the first month of summer in the year Dingmao, when the sun was about to set, an owl perched in my living room, staying on the corner of the seat with a very leisurely and unhurried look.
This strange bird perched in my home. When I saw the owl flying into my room, I secretly guessed the reason for its arrival. I opened the divination book and checked the predictions based on the predictions in the book.
The book says: Wild birds fly into the house, and the owner of the house will leave this place.
I asked the owl: Where am I going?
If something auspicious happens, tell me. Even if something bad happens, please tell me what the disaster is.
Is my life span long or short? Please tell me a period.
The owl sighed, then raised its head and flapped its wings vigorously. Although it could not speak human language, it could answer with gestures and guess its mood based on its expression.
It means: Thousands of species in the world cycle and change, and there is no end to them. They rotate, flow, and change. Sometimes they rotate and disappear, and sometimes they move and return.
The transformation of form and energy is continuous and endless, just like the transformation of a cicada.
There are so many profound and subtle things that cannot be described in words. It is simply beyond words.
Misfortune contains the cause of blessing, and blessing contains the root of disaster. Misfortunes and blessings follow each other. Misfortunes often lead to blessings, and blessings hide disasters. Sadness and joy gather at the same door, good and bad luck come together in the same area.
Li Si successfully lobbied the Qin State and became the prime minister of the Qin State. Later, he was killed by Zhao Gao and died of five punishments.
Fu Yue was originally a prisoner who was tied up one after another for hard labor, but finally became the prime minister of Yin Gaozong Wuding.
So how is the relationship between blessing and misfortune different from two or three strands of rope twisted together?
Destiny cannot be explained clearly. Who knows where its ultimate end will be!
When water is stimulated, it flows rapidly, and when arrows are stimulated, they can shoot far.
All things are oscillating back and forth, constantly changing and transforming.
When water is heated, it evaporates and becomes clouds; when clouds are cooled, they fall from the sky and become rain. The natural phenomena of changes in things are so complicated that they cannot be distinguished clearly.
The creation of all things in nature is like using a pottery wheel to move creation, with many changes and a vast scope.
The principles of Heaven and the Way are far-reaching and cannot be thought of or planned by humans.
The length of human life and the speed of birth and death are determined by destiny. How can one predict its time limit?
Moreover, heaven and earth are like a furnace for smelting metal, and the Creator of all things is like a metallurgist. Take Yin and Yang as the charcoal fire in the smelting furnace, and all things in nature as the copper ore to be smelted. How can there be a certain pattern in all this, gathering and destroying, creating and destroying existence?
The ever-changing nature of all things has no beginning or end.
Being born as a human by chance is not worthy of being overly cherished; being born as a ghost or god after death is not worthy of being overly sad!
People who are short-sighted and clever are always selfish, treating others as cheap and themselves as valuable. A wise person has a broad vision and a broad mind, and there is nothing inappropriate about treating all things equally.
Greedy people sacrifice their lives for wealth, people who value justice over life die in the name of integrity; people who seek fame and value power die fighting for power.
Most common people are greedy for life and afraid of death. People who are seduced by fame and fortune and driven by greed for money run around and camp all day long. People with high moral cultivation will not succumb to material desires, and they will treat all things equally no matter how they change.
Foolish people are tied down by the burdens of the world, and their embarrassment is like that of imprisoned prisoners. People with supreme morals abandon the encumbrances of external things and coexist with the great road.
People are in constant panic and doubt, and their minds are filled with many lovely and abominable things. But the real person who has obtained the way of heaven and earth is very quiet and indifferent, coexisting with the great way alone.
Give up wisdom and thinking, abandon the body, until the heart is as gray as death and the body is like a draft, reaching the highest state of life cultivation. In the vast, trance-like and profound world, the real person who has obtained the way of heaven and earth has nothing to rely on, but can only soar with the way.
Life is like a piece of wood floating on water, drifting along the water into the distance, only stopping when it hits a small islet in the water. Let your body be controlled by fate, and do not regard your body as your own private property.
When you are alive, it is like entrusting your life to the world, and after death, it is like resting forever.
An indifferent life is like an abyss as quiet as death, and the waves of thoughts that add fuel to the flames are like an unmoored ship.
You should not cherish your life too much just because you are born in the human world. It is best to nourish your emptiness so that you can float among the human world.
People who are cultivated and virtuous have no worries, live without thoughts and actions, and do not hide right and wrong, good and evil, because they know their destiny and will not seek sorrow. What's there to be suspicious about something as trivial as an owl flying indoors!
More than a year later, Emperor Wen of Han missed Jia Yi and summoned him back to the capital Chang'an.
Jia Yi arrived and entered the court to ask for an audience. Emperor Wen of Han was receiving the blessings from the gods and sat in the Xuan room to receive Jia Yi.
Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty had some feelings about ghosts and gods, so he asked Jia Yi about the origin of ghosts and gods.
Jia Yi explained the rationale in detail.
The conversation lasted until late at night, and Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty moved to the front of the table without noticing.
After the discussion, Emperor Wen of Han said: I haven't seen Jia Sheng for a long time. I thought I was better than him, but today it seems that I am still not as good as him.
So Jia Yi was appointed as the Taifu of King Huai of Liang.
King Huai of Liang was the youngest son of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty. He was very favored and liked to read, so he asked Jia Yi to be his teacher. He asked Jia Yi many times for advice on success and failure.
During this period, the Xiongnu became powerful and often invaded the Han Dynasty's borders.
The Han Dynasty had just been established, and the laws and regulations were rough and unclear.
The princes and kings exceeded the scope of their power and occupied more land than the ancient system. The king of Huainan and the king of Jibei were both executed for rebellion.
Jia Yi went to Shu to state political affairs many times. Most of his opinions were to change and establish a new system. The general idea was:
I have privately considered the current national situation and believe that there is one thing that can be cried over, two things that can be shed tears over, and six things that can be sighed over. As for the other things that go against the truth and harm the right path, it is difficult to list them in detail.
Those who advise His Majesty say that the country is already peaceful and well-governed, but I personally think that the country is far from being well-governed.
Those who say that the country is stable and well-governed are either stupid or flattering. They are not people who understand the fundamentals of governing chaos based on facts.
This is like putting fire under a pyre and sleeping on it. If the pyre is not lit, it is safe. How is the current situation in the country different from this situation?
The beginning and end have been reversed, the front and rear embankments have been destroyed, the country's system is in chaos, and it is not very disciplined. How can it be said that it has been governed well?
Your Majesty, why don't you allow me the opportunity to state in detail the strategies for national political improvement and social stability, and let you choose carefully?
Which is more important, the entertainment of hunting, or the key to grasping the security of the country? It is wrong to think that governing a country requires hard work and pain on the body, and lacks the entertainment of bells and drums.
Entertainment was the same as it is now, coupled with the fact that the princes abide by the law, there was no war in the country, the people were stable, the Xiongnu surrendered, people in remote areas submitted to the court, the people were simple and unpretentious, and disputes and lawsuits gradually disappeared. If the general plan of governing the country is mastered, the world will be governed smoothly, the social climate will be peaceful and harmonious, and everything will be reasonable. When you are alive, you will be a wise emperor, and when you die, you will be a god. Your good reputation will be passed down through the ages. "The Rites of Zhou" says that as a founding monarch, you must be meritorious, and as a successor monarch, you must be virtuous, so that your majesty's imperial merits will match those of the great ancestor Liu Bang, and will be immortalized together with the rule of the Han Dynasty.
It is the most filial to establish a permanent stable situation and establish a foundation of long-term rule, so as to inherit the ancestral inheritance and support the six relatives. This is the most filial. It is to benefit the world and nourish all living things. This is the most benevolent. It is the most wise to establish principles, promulgate rules and regulations, and handle the priorities appropriately. Then it can become a law for eternity. Even if there are stupid and ineffective descendants, the ancestral inheritance can be stabilized. This is the most wise.
With Your Majesty's wisdom and understanding, it is not difficult to do this as long as you have people who know a little bit about the principles of governing the country to assist you.
These methods can be placed in front of you as they are, and I hope you will not ignore them.
I carefully examine nature and society, use history to verify it, study the things that must be solved at present, and think about this set of methods of governing the country day and night, which has become very mature. Even if Yu and Shun are reborn and plan for Your Majesty, they will not change this approach.
The power of the vassal kingdoms will inevitably lead to a situation of mutual suspicion and opposition between the princes and the imperial court. As a result, the people often suffer disasters, and the imperial court is often worried about this. This is really not a way to stabilize the imperial court and protect the people.
Now your brother is planning to proclaim himself emperor in the Shubu area, and his son is also heading west to attack the imperial court. At the same time, reports of King Wu's rebellion have been reported.
Your Majesty is in the prime of life, he behaves morally and without fault, and his favor to the princes and kings continues to increase. Even if they are like this, let alone the largest princes, whose power is ten times more powerful than them!
However, the world is still somewhat stable. What is the reason for this?
Because the kings of those large vassal states were still underage, the imperial tutors and prime ministers sent by the imperial court were in control of the kingdom.
A few years later, most of the princes and kings will be crowned and full of energy. The imperial tutors and prime ministers appointed by the imperial court will have to excuse themselves because of illness. Those princes and kings will appoint officials above the prime minister level as their cronies. Like this, what is the difference between what they do and the king of Huainan and the king of Jibei!
At that time, even Tang Yao and Yu Shun could not achieve long-term peace and stability in the country.
Huangdi said: You must dry things when the sun is in the middle, and you must cut things quickly with a knife.
Now it is very easy to follow this principle to consolidate the country and make the people safe. If measures are not taken as soon as possible, the relationship between flesh and blood will be hurt, and even their heads will be killed. Is this any different from the last years of the Qin Dynasty?
Now, relying on your power as the Emperor, taking advantage of today's favorable opportunity, and relying on God's blessing, you still have concerns about measures to turn danger into peace and change chaos into order. If Your Majesty were in the position of Duke Heng of Qi, could you still unite the princes to restore order in the world?
I know that Your Majesty must not do this.
If the country's situation remains as it was before, with Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, still ruling Chu, Ying Bu ruling Huainan, Peng Yue ruling Liang, Han Wangxin ruling South Korea, Zhang Ao ruling Zhao, Guan Gao being Zhao's prime minister, Lu Wan ruling Yan, and Chen Xi still ruling Dai. If these six or seven people are still alive, and Your Majesty is now the emperor, can you feel safe?
I have reason to think it cannot.
At that time, the world was in chaos, and Emperor Gao raised an army with these people. At first, he had no relatives to rely on.
The lucky ones among these people were the ones who got the title of Zhongjuan, while the less fortunate ones only became sacrificers. Their talents were far inferior to those of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Gao ascended to the throne of emperor by virtue of his sage and might, and enfeoffed the fertile land to these people as princes and kings. The most were more than a hundred cities, and the least were thirty or forty counties. His kindness was extremely profound. But in the next ten years, nine rebellions occurred.
Your Majesty's relationship with these people is not that he personally fought with them to make them willing to surrender, nor did he personally make them princes and kings. In this case, Emperor Gao couldn't get a year of peace, so I know that His Majesty couldn't get peace either.
However, there is another excuse for being distant from them, so let me talk about those people with the same surname who are close to them.
Suppose King Hui Hui is still the king of Qi, King Yuan is still the king of Chu, Zhongzi is the king of Chang, King You is the king of Huaiyang, King Gong is the king of Liang, King Ling is the king of Yan, and King Li is the king of Huainan. If these six or seven nobles are still alive, and your majesty ascends the throne as the emperor, will you be able to govern the country well?
And I know that Your Majesty cannot.
Although these princes and kings with the same surname were ministers in name, they actually believed that they had a general brotherly relationship with the emperor. None of them did not want to adopt the emperor's etiquette system to make themselves emperor.
They granted nobility without authorization, pardoned those who had committed capital crimes, and some even rode in the emperor's special carriage with a yellow silk cover. The laws of the Han Dynasty could not be implemented there.
Even if it can be implemented, he will not obey the orders of people with evil intentions like King Li, so how can he come when summoned?
If he gets lucky, how can the law be imposed on him?
If a relative is punished, all the princes and kings in the world will stand up in rebellion. Although there was a brave man like Feng Jing among His Majesty's ministers, the assassin's dagger had already pierced his chest just as he was about to report him to the princes.
Although Your Majesty is wise, who can assist you in governing these princes and kings?
Therefore, distant kings with different surnames will definitely harm the country, and close kings with the same surname will definitely rebel. This has been proven by facts.
The Han Dynasty was lucky enough to defeat those princes and kings of different surnames who rebelled because of their own strength, but it did not change the cause of the chaos.
The princes and kings with the same surname launched a rebellion along this old road again. There are already signs, and the situation is exactly the same as in the past.
The disaster is changing, and we still don’t know where it will evolve. A wise emperor like you cannot bring peace to the country under such circumstances. What will future generations do?
Tan Niu Tan slaughtered twelve cows in one morning, but the sharp blade did not become dull. This was because the places he slapped and stripped were between the gaps between the muscles and bones.
As for dealing with the thigh bone, either use a machete or an axe.
Benevolence, righteousness and kindness are like the sharp blade on the soap, power and legal system are like the emperor's machete and axe.
Nowadays, the princes and kings are like thigh bones. They do not use machetes or axes to cut them, but use sharp blades to cut them. I think they will either get a gap or be broken.
Why not treat the King of Huainan and the King of Jibei with benevolence, justice and kindness?
Because the situation does not allow it.
I have privately investigated what happened in the past, and most of them were the powerful princes and kings who rebelled first.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, became the king of Chu and was the strongest, so he was the first to rebel; Han Wangxin relied on the power of the Xiongnu and continued to rebel; Guan Gao relied on the superior conditions of the state of Tong and rebelled; Chen Xi had a strong army and rebelled; Peng Yue used the power of Liang and rebelled; Tingbu relied on the power of Huainan and rebelled; Lu Wan was the weakest and was the last to rebel.
The King of Changsha's fiefdom had a population of only 25,000 households. He had little merit but was the most well-preserved, weak in power but the most loyal to the court. This was not because of his unique personality that was different from other princes and kings, but because of the situation that made him like this.
If Fan Sha, Li Shang, Zhou Bo, Guan Ying and others were made vassal kings occupying dozens of cities in the past, even if their power has been weakened now, it is not allowed. If people like Han Xin and Peng Yue were allowed to only occupy the status of Chehou, it would be okay even if they still exist now.
In this case, the plan for governing the country can be known.
If you want to make the princes and kings loyal to the court, then it is best to make them as small and weak as the King of Changsha; if you want to prevent the ministers from being chopped into meat paste, then it is best to make them like Fan Sha, Li Shang and others who only make princes but not kings;
When the power is small, it is easy to use laws to mobilize them; when the feudal state is small, there will be no evil intention to rebel.
If the situation in the whole country is like the body directing the arms and the arms directing the fingers, there will be no one who is disobedient. The princes and kings did not dare to have two minds, just like the spokes of a wheel gathering to the axle, they all obeyed the emperor's orders. Even ordinary people will feel that the country is stable, so everyone in the world knows your Majesty's wisdom.
Divide the land and establish a system to divide the large vassal states of Qi, Tang, Chu, etc. into several small states, so that the descendants of King Huihui, King You, and King Yuan will inherit a share of the fiefdom from their ancestors in order of eldest and youngest until all the divisions are completed. As for other vassal states such as Yan and Liang, they also did the same.
Those vassal states with many fiefdoms and few descendants are also divided into several small states, and the throne can be temporarily vacant. When they have descendants, all of them will be made kings of the vassal states.
If a prince's land was greatly reduced and returned to the imperial court, his fiefdom and his descendants would be moved to other places, and the original amount of land would be returned to him. The emperor didn't want to take possession of an inch of land or a single common people. It was really just for the sake of the stability of the country. Therefore, everyone in the world knows His Majesty's integrity.
Once the system of dividing the land is established, no one in the clan will worry about becoming the king, the princes and kings will have no intention of betrayal, and the emperor will have no thoughts of crusade. Therefore, everyone in the world will know your majesty's benevolence.
The legal system is established but no one violates it, and the government decree is implemented but no one disobeys it. Conspiracies like Guan Gao and Li Ji will not happen, and tricks like Chai Qi and Kaizhang will not appear. The people will tend to be kind, and the ministers will obey. Therefore, everyone in the world will know the justice of the emperor.
In this way, even if a young child is made the emperor, the country will be peaceful; even if the child is appointed as the emperor, and the ministers are asked to pay homage to the clothes left by the late emperor, the world will not be in chaos. In this way, great governance can be achieved in the current generation, and future generations will also praise His Majesty's sage.
If you implement this measure, you will be able to achieve these five achievements. Why is Your Majesty still worried about delaying in doing so?
At present, the situation in the world is like a person suffering from swollen feet.
One calf was swollen to be almost as thick as the waist, and one toe was swollen to be almost as thick as a thigh. I can't bend or stretch normally, one or two toes twitch, and I feel unbearable pain all over my body.
If it is not treated in time now, it will inevitably become an incurable disease, and even Bian Que will be unable to do anything about it in the future.
Moreover, he suffers not only from swollen feet, but also from twisted soles of his feet.
The son of King Yuan is your majesty’s cousin; the one who is now the king of Chu is the son of your majesty’s cousin.
King Hui's son is the son of your Majesty's brother, and the one who is now King of Qi is your Majesty's brother's grandson.
Now, some of His Majesty's close relatives do not have fiefdoms to maintain stability in the world, while some estranged people hold great power to threaten the Emperor. Therefore, I said that not only did I suffer from swollen feet, but I also suffered from twisted soles of my feet.
This is the kind of disease you can cry over.
Now, the situation in the world is upside down.
The emperor is the head of the world, why?
Because it's on top.
Barbarians are the foot of the world, why?
Because it's down there.
Now the Xiongnu wantonly insults, invades and plunders the Han Dynasty, and is disrespectful to the extreme. It has become a scourge to the world without end, but the Han Dynasty still sends a large amount of money, silk floss and various colorful silk fabrics to it every year.
When the Xiongnu issued orders to the Han Dynasty, they held the authority of the emperor; when the emperor paid tribute to the Xiongnu, he performed the courtesy of his ministers.
Now the feet are on the top and the head is on the bottom. If it is so upside down and cannot be saved, how can it be said that it has the talent to govern the country?
Not only was he upside down, but he also seemed to be suffering from foot disease and rheumatism.
Podiatry is only a localized disease, while rheumatism is a pain in a large area.
Now on the western border, even those with high titles cannot be exempted from military service easily. People above children cannot get any rest due to war preparations. The sentries watch the beacon fire day and night and cannot sleep peacefully. The generals all sleep wearing clang armor. So I say this is a disease on one side.
Doctors could treat this disease, but the emperor did not allow him to treat it. This is something you can shed tears over.
How can your Majesty endure using the title of dignified emperor to become a prince of the Xiongnu? The status is both humiliating and humiliating, and the disasters are endless. If this continues, there will be no end.
It's really incomprehensible that the people who gave the advice thought this was the right thing to do. These people were simply incompetent to the extreme.
I privately estimate that the population of the Xiongnu is only that of a large county in the Han Dynasty. With such a large world, but being trapped by the Xiongnu with a population of only one county, I am really ashamed of the ministers in power.
Why doesn't Your Majesty appoint me as a vassal official to take charge of the Huns?
If I carry out my plan, I will be able to capture Chanyu, control his life and death, subdue Zhong Xingshuo and whip his back, and make the entire Xiongnu obey His Majesty's orders.
Now we hunt wild boars instead of fighting fierce enemies, hunt rabbits instead of traitors, and pursue entertainment without thinking about relieving the country from serious disasters. This is not a way to bring peace to the world.
The emperor's kindness could have been extended to far away places, but now it was no longer feasible within just a few hundred miles. This is something you can shed tears over.
Nowadays, people who sell slaves among the people dress the slaves in embroidered clothes and silk shoes with lace and enclose them in wooden fences. These slaves wear the clothes of ancient queens, and the queens do not usually wear them, and only wear them during sacrifices, but now they are used by ordinary people to dress their maids and concubines.
The face is made of white crepe, and thin cooked silk is used as lining and wrapping. It is also trimmed with lace, and even more beautiful ones are embroidered with patterns. This is the costume of ancient emperors. Nowadays, wealthy businessmen buy it to entertain guests at banquets, but they are used to hang on the wall.
In ancient times, these costumes were only used to serve one emperor and one queen, and were modest and appropriate. Nowadays, ordinary people hang the emperor's clothes on their house walls, and the despicable ones also wear the queen's clothes. If the world's financial resources are not exhausted, I'm afraid it won't be possible.
Moreover, the emperor himself wore thick black silk fabrics, while the walls of the wealthy people were covered with gorgeous embroidery; the queen used the lace to lace her collars, but the common people's maids and concubines used it to lace the collars of their shoes. This created the confusion I am talking about.
One hundred people can make clothes that cannot be worn by one person. How can it be possible to protect the people of the world from the cold?
It is impossible for ten people to gather together to eat the food that one person cultivates and harvests so that the whole world will not go hungry.
Hunger and cold are related to people's bodies, and it is impossible to prevent them from doing evil things.
The country's financial resources have been depleted, and it will only take time for thieves to rise. However, the person who offered the advice said: No change is the best policy.
The social atmosphere has reached the point where there is extreme disrespect for superiors. There is simply no hierarchy, and it is simply offensive to the emperor. However, the person who offered the advice said: Don't change this situation. This is the kind of thing you can sigh deeply for.
Lord Shang abandoned etiquette and justice, abandoned benevolence and kindness, and devoted himself to reform to become stronger. His reform proposals were implemented for two years, and the customs of the Qin Dynasty gradually declined.
Therefore, in the Qin Dynasty, when the sons of wealthy families came of age, they separated the family, and when the sons of poor families came of age, they went to the bride's family to get married.
Lending farm tools to his father showed an expression of favor; his mother was immediately scolded for using a dustpan and broom.
The daughter-in-law holds the child in her arms, feeds the baby, and sits with her father-in-law with her legs stretched out. When the mother-in-law and daughter-in-law are unhappy, they talk back and quarrel: they dote on their son and are greedy for profit, and there is not much difference between them and animals.
However, Lord Shang followed the current situation and made progress with all his heart. It can also be said that he wanted to defeat the six countries and unify the world.
Success and fame are enough, but in the end you don't know that you violate the moral integrity of shame and shame, and violate the virtue of benevolence and righteousness.
The method of annexation achieved progress but ruined the world. The powerful ones overwhelm the weak ones, the smart ones bully the stupid ones, the brave ones intimidate the timid ones, and the strong bully the weak ones. It is really chaos to the extreme.
Therefore, the great sage Liu Bang, the great ancestor of the Han Dynasty, came out to support the world's crisis. His reputation shook the world, and his kindness spread all over the world.
In the past, the world was ruled by the Qin Dynasty, but now it was ruled by the Han Dynasty.
But the customs and habits left over from the Qin Dynasty have not changed yet.
In today's society, people are competing for luxury and luxury, but there is no established system. This trend of abandoning etiquette and integrity is getting worse day by day. It can be said that it is different every year and every month.
He only focused on pursuing fame and wealth, regardless of the quality of his behavior. Today, it has seriously developed to the point of killing his own father and brothers.
The thieves cut off the door curtain of the back room of the emperor's ancestral temple, picked up the sacrificial vessels from the temples of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, and robbed officials of their money in the capital city during the day.
The forger defrauded nearly 100,000 dan of grain, collected more than 6 million yuan in money, and traveled around the country in an official car. This is really unethical to the extreme.
The ministers only regarded the failure to submit official documents and the interruption of scheduled meetings as major events.
As for the corruption of social customs, they treat it calmly and do not think it is strange. They are indifferent and regard it as a matter of course.
Changing customs and bringing people's hearts back to the right path are not something mediocre officials can do.
All mediocre officials can do is write official documents and collect money, but they do not understand the fundamentals of running a country.
Your Majesty, you are not worried about this. I feel sorry for Your Majesty privately.
Establishing the hierarchical relationship between the monarch and his ministers, so that there are etiquette to be followed between father and son, and laws to be followed between the six relatives, this is not done by God, but established by people.
People set up systems and don't set up things that they don't do. If you don't establish a system, you can't maintain interpersonal relationships. If you don't maintain the system, you will destroy interpersonal relationships.
"Guanzi" said: Propriety, justice, integrity and shame are the four principles of governing a country. If these four principles are not maintained, the country will perish.
It would be fine if Guanzi was a stupid person. If Guanzi knew a little bit about the basic principles of governing a country, how could he not be heartbroken by this?
The Qin Dynasty abandoned the four principles without upholding them, so the hierarchical relationship between the monarch and his ministers was disordered, six relatives were killed, treacherous people rose up together, and all the people rebelled against the court. For a total of thirteen years, the whole country was in ruins.
Nowadays, the four major principles are not yet complete, so traitors have opportunities to take advantage of them, and people's minds are uncertain.
How about determining the principle of hierarchy now, so that the king is the king and his ministers are ministers, there are differences between the superiors and the subordinates, father and son and the six relatives have their own place, there is no opportunity for traitors to take advantage of, and all the ministers are loyal and trustworthy, and the emperor has no doubts!
Once such a law is established, generations will have peace and future generations will have laws to follow.
If the principle of the hierarchy is not determined, it is like crossing a river without cables and oars. If there is a storm in the middle of the river, the boat will capsize.
I think this is the kind of thing we should sigh about.
The Xia Dynasty ruled the world for more than ten generations, and the Yin and Shang Dynasties succeeded it.
The Yin and Shang Dynasties ruled the world for more than twenty generations, and the Zhou Dynasty succeeded it.
The Zhou Dynasty ruled the world for more than thirty generations, and the Qin Dynasty succeeded it.
The Qin Dynasty ruled the world and perished in two generations.
Human temperaments are not very different. Why did the monarchy of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties rule for a long time in a clear and clear manner, while the Qin Dynasty was not virtuous, tyrannical and cruel?
The reason for this can be known.
In ancient times, when the prince was born, he would be raised with rites, and the officials would carry him on their backs. The relevant officials would be neat and solemn in body and mind, dress upright, and go to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices to heaven.
When you pass the palace, you get off your horse and walk on foot; when you pass the ancestral temple, you bend down and walk quickly. This is the way of a filial son.
So education already takes place in infancy.
In the past, when King Cheng of Zhou was still in his infancy, Duke Zhao was the Taibao, Duke Zhou was the Tutor, and Grand Duke was the Grand Master to educate him.
Bao, protects his body; Fu, teaches him the principles of morality and behavior; Shi, educates and instructs: creation is the responsibility of the three gods.
So there were three more young masters, all of whom were at the level of a doctor, called Shaobao, Shaofu, and Shaoshi. These were the people who lived with the prince.
Therefore, when the prince first became sensible, the three princes and the third young master would teach him about filial piety, benevolence, etiquette, and righteousness, and guide him to do them, drive away treacherous people, and prevent the prince from seeing bad behavior.
Because of this, people with good behavior, filial piety, broad knowledge, and moral scholarship were selected to protect and assist him. These people were allowed to live in the same place with the prince, going out and going in together.
Therefore, when the prince was born, he saw the right things, heard the right words, practiced the right path, and was surrounded by people of good character on his left and right.
If you get used to getting along with people of good conduct, your conduct will not be improper, just like growing up in the state of Qi and you must speak the dialect of Qi. If you get used to getting along with people of bad conduct, your conduct will not be improper, just like growing up in the state of Chu and you must speak the dialect of Chu.
Therefore, when choosing the emperor's hobby, he must first receive education before he can try it out. To choose the emperor's hobby, he must first get used to it before he can do it.
Confucius said: Habits developed in childhood seem to be natural.
When the prince grew up and became aware of women, he was allowed to study in school.
Xue is the academy under the imperial court.
"Xueli" says: When the emperor studied in the East, he knew how to respect relatives and valued benevolence, so there was an order of kinship and estrangement, and kindness could be applied to him; when the emperor studied in the south, he knew how to respect the elderly and pay attention to trustworthiness, so there was a distinction between the elderly and the young and the people did not deceive each other; when the emperor studied in the west, he knew how to respect the virtuous and pay attention to morality, so the sages and intelligent people were appointed and the meritorious people were not left out; The Northern School knew how to respect those with status and admired the rank and rank, so the distinction between high and low became hierarchical, and the humble people did not transcend their own status; the emperor entered the Taixue, learned the principles of governing the country from his teachers, and came back to practice and accept the assessment of the Taifu. The Taifu punished him for his substandard places and corrected his shortcomings. As a result, his virtue and wisdom increased, and he also learned the methods of governing the country.
If these five studies are learned above, officials and common people will be inspired to live in harmony below.
When the crown prince came of age and was exempted from the control of the Taibao and Taifu, there were officials who recorded faults, officials who admonished people by reducing their meals, erected flags to attract people to say good things, put up wooden signs by the roadside to record faults, and set up drums to be beaten at the gates of the government offices.
Gushi used poems to persuade, musicians recited admonitions to persuade, officials offered strategies, and scholars recited folk warnings.
Wisdom and learning grow together, so things can be done according to the rules; education and thoughts are formed together, so actions can be justified as if they come from nature.
The rituals of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties: worship the sun in the morning of spring and the moon in the evening of autumn to show respect for heaven and earth; when entering school in spring and autumn, invite the elders to sit down, and the prince will personally give them to him with meat sauce to show respect for the elders; when traveling by car, the speed should be suitable for the ringing of the car's bell, and when walking , the slow step should be in line with the rhythm of "Cai Qi", and the fast step should be in line with the rhythm of "Four Summers" to show that you understand etiquette; for animals, if you have seen it when it was alive and heard its cry, you will not eat its meat after it is dead, so you should cook far away to deepen your kindness and show your benevolence.
The reason why the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties ruled for a long time was because they had these methods to assist the prince.
This was not the case in the Qin Dynasty.
Their social ethos is not about humility, what they advocate is exposing others' secrets; they are not about etiquette and justice, what they advocate is punishment.
He sent Cao Gao to assist Qin II and taught him the method of killing. What he practiced was either killing people and cutting off their noses, or cutting off the three clans.
Therefore, Qin II ascends to the throne of emperor today and kills people tomorrow. He treats loyal and admonishing words as slander, far-reaching strategies as evil words, and kills people as mowing grass.
Is it just that Qin II had a bad nature?
That's because what he was taught was unreasonable. As the saying goes: If you are not familiar with being an official, look at what officials have done before.
He also said: The car in front has overturned, and the car behind is on guard.
The reason why the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties ruled for a long time can be understood by looking at the past; however, what cannot be obeyed is not imitating the wisdom of the sages.
The reason why the Qin Dynasty perished so quickly can be seen from the traces left behind; however, if it is not avoided, the car behind it will overturn again.
The key to the change of existence and death, the key to governance and chaos, is the essence of creation.
The fate of the world depends on the prince; the prince's ability to govern the country depends on early enlightenment and education, as well as the selection of the right people to assist and protect the prince.
If you start education before your mind is open, then education will be more likely to succeed; understanding the essence of governing the country and knowledge and morality is the power of education.
As for the formation of habits, it is a task left to you.
Northerners and southerners have the same voices when they are born, and there is no difference in their hobbies and desires. When they grow up and develop habits, their languages ​​​​cannot be communicated even after many translations, and their behavioral habits cannot change each other until they die. This is the result of education and habits.
So I say that choosing good assistants and early education are the most important.
If the education is proper and the people around him are of good character, then the prince will be upright. If the prince is upright, the world will be stable.
"Shangshu" said: The emperor is fortunate to be alone, and hundreds of millions of people rely on him for benefits.
This is something that is urgently needed right now.
With the wisdom of ordinary people, what can be seen is already like this, and what cannot be seen also wants to be like this.
Ritual is used to prohibit people's behavior before it happens, while law is used after the behavior has already happened. Therefore, the function of law is easy to see, but the effect of ritual is difficult to know.
If rewards are used to encourage good deeds and punishments are used to punish evil deeds, then if the government is controlled by pioneers, it will be as hard as gold and stone, and if such orders are implemented, they will be trusted for a long time. Those who master this method are as selfless as heaven and earth, why don't they still use it?
However, when it comes to etiquette, the most important thing is to prevent bad things from happening before they happen, and education is placed in subtle places, so that people can get closer to goodness and stay away from evil every day without knowing it.
Confucius said: When trying lawsuits, I, like others, must make sure that the lawsuits are eliminated!
Those who plan for the king should first determine what to choose and discard; the standard of choice is determined by the court, and the safety and danger begins to be fulfilled in society.
Peace does not come in one day, and danger does not arise in one day. It only occurs gradually after accumulation, so we must carefully examine it.
What the king saves is in terms of choices.
Those who govern the country with rituals and righteousness accumulate propriety and righteousness; those who govern the country with punishments accumulate punishments.
If there are many punishments, the people will complain and resist; if there are many rituals and righteousness, the people will live in harmony.
Therefore, the king wants the people to do good in the same way, but the methods of getting the people to do good are different.
Some taught them virtue, while others forced them with laws.
If you use virtue to teach them, virtue will be promoted and the people will be harmonious and happy; if you use laws to intimidate them, the laws will reach the extreme and the people will be sad.
Feelings of sorrow and joy are evidence of misfortunes and blessings.
The King of Qin wanted to respect the ancestral temple and stabilize his descendants, which was the same as King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou. However, King Tang and King Wu of Shang expanded their virtues and did not fail for six to seven hundred years. King Qin governed the world and was defeated in more than ten years.
There is no other reason for this. King Tang and King Wu of Zhou must be prudent in their choices, while King Qin must be imprudent in their choices.
The world is an important tool.
Nowadays, if people put utensils in a safe place, they will be safe, and if they put them in a dangerous place, they will be dangerous.
The situation of the world is no different from the utensils, it all depends on how the emperor places them.
King Wu of Shang, Tang, and Zhou put the world in the position of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, and happiness, and his kindness was spread far and wide, with animals and plants growing luxuriantly. His kindness was extended to barbarians and barbarians, and his descendants continued for dozens of generations. This is known to everyone in the world.
The King of Qin put the world in the place of laws and punishments, and had no kindness at all. Instead, resentment and hatred spread throughout the society. The common people hated him as an enemy, and disaster almost came to him. Later, his descendants executed him and cut him off. This was seen by everyone in the world.
Isn’t this an obvious effect?
Some people say: When you listen to someone talk, you must watch his actions, so that he will not dare to talk nonsense.
Today some people say that etiquette and justice are not as good as laws, and education is not as good as punishment. Why don’t the kings quote the events of the Shang, Zhou, and Qin dynasties to show them?
The nobility of the king is like the palace, the ministers are like the steps, and the people are like the ground.
Therefore, if the steps are nine or more and the foundation is far from the ground, the hall will be high; if the steps have no steps and are close to the ground, the hall will be low.
It is a matter of course that the high ones are difficult to climb and the low ones are easy to step on.
Therefore, the ancient sage kings established hierarchies. The imperial court had dukes, ministers, officials, and scholars. The local feudal states had dukes, marquises, uncles, sons, and men. Then there were officials, big and small, all the way down to the common people. The hierarchy was clear, and the status of the emperor was at the top, so his dignity was supreme.
A popular proverb in the alley says: You want to throw something to kill mice but you are worried about damaging the utensils.
This is a good metaphor.
Because the rats were close to the utensils, people were afraid of damaging the utensils and did not dare to hit them. What's more, the noble ministers were too close to the Lord!
A gentleman is governed with integrity and propriety, so he is given death but not killed or insulted.
Therefore, the crime of tattooing on the face and cutting off the nose is not placed on the doctors, because they are not far from the Lord.
Etiquette stipulates that the age of the horse that pulls the monarch's carriage cannot be counted, and kicking the horse's fodder will be punished; when you see the monarch's desk and crutches, you stand upright; when you encounter the monarch's carriage and horses, you go to a lower place; when you enter the main gate, you walk quickly; even if someone among the monarch's favorites is at fault, the crime of killing is not imposed on him. This is to respect the monarch.
This is to enable the emperor to avoid things that are disrespectful to him in advance, and to use politeness to encourage ministers to maintain moral integrity.
Today, starting from nobles such as princes and princes, they are all people whom the emperor must respect and treat with courtesy. They are the people whom the emperor in ancient times called uncles and uncles. If various punishments are applied to them and the people, then doesn’t the palace lose its steps? Aren’t those who were killed and insulted too close to the emperor?
If integrity is not enforced, won’t ministers have excessive power, and high officials have the shamelessness of prisoners?
In the case of Wangyi Palace, Qin II was sentenced to severe punishment. This was caused by surrendering to rats but not using weapons.
I have heard that shoes, even if they are new, cannot be placed on pillows, and hats, even if they are worn, cannot be used to cushion shoes.
A person who was once in a respected and favored position was treated with courtesy by the emperor, and officials and the people once showed respect to him. If he made a mistake today, the emperor could order him to be deposed from his title, removed from his official position, granted death, or destroyed his family. As for tying him up, escorting him to the Sikou, and putting him under the jurisdiction of the apprentice, and letting the Sikou officials curse and whip him, this probably cannot be seen by the general public!
Lowly people know that once a favored person makes a mistake, I can treat him in the same way. Dismissal is not the way to teach the world, and it is not in line with the teachings of nobles and nobles.
The emperor once respected him, and the people once respected him. Let him die and he will die. How can lowly people torture and insult him like this!
Yurang served the Zhongxing clan. After Zhibo attacked and destroyed the Zhongxing clan, he turned to serve Zhibo.
When Zhao Xiangzi killed Zhibo, Yurang's appearance was disfigured and his voice became hoarse after swallowing charcoal. He must avenge Zhao Xiangzi and avenge Zhibo, but failed many times.
Someone asked Yuzi, and Yuzi replied: Zhongxing treats me like an ordinary person, and I serve him like an ordinary person; Zhibo treats me like a state official, and I repay him like a state official.
So the same Yuran, who at first rebelled against his master and served his enemies, behaving like a pig or a dog, later became loyal and loyal, behaving like a martyr, is what the Lord has made him to be like.
Therefore, the king treats his ministers like dogs and horses, and they are willing to be dogs and horses. If you treat them like prisoners, they will be willing to be prisoners.
They are stubborn, stupid and shameless, have no ambitions, no integrity, no sense of shame, and no self-love. They are just careless, so they yearn for convenience when they see it, and fight for it when they see it.
When the master fails, he takes the opportunity to usurp power; when the master is in trouble, he just cares about his own survival and stands aside; when it is beneficial to himself, he deceives and betrays his master to make profits.
What good does this do to the Lord?
There are many ministers, but there is only one lord. The wealth, occupation, and other powers entrusted by the lord are all concentrated in the hands of the ministers.
They are all shameless and act recklessly, and the Lord is most worried.
Therefore, the ancients said: The etiquette is not as good as the common people, and the punishment is not as good as the officials. This is to encourage the favored ministers to observe the rules.
In ancient times, if a minister was to be deposed for the crime of being dishonest, he would not be said to be dishonest, but to say that the basket and gui were untidy; because of promiscuity and filth, men and women were the same, but not to be said to be dirty, but to be said to be "thin and unrepaired"; to those who were incompetent and incompetent, not to be said to be weak and incompetent, but to be said to be "incompetent".
Therefore, when a high-status minister was convicted, not only did he not openly declare his crime in a reprimanding tone, but he also kept it a secret for him in an accommodating manner.
Therefore, those who are in a position where they should be loudly condemned and scolded, when they hear the condemnation and scolding, they put on mourning clothes, put on a plate of water and a sword, and go to the apologia room to apologize. The emperor does not ask anyone to tie them up and lead them away.
A person who committed a moderate crime would be disfigured and confessed after hearing the order. The emperor would not let anyone put a knife to his neck.
When a person who commits a serious crime hears the order and kneels down to the north to confess his sins and commit suicide, the emperor will not send someone to grab his hair and press him down to execute him, saying: "Your doctor is guilty yourself!"
I treat you politely.
Treat him politely, so the officials will love themselves; treat others with integrity, so people will pay attention to moral integrity and virtue.
The emperor treats his ministers with integrity and etiquette, but if the minister does not repay his master with integrity and virtue, then he is not a human being.
Therefore, if education is established and customs are established, ministers will forget themselves when thinking about the Lord, forget about their families when thinking about the country, forget about private matters when thinking about public affairs, will not seek benefits casually, will avoid harm when seeing harm, and will only act in accordance with morality.
The emperor carries out enlightenment, so ministers of father and brother die loyal to their ancestors, ministers who formulate and implement laws die loyal to the country, ministers who assist and protect the monarch die loyal to the monarch, and ministers who guard the borders to defend against enemies die loyal to the borders of the city.
Therefore, when we say that the saint owns the golden city, we use the golden city to describe the will of the ministers.
He died for me, so I must live and die with him; he died for me, so I must live and die with him; he will risk danger for me, so I must be at peace with him.
He cared about virtue and neglected interests, kept integrity and upheld justice, so he could be entrusted with unfettered power and could foster an emperor who was underage and whose father was dead.
This is what should be achieved by encouraging integrity and promoting etiquette and righteousness. Why does the Lord need to lose these!
If you don’t do these things, you will instead take care of things you shouldn’t do for a long time, so I say these are the things you can sigh for.
At this time, the Prime Minister Jianghou Zhou Bo was dismissed from his post and returned to the feudal state. Someone reported Zhou Bo for treason, and Zhou Bo was tied up and escorted to Chang'an to be imprisoned and sentenced. As a result, he did not rebel and his title was restored. Therefore, Jia Yi used Zhou Bo's incident to persuade Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty to be cautious in punishing ministers.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty deeply accepted his opinions and treated his ministers appropriately. After that, all the ministers who committed crimes committed suicide, and none were sentenced to death.
By the time of Emperor Mowu, starting from Ningcheng, ministers gradually committed crimes and were imprisoned.
At first, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty assumed the throne of emperor as the acting king. Later, the Kingdom of Dai was divided into two countries, and the prince Liu Wu was made the King of Dai, Liu Shen was the King of Taiyuan, and the youngest son Liu Sheng was the King of Liang.
Later, Liu Wu, the king of Dai, was transferred to be the king of Huaiyang, and Liu Shen, the king of Taiyuan, was appointed the king of Dai, and received all the fiefdoms of the original king.
A few years later, Liang Wang Liu Sheng died without a son.
Jia Yi went to Shu again and said:
If Your Majesty had not established a system, the current situation would have been just one or two years ago. The princes and kingdoms were not yet under control. As their forces were established and gradually became stronger, the laws of the Han Dynasty would not be implemented.
The only two countries your Majesty relies on to protect yourself and the Crown Prince are Huaiyang and Dai.
The north of Dai State is close to the Xiongnu, and it is adjacent to powerful enemies. It is enough to be able to protect itself.
Compared with the big princes, Huaiyang is just like a small black mole on the face. It is only suitable to be swallowed up by big countries, but not enough to resist them.
Now the system is formulated by His Majesty. How can it be said that it is calculated by organizing vassal states so that one's own sons can be used as bait for a big country?
The Lord behaves differently from ordinary people.
Common people pay attention to small virtues and pay attention to small integrity, and entrust them to the countryside. The Lord focuses on unifying the world and stabilizing society.
The Emperor Gao divided the world among his ministers and made them princes and kings. Those who opposed him rose up like hedgehogs and thought it was not possible, so they eliminated the unjust princes and left their country empty.
Choosing a good time and auspicious day, he established several of his sons outside Luoyang Shangshumen, and all of them became princes and kings. In this way, the world was stable.
Therefore, those who do great things will not be burdened by small actions and will achieve great achievements in the end.
Now Huainan, a vassal state, spans thousands of miles, surpassing the two vassals of Liang and Huaiyang, and is governed as a county by the Han Dynasty.
The officials and people in Huainan spent all their wealth to replenish their clothes because of the corvee service, but the clothes were torn on the way. Most of the money was spent on this expense. They suffered from being subordinate to the Han and wanted to have a prince king. Many of them escaped and joined the princes.
This situation cannot be allowed to last.
I have a stupid plan, hoping to give the land of Huainan to Huaiyang, and after establishing the Liang King, I will cut off the two or three counties and Shu County in the north of Huaiyang and add them to the Liang Kingdom; if this does not work, I can transfer the capital to Suiyang on behalf of the king.
The land of Liang State starts from Xinguo and goes north to the Yellow River, and Huaiyang takes the land south of Chen State and joins the Yangtze River. In this way, the ambitious vassal states will be too scared to make plans.
Liang is strong enough to defend Qi and Tang, and Huaiyang is strong enough to resist Wu and Chu. Your Majesty can rest easy, without the worries east of Mount Wei. This is the benefit of two generations.
Today, the country is stable, but the princes are still young. In a few years, Your Majesty will see a crisis.
Qin Chaoye worked hard to eliminate the disasters of the Six Kingdoms. Now His Majesty controls the world with power. He only uses his cheek expressions to indicate to others, and what he wants to achieve will be achieved. If His Majesty's hands are high and cause the disasters of the Six Kingdoms, it is difficult to say whether he is smart or not.
Gouquan himself did not cause trouble, but kept troubles, and looked carefully without making a decision. Thousands of years later, if he passed it on to the old mother and weak son, they would not be able to live in peace. This cannot be said to be benevolent.
I heard that when the Holy Spirit wanted to speak, he first asked his ministers instead of speaking first. Therefore, the ministers can show their loyalty.
I hope your Majesty will accept my words.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty then adopted Jia Yi's strategy and appointed Liu Wu, King of Huaiyang, as King of Liang. The Liang Kingdom was bounded by Mount Tai in the north and Gaoyang in the west, with more than 40 large counties. He appointed Liu happy, King of Chengyang, as King of Huainan to appease his people.
At that time, the four sons of Liu Chang, King Li of Huainan, were all made marquises.
Jia Yi knew that the emperor must restore the titles of princes and kings, so he admonished him and said: "I am privately worried that your majesty will make several sons of King Li of Huainan king. This has not been carefully discussed with the ministers."
The King of Huainan rebelled and started rebellion. Who in the world didn’t know about his crime?
Fortunately, His Majesty was lenient and banished him. He committed suicide and died. Who in the world thinks that his death was undeserved?
Today's use of the son of a sinner has just lived up to the condemnation of King Li by the people of the world!
When King Li's son grew up, could he forget his father's hatred? Bai Gongsheng avenged his father, targeting his grandfather, uncle, and uncles.
Bai Gongsheng launched a coup, not to seize power, but to vent his resentment. He stabbed his enemy in the chest with a sharp knife, intending to die together with his enemy.
Although Huainan is a small place, Yingbu once used it to rebel against the Han Dynasty. It was really lucky for the Han Dynasty to exist.
It would be unwise to let the enemy possess capital that could endanger the Han Dynasty.
Although King Li's four sons were separated, they had the same idea of ​​avenging their father.
Give them a lot of people and enable them to accumulate a lot of property. If they do not openly raise armies in the capital to avenge like Wu Zixu and Bai Gong, there will be assassinations like Zhuanzhu and Jingke. This is the so-called lending weapons to thieves and giving wings to tigers.
I hope your Majesty will give it some thought!
Liang Wang Liu Sheng fell from his horse and died. Jia Yi lamented that he had failed in his duty as a tutor and often cried. More than a year later, he also died.
Jia Yi was thirty-three years old when he died.
Four years later, King Qi Wen died without a son.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty remembered Jia Yi's words, so he divided Qi into six small kingdoms and made King Hui's six sons king respectively. He also transferred Huainan King Liu happy to Chengyang, divided Huainan into three small countries, and made King Li's six sons king respectively.
In the next ten years, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty died and Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, Wu, Chu, Zhao and the four Qi kings jointly rebelled and marched westward to the Mojing city of Chang'an. Liang Xiao Wang Liu Wu defended Chang'an and finally defeated the Seven Kingdoms.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the son of King Li of Huainan became king, and some of the two rebelled against him and were executed.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne and appointed Jia Yi's two grandsons as prefects of the county.
Among them, Maijia is the most studious and inherits a scholarly family background.
Praise: Liu Xiangcheng Jia Yi talked about the significance of the Xia, Shang, Zhou and Qin dynasties in regulating chaos. His discussion was very beautiful. He was familiar with national regulations and systems. Even Yi Yin and Guan Zhong in ancient times could not surpass him.
If his ideas had been implemented at that time, his achievements and enlightenment would have been significant.
But it is really sad that he was framed by mediocrity.
Looking back, we can see that Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was quiet and inactive, and took action to change customs. The ideas stated by Jia Yi were slightly implemented.
When he wanted to change the system, because the Han Dynasty was a native country, he advocated yellow, and used five as the official seal number. When he wanted to try to own a vassal state, he used Jia Yi's "five baits" and "three watches" to tightly tie the Chanyu, and his method was effective.
Jia Yi died young. Although he did not become a public official, he was not without opportunities.
He wrote a total of fifty-eight articles, and the content relevant to current affairs was extracted and written in his biography.
