◆The biography of Ma Rong, whose courtesy name is Ji Chang, was born in Maoling, Fufeng. He will be the son of Ma Yan, a great craftsman.
The person is beautiful, talented, and good at speaking.
In the past, Jingzhao Zhixun lived in seclusion in Nanshan and taught students Confucianism. He should not be recruited and was well-known in Kansai. Ma Rong studied under him and became proficient in the classics.
Zhixun admired Ma Rong's talent and married his daughter to him.
In the second year of Yongchu, the general Deng Zhi heard that Ma Rong was famous and called him to be a minister. He didn't like this and refused to accept the order. He lived as a guest between Wudu and Hanyang in Liangzhou.
At this time, Qiang barbarians appeared and disturbed the border. The price of rice soared, and people starved to death on the roads west of Guan.
Ma Rong was hungry and sleepy, so he regretted it and said to his friend: There is an ancient saying: Holding the map of the world with your left hand and cutting its throat with your right hand, even a fool would not do such a thing that harms lives in the name of others.
Why? Life is the most precious.
Now, for fear of being ridiculed by the local people, the priceless body is destroyed, which is not in line with the principles of Lao and Zhuang. So he went to answer Deng Zhao's call.
In the fourth year, he became the school's calligrapher and went to Dongguan Dian School to collect secret books.
At this time, Empress Dowager Deng took power, and the Deng Zhao brothers assisted in the government.
Generally speaking, Confucian scholars, who are superficial, believe that virtue can be promoted and martial arts should be abolished, so they stopped the system of martial arts training and did not talk about the method of battle formation. Therefore, cunning thieves emerged in droves, taking advantage of the country's unpreparedness.
Ma Rong was very dissatisfied. He believed that the way of civil and military affairs was valued by sages. Metal, wood, water, fire, and earth were all used by people at the same time. One cannot be abolished. How could one not talk about martial arts?
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, he published "Guangcheng Ode" to satirize and admonish him.
The preface says: I heard Confucius said: Being extravagant and wasteful means being humble, being too simple and frugal is mean. Luxury and frugality are based on etiquette.
Therefore, "Cricket" and "Shanshu" both satirize the king not to enjoy himself too much and not to leave his carriages and horses unused.
The way of civil and military affairs is to compromise. Be happy but not excessive, worry but not tired. This is why the ancestors calmed the internal organs and nourished the spirit, and they will always practice it.
Therefore, how to use music is recorded in "Yu Mo", "Ji Ri Tian Hui" is also described in "Zhou Shi".
This is a sage king and a virtuous king. Is it to praise the prosperous age? Is it for luxury and lewdness?
Since Emperor An came to the throne, there was an earthquake. The emperor was alert to the disaster and worked hard himself. The forbidden garden was deserted and the musical instruments were discarded. He worked hard and thought for more than ten years, exceeding the etiquette system.
In addition, the empress dowager embodies the sincere and harmonious feelings of the nine clans of Tang Yao; the emperor practiced the filial piety of Yu and Chunhou, and rarely neglected to send people to express condolences if any of his relatives were sick.
Having peace of mind all the time and no entertainment is probably not the way to welcome Taihe and contribute to all blessings.
I think that although there is a locust plague now, the timely rains and dews since May this year are a good sign.
Entering the winter festival, during the break from farming, one should go to Guangcheng to observe the plains of Sichuan, see wheat fields, and reward collections, so as to teach martial arts and hunting, so that officials and people can see the beauty of flags and flags, hear the sound of bells and drums, rejoice and be encouraged in the fields, welcome harmony, and call for holiday celebrations.
You little ant, I miss you endlessly. The book written by Zhi Zhi is based on an old article and tells the story of hunting in the field. Wrote "Ode to Guangcheng" as a satire. "Ode" was sent to him, which offended Deng, so he stayed in Dongguan and was not allowed to be promoted for ten years.
Because my brother's son died, I apologized and returned home.
When the Queen Mother heard about it, she was furious and said that Ma Rong did not respect the court's orders and wanted to be an official in the prefecture and county. So he ordered Ma Rong to be prohibited from becoming an official.
After the death of the Empress Dowager, Emperor An took charge of the government, recalled the Lang Office, and returned to the Lecture Department.
He was born as the chief of the stables of the King of Hejian.
At this time, the emperor visited Mount Tai in the east, and Ma Rong wrote "Ode to the Eastern Tour". The emperor appreciated his article and summoned the doctor to pay homage to him.
When the Marquis of Beixiang came to the throne, Rong wrote a book called Bing, Li Langzhong, and became the county's meritorious official.
In the second year of Yangjia, the imperial court recommended honest and simple people. Cen, the captain of the city gate school, raised Ma Rong and was called to the public carriage. After passing the examination, he paid homage to Yilang. The general Liang Shang recommended him as a Zhonglang and was promoted to the governor of Wudu.
At this time, the Xiqiang rebelled, and the general Ma Xian and the captain Hu Chou who protected the Qiang in the west launched a campaign, but the advance was delayed.
Ma Rong knew that he was going to be defeated, and Shangshu asked for his service: Now the bastards and Qiang are stealing everywhere, and we should quickly send troops deep into the army to eliminate his gang members before he can concentrate, while Ma Xian and others are stranded everywhere.
The Qiang and Hu are well-informed and well-informed. Although they are hiding and avoiding things now, once they take advantage of the situation, they will definitely invade and plunder the three assistants and cause great harm to the people.
I would like to ask the five thousand Kwantung soldiers who are not available to Ma Xian. Under the guise of the army's order, I will try my best to lead the troops and take the lead. Within thirty days, we will definitely defeat the Qiang and Hu.
I studied arts and literature when I was young, but I don’t understand military affairs. I made presumptuous remarks and made false statements. I should be held accountable.
In the past Mao Sui was a lowly person and everyone laughed at him. Finally, with one sentence, Chu and Zhao agreed to form an alliance.
I'm afraid that Ma Xian and others are only guarding one city and want to attack the west. If the Qiang appears in the east, their soldiers will inevitably be defeated and defect like Gao Ke.
The court cannot use it.
Shangshu also said: Can and Bi change color, Can and Bi are the places to stay in the west, Bi are the frontier soldiers, and as for dividing fields, Can and Bi are the places where Jin divides and merges states.
Xirong and Beidi may come to invade, so we should be prepared.
Soon, the Qiang rebels in Longxi and Wuhuan invaded and plundered Shangjun, just as Ma Rong said.
After three official transfers, he was the prefect of Nanjun during the reign of Emperor Huan.
First, something happened to Ma Rong that violated the will of the general Liang Ji. Liang Ji hinted that the officials would accuse Ma Rong of corruption in the county, dismissed him from office, shaved off his hair, and moved to Shuofang.
If you commit suicide but do not die, you will be exempted from guilt. I paid homage to Yilang again and wrote in Dongguan. Resigned due to illness.
Ma Rong was a man of great talent and profound knowledge, and was a general expert in the world. Professors tutor students, often by the thousands.
Lu Zhi of Zhuojun and Zheng Xuan of Beihai were both his students.
He knows how to play the drums and harp, and is good at playing the flute. Be free and willful and not be bound by the small details of Confucianism. The house is furnished with clothes, advocating luxury, and often sits in a high hall with a red gauze hanging. There are students in front of the teacher and female musicians in the back. The disciples taught the teachings one by one, and few entered the room.
I once wanted to annotate "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu". When I saw the annotations by Jia Kui and Zheng Zhong, I said: Jia Jun is good but not knowledgeable, and Zheng Jun is good but not good.
You are knowledgeable and knowledgeable, I have nothing more to say. He only wrote "The Theory of Similarities and Differences in Three Biographies".
Annotated "The Classic of Filial Piety", "The Analects of Confucius", "Poetry", "Yi", "Three Rites", "Shangshu", "Biography of Lienu", "Laozi", "Huainanzi", "Li Sao", and wrote a total of twenty-one poems, odes, stele, memorials, books, notes, tables, memorials, seven-character poems, zither songs, countermeasures and testaments.
At first, Ma Rong was punished by Deng, and he did not dare to offend the powerful family again. He drafted a memorial for Liang Ji to frame Li Gu, and wrote the general "Ode to the West". Therefore, he is quite ridiculed by ordinary honest people.
He died at home in the 88th year of Yanxi's reign.
The will was buried poorly.
The grandson of the clan, Ma Ri Shi Dan, was promoted to Taifu when he was presented to the emperor.
The historian commented: Ma Rong resigned from Deng's order and wandered between Long and Han, perhaps because he was demanding that his words and deeds should be consistent.
However, he soon became ashamed of the formal details of the country folk and cherished his rich body. Finally, he was ridiculed for his extravagant and lewd pleasures. There are too few people who are intellectually correct!
When the work is hard, the feeling of cherishing and preserving becomes thinner. Life is precious, so the thoughts of safety and survival are more numerous.
Those who are not afraid of climbing high are those who are being punished because they have no regard for life or death.
If you don't sit under the eaves for fear of the tiles falling down and hitting you, you are the son of a rich man!
Examine the main reasons and seek peace of mind.
We have different views on things, and we can't help but laugh at each other.
