Hou Ji, the ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty, was named Qi.
His mother was a woman of Tai family named Jiang Yuan.
Jiang Yuan was the emperor's concubine.
Jiang Yuan went out to the countryside and saw a giant footprint. He was so happy that he wanted to step on it. When he stepped on it, he felt his body vibrating as if he was pregnant.
When they were ten months old, they gave birth to a son. Jiang Yuan thought that the child was unlucky, so he threw him into a narrow alley, but horses and cows passed by him and avoided stepping on him, so he threw him in the woods. There were many people in the woods, so he moved to another place.
Jiang Yuan thought this was so magical, so he took him back and raised him as a human being.
Since I wanted to throw him away at first, I named him Abandoned.
When Qi was a child, he had the lofty ambitions of a great man.
When he was playing games, he liked to plant hemp and beans, and the hemp and beans he planted grew very luxuriantly.
When he grew up, he liked farming. He could observe the characteristics of the land and choose suitable grains to plant. The people followed his example.
When Emperor Yao heard about these things, he appointed Qi as a farmer to teach people how to grow crops. People all over the world benefited from this, and he made great contributions.
Emperor Shun said: "Sir, the people were suffering from hunger, thanks to you being the Houji to sow all kinds of grains."
Therefore, the enfeoffment was abandoned in Tai, known as Houji, and Ji was the surname.
Hou Ji is famous because during the Tao, Tang, Yu, and Xia generations, this family was very virtuous.
After Hou Ji died, his son Buchu succeeded to the throne.
In Buchu's later years, the Xia Hou family's state affairs declined, and they gave up the official post of Houji and no longer paid attention to agriculture. Buchu fled to the Rongdi area because he lost his official position.
After Bucheng died, his son Ju succeeded to the throne.
After Ju's death, his son Gong Liu succeeded to the throne.
Although Gong Liu was in the Rong and Di, he resumed the business of repairing Houji's foundation, engaged in farming, and planted crops according to the cultivation characteristics of the land. He crossed the Wei River from Qishui and Ju Rivers, felled and obtained timber for use, so that those who went out had travel expenses, those at home had savings, and the people's lives improved thanks to him.
The people were grateful and loved him, and many moved to join him.
The great prosperity of Zhou Dynasty's statecraft started from here, so poets composed poems and music to praise and commemorate his kindness.
After Gong Liu died, his son Qingjie succeeded to the throne and established the capital in Bin.
After Qingjie's death, his son Huangpu succeeded to the throne.
After the death of the imperial servant, his son Chafu succeeded to the throne.
After Chafu's death, his son Ruihe succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Ruihe, his son Gongfei succeeded to the throne.
After Gong Fei's death, his son Gao Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Gao Yu's death, his son Ya Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Yayu's death, his son Gongshu Zulei succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Gongshu Zulei, his son Gu Gongdanfu succeeded to the throne.
Gu Gongdanfu re-established the foundations of Houji and Gongliu, accumulated virtues, and spread benevolence and righteousness. The people in the capital all supported him.
Xunyu and other Rongdi tribes came to attack them and wanted to plunder their property, so Gu Gong and Danfu gave it to them.
Soon after, the Rongdi tribe came to attack again, wanting to get the land and people.
The people were very angry and wanted to go out and fight.
Gu Gong said: The people support the monarch because they want him to seek benefits for everyone.
Now Rong and Di are coming to invade, with the purpose of wanting my land and people.
What difference does it make if the people follow me or follow them?
The people went to war because of me and relied on fathers, sons and brothers who sacrificed the people to be the monarch. I really couldn't bear to do this.
So Gu Gongdanfu and his relatives left Bin, crossed Qishui and Jushui, crossed Liangshan, and settled at the foot of Qishan.
And all the people in Bindi brought their old and young to the foot of Qishan Mountain, and all returned to Gu Gong's side.
Nearby countries heard that the ancient Duke was benevolent, and many people came to follow him.
So Gu Gong abandoned the customs of Rong and Di, built cities and houses, and set up towns for the people to settle down.
Five official offices were established: Situ, Sima, Sikong, Sushi, and Sikou. The people composed poems and music to praise him and praise his kindness.
The eldest son of Duke Gu was called Taibo, and the second son was called Yu Zhong.
Taijiang gave birth to a younger son, Ji Li, who married Tairen. Both Taijiang and Tairen were virtuous wives. Tairen gave birth to a prosperous son, which was a sign of sagehood.
Gu Gong said: My descendants will achieve great things, probably Chang, right?
The eldest son Taibo and Yu Zhong knew that Gu Gong wanted to establish Ji Li so that he could pass on to Chang in the future, so they fled to Jingman, got tattoos on their bodies, cut their hair short, and gave way to Ji Li.
After the death of Gu Gong, Ji Li succeeded to the throne and became Gong Ji.
Gong Ji practiced the way of governing the country left by the ancient Duke and resolutely implemented benevolence and righteousness, and the princes all obeyed him.
After Gong Ji died, his son Chang succeeded to the throne and became Xibo.
Xibo was called King Wen. He inherited the cause of Hou Ji and Gong Liu, followed the laws of Gu Gong and Gong Ji, practiced benevolence and righteousness, respected the elderly, and was kind to the young.
He treated the wise men with courtesy. In order to receive the wise men, he sometimes did not bother to eat at noon, so the scholars all attached themselves to him.
Boyi and Shuqi were in Guzhu country. They heard that Xibo was very respectful and took care of the elderly, so they went together to join Xibo.
Tai Dian, Hong Yao, San Yisheng, Huan Zi, Xin Jia and other officials also went to submit to him.
Chonghou Hu spoke ill of Xibo in front of King Zhou of Yin: Xibo has accumulated virtues and done good deeds, and all the princes have submitted to him, which will be detrimental to you.
So Yin Zhou imprisoned Xibo in Youli.
Hong Yao and others were very worried about Xi Bo, and tried their best to find beauties from the Xin family, colorful horses from the Lirong region, nine carriages from the Xiong Kingdom, and various other rare treasures, and presented them to King Zhou through Fei Zhongjin, a favored minister of the Yin Shang Dynasty.
King Zhou was very happy and said: "Anything in this is enough for me to free Xibo, not to mention there are so many other good things!"
So he pardoned Count Xi and gave him bows, arrows, axes and axes, giving him the right to conquer the neighboring princes.
King Zhou told Xibo: The person who framed Xibo was Chonghou Hu.
After Xibo returned home, he offered the land west of Luoshui and asked Zhou to abolish the criminal law of Paoluo.
Zhou agreed to him.
Xibo secretly did good deeds, and the princes came to ask him to judge right and wrong.
At that time, people from Yu and Rui had lawsuits that could not be adjudicated, so they went to Zhou.
They entered the realm of Zhou and saw that those who farmed fields gave way to each other, and the people regarded humility as a virtue.
Before the people of Yu and Rui saw Xibo, they felt ashamed and said to each other: "What we are fighting for is what the people of Zhou are ashamed of. Why are we going to do it? We are just bringing shame on ourselves."
So they returned and left with humility to each other.
When the princes heard about it, they all said: Xibo must be a monarch who has received orders from heaven.
In the second year, Xibo conquered Quanrong.
The next year, Mi Xu was conquered.
The next year, he defeated Qi.
When Zuyi of the Yin Dynasty heard about it, he was very frightened and reported the situation to King Zhou.
King Zhou said: Isn't it destiny to help me?
What can he do!
The next year, Xibo conquered Xin.
The next year, he conquered Chonghou Hu.
Fengyi was built and the capital was moved from Qixia to Feng.
The next year, Uncle Xi died, and Prince Fa ascended the throne, becoming King Wu.
Siebo reigned for about fifty years.
When he was imprisoned in Youli, he probably increased the eight hexagrams in "Yi" to sixty-four.
Judging from the praise of Count Xi by the author of "Poetry", it was probably in that year that Count Xi was appointed king and adjudicated the lawsuits between Yu and Rui.
He died ten years later, and his posthumous title was King Wen.
He once changed the legal system of Yin and formulated the calendar.
Zeng Zhui respected Gu Gong as the Taiwang, and Gongji as the Wangji: It probably means that the auspicious sign of the emperor began from the time of the Taiwang.
When King Wu came to the throne, Taigong Wang was appointed as Grand Master, Duke Zhou became assistant prime minister, and Duke Zhao and Duke Bi assisted King Wu and followed King Wen's legacy.
In the ninth year of King Wu's appointment, King Wu first offered sacrifices to King Wen in Bi, and then went to the east to hold a military parade and arrived at Mengjin.
Let King Wen's wooden master be carried on a cart and placed in the central army's tent.
King Wu claimed to be Prince Fa, indicating that he was conquering in the name of King Wen and did not dare to act arbitrarily.
He declared to Sima, Situ, Sikong and other officials who were ordered by the king to hold the talisman festival: Be careful and do what you say!
I am an ignorant person, but because my ancestors were virtuous, I inherited their achievements. Various reward and punishment systems have now been established to ensure that the achievements of ancestors are completed.
So he sent troops.
Master Shi Shangfu ordered: Gather your men and take advantage of the oars. Anyone who is late will be killed.
King Wu crossed the Yellow River, and when the boat reached the middle of the river, a white fish jumped into King Wu's boat. King Wu leaned over and picked it up for sacrifice.
After crossing the river, a ball of fire fell from the sky and landed on King Wu's roof. It solidified into the shape of a crow, was red in color, and made a soulful cry.
At that time, eight hundred princes came to Mengjin to form an alliance.
The princes all said: Zhou can be defeated.
King Wu said: You don't understand the destiny of heaven, not yet.
So he led the army back.
Two years later, I heard that Zhou was more chaotic and violent than before, so he killed Prince Bigan and imprisoned Jizi.
Tai Shizhen and Shao Shiqiang took their musical instruments and fled to the state of Zhou.
At this time, King Wu announced to all the princes: King Yin has committed serious crimes and must work together to defeat him!
So he followed King Wen's decree and led 300 chariots, 3,000 warriors, and 45,000 armored warriors to march eastward to defeat Zhou.
On the Wuwu day of the twelfth month of the eleventh year, all the troops crossed Mengjin, and all the princes came to join them.
King Wu said: "You must be diligent and don't slack off!"
King Wu therefore wrote the "Tai Oath" and announced to everyone: Now King Zhou of Yin actually listened to the words of his wives and concubines, cut himself off from heaven, violated the movements of the sun, moon, and Beidou, alienated his brothers from the same ancestor, abandoned the music of his ancestors, and dared to use promiscuous music to modify elegant music to please his wives and concubines.
So now I vow to respectfully carry out God's punishment.
You have to work hard, men, there can't be a second war, let alone a third war!
In the early morning of Jiazi Day in February, King Wu came to Muye, a suburb of Shang, to swear an oath.
King Wu held a yellow ax in his left hand and a flag decorated with a white oxtail in his right hand, which he used to command.
Said: Thank you for your hard work, soldiers from the West! King Wu said: Ah!
The kings of my friendly countries, Situ, Sima, Sikong, Yalu, Shishi, all ministers and officials, commanders of thousands and centurions, generals, as well as mediocrities, Shu people, Qiang people, Zong people, Wei people,  people, Peng people, and Pu people, raise your arms high, line up your shields, raise your spears, let us swear!
King Wu said: There is an old saying from the ancients: The hen does not crow.
The hen's crowing will bring ruin to the house.
Now King Zhou of Yin only listens to the words of women, abandons the sacrifice of ancestors and ignores the affairs of the country, abandons the important affairs of the country, and ignores relatives and brothers and refuses to appoint them. Instead, he gathers the criminal fugitives from all over the world, promotes them, respects them, trusts them, uses them, and lets them oppress the people and do evil in the Shang Kingdom.
Now I, Ji Fa, respectfully carry out God’s punishment.
Today we are fighting. Every six or seven steps forward, we will stop and reorganize the team. Everyone must work hard!
After stabbing four, five, six or seven times, stop and reorganize the team. Work hard, soldiers!
I hope that everyone will be majestic and brave, like tigers, bears, jackals, and dragons. On the outskirts of Shangdu, don't stop the Yin and Zhou soldiers who are coming to surrender. Let them help us western princes. You must work hard, soldiers!
If any of you doesn't work hard, I will kill him!
After the oath was taken, the armies of the feudal lords who came to join us, with a total of four thousand chariots, set up their formation in Makino.
When King Zhou heard that King Wu was coming to attack, he also sent 700,000 troops to resist King Wu.
King Wu sent his master Shangfu to lead a hundred warriors to challenge, and then he led a large force with 350 chariots, 26,250 soldiers, and 3,000 warriors to rush into Yin Zhou's army.
Although King Zhou's army was large in number, none of them had the will to fight. They only hoped that King Wu's army would attack as soon as possible.
King Zhou's army all turned their weapons to attack Zhou and opened the way for King Wu.
King Wu rushed in with his chariots. Zhou's army was defeated and they all betrayed Yin Zhou.
Zhou fled, returned to the city, climbed to the deer platform, put on all his precious jade, threw himself into the fire and burned himself to death.
King Wu held the Taibai flag and commanded the princes. The princes all bowed to King Wu, and King Wu bowed in return. The princes all followed King Wu.
When King Wu came to the capital of Shang, the people in the city were waiting to welcome him on the outskirts of the city.
So King Wu sent his ministers to tell the people of Shang: God will bless everyone!
The people of Shangdu all kowtowed to King Wu and thanked him, and King Wu also bowed and thanked him respectfully.
So King Wu entered the city and found the place where Zhou burned himself.
King Wu personally fired arrows at Zhou's corpse, shot three arrows and then stepped off the chariot. He stabbed Zhou's corpse with a light Lu sword, chopped off Zhou's head with a yellow axe, and hung it on the big white flag.
Then he went to Zhou's two concubines and found that both of them had hanged themselves.
King Wu shot three more arrows at them, stabbed them with his sword, chopped off their heads with a black axe, and hung their heads on small white flags.
After doing all this, King Wu left the city and returned to the army.
The next day, King Wu ordered people to clear the roads and repair the temples and palaces of Shang Zhou.
On the appointed day, a hundred soldiers walked in front carrying Han flags with streamers.
King Wu's younger brother Shu Zhenduobu escorted the chariot and lined up to drive the chariot. Zhou Gongdan held a big ax and Bi Gong held a small ax, standing on both sides of King Wu.
San Yisheng, Tai Dian, and Hong Yao all held swords to guard King Wu.
King Wu entered the city and stood to the left of the general in the south of the temple. The ministers on the left and right followed him.
Mao Shuzheng held the dew collected on the moonlit night in his hands, Wei Kangshufeng spread out the straw mat, Zhao Gongxi helped to get the colorful silk, and Shi Shangfu led the sacrificial animal.
Yin Yi read aloud the sacrificial inscription on the bamboo slips and said: The last descendant of Yin, Ji Zhou, abandoned the virtues of the previous king, despised the gods, refused to perform sacrifices, and treated the people in the mall with confusion and cruelty. These things were clearly shown before the Emperor of Heaven.
So King Wu paid homage to the chief inspector again and said: I accept the destiny of God to eradicate the bad government of the Yin Dynasty and accept the bright destiny from heaven.
King Wu paid homage to Jishou again before leaving the city.
King Wu granted the remaining people of Yin to Lu Fu, the son of Shang Zhou.
King Wu sent his younger brothers Guan Shuxian and Cai Shudu to assist Lu's father in governing Yin because the world had just settled down and was not yet peaceful and harmonious.
Then he ordered Duke Zhao to release Jizi from prison.
Bi Gong was ordered to release the imprisoned people from prison and commend the people in Shangronglu Lane.
Nangong Kuo was ordered to distribute the money gathered in Lutai and the food in Juqiao to help the poor savages and untouchables.
Nangong Kuo and Shi Yi were ordered to remove the Jiuding and Baoyu belonging to the Yin people.
Hongyao was ordered to build soil and repair Bigan's tomb.
Zongzhu was ordered to offer sacrifices to the fallen soldiers in the army.
Then withdrew troops back to the west.
Along the way, King Wu visited various vassal states, recorded political affairs, and wrote the "Wucheng" chapter, announcing the achievement of Wu's victory over Yin.
He divided the feudal princes and rewarded them with the sacrificial vessels of the Yin ancestral temple. He wrote the chapter "Dividing the Vessels of Yin" to record his orders and the vessels obtained by the feudal princes.
King Wu recalled the ancient saint kings, so he honored the descendants of Shennong in Jiao, the descendants of Yellow Emperor in Zhu, the descendants of Emperor Yao in Ji, the descendants of Emperor Shun in Chen, and the descendants of Dayu in Qi.
Then he was awarded the title of hero and counselor, and Master Shangfu was the first one to be awarded the title.
King Wu granted his father the title of Qi in Yingqiu.
His younger brother Tong Gongdan was granted the title of Qufu, and his country was named Lu.
He was granted the title of Duke Zhao and died in Yan.
His younger brother Shu Xian was granted the title of Guan, and his younger brother was granted the title of Du in Cai.
Others were also sealed in turn.
King Wu summoned the chief officials of Jiuzhou, climbed to the high ground of Bin, and looked at the capital of Shang in the distance.
King Wu returned to Zhou Dynasty and could not sleep at night.
Zhou Gongdan came to the king's residence and asked: "Why can't you sleep?"
King Wu said: Let me tell you: It is only because God has not paid tribute to Yin that sixty years have passed since I, Ji Fa, was not born until now. The suburbs are full of wild beasts and vermin.
God no longer accepts the tribute of Yin, so we have the success we have today.
God established the State of Yin, and Yin appointed 360 capable men and sages. Although he did not make any obvious political achievements, he did not let Yin perish, so Yin has survived to this day.
I haven't really received God's blessing, so I don't have any free time to sleep!
King Wu said: If you want to truly get God's blessing, you must rely on Taishi Mountain to find out all the evildoers who do not know the fate of heaven, demote them, and suffer the same crime as King Yin.
We must work diligently day and night to ensure the stability of the Western land. I must conscientiously perform my duties and do a good job in all matters until our virtues are carried forward in all directions.
From the bend of Luoshui River to the bend of Yishui River, people live in the flat areas here rather than in dangerous places. This is the center of Xia people's activities.
I could see Santu Mountain to the south, Taihang Mountain to the north, and the Yellow River looking back. I also carefully observed the Luo River and Yishui River, which are not far from the residence of the Emperor of Heaven.
So he planned to build Zhou City in Luoyi and then left.
They raised horses in the south of Huashan Mountain and cattle in the Taolin area, ordered the army to lay down their weapons, rectified the army and then disbanded the army: to express to the people of the world that they would no longer use troops.
Two years after King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty, he asked Jizi about the reasons for the demise of the Yin Dynasty.
Jizi couldn't bear to talk about the crimes of the Yin Dynasty, so he told King Wu about the survival of the country.
King Wu also felt embarrassed, so he turned to Tiandao.
King Wu was seriously ill.
At this time, the world was not yet unified, and all the ministers were afraid and performed divination. Therefore, Duke Zhou broke the fast and volunteered to be a substitute, hoping to bear the disaster for King Wu. King Wu's illness gradually improved.
Later, King Wu died, and Prince Song inherited the throne and became the king.
When King Cheng was young, Zhou had just brought peace to the world. Duke Zhou was worried that the princes would betray Zhou, so he managed government affairs on behalf of King Cheng and presided over state affairs.
Uncle Guan, Uncle Cai and other brothers suspected that Duke Zhou had usurped the throne and joined forces with Wu Geng to launch a rebellion and betray Zhou.
On the orders of King Cheng, Duke Zhou had Wu Geng and Uncle Guan killed, and Uncle Cai was exiled.
Let Wei Zikai succeed the Yin Dynasty and establish the country in Song Dynasty.
He also gathered a few remnants of the Yin Dynasty and gave the title to King Wu's younger brother, making him Uncle Wei Kang.
Uncle Tang of the Jin Dynasty received an auspicious ear of grain and presented it to King Cheng, who then sent it to the garrison of Duke Zhou.
Duke Zhou received this auspicious ear of grain in the east and praised the emperor's holy mandate to bestow grain.
At first, Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai rebelled against the Zhou Dynasty, and Duke Zhou went to attack them. It took three years to completely pacify them, so he first wrote the "Great Edict" to explain to the world the principles of the Eastern Conquest to conquer the rebellion; then he wrote "The Order of Wei Zi", sealing the throne. Ming Weizi continued in the Yin Dynasty; he wrote "Guihe" and "Jiahe" to describe and praise the emperor's gift of Jiahe; he wrote "Kanggao", "Jiugao" and "Zicai", ordering Uncle Kang to be conferred in Yin, admonishing him to quit drinking, and teaching him the way of government.
The history of those events is recorded in "The Family of Dukes of Lu and Zhou". Duke Zhou administered state affairs for seven years, and King Cheng grew up. Duke Zhou returned the political power to King Cheng and returned to the ranks of his ministers.
King Cheng lived in Fengyi and sent Duke Zhao to plan and survey Luoyi again to fulfill King Wu's last wish.
Zhou Gong once again conducted divination and survey, and finally started construction and placed the Jiuding there.
He said: This is the center of the world. Tributes come from all directions, and the distance is the same.
Therefore, he wrote "Zhao Gao" and "Luo Gao".
King Cheng moved the remnants of the Yin Dynasty there, and Duke Zhou announced to them the order of becoming king, and wrote "Too Shi" and "Wu Yi" to admonish the Yin people.
Duke Zhao served as the Taibao, and Duke Zhou served as the Grand Master. They attacked Huaiyi in the east, destroyed the country of Yan, and moved their king to Bogu.
King Cheng came back from the state of Yan and wrote "Duofang" in Zongzhou to warn the princes of the world.
King Cheng eliminated the remnants of the Yin Dynasty, attacked Huaiyi, returned to Fengyi, and wrote "Zhou Officials", which explained the Zhou Dynasty's method of setting up officials and assigning duties, redefined etiquette, and composed music. At this time, laws and regulations were also revised. The people were harmonious and peaceful, and hymns were rising everywhere.
After King Cheng conquered Dongyi, Xi Shen came to congratulate him. King Cheng ordered Rong Bo to write "Bring Xi Shen's Order".
When King Cheng was dying, he was afraid that Prince Zhao would not be able to handle state affairs well, so he ordered Zhao Gong and Bi Gong to lead the princes to assist the prince in making him ascend the throne.
After the death of King Cheng, Duke Zhao and Duke Bi led the princes to visit the ancestral temple of the late king with Prince Zhao. They used the difficulties of King Wen and King Wu to establish the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty and repeatedly warned the prince, asking him to practice frugality, abstain from greed, and concentrate on managing state affairs. They wrote "Gu Ming" and asked the ministers to assist and care for Prince Zhao.
Prince Zhao therefore ascended the throne and became King Kang.
When King Kang came to the throne, he went to all the princes and repeatedly publicized the achievements of King Wen and King Wu, so he wrote the "Kang Gao".
Therefore, during the reign of King Cheng and Kang, the world was peaceful and punishments were not used for more than forty years.
King Kang ordered Bi Gong to plan and divide the people's residences and delineate the suburbs of the Zhou capital, so he wrote "Bi Ming".
After King Kang died, his son King Zhao came to the throne.
When King Zhao was on the throne, the royal way declined.
King Zhao failed to return from his hunting tour in the south and died on the river.
He didn't announce his condolences even after he died, just to hide it.
So he established King Zhao's son Man, who was King Mu.
King Mu was already fifty years old when he ascended the throne.
At that time, kingship was in decline, and King Mu lamented that the virtues of King Wen and King Wu had been damaged, so he ordered Bo Jiu to be a servant and repeatedly warned him to manage the country's political affairs well, and wrote "Zhen Ming".
The world was at peace again.
King Mu was preparing to attack Quanrong, so he sacrificed to Gongmou and his father advised him: "No."
Our previous kings used their glorious virtues to convince others, rather than showing off their force.
The army accumulates strength in peacetime and is dispatched when necessary. Once dispatched, it will be powerful. If you just show off your force, you will be careless. If you are careless, no one will be afraid.
Therefore, the poem written by Zhou Wen Gong said: Put away the shield and gun, hide the bow and arrows, I pray for virtue, spread throughout China, and the Holy King can be preserved.
The former kings treated the people, encouraged and corrected their morals, made them honest and honest, increased their property and improved their utensils, understood the interests and concerns, trained them with etiquette and law, taught them to seek advantages and avoid disadvantages, be benevolent and fear punishment, so they could be passed down from generation to generation and their descendants prosperous.
In the past, our ancestors were officials of Houji for generations, serving in the Yu and Xia dynasties.
When the Xia Dynasty declined, agricultural officials were abandoned and people were no longer encouraged to engage in farming. Our late king lost his official position because of his lack of enthusiasm, and he lived among the Rong and Di.
He dare not neglect his ancestors' inheritance, inherit their virtues, follow their ancestors' traditions, abide by their ancestors' teachings and laws, be cautious and diligent in the morning and evening, be honest and sincere, and be loyal and honest.
We should uphold virtue from generation to generation and never dishonor our ancestors.
When King Wen and King Wu arrived, they further carried forward the achievements of their predecessors, added kindness and harmony, respected the gods, and protected the people. All the gods and people were happy.
Emperor Xin, the king of Shang, did so much evil to his people that the people couldn't bear it and were willing to support King Wu, so Muye, who was able to do business, lined up to fight.
Therefore, the late king did not intend to use force, but just because he was always concerned about the suffering of the people and wanted to eliminate harm for the people.
According to the system of the former kings, within the territory of the state was Dianfu, and outside the territory was Houfu. The place where the marquis and guards were set up was called Binfu, the barbarian land was called Yaofu, and the land of Rongzhai was called Huangfu.
The important sacrifices that belong to Dianfu, the important sacrifices that belong to Houfu, the important sacrifices that belong to Binfu, the important tributes that belong to Yaofu, and the important kings that belong to Huangfu. Sacrifice is measured in days, sacrifice is measured in months, enjoyment is measured in seasons, tribute is measured in years, and kingship is measured in lifetimes.
According to the teachings of the late king, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's will, if one does not perform sacrifice, one must correct one's words, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's etiquette, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's status, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's morals, if one does not perform one's duties in order and still cannot perform one's duty, punishment shall be imposed.
Therefore, there are punishments for those who do not sacrifice, attacks for those who do not sacrifice, conquests for those who do not enjoy, condemnation for those who do not pay tribute, and warnings to the world for those who are not kings.
Therefore, there are various provisions for punishment, various weapons for attack, various preparations for conquest, orders for severe condemnation, and words to tell the world.
Those who declare with orders and words but still do not come to report their duties will further correct their morals and do not have to work on expeditions.
Only in this way can all neighboring countries obey and all distant countries submit.
Now since the death of the second king of the Quanrong clan, the Quanrong clan has been able to keep his duties and come to worship, but the emperor said that I must punish them on the charge of not enjoying the rights, and also show off my force to them. Doesn't this abandon the teachings of the previous kings and put you in a dangerous situation?
I heard that the Inu Rong clan advocates a kind and honest atmosphere and follows the virtues of their predecessors to be consistent. They have something strong enough to resist us.
But King Mu still sent out troops to conquer and brought back four white wolves and four white deer.
From then on, countries belonging to Huangfu no longer came.
Some of the vassal states were not in harmony. Marquis Fu reported this to King Mu and formulated criminal laws.
King Mu said: Hey, come to me!
I will tell you all the princes who have feudal cities and lands, how to use the criminal law prudently.
Now that you want to pacify the people, shouldn't you choose law enforcement personnel? Isn’t it the criminal law itself that should be respected?
Isn’t it the sentencing scale that should be grasped?
When the accuser and defendant are all present, the judge will wait for five words to observe.
If the facts of the crime are not worthy of five punishments, then five punishments will be used to convict the person.
If the facts of the crime do not meet the five penalties and the person is dissatisfied, five penalties will be used to convict the person.
For various problems related to the "five faults", such as various lawsuits where high-ranking officials and dignitaries are inconvenient to resort to punishment, their crimes must be investigated to make the crimes equivalent to their faults.
Whenever there are lawsuits that should be punished with five punishments but there are doubts that they have to be pardoned, they should be carefully examined.
Evidence must be obtained from the crowd, and interrogation must be based on evidence.
If you can't convict without sufficient evidence, God forbid.
If it is a tattoo but not enough to convict, the fine will be 100% and the crime must be investigated.
If it is a punishment but not enough to convict, the fine will be twice the former, and the crime must be investigated.
If it is a capital punishment but does not constitute a conviction, the fine will be two and a half times the former, and the crime must be investigated.
If it is castration but not enough to convict, the fine will be 500%, and the crime must be investigated.
If the punishment falls under the category of Dapi but does not constitute a conviction, the fine will be 1,000 yuan, and the crime must be investigated.
There are thousands of fine clauses for Mo punishment, thousands of fine clauses for Guan punishment, 500 fine clauses for execution, 300 fine clauses for palace punishment, 200 fine clauses for Dapi punishment, and a total of 3,000 clauses related to the five types of punishment.
It is called "Fuxing".
King Mu passed away in the fifty-fifth year of his reign, and his son, King Gong Meihu, came to the throne.
The king of Gong was playing on the Jing River, and Duke Mi Kang was waiting beside him. Three women came to seek refuge with Duke Mi Kang.
Mi Kanggong's mother said: You must dedicate them to the king.
If there are three beasts, they are called a crowd, if there are three people, they are called a crowd, and if there are three beauties, they are called a charm.
The king's field hunting never hunts more than three animals. The prince must be courteous to everyone when traveling. No three of the king's concubines belong to the same clan.
People give you beautiful things, what virtue do you have to enjoy them?
No king deserves to enjoy it, let alone a little person like you!
If a small person possesses such things, he will eventually perish.
Duke Mi Kang refused to give up the three women. A year later, the king of the Communist Party destroyed the kingdom of Mi.
After the death of King Gong, his son King Yi came to the throne.
During the reign of King Yi, the Zhou royal family declined, and poets began to write satirical poems.
After King Yi died, King Gong's younger brother Pi Fang came to the throne and became King Xiao.
After King Xiao died, the princes appointed King Yi's crown prince Xie to the throne, who became King Yi.
After the death of King Yi, his son King Li Hu came to the throne.
King Li had been on the throne for thirty years. He was greedy for money and was close to Duke Rongyi.
The official Rui Liangfu advised King Li: The royal family may be declining!
That Rong Gong only liked to monopolize wealth and profit, but he didn't know that disaster was coming.
Property is the product of all things in the world. If you want to monopolize it, it will do too many harms. Everything in heaven and earth is for everyone to take, how can it be monopolized?
He offended many people, but did not prepare for disaster.
If you use these to teach the king, will the king be able to maintain peace and stability for a long time?
A person who calls himself a king should develop financial resources and extend his benefits everywhere.
Although God, man, and all things are given their proper place, they are still on tenterhooks every day, fearing to cause dissatisfaction.
Therefore, "Ode" says: "Remembering the ancestor Hou Ji, who can be as virtuous as heaven and stabilize my numerous people, is not inconsistent with its principles." "Daya" says: Give generously and become my Zhou state.
Isn’t this just giving away money and benefit while fearing disaster? Therefore, it can become my Zhou Dynasty and continues to this day.
Now what Wang is studying is to monopolize financial profits. How can this be allowed?
If an ordinary person monopolizes wealth and profits, it can be called "stealing". If a king does this, there will be very few people willing to join him.
If Duke Rongyi was reused, the Zhou Dynasty would definitely decline.
King Li refused to listen, and finally appointed Rongyi Gong as a minister and asked him to preside over national affairs.
King Li was tyrannical, extravagant and arrogant, and the people of the country openly discussed his faults.
Duke Zhao remonstrated: The people can no longer stand your decree.
King Li was furious and found a sorcerer who was defending the country and sent him to monitor those who criticized the king.
Anyone reported to have committed this crime will be killed. In this way, the criticism was reduced, and the princes no longer came to see him.
In the thirty-fourth year, King Li became even more strict. No one in the country dared to speak anymore, and they could only exchange glances when meeting on the road. King Li was very proud and told Duke Zhao: I can quell people's criticism so that they dare not even speak.
Duke Zhao said: "This is because you have blocked their mouths."
Blocking people's mouths is more dangerous than blocking water.
If the water is blocked, the embankments will burst and flood, which will definitely hurt a lot of people, including the people.
Therefore, those who manage water must channelize the water, and those who manage the people must let them speak freely.
Therefore, in order to understand the situation, the emperor asked everyone from the ministers to the nobles to contribute poems, blind musicians to present music, historians to present books, masters to give instructions, blind people without eyes to narrate, blind people with eyes to recite, and all craftsmen to Let the common people talk in the streets, let the ministers admonish, let the relatives correct mistakes, let the blind musicians and historians teach, let the old people admonish, and then let the emperor consider it, so that political affairs can be carried out without violating reason.
The people have mouths, just like the land has mountains and rivers, which are the source of wealth, and just like the land has plains and fertile fields, which are the source of food and clothing.
Let people speak freely, and good and bad things can be reflected.
Doing good deeds and guarding against bad deeds is the true source of wealth, food and clothing.
The people consider it in their hearts and speak it out with their mouths, and then do it after the matter is decided.
How can it last long if their mouths are blocked? The king refused to listen.
Therefore, no one in the country dared to speak. Three years later, they rebelled and attacked King Li.
King Li fled to Pig.
King Li's prince was hiding quietly in Duke Zhao's house. When the people of the country found out, they surrounded Zhao Gong's house. Duke Zhao said: "I have warned the king many times before, but the king did not listen, which led to such a disaster."
If the prince is killed now, the king will think that I have a grudge against them and resent the king, right?
Those who serve the king should not be resentful even if they are in danger; even if they are resentful, they should not be angry, let alone serving the emperor?
So he replaced the crown prince with his own son, and the crown prince was finally saved from being killed.
The two prime ministers, Duke Zhao and Duke Zhou, were in power together and were known as the Republic.
In the fourteenth year of the Republic of China, King Li died of a pig.
Prince Jing grew up in the house of Duke Zhao, and the two kings jointly established him as King Xuan.
When King Xuan came to the throne, the two ministers assisted him, cultivated political principles, and followed the legacy of King Wen, King Wu, King Cheng, and King Kang, and the princes returned to Zhou.
In the twelfth year, Duke Wu of Lu came to see him.
King Xuan abandoned the gift of family status on a thousand acres. Duke Wen of Guo advised him that this would not work, but King Xuan refused to listen.
In the thirty-ninth year, a battle was fought in Qianmu, and King Xuan's army was defeated by Jiang Rong.
After King Xuan lost his army to conquer the south, he actually directly counted households in Taiyuan.
Zhongshanfu advised: The population cannot be counted.
King Xuan refused to listen to dissuasion and finally took stock.
In the forty-sixth year, King Xuan died, and his son Youwang Gongyang came to the throne.
In the second year of King You, earthquakes occurred in Feng, Hao, Jing, Wei, and Luo areas in western Zhou Dynasty.
Boyangfu said: Zhou is about to perish.
The yin and yang energy between heaven and earth should not be without order; if it is disrupted, someone has caused it to be disordered.
The Yang Qi sinks down and cannot come out, and the Yin Qi suppresses it and prevents it from rising, so there will be earthquakes.
The reason why there are earthquakes in the Sanchuan area today is because Yang Qi has left its original position and been suppressed by Yin Qi.
If Yang Qi is not above but below Yin Qi, the water source will be blocked. If the water source is blocked, the country will perish.
Only when water and soil are ventilated can people engage in production.
If the land cannot be nourished, the people will be short of money. If it reaches this point, what are you waiting for if the country does not perish?
In the past, when the Yishui and Luoshui rivers dried up, the Xia Dynasty perished; when the Yellow River dried up, the Shang Dynasty perished.
Now the Qi of the Zhou Dynasty is the same as that of the late Xia and Shang dynasties. The water flow of the river source is blocked again. The water source is blocked, and the river must dry up.
The survival of a country must depend on its mountains and rivers. Collapse of mountains and drying up of rivers is a sign of national subjugation.
When the rivers dry up, the mountains will surely collapse.
From this point of view, the country's demise will not take ten years, because ten is exactly a cycle of numbers.
If God abandons us, it will not take more than ten years.
At that time, Jing, Wei, and Luo were exhausted, and Qishan collapsed.
Three years later, King You favored Bao Si.
Bao Si gave birth to a son, Bo Fu, and King You wanted to depose the prince.
The prince's mother was the daughter of Marquis Shen and was made queen.
Later, King You got Bao Si and favored her. He planned to depose Empress Shen and also depose the prince Yijiu, making Bao Si the queen and Bo Fu the prince.
Zhou Taishi Boyang read historical records and said: The Zhou Dynasty is about to perish.
Once upon a time, when the Xia Hou family was in decline, two divine dragons landed in the Xia Emperor's courtyard and spoke: We are the two monarchs of the Bao Kingdom.
Emperor Xia didn't know whether to kill them, drive them away, or keep them, so he performed divination, but the results were all unlucky.
The fortune teller asked if he could collect the dragon's saliva to get a good omen.
So he arranged coins and silk sacrifices, wrote simple policies, and prayed to the two dragons. The two dragons disappeared, leaving their saliva behind.
After the fall of Xia Dynasty, this weapon was passed down to Shang Dynasty.
After the death of Shang Dynasty, this weapon was passed down to Zhou Dynasty.
For three consecutive dynasties, no one dared to open it. It was only in the last years of King Li's reign that he opened it for viewing.
The saliva flows in the courtyard and cannot be removed.
King Li made the women naked and scream loudly.
The saliva turned into a black lizard and crawled into the king's harem.
There was a virgin girl in the harem who had just turned seven years old. She encountered him. When she was fifteen years old, she got pregnant after giving birth to a child without a husband. She was afraid and threw the child away.
During the reign of King Xuan, a girl sang a ballad and said: "Seeing a bow made of mulberry and a quiver made of dustpan wood, the Kingdom of Zhou will be destroyed."
When King Xuan heard this song, a couple happened to be selling mulberry bows and quivers made of wood. King Xuan ordered people to arrest them and wanted to kill them.
The couple fled to the road and found the baby that had been abandoned by the palace maid. They heard her crying in the middle of the night and took pity on her, so they took her in. The couple continued to flee and fled to Baoguo.
Later, the people of Baoguo offended the Zhou Dynasty, so they wanted to offer the girl abandoned by the little palace maid to King Li in order to atone for their sins. Because the girl who was thrown away was donated by Baoguo, they called her Baosi.
In the third year of King You of the Zhou Dynasty, King You went to the harem. He fell in love with the woman very much when he saw her, and gave birth to a son, Bo Fu. In the end, he deposed Empress Shen and the prince, and made Bao Si the queen and Bo Fu the prince.
Taishi Boyang said: The disaster has already occurred, and there is no way out!
Bao Si doesn't like to laugh. King You used many methods, but she didn't even laugh.
King Zhou You set up beacon fires, smoke and drums, and lit the beacon fire when enemies came to invade.
In order to make Bao Si laugh, King You of Zhou lit the beacon fire. When the princes saw the beacon fire, they all rushed over. When they arrived, there were no enemies. Bao Si laughed out loud as expected.
King You liked this method and raised beacons for Bao Si many times.
Later, losing trust, the princes gradually stopped coming.
King You appointed Guo Shifu as a minister to preside over the affairs of the country. People in the capital were very angry.
Guo Shi's father was a eloquent man who liked flattery and was greedy for wealth, but King You put him in high regard.
In addition, he deposed Empress Shen and removed the prince.
Marquis Shen was very angry and joined forces with Zhen and Quan Rong, who belonged to Xiyi, to attack King You.
King You raised beacon fire to recruit the armies of the princes, but none of them came.
Marquis Shen killed King You at the foot of Mount Li, captured Bao Si, and took away all Zhou's treasures before leaving.
At that time, all the princes came to Shenhou to jointly establish Yijiu, the prince of the former Youwang, as Pingwang, in order to maintain the Zhou Dynasty's sacrificial tradition.
King Ping ascended the throne and moved the capital east to Luoyi to avoid the invaders.
During the reign of King Ping, the Zhou royal family declined, and powerful states annexed weak ones. Qi, Chu, Qin, and Jin began to become powerful, and political orders often came from the hegemonic monarch.
In the forty-ninth year, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the fifty-first year, King Ping passed away, and the prince's father died early, so he made his son Lin the king, who was King Huan.
King Huan is the grandson of King Ping.
In the third year of King Huan's reign, Duke Zhuang of Zheng came to court, but King Huan did not give him any courtesy.
In the fifth year, Zheng sent Wan to exchange Xu Tian with Lu.
Xutian is the land used by the emperor to worship Mount Tai.
In the eighth year, the state of Lu killed Duke Yin and established Duke Huan.
In the thirteenth year, when Zheng was attacked, Zheng shot and wounded King Huan, and King Huan fled back.
In the twenty-third year, King Huan died and his son, King Zhuang Tuo, ascended the throne.
In the fourth year of King Zhuang's reign, Duke Zhou Heijian wanted to kill King Zhuang and support Prince Ke.
Xin Bo reported the news to King Zhuang, who killed Duke Zhou, and Prince Ke fled to Yan.
In the fifteenth year, King Zhuang died, and his son King Li, Hu Qi, came to the throne.
In the third year of King Li's reign, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
In the fifth year, King Li died and his son, King Hui Lang, came to the throne.
In the second year of King Hui's reign, King Zhuang's favorite concubine, Yao Shi, gave birth to a son named Dai, who was favored by him.
When King Hui came to the throne, King Hui seized the gardens of his ministers and used them as his own hunting grounds. Therefore, Bian Bo, the official, and five other people made a rebellion and planned to summon the troops of Yan and Wei to attack King Hui.
King Hui fled to Wen, and soon lived in Yue, Zheng State.
They made King Li's younger brother Dai king.
A full set of dance music was played. The kings of Zheng and Guo were very angry.
Four years later, the kings of Zheng and Guo came to attack, killed Wang Dai, and re-elected King Hui.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, he granted Duke Huan of Qi the title of uncle.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Hui passed away, and his son King Xiang Zheng ascended the throne.
King Xiang's mother has passed away long ago. The stepmother is Empress Hui.
Empress Hui gave birth to her uncle, who was favored by King Hui, but King Xiang did not trust him.
In the third year, Shudai negotiated with Rong and Zhai to attack King Xiang. King Xiang wanted to kill Shudai, so Shudai fled to Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi sent Guan Zhong to persuade Rong to make peace with Zhou, and Xi Peng to persuade Rong to make peace with Jin.
King Xiang received Guan Zhong with the courtesy of a superior minister.
Guan Zhong thanked him and said: "As a minister, I am just a lowly official. There are also two ministers in the state of Qi, Guo Shi and Gao Shi, who were personally appointed by the emperor. If they come to see the emperor in spring or autumn, how will you receive them?"
As a dual minister of the Emperor and Duke Huan of Qi, I took the liberty to decline. King Xiang said: You are an envoy from my uncle's family. I appreciate your achievements. Please don't refuse my kindness.
Guan Zhong finally accepted Xia Qing's courtesy and returned to his country.
In the ninth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the twelfth year, Shudai returned to the Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirteenth year, the State of Zheng attacked the State of Hua. King Zhou Xiang sent You Sun and Bo Fu to intercede for Hua, and the State of Zheng imprisoned these two people.
Duke Wen of Zheng resented that after King Hui was escorted back to the court, he gave the wine utensils and jade to Duke Guo but not to Duke Zheng Li. He also resented King Xiang for helping Wei and Hua, so he imprisoned Bo Fu.
King Xiang was very angry and planned to use the Zhai people to attack Zheng.
Fu Chen advised King Xiang: When Zhou moved eastward, he relied on the strength of Jin and Zheng.
Zidai's rebellion was put down by Zheng Guo. Can he abandon it now because of a little resentment?
King Xiang did not listen to the dissuasion.
In the fifteenth year, King Xiang sent troops from Zhai to attack Zheng.
King Xiang was grateful to the people of Zhai and planned to make King Zhai's daughter his queen.
Fuchen also advised: King Ping, King Huan, King Zhuang, and King Hui have all benefited from Zheng. It is really not advisable for you, the king, to abandon Zheng, a relative of the same surname, and get close to Zhai.
King Xiang still didn't listen.
In the 16th year, King Xiang deposed Empress Zhai, and the people of Zhai came to punish her and killed Dr. Tan Bo of Zhou.
Fu Chen said: I have repeatedly advised the king, but the king has not listened. Now that we are in this situation, if I don't go out to fight, the king may think that I resent him!
So he led his followers to fight against Di Zi and died in the battle.
At first, Empress Hui planned to make Prince Shu Dai the crown prince, so she sent her followers to act as internal agents for the Zhai people, who then invaded Zhou Dynasty.
King Xiang fled to Zheng, and Zheng settled the king in Si.
Zidai ascended the throne as king and took Empress Zhai, whom King Xiang had deposed, to live with him in Wen.
In the seventeenth year, King Xiang complained to Jin. Duke Wen of Jin sent the king back to his country and killed his uncle.
Therefore, King Xiang gave Duke Wen of Jin Gui Zan, a hairpin, a bow and arrows, named him uncle, and gave the land in Hanoi to Jin.
In the 20th year, Duke Wen of Jin summoned King Xiang, and King Xiang met with him in Heyang and Jiantu. All the princes came to see him, and the history books covered it up, saying that the king of Zhou came to Heyang on a hunting tour.
Twenty-four years ago, Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the thirty-second year, King Xiang died, and his son, King Qing Renchen, came to the throne.
In the sixth year of King Qing's reign, he died, and his son Kuang Wangban came to the throne.
In the sixth year of King Kuang's death, his younger brother Yu came to the throne and became King Ding.
In the first year of King Ding, King Zhuang of Chu conquered the Rong tribe in Luhun. The army was stationed in Luoyi. The King of Chu sent people to inquire about the size of Jiuding.
King Ding ordered Wang Sunman to deal with him with clever words, and then the Chu soldiers left.
Ten years later, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the State of Zheng. Bo Zheng surrendered and soon restored the State of Zheng.
In the sixteenth year, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
In the twenty-first year, King Ding died, and his son King Jian came to the throne.
In the thirteenth year of King Jian's reign, Jin killed their king Li Gong, took Zi Zhou back from Zhou, and made him the duke of mourning.
In the fourteenth year, King Jian passed away, and his son King Ling came to the throne.
In the twenty-fourth year of King Ling's reign, Cui Zhu of Qi killed their king Zhuang Gong.
In the twenty-seventh year, King Ling passed away, and his son King Jinggui came to the throne.
In the eighteenth year of King Jing's reign, the Queen and Prince Shengming died early.
Twenty years later, King Jing favored Zi Chao and planned to make him the crown prince. However, King Jing died at this time. Zi Beggar and a group of people fought against Zi Chao. People in the capital made Meng, their eldest son, king. Zi Chao attacked and killed Meng.
Meng Ji mourns the king.
When the Jin people attacked the Zi Dynasty and made a beggar king, they respected the king.
In the first year of King Jing's reign, the people of Jin escorted King Jing back to the court. Because the imperial court had established itself as king, King Jing could not enter the capital, so he lived in Zeyi.
In the fourth year, Jin led the princes to escort King Jing back to Zhou. Zi Chao became a minister, and the princes built a capital for Zhou.
In the sixteenth year, a group of people from the Zi Dynasty rebelled again, and King Jing fled to Jin.
In the seventeenth year, Jin Dinggong finally sent the King of Zhou back to the Zhou capital.
In the thirty-ninth year, Qi Guo Tian Chang killed their king Jian Gong.
In the forty-one year, Chu destroyed Chen.
Confucius died in this year.
In the forty-second year, King Zhou Jing passed away, and his son Yuan Wangren ascended the throne.
In the eighth year of King Yuan's reign, he passed away and his son Ding Wangjie ascended the throne.
In the sixteenth year of King Ding's reign, the three kingdoms of Zhao, Wei, and Han destroyed Zhibo and divided his land.
In the twenty-eighth year, King Ding passed away and his eldest son Quji ascended the throne. This was King Ai.
Three months after King Ai ascended the throne, his younger brother and uncle attacked and killed King Ai, and ascended the throne himself. This was King Si.
Five months after King Si ascended the throne, his youngest brother Wei attacked and killed King Si and proclaimed himself king, namely King Kao.
These three kings are all the sons of King Ding.
In the fifteenth year of King Kao's reign, he passed away, and his son Wei Lie Wang Wu came to the throne.
King Kao sealed his younger brother, Duke Huan of the Western Zhou Dynasty, in Henan, and asked him to inherit the official position of Duke of Zhou.
After the death of Duke Huan, his son Wei Gong succeeded him.
After Wei Gong's death, his son Hui Gong succeeded him and granted his youngest son the title of Duke Hui of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.
In the twenty-third year of King Wei Lie, the royal city where Jiuding was placed was earthquake.
In this year, King Zhou appointed Han, Wei, and Zhao as princes.
In the twenty-fourth year, King Wei Lie died, and his son An Wangjiao came to the throne.
This year, thieves killed King Sheng of Chu.
King An died after reigning for twenty-six years, and his son King Lie came to the throne.
In the second year of King Lie, Zhou Taishi met Qin Xiangong and said: Zhou and Qin were together at first, but later they separated. After five hundred years of separation, they got together again. After seventeen years of being together, there will be a person who will dominate and unify the world.
Ten years later, congratulations to Duke Xian of Qin for his dominance. In the ninth year, King Xian gave the pork belly sacrificed to King Wen and King Wu to Qin Xiaogong.
In the twenty-fifth year, Qin made an alliance with the princes in Zhou.
In the twenty-sixth year, the king of Zhou gave the title of Fang Bo, the overlord of the princes, to Duke Xiao of Qin.
In the thirty-third year, congratulations to King Qin Hui.
In the thirty-fifth year, the meat sacrificed to King Wen and King Wu was given to King Hui of Qin.
In the forty-fourth year, King Hui of Qin became king.
From then on, the princes all became kings.
In the forty-eighth year, King Xian died, and his son King Shenliang came to the throne.
King Shenliang reigned for six years. After his death, his son Wang Yan came to the throne.
During Wang Nan's time, the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty were in charge of their own affairs.
Wang Nan moved the capital to the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The co-prince of Duke Wu of the Western Zhou Dynasty passed away, and he had five other sons, all of whom were concubines. There was no legitimate son who could be established as the crown prince.
Sima Jian said to the King of Chu: It is better to use land to support Prince Jiu and ask for the crown prince position for him.
Zuo Cheng said: No.
If Zhou doesn't listen to us, then you will be in an embarrassing and difficult situation, and your friendship with Zhou will be alienated.
It is better to ask Zhou Jun who he wants to make the crown prince, and then tell Jian privately, and Jian will ask Chu State to fund him with land.
As expected, the Western Zhou Dynasty established Prince Jiu as the crown prince.
In the eighth year, Qin attacked Yiyang, and Chu sent troops to rescue him.
Chu State thought that Zhou was helping Qin State, so it wanted to attack Zhou State.
Su lobbied the King of Chu on behalf of Zhou and said: How do you know that Zhou's help to Qin is a disaster?
Those who say that Zhou helped Qin more than Chu, want Zhou to join the Qin camp, so people put Zhou and Qin together and say Zhou Qin.
Zhou knew that he had no way to escape, so he would definitely join Qin's camp. This was a clever plan to help Qin capture Zhou.
If you really care about the king, then Zhou should be treated kindly if he works for Qin; he should be treated kindly if he does not work for Qin. Only in this way can Zhou and Qin be alienated.
After Zhou and Qin broke off relations, they would definitely surrender to the capital of Ying, the state of Chu.
The Qin State borrowed a road between the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty and prepared to attack South Korea. Zhou was worried that if he borrowed the road to Qin, he would offend South Korea. If he did not borrow the road, he would be afraid of offending the Qin State.
Shi Yan said to Zhou Jun: "Why don't you send someone to see Mr. Han?" He said to Uncle Han: The reason why Qin dared to pass through Zhou to attack Korea was because it trusted Eastern Zhou.
Why don't you give Zhou some land and send hostages to Chu?
Qin will definitely doubt Chu and not trust Zhou, so it will not attack South Korea.
Then he told Qin: Han Fei had to give land to Zhou in order to make Qin doubt Zhou in this way, so Zhou did not dare not accept it.
Qin must not have asked Zhou not to accept the land, so that he could obtain Han's land and obey Qin's orders.
Qin summoned the king of Western Zhou, but the king was unwilling to go, so he sent someone to say to the king of Han: Qin summoned the king of Western Zhou, and he wanted to send him to attack the king's Nanyang. Why didn't the king send troops to garrison Nanyang?
At that time, Zhou Jun will use this as an excuse to refuse to go to Qin.
If Zhou Jun does not go to Qin, Qin will not dare to cross the Yellow River to attack Nanyang.
The Eastern Zhou Dynasty was at war with the Western Zhou Dynasty, and Han sent troops to rescue the Western Zhou Dynasty.
Someone persuaded the King of Han on behalf of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty: The Western Zhou Dynasty was originally the capital of the emperor. There are many rare artifacts and valuable treasures. If the king does not move, the Eastern Zhou Dynasty will be grateful for your kindness, and all the treasures of the Western Zhou Dynasty can be obtained.
King Nan of Zhou was called Chengjun.
The State of Chu besieged the Yong clan of South Korea, and South Korea collected weapons and grain from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. The Lord of Eastern Zhou Dynasty was very frightened and summoned Su Dai to tell him the matter.
Su Dai said: Why should you worry about this matter.
My ministers can prevent South Korea from requisitioning weapons and food from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, and can also obtain Gaodu for you.
Lord Dongzhou said: If you really have such ability, I will make the whole country obey you.
Su Dai went to see South Korea's Prime Minister Zhongchi and said: The Chu State besieged the Yong family, and they promised to attack it in March. Now it has been five months and it still cannot be conquered. This shows that the Chu State is very tired.
Now, as the Prime Minister, you are asking Zhou for weapons and food, which is equivalent to announcing to Chu that you have suffered serious losses. South Korea's Prime Minister said: That's right.
But the messenger has already set off.
Su Dai said: Why didn't the state give Gaodu to Zhou?
The Korean Prime Minister was furious and said: If I don't requisition weapons and food from Zhou, it is already a big concession. Why should I give Gaodu to Eastern Zhou?
Su Dai said: If Gaodu is given to Zhou, then Zhou will turn to South Korea. When the Qin State hears about it, it will be very angry and resentful towards Zhou, and will cut off all contacts with Zhou's envoys. This is equivalent to exchanging the ruined Gaodu for a complete Zhou Dynasty. Why not give it? The Prime Minister said: What you got is right.
Sure enough, Gaodu was given to Zhou.
In the thirty-fourth year, Su Li said to Zhou Jun: Qin conquered South Korea and Wei, and defeated Wei's general Shi Wu. In the north, he captured Lin, Lishi and other places in Zhao State. This was all done by Bai Qi.
Bai Qi is good at using soldiers, and he is protected by destiny.
Now he led his army out of Yique fortress to attack Liang. If Liang was defeated, Zhou would be in danger.
Why don't you send someone to persuade Bai Qi?
He said: There was a man named Yang Youji in the state of Chu who was good at archery.
He could shoot an arrow a hundred steps away from the willow leaves and hit the target with perfect accuracy.
There were thousands of people watching on the left and right, and everyone praised him for his good shooting.
Only one man stood beside him and said, "Yes, you can leave it to him to shoot the arrows."
Yang Youji was furious, put down his bow, held his sword, and said: "My guest, what ability do you have to teach me archery?"
The guest said: I can't teach you the technique of holding the bow with your left hand and stringing with the right hand.
Shoot an arrow a hundred steps away from the willow leaves like just now, and you will always hit the target. If you don't know to stop when the shot is best, you will soon be exhausted.
Now you have already accomplished a lot by conquering South Korea and Wei, killing Shi Wu, and capturing Lin and Lishi of Zhao in the north.
Now you lead the army out of the fortress, passing through the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty, with South Korea as your back, and besieging the Liang Kingdom. As long as you fail to win a battle, all your previous efforts will be in vain.
You might as well claim to be ill and not fight.
In the forty-second year, Qin conquered Wei's dangerous territory of Huayang.
Zhou's minister Ma Fu said to Zhou Jun: Please allow me to lobby Liang Guo to build a city for Zhou.
So he went to the king of Liang and said: If the king of Zhou dies because he is worried about Qin's attack on Zhou, then I will definitely die too.
I request to take the initiative to offer Jiuding to the king. When the king gets the Jiuding, he will consider what I said for me. King Liang said: OK.
So he sent troops to him, claiming to be to guard Zhou City.
The horse prisoner took the opportunity to go to the King of Qin and said: Liang sent troops not to defend the city of Zhou, but to attack Zhou.
Your Majesty, you can try sending troops to the border to observe the situation.
As expected, Qin State sent troops.
The prisoner Ma took the opportunity and said to King Liang again: King Zhou's illness has been cured. The donation of Jiuding that I requested will be discussed later when the time comes.
Now that the king is sending troops to Zhou, the princes will be suspicious, and they will not believe you if you take any action in the future.
It is better to let soldiers help build the city of Zhou to cover up the princes' suspicion that you want to attack Zhou. King Liang said: OK.
So he sent troops to build the city wall of Zhou's capital.
In the forty-fifth year, Zhou Jun's guest from Qin said to Zhou Jin: Why don't you praise King Qin's filial piety and take the opportunity to dedicate the land to Qin as a place for the Queen Mother to support. King Qin will be very happy, and you will have friendship with Qin.
If the friendship is good, Zhou Jun will definitely think it is your credit; if the friendship is not good, those who persuade Zhou Jun to join Qin will definitely be punished.
When Qin went to attack Zhou, Zhou Jin said to the king of Qin: If it is for your sake, the king, don’t attack Zhou.
Attacking Zhou won't bring much benefit, but it will make your reputation feared by everyone in the world.
People all over the world are afraid because of Qin's reputation for attacking Zhou, and they will definitely go east to unite with Qi.
The army was exhausted from attacking Zhou, and everyone in the world joined Qi. In this way, Qin could not unify the world and become king.
The world is hoping to deplete Qin's strength, so it persuades you to attack Zhou.
If Qin and the princes are exhausted, your orders will not be carried out.
In the fifty-eighth year, Han, Zhao, and Wei jointly resisted Qin.
Zhou sent his prime minister to Qin, but because he was afraid that Qin would despise him, he returned halfway.
A visitor said to the Prime Minister: It is not yet known whether Qin despised or valued Zhou.
Qin wanted to understand the situation of the Three Kingdoms.
Why don't you go to the King of Qin quickly and say, "Please let me inquire about the situation in the eastern countries for the King. The King of Qin will definitely pay attention to you."
If Qi values ​​you, Qin will value Zhou, and Zhou will gain Qin's trust; Qi will value Zhou, and Zhou will already be in contact with Qi. In this way, Zhou will not lose its friendship with powerful countries.
Qin trusted Zhou and sent troops to attack Han, Zhao and Wei.
In the fifty-ninth year, Qin captured Yangcheng and Fushu in South Korea. The Western Zhou Dynasty panicked and betrayed Qin. He joined forces with other princes and led the world's elite soldiers out of Yique fortress to attack Qin, preventing Qin soldiers from reaching Yangcheng.
King Zhao of Qin was furious and sent generals to attack the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The king of Western Zhou fled to Qin, kowtowed and confessed his crime, and offered all his thirty-six cities with a population of thirty thousand.
Qin accepted the offer from the king of Western Zhou and asked him to return to Zhou.
After Zhou Jun and Wang Nan died, the people of Zhou fled to the east.
Qin obtained Jiuding and other valuable artifacts, and moved the king of Western Zhou to Hu.
Seven years later, King Zhuangxiang of Qin destroyed the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.
The Eastern and Western Zhou Dynasties all belonged to Qin. From then on, no one could preside over the sacrifices of the Zhou Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: Scholars all say that Zhou conquered Shang Zhou and established its capital in Luoyi. However, comprehensive inspection of its actual situation is not the case.
Although King Wu once surveyed and built Luoyi, and King Cheng also sent Duke Zhao to divination to choose the location and place the Jiuding there, Zhou still made Feng and Hao its capitals.
It wasn't until Quan Rong defeated King You that Zhou moved eastward to Luoyi.
The so-called Duke of Zhou was buried in Bi, and Bi was in Duzhong, southeast of Hao.
It was Qin who destroyed Zhou.
More than ninety years after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the emperor wanted to perform a ceremony of enshrining Zen in Mount Tai, go east to hunt and reach Henan County, visit the descendants of Zhou, and grant thirty miles of land to the descendants of Zhou.
