Zhang Yi is a native of Wei.
At first, he and Su Qin studied under Mr. Gui Guzi and learned the art of lobbying. Su Qin thought that he was not as talented as Zhang Yi.
After Zhang Yi completed his studies, he went to lobby the princes.
He once drank with Prime Minister Chu. During the dinner, Prime Minister Chu lost a piece of jade. The guests suspected Zhang Yi and said, "Zhang Yi is poor and has bad conduct. He must have stolen the prime minister's jade."
So, everyone arrested Zhang Yi and tortured him hundreds of times.
Zhang Yi never admitted it and had to release him.
His wife said sadly and hatefully: Alas! If you had never gone to study and lobby, how could you have suffered such humiliation?
Zhang Yi said to his wife: Look, is my tongue still there?
His wife smiled and said: The tongue is still there.
Zhang Yi said: This is enough.
At that time, Su Qin had persuaded King Zhao to agree to form a vertical alliance with the other six countries except Qin, but he was afraid that Qin would take the opportunity to attack the vassal states and the alliance would be destroyed before it was even concluded. He also considered that there was no suitable person to send to Qin, so he sent someone to secretly guide Zhang Yi and said: "You and Su Qin had a good relationship at the beginning. Now that Su Qin is in power, why don't you make friends with him to realize your wish of success?"
So Zhang Yi went to Zhao State, submitted a famous invitation, and requested to meet Su Qin.
Su Qin warned his disciples not to inform Zhang Yi, and kept him from leaving for several days.
Soon Su Qin received him. He made him sit in the hall, gave him food for his servants and concubines, and repeatedly scolded him: "With your talents, you have made yourself so poor."
Don’t I have the ability to recommend you and make you rich? It's just that you don't deserve to be hired.
After saying that, Zhang Yi was sent away.
Zhang Yi came to seek refuge with Su Qin, thinking that they were old friends and could get benefits, but unexpectedly he was humiliated and was very angry. He also considered that no one among the princes was worthy of serving, and only Qin could invade Zhao, so he went to Qin.
Soon Su Qin said to those close to him: Zhang Yi is the most talented person in the world. I probably can't compare with him.
Now, fortunately, I was reused before him, and only Zhang Yi can control the power of Qin.
However, he is currently very poor and has no way to enter the society.
I was worried that in order to satisfy small interests, he would no longer be enterprising and would not be able to achieve great achievements, so I summoned him to humiliate him and use it to stimulate his will. You serve him secretly on my behalf.
Su Qin reported to the King of Zhao, took out money, property, chariots and horses, sent people to follow Zhang Yi secretly, stayed in the same inn with him, and gradually got closer to him. He also gave him chariots, horses, money, and whatever he needed, but did not explain who gave it.
So Zhang Yi had the opportunity to meet King Qin Hui.
King Hui appointed him as a guest minister and discussed with him how to attack the princes of various countries.
At this time, the retainer sent by Su Qin was about to say goodbye and leave. Zhang Yi said: Thanks to your help, I gained a distinguished position. I am about to repay your kindness, why do I have to leave?
The doorman said: I don't know you well. The one who really knows you is Mr. Su.
Mr. Su was worried that Qin would attack Zhao and destroy the alliance. He believed that no one but you could control the power of Qin, so he angered Mr. Su and sent me to secretly provide you with money. This was Mr. Su's strategy.
Now that my husband has been reused, please let me go back and resume my life!
Zhang Yi said: Alas, these tactics were originally within the scope of my study, but I didn't realize it. I'm not as clever as Mr. Su!
Besides, I have just been appointed, so how can I plan to attack Zhao?
Please thank Mr. Su for me. As long as Mr. Su is in power, how can I, Zhang Yi, dare to talk about attacking Zhao?
After Zhang Yi became the prime minister of Qin, he wrote a letter to warn the prime minister of Chu: When I drank with you, I didn't steal your jade, but you whipped me.
You have to protect your country well, I will steal your city soon! Ba and Shu attacked each other, and they went to Qin for help. King Hui of Qin wanted to send out troops to attack Shu, but he also believed that the road was dangerous, narrow and difficult to reach. At this time, South Korea came to invade Qin again. King Qin Hui wanted to attack South Korea first, and then attack Shu, which might be disadvantageous; he wanted to attack Shu first, but he was worried that South Korea would take advantage of the fatigue of the long battle to launch a sneak attack, so he hesitated and could not make a decision.
Sima Cuo and Zhang Yi argued endlessly in front of King Hui. Sima Cuo advocated attacking Shu, but Zhang Yi said: It is better to attack South Korea first.
King Hui said: I am willing to hear your respective reasons.
Zhang Yi said: We will first have a blind date with the Wei State and be friendly with the Chu State, and then march to Sanchuan to block the pass of Shigu and block the main road of Tunliu. In this way, the passage from Wei to Nanyang was cut off, allowing the Chu State to send troops to approach Nanzheng. The Qin army attacked Xincheng and Yiyang, approaching the suburbs of the Western Zhou and Eastern Zhou Dynasties to attack the king of Zhou for his crimes, and then captured the lands of Chu and Wei.
King Zhou himself knew that there was no way to save it, so he would definitely donate the nine-cauldron treasure passed down to the country.
The Qin State possesses the treasure of Jiuding and controls the map and household registration of the world. It can control the emperor of Zhou and issue orders to the world. No one in the world dares not to obey. This is the great cause of unifying the world!
Nowadays, Shu is a remote country in the west. It is a backward nation like the Rong and Di. Attacking them will make our soldiers tired and the people toiled, and we will not be able to become famous in the world. We will not gain any practical benefits by seizing their land.
I heard that those who pursue fame and status should go to the court, and those who pursue profit should go to the market.
Nowadays, Sanchuan and Zhou Dynasty are like the imperial court and the market, but the king does not compete there. Instead, he competes in backward areas such as Rongdi and Di. This is too far away from the emperor's achievements.
Sima Cuo said: That's not the case.
I heard that those who want to make the country rich and powerful must expand its territory; those who want to make the army strong must make the people rich; those who want to unify the world must extend kindness. If these three conditions are met, the great cause of the emperor will be a matter of course.
Today, the king's territory is still small and the people are still poor, so I hope that the king will do something easy to do first.
The Kingdom of Shu is a remote country in the west, but it is the leader of Rong and Di. Disasters similar to those of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou have already occurred.
Sending out Qin's powerful army to attack it is like asking jackals to drive away sheep.
Occupying its land can expand Qin's territory, and seizing its wealth can enrich the people and improve the army. They had already surrendered without losing any troops or generals.
If we conquer a country, people in the world will not think of us as cruel; if we take away all the wealth of the West, people in the world will not think of us as greedy. By sending out troops, we will gain prestige and real profits, and we will also enjoy a good reputation for prohibiting riots.
Today, attacking South Korea and kidnapping the emperor will bring a very bad reputation and may not necessarily bring benefits. It will also bear the ugly name of injustice. Moreover, it is a country that no one in the world wants to attack, so it will be dangerous.
Please let me state the reason: King Zhou is the common lord of the world; he is a country that has close relations with Qi and Han.
King Zhou himself knew that he would lose the Jiuding of Chuan, and South Korea knew that it would lose Sanchuan. These two countries would definitely work together to seek reconciliation with Chu and Wei by relying on the power of Qi and Zhao. If they give the Jiuding treasure to the Chu State and give up the land to the Wei State, the king cannot stop them. This is the danger I mentioned, so it is not as complete as attacking the Shu State.
King Hui said: Well said, I will follow your advice.
Finally sent troops to attack Shu. In October of that year, they captured Shu. He suppressed the rebellion in Shu, demoted him as King of Shu, changed his title to Marquis of Shu, and sent Chen Zhuang to serve as the Prime Minister of Shu.
After Shu returned to Qin, Qin became stronger and richer, and despised other princes even more.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, he sent his sons Hua and Zhang Yi to lead an army to besiege Puyang of Wei and surrendered it.
Zhang Yi took the opportunity to persuade King Qin to return it to Wei, and sent his son Yao to Wei as a hostage.
Zhang Yi took the opportunity to persuade the king of Wei: "Qin is so generous to Wei, and Wei must reciprocate with courtesy."
Therefore, Wei State dedicated Shangjun and Shaoliang to Qin State to thank King Qin Hui.
King Hui appointed Zhang Yi as his prime minister and renamed Shaoliang Xia Yang.
Zhang Yi served as the Prime Minister of Qin for four years and officially supported King Hui as king.
A year later, Zhang Yi served as the general of the Qin State, captured Shaanxi and built the Shangjun Fortress.
Two years later, the King of Qin sent Zhang Yi to hold talks with the state ministers of Qi and Chu in Zhisang.
After he returned from the east, he was dismissed from the post of prime minister. For the benefit of Qin, he went to Wei to serve as prime minister, intending to make Wei first serve Qin and let other vassal states follow its example.
The King of Wei refused to accept Zhang Yi's suggestion, and the King of Qin was furious. He immediately sent out troops to conquer Quwo and Pingzhou in Wei State, and secretly gave Zhang Yi more generous treatment.
Zhang Yi felt very ashamed and felt that there was nothing he could do to repay King Qin.
He stayed in Wei for four years. Wei Xianghou died and King Ai came to the throne.
Zhang Yi also persuaded King Ai of Wei to join Qin, but King Ai did not listen.
So Zhang Yi secretly asked Qin to attack Wei.
The state of Wei fought with the state of Qin and was defeated by the state of Qin.
The next year, Qi defeated the Wei army again at Guanjin.
Qin wanted to attack Wei again, but first defeated South Korea's Shen Chai's troops, killing 80,000 officers and soldiers, which shocked the princes.
Zhang Yi lobbied the King of Wei again and said: The land of Wei is less than a thousand miles in length and breadth, and its soldiers cannot exceed 300,000.
The surrounding terrain is flat, like the center of a cart axle, which can connect the vassal states in all directions without being isolated by famous mountains and rivers.
It was only more than two hundred miles from Xinzheng to Daliang. The chariots were speeding and the soldiers were running. They arrived without much effort.
Wei State borders Chu State to the south, South Korea to the west, Zhao State to the north, and Qi State to the east. Soldiers are stationed on all sides of the border. There are no less than 100,000 people defending the border fortresses alone.
The terrain of Wei State was originally a battlefield.
If Wei goes south and is friendly with Chu but not with Qi, then Qi will attack your east; if it goes east and is friendly with Qi but not with Zhao, then Zhao will attack your north; if it is not on good terms with South Korea, then South Korea will attack your west; if it does not ally with Chu, then Chu will attack your south; this is called a fragmented geographical situation.
Moreover, the purpose for the princes of various countries to form a vertical alliance is to rely on it to make the country peaceful, the monarch respected, the army powerful, and the reputation prominent.
Nowadays, those who advocate unity want to unite the world into one body and become brothers. They kill the white horse on the bank of Huan River and make an alliance through blood, expressing their firm belief in abiding by the covenant.
However, even brothers born to the same parents will compete for money. If you still plan to maintain the stability of the country by relying on Su Qin's hypocritical, deceptive and capricious strategies, it is obvious that you will fail.
If the king does not serve Qin, and Qin sends troops to attack Hewai, captures Juandi, Yandi, Yandi, and Suizao, and hijacks Wei and seizes Yangjin, then Zhao's army cannot go south to support Wei, Zhao's army cannot go south, and Wei's army cannot go north, and Wei's army cannot go north, and the channel for the alliance will be cut off. If the road to the alliance is cut off, then it is impossible for the king's country not to suffer danger.
Qin made South Korea surrender and then attacked Wei. South Korea was afraid of Qin. If Qin and Han merged into one, Wei would be destroyed so quickly that there would be no time to sit down and wait.
This is what I am worried about for your Majesty. For the sake of your Majesty, I would rather serve Qin.
If you serve Qin, then Chu and South Korea will not dare to act rashly; if there are no foreign troubles from Chu and South Korea, then the king can sit back and relax, and the country will have nothing to worry about.
Moreover, there is no one that Qin wants to weaken more than Chu, and no one that can weaken Chu is Wei.
Even though the Chu State has a reputation of being rich and powerful, it is actually very empty; even though its soldiers are many, they always run away easily and are unable to fight to the end.
If the Wei State mobilizes all its troops to attack Chu State in the south, it will definitely defeat Chu State.
It is a good thing to slay the Chu State to benefit the Wei State, and to make the Chu State suffer losses and surrender to the Qin State, to pass on the disaster and make one's own country peaceful.
If your Majesty does not follow my advice and Qin sends out its elite troops to attack eastward, even if you want to serve Qin, it may be too late.
Moreover, most of those who advocate cooperation only speak big words and are rarely trustworthy. They just want to persuade a monarch to achieve the goal of becoming a prince, so lobbyists all over the world are clenching their wrists excitedly day and night, widening their eyes, grinding their teeth and bulging their tongues, talking about the benefits of cooperation in order to impress the monarchs of various countries.
The king admires their eloquence and is confused by their lobbying. Isn't this stupid?
I have heard that although feathers are light, they can sink a ship if they are gathered in large numbers. Although goods are light, if they are loaded too much, they can break the axle of an axle. Even gold and stone can be melted when they are destroyed by everyone. Even if there are too many slanders and slanders, even flesh and blood relatives will be destroyed. Therefore, I hope that the king will carefully formulate the correct strategy, and please allow me to retire and leave Wei.
Therefore, King Ai broke the alliance agreement and requested reconciliation with Qin through Zhang Yi.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin and became prime minister again.
Three years later, Wei betrayed Qin and joined the Co-Vertical Covenant.
Qin sent troops to attack Wei and captured Quwo.
The next year, Wei State surrendered to Qin State again.
Qin wanted to attack Qi, but Qi and Chu formed a vertical alliance, so Zhang Yi went to Chu to serve as prime minister.
When King Huai of Chu heard that Zhang Yi had come to Chu, he vacated a high-quality hotel and went to the hotel himself to arrange accommodation for him.
Said: Chu is a remote and humble country. Do you have anything to teach me?
Zhang Yi lobbied the King of Chu and said: If the king really wants to listen to my advice, he will cut off all ties with Qi and terminate the alliance. I am willing to ask the King of Qin to donate 600 miles of land to the Shang Dynasty, and let the women of Qin serve as concubines to serve the king.
The king of Chu was very happy to agree to his request.
The ministers came to congratulate the King of Chu, but only Chen Zhen mourned for him.
The King of Chu said angrily: I gained 600 miles of land without deploying troops or generals. My ministers congratulated me, but you were the only one who mourned for me. Why?
Chen Zhen replied: No, in my opinion, the land in Shangyu area will not only be unavailable, but Qi and Qin may also unite.
If Qi and Qin unite, great disaster will come to Chu. The king of Chu said: Can you explain the reason?
Chen Zhen replied: The reason why Qin valued Chu was because Chu had an alliance with Qi.
Now that all ties with Qi are cut off and the alliance is abrogated, Chu will be isolated.
Why did Qin not be content with pursuing an isolated and helpless Chu State, but gave it 600 miles of land?
When Zhang Yi returns to Qin, he will definitely break his promise to the king. This means severing diplomatic relations with Qi to the north and inviting disaster from Qin to the west. The armies of the two countries will inevitably attack Chu together.
I have properly come up with a countermeasure for the king. It is better to secretly unite with Qi State and sever relations on the surface, and send people to follow Zhang Yi to Qin State.
If Qin gives us land, it is not too late to sever diplomatic relations with Qi; if Qin does not give us land, it is in line with our strategy.
The King of Chu said: I hope Mr. Chen will shut up, stop talking, and wait until I get the land of Qin.
He gave Zhang Yi the seal of approval and also gave him a large amount of property.
So he severed relations with Qi, abolished the alliance, and sent a general to follow Zhang Yi to Qin to take over the land.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin State and pretended not to hold on to the rope of the carriage. He fell off the carriage and was injured. He did not go to court for three months. When the King of Chu heard about this, he said, "Isn't Zhang Yi because I have not completely severed ties with Qi State?"
He sent warriors to the Song Dynasty, borrowed Song's talisman, and went to the northern Qi State to insult the King of Qi. The Qi King was angry, cut off the talisman, and aggrievedly made friends with Qin.
Qin and Qi established diplomatic relations, and Zhang Yi came to court. He said to the envoy of the Chu State: I have a six-mile fiefdom granted by the King of Qin, and I am willing to dedicate it to the King of Chu.
The envoy from the Chu State said: I am here to take over Shang Yu's land of six hundred miles under the order of the King of Chu. I have never heard of six miles.
The envoy reported back to the King of Chu. The King of Chu was so angry that he immediately sent out troops to attack Qin.
Chen Zhen said: Can I open my mouth and speak?
Instead of attacking Qin, it is better to cede land to bribe Qin and join forces with him to attack Qi. We will take back the land we ceded to Qin and take it back from Qi as compensation. In this way, your country can still survive.
The King of Chu refused to listen and finally sent out his army and general Qu Gai to attack Qin.
Qin and Qi jointly attacked Chu, killing 80,000 officers and soldiers, and Qu Gai, and then seized the lands of Danyang and Hanzhong.
The State of Chu sent more troops to attack the State of Qin. They went to Lantian and launched a large-scale battle. The Chu army was defeated, so the State of Chu ceded two more cities and made peace with Qin.
Qin threatened Chu and wanted to get the land in Guizhou, and wanted to exchange it for land outside Wuguan.
The King of Chu said: I am not willing to exchange land. As long as I get Zhang Yi, I am willing to give up the central Guizhou area.
The King of Qin wanted to send Zhang Yi away, but he couldn't bear to say it.
Zhang Yi asked to go.
King Hui said: "The King of Chu is angry that your husband broke his promise to give Shang land, and he is deliberately retaliating against you."
Zhang Yi said: Qin is strong and Chu is weak. I have a good relationship with Jin Shang, the official of Chu. Jin Shang can flatter Zheng Xiu, the wife of Chu, and the king of Chu will obey all Zheng Xiu's words.
Besides, I was sent as an envoy to the State of Chu on the order of the king. How dare the king of Chu kill me?
If you kill me and obtain the land in central Guizhou for Qin, this is also my highest wish.
So he went to Chu as an envoy.
King Huai of Chu imprisoned Zhang Yi as soon as he arrived, intending to kill him.
Jin Shang said to Zheng Xiu: Do you know that you will be despised by the king?
Zheng Xiu said: Why?
Jin Shang said that the King of Qin loved Zhang Yi very much and planned to rescue him from captivity. Now he would use the land of the six counties of Shangyong to bribe the Chu State, marry a beautiful woman to the King of Chu, and use the women in the palace who are good at singing as dowries.
If the king of Chu values ​​the land, he will respect Qin. The beauties of Qin will be favored and honored, but the ladies will also be despised.
It is better to intercede for Zhang Yi and release him from prison.
So Zheng Xiu appealed to King Huai day and night, saying: As ministers, each serves his country.
Now that the land has not been handed over to Qin, King Qin sent Zhang Yi here, showing his respect for the king to the extreme.
If the king kills Zhang Yi before he returns the favor, the king of Qin will definitely be furious and send troops to attack Chu.
I request that we, mother and son, be allowed to move to the south of the Yangtze River and not be bullied and slaughtered by the Qin State like fish.
King Huai regretted it, pardoned Zhang Yi, and entertained him as generously as before.
Not long after Zhang Yi was released from prison, but before he left, he heard that Su Qin had passed away, so he persuaded King Huai of Chu: "Qin's land occupies half of the world, its military strength can withstand countries in all directions, its borders are dangerous, the Yellow River flows across it, and there are fortified areas on all sides that can be defended."
There are more than one million brave warriors, thousands of chariots, and tens of thousands of horses, and the stores of food are piled up like mountains.
The law is strict, the soldiers do not shy away from hardships and dangers, and are willing to sacrifice for the country. The king is wise and majestic, and the generals are wise and brave. Even if the army is not dispatched, its prestige can sweep across the dangerous Changshan Mountains and break the backbone of the world. The countries that surrender after the world will be destroyed first.
Moreover, those countries that have joined forces to compete with Qin are no more than driving sheep to attack ferocious tigers. It is very obvious that tigers and sheep are not equal opponents.
Nowadays, the king is not attached to the tiger but to the sheep. I privately think that the king's plan is wrong.
Today, the most powerful countries in the world are either Qin or Chu, and either Chu or Qin. The two countries are at war with each other. Judging from their situation, it is impossible for both countries to exist.
If the king does not ally himself with Qin, Qin will send troops to occupy Yiyang first, and South Korea's land will be cut off.
If the Qin State sends troops to attack Hedong again and seizes Chenggao, South Korea will inevitably go to Qin State to become a vassal, and the Wei State will take action upon hearing the news.
Qin attacked the west of Chu, and South Korea and Wei attacked the north of Chu. How could Chu not be in danger?
Moreover, those who advocate alliance gather a group of weak countries to attack the most powerful country, and easily launch wars without weighing the strength of the enemy countries. The country is poor and often fights wars. This is a strategy that puts the country into danger.
I have heard that if your military strength is not as strong as other countries, you should not start a war; if your food supply is not as abundant as others, you should not fight for a long time.
Those who advocated the merger of verticals whitewashed their words, made empty remarks, exaggerated the integrity of their monarchs, and only talked about the benefits of the merger of verticals, not the harm it brought. Suddenly, the Qin State was in trouble, and it was too late to deal with it.
So I hope your Majesty will consider this issue carefully.
The Qin State owned Bajun and Shujun in the west. They loaded large ships with grain, set out from Wenshan, and floated down the river to the Chu State for more than three thousand miles.
The two ships transport soldiers side by side, and one ship can carry fifty people and three months' worth of food. It can travel more than three hundred miles a day down the river. Even though the distance is long, it does not take up the effort of oxen and horses, and it can be reached in less than ten days.
Once the situation of defending the border becomes tense, all countries east of the border will have to defend the city. Qianzhong and Wujun will no longer belong to you, your Majesty.
The Qin State mobilized its troops out of Wuguan and attacked southward, cutting off the northern part of the Chu State.
If the Qin army attacks Chu, it will only take three months for Chu to be in danger. However, it will take more than half a year for Chu to wait for rescue from other princes. Judging from the situation, it is too late.
Relying on the rescue of weak countries and ignoring the disasters caused by strong Qin is why I worry about your king.
Your Majesty once fought against the Wu people, and won three of the five battles. All the soldiers on the battlefield were killed. The Chu army was guarding the newly occupied city in a remote place, but the living people were working too hard.
I have heard that a king who has achieved too much is likely to be in danger, and the people will resent the king when they are tired and distressed.
I secretly feel danger for the king by waiting for the exploits that are prone to danger and go against Qiang Qin's wishes.
The reason why Qin did not send troops to Hangu Pass to attack Qi and Zhao for fifteen years was because Qin secretly planned to annex the world in one fell swoop.
The State of Chu once caused trouble to the State of Qin. The two sides fought a battle in Hanzhong. The State of Chu did not win, but more than 70 people in the rank of Hou Zhigui died in the battle, and Hanzhong was lost.
The king was angry and sent troops to attack Qin again, and fought another battle in Lantian.
This is what is called a fight between two tigers.
Qin and Chu were fighting each other and were exhausted. South Korea and Wei used their full national strength to attack from behind. There is no more dangerous strategy than this.
I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
If the Qin State sends out troops to capture Yangjin, the capital of the Wei State, it will surely cut off the world's transportation arteries like locking the chest of the world.
The king dispatched all the troops to attack the Song Dynasty. Within a few months, the Song Dynasty would be captured. After capturing the Song Dynasty and marching eastward, many small countries in the Si River Basin would all belong to the king.
The person who persuades all countries in the world to unite and stick to their covenants by faith is Su Qin. He was named Lord Wu'an and served as the prime minister of Yan, but he secretly planned with King Yan to conquer Qi and divide its land. He pretended to be guilty of King Yan and fled to Qi. King Qi took him in and made him prime minister. Two years later, when he was discovered, King Qi was furious and cut Su Qin's five horses into pieces on the execution ground.
It is obvious that Su Qin, a treacherous and hypocritical man, wants to run the whole world and unite the princes into one body. His strategy cannot succeed.
Today, the State of Qin and the State of Chu are adjacent to each other, and they should be close countries geographically.
If the king can listen to my suggestion, I would like to ask the king of Qin to send the prince to the state of Chu to be a hostage. The state of Chu will send the prince to the state of Qin to be a hostage. The daughter of the king of Qin will be married to the king, and a city with 10,000 households will be donated to the king. It will be the place where the king collects taxes and supplies Tang and Mu's tools. We will always be brothers and neighbors and never fight each other for life.
I don’t think there is a more appropriate strategy than this.
At this time, although the King of Chu had obtained Zhang Yi, it was difficult for him to give up the land in central Guizhou to Qin, and he wanted to agree to Zhang Yi's suggestion.
Qu Yuan said: The last time the king was deceived by Zhang Yi, when Zhang Yi came to Chu, I thought the king would boil him to death with a cauldron. Now that he has been released, I can't bear to kill him and still listen to his evil words. This is not good.
King Huai said: Agreeing to Zhang Yi's suggestion can save the land in central Guizhou, which is a good and beneficial thing.
It's not okay to betray him after you've already promised.
So he finally agreed to Zhang Yi's suggestion and formed an alliance with Qin.
Zhang Yi left Chu State and took the opportunity to go to South Korea and persuaded the King of Han: South Korea has a dangerous terrain and people live in mountainous areas. The food produced is either wheat or beans. Most of the food people eat is bean rice and bean leaf soup.
If there is no income for a year, people will not be able to eat even such poor food as chaff.
The land is less than 900 miles, and the food stored cannot last two years.
It is estimated that the total number of the king's soldiers does not exceed 300,000, including those orderlies and logistics personnel.
Excluding the soldiers guarding the posthouses and border fortresses, the existing army is only 200,000.
The Qin State's armed forces numbered more than one million, with thousands of chariots and tens of thousands of horses. The brave warriors galloped and leaped forward, without helmets and armed with weapons, and they threw themselves at the enemy in anger, too many to count.
The war horses of the Qin State are excellent. The horses gallop with their front hooves raised and their hind hooves in the air. They can jump more than two feet in one leap. There are so many such horses that they are countless.
The soldiers of the Six Kingdoms of Shandong wore helmets and armor to fight, but the Qin army threw off their shirts, barefooted and pounced on the enemy, holding heads in their left hand and prisoners in their right.
Compared with the soldiers of the Six Kingdoms of Shandong, the soldiers of Qin are like the brave strongman Meng Ben and the weak cowards; pressing down with huge power is like the brave strongman Wu Huo fighting against a baby.
Using armies like Meng Ben and Wu Huo to attack weak and disobedient countries is tantamount to putting the weight of Qian Jun on a bird's egg. There must be no lucky results.
Those princes and ministers did not estimate the smallness of their own land, but listened to the sweet words of those who advocated consolidation. They formed cliques for personal gain and covered up each other. They all said excitedly: If you follow my strategy, you can dominate the world.
There is nothing more serious than listening to a moment's lobbying and misleading the monarch regardless of the country's long-term interests.
If the king does not serve the Qin State, and the Qin State sends out armed forces to occupy Yiyang, cuts off the land of South Korea, and seizes Chenggao and Xingyang to the east, then the palace of Hongtai and the forest garden of the mulberry forest will no longer be owned by the king.
Besides, by blocking Chenggao and cutting off Shangdi, the king's territory was divided.
First of all, if you serve the state of Qin, you will be safe; if you don't serve the state of Qin, you will be in danger.
It is impossible to avoid destruction even if you want to avoid destruction by creating disasters but seeking auspicious rewards, short-sighted and baseless strategies that create deep hatred, and disobeying Qin and obeying Chu.
Therefore, I am planning for the king. It is better to help Qin. What Qin hopes for is nothing more important than weakening Chu. Among the countries that can weaken Chu, no one can compare with South Korea.
It's not because South Korea is stronger than Chu, but because of South Korea's geographical situation.
Now, if the king goes west to serve Qin and attack Chu, the king of Qin will definitely be very happy.
There is no more suitable strategy than attacking Chu to gain benefits from its land, diverting one's own troubles and making Qin happy.
The King of Han listened to Zhang Yi's strategy.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin to report, and King Qin Hui rewarded him with five cities and the title of Wu Xinjun.
He also sent Zhang Yi to the east to persuade King Min of Qi: "There is no country more powerful than Qi in the world. The ministers and their father and brothers are prosperous, rich and happy."
However, those who advise the king do so for temporary pleasure, regardless of the long-term interests of the country.
Those who advocate the alliance will definitely say to the king: Qi State has the powerful Zhao State to the west, South Korea and Wei State to the south. Qi State is a country with its back to the sea. It has a vast land, a large population, a strong army, and brave soldiers. Even if there are a hundred Qin States, Qi State will be helpless.
The king thought their statement was very clever, but failed to consider the actual situation.
Those who advocate cooperation and cooperation form parties to pursue selfish interests and exclude dissidents. They all believe that cooperation is feasible.
I heard that Qi and Lu fought three battles, and Lu defeated them three times, but the country perished as a result. Even though it had the reputation of victory, it suffered the reality of the country's destruction.
Why is this?
Qi is strong but Lu is weak.
Now, Qin State is compared with Qi State, just like Qi State is compared with Lu State.
Qin and Zhao fought on the banks of the Zhang River, and they fought twice and defeated Qin twice; they fought under Fanwu City, and they fought twice and defeated Qin twice.
After four battles, hundreds of thousands of Zhao soldiers were killed, and only Handan could be saved. Even though Zhao had a reputation of victory, the country was in dire straits.
Why is this?
Qin is strong but Zhao is weak.
Now Qin and Chu are marrying off their daughters and marrying off their wives, forming brothers and allies.
South Korea offered Yiyang, Wei offered Hewai, Zhao paid homage to the King of Qin in Mianchi, and ceded Hejian to serve Qin.
If the king does not serve Qin, Qin will force South Korea and Wei to attack the south of Qi. All Zhao's troops will be dispatched, cross the Qinghe River, and directly attack Boguan and Linyi. Jimo will no longer be owned by the king.
Once the country is attacked, even if you want to serve Qin, it will be impossible, so I hope the king will consider it carefully.
The King of Qi said: Qi is a remote and backward country, located on the edge of the East China Sea, isolated from the world. It has never heard the truth about the long-term interests of the country.
So he agreed to Zhang Yi’s suggestion.
Zhang Yi left Qi State and went west to persuade King Zhao: "The King of Qin in our city sent me, this envoy, to offer my immature opinions to the king."
The king led all the princes in the world to resist Qin. The soldiers and people of Qin did not dare to leave Hangu Pass for fifteen years.
The king's prestige spreads all over Shandong. Our city is frightened and surrenders without daring to act rashly. We reorganize our armaments, sharpen our weapons, rectify our chariots and horses, practice horse racing and archery, work hard to cultivate the land, store food, and guard the four borders. We live in sorrow and fear, not daring to make a slight move, just for fear that the king intends to deeply blame us for our mistakes.
Now, with the help of the king's supervision, the Qin State has conquered Ba and Shu, annexed Hanzhong, captured the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty, moved away the Nine Tripod treasures, and guarded the White Horse Ferry.
Although the Qin State is located in a remote and remote area, the days of depression and resentment in the heart are too long.
Now, there is a remnant of Qin's defeated army stationed in Mianchi. They are planning to cross the Yellow River, cross the Zhang River, occupy Fanwu, and meet with your army at the foot of Handan City. They hope to fight with your army on the Jiazi day to imitate King Wu's past actions of conquering Zhou. Therefore, the King of Qin solemnly sent envoys to warn the king and his cronies.
The reason why the king believed in launching the joint vertical alliance was because of Su Qin.
Su Qin confuses the princes, saying what is right is wrong, and what is wrong is right. He wants to oppose the state of Qi, and he himself has them quartered on the execution ground.
It is obvious that the princes of the world cannot be unified.
Now, Chu and Qin have formed a brotherly alliance, while South Korea and Wei have surrendered to Qin and become vassals in the east. Qi has dedicated a place rich in fish and salt, which is equivalent to cutting off the right arm of Zhao.
How can it be possible to cut off his right arm and fight with others, to lose his accomplices and to be isolated and helpless, and to not put the country in danger?
Now, Qin State sent three armies: one army blocked the Meridian Road, notified Qi State to mobilize troops to cross the Qinghe River, and stationed in the east of Handan; one army stationed in Chenggao, driving the troops of South Korea and Wei to station outside the river; one army stationed in Mianchi.
It was agreed that the armies of the four countries would unite as one to attack the State of Zhao. If the State of Zhao was defeated, its land would inevitably be divided among the four countries.
Therefore, I dare not conceal the true situation, so I will first tell it to the king’s close associates.
I am thinking privately for your Majesty that it would be better to meet with the King of Qin in Mianchi, face to face, and make a verbal agreement, requesting that the troops stand still and not attack.
I hope the king will make up his mind.
King Zhao said: When the late king was still alive, Fengyang Lord monopolized power, deceived and deceived the late king, and controlled political affairs alone. I still lived in the palace, studied as a teacher, and did not participate in the planning of national affairs.
When the late king abandoned his ministers and passed away, I was still young and had not inherited the throne for a long time. I really secretly doubted this approach and believed that it was not in the long-term interests of our country to unite all countries as one and not serve Qin.
So, I decided to change my mind, get rid of my doubts, cede the land to make up for my past mistakes, and serve Qin.
I was about to prepare my carriage and go to apologize, when I happened to hear your wise teachings.
King Zhao agreed to Zhang Yi's suggestion, and Zhang Yi left.
He went north to the State of Yan and persuaded King Zhao of Yan: "The country closest to your Majesty is the State of Zhao."
In the past, Zhao Xiangzi married his sister to the king of Dai. He wanted to annex the country of Dai. He agreed to meet the king of Dai at Juzhu Fortress, so he ordered the craftsmen to make a gold bucket and lengthen the handle so that it could be used to kill people.
King Zhao and King Dai were drinking and secretly told the kitchen worker: When the wine is full and happy, you serve hot soup and take the opportunity to turn the handle of the bucket over and kill him.
So when they were drinking to their heart's content, and the hot soup was served, the cook took advantage of the golden bucket, turned the handle over and hit King Dai, killing him. King Dai's brains flowed all over the floor.
When King Zhao's sister heard about this, she sharpened her hairpin and committed suicide, so the mountain still has a name called Moji.
Everyone in the world knows about King Dai's death.
King Zhao is violent and eccentric, and he does not recognize his relatives. The king has a clear understanding, so can he still think that King Zhao can get close to him?
The State of Zhao dispatched troops to attack the State of Yan, and besieged the capital of the State of Yan twice to kidnap the king. The king even ceded ten cities to apologize to him.
Now, the King of Zhao has gone to Mianchi to pay homage to the King of Qin and dedicated the land in the Hejian area to serve the Qin State.
Now, if your Majesty does not serve Qin, Qin will send its armed forces to Yunzhong and Jiuyuan, and drive Zhao to attack Yan. Then Yishui and the Great Wall will no longer be owned by your Majesty.
Moreover, the current Zhao State is like the relationship between counties and counties to Qin State, and it does not dare to send out troops to attack other countries at will.
Now, if the king serves Qin, the king of Qin will be happy, and Zhao will not dare to act rashly. This means that the west has the support of the powerful Qin, and the south has relieved the worries of Qi and Zhao, so I hope the king will consider it carefully.
King Yan said: I am like a barbarian in a backward and remote place. Even the people here are just like babies, and their words cannot lead to correct decisions.
Now, thanks to the teachings of your distinguished guest, I am willing to serve the Qin State to the west and dedicate the five cities at the foot of Mount Heng.
King Yan listened to Zhang Yi's suggestion.
Zhang Yi reported back to King Qin, but before he could reach Xianyang, King Qin Hui died and King Wu came to the throne.
King Wu disliked Zhang Yi when he was the crown prince. When he succeeded to the throne, many ministers said bad things about Zhang Yi: Zhang Yi was dishonest, inconsistent, and betrayed the country to gain favor from the king.
The State of Qin must appoint him again, for fear that he will be laughed at by the people of the world.
When the princes heard that there was a rift between Zhang Yi and King Wu, they all betrayed the Lianheng policy and resumed the Hezong alliance.
In the first year of King Wu of Qin, ministers slandered Zhang Yi day and night, and Qi State sent people to blame Zhang Yi.
Zhang Yi was afraid of being killed, so he took the opportunity to say to King Wu of Qin: I have an immature plan that I hope to dedicate to the king. King Wu said: What should I do?
He replied: For the sake of Qin's country, big changes must occur in the eastern countries, so that the king can ask other countries to cede more land.
Now, I heard that King Qi hates me very much. As long as I am in any country, he will definitely send out troops to attack it.
Therefore, I hope that if an incompetent person like me is allowed to go to the State of Wei, the State of Qi will inevitably send out troops to attack the State of Wei.
When the armies of Wei and Qi were fighting in the city and no one could return, the king took advantage of this gap to attack South Korea and invaded Sanchuan. The army marched out of Hangu Pass instead of attacking other countries, and marched directly to the capital of Zhou. The Emperor of Zhou would definitely offer sacrifices.
The king can hold the emperor hostage and master the map and household registration of the world. This is the achievement of an emperor.
The King of Qin thought what he said was right, so he prepared thirty military chariots to send Zhang Yi to the State of Wei. The King of Qi indeed sent out troops to attack the State of Wei, and King Ai of Liang was very frightened.
Zhang Yi said: Your Majesty, don't worry, I will ask Qi to stop its troops.
He sent his retainer Feng happy to the state of Chu, and then borrowed envoys from the state of Chu to go to the state of Qi. He said to King Qi: Your Majesty hates Zhang Yi very much. Despite this, your Majesty has done enough to allow Zhang Yi to rely on Qin.
King Qi said: I hate Zhang Yi. Wherever Zhang Yi is, I must send troops to attack somewhere. How can I give Zhang Yi something to rely on?
He replied: This is why the king gave Zhang Yi something to rely on.
When Zhang Yi left Qin, he originally made an agreement with the King of Qin: For the sake of the King, big changes must occur in the countries in the east so that the King can gain more land.
Now Qi State hates me very much. Whichever country I am in, he will definitely send troops to attack that country.
So I hope that if an incompetent person like me is allowed to go to Wei State, Qi State will definitely send out troops to attack Wei State. When the armies of Wei State and Qi State are fighting in the city and no one can return to the army and leave, the king will use this gap to attack South Korea and enter Sanchuan. The army will march out of Hangu Pass instead of attacking other countries and advance directly. When the troops approach the capital of Zhou, the Emperor of Zhou will definitely offer sacrifices.
The king can hold the emperor hostage and master the map and household registration of the world. This is the achievement of an emperor.
The King of Qin thought that what he said was right, so he prepared thirty military chariots and sent Zhang Yi to Wei.
Now, Zhang Yi went to Wei State, and the king indeed attacked it. This was because the king exhausted the country and attacked the countries with which he had established diplomatic relations. He established enemies extensively and brought disaster to himself, but Zhang Yi gained the trust of Qin State.
This is what I mean by giving Zhang Yi something to rely on. King Qi said: OK.
The war against Wei was ended.
Zhang Yi served as the prime minister of Wei for one year and died in Wei.
Chen Zhen is a lobbying strategist.
He and Zhang Yi served King Hui of Qin together, and they were both highly regarded and distinguished, and they competed with each other for the favor of King Qin.
Zhang Yi slandered Chen Zhen in front of the King of Qin and said: Chen Zhen freely traveled between Qin and Chu with generous gifts, and he should be working for the country's diplomacy.
Now the Chu State has not become more friendly to the Qin State but is friendly to Chen Zhen. This shows that Chen Zhen has more plans for himself and less for the king.
Moreover, Chen Zhen wanted to leave Qin and go to Chu. Why didn’t the king hear about it?
The King of Qin said to Chen Zhen: I heard that your husband wants to leave Qin and go to Chu. Is there such a thing? Chen Zhen said: Yes.
King Qin said: Zhang Yi's words are indeed credible.
Chen Zhen said: Not only Zhang Yi knew about this, but also the passers-by.
In the past Wu Zixu was loyal to his king, and all the kings in the world wanted him to be their minister. Zeng Shen was filial to his parents, and all the parents in the world wanted him to be their son.
Therefore, the slaves and concubines who were betrayed were sold before they left the alley, because they were all good slaves; the abandoned wives could still be married off in their own hometown, because they were all good women.
Now, if Chen Zhen is not loyal to his king, why does Chu think that Chen Zhen can be loyal to him?
Loyalty was abandoned. If Chen Zhen didn't go to Chu, where would he go?
King Qin thought what he said was right, so he treated him well.
Chen Zhen spent a whole year in Qin. King Qin Hui finally appointed Zhang Yi as prime minister, and Chen Zhen defected to Chu. The king of Chu did not reuse him, but sent him as an envoy to Qin.
He passed by Wei State and wanted to see Xishou, but Xishou declined and refused to see him.
Chen Zhen said, "I came here because I have something to do. If you don't see me, I have to leave. I can't wait until the next day."
Rhinoceros Head met him.
Chen Zhen said: Why do you like drinking?
Rhinoceros Head said: There is nothing to do.
Chen Zhen said: I will give you a lot to do, okay?
Rhinoceros Head said: What should I do?
Chen Zhen said: Tian needed to gather all the countries to have a blind date, but the king of Chu doubted him and did not believe him.
You said to the King of Wei: I have old friendships with the kings of Yan and Zhao. They have sent people to me many times and said: Why don’t we meet each other when we have nothing to do. I hope you will go and see our king.
Even if the King of Wei agrees to let you go, you don't need more cars. You just need to arrange thirty cars in the courtyard and publicly say that you are going to the countries of Yan and Zhao.
After hearing the news, the diplomats of Yan and Zhao hurriedly drove to report to their monarchs and sent people to greet the rhinoceros head.
When the King of Chu heard the news, he was very angry and said: Tian needs to make an appointment with me, but Xishou goes to Yan and Zhao. This is deceiving me.
The King of Chu was very angry and ignored Tian Xian's affairs.
When the Qi State heard that Xishou was heading to the north, he sent someone to entrust the country's political affairs to him, and the Xishou went to the Qi State. In this way, the affairs of the prime ministers of the three countries were all decided by the Xishou. Chen Zhen then returned to the Qin State.
South Korea and Wei were at war, and there was no reconciliation for a whole year.
King Qin Hui planned to reconcile them and asked his close associates for their opinions.
Some of the cronies on the left and right said it would be beneficial for them to reconcile, while others said it would be beneficial not to reconcile. King Hui could not make a decision on this matter.
Chen Zhen happened to return to the state of Qin. King Hui said: Sir, you left me and went to the state of Chu. Do you also miss me?
Chen Zhen replied: "Has your Majesty heard of Zhuang Fan, a native of Yue?"
King Hui said: I haven't heard of it.
Chen Zhen said: Zhuang Fan, a Yue man, became ill soon after he attained the title of Zhi Gui as an official in the State of Chu.
The King of Chu said: Zhuang Fan was originally a low-status person in the Yue Kingdom. Now he has reached the title of Zhigui and has become rich. I wonder if he still misses the Yue Kingdom?
Zhong Xie replied: Generally, people miss their hometown when they are sick. If Zhuang Xi misses the country of Yue, he will use the accent of the country of Yue when he groans. If he does not miss the country of Yue, he will use the tune of the state of Chu.
The King of Chu sent people to eavesdrop, but Zhuang Shun still spoke in the Yue accent.
Now, even if I am abandoned and run to Chu, will I lose the Qin accent? King Hui said: Well said.
Now Korea and Wei are at war, which has not been resolved for a whole year. Some people say to me that it is beneficial for them to reconcile, and some people say it is beneficial for them not to reconcile. I cannot make a decision. I hope that besides making suggestions for your monarch, you can also give me some advice.
Chen Zhen replied: Has anyone ever told the king about Bian Zhuangzi's murder of a tiger?
Zhuangzi was about to kill the tiger, but a boy in the hotel stopped him and said: Two tigers are eating cows. When they get the taste of the cow, they will definitely fight. Once they fight, the big one will be injured and the small one will die. If you chase the injured tiger and assassinate it, you will definitely gain the reputation of assassinating both tigers.
Bian Zhuang thought what he said made sense, and stood aside to wait for them. Soon, the two tigers fought. As a result, the older one was injured and the younger one died. Zhuangzi caught up with the injured tiger and killed it. As expected, he got the credit for killing both tigers.
Nowadays, the war between Han and Wei cannot be resolved for a year. This will inevitably damage the big country and perish the small country. If you pursue the injured country and attack it, this crusade will definitely gain two fruits of victory.
This is like Zhuangzi killing a tiger.
What is the difference between me advising for my king and advising for the king?
King Hui said: Well said.
Finally they were not reconciled.
As expected, the big countries were hurt and the small ones were in danger. Qin took the opportunity to send troops to attack them and defeated them. This was Chen Zhen's strategy.
Xishou was from the Yin and Jin Dynasties of the Wei State. His name is Yan and his surname is Gongsun. She has a bad relationship with Zhang Yi.
Zhang Yi went to Wei for the sake of Qin, and the king of Wei appointed Zhang Yi as prime minister.
Xishou thought it was disadvantageous for him, so he sent people to tell Han Gongshu: Zhang Yi has asked Qin and Wei to unite. He threatened: Wei will attack Nanyang, and Qin will attack Sanchuan.
The reason why King Wei valued Zhang Yi was because he wanted to obtain the land of Korea.
Besides, Nanyang in South Korea has been occupied. Why don't you entrust some political affairs to Gongsun Yan and ask him to go to the King of Wei to ask for credit? Then the exchanges between Qin and Wei will stop.
If this is the case, then Wei must seek to conquer Qin and abandon Zhang Yi, make friends with South Korea, and let Gongsun Yan serve as prime minister.
The uncle thought this was beneficial, so he entrusted political affairs to Xishou and asked him to contribute.
As expected, Xishou became the prime minister of Wei, and Zhang Yi left Wei.
Lord Yiqu came to pay homage to King Wei.
Xishou heard that Zhang Yi had become the prime minister of Qin again, and he was very jealous.
Xishou said to Mr. Yiqu: "Your country is far away. Today we are parting ways. It will be difficult to meet here again. Please allow me to tell you something."
He continued: If all the countries in the Central Plains do not unite to attack Qin, Qin will burn and plunder your country. If all the countries in the Central Plains unite to attack Qin, Qin will send lightly-armed envoys with valuable gifts to serve your country.
After that, the five kingdoms of Chu, Wei, Qi, Han, and Zhao jointly attacked Qin. Just then, Chen Zhen said to the king of Qin: Lord Yiqu is a wise monarch among the barbarian countries. It is better to give him money to appease his aspirations. King Qin said: OK.
So he presented a thousand pieces of brocade and a hundred beauties to Lord Yiqu. Lord Yiqu summoned his ministers for discussion and said, "Is this what Gongsun Yan told me?"
So he raised troops to attack Qin and defeated the Qin army under Li Bo City.
After Zhang Yi died, Xishou went to Qin to serve as prime minister.
He once wore the seals of five countries and became the leader of the Five-Nation Alliance.
Tai Shigong said: The Three Jin Dynasties produced many adaptable people. Those who advocated vertical and horizontal alliances to make Qin strong were mostly from the Three Jin Dynasties.
Zhang Yi's actions were worse than Su Qin's, but the reason why the society hates Su Qin is because he died first and Zhang Yi's publicity exposed the shortcomings of his collusive policy, which was used to echo his own ideas and promote the border policy.
All in all, these two are truly sinister people.
