At the beginning of the rise of the Han Dynasty, the bad governance of the Qin Dynasty was reversed, so that the people could recuperate and live, everything was simplified, and prohibitions and laws were greatly relaxed. The prime ministers Xiao He and Cao Shen became models for the world with their generous and quiet style of work. The people therefore compiled a "painting and a song" to praise them.
Emperor Hui ruled without doing anything, Empress Lu lived in seclusion in the palace, but the world was peaceful, the people concentrated on agricultural production, and there was a scene of plenty of food and clothing.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, customs changed again.
At that time, officials who were able to obey the law and obey the law, such as Wu Gong, the governor of Henan County, and Weng Weng, the governor of Shu County, were strict with themselves, set examples for others, acted honestly and justly, and could make the people obey and accept the influence without using coercion.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he resisted the barbarians from all directions externally and revised laws and regulations internally. As a result, the people were exhausted and internal strife and external troubles could not be prevented.
At that time, there were very few people who were famous for their education and governance. Only Dong Zhongshu, the Prime Minister of Jiangdu, Gongsun Hong and Ni Kuan, the internal historian, whose political performances are worthy of a book.
The three of them were all Confucian scholars, who were both proficient in the way of life and writing. They used Confucian thinking and methods to help themselves handle government affairs, and the emperor valued them very much.
Dong Zhongshu resigned from office many times due to illness, while Gongsun Hong and Ni Kuan fulfilled their duties as officials.
Emperor Zhao ascended the throne at a young age, and Huo Guang took charge of government affairs on his behalf. At this time, after years of war, domestic consumption was very high. Huo Guang followed this and abide by his duties without changing his previous practices.
In the Shiyuan and Yuanfeng years, the Xiongnu surrendered, and the people's lives gradually became richer, so they began to recommend talents, care about the people's sufferings, abolished the wine tax, and discussed the benefits of salt and iron.
When Emperor Xuan arrived, because he was an emperor who came from a humble background and started his family in an alley, he was well aware of the people's joys and sorrows.
After Huo Guang's death, he began to personally handle various court affairs and worked hard to govern. He went to court every five days to listen to government affairs and reported to the court in order from the prime minister to the other officials.
When officials such as governors, governors, and princes are conferred, they must be interviewed in person to understand their thoughts, and then their actions are examined to compare with their words. If the names are inconsistent with reality, the root cause must be found.
Emperor Xuan once said: The reason why the people can rest assured in agricultural production and eliminate the bad mood of worry and resentment is because the politics are peaceful and the law can uphold justice.
The only people who jointly guarantee this with me are those good county guards. He believes that county guards are the basis for managing officials and the people. Frequent changes will cause local unrest. When the people know that the selection of the prefect is very stable and cannot be deceived, they will obey his teachings.
Therefore, if the county governor is effective in governance, he will always issue letters to encourage him personally, increase his salary and give him a large sum of money, or confer a title to a marquis in Guannei. When the official position is vacant, he will be appointed in turn by those who have been commended.
For this reason, Xunliang officials emerged in endlessly in the Han Dynasty, which is known as the ZTE.
People such as Zhao Guanghan, Han Yanshou, Yin Wenggui, Yan Yannian, and Zhang Chang were all competent and conscientious in their duties, but they were punished and some even committed capital crimes.
Wang Cheng, Huang Ba, Zhu Yi, Gong Sui, Zheng Hong, Zhao Xinchen and others were prosperous when they were in office, but missed by the people after they left office. They were given honorary titles during their lifetimes, and were worshiped and remembered after their deaths. This kind of style may be the style of gentlemen who are benevolent and courteous.
Wen Weng was from Shu County, Lujiang County.
When he was young, he loved learning and was proficient in "Spring and Autumn". He was promoted to the imperial court as a county official.
In the last years of Emperor Jing's reign, Weng Weng served as the prefect of Shu County. He was tolerant and caring for the people, and liked to use political enlightenment to influence and govern the people of Shu County.
He saw that Shu County was located in a remote and remote border area and was affected by the backward customs of ethnic minorities, so he wanted to educate and inspire it in many aspects to make progress. So he selected more than ten people from the county officials who were enlightened, wise and talented, such as Uncle Zhang, to personally instruct and encourage them. , and sent them to the capital Chang'an, either to study Confucian classics with the doctors, or to learn laws and regulations from the officials; to reduce the expenses of the county and magistrates, buy the precious specialties of Shu, golden knives and cloth, and let the officials in charge of accounting books bring them with them when they report the situation to Beijing, and give them to the doctors.
A few years later, when the students who had been sent out to study returned to school, Wen Weng appointed them to high-level positions in the county, and successively recommended them to the court through inspections and other channels, and some of them became county governors or governors.
In addition, Wen Weng also established a school in Chengdu City, recruiting young children from counties outside Chengdu as students, exempting them from paying more taxes and corvee, and those with good academic performance supplemented the county officials, while those with poor academic performance served as filial piety, Litian and other township officials.
They often select young students from schools and let them help handle government affairs in the county government's side houses.
Whenever he went out to patrol various counties, Wen Weng always asked many students who were well versed in scriptures and of good conduct to go around with him to preach enlightenment policies and go in and out of county offices.
When the county officials and people saw this situation, they were very envious. Within a few years, everyone was vying to become a student in the school, so that wealthy families paid for the education.
From then on, enlightenment prevailed and the atmosphere in Shu County changed greatly. The number of people from Shu County studying in the capital is comparable to that of Qi, Lu and other places.
When Emperor Wu arrived, he ordered counties and counties to set up schools and relevant management officials. This was started by Wen Weng.
After Wen Wengshou returned to Shu County, the local officials and people built an ancestral hall for him, and offered sacrifices continuously during every year and festival.
To this day, the people in the Bashu region like elegance and are influenced by Wen Weng's teachings.
Wang Cheng, I don’t know which county he is from.
He once served as the minister of mice and was very prestigious in governing the place.
Emperor Xuan was the first to praise him. The Book of Shao issued in the third year of Dijie said: If you don't reward those who have merit and punish those who are guilty, then even the names of Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty will not be able to educate the world.
Now the Prime Minister Wang Cheng has never slackened his efforts to encourage the people, and has attracted more than 80,000 refugees. He has made special achievements in governing the place.
Wang Cheng was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and a salary of two thousand stones.
But before the time of requisition, Wang Cheng fell ill and died.
Later, he asked the prime ministers and censors to inquire about the gains and losses of the county's chief accountants, prefects, and government officials. Some reported that the former prime minister Wang Cheng had made false reports and exaggerated his own achievements in order to defraud prominent officials. As a result, mediocre officials later also used all means to pursue false fame.
Huang Ba, courtesy name Cigong, was a native of Yangxia County, Huaiyang County. His family was a wealthy gentry and moved to Yunling.
Huang Ba studied laws and regulations when he was young and liked to be an official. In the last years of Emperor Wu, he donated money as an imperial edict and was rewarded with an official position.
Later, he donated grain to Shenli County to supplement Zuo Feng Yi's official salary of 200 shi.
Because Huang Ba donated money to serve as an official, Zuo Fengyi despised him and refused to give him a high position, making him responsible for the county's money and grain access.
Huang Ba did not deceive in accounting, and after his integrity was found out, he was promoted to the chief of Hedong County, and later he was promoted to the prefect of Henan County because of his integrity.
Huang Ba is good at observation, quick thinking, and familiar with legal provisions. He is gentle and modest in dealing with others, considerate of his family, and good at uniting everyone.
When he was the prefect, he acted in accordance with the law and complied with the people's hearts. The prefect trusted him very much, and the people also respected and loved him.
Since the last years of Emperor Wu, the use of laws has become more stringent.
Emperor Zhao was still very young when he came to the throne, and the general Huo Guang assisted in the administration. Ministers fought for power and profit. Shangguan Jie and others also conspired with King Yan to cause rebellion. Huo Guang killed them. Therefore, he still abided by the laws of Emperor Wu's era and used severe punishments to restrain the ministers and people. As a result, some vulgar officials used harsh criminal laws to do their best. Huang Ba was the only one known for his tolerance and gentleness.
When Emperor Huixuan came to the throne, he was well aware that the people suffered from the harsh punishments imposed by officials when he was among the people. He also heard that Huang Ba upheld the law fairly, so he summoned Huang Ba to be the court official. Huang Ba adjudicated difficult cases several times, and the court unanimously believed that the verdict was fair.
So he temporarily served as Prime Minister Chang Shi. In a high-level meeting of ministers, Huang Ba failed to report the disrespectful words and deeds of Xia Housheng, the young minister of Changxin Palace, who criticized the emperor's edict without reporting it. Huang Ba and Xia Housheng were handed over to the Tingwei for trial. As a result, they were sentenced to death and imprisoned.
As a result, Huang Ba studied "Shang Shu" with Xia Housheng in prison. He was not released from prison until the third year after two winters. His detailed deeds can be found in "The Biography of Xiahou Sheng".
After Xia Housheng was released from prison, he became an admonishing doctor again, and asked Zuo Fengyi and Song Wei to recommend Huang Ba as a virtuous man.
Xia Housheng personally recommended Huang Ba to the emperor, and the emperor promoted Huang Ba to be the governor of Yangzhou.
Three years later, Emperor Xuan issued an edict saying: Order the censor: Huang Ba, who served as the governor of Yangzhou as a virtuous Gaodi, was appointed as the prefect of Yingchuan County. His salary was two thousand dan per month. When he took office, he was given a high cover for the car, which was allowed to be one foot high. His subordinates drove the car and the chief registrar. A mud-blocking red curtain could be hung in front of the car to show benevolence.
At that time, the emperor was concentrating on governing the world and issued Shao letters to the people many times, but some officials did not let the people know.
However, the prefect Huang Ba specially selected outstanding subordinate officials and assigned them to various places to issue the Emperor's Shao Order so that the people could know the Emperor's will. He also asked the Youting township officials to raise chickens and pigs to support the widowed and poor people.
Then, regulations and guidelines were formulated and distributed to the grassroots officials such as elders, division commanders, and corps commanders. They were then promulgated among the people to persuade the people to strictly guard against treachery and theft, to be at ease in farming and sericulture, to use goods and resources sparingly, to plant trees and raise livestock, and to get rid of flashy and extravagant waste.
The official affairs, which were as detailed as several grains of salt, seemed complicated and messy at first, but Huang Ba carried it out with all his strength.
Huang Ba would learn useful information from the words and deeds of officials and people he could meet, and ask about the ins and outs of things for reference.
Once there was a secret investigation, so an experienced and honest official was sent to investigate, and he was ordered not to reveal the secrets.
The honest official set out as he was told. On the way, he did not dare to stay in the post house. When he was hungry, he hid on the roadside and ate some food quietly. At this time, a crow flew up and snatched away the meat he was holding.
There happened to be a person among the common people who was going to report the matter to the county government. When he saw this situation, he told Huang Ba about it.
Later, the honest official came back to see Huang Ba. Huang Ba came forward to comfort him and said, "It's so hard!"
While eating on the road, crows robbed me of my meat.
The honest official was shocked, thinking that Huang Ba already knew about his daily life when he was away, so he did not dare to hide the results of the investigation that Huang Ba asked about.
If there were widowers in the county who died and had no money to bury them, the township officials would write to inform them, and Huang Ba would be able to deal with them properly, telling them that there was a big tree somewhere that could be used as coffin material, and that there was a piglet in a certain pavilion that could be used as a sacrifice. The township officials followed the order and went to get it, and it turned out to be exactly what Huang Ba said.
Huang Ba understood the situation so clearly that officials and people who didn't know the details all called him a god.
The traitors had no choice but to move to other counties, so the number of thieves in this county gradually decreased.
Huang Ba tried his best to educate and then use punishment, paying attention to perfecting and protecting his subordinate officials.
The magistrate of Xu County was old and deaf. The postal supervisor reported that Huang Ba wanted to fire him. Huang Ba said: The magistrate of Xu County is an honest official. Although he is old, he can still handle the routine functions of the officialdom such as greetings and greetings. Even if he is deaf, what does it matter?
It's better to help him properly and don't let the virtuous person down.
When someone asked him the reason, Huang Ba said: The repeated changes of officials, the expense of sending away the old and welcoming the new, and the cunning officials taking the opportunity to destroy the account books and documents and steal property, caused great public and private losses. All the expenses had to be provided by the people, and the new officials who were replaced were not necessarily virtuous, or were not as good as their predecessors, which repeatedly exacerbated chaos in vain.
In general, the principle of governing the people is not to go too far.
Huang Ba won the hearts of officials and the people with his lenient outside and bright inside. As a result, the county's household registration increased year by year, and the governance situation was ranked first in the world.
The emperor conscripted him to try to serve as Jing Zhaoyin, with a salary of two thousand dan.
Later, because he dispatched migrant workers to repair Chidao without reporting it to the court in advance, and dispatched knights to the north, which caused a situation where the army and horses could not be rationed, Huang Ba was impeached and affected the dispatch of the army, so he was demoted and demoted one after another.
Later, an edict ordered him to return to Yingchuan County as the governor, but his salary had been reduced to 800 shi. In the past eight years, Anshun has become more and more popular in the county.
During the dispatch, Phoenix Shenwu flew to various counties many times, especially in Yingchuan County.
The emperor thought this was a good omen for Huang Ba's long-term rule, so he wrote a letter of Shao to praise him: Huang Ba, the prefect of Yingchuan County, actively announced the emperor's will to the people. The people yearned for it and joined the imperial court. There were more and more filial sons, elder brothers, chaste wives, and obedient grandchildren. People working in the fields were humble to each other. People walking on the road do not pick up other people's lost belongings, support and visit the widowed and elderly, support and help the poor, and the prison has not even had a serious prisoner for eight years. The officials and the people yearn for enlightenment, and they are familiar with each other. It can be said that he is a wise man.
Isn’t it said in the Book of Books? The minister of thigh and thigh has excellent conduct!
He was granted the title of Lord Huang Bajue of Guannei, a hundred catties of gold, and a salary of two thousand.
The filial and virtuous people of Yingchuan County, as well as the three elders in the township and palace, Li Tian, ​​etc. were all awarded titles and silk pieces according to their levels.
A few months later, the imperial court recruited Huang Ba as the crown prince and tutor, and then transferred him to the imperial censor.
In the third year of Wufeng's reign, Huang Ba replaced Bingji as prime minister, became a marquis, and owned 600 households.
Huang Ba's ability was mainly to govern the people locally. When he became prime minister, he needed to coordinate and issue nationwide orders. His ability and demeanor were not as good as those of his predecessors such as Bingji, Wei Xiang, and Yu Dingguo. His political performance and reputation were also lower than when he governed the county.
At that time, a sparrow from Zhang Chang's house flew to the prime minister's house. Dong Ling thought it was a divine sparrow, so he decided to write a letter to express his auspiciousness.
So Zhang Chang played Huang Ba's book and said: The ministers saw the Prime Minister, Jiu Qing, and Doctor meeting with the officials and Shou Cheng sent by various counties to the capital to report their performance, and asked them to report one by one on their efforts to prosper the people, eliminate disadvantages, promote education, and reform. In all areas under their jurisdiction, farmers should give way to their fields, men and women should not mix together, and things lost on the road should be kept as their own if they are not picked up. Those who can name the number of dutiful sons, brothers-in-law, and chaste wives will be ranked first, and they will be allowed to sit in the hall first; those who can name some cases of dutiful sons, brothers-in-law, and chaste wives in the county, but cannot name the number, will be ranked second; if there are no rules and regulations, at the end, the chief officials and ministers of these counties should kowtow to the prime minister to apologize.
Although the Prime Minister said nothing, he actually hoped that they would do this.
While the chief officials and the officials guarding the prime minister were responding, a cuckoo bird from the house of Zhang Chang flew onto the prime minister's house. Hundreds of officials below the prime minister saw the cuckoo bird.
Most of the officials knew the bird, but when the prime minister asked them, they all pretended not to know.
The prime minister then discussed and reported to the emperor, saying: When my subordinate Huang Ba summoned the officials and Shou Cheng who came to apply for performance appraisal, about the implementation of enlightenment, the heaven showed auspiciousness and descended the divine bird.
Later, he learned that the cuckoo bird had flown from the home of his minister Zhang Chang, so he did not report it.
The officials of the county and state secretly laughed at the prime minister, although he had a reputation for being kind and wise, but he was so self-righteous that he made a fuss.
In the past, when Ji An took over as the governor of Huaiyang, he said goodbye to his colleagues and left the capital to take up his post. He said to the elder Li Xi: Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, is treacherous and deceives the emperor. If you don't report it early, once the matter is exposed, I'm afraid you will inevitably suffer the same fate as him.
Li Xi was afraid of Zhang Tang and never dared to report him.
Later, Zhang Tang's affair was exposed and he was executed. The emperor heard what Ji An said to Li Xi, so he asked about Li Xi's crime and promoted Ji An to the rank of prime minister in recognition of his loyalty.
The minister Zhang Chang did not dare to slander the prime minister, for fear that the ministers would not retaliate for the matter, and the chief officials and the prime minister were afraid of the prime minister's power. As a result, the laws were ineffective, selfishness was hidden, exaggeration became common, simplicity was lost, hypocrisy prevailed, the name was difficult to live up to, official duties were slack, and disorderly officials were rampant.
If the capital area is ordered to implement the trend of "giving boundaries, dividing roads, and not picking up roads" in advance, it will actually be counterproductive and set a hypocritical example for the world in advance, so it is definitely not feasible; even if the vassal states implement it in advance, if the trend of hypocrisy exceeds the capital, the consequences will be disastrous.
We, the Han Dynasty, eliminated evils and adopted reforms, and formulated laws and regulations in order to encourage the people to do good, to prevent theft and prohibit adultery. The articles are detailed and cannot be added or changed.
The ministers should clearly instruct the chief officials and the chief ministers, and report to the county governor when they go back. The three elders, filial sons, younger brothers, Litian, Xiaolian, and honest officials must live up to their names. Official affairs in the county should be carried out in accordance with the law, and no laws can be made without authorization. If anyone dares to use hypocrisy to gain reputation, he must first enforce the law to clarify good and evil.
The emperor accepted Zhang Chang's memorial, summoned the officials and ministers from the prefectures and counties to report the performance appraisal, and ordered his servants to report Zhang Chang's memorial.
Huang Ba was very ashamed.
Once again, Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling, was appointed as a minister as a relative and had a high reputation. Huang Ba recommended Shi Gao to be appointed as Taiwei.
The emperor ordered his minister to summon Huang Ba and question him, saying: "The post of Taiwei has been abolished for a long time, and its responsibilities are concurrently managed by the prime minister. This is to calm down military power and promote literature."
If the country is in turmoil and the borders are tight, the left and right ministers can serve as generals leading the troops.
It is your prime minister's duty to enlighten people and enlighten them, so that there will be no more unjust cases in prison and no more thieves in the local area.
Officials at the general and ministerial levels are appointed by me.
Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling in the imperial court, is my closest minister. I already know his talents well. Why would you go beyond your duties and recommend him?
The minister asked the prime minister to make a statement. Huang Ba was so ashamed that he quickly took off his hat and apologized. After a few seconds, Huang Ba was exonerated.
From then on, Huang Ba never dared to report to the emperor again.
However, since the rise of the Han Dynasty, when it comes to managing local officials and people, Huang Ba still ranks first.
Huang Ba served as prime minister for five years, and Ganlu died in three years. Mi was named Dinghou.
After Huang Ba's death, Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling, was promoted to Grand Sima. Huang Ba's son, Sihou Huang Shang, inherited the title and was appointed Captain of Guan.
When Huang Shang died, his son Zhonghou Huang Fu succeeded him, and his official rank was Weiwei Jiuqing.
When Huang Fu died, his son Huang Zhong succeeded him as marquis. It was only when Wang Mang arrived that the Huang family ceased to have nobility.
Among his descendants, there are five or six who have reached the level of county governor.
In his early years, Huang Ba Ren was traveling in Yangxia, traveling in the same car with a fortune teller. He met a young girl on the roadside. The fortune teller looked at her and said: This girl must be destined to be wealthy in the future, otherwise, the fortune teller will be invalid.
Huang Ba went over to inquire about the woman's surname, and it turned out that she was the daughter of a shaman family in the countryside.
Huang Ba married her and grew old with her.
After Huang Ba became prime minister, he moved to Duling.
Zhu Yi, whose courtesy name is Zhongqing, was born in Shu County, Lujiang County.
When he was young, he served as a stingy man in charge of hearing lawsuits and collecting taxes in Tongxiang, Shu County. He was honest and fair in his work, did not impose harsh policies, and benefited the people with a benevolent heart. He never beat or bullied the villagers. He cared for the elderly, orphans and widowed mothers, and was very kind to them. Therefore, the officials and people in his area respected and loved him.
Later, he was transferred to the post of the prefect, and he was promoted to the chief minister of Nongcheng because he was recommended as a virtuous man. Later, he was transferred to the prefect of Beihai County, and then he was promoted to the chief minister of agriculture because of his outstanding governance and conduct.
Zhu Yi is an honest man who cherishes old feelings, but he is also upright and does not show favoritism in official matters.
Therefore, the emperor valued him and the court officials also respected him.
At that time, Zhang Chang was appointed as the Prime Minister of the Miao Dynasty and wrote to Zhu Yi: The emperor today yearns for the style of ancient saints and recruits philanthropists extensively. This is really the good time that loyal ministers most yearn for.
However, I, Zhang Chang, am far away in a remote and difficult-to-govern county at this time. I am restricted by laws and regulations, and my mind is depressed, making it difficult for me to have greater ambitions.
Even if there is, where can it be used?
And with your honest and wise character, you preside over agriculture, and you are like a hungry person who uses chaff as delicacy, but in a good harvest year, you have to abandon a lot of fine food.
What is the reason for this?
Nothing more than the difference in circumstances between having and not having.
In the past, although Chen Ping was a virtuous man, he needed Wei Qian's help to make progress; although Han Xin was a genius, he had to rely on Xiao He's recommendation to gain trust.
Therefore, if all the heroes who are born at the right time must be famous like Yi Yin and Lu Wang in ancient times before being recommended, then the talents will not be appointed because of you.
Zhu Yi was deeply moved by what Zhang Chang said, so he tried his best to recommend talents and provided various help.
Zhu Yi was a minister, but his family was very frugal. He shared his salary and rewards with his elders in his hometown, but he had no extra money.
Zhu Yi passed away in the first year of Shenjue.
The emperor took pity on him, so he went down to Shao and praised him, saying: "The great minister, Zhu Yi, is honest, honest and public-minded. He does not make casual friends or accept bribes. He can be called an upright gentleman." I feel very sorry for this misfortune.
One hundred catties of gold were specially given to the son of Zhu Yi for the purpose of offering sacrifices.
When Zhu Yi was critically ill, he told his son: I was originally a minor official in Tongxiang. The local people loved me and I will be buried in Tongxiang after my death.
The descendants of future generations will not be as good as the fathers and fellows of Tongxiang in offering sacrifices to me.
After his death, his son buried him outside the west city of Tongxiang. As expected, the people built a tomb and an ancestral hall for Zhu Yi and offered sacrifices on time every year, which has never stopped to this day.
Gong Sui, whose courtesy name was Shaoqing, was a native of Pingyang County in the south of Shanyang County.
Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he went to work as an official and became a doctor in Changyi. He served Liu He, the king of Changyi.
Liu He's behavior was very unruly, while Gong Sui was loyal, strong and decisive. He was never ambiguous on important matters. He gave outspoken advice to the king internally, and supervised the Taifu and the Prime Minister externally. He always cited scriptures and stated the good and bad fortunes and gains and losses until he shed tears. He was extremely loyal.
He never flattered, and often pointed out Liu He's faults to his face, which made him unable to listen. He covered his ears and stood up and walked away, saying: "Mr. Zhongling is really embarrassing."
Liu He and all the ministers in the country did not respect him.
Liu He used to eat, drink and have fun with his servants and caterers, and gave them endless rewards. Gong Sui went to the palace to admonish him. He knelt down and burst into tears, crying softly. The people who were waiting around Liu He were moved to tears. Liu He asked: Why is Lang Zhongling crying?
Gong Sui replied: I am sad that the country is in danger!
I hope you can spare some free time and let me finish my ignorant opinion.
Liu He told the people around him to stay away, and Gong Sui asked: "Does the king know that the King of Jiaoxi did not do good things and perished?" Liu He said: I don’t know.
Gong Sui then said: I heard that the king of Jiaoxi had a courtier named Hou De who was good at flattery. The king of Jiaoxi obviously did the same as Xia Jie and Shang Zhou, but Hou De said that he was the same as Yao and Shun.
The King of Jiaoxi liked his flattery, often lived with him, and listened to his evil words, which led to his death and the country's destruction.
Now that the king is close to those villains, he will gradually become infected with their bad habits. This is a matter related to the survival of the country, so you must be cautious!
Please allow me to select some people who are proficient in Confucianism and of high moral character in Lang Palace to live with the king. We will read "Poems" and "Books" together when we sit down, and practice etiquette together immediately. This may be of some help to the king.
Liu He agreed to this suggestion.
So Gong Sui selected Zhang An and ten other people to serve him.
However, within a few days, Liu He drove them all away.
After a long time, strange phenomena occurred many times in the palace. Liu He asked Gong Sui why. Gong Sui believed that a big misfortune would happen, which was a sign that the palace would be empty. This matter is described in the "Biography of the King of Changyi".
It happened that Emperor Zhao died without a son. Liu He, king of Changyi, succeeded to the throne, and all his officials were recruited to Beijing.
Xiangguo Anle was transferred to Changle Palace Guard. Gong Sui went to see him and told him with tears: Since the king became emperor, he has become more and more proud and complacent every day. He no longer listens to the advice of others. Now he is still in mourning and observes filial piety. He drinks and hases with his relatives and officials every day. When he is not fighting tigers and leopards, he or she gathers in leather carts with nine streamers on them. They run around everywhere. What they do is contrary to the right path.
In ancient times, the legal system was lenient, and ministers could retire when they saw that the king was dishonest, but now they cannot resign. They want to pretend to be crazy and resign to avoid disaster, but they are also afraid that others will find out, and if they die, they will be laughed at by the world. What should they do?
You used to be the Emperor's Prime Minister, so you should speak out and advise!
Liu He took the throne for seventeen days, but was finally deposed by his ministers due to his debauchery and confusion.
The ministers from Changyi committed the crime of condoning the king's evil and immorality, and they were all executed. More than 200 people in total were executed. Only Gong Sui and Lieutenant Wang Yang, who had repeatedly admonished Liu He and fulfilled their certain duties, were reduced from the death penalty and sentenced to four years of hard labor in building the city.
After Liu He was deposed, Emperor Xuan ascended the throne. A few years later, famine broke out in the counties near the Bohai Sea. The hungry people rose up in rebellion one after another, and the prefect could not subdue them.
Emperor Xuan wanted to choose someone who could govern the Bohai Sea. The prime minister and the imperial censor recommended Gong Sui and considered him useful, so Emperor Xuan appointed him as the governor of the Bohai Sea.
Gong Sui was already over seventy years old at that time. When Emperor Xuan summoned him, he saw that his appearance was short and inconsistent with what he had heard. He felt a little contemptuous of him, so he asked him: "The laws and regulations in Bohai County have been weakened, and the hungry people are causing chaos. I am very worried."
What methods are you going to use to quell the thieves in the county so that I can feel at ease?
Gong Sui replied: It's just because the Bohai Sea is far away from the sea and has not been educated by the Holy Dynasty. The people there are hungry and cold, and the local officials are not considerate, so the emperor's people are forced to steal the emperor's weapons and play in the pond. It is not an intentional rebellion!
Now I don’t know whether I should suppress them or appease them?
Emperor Xuan was very happy after hearing Gong Sui's answer and replied: The purpose of choosing virtuous people is to appease the people!
Gong Sui said: "I heard that regulating the chaos of the people is like straightening the chaos of the ropes. You can't rush it." Only don't be anxious and then you can manage.
I request the Prime Minister and the Royal Censor not to restrict me with general legal provisions for the time being, and let me handle it myself according to the actual situation.
Emperor Xuan agreed, rewarded him with additional gold, and sent him to his post.
Gong Sui took a special train from the post station and arrived at the border of Bohai County. The county heard that the new governor had arrived and sent troops to greet him. Gong Sui asked all the soldiers to go back, and then issued an official document instructing the counties to withdraw all officials who were pursuing the thieves.
All those who carry hoes, sickles and other agricultural tools are considered good citizens, and officials are not allowed to pursue them; only those who carry weapons are considered thieves.
Then he drove to the government alone without his entourage. The whole county unanimously supported him, and the groups of hungry people dispersed.
There were many people in Bohai who ganged up to rob and rob on the road. After listening to Gong Sui's order, they immediately disbanded, threw away their weapons, and took sickles and hoes instead.
The thieves were all put to rest, and the people lived and worked in peace and contentment.
Gong Sui then opened a warehouse to provide relief to the poor, and selected honest officials to appease the people and allow them to live in peace and prosperity.
Gong Sui saw that the local customs in Bohai were extravagant, favored industry and commerce, and despised farming, so he personally took the lead in practicing frugality and persuaded the people to farm and grow mulberry trees. He asked everyone to plant an elm tree, a hundred scallions, fifty green onions, and a row of leeks. Each family raised two sows and five leeks.
If you find any of the people carrying swords or swords, ask them to sell their swords to buy oxen and sell their knives to buy calves, saying: "Why do you wear oxen and calves on your body?"
In spring and summer, people were urged to farm in the fields, and in autumn and winter, they were urged to harvest. They also asked every household to store more fruits, water chestnuts, gorgon seeds and the like.
Thanks to Gong Sui's inspection and encouragement, the county had savings, the officials and the people were prosperous, and there were no more lawsuits.
A few years later, Emperor Xuan sent an envoy to recall Gong Sui and discuss Cao Wangsheng's request to go with him.
Gong Cao thought that Wang Sheng had always been addicted to drinking and had no control over it, so it was inappropriate for him to follow him.
But Gong Sui couldn't bear to refuse, so he asked him to follow him to Beijing.
When Wang Sheng arrived in the capital, he just drank every day and never visited Gong Sui.
One day, Gong Sui was summoned to the palace. Wang Sheng was drunk. He followed him and shouted loudly: "Ming Mansion will stop for a moment. I have a few words to say to you."
Gong Sui turned around and asked him what he was shouting for. He said: If the emperor asks you how you manage the Bohai Sea, you must not say anything more. You should only answer: It all depends on the power of the Holy Spirit. It is not that I have any ability! , Gong Sui accepted his opinion.
Gong Sui arrived in front of Emperor Xuan. As expected, the emperor asked him about the management of the Bohai Sea, and he answered according to Wang Sheng's words.
Emperor Xuan was pleased with his humility and courtesy, and said with a smile: "Where did you learn the words of a loyal elder?"
Gong Sui took the opportunity to step forward and said, "I don't know what I should say. It was my advisor Cao Wangsheng who warned me."
Because Gong Sui was old and could not take on the important responsibilities of a minister, Emperor Xuan appointed him as the Commander-in-Chief of Shuiheng, and proposed that King Cao be appointed Shuihengcheng to express his praise and respect for Gong Sui.
Shuiheng Duwei was in charge of Shanglin Garden, responsible for the furnishings of the palaces and pavilions, and providing sacrifices for the ancestral temple. It was an official position that was close to the emperor.
Gong Sui was highly regarded by Emperor Xuan and died in office.
Zhao Xinchen, named Wengqing, was from Shouchun County, Jiujiang County.
He was appointed as a Langguan as Ming Jingjia Ke, and left the capital to serve as the county magistrate of Guyang.
Ranked first in the performance appraisal, he was transferred to Shangcai County Magistrate.
He called his trusted ministers to love the people like his own sons, and was highly praised during his tenure as an official. Later, he was promoted to the prefect of Lingling County, but he returned due to illness.
After recovering from the illness, he was recruited as an admonishing doctor and later transferred to the post of governor of Nanyang County. His governance was as good as when he was in Shangcai.
Zhao Xinchen is diligent and resourceful, likes to provide welfare for the people, and is committed to making them rich.
I personally work hard at farming, go to and from the fields, and stay in country houses. I rarely have any leisure time.
He inspected water springs in the county, presided over the opening of ditches, and erected dozens of water gates and sluices, which increased the irrigated farmland, reaching a maximum of 30,000 hectares.
The people benefited from water conservancy and irrigation, and the harvested grain was sufficient for storage.
Zhao Xinchen also formulated water regulations for the people, and engraved these regulations on stone tablets and erected them at the boundaries of the fields to prevent competition.
In addition, he also prohibited extravagance and waste during weddings and funerals, and was committed to promoting the trend of diligence and thrift.
If the children of prefecture and county officials roam freely, and if the prefecture and county officials do not regard farming as their official duties, they will all be reprimanded and dismissed from office. In serious cases, they will be brought to justice to observe the good and evil.
Through the above measures, education has been widely implemented in the county. Everyone in the county is engaged in agriculture. The people support county officials. The number of households in the county has also doubled, and the number of thieves and lawsuits has been reduced to a very small level.
Officials and people all loved Zhao Xinchen and called him Zhaofu.
The governor of Jingzhou praised the summoned ministers for their ability to seek benefits for the people, and the counties under their jurisdiction became rich, and they were given forty catties of gold.
Later, he summoned his ministers and was transferred to the post of governor of Henan. His governance performance always ranked first in the world, so his salary was increased many times and he was given gold.
During the Jingning period, Zhao Xinchen was conscripted into the Shaofu and was listed among the nine ministers. He asked the emperor not to repair and manage some distant palaces in the Shanglin area that the emperor rarely visited. He also asked the emperor to reduce the number of entertainment activities such as Yuefu Huangmen and advocating excellence, and to reduce the number of crossbows and equipment in the palaces by half.
The winter green onions and leeks grown in the Taiguan Garden had to be grown in a greenhouse, with fires burning day and night, and required warm air to grow. Zhao Xinchen believed that these did not grow naturally according to the seasons, and would be harmful to people if eaten. They were not suitable for the needs of the palace. They should be asked to stop planting them along with other crops that are not grown according to seasonal seasons. This would save tens of millions every year.
Later, he summoned his trusted ministers to die of old age while serving in office.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor issued an edict to commemorate those who had done good things for the people among the hundreds of officials and officials. Shu County appointed Wen Weng, and Jiujiang summoned trusted ministers to respond to the edict.
Every year when the time comes, the prefect of the county leads his subordinate officials to pay homage to Zhao Xinchen's tomb, and a temple is built for him in Nanyang.
