Prime Minister Chen Ping was a native of Humiao Township, Yangwu County.
Chen Ping's family was poor when he was a boy, but he loved studying. His family had 30 acres of land, and he lived with his brother Chen Bo.
Brother Chen Bo usually farmed at home, leaving Chen Ping to study abroad.
Chen Ping is tall and handsome.
Someone said to Chen Ping: How could a poor family eat and become so fat?
Chen Ping's sister-in-law was angry that Chen Ping didn't take care of the family and was not engaged in labor and production. She said: "It's just eating bran and throat vegetables. It's better to have such a brother-in-law than not."
When Uncle Chen heard these words, he divorced his wife and kicked her out of the house.
When Chen Ping grew up and it was time to marry a wife, no one from a wealthy family would marry his daughter to him, and Chen Ping felt ashamed to marry a daughter-in-law from a poor family.
After a long time, there was a rich man named Zhang Fu in Hufu. His granddaughter married five times, and each husband died. No one dared to marry her again.
Chen Ping wanted to marry her.
There was a funeral in the township. Because Chen Ping's family was poor, he went to help with the funeral. He went early and came back late to earn more money to supplement his family's income.
Zhang Fu met him at the mourning house and fell in love with the tall and burly Chen Ping; for this reason, Chen Ping left the mourning house very late.
Once, Zhang Fu followed Chen Ping to his home. The Chen family was in a remote alley near the outer city wall. They used a shabby mat as the door, but there were many wheel marks left by noble people outside the door.
After Zhang Fu returned home, he said to his son Zhang Zhong: I plan to marry my granddaughter to Chen Ping.
Zhang Zhong said: Chen Ping is poor and not engaged in productive labor. Everyone in the county laughs at what he does. Why did you marry your granddaughter to him?
Zhang Fu said: How could a man as handsome as Zhang Ping remain poor and humble for a long time?
Finally, he married his granddaughter to Chen Ping.
Because Chen Ping was poor, the Zhang family lent him money to hire him and gave him money to buy banquets to get married.
Zhang Fu warned his granddaughter: Don't serve others disrespectfully because the Chen family is poor.
Serve your elder brother Chen Bo as you serve your father, and serve your sister-in-law as you serve your mother.
After Chen Ping married a girl from the Zhang family, his wealth became increasingly abundant and his contacts became wider and wider.
Kushangli, where Chen Ping lived, worshiped the earth god. Chen Ping was the person who presided over the cutting of the meat. He distributed the sacrificial meat evenly.
The fellow villagers said: Well, the Chen family’s children are really good at cutting up sacrificial meat!
Chen Ping said: Alas, if I were allowed to rule the world, I would divide the meat like this!
After Chen Sheng raised an army, he proclaimed himself king in Chen County, sent Zhou Shi to pacify the Wei area, established Wei Jiu as the king of Wei, and fought with the Qin army in Linji.
Before that, Chen Ping had bid farewell to his brother Chen Bo and went to Linji with some young people to work under Wei Wang Jiu.
The king of Wei appointed him as his servant.
Chen Ping spoke to the King of Wei, but the King of Wei did not listen. Some people said bad things about him, so Chen Ping had no choice but to flee.
After a long time, Xiang Yu captured the land and reached the edge of the Yellow River. Chen Ping went to Xiang Yu and followed Xiang Yu into the Pass to conquer Qin. Xiang Yu gave him the title of Qing.
Xiang Yu returned eastward and proclaimed himself king in Pengcheng. The King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties and marched eastward. The King of Yin rebelled against Chu.
Xiang Yu then named Chen Ping Lord Xinwu and asked him to lead Wei Wang Jiu's men who had stayed in Chu to defeat and surrender King Yin and return in triumph.
King Xiang sent Xiang Han to appoint Chen Ping as a lieutenant and rewarded him with twenty yi of gold.
Not long after, the king of Han conquered Yin again.
King Xiang was furious and prepared to kill the generals who had conquered Yin the previous time.
Chen Ping was afraid of being killed, so he sealed the gold and official seal awarded to him by King Xiang, sent someone to return King Xiang, and escaped from the road alone with his sword.
When Chen Ping was crossing the Yellow River, the boatman saw a handsome man walking alone. He suspected that he was a fugitive general and that he must have a gold and jade weapon hidden in his waist, so he stared at Chen Ping and planned to kill him.
Chen Ping was very scared, so he took off his clothes and helped the boatman to punt the boat with his upper body naked.
The boatman saw that he had nothing, so he did not take action.
Chen Ping then went to Xiuwu and surrendered to the Han army. He asked to see the King of Han through Wei Wuwu, and the King of Han summoned him.
At this time, Shi Fen, the king of Wanshi, acted as the king's lieutenant. He took Chen Ping's name sticker and introduced Chen Ping to see the king of Han.
Chen Ping and seven others went in, and the king of Han gave them food and drink.
The king of Han said: After eating, go to the guest house to rest.
Chen Ping said: I have something important to come here, and what I want to say cannot be postponed beyond today.
So the king of Han talked with him and liked him very much. The King of Han asked: What official position did you hold in the Chu army? Chen Ping said: Become a captain.
On the same day, the King of Han appointed Chen Ping as the captain, and asked him to serve as a chariot officer and in charge of guarding the army.
All the generals made a noise and said: Your Majesty just got a deserter from Chu State a few days ago. You didn't know the level of his skills, so you rode in the same carriage with him and asked him to supervise us veteran generals!
When the King of Han heard these discussions, he favored Chen Ping even more.
The king of Han then took Chen Ping to the east to attack King Xiang.
When he arrived at Pengcheng, he was defeated by the Chu army.
The King of Han led his troops back and collected scattered soldiers along the way to Xingyang. He appointed Chen Ping as deputy general, subordinate to King Xin of Han, and stationed in Guangwu.
Zhou Bo, Guan Ying, etc. all made slanderous remarks to slander Chen Ping, saying: Although Chen Ping is a handsome man, he is just like the jade used for decoration on his hat. He may not have great talent inside.
We heard that when Chen Ping was at home, he had an affair with his sister-in-law. He couldn't find a place to work with the king of Wei, so he fled and joined the king of Chu. After joining the king of Chu, it was not compatible, so he fled again and surrendered to the king of Han.
Now the king thinks so highly of him that he becomes a high official and appoints him as a guard to supervise the army.
We heard that Chen Ping accepted money from generals, and those who gave more money received benefits, while those who gave less money encountered bad situations.
Chen Ping is a capricious and rebellious minister, and I hope the king will be aware of it.
The king of Han was suspicious of Chen Ping and summoned Wei Wuzhi to question him.
Wei Wuwu said: What I am talking about is talent, and what your Majesty is asking about is character.
Now, if there are people with the character of Wei Sheng and Xiao Yi, but it is not conducive to the victory or defeat of the war, why would Your Majesty reuse these people?
In the confrontation between Chu and Han, I recommend people who are good at making clever plans. I only care about whether his plans can really benefit the country.
As for having an affair with your sister-in-law and accepting money, what is there to be suspicious of?
The King of Han summoned Chen Ping and asked him: "My husband did something inconsistent with the King of Wei, so he went to the King of Chu to do something and left halfway." Now that you have come to follow me again, is it true that those who make promises are so half-hearted?
Chen Ping said: I was working for the King of Wei, but the King of Wei could not adopt my suggestions, so I left him to work for King Xiang.
King Xiang cannot trust people. The people he trusts and favors are either brothers from the Xiang clan or his wife's family. Even if they have talents, they cannot reuse them. Therefore, I left the King of Chu.
I heard that the king of Han can use people, so I came to join you.
I came alone and had no money to pay for my services.
If my strategy is indeed worthy of adoption, I hope your Majesty will adopt it; if it is not worthy of adoption and the money is still there, please allow me to seal it and send it back to the government, and ask your Majesty to allow me to resign.
The King of Han then apologized to Chen Ping, rewarded him generously, and appointed him as the lieutenant of the army guard to supervise all the generals.
The generals did not dare to say anything more.
Later, the Chu army stepped up its offensive, cutting off the corridors through which the Han army transported grain and grass, and besieging the Han king in Xingyang City.
After a while, the king of Han was worried about this predicament and asked for the cession of the area west of Xingyang to make peace.
King Xiang disagreed.
The King of Han said to Chen Ping: The world is in such chaos, when will it settle down?
Chen Ping said: King Xiang was courteous and caring, and most of the scholars with integrity and good manners joined him.
When it came time to reward him based on his merits and confer titles and towns, he was stingy with these titles, so the scholars no longer truly attached themselves to him.
Nowadays, the king is arrogant and lacks etiquette, and scholars with integrity do not come to join him. However, the king is willing to give people titles and houses, and those who are smooth, spineless, profit-seeking and shameless tend to join the king of Han.
If each of you can put aside the shortcomings of both sides and adopt the strengths of both sides, then with just a wave of your hand, the world will be settled.
However, the king loves to insult people at will and cannot attract honest and honest scholars.
However, there are areas where the Chu army can be disrupted. King Xiang's upright ministers like Yafu Fan Zeng, Zhongli Mei, Long Qie, and Zhou Yin are just a few.
If your Majesty is willing to spend tens of thousands of kilograms of gold to carry out counter-insurgency strategies, alienate the relationship between the kings and ministers of Chu State, and make them suspicious of each other. King Xiang is suspicious and easy to listen to slander, and they will definitely kill each other among themselves.
The Han army can take the opportunity to send troops to attack them, and they will definitely defeat the Chu army.
The King of Han thought that Chen Ping was right, so he gave Chen Ping 40,000 kilograms of gold and allowed him to use it without asking about his expenditure.
Chen Ping spent a lot of gold to create discord among the Chu army. He threatened among the generals that Zhongli Mei and others, as generals of King Xiang, had made a lot of contributions, but they could not allocate territory and become kings. They planned to join forces with the King of Han to eliminate King Xiang, divide the land of Chu, and make each of them king.
Xiang Yu became suspicious and no longer trusted Zhong Limei and others.
King Xiang had already suspected Zhong Limei and others, so he sent envoys to the Han army to find out.
The king of Han prepared a sumptuous banquet and ordered people to bring it in.
When he saw the envoy from the King of Chu, the King of Han pretended to be surprised and said: I thought it was Yafu's envoy, but it turned out to be the envoy from the King of Chu!
He also asked people to take away the wine and food, and replaced them with poor food to serve to the envoy of the King of Chu.
After the King of Chu's envoy returned, he reported the situation to King Xiang.
As expected, King Xiang was greatly suspicious of Kia's father.
Fan Zeng wanted to capture Xingyang City quickly, but King Xiang did not trust him and refused to obey.
When Fan Zeng heard that King Xiang was doubting him, he said angrily: "The major events in the world are basically settled. The king can do it himself!"
I beg to resign and return home!
Before he reached Pengcheng when he returned to his hometown, he died of a sore attack on his back.
Chen Ping then asked two thousand women to leave the east gate of Xingyang City at night. The Chu army launched an attack, and Chen Ping and the King of Han fled out of the city through the west gate of Xingyang City.
The King of Han then entered Guanzhong, collected the scattered soldiers and marched eastward again.
The next year, Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, defeated the State of Qi and proclaimed himself King of Qi. He sent an envoy to report the incident to the King of Han.
The king of Han was furious and scolded Han Xin.
Chen Ping secretly stepped on the King of Han's toes, and the King of Han also realized it, so he entertained the King of Qi's envoy generously and sent Zhang Zifang to immediately make Han Xin the King of Qi.
The king of Han granted the town of Hufu to Chen Ping.
The King of Han adopted Chen Ping's ingenious tactics and finally destroyed the Chu State.
Chen Ping once followed the King of Han as a lieutenant in the army to put down the rebellion of King Zang Tu of Yan.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, someone reported that Han Xin, the king of Chu, was planning to rebel.
Emperor Gao asked the generals, who said: Send troops quickly to bury this kid alive.
Emperor Gao remained silent.
Emperor Gao asked Chen Ping, but Chen Ping declined again and again and asked: What did the generals say?
The emperor told Chen Ping what the generals said.
Chen Ping asked: Does anyone else know about the person who wrote a letter to report Han Xin's rebellion? The emperor said: No.
Chen Ping asked: Does Han Xin himself know about this situation? The emperor said: I don’t know.
Chen Ping said: Which of your Majesty's elite troops is better than that of Chu?
The emperor said: Not as good as them.
Chen Ping asked: Is there any of your Majesty's generals who can surpass Han Xin in using troops?
The emperor said: There is no one like him.
Chen Ping said: Now your Majesty's army is not as elite as the Chu State, and the generals are not as talented as Han Xin. If you send troops to attack him, you will encourage him to fight against us. I am privately worried about your Majesty's safety.
The emperor said: What should we do?
Chen Ping said: In ancient times, the emperor visited various places and met with the princes.
There is Yunmengze in the south. Your Majesty can pretend to travel to Yunmeng and meet with the princes in Chen County.
Chen County is on the western border of Chu State. When Han Xin heard that the emperor was traveling with good intentions, he must have thought that everything was fine, so he went to the outskirts to greet his majesty.
When he came to pay his respects, His Majesty took the opportunity to capture him. This was something that only a strong man could do.
Emperor Gao thought his strategy was good, so he sent envoys to inform the princes to meet in Chen County, saying that I was about to patrol Yunmeng south.
The emperor set off immediately.
The trip had not yet arrived at Chen County, and as expected, King Han Xin of Chu greeted him on the road to the outskirts.
Emperor Gao had prepared warriors in advance. When he saw Han Xin coming, he immediately took him down, tied him up, and put him in the passenger car.
Han Xin shouted: Now that the world is at peace, I should have been cooked and killed!
Emperor Gao turned around and said to Han Xin: "Stop shouting!"
Your rebellion is already very clear!
The warrior tied Han Xin's hands behind his back.
Emperor Gao then met with the princes in Chen County and all pacified Chu.
Emperor Gao returned to Luoyang, pardoned Han Xin, conferred him the title of Marquis of Huaiyin, and cut talismans with meritorious ministers to determine rewards.
At that time, he and Chen Ping broke the talisman and wanted the Chen family to be passed down from generation to generation forever, and he was granted the title of Huyouhou.
Chen Ping declined and said: This is not my credit.
The emperor said: I adopted your master's strategy and defeated the enemy. What is the credit if it's not yours?
Chen Ping said: If it weren't for Wei Wuzhi, how could I be an official in the court?
The emperor said: It can be said that you, sir, have never forgotten your roots.
So Wei Wuwu was rewarded.
The next year, Chen Ping followed Emperor Gao as a lieutenant in the army to attack the rebel King Xin of Han in Daidi.
The Han army marched in a hurry to Pingcheng, where they were besieged by the Xiongnu and had no food for seven days.
Emperor Gao adopted Chen Ping's ingenious plan and sent people to Chanyu's Yan family to clear the way, and then he was able to relieve the siege.
After Emperor Gao escaped, the plan proposed by Chen Ping has been kept strictly confidential, and no one in the world knows the inside story.
Emperor Gao returned south and passed by Qu Ni. He climbed up the city tower and saw the large houses in the county seat. He said: "This county is so spectacular!"
I have traveled all over the world and I have only seen Luoyang and this county like this.
He turned around and asked the censor: "What is the household registration of Qu Ni?"
The censor replied: At the beginning of the Qin Dynasty, there were more than 30,000 people. During the years of war, many people fled and went into hiding. Now there are only 5,000 people.
At that time, Emperor Gao ordered the imperial censor to change the title of Chen Ping to the title of Qu Nihou, allowing him to enjoy the tax income of every household in the county, and cancel the food fiefdom of Humo Township that had been previously granted.
After that, Chen Ping followed Emperor Gao as a lieutenant in the army to conquer Chen Xi and Yingbu.
He came up with six strange strategies in total, and each time he proposed a strategy, he increased the number of fiefs, a total of six times.
Some of the strange schemes are quite secret, and no one in the world knows about them.
Emperor Gao returned with the army that defeated Tingshi. He fell ill due to trauma and slowly marched to Chang'an.
King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled, and the emperor sent Fan Kuai to lead troops to conquer him as prime minister.
After setting off, some people spoke ill of Fan Kuai.
Emperor Gao was angry and said: "Fan Kuai saw that I was sick, so he hoped that I would die."
Then he adopted Chen Ping's strategy and summoned Jianghou Zhou Bo to receive orders in front of his sickbed, saying: "Chen Ping quickly drove his chariot and horse to the station and took Zhou Bo to lead the army in place of Fan Kuai. When Chen Ping arrived in the army, he immediately beheaded Fan Kuai!"
The two accepted the order and drove quickly to the post station. They had not yet reached the army. They discussed as they walked: Fan Kuai is an old friend of Emperor Gao. He has made many contributions. He is also the husband of Empress Lu's sister Lu Huan.
We would rather imprison him and hand him over to the emperor, who will execute him himself.
Before they reached the military camp, they piled earth to build an altar and used talismans to summon Fan Kuai.
Fan Kuai accepted the order and was immediately tied up and put into a prison cart. He was sent to Chang'an from the post station. Jianghou Bo was ordered to replace Fan Kuai as a general and lead troops to pacify the rebellious counties in Yan.
When Chen Ping learned of the death of Emperor Gao when he returned, he was afraid that Lu Yanjin would slander him and Empress Lu would be angry after hearing the slander, so he hurriedly drove his carriages and horses ahead of him.
On the way, I met an envoy who ordered Chen Ping and Guan Ying to garrison Xingyang.
Chen Ping accepted the imperial edict and immediately drove to the palace. Weeping very sadly, he took the opportunity to report to Empress Lu how to deal with Fan Kuai in the mourning hall of Emperor Gao.
Empress Dowager Lu pitied Chen Ping and said: "You have worked hard, go out and have a good rest."
Chen Ping was afraid of being slandered, so he insisted on staying in the palace and serving as a guard.
Empress Dowager Lu then appointed him as Lang Zhongling and said: "Please assist and teach Emperor Xiaohui well."
After that, Lu Huan's slander had no effect.
Fan Kuai was taken to Chang'an, where he was pardoned and restored to his original title and fiefdom.
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Prime Minister Cao Shen passed away, and Wang Ling, the Marquis of Anguo, was appointed Prime Minister on the right and Chen Ping was Prime Minister on the left.
Wang Ling, originally from Peixian County, was a wealthy gentry in the county. At first, when Gaozu was in a humble position, he served Wang Ling like an elder brother.
Wang Ling lacks literary talent, is emotional, and likes to be outspoken.
When Emperor Gaozu raised troops in Pei County and entered Guanzhong and arrived in Xianyang, Wang Ling also gathered thousands of party members and stationed in Nanyang, refusing to follow Pei Gong.
When the King of Han returned to attack Xiang Ji, Wang Ling led his troops to return to the King of Han.
Xiang Yu captured Wang Ling's mother and placed her in the military camp. When Wang Ling's envoy arrived, Xiang Yu made Wang Ling's mother sit facing east, hoping to attract Wang Ling's surrender.
When Wang Ling's mother sent the envoy away in private, she cried and said: Please tell Wang Ling for me to serve the King of Han carefully.
The King of Han is a generous elder, so don’t have any second thoughts because of me.
I will die to see you off.
After saying this, he drew his sword and killed himself.
King Xiang became angry and cooked her body.
Wang Ling finally followed the King of Han to bring peace to the world.
Wang Ling had a good relationship with Yong Chi. Yong Chi was the enemy of Emperor Gao. Wang Ling had no intention of following Emperor Gao, so he was granted the title late and was named Marquis of Anguo.
An Guohou became the right prime minister. Two years later, Emperor Xiaohui died.
The Empress Dowager Lu wanted to make a member of the Lu family king, so she asked Wang Ling about it, and Wang Ling said: No.
Asked Chen Ping again, Chen Ping said: Yes.
Empress Dowager Lu was angry, so she pretended to promote Wang Ling to the emperor's tutor, but actually did not reuse Wang Ling.
Wang Ling became angry and resigned due to illness. He stayed behind closed doors and never met the emperor. He died seven years later.
After Wang Ling was dismissed from the post of prime minister, Empress Dowager Lu transferred Chen Ping to the right prime minister and appointed Piyang Hou Shenshi as the left prime minister.
Prime Minister Zuo does not have an office and often handles government affairs in the palace.
Shen Shi is also from Peixian County.
When the King of Han was defeated west of Pengcheng, the Chu army captured the King of Han's father and Empress Lu as hostages, forcing them to serve Empress Lu as retainers.
He later followed the Han army to defeat Xiang Yu and was granted the title of Marquis, and was favored by Empress Dowager Lu.
When he became the Prime Minister of Zuo and lived in the palace, all officials had to use him to decide national affairs.
Lu Yan often slandered Chen Ping many times because he had made plans for Emperor Gao to arrest Fan Kuai: Chen Ping ignored government affairs when he was prime minister, drank fine wine every day, and played with women.
After hearing this, Chen Ping started drinking and having fun more and more.
When Empress Dowager Lu heard about this, she was secretly happy.
She said to Chen Ping in front of Lu Yan: As the saying goes, "The words of children and women cannot be trusted. It depends on how you treat me."
Don't be afraid that Lu Yan will say bad things about you.
Empress Dowager Lu made a member of the Lu family king, and Chen Ping pretended to obey.
After the death of Empress Dowager Lu, Chen Ping conspired with Taiwei Zhou Bo, and finally killed all the Lu family and installed Emperor Xiaowen on the throne. Chen Ping was the main planner of this matter.
After examining the food, he was dismissed from the post of Prime Minister Zuo.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he believed that Taiwei Zhou Bo had made great contributions by personally leading troops to annihilate the Lu clan. Chen Ping wanted to give up the title of Prime Minister You to Zhou Bo, so he retired due to illness.
Emperor Xiaowen had just ascended the throne and felt that Chen Ping was strangely ill, so he went to inquire about him.
Chen Ping said: During the reign of Emperor Gaozu, Zhou Bo's contribution was not as good as mine, Chen Ping.
When it came time to annihilate the Lu family, my contribution would not be as good as Zhou Bo's.
I am willing to give up the position of Prime Minister You to Zhou Bo.
So Emperor Xiaowen appointed Jianghou Zhou Bo as Prime Minister of the Right, ranking first; Chen Ping was transferred to Prime Minister of the Left, ranking second.
Chen Ping was given a thousand pieces of gold as a reward, and three thousand households were granted food fiefs.
After a period of time, Emperor Xiaowen gradually became more familiar with national affairs. When he was interviewed by ministers, he asked Zhou Bo, the right prime minister: How many cases were judged in the country in a year?
Zhou Bo apologized and said: I don’t know.
Emperor Xiaowen asked again: How much is the country's annual expenditure on money and grain?
Zhou Bo apologized again and said he didn't know. He was so anxious that he was sweating profusely and felt ashamed that he couldn't answer.
So the emperor asked Chen Ping, Prime Minister Zuo.
Chen Ping said: There is a person in charge who is responsible.
The emperor said: Who is in charge?
Chen Ping said: If your Majesty asks about the status of the judgment case, you can ask the Tingwei; if you want to ask about the income and expenditure of money and food, you can ask the history of Zhi Su Nei.
The emperor said: If each has a person in charge, then what is it that you are in charge of?
Chen Ping apologized and said: I am truly terrified!
Your Majesty did not know that I was of low intelligence, so I reluctantly held the position of prime minister.
The position of prime minister is to assist the emperor to regulate yin and yang and comply with the four seasons, to nurture all things to grow in time, to calm the barbarians and princes externally, to care for and unite the people internally, so that the ministers and officials can fulfill their duties.
After hearing this, Emperor Xiaowen praised him for his good answer.
The Right Prime Minister Zhou Bo was greatly ashamed. After he retired from the court, he complained to Chen Ping and said: Why don't you teach me how to answer these words in normal times?
Chen Ping smiled and said: "You are in a position, don't you know your responsibilities?"
If Your Majesty asks about the number of thieves in Chang'an City, will you have to make up the numbers to answer?
At this time Jianghou Zhou Bo knew that his talents were far inferior to Chen Ping.
After a while, Jianghou Zhou Bo was ill and asked to be relieved of the post of Prime Minister You, and Chen Ping took on the entire post of Prime Minister alone.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Prime Minister Chen Ping passed away, and his posthumous title was Xianhou.
His son Gonghou Chenmai succeeded him.
Chen Mai died after reigning for two years, and his son Chen Hui, Marquis of Jian, succeeded him.
Chen Hui died in the 23rd year of his reign, and his son Chen He succeeded him.
In the twenty-third year of Chen He's reign, he committed the crime of seizing other people's wives and was sentenced to death. The feudal state was abolished.
Chen Ping once said: I often use secretive strategies, which is taboo in Taoism.
If my descendants are deposed, they will stop and will not rise again in the end. This is because I secretly accumulated a lot of troubles.
Afterwards, Chen Ping's great-grandson Chen Zhang relied on his relationship with the Wei family to hope to inherit the original title of the Chen family, but this failed in the end.
Tai Shigong said: When Prime Minister Chen Ping was young, he originally liked the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi.
As he sliced ​​the sacrificial meat on the chopping block, his ambitions were already high.
He wandered between Chu and Wei, and finally surrendered to Emperor Gao.
He often comes up with ingenious ideas to resolve numerous crises and eliminate disasters in the country.
During the reign of Empress Lu, many things happened, but Chen Ping was still able to avoid disasters, stabilize the Han Dynasty, maintain a glorious reputation throughout his life, and was called a virtuous prime minister. Isn't this a good beginning and a good end?
Without wisdom and strategy, who could achieve this?
