Meng Tian, ​​his ancestor was from Qi State.
Meng Tian's grandfather, Meng Ao, came to Qin from Qi to serve King Qin Zhao, and became a high official.
In the first year of King Zhuangxiang of Qin, Meng Ao served as the general of the Qin State, attacked South Korea, occupied Chenggao and Xingyang, and established Sanchuan County.
In the second year of King Zhuang Xiang's reign, Meng Ao attacked Zhao and captured thirty-seven cities.
In the third year of Qin Shihuang's reign, Meng Ao attacked South Korea and captured thirteen cities.
In the fifth year of the First Emperor's reign, Meng Ao attacked Wei, captured twenty cities, and established Dongjun.
In the seventh year of the First Emperor's reign, Meng Ao passed away.
Meng Ao's son was named Meng Wu, and Meng Wu's son was named Meng Tian.
Meng Tian once worked in prison litigation records and was responsible for managing relevant documents and prison litigation files.
In the 23rd year of the First Emperor of Qin, Meng Wu served as a general of the Qin State. He and Wang Jian attacked the Chu State, defeated the Chu army and killed Xiang Yan.
In the twenty-fourth year of the First Emperor's reign, Meng Wu attacked Chu State again and captured the King of Chu.
Meng Tian's younger brother is called Meng Yi.
In the twenty-sixth year of the First Emperor of Qin, Meng Tian became a general of the Qin State because of his background. He led his troops to attack the Qi State and defeated the Qi army. He was given the official position of internal history.
After the Qin State annexed the world, it sent Meng Tian to lead a huge army of 300,000 people to drive away the Rong and Di to the north and recover the land south of the Yellow River.
The Great Wall was built, taking advantage of the geographical situation, and setting up fortresses, stretching from Lintao in the west to Liaodong in the east, stretching for more than 10,000 miles.
So he crossed the Yellow River, occupied Yangshan Mountain, and extended zigzag to the north.
In the scorching sun, frost, wind and rain, I have been stationed in Shangjun for more than ten years.
At this time, Meng Tian's reputation shocked the Xiongnu.
Qin Shihuang particularly respected and admired the Meng family, trusting and appreciating their talents.
Therefore, he became close to Meng Yi and became the highest official. When he went out, he would ride in the same carriage with the First Emperor, and when he returned to the court, he would serve the king.
Meng Tian was responsible for military responsibilities outside the country, while Meng Yi often made suggestions in the court and was known as a loyal minister. Therefore, even other generals did not dare to compete with them for favor.
Zhao Gao is an estranged relative of King Zhao's family.
The Zhao Gao brothers were all castrated at birth and became eunuchs. His mother was also punished for breaking the law, so her status was low for generations.
When the King of Qin heard that Zhao Gao was very capable and proficient in criminal and prison laws, he promoted him to the post of Zhongche Mansion Order.
Zhao Gao then served his son Hu Hai privately and taught him how to decide lawsuits.
Zhao Gao committed a serious crime, and King Qin asked Meng Yi to punish him in accordance with the law.
Meng Yi did not dare to bend the law. According to the law, he should be sentenced to death and deprived of his official status.
The First Emperor pardoned Zhao Gao because of his diligence and hard work. His original official position was restored.
The First Emperor planned to tour the world, passing through Jiuyuan County and going directly to Ganquan Palace. He sent Meng Tian to open a road for him, from Jiuyuan to Ganquan, opening up the mountains and filling in the deep valleys, a total length of 1,800 miles.
However, the passage was not completed.
In the winter of the thirty-seventh year of the First Emperor's reign, the royal chariot went out on a tour of Kuaiji, leaning on the sea, heading north to Langye.
He got seriously ill halfway through, so Meng Yi turned back to pray to the gods of mountains and rivers.
Before Meng Yi could return, the First Emperor walked to the sand dunes and died. The news of the death of the First Emperor was blocked, and none of the civil and military officials knew about it.
At this time, Prime Minister Li Si, Prince Hu Hai, and Zhao Gao, the magistrate of CRRC, often served Qin Shihuang.
Zhao Gao usually received Hu Hai's favor and planned to appoint Hu Hai to inherit the throne. However, he resented Meng Yi for punishing him according to the law instead of protecting him, so he wanted to kill him.
He secretly planned with Prime Minister Li Si and Prince Hu Hai to make Hu Hai the crown prince.
After the crown prince was established, he sent envoys to fabricate charges and prepare the death penalty for Prince Fusu and Meng Tian.
After Fusu committed suicide, Mengtian became suspicious and asked for an appeal.
The envoy handed Meng Tian over to the officials in charge, and sent someone else to take over his duties.
Hu Hai used Li Si's retainers as military guards.
When the envoy came back to report, Hu Hai had heard the news of Fusu's death and immediately planned to release Meng Tian.
Zhao Gao was afraid that the Meng family would become powerful again and resented them.
Meng Yi returned after praying to the gods of the mountains and rivers. Zhao Gao took the opportunity to express his loyalty to Hu Hai and wanted to eradicate the Meng brothers, so he said to Hu Hai: I heard that the late emperor selected talents and made you the crown prince a long time ago, but Meng Yi tried to dissuade him and said: No.
If he knows that you are wise and capable and delays your registration for a long time, then he is being unfaithful and deceiving the late Emperor.
In my ignorant opinion, it is better to kill him. Hu Hai obeyed Zhao Gao's words and imprisoned Meng Yi in Daijun.
Before that, Meng Tian had been imprisoned in Yang Zhou.
After Qin Shihuang's hearse returned to Xianyang and was buried, the prince ascended the throne and became the second emperor. Zhao Gao gained the most favor and slandered the Meng family day and night, collecting their crimes, reporting and impeaching them.
Ziying advised: I heard that in the past, King Zhao Qian killed his wise minister Li Mu and appointed Yan Ju, King Yan secretly adopted Jing Ke's strategy and betrayed Qin's alliance, and King Jian of Qi killed his loyal ministers from the previous generation and adopted the strategy of later victory.
These three kings each lost their country and brought great disaster to themselves because of changing the old rules.
Now the Meng brothers are ministers and counselors of the Qin State, and the monarch intends to abandon them all at once. I think it is not allowed. I have heard that people who think about problems hastily cannot govern the country, and people who are arbitrary and self-righteous cannot protect the monarch.
Killing loyal ministers and appointing those without moral integrity will make the ministers unable to trust each other internally and weaken the fighting spirit of the soldiers externally. I think it is not allowed.
Hu Hai couldn't listen to Ziying's advice.
However, he sent Yushi Qugong to take a post to Dai County and ordered Meng Yi to say: "First of all, you wanted to appoint a prince, but you blocked it. Now the prime minister thinks that you are disloyal and your crime has implicated your family. I can't bear it, so I will grant you suicide. You are very lucky."
Think about it again and again!
Meng Yi replied: If you think that I cannot win the favor of the late Lord, then by serving as an official and a eunuch when I was young, I was able to gain favor until the late Lord passed away. It can be said that I was able to comply with the will of the late Lord.
If you think that I don't understand the prince's talents, then only the prince can accompany the late lord and travel around the world. Compared with other princes, there is a huge difference. I have no doubts.
The First Master's appointment of the prince was a result of many years of careful consideration. What else can I dare to say and what strategies can I dare to devise?
This is not an excuse for me to avoid the death penalty. I am just afraid that I will be implicated and dishonor the reputation of my late lord. I hope the doctor will seriously consider this and let me die as a result of the crime I deserve.
Moreover, the fulfillment of laws and regulations is what morality advocates; severe punishment and killing are not tolerated by morality.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin killed Sanliang of the Che family and buried him, and sentenced Baili Xi to an undeserved crime. Therefore, he was given the title of "Miao" after his death.
King Zhaoxiang killed Bai Qi, Lord Wu'an, and King Ping of Chu killed Wu She.
King Wu Fu Chai killed Wu Zixu.
These four kings all made serious mistakes and were criticized by people all over the world, thinking that their kings were unwise. Therefore, he had a bad reputation among the princely states.
Therefore, it is said: Those who govern the country with morality will not kill innocent subjects, and punishment will not be imposed on innocent people.
I hope the doctor will seriously consider it!
The envoy knew Hu Hai's intention and refused to listen to Meng Yi's complaint, so he killed him.
The second emperor sent an envoy to Yang Zhou again and ordered Meng Tian to say: "You have committed too many sins, and your brother Meng Yi has committed a serious crime and will implicate you according to the law."
Meng Tian said: From my ancestors to their descendants, it has been three generations since I accumulated great achievements and established prestige for the Qin State.
Now I lead more than 300,000 troops. Even though I am imprisoned, I am powerful enough to rebel. However, I knew that I would definitely die, but I persisted in my integrity. I did not dare to insult the teachings of my ancestors, and I did not dare to forget the grace of my late lord.
Once upon a time, King Cheng of Zhou had just ascended the throne and could not completely break away from the child's sling and cloth bag. Duke Ji Dan of Zhou carried King Cheng on his back to accept the audience of the ministers, and finally brought peace to the world.
When King Cheng's condition became serious and dangerous, Gongdan cut off his own nails and sank them into the Yellow River, praying and saying: "The king is young and ignorant. This is because I am in power. If there is any fault or disaster, I should bear the punishment."
Just write down these prayers and store them in the archives. This can be said to be very honest.
When King Cheng was able to govern the country in person, some treacherous ministers spread rumors: Duke Zhou had been planning to cause rebellion for a long time. If the king was not on guard, something big would happen.
When King Cheng heard this, he became furious and Duke Zhou fled to Chu.
King Cheng went to the archives to review the files and found Zhou Gongdan's prayer book. He shed tears and said: Who said Zhou Gongdan wanted to cause chaos!
Kill the minister who spread the rumors and caused trouble, and invite Duke Zhou to return.
Therefore, the "Book of Zhou" says: We must inquire from multiple parties and review repeatedly.
Now our Meng clan has had no two minds from generation to generation, but things ended up like this. This must be because the ministers who planned the rebellion rebelled and deceived the emperor.
King Zhou Cheng made mistakes but was able to correct his mistakes and finally made the Zhou Dynasty prosperous; Xia Jie killed Guan Longfeng, and Shang Zhou killed Prince Bigan without regrets, and finally died.
Therefore, I say that if you make mistakes, you can correct them and cheer up. If you listen to others' advice, you can be aware of them and be vigilant. These are the principles for a sage king to govern his country.
In general, the words I say are not to evade responsibility, but to die with loyal advice. I hope that Your Majesty will thoughtfully find the correct path to follow for the people of Li.
The envoy said: I accepted the order to impose punishment on the general, but I dare not report the general's words to the emperor.
Meng Tian sighed heavily and said: What crime have I committed against God that I should be executed for no fault of my own?
After a long time, he slowly said: My sin should have been punished by death.
Starting from Lintao and continuing to Liaodong, the Great Wall was built and trenches were dug for more than 10,000 miles. Is there no place where the earth's veins are cut off in the middle?
This is my sin.
So he swallowed poison and committed suicide.
Tai Shigong said: I went to the northern border and returned from the straight road. Along the way, I observed the Great Wall and frontier fortresses built by Meng Tian for the country. He excavated mountains, filled deep valleys, and connected the straight road. I originally did not pay attention to the people's manpower and material resources.
When the Qin State had just wiped out the other princes, the people of the world had not yet settled down, and the wounds had not yet healed. As a famous general, Meng Tian did not try his best to admonish and relieve the people's emergencies, provide care for the elderly, raise orphans, and devote himself to the work of making the people live a stable life. Instead, he catered to the wishes of the First Emperor and built the Great Wall on a large scale. Isn't it natural that their brothers were killed?
Where is the sin of digging up the earth's veins?
