"Book of Xia" records: Yu spent thirteen years controlling the floods, and did not enter his house when he passed by.
He traveled by car when traveling by land, by boat when traveling by water, by boat when traveling on dirt roads, and by mountaineering sedans when traveling on mountain roads to divide the boundaries of Kyushu. He dredged rivers according to the trend of the mountains and determined tax levels according to the land conditions; he built roads in Kyushu, built embankments of lakes in Kyushu, and measured the mountains of Kyushu.
However, the Yellow River overflowed and caused great harm to the Central Plains.
He regarded the management of the Yellow River as his top priority, so he guided the Yellow River water from Jishi Mountain, through Longmen, south to Huayin County, eastward through Dizhu Mountain and the bends of Mengjin and Luoshui Rivers, to Daren Mountain.
So Dayu believed that the source of the Yellow River was high and the current was turbulent, making it difficult to circulate on flat land. After several diversion attempts failed, he divided the Yellow River into two rivers to reduce the water potential.
The rivers in Kyushu have been dredged, the lakes in Kyushu have been embanked, and the various countries in China have been managed and stabilized. Their achievements have benefited the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
From then on, the water of the Yellow River was diverted from Rongyang to the southeast, forming a gap that connected the countries of Song, Zheng, Chen, Cai, Cao, and Wei, and intersected with Jishui, Rushui, Huaishui, and Swimming rivers respectively.
In the Chu region, ditches were built to connect Moshui and Yunmeng in the west, and ditches were dug to connect the Yangtze River and Huaishui in Shumian.
In Wudi, canals were opened to connect the three rivers and five lakes.
At Qidi, it connects Zi River and Jishui River.
In Shu, Li Bing, the governor of Shu, dug two rivers in Chengdu to avoid the harm of Moshui.
These canals can be used for boats, and the excess water is used for irrigation, and the people enjoy its benefits.
As for the areas where canal water passes, people often drink water to irrigate their fields. There are quite a few ditches, but they are countless.
During the reign of Wei Wenhou, Ximen Bao was the magistrate of Ye County and had a good reputation.
When King Xiang, the great grandson of Marquis Wen, was drinking with his ministers, King Xiang toasted the ministers and said: I hope all my ministers will be ministers like Ximen Bao!
Shi Qi remonstrated: "Wei's practice is to allow one man to have one hundred acres of land. Ye County alone has two hundred acres. The land here is not good."
Zhangshui is next to it, and Ximen Leopard does not know how to use it. This is not smart.
Not doing it after knowing it is unkind.
Neither benevolence nor wisdom has been achieved, so how can we imitate them?
So he appointed Shi Qi as the magistrate of Ye County, and diverted water from Zhangzhou to irrigate Ye County, making the Hanoi area of ​​Wei rich.
The people praised him and said: There is a wise magistrate in Ye County, Shi Gong, who opened the Zhang River to irrigate the areas around Ye County, so that rice can grow on the salty land since ancient times.
After that, Han heard that Qin liked to build things, so he planned to tire Qin so that it would not be able to send troops to the east.
So South Korea sent hydraulic engineer Zheng Guo to secretly lobby the Qin State, asking it to drill through the Jingshui River, build a canal from the west of Zhongshan to Hukou, follow the Beishan Mountain, and flow eastward into the Luoshui River. The total length is more than 300 miles, and it is intended to be used to irrigate farmland.
The matter was discovered during the process, and Qin Guo planned to kill Zheng Guo.
Zheng Guo said: In the beginning, the minister was a spy, but after it was completed, it was also in the interests of Qin.
I extended the fate of South Korea for a few years, but made achievements for Qin that lasted forever.
The State of Qin also thought this was the case, and finally ordered him to continue building the canal.
After the canal was built, the silted and turbid water was used to irrigate more than 40,000 hectares of salty land, so that the harvest reached one minute per mu.
As a result, the Guanzhong area became a fertile land with no disasters. As a result, the Qin State became rich and powerful, and finally annexed the princes, so the canal was named Zheng Guo Canal.
Thirty-nine years after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Yellow River burst its banks at Suizao and the Jin Dynasty in the east collapsed. So Dongjun mobilized soldiers to block the Yellow River.
Thirty-six years later, during the Yuanguang period of Emperor Xiaowu, the Yellow River broke through Guzi and flowed southeast into Juyeze, and then to the Huai River and the Swimming River.
The emperor sent Ji An and Zheng to mobilize personnel to block the breach, but it soon collapsed again.
At this time, Marquis Tian Ju of Wuzhou was the prime minister, and his town was in Lang County.
If Hexian County is north of the Yellow River, and the Yellow River flows to the south, then there will be no floods in Hexian County, and the income of Yixian County will increase.
Tian Gecko said to the emperor: The bursting of the banks of the Yangtze River and the Yellow River is God's will. It is not suitable to use human power to forcefully block the breaches. Forcibly blocking the breaches may not be in accordance with God's will.
And people who looked up at the clouds and used magic to divine fortune also thought so, so it was no longer blocked for a long time.
Zheng Zheng, who was the chief agricultural officer at the time, said that in the past, it took about six months to transport corn from the Wei River to Guandong. However, the Wei River is more than 900 miles long and there are often dangerous places.
A canal was opened from Chang'an to divert the Wei River, flowing downstream along the Nanshan Mountains. It is more than 300 miles away from the Yellow River. It is a straight road and is easy to navigate by boat. It is estimated that it will take three months; and more than 10,000 hectares of farmland that the canal water passes through can be irrigated.
This can not only reduce water transportation time and soldiers, but also make Guanzhong's farmland more fertile and obtain more food.
The emperor thought it was right, so he sent Uncle Xu, a water engineer from the state of Qi, to make a mark, and sent tens of thousands of soldiers to dig canals and canals, and they were completed in three years.
It is indeed very convenient for water transportation.
After that, water transportation gradually increased, and the people around the canal were able to benefit from irrigated fields.
Later, Fan Xi, the governor of Hedong, said: The cost of transporting grain and rice from Shandong to the west is more than one million dan per year. After going through the hardships in the Dizhu area, the damage was huge and the cost was huge.
By opening canals to divert Fen water to irrigate Pishi and Fenyin areas, and to divert Yellow River water to Fenyin and Puban areas, it is estimated that 5,000 hectares of farmland can be created.
Because this is all abandoned wasteland by the Yellow River. People graze here and now irrigate and cultivate it. It is estimated that they can get more than two million shi of grain.
These grains transported by water from the Wei River are no different from those harvested in Guanzhong, and the bottom pillars are bundled so that they can no longer be transported by water.
The emperor thought he was right, so he sent tens of thousands of soldiers to dig canals to irrigate the fields.
After a few years, the Yellow River changed its course, and the canals were no longer useful. The harvests of farmers were not enough to compensate for the grain.
Over time, all the irrigation canal and cultivated land in the east of the river were abandoned. They were given to the Yue people and the young government was ordered to earn a little rent.
After this, someone wrote a letter and planned to clear the Baoxie Road and water transportation. The emperor handed over the incident to Zhang Tang, the imperial censor.
After Zhang Tang inquired about this matter, he said that when entering Shu County from the old road, the old road had many slopes and was winding and far away.
Now the Baoxie Road has been dug with fewer slopes and is 400 miles shorter than the original distance. The Baoxue River is connected with the Mian River, and the Xie River is connected with the Wei River, so both can be transported by boat and water.
The water transport ships went up from Nanyang along the Mian River to Baoshui River. From Baoshui Landing to Xieshui River, they were transported by dry road for more than 100 miles. They were transported by vehicles and traveled under Xieshui River into Wei River.
In this way, food from the desert can be obtained. There is no restriction on food from Shandong passing through Mianshui River, which is more convenient than water transportation through the bottom pillar.
Moreover, Baoshui and Xieshui are rich in timber, bamboo and arrows, which are comparable to Bashu.
The emperor thinks it makes sense.
Zhang Tang's son Zhang Yin was made the prefect of Hanzhong and sent tens of thousands of people to dig more than 500 miles of ramps.
The road is indeed convenient and short, but the water is fast and rocky and cannot be transported by boat or water.
After that, Yan Xiong said that the people of Linjin hoped to drill through the Luoshui River to irrigate the more than 10,000 hectares of old salty land east of Chongquan.
If water can be obtained for irrigation, the yield per mu can reach ten shi.
So he dispatched 10,000 soldiers to dig canals and divert the Luoshui River from the acquired land to the foot of Yan Mountain.
The banks of the Luoshui River were prone to landslides, so wells were dug along the river, the deepest of which was more than 40 feet deep.
Wells were dug in many places, and the wells were connected to each other to allow water to pass through.
The water passes through Shangyan Mountain from underground and flows into the mountains for more than ten miles.
The birth of Jingqu started from this time.
The keel was obtained when the canal was dug, so the canal was called Longshou Canal.
This canal has been built for more than ten years, and water has been opened in many places, but it has still not benefited much.
For more than 20 years since the Yellow River burst in the Huzi area, the annual harvest has been bad due to this, especially in the Liang and Chu areas.
After the emperor enshrined Zen, he visited and offered sacrifices to the mountain! The next year there was drought and little rain.
The emperor sent Ji Ren and Guo Chang to mobilize tens of thousands of troops to block the breach of the Yellow River in the Huzi area.
After the construction, the emperor went to Wanlisha to perform sacrifices. On his way back, he went to the breach of the Yellow River in person, sank the white horse jade into the river, and ordered all the ministers from the palace to the general to carry firewood on their backs to fill the breach.
At that time, people in Dongjun burned grass and had little firewood, so they used bamboo from the Qiyuan area as a tree.
Now that the emperor had personally visited the breach of the Yellow River, he was saddened by his failure to block the river, so he composed a song:
What can I do about the Huzi River Judgment?
The mighty water may become the Yellow River.
The whole Yellow River has become uneasy, and there is no end to the river work. My mountains have already been dug.
My mountains are being leveled, the wild rivers are flowing out, the fish are not happy, and winter is approaching again.
The rivers are slack and the water is always flowing, and the dragons are galloping and they are allowed to travel far away.
The water has returned to the old river channel. God is taking care of Peixian. If you don’t come out to pray, you don’t know what’s going on outside!
I said to He Bo, why are you so unkind and the floods are endless and so depressing?
The Huai River and the swimming pool are full of mulberry trees floating in the water. I wish I could not return to my old path for a long time. I wish the water flow would slow down a little.
Another one is:
The Yellow River is soupy and the water flows quickly. The north crossing is winding and the water flow is difficult to clear.
He pulled out the sprigs of grass and stuck them in the breach, and the beautiful jade fell into the river. He Bo agreed to calm the water, but there was not enough grass.
The lack of grass is the fault of the defenders. The people have insufficient firewood to keep the water flowing. Cut down the bamboos from the Qi Garden and make them into arbors to block the stone pillars. If the defense is blocked, great blessings will come.
So the breach of the gourd was finally blocked, and a palace was built on it, named Xuanfang.
Moreover, two canals were built on the north bank of the Yellow River to divert the water flow and restore the old appearance during the time of Dayu. The Liang and Chu areas regained peace and were free from floods.
From then on, people in power rushed to talk about the benefits of building canals.
Shuofang, Xihe, Hexi, Jiuquan and other areas all divert water from the Yellow River and river valleys to irrigate farmland.
The Lingzhi, Chengguo and Zhang canals in Guanzhong diverted the rivers, Runan and Jiujiang diverted the Huai River, Shuhai diverted the Juding, and the bottom of Mount Tai diverted the Wen River. They all dug canals to irrigate the fields, each with more than 10,000 hectares.
There are countless other small canals and water channels that cut through the mountains.
From the time when the Zheng Guo Canal was dug to the sixth year of Yuanding, it had been 136 years. Ni Kuan, the internal history of Zuo, petitioned to dig six auxiliary canals to facilitate the irrigation of the high farmland in the Zheng Guo Canal area.
The emperor said: Agriculture is the foundation of the world.
The spring water irrigates and nourishes the crops.
There used to be quite a lot of famous mountains and rivers in places where internal history was concerned, but the people didn't know their benefits, so they dug ditches and raised lake embankments to prevent droughts.
Nowadays, the land lease of Naishi rice fields is very heavy. Unlike other counties, I advocate for a reduction or exemption.
Order the government and the people to devote themselves to agriculture, make full use of the potential of the land, balance water conservancy, and not cause the people to miss the time for farming.
Sixteen years later, in the second year of Taishi, Bai Gong, the middle official of Zhao State, again petitioned to open the canal.
The Jing River is diverted from the mouth of the valley, flows into Liyang, and flows into the Wei River. It is 200 miles long and irrigates more than 4,500 hectares of farmland, so the canal is called Baiqu.
When the people benefited from it, they praised it and said: Where is the field?
Chiyang and Taniguchi are the places.
Zheng Guoqu is in front and Bai Qu is in the back.
The raised radium is like clouds, and the dug canals are like rain.
There is a stone in Jingshui and several buckets of mud.
I irrigate and fertilize at the same time to make my millet grow.
The food and clothing provided to the capital amounted to hundreds of millions of people.
It refers to the richness of these two canals.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was fighting against the Xiongnu, building utilitarian forces, and there were quite a few people stating things that were beneficial to the country.
Yannian, a native of Qi, wrote to the emperor: The Yellow River originates from the Kunlun Mountains, flows through the Central Plains, and flows into the Bohai Sea. This is because its terrain is high in the northwest and low in the southeast.
You can research books, observe the terrain, order hydraulic engineers to measure the height, open a big river on the mountain top, popular among the barbarians, and flow eastward into the sea.
In this way, the Kanto region will be free of floods for a long time, and the north will not have to worry about the Xiongnu. It can save the cost of embankments and blocking breaches, save soldiers the transportation of food, and avoid the invasion of barbarian enemies, reduce the casualties of soldiers and the losses of generals, and avoid the worry of leaving corpses in the wilderness.
The reason why the world is always on guard against the Xiongnu and not worried about the Baiyue is that the water in the Baiyue area blocks them.
Once this achievement is achieved, it will be a great benefit for all generations.
After the book was written, the emperor thought his plan was great and wrote back: The plan to extend life is quite profound.
But the Yellow River was channelized by Dayu. What the saints did has become the achievements of all generations. It is connected with the gods and may be difficult to change.
Since the Xuanfang breach was blocked, the Yellow River breached again in the Guantao area in the north and branched off to form the Tunshi River. It flowed into the sea through Weijun, Qinghe, Xindu and the Bohai Sea in the northeast. It was as wide and deep as a big river, so it was allowed to take its course and no blockage occurred.
After this was opened, although the four or five counties in the northeast of Guantao often suffered from small-scale floods, the six counties south of Yanzhou had no flood worries.
During the Dijie period of Emperor Xuan, Guo Chang, the official of Guanglu, was sent to patrol the Yellow River.
The water flows slowly through Beiqiu County in three meandering places in the north.
Guo Chang was worried that the embankment would not be able to withstand the flood, so he opened another canal straight to the east and passed through Shujun to prevent it from bending northward.
After the canal was opened, the people benefited and felt safe.
In the fifth year of Yongguang reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the Yellow River burst at Lingmingdukou of Qinghe River, and the Tunshi River disappeared from then on.
In the early years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Qinghe Commandery Feng Kui reported: Qinghe County is located in the lower reaches of the Yellow River, and is bounded by water from Shu County in Yanzhou. The residents in the suburbs are particularly low-lying, and the soil is fragile and easily damaged.
The reason why there are no major disasters at present is because the Tunshi River is flowing smoothly and the two rivers are diverted.
Now the Tunshi River is blocked, and Lingmingdukou is even more unfavorable. There is only one big river shouldering the tasks of several rivers. Even if the embankments are raised, the water will not be released.
If there is continuous heavy rain and no sunshine for more than ten days, the river will definitely overflow.
Lingmingdukou is located on the eastern border of Qinghe River and is in a low position. Even if it is made unobstructed, it will not reduce the flood damage to Weijun and Qinghe River.
It's not that Dayu didn't value the power of the people, but because the terrain was high and low, he dug the Jiuhe River. Now it's hard to distinguish the traces of the Jiuhe River. The Tunshi River has been stagnant for more than 70 years. It was cut off not long ago and is easy to dredge.
In addition, the terrain where it originates is high, which can be used to divert water and reduce hydraulic pressure, making it easy to channel. It can be re-dredged to help the river divert floods in case of special circumstances.
In addition, in the middle of the Dijie year, Guo Chang dug a straight canal. Three years later, the Yellow River flow rejoined southward about six miles north of the original second bend.
Now its curved momentum is slowly passing through Danqiu County again. The people feel chilled and should reopen the canal to make the water flow eastward.
If it is not repaired, four or five counties will be harmed by the breach in the north, and more than ten counties will be harmed by the breach in the south. We will not worry about it until then. It's too late.
The matter was handed over to the Prime Minister and the Censor. The Prime Minister and the Censor said that Xu Shang, a doctor, had studied the Book of Documents and was good at calculations and could estimate costs.
Xu Shang was sent to inspect the river, and he believed that the flooding of the Tunshi River coincided with the country's lack of financial resources and manpower, so dredging could not be carried out for the time being.
Three years later, the Yellow River broke through the Jindi in Guantao and Shujun, flooding Yanzhou and Yuzhou, and entering Pingyuan, Qiancheng, Jinan and other places. A total of 32 counties in four counties were flooded, and more than 150,000 hectares of water were flooded. The depth was up to 30 feet, and nearly 40,000 official houses were damaged.
The imperial censor Yin Zhong's correct strategy was unrealistic. The emperor severely scolded him, and Yin Zhong committed suicide.
The emperor sent his chief minister Nong Fei to allocate the money and grains of Junping to the counties and counties flooded by the Yellow River burst. He sent two emissaries to recruit 500 canal boats from Henan Province, and moved the people to live on the hills to avoid the water flow. There were more than 97,000 people in total.
Wang Yanshi, the envoy of the Yellow River Embankment, was sent to block the breach. He used bamboo four feet long and nine feet in diameter, filled with small stones, and thrown into the river between two boats.
In thirty-six days, the Yellow River embankment was formed.
The emperor said: The Yellow River in Shujun burst and drifted to Erzhou. The school captain Wang Yanshi built an embankment and it was completed in the thirtieth year.
It is decreed that five years will be the first year of Heping.
Among the soldiers who controlled the Yellow River, they were ordered to serve as border guards for six months.
Only Wang Yanshi was good at strategizing and planning, and he was very economical in achieving his achievements, using less energy and less time. I appreciate this very much.
Wang Yanshi was specially appointed as Guanglu doctor, received a salary of two thousand dan, was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and was rewarded with a hundred catties of gold.
Two years later, the Yellow River broke through the plain again and flowed into Jinan and Qiancheng. The damage was more than half of what it was at the beginning of Jianjian. The emperor sent Wang Yanshi to control Tonghui.
Si Fu persuaded General Gong Huang, thinking that the previous time the Yellow River burst, Prime Minister Shi Yang Yan said that Wang Yanshi used the method provided by Yang Yan to block the breach, and this matter was hidden and refused to be exposed.
Wang Yanshi is now the sole president. Wang Yanshi saw that it was easy to block the breach last time. I am afraid that he will not think deeply about the problem.
And as Yang Yan said, Wang Yanshi's skills were not as good as Yang Yan's.
Moreover, water potentials vary from person to person, and if one person is used without discussing the pros and cons extensively, if it does not succeed this winter, there will be a lot of water when the peach blossoms are in bloom next spring, and it will definitely flood, and there will be dangers of being filled with silt and causing the soil to return.
If this is the case, grain seeds in several counties will not be planted, the people will be displaced, and thieves will appear. Even if Wang Yanshi is killed again, it will not be helpful.
Yang Yan, the general minister Xu Shang, and the admonishing doctor should be dispatched to ride on horseback and participate together.
Wang Yanshi and Yang Yan will definitely undermine each other. It is really difficult to discuss their interests in depth.
Xu Shang and Cheng Ma Yannian both know how to calculate and estimate benefits, and are able to distinguish right from wrong. If they choose what they are right to adopt, they will definitely succeed.
Wang Feng listened to Du Qin and told the emperor to send Yang Yan and others to control the river. They succeeded within six months.
The emperor also gave Wang Yanshi a hundred catties of gold. The soldiers who regulated the Yellow River refused to accept the lower price, so they recorded that they had served for six months on the border.
Nine years later, in the fourth year of Hongjia, Yang Yan said that people from the upper reaches to the lower reaches of the Yellow River were worried about the collapse of the embankments in the Dizhu area, and they could dig mountains to widen the river surface.
The emperor listened to his words and sent Yang Yan to be responsible for chiseling the mountain.
The stones used to cut the mountain are buried in the water and cannot flow away. Instead, it makes the water more turbulent and causes greater harm than before.
This year, the Yellow River in Bohai, Qinghe, and Xindu overflowed, submerging 31 counties and cities, and damaging more than 40,000 official pavilions and private houses.
Xu Shang, the captain of the Yellow River Embankment, patrolled with Prime Minister Shi Sunjin and planned strategies.
Sun Jin believes that the current flooding of the Yellow River is several times more serious than the last time it burst in the plains.
Nowadays, a large river can be opened in the Jindi area of ​​​​Pingyuan, so that the river water can flow into the former Tuma River.
It is more than 500 miles to the sea, and the waterway is unimpeded. It can also dry out the water in the three counties and gain nearly 200,000 hectares of fertile land, which is enough to compensate for the damage to the people's fields and houses caused by the opening of the river. It also saves the officers and soldiers to man the embankments and rescue water, which can reach more than 30,000 people a year.
Xu Shang believes that in ancient legends, the names of Jiuhe include Tuhai, Husu and Kejin, which can now be seen in Chengping, Shuguang and Kedi.
The distance from the north of Lijin to Tuhai is more than two hundred miles. Although the current Yellow River has moved several times, it has not left this area.
The place Sun Jin wanted to dig was in the Duma River south of Jiuhe River. There was no water flow route and the terrain was flat. It would be silted up and cut off when there was drought, and it would collapse when there was a lot of water. It was not advisable.
The ministers all agreed with Xu Shang.
Before this, Gu Yong believed that the Yellow River was the main river in the Central Plains. When the sage kings rose, pictures and books were produced, but when the king's way disappeared, the water dried up.
Now the river has collapsed and flowed across, submerging the tomb house. This is the biggest weird thing.
Modify politics to respond to it, and the catastrophe can be eliminated naturally.
At this time, Li Xun and Jie Guang also said that when Yin Qi is strong, water will rise. Therefore, during the day, the water decreases during the day and increases at night. The rivers are overflowing. The so-called water does not nourish low places, although it is often in low places. It is like the sun and the moon changing during the synodic period. It is understood that the way of heaven moves for a reason.
When everyone saw that Wang Yanshi had received a heavy reward, they all came up with simple and cunning strategies, but they could not be used.
The people who proposed it often wanted to explore the old traces of Jiuhe and dig it out. Now let it flow by itself, and leave it unblocked for the time being to observe the water flow.
If the water of the Yellow River wants to flow through it, it should gradually form a river, jump out of the sand, and then follow the will of God. It will definitely succeed and cost little money and resources.
So it stopped without blocking.
Man Lu, Shi Dan and others expressed their pity for the people several times, and the emperor sent envoys several times to appease the people and provide relief.
In the early years of Emperor Ai, Pingdang was ordered to manage the embankments of the Yellow River. He wrote in a memorial: All the nine rivers have been silted up now. To manage the river water according to the meaning of the scriptures, there are rivers for drainage and large rivers for dredging, but there is no text about embankments and siltation.
The Yellow River flows from Wei County to the east. There are many breaches caused by water overflow in the north, and the traces of the water flow are difficult to distinguish.
The people all over the world cannot be deceived, and people who can dredge rivers should be widely solicited.
The emperor handed over the matter to Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Hewu, and asked the governor, Sanfu, Sanhe and Hongnong to recommend people among the officials and the people who could manage the river. No one responded to the call.
Waiting for the imperial edict, Mairang went to the memorial and said:
There are three strategies to manage the Yellow River: upper, middle and lower.
In ancient times, when establishing a country, stabilizing the people, and dividing the land, it was necessary to leave behind the distribution of rivers and lakes, and to estimate the places that the water potential could not reach.
The big river is unprepared, and small water can enter, and the water bank is low, becoming a stagnant lake. If there is a lot of water in autumn, the water must be allowed to stay, and the water waves sway left and right, calmly and leisurely without being urgent.
The land has rivers, just like people have mouths.
Managing the land and guarding against the rivers is like stopping the crying of a child and blocking his mouth. Wouldn't it stop immediately, but his death can also be waited for immediately?
Therefore, it is said: Those who are good at managing rivers should open the mouth of the river so that it can be channeled; those who are good at managing people should let them speak freely.
Probably the construction of embankments started during the Warring States Period, blocking hundreds of rivers, each for its own benefit.
Qi State, Tang State and Wei State took the Yellow River as their boundary.
The states of Zhao and Wei were close to the mountains, and the state of Qi was located in a low terrain. The embankment they built was twenty-five miles away from the Yellow River.
When the water of the Yellow River reaches the embankment of Qi State in the east, it will flood the land of Fang and Wei in the west. Fang and Wei also built embankments twenty-five miles away from the Yellow River.
Although this is not quite right, water still has some room for maneuver.
Sometimes the water would recede as soon as it arrived, leaving the land filled with silt to become quite fertile, and the people would clear up wasteland and farm.
Sometimes there are no disasters for a long time, and people gradually build houses here, forming villages.
When the flood came and they were submerged, they built dikes to save themselves. They left their city a little bit, drained the water, and lived there. The water sank just right.
Now the narrow part of the embankment is only a few hundred steps away from the water, and it is several miles away.
Close to the former Dajin Embankment in the south of Liyang, it winds from the west of the Yellow River to the northwest. After reaching the south end of Xishan Mountain, it turns east and connects with Dongshan Mountain.
People lived on the east side of Jindi and built houses. Often the embankment would be rebuilt after more than ten years, starting from the south end of Shushan Mountain and going straight south to join the old embankment.
In addition, there is a lake in Neihuang, with a radius of dozens of miles, and a dike surrounding the lake. Often after more than ten years, the prefect will allocate part of the land to the people, and the people are now building houses in it. This is what I have seen with my own eyes.
There are also several old dykes in Baima, Shujun, and the people live in them.
After walking north from Liyang to the Wei border, the old embankment is dozens of miles away from the Yellow River, and there are several embankments on the surface, all of which were built by the previous generation.
The Yellow River forms a stone embankment from Hanoi to the north to Liyang, and the water hits the stone to make it reach Pinggang in Shujun in the east. It also builds a stone embankment to make the water flow northwest to Liyang and Guanxian County. It builds a stone embankment to make the water flow to the northeast and reaches the north of Shujun Ferry. It builds a stone embankment to make it go northwest to Zhaoyang in Weijun. It also builds a stone embankment to make the water flow to the northeast.
For more than a hundred miles, the Yellow River turned west twice and three times east. It was so winding that it was impossible to rest.
If we implement the best strategy now, we should relocate the people in the Jizhou area where the water flow is important, open the breach of Liyang Zhahu Pavilion, and let the water of the Yellow River flow northward into the sea.
The Yellow River faces mountains to the west and Jindi to the east and west. Judging from the situation, it will not flood for a long time and will naturally stabilize after a full month. Those who criticize will say: If this is done, tens of thousands of tombs in the city's fields and houses will be damaged, and the people will be resentful.
In the past, when Dayu controlled the floods, he destroyed the mountains and tombs that blocked the waterway. Therefore, he dug out the dragon gates, opened up the Yique, split the bottom pillars, and broke the jieshi, destroying the characteristics of the heaven and the earth.
This is formed by human skill, so what is there to say!
The ten counties close to the Yellow River now spend nearly 100 million yuan on embankment control. As for the large breaches, the damage caused is countless.
If we spend several years managing the Yellow River to resettle the relocated people, we should follow the methods of ancient sages to determine the location of mountains and rivers so that gods and humans can stay in their own places without disturbing each other.
Moreover, the Han Dynasty had just ruled the country thousands of miles away, how could it compete with water for land within a stone’s throw?
Once this achievement is established, the Yellow River will be stable, the people will be at peace, and they will have no worries for thousands of years, so it is called the best policy.
If more canals are dug in the Jizhou area so that the people can use them to irrigate farmland and share the rapid flow of water, even if it is not the method of a saint, it is still a tactic to save failure.
Those who challenge will say: The water level of the Yellow River is higher than the level of the plains, and the embankments are added every year. If they are breached, no more canals can be opened.
I privately inspected the area eighteen miles west of Zhahu Pavilion. When I reached the mouth of Qishui River, there was a golden embankment, one foot high.
From Zao to the east, the terrain gradually becomes lower and the embankment becomes higher, reaching the Zhaha Pavilion, which is four or five feet high.
Six or seven years ago, the Yellow River was so strong that it rose to a height of one to seven feet. It destroyed the city gate in the south of Liyang and the water flowed down the embankment.
The water had not crossed more than two feet below the embankment. Looking north from the embankment, I saw that the Yellow River was higher than the houses, and the people ran to the mountains.
The water stayed for thirteen days, the embankment collapsed, and the officials and the people blocked it.
I walked upstream along the embankment to check the water situation. I walked south for more than ten miles and reached Qikou. The water only reached half of the embankment and was estimated to be about five feet above the ground.
Now we can build stone embankments from the east of Qikou and open more water gates.
In the early Yuan Dynasty, Zhaha Pavilion was lower than the Yellow River and dozens of steps away from the embankment. It has been more than 40 years since it reached the foot of the embankment.
In this sense, this place is solid.
I'm afraid those who are talking about it will doubt that the Yellow River is a big river that is difficult to control. The canal in Rongyang is enough to prove that this sluice uses only wood and earth. Now it will be very safe to build a stone embankment based on a solid foundation.
All water canals in Jizhou area rely on this water gate.
The construction of the canal does not involve digging the ground. It only builds an embankment in the east. It goes north for more than 300 miles and flows into the Zhang River. The west side of the canal is highland because the foot of the mountain is high, so each canal often diverts water separately. When there is a drought, the sluices in the eastern lowlands are opened to irrigate Jizhou. When there are floods, the sluices in the western highlands are opened to divert the water.
There are three benefits to opening water canals, and there are three harms to not opening water canals.
People often struggle to save water and basically lose production; when water flows to the ground and the accumulated water evaporates, people will get rheumatism, and trees will quickly wither, forming saline-alkali land where millet cannot grow; river mouths burst and become food for fish and turtles: these are three hazards.
If there is canal water for irrigation, then the saline and alkaline soil will sink, and the silt will be filled to increase fertilizer; therefore, wheat and japonica rice are planted, and the yield is five times higher than that of high-yielding fields and ten times higher than that of low-yielding fields; it is conducive to the convenience of water transportation ships: these are three conveniences.
Now there are thousands of officers and soldiers near the embankment of the Yellow River, and the cost of cutting firewood and buying stones is tens of millions a year. These expenses are enough to open canals and build sluices. In addition, when the people get the benefits of irrigation, they will rush to open canals, and they will not feel tired even if they are tired.
The people's farmland has been managed, and the banks of the Yellow River have been built. This has made the country prosperous and peaceful, bringing benefits and eliminating harm, and can last for hundreds of years, so it is called Zhongce.
If we just repair the old embankment, fill up the low land, and thicken the thin areas, the labor and cost will be endless, and we will be repeatedly harmed by it. This is the worst strategy.
During Wang Mang's reign, he recruited more than a hundred people who could manage the Yellow River. Among them, the most prominent one was Changshui Colonel Wei Pinglingguan. He said: The Yellow River breaches are usually found in plains and around Shujun. Its terrain is low and the soil is loose.
I heard that when Dayu was regulating the Yellow River, he originally passed through this place. He thought that there was a lot of water in it.
It is difficult to identify the ancient times. Recent observations since the Qin and Han dynasties show that the Yellow River bursts in the Cao and Wei areas, and the distance between the north and the south is no more than 180 miles. This place can be left vacant and no official pavilions or houses should be built.
Zhang Rong of Da Sima Shi Chang'an said: The nature of water is to move toward lowlands. If it travels quickly, it will naturally scrape away the soil and form an open space that will gradually deepen.
The water in the Yellow River is quite turbid. It is said that one stone of water contains six buckets of mud.
Now in all counties in the west, as well as in the capital, people use water from the Yellow River, Wei River, and mountains to irrigate their farmland.
Spring and summer are dry, when there is less water, so the Yellow River flows slowly, silts out and gradually becomes shallower; when it rains more, water rushes in crazily, causing it to burst.
And the country blocked the breach several times and gradually became higher than the ground, just like building a low wall and living in the water.
You can each obey their circumstances and don't use them for irrigation, which will cause hundreds! If it flows smoothly, the waterway will naturally be smooth, and there will be no danger of the river bursting.
Han Mu of Linhuai, the imperial censor, said: It can be dug roughly according to the location of the nine rivers in "Yu Gong". Even if it cannot be dug into nine, as long as it can be dug into four or five, it will be beneficial.
Wang Heng, the Great Sikong Dynasty, said: The Yellow River flows into Bohai, and the terrain of Bohai is higher than where Han Mu planned to dig.
In the past, it rained continuously and the wind blew from the northeast. The sea water overflowed and surged out to the southwest, submerging hundreds of miles of land. The area of ​​Jiuhe has been swallowed up by the sea.
The water of the Yellow River flowed by Dayu originally followed the mountains to the west and flowed down to the northeast.
"Book of Zhou" records that the Yellow River shifted its position in the fifth year of King Ding, so the place where it is now popular was not dug by Dayu.
In addition, Qin State attacked Wei State and broke through the Yellow River, flooding the capital of Wei State. The breach gradually increased and could no longer be repaired.
It should be returned to the original completely flat area and re-excavated so that the river water can reach the high ground along the west mountain and flow northeast to the sea, so that there will be no floods.
Huan Tan of Peijun was Sikong Tu and was in charge of their suggestions. He said to Zhen Feng: One of these suggestions must be right.
It should be carefully examined, and most of them can be foreseen. Work will be carried out after the plan is finalized, and the cost will only be a few hundred million. You can also hire people who are freeloaders and have no industry.
You can save housing and labor, and use your power as food and clothing; ask the government for food and clothing, and the government will provide it for them. This is convenient in both aspects. You can inherit the achievements of Dayu upwards and eliminate the sufferings of the people downwards.
During the reign of Wang Mang, people had no choice but to talk empty words without anyone implementing them.
Praise: The ancients once said: Without the contribution of Dayu, we would all have become fish!
There are hundreds of rivers and plains in China, and none is more famous than Sidu, among which the Yellow River is the suzerain.
Confucius said: Listening more and remembering carefully are secondary aspects of seeking knowledge.
Water is a national interest, so its ins and outs must be discussed in detail.
