The First Emperor of Qin was the son of King Zhuangxiang of Qin.
When King Zhuang Xiang was a hostage of Qin in Zhao, he saw Lu Buwei's concubine and liked her very much, so he married her and gave birth to the first emperor.
The First Emperor was born in Handan in the first month of the forty-eighth year of King Zhao of Qin.
When he was born, he was named Zheng and his surname was Zhao.
At the age of thirteen, King Zhuang Xiang died, and Zheng succeeded him as King of Qin.
At that time, the Qin State had annexed Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, crossed Wan, occupied Ying, and established Nanjun; went north to the east of Shangjun, and occupied Hedong, Taiyuan, and Shangdang counties; east to Rongyang, eliminated the Western Zhou and Eastern Zhou Dynasties, and established Sanchuan County.
Lu Buwei became prime minister, granted a fief of 100,000 households, and was named Marquis Wenxin.
Recruiting guests and tourists, intending to annex the world.
Li Si was Shiren, and Meng Ao, Wang Jue, Hegong and others were generals.
The King of Qin was young and in the early days of his accession to the throne, state affairs were left to the ministers.
Jinyang rebelled, and in the first year of Qin Wangzheng's reign, General Meng Ao put down the rebellion.
In the second year, Duke He led his army to attack Juanyi and killed 30,000 people.
In three years, Meng Ao attacked South Korea and captured thirteen cities.
Wang Ye is dead.
In the tenth month, General Meng Ao attacked Wei's Yi and Yougui.
This year the food harvest failed.
In four years, he conquered Yi and Yougui.
In March, the troops were withdrawn.
The hostages of Qin returned from Zhao, and the prince of Zhao left Qin and returned to Zhao.
In October Gengyin, locusts flew from the east and covered the sky.
Plague in the world.
The common people paid a thousand stones of corn to pay one level of nobility.
In the fifth year, General Meng Ao attacked the Wei State and pacified the cities of Suanzao, Yanyi, Xuyi, Changping, Yongqiu, and Shanyang. They all conquered them by force, and captured twenty cities in total.
Start setting up East County.
Thunder in winter.
In six years, South Korea, Wei, Zhao, Wei, and Chu attacked Qin together and captured Shouling.
Qin sent troops, and the armies of the five countries withdrew.
The Qin State conquered the Wei State and invaded Dongjun. Wei Junjiao led his relatives to move to Yewang, relying on the mountain dangers to defend the Hanoi area within the Wei State.
In seven years, the comet first appeared in the east. Appeared again in the north. Appears in the West in May.
General Meng Ao died.
It was because he attacked Longyi, Guyi and Qingdu, and then returned to attack Jiyi.
The comet appeared in the west for another sixteen days.
Queen Mother Xia is dead.
In the eighth year, Zhao Chengyu, the younger brother of King Zhao Zheng of Qin, led an army to attack Zhao. Tunliu rebelled. As a result, all his officers were killed and the people there were moved to Lintao.
The general who came to attack Cheng Xi died, and the soldier Pu Hao who stayed in the camp rebelled again and died in battle. After his death, he was tortured by whipping his body.
Fish from the Yellow River rushed to the shore in large numbers, and people drove carriages to the east to find food.
Lao Ai was granted the title of Marquis Changxin.
Give him the Shanyang region to live in.
There are no restrictions on Lao Ai in terms of palaces, carriages and horses, clothing, gardens, and hunting.
All matters, big or small, are decided by Lao Ai.
Hexi and Taiyuan counties were also changed into feudal states of Lao Ai.
In the ninth year, a comet appeared, sometimes shining brightly into the sky.
Attack Yuanyi and Puyang of Wei State.
In April, King Qin stayed in Yongdi.
In Jiyou, the King of Qin held a crown ceremony and wore a sword.
The conspiracy of Changxin Hou Lao Ai to cause rebellion was discovered, so she fraudulently used the seals of the King of Qin and the Queen Mother to mobilize the army and guards of the county, national cavalry, Rong Zhai leaders, and She people, planning to attack Qinian Palace and launch a rebellion.
When the King of Qin learned of the news, he sent his prime ministers Changping Jun and Changwen Jun to mobilize soldiers to attack Lao'ai.
In the battle at Xianyang, hundreds of people were killed and all received titles. Eunuchs who participated in the battle also received first-class titles.
Lao Ai and others were defeated and fled.
The King of Qin then issued an order throughout the country: Anyone who captured Lao Ai alive would be rewarded one million; anyone who killed Lao Ai would be rewarded five hundred thousand.
Lao Ai and others were all captured.
Twenty people, including Wei Wei Jie, Nei Shisi, Zuo Yi Jie, and Zhongda Fu Ling Qi, were all beheaded and hung.
They also cut their bodies into pieces and paraded them around, wiping out their clans.
Lao Ai's family members were punished for minor crimes by serving as ghost slaves.
More than 4,000 people who had their titles removed and moved to Shu lived in Fangling.
It's so cold this month that some people freeze to death.
Yang Duanhe attacked Yanshi.
The comet appeared in the west and then in the north, following the Beidou as it moved southward for eighty days.
Ten years later, the Prime Minister Lu Buwei was convicted of Lao Ai's involvement and was removed from the post of Prime Minister.
Huan  was made general.
The envoys from Qi and Zhao came to prepare a banquet with wine.
Mao Jiao, a native of Qi State, advised the King of Qin: The State of Qin is taking running the world as its own responsibility, and the King has the reputation of banishing his mother and the Queen Mother. I am afraid that the princes of various countries will hear about this and rebel against the State of Qin.
The King of Qin went to Yongdi to welcome the Queen Mother, returned to Xianyang, and asked her to live in Ganquan Palace again.
The King of Qin carried out large-scale raids and expelled guests from the vassal states. Li Si wrote a letter to dissuade him, and the King of Qin revoked the order to expel the guests.
He took the opportunity to advise King Qin. He first conquered Korea and made other vassal states fearful. So King Qin sent Li Si to attack South Korea.
The King of Han was very worried and discussed with Han Fei to weaken Qin's power.
Wei Liao, a native of Daliang, came to Qin and advised the king of Qin: With the great power of Qin, the princes are like the monarchs of a county. But I am worried that the princes will unite and attack Qin by surprise. This is why Zhibo, Fucha and King Min perished.
I hope that the king will not be stingy with money, bribe their powerful ministers, and destroy their plans. The loss will only be 300,000 catties of gold, and all the princes will be wiped out.
The King of Qin followed his advice and treated Wei Liao with equal etiquette every time he met with him. His clothes and food were also the same as Wei Liao's.
Wei Liao said: King Qin has a high nose, slender eyes, a chest like a bird of prey, and a voice like a jackal. He is mean and ungrateful, and his heart is like a tiger or a wolf. He is prone to humility when he is in poverty, and he is easy to devour others when he is successful.
I am a commoner, but when they receive me, they are often willing to be inferior to me.
If King Qin succeeds in conquering the world, everyone in the world will become his captives.
I can't get along with him for a long time.
Wei Liao ran away.
The King of Qin found out and firmly retained him, making him a captain of the Qin State, and finally adopted his strategy.
At this time, Li Si was in charge of the government.
In the eleventh year, Wang Jian, Huan , and Yang Duanhe attacked Ye Yi and captured nine cities.
Wang Jian attacked Dinglanyu and Puyang, and combined all the soldiers into one army.
Wang Jian took command of the entire army. After eighteen days, he deported the useless personnel in the army who were below the level of fighting, and elected two out of ten people to join the army. Huan  led the troops to capture Yeyi and Puyang.
In the twelfth year, Wenxinhou Lu Buwei died and was buried privately.
If Lu Buwei's family members come to mourn, if they are Jin people, they will be expelled; if they are Qin people, those with a salary of more than 600 shi will have their title removed and moved away from their old residence. If no one comes to mourn him with a salary of less than 500 shi, they will also move away from their old residence without losing their title.
From then on, those who govern the country's political affairs, like Lao Ai and Lu Buwei, are rebellious and unruly, and their whole family will be confiscated, and they will be dealt with in this way.
In autumn, Lao'ai's family members who were supposed to move to Shu were pardoned.
At that time, there was a severe drought for six months, and it didn't rain until August.
In the thirteenth year, Huan  attacked Pingyang of the State of Zhao, killed the general of the State of Zhao, Hu Zou, and beheaded 100,000 people.
King Zhao fled to Henan.
In the first month of the year, comets appear in the east.
In October, Huan  attacked Zhao.
In the fourteenth year, he attacked the Zhao army in Pingyang, captured Yi'an, defeated the Zhao army and killed its general.
Huan  pacified Pingyang and Wucheng.
Han Fei went to Qin as an envoy, and Qin adopted Li Si's plan and detained Han Fei in Qin. Han Fei died in Yunyang.
The King of Han requested to be a vassal of Qin.
In the fifteenth year, the State of Qin sent out a large number of troops. One army arrived in Yeyi and another army arrived in Taiyuan and captured Langmeng.
An earthquake occurs.
In September of the 16th year, troops were sent to take over the Nanyang area of ​​South Korea, and Teng temporarily acted as the county governor.
Men were ordered to register their age.
Wei State donated land to Qin State.
Qin established Liyi.
In the seventeenth year, Neishiteng attacked South Korea, captured Han Wangan, annexed all South Korean territory, and set up a county in its territory, named Yingchuan.
An earthquake occurs.
Queen Mother Huayang died.
The people suffered from severe famine.
In the eighteenth year, a large number of troops were sent to attack the State of Zhao. Wang Jian led the soldiers from Shangdi to capture Jingxing. Yang Duanhe led the Hanoi soldiers, Qiang Yu also led his army to attack Zhao, and Yang Duanhe besieged Handan City.
In the 19th year, Wang Jian and Qiang You all captured and pacified the Dongyang area of ​​​​Zhao and captured the king of Zhao.
He led his troops to prepare to attack Yan State and stationed his troops in Zhongshan.
When the King of Qin came to Handan, he killed all those who had a grudge against his mother's family when he was born in the State of Zhao.
The King of Qin returned to Qin from Taiyuan and Shangjun.
The Empress Dowager, the mother of the First Emperor, passed away.
Prince Jia of the State of Zhao led several hundred people from his clan to Dai, proclaimed himself King of Dai, and united with the army of the State of Yan eastward, stationed in Shanggu.
A severe famine occurred during this year.
Twenty years ago, Crown Prince Dan of Yan State was worried about Qin's army coming to Yan State. He was panic-stricken and sent Jing Ke to assassinate the King of Qin.
The King of Qin noticed this, dismembered Jing Ke's body and paraded it to the public, and sent Wang Jian and Xin Sheng to attack Yan.
Yan and Dai sent troops to attack the Qin army, and the Qin army defeated the Yan army west of Yishui.
In the twenty-first year, Wang Ben attacked Jingdi.
He dispatched more soldiers to Wang Jian's army, defeated Prince Yan's army, captured Jicheng of Yan State, and obtained Prince Dan's head.
King Yan went east to gather troops from Liaodong and proclaimed himself king there.
Wang Jian excused himself from illness and retired to his hometown. Xinzheng rebelled.
Lord Changping moved to Yingdi.
It snowed heavily, the snow was two feet five inches deep.
In the 22nd year, Wang Ben attacked Wei and dug ditches to divert water from the river to flood Daliang. The city wall of Daliang was destroyed. King Wei asked for surrender, and Qin occupied all Wei territory.
In the twenty-third year, the King of Qin recruited Wang Jian again, insisted on using him, and sent him to lead the army to attack Jing State.
They captured the area from the south of Chendi to Pingyu and captured King Jing.
The king of Qin arrived at Yingchen on his parade.
Jing general Xiang Yan established Lord Changping as King of Jing and raised troops south of the Huai River to rebel against Qin.
In the twenty-fourth year, Wang Jian and Meng Wu attacked Jingdi and defeated the Jing army. Lord Changping died in the battle, and Xiang Yan committed suicide.
In the twenty-fifth year, he sent out a large number of troops, sent Wang Ben as general, led the army to attack the Liaodong area of ​​Yan State, and captured King Xi of Yan.
He returned to attack the state of Dai and captured Dai Wangjia.
Wang Jian pacified the Jiangnan area of ​​Jing State, surrendered Yuejun, and established Kuaiji County.
In May, the whole world gathers for a feast.
In the twenty-sixth year, King Jian of Qi and Prime Minister Housheng of Qi dispatched troops to defend the western border and not to have any contact with Qin.
Qin State sent general Wang Bi from Yan State to the south to attack Qi State and captured Qi Wang Jian.
Qin had just annexed the world and ordered the prime minister and censor to say: Some time ago, the king of Han handed over the land, dedicated the king's seal, and asked to become a vassal. Soon he broke the agreement and joined forces with Zhao and Wei to betray Qin, so I raised an army to attack and captured the king of South Korea.
I thought this was a good thing, and we could probably stop fighting.
King Zhao sent his prime minister Li Mu to sign the treaty, so he sent back his son who was a hostage.
Soon the State of Zhao betrayed the alliance and raised an army to resist in Taiyuan, our country, so I launched an army to attack and captured its king.
Prince Jia of Zhao established himself as the acting king, so I sent troops to destroy him. King Wei initially agreed to surrender to Qin, but soon conspired with South Korea and Zhao to attack Qin. Qin officials went to attack and destroyed Wei.
King Jing offered the land west of Qingyang, but soon broke the agreement and attacked Nanjun of our country. So I sent troops to attack, captured the king of Jing, and pacified the land of Jing.
The King of Yan was fatuous and chaotic, and his Crown Prince Dan secretly ordered Jing Ke to be an assassin. The officials of Qin went to attack him and destroyed his country.
The King of Qi adopted the strategy of victory later and did not allow the Qin envoys to enter the Qi State. He planned to raise troops to cause chaos. I sent officers to attack, captured the King of Qi, and pacified the Qi State.
With my insignificant body, I sent out troops to suppress the rebellion. Relying on the power of the ancestral temple, the kings of the six countries have all accepted their crimes, and the world is completely peaceful.
If we don't change the name now, we can't praise the achievements of the establishment and pass them on to future generations.
Please agree on an imperial title.
Prime Minister Wang Wan, Imperial Censor Feng Jie, and Tingwei Li Si all said: In the past, the Five Emperors governed an area thousands of miles square. Outside this area, some princes paid tribute and some princes did not pay tribute, so the emperor could not control them.
Now His Majesty is dispatching rebels to punish thieves, pacify the world, set up counties and counties within the four seas, and unify laws. This has never happened since ancient times, and it is beyond the reach of the five emperors.
We discussed it carefully with the doctors, and they all said that in ancient times, there were emperors of heaven, emperors of earth, and emperors of Thailand, and the emperor of Thailand was the noblest.
We risked the death penalty to offer our title, and the king was called "Emperor of Thailand".
The emperor's order is called "Zhi", the emperor's order is called "Zhao", and the emperor calls himself "Zhen".
The King of Qin said: Remove the word "Tai" and leave the word "huang". Use the ancient word "emperor" to express status and title, and call it "emperor".
Other opinions as agreed.
Give the order and say: OK.
Pursuing King Zhuang Xiang as the Supreme Emperor.
The emperor issued an order and said: I heard that in ancient times, there were titles but no posthumous titles. In the Middle Ages, there were titles. Posthumous titles were determined after death based on the deeds during life.
Doing this means that the son will talk about his father and the ministers will talk about the king. This is very meaningless. I will not adopt this approach.
From then on, the posthumous law was abolished.
I am the First Emperor.
Counting the descendants, from the second and third generations to the ten thousand generations, the inheritance will be endless.
The First Emperor deduced based on the order of succession of the five virtues, and believed that the Zhou Dynasty obtained the fire virtue, and the Qin Dynasty replaced the fire virtue of the Zhou Dynasty. Following the law of the victory of the five elements, the water virtue should now be the beginning.
At the beginning of October, the first month of the new year, a group of ministers came to the court to celebrate. Clothes, banners, and festival flags are all black.
Six is ​​used as the standard for number, the talisman and the dharma crown are all six inches, the chariot is six feet wide, the steps are six feet, and the chariot is driven by six horses.
The river was renamed Deshui as the beginning of water virtue.
Being tough and decisive in politics, being violent and harsh, deciding everything in accordance with the law, being harsh and severe, without kindness, kindness, warmth and morality, this is in line with the principles of the evolution of the Five Virtues.
So the law was strict and criminals who had been imprisoned for a long time were not pardoned.
Prime Minister Wang Wan and others suggested: The princes of various countries have just been wiped out, and the lands of Yan, Qi, and Jing are far away. If there is no king there, there will be no one to pacify Yan, Qi, and Jing.
Please make the emperor's sons kings, hoping to get the emperor's approval.
The First Emperor submitted Wang Wan and others' suggestions to the ministers for discussion, and they all thought it was appropriate.
Tingwei Li Si suggested: King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou had many children with the same surname. However, later on, the clansmen became estranged and attacked each other like enemies. The princes fought against each other and the emperor of Zhou could not stop them.
Now, relying on His Majesty's spirit, the world has been unified and divided into counties and counties. The emperor's children and meritorious officials are heavily rewarded with state taxes, making it easy to govern.
There is no two minds in the world. This is the way to stabilize the country.
It is not appropriate to create feudal lords.
The First Emperor said: The world is suffering from endless wars because of the princes and kings. Relying on the spirit of the ancestral temple, we have just pacified the world and then established the princely states. This is creating enemies for ourselves, and seeking peace is not very difficult!
Tingwei's suggestion is correct.
Divide the country into thirty-six counties, with guards, lieutenants, and prisons in each county.
The people renamed it Qianshou.
The whole world gathers and feasts.
Collected weapons from all over the world, concentrated them in Xianyang, and cast them into bells. They also cast twelve bronze figures, each weighing a thousand stones, and placed them in the palace.
Unify the legal system and standards of weights and measures.
It is stipulated that the distance between the two wheels of the car is the same.
Writing uses a unified script.
The country's territory extends from the sea and Korea in the east, to Lintao and Qiangzhong in the west, to the area where the gate opens to the north in the south, with the Yellow River as a barrier to the north, and along the Yinshan Mountains to Liaodong.
Moved 120,000 wealthy families in the world to Xianyang.
The mausoleums, Zhangtai and Shanglin gardens of the kings of Qin are all on the south bank of the Wei River.
Every time the Qin State eliminated a vassal state, it imitated its palace and built it on the northern slope of Xianyang, adjacent to the Wei River in the south, and from the east of Yongmen to the confluence area of ​​​​the Jing River and the Wei River. Palace rooms, sky plank roads and winding pavilion roads were continuous.
The beauties, bells and drums captured from the princely states were all placed inside.
In the twenty-seventh year, the First Emperor visited Longxi and Northland and came to Jitou Mountain, passing by on his way back to Central China.
So Xin Palace was built south of the Weishui River, and soon the Xin Palace was renamed Ji Temple, symbolizing the Tianji Star.
A road was built from Ji Temple to Mount Li, and the front hall of Ganquan Palace was built, and a corridor was built to connect it from Xianyang.
This year, the country was awarded the first level of civil nobility.
Build Chi Road.
In the twenty-eighth year, the First Emperor patrolled the counties eastward and climbed Mount Zouyi.
He set up stone tablets and discussed with some Confucian scholars from Lu. He carved stone tablets to praise the merits of the Qin Dynasty, and discussed matters such as enshrining Zen and paying homage to mountains and rivers.
So he climbed Mount Tai, erected a stone tablet, piled up earth to make an altar, and offered sacrifices to heaven.
When he was going down the mountain, there was a sudden wind and rain. The First Emperor stopped under the tree, so he named the tree the Five Great Masters.
Then he went to Liangfu to lay out the ground as a foundation, worshiped the earth, and inscribed on the stone tablet he erected. The inscription said:
The emperor ascended the throne, established institutions, declared laws and regulations, and maintained strict governance among his ministers.
In the twenty-sixth year, he began to annex the world, and there was no one who was disobedient.
Personally inspect the people in distant places, climb this Mount Tai, and explore the easternmost territory.
The accompanying subjects recalled the road they had traveled, explored the ins and outs of their careers, and respectfully praised the merits of the Qin Dynasty.
The methods of governing the country are implemented, all production arrangements are appropriate, and there are certain rules.
The great truth is beautiful and bright. It should be passed down to future generations, inherited and not changed.
The emperor himself is divine and has brought peace to the world, but he still manages the country unremittingly, gets up early and goes to bed late, seeks long-term interests, and pays special attention to the education of his subjects.
The teachings and laws on governing the country spread far and wide, and people far and near were governed, fully accepting the emperor's divine will.
There is a clear hierarchy between high and low, and men and women act according to etiquette and carefully abide by their respective responsibilities.
Clearly distinguishing the inside and outside, everyone feels quiet and pure. This situation will continue to future generations.
The reach of enlightenment is endless. Follow the edict left behind and inherit this important admonition forever.
So he walked eastward along the Bohai Sea, passed through Huangju and Xiuxian counties, climbed to the highest point of Chengshan, climbed to the top of Zhifu, erected a stone tablet to praise the virtues of the Qin Dynasty, and then left.
Climbing Langye to the south, I was very happy and stayed there for three months.
Thirty thousand households were moved to the foot of Langye Tower and exempted from twelve years of corvee service.
The construction of Langye Tower and the erection of monuments and inscriptions praised the virtues of the Qin Dynasty and showed that they were in line with the will of the world.
The inscription says:
Twenty-eight years later, he just started to be emperor.
A just legal system has been established, which is the norm for all things in the world.
In this way, we can clarify the relationship between people and make father and son work together.
The emperor is holy, wise and benevolent, and understands the truth of all things.
Patrolling the eastern region to the east, inspecting soldiers.
The inspection was completely over and we arrived at the beach.
The emperor's merit lies in diligently taking care of the fundamental affairs of the country.
Focusing on agriculture and suppressing business, the people became rich.
The whole country is united and united.
The utensils have consistent standards and uniform writing.
Wherever the sun and moon shine, and wherever boats and carriages go, the emperor's mission can be fulfilled, and nothing he does is inconsistent with the will of the world.
Only the emperor handles things according to the appropriate timing.
Rectify bad customs and travel across mountains and rivers, regardless of geographical restrictions.
Take care of the people and never slack off morning and night.
Eliminate doubts, make laws, and everyone knows to avoid violating criminal laws.
The county governor manages local government affairs separately, and the methods for handling various government affairs are simple and easy.
The measures taken were all appropriate and nothing was inconsistent.
The emperor and his gods personally visited all directions.
No matter how high or low one is, one should not exceed the rank.
Treachery and evil are not allowed to exist, and people strive to be upright and kind people.
Do your best on all matters, big and small, and don't dare to slack off.
No matter far or near, or in a remote place, we must be solemn, upright and honest, and we must follow certain rules in doing things.
The emperor's virtue brought stability to all directions.
Combat riots, eliminate disasters, create good things, and bring blessings.
Arrange things according to the season, and the variety of products is constantly increasing.
The people were at peace and no longer engaged in war.
If the six relatives live in peace, there will be no thieves in life.
Joyfully abide by the country's teachings, and everyone is familiar with the legal system.
Heaven and earth, in all directions, are the emperor's territory.
The west reaches the quicksand, and the south reaches the limit where the door opens to the north.
There is the East China Sea to the east and Daxia to the north.
Wherever people go, there is no one who refuses to surrender.
His merits exceeded those of the Five Emperors, and his favor extended to cattle and horses. Everyone received the emperor's favor and lived a stable life.
King Qin annexed the whole country and determined the title of emperor, so he followed the eastern region and reached Langye.
The princes Wuchenghou Wang Li, Liehou Tongwuhou Wang Ben, Lunhou Jianchenghou Zhao Hai, Lunhou Changwuhou Cheng, Lunhou Wuxinhou Feng Wuze, Prime Minister Wei Lin, Prime Minister Wang Wan, Qing Li Si, Qing Wangwu, the fifth official Zhao Ying, and the fifth official Yang Wei followed. They discussed the merits of the Qin Dynasty with the First Emperor at the seaside and said: In ancient times, the territory of those who claimed to be emperors was no more than a thousand miles long. The princes each adhered to their own territory. Some paid tribute and some did not pay tribute. They invaded and attacked each other, caused violence and chaos, and killed without end. However, they still carved gold and stone to record their achievements.
In ancient times, the five emperors and three kings implemented different knowledge and education, and the legal system was not clear. They used the power of ghosts and gods to deceive people in distant places. The actual situation did not match the title, so the country's destiny was not long-lasting.
Before the person died, the princes rebelled and the law could not be implemented.
Now the emperor has unified the four seas and divided the country into counties and counties. The world is peaceful and harmonious.
Carrying forward the mighty spirit of the ancestral temple, adhering to the truth, spreading kindness widely, and worthy of the title of emperor.
The ministers praised the emperor's merits together and engraved them on gold and stone as a model for future generations.
The inscriptions on the stone had been completed, and people from Qi such as Xu Shi wrote a letter saying that there were three sacred mountains in the sea, named Penglai, Fangzhang, and Yingzhou, where immortals lived.
I hope to fast and bathe, and to seek the three sacred mountains with boys and girls.
So he sent Xu Shi to select thousands of boys and girls to search for immortals in the sea.
When the First Emperor returned, he passed by Pengcheng, fasted and prayed, and wanted to salvage Zhou Ding from Surabaya.
Thousands of people were asked to dive into the water to look for it, but could not find it.
So he walked southwest, crossed the Huai River, and headed for Hengshan and Nanjun.
Boating on the river, we came to Xiangshan Mountain to worship.
In strong winds, it is almost impossible to cross the water and go up the mountain.
The First Emperor asked the doctor: What kind of god is Lord Xiang?
The doctor replied: I heard that she was Yao's daughter and Shun's wife. She was buried here after her death.
So the First Emperor was very angry and ordered three thousand prisoners to cut down all the trees on Xiangshan Mountain, exposing the red soil on the whole mountain.
The First Emperor returned to Xianyang from Nanjun via Wuguan.
In the twenty-ninth year, the First Emperor traveled eastward.
When I arrived at Yangwu Bolangsha, I was frightened by robbers.
After chasing the robbers, but failing to capture them, a nationwide search was ordered for ten days.
The First Emperor climbed onto the fu and carved a stone tablet.
The inscription says:
In the twenty-ninth year, in the second month of spring, the weather began to warm up.
The emperor cruised eastward and boarded Zhifu, facing the sea.
Seeing this beautiful scenery, the accompanying subjects recalled the emperor's great achievements and the beginning and end of the great cause of unification.
The great emperor began to govern the country, formulated the legal system, and made clear the principles and disciplines.
He taught foreign princes, imparted enlightenment, spread benefits widely, and clarified the truth.
The princes of the six kingdoms are treacherous, greedy and perverse, with insatiable desires, cruelty and killing without end.
The emperor felt pity for the people, so he dispatched a large army to conquer the country and displayed great power.
Carry out a just crusade and take honest actions, your martial power will spread far and wide, and no one will fail to surrender.
The violent forces were eliminated, the people were saved, and the world was stabilized.
A strict legal system was universally implemented to govern the world and became a permanent norm.
How great!
The emperor's sacred will is followed throughout the world.
The ministers praised the emperor's meritorious service and requested that it be engraved on a stone tablet and recorded for future generations as an eternal law.
The inscription on the stone tablet at the east pavilion says:
In the twenty-ninth year, the emperor went on a tour in the spring to inspect distant places.
When we got to the seaside, we climbed onto the boat and faced the rising sun.
Looking at the vast and beautiful scenery, the accompanying subjects all remembered the past and recalled that the road they had traveled was very bright.
When the wise rule of law was first implemented, the bad guys and bad deeds in the country were cleaned up, and the violent enemies were punished externally.
The military power spread far and wide, shaking all directions, annihilating the six kingdoms and capturing their kings.
Open up territory, unify the world, eliminate the scourge of war, and stop wars forever.
The emperor was virtuous and wise, and he governed the country and handled government affairs without slacking off.
There are certain rules for establishing major legal systems and clearly setting unified standards.
Officials who have their duties abide by their duties and know what they should do, and there is no doubt about the matter.
The people have changed, and the system is unified far and near. It is the best era since ancient times.
Each person has been assigned a fixed position, and future generations will continue to follow the old path and inherit this wise politics forever.
The ministers praised the emperor's kindness, respectfully praised his great achievements, and requested that a monument be erected on Zhifu Mountain.
Soon, he went to Langye and returned to Xianyang from Shangdang.
For thirty years, nothing significant happened.
In December of the 31st year, the name of the wax festival was changed to Jiaping.
The people were rewarded with six stones of rice and two sheep for every mile.
The First Emperor changed his clothes and traveled to Xianyang, accompanied by four warriors. When he came out at night, he met a thief in Lanchi and was trapped by the thief. The samurai killed the thieves and searched Guanzhong for twenty days.
The price of grain reaches one thousand six hundred yuan per stone.
In the thirty-second year, the First Emperor went to Jieshi and sent Lu Sheng, a native of Yan, to visit Xianmen and Gao Shi.
Carve inscriptions on the Jieshi city gate.
Destroy the city walls and dig through the embankments.
The inscription on the city gate says:
So he mobilized the army to punish the unjust, and those who rebelled against violence were eliminated.
Use force to quell the riots, use civil rule to protect the innocent, and the hearts of the whole country will be subdued.
Jia'en discusses the merits of meritorious personnel. Even cattle and horses were rewarded, and the kindness moistened the earth.
The emperor vigorously displayed his power and annexed the princes through just war, unifying the country for the first time and bringing peace to the world.
Destroy the cities of the Six Kingdoms, dig through the river embankments, and level the obstacles.
All kinds of military obstacles on the ground have been leveled, the people no longer do corvee service, and the world is stable.
The man happily cultivates his land, the woman engages in her cottage industry, and everything is in perfect order.
All productions benefited from the emperor's favor, and local farmers and foreign farmers lived and worked happily.
The monarchs and ministers praised the emperor's achievements and requested that this stone tablet be engraved to serve as a standard for future generations.
Han Zhong, Hou Gong, and Shi Sheng were sent to seek out the immortals to obtain the elixir of immortality.
The First Emperor patrolled the northern border and returned to Xianyang from Shangjun.
Lu Sheng, a native of Yan, was sent to search for immortals in the sea and came back. Because he reported the ghosts and gods to the First Emperor, he took the opportunity to present a copied book, which said: "It was Hu who destroyed the Qin Dynasty."
The First Emperor sent General Meng Tian to send 300,000 troops to attack the Hu people in the north and seize the area south of the Yellow River.
In the thirty-third year, criminals who had fled, men who had married into other families, and merchants were recruited to conquer the Luliang area, and Guilin County, Xiang County, and Nanhai County were established, and those who were guilty and should be exiled were sent to guard them.
Drive out the Huns in the northwest.
From Yuzhong to the east along the Yellow River to the Yinshan Mountains, forty-four counties were set up, and fortresses were built near the Yellow River.
He also sent Meng Tian across the Yellow River to capture Gaoque, Yangshan, and Beijia areas, and built pavilions and barriers to drive away the Rong people.
Migrate criminals and arrange them in newly established counties.
Folk sacrifices are prohibited.
The comet appears in the west.
In the thirty-fourth year, he denounced those officials who were unfairly sentenced to prison and asked them to build the Great Wall or guard the South Vietnam area.
The First Emperor held a banquet with wine in Xianyang Palace, and seventy doctors came forward to toast and celebrate his birthday.
Pushe Zhou Qingchen praised and said: In the past, the territory of the Qin State was no more than a thousand miles away. Relying on your majesty’s divine wisdom, the world was pacified and the barbarians were driven away. Wherever the sun and moon could shine, there was no one who would not surrender.
Consolidate the territories of various princes into counties and counties, so that everyone can live and work in peace and contentment without the worry of war. This achievement can be passed down to eternity. From ancient times, no one can match your Majesty's majesty.
The First Emperor was very happy.
Dr. Chunyu Yuejin, a native of Qi, remonstrated and said, I heard that Yin and Zhou ruled the world for more than a thousand years, enfeoffing their descendants and meritorious officials as their own auxiliary forces.
Now His Majesty controls the world, but his descendants are ordinary people. Occasionally, ministers like Tian Chang and Liu Qing appear, and there is no one to help them. How can they be saved?
I have never heard of anyone who did not imitate the ancients and remain undefeated for a long time.
Now Qingchen flatters His Majesty in person to deepen His Majesty's fault. He is really not a loyal minister.
The First Emperor handed over their suggestions for discussion.
Prime Minister Li Si said: The systems of the five emperors do not repeat each other, and the systems of the three generations do not follow each other. Each is governed. It is not that future generations must be the opposite of the previous generation. This is due to the changes of the times.
Now His Majesty has created a great cause and established immortal achievements, which are beyond the comprehension of stupid scholars.
Besides, what Chunyu Yue was talking about was about the third generation. What can we imitate?
In the past, princes competed with each other and used generous treatment to attract traveling scholars.
Now that the world has been peaceful and unified laws and regulations have been promulgated, the people are working hard at home to engage in agricultural production and cottage industry, and the scholars are studying the laws and prohibitions.
Today, these scholars do not learn from reality, but imitate ancient times to criticize the current social system and confuse the people.
I, Prime Minister Li Si, risked death and said: In ancient times, the world was scattered and chaotic, and could not be unified. Therefore, the princes rose up at the same time. People's speeches praised the ancient times, harmed the current policies, made empty words, and confused the true appearance of things. Everyone thought that his own theory was the most perfect and criticized the system established by the monarch.
Now the emperor has annexed the world, distinguished right from wrong, and established his supreme status.
They taught knowledge privately and criticized the country's laws and education together. When the laws were issued, they discussed them with their own theories. When they entered the court, they criticized them in their hearts. When they left the court, they talked in the streets. They boasted about themselves in front of the monarch. They used this to gain fame and reputation, to be new and different, to think they were superior, and to lead their subjects to fabricate slander.
If this situation is not prohibited, the authority of the monarch will decrease at the top, and collusion between party members will form at the bottom.
Forbidden as well.
I hope the historians will burn all the books that are not from Qin.
Anyone who dares to collect "Poems", "Books", or the works of hundreds of schools of thought in the country other than those under the charge of doctorate officials will be sent to the county governor or county lieutenant for burning.
Those who dared to whisper "Poems" and "Books" to each other were executed in public in the busy city.
The whole clan will be killed in ancient times.
If an official knows the crime but fails to report it, he is guilty of the same crime.
If he is ordered not to burn the books for thirty days, he will have his face tattooed and become a prisoner, Chengdan.
What will not be burned are books on medicine, divination, agriculture and forestry.
If you want to learn laws, you can learn from officials.
The First Emperor issued an order saying: This can be done.
In the thirty-fifth year, a road was opened through Jiuyuan to Yunyang, mountains were dug and valleys were dug, and a straight avenue was built to connect them.
The First Emperor thought that Xianyang had a large population and the palaces of the previous kings were small. He heard that King Wen of Zhou built his capital at Feng, and King Wu built his capital at Hao. The area between Feng and Hao was where the emperor's capital was located.
So the imperial palace was built in Shanglin Garden on the south bank of the Wei River.
First, build the front hall of Afang Palace, which is five hundred paces from east to west and fifty feet from north to south. Ten thousand people can sit in the hall, and a five-foot-high flag can be erected under the roof of the hall.
It is surrounded by pavilion roads, leading directly from His Highness to Nanshan.
Build a sign on the top of Nanshan Mountain as a gate.
A road was built in the air to cross the Wei River from Afang Palace to connect with Xianyang, symbolizing that the Tianxia Pavilion Road crossed the Tianhe River and reached the barracks.
Afang Palace has not yet been completed; after it is completed, I want to choose another good name to call it.
A palace was built in Afang, so the world called it Afang Palace.
The hidden officials imprisoned more than 700,000 people and divided them into several groups to build the Epang Palace or the Lishan project.
The stones excavated and transported from Beishan and the timber transported from Shu and Jing areas are all concentrated here.
There are a total of 300 palaces in Guanzhong and more than 400 outside the Guanzhong.
So a stone tablet was erected in Qu County near the East China Sea as the east gate of the Qin State.
Thirty thousand households moved to Liyi and 50,000 households settled in Yunyang, all of whom were exempted from ten years of corvee service.
Lu Sheng advised the First Emperor: "I and others are looking for Ganoderma miraculous medicine and immortals, but we often fail to find them. It seems that something is getting in the way."
The fairy prescription requires that the monarch conceal his whereabouts at all times. Come and escape the evil spirits. After you escape the evil spirits, the real person will come.
If the subjects know where the monarch lives, they will hinder the gods.
A real person will not get soaked when immersed in water, will not feel heat when he enters fire, can rise above the clouds and ride in the mist, and will live as long as heaven and earth.
Now that you govern the world, you fail to achieve peace and tranquility.
I hope no one knows about the palace you live in, and then the elixir of immortality can probably be found.
So the First Emperor said: I envy Zhenren and call myself Zhenren, not Lianzhen.
He ordered the 270 palaces within 200 miles near Xianyang to be connected with roads built in the air and corridors on the ground, and the curtains, bells, drums, and beauties were placed inside, and all the decorations were not allowed to be moved.
If anyone tells the lucky place where he is, he will be punished by death.
The First Emperor visited Liangshan Palace and saw the prime minister's entourage with many chariots and cavalry from the mountain. He was very disapproving.
The palace attendant told the prime minister about this, and later the prime minister reduced the number of his entourage.
The First Emperor was very angry and said: Someone in the palace has leaked my words.
No one confessed after interrogation.
At this time, he ordered the people who were around him to be arrested and killed.
From then on, no one knew where he was.
The ministers who are responsible for handling state affairs and making decisions on matters are all in Xianyang Palace.
Hou Sheng and Lu Sheng discussed together and said: The First Emperor was born to be headstrong and violent, and he was self-righteous. He rose from among the princes and annexed the world. He had everything he wanted and did whatever he wanted. He believed that no one could catch up with him since ancient times.
Officials who manage prisons are specially appointed, and they are favored.
Although there are seventy doctors, they are just fill-in staff and are not employed.
The prime minister and ministers all accept the official decisions that have been made and rely on the emperor to handle everything.
The emperor likes to use punishment and killing to establish his majesty. People in the world are afraid of being punished and just want to maintain their position. No one dares to give all their loyalty and advice.
The emperor could not hear his faults and became increasingly arrogant. His subordinates were afraid and surrendered, using deception to gain the emperor's favor.
According to the laws of the Qin Dynasty, one person cannot have two tricks at the same time. If the trick is not effective, he will be sentenced to death.
However, there are as many as 300 people who observe the stars and clouds to predict good and bad luck. They are all excellent in knowledge and are afraid of flattery and dare not point out his faults directly.
All affairs in the world, no matter how big or small, depended on the emperor. The emperor even used scales to weigh documents. There was a certain amount in a day, and no rest was allowed until the amount was reached.
If you are greedy for power to this extent, you cannot find a magic medicine for him.
So he ran away.
When the First Emperor heard about the escape of Hou Sheng and Lu Sheng, he was very angry and said: I used to collect books from all over the world and burned them all if they were not suitable for the time.
Many literary and alchemists were recruited to bring peace to the country. These alchemists planned to refine elixirs and obtain strange medicines.
Now I heard that Han Zhong never came back after leaving. Xu Shi and others spent tens of thousands of dollars, but in the end they still didn't get the elixir, but there were some rumors about profiteering every day.
I have great respect for Lu Sheng and others, and have received generous rewards. Now they are slandering me to aggravate my unkindness.
I sent people to investigate some Confucian scholars in Xianyang, and some of them created weird and heresies to confuse the people.
So he sent a censor to interrogate the Confucian scholars, and the Confucian scholars would be able to absolve themselves of their sins by reporting them. More than 460 people who violated the law were all buried alive in Xianyang, making the whole country aware of this incident and serving as a warning to future generations.
More disciples were dispatched to guard the borders.
Fusu, the eldest son of the First Emperor, advised: The world has not long been peaceful, and the people in distant places have not yet been settled. The Confucian scholars have studied and imitated Confucius. Now you use severe punishments and ropes to punish them. I am worried that the world will be in turmoil.
I hope you are aware of this matter.
The First Emperor was very angry and sent Fusu to Shangjun in the north to monitor Meng Tian. For thirty-six years, Mars occupies the heart.
A meteorite fell in Dongjun and turned into stone when it reached the ground. Some people among the people wrote on the stone: "The First Emperor died and the earth was divided."
The First Emperor heard this and sent his censors to interrogate them one by one. No one confessed, so he arrested and executed all the people living near the stone, and burned the stone with fire.
The First Emperor was unhappy and asked the doctor to compose "Poetry of Immortal Immortals" and ordered musicians to play and sing wherever he went on tour.
In autumn, the envoy came from Guandong and passed by Pingshu in Huayin at night. Someone stopped the envoy with a wall jade and said: Give it to Lord Lianchi for me.
Then he took the opportunity to say: This year Zulong died.
The messenger asked him why. The man suddenly disappeared, leaving his jade and walking away.
The envoy presented the wall jade to the First Emperor and told the whole story.
The First Emperor was silent for a long time, and later said: The ghosts and monsters in the mountains only know what happens within a year.
After he retired from the court, he said: Zulong is the leader of the people.
The imperial family was shown this piece of jade, which turned out to be the same piece of jade that sank into the water while traveling across the river in the 28th year.
So the First Emperor asked people to predict good and bad luck, and the hexagrams indicated good luck for traveling and migrating.
Thirty thousand families moved to Beihe and Yuzhong.
Each household is given one level of title.
In October of the thirty-seventh year of Guichou, the First Emperor went on a tour.
Prime Minister Li Si on the left followed, while Prime Minister Feng Quji on the right stayed behind.
Hu Hai, the youngest son of the First Emperor, was envious and asked to go with him, and the First Emperor agreed.
In November, I walked to Yunmeng and looked towards Jiuyi Mountain to offer sacrifices to Yu Shun.
Float down the river, visit Ji Ke, and cross the river.
Passing through Danyang, we arrived at Qiantang.
On the shore of Zhejiang, I saw the dangerous waves, so I walked 120 miles westward and crossed the narrow place on the river.
Climbing Mount Kuaiji to offer sacrifices to Yu the Great, and looking to the South China Sea to offer sacrifices, erect stone tablets and extol the merits of the Qin Dynasty.
The inscription says:
The emperor established great achievements, unified the world, and had far-reaching virtues.
For thirty-seven years, he personally toured the country and visited distant places.
So he climbed up to Kuaiji Mountain. Observing the customs and habits, the people are very respectful.
The ministers praised the emperor's merits, recalled his entrepreneurial deeds, and traced his wise decision-making.
The great emperor of Qin came to rule the world and began to determine the criminal law system and state the past regulations.
For the first time, the rules for handling government affairs were unified, and the duties of officials were determined and distinguished, thereby establishing a long-lasting and stable system.
The princes and kings of the Six Kingdoms were arbitrary, unfaithful, greedy and perverse, arrogant and fierce, and supported the crowd to dominate.
They were violent and wanton, relied on force, were arrogant and arrogant, and repeatedly provoked wars.
The emissaries who served as spies secretly contacted each other to join forces to fight against the Qin Dynasty, and their behaviors were evil and indulgent.
They disguised their plots at home and invaded Qin's borders externally, thus bringing disaster.
Out of justice, the emperor used force to attack them and quelled the rebellion. The thieves were eliminated.
His holy virtue is grand and profound, and he has received infinite blessings from all corners of the world.
The emperor unified the world, listened to all opinions, and the government was peaceful and peaceful both far and near.
Plan and manage all things on earth, examine the actual conditions of things, and record their names respectively.
Whether they are noble or lowly, everyone has insight into their activities, good and bad things are laid out in front of them, and nothing is hidden.
To correct people's mistakes, to promote righteousness, to have a son and remarry someone else is to abandon your dead husband and not keep your chastity.
Separate the inside and outside, prohibit indulgence and debauchery, and men and women must be clean and honest.
If a husband commits adultery with another man's wife, it is not sinful to kill him. In this way, men can abide by moral norms.
If a wife runs away and marries another woman, her son will not be able to recognize her as his mother. In this way, people will be influenced by the atmosphere of honesty and innocence.
Large-scale rectification was carried out to clean up bad customs and habits. The people of the world accepted civilized social customs and received a kind of good governance.
People are law-abiding, harmonious and peaceful, honest and diligent, and no one disobeys the laws of the state.
The people's moral character is pure, everyone happily abides by the unified regulations, and happily maintains a peaceful situation.
If future generations conscientiously adhere to the rule of law, peace and stability will last indefinitely, and the carriages and ships will not tip over. The accompanying ministers will praise the emperor's achievements and request that this stone tablet be engraved so that this beautiful record can be remembered by future generations.
On the way back, we passed through Wuxian County and took a ride across the river.
Go north along the seaside to Langye.
The alchemist Xu Shi and others went to the sea to search for the magic medicine, but could not find it for several years. They spent a lot of money and were afraid of being reprimanded, so they deceived the First Emperor and said: The magic medicine can be obtained in Penglai, but they are often attacked by sharks, so they cannot reach Penglai. I hope to send some people who are good at archery to go with us. If the shark appears, shoot it with a repeating crossbow.
The First Emperor fought with Poseidon in his dream, and Poseidon looked like a human being.
I asked the doctor who divined dreams, and the doctor said: The water god cannot be seen, and his signs are represented by big fish and mosquito dragons.
Now your Majesty is thoughtful and respectful in your prayers and sacrifices, but this vicious sea god has appeared. He should be eradicated, and then the good god can come.
So he asked those who went to the sea to carry equipment for catching big fish, while he used a repeating crossbow to wait for the big fish to appear and shoot it to death.
From Langye to the north to Rongcheng Mountain, no big fish was seen.
When he arrived at Zhifu, he saw big fish and shot one to death.
So we headed west along the coast.
He fell ill when he arrived in Pingyuanjin.
The First Emperor hated talking about death, and no one among his ministers dared to mention it.
The First Emperor's illness worsened day by day, so he wrote an edict with the emperor's seal to his son Fusu, saying: Come back to attend my funeral and bury me together in Xianyang.
The edict had been sealed and placed at the place where Zhao Gao, the commander of the Zhongche Mansion, was in charge of the seal and talisman affairs instead of Fu Xilang. It was not sent to the envoy responsible for delivering it.
In July Bingyin, the First Emperor died on the sand dune platform.
Because the First Emperor died outside, Prime Minister Li Si was afraid that the First Emperor's sons and the people in the country would cause trouble, so he blocked the news and did not hold a funeral.
The coffin was placed in a rolling carriage, accompanied by the eunuchs who were close to him, and meals were delivered as usual wherever he went.
The officials reported state affairs as before, and the eunuchs approved what they reported from their carriages.
Only the First Emperor's sons Hu Hai, Zhao Gao and five or six close eunuchs knew that the First Emperor was dead.
Zhao Gao used to teach Hu Hai writing and prison laws, and Hu Hai was very close to him in private.
Zhao Gao conspired with Prince Hu Hai and Prime Minister Li Si to defeat the imperial edict sealed by the First Emperor and sent it to Prince Fusu. At the same time, he falsely claimed that Prime Minister Li Si was in the sand dunes to accept the imperial edict from the First Emperor and make his son Hu Hai the crown prince.
He also wrote another edict to the young masters Fusu and Mengtian, listing their crimes and ordering them to commit suicide.
These things are recorded in "The Biography of Li Si".
Hu Hai and others continued to move forward, so they arrived at Jiuyuan from Jingxing.
Just in time for the hot weather, the First Emperor's carriages started to smell bad, so he ordered the officials to load each carriage with a stone of abalone to mix up the stench of the First Emperor's body.
Hu Hai and others returned to Xianyang from Zhidao and announced the death of the First Emperor.
Prince Hu Hai succeeded to the throne and became the second emperor.
In September, the First Emperor was buried in Mount Li.
When the First Emperor first came to the throne, he dug caves in Mount Li. After unifying the country, he sent more than 700,000 prisoners from all over the world to Mount Li. He dug tunnels until they reached the water, sealed them with copper, and then placed coffins inside. Imitation palaces, hundreds of palaces, and various rare treasures were moved in and filled with treasures.
Let the craftsman make a crossbow with a mechanism. When someone digs a grave and approaches the tomb, it will automatically shoot at the target.
Use mercury to make thousands of rivers, hundreds of streams, rivers and seas, and use machinery to permeate and circulate each other. All kinds of celestial phenomena are complete above the tomb, and there are thousands of scenes on the ground below. The fat of the mermaid is used as a candle, and it is estimated that it will not be extinguished for a long time.
The Second Emperor said: If the concubine of the late Emperor’s harem has no sons, it would not be appropriate to let her out of the palace.
They were all sacrificed and many died.
The First Emperor has been buried. Some people say that craftsmen make organs, and slaves all know that if there are many slaves, it will leak out.
After the funeral, the funerary objects in the tomb were sealed, the passage in the middle of the tomb was closed, and the door to the outermost section of the passage was lowered, locking all the craftsmen and slaves inside, and no one could escape.
Plant leatherwood on the grave, like a mountain.
In the first year of the Second Emperor's reign, the Second Emperor was twenty-one years old.
Zhao Gao was Lang Zhongling and had the power to handle state affairs.
The Second Emperor issued an edict to increase the number of sacrifices in the First Emperor's mausoleum and temples, as well as the etiquette of various sacrifices to mountains and rivers, and asked the officials to discuss how to respect the First Emperor's temple.
The monarchs and ministers all knelt on the ground and kowtowed, saying: In ancient times, the seven temples of the emperor, the five temples of the princes, and the three temples of the great officials will not be abolished even after eternity.
Now the First Emperor is the supreme temple, offering local products from all over the world, increasing the number of sacrifices, and the sacrifices are complete, and there is nothing more to add.
Some of the Xianwang temples are in Xiyong and some in Xianyang.
According to the emperor's etiquette, he should personally hold the wine cup to worship the First Emperor's Temple.
All temples from Xianggong on down were abolished.
There are seven ancestral temples in total.
The officials performed sacrifices according to etiquette and respected the Shihuang Temple as the ancestral temple of the Qin Emperor.
The emperor still calls himself "I".
The Second Emperor discussed with Zhao Gao and said: I am young and have not yet taken the throne, but all the people have not yet surrendered.
The late emperor visited the counties to show his strength and subjugate the world with his force.
If you remain still and do not go on tour now, you will appear weak and powerless, and you will not be able to rule the world in this way.
In the spring, II went east to patrol the counties, and Li Si followed him.
Arriving at Jieshi, we walked along the coast and went south to Kuaiji. Then we inscribed all the characters on the stone where the First Emperor stood. The names of the ministers accompanying him were engraved next to the stone tablet to show the late emperor's achievements and prosperous virtues.
The emperor said: These epigraphic inscriptions were all engraved by the First Emperor.
Now I have inherited the title of emperor, but these inscriptions on gold and stone are not called the First Emperor. As time goes by, they will seem to be inscribed by subsequent successors. This is not commensurate with the achievements and prosperous virtues of the First Emperor.
Prime Minister Li Si, Minister Feng Quji, and Imperial Censor Chen De risked death and said: I request that all the edicts be engraved on the stone tablet, so that it will be clear.
I risked death to make this request.
The Second Emperor ordered: "Okay."
After II arrived in Liaodong, he returned.
At this time, II adopted Zhao Gao's suggestion and declared the law.
He discussed with Zhao Gao privately: The ministers are disobedient and the officials are still powerful. Those young men must compete with me for power. What should I do?
Zhao Gao said: I originally wanted to say it, but I didn't dare to say it.
The ministers of the late emperor all came from prestigious and powerful families of several generations, and their meritorious deeds have been passed down from generation to generation for a long time.
I, Zhao Gao, have always been humble and lowly, but now your Majesty has promoted me to a high official position and taken charge of palace affairs.
The ministers were unhappy. They only obeyed me on the surface, but in fact they were not convinced in their hearts.
Now that you are out on patrol, why not take this opportunity to investigate and execute the county guards who are guilty? This will shock the world at first, and eradicate the people you are dissatisfied with in your life.
In today's era, we cannot follow the rule of law, but force determines everything. I hope that Your Majesty will follow the trend and do not hesitate, otherwise the ministers will have no time to make plans.
A wise monarch recruits the remnant, makes the lowly noble, makes the poor rich, and draws close to the alienated people, then the people will gather together and the country will be stable. Second said: Very good.
So the killing minister and the princes, under the pretense of being linked to each other, arrested the lower-status ministers and the third minister. No one could keep his official position, so the six princes were executed in Du County.
The prince imprisoned the three Lu brothers in the palace, and finally reviewed their crimes.
The second generation sent an envoy to the general and said: "You are not like a minister. According to the crime you committed, you should be put to death and the law will be enforced by the jailer."
The general said: I would not dare to disobey the command of the master of ceremonies regarding the etiquette of the court; I would not dare to violate the etiquette of the position in the court; I would not dare to make a mistake in my words when I was ordered to answer a question.
Why do you say I don't look like a minister?
I hope to die knowing my crime.
The messenger said: I can't take part in the planning, I just follow the orders.
So Jiang Lu raised his head and shouted to the sky, shouting: "Oh my God!"
I am not guilty!
The three brothers burst into tears and drew their swords to commit suicide.
The clan was shocked and frightened.
Those who came to remonstrate with the officials thought they were slandering the court. The ministers used their salaries to flatter and please, and the people were frightened.
In April, II returned to Xianyang. He said: The late emperor built Epang Palace because the palace in Xianyang was small.
Before the palace was completed, when the late emperor passed away, the project was stopped and the craftsmen were sent to Mount Li to cover the earth and build the mausoleum.
The Lishan project has generally been completed. To abandon Afang Palace and not complete it now is to show that what the late emperor did was wrong.
Construction of Afang Palace began again.
Externally appeasing the barbarians from all over the world was the same strategy as the First Emperor.
All 50,000 strong soldiers were mobilized to garrison Xianyang, and they were taught archeology and domestication of dogs, horses, and beasts.
There was a lot of food to eat, and it was estimated that the stored food was not enough, so we called the counties below to transport the food and fodder to Xianyang. The people who transported it all brought their own food. People within three hundred miles of Xianyang could not eat this batch of grain, and the law was even stricter.
In July, the garrison soldiers Chen Sheng and others rebelled in the past Jingdi and established Zhang Chu.
Chen Sheng proclaimed himself King of Chu, lived in Chen County, and sent generals to attack the city and capture the territory.
The young people in Shandong counties and counties suffered from the rule of the Qin Dynasty officials. They all killed their guards and ordered the prime ministers to rebel. In response to Chen She, they elected each other as princes and kings, and united to march westward in the name of crusade against the Qin Dynasty. The number of people who rebelled was too many to count.
The visitor came back from his mission to the East and reported the rebellion to II.
The Second Emperor was very angry and handed the visitor over to the jailer for punishment.
When the envoy came back later, II asked him about the situation. The envoy replied: They are a group of thieves. The governor and lieutenant are chasing them. Now they have all been captured. It is not worth worrying about.
II was very happy.
Wu Chen proclaimed himself the King of Zhao, Wei Jiu the King of Wei, and Tian Dan the King of Qi.
Pei Gong revolted in Pei County.
Xiang Liang raised troops in Kuaiji County.
In the winter of the second year, Zhou Zhang and other generals sent by Chen She marched westward and arrived at Xishui, with hundreds of thousands of troops.
The second generation was greatly shocked and discussed with his ministers: What should we do?
Zhang Han, the Shaofu, said: The thieves have already arrived here and the troops are strong. It is too late to mobilize troops from nearby counties.
There are many prisoners in Lishan, and I hope they will be pardoned and given weapons to attack the thieves.
So the second emperor granted amnesty to the world and sent Zhang Han as a general. He defeated Zhou Zhang's army. Zhou Zhang escaped and Zhang Han killed Zhou Zhang in Caoyang.
The Second Emperor sent additional commanders Sima Xin and Dong Yi to assist Zhang Han in attacking the bandits. He killed Chen Sheng in Chengfu, defeated Xiang Liang in Dingtao, and eliminated Wei Jiu in Linji.
The famous generals of the Chu bandits were all dead, so Zhang Han crossed the Yellow River to the north and attacked King Zhao Xie at Julu.
Zhao Gao advised the Second Emperor: "The first emperor ruled the world for a long time, so the ministers did not dare to do evil or express evil opinions to the first emperor."
Now that Your Majesty is young and has just ascended the throne, how can he decide matters at court with ministers?
If something goes wrong, your shortcomings will be exposed to the officials.
The emperor calls himself "I", but the ministers should not hear the emperor's voice.
So the second generation often lived in the palace and decided various government affairs with Zhao Gao.
From then on, the ministers rarely had the opportunity to meet in court, and there were more and more thieves. The soldiers of Guanzhong were dispatched eastward to attack the thieves one after another.
Prime Minister Feng Quji on the right, Prime Minister Li Si on the left, and General Feng Jiejin remonstrated and said: The bandits in Chengjun County, Guandong, rose up together to rebel. The Qin government sent troops to attack them and killed many of them, but the bandits were still not quelled.
There are so many thieves because the people are working too hard and the taxes are too heavy due to various miscellaneous tasks such as guarding the border areas, water transportation, land transportation and civil construction.
It is hoped that the construction of Epang Palace will be stopped and the garrison and transportation tasks on the four sides of the border will be reduced.
The Second Emperor said: I heard Han Zi say: The rafters of Yao and Shun's oak houses were not repaired, and the thatched houses were not repaired. They used earthen bowls for eating and earthen basins for drinking water. Even the food and supplies for guarding the city gates were not so frugal.
Yu dug the Dragon Gate to make the Great Xia unblocked, repaired the rivers, diverted the stagnant water, and led it into the sea. He personally held the pestle for building walls and the shovel for digging. The hair on his calves was all gone. The level of labor of his slaves was no worse than this.
Anyone who is noble and controls the world should rule the world as he pleases and do whatever he wants. The main focus is to declare the rule of law so that the subjects below do not dare to act recklessly.
Like the monarchs of Yu and Xia, who were regarded as emperors, were in poverty themselves, and obeyed the people. How could there be any rule of law?
I respect myself as the King of Ten Thousand Chariots, but I don’t have the reality of ten thousand chariots. I want to make a thousand chariots and set up followers of ten thousand chariots to be worthy of my title of King of Ten Thousand Chariots.
Moreover, the late emperor arose from the princes, annexed the world, and the world has been stabilized. He resisted the foreign barbarians from all directions, made the borders peaceful, and built palaces to show his pride. You have seen the beginning and development of the late emperor's achievements.
Now, in the two years since I came to the throne, groups of thieves have arisen at the same time. You cannot stop them, and you want to abolish what the late emperor has done. This is not repaying the late emperor, and secondly, you are not loyal to me. Why are you in the current position?
Feng Quji, Li Si, and Feng Jie were handed over to jailers to be imprisoned, and their various other crimes were investigated and investigated.
Feng Quji and Feng Jie said: A general cannot be insulted.
Died by suicide.
Li Si was eventually imprisoned and suffered five punishments.
Three years later, Zhang Han and others led their troops to surround Julu. General Xiang Yu of Chu led the soldiers of Chu to rescue Julu.
In the winter, Zhao Gao became prime minister, thoroughly examined Li Si, and killed him.
In the summer, Zhang Han and others repeatedly retreated from the war. The Second Emperor sent people to rebuke Zhang Han. Zhang Han was frightened and sent Commander Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
Zhao Gao refused to meet him and did not trust him.
Sima Xin was scared and ran away. Zhao Gao sent people to hunt him down but failed to catch up.
Sima Xin saw Zhang Han and said: Zhao Gao controls the power in the court. Generals who have meritorious service will be killed, and generals who have no merit will also be killed.
Xiang Yu quickly attacked the Qin army and captured Wang Li. Zhang Han and others led their troops to surrender to the various princes.
In August Jihai, Zhao Gao wanted to cause chaos, but was afraid that the officials would not obey, so he made an experiment in advance and presented a deer to the emperor, saying: "This is a horse."
The Second Emperor smiled and said: "Is the Prime Minister wrong?"
Say the deer is a horse.
Zhao Gao asked the ministers on the left and right. Some of the ministers on the left and right were silent, and some said they were horses, coming to flatter Zhao Gao.
Some said it was a deer, and Zhao Gao used the law to secretly frame those who said it was a deer.
Later, the ministers were all afraid of Zhao Gao.
Zhao Gao had said many times before that the thieves in Guandong would do nothing. When Xiang Yu captured the Qin general Wang Li and others in Julu and continued to advance, Zhang Han and others' troops retreated many times and sent letters requesting more troops. Yan, Zhao, Qi, Chu, Han, and Wei all declared themselves kings. From the east of Hangu Pass, almost all of them betrayed the Qin officials and responded to the various princes. The princes led their armies to advance westward.
Peigong led tens of thousands of people to massacre Wuguan and sent people to have an affair with Zhao Gao. Zhao Gao was afraid that the second generation would be angry and be killed, so he refused to go to court on the pretext that he was ill.
The second son dreamed that a white tiger bit the horse on the left side of his car, and finally the horse was bitten to death. The second son felt unhappy and felt strange, so he went to ask the dreamer.
The dreamer predicted: The water god of Jingshui is causing trouble.
So the second generation fasted in Wangyi Palace, intending to sacrifice to the water god of Jingshui River, and sank four white horses into the water.
An envoy was sent to accuse Zhao Gao about the thieves.
Zhao Gao was panicked, so he secretly discussed with his son-in-law Xianyang Ling Yan Le and his brother Zhao Cheng: The emperor did not listen to the advice. Now the matter is critical and he wants to blame our family.
I plan to abolish the second generation and make another son, the Young Master, the emperor.
Young Master Ying was benevolent and thrifty, and the people all listened to his words.
Zhao Gao sent his lieutenant Ling to act as an internal agent and deceived him into saying that a large group of thieves was coming. He ordered Yan Le to call the officials to send troops to pursue him. He also kidnapped Yan Le's mother and placed her in Zhao Gao's home. Zhao Gao sent Yan Le to lead more than a thousand officials to the gate of Wangyi Palace, tied up the guards and ordered Pu She to tie up, and said: The thieves ran in here, why didn't you stop them?
The Wei Order said: There are soldiers in the houses within the surrounding walls, and the defense is very strict. How can thieves dare to break into the palace?
Yan Le killed the guard and led the officials straight into the palace, shooting arrows as they walked. The officials and eunuchs were greatly alarmed. Some fled, while others came forward to fight. All those who fought were killed, and dozens of people died.
Lang Zhongling and Yan Le entered the residence of the second emperor together and shot arrows at the curtain where the second emperor was sitting.
The Second Emperor was furious and called his attendants. They were all frightened and refused to fight.
There was a eunuch beside him who accompanied the second generation and did not dare to leave.
The second generation fled indoors and said to the eunuch accompanying him: "Why didn't you tell me earlier?"
It has come to this!
The eunuch said: I dare not say it, so I can save my life.
If I had told you earlier, I would have been killed. How could I still be alive now?
Yan Le came forward to the Second Emperor and listed his crimes and said: You are arrogant and wanton, massacring the officials and people, and you are extremely unjust. The people of the world have betrayed you. You can make your own plans.
The Second Emperor said: Can I see the Prime Minister?
Yan Le said: No.
The second said: I hope to get a county and be the king of it.
Yan Le refused.
He also said: I would like to be a Marquis of Ten Thousand Households.
Yan Le still refused.
The Second Emperor said: I hope to become common people with my wife and children, just like those young men.
Yan Le said: I was ordered by the Prime Minister to execute you on behalf of the people of the world. Although you said a lot, I dare not report it to the Prime Minister.
Yan Le directed his soldiers to attack forward.
The second commits suicide.
Yan Le came back to report to Zhao Gao, who summoned all the ministers and princes and told them about the killing of the second son.
Zhao Gao said: Qin was originally a kingdom of vassals, and the first emperor ruled the world, so he was called the emperor.
Now that the six countries have established their own political power, Qin's territory is shrinking day by day, but it is still claiming the title of emperor in vain. This is unacceptable.
It is more appropriate to be king as in the past.
He made the son of his second brother, Gong Ziying, the king of Qin.
The second generation was buried in Yichun Garden in the south of Du County with common people's rites.
Zhao Gao asked Ziying to fast, visit his ancestors in the ancestral temple, and receive the seal of King Qin.
After fasting for five days, Ziying discussed with his two sons: Prime Minister Zhao Gao killed the second son in Wangyi Palace. He was afraid that the officials would punish him, so he pretended to make me king in the name of righteousness.
I heard that Zhao Gao made an agreement with Chu that he would destroy the Qin clan and become king in Guanzhong.
Now they ask me to fast and visit the ancestral temple. They want to kill me while I am in the ancestral temple.
I told him that if he didn't go away if he was ill, the prime minister would come to me personally and kill him when he came.
Zhao Gao sent people several times to invite Ziying, but Ziying refused to go. Zhao Gao came in person and said, "Visiting the ancestral temple is a big event. Why doesn't the king go?"
Ziying stabbed Zhao Gao to death in the fasting palace, executed all three members of Zhao Gao's family, and showed them to the public in Xianyang.
Ziying was the king of Qin for forty-six days. The Chu general Pei Gong defeated the Qin army, entered Wuguan, came to Bashang, and sent people to ask Ziying to surrender.
Ziying tied his neck with a ribbon, rode on a white horse, held the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
So Pei Gong entered Xianyang, closed the official offices and treasury, and returned to the army. More than a month passed.
The armies of various princes arrived, and Xiang Yu, the leader of the alliance, killed Ziying and the clan of Prince Qin.
Xianyang was massacred, the palaces were burned, the sons and women of Qin were captured, the treasures were plundered, and the princes divided them among themselves.
After the Qin State was eliminated, its land was divided into three parts, named King Yong, King Sai, and King Zhai, known as the Three Qins.
Xiang Yu was the overlord of Western Chu and was responsible for dividing the world's princes and kings. The Qin Dynasty finally perished.
Five years later, the Han Dynasty unified the country.
Tai Shigong said: Boyi, the ancestor of the Qin State, had made great achievements during the Tang and Yu periods, acquired land, and was given the surname Ying.
Between Xia and Yin, the power was weakened and dispersed.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, the Qin State emerged and built a city in Xicui.
Since Duke Mu, he has gradually encroached on the princes, and the unification project was finally completed by the First Emperor.
The First Emperor believed that his merits exceeded those of the Five Emperors, and his territory was broader than the Three Kings, and he was ashamed to be compared with the Three Kings and Five Emperors.
Jia Sheng's discussion is very good. He said:
Qin annexed various vassal states and more than thirty counties in Shandong, repaired and managed Jindu and passes, occupied dangerous passes and fortresses, trained troops, and defended them.
However, Chen She led hundreds of scattered garrison soldiers and raised their arms and shouted. There is no need for weapons such as bows and stems. Instead, they only use hoes, knives and sticks. They go wherever they go and eat wherever they go, and they dominate the world.
The Qin people had dangers but could not hold on; they had bridges but could not block them; they had long trunks but could not assassinate; they had powerful crossbows but could not fire them.
Zhang Chu's army went deep into the hinterland and fought at Hongmen, without even the same difficulty as crossing the fence.
So there was great chaos in Shandong, the princes rose up at the same time, and the heroes established each other as kings.
Qin sent Zhang Han to lead his army to march eastward. Zhang Han used the troops he commanded to threaten others, seek personal gain, and plot against his king.
It can be seen from this that the ministers are not trustworthy.
Zi Ying established himself as king, but he did not wake up in the end.
If Ziying has the ability of an ordinary monarch, as long as he has assistant ministers with average talents, even if Shandong rebels, the Qin State's hometown can still be preserved, and the sacrifices in the ancestral temple will not be interrupted.
The land of Qin is surrounded by mountains and rivers, and the terrain is rugged. It is a country with barriers and fortresses on all sides.
From Duke Mu to the time of King Qin, there were more than twenty monarchs who often dominated the princes.
Is it true that Qin has been a wise monarch from generation to generation?
That is caused by its geographical situation.
Moreover, the world once made concerted efforts to attack Qin.
At this time, wise men gathered together, excellent generals commanded the troops, and wise prime ministers exchanged strategies with each other. However, they were blocked by the steep terrain and could not move forward. Qin opened the door for them and lured the enemy deep into the country to fight. As a result, millions of people in the six kingdoms fled and collapsed.
Is this a lack of force and wisdom?
It was due to the unfavorable terrain and inconvenient situation.
The Qin State merged small towns into large cities, garrisoned troops in dangerous fortresses, built high forts without fighting, blocked passes, occupied dangerous passes, and guarded these places with halberds.
The princes all rose up from among the common people, and they did not have the virtues of King Su.
Their friendship is not close, and their subordinates have not sincerely surrendered. On the surface, they are seeking to destroy Qin in the name of destroying Qin, but in fact they are seeking personal gain.
They saw that Qin's terrain was dangerous and difficult to invade, so they were bound to withdraw their troops.
Qin made the people recuperate and recuperate, waiting for the decline of the princes, adopting the poor and weak, supporting the tired, and issuing orders to the princes of the great country, without fear of dissatisfaction in the world.
He was the emperor and rich in the world, but he was captured and became a prisoner because his strategy to save himself from defeat was incorrect.
The King of Qin was proud and complacent, and he did not humbly ask questions. He persisted in making mistakes without changing them.
The second generation inherited it and did not change it. He was cruel and cruel, which aggravated the disaster.
Ziying is alone, with no one close to him, his position is dangerous and fragile, and he has no one to help him.
These three monarchs have been confused all their lives, and their country has perished. Isn't it right?
At this time, there were people in the world who were far-sighted and could foresee changes in the situation. However, the reason why they did not dare to be loyal and direct and correct mistakes was because there were many taboos in Qin's customs. Before he could finish speaking his loyal words, he was killed.
Therefore, all the people in the world listen to orders, stand with their feet folded, and keep silent.
These three monarchs have lost the principles of governing the country. Loyal ministers dare not speak out and advise, wise men dare not make suggestions. The world is in chaos, and no one reports evil things to the monarch. Isn't this too sad!
The former king knew that obstruction and deception at the top and bottom would harm the interests of the country, so he appointed ministers, officials, and scholars to rectify laws and establish punishments to bring peace to the world.
When a country is strong, it can suppress cruelty, suppress rebellion, and bring the world under its control.
When the country was weak, the five hegemons would conquer on behalf of the emperor, and the princes would obey.
When the country's power is declining, if it is defended internally and attached externally, the country can survive but not perish.
When the Qin State was strong and prosperous, its laws were complicated and its punishments were severe, which frightened the world. When it declined, the people became resentful and the world rebelled.
The Zhou Dynasty's principles were always in line with the right path, so for more than a thousand years, the country's fortunes continued.
The Qin Dynasty lost everything, so the country was short-lived.
From this point of view, the basis of national security is too far apart.
As the folk saying goes, "Never forget the past is the teacher of the future."
Therefore, people with moral cultivation govern the country, observe ancient gains and losses, examine contemporary actions, refer to human relations and affairs, understand the principles of ups and downs, understand the appropriate use of power and power, have a certain order of abandonment, and have an appropriate time for change, so it lasts for a long time and the country is stable.
Duke Xiang ascended the throne and reigned for twelve years.
Construction of the western border began.
Duke Xiang was buried in Xicui.
Wen Gong was born.
Duke Wen ascended the throne and lived in Xicui Palace.
He died after reigning for fifty years and was buried in Xicui.
Jinggong was born.
Duke Jin died before he ascended the throne.
Xian Gong was born.
Duke Xian reigned for twelve years and lived in Xixinyi.
After his death, he was buried in Yayi.
He gave birth to Duke Wu, Duke De, and Chuzi.
Chuzi reigned for six years and lived in Xiling.
There is no taboo on the common people. Weile and Shenfu led the thieves to kill Chuzi in Biyan and buried him in Yayi.
Duke Wu succeeded him.
Duke Wu reigned for twenty years.
Lives in Feng Palace, Pingyang.
Buried in Judongnan, Xuanyang.
Three concubine chiefs were executed.
The Duke of Virtue was established.
De Gong reigned for two years.
Lives in Dazheng Palace, Yongyi.
He gave birth to Duke Xuan, Duke Cheng and Duke Mu.
Buried in Yangyi.
They began to stipulate the Dog Day Festival and kill dogs at the four gates of the city to get rid of the heat and plague.
Duke Xuan reigned for twelve years.
Lives in Yang Palace.
Buried in Yangyi.
Start recording leap months.
Duke Cheng reigned for four years and lived in the palace of Yongyi.
Buried in Yangyi.
The state of Qi attacked Shanrong and Guzhu.
Duke Mu reigned for thirty-nine years.
The emperor gave the status of overlord.
Buried in Yongyi area.
Duke Mu learned from the guards between the palace gate and the screen.
Kang Gong was born.
Duke Kang reigned for twelve years.
He lives in Gaobei, Yongyi.
Buried in Leishe.
A father-in-law was born.
The Duke reigned for five years. He lives in Gaobei, Yongyi.
Buried south of Kang Gong.
He gave birth to Duke Huan.
Duke Huan reigned for twenty-seven years.
He lives in Taibi, Yongyi.
Buried north of Yiliqiu.
Jinggong was born.
Jinggong reigned for forty years.
He lives in Gaobei, Yongyi. Buried south of Chuli.
Bi Gong was born.
Bi Gong reigned for thirty-six years.
Buried north of the car.
Yi Gong was born.
Duke Yi died before he ascended the throne and was buried in the left palace.
Hui Gong was born.
Duke Hui reigned for ten years.
Buried in car.
The car is located between the tombs of Kanggong and Jinggong.
Gao Gong was born. Duke Yu reigned for fifteen years.
Buried to the west of Xi Gong.
Build a city in Yongyi.
Gong Gong was born.
Gong Gong reigned for thirty-four years.
Buried inside.
He gave birth to Cao Gong and Huai Gong.
Ten years after Gong Gong was assassinated, a comet appeared.
Duke Cao reigned for fourteen years.
Live and sleep.
Buried in the south of Mourning Palace.
In the first year of Cao AD, a comet appeared.
Duke Huai returned from Jin.
Reigned for four years.
Buried in Queryu.
Ling Gong was born.
The ministers besieged Duke Huai, and Duke Huai committed suicide.
Duke Suling was the son of Zhaozi.
Lives in Jingyang.
Ten years in office.
Buried to the west of the Duke.
Gong Jian was born.
Duke Jian returned from Jin.
Reigned for fifteen years.
Buried to the west of Xi Gong.
Hui Gong was born.
In the seventh year of Duke Jian's reign, people began to wear swords.
Duke Hui reigned for thirteen years.
Buried in the mausoleum.
The father-in-law was born.
Chugong reigned for two years.
He committed suicide while on duty and was buried in Yongyi.
Duke Xian reigned for twenty-three years.
Buried in Xiaoyu.
Xiaogong was born.
Duke Xiao reigned for twenty-four years.
Buried in his brother's country.
He gave birth to King Huiwen.
In the thirteenth year of Duke Xiao's reign, Xianyang began to be built as the capital.
King Huiwen reigned for twenty-seven years.
Buried in Gongling.
King Wu Wu was born.
King Wu reigned for four years. Buried in Yongling.
King Zhaoxiang reigned for fifty-six years.
Buried in Suyang.
Born King Xiaowen.
King Xiaowen reigned for one year.
Buried in Shouling.
He gave birth to King Zhuang Xiang.
King Zhuang Xiang reigned for three years.
Buried in Suyang.
The first emperor was born.
Lu Buwei was the prime minister.
Seven years after Duke Xian ascended the throne, he began to set up markets and conduct trade.
In ten years, household registration will be established and compiled according to groups of five families.
In the sixteenth year of Duke Xiao's accession to the throne, the peach and plum trees bloomed in winter.
King Huiwen came to the throne in the 19th year after his death. In the second year after he took the throne, he began to mint and issue coins.
A newly born baby said that Qin will become the king of the world.
King Wu Wu ascended the throne in the 19th year after his death. Three years after he ascended the throne, the Wei River turned red for three days.
King Zhaoxiang came to the throne nineteen years after his death.
Four years after he took the throne, he began to set up new field boundaries on farmland.
King Xiaowen came to the throne fifty-three years after his death.
King Zhuang Xiang ascended the throne thirty-two years after his death.
In the second year after taking the throne, he captured the Taiyuan area.
In the first year of King Zhuang and Xiang's reign, he granted a general amnesty to the whole country. He respected the heroes of the previous king, extended kindness and kindness to the family members, and spread benefits to the people.
The Eastern Zhou Dynasty and other princes plotted against the Qin State, and the Qin State sent Prime Minister Lu Buwei to destroy the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and annex its territory.
The State of Qin did not cut off its sacrifices and gave the Yangren region to Zhou Jun, where he performed the sacrifices of Zhou ancestors.
The First Emperor reigned for thirty-seven years.
Buried in Liyi.
A second emperor was born.
The First Emperor ascended the throne thirteen years after his death.
The second emperor reigned for three years.
Buried in Yichun.
Zhao Gao was made prime minister and granted the title of Marquis of Anwu.
He ascended the throne twelve years after his death.
From the reign of Duke Xianggong of Qin Dynasty to the second year, it was the 610th year.
On October 15, the 17th year of Emperor Xiaoming's reign, Ban Gu said:
The calendar of the Zhou Dynasty has passed. According to the norms of benevolence and virtue, the dynasty on the son's throne cannot replace the position of the dynasty on the mother's throne. However, it regards itself as the mother, and Lu Zheng is cruel and tyrannical in his administration.
However, at the age of thirteen, he was able to annex the world, indulge his lust, and support his clan.
For thirty-seven years, troops were everywhere, and political orders were formulated and passed on to future emperors.
He probably gained the power of the saint, and the river god gave him a picture book. He took possession of wolves, foxes, ginseng, and cutters. God helped him drive away the world, and finally he was known as the first emperor.
After the death of the First Emperor, Hu Hai was extremely stupid. Before the Lishan project was completed, he continued to build the Afang Palace to complete the plans left by the previous First Emperor.
It is said that all those who are noble and have control of the world should do whatever they want, but the ministers actually want to abolish what the ancestors did.
He killed Li Si and Feng Quji and appointed Zhao Gao.
What II said is really heartbreaking! He has a human head but speaks like an animal.
Without relying on the power of the emperor, one cannot boast of one's evil, and without accumulating a lot of evil, one cannot easily perish. When the throne cannot be maintained, cruelty and tyranny will shorten the reign. Although it occupies a land with favorable terrain, it is still unable to establish a country.
Ziying was established as king according to the order. He wore a jade crown on his head and a gorgeous printed silk ribbon on his body. The carriage was covered with yellow silk. He was followed by hundreds of officials and paid homage to his ancestors' spiritual temples.
If a villain ascends to a position that does not suit his status, he will be in a trance. If he misses something, he will live in peace every day. However, Ziying can make long-term plans and eliminate worries. The father and son used tricks to kill the cunning traitor and kill the thief on behalf of the dead emperor just inside the door.
After the death of Zhao Gao, Bin Xin Yinya had not given all his condolences, the rice had not had time to swallow, the wine had not had time to touch her lips, the Chu soldiers had slaughtered Guanzhong, the immortals flew to the top, and Ziying was riding on a white horse, tied around his neck with a ribbon, holding his talisman and seal, and came to surrender as the real emperor.
It's a bit like the time when Uncle Zheng held a maojing on his left and a luan knife on his right, while King Chuzhuang retreated seven miles.
The Yellow River burst can no longer be blocked, and the rotten fish cannot be restored to integrity.
Jia Yi and Sima Qian said: If Ziying had the ability of an ordinary monarch at that time, as long as he had the assistant ministers of moderate talents, even if Shandong rebelled, the Qin State's hometown could still be preserved, and the ancestral temple sacrifices would not be interrupted.
The decline of the Qin State was accumulated over time, and the world fell apart. Even though there were talents like Zhou Dan, he could no longer use his intelligence and wisdom to blame a monarch who was on the throne for a short period of time. That would be wrong!
There is a popular saying among the people that evil originated from Qin Shihuang and reached its peak during the reign of Hu Hai. This view is reasonable.
Jia Yi and Sima Qian blamed Ziying again, saying that the Qin State's hometown could be preserved. This is what they call people who do not understand the changes in the situation.
Ji Ji gave Yi to Qi, and the "Spring and Autumn" praised him without calling him by his name.
I read "Qin Ji" and read that Zi Ying's chariot split Zhao Gao. I thought his decision was bold and powerful, and I sympathized with his thoughts.
In terms of the righteousness of life and death, Ziying has it.
