Tai Shigong said: Since ancient times, the sage kings are about to establish a country, accept the destiny of heaven, and establish a cause. How can they not respect the use of divination to help achieve good deeds?
It is impossible to record what happened before Tang Yao and Yu Shun.
Judging from the rise of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, they were all based on auspicious omens from divination.
Dayu's marriage to the daughter of the Tushan clan was auspicious, so Xia Qi established the Xia Dynasty, which has been passed down from generation to generation; Jian Di swallowed the eggs of flying swallows, and the auspicious predictions were favorable, so the Yin Dynasty rose; Houji, who was good at sowing hundreds of grains, got auspiciousness, so the king of Zhou finally became the king of the world.
When the king decided on difficult matters, he would refer to the results of divination made with the turtle to make the final decision. This was an unchanging traditional procedure.
Although the Barbarians, Barbarians, Di and Qiang did not have the Chinese-style hierarchy of monarchs and ministers, they also had the custom of divination for making decisions and doubts.
Some use gold and stone, some use plants and trees, and divination customs vary from country to country.
But they can all be used to guide war operations, research, and achieve victory in wars. Each worships the gods of divination to predict future events.
I have heard a little bit: During the Xia and Yin Dynasties, yarrow turtles were found when it was time to perform divination, and they were discarded after the divination, because they believed that turtle shell yarrow would not be effective if stored.
In the Zhou Dynasty, diviners always collected yarrow and tortoise shells for later use. In addition, who is more intelligent and who is less intelligent? When using Turtleweed, which one comes first and which one comes last?
Every dynasty has different values. But in summary, the purpose of using turtle divination methods to help people predict the future is the same. Some people believe that there was never a time when the Holy King was undecided when encountering something; there was never a time when the Holy King lacked insights when solving problems. The reason why they set up the method of praying to gods and asking for divination is because they are worried that future generations will decline and decline. Foolish people will not learn from smart people. Everyone will be satisfied with their own knowledge. Differences in education will arise. The big principles will be broken into pieces and cannot be grasped. Therefore, they push the physical and emotional affairs to the most subtle realm, that is, the gods, and seek purity in the spirit.
Some people also think that what the tortoise is good at, the saint cannot catch up with.
It judges good and bad, distinguishes right from wrong, and is often more accurate than human predictions.
After Emperor Gaozu succeeded to the throne, he followed the system of the Qin Dynasty and established diviners.
At that time, the country had just been unified and the war had not stopped.
As for Emperor Xiaohui, his reign was short, Empress Lu was the heroine, and Emperor Xiaowen and Emperor Xiaojing just followed the old system and did not have time to study the divination in depth. Therefore, although fortune-telling has been passed down from father to son and passed down from generation to generation, many of its subtle and profound principles and methods have been lost.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he has opened up the path for talented people to advance, and has recruited various scholars. Anyone who is proficient in a certain skill will have the opportunity to contribute, and those with outstanding skills will receive preferential treatment. He is pragmatic and has no partiality. In the past few years, the Taibu official office has gathered many talents.
At this time, the emperor was about to attack the Xiongnu in the north, Dawan in the west, and Baiyue in the south. Divination could predict changes in events and suggest ways to gain advantages and avoid disadvantages.
Later, fierce generals were ordered to lead troops to charge and win on the battlefield, which also included the contribution of divination's pre-planning in the temple.
As a result, the emperor paid more attention to the fortune-telling officials, and the rewards sometimes amounted to tens of millions of dollars.
For example, Qiu Ziming and others' wealth increased dramatically, and they were greatly favored, overwhelming the ministers of the court.
Even divination is used to guess the behavior of witches and Gu, and the behavior of witches and Gu can sometimes be guessed accurately.
For those who had offended them even slightly, they would seek opportunities to avenge themselves and persecute them wantonly. As a result, the number of people who had their families destroyed was incalculable.
All civil and military officials were in panic, and they all flattered him that the theory of turtles and yarrow was effective.
Later, the true nature of the false accusation by the fortune teller was exposed, and the three clans were also wiped out.
Since yarrow is used to predict good and bad luck, and tortoise shells are burned to observe the omens, the changes are endless. Therefore, wise men are selected as divination officials. This can be said to be the importance that the saints attach to the important matter of divination!
Duke Zhou used tortoise shells for divination three times, so King Wu of Zhou could recover from his illness.
King Zhou was tyrannical, so even using a big turtle would not bring good luck.
Duke Wen of Jin was about to restore King Zhou Xiang to the throne. During the divination, he got a good omen that "The Yellow Emperor fought at Banquan". He finally succeeded and received the Tong Bow from King Zhou Xiang with the order of conquest, and became Hou Bo.
Duke Xian of Jin was covetous of Li Ji's beauty and wanted to attack Li Rong. He predicted that victory would be an unlucky omen. The disaster of attacking Li Rong actually extended to the fifth king of Jin.
King Ling of Chu was about to betray the Zhou royal family, and the divination was unlucky, which finally led to Qianxi's defeat.
The tortoise omen indicates the inner trend. At that time, people can see the external manifestation. Can we not say that this is consistent with the two?
A gentleman believes that those who despise divination and do not believe in gods are ignorant; those who abandon human plans and only believe in auspicious omens will not be treated fairly by ghosts and gods.
Therefore, there is a section on "Judgment" in "Shangshu·Hongfan", which proposes five objects that can be discussed with when solving difficult problems, and divination and divination account for two of them. When five people perform divination, one should rely on the judgment of the majority of them. This shows that although there are diviners, they are not arbitrary.
When I visited the south of the Yangtze River for investigation, I learned about the turtle yarrow and interviewed the elderly local people. They said that the turtle lived to be a thousand years old and could walk on the lotus leaves. The yarrow has hundreds of branches and stems, but it still has one root.
He also said that where turtles grow, there are no ferocious beasts such as tigers and wolves, and no poisonous weeds.
Riverside residents often raise turtles, drink their blood, and eat their meat. They believe that turtles can help people unblock their tendons, bring about vitality, and help people resist aging and provide for their old age. Aren’t these words true?
Mr. Chu said: I am proficient in Confucian classics. I am a doctor's disciple and study "Spring and Autumn". Due to my excellent performance, I was appointed as a Langguan. I was fortunate to serve as a guard in the palace and have been in and out of the palace for more than ten years.
I personally like "Tai Shi Gong Zhuan".
Tai Shigong's "Biography" said that the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties had different methods of tortoise divination, and the four ethnic groups also had different divination methods, but they were all used to judge good and bad luck. I reviewed their key points and wrote the "Biography of Guice".
I searched repeatedly in Chang'an City but could not find the "Biography of Guice", so I visited the Taidivination Official and asked the literary elders who were familiar with Guice's affairs for anecdotes. I wrote down the divination of Guice and compiled it below.
It is said that in ancient times, when the five emperors and three kings planned to launch major events, they would make decisions through divination in advance.
Ancient divination books say: There is Fuling below, and rabbit threads above; there are bunches of yarrow above, and the tortoise below.
The so-called Fuling grows under rabbit silk and looks like a bird.
After the first spring rain, if the weather is calm and windless, you can cut off the rabbit silk at night and use a lantern to illuminate it. If the lantern burns out as soon as it is illuminated, remember this place and surround it with four feet of new cloth. When dawn comes, dig down until you reach between four feet and seven feet. Nothing over seven feet.
Fuling is the root of a thousand-year-old pine tree. People who eat it can live forever.
It is said that if the yarrow has a hundred branches and stems, there will be a divine turtle guarding it below, and it will always be shrouded by blue clouds.
Ancient books say: When the world is peaceful and the king's law is implemented, yarrow can grow a stem one foot long, and a clump can be filled with a hundred stems and branches.
Today's search for yarrow cannot meet the requirements in ancient books, and we cannot find one with hundreds of stems and one foot long. It is very difficult to find one with more than eighty stems and eight feet long.
If the people like to use hexagrams, they can use it if they find one with more than sixty stems and six feet in length.
Ancient books say that if you can get a famous turtle, your property will follow, and your family will definitely become rich, reaching tens of millions of dollars.
Among the famous turtles, the first is called the Big Dipper turtle, the second is called the Nanchen turtle, the third is called the Five Star turtle, the fourth is called the Eight Winds turtle, the fifth is called the Twenty-Eight Stars turtle, the sixth is called the Sun and Moon turtle, the seventh is called the Kyushu turtle, and the eighth is called the Jade turtle, a total of eight kinds of famous turtles.
There are words on the underside of the turtle pictures in ancient books, indicating what kind of turtle they are. I will only briefly write their names here without drawing pictures of turtles.
When looking for this kind of turtle, it is not necessary to be one foot or two inches long. Folks can regard it as a treasure if they get a turtle that is seven or eight inches long.
Jewels and jade, no matter how deeply they are hidden, will still shine out and reveal their gods. The principle is the same as the arrival of a famous turtle brings wealth.
Therefore, if jade is stored in the mountains, the trees on the mountains will get water. If there are pearls in the deep pools, the vegetation on the shore will not wither. This is because they are moistened by jade and pearls.
The famous bright moon beads are produced in rivers and seas, hidden in clams, with dragons lying on them.
If the king can obtain it, he can protect the world forever and the barbarians from all over the world will submit to it.
Whoever can get a hundred stems of yarrow and at the same time a divine turtle underneath it for divination will be able to ask a hundred questions and answer a hundred questions, enough to determine good or bad luck.
Divine turtles come from the waters of the Yangtze River. Every year, Lujiang County delivers twenty live turtles one foot and two inches in length to the Taifu officials, who then pick off the underbelly of the turtles on auspicious days.
The turtle lives a thousand years before reaching one foot and two inches.
When the king dispatches his troops and generals, he must drill tortoise shells on the temples to determine good or bad luck.
Now there is a turtle room in Gaozu Temple, where tortoise shells are collected and regarded as sacred treasures.
Ancient books say: Take the forefoot arm bone of a turtle, wear it on your body, and hang the turtle in the northwest corner of the room. If you use this method to enter the deep mountains and old forests, you will not lose your way.
When I was a Langguan, I read "Wan Bi Shi Zhu Fang". The book said: There is a magical turtle living in Jia Lin in the south of the Yangtze River.
Jia Lin means that there are no tigers and wolves among the wild beasts in the forest, there are no owls among the birds, there are no poisonous weeds and insects in the grass, wild fire cannot burn it, and axes cannot chop it. This is Jia Lin.
Turtles are in the Jia Lin and often build their nests on the fragrant lotus.
There is a text written under the left side of the turtle, which says: In the year of Jiazi, when the sun's crown shines brightly, whoever gets me can become a ruler and an official with a fiefdom, and the princes who get me can become an emperor.
Those who seek the turtle in the forest of white snakes and snakes fast and wait respectfully, as if someone comes to tell the news about the turtle. They also offer wine to the gods, let their hair hang down, and beg the turtle for three days and three nights to get it.
From this point of view, isn’t it great!
So can we disrespect the Turtles?
There was an old man in the south who used a turtle support to prop up the foot of his bed. More than twenty years later, the old man died and someone else moved the bed, but the turtle was still alive.
Turtles can move Qi and guide it.
Someone asked: The turtle is such a god, but when the diviner gets a live turtle, why does he always kill it and pick off its plastron?
A few years ago, someone along the Yangtze River got a famous turtle and raised it, making his family very rich.
He discussed with others and wanted to release the turtle and leave.
Someone taught him to kill the turtle and not release it. If he released the turtle, his family would be destroyed.
The turtle told him in a dream: Send me back to the water, don't kill me.
The family eventually killed it.
After killing the turtle, the owner will die and the family will be unlucky.
The common people and the monarch have different principles. When the common people get the name of turtle, it seems that it is not suitable to kill them.
According to past stories, the ancient Ming King and Holy Lord always killed turtles and used them.
When the kings of Song and Yuan Dynasties got a turtle, they killed it and made use of it.
I would like to record this incident in succession below, so that people with good intentions can appreciate and choose from it.
In the second year of the reign of Emperor Song and Yuan Dynasty, the God of the Yangtze River sent a divine turtle to the Yellow River. When they arrived in Quanyang, a fisherman cast a net to catch the turtle, imprisoned it and put it in a cage.
In the middle of the night, Gu Lai entrusted a dream to King Song and Yuan, saying: I went on a mission to the Yellow River for the River God, but the fishnet blocked my way.
Yuqie of Quanyang has got me, and I can't leave.
In times of trouble, there is no one to turn to.
The king is virtuous, so he came here to tell you.
King Yuan woke up in surprise.
So he summoned Dr. Wei Ping and asked him: Tonight I dreamed of a man with stretched out neck and long head, wearing black embroidered clothes, riding a carriage. He came to me in the dream and said: I am on a mission to the Yellow River for the River God, but the fishnet blocks my way.
Yuqie of Quanyang has got me, and I can't leave.
In times of trouble, there is no one to turn to.
The king is virtuous, so he came here to tell you.
What kind of character is this?
Wei Ping took the divination tool and stood up, looked up at the sky, observed the light of the moon, observed the direction of the handle of the Big Dipper, and deduce the position of the sun in the sky.
Use compasses and square rulers as auxiliary tools, plus weighing hammers and weighing rods.
The four corners of southeast, northeast, southwest and northwest have been determined. Qian, Kun, Zhen, Xun, Kan, Li, Gen and Dui Bagua are in their respective positions and face each other. Observe the good and bad signs among them, and the armored insect appears first.
Wei Ping then said to King Yuan: Last night on the day of Ren, the sun was in the Altair constellation.
The great water of the Yellow River meets each other, and the ghosts and gods conspire.
The Tianhe River is just connecting the north and the south. The river god and the river god originally had an appointment. When the south wind comes, the messenger of the river god comes first.
White clouds blocked the Tianhe River, and everything was stranded.
The handle of the Big Dipper points to the sun, and the messenger of the River God is imprisoned.
The one who wears black clothes and rides in a carriage is called Turtle.
The king quickly sent people to inquire about it. King Yuan said: OK.
At that time, King Yuan sent someone to Quanyang and asked the county magistrate of Quanyang: How many fishermen are there?
Whose name is Yuqe?
I got a tortoise. The tortoise gave it to the king in a dream, so the king sent me to look for it.
The order of Quanyang sent county officials to check the household registration book and the map of the city. There were fifty-five fishermen on the water, and there was a cottage in the upper reaches. The owner's name was Yuque.
Quanyang Ling said: OK.
So he hurried over with the envoy and asked Yu Qe, "What did you get from fishing last night?"
Yu Qie said: At midnight, I cast a net and caught a turtle.
The messenger asked: Where is the turtle now?
He hesitated to answer: In a cage.
The messenger said: The king knows that you have this turtle, so he sent me to ask for it.
Yuqie said: OK.
The turtle was immediately tied up, taken out of the cage, and presented to the messenger.
The messenger carried the turtle and left the gate of Quanyang City.
Suddenly it was broad daylight and nothing could be seen. It was stormy and dark.
Clouds cover the top of the turtle car, showing green and yellow colors; thunder and rain are coming, and the wind is accompanying it.
Entering the end gate of the palace, Gui came to see King Yuan in the east side hall.
The body of the turtle is like running water, moist and shiny.
When the turtle saw King Yuan, it stretched out its neck and crawled forward. After crawling for three steps, it stopped, retracted its neck and retreated back to its original position.
When King Yuan saw this, he was surprised and asked Wei Ping: "When the turtle saw me, it stretched its neck and crawled forward. Why did it look up?"
He shrunk his neck and returned to his original position. What does this mean?
Wei Ping replied: The turtle was in trouble and was imprisoned all night. The king was virtuous and sent people to rescue it.
Now it stretches its neck and crawls forward to express its gratitude, and then shrinks its neck and retreats, hoping to leave quickly. King Yuan said: How wonderful!
Has the turtle's spirit reached such an extent? Don't keep it for a long time, drive the turtle to it as soon as possible, don't let it delay the deadline.
Wei Ping replied: The tortoise is the most precious thing in the world. The first person to get the tortoise will become the emperor, and he will be able to win ten times in ten battles.
The turtle was born in the abyss and grew up in the loess. It knows the way of heaven and understands the people and affairs of ancient times.
It has traveled for three thousand years without exceeding the area where it lives.
The tortoise is peaceful and peaceful, its energy is calm and upright, and it moves without any effort.
Longevity covers the world, and no one knows its limit.
It changes with everything, changing color with the seasons.
It lives and hides itself, lying down without eating food.
It is cyan in spring, yellow in summer, white in autumn and black in winter.
Turtles can clearly distinguish between yin and yang, examine punishments and virtues, foresee benefits and harms, and carefully examine misfortunes and blessings.
Use it to speak and you will hit the mark, use it to predict battles and you will win. If the king can regard it as a national treasure, all the princes will come to submit to it.
Don't give it away, use it to stabilize the country.
King Yuan said: This turtle is very spiritual. It fell from the sky and fell into the abyss.
In times of trouble, consider me a virtuous person, benevolent and loyal, so you come to me and call upon me.
If I didn't send it away, I would be like that fisherman.
The fishermen use its body to make profit, but I covet its divine power. The one below is unkind, and the one above is immoral.
If the ruler and his ministers are rude, where will the blessing come from?
I can't bear it, how could I not send it away!
Wei Ping replied: That's not the case.
I heard that great kindness does not need to be repaid, and valuable deposits do not need to be returned; if you do not accept what God has given you, God will take back its treasure.
Now the turtle travels around the world and returns to its home, reaching up to the sky and down to the mud.
I have traveled all over the nine states and have never been humiliated or insulted, and I have never been detained anywhere.
Now arriving at Quanyang, the fisherman insulted and imprisoned it.
Even if the king sends it away, the river god and the river god will definitely be angry and must seek revenge.
The turtle will make plans with the gods because he has been violated.
Or it may rain for a long time without clearing up, and the flood cannot be treated.
Or drought, wind and dust, locust outbreaks, and people miss the farming season.
If the king is benevolent and righteous to Turtle, his punishment will surely come.
There is no other reason for this, the evil spirit is on this turtle.
Even if I regret it in the future, it will be too late!
King, do not send it away.
King Yuan sighed with emotion and said: Isn't it cruelty to obstruct other people's messengers and destroy other people's plans?
Isn't it tyranny to seize other people's things and use them as your own treasures?
I have heard it said that what is suddenly gained must be suddenly lost, and what is taken by force must be ineffective in the end.
Xia Jie and Shang Zhou were violent and tyrannical, so they died and the country perished.
If I obey you, I will lose the reputation of benevolence and righteousness and have the reputation of rape.
The river gods became Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, and I became Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
If you don't see the benefit of the turtle, you may suffer the disaster caused by it.
I was full of doubts about how I could serve this treasure, so I quickly drove the turtle away to avoid keeping it for a long time.
Wei Ping replied: "That's not the case. Please don't worry, your Majesty."
Between the heaven and the earth, stones are piled up to form mountains.
The mountains are high but do not collapse, and the earth is safe.
Therefore, some things may seem dangerous but are actually safe, some may seem trivial but are immovable; some people may be loyal and honest but not as deceitful as others; some may be ugly but suitable for high office; some may be beautiful but become a scourge to everyone.
If it were not a holy person, no one could explain it clearly.
Spring, autumn, winter and summer, some are hot and some are cold.
The cold and heat are not harmonious, and evil spirits invade each other.
The seasons are different throughout the year, and their respective seasons make it so.
So let spring grow and summer grow, autumn harvest and winter hide.
Some are kind and some are violent.
There is a time for violence, and there is a time for benevolence and justice.
Everything is like this and cannot be studied deeply.
If your Majesty can listen to my opinion, please let me explain this matter in detail.
The five colors present in the sky are used to distinguish black and white.
Five kinds of good grains grow on the earth, which are used to know good and evil.
No one among the ancient people knew how to distinguish them, they were similar to animals.
They live in caves in valleys and do not know how to farm.
The world is in chaos, yin and yang are at odds with each other, men and women are in a hurry, and men and women are intermarriage, but they do not choose each other.
Evildoers appear again and again, and the family is left alone and weak.
The sage came out to distinguish various living creatures so that they would not attack each other.
There are birds and animals, and they are placed in the mountains and forests and fields; there are male and female birds, and they are placed in the woods and swamps; there are insects and insects, they are placed in the rivers and valleys.
Therefore, the sage governs the people and builds city walls for them, divides the city into streets and alleys, and builds field paths in the suburbs.
Husbands and wives, allocate fields and houses to them, and arrange their houses.
Make drawings and books for them and distinguish their names and families.
Set up officials and encourage them with titles and salaries.
They were made to wear mulberry and hemp, eat grains, plow the fields and weed the fields.
People's mouths eat the food they like, their eyes see beautiful things, and their bodies receive the benefits of food and clothing.
From this point of view, the goal cannot be achieved without hard work.
Therefore, if farmers are not hardworking, barns will not be full; if businessmen are not hardworking, they will not be able to make profits; if women are not hardworking, cloth will not be exquisite; if officials are not hardworking, their power will not be established; if generals are not hardworking, soldiers will not obey orders; if princes are not hardworking, they will have no reputation for life.
Therefore, hard work is the beginning of success, the basis of status, and the law of all things.
There is nothing that cannot be achieved if you pursue it through hard work.
Your Majesty thinks otherwise, haven't you heard? The pheasant in the jade box comes from Kunshan; the pearl of the bright moon comes from all over the world; the jade is carved out, the clam beads are cut out, and sold in the market. The saints got them and regarded them as valuable treasures.
The person who owns this treasure will become the emperor.
Now you yourself regard the stranding of the divine turtle as tyranny, but it is actually not as good as extracting clam beads from the sea; you yourself regard this as tyranny, but in fact it is not as good as going to Kunshan to carve out jade.
He who digs out treasures has no sin, and he who hides treasures has no trouble.
Now the turtle envoy threw himself into a trap, met a fisherman and got it. The turtle introduced himself in a dream. This is a national treasure. What should the king worry about?
King Yuan said: That's not the case.
I have heard this saying: Those who criticize are the happiness of the country, and those who flatter are the disaster of the country.
It is foolish for a monarch to listen to flattery.
Despite this, disaster does not happen casually, and happiness does not come in vain.
The heaven and earth gather their vitality to produce all wealth.
Yin and Yang are different, and they are inseparable from the four seasons and twelve months of the year. When the days come, it becomes a cycle.
A saint who understands this principle will avoid disaster himself.
When a wise king applies this principle, no one dares to deceive him.
Therefore, the arrival of happiness is created by people themselves; the arrival of disaster is also caused by people themselves.
Disaster and happiness coexist, punishment and reward complement each other.
The sage understands this truth clearly and therefore knows the good and bad.
During the reigns of Jie of Xia and Zhou of Shang, they competed with the heavens for merit and hindered ghosts and gods from communicating with each other.
This is already cruel and unethical, and there are many flatterers.
Xia Jie had a flattering minister named Zhao Liang.
He instigated King Jie to be cruel and cruel, encouraged him to be as greedy as a wolf, imprisoned Shang Tang in Xiatai, and killed Guan Longfeng.
The people on the left and right are afraid of being killed, and they are just trying to flatter themselves.
The country is in danger, but everyone says it doesn't matter.
They shouted long live happily, but confusedly said that the fate of the country was not over yet.
Blind Xia Jie's ears and eyes, and join him in deceit and madness.
Shang Tang finally defeated Xia Jie, and Xia Jie died.
Xia Jie listened to Zhao Liang, a flattering official, and suffered disaster alone.
"Spring and Autumn" recorded this incident, which is still unforgettable.
During the Shang Dynasty, there was a flattering minister named Zuo Qiang. He boasted about his skillful eyes and instigated King Zhou to build an elephant gallery.
The elephant corridor is as high as the sky, and a jade bed is placed there.
Utensils carved from rhinoceros horn and jade are used, and ivory chopsticks are used to eat.
The heart of the sage Bigan was dug out, and the legs of the strong man were cut off.
Jizi was afraid of being killed, so he let his hair down and pretended to be crazy.
King Zhou killed Prince Li of Zhou and imprisoned King Wen of Zhou Jichang.
Throw King Wen into a stone chamber and prepare to imprison him from night to dawn.
Yin Jing rescued King Wen and escaped with him.
King Wen entered the Zhou Dynasty and obtained Tai Gongwang.
He mobilized his soldiers, gathered weapons, and fought against Shang Zhou.
King Wen died of illness, and his subordinates carried his body forward.
Prince Ji Fa replaced his father as a general, and his temple title was King Wu.
King Wu and King Zhou fought in Muye and defeated the Zhou army south of Mount Huashan.
King Zhou was defeated and fled back. King Wu besieged him in the Elephant Corridor.
King Zhou committed suicide in the Proclamation Chamber, but he was not allowed to be buried after his death.
The head was hung on the beam of the cart and was pulled by four horses.
When I think of King Zhou's situation, my heart is filled with sorrow like boiling water.
These people are all rich and noble, but they are too arrogant.
When desires are not satisfied, people tend to be ambitious, greedy and arrogant.
If you do not appoint loyal and trustworthy people, but listen to those flattering ministers, you will eventually be ridiculed by the world.
Now my territory is between the various vassal states, not even the slightest bit inferior to it.
If you don't do things properly, how can you escape disaster!
Wei Ping replied: That's not the case.
Although the Yellow River has wise gods, it is not as good as the Kunlun Mountains; the water source of the Yangtze River is smooth, but it is not as good as the four seas. However, people still wanted to seize the treasures of Kunlun and Sihai. The princes competed for them, and wars broke out.
Small countries were destroyed and big countries were in danger. They killed other people's parents and brothers, kidnapped other people's wives and children, destroyed other people's territories, and destroyed other people's ancestral temples in order to compete for these treasures.
Fighting and fighting is rape.
Therefore, we use violent force to seize it, and use civilization and education to govern it. If it does not violate the order of the four seasons, it will surely bring the wise men close; as the yin and yang change together, ghosts and gods can also be used; they can communicate with heaven and earth, and they can also be friends.
The princes surrendered and the people were prosperous and happy.
The country is peaceful and the society is getting rid of the old and ushering in the new.
Shang Tang and Zhou Wu used this method to obtain the throne of the emperor. "Spring and Autumn" recorded this incident and regarded it as a norm.
The king does not call himself Shang Tang or Zhou Wu, but compares himself to Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
Xia Jie and Shang Zhou were violent and tyrannical, and they regarded these as commonplace.
Jie of Xia built a tile-roofed house, and Zhou of Shang built an elephant gallery.
Collecting silk and silk to burn as firewood will inevitably waste people and money.
There is no limit to the collection of taxes, and no rules for killing people.
They killed the people's livestock, made bags of cooked skins, filled the bags with the blood of the animals, hung them up, and shot them with others to compete with the Emperor of Heaven.
It violates the order of the four seasons and tastes the delicacies of the four seasons before offering sacrifices to the gods and ghosts.
Those who advise are always killed, but the courtiers who flatter are left behind.
The saints are hiding, and the people have no one to act.
The sky frequently brings droughts, and monsters often appear in the country.
Locust plagues occur every year, and crops fail.
The people are restless in their homes, and the ghosts and gods do not enjoy the sacrifices.
There was strong wind every day, and it was dark during the day. The sun and the moon eclipse together, extinguishing their light.
The stars do not follow the track and move randomly, all disrupting the order of discipline.
From this point of view, how could the reigns of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou last long?
Even without Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, they would have perished by then.
Therefore, Shang Tang defeated Jie and King Wu defeated Zhou. It was the situation at that time that made it so.
Shang Tang and Zhou Wu became emperors, and their descendants became kings one after another. They made no mistakes throughout their lives, and their descendants praised them and they have not stopped until now.
These are all actions that adapt to the current situation. Only by being strong in times of trouble can you become an emperor.
Now the turtle is a valuable treasure. He went on a mission for the saint and passed it on to the wise king.
The turtle does not need to move his hands or feet, thunder and lightning accompany it, wind and rain escort it, and flowing water floats on it.
Only those princes who are benevolent can bear it.
Now the king is benevolent, so he got this treasure, but he dare not accept it because of fear. If you give it away, there will be disaster in the Song Dynasty.
Even if you regret it later, it will be too late.
King Yuan was very happy after hearing this.
So King Yuan bowed to the sun and thanked Heaven twice, and accepted the tortoise.
Choose auspicious days to fast, considering A and B to be the most auspicious days.
So he killed the white pheasant and the black sheep, and filled the turtle with blood in the center of the altar. When dissected with a knife, the tortoise shell was not damaged.
Sacrifice again with wine and meat, and remove the intestines.
Then burn it with thorn branches to seek omens.
Insist on burning out the omen pattern. Sure enough, the omen pattern appeared and the order was clear. Ask the fortune teller to predict the fortune, and what he says is very appropriate.
The country has such a valuable treasure, and the news spreads directly abroad.
So he killed the cow, took the skin, and covered it with Paulownia wood produced in Zheng to make a war drum.
Various weapons are made according to the characteristics of vegetation. When it comes to war, no one can rival King Yuan.
During the reign of King Yuan, Wei Ping was the Prime Minister of the Song State, and the Song State was the most powerful in the world. This was all due to the turtle's magical power.
Therefore, although the turtle is big enough to entrust dreams to the spirit of King Yuan, it cannot escape from the fisherman's cage on its own.
I can speak true to my words, but I cannot communicate with the Yellow River and repay the Yangtze River. His ability is so great that others can win and attack, but he cannot avoid the blade and avoid the disaster of being slaughtered.
Wei Ping was extremely smart and could predict the future and quickly see the blessings and disasters, but he could not prevent Wei Ping from saying unfavorable words to the kings of Song and Yuan Dynasties.
Predicting things is always thorough, and it affects oneself, but he is imprisoned and cannot be released; once things come to an individual, he cannot avoid disadvantages and seek advantages, so what is the use of being virtuous?
However, having said that, virtuous only refers to his virtuous side, and the same is true for most people.
Therefore, good eyesight also has aspects that cannot be seen, and good hearing has aspects that cannot be heard; no matter how great a person is, he cannot draw a square with his left hand and a circle with his right hand at the same time; the sun and moon are bright, but sometimes they are blocked by floating clouds.
Yi was said to have high archery skills, but he was not as good as Xiongqu and Bimen; Yu was said to be good at discerning and wise, but he could not defeat ghosts and gods.
The pillars of the earth have been broken, and the sky has no rafters, so why should we seek perfection from others?
After hearing about the story between the Divine Turtle and King Song and Yuan, Confucius said: The Divine Turtle can know whether things are good or bad, but he only has a hollow skeleton.
The solar energy dominates the world with its kindness, but is bullied by the three-legged crow.
The moon can use punishment to assist the sun, but it is bitten by a toad.
The hedgehog was bullied by the magpie, but the magical snake was no match for the centipede.
Bamboo has knots and segments on the outside, but is straight and hollow on the inside; pines and cypresses are as long as a hundred trees, but they are planted beside the gate to serve as guards.
The sun and the sun cannot be comprehensive, so they are lonely and empty.
Gold has flaws, white jade has flaws.
Sometimes things go fast and sometimes things go slow.
Item performance has limitations, and it also has its specialties.
Sometimes the mesh appears too fine, and sometimes it appears too rough.
There are places where people are more valuable than others, and there are places where they are inferior to others.
What should we do?
How can we be comprehensive and considerate?
Heaven is not perfect yet, so when people build houses, they put three less tiles in order to accommodate the house, which means that it is not perfect, so as to adapt to the imperfection of Heaven.
Everything in the world is different, and everything survives in the world because of its imperfections.
Mr. Chu said: The fisherman caught the tortoise with a net, and the tortoise himself entrusted the dream to the king of Song and Yuan Dynasty. The king of Song and Yuan Dynasty called Dr. Wei Ping to tell him about the dream of the tortoise. Weiping used the formula to calculate, determine the position of the sun and moon, distinguish the relationship between stars and officials, predict good and bad luck, and found that the tortoise had the same image as the observed and calculated image. Weiping urged the king of Yuan to keep the tortoise as a national treasure. This is really good.
In ancient times, when talking about divination, one must praise turtles, because turtles have a long-standing reputation for being efficacious.
That's why I wrote this biography.
March February first month
December, November, Zhongguan, Gaowai, Xiaxia, April, Liangzhidaokai, Shoufu, May, Hengji, Shoufu, June, July, August, September, October
Taboos on divination: divination and turtle killing are not allowed at Zi, Hai and Xu.
If you encounter a solar eclipse during the day, you should stop divination.
At twilight, the tortoise can't move around and cannot be used for divination.
On Geng and Xin days, you can kill the turtle or drill into its shell.
The turtle is often washed on the first day of every month to get rid of any bad luck. The method is to first bathe the turtle with clean water, then rub the turtle with eggs, and then use the turtle for divination. This is a common method for using turtles.
If the divination does not work, rub the turtle with eggs to drive away bad luck. Stand facing east, burn the turtle with thorn branches or hardwood, shape the turtle into an egg shape with soil and point to the turtle three times. Then pick up the turtle and circle it with the eggs, and pray: Today is an auspicious day. I would like to use polished rice, chicken eggs, thorn wood, and yellow silk to drive away the bad luck of the jade turtle.
In this way, the jade spirit must be honest and trustworthy, so it knows everything and can understand everything through divination.
If the divination is not trustworthy and sincere, burn the jade spirit and discard its ashes to warn future turtles.
When doing divination, you must face north and use a tortoise shell one foot and two inches long.
When performing divination, first use burning thorns to burn the hollows on the turtle, then burn the middle part, and then burn the head three times each; the second part of the turtle is burned, called the body, and the one with the head is called the feet, three times each.
Then burn the turtle with thorn sticks, burn it around three times, and pray, saying: With the help of your divine power, Mrs. Yuling.
Master is very effective. I will burn your heart with thorn branches so that you can predict the future.
You can ascend to the sky and descend to the abyss, but all kinds of clever strategies are not as honest as yours.
Today is a good day, please give me a good omen.
I want to predict something. If I get a suitable omen, I will be happy, but if I don't get it, I will be upset.
If I can get what I ask for, please show me a long and large sign body, with the head and feet converged, and the signs rising in pairs.
If I cannot get what I ask for, please show me a sign that is not straight and the center does not correspond to the edges. The sign does not appear at the beginning or end.
The turtle fortune teller prays: With the help of your turtle power. The five witches and five spirits are not as good as the spirit of the turtle, which can predict whether people will live or die.
I want a good omen, I want to ask for something.
If you can get it, please show the omens and omens, and make the inside and outside of the omens correspond. If you can't get them, please raise the omens, the omens will converge, and the inside and outside will hang down.
If you show it this way, I will get the divination result.
When divining a patient, he prayed: Now someone is seriously ill. If he is destined to die, there will be an omen like this: the omen is upward, the inside and outside are intertwined, and the body is twists and turns; if he is not going to die, there will be an omen with the omen upward and the foot converging.
When asking the patient whether he is haunted by evil spirits, he prays: If this patient is possessed by evil spirits, please do not show omens. If he is not possessed by evil spirits, please show omens. There are evil spirits inside, and there are evil spirits outside, and there are evil spirits outside.
Divination asked whether the imprisoned person could be released from prison.
If it cannot come out, the omen is auspicious; if it can come out, the omen's feet are open and the omen's head is raised, indicating that there is something outside.
Divination asks whether the property can be obtained.
If you can get it, the sign will open up with your feet raised, and the inside and outside will correspond; if you can't get it, the sign will appear with the head raised and the feet converging.
The fortune teller asked whether the concubine and horse cow could be bought and sold as they wished.
If the wish is fulfilled, the head will be raised and the feet will be opened, and the inside and outside will correspond; if the wish is not fulfilled, the head will be raised and the feet will be contracted, and the omen will be like a horizontal auspicious sign.
Bu Wen attacked a gang of bandits that had gathered somewhere, and now he led several soldiers to attack.
To be able to win, the head should be raised, the feet should be raised, the body should be upright, the inside should be high, and the four sides should be down. Invincible, his feet are raised and his head is raised, his body is lower inside and higher outside.
Bu asked if he should travel.
When it is done, the first and second legs are open. It is not suitable to travel. If you have your feet covered and your head raised, it is in Ji'an. If it is An, it is not suitable to travel.
He asked if he could meet the bandits when he set out to attack them.
If you can see it, with your head raised and your feet covered with robes, there is something outside. If you can't see it, you will open your eyes and look up.
I asked if I could see the thief somewhere if I was waiting for him.
If you can see it, raise your head and feet, and keep your eyes open; if you cannot see it, raise your head and open your feet.
I heard that there was a thief and asked if the thief came.
If you come, your feet should be high on the outside and your head down on the inside. If you don't come, your feet should be spread wide and your head raised. If you are in good health, come later.
The fortune teller asks whether transferring positions will result in loss of official position.
If you lose your official position, it is enough to open your clothes and look up; if you don't lose your official position, or you resign yourself, then you can just wear your clothes, and the omen is like Heng Ji'an.
Divination asks whether it will be auspicious to be an official.
If it is auspicious, it means that the body is upright, as if the horizontal axis is auspicious; if it is unlucky, it means that the body is twisted, with the head raised and the feet open.
The divination asks whether it is auspicious to be at home.
If it is auspicious, it means that the body is upright, as if the horizontal axis is auspicious; if it is unlucky, it means that the body is twisted, with the head raised and the feet spread.
Divination asks whether the crops will mature during the year.
When the body is mature, the head is raised and the feet are open, and the inside and outside are hanging from the outside of the bridge; when the body is not mature, the head is raised and the head is outside.
Divination asks if there will be any plague among the people during the year.
When there is an epidemic, the head is raised and the feet are stretched out, and the body joints are weak; when there is no epidemic, the body is upright, the head is raised, and the feet are spread out.
Divination asks if there will be any war during the year.
If there is no war, the omen will be like auspiciousness; if there is war, the head will be raised and the feet will be spread wide, and the body will show strong emotions.
Divination asks whether it will be auspicious to meet a noble person.
If it is auspicious, the feet are open and the head is raised, the body is upright, and the inner body is raised; if it is unlucky, the head is raised, the body is twisted, the feet are covered with outside, as if there is no fish.
Ask about whether there is any gain in meeting others.
If there is a harvest, the head is raised and the feet are open, and the inner self rises; if there is no harvest, the head is raised and the feet are open, and the outer body is lifted.
Divination asked if the fugitive could be caught.
When pursued, the head is raised and the feet are stretched out, and the inside and outside are corresponding; when the pursuit is not pursued, the head is raised and the feet are spread out, like Heng Ji'an.
Divination asked whether fishing and hunting would be fruitful.
If there is a harvest, the head is raised and the feet are opened, and the inside and outside are corresponding; if there is no harvest, the feet are lifted and the head is raised, like Heng Ji'an.
I am wondering if I will be robbed while traveling.
If you encounter a thief, your head will be raised and your feet will be spread out. Your body will twist and turn, with the outside high and the inside down. If you don't meet it, it will be a sign.
I asked if it would rain.
When it rains, the head is raised and the outside is high, and the outside is high and the inside is down; when it is not raining, the head is raised and the feet are spread wide, like Heng Ji'an.
I asked whether the rain would clear up.
If it is clear, it will be a sign of having your feet raised and your head raised; if it is not clear, it will be auspicious.
One omen is called Hengji'an.
According to this sign, ask about the condition. Those who are seriously ill will not die within a day. Those who are not seriously ill will recover on the day of the divination and will not die.
Ask about the situation of the prisoners. Those who have committed serious crimes will not be released, and those who have committed minor crimes will not be released. However, there is no danger in being imprisoned for a long time.
I asked if I could get the concubine, horse, and oxen if I bought the property. You can get it in one day; after one day, you can't buy it.
Ask if it is advisable to travel.
Not suitable for travel. Ask if someone wants to come and has not come yet. Those who come are greeted; after the meal time, they will not come until it is over.
Asked if he would attack the thieves.
Don't go. You can't even come across it.
I heard that thieves are coming, will they come?
Won't come. Asked if there would be any transfer of official positions. Won't.
Asking whether it is auspicious to live in an official position or to live at home. Duji.
Asked how he was doing in those years. Not a good harvest.
Ask the people if there is any plague. No.
Ask if there will be any war during the year. No.
Ask if you want to see the noble man. go.
I won’t be happy if I don’t go.
Ask if you want to go see someone and ask for help.
If you don't go, you won't get help.
Ask about the results of hunting down fugitives, fishing and hunting. Nothing gained.
Ask if you will encounter theft while traveling.
There will be no theft.
Ask if it will rain.
It doesn't rain. Ask whether it will turn sunny or not. It won’t clear up.
An omen is called a sign. If you get this sign, ask the patient how he is doing.
Will not die. Ask how the prisoners are doing.
To be released. Asked whether to travel.
travel.
Ask the person who is coming if he has not come yet. Come.
No need to worry.
Asked if the fugitives could be recovered. cannot.
One kind of omen is called the head raised and the feet raised, and there is no inside but no outside.
If you get this sign, ask about your condition. She is very ill, but will not die.
Ask how the prisoner is doing.
will be released. Ask him how he wants to buy his concubines, horses and oxen.
He asked whether someone would come if he heard that he was coming.
Not coming.
Bu asked if he wanted to move his official position or not.
Do not migrate. Ask the resident official how he is doing. Worry.
Ask how home is. Many disasters.
Asked how the harvest was this year. Moderate harvest.
Ask people how the epidemic is going. Frequent diseases.
Ask if there will be any war during the year. have. Hearing this, he couldn't speak.
How about meeting the noble man?
lucky.
This is a sign that the upper pillar of Hengji will raise its feet from outside and inside.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
There can be gains. If you ask about the condition, you will not die.
Asked about the situation of the prisoner, there was no obstruction and he could not be released yet. Asked whether to travel. Not traveling.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Whatever you ask is good luck.
This is a good omen for the Hengji Shangzhu, the outer and inner self-lifting pillars.
There can be gains. Ask about the condition.
Disease and death are everywhere.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. Continue to be detained without hindrance. Ring out.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask whether everything is auspicious or not.
lucky. Asked if troops could be sent.
Can. This is quite deceptive and has an external sign.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
Nothing gained. Ask about the condition. Will not die, get better many times.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. If there is misfortune, you must pay for it.
I heard that there is a hindrance and ask whether there is any hindrance. No hindrance.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. This is quite deceptive and has some hints.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
Nothing gained. Ask about the condition. Will not die, get better many times.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. If there is misfortune, one will be punished, but if there is no harm, one will be released.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
This is a sign of internal and external fraud.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
There is gain.
Ask about the condition.
He won't die, so he asked how he was doing in prison.
Will not be convicted.
Asked whether to travel. travel.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming. Come.
If he continues to be detained, he will not be convicted and it will be difficult for him to be released.
Asked if housing could be built here. Can.
Asked if he could have a wife and a daughter.
Can. Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask if you have any worries.
Ask about the condition.
To die. Ask how the prisoners are doing.
If you continue to be detained, you must pay for your crime.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask how the matter was discussed. will be determined.
Ask how various things are going. Neither is good luck.
This is the first sign of bending one's feet and body joints.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
Nothing gained.
Ask about the condition. To die.
Not coming. Ask whether to travel or not.
travel.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
This is a sign of self-reliance both internally and externally.
If he continues to be detained, he will not be sentenced and it will be difficult for him to be released.
Asked whether to travel. Not traveling.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask if it's good or not.
Unlucky. This is a sign that Hengjiyu will raise its head and bow down.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be. Hard to gain.
Ask about the condition. It’s hard to get out of bed, but you won’t die.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. It is difficult to release, and there is no hindrance.
Asked if he could settle down here, get a wife and a daughter. Can. This is a sign that the upper pillar of the Hengji Zhengzheng body will be lifted up internally and externally.
According to this omen, ask about the condition. It is predicted that if you don't die on that day, you will die one day.
The capital city is full of deceit, but there are no internal signs.
The patient died immediately before the turtle occupation was over.
If you ask lightly in divination, you will lose something big. Won't die in a day.
The head is raised and the feet are raised as a sign.
Nothing gained. Ask how the prisoners are doing.
will be sentenced.
Ask what would happen if someone used words to threaten.
No hindrance. Asked whether to travel. Not traveling.
Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Roughly speaking: the foreigners mentioned in the divination book refer to other people.
Guilt refers to the self.
Sometimes it refers to women on the outside and men on the inside. Shoufu means worry. Big, refers to the body. Small refers to the last branch of Zhaowen.
The simple reason for distinguishing Zhaowen is that when it comes to the condition, those with enough Zhaowen can live, while those with enough Zhaowen can die.
If you ask people who travel, the Zhaowen is enough to reach the destination. The ones with enough legs can't reach it.
Asked whether to travel. It is not suitable for those who are wearing footwear to travel, but it is okay for those who are wearing footwear.
Divination asks what will be the result of seeking. Those who have enough will gain, and those who have enough will not gain.
When asked about the imprisoned people, those with their feet covered cannot be released, but those with their feet open can be released.
Those who asked for illness died because they were high on the inside and low on the outside.
