◆The legend of Shentu Gang is that Shentu Gang was named Juqing and was a native of Maoling, Fufeng County. The seventh generation ancestor Shen Tujia was the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Wen. Shentu was upright and upright, and often envied the conduct of Chief Shi Yu and Ji An.
He became an official of the county meritorious service.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang was in dictatorship, and there were many suspicions in the court. Wang Mang isolated the Feng clan of Emperor Ping's grandmother from the mother Wei clan, and was not allowed to go to Beijing to interact and serve as an official. Shentu Gang always resented this.
Later, when he was praised as a virtuous and upright man, he wrote a countermeasure, saying: If I hear that the government is wrong, the gods of heaven and earth will be angry, and the treacherous and evil will cause trouble, so the yin and yang are wrong.
This is why God condemns and warns the emperor, hoping to teach the unjust monarch to suddenly wake up and make those ministers with evil intentions fear and correct themselves. Nowadays, the imperial court does not examine merits or compare virtues, but instead accepts false slander or praise. It has issued several edicts and set up strict laws to suppress slander and prohibit discussion. Those who commit serious crimes may even be cut in half.
This dampens the friendship of loyal ministers and dampens the spirit of loyal and upright people. It is contrary to the purpose of establishing banners to offer good words, hanging bells and drums for daring to give advice, opening up channels for words from all directions, and clearly observing the four directions so that the feelings of subordinates can be conveyed to superiors.
I heard that when King Cheng was young, the Duke of Zhou acted as regent. He listened to the opinions of others, treated the virtuous and corporal, shared rights and interests equally, spread favor widely, regardless of old or new, treated everyone with kindness, love and closeness, acted in accordance with heaven and earth, and did not violate the rules.
However, if you are close, Duke Zhao is unhappy, and if you are far, there are rumors about Cai, Shang, and the four kingdoms.
The relationship between mother and child is a close relative in heaven.
Your Majesty is young now, only nine years old. Since he came to the throne, his close relatives have been separated, his relatives are separated from each other, and his kindness is not as good as that of his uncle's family.
Moreover, although the Han Dynasty system employed heroes and virtuous men, it was still necessary to use in-laws. In this way, kinship and distance were intertwined, and gaps could be closed. This was a method used to install ancestral temples and restructure the country.
Now the Feng and Wei clans are innocent and have been deposed for a long time without being hired, or they are far away in remote and remote areas and are not as good as the common people. This is not the intention of loving, loyal and filial servants to the emperor.
Those who are human beings will naturally have justice. No matter whether they are the most noble or the most humble, their power will not disapprove of each other. Therefore, people are not wise and foolish, and everyone will resent them. Traitors and traitors can act very conveniently, and it is difficult to predict changes that are not hidden.
The guardian who tutors the sons of the emperor today is not the Duke of Zhou in ancient times.
The Duke of Zhou is the most holy person, yet he is still involved, let alone some things that are out of his original intention and inconsistent with Heaven's will?
In the past, the Duke of Zhou first sent Bo Qin to the state of Lu to maintain the title, in order to sever the relationship between father and son, and to cut off the favor with loyalty, so that his respect and favor would not be extended to future generations. Therefore, Lu thought that Duke Zhou was a descendant of the great sage, and worshiped him in the suburbs, just like the emperor's gift, for more than thirty generations.
Huo Guang was responsible for the affairs of the government, assisted the young Emperor Zhao, cultivated good government, and promoted talents. On the surface, he was very loyal. However, he relied on his clan, suppressed his relatives, and made friends with powerful people to monopolize the government. After Huo Guang's death, his son rebelled against the Huo family and was exterminated.
Today's masters all use the power of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong to hold the great responsibility of being virtuous and protecting the country, and they use this to think about education. So what can't they achieve?
If the danger is not considered, then why can't the disaster reach it?
Regarding the relationship between loss and benefit, Confucius also sighed. If you maintain too much, it will overturn. This is something I am very cautious and vigilant about.
Because those who have the most merit in the world are uneasy, and those whose prestige shocks the emperor are not safe.
This is a time of great destruction following the decline and chaos. The country's financial resources are exhausted, taxes are heavy, abusive officials interfere with the farming season, greedy husbands usurp the property, the people are impoverished, and diseases are prevalent and people die prematurely.
Groups of thieves often gathered more than ten thousand people. They raised an army and marched, but stopped with the crowd. They established their own ranks, attacked the capital, burned counties and towns, and even rumored that crossbow arrows were fired into the palace, which frightened the guards in the palace.
This has never happened since the establishment of the Han Dynasty.
The country is weak, but treachery cannot be stopped, and the effectiveness of the six poles pointed out in the book of ministers is in danger.
The king obeys the heaven and the earth, controls the officials and presides over the criminal law, and dares not use high-ranking officials to privately consecrate his relatives, and dare not use heaven's punishment to alleviate his relatives.
Your Majesty should obey the sage's virtues, be enlightened, follow the emperor's path when far away, and abide by the imperial career of Emperor Xiaowen when near, give alms to the teachings of Wuchang, accept close relatives, immediately send envoys to welcome the Empress Dowager Zhongshan, put her in a separate palace, and go to court regularly.
He also recalled the Feng and Wei tribes and granted them casual positions so that they could hold halberds and serve as bodyguards in person to prevent trouble in the bud. Safeguard the country at the top, protect Fu at the bottom, harmonize with relatives internally, and eliminate evil plots externally. After the book was submitted, Wang Mang ordered Empress Yuan to issue an edict saying: "What Shen Tugang said is deviant from the scriptures and goes against the principles of justice. He should be dismissed from office and go home."
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne, and Shentu just fled to Hexi and transferred to Bashu, where he stayed for more than 20 years.
When Wei Xiao occupied Longyou, he wanted to betray the Han and submit to Gongsun Shu.
Shentu Gang said to Kaixiao: I heard that where people return, Heaven gives them to people, and when they rebel, Heaven leaves them.
I think that Emperor Guangwu of this dynasty practiced holy virtues, raised righteous soldiers, and respected heaven's punishment. He was invincible wherever he went. This is really a blessing from heaven and cannot be achieved by human power.
A general has no land and is isolated in a corner. He should treat each other with sincerity and obedience, and work together with the court. Above, he should obey the will of heaven, below, he should pay attention to people's expectations. He should make contributions to the country and live forever.
A saint will not do anything suspicious.
With the prestige of a general, even though he is thousands of miles away, how can he not be cautious in his actions?
Now the seals have been issued several times, entrusting the country to show its trust, hoping to share good and bad luck with the general.
When ordinary people work together, they still have the trust of not breaking their promises until death, let alone a monarch of ten thousand chariots!
What are you afraid of and thinking about now, why are you so undecided?
Once there is an extraordinary change, the superior will be unfaithful and filial, and the inferior will be ashamed of the world.
When the prophecy does not arrive, it is of course empty words, but once it arrives, it is too late, so the words of advice are true and I hope they will be accepted.
May you think over and over again about my criticism.
Wei Xiao refused to accept it, and finally rebelled against Han and followed Gongsun Shu.
In the seventh year of Jianwu, there was an edict to conquer Shen Tugang.
Just after Shentu returned, he wrote to Kaixiao again: I heard that people who insist on their own way are isolated, and people who refuse to accept advice are easy to get blocked. Isolated and blocked politics are the harbinger of national destruction.
Although he has the qualifications of a wise sage, he still has to submit to the opinions of the public, so that he can be thoughtful and have no unintended plans, and his actions are appropriate and without wrongdoing.
The sage does not regard his own unique opinion as wisdom, but regards all things as his heart.
Those who obey others will prosper, and those who go against others will perish. This is a truth common to both ancient and modern times.
The general was recommended by the village as a commoner. When he started the army, he had no predetermined plan. After he mobilized the army, he had no foresight.
Nowadays, political and religious relations in the East are getting closer and closer, and the people are safe. However, when troops are sent to Xizhou, everyone is worried, turbulent and afraid, and dare not speak out. The masses are doubtful and worried.
Not only does it lack the spirit of excellence and enterprising spirit, but its disasters are everywhere.
When things are poor, accidents will happen. When things are urgent, plans are easy to form. It is caused by the situation.
There is no one who can have a country and a family by deviating from morality and violating human feelings, in ancient and modern times.
Generals have always been famous for their loyalty and filial piety, which is why scholar-bureaucrats come from thousands of miles away to admire and share their virtues.
Now if you decide to act by chance, what else is left of loyalty, filial piety, virtue and justice?
God bless you with prosperity, and people who help you are trustworthy.
If there is no help from God, the common people will suffer misfortunes, destroy their lifelong virtues, ruin the integrity of monarchs and ministers, tarnish the kindness of father and son, and destroy the courage of all sages, so we must be cautious!
Wei Xiao didn't accept it.
When Shentu first arrived in Luoyang, he was appointed as the imperial censor, and then moved to the ministerial order.
Guangwu once wanted to travel, but Shentu just thought that Longshu had not been pacified yet, so it was not suitable to have a leisurely meal.
When his opinion was not accepted, he put his head on the wheel, and Guangwu stopped the tour.
At that time, many officials at home and abroad were mostly elected by the emperor himself. They were subject to strict legal supervision. Their work was too hard, and the ministers and close ministers were even whipped and dragged forward. No ministers dared to speak honestly.
Shen Tugang tried his best to dissuade him, and said many times that the crown prince should enter the East Palace and appoint virtuous guardians to achieve his virtue, but Guangwu refused to accept it.
Because he repeatedly remonstrated against the will, a few years later, he was released as the Pingyin Order.
Later, he was recalled to worship as Taizhong doctor. He resigned from his official position due to illness and died at home.
◆Bao Yongzhuan Bao Yong, courtesy name Junchang, was a native of Tunliu, Shangdang County.
His father, Bao Xuan, was the captain of Sili School at the time of Emperor Ai and was killed by Wang Mang.
When Bao Yong was young, he was ambitious and studied Ouyang's "Shang Shu".
He was very filial to his stepmother. His wife once scolded the dog in front of his stepmother, so Bao Yong divorced his wife immediately.
At first he was a county meritorious official.
Wang Mang thought that Bao Xuan would not join him and wanted to kill his descendants.
Duwei Luping followed Wang Mang's wishes and formulated a plan to kill Bao Yong.
The prefect Gou Jian protected him, called him an official, and allowed him to live in the mansion permanently. Therefore, Bao Yong repeatedly stated the strategy of reviving the Han Dynasty and cutting off the treason for Gou Jian.
Gou Jian repeatedly warned Bao Yong: If the ruler reveals the secret, the whole family will be killed.
Bao Yong was grateful for his persuasion.
After Gou Jian passed away, Bao Yong returned to Fufeng Luping to attend his funeral, so Bao Yong's younger brother Bao Sheng was put on trial.
When the new governor Zhao Xing arrived, he sighed after hearing these things: I accepted the grant from the Han Dynasty and could not establish a festival. Bao Xuan was killed, how could I frame his son?
The county magistrate was ordered to release Bao Sheng and restore Bao Yong to his position of meritorious service.
At that time, there was a person pretending to be Shizhong living in Chuanshe, and Zhao Xing wanted to pay him a visit.
Bao Yong suspected that he was lying and stopped Zhao Xing, but Zhao Xing refused to listen.
Zhao Xing drove there, and Bao Yong drew his sword and cut the horse in the chest before the carriage stopped. A few days later, Wang Mang issued an edict to search for those who pretended to be servants, and Bao Yong became famous. It is inappropriate to recommend him as a scholar. In the second year of Gengshi's reign, Bao Yong was recruited, and then moved to the post of Shangshu Pushe, acting as the general's military affairs. He commanded the troops with Fu Jie, and assembled the Hedong, Bingzhou, and Shuo tribes, and authorized him to appoint partial generals and exercise military law.
Bao Yong went to Hedong, led an army to attack Qingdu, and defeated him. He was granted the title of Marquis of Zhongyang.
Although Bao Yong was a general, his carriage and clothing were simple, and people on the road called him Bao Shangshu's soldiers and horses.
At this time, Chimei killed Gengshi, and the road to Sanfu was blocked.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he sent Uncle Chu, an official to advise him, and summoned Bao Yong to pay homage to him at his residence.
Bao Yongyou was suspicious of disobedience, so he imprisoned Uncle Chu and sent another envoy to Chang'an to inquire.
When he knew for sure that Gengshi was dead, he declared mourning, released Uncle Chu and others, and was awarded the title of general, Liehou Yinshou. He dismissed all the troops and arrived in Hanoi with the generals and more than a hundred fellow travelers without their heads.
The emperor saw Bao Yong and asked: "Where are your subordinates?"
Bao Yong left his seat and kowtowed and said: "I serve Gengshi, but I can't protect his safety. I am really ashamed to use my subordinates to invite wealth and honor, so they are all dismissed."
The emperor said: You are talking nonsense!
And feel unhappy inside.
At that time, Huai County could not be captured. The emperor said to Bao Yong: I have been attacking Huai County for three days but cannot capture it. Guandong fears and respects you. As an old friend, I can go to the city in person to inform him.
Then he worshiped Bao Yong as the admonishing doctor.
When Bao Yong arrived in Huai, he persuaded the governor of Gengshi Hanoi and surrendered to the city.
The emperor was overjoyed and rewarded Bao Yong with a residence in Shangshangli, Luoyang, but Bao Yong refused.
At this time, General Dong Xianpi stationed troops in Lu and invaded the people, so he worshiped Bao Yong as the governor of Lu County.
Bao Yong arrived, attacked and defeated them, and thousands of people surrendered.
But the other commanders, Peng Feng, Yu Xiu, and Pi Chang, each with more than a thousand men, claimed to be "generals" and refused to surrender.
Soon, the thorns in Confucius's palace were cleared for no reason, from the lecture hall to the inner gate.
Bao Yong felt strange and said to Fu Cheng and Lu Ling: "Now that the crisis is critical, the gate opens. Is this because Confucius wants me, the prefect, to salute and help me punish the unjust?"
So everyone gathered together to practice the ritual of local shooting. Please invite Peng Feng and others to watch and prepare to capture Peng Feng and others.
Peng Feng and others also wanted to murder Bao Yong, so they prepared cattle and wine for the feast, and secretly carried weapons.
Bao Yong found out and killed Peng Feng and others with his own hands, and captured his gang members.
The emperor praised his strategy, made him a Marquis of Guannei, and moved him to Yangzhou as a Mu.
At this time, there were still a lot of violent bandits in the southern land. After the officials and the people were injured, Bao Yong relaxed the law to control the movement of people. He issued notices only to punish the violent ones, and calmed and appeased the people who threatened them, so the people settled down.
When his mother passed away, he resigned and distributed all his property to his disciples.
In the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed as Sili Xiaowei.
The emperor's uncle, King Liu Liang of Zhao, was a respected relative. Bao Yong's impeachment of Liu Liang was considered disrespectful, so the court was in awe of him and everyone was vigilant and cautious.
So Fufeng Bao Hui was recruited to serve as an official in the capital, but Hui resisted and did not avoid violence.
Emperor Chang said: Noble relatives should restrain themselves to avoid the second wave.
It's so terrifying.
Bao Yongxing County went to Baling, passing Gengshi Tomb, and drove to the Northeast Cemetery to persuade him not to go.
Bao Yong said: I once went to the north to serve Gengshi. How could I not not worship the tomb? Even though I was guilty of this, I did not avoid it.
So he bowed down, wept bitterly and left in mourning.
Go to Fufeng in the west, kill the cattle and go to the tomb to worship them.
When the emperor heard this, he felt a little unsatisfied and asked the minister: "Why did the envoy do this?"
Taizhong doctor Zhang Zhan replied: Benevolence is the foundation of behavior, and loyalty is the backbone of righteousness.
It is a very noble act to be benevolent and never forget the past and to be loyal and never forget you.
The emperor's opinion then dissipated.
Later, the great Situ Han Xin was dismissed from office because of his outspokenness. Bao Yonggu was not able to plead guilty, so he violated the emperor's will and went out to serve as the Prime Minister of the East China Sea.
In addition, due to inaccurate land surveying, they were expropriated and many county guards were imprisoned.
When Bao Yong arrived in Chenggao, an edict was issued to welcome Bao Yong as the shepherd of Yanzhou, so he took office on the way.
He served as state pastor for three years and died of illness.
The historian commented: Bao Yong was loyal to his old master, so he could serve the new master.
He was ashamed that his subordinates were favored by Guangwu, so he could be favored greatly. As for the speaker's sincerity, but the listener does not understand it, isn't this the words that praise Gou Jin, which are easy to accept, but the words that are upright and contrary to people's will, which are difficult for people to understand?
If you can explain the advantages and disadvantages according to the principles, and follow the principles of justice with a straight heart, that is the measure of a gentleman.
◆Zhiyun Biography Zhiyun was named Junzhang and was a native of Xiping, Runan County.
I lost my mother when I was twelve years old, and I mourned and mourned.
When he grew up, he could understand "Han Shi", "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals", and understand the Chinese literature.
During the reign of Wang Mang, bandits often occurred. Zhiyun looked up at Xuanxiang and sighed to his friends: Now Zhenxing, Suixing, and Yinghuo are all in the area where Han divided Yi Zhen. If they go and come back, Han will definitely be ordered again, and the virtuous will enjoy the blessings.
Anyone who obeys God's will and expresses his strategy will achieve great success.
At that time, the Zuo team official had always liked scholars, so Zhi Yun said to him: The signs shown in today's astronomy can be used by wise men to prosper and fools to perish.
In the past, Yi Yin sold himself to assist Shang Tang, and finally made great contributions to everyone.
I, Zhi Yun, do not know what I am capable of, but dare to follow Yi Yin's path and adapt to the changes of heaven and man.
If Ming Gong does not doubt, he will achieve heavenly virtue.
He was surprised and appointed him as an official temporarily.
Zhi Yun refused to pay his respects and said: "In the past King Wen of Zhou promoted Lu Wang to the shore of the Wei River, Gaozong visited Fu Yue at Yanzhu, Duke Huan of Qi was shot by Guan Zhong, but he was able to regard him as his prime minister, so he was able to achieve great achievements and become a hero."
I haven't heard that Lu Wangfu said that Guan Zhong could be appointed as an official.
People who are not voyeurs cannot make long-term plans with him.
You refused to give Ji a heavy responsibility, so he bowed his head and left.
So he refused to accept the appointment.
When he arrived in Chang'an from the west, he wrote to Wang Mang, saying: I heard that the heaven and earth value their people and cherish their things, so I used the Big Dipper to set the sun and the moon. The heaven and earth created objects, just like the potters who made many products, and the sky and the Yu set up the illustrated books to show the age of the emperor.
The Han Dynasty had a long history, and Confucius was born to be a red system, not to make people confused and to make others confused.
Smart people will be virtuous if they obey, while stupid people will do harm to them. The throne is determined by fate and should not be obtained in vain.
God has sent down a warning to make His Majesty wake up and return to his position as a minister, so as to turn misfortunes into blessings.
The Liu family was appointed by Heaven, and their destiny is long-lasting. Your Majesty should follow the ups and downs of the times, take what you have from Heaven, and give back to Heaven. It can be said that you know your destiny.
If we don't take measures early, it will be stealing the throne.
Moreover, Yao and Shun did not rely on heaven's manifestations to reconcile themselves, but Zen was located in humans. Why would your majesty covet a position that is not heaven's manifestation and harm yourself?
Heaven is your Majesty's strict father, and I am your Majesty's filial son.
The father's teaching cannot be abolished, and the son's advice cannot be rejected. Please pay attention to your majesty.
Wang Mang was furious and was about to arrest Zhi Yun and impeach him for the crime of treason and injustice.
However, because what Zhi Yun said was based on the prophecies, it was difficult to harm him immediately, because Huangmen's close officials threatened Zhi Yun and asked him to complain that he was in a trance during the attack of madness and was talking nonsense for a while.
Zhi Yun raised his eyebrows and cursed: "What I said is the sacred meaning of astronomy and cannot be fabricated by a madman."
So he was imprisoned until winter. When he was released from prison under the pardon order, he and Zheng Jingnan from the same county fled to Cangwu.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he went to Lujiang again and met Fu Jun, the general of Jinu, who was marching eastward to Yangzhou.
Fu Junsu heard of Zhi Yun's name, hired him with courtesy, respected him as the general and commander of the army, and granted him military and political power.
Zhi Yun then swore to the people: Do not attack people when they are unprepared, do not trap people in disasters, do not cut off people's limbs and expose their bodies, and do not rape women.
But Fu Jun's sergeants still excavated the tombs, exposed the corpses, and plundered the people.
Zhi Yun advised Fu Jun, saying: In the past, King Wen of Zhou could not bear to show his bones, and King Wu of Zhou would not sacrifice anyone's life for the sake of the world, so he was able to receive retribution from heaven and earth and defeat the Yin Shang Rulin army.
How could the general not follow the example of King Wen, but violate the prohibitions of heaven and earth, injure people and objects, torture dead bodies, and offend the gods?
If we don't change the government now, we can't save our lives.
It was hoped that the general would personally lead his soldiers, take in the wounded, bury the dead, and cry bitterly to comfort those who were brutalized, to prove that looting the tombs was not the general's original intention.
Fu Jun obeyed, and the people were convinced and obeyed.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Fu Jun returned to the capital and discussed it.
Zhiyun felt ashamed that he had obtained an official position through military merit, so he resigned and returned to his hometown.
The county magistrate bows down and respects the courtesy. Please consider it as a disciple.
Zhiyun's friend Dong Zizhang's father was killed by a villager.
Dong Zizhang fell ill and before his death, Zhi Yun went to visit him.
Dong Zizhang was about to die. When he saw Zhi Yun, he was sobbing and unable to speak.
Zhi Yun said: I know you don't feel sorry for your fate, but hate that you can't avenge yourself.
When you are alive, I will think about this matter but there is no need for me to take action; when you are not here, I will kill your enemies for you.
Dong Zizhang just looked at him.
Zhi Yun immediately jumped up, led the guests to intercept and kill the enemy, and took the enemy's head to show his son Zhang.
Zizhang died when he saw it.
Zhi Yun therefore went to the county and committed suicide.
The county magistrate was slow to respond. Zhi Yun said: "It is my personal duty to avenge my friends. It is your loyalty to follow the law and not be selfish."
It is not the righteousness of a minister to live at the expense of the king.
So he left the court and went to prison.
The magistrate chased Zhi Yun barefoot, but failed, so he rushed to the prison himself. The magistrate drew his sword and threatened Zhi Yun, saying: "If you don't come out with me, I will kill myself to show my intentions."
Zhi Yun concluded from this and left due to illness.
A long time later, the prefect Ouyang She asked him to serve as a meritorious officer.
It is an old custom in Runan that during the October feast, all counties within a hundred miles will bring cattle and wine to the mansion for a banquet.
After the feast ceremony, Ouyang She taught: Yaoyan, the governor of the west, is naturally loyal and loyal, with a just and suitable temperament. He can destroy evil and evil, and his political affairs are not strict and reasonable.
Today, I discuss Yao Yan's merits with other scholars and show them to the court. The prefect respects and commends his achievements, and specially feeds his merits with cattle wine.
The master of the book reads the teachings, and Hucao Yin Yaoyan accepts the reward.
Zhi Yun changed his face when he was sitting down and said: "The officiant raises his glass to express his gratitude to heaven for your sin."
According to Yao Yan's qualifications, he was corrupt and evil, upright on the outside but weak on the inside. He formed cliques for personal gain and became traitors, deceived his superiors and harmed the people. The place was filthy and disorderly, and he was full of resentment and evil.
The government treats evil as good, and the ministers follow the straight line. This means that there is no king and no ministers. Zhi Yun dares to worship and drink.
Ouyang She looked ashamed and didn't know how to respond.
Zheng Jingjin, a disciple at the door, said: "The king is wise and his ministers are upright in their words, and the words of the meritorious officials are sincere. This is the merit of the county governor. Can I not drink wine?"
Ouyang She felt a little more relieved and said: "This is really my fault. Please worship me respectfully."
Zhi Yun then took off his hat and apologized, saying: In the past, Yu Shun assisted Tang Yao and dealt with four unruly leaders, and the whole world was convinced. Without slander, the traitor will not work, so loyal ministers can be used as allies. There is a song in "Shang Shu" to praise him.
Zhi Yun's disloyalty made the treacherous and traitorous, and the greedy and sycophantic people like jackals and tigers entered politics. They not only slandered you, but also denounced Yao Yan's crime to the public. My crime is the worst. Please arrest me and Yao Yan together to clarify our likes and dislikes.
Ouyang She said: That would make my sin even more serious.
So they stopped the feast and left.
After Zhi Yun returned home, he asked for sick leave, and Yao Yan also left on his own.
Zheng Jing and Zhi Yun had always been very good friends. Seeing that his words offended Ouyang She, he invited Zhi Yun to see him and said, "Your court is arguing with Yao Yan, but the prefect has not accepted your opinion."
Although Yao Yan has left, he will definitely come back.
Not hiding one's honest heart is the right path for three generations.
However, people with different Taoist views cannot conspire. I can't bear to see you in danger of not being tolerated by the prefect. Why don't you leave here!
Zhi Yun said: Meng Ke is loyal to the things that are difficult for his ruler to do. If the ruler is benevolent, righteous, propriety and wise, and he says that he cannot do it, that is a treason against his ruler.
Zhi Yun had forced the prefect and blocked the cattle and wine that the prefect was going to reward Yao Yan. Since he had directly remonstrated with the prefect, it was a sin not to die in the line of duty.
Yao Yan has already retreated and I am leaving again. This is not allowed.
Zheng Jing then lived alone in Yiyang Mountain. A few months later, Ouyang She summoned Yao Yan again, and Zhi Yun left the county government and followed Zheng Jing's lead, where he enjoyed fishing and stayed for dozens of days.
Zhi Yun aspired to pursue a career in politics, so he sighed and said to Zheng Jing, "You are born handsome, and you were born for humans. You cannot live with birds and beasts for a long time. Should you and I be Yi Yin and Lu Wang, or should we be Xu You for Chao's father and regard Yao and Shun as our elders?"
Zheng Jing said: I am already satisfied.
Back then, I went with you to search for Yu and Shun in Cangwu. Now I have returned to my hometown to live in seclusion and travel from Chisongzi. Fortunately, I have all my family members and descendants to return to my hometown to pay homage to the tombs of my ancestors.
I am old, how can I follow you?
I hope you will work hard on government affairs, cherish life, and don't worry about harming living beings.
Zhi Yun then said goodbye and left.
Zheng Jing was Citu and had high ambitions. Guangwu called him several times but did not go.
Zhiyun then lived as a professor in Jiangxia, and was promoted by the county as Xiaolian and the Marquis of Shangdong City Gate.
The emperor once went hunting and drove his chariot back at night, but Zhiyun refused to accept him in seclusion.
The emperor ordered his followers to meet Zhi Yun in the gap between the doors. Zhi Yun said: The fire is still far away.
So he didn't accept the order.
The emperor had no choice but to enter the city through the east middle gate in a roundabout way.
The next day, Zhi Yun wrote a letter to remonstrate: In the past, King Wen of Zhou did not dare to enjoy hunting. What worries me is the happiness and sorrow of the people.
And His Majesty went hunting in the mountains and forests, day and night, where did he put the safety of the Sheji Ancestral Temple?
Crossing the river on foot while fighting a tiger with bare hands, the admonition that it is difficult to take risks is what worries me the most.
After the letter was submitted, the emperor rewarded him with a hundred pieces of cloth and demoted the Marquis of Dongzhongmen to Shenfeng County to become a county captain.
Later, Zhi Yun was ordered to teach "Han Poetry" to the crown prince, and he gave the lecture in the palace.
When Empress Guo was deposed, Zhi Yun went to the emperor and said, "I heard that a good couple is a good couple. If a father cannot control his son, how can a minister control his king?"
I really don't dare to talk about it.
Although, I hope that your majesty, no matter whether you accept my words or not, just don't let people in the world talk about the country and the country.
The emperor said: Zhi Yun is good at restraining himself and being considerate of the Lord. He knows that I will not go against the grain and look down on the world.
Since Empress Guo was deposed, the prince could not feel at ease. Zhi Yun persuaded the prince: "To be in a position of suspicion for a long time is against filial piety for the superiors and very dangerous for the subordinates."
In the past, Gaozong was a wise king and Yin Jifu was a wise minister. But when they had a grudge, they exiled their filial son.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that mother is more precious than son.
The prince should take the blame and dismiss him for the sake of his left, right and other princes, support his mother, understand the holy teachings, and not betray what he was born to.
The prince obeyed, and the emperor also obeyed.
Zhi Yun moved to the post of governor of Changsha County.
There was a filial son named Guchu in Changsha. His father died but was not buried. There was a fire in his neighbor. Guchu crawled on his father's coffin and resisted the fire with his body, but the fire was extinguished.
Zhiyun was deeply surprised by the review and thought this was the first time he had done so.
Later, he was demoted as magistrate of Mang County due to some affairs, and then he was dismissed and released. Zhi Yun lived in seclusion and worked as a professor until his death. He wrote eight books and died of illness.
