Confucius said: Use political laws to guide the people, and use punishments to restrain the people. The people can avoid committing crimes, but they will have no shame.
If you use morality to guide the people and use etiquette to restrain the people, then the people will feel ashamed and change their ways.
Laozi said: People with high morals do not show formal virtue, so they have virtue; people with low morals stick to formal virtue, so they have no actual virtue.  The more stringent the laws, the more thieves there are.
Tai Shigong said: These words are credible! Han Ling is a tool of politics, not the source of political turmoil.
In the past, the legal net in the world was very tight, but evil and deceitful things began to occur. When the situation reached its most serious state, officials and people actually deceived each other, reaching the point where the country was in ruins.
At this time, the management of government affairs by officials is like putting out fires with salary and quelling the boiling water. How can they be competent and happy without strong and powerful people and strict laws and regulations?
If people who advocate morality are allowed to do these things, they will definitely be derelict in their duties.
Therefore, Confucius said: When it comes to hearing lawsuits, I am the same as everyone else; if there must be a difference, then let people stop lawsuits. Lao Tzu said: Stupid and superficial people will laugh when they hear moral words.
These words are not false.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the square ones were destroyed and replaced by round ones, and major changes were made to the laws of the Qin Dynasty, just like cutting off the external carvings to reveal the simple and natural essence. The laws were changed from complicated to lenient and simple, just like a fishing net that could catch the fish that swallowed the boat. However, the officials' performance was pure and prosperous, and they would not do evil things, and the people were safe.
It can be seen from this that the beauty of national politics lies in the generosity of the king, not in the harshness of the law.
In the High Empress era, the only cruel officials were Hou Feng, who harshly oppressed the royal family, violated and humiliated meritorious ministers.
After Zhu Lu's complete defeat, the court killed Hou Feng's entire family.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Chao Cuo was harsh and cruel, and used magic to display his talents. As a result, the seven kingdoms of Wu, Chu, and others rebelled and vented their anger on Chao Cuo, who was killed.
After that, there were people like Zhidu and Ningcheng.
Zhi was a native of Yang County and served Emperor Xiaowen as a Langguan.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Zhi Du became a lieutenant general. He dared to speak out and give advice to the court, and convinced people in person at the court.
He once followed the emperor to Shanglinyuan. When Jia Ji went to the toilet, a wild boar suddenly broke into the toilet.
The emperor signaled Zhidu with his eyes, but Zhidu refused to act.
The emperor wanted to save Jia Ji with weapons in person. Zhi Du knelt in front of the emperor and said: If you lose a concubine, another concubine will come into the palace. Is there a shortage of people like Jia Ji in the world?
Even if Your Majesty looks down upon yourself, what will happen to the Ancestral Temple and the Queen Mother?
The emperor turned around and the wild boar left.
The Queen Mother heard about this and rewarded Zhidu with a hundred catties of gold. From then on, she paid great attention to Zhidu.
There were more than 300 clans with the Jinan surname. They were powerful and slippery, and the governor of Jinan could not control them, so Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty appointed Zhi Du as the governor of Jinan.
When Zhidu came to Jinan County, he killed the whole family of the head of the family, and the rest of the bad guys were so frightened that their thighs trembled.
After more than a year, there are no more items found on the roads in Jinan County.
The governors of more than ten surrounding counties were as afraid of Zhi as they were of the superior officials.
Zhidu was brave, powerful, fair and honest. He would not open private letters asking for mercy or accept gifts, and he would not listen to personal requests.
He often said to himself: Since I have left my parents to become an official, I should fulfill my duties in the official position and die with integrity. After all, I cannot care about my wife and children.
Zhidu was promoted to the rank of lieutenant. Prime Minister Zhou Yafu had the highest rank and was arrogant. However, when Zhidu saw him, he only bowed to him and did not kneel down.
At this time, the people were simple, fearful of committing crimes, and were law-abiding and self-respecting. However, Zhidu took the initiative to implement harsh criminal laws, so that the law enforcement was not afraid of dignitaries and royal relatives. Even the princes and the royal family looked sideways and called him "Goshawk" when they saw him.
King Linjiang was summoned to the Lieutenant's Mansion for interrogation. King Linjiang wanted to get writing tools and wrote a letter to the emperor to express his apology. However, Zhidu told the officials not to give him writing tools.
Wei Qihou sent someone to secretly deliver writing tools to King Linjiang.
King Linjiang wrote a letter of apology to the emperor and committed suicide.
When Empress Dowager Dou heard the news, she became angry and used severe methods to slander Zhidu. Zhidu was dismissed from office and returned home.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty sent an envoy with a talisman to appoint Zhidu as the governor of Yanmen, and asked him to take the road directly to Yanmen to take office and handle political affairs independently according to the actual situation.
The Huns had always heard that Zhi Du had a moral integrity, and now he was guarding the border. Therefore, the Huns led their troops and left the Han Dynasty border. They did not dare to approach Yanmen until Zhi Du died.
The Huns even made puppets that looked like Zhidu and asked the cavalry to run and shoot. No one could hit them, and they were so afraid of Zhidu.
The Huns regarded Zhidu as a disaster.
Empress Dowager Dou finally used the laws of the Han Dynasty to slander Zhidu. Emperor Jing said: Zhidu are loyal ministers.
Want to free him.
Queen Mother Dou said: Isn't King Linjiang a loyal minister?
So they killed all Zhi.
Ning Cheng was a native of Rang County and served Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty as a bodyguard.
He is competitive, and when he is someone else's junior official, he must bully his superiors; when he is someone else's superior, he is as easy to control as tying wet sticks.
He was cunning, cruel, willful and powerful, and gradually rose to the rank of captain of Jinan. At this time, Zhi was also the prefect of Jinan.
Before this, several captains walked into the prefect's mansion, conveyed it through the lower-level officials, and then went to see the prefect, just like the county magistrate meeting the prefect. They were afraid of Zhidu and this was the way.
When Ning Cheng came, he crossed Zhidu and reached his superior position.
Zhidu had always heard of his reputation, so he treated him well and formed a friendly relationship with him.
After a long time, Zhidu died. Later, many people in the royal family near Chang'an committed violent crimes, so the emperor summoned Ning Cheng to become a lieutenant. His governance methods were imitated by Zhidu. His integrity was not as good as Zhidu, but everyone in the royal family was afraid of the powerful.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Ning Cheng was appointed internal historian.
Relatives often slandered Ning Cheng's shortcomings, and he was punished according to law by shaving his hair and binding his neck with iron. At this time, Jiu Qing was executed for crimes that deserved death, and rarely received ordinary punishments, but Ning Cheng suffered extremely heavy punishments.
He said: "If you can't be a high-ranking official of two thousand dan in office, and you can't make 10 million gu of money in business, how can you compare with others?"
So he borrowed money to buy more than a thousand hectares of irrigated land and rented it out to poor people. Thousands of families worked for him and were enslaved.
A few years later, I encountered amnesty.
He already has several thousand kilograms of gold in his family. He specializes in fighting injustices and grasping the shortcomings of officials. When he goes out, he is followed by dozens of people on horseback.
His authority to drive the people was greater than that of the county governor.
Zhou Yangyou, his father Zhao Jian was named Zhou Yanghou as the uncle of Huainan King Liu Chang, so his surname was Zhou Yang.
Zhou Yang was appointed Lang Guan because he was a relative, serving Emperor Xiaowen and Emperor Xiaojing.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Zhou Yangyou became a Langguan.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, officials handled political affairs and advocated following the law and acting prudently. However, Zhou Yangyou was the most tyrannical, cruel, proud and indulgent among the officials of the two thousand stone level.
If someone he likes commits a capital crime, he will bend the law to make that person live; if he hates someone, he will bend the law to kill him.
Whichever county he serves as an official, he must eliminate the wealthy families in that county.
When he was the prefect of the county, he regarded the captain as the county magistrate.
As a captain, he would definitely bully the prefect and usurp his power.
He and Ji An were both ruthless people, and Sima An was good at using laws and regulations to harm others, and both were officials with two thousand stones. However, Ji An, Sima Anruo, and Zhou Yangyou did not dare to share the seats and rails with Zhou Yangyou in the same carriage.
Zhou Yangyou later became the captain of Hedong County. He often fought for power with the prefect Shentu Gong and complained to each other. As a result, Shen Gong was found guilty. However, he insisted on morality and refused to accept the punishment and committed suicide. Zhou Yangyou was sentenced to abandoning the market.
After Ning Cheng and Zhou Yang You, political affairs became more complicated, and the people used cunning and deceptive means to deal with the law. Most officials managed government affairs just like Ning Cheng and Zhou Yang You.
Zhao Yu was a native of Zhuxian County. He was appointed as an official in the capital government as an assistant historian. Because of his integrity, he was promoted to an official historian and served Zhou Yafu.
Zhou Yafu became the prime minister, and Zhao Yu became the prime minister. Everyone in the prime minister's house praised him for his integrity and fairness.
But Zhou Yafu did not reuse him and said: I know that Zhao Yu has outstanding talents, but he enforces the law very harshly and cannot be an official in the upper-level government.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Zhao Yu accumulated merit due to his clerical work and was gradually promoted to censor.
The emperor thought he was talented and was promoted to Taishi doctor.
He and Zhang Tang jointly formulated various laws and made "knowledge laws" to allow officials to monitor and report each other.
The laws in the Han Dynasty became increasingly strict, probably starting from this time.
Zhang Tang is from Du County.
His father, who was the magistrate of Chang'an County, once went out. Zhang Tang was a child at the time, so his father asked him to stay at home and look after the door.
After his father came home, he saw that the mouse had stolen the meat. He became angry with Zhang Tang and beat him with a whip.
Zhang Tang dug a rat hole and found the rat that stole the meat and the uneaten meat. He accused the rat of the crime, tortured and interrogated it, recorded the interrogation process, repeatedly interrogated, reported the verdict to his superiors, took the rat and the leftover meat, and finally decided the case in court, and cut the rat into pieces and executed it.
His father was particularly surprised when he saw this scene and saw that the verdict looked like it was written by an experienced judge, so he asked him to learn Xing prison documents.
After his father's death, Zhang Tang became an official in Chang'an for a long time.
When Zhou Yang Hou Tian Sheng began to serve as an official of Jiuqing, he was detained in Chang'an, and Zhang Tang tried his best to rescue him.
After Tian Sheng was released from prison and made a marquis, he kept close contact with Zhang Tang and introduced the powerful officials of the dynasty to Zhang Tang one by one, so that Zhang Tang could get acquainted with them.
Zhang Tang served in the internal history and served as an official subordinate to Ning Cheng. Because Zhang Tang was unparalleled in talent, Ning Cheng recommended it to the superior government. Zhang Tang was promoted to Maolingwei and was in charge of the civil engineering of the tomb.
Tian Fan, Marquis of Wu'an, became the prime minister and recruited Zhang Tang as the internal historian. He often recommended him to the emperor and was appointed as the censor, allowing him to inspect and handle prison affairs.
When he presided over the handling of Queen Chen's witchcraft case, he investigated his accomplices in depth.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that he had the ability to do things, and gradually promoted him to Taizhong doctor.
Together with Zhao Yu, he formulated various legal provisions to be strict and strict to restrain the officials in office.
Soon, Zhao Yu was promoted to lieutenant and then to Shaofu, while Zhang Tang became a court lieutenant. The two had a friendly relationship, and Zhang Tang treated Zhao Yu with the same etiquette as he treated his elder brother.
Zhao Yu was an honest and arrogant man. Since he became an official, he has had no guests at home.
The Three Gongs and Nine Qings came to visit him, but Zhao Yu never returned the visit to thank him. He tried to cut off all contact with close friends and guests and handle his official affairs alone.
When he saw the legal provisions, he took them without reviewing them, in order to pursue the hidden sins of subordinate officials.
Zhang Tang is cunning and good at controlling others with his wisdom.
When he first became a minor official, he liked to use his power for personal gain. He once colluded with the wealthy businessmen Tian Jia and Yu Wengshu in Chang'an.
When he became the ninth minister, he made friends with famous scholars and officials all over the world. Although he disagreed with them in his heart, he pretended to admire them on the surface.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was serious about Confucianism. When Zhang Tang decided on major cases, he wanted to adopt Confucian views, so he asked his PhD disciples to study "Shangshu" and "Spring and Autumn".
Every time a difficult case was submitted for judgment, the whole story was analyzed in advance to the emperor. If the emperor thought it was right, he would accept it and record it as a rule for judging the case, and publish it in the name of Tingwei to praise the emperor's sage.
If the report was condemned, Zhang Tang would admit his mistake and apologize. Following the emperor's wishes, he would definitely name the right, left and right eunuchs and capable officials, saying: They originally proposed to me, just like the emperor reproached me, but I did not adopt it. I was so stupid.
Therefore, his crimes were often forgiven by the emperor.
Sometimes he would submit a memorial to the emperor, and if the emperor thought it was good, he would say: "I don't know that this memorial was written by the chief, left and right eunuchs, and subordinate officials."
He wanted to recommend officials, praise others' merits, and cover up others' faults. He often did this.
If the emperor wants to impose more crimes on the cases he handles, he will hand them over to the supervisor who enforces the law harshly; if the emperor wants to forgive the case, he will hand it over to the supervisor who enforces the law lightly and fairly.
If what he is dealing with is a powerful person, he must play with the legal provisions and frame him skillfully. If they are ordinary people or weak people, they often state to the emperor orally that although they should be sentenced according to the law, they should ask the emperor to make a clear decision.
Therefore, the emperor often released the people Zhang Tang mentioned.
Although Zhang Tang became a high official, he was well-educated. He socialized with guests, drank and dined with them, and was especially generous to the children of his old friends who were officials and to his poor brothers.
He paid homage to the Three Lords and did not avoid the cold or heat.
Therefore, although Zhang Tang enforced the law harshly, was jealous in his heart, and was not pure and fair in his dealings, he still gained a good reputation.
Those officials who enforced the law cruelly and cruelly were all used as subordinates by him, and they all obeyed the Confucian scholars.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong repeatedly praised his virtues.
When he handles the rebellion cases of King Huainan, King Hengshan and King Jiangdu, he will be able to pursue them to the end.
The emperor originally wanted to forgive Yan Zhu and Wu Bei, but Zhang Tang argued: Wu Bei was the one who planned the rebellion, and Yan Zhu was a close and favored person of the emperor.
Therefore, the emperor agreed to their sentence.
This is most likely the case when he handles cases against ministers and takes credit for himself.
As a result, Zhang Tang gained more respect and trust, and was promoted to the imperial censor.
It happened that King Hunxie of the Xiongnu and others surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty sent out a large army to attack the Xiongnu. Shandong encountered floods and droughts, and the poor people were displaced. They all relied on the state to supply food and clothing, and the country's warehouses were therefore empty.
So Zhang Tang, in accordance with the emperor's decree, asked for silver coins and five-baht coins to be minted to monopolize the world's salt and iron management rights, crack down on wealthy merchants, issue denunciations, eradicate the power of powerful merger families, and play tricks on legal provisions to assist the implementation of the law.
Every time Zhang Tang went to court to discuss the country's financial situation, he talked about it until evening, and the emperor also forgot about meal time.
The prime minister has nothing to do and only occupies his position. Everything in the world depends on Zhang Tang.
As a result, the people could not live in peace of mind and were in a state of turmoil. They could not benefit from the affairs established by the state, but corrupt officials committed robbery and theft together, so they were thoroughly punished according to law.
From the Sangong and Jiuqing down to the common people, everyone blamed Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang was once ill, and the emperor personally went to visit him. His nobility reached this point.
The Xiongnu came to ask for peace, and the ministers discussed it in front of the emperor.
Dr. Dishan said: It is beneficial to get married.
The emperor asked him the reason for his advantage, and Di Shan said: Weapons are deadly weapons, so don't use them repeatedly.
Emperor Gao wanted to attack the Huns and was besieged in Pingcheng, so he concluded a peace.
During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the world was peaceful and happy.
When Emperor Xiaowen wanted to deal with the Huns, the northern border was harassed and the people suffered from war.
During the reign of Emperor Xiao Jing, seven kingdoms including Wu and Chu rebelled. Emperor Jing went back and forth between the two palaces to discuss matters, and he was worried for several months.
Wu and Chu had been defeated, Emperor Jing never talked about war until his death, and the world was prosperous and fulfilled.
Now since His Majesty sent troops to attack the Xiongnu, the country has been empty, and the people on the border are very embarrassed and impoverished.
From this point of view, it is better to get married.
The emperor asked Zhang Tang, and Zhang Tang said: This is a stupid Confucian scholar who is ignorant.
Disheng said: I am indeed foolishly loyal, but Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, is falsely loyal.
For example, Zhang Tang handled the cases of King Huainan and King Jiangdu, using harsh laws to slander the princes and kings, alienating the emperor's closest relatives, thus making the kings of various feudal states feel uneasy.
I already knew that Zhang Tang was hypocritical.
So the emperor changed his expression and said: If I send you to guard a county, can you prevent barbarians from coming in and plundering it? Dishan said: No.
The emperor said: How about garrisoning a county?
The answer is: No.
The emperor then said: What about garrisoning a fortress?
Dishan himself estimated that after exhausting his defense, he would be handed over to the judicial officer for punishment, so he said: "Yes."
So the emperor sent Dishan to a castle on the frontier.
After more than a month, the Huns chopped off Dishan's head and left.
From then on, the ministers were shocked and frightened.
Zhang Tang's guest Tian Jia, although a businessman, has a virtuous character.
When Zhang Tang was a minor official, he and Zhang Tang had a financial relationship. When Zhang Tang became a senior official, Tian Jia blamed Zhang Tang for his moral faults and the demeanor of a loyal and generous man.
Zhang Tang served as the imperial censor for seven years but failed.
Li Wen, a native of Hedong, once had a quarrel with Zhang Tang. Later he became the censor Zhongcheng. He resented Zhang Tang in his heart and repeatedly searched for materials in the palace documents that could be used to harm Zhang Tang without leaving any room.
Zhang Tang had a favorite subordinate named Lu Yeju. Knowing that Zhang Tang was unhappy about this, he asked someone to report Li Wen's bad deeds to the emperor with rumors. This matter was handed over to Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang sentenced Li Wen to death and killed him. He also knew that it was Lu Yeju who did this.
The emperor asked: How did the anonymous complaint against Li Wen happen?
Zhang Tang pretended to be surprised and said: "This is probably because Li Wen's old friends resent him."
Later, Lu Yeju fell ill and stayed at the home of his fellow villager. Zhang Tang went to see his condition in person and massaged Lu Yeju's legs and feet.
The people of Zhao relied on smelting and casting as their profession. King Zhao Liu Pengzu had many lawsuits with the officials sent by the imperial court to be in charge of casting iron. Zhang Tang often attacked King Zhao.
King Zhao searched for Zhang Tang's secret affairs.
Lu Yeju once reported on King Zhao. King Zhao resented him, so he also wrote a letter to report, saying: Zhang Tang is a minister, and his official Lu Yeju is ill. Zhang Tang actually massaged his feet. I suspect that the two of them must have done something bad together.
The matter was handed over to Tingwei. Lu Yeju died of illness. His younger brother was imprisoned in the director's office.
Zhang Tang also went to the director's office to interrogate other prisoners. When he saw Lu Yeju's younger brother, he wanted to help him secretly, so he pretended not to check him.
Lu Yeju's younger brother didn't know about this situation and resented Zhang Tang, so he asked someone to sue Zhang Tang and Lu Yeju for conspiracy, and jointly anonymously reported Li Wen.
Let this matter be dealt with by reducing publicity.
Jiaxuan once had a quarrel with Zhang Tang, but when he accepted the case, he found out the details of the case and did not report it.
It happened that someone secretly dug up the burial money in Emperor Xiaowen's cemetery. Prime Minister Zhuang Qingzhai went to court and agreed with Zhang Tang to go to apologize. When he arrived in front of the emperor, Zhang Tang thought that only the prime minister must visit the cemetery according to the four seasons, and the prime minister should apologize. It had nothing to do with me, Zhang Tang, who refused to apologize.
After the prime minister apologized, the emperor sent the censor to investigate the matter.
Zhang Tang wanted to sentence the prime minister to the crime of knowingly committing crimes according to the legal provisions, but the prime minister was worried about this matter.
The three chief ministers under the prime minister all hated Zhang Tang and wanted to frame him.
Initially, Zhu Maichen, the chief historian, was from Kuaiji and studied "Spring and Autumn".
Zhuang Zhu asked people to recommend Zhu Maichen to the emperor. Because Zhu Maichen was familiar with "Chu Ci", both Zhuang Zhu and Zhuang Zhu were favored by the emperor, and were promoted from servants to Taizhong doctors and became powerful. At this time, Zhang Tang was just a minor official. He knelt down in front of Zhu Maichen and others and waited for orders.
Soon, Zhang Tang became a court official, handling the Huainan King's case and ostracizing Zhuang Zhu. Zhu Maichen originally resented Zhang Tang.
After Zhang Tang became the imperial censor, Zhu Maichen was transferred from the position of prefect of Kuaiji to the position of lord and captain, ranking among the nine ministers.
A few years later, he was dismissed from office for violating the law. The acting chief historian went to see Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang sat on the chair he usually sat on to receive Zhu Maichen. His subordinate officials such as the prime minister did not treat Zhu Maichen politely.
Zhu Maichen was a scholar from the Chu region. He deeply resented Zhang Tang and often wanted to kill him.
The dynasty was from Qi, and he became the right internal historian based on Confucianism.
Bian Tong, who studied the thoughts and doctrines of political strategists, is a powerful person with a strong and explosive personality. He became an official and became the prime minister of the King of Jinan twice.
In the past, they were all senior officials to Zhang Tang. Soon after they lost their positions, the acting chief Shi knelt down and worshiped Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang held the post of prime minister many times. Knowing that these three chief ministers had high status, he often bullied and suppressed them.
Therefore, the three chief historians conspired and said to Zhuang Qingzhai: First, Zhang Tang agreed with you to apologize to the emperor, and then betrayed you; now he accuses you of the incident in the ancestral temple, in order to replace you.
We know Zhang Tang’s illegal privacy.
So they sent subordinate officials to arrest and interrogate Zhang Tang's accomplices Tian Xin and others, saying that Zhang Tang was going to report political affairs to the emperor. Tian Xin knew about it in advance, and then hoarded supplies, made a fortune, shared the dirty laundry with Zhang Tang, and did other bad things.
The confession about this matter was heard by the emperor. The emperor said to Zhang Tang: The merchants knew what I was going to do in advance and hoarded the goods more and more. It was as if someone had told them my thoughts.
Zhang Tang did not apologize, but pretended to be surprised and said: "It should be said that someone must have done this."
At this time, Jia Xuan also submitted a memorial to report Zhang Tang and Lu Yeju's crimes.
As expected, the emperor thought that Zhang Tang was deceitful and deceived the king in person, so he sent eight groups of envoys to interrogate Zhang Tang based on the recorded evidence.
Zhang Tang himself said that he was not guilty of these crimes and refused to accept it.
So the emperor sent Zhao Yu to interrogate Zhang Tang.
After Zhao Yu came, he blamed Zhang Tang and said: How could the emperor not know the situation?
When you handled the case, how many people in the family were wiped out?
Now that there is evidence for the charges against you, it is difficult for the emperor to handle your case. If he wants you to commit suicide, why bother to answer the evidence?
Zhang Tang wrote a letter to apologize and said: Zhang Tang had no great merit and was only a clerk at first. Your Majesty favored me and placed me in the position of three princes. There is no way to evade the guilt. However, the criminals who conspired to frame Zhang Tang were three long history officials.
Zhang Tang committed suicide.
When Zhang Tang died, the total value of his family property did not exceed five hundred gold. They were all salary and rewards from the emperor, and there was no other property.
Zhang Tang's brothers and sons still wanted to give Zhang Tang a rich burial. His mother said: Zhang Tang was a minister of the emperor and died after being falsely accused. Why should he be buried richly?
So the coffin was pulled by an ox cart without an outer coffin.
When the emperor heard about this situation, he said: Without such a mother, such a son cannot be born.
So he investigated the case thoroughly and killed all three long history officials.
Prime Minister Zhuang Qingzhai also committed suicide.
Tian Xin was released.
The emperor took pity on Zhang Tang and gradually promoted his son Zhang Anshi.
Zhao Yu was dismissed from office midway and soon became a court official.
Initially, Tiao Hou Zhou Yafu believed that Zhao Yu had a cruel conspiracy and refused to reuse him.
When Zhao Yu became the Shaofu, he was ranked alongside Jiu Qing.
Zhao Yu was harsh and impatient in his work. In his later years, there were more and more affairs in the country, and officials were dedicated to enforcing severe punishments. However, Zhao Yu enforced the law and provided relief, and he was known as peaceful.
Wu Wenshu and others were rising officials, and their law enforcement was harsher than that of Zhao Yu.
Because Zhao Yu was old, he was appointed as the prime minister of Yan State.
A few years later, he was dismissed from office for being confused and rebellious. More than ten years after Zhang Tang's death, he died at home.
Yi Zong is from Hedong.
When he was a boy, he once robbed with Zhang Cigong and formed a gang of robbers.
Yi Zong had a sister named Chang who was favored by the Queen Mother for her medical skills.
The Queen Mother asked Ji, "Do you have any sons or brothers who are officials?"
Yizong's sister said: I have a younger brother who has bad conduct and cannot be an official.
The Empress Dowager told the Emperor that Ren Yishan's younger brother Yi Zong was promoted to Zhonglang and was appointed magistrate of a certain county in Shangdang County.
Yi Zong enforces the law harshly and is rarely tolerant and tolerant. Therefore, there are no escapes in the county and he is recommended as the first.
Later, he was appointed as the county magistrate of Changling and Chang'an. He handled political affairs in accordance with the law and did not avoid nobles and royal relatives.
Because of the arrest and interrogation of Zhong, the son of Xiu Chengjun, the grandson of the Queen Mother, the emperor believed that he was capable and appointed him as the captain of Hanoi.
After taking office, he exterminated the local powerful Rang clan, causing a situation in Hanoi where there was no way to collect things.
Zhang Cigong also became a Langguan, and with his bravery and valor he became a soldier. Because he dared to penetrate deep into the enemy's army in battle, he won military merit and was named a shore headhou.
When Ning Cheng was leisurely at home, the emperor wanted him to become a prefect.
Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, said: When I was a minor official in Shandong, Ning Cheng was the captain of Jinan. He handled political affairs as fiercely as a wolf herding sheep.
Ningcheng cannot be used to govern the people.
The emperor appointed Ning Cheng as the captain of the Guan Dynasty.
A year later, the officials of Guandong County inspected the people entering and exiting the county, and they all threatened: "I would rather see a tigress nursing her cubs than encounter Ning Cheng who is angry."
Yi Zong was transferred from Hanoi to be the governor of Nanyang. He heard that Ning Cheng was living leisurely at his home in Nanyang. When Yi Zong arrived at the Nanyang Pass, Ning Cheng followed him to greet and see him off, but Yi Zong was domineering and did not treat him politely.
When he arrived at the county government, Yi Zong tried the Ning family's crimes and completely crushed the guilty Ning family.
Ning Cheng was also implicated and guilty. As for the wealthy families named Kong and Bao, they all fled. The officials and people in Nanyang were afraid and acted cautiously, not daring to make mistakes.
Zhu Qiang of Pingshi County and Du Zhou of Duyan County were both powerful subordinate officials of Yi Zong. They were highly used and promoted to court history.
At this time, the Han Dynasty's army sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns many times. The officials and people in Dingxiang were disorganized and the social customs were corrupted. The court therefore appointed Yi Zong as the prefect of Dingxiang.
After Yi Zong took office, he arrested 200 felons in Dingxiang Prison without torture instruments, and more than 200 of their guests and brothers visited the prison privately.
Yi Zong arrested them all and interrogated them on the charge of "extricating themselves from the death penalty".
The number of killings was reported on this day, totaling more than 400 people.
After this, everyone in the county trembled with fear, and even cunning people assisted the officials in managing political affairs.
At this time, both Zhao Yu and Zhang Tang became officials of the Nine Qing Dynasty because of their harsh law enforcement. However, their governance methods were relatively loose and they all relied on the law to assist them. However, Yi Zong managed political affairs with ruthlessness and ferocity.
Later, when the five-baht coin and platinum came into use, the wealthy people took the opportunity to use deception, especially in the capital. The imperial court appointed Yi Zong as the right internal historian, and Wang Wenshu became the lieutenant.
Wang Wenshu is extremely vicious. If he does not inform Yi Zong in advance of what he does, Yi Zong will definitely use his personal loyalty to bully him and destroy what he does.
He managed political affairs and killed many people, but his hasty management not only had little effect, but more and more evil things happened, so the direct officials began to appear.
Officials' main tasks in managing political affairs were to kill and bind, and Yan Feng was appointed because of his ruthlessness.
He was righteous and honest, and he followed the example of Zhidu in governing political affairs.
The emperor visited Dinghu Lake and was ill for a long time. After recovering from his illness, he suddenly visited Ganquan Palace. Most of the roads he traveled were not repaired. The emperor got angry and said: "Yi Zong thinks I won't walk this road again, right?"
Holding grudges and righteousness in one's heart.
In the winter, Yang Ke was ordered to preside over the handling of "accusation cases". Yi Zong thought that this would disturb the people and deployed officials to arrest those who went out to do things for Yang Ke.
When the emperor heard about this incident, he sent Du Shi to deal with it. He thought that Yi Zong's behavior was to abandon the courtesy of respecting the king, destroying the king's affairs, and abandoning Yi Zong.
A year later, Zhang Tang also died.
Wang Wenshu is from Yangling.
He did bad things like tomb robbing when he was young.
Soon, he became the county pavilion chief and was dismissed many times.
Later, he became a minor official and was promoted to court history because he was good at handling cases.
Serve Zhang Tang and be promoted to censor.
He supervised the arrest of thieves and killed many people, and was gradually promoted to the captain of Guangping.
He selected more than ten bold and courageous people in the county to serve as officials, and asked them to be powerful assistants. He could master the secret crimes of each of them, and then let them go to supervise the arrest of thieves.
If someone captures a thief and Wang Wenshu is satisfied, he will not be punished even if he has hundreds of crimes; if he avoids it, he will be killed based on the crimes he has committed in the past, or even his family will be destroyed.
For this reason, thieves in the countryside of Qi and Zhao did not dare to approach Guangping County, and Guangping County had a good reputation for not picking up lost items.
After the emperor heard about it, he promoted Wang Wenshu to be the governor of Hanoi.
Wang Wenshu used to live in Quang Binh and was completely familiar with the powerful and cunning families in Hanoi. When he went to Quang Binh, he took office in September.
He ordered the county government to prepare fifty private horses and set up a post station from Hanoi to Chang'an. He deployed his officials in the same way as in Guangping to arrest the powerful and cunning people in the county. There were more than a thousand families of powerful and cunning people in the county who committed crimes.
A letter was submitted to the emperor for instructions. Those who committed major crimes would be exterminated, and those who committed minor crimes would be put to death. Their family property would be completely confiscated and the stolen goods obtained in the past would be repaid.
It only took two or three days after the memorial was sent away to get an executable reply from the emperor.
The verdict of the case was reported, and bloodshed lasted for more than ten miles.
Everyone in Hanoi was surprised by Wang Wenshu's memorial and thought it was so fast.
December is over, no one in the county dares to speak, no one dares to walk at night, and there are no dogs barking in the countryside due to thieves.
The few criminals who were not caught fled to nearby counties. When they were hunted down and captured, it was spring. Wang Wenshu stamped his feet and sighed: Alas! If winter lasts another month, my business will be done.
This is how he likes to kill and show his power and does not care for the people.
The emperor heard this and thought he had talent, so he was promoted to lieutenant.
He still followed Hanoi's approach in governing political affairs, and brought in famous evildoers and cunning officials to work with him, including Yang Jieyu and Ma Wu in Hanoi, and Yang Gan and Cheng Xin in Guanzhong.
Because Yi Zong was the internal historian, Wang Wenshu was afraid of him, so he did not dare to implement harsh policies arbitrarily.
After Yi Zong died and Zhang Tang failed, Wang Wenshu was promoted to Tingwei and Yin Qi became lieutenant.
Yin Qi was a native of Chiping, Dongjun. He was promoted from a clerk to a censor.
Serving Zhang Tang, Zhang Tang repeatedly praised him for his integrity and bravery, and assigned him to supervise the arrest of thieves. The people he wanted to kill did not avoid powerful and royal relatives.
He was promoted to captain of the pass and his reputation surpassed that of Ning Cheng.
The emperor thought he had talent and promoted him to lieutenant, while the lives of officials and civilians became even more difficult.
Yin Qi was rigid in doing things and did not pay attention to etiquette. The strong and vicious officials were hidden, and the kind officials could not handle political affairs effectively on their own, so most of the political affairs were neglected and sentenced.
The emperor changed Wang Wenshu's position to lieutenant, and Yang Pu became the lord captain by virtue of his harshness and cruelty.
Yang Pu was from Yiyang and became a minor official as a thousand-year-old man.
The governor of Henan evaluated and recommended his talents and promoted him to censor, and sent him to Guandong to supervise thieves.
He imitated Yin Qi in governing political affairs and was considered to be fierce and courageous in his actions.
Gradually he was promoted to lord and captain, ranking among the nine ministers.
The emperor believed that he had talent, and during the South Vietnam rebellion, he was appointed General Lou Chuan. Because of his military exploits, he was named General Lianghou.
Later he was bound by Xun Shen.
After a long time, he fell ill and died.
Wang Wenshu became a lieutenant again. He lacked refinement and was confused when working in the court. He did not know right from wrong. After he became a lieutenant, he became cheerful.
He supervised the arrest of thieves. It turned out that he was familiar with the customs of Guanzhong and the powerful and vicious local officials. Therefore, the powerful and vicious officials were willing to help him and make suggestions for him.
Officials conducted strict surveillance, and thieves and vicious young men used the method of dropping letters and reporting boxes to buy information about crimes, and appointed Chief Berg to supervise evil people and thieves.
Wang Wenshu was a flatterer and was good at currying favor with powerful people. If they were powerless people, he would treat them like slaves.
Even if a powerful person has a mountain of evil things, he will not offend him. He must bully those who have no power, even noble relatives.
He played with the legal provisions and clever words to slander the cunning common people and intimidated the powerful.
This was how he handled political affairs when he was a lieutenant. Cunning people would definitely be held accountable for their crimes. Most of them were beaten to pieces and died in prison. No one who was found guilty came out of prison.
His capable men are like tigers wearing hats.
Therefore, the cunning people below the middle level under the jurisdiction of the lieutenant hid in hiding and did not dare to come out. The powerful people publicized his reputation and praised his achievements.
He ruled for several years, and many of his officials became rich as a result.
After Wang Wenshu returned from attacking Dongyue, his affairs were not in line with the emperor's will, and he was convicted and dismissed from office for violating a minor law.
At this time, the emperor was planning to build the Tower of Tongtian, but no one had yet taken charge of the matter. Wang Wenshu asked the lieutenant to assess those who had avoided military service and found tens of thousands of people who could participate in labor.
The emperor was very happy and appointed him as the Young Master, and then as the right internal official. He handled political affairs as before, and evil things were slightly prohibited.
Later, he broke the law and lost his official position. Soon he was appointed as the right assistant, acting as the lieutenant, and handled political affairs in the same way as before.
More than a year later, just as the army was setting out to conquer Dawan, the imperial court ordered the recruitment of powerful officials. Wang Wenshu hid his subordinate Huacheng. When someone reported that Wang Wenshu had accepted stolen money from the Zai'e cavalry and other bad things, and his crimes were serious enough to warrant genocide, he committed suicide.
At this time, his two younger brothers and two in-law families each committed other crimes and were exterminated.
Guanglu Xu Ziwei said: It's sad that in ancient times three tribes were exterminated, but Wang Wenshu's crime actually led to the destruction of five tribes at the same time!
After Wang Wenshu's death, the value of his family property accumulated to one thousand gold.
Many years later, Yin Qi also died of illness while serving as the captain of Huaiyang. The value of his family property was less than fifty gold.
He killed many people in Huaiyang. When he died, the resentful family wanted to burn his body, so his family members secretly brought his body back for burial.
Since Wang Wenshu used harsh and cruel methods to deal with political affairs, the county guards, captains, princes and officials of Erqianshi wanted to manage political affairs. Most of their governance methods followed Wang Wenshu's example. However, officials and people broke the law more and more easily, and the number of thieves increased.
In Nanyang there were Mei Fu and Baizheng, in Chu there were Yin Zhong and Du Shao, in Qi there were Xu Bo, and between Yan and Zhao there were Jian Lu and Fan Sheng.
Large gangs numbered in the thousands, claiming the title of king without authorization, attacking cities, seizing weapons from arsenals, releasing prisoners sentenced to death, binding and insulting county governors and captains, killing officials of two thousand shi, issuing proclamations, and urging counties to prepare food for them. Small gangs numbering hundreds of people can rob villages in countless numbers.
So the emperor began to send Yushi Zhongcheng and Prime Minister Changshi to supervise the annihilation.
But they still couldn't stop it, so they sent Fan Kun, the Guanglu doctor, various auxiliary captains, and Zhang De, the former Jiuqing, to attack with troops wearing embroidered clothes and carrying talismans and tiger charms. They beheaded more than 10,000 people in large gangs, and killed those who brought food and drink to the rebels in accordance with the law. Several counties were executed, and thousands of people were killed.
A few years later, their leader was captured.
However, the scattered soldiers escaped and gathered into a party again, occupying dangerous mountains and rivers to cause trouble, often living in groups, and there was nothing they could do.
So the imperial court promulgated the "Senior Law", which said that a group of thieves occurred but the officials did not notice it, or they discovered it but did not capture the prescribed amount, and the relevant officials from two thousand dan to the smallest should be put to death.
After that, petty officials were afraid of being executed. Even if there were thieves, they did not dare to report them. They were afraid that they would not be caught, and they would be sentenced for breaking the law and incriminate the higher-level officials. The higher-level officials also asked them not to report it.
Therefore, there are more thieves, hiding from each other, playing with words, and evading legal sanctions.
Jiaxuan was from Yangxian County. Because he was extremely capable as an assistant historian, he was transferred to the Hedong Prefecture.
General Wei Qing sent people to Hedong to buy horses. Seeing that Jiaxuan was extremely capable, he recommended him to the emperor and was recruited to the capital as the chief stable officer.
He was fair in his work as an official, and was gradually promoted to Yushi and Zhongcheng.
The emperor assigned him to handle the rebellion case of Zhufu Yan and King Huainan. He used subtle legal provisions to investigate and slander, so many people were killed and he was praised for his courage to judge difficult cases.
He was dismissed and appointed many times, and he served as an official of Yushi and Zhongcheng for almost twenty years.
Wang Wenshu was relieved of his post of lieutenant and was reduced to the position of internal history officer.
He manages rice and salt matters, no matter how big or small, he has to personally handle them. He arranges the property and utensils of each specific department in the county by himself. Officials such as the county magistrate and county magistrate are not allowed to change them without authorization, and even use heavy laws to control them.
In the few years since he was an official, other counties have done some small things, but only reducing propaganda can turn small things into big things, and he can implement them with his own strength. Of course, his method cannot be regarded as a normal method.
He was dismissed from office midway, and later became You Fufeng. Because he was resentful of his subordinate Chengxin, Chengxin fled and hid in Shanglin Garden. The magistrate of Yi County was sent to kill Chengxin. When officials and soldiers shot Chengxin, they shot at the gate of Shanglinyuan. Jiaxuan was handed over to the judge for sentencing. The judge believed that he had committed treason and sentenced him to genocide, so Jiaxuan committed suicide.
Du Zhou was appointed.
Du Zhou was a native of Du Yan, Nanyang.
Yi Zong became the governor of Nanyang and regarded Du Zhou as his right assistant and recommended him to be the official of the imperial court.
He served Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang repeatedly said that he was extremely talented and his official position was promoted to censor.
He was assigned to examine the cases of deserted border soldiers, and many of them were sentenced to death.
The things he reported were in line with the emperor's wishes, and he was appointed. He was succeeded by Tongjiaxuan, and was appointed Zhongcheng for more than ten years.
Du Zhou's management of political affairs was similar to that of reducing propaganda, but he was cautious in handling affairs, slow in making decisions, loose in appearance, and deep in heart.
Jia Xuan became Zuo Neishi, and Du Zhou became Tingwei. He imitated Zhang Tang in governing political affairs, and was good at spying on the emperor's intentions.
If the emperor wants to exclude someone, he will take advantage of the opportunity to frame him; if the emperor wants to release him, he will imprison him for a long time pending trial and secretly reveal his grievances.
Some of the disciples scolded Du Zhou, saying: "I decided the case fairly for the emperor. I did not follow the five-foot law, but decided the case based on the emperor's will."
Is this what a judge is supposed to do?
Du Zhou said: How did the three-foot law come about?
In the past, what the king thought was right would be written into laws, and what later kings thought was right would be written down into decrees. What is appropriate for the situation at that time is correct. Why should we follow ancient laws?
When Du Zhou became a court lieutenant, the emperor ordered more and more cases to be handled.
Officials of the 2,000 stone level were arrested, old and new, no less than 100 people.
County officials and higher-level officials send more than a thousand cases to the Wei in a year.
For each case reported in the memorial, hundreds of relevant witnesses would be arrested for large cases, and dozens of people would be arrested for small cases; these people were thousands of miles away and hundreds of miles away.
When the criminal was brought to the capital for interrogation, the officials asked the prisoner to confess as stated in the memorial. If he refused, he would be tortured with instruments of torture to finalize the case.
So when people heard about the arrests, they ran away and hid.
The cases dragged on for a long time, and even after several pardons, they would still be brought to trial more than ten years later. Most of them were framed for crimes ranging from treason to treason.
Tingwei and Zhongdu officials were ordered to arrest as many as 60,000 to 70,000 people, and subordinate officials arrested more than 100,000 more.
Du Zhou was dismissed from office midway, and later became Jinwu, hunting down thieves, arresting and investigating the sons of Sang Hongyang and Queen Wei's brothers. He was harsh and brutal. The emperor believed that he was dedicated and selfless, and was promoted to the imperial censor.
His two sons became governors of Hanoi and Henan respectively.
He governed politics more cruelly and harshly than Wang Wenshu and others.
When Du Zhou began to serve as court historian, he only had one horse and the equipment was not complete. When he became an official for a long time and became one of the three princes, his descendants all became high-ranking officials and his family's wealth accumulated to tens of thousands.
Tai Shigong said: The ten people from Zhidu to Duzhou are all famous for their cruelty and violence.
But Zhidu was strong and upright, argued about right and wrong, and fought for important principles that were beneficial to the country.
Zhang Tang liked him because he knew how to observe the emperor's joys, anger, sorrows, and joys. The emperor cooperated with him and debated the pros and cons of national affairs many times, and the country benefited from him.
Zhao Yu always adheres to the right path according to the law.
Du Zhou, on the other hand, obeys his superiors' wishes, flatters him, and regards talking less as an important principle.
Since Zhang Tang's death, the legal network has been tight, cases have been frequently slandered and harshly handled, and political affairs have gradually become corrupted and abandoned.
The officials of Jiuqing are doing nothing and only want to protect their official positions. It is too late for them to prevent mistakes from happening. How can they have time to study things other than law?
But among these ten people, the honest ones can serve as role models for people, and the dirty ones can serve as warnings for people. They plan strategies, teach people, prohibit evil, and do everything in a gentle and courteous manner, giving both kindness and power.
The enforcement of the law, although harsh, was commensurate with his duties.
As for Feng Dang, the governor of Shu County, who brutally tortured people, Li Zhen of Guanghan County dismembered the people without permission, and Mi Pu of Dong County sawed off people's necks. Luo Bizhui of Tianshui County beat the prisoner to force a confession and settled the case, Chu Guang of Hedong County killed the people indiscriminately, Wuji of Jingzhao, Feng Xu and Yinzhou were cruel, and Yan Feng, the captain of Shuiheng, tortured and forced the prisoner to pay for forgiveness. How can it be worth mentioning!
Nothing worth mentioning!
