The Yongjia Rebellion caused the country to fall apart, and all the Lingguan and musical instruments were destroyed by the rebellions of Liu Yuan and Shi Le.
When the ancestral temple was first established in Jiangdong, Shangshu ordered Taichang to submit the names of the music used for sacrifices.
Taichang He Xun replied: Wei added, deleted, and revised Han music, thus becoming the ritual music of the generation, but I don’t know why the name of Jin music is different from before.
After this disaster, the old scriptures no longer exist.
However, all these music can be harmonized with the rhythm of bells, expressed in text with five tones, added with lyrics for singing, and presented in the court with accompanying dance.
The palace is hung in front of the hall, the harp and harp are placed in the hall, the eight-tone musical instruments are played one after another, the sound of elegant music is ensembled, and the singing and singing are performed on the lower level. Each has its own music that is often chanted. These are all in line with the old system of the Zhou people.
Since the Mo Dynasty, I have just composed new words based on this music.
The old capital was deserted, and the music has long since been lost. The music has twists and turns, and no one can recognize it, so it is difficult to say clearly now.
At that time, due to the lack of elegant music instruments and actors, there was no Taiyue and drumming order.
Later, I collected a lot of songs about climbing, but the joy of eating and drinking is not complete yet.
In the last years of Taining, Emperor Ming ordered Ruan Fu and others to supplement it.
During the Xianhe period, Emperor Cheng reinstated the Taiyue Official to collect lost music, but it still lacked the music of gold and stone.
When Yu Liang was in charge of Jingzhou, he arranged elegant music with Xie Shang, but Yu Liang died before it was completed.
Yu Yi and Huan Wen were engaged in war, and their musical instruments were left idle in the storehouse, causing all of them to rot in the storehouse.
When Murong Jun pacified Ran Min and the two sides were fighting, many of his followers came to seek refuge.
In the eleventh year of Yonghe's reign, Xie Shang guarded Shouyang, so he searched for music masters to serve as Taiyue Mansion, and made stone chimes, so that Yayue was slightly complete.
However, the music gained by Wang Mengzi Ye and Murong family flowed into Guanxi.
During the Taiyuan period, Fu Jian was defeated, and his musicians Yang Shu and others were captured. They became proficient in old music, and the four-chamber gold and stone music began to be complete.
So Cao Pi, Wang Shi and others were ordered to write more lyrics for the ancestral temple, but there was no longer any music for sacrifices in the surrounding suburbs.
Now I will list his words later. Song of Emperor Xuan: Cao Pi
Oh, my great ancestor, the Holy Virtue, Harmony and Spiritual Talisman.
Follow the fortunes of the times to bring order to the troubled times, and rectify the dynasty and stabilize the capital.
His achievements shook the world, and his education moved the eight districts.
Regular punishment is used to clean up the discipline, and Xuanzhu is used to teach the Dao.
The sacred stone emits auspiciousness, and the Ganoderma lucidum has its own knowledge.
Create a foundation in response to destiny, benevolent and virtuous, Qi Tang and Yu.
Emperor Ge Jing: Cao Pi
Emperor Jing inherited his fortune and continued his career to build up the emperor's foundation.
The imperial outline is revived, and the sky is lifted high again.
The two stupid thieves disturbed me and made me proud of Chu.
Put down the chaos, organize the troops and chariots, and kill the enemy with axes.
He uses his troops like divine calculations, and his military exploits inspire the king's brigade.
Now that the evil rebellion has been overthrown, his meritorious deeds are crowned in the sky.
Emperor Gewen: Cao Pi
Taizu Zhuang Jingsheng Ming, Wang Yuanyuan bright.
The benevolent religion was spread throughout the four vassals, and the emperor's foundation became more and more respected.
The fate of the royal family is in many difficulties, and Yan Wei clarifies the purple palace.
The majesty is stronger than the autumn frost, and the grace is stronger than the spring breeze.
To pacify Shu and Chu, the latitude and longitude were divided into letters and armies.
There are three ruins of great merit, and their reputation is endless.
Emperor Gewu: Cao Pi
Mu Mu, I am Emperor Wu, and succeed Zu Qinming.
When he was due to ascend the throne, Long Fei was in the purple court.
Keep everything in order, listen to lawsuits and judge with emotion.
The foreign guests are both convinced, and the fake Wu is also wiped out.
The morning light flows with nectar, and the night snack reflects the bright stars.
There are songs of attacking the soil in the wild, and the sound of praising virtue is hanging on the road.
Emperor Ge Yuan: Cao Pi
Times are so difficult, and Skynet is trying to solve them.
The Prime Minister revitalized the imperial court, and the imperial palace fell.
When you look up, you can bring order to the seven political affairs; when you look down, you can calm down disasters and chaos.
Education spreads like the wind, and benefits spread like rain.
The blue waves are more radiant, and the golden glow is renewed.
The saintly virtue has been crowned for thousands of years, and the literary talent is still brilliant.
Emperor Ming of Song Dynasty: Cao Pi
He is wise and discerns Lu Dan, and he promotes the emperor's plans.
The handsome and heroic appearance comes early, and the clear and glorious journey is carried on.
The treacherous traitor rebels against my ministers and ignores our emperor's laws.
I bowed down and waved the red flag, and suddenly the sky was enlightened.
The great cause is abundant, and the sky is like clouds.
All things will be at peace, and Hong Ji will be forever solidified from now on.
Song to become emperor: Cao Pi
Wow, it's so beautiful. I'm stuck in the topic. The Tao is as deep as the lake and spreads far away.
The laws and regulations are harmonious and the sound of virtue is proclaimed, and all things are prosperous and harmonious.
Be respectful and strive to be benevolent, and do not do anything inappropriate.
Establishing virtue is like spreading pure wind, and practicing benevolence is like turbid clear waves.
Lianli Renmu reflects the earth, and auspicious birds sing and phoenixes perch in the trees.
The teachings spread throughout the world to obey Emperor Yao, and the benevolence and righteousness spread throughout the mountains and rivers.
Song of Emperor Kang: Cao Pi
Mu Mu, I am Emperor Kang, and I look up to his heir, Hong De.
If you have something to do but don't kill it, your elegant sound will be spread all over the world.
To guard against evil, one must be sincere, and to control things with silence.
In the majestic and quiet room, Tao announces the state.
Emperor Gemu: Cao Pi Xiaozong was wise and wise, and his reputation was well-known.
Virtue is like that morning, when the sun shines on the hibiscus trees.
The training is in the Chinese tent and flows to all directions.
The profoundness praises the mystery, and the profoundness complies with the laws and regulations.
To the west is Puppet Shu, and to the north is Jingjiang.
The high aspirations reach far and wide, and the fragrance is sent from generation to generation.
Song Ai Tong: Cao Pi is great, I mourn the emperor, the most holy heart is far away.
If you are elegant and fond of ancient times, if you are practical, you will control agriculture.
Morality has not yet been done, and governance is easy and simple.
If education becomes popular, the people will follow like grass.
Although the emperor has died, his virtue is still more prominent.
"Yun" and "Shao" are calm and sentimental, praising virtues and goodness.
Song Jian Emperor Wen: The king died
Emperor Jian Wendi, his light shines in the sky.
Lingming is like divine help, calm is like a great abyss.
The emptiness and tranquility should come as they come, and the reality will move with them.
Thoughts are flowing smoothly, but daily needs are never spoken.
The heart is easy but there is a kinship, the action is simple but it can be passed down.
The view of Liubu is far away, and the pursuit of solid foundation becomes more mysterious.
Song Xiaowu Emperor: The king died in heaven to supervise our Jin Dynasty, Qinzai Mu Mu Lie Zong.
The saints and virtues are all in the same literary examination, and they speak deeply and look respectfully.
It is powerful but not violent, and it is simple and harmonious.
The sound of the divine fire shook the sea, and everyone in the nine regions came to echo it.
The holy way accumulates in the Huaihai Sea, and the sound of elegant songs is restrained.
The charm is like pure dew, and the education is as harmonious as the wind.
Temple of the Four Seasons: Cao Pi
The temples of the ancestors are solemn and the sacred works are towering.
When the princes from all over the world come to court, they behave in an appropriate manner.
The sound of bells and drums, the sound of gold and stone.
Emperor Xuan Zhaozuo, Emperor Wu established the foundation.
The gods rejoice!
Manage my orchestra and make peace whenever you come.
Describe the merits and virtues, and sing clear songs.
The gods rejoice!
The joy of ocean metamorphosis, benevolence and virtue reaches all the earth.
There is no dissatisfaction among the people, and there is no lack of political support.
The etiquette is regular and the music is played in style.
Chant the Nine Gongs and enjoy the infinite forever.
The gods rejoice!
In the Han Dynasty, there was the music of "Short Xiao and Chong Song", whose songs include "Ibis", "Sibei Weng", "Ai Ru Zhang", "Back to Shang", "Yongli", "War in the South", "Wushan Gao", "Shangling", "Jiang Jinjiu", "Junma Huang", "Fangshu" , "Thinking", "Pheasant Class", "The Saint Comes Out", "Zhuangxie", "Lingaotai", "Far as Expected", "Shiliu", "Wucheng", "Xuanyun", "Huang Juexing", "Diaogan" and other songs are listed in the drum music, mostly describing the battle formation.
In the Wei Dynasty and Han Dynasty, the names of the twelve songs were changed, and Miao Xi composed the lyrics to describe the merits and virtues of Wei Dynasty Mo. Change "Ibis" to "Chu Zhiping" and describe the Wei Dynasty. Change "Si Bei Weng" to "Zhan Rongyang", describing Cao Gong. "Ai Ru Zhang" was changed to "Capture Lu Bu", which tells the story of Cao Gong's eastward siege of Linhuai and the capture of Lu Bu.
Change "Shangzhihui" to "Conquering Guandu", describing the battle between Cao Gong and Yuan Shao, and defeating Yuan Shao in Guandu.
"Yongli" was changed to "Jiubang", which tells that Duke Cao defeated Yuan Shao in Guandu and returned to Qiao to collect the dead soldiers.
"War in the South of the City" was changed to "Dingwu Gong", which tells that Cao Gong first defeated Ye, and martial arts began to be determined here.
"Wushan Gao" was changed to "Slaughter of Liucheng", which tells that Duke Cao crossed the northern frontier, passed through Baitan, and defeated Wuhuan from three counties in Liucheng.
Changing "Shangling" to "Pingnan Jing" tells the story of Cao Ping's decision to conquer Jingzhou.
Change "Jian Jin Jiu" to "Ping Guanzhong", which tells the story of Duke Cao's campaign against Ma Chao and the pacification of Guanzhong.
Change "You Si" to "Ying Di Qi", which states that Emperor Wen proclaimed himself emperor with his holy virtues and responded to the fate of heaven.
"Fangshu" was changed to "Yongxi", which tells that the Wei family ruled the country, the emperor and his ministers were in harmony, and many political achievements were remarkable.
Changing "Shangxie" to "Taihe" states that Emperor Ming inherited the system and inherited the tradition, changed the Yuan Dynasty to Taihe, and spread virtue.
The rest have the same old name.
At this time, Cheng also ordered Wei Zhao to compose the names of twelve songs to describe his merits and virtues.
Changing "Ibis" to "Yan Jing Que", it tells the story of the decline of Moshi, Sun Jian's rapid ambition, and his intention to save the country. This is where the king's career begins.
Changing "Si Bei Weng" to "The Season of the Han Dynasty", it tells the story of Sun Jian mourning the decline of Momo, hating the chaos of Jianhuang, raising troops to attack, and making great achievements in the world.
"Ai Ru Zhang" was changed to "慅Martial Master", which tells the story of Sun Tat completing his father's business and going on a conquest.
Changing "Shangzhihui" to "Wulin", it tells the story that after Wei Wu conquered Jingzhou, he went eastward along the river and wanted to fight. Sun Quan ordered his general Zhou Yu to attack him in Wulin and defeated him, causing him to flee.
Changing "Yongli" to "Autumn Wind", it tells the story of Sun Quan employing people and making them happy, making them forget their death.
Change "War in the South of the City" to "Conquer Wancheng", stating that Wei Wu was determined to annex, but Sun Quan personally conquered and defeated Cao's army in Wancheng.
"Wushan Gao" was changed to "Guan Beide", which tells the story of Shu general Guan Yu who betrayed Wu's kindness, and Sun Quan sent troops to float across the river to capture Guan Yu.
"Shangling Song" was changed to "Tong Jingzhou", which tells the story of Sun Quan and Shu making good friends and forming an alliance. During this period, although Guan Yu committed his own sins, he finally restored the original good relationship.
Change "Jian Jin Jiu" to "Zhang Hong De", which tells that Sun Quan showed his great virtue and people from far away came to join him.
Changing "Yousi" to "Shunli Shu", it states that Sun Quan built the large hall in compliance with Pu Lu Fu's orders.
Changing "Fangshu" to "Inheriting the Mandate of Heaven", it states that the monarch of Wu Kingdom at that time ascended the throne with holy virtues, and education was prevalent.
Changing "Shangxie Qu" to "Xuanhua", it states that at that time he majored in literature and martial arts, followed the heavens, benevolence spread and harmonious, and the world was happy.
The rest will still use their old names.
When Emperor Wu was ordered to ascend the throne, he ordered Fu Xuan to compose twenty-two poems, describing the merits of Jin in replacing Wei.
Changing "Ibis" to "Ling Zhixiang", it is said that Emperor Xuan assisted Wei, just like Yu and Shun served Yao. It not only had auspicious omens, but also used force to kill the disobedient Meng Da.
"Si Bei Weng" was changed to "Xuan Shou Ming", which tells the story of Emperor Xuan resisting Zhuge Liang, accumulating prestige, and transporting magical troops. Zhuge Liang died of fear.
"Ai Ru Zhang" was changed to "Conquering Liaodong", which tells the story of Emperor Xuan crossing the sea to destroy the Gongsun family and take its leader.
The "Shangzhihui" was changed to "Xuan Fu Zheng", which stated that Emperor Xuan had profound virtues, brought order to chaos, and established the order of heaven and earth by attracting civil and military talents.
"Yongli" was changed to "The Times Are Troubled", which tells the story of Emperor Xuan's expedition against the State of Wu, and whether there was an expedition or not.
Changing "Zhan Cheng Nan" to "Jing Long Fei", it tells the story that Emperor Jing showed his majesty, rewarded the good and the bad, prospered without borders, and made the emperor's foundation even taller.
Changing "Wushan Gao" to "Ping Yuheng", it tells the story of Emperor Jing unifying the different customs of all countries, unifying the estranged hearts of the world, respecting the virtuous and raising scholars, and inheriting the great legacy.
"Shangling" was changed to "Wenhuang Tongbaikui", which states that Emperor Wen first unified all political affairs, employed people in an orderly manner, and imparted the teaching of peace.
Change "Jian Jin Jiu" to "Because of Fortune", which states that according to the changes in fortune, he secretly implemented a sage plan to get rid of the long snake and disperse the group of rebels, use martial arts to support literature, and encourage people to practice their virtues.
"Yousi" was changed to "Weiyong Shu", which states that after Emperor Wen pacified Wancheng Shu, he enfeoffed the princes of all countries and restored the fifth-level titles.
"Fangshu" was changed to "Tianxu", which stated that the Holy Emperor should ascend to the throne according to the circumstances, greatly benefit the world's living beings, and employ people to make full use of their talents.
The "Shangxie" was changed to "The Carrying Period of the Jin Dynasty", which stated that the Holy Emperor should be accepted and taught, and his teachings should be like gods.
"Jun Ma Huang" was changed to "Jin Ling Yun", which tells that the Holy Emperor came to the throne and offered sacrifices to the ancestral temple, so that filial piety was practiced throughout the world.
Change "Pheasant Class" to "Yu Mu Wohuang", which states that the Holy Emperor received Zen and his virtues were in line with the gods.
The "Sage Comes Out" was changed to "Zhongchun Zhenlu", which tells the story of the Jin Dynasty's promotion of civil and military teachings and hunting in time.
"Lingaotai" was changed to "Xia Miao Tian", which tells the story of the Jin Dynasty's hunting and hunting in accordance with the season to eliminate damage to the seedlings.
Changing "Yuan Ru Schedule" to "Hedgefield in Mid-Autumn", it states that although the Jin Dynasty was civilized and virtuous, it did not abandon military affairs and carried out killings in accordance with the times.
"Shi Liu" was changed to "Shun Tian Dao", which tells the story of a military parade in mid-winter, using martial arts to cultivate literature, and selling great virtues to match the sky.
"Wucheng" was changed to "Tang Yao", which tells the story of the Holy Emperor ascending to the throne and his moral education enlightening the world.
"Xuanyun" still has the same name, describing how the Holy Emperor employs people and makes full use of their talents.
Changing "Huang Jue Xing" to "Bo Yi", it tells the story of Chiwu holding the book, the rise of the Zhou Dynasty, the Holy Emperor receiving the destiny, and the divine bird flying here.
"Diaogan" still has the same name, describing the virtues of the sage emperors who matched Yao and Shun, and how they were assisted by talented people like Lu Wang, who achieved great achievements and achieved peace.
Their words are listed below. "Ling Zhixiang"
The gods are auspicious and the stones are auspicious.
Jingyang Jinde comes from the West.
Heaven has given me the great destiny to grant me the title of Emperor Xuan.
In response to the fate of troubled times, he became a dragon of a generation.
Shengde succeeded Shun, just as Shun assisted Tao Tang.
Assisted Wei Wu and Wei Wen to establish the imperial code of dynasty.
The Meng family rebelled against orders and occupied our southern territory.
Following the ancient rules will confuse the five constant principles of human relations.
In the east, bandits and bandits were causing chaos, and the bandits in Youbao were rampant.
Make good friends and form alliances with each other, connecting the distant wilderness of the east and west.
Emperor Xuan was furious and soared like an eagle.
It was as powerful as thunder, as fast as lightning, soaring up to the sky and sinking into the stone city.
Defy the leader and save the common people.
All nations are at peace and the world is peaceful.
"Declaration of Order"
Emperor Xuan received a great order and followed the destiny. The wind and clouds change from time to time, and the dragon finally flies into the sky.
Resist Zhuge Liang and guard Yongliang.
The border will be stabilized, and the Yixia will be happy and healthy again.
Concentrate on your affairs and be in control, and be diligent and steady.
Recruit heroes, and the cause of conservatism is accomplished.
The majesty is profound and the light is bright.
Modesty leads to peace, this is the scripture of heaven.
Accumulate prestige on weekdays, and transport magic weapons at the right time.
If you are frightened and killed, the world will be at peace.
"Conquest of Liaodong"
During the expedition to Liaodong, the enemy troops lost their positions. His prestige is like that of a god in the east, and Gongsun Ni is ordered to be the leader. The group of Ni is frightened to the point of fear, and is frightened by the power and salt.
Shuobei rises in response, and the sea surface is like a shadow.
His martial arts are brilliant and his virtues are like clouds.
"Xuan Fu Zheng"
Although Emperor Xuan assisted in the administration, he was a virtuous and profound saint.
To bring order out of chaos, and to obey the will of the people.
Gang Luo was a talented man in both literature and military, and respected his parents.
The parents are talented and virtuous, and they rely on them to teach them.
Set it up to govern the people and educate the world.
The merit lies in creating the foundation of the emperor, and the great achievements will last forever.
The brilliance shines brightly and shines brightly all the time.
His merits can benefit all generations, and his deeds are enough to determine the heaven and earth.
The sky and the earth are fixed, the clouds move and the rain spreads to Bude, and it spreads far overseas like the wind.
"Tough Times"
Times are difficult and the teachings are obstructed.
There are many changes in the sky and the earth, there are excesses and deficiencies.
The stupid Wu Man is looking at me in the world.
My emperor was furious and ordered to be punished by heaven.
If there is conquest but no war, the chaos will be suppressed and destroyed.
The power of God spreads things and clears my corners.
"Jinglong Fei"
Jinglong ascends to control the power of heaven.
Intelligent insight into subtle details, moving the gods to connect the opportunities.
Those who follow it will become prosperous, and those who go against it will destroy the barbarians.
The etiquette and music education are laid out, and the martial arts are outstanding and majestic.
Wen De spreads all over the world, and all nations follow him, and all countries follow him.
Holy virtue is in line with God's will, and it is innate and cannot be violated by God.
If it is violated, it will be auspicious, enjoy the world and last forever.
The mightiness leads to generosity, the creation is great and light.
My emperor is illustrious, and his foundation is prosperous without borders.
There is a time limit for the emperor's career to be revealed. God's destiny has been gathered, and the emperor's foundation is respected.
"Ping Yuheng"
Ji Tong balances the jade balance, Qi Zheng corrects the traitors and rebels.
All countries have different customs, and the four seas are full of contradictions.
He is benevolent, courteous and virtuous, and the sage controls the heroes. All people have the same thoughts.
Then he expanded Hongye and became the Chonghuang rank.
All the people enjoy peace, and the sages respect the rising sun.
Smart, wise and aware of the situation, careful observation of subtle secrets.
"Wen Huang Tong Bai Kui"
Emperor Wen’s administration was in charge of Bai Kui, and his successor Tian Ying was responsible for fortune-telling in all directions.
Military generals guard the four corners with mighty power, and wise ministers assist the court. Jiamou criticized Qiulan, and the government was clear and fragrant.
Rainwater gradually gathers into floods, and gravel is polished into Guizhang.
The great road governs the five emperors of Qi, and the great virtues spread to the three emperors.
Xianguang is great, the light is towering to the sky and the earth is the same, and the education is universal, both inside and outside.
There is no inside or outside, heaven, earth, and heaven are unified and peaceful.
And there was peace and order, and the civil and military affairs of the Manchu Dynasty met with great gatherings.
In the past, there were Fuxi and Shennong, and the great Jin Dynasty had great virtues and surpassed them.
Guard the conquests and the states, and the states become vassal guards.
His great achievements have benefited the whole world, and his glory will last forever.
"Because of Fortune"
Due to changes in fortunes, divine plans were revealed.
Strengthen the friendship between long snakes, and bravely separate from the group of Jie's party.
When the situation was poor, he rushed to Wu, and he used his horses and troops to fight.
Only military force can advance, and the official will review the plan.
Encourage your virtues at all times, and enjoy a clear and bright life for the rest of your life.
"Weiyong Shu"
Shu, a mediocre country in ancient times, arrogantly proclaimed itself emperor in a corner of the sky.
Liu Bei was unruly and defied destiny, and Liu was afraid that Zhuge would take over the rest.
There are hundreds of thousands of troops on one side, watching for gaps to take advantage of our weakness.
The post horses are flying like feathers, and the people of the world are restless.
Jiang Wei repeatedly invaded our borders, and all the fields in Longshang were deserted.
Emperor Wen was compassionate and sympathetic to the people, and he endured many wars and suffered injustice.
The vassal guards and ministers planned outside and offered advice to the scholars inside.
The imperial guards and minions should accept it, and the close relatives and ministers should offer a good garden.
Jiamou's good plans and alliances were written down, and Emperor Wen raised a million troops.
The sound of thunder and drums shook the ground, as powerful as a tiger soaring over the floating clouds.
The Shu captives fled and were afraid of heaven's punishment, so they were captured at the camp gate without any help.
Wanli Qingkong shares the same wind religion, and the defiant owl Jie Xian becomes a minister.
The Marquis of Guangjian was divided into five levels, and the rules and regulations were in accordance with heaven and man. "The Order of Heaven"
Heaven is in order, and according to Heaven's orders, he ascends to the throne and receives blessings from his spirit.
The supreme master controls the dragons, and the power of heaven restrains the chaotic chi.
Promote the education of all living beings, and recruit talents to assist.
He has a clear understanding of everything and controls everything, and his majestic appearance controls all directions. The virtuous ministers are all members of Gao Tao Ji Qi, and they assist Lan Fang in the Political Consultative Conference.
The holy virtues are courteous to the king and his ministers, and the benevolence brings good fortune to the people.
Education is spread like heaven and earth, who dares to forget his virtue and love himself?
"Dajin Shipping Period"
During the period of the Great Jin Dynasty, our emperor, the Holy Ming Delong, lived.
The sky is clear and cloudless at four o'clock, and the sky is clear and empty, and the sky is clear and clear.
Ying Pu was admitted and ascended to the throne, followed by the destiny of Zheng Yuheng.
The teachings and dissemination are like gods. The most important thing is Long Yu and Tang Dynasty. The head of state is Bu Honghua, and all the officials are loyal and good.
In the four seasons, Taikang is prosperous and prosperous, and God’s blessings are boundless.
"Golden Spirit"
The auspicious golden spirit brings auspiciousness, and the heavenly talisman brings auspiciousness.
In response to the order, the holy sign will be revealed, and the light will reach the sun and the moon.
But I, the Great Jin Emperor, was born with a sacred body.
Yingli accepted Wei Chan and inherited the great destiny.
Our emperor's business is prosperous, and the gods are showing signs.
Ji Zun ascended the throne and ordered to control thousands of vehicles.
My emperor's assistant ministers are all as powerful as tigers.
The minions advance together, and no one can resist.
My emperor's assistant, Xiangzan, plans to transform the Qing Dynasty.
If you manage everything day and night, all nations will praise you.
The gods of Chengtian responded and were ordered to receive the Jiarui chapter.
Respectfully enjoy the courtesy and offer sacrifices to the late emperor.
雅乐时时奏，磬管鸣锵锵。

The drums are beautiful and the bells are prosperous.
I sincerely pay homage to you, and the jade cup is full of worthy wine.
God comes to enjoy the feast, beauty comes and Xianyue is healthy.
May you bless your descendants and bless you forever.
Great filial piety flourishes, and moral education spreads everywhere.
"Yu Mu Wo Huang"
Hezai Mumu, my emperor, has great virtues and is holy and clear.
The Zen Lord came to the world, and his kindness and virtue helped all living beings.
The whole world leads the earth, and everyone comes to the court.
All the people in the world look up to each other and look up to Tai Qing.
All nations are in harmony with each other, singing and singing.
Yin and Yang are harmonious and harmonious, and heaven and earth are peaceful and peaceful.
During the Qingming Dynasty, Qi Qi was in charge of the seven political affairs, but during the Qing Dynasty, he was responsible for holding the Yuheng.
The assistant ministers are solemn and proud, and the court is filled with heroes.
Working day and night without stopping, managing all things day by day is this sutra.
Although there is peace and prosperity in the country, the world is not at peace.
The way of humility is bright, and the way of humility is humility but not fullness.
The great virtues unite the heaven and the earth, and the sun and the moon shine together.
His achievements are illustrious and glorious, shining brightly on the gods of the underworld.
The three rays of light in the sky are restrained, appearing in the sky, and the country with the Tao hangs down the scenery star.
The divine dragon and the phoenix arrive, and the nectar falls in the night.
Respect the gods solemnly and look up to the gods solemnly.
All things are in joy, and they work together during the day.
"Mid-Spring Journey"
In the middle of spring, the army was revitalized and the martial arts was renewed day by day.
The commander-in-chief holds the drum, and the musicians hold the drum. They sit up and listen to the sound of the drum, rhythmically and orderly.
The practice of literature and martial arts is prosperous!
In spring hunting, the master went out to offer sacrifices, affirmed the laws and regulations, and swore an oath to the master.
It is forbidden to hunt together and sacrifice to the god of Houtu.
Hunting is based on time and the system of the country is clear.
The use of both civil and military forces is a common ritual.
The soldiers and chariots are like fighting, and the teachings are strict. Who can fight in ancient and modern times?
The Great Jin Dynasty will follow the destiny and help all living beings.
"Summer Miao Field"
Hunting in the seedling fields in summer, the weather is about to get hotter.
The military affairs and state affairs are different, but the culture, education and martial arts are different.
Then he ordered the officials to select the chariots and infantry, identify their names, and write a deed on them.
The soldiers of the royal army opened the eight gates, and my emperor patrolled like a god.
A large flag is set up on the road, and the big flag is like a cloud covering the sky.
All officials perform their duties competently, and they will be slow when they should be sick, and slow when they should be slow.
The chariots and horses turned around, and the chariots were exhausted and the army was tired.
It is dangerous to sacrifice birds to enjoy the food, and the hot steam will make you enjoy it.
But I, the Great Jin Dynasty, have virtues that match heaven and earth, and education that spreads like clouds.
"Mid-Autumn Midfield"
Walking in the hedgehog fields in mid-autumn, Ying Jinde thought of Chang Gang.
The autumn wind is clear and cool, and the dew turns into frost.
At the first dawn of autumn, the hawks soar in the clear sky.
The eagle flies like a noble father, killing and attacking in accordance with the sky, and the spring and autumn are in sequence.
Like thunder shaking the power of our army, soldiers advance and retreat listening to drums.
Birds and beasts were given to worship the emperor's spirit, and feathers were used to serve as military palaces.
The virtues of the illustrious Jin Dynasty are beyond three or five.
If education is transformed by literature, the country will not lose its force even though it is peaceful.
Brightness shines all over the world, and you will enjoy the blessings of heaven forever.
"Shun Tian Dao"
Follow the way of heaven and master the divine contract. The three seasons of spring, summer and autumn have been revealed, and martial arts will not harm the farming season.
In winter, big carts and carriages are marching, bangles are ringing, drums are vibrating, and flags are like rainbows.
Cultivation of literature and internal control, emphasizing martial arts but not resorting to force.
When moving an army, one must first swear an oath to fight, and then proceed with righteousness after the etiquette has been fulfilled.
Drive away the beasts again and again to uphold benevolence, and proceed and stop in an orderly manner without losing order.
The soldiers are well trained and the generals are as powerful as tigers.
But the tiger is so heroic that it reaches the sky.
Lift the siege on three sides and kill them without reducing their numbers.
When the army was exhausted, they raised their voices and raised their flags. After hunting, they returned to the Sixth Army of the Division.
Winter sacrifices are made to feed the gods, and rituals and music are used to cultivate literature.
I am a beautiful and kind person in Jin Dynasty, and my virtue is worthy of heaven and earth.
Fortune and wealth await reward for merit, and knighthood awaits talent.
Enjoy this peace and happiness, receive this hundred blessings, and enjoy longevity and happiness for thousands of years.
"Tang Yao"
When Yao of the Tang Dynasty consulted King Wusheng, he was humble and humble.
The accumulation of small things will eventually lead to greatness; only when you walk on frost will you know how to become solid ice.
The ways of gods follow nature, and the water of rivers and seas can still condense.
Shun Yu was the president of Bai Kui, and his meritorious service was promoted to Yuan Kai.
Being bowed to Zen, he obeyed the celestial calendar, and his wise sages were passed down from generation to generation.
I, the Emperor, have ascended the throne and will always hold the line of balance and rightness.
Dehua spreads all over the world, and the auspicious auspiciousness appears.
The directors of King Xing sit and wait for the day to come, while the deceased Lord is peaceful and self-respecting.
The desire to reach far begins from the near, and the power of overturning springs reaches the mountains and mausoleums.
After examining the historical records of the people in the past, there is evidence of their spiritual rain. "Xuanyun"
Xuan Yun warms up the hills and mountains, and the auspiciousness lingers thousands of miles away.
The shape of a flying dragon is so meandering, and the sound of a flying phoenix is ​​so graceful.
In the past, there were dynasties of Tang, Yao, Yu and Shun, and they appeared in the blue clouds from time to time.
Today, I have traveled to all countries, and my brilliance has spread across the sky.
The phoenix and the crane are chirping in the back garden, and the clear and melodious sound is met by the wind.
Chengtang is prosperous and Delong shows his destiny, and wise ministers come like flying.
Moreover, Xuantian was hunting Ju Chengbin, met Lu Wang, and returned home.
The harmony between the monarch and his ministers is like influence, which is innate and does not violate the laws of nature.
Stop plowing to form the link between the earth and the sky.
The two kings of Emperor Zuoxing's industry and prime minister, whose virtues are rare in the world.
Our emperor is benevolent and virtuous, and he has gathered talented people, and his career is so great and majestic.
The mighty Huan Huan conquers the four forms, and he is solemn and dignified.
Enlightenment is like a god with no bounds, and wise ministers and talented people fill the emperor's territory.
When Pixian was thinking about the dawn, he said that he was in a new position.
Luxurious and prosperous, holy virtues are revealed, virtues are as bright as the sun and the moon.
"Bo Yi"
Boyi assisted Shun and Yu, and was in charge of mountains, forests, and rivers.
His virtues are all in his sixteenth aspect, which makes people think about him without interruption.
Wisdom knows all things, and wisdom knows the words of all birds.
The oriole should be pure and virtuous, so it can fly gracefully.
The harmonious singing is perched on the top of the tree in the garden, flying high and wandering in the clouds and daylight.
Xia Jie was cruel and immoral, and a dense network was set up in the mountains and rivers.
Cruel wishes for history to close the net, but the weak oriole will do nothing.
Yin Tang is kind and upholds heavenly virtues, and its three sides of compassion are gone.
The flying birds come and go in groups, and their whines are as peaceful as before.
The redbirds fly in the south palace, and the phoenix leads the flock of feathers.
Chi Wu flew with the book in his hand, indicating that Zhou Wen's destiny was auspicious.
Today the divine bird is flying here to swim, flying to be my appointed king.
Good omens and auspiciousness bring peace to the sky, and virtues bring blessings to all people.
The wind of orchid and hibiscus is fragrant, and the whole world shares its fragrance.
"fishing rod"
The fishing rod is so soft, the bait is sweet, fragrant and fresh.
Fishing in Linchuan transports the mind, and the thin fishing line is tied and sunk in Jiuquan.
Weibin Taigong treasured this technique, which is in the chapter "Ling Mi".
Move from the object to adapt to changes, and use your heart to understand the situation before it happens.
The swimming fish scatter in fright and touch the fishing hook, while the hidden dragon finally flies into the sky.
Where does the dragon fly in the sky?
The wings beat and the wind soared too clearly.
What's the difference between Taiqing and Yi? The two instruments begin to separate into Huncheng.
Xuanji jade is at the right three-star mark, and the heaven and earth are endowed with various shapes.
Xun Rang is willing to assist the Holy King, advance and retreat in harmony with the spirit of God.
I, the king of the Jin Dynasty, have a great and far-reaching strategy, and heaven and man are not enough to be named together.
When the celestial phenomena and human affairs first merged, there was so much chaos and confusion.
There are signs in human affairs, the sun and the moon, and the laws of heaven and literature bring prosperity to the two emperors.
Chi You massacred all living beings, and Huang Di used his troops to conquer thousands of people.
When Xia Yu's saintliness declined, the three generations were not as good as Yu and Tang.
Our emperor is a great virtuous companion to Yao and Shun. He ascended the throne by Zen and enjoyed the auspiciousness of heaven.
The shore of the land is blessed by God, everyone is solemn, and everyone is in good health.
All is well, Mu Mu is obviously our emperor.
Inherit Bailu, protect boundless borders, and live in peace and prosperity forever.
I don’t know when it started, but it has been used for feasting and enjoying rituals.
Only the poems written by Qian and Tuiman have mentioned this matter.
There are five old songs in total, 1. "There is a Wise Woman in Guandong", 2. "In the Second Year of Zhanghe", 3. "The Music Will Last for a Long Time", 4. "Emperor from Four Directions", and 5. "The Osmanthus Tree Grows in Front of the Palace", all of which have been lost.
Cao Zhi's "Preface to the Poems on the Chao Dance" says: In the past, there was a famous Li Jian in the Western Garden of Emperor Mo Ling who was good at playing music and could dance the Chao dance. However, when the world was in chaos, Li Jian went into exile in Guanxi and followed the general Duan Xuan.
The late emperor heard that he had old skills and sent a letter to summon Li Jian.
Li Jian is over seventy years old, and has been neglected for a long time. In addition, there are many errors in the ancient songs, and the texts of different generations may not be the same. Therefore, he wrote five new songs based on the previous songs.
At the beginning of Taishi, he made another speech.
In the past, the dance was performed with two yi, but when Huan Xuan wanted to usurp the throne, Yuan Mingzi, the minister of the Shangshu Palace, played the Ming Dynasty and the emperor increased the number to eight yi.
The poems from Taishi are now listed below.
Five poems about the dance:
"Hong Ye Pian" is equivalent to the Wei song "Ming Ming Emperor Wei" and the ancient song "There is a Wise Woman in Guandong".
Xuanwen made great achievements with great difficulty, and the great virtues of the Jin Dynasty began in Tai.
The illustrious Holy Emperor should bear the talisman, and should be ordered by heaven to rule the world.
What joy can all beings in all nations enjoy?
This is because there is a Son of Tomorrow.
When Yao of the Tang Dynasty reached the throne of Dechan, Yu and Shun were respectful but respectful to themselves.
Gongji finally sat facing south, and his virtue and morality transformed into public opinion.
The amnesty began to purge virtues, and culture and education spread far and wide to Huangzhi.
Like the sky, the earth is governed by doing nothing.
Smart and discerning, one can observe the sun and the moon, and sages and gods can observe both rituals.
Although there are three evil types that are contrary to fate, there is nothing you can do about them if you are still and think about them.
Like the sky, the earth is governed by doing nothing.
Hou Ji and Qi both served as ministers, and Yi Yin Lu hoped to be promoted to a royal minister.
Orchids and herbs are listed in the dynasty, and no one is missing in the world at night.
The voice of the Holy Lord echoes and responds, and the shadow of the pole comes and follows.
The roaring tiger obeys the restraint, and the hidden dragon has its own way to ascend to heaven.
The things you prepare can be used immediately, and you can be very flexible in your actions.
Everything is done in a timely manner, and even though everything changes, there is stability.
The officials train him to show restraint and give in, and the officials accept him to show loyalty and forgiveness.
Everyone in the group looks up to the breeze and admires it from all over the world.
Like the sky, the earth is like the clouds of enlightenment.
In the past, emperors were expensive in carvings and ornaments, but today the holy emperors are frugal.
In the past, there were many entanglements, but today there are no mercy allusions.
Like the sky, the earth is like the clouds of enlightenment.
There are many scholars in Kyoto, working hard day and night to manage everything.
There is no waste in everything, and you can clearly understand the details and give advice.
The ministers are like stars, and the sage is like the sun.
All great undertakings are unified, and the merits are so high and majestic.
The Five Emperors succeeded the Three Emperors with virtue, and the Three Emperors were the descendants of the Saints with virtue.
The Holy Deeds should be in accordance with the destiny, and the destiny of heaven and earth cannot be violated.
The higher you look up, the taller it becomes. It is as high as the sky and cannot be scaled.
When he wants to restore the Yulong family, the phoenix sings harmoniously in the courtyard.
"The Destiny Pian" is equivalent to the tomb song "Taihe Has the Holy Emperor" and the ancient song "In the Second Year of Zhanghe".
The Holy Ancestor Xuanhuang was appointed by Heaven, and Chengtian should assist Emperor Wei as scheduled.
When you enter, you will comprehensively manage all political affairs, and when you leave, you will conquer all directions.
Everything in the imperial court is in good order, and everything in the area is peaceful and healthy.
Daolong was like Shun and Yao, his benevolence and virtue surpassed that of the king.
Meng Du relied on danger to stop the king's master, and rebelled against his orders and caused chaos in a corner of the sky.
The divine soldiers unexpectedly descended from heaven, and were ordered to punish the rebels and cause them to be punished by heaven.
Forgiveness does not punish guilt, and the culprit's clan becomes empty.
The majesty shocked Shu in the west, and the fierce force overcame Wu in the east.
Zhuge didn't know the destiny of heaven, so he wreaked havoc and rebelled against the destiny.
We have more than 100,000 troops on one side, and they frequently invade our borders.
My emperor is so powerful that he holds a cymbal to guard Yongliang.
Zhuge is afraid of my heavenly power, and is afraid that he will freeze before he fights.
Gains and losses are natural luck, and things are changing and difficult.
Cambodia conquered Liaodong Linghai and killed the rebel Gongsun Yuan.
The Emperor of Wei ordered Qi Qizheng, and Cao Shuang's power became overwhelming again.
The group of villains who rebelled against their fate were finally punished, and God sent Bai Luxian to come.
When chrysanthemums have yellow flowers, they bring good fortune; when Wang Jun makes trouble, they bring disaster first.
"Jinghuang Pian" is equivalent to the long history of Wei music, and the music of ancient music is long-lasting.
The Holy Ancestor Jing Emperor was famous for his wisdom and his sage and benevolence.
The path of an emperor is indeed grand. It is difficult to establish a foundation, but it is also not easy to carry it forward.
At that time, there was Xia Houxuan outside, and there were rebel ministers Zhang and Li inside. The three evils were the same internally and externally, and they disrupted our emperor's order.
My emperor will obey the will of heaven and carry out an attack to eliminate the three evil traitors.
The border guards will guard against the growing tail, and they will not be able to afford evil intentions.
A guilty person is guilty of his crime, and his majesty spreads thousands of miles.
Always maintain balance, there are all opportunities, and all opportunities are ignored.
If Zhaoling loses its way, the emperor will not be the king, and there will be internal and external troubles.
The crowds of urinals formed a group, and the ignorant monarch showed off his will, and did not distinguish what it means to control chaos.
My emperor, Rui Sage, makes decisions alone, and to support military affairs, we still need scriptures.
Comply with the destiny of the people, and clear away the rainbow and floating clouds.
The clouds were gone and the sky was open, and the Qingming Festival was not long. The feathers came one after another, and trouble broke out in the Southeast Domain.
Jian Qin is a snake that grows in reverse, and he who has external support is Wu Man.
The nations are in turmoil and chaos, and the world is in fear and unrest.
Mighty as a god, he controls the six armies. My emperor personally wields the ax and iron to conquer.
The Jianqin rebellion broke out in Shouchun, and the vanguard had already reached Xiangcheng.
The divine soldiers descended from the sky unexpectedly, and our emperor’s divine weapons commanded extraordinary forces.
The strange soldiers are as difficult to control as the gods, and the temple is difficult to win in reality.
The two armies encountered an unexpected encounter, and the enemy retreated without any plan.
Like a leopard, its chariot and its cavalry advance forward fiercely, fighting the enemy at Shayang Pi.
He ran away in despair, and the prisoners fled like clouds.
Heaven's grace forgives the guilty, but restrains the earth element and acts like a whale salamander.
"Da Jin Pian" is comparable to the Wei song "Tian Sheng Ming Min" and the ancient song "Sifang Huang".
The illustrious Jin Dynasty, the holy King Wen.
The virtues are soaring and majestic, and their path transcends the Tao and Tang dynasties.
Known to the world as the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, their glory is restored today.
Practice nine virtues. Tao's literary skills are both clear and his military strategy is outstanding.
The blessings are great in the world and benefit all living beings.
The internal minister Yuan Kai is elected, and the government is clear and orderly.
Outside, military ministers are selected, and sometimes they are mighty and eagle-like.
Those who follow the destiny will be safe, and those who disobey will inevitably perish.
Kindness and virtue are equal to the spring sun, and majesty is better than the autumn frost.
The imperial court was busy with toasts, and the flowers of grass and orchids were fragrant.
During the reign of Yao, Yu and Shun in the Tang Dynasty, there were still four terrible evils.
When conquering thrifty thieves, everyone must be respectful and pious.
The enlightenment has touched the hearts of the people at home and abroad.
He further contributed his vocal music, and everyone bowed to him.
Western Shu disturbed our country and arrogated the title of emperor of Fangyu.
He ordered the general to lead his troops to conquer, abandon the country, and surrender.
The people of Wu rebelled against their orders and relied on the sea to block the river.
My emperor sent a letter to tell me, and the people of Wu responded and came to surrender.
The former kings divided the feudal kingdoms into ten thousand kingdoms, and the nine lands became vassals and guards.
Qinxing prefectures and counties broke the feudal system, and the first emperor succeeded Zuobu II.
He was unable to return to the feudal lords in the past dynasties, and suddenly he was over 500 years old.
Our emperor strives to practice holy virtues, and establishes the system of ennobling marquises in due course.
The land was divided into five ranks, and the boundaries of the vassal states were sealed.
With numerous civil and military officials assisting in great political affairs, this is the first time in a thousand years that we will encounter this grand event.
Grace is like a flood flowing over the area, benevolence is like a gentle breeze flying overseas.
"Ming Jun Pian" is comparable to the Wei song "It's Not Easy to Be a King" and the ancient song "The Osmanthus Tree Grows in Front of the Palace".
The Holy Emperor and his Mingjun govern the world, and he obeys warnings and takes care of all things.
There will be condemnation if you linger and watch, but you will be honored if you exhaust your wisdom and loyalty.
Orchid originates from the wilderness and rises to the purple court thousands of miles away.
The thorns and thorns are filthy on the front steps of the hall. If they are swept away, no growth will occur.
There is no misunderstanding between what is possible and what is not, and the duties of the Hundred Palaces are justified.
Be solemn and respectful to yourself, be careful about what you have done, and everything you have done will be accomplished.
The dark king is fatuous and unconfident, and his subordinates all practice heresy.
Upright people are slandered, and treacherous people seize their power.
Although Jingchen wanted to be loyal, he was speechless and dared not speak.
There is nothing to be afraid of when you are speechless and speechless, and you are still loyal to yourself.
Isn't it impure for a clear and clear stream to be polluted by flying dust for no reason?
Traveling on the wrong road can lead to confusion, but the wrong road is not far away.
A loyal minister fearlessly establishes his dynasty with an upright look on his face, regardless of his own safety.
Treachery, evil and uprightness do not coexist, just like the Hulu and the Qin Dynasty.
When Hu and Qin were still in harmony, treachery, evil and uprightness had their own differences.
Today, a loyal minister meets a wise king, and his work will never stop.
Although the outline is closely integrated in the outline, it is like the stars constituting the North Star.
Suppose the loyal ministers are attacked by the secret master and are dismissed as mortals for no reason.
Although Cordyceps is thin for seasonal use, Imperata is still a treasure in the wilderness.
The rain and dew condense into frost day and night, and the orchids and osmanthus trees are destroyed into firewood.
Evil ministers are fickle and have many tricks, so what's wrong with their intentions?
Flattery means being submissive to one's feelings, and one will always do as one pleases.
Just keep an eye on peace and happiness, regardless of whether politics is clean or dirty.
Accumulating hypocrisy and deceiving the current leader, forming cliques for personal gain to maintain salary.
Words and deeds are inconsistent and inconsistent, and greed is a valley.
If you are lucky enough to make a profit, if the incident is revealed, your family will be exterminated.
Whisk dance, from silk bundles.
The old name is Chengwu. Check its songs and poems, not the county poems.
It is also displayed in the palace.
The preface to the sculpture says: I have seen the "White Fu Dance", or "White Bright Dove Dance" since I came to southern Liaoning. It is said that this dance has been around for decades.
Looking at the purpose of his words, it is to say that the star people are suffering from the tyranny of the wall, and their thoughts belong to Zhi.
Now I will list his words below.
Five Fuwu Songs and Poems:
"White Dove"
The graceful white dove is flying and singing.
Embracing my king's virtue, I flew here to gather in your court.
The white bird looks auspicious, but its plain feathers are so bright.
I dance my wings and soar in the king's court, in response to my benevolent king.
The doves are singing brightly, and they may be light red or yellow.
I am delighted with your kindness, and my feathers fly thousands of miles away.
There is a lingering light on the wall, and the fish enjoy the light in the rivers and lakes.
I show you favors without any expense, and I respect you with my small body.
Drive my good horse, practice my galloping.
I would like to follow you around, enjoy your virtue and forget my hunger.
My heart is empty and quiet, and I am willing to be touched by you.
Play my harp, drums and harp, just to entertain myself for the time being.
When the clouds come and go, I will go on stage. I would like to float in Taiqing.
Clinging to the dragon and clinging to the phoenix, I wish my body would be light.
"Ji Ji Chapter"
Flying and dancing freely, the air flow is fragrant, and I remember the four bright yellow flowers.
Get rid of the gains and losses, it will be feasible when it comes, but it will be the same when it goes away.
Time flies, and the years are approaching, but drinking is a joy.
As time passes by, how long will it last? I will be filled with worries and longings. The deep pool is vast, and the swimming fish are rare. I hope everyone in Huangpu can rely on it.
His kindness is touching and unparalleled, his tragic songs and dances are timeless.
"Dulu Chapter"
The water is deep and the mud is dirty.
The mud is still okay, but the deep water will kill me.
Yongyong and Le Shuangyan are playing games by my field.
I want to bend my bow and shoot geese, but I miss my son who has lost his relatives and is alone.
The duckweeds on the water are gently swaying in the wind.
Whoever I want to be with is the same as that duckweed.
The curtains were hung on the empty bed, but no one knew there was anyone inside.
Wearing embroidered clothes at night will help you identify the fake ones.
The sword is not flat and cries in the scabbard, but the body is leaning on the bed and there is nothing to do.
What do you want to do in this world if you can't avenge your own father?
The beasts can be seen everywhere, and the game is in the mountains.
Wild beasts want to eat people, regardless of the virtuous or the virtuous.
"Jieshi Chapter"
Shuzheng came to Jieshi and was able to view the sea.
How vast and light the sea is, how majestic the mountains and islands are.
The island is covered with trees and lush grass.
The autumn wind is bleak, the trees are shaking down, and the sea is raging.
The movement of the sun and moon in the sky is reflected in it.
The stars in the river are shining brightly, seemingly out of its surroundings.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"Viewing the Sea"
It was the tenth month of Mengdong, and the north wind was blowing slowly.
The weather is solemn and refreshing, with heavy frost and heavy frost.
The gulls and chickens chirped in the morning, and the wild geese soared southward.
Frightened birds and raptors lurk, and bears have already taken shelter in their caves.
Farm tools such as hoes and hoes are idle, and crops are accumulated in the field.
The guest house has been renovated to provide accommodation for visiting merchants.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"Winter October"
Different regions and localities, the river is cold in the middle of winter.
Drift ice floated on the river, making it difficult for boats to pass.
The cold weather does not penetrate the ground, and the north wind roars.
Water freezes but does not flow, and ice is hard enough to walk on.
The hermits among scholars are mostly poor, while the brave and righteous men are ill and ill.
My heart often sighs and complains, and my relatives are filled with sorrow.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"Different Soils"
Although the turtle lives a long life, it will eventually die.
The soaring snake rides on the clouds and mist, and eventually turns into ashes.
The old man crouched on the horse's pole, aiming to gallop thousands of miles.
Although the martyrs are in their old age, their ambitions are endless.
Periods of ups and downs, misfortunes and blessings, do not all depend on God.
The blessings of cultivating one's nature and enjoying one's emotions can be obtained and enjoyed forever.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"The Turtle Lives Longevity"
"The King of Huainan"
The King of Huainan, he respected himself and built a hundred-foot-high building connected to the sky.
In the back garden, a well was dug with silver as a frame, and a gold vase with a plain rope was used to collect cold slurry.
Drinking cold liquid, drinking young people, young people will be slim, talented and virtuous.
Raise your voice and sing songs of sorrow that are astonishing to the heavens.
I want to cross the river without a bridge, and I would like to be a pair of yellow swans to accompany you back to your hometown.
Return to my hometown, return to my hometown, and linger in my hometown.
The dances and strange songs in my hometown are all peaceful, so why don’t I just travel to my hometown and travel to other places?
Drum and horn horizontal blowing music.
The so-called drum refers to the "Zhou Rites" saying that "drums are used to promote military affairs."
The so-called horn, it is said that Chi You led the devils and puppets to fight in the field of Shi Gong. The emperor ordered the horn to be blown to make the sound of dragon roaring to ward off Chi.
After that, Fudie went to the north for three days and crossed the desert. The soldiers wanted to return, so the sound was reduced to Zhongming, and its sound became even more sad.
The so-called Hu Jiao originally corresponded to the sound of Hu Jia. Later, it was gradually used for horizontal blowing. It has double horns, which is also Hu Le.
Zhang Bowang went to the Western Regions and passed on his playing skills to Xijing. He only got one piece, "Maha Doule".
Li Yannian composed a new song with twenty-eight chapters based on Hu music, and the emperor used it as martial music.
During the period of Houmo, this music was used by the border generals. During the period of Emperor He, it was used by generals who had jurisdiction over thousands of people.
Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties, the twenty-eight chapters are no longer complete, and only ten songs are used: "Huang Hu", "Longtou", "Out of the Pass", "Entering the Pass", "Out of the Fortress", "Entering the Fortress", "Folding Willows", "Huang Tanzi", "Red Yang" and "Wang Xingren".
Examining the Wei and Jin Dynasties, there are Sun who is good at quoting old songs, Song Shi who is good at beating verses and singing harmonies, Chen Zuo who is good at clear singing, Lie He who is good at playing the flute, Hao Su who is good at playing the zither, Zhu Sheng who is good at playing the pipa, and is especially good at making new sounds.
That’s why Fu Xuan wrote: If people only pay attention to what they hear and ignore what they see, wouldn’t they also feel confused?
Assuming that these six people were born in the last world, transcending the present and the past and have no one to rival them, why would only Kui Ya be the same!
According to Fu Xuan, from then on, it was Sun Zhu and others' orders.
The Song of Harmony is an old song from the Mo Dynasty. Silk and bamboo are overlapping to harmonize each other, and those who are responsible sing.
Originally it was one part, but Emperor Wei Ming divided it into two parts and took turns staying at night.
Originally composed of seventeen tunes, Zhu Sheng, Song Shi, Lie He and others combined some of the tunes to form thirteen tunes.
There are four Danges from the Han Dynasty.
There is no string accompaniment, the lead singer sings first, one person sings, and the three join in harmony.
Emperor Wu of Wei was particularly fond of this.
At that time, there was a man named Song Ronghua who had a clear voice and loved to sing. He was good at singing this song and was the most outstanding singer at that time.
Since the Jin Dynasty, it has not been passed down again, so it is extinct.
All the ancient lyrics of the music that have been preserved to this day, together with the street songs of the Han Dynasty, are such as "You Can Pick Lotus in the South of the Yangtze River", "Fifteen Sons of Wu Sheng", and "Baitou Yin".
Wu songs and miscellaneous songs all come from the south of the Yangtze River, and have been slightly expanded since the beginning of the Jin Dynasty.
"Midnight Song", according to legend, a woman named Ziye composed this song.
During the fifth year of Xiaowu's reign, a ghost sang "Song of Midnight" in the house of the fallen king Sudan, which shows that Ziye was a person from before this time.
"Phoenix General's Young Song" is an old song.
There is a sentence in "One Hundred and One Poems" that is called "Phoenix General's Young Bird". This saying has been around for a long time.
"Qianxi Song" was composed by General Chai Qi.
As for "A Zi" and "Song of Fear of Hearing", in Nie Tong's early years, he would often call out "A Zi" at the end of the song, did you hear it?
This statement is in "Five Elements Chronicles".
Later generations interpreted his voice and composed these two songs.
Speaking of "Song of the Tuan Fan", it was originally written by Zhongshu Ling that Wang Bao had a relationship with his sister-in-law's maid, and they loved each other very deeply. The sister-in-law beat the maid and it was very painful. The maid was good at singing, and Wang Min was good at holding a white round fan, so he composed this song.
"The Song of Chao Nong" is a folk ballad in the early years, and it is written in "Five Elements Chronicles".
"Chang Shi Bian" was written by Situ Zuo, Chang Shi Wang Yi, when he was defeated.
All the above songs were sung a cappella at the beginning, and orchestral accompaniment was added later.
Some of them are based on the music of silk, bamboo, metal and stone, and the lyrics are filled in the music. This is how Wei Shi's three-tone lyrics came about.
Cup Loop Dance, during Kao Saichen's reign, the whole world performed the "Jin Shining Dance", which was performed repeatedly by holding cups and plates with hands.
This dance only had a pan dance in the lotus world, but in the Jin Dynasty a cup was added, and the hands were repeatedly used to catch the cup and plate.
"Gong Mo Wu" is today's scarf dance.
According to legend, Xiang Zhuang was dancing with his sword. Xiang Bo blocked Xiang Zhuang's sword with his sleeve so that he could not harm Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. He also said to him, "Gong Mo!"
The ancients called each other "gong", which meant that "gong" should not harm the king of Han.
Today, the scarf is used to cover Xiang Bo's sleeves to symbolize the way he wears his sleeves.
However, according to "Qin Cao" there is "Gong Mo Crossing the River Song", which shows that his song has a long history. It is wrong to say that he is Xiang Bo.
Bai Yu Wu, Cha Wu Ci has the words "turban and robe".
Yu originally came from Yudi, so it should be Yuwu.
Zhi "Hai Ge" also said: The white thread is bright and white, and each section is double.
The pronunciation of the pronunciation is that Xu is Yu, and Bai Chu may be Bai Xu. One piece of Duo Dance Song, one piece of Flag Dance Song, and six pieces of "Drum Dance" were presented together at the New Year's Day gathering.
On the New Year's Day of the Later Han Dynasty, the emperor came to Deyang Hall to receive congratulations from his ministers. Relics came from the west and were played in front of the hall. They stirred up the water and turned into flounder. They jumped to absorb the water and squirted the water into mist to block the sun.
Then, it transformed into a dragon, eight or nine feet long, played in the water, and was dazzling in the sunlight.
Two large silk ropes were tied to the tops of the two pillars, several feet apart. The two women danced opposite each other, walking on the silk ropes. They passed each other but did not fall.
Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties ended in Jiangzuo, there are still the joys of "Xia Yu Carrying the Cauldron", "The Giant Elephant Breastfeeding", "The Divine Turtle Dancing", "Carrying the Spiritual Mountain", "The Osmanthus Tree and the White Snow", and "The Painted Land Is a Sichuan".
In the seventh year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, Shangshu Cai Mo wrote: In the eighth year of the New Year's Day, only the music of bells, drums and drums was played, and all other musical instruments were not played.
Zhang Cheng, the minister in charge, and Chen Kui, the minister in charge of the Huangmen Gate, refuted it, saying that the king sets his teachings according to the times, and that the judgment of good or bad is unchanging.
Nowadays, people from all over the world come to watch the ceremony. The cemetery has a place to pay homage to the ancestors. The court plays rites and music and the palace hangs them. Both rites are used. There is no distinction between mourning and music. There is nothing greater than this in building a country and establishing a system.
Emperor Shao said: Now that the world is the greatest, the etiquette should be based on expediency. The three correct sacrifices should all use sacrificial rituals.
As for the pleasure of entertaining the eyes and ears, it is unbearable to listen to it, so it is okay to lack it.
If the matter is of great importance, it can only be celebrated with longevity wine and long live. Since it is recognized that the matter is of great importance, there is no shortage of bells and drums to promote it.
Zhang Cheng and Chen Kui also reported: Although the ceremony is over, things are auspicious for the court.
However, if the hanging is displayed in the garden or mausoleum, it is not extinguished as mourning; the formal dress is determined in the classics, but its meaning is not entirely auspicious.
Therefore, the Xianning court meeting had a ceremony for withdrawing music, which was actually a ceremony for the previous dynasties to evaluate the ancient laws and regulations and set a model for all generations.
The emperor issued an edict: If the ceremony of offering sacrifices is held on New Year's Day, and the princes of all nations meet the emperor, and the music of bells and drums is abandoned in the court, the etiquette of entering and exiting daily life will be missing, and the sound of stone chimes will not be heard in the court, and the steps of the guests will lose control. Isn't it also lacking in the righteousness of the matter?
Only by weighing the importance of things can we do it just right.
Gu Zhen, the minister of Sanqi, reported: I heard that the holy king formulated the ritual and music system to praise the righteous way, teach the people to be benevolent and righteous, and prevent them from laziness and adultery. It can be used to worship in the ancestral temple, and to teach the people below. It contains the correct music of the five elements, and harmonizes with the winds of all directions to cultivate the material sentiments.
The sound of the palace is upright and righteous, the sound of the trumpet is firm and neat and ritual, and the music of strings, songs, bells, drums, gold and stone is complete.
Therefore, it can be deeply rooted in people's hearts and exert a subtle influence on people, making people feel like dancing according to rituals, and can change customs to achieve a state of extreme harmony and happiness.
The singing and dancing acrobatics of the last days often include performances that are not in line with etiquette, such as running in reverse and falling over one after another, putting the head and feet into a bamboo basket, etc., which peels off the skin on the outside and destroys the liver and heart on the inside.
Besides, the princes from all over the world came to see the Emperor, saying that they wanted to see the Imperial Court, listen to the sounds of "Ya" and "Song", and witness the order of majestic ceremonies, but they saw that they stepped on the sky with their feet and walked on the earth with their heads, contrary to the order of heaven and earth, which was harmful to human ethics.
Nowadays, Yi and Di are facing each other across the river. They are most desperate to defend themselves from powerful enemies. They have seven liters of food for their troops, but they forget to die in order to fight for the national calamity. However, when encountering a serious disaster, they are given five fights a day.
Now we are sweeping through China and planning for the Central Plains. Things like this cannot be shown to the world.
In response to the order of Taichang, he compiled 90% of the elegant music, such as Xiao "Shao", to restore the national destiny in the prosperous age, sing the praises of virtues, and forever prosper in future generations. This is a major event for Yan Ji Huangtian and Kechang later.
All singing and dancing acrobatics that hurt others should be abolished.
This is what is said in the chant that promotes the virtue of frugality and encourages the peace and prosperity of the country and the people. As the breeze moves, it should be like grass.
Foolish ministers are sincere in their opinions, but they only hope to be discerned and adopted.
So the music such as "Gaoyuan", "Purple Deer", "Limbs Walking", "Tongshi", "Qi Wang Rolling Clothes", "Zie'er" and other music were abolished, and his food was reduced.
Later, "Gao Huan" and "Purple Deer" were restored.
