◆Ma Yuan's biography: Ma Yuan was named Wenyuan and was a native of Maoling, Fufeng.
His ancestor Zhao She was a general of Zhao, with the title of Ma Fujun, and his descendants considered him a surname.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he moved two thousand stones from Handan to Maoling.
Ma Tong, his great-grandfather, was granted the title of Chonghehou due to his meritorious service. His brother Ho Luo was implicated in the rebellion and was killed, so Ma Yuan's grandfather and father were not allowed to be prominent officials.
Ma Yuan's three elder brothers, Ma Kuang, Ma Yu, and Ma Yuan, were all talented. At the time of Wang Mang, they were all worth two thousand shi.
Ma Yuan was orphaned when he was twelve years old. He was young and ambitious, and his brothers thought he was strange.
He once taught him to learn Qi poetry, but Ma Yuan could not stick to the chapters and sentences, so he said goodbye to his brother Ma Kuang and wanted to farm and herd in the border counties.
Ma Kuang said: You have great talent, and you will be able to succeed later in the evening.
Good craftsmen don't tell people to use big wood, but just follow your preferences.
On the first anniversary of Ma Kuang's death, Ma Yuan wore mourning clothes and did not leave the tomb. He respected his widowed sister-in-law and would not enter the cottage until he had good hair and a good hat.
Later, he became the postal supervisor of the county and sent prisoners to Siming Mansion. The prisoners had serious crimes, so Ma Yuan took pity on him and let him go, then fled to the north.
After he was pardoned, he left his livestock behind. Many of his guests joined him, and hundreds of families joined him.
When he traveled to Longhan, he often said to his guests: A man's ambition should be stronger when he is poor and more heroic when he is old.
Because they are engaged in farming and grazing, they have thousands of cattle, horses and sheep, and tens of thousands of grains.
Then he sighed: Any property obtained from farming, animal husbandry and commerce is valuable because it can help others, otherwise you will be nothing more than a miser!
So he distributed all his property to his elder brother and his old friend. Living in sheepskin pants.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, armies from all directions rose up. Wang Mang recruited heroes from his younger brother, General Wang Linguang. He recruited Ma Yuan and Yuan She from the same county as couriers and recommended them to Wang Mang.
Wang Mang took Yuanshe as the great Yin of Zhenrong, and Ma Yuan as the new great Yin.
When Wang Mang was defeated, Ma Yuan's brother Ma Yuan left the county with Ma Yuan to lead the Zengshan Company, and fled to Liangzhou.
When Shizu ascended the throne, the horsemen went to Luoyang first. When the emperor sent the horsemen back, they were still led by Zengshan Company and died in the official position.
Ma Yuan therefore stayed in Xizhou. Kuai Xiao respected him very much, regarded him as General Suide, and made joint decisions with him.
At this time Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself emperor in Shu, and Wei Xiao sent Ma Yuan to Shu to observe.
Ma Yuan and Gongsun Shu were from the same hometown, and they had always been good friends. He thought that Gongsun Shu would shake hands with him after he left, and he would be as happy as before. But this time Gongsun Shu showed his favor to the imperial guards and invited Ma Yuan to meet him. After paying homage, he took Ma Yuan to the residence, made Ma Yuan cloth clothes for him, gave him a hat, met with all the officials in the ancestral temple, and set up his old friend's seat.
Gongsun Shu held the emperor's Luan flag and Yanqi, and all the guards on the left and right got on the chariot like an emperor, and entered with their bodies bent like chimes. There were many officials in charge of ceremonies and banquets, and they wanted to confer Ma Yuan with the title of general.
The guests were all happy to stay, and Ma Yuan Xiao told everyone: "The outcome of the world is uncertain. Gongsun Shu does not welcome the talented people in the country with courtesy and courtesy, and discusses success or failure together. Instead, he embellishes his appearance and acts like a puppet. How can this son be able to remain a talent in the world for a long time?"
So he resigned. He told Wei Xiao, "Gongsun Shu is just a frog in the well, but he is arrogant. You might as well concentrate on running the East."
In the winter of the fourth year of Jianwu, Kuaixiao sent Ma Yuan to Luoyang with a letter.
When Ma Yuan arrived, the emperor received him in Xuande Hall.
Shizu went out to greet Ma Yuan and said with a smile: "You have been running around between the two emperors. Seeing you now makes people feel ashamed."
Ma Yuan kowtowed and said goodbye. Therefore, it is said: In today's world, not only the monarch chooses his ministers, but the ministers also choose the monarch.
Gongsun Shu and I were from the same county, and we were friendly when we were young. The last time I went to Shu, Gongsun Shu ordered his ministers to stand guard on both sides with halberds, and then summoned me to see him.
I am here from afar, how do you know that I am not an assassin and a traitor, yet you are so careless?
The emperor smiled again and said: You are not an assassin, you are just a lobbyist.
Ma Yuan said: "There are so many people in the world who steal names. Now that I see your majesty, he is magnanimous and magnanimous, just like Gaozu, I know that the emperor is naturally true."
The emperor praised his words very much.
Ma Yuan went from Di to Liqiu and then to the East China Sea.
After returning, he was asked to be on standby for the time being and sent Taizhong doctor to Shezhijie to see Ma Yuanxi back to Longyou.
Wei Xiao lay down with Ma Yuan and asked him about the news he had heard in the east and the gains and losses in the capital.
Ma Yuan said to Wei Xiao: "The last time I came to the court, the emperor met with me more than ten times. Every time I talked with him at the banquet, from night to morning, the emperor's talent and bravery were unmatched by others. He was frank and sincere and had nothing to hide."
He is broad-minded and has great integrity, which is probably the same as Emperor Gao. However, his profound knowledge of Confucian classics, handling of political affairs and writing and rhetoric are unparalleled in previous generations.
Wei Xiao said: What do you think he is compared to Emperor Gao?
Ma Yuan said: Not as good as that.
Emperor Gao could do anything in heaven or on earth; Guangwu loved political affairs and could handle them appropriately, but he did not like drinking.
Wei Xiao was unhappy and said, "As you put it, Guangwu is better than Gaozu?"
However, he trusted Ma Yuan very much, so he sent his eldest son Kai Xun to the capital as a hostage.
Therefore, Ma Yuan and his family returned to Luoyang with Wei Xun.
I haven't received a new appointment for several months.
Ma Yuan's three auxiliary lands were vast and fertile, and he brought many guests. So he wrote a letter requesting to farm in Shanglin Garden.
Guangwu agreed. When Wei Xiao used Wang Yuan's plan, he became even more suspicious. Ma Yuan wrote several times to reprimand Wei Xiao. Wei Xiao hated Ma Yuan for betraying him. After gaining trust, his hatred increased, and later he sent troops to resist the Han.
Ma Yuan said to Guangwu Shangshu: I wanted to return to the Holy Dynasty and serve His Majesty. I didn't have a word of recommendation from the three ministers, nor did anyone around me speak first for me.
If I don't say it myself, how can your Majesty hear it?
Being in the front does not allow people to differentiate between high and low, and being in the back does not allow people to differentiate between important and important. You can't cause trouble to others. This is something I feel ashamed of.
Therefore, I dare to violate the taboo of sin and risk my life to express my sincerity.
Wei Xiao and I were originally friends.
At the beginning, Kaixiao sent his ministers to Luoyang and said to me: I originally wanted to serve as a Han, so please go and have a look first. If you think it is okay, I will concentrate on serving the Han.
When I get back, I will repay Kui Xiao with my whole heart. I want to sincerely induce him to do good things, and I dare not instigate him to think that he is doing something unjust.
But Kui Xiao harbored a traitorous intention. I secretly hate His Majesty, and attribute this resentment to me.
If I don't say it, there will be no way for my opinion to be expressed.
I would like to come to you in person and state the strategy to eliminate Weihuo. I would like to be able to say everything I want to say and explain my humble opinion, and then return to my hometown to farm and die without regrets.
The emperor then summoned Ma Yuan to discuss the matter, and Ma Yuan made suggestions.
Therefore, Ma Yuan was sent to lead five thousand assault cavalry, and went back and forth to persuade Wei Xiao's generals Gao Jun, Ren Yu's subordinates, and the heroes of the Qiang to analyze the situation and explain the blessings and disadvantages for them, so as to alienate Wei Xiao's party members.
Ma Yuan also wrote to Wei Xiao's general Yang Guang, asking Yang Guang to persuade Wei Xiao. Said: Chunqing is fine.
We parted ways in southern Hebei Province, but there has been no communication. Ma Yuan returned to Chang'an by chance, so he stayed in Shanglin.
I see that the world has been settled, and the people are united, but Kuai Xiao has refused to betray, and has been criticized by the world.
I was often afraid that the country would hate him and wanted to kill him and quarter him, so I wrote to him. Love leads to compassion.
I heard that Wei Xiao was blamed on me, and I accepted Wang Yuan's theory of treachery. I thought that the west of Hangu Pass was safe. Looking at the current situation, what exactly is going on?
Ma Yuan once went to Hanoi to visit Bo Chun and saw Qinuji returning from the west. He said that Bo Chun's younger brother Zhongshu saw Ji and wanted to ask Bo Chun if there was any accident, but he could not speak and sobbed morning and night, silently in the dust.
He also said that the sad situation of his family was indescribable.
Resentment and hatred can be stabbed but not destroyed. Ma Yuan cried unknowingly after hearing this.
Ma Yuansu knew Kui Xiao's filial piety, and even Zeng Shen and Min Zijian would not surpass him.
How can a person who is filial to his parents not be kind to his son?
How can one have the heart to let his son wear the shackles, while the father is still acting arrogantly, like Le Yang, who has the heart to eat soup made from his son's flesh?
Throughout his life, Wei Xiao said that the reason why he supported the army was just to preserve the country of his parents and keep the tombs of his ancestors intact, and he also said that he only treated the scholar-bureaucrats favorably.
But now those who want to preserve it will be destroyed, those who want to be whole will also be destroyed, and those who want to be treated favorably will be treated poorly.
Wei Xiao once humiliated Gongsun Shu and refused to accept Gongsun Shu's grant. Now he is collaborating with Gongsun Shu and still wants to join him. Don't you feel embarrassed?
If Gongsun Shu asked Wei Xiao to send his son to Luoyang as a hostage, where would he get his son?
In the past, Gongsun Shu wanted to make you king, but you refused to accept it. Now that you are old, do you still want to lower your head and eat with the younger generations, side by side in the court of the Yu family?
Why should a man be restricted to swimming when he drowns?
Now that the country has deep intentions for you, you should ask Niu Ruqing and the elders to work together to convince Wei Xiao. If the plan is not accepted, you can lead him away.
Looking at the map, I saw that there are 106 counties and states in the world. How can I use two mere states to resist the 104 states in the world?
When you are doing things, you have the righteousness of a monarch and a minister on the outside, and the way of a friend on the inside.
For rulers and ministers, they should face admonishment and disputes; for friends, they should discuss and discuss matters.
How could he know that he would not succeed, yet be weak and dare not speak, and follow him with his hands crossed to torture his parents, brothers and children?
If the current plan is successful, the remuneration will still be generous; it would be a pity to miss this opportunity.
Qilai Junshu is a believer in the world, and the court respects him. He often speaks for Xizhou and feels reluctant to leave.
I guess the imperial court, in particular, wants to establish its trust in this matter so that it will not break its promise.
Ma Yuan will not stay long. I hope you will reply soon.
Yang Guang didn't even reply.
In the eighth year, the emperor personally marched westward from Kaixiao and arrived at Qixian County. All the generals believed that the king's division was important and should not go deep into the dangers, so they were hesitant about the plan.
The emperor was overjoyed when he called for horse assistance, which arrived at night. He introduced the emperor and asked for his decision-making with everyone's opinions.
Ma Yuan therefore said that General Kaixiao was on the verge of collapse and that he would be defeated if he advanced with troops.
They gathered rice together in front of the emperor to make a model of the valley, drew out the situation, pointed out which mountain road the army should enter and exit from, and analyzed the twists and turns to make it clear.
The emperor said: The enemy is already in my eyes.
The next morning, they marched to the first place and were defeated by the army.
In the ninth year, he worshiped Ma Yuan as Taizhong doctor and helped the generals who came to pacify Liangzhou.
Since the last years of Wang Mang, the Western Qiang invaded the border and moved to the Senei. Most of the counties under Jincheng were occupied by the Qiang.
Lai She reported that the land in Longxi that had been invaded could not be settled without Ma Yuan.
In the summer of the eleventh year, Xi Shu worshiped Ma Yuan as the governor of Longxi.
Ma Yuan then sent out 3,000 infantry and cavalry, defeated the Xianling Qiang in Lintao, beheaded hundreds of people, and captured more than 10,000 horses, cattle and sheep.
More than 8,000 Qiang defenders surrendered to Ma Yuan. Tens of thousands of people from all ethnic groups gathered to attack and plunder, refusing to defend the pass.
Ma Yuan and General Yangwu Ma Cheng launched an attack.
The Qiang then moved his wife's baggage and blocked it in Yunwu Valley. Ma Yuan secretly took a small road and suddenly attacked his camp.
The Qiang people were frightened and moved further to Tangyi Valley, where Ma Yuan pursued them again.
The Qiang led their elite troops to the northern mountains of Tunxi, and sent horses to support Chen's army. They sent hundreds of horsemen to go behind the Qiang soldiers, set fires at night, and beat drums to shout. The Qiang soldiers were routed and more than a thousand people were beheaded.
Ma Yuan had few troops, so he could not pursue them. He collected his grain and livestock products and returned.
Ma Yuan was shot through the calf by a Qiang man. The emperor expressed his condolences with a seal and gave him thousands of cattle and sheep. Ma Yuan was distributed among the guests.
At this time, the court officials thought that Jincheng was in the west of Poqiang, and the road was far away and there were many bandits, so they decided to abandon it.
Ma Yuan wrote a letter saying that most of the cities to the west of Poqiang are intact and strong and easy to defend; their fields are fertile and have good irrigation.
If the Qiang people are allowed to stay in Huangzhong, the harm will continue, so we cannot give up.
The emperor agreed, so he ordered the prefect of Wuwei to order all the residents of Jincheng in Wuwei to return to Jincheng.
There were more than 3,000 people who returned, so they all returned to their original towns.
Ma Yuanzou told them to appoint chief officials, repair the city walls, build small towns, open up paddy fields, and encourage farming and animal husbandry, so that the county can live and work in peace and contentment.
He also sent Qiang rich man Yang Fengxiao to persuade the Qiang people outside the Great Wall to come and get married.
Also, when the Wudu clan rebelled against Gongsun Shu and surrendered, Ma Yuandu petitioned their princes and princes to be reinstated and given seals and ribbons, which the imperial capital approved.
Undo Ma Chengjun.
In the thirteenth year, the Wudu Shenlangqiang and other tribes outside the Great Wall became bandits and killed the chief officials.
Ma Yuan led more than 4,000 people to attack them. When they arrived at Didao County, the Qiang were on the mountain. Ma Yuan's army occupied a favorable terrain and seized the water and grass of the Qiang army. If they did not fight with them, the Qiang army would be impoverished. The wealthy people led hundreds of thousands of households to escape from the outside of the wall. More than 10,000 people of all ethnic groups surrendered, so Longyou was quiet.
Ma Yuan focused on spreading favor and trust, being lenient to his subordinates, and appointing officials according to their positions, while he himself only focused on major issues.
Guests and old friends gradually gathered under his door.
When subordinate officials sometimes talked about external affairs, Ma Yuan always said: "This is the task of the chief historians and secretaries, so you don't need to tell me."
Feeling pity for me, I am able to enjoy my leisure time.
If the big surname bullies the small people and the cunning Qiang people disobey, it is the governor's business.
There were people in neighboring counties who wanted to take revenge. The officials and the people were panicked and said it was the Qiang people who had done it. The people rushed into the city.
Daochang Di came to the door and asked to close the city gate and send troops to attack. At this time, Ma Yuan was drinking with the guests and laughed and said: How dare the Shao Qiang come to attack me again.
Tell Taoist Master Di to go back and guard the house. Those who are timid and afraid of death can hide under the bed.
Later, the turmoil calmed down, and everyone in the county was convinced of Ma Yuan's courage.
He served in Longxi for six years and was called back to worship him as Huben Zhonglang.
At first, when Ma Yuan was in Longxi, he wrote a letter saying that five baht coins should be minted as in the past.
The imperial court transferred the matter to the offices set up by Taiwei, Situ and Sikong. The three palaces reported that it was unacceptable, so the matter was shelved. When Ma Yuan returned to the capital, he obtained the memorials from the previous three palaces from the government, debated more than ten points, explained them with the ultimatum, and stated the reasons in a table.
The emperor agreed, and the world relied on his convenience.
Ma Yuan returned to the capital and was summoned many times.
Ma Yuan paid attention to grooming his beard and hair, and his features were picturesque. He is good at answering questions and is especially good at telling stories about past lives.
Every time I talk about the elders from the three auxiliaries to the young people in the countryside, it is very touching.
When the crown prince and the attendants of the kings heard this, they all listened so much that they forgot to get tired.
He is also good at using military strategies. The emperor once said: "Fu Bo discusses military affairs, which agrees with me." Every time he came up with a suggestion, there was no one that was not adopted.
At first, Wei Si was involved in the scandal, and he deceived people by saying that he was a god. He had hundreds of disciples, and they were all beheaded.
Later, his disciples Li Guang and others declared that Wei Si would become immortal and deceive the people.
In the seventeenth year, he gathered his disciples, captured Wancheng, killed Liu Min, the Marquis of Anhui, and called himself "Master Nanyue".
The imperial court sent envoy Zhang Zong to lead thousands of troops to attack, but was defeated by Li Guang.
So he sent Ma Yuan to organize soldiers from various counties, a total of more than 10,000 people, defeated Li Guang and others and beheaded him.
She also handed over to Zhi Nv Zhengbian and Meizheng Erzao, and captured the county town. Jiuzhen, Rinan, and Hepu barbarians all responded to her and invaded more than 60 cities outside the ridge, and Zhengbian established himself as king.
So with the emperor's seal, he appointed Ma Yuan as General Fubo, Marquis of Fule Liu Long as his deputy, General Duan Zhi and others to conquer Jiaozhi in the south.
When the army arrived at Hepu, Duan Zhi died of illness, and Ma Yuan was ordered to lead his troops.
So we moved forward along the sea road and followed the mountains for more than a thousand miles.
In the spring of the 18th year, the army went to Liubo, fought with the bandits, and defeated the bandit army. Thousands of people were beheaded, and more than 10,000 people were surrendered.
Ma Yuan pursued Zheng Bian and others to the Forbidden River and defeated the bandits several times. The thieves dispersed and fled.
In the first month of the second year, Zheng Side and Zheng Er were beheaded, and their heads were brought to Luoyang.
Ma Yuan was granted the title of Marquis of Xinxi, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
Ma Yuan killed the ox and poured wine to comfort the soldiers.
He calmly said to the officials: My younger brother Shaoyou often laments my generosity and ambition, saying that as long as a scholar has food and clothing, can ride a short-hub cart in the swamp, drive a slow-moving horse, be the governor of the county, guard the graves of his ancestors, and be praised by the villagers as a good man, that will be all.
As for pursuing something more, you are asking for trouble.
When I was between Langbo and Xili, before the thieves were extinguished, there was water below and fog above, fumigated by poisonous gas. I looked up at the giant eagle in the sky tiptoeing down into the water. Thinking back to what Shaoyou said to me in his life, I really don’t know how to get it!
Now, thanks to everyone's joint efforts, I have been greatly favored, and I am lucky enough to be promoted to a marquis before all the other monarchs. I am really happy and ashamed.
The officials all fell to the ground and said long live.
Ma Yuanlou had more than 2,000 large and small ships and more than 20,000 soldiers. He attacked the Jiuzhen thieves and conquered the remaining party Duyang and others. From futile to dominant, they captured more than 5,000 people and Lingnan was all pacified.
Ma Yuan reported that there were 32,000 households in the west county, and the boundary was more than a thousand miles away from the county. He requested that the county be divided into two counties: Fengxi and Wanghai. The emperor agreed.
Wherever Ma Yuan went, he managed cities and towns for counties and dug canals for irrigation to benefit the people.
He also made it clear that the Yue laws were not exactly the same as the Han laws, and stated a dozen things that were different from the Han laws, and explained the old system to the Yue people to restrain them. From then on, Luo Yue abided by General Ma's old system.
In the autumn of the 20th year, after reorganizing the army and returning to the capital, four to five out of ten military officials died of miasma and epidemics. They were rewarded with a horse reinforcement chariot, and their status was second only to Jiu Qing when they came to court.
Ma Yuan loved horseback riding and was good at identifying famous horses. He got the Luo Yue bronze drum in Jiaochangzhi, and used it to cast a model of the horse, which he presented to the emperor upon his return.
And the above chapter says: There is nothing better than a dragon in the sky, and nothing like a horse in the earth.
Horses are the foundation of military warfare and are of great use to the country.
When the country is in peace, it can be used to identify the order of superiority and inferiority. When the country is in trouble, it can be used to overcome difficulties near and far.
In the past, there was a unicorn that could travel thousands of miles in one day. Bole saw it and understood it.
In modern times, there was Xihe Ziyu, who also understood the method of physiognomy.
Ziyu was passed on to Xiheyi Changru, Changru was passed on to Maolingding Jundu, and Jundu was passed on to Chengji Yangzi'a. I once worshiped Zi'a as my teacher and accepted the Xiangma bone method.
When tested in fact, the results will always be seen.
I think hearing is not as good as seeing it in person, and seeing a shadow is not as good as observing the shape.
Now if we want to take the shape of a living horse, then the bone method is difficult to prepare in a horse body, and it cannot be passed down to future generations.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, a man who was good at looking at horses made a bronze horse and presented it to Dongmenjing. The emperor issued an edict to erect the horse outside the Luban Gate and rename the Luban Gate to the Golden Horse Gate.
I am now strictly based on the Yi family's horse head, the Zhongbo family's mouth, the Xie family's lips and the mane, and the Ding family's body, and gathered the bones of these families on one model to serve as a standard.
The horse is three feet five inches high and four feet five inches wide. The emperor ordered this horse model to be given to His Highness Xuande as a standard model for famous horses.
At first, when Ma Yuan's army came back and was about to arrive, many old friends welcomed him to express their condolences. Meng Ji, a native of Pingling, who was famous for his strategizing, was here to congratulate Ma Yuan.
Ma Yuan said to him: I hope you have kind words to encourage me, but are you like everyone else?
In the past, Fubo General Lu Bode opened seven counties and sealed hundreds of households; now I only have a small contribution, but I have 3,000 households in the city. I have a small contribution and a big reward. How can I last long?
How can you help me sir?
Meng Ji said: I didn't expect it.
Ma Yuan said: Now the Xiongnu and Wuhuan are still intruding in the north. I would like to ask for a crusade. The man should die in the wilderness and come back to be buried with his body wrapped in horse leather. How can he sleep in bed and watch over his wife and children?
Meng Ji said: A true martyr should be like this.
More than a month after returning, the Xiongnu and Wuhuan invaded Fufeng. Ma Yuan used his three assistants to invade Sao. Yuanling was in danger. He requested to send troops and was allowed.
After arriving in Beijing in September, he sent troops to station in Xiangguo in December.
When the officials were ordered to bid farewell, Ma Yuan said to Liang Song and Dou Gu, Huangmenmen: When a mortal becomes a noble, he must also be able to become poor and lowly. If you can no longer be poor and lowly, you must be able to control yourself in high positions. I advise you to think of my instructions.
As expected, Liang Song later suffered a disaster because of his excessive wealth, and Dou Gu was almost unavoidable.
In the autumn of the next year, Ma Yuan led three thousand horses out of Gaoliu and marched to Yanmen, Daijun, Shanggu and other frontier fortresses.
When Wuhuan's scouting horse saw the Han army arriving, he fled. Ma Yuan returned with nothing to gain.
Ma Yuan was ill. Liang Song came to greet him and met him under the bed, but Ma Yuan did not respond.
After Liang Song left, his sons asked, "Liang Song is the emperor's son-in-law. He is a high-ranking official in the court. Everyone below is afraid of him. Why don't you respond to him?"
Ma Yuan said: "I am a friend of Mr. Liang's father. Although he is expensive, how can I lose my seniority?"
Song therefore hated Ma Yuan.
In the twenty-fourth year, Wuwei General Liu Shang attacked Wuxi barbarians in Wuling and penetrated deeply. The army was destroyed, so Ma Yuan requested to send troops again.
Ma Yuan was sixty-two years old at this time. The emperor felt pity for his old age and disagreed.
Ma Yuan asked himself: "I can still put on my armor and mount my horse." The emperor ordered him to try it.
Ma Yuan looked left and right while leaning on the saddle to show that he was available.
The emperor smiled and said: This old man is so healthy!
So Ma Yuan was sent to lead Zhonglang generals Ma Wu, Geng Shu, Liu Kuang, Sun Yong and others. He led more than 40,000 soldiers recruited from twelve counties and unchained prisoners to conquer Wuxi.
Ma Yuan said goodbye to those who were seeing him off at night, and told his friend Du Xu, who was paying homage to him, saying: "I have been greatly favored. I am young and don't have much time left. I am often afraid that I will not die in national affairs. Now that I have been given the opportunity to go on an expedition, I am willing to die in peace. What I am afraid of is that some elderly family members may be around or involved in the funeral affairs, and they are particularly difficult to dispatch. I am only worried about this."
In the spring of the next year, when the army arrived in Linxiang, they encountered thieves attacking the county town. Ma Yuan went to meet them, defeated the thieves, and captured more than 2,000 people. The thieves all dispersed into the bamboo forest.
At first, when the army arrived at Xiajun, there were two ways to enter. One was from Hutou, which was close but dangerous, and the other was from Chongxian, which was spacious and safe but had a long transportation distance. The emperor began to be a little suspicious.
When the army arrived, Geng Shu wanted to enter from Chong County. Ma Yuan thought that the long journey would take a long time and cost a lot of food, so it would be better to enter from Hutou, strangle him by the throat, and destroy himself as a thief.
In this way, the emperor was informed, and the emperor followed the horse to support him.
In March, we entered Hutou.
The thieves took advantage of the heights to guard the dangerous pass, but the water flow was too fast and the boat could not get on.
It coincided with the scorching heat, and many soldiers fell ill and died. Ma Yuan himself also fell ill, so he was trapped and dug a hole on the river bank to make a house to escape the scorching heat.
Whenever the thief reached a dangerous spot, he would beat drums and shout, and Ma Yuan would often drag his sick leg to check on him. Everyone was moved by his ambition and shed tears.
Geng Shu wrote to his brother Hou Geng and said: Last time I wrote a letter suggesting that we attack Chong County first. Although food was difficult to transport, soldiers and horses were able to be used. Thousands of soldiers rushed to advance first.
It is a pity that now we are trapped in the pot head and unable to enter, and everyone is dying of depression.
The last time I came to Linxiang, the thieves came by themselves without any reason. At that time, if they attacked at night, they could be eliminated.
Fu Bo used his troops like Jia Hu in the Western Regions. He stopped moving forward after reaching a certain point, so he lost.
Now we are indeed trapped by the epidemic, just as I predicted.
The good marquis got the letter and reported it to the emperor. The emperor sent Huben Zhonglang General Liang Song from the post road to question Ma Yuan and supervise the army on his behalf.
It happened that Ma Yuan died of illness. Liang Song held a grudge because Ma Yuan did not respond to courtesy when he visited Ma Yuan for illness, so he took the opportunity to frame Ma Yuan.
The emperor was furious and pursued Ma Yuan's Xinxihou Yinshou.
At first, Ma Yan and Ma Dun, the sons of brother Ma Yuan, liked to ridicule current affairs and only interacted lightly with knights.
Ma Yuan used to be in Jiaochangzhi and wrote home to admonish: I think you should listen to the names of your parents when you hear other people's faults. You can hear them with your ears, but you can't speak them with your mouth.
I like to talk about people's merits and ridicule current affairs. This is what I hate the most. I would rather die than hear my descendants behave like this.
You know that I hate this matter very much. The reason why I want to talk about this matter again is to express the admonition of my parents just like a man and a woman divorce when they get married, so that you can never forget it.
Long Bo was honest, thoughtful and prudent, spoke his language without hesitation, was modest and frugal, honest, just and prestigious. I love him and respect him very much, and hope you can learn from him.
Du Jiliang, a heroic hero, was very loyal, concerned about others' worries, and happy with others. He got along well with both good and bad people. When his father died, people from several counties came to express their condolences. I love him and respect him, but I don't want you to learn from him.
He is not as good as Long Bo, but he is still a cautious and diligent person. The so-called carving of a swan can be like a bird.
After learning from Du Jiliang, he degenerated into a frivolous person in the world. The so-called painting of a tiger is like a dog instead of a tiger.
Until now, Du Jiliang is still unknown. The generals in the county hated him with gnashing of teeth as soon as they got off the bus. Everyone in the prefecture and county talked about him. I often feel sorry for him, so I don't want my descendants to imitate him.
Du Jiliang, named Bao, was born in Jingzhao and was a Yueqi Sima at that time.
Du Jiliang's enemies wrote a letter accusing him of frivolous behavior and confusing the masses. General Fu Bo wrote a letter from thousands of miles away to admonish his brother. Liang Song and Dou Gu's association with him will incite frivolity and hypocrisy and destroy China.
The emperor summoned Liang Song and Dou Gu and asked them to give in. He showed them the petition paper and Ma Yuan's letter of command. Liang Song and Dou Gu kowtowed and bled, so they were not punished.
The imperial edict removed Du Jiliang from his official position.
Long Bogao Mingshu, who was also from Jingzhao, was the county magistrate of Shandu, so he was promoted to the prefect of Lingling.
At first, Ma Yuan often ate barley when he was in Jiaozhi, because barley can remove miasma, and taking it for a long time can lighten the body and save desires.
The coix seed in the south has big fruits. Ma Yuan wanted to use it as seeds. When he returned to the army, he took a cart with it.
At that time, people thought it was a rare monster native to the south, and the dignitaries watched.
Ma Yuan was favored by the emperor at that time, so no one dared to report to the court.
After Ma Yuan died, someone wrote a false accusation, saying that all the treasures Ma Yuan had brought back from the south were pearls, colorful rhinos, and other treasures.
Ma Wu and Yu Linghou Hou Yu all wrote memorials to explain its shape, which made the emperor even more angry.
Ma Yuan's wife and sons were too frightened to transport Ma Yuan's coffin back to the old cemetery for burial. They only bought a few acres of land in the west of the city and buried it hastily.
The guests did not dare to express their condolences.
Ma Yan and Ma Yuan's wife were connected by a straw rope and went to the court to plead guilty. The emperor took out Liang Song's false accusation. Only then did he realize that it was a false accusation based on grievances, so he wrote a letter to complain about his injustice. He expressed his condolences six times before being buried.
Another time ago, Yunyang ordered Zhu Bo from the same county to write to the emperor: I have heard that the virtue of a king and the governance of a saint are not to forget the merits of others, to take advantage of others' beauty, and not to seek perfection and blame.
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu pardoned Kuai Tong and buried Tian Heng with royal rites. The ministers were relieved and did not feel doubtful.
When generals are outside, they are slanderous, and they only find fault with other people's minor faults, regardless of their great achievements. This is what the country should be cautious about.
Therefore, Zhang Han surrendered to Xiang Yu because he was afraid of the slander. After General Yan captured Liaocheng, he did not dare to go back because he was afraid of the slander.
Are they willing to do this? It's hateful that clever words hurt good people. I saw that the late General Fubo, Xinxihou Ma Yuan, was selected from Xizhou. He admired the saints and sages and was loyal and righteous. He went through rugged and dangerous terrain and risked thousands of deaths. He was isolated among the nobles and could not get a word of help. He ran into the abyss and entered the tiger's mouth. What did he think about?
Did he know that he wanted to be the envoy of the seven counties and gain the blessing of a feudal lord?
In the eighth year, the emperor went to the west to conquer Weixiao. Everyone was undecided and the camps did not assemble. Ma Yuan proposed the march route and suggested a strategy of rapid advance, and Xizhou was quickly conquered.
Later, Wu Han captured Longxi, and the Ji road was cut off. Only Didao stood firm for the country. The soldiers and people were hungry and trapped, and life and death hung in the balance. Ma Yuan served as an emissary to the west to comfort the people at the frontier, so he recruited heroes and issued instructions to induce the Qiang Rong. Strategies flowed out like a spring. It turned out that the situation was like turning a boulder on a mountain of ten thousand ren. Only then was the crisis resolved, and the lost cities of several generals were saved. The whole army moved in and obtained food on the spot, so that Longji was pacified, while Ma Yuan defended Kongjun alone. He sent out troops with merit, and defeated the enemy when he advanced.
During the battle to defeat the Xianling Qiang, Ma Yuan sneaked into the valley and fought fiercely, and his calf was shot through by an arrow.
He also set out to conquer Jiaozhi, and the land was plagued by miasma. Ma Yuan separated from his wife and had no regrets about surviving, so he destroyed the expedition side and conquered and pacified the whole state. Immediately afterwards, they went south to conquer Linxiang and soon captured Linxiang. The division had already made achievements, but Ma Yuan died before completing the task of going south. Although the officials and soldiers were sick of the epidemic, Ma Yuan did not survive alone.
Sometimes wars are long and result in success, sometimes they are quick and result in failure. Going deep into enemy territory may not necessarily lead to victory, and not advancing is not necessarily a mistake.
Who is willing to stay in a desperate situation for a long time without wanting to return alive?
Only Ma Yuan stayed in the court for twenty-two years. He went north to the frontier desert and crossed the rivers and seas in the south. He was exposed to the epidemic and died in his service. His reputation was wiped out and his reputation was not passed down in the country.
The people in the country did not know what his fault was, and the people did not hear that he had any injuries. Finally, he was falsely accused by villains and was slandered. His family closed the door and could not be buried in the tomb. There were resentments and grievances, and the clan members trembled.
The deceased could not state the actual situation of right and wrong, and no one among the living dared to redress his grievances. I really felt sad. A wise monarch is more generous with rewards than with punishments.
Emperor Gaozu once gave Chen Ping 40,000 kilograms of gold to bribe the Chu army. He didn't ask how the gold was used. Could it be that he was wondering if the money was idle and useless?
Even though Confucius was so loyal, he could not avoid Ji Sun's slander, which Zou Yang felt sad about.
"Poetry·Xiaoya" says: Catch the slanderer and throw him to feed the wolves, tigers and leopards.
If the jackals, tigers and leopards don't eat it, they will be thrown into the barren land of the north.
The Northern Kingdom did not want him, saying that he would be handed over to God for punishment.
This is to ask God to appease its evil.
Your Majesty, please pay attention to the words of this young man, and do not let the heroes bear hatred in hell.
I heard the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", that if you commit a crime, you can pay for it with merit; there are five kinds of sacrifices that ministers should make to the sage king.
Ma Yuan, for example, is one of the five sacrifices who sacrifices himself for hard work.
May your Majesty ask the ministers to evaluate Ma Yuan's merits and crimes and decide whether the heir should be extinguished or continued to satisfy the wishes of the people at home. I was sixty years old and often lived in the fields. I lamented Luan Bu's loyalty in crying and offering sacrifices to Peng Yue, so he risked his life to express his grief and indignation. Trembling in the palace.
After the book was submitted and reported to the emperor, Zhu Bo returned to the countryside.
Zhu Bo, also known as Shuyang, could recite "Poems" and "Books" at the age of twelve.
He once served Ma Yuan's brother Ma Kuang.
Zhu Bo was wearing a scholar's square-collared clothes, walked in a well-behaved manner, and spoke elegantly and quietly. Ma Yuan had just studied calligraphy and felt inferior to him when he saw him.
Ma Kuang knew what he meant, so he drank some wine himself to comfort Ma Yuan and said, "Zhu Bo is small and can succeed quickly, but his talent stops here. I will learn from you in the future. Don't be afraid."
When Zhu was not twenty years old, You Fufeng asked him to try to be the county magistrate of Weicheng. Later, Ma Yuan became a general and a marquis, while Zhu Bo's official position was only a small county magistrate.
Although Ma Yuan later became a noble man, he often treated Zhu Bo with humiliation and kindness, and Zhu Bo loved him even more. When Ma Yuan was slandered, only Zhu Bo stepped forward to end the friendship.
Suzong ascended the throne and posthumously gave Zhu Bo's son Gu two thousand dendrobiums.
At first, brother Ma Yuan's son-in-law was named Wang Pan Zishi, and he was the son of Wang Mang's brother Ahou Wangren.
Wang Mang was defeated, and Wang Panzishi owned property and lived in his former residence. He was a man of integrity and caring and liked to give alms. He was famous in the Jianghuai River. Later, he became friendly with Wei Wei Yinxing, Da Sikong Zhufu and Qi Wangzhang.
Ma Yuan said to his sister's son Cao Xun: "The Wang family is now a collapsed family. Zi Shi should live in seclusion and keep to himself. Now he is socializing with the powerful people in the capital, doing his own thing with his anger, and doing many domineering things. He will be defeated in the future."
More than a year later, Wang Panguo had many affairs with Su Ye and Ding Hong, the captains of Sili School, and died in Luoyang Prison after being convicted.
Wang Pan's son Wang Su once again visited the North Palace and the prince's residence.
Ma Yuan said to Sima Lu Zhong: The origin of building military power is called the reopening of the world.
From now on, the country will become increasingly stable.
What is worrying is that all the princes and princes in the country have grown up, and the rule that princes and princes are not allowed to have private friends with guests has not been established. If you have too many guests, you will commit a serious crime. You must be vigilant and cautious.
When Empress Guo died, someone wrote a letter, thinking that Wang Su and others were members of the family that were to be punished, and the guests would cause trouble because of the incident, which might lead to disasters like Guan Gao and Ren Zhang's assassination of His Majesty.
The emperor was angry and ordered the counties and counties to arrest the guests named Wang. They affected each other and thousands of people died.
Lu Zhong was also involved in disaster. Before he died, he sighed and said: General Ma is such a god!
In the early years of Yongping, Ma Yuan's daughter was made queen. Xianzong painted images of the famous ministers and generals of the Guangwu period and listed them on Yuntai. Because of the empress, Ma Yuan is missing from the image.
Liu Cang, King of Dongping, looked at the picture and said to the emperor: Why not draw a portrait of General Fubo?
The emperor smiled but said nothing.
In the 17th year of Yongping, Mrs. Ma Yuan passed away, and the earth was gathered as a grave, trees were planted as markers, and an ancestral hall was built.
In the second year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Suzong sent Wugan Zhonglang General Chijie to add Cejie, and Ma Yuan was posthumously granted the title of Marquis Zhongcheng.
Four sons: Ma Liao, Ma Fang, Ma Guang, and Ma Keqing.
Ma Keqing was smart at a young age and was six years old. He was able to take care of the public and elders and entertain guests independently.
A desperado who had committed a capital crime once came to see him, but the guest hid himself so that no one would know about him.
On the outside, he appears to be inarticulate, but on the inside he is calm and alert.
Ma Yuan admired him very much and thought he was a good candidate for a general, so he named him Ke Qing.
After Ma Yuan's death, Ke Qing also died young.
The historian commented: Ma Yuanteng became famous among the three assistants, dealt with the second emperor, and finally made plans to assist the emperor. With the desire to serve the country, he made military exploits. This was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
However, it is very wise for horses to help and warn against human disasters. But he was not immune to slander.
Is this the rule when it comes to fame?
Since self-interest does not concern oneself, it is wise to do things for others; if one considers things not personal, one must be harsh in judging justice.
If you can truly look back at the wisdom of things and reflect on yourself, you will be able to forgive others and have self-knowledge.
