The sun is the strong yang energy and essence, responsible for fertility and kindness, and is the symbol of the human king.
If a person has a flaw, his darkness and evil will definitely appear and be revealed.
Therefore, when the sun and moon move in a righteous country, they will shine brightly, the ruler will be auspicious and prosperous, and the people will be healthy and peaceful.
If the ruler Feng becomes the king through the land, and if the country is peaceful, then the prince will be killed.
If the ruler is unvirtuous and the ministers disrupt the country, then the sun will be red but without light.
If the sun loses its normal color, the country it shines on will not be prosperous.
The sun is dim during the day, and pedestrians have no shadows. If this phenomenon does not end at dusk, the punishments from above will be urgent and severe, and the people below will be in dire straits, and there will be major floods within a year.
When the sun is dim during the day and crows crow in droves, the country will be in political and criminal chaos.
If a crow appears in the middle of the sun, the ruler will be unclear, and government affairs will be handled in confusion. There will be royal funerals in the country, generals will appear, and flags will be raised in disorder.
There are sunspots, black energy, and black clouds in the middle of the sun, which are uncertain, and the subject will abandon his monarch.
A solar eclipse means that Yin Qi invades Yang Qi, which is a sign that the ministers are covering up the monarch, and the country will be destroyed.
The moon is the essence of the lunar moon. It is used to match the sun and is a symbol of the heroine. It is used to compare virtues and express the meaning of punishment. It is arranged in the imperial court and belongs to the princes and ministers.
Therefore, if the monarch is wise, the moon will move in accordance with the laws; if the ministers are in charge of the government, the moon will deviate from its orbit; if the ministers are in power and use military force and punishment without principles and rules, the moon will move south and then north; if the queen and the female protagonist are in power, the moon will advance and retreat.
The moon has changed its normal color and will cause disaster.
If the moon is very bright during the day, treachery and evil will occur at the same time. The monarch and his ministers will fight for power, the queen and the heroine will lose their virtue, making the country dim and wars will continue, there will be famine in the Central Plains, and the world will conspire to overthrow.
If several moons appear at the same time, the country will perish due to turmoil.
The year star is called Dongfang Chunmu. To people, it is the benevolence in the five constant things and the appearance in the five things.
If benevolence is stained, appearance is lost, the spring season is violated, and the energy of wood is damaged, the punishment will appear on the year star.
The age star rises early and rises late, and its position determines the rise and fall of a country.
As long as it stays for a long time, the country will be virtuous and benevolent, its crops will be abundant, and it cannot be conquered.
If it is in opposition, there will be disaster that year.
The year star is quiet and unchanged, which is consistent with normality and is auspicious.
If its fullness and shrinkage lose its normal state, the country will be in trouble and cannot raise its troops.
Another theory is that it is a symbol of the ruler, and it should be bright in color, bright in color, and harmonious in politics and morality.
There is also a saying that if its advance and retreat are normal, evil will cease; if its movement is abnormal, the master will have no blessings or fortune.
It is also in charge of fortune and wealth, in charge of agricultural affairs, in charge of the land of Qi and Wu, in charge of the faults of princes and monarchs in the world, and in charge of the annual grain harvest.
If the color is red and shining, the country will be prosperous; if the color is yellow-red and dark, the fields will be prosperous and the harvest will be abundant.
Yinghuo is the essence of summer fire in the south. Etiquette and carelessness are ignored, which violates the summer order and damages the fire energy. The punishment appears on the disaster star.
The Dharma image of Yinghuo causes the operation to be abnormal. When it appears, there will be military chaos. When it disappears, the military chaos will dissipate.
Its position determines the rise and fall of a country. There will be turmoil and bandits, there will be disease and death, there will be famine and war. The country where it stays will suffer disaster.
If it is arranged in a circle, its shape is like a hook, its bright angle is wavering, and its color changes, sometimes forward, sometimes backward, sometimes left, sometimes right, the disaster it causes will be more serious.
If it is in the south, men will die, if it is in the north, women will die.
When its circulation stops, it is a sign of death, bandits and bandits disrupt the wilderness, and the land is destroyed.
It is off course and moving rapidly. If the army gathers under it, it will win if it follows its course.
It is also said that Yinghuoxing is in charge of Dahonglu, death and funeral, and Sikong.
He is also in charge of the faults of the ministers in the world, in charge of the affairs of arrogance and extravagance that lead to chaos and evil, and in charge of the good and bad times. He also said that if Yinghuo remained still and the troops did not fight, he would kill the generals.
When it appears, its color is red and intense, and it moves retrograde to form a hook shape. Its horn of light is like a blade. You should not leave the palace because there are ambushes underneath it. If the horn is large, there will be many people and strong momentum.
He is also in charge of governance, managing the army externally, and managing government affairs internally. This is the principle of the emperor.
Therefore, even if there is a wise emperor, he must still examine the location of Yinghuo Star.
If its appearance infringes upon the Taiwei Star, Xuanyuan Star, Yingshi Star, Fang Star and Heart Star, it is taboo for the corresponding objects it controls.
The town star is called the central Ji Xia soil, which is a symbol of integrity and thinking.
Benevolence, righteousness, propriety and wisdom are based on honesty, appearance, speaking, listening and speaking, and the heart is righteous. Therefore, if all four stars lose their normal state, the Zhenxing will move accordingly.
If there is turmoil and it occurs early, the princes and kings will not be at peace.
If you leave late, the army will go to war and be unable to return.
The position where it resides will be auspicious for the country, and women who obtain the land will be blessed and cannot be conquered; if the star leaves, the land will be lost, or women will be worried.
If you stay in the dormitory for a long time, the blessings of the country will be profound; if you change the dormitory, the blessings will be shallow.
If it deviates from its position and moves upward by two or three positions, it is called Ying. It is difficult to achieve the object it controls, otherwise there will be floods.
If it deviates from the position and shrinks downward, the ruler will be in trouble and his years will be restless, otherwise there will be collapse or earthquake.
One theory is that Zhenxing is the virtue of the Yellow Emperor and is a symbol of the heroine. It controls the signs of deep kindness and safety, as well as the faults of the heroine in the world.
He also said that it was the star of the Emperor.
When the emperor loses his integrity, Zhenxing will be in violent turmoil.
Taibai star is called Western Autumn Gold, which is a symbol of morality and speech.
Morality is lacking, words are irrational, disobeying the autumn order, damaging the metal energy, and the punishment appears in the Taibai Star.
The advance and retreat of Taibai Star can predict the chaos of war, and the ups and downs, speed, and calmness will appear. If the army is mobilized to imitate the situation of Taibai Star, it will be auspicious and safe.
When it appears in the West and disrupts regular behavior, the Yi and Di will fail; when it appears in the East and disrupts regular behavior, the Central Plains will fail.
Failure to exhaust its cycle time and travel beyond the heavens will endanger the countries it deals with.
If it travels through the entire sky, the world will change, and the people will change their monarchs. This is called chaos, and the people will go into exile.
The white star appears during the day and competes with the sun for brightness. Strong countries become weak, small countries become strong, and the heroine, the emperor, is powerful and indulgent.
He also said that the minister in charge of Taibai Star is called the Grand Duke, which is equivalent to the position of Grand Sima. I would like to occupy this position.
The star corresponds to the north, winter, and water, and represents wisdom and listening to politics.
Lack of wisdom, improper management, disobedience to winter orders, damage to water vapor, and punishment will appear on the stars.
When the Chen star appears, it is in charge of punishments, court officials, Yandi, Zhaodi, and the places north of Yan, Zhao, and Dai. It is the image of the prime minister.
It also symbolizes the spirit of killing and conquest and the image of battle. If there is no war, punishment will occur.
To reconcile yin and yang, if it does not work in the suburbs of Beijing, there will be disharmony.
It appears at an untimely time, and if cold and heat mix up the solar terms, the country will suffer from famine.
It should appear but does not appear. This is called attacking soldiers, and it leads to the rise of military revolution in the world.
If it is between the house star and the heart star, earthquakes will occur.
It is also said that Chen Xing comes in and out, moves quickly and slowly, and is often in charge of Yi Di.
It is also said that it is the star of barbarians, which also corresponds to the gains and losses of punishment.
When its color turns yellow and its size becomes smaller, severe earthquakes will occur.
When its light is close to that of the moon, the country it deals with will be flooded.
The five stars are colored and different in size. Each one follows its own trajectory and complies with the time and solar terms.
The color changes are regular. Cyan can be compared to the left shoulder of Rigel, red can be compared to the star Antares, yellow can be compared to the right shoulder of Rigel, fold can be compared to the wolf star, and black can be compared to the star Kui.
If it conforms to the four seasons without losing its true color, it will be auspicious; if its color is contrary to its behavior, it will be misfortune.
The celestial position that the five stars enter, exit, move, and serve will determine the corresponding country.
For the person who wins the position, the Sui star governs virtue, the Yinghuo star governs ceremonies, the Saturn governs blessings, the Taibai star governs military strength, and the Chen star governs the harmony of yin and yang.
The celestial position that the movement is on, the one that conforms to its color and has horns can win, and the one whose color is inconsistent with it will fail.
To live in the proper place is virtuous; to live in the wrong place is unvirtuous.
The color surpasses its position, the operation surpasses its color, and the operation can surpass everything else.
The camp is the clear temple in the sky, the temple of the Sui Xing.
The Heart Star is the bright hall in the sky and the temple of the Yinghuo Star.
Nandou is the Wen Taishi in the sky and the temple of Saturn.
Kangxing is the sparse temple in the sky, the temple of Taibai.
The seventh is the palace in heaven and the temple of the stars.
When the five stars move to your temple, please wait for their fate.
Five stars that come out early or come out late may lose their position, and their essence falls to the ground and becomes a human being.
The Sui star descended and he became a noble minister; the Yinhuo star descended and he became a child, singing and playing every day; the Saturn descended and he became an old woman; the Taibai star descended and he became a strong man living in the mountains and forests; the Chen star descended and he became a woman.
The responses to good and bad fortunes are revealed according to the signs.
Among the five stars, if Jupiter and Saturn meet, there will be civil strife and famine; when it meets Mercury, it will change policies and actions; when it meets Mars, there will be famine and drought; when it meets Venus, there will be mourning of the emperor's family, internal struggles, wars at home, defeated armies in the field, and floods.
The Taibai star is in the south and the Sui star is in the north. They are called female and male. This year there will be a good harvest.
The Taibai star is in the north and the Sui star is in the south. The year is good and bad.
When Mars and Venus meet, the year will be bright, and the person who is mourning will not be able to raise troops or raise military affairs.
Following Taibai will cause the army to be destroyed; leaving Taibai will cause the army to retreat.
If it appears in the yin of Taibai, it will be a branch of the house; if it appears in the yang of Qi, there will be a deputy general going to war.
When it joins with Saturn, it will cause misfortune, and it will govern disobedient officials.
If it meets water, there will be a defeated army, and if it is used later, it will be defeated miserably.
It is said that Mars and Mercury join together to form a quenching force and cannot be used in military affairs.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mercury will create a phenomenon of obstruction, making it impossible to mobilize the troops, and the whole army will be destroyed.
Once said, it indicates that there will be a change of plans and a drought will definitely occur.
When it meets Venus, it will cause disease, cause mourning for the country, there will be army rebellion, and the country will lose its land.
When it meets Jupiter, there will be great famine in the country.
The conjunction of Mercury and Venus indicates that there will be conspiracies, chaos, and disasters of war.
If it enters the Taibai Star and comes out from above, it means the army is defeated, the general is killed, and the guest army wins; if it comes out from below, the guest army loses its land.
You need to look at the direction of the flag star to predict where the broken army will be.
Mercury orbits Taibai. If it fights with Taibai, there will be a big battle and the guest army will win.
Whenever Jupiter, Mars, Saturn, Venus, and Mercury fight, war will occur.
The army did not go abroad to fight, but instead caused civil strife at home.
If several stars are in the same house, they are together, and when they are in contact with each other, they form a door.
If the two stars are close to each other, the disaster will be great; if they are far apart, there will be no harm; if they are within seven inches of each other, there will definitely be fulfillment.
Whenever the moon eclipses five stars, the country that divides it will decline.
The lunar eclipse of the year star is due to famine, the eclipse of Mars is due to war, the eclipse of Saturn is due to mass killings, the eclipse of Taibai is due to the defeat of a powerful country, and the eclipse of the Chen star is due to the chaos of women.
If the five stars are in conjunction with the moon, if it is the Sui star, the prime minister of the country will be expelled; if it is the Taizhe star, there will be killings.
Wherever the five stars gather, the corresponding country will dominate the world, and everyone in the world will obey.
The Sui star represents obedience based on morality, Mars represents obedience based on etiquette, Saturn represents obedience based on weight, Taibai represents obedience based on military strength, and Chen star represents obedience based on criminal law. Each of them brings order to the world based on what they are responsible for.
If the three stars come together, there will be military casualties and the normal operation of the stars will be interrupted. There will be wars and turmoil inside and outside the country. The people will be hungry, cold and sleepy, and princes will be established.
If the four stars meet, which is called the sun, war and death will occur in the country at the same time. The gentlemen in power will be worried and the people will be in exile.
If the five stars meet, it is called easy travel. A virtuous person will receive auspiciousness, and a person who is established as a king will be able to occupy all parts of the world, and his descendants will be prosperous; an unvirtuous person will suffer disaster and leave his country, the ancestral temple will be destroyed, the people will leave, and disasters will spread all over the world.
If the five stars are all big, the matter will be big; if they are all small, the matter will be small. The colors of all five stars are in the shape of a circle. White represents mourning, which is a sign of drought; red represents unevenness, which is a sign of war; cyan represents sorrow, which is a sign of floods; black represents disease and plague, which is a sign of mass death; and yellow represents auspiciousness. There are awns in all of them. If red, there will be enemy troops invading the country's city; yellow, there will be land disputes; white, there will be crying sounds; cyan, there will be war disaster; black, there will be fire. If the five stars appear in the same color, the world will be in disgrace. The people are at peace. Singing and dancing. There will be no disasters or diseases, and the crops will be plentiful.
Among these five stars, the Sui star is not suitable for the relaxation of politics and religion, the illness and experience are excessive, and the disobedience is good.
The star of Yinghuo will not come out if it is gentle, if it is ill and exceeds its residence, if it is disobedient, it will occupy it.
Taibai Star, if it is gentle, it will not come out, if it is ill, it will not come in, if it is disobedient, it will occupy it.
When a mirage arises, it will not come out if it is relaxed, it will not come in if it is ill, and it will occupy it if it is not the right time.
If the five stars do not lose their foundation and move continuously, then there will be a good harvest that year.
The sky is divided into two parts. If the five stars gather in the east, it will be beneficial to the Central Plains; if they gather in the west, it will be beneficial to foreign troops.
If Chen Xing does not appear, Tai Zhe will be the guest; if Chen Xing appears, Tai Bai will dominate.
When the stars appear without being followed by Tai Zhe, and when each appears from one side, it is the grid. Even though there are troops in the country, there will be no war.
Any appearance or disappearance of the five stars, staying or moving, disobedience or obedience, slowness or rapidity in accordance with the calendar time is in compliance with its laws, and politics and religion are all based on the routine; violating the calendar time and losing the normal path or shortening the time is an act of disorder.
Chaos will become a star in the sky, a comet star, and disasters such as the decline of the country, changes in government orders, war, famine, and chaos will occur.
○Jin Shu Zaxing Qi Translation
According to the old story in Hetu Weishu, when Liu Biao was appointed pastor of Jingzhou at the end of the Han Dynasty, he ordered Liu Ruihao, the prefect of Wuling, to compile many divination works on astronomy into a book, named "Jingzhou Divination".
The miscellaneous stars themselves include rising stars, demonic stars, guest stars, shooting stars, auspicious energy, demonic energy, and clouds next to the sun and moon. Their names and shapes are briefly listed, and the situations in which their divination has been fulfilled are listed here in order.
○Rising
The first is Jingxing, which looks like half a moon and appears at the beginning and end of the lunar month to help the moon emit light.
Some people say that this star is huge and empty in the middle.
Some people say that there are three stars. The clouds in the south are connected to the clouds in the east. The yellow star is in the clouds in the south, which is also called the Virtue Star.
The second is Zhou Boxing, which is yellow and sparkling. Whichever country it appears in, that country will be very prosperous.
The third name is Hanyu, which shines like a comet. When there is a happy event, the Hanyu star emits light.
The fourth is Geze, which is like a scorching flame, round below and sharp above, yellow-white in color, rising from the ground.
Once it appears, there will be harvests without cultivating, projects such as water control and city building, and distinguished guests.
○Yao Xing
One type is called a comet, which is the so-called broom star.
The basic body is like a star, and its end is like a broom, the small one is a few inches long, and the long one stretches across the entire sky.
When it appears, it will cause war and floods.
It governs sweeping, that is, getting rid of the old and ushering in the new.
It has five colors, each corresponding to the essence of the five elements.
Shi Chen believed that comets have no luster and rely on the sun to produce luster, so when they appear at night, the light points to the east, and when they appear in the morning, the light points to the west.
In the south and north of the sun, they all point with the sun's rays.
Its light fluctuates, sometimes long and sometimes short, and disasters will occur wherever the light touches.
The second is the star, which belongs to the category of comets.
When the light is deflected to one side, it is called a comet, and when the light spreads out in all directions, it is called a boom.
孛, that is to say, the radiant 孛孛 is unusual, and it is a sign of evil aura.
If there is no great chaos at home, there will be serious wars abroad. The world will unite to plan, and the end of the month will be hidden and unclear, which will cause harm.
Yanzi said: If the monarch does not change his ways, comets will appear. What's so scary about comets?
From this point of view, the disaster of a star is more serious than that of a comet.
The third one is called Tianxi, also called Juexing.
The body is similar to a star, with a sharp end and four feet long.
Sometimes it appears in the east or west, symbolizing struggle.
The fourth type is the Sky Spear.
No more than three months after its appearance, there will be a ruined country and a chaotic king who will fall to the ground and die because of his sins.
The disasters are not over yet, there will be droughts, famines, bandits and plagues.
The fifth is called Tianyi.
Shi said that its branches are shaped like an ox.
Gan believes that the body is similar to a star with a sharp end.
Wu Xian said that if a comet appeared in the west and was two to three feet long, the Lord would catch it.
The sixth is the Chiyou flag, which resembles a comet and curves at the back like a flag.
Some people say that the red cloud appears independently.
Some people say that its color is yellow at the bottom and white at the bottom.
Some people say that it looks like an upright guancao but is relatively long, so it is named Chiyou's flag.
Some people say that it is like a dustpan, two feet long, with stars at the end.
The Lord should fight against evil and rebellious people. The Lord should cause confusion and chaos. There will be wars and great military revolutions under the direction in which it appears; otherwise, there will also be losses.
The seventh one is called Tian Chong. It looks like a human being when it appears, wearing blue and black clothes, with a bare head and motionless.
When it appears, the subordinates will plot against the emperor, the armed soldiers will rise up, and the emperor will perish.
The eighth is called the King, which is huge and red, similar to Canopus in Antarctica.
Some people say that if it is one or two feet away from the ground and looks like a torch, it means that there will be bandit turmoil in the country.
Some people say that there is a war below where its position corresponds, and the troops are very strong.
Some people say that there are wars and chaos abroad and at home.
The ninth one is called Zhaoming, which looks like a white star with radiant light and horns, which is not good.
Some people say that it is huge and white in color, has no horns, and goes up and down.
Some people say that the red comet is divided into Zhao stars, and the light of the star dims and disappears at the end of the month. It is considered to be a sign of the rise of hegemony and virtue, and the corresponding country and military changes.
Some people say that it is unlucky for the person in the upper position, and there will be a serious war.
The tenth one is called Si Wei, who looks like a star with eyes.
Some people say that coming from the due west is the Wild Star of the West, about six feet above the ground, huge and white in color.
Some people say that it is huge, hairy, and has two horns.
Some people say that it is similar to the white star, which flashes frequently. If you look carefully, its red color is a sign of rebellion and fighting, and it should mainly fight against strong soldiers.
If it appears, the main group will be lost. There are many heroes, the emperor will lose his country due to injustice, and the prestigious ministers will exercise the virtuous government of the monarch.
The eleventh is called Tiansheng. The tail of the comet appears in the northwest. It is shaped like a sword and is four or five feet long.
Some people say that it is shaped like a hook and is four feet long.
Some people say that its shape is small and white, and it often flashes, and it is meant for killing and punishment.
If it appears, there will be internal turmoil in the country to be dealt with, and the subordinate ministers will think of slander, resulting in famine and military chaos, and the bare ground will be thousands of miles away, and there will be withered bones everywhere.
The twelfth is called Wucan, and the two are called Wufeng. They come from the due east and are the Star of the East.
The lottery is similar to a long star, about six or seven feet above the ground.
Some people say that the pale comet dispersed into five remaining stars, shaped like stars and with horns.
Some say that there is a layer of gas on the surface of the star that is like a halo and has hairs.
Some say it is large, red in color, and often flashes. If you look closely, it appears cyan.
The Lord should take advantage of adversity and perish; divided into five, it is a sign of destruction and also symbolizes preparation for emergency war.
If it appears, the Lord should be killed, and the political power will fall to Bo. There will be turmoil in the four fields, there will be emergency military affairs, and there will be chaos, which is not conducive to the corresponding division of fields.
The thirteenth one is called the Six Thieves, which appears due south and is the star of the south.
It is about six feet above the ground, large and red in color, flashing and shining.
Some say it looks like a comet. Five residual stars and six thieves stars appear. Disasters will fall on the world, and rebel troops will invade the pass and fortress; there will be military disasters in the corresponding places, which will be unfavorable to the places where the guard positions should be.
The fourteenth star is called Prison Han, also known as Xian Han. It appears in the true north and is the star of the northern division. It is about six feet above the ground. It is large and red in color. It often flashes. If you observe carefully, it is cyan in the middle.
Some people say that its surface is red and there are three comets crisscrossing it below.
It symbolizes the exile of the monarch and the assassination of the monarch.
When it appears, the evil spirit will run rampant and war will break out in the area it corresponds to.
It also symbolizes turmoil, and when it flashes, the princes are frightened.
The fifteenth day is called Xunshi, appearing next to the Big Dipper and shaped like a rooster.
When angry, it turns green and black, like a prostrate turtle.
Some people say that when angry, it is a female, symbolizing military battles.
It is also said that the yellow comet is divided into ten stars, which have become the symbol of the Lord, symbolizing disaster and causing rebellion.
When it appears, the ministers will rebel, wars will break out, and the princes will wreak havoc. For a period of ten years, the saints will raise armies to attack, and many cunning and sycophants will run rampant.
Some people say that when the Xunshi star appears, the princes will become more powerful.
The sixteenth is called Tianfengxing, and the tail of the comet is like the tip of a spear.
When there is war in the world, the Fengxing will appear.
The seventeenth is called the candle star, which is shaped like a white star.
It appears without moving, disappearing shortly after appearing.
Some people say that three comet tails appeared on the main star, and the cities where they appeared were in chaos. There were powerful bandits but nothing happened, and five colors were used for divination.
The eighteenth is called Peng Xing, which is as big as a container that can hold two buckets. It is white and is also called Wang Xing.
The shape is like the lights born at night, with as many as four or five and as few as one or two. He also said that Pengxing was in the southwest and was several feet long. Within three years, he would be killed by a treacherous official.
It is also said that the place where it appears has floods or droughts, the grains are not harvested, and people cannibalize people.
The nineteenth is called Chang Geng, like a piece of cloth attached to the sky.
When it appears, war breaks out.
The twentieth is called the four-filled star. This star appears in the four corners and is as high as ten feet above the ground. Some people say it is about four feet.
Some people say that this star is large and red in color, two feet above the ground, and often appears in the middle of the night. Once it appears, wars will break out after October, and wars will break out in the areas corresponding to it.
The twenty-first is called Diwei Zangguang, which appears in the four corners.
Some people say that it is large and red in color, two or three feet above the ground, like the moon starting to rise.
When it appears, there will be war and chaos below, those who cause chaos will die, and those who are virtuous will prosper.
"River Map" says:
The essence of the Sui star is dispersed into the stars of Tianxi, Tianqiang, Tiancunning, Tianchong, Guhuang, Fandeng and Canghui.
The stars of Yinghuo are scattered into Zhaodan, Chiyouzhiqi, Zhaoming, Siwei, Tianzhen and Chihui.
Saturn is scattered into the stars of Wucan, Yuhan, Daben, Zhaoxing, Qianliu, Xunshi, Chiyou, Hongni, Jiujiu and Huanghui.
Taibai stars are scattered into Tianchu, Tianqi, Fuling, Dabai, Sijie, Tiangu, Tiancan, Zuqi and Baihui.
The stars are dispersed into Wu Ya, Po Nu, Fu Shu, Destroy Bao, Rao Xi, Jing Li, Da Fen Si, and Black Comet.
The comets of five colors each have their own strengths and weaknesses, and their twists and turns conform to the celestial phenomena.
There is a "Collection of Stars" in the "Feng Jiao Shu" written by Jing Fang of the Han Dynasty. The demon stars recorded in the article all appear next to the moon, with five-colored square clouds between them. They appear on the fifth day of the year, each born from five stars.
The Heavenly Spear, Heavenly Root, Heavenly Jing, Heavenly Ruo, Heavenly Que, Heavenly Tower, and Heavenly Wall are all born from the Suixing.
Appearing on Jiayin Day, these stars have two cyan square clouds next to them.
Tianyin, Jinruo, Guanzhang, Tianhuo, Tiancui, Chiruo and Chiyou were all born of Yinghuo.
Appearing on Bingyin day, there are two red square clouds next to it.
Tianshang, Tianfa, Congxing, Tianshu, Tianzhai, Tianbo, and Jinghui are all born from the filling star.
Appearing on Wuyin Day, there were two yellow square clouds on both sides of it.
Ruo Xing, Broom Star, Ruo Hui, Bamboo Hui, Wall Star, Que Star, and Bai Yan are all born from Taibai.
Appearing on Gengyin Day, there are two white square clouds beside it.
Tianmei, Tianyi, Tiandu, Gastrodia, Tianlin, Tianhao and Duanxia are all born from the stars.
Appeared on Renyin day, there were two black squares next to it.
The thirty-five stars mentioned before, which are born from the five elements of Qi, all appear in the square Qi around the moon. They can be seen a few days before the star they are born is about to appear but has not yet appeared.
If it appears before it appears, there will be floods and droughts, deaths in battles, famine and turmoil; the corresponding country will perish, lose its land, kings will die violently, armies will fail, and generals will be killed.
○Guest star
Zhang Heng said: The four stars of Lao Tzu and one each of Zhou Bo, Wang Pengxu and Rui are about five latitudes apart.
It will never be seen.
His behavior is immoderate.
"Jingzhou Zhan" says: Laozi's star is pure white, but in the country where it appears, there will be famine and disaster, good and evil, joy and anger.
Zhou Boxing's star is yellow and bright, and the country it passes through will be prosperous.
The fluffy star is blue-black in color and has a weak glow. The country it goes to will be affected by wind and rain, drought and scorched food, nothing will grow, grain will not grow, and there will be a serious locust plague.
He also said: Three stars appear in the southeast, and they are called robber stars. If they appear, there will be powerful robbers in the world.
There are three big stars in the southwest, named Zhongling. When they appear, the price of grain will increase tenfold.
Three big stars appear in the northwest. They are white in color and are called Tengu. If they appear, people will eat people and there will be great evil in the world.
Three big stars appear in the northeast, named Baibo. Their appearance indicates serious death.
○Meteor
Meteor is an angel.
What descends from above is called flow, and what rises from below is called flying.
The big one is called Ben, and Ben is also traffic.
The bigger the star, the bigger the mission; the smaller the star, the smaller the mission. The rumbling sound is a sign of anger.
Those who move quickly have a short deadline; those who move slowly have a slow deadline.
The one who is big and dull dominates the affairs of the people; the one who is small and shiny dominates the affairs of the nobles; the one who is big and shiny is noble and powerful.
The sudden bright and sudden disasters symbolize the success or failure of thieves and bandits.
The one that is big in the front and small in the back symbolizes fear and sorrow; the one that is small in the front and big in the back is a happy event; the one that moves like a snake is a traitor; the one that passes by quickly will not return to the past.
If the body is long, what happens is long-lasting; if it is short, what happens is short-lived.
Where the running star fell, there was war.
There is no wind or cloud, if there is traffic, it will disappear after a long time, and there will be strong winds, destroying houses and breaking trees.
There are hundreds of small flows circulating in all directions, which are symbols of the migration of sentient beings and people.
Some types of meteors sound like fire streaming down the earth, and some sound like pheasants crowing. They are the protection of heaven; the country where they fall has happy events.
If the small meteor is green and red, it is called Diyan, and there will be a war in the place where it falls.
The meteor is shiny, green and red, and is two to three feet long. Its name is Tianyan, and it is the essence of the military. If the country it corresponds to is at war, the general should follow the direction of the meteor.
Meteors are bright and shiny, their light is white, and their length reaches to the sky. They are the stars of human rulers and govern palms. The generals follow the residence of meteors.
The flying star is as big as a fou-like urn, its back is bright and white, its front is low and its back is high. This is called sudden stubbornness, and most of those who follow it die.
If the flying star is as big as a fou or an urn, then it will suddenly turn white. After the star is destroyed, the white light will form a curved ring shape like a wheel. This is called the release of title, and the people below it will kill each other for the title of honor.
If the flying star is as big as a fou-like urn, then it will turn white and be several feet long. After the star disappears, the white light will turn into clouds and disperse down, which is called a big slide. Where it falls, people will die, blood will flow, and corpses will pile up.
Wu Shi is like a shooting star, pale black in color, meandering like a snake. It looks like the clouds have hairs, and there are several clouds attached to the sky. It is mainly cute, and it mainly shoots fools.
When this star appears, rebel soldiers should shoot at the housekeeper's family members, which is to fight against chaos with chaos.
Tengu is shaped like a giant star, yellow in color, and has a sound. The place where it stays is like a dog. When it falls, the clouds look like fire, bright and soaring into the sky. Its upper part is sharp and its lower part is round, like a few acres of fields. Some people say that this star has hair, a short comet tail next to it, and a dog shape below.
Some people say that when this star emerges, its shape is red and white with light, and below it is the Tengu.
One theory is that the meteor is shiny, appears in front of people, and falls silently, as if it has legs. The star is called Tengu.
The star is white, with yellow in it, and its yellow is like the remaining firelight.
Like a sign, the army is expected to attack the bandits.
When the star appears, the four sides will shoot each other, and the enemy's army will be defeated in the thousands of miles away, and the enemy general will be beheaded.
Some people say that five generals fight each other, people eat each other, and blood flows wherever they pass.
The monarch there lost his territory, war broke out, the country changed hands, and troops were needed to defend it.
At the head of the camp, there are clouds falling downward like a cracked mountain peak. This is the so-called star at the head of the camp. Where it falls, there will be defeated troops below it, and blood will flow for thousands of miles.
It is also said that a meteor falling in the daytime is called Yingtou.
○Yunqi
Auspicious aura: The first type is called Qingyun.
It is like smoke but not smoke, like clouds but not clouds, abundant but complicated, sparse and empty inside, and like a round wheel on the outer edge. This kind of cloud is Qingyun, also called Jingyun.
This expresses joy and is a sign of peace.
The second is to return to evil.
Like stars but not stars, like clouds but not clouds.
Some people say that this star has two red comet tails rising upward, covered, and connected to the star below.
As soon as they appear, there must be people returning home.
The third type is called Changguang, which is red and looks like a dragon. Whenever a saint appears or a monarch succeeds to the throne, this star will appear.
The spirit of demons and sycophants: The first type is called hauni, which is the spirit of the sun and the scattered essence of Beidou.
It symbolizes confusing people's hearts, internal promiscuity, subordinates seeking the throne, the emperor being deposed, concubines being exclusive, and wives not being exclusive.
The second type is called the Monyang Cloud, which looks like a dog, is red, and has a long tail, symbolizing the king of a troubled country and symbolizing death in war.
○Tenth Army
"Zhou Rites" records that the Kun clan mastered the method of ten armies. He has always observed the auspiciousness of monsters and deceivers and distinguished good and bad luck.
The first is called Kun, which refers to the qi of yin and yang and the five colors gradually deepening and invading each other.
Some people say that it belongs to the categories of Qi Bao Er on the side of the sun and Zhuang on the back, the kind that looks like a rainbow but is short.
The second type is called an image, which refers to the formation of clouds, like a red bird flying between the sun and the like.
The first one is called Xiang, which is the energy from the side of the sun, piercing the sun, and looks like the Xiang worn by a boy.
The fourth type is called prison, which refers to the clouds covering the sun.
The third type is darkness, which refers to solar and lunar eclipses. Some people say that they lose their luster.
The sixth type is Qi, which means the moon is hazy and not very bright.
The seventh type is called Mi, which refers to the white rainbow filling the sky and passing through the sun.
The eighth type is called Preface, which means that the Qi is like a mountain and above the sun.
Some people say that there are Qi Guan Er and Bei Guang next to the sun, and they overlap each other next to the sun.
The ninth type is called 鮮, which refers to dizziness.
Some people say that it is the rainbow, which is what the "Book of Songs" said in the "Chao Ji in the West".
The tenth type is called thinking, which means that the energy has five colors and can be visualized. Green is like hunger, red is like soldiers, white is like mourning, black is like worry, and yellow is like ripeness.
Some people say that thinking means thinking. Red is the shape of a person hunting. You can think about it and know its good or bad luck.
Whenever the weather covers the sky and the sun and moon lose their color, it is a sign of wind and rain. It is overcast and gloomy, and the sun and moon have no light. There is no sun during the day and no stars at night. There are clouds covering the sky. They are two enemies who are equal and secretly plotting against each other.
The sun was dim and the soldiers were causing chaos in the army.
He also said that several suns appeared at the same time, as if they were fighting, and there was a war in the world, and a war would break out.
The sun is fighting, and the city will be captured later.
The so-called Sun Dai has a straight shape with a slight tilt at the top. It is above the sun, so it is called Sun Dai.
Dai means virtue and symbolizes happy events for the country.
One theory is that standing on the sun is called Dai.
The country will have happy events. The Qi of green and red is small and intersects under the sun, which is Ying Qi. The Qi of green and red is small and round, and surrounds one or two below the sun either to the left or right, which is Ning Qi.
The green and red energy is like a small half-moon halo. Above the sun, it is negative energy. Negative energy means being happy to get land.
It is also said that the Qi of green and red is long and leaning next to the sun, which is the halberd.
The green and red gas is round and small, and it is Er gas when it is on the left and right of the sun. Those who are yellow are happy.
It is also said that if there is a military operation, there will be an Er next to the sun for joy.
To the west of the sun, the Western Army is victorious.
To the east of the sun, the Eastern Army is victorious.
The same is true in the north and south.
The appearance of Er gas without military action symbolizes the appointment of a general.
There are also those that are like a semi-circle next to the sun. Ringing towards the sun is holding Qi.
The green and red Qi is like the newly born moon, and the ring with the sun behind it is the back Qi. It is also said that the back Qi is green and red and curved. Curving outward is the symbol of rebellion, and when it separates, it is the symbol of overthrowing the city. It is like a belt of bright weather, extending in all directions of the sun.
The Qi of green and red is long and standing next to the sun, which is Zhi Qi. There is Zhi Qi next to the sun. If the enemy wants to stand on his own side, he will win by following the direct Qi.
There are two straight qi and three holding qi next to the sun. Those who want to stand on their own will not succeed. Those who hold the qi in the direction and attack will win and kill the generals.
The clouds form a triangle shape. When they are on the four sides of the sun, they are lifting qi. When the green and red qi lie above and below the sun, they are grid qi.
The clouds are like a half-halo, which is holding energy under the sun.
Inheritance means that the ministers uphold the monarch.
It is also said that there are three houses surrounded by yellow gas under the sun, named Chengfu, which indicates that the owner will have good luck and will get land.
The blue-white clouds are like the shape of shoes, and the ones under the sun are the shoes.
There are five layers of clouds surrounding the sun. If there is a war, the one who holds the clouds in the right direction will win.
There is a bag of Qi next to the sun and a back Qi, which is the Qi of breaking and walking. The Qi of Bao is the favorable Qi; the Qi of the back is the negative Qi.
The two armies are facing each other, and the one holding the air in the forward direction attacks the one in the opposite direction and wins, so the main goal is to break away.
There is Baoqi next to the sun and there are two Erqi. A rainbow runs through Baoqi and reaches directly to the side of the sun. Whoever follows the rainbow will win and kill the general.
The sun is surrounded by two Er Qi and a bright Qi appears. Two long rainbows penetrate the Bao Qi and reach directly to the side of the sun. Those who follow the rainbow and attack will win.
The holding Qi on the side of the sun overlaps, and there is bright Qi inside. The one who follows the holding and attacks will win.
It is also said that it indicates that there are people in the army who want to rebel.
The sun is surrounded by Baoqi, there are Erqi on the left and right, and a white rainbow penetrates the Baoqi. Whoever follows the Baoqi and attacks will win and get two generals.
There are three rainbows and three generals.
The Baoqi beside the sun is yellow-white and moist, and the red inside is cyan, which indicates happy events for the emperor and people who come to surrender and marry. The enemy does not need to start a battle, but the enemy surrenders and the war ends.
If the color is blue and yellow, there will be happy events; if it is red, there will be war; if it is white, there will be mourning; if it is black, there will be death.
The sun is surrounded by Bao Qi and has two back Qi. Those who follow the Bao Qi and attack will surely win and gain the land, like a tired army.
The sun is surrounded by Baoqi. There is bright Qi inside and outside Baoqi, and there are two Er Qi. Those who follow the Baoqi and attack will win. The army will lose, there will be disharmony in the army, and there will be no trust in each other.
There is cloud next to the sun, which is round and surrounding, red inside and cyan outside, which is called halo.
The halo is a symbol of the military camp. It surrounds the sun from all sides. There is no difference in thickness. The enemy's force is equal to our own.
If there were no troops outside, the emperor would lose control and the people would rebel.
If there are five colors in the sun's halo, there will be joy; if there are no five colors, there will be sorrow.
In any divination, when the strength of the two armies is equal, we must carefully examine the halo of the sun and the moon, and understand where they originate, the distance they stay, the response and response, the speed and slowness, the size, thickness, length, number of generals, presence and absence, void and solid, long and short, dense and scattered, moist and dry.
They are equally matched to each other.
The near is better than the far, the fast is better than the slow, the big is better than the small, the thick is better than the thin, the long is better than the short, holding the air is better than the back air, more is better than the less, presence is better than nothing, reality is better than the void, long time is better than short, dense is better than sparse, and luster is better than withered.
If there is overlapping of negative qi, there will be a big defeat; if there is overlap of holding qi, it will be a harmonious relationship. The more holding qi, the more people will be friendly. Backward qi indicates disharmony in the world, scattering and drifting away from each other. Those with northern qi inside are scattered inside, and those with back qi outside are scattered outside.
○Irritated gas
The Qi of the Emperor is red on the inside and yellow on the outside. Wherever it appears in the four directions, a king will be born.
If the emperor wants to visit a certain place, this kind of energy will appear in advance in that place.
Some are like city gates vaguely shrouded in mist, always carrying a sinister murderous aura.
Some are like the umbrella cover on a car wrapped in the mist, some are like a man in green without hands, in the west of the sun, some are like dragons and horses, and some are mixed colors and lush and soaring into the sky. This is the aura of the emperor.
The aura of a fierce general is like a dragon or a ferocious beast; some are like smoke; some are like white powder boiling; some are like fire, which can illuminate people at night; some are white and red, surrounded by this aura, and some are like mountains and forests. Bamboo trees, some are purple-black like the tower above the door; some are black above and red below, shaped like black flags; some are like open crossbows; some are like dust, with pointed and low heads and large and high roots.
This is all the spirit of a fierce general.
After this energy appears, it gradually accumulates like clouds and changes into the shape of a mountain, which will produce far-reaching strategies.
Any army with the spirit of victory is like a dam or a slope, grinding the ground before and after.
Some are like fire; it indicates that the generals are brave and the soldiers are fierce.
Some are like mountain embankments, and the mountains seem to be covered with trees; it indicates the bravery of soldiers.
Some are like dust flying and boiling, yellow and white; some are like people holding big axes and slashing at the enemy; some are like snakes raising their heads to bite the enemy; some clouds are like capsized boats, and some clouds are like cattle; some clouds are like fighting chickens, with red and white accompanying each other, rolling in the air; some emit yellow gas, which all symbolize the bravery of the soldiers.
Any qi that is yellow at the top and white at the bottom is called good qi. The enemy of the army facing it will seek peace and retreat.
Generally speaking, negative energy is like the color of horse liver, or as dead gray; some are like crouching umbrella canopies, and some are like crouching fish; some black energy is like collapsed mountain peaks falling on the army, which is called the energy of the camp head; some are like herds of sheep and pigs, in the atmosphere.
At this time, the energy is weak.
Some are like hanging clothes, like people accompanying each other, some are messy like fluffy grass blowing in the wind, and some are like rising dust; some clouds are like rolled up mats, and they are like messy cloths, all of which are signs of failure.
Its aura is like a cow, like a lying man, like two snakes, flying birds, like a burst dam, like a collapsed house, like a herd of frightened deer chasing each other, like two chickens looking at each other, these are all the auras of defeat.
Any spirit of surrender is like a group of people, all crossing their hands and lowering their heads. Or, it is like people crossing their hands and facing each other.
Some qi are like black mountains, with yellow as the edge, which are signs of wanting to surrender.
Above any fortified city, there are black clouds like stars, called Junjing.
Some are white like flags, and some are blue and yellow clouds covering the city.
It's all a matter of great joy and celebration.
Some of the auras are blue, like a bull's head touching people, and some of the auras on the city are like fireworks.
Like two snakes, the shape of a spring pestle points outward, and there are also clouds that are divided into the shape of two comet tails, which all indicate that they cannot be attacked.
Generally speaking, some of the qi that will be massacred in the city are red in shape like flying birds, some are red in shape like broken carts, and some are red in color with qi like spots on raccoon fur. In some cities, the clouds gather like towers and overflow and appear outside the city. There are clouds gathered above the barracks that look like many human heads and are red. These cities and fortresses can be massacred.
Its aura is like a male pheasant approaching its city, and there will definitely be defeated people below it.
Generally, ambush troops have black air, which is chaotic, long and round, with red air in it: some are white air flying and boiling, rising like a building; some are like banners and talismans in the shape of dark clouds; some are like red pestles in dark clouds, and some are like black people standing in red clouds.
The Qi of all violent soldiers is white in color, connected together like melon vines, chasing each other like troops, and they are exhausted and retreat in an instant; some white Qi is like immortals, like the clothes of immortals, connected together thousands of times, the troops are chasing each other, tired but rising, there will be troops thousands of miles away.
Some of the clouds resembled people holding swords and shields. The clouds were shaped like people and were red in color. There was an army coming to the city they were covering.
Some of the red aura is like a man holding a knot, like a conscription coming but the war is not over yet.
The clouds are like Fang Hong.
These are all signs of tyrannical soldiers.
Generally speaking, the aura of war is bluish-white and contains grease; it is also like a human being without a head; it is like a dead person lying in bed; it is like a red snake. If the red aura follows, there will definitely be a big war and the generals will be killed.
Looking at Yuanyun from a distance, I saw red energy flowing into the camp like a dog, and it would bleed under its cover.
If it is cloudy for more than ten consecutive days, the sun cannot be seen during the day, and the moon cannot be seen at night, and the wind blows from all directions, and it wants to rain but does not, it is called Meng, and there will be conspiracy among the ministers.
The mist is misty, like day and night, green and yellow, covering each other, sometimes closing and sometimes dispersing, the same is true.
It is often seen that there are large clouds with five colors in all directions, and there are virtuous people living in seclusion under them.
Green clouds cover the sun and are located in the northwest, symbolizing the promotion of virtuous people.
The clouds are chaotic and dense, and a strong wind is coming. Look at the direction it is coming from and avoid it.
The clouds are very shiny and thick, and heavy rainstorms can come suddenly.
On this day at the beginning of the fourth year, there were black clouds like military formations, thick and dense, and there must have been a lot of rain.
The atmosphere is like fog but not fog, and clothes will not get soaked. Once the city appears, war will break out quickly. There will be black and sudden changes, and the rain will disperse within three days.
A cloud appeared like a dragon, and the local general who appeared was in despair.
If a cloud appears like a swan's tail to cover the country, the three states will surely perish.
Red-yellow clouds appear in all directions and shine on the earth all day and night, indicating that the ministers are tyrannical.
The clouds are like air, dark and turbid. The sage leaves and the villain takes his place.
Any white rainbow is the source of various disasters and the foundation of chaos for all people.
Fog is the evil spirit, the yin energy that offends the yang energy.
Any white rainbow mist indicates that treacherous ministers are plotting against the monarch and are good at seizing power and establishing their own prestige.
When the day is foggy and the night is bright, your mind will be stretched.
Whenever there is fog at night and a white rainbow appears, the ruler will be in trouble. A rainbow extending from head to tail to the ground is a sign of the bleeding of the dead.
Whenever the fog does not conform to the car, it contradicts and intertwines with each other, and there is light wind and light rain, it is a sign of chaos between the two qi of yin and yang.
It lasts for several days and the day and night are dark, which is a sign that the world is about to separate.
Whenever the sky and earth are dim and hazy, like sharp soil, for more than ten to five days, or a month, or a quarter, the rain does not touch clothes but there is sharp soil, which is called haze.
Therefore, it is said that there is haze in the sky and the earth, and the king and his ministers are disobedient to each other.
The mirage of the seaside is in the shape of a tower, the aura of the vast wilderness is in the shape of a palace, the aura of the Northern Yi is like a dome of cattle and sheep, and the aura of the Southern Yi is like a boat and flags.
From the south of Huashan Mountain, the air color is black at bottom and red at top; in the suburbs of Songgao and Sanhe, the air color is true red; to the north of Hengshan Mountain, the air color is cyan; between Bo, Jie, Hai and Dai, the air color is all black; between the Jianghuai River and Huaihe River, the air color is all white; the air color in the East China Sea is like a round bamboo hat; attached The Qi of the Han River and the Yellow River is like an open cloth; the Qi of the Yangtze and Han Rivers is as strong as a household tree; the Qi of the Jishui River is like a black pigeon; the Qi of the Wei River is like the tail of a white wolf; the Qi of Huainan is like a white sheep; the Qi of Shaoshi is like a white rabbit with a green tail; the Qi of the Hengshan Mountain is like a black cow with a green tail.
The Qi of Eastern Yi is like a tree, the Qi of Western Yi is like a house, the Qi of Southern Yi is like the tower of a city gate, and some are like boats.
The formation clouds are like upright cadre walls.
The Zhu axis cloud is similar to an axis, oval in shape and pointed at both ends.
The dipping clouds are like ropes, stretching across the entire sky in front, and half of them are as wide as the sky; at this time, because of its curved rainbow, it looks like a missing flag.
The hook cloud curves like a hook.
When these clouds appear, the five colors must be used for divination.
And if the clouds are bright, oval or densely packed together, and their appearance can stir people's hearts, then there must be a war, and the whole family will be in the corresponding place.
The clouds are like three pieces of silk cloth, broad in front and sharp in the back. It is the cloud image of large troops moving.
The clouds in Han are like cloth, the clouds in Zhao are like oxen, the clouds in Chu are like suns, the clouds in Song are like chariots, the clouds in Lu are like horses, the clouds in Wei are like dogs, the clouds in Zhou are like wheels, the clouds in Qin are like pedestrians, the clouds in Wei are like rats, the clouds in Zheng are like crimson clothes, the clouds in Yue are like dragons, and the clouds in Shu are like warehouses.
The driving clouds rise and fall, often clustering together.
The spirit of the cavalry is low and broad.
The spirit of the soldiers is twisted.
The clouds are low in front and high in back. They fly quickly.
The clouds are high in the front and sharp and low in the back, flying backwards.
Those straight clouds move slowly, and the clouds that are high in the front and low in the back do not stay but move back.
The spirit of the school rider is pale black in color and hundreds of feet long.
The wandering air was like a comet sweeping over it. It was said to be hundreds of feet long and had no foundation.
In any method of predicting clouds and qi, when the qi begins to appear, it looks like clouds but not clouds, like mist but not mist, and it seems as if one can see it.
When it first appeared, it was dark and gloomy, two thousand miles among the mulberry and elm trees. The enemy's troops should be waiting in the east at sunrise; in the south, waiting when the sun is in the middle; in the west, waiting at sunset; in the north, waiting at midnight.
In terms of military spirit, the high one beats the low one, the thick one beats the thin one, the real one beats the weak one, the long one beats the short one, and the bright one beats the dry one.
The appearance of clouds can be used to predict the wind and rain, and if it is cloudy for a long time, it will not be a disaster.
◎Empirical Translation of Jin Shu and Histories
○The sky changes
In February of the second year of Emperor Hui's reign in Yuankang, the sky in the western sky cracked.
Liu Xiang said: The cracking of the sky is due to the lack of Yang Qi, and the earthquake is due to the excess of Yin Qi.
At this time, the master was ignorant and ignorant, and the concubine had exclusive power.
On Gengwu in the eighth month of the second year of Tai'an, the sky split into two, and there was a sound like thunder three times.
At this time, it was a sign that the group was at a loss and the subordinates were overstepping their authority.
At this time, King Feng of Changsha was born to stop the two rebellious kings of Chengdu and Hejian. Later, the kings of Chengdu, Hejian, Donghai and other kings continued to monopolize power and order without authorization, which was the fulfillment of the change of heaven.
On the night of Mao in the eighth month of the fifth year of Emperor Mu's reign, the sky split open, three or four feet wide, making a thunderous sound, and the pheasants began to crow.
After that, Emperor Ai became seriously ill, Haixi lost his virtue, the Empress Dowager came to the court to handle the government, Taizong was Prime Minister Wanji, Huan Wen was in power, and he was powerful both internally and externally. The Yin Qi was strong and the Yang Qi was weak.
In the eighth month of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was a sound from the southeast sky, and the sound was like the force of Feng Shui.
Jingfang's "Yi Yaozhan" says: If there is a sound in the sky, the owner will be in trouble.
On Renchen in October of the third year, there was another sound in the sky, which stopped on Jiawu Day.
After this, Wang Dun attacked the stone and Wang's army was defeated.
Emperor Yuan was humiliated and controlled by powerful ministers, and died soon after. His humiliation was not absolved.
During the leap month of Guichou in the fifth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a sound in the southeast sky.
In the ninth month of the sixth year of Wuzi, there was another sound in the southeast sky.
After that, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and Emperor An went into exile. There was no greater sorrow than this.
Whenever the sound occurs in the southeast, it usually heralds the resurgence of the Yangtze River, and the sky will sound accordingly.
In August of the first year of Yixi, there was a sound from the sky in the southeast. Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: All the people are tired, and the demons are rising and the sky is ringing.
Although Emperor An returned to the throne at this time, there were wars and revolutions every year, and the people were extremely tired.
○solar eclipse
On Wuchen day in June of the second year of Emperor Wen of Wei Dynasty, which was the end of the month, a solar eclipse occurred.
The clerk petitioned for the dismissal of the Taiwei, and the Emperor issued an edict saying: The rise of disasters is used to condemn the person who occupies the position of head of state, but to blame the fault on the ministers who were afraid of helping. Is it consistent with the principle of Yu and Tang blaming themselves?
It is better for all officials to carefully abide by their duties.
If there is any bad omen from heaven and earth in the future, don’t impeach the three ministers again.
Bingyin is the first day of the first month of the third year and there is a solar eclipse.
At the end of November, there will be another solar eclipse.
At the end of November in the fifth year of Wushen, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the early years of Emperor Taihe's reign in the Ming Dynasty, Taishi ordered Xu Zhi to report that there would probably be a solar eclipse, and he should bless the eclipse with the Taiwei at the Lingtai.
Emperor Ming said that if a ruler is not virtuous in governing, God will use disaster to wake him up, in order to condemn him and warn him, so that he can cultivate himself.
Therefore, the phenomenon of thin eclipses in the sun and moon indicates that there is something wrong with the way of governing the country.
Since I came to the throne, I have not been able to magnify the late emperor's holy virtues, and my travels and education are not in line with the emperor of the emperor. Therefore, God uses these to enlighten me.
I should reorganize my government and practice, cultivate myself, and use this to report to the gods.
God is to man as a father is to his son. No father wants to punish his children, but he can seek forgiveness by offering sumptuous meals.
Nowadays, it is unheard of for the people to want the Grand Duke and Tai Shi Ling to perform the sacrifice of killing together in the clouds. This is morally unheard of.
All ministers, ministers and officials must diligently carry out their duties.
If you have any suggestions that can correct what I have not done, please report them to me.
On November 18, the fifth year of Taihe, a solar eclipse occurred at the end of the month.
On the first day of Wuchen day of the first month of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Seen in Wu Li.
On the first day of the leap month of the first year of Qinglong, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the seventh month of the first year of the reign of Emperor Zhengshi, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the Lunar New Year in April of the third year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the fourth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month of the fifth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Renzi day in April of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of October, Wushen Day, another solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the second lunar month of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time, Cao Shuang was in dictatorship, and Ding Mi, Deng Yang and others changed the rules.
Coinciding with the sudden change of the solar eclipse, the young emperor asked the ministers about the pros and cons.
Jiang Ji Shangshu said: In the past, Shun ruled the country and forbade forming parties for personal gain.
The Duke of Zhou assists the government and is wary of those who are cronies.
The Marquis of Qi asked about the disaster, and Yanzi replied that he should spread the favor widely; the Lord of Lu asked about the mutation, and Zang Sun replied that he should alleviate the source of the blockage that caused the mutation. Following God's will will help people.
The metaphor of general Ji is very profound, but the king and his ministers did not wake up, and eventually they were defeated.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the ninth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of February in the first year of Jiaping, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the seventh month of the fourth year of Ganlu, Gaogui Township, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first month of the fifth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Jingfang Yi Divination said: A solar eclipse occurs in Yiyou, which indicates that the king is weak and his ministers are strong.
Sima led the army to fight, but he counterattacked and conquered his own king.
In May, the Chengji Incident occurred.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the second year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the third year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At the end of Bingwu month in July of the second year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of October, Bingwu, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of October of the seventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Xinwei day in October of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Wuchen Day in April of the ninth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Also, a solar eclipse occurred on the first day of the seventh lunar month.
In the first month of the tenth year, there was a solar eclipse in Yiwei and in the third month of Guihai.
At the end of the Jiashen month in July of the first year of Xianning, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fourth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Xin Chou day in March of the fourth year of Taikang, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the seventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Solar eclipses occurred on the first day of Renshen day in the first month of the ninth year and on the first day of Gengzi day in June.
In April of the first year of Yongxi, Emperor Wu died.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the ninth year of Emperor Hui's reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
In December, he deposed the crown prince as a commoner and soon killed him.
There was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first month of the first year of Yongkang and on the first day of the fourth lunar month, Xinmao.
On the first day of the leap month Bingxu in the first year of Yongning, a solar eclipse occurred.
Solar eclipses occurred on the first day of the first month of the first lunar month of Guangxi and on the first day of the first lunar month of the seventh lunar month.
In November, Emperor Hui died.
On the first day of the lunar month, Renwu, another solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the first year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Renzi day in February of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the fourth year of Emperor Min's Jianxing reign, there were solar eclipses on the first day of the lunar month, Dingsi Day in June, and on the first day of the lunar month, Jiashen Day in December.
In the fifth year, there were solar eclipses in both May and November.
At that time, Emperor Min was suffering in Pingyang.
On the first day of April in the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Emperor Taining's reign in the Ming Dynasty, on the first day of the lunar month, a solar eclipse occurred, reaching the position of Dou Su at Mao hour.
Dou Su is the boundary between Wu.
After this, Su Jun made trouble.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the second year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, a solar eclipse occurred at the position of Jingsu.
Jingsu, the host should drink and eat, which is a symbol of the female protagonist.
The next year, the Empress Dowager died due to worries.
On the first day of Renxu day in March of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time, Emperor Cheng was already old. Every time he visited Situ's mansion, he would see Wang Dao's wife, Mrs. Cao, carrying the gift of his children when he came in and out.
As a ruler, a wife who respects his subordinates may show signs of failing in his virtue.
At this time, the emperor has been crowned as an adult and should take charge of all affairs personally. However, entrusting political affairs to ministers shows that there are shortcomings in the way of serving the people.
On the first day of October in the first year of Xiankang, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the second lunar month of the seventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
In March, Queen Du passed away.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
It rained heavily in Kyoto, and everyone in the county heard about it.
This is called the Three Dynasties, which is the last day of the month at the beginning of the year. The king hates this situation.
Emperor Cheng died in June.
Solar eclipses all occurred on Jiyou day in April in the second year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, on Dingyou day in the first month of the seventh year, and on Xinmao day in the first month of the eighth year.
On the first day of Guisi day in October of the twelfth year, a solar eclipse occurred in Ojuku.
The tail is the boundary between Yan and Beidi.
At that time, Yao Xiang and Fu Sheng in the border areas were devouring each other. The imperial court was worried and exhausted, and conquests continued year after year.
On the first day of the eighth month of the fourth year of Shengping (Xin Chou Day), a solar eclipse occurred, almost in Spica.
Whenever there is a solar eclipse, the disaster will be small if it is shallow, and the disaster will be great if it is deep.
Spica is the gate of heaven, and all human masters hate it.
Emperor Mu died the next year.
On the first day of the third month of the first year of Emperor Longhe's reign, there was a solar eclipse.
In the second year, Emperor Ai fell ill and was unable to handle daily government affairs.
Solar eclipses occurred on the first day of the lunar month in March of the third year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign and on the first day of the lunar month of the fifth month of the Guiyou day.
These are all signs that Haixi has been abandoned.
On the first day of Guiyou day in October of the third year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign in Ningkang, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the leap month of the fourth year of Taiyuan, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time, Fu Jian captured Xiangyang City and captured Zhu Xu.
On the first day of Gengzi Day in June of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the lunar month, October 9, the ninth year of the lunar calendar, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the fifth month of the seventeenth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the third month of the 20th year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Emperor Xiaowu died the next year.
On the first day of the Gengchen day in June of the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time Yuanxian was in power.
On the first day of Guisi day in April of the second year of Yuanxing, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the winter of that year Huanxuan plotted to usurp the throne.
On the first day of the Wuxu Day in July of the third year of Yixi, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the ninth lunar month in the tenth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At the end of the month of Xinhai in July of the eleventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the thirteenth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
The next year, Emperor An died.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
From the first year of Yixi to this time, solar eclipses have always started from above and are symbols of the changing destiny.
"The Rites of the Zhou Dynasty" shows only ten ways of looking at the sun and clouds to observe the signs of evil and auspiciousness and identify good and bad omens. There are ten methods in total, including Xie, Xiang, Qiu, Jian, An, Wei, Mi, Xu, Xiang and Xiang.
The names of the descendants changed, and the people who told them were different.
Its apparent fulfillment is now recorded.
In February of the eleventh year of Chiwu, Wu Sunquan, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
Sun Quan issued an edict to show his fear.
In the seventh month of Jiayin in the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, a double halo of the sun appeared, and a white rainbow passed through it.
On the first day of the first month of the first year of Taikang, on the first day of Chou day, there were five-colored clouds covering the sun, from Mao hour to You hour.
The divination says: The way to be a king will be lost in the clouds and bright virtues. When ugly, it will be the star of Dou and the star of Ox, and it will dominate the land of Wuyue.
At this time, Sun Hao was lustful and violent, so he surrendered in April.
On Jiashen day in November of the first year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, a halo appeared around the sun, with two layers, green and red and shiny.
In the first month of the ninth year, something like a flying swallow appeared in the sun and did not disappear for several days.
Wang Yin thought it was a sign that Xinhuai would be deposed and die.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yongkang, on the first day of the lunar month, there are three haloes.
At the end of October, the sun was dim and dull, and yellow mist filled all sides.
The divination said: In less than three years, there will be a battle to capture the city.
On Gengxu day in December, there is black energy in the sun.
Jingfangshi's "Yi Zhuan" said: If the sacrifice to the sky is not in order, it is called Ni. This kind of abnormality means that there is black energy in the sun.
In Jiashen, the ninth month of the first year of Yongning, there were sunspots in the middle of the month.
The house in the capital is easy to occupy: The black one is Yin. If the ministers do not cover up the evil of the emperor, they will tell the subordinates to see it. If the people are evil to the emperor, this will happen.
He also said: There are ministers who obscure the Lord’s knowledge.
In November of the first year of Tai'an, there was black energy in the sun.
In November of the first year of Yongxing, there was black energy in the sun.
In the fifth month of the first year of Guangxi's reign, at Renchen and Guisi, the sun's rays scattered in all directions, as red as blood, and the ground was all red.
It's like this again in Jiawu.
Divination said: The king is blind.
In the eleventh month of Yihai, the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, the sun was obscured by yellow and black air, and everything outside was yellow.
The case "River Map" said: This is the day when the sun is declining.
Its saying is: All solar eclipses occur at the end of the month or the beginning of the month. If they are not in these two days, the eclipse will be eclipsed.
Although the sun and moon were not in the same constellation, the yin energy was too strong at that time and blocked the sunlight. According to divination, it was similar to a solar eclipse.
On Wushen day of the first month of the second year, a white rainbow penetrated the sun. On Guimao day of the second month, a white rainbow penetrated the sun, and a green-yellow halo appeared, with five layers.
Divination said: A white rainbow penetrating the sun indicates that the people close to you will cause trouble, otherwise there will be rebels among the princes.
The sun's halo is at the fifth level, and those who rule the country will feel its signs. There will be war in the world, and his country will be conquered and destroyed.
In the second year, Sima Yue indulged in contempt for the monarch.
In the fifth year, Liu Cong broke through Kyoto, and Emperor Huai ran to the location of the bandits.
On Gengshen Day in March of the fifth year, the sunlight was scattered, like blood flowing down, and the places it illuminated were red.
There is something like a flying swallow in the sun.
At Xinweichen in the first month of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, the sun fell to the ground.
Three more suns followed one after another, coming out from the west and moving toward the east.
In the first month of the fifth year, three suns shine side by side, and the rainbow fills the entire sky.
There are two halos around the sun, and there are two Er Qi on the left and right.
Divination said: White rainbow is the spirit of war.
There will be three, four, five and six suns appearing at the same time and competing with each other. There will be wars in the world, and there will be as many monarchs as there are suns.
He also said: Three days have passed together, but within thirty days, the princes are vying to be the emperor.
There are overlapping halos around the sun, and the king will be established in the world.
If there is halo and Er Qi, the world will be established.
So Chen Zhuo said: When there is Daqing, the world will be divided into three parts!
In March, Jiangdong changed its name to Jianwu, and Liu Cong and Li Xiong also crossed the territory of Cao and Liu, so wars continued year after year.
On Yimao day in the eleventh month of the first year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the sun appeared at night, three feet high, with red and green Er gas in it.
On the day of Guihai in February of the fourth year, the sun was in conflict.
At the end of the third month, there were sunspots in the sun. On the day of Xinhai, Emperor Yuan personally interrogated and interrogated the prisoners.
On Xinmao in October of the first year of Yongchang, there were sunspots in the sun.
At that time, Emperor Yuan favored Liu Wei, who was good at ruling the country and was domineering, which was harmful to the rule of the emperor. Therefore, Wang Dun raised his troops and launched an attack on Kyoto, causing disaster to the loyal and virtuous people.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Taining, the Ming Dynasty, there was no light in the sun.
On Guisi day, yellow mist filled all directions.
Divination said: The king is blind, the yin and yang are dim, and the ministers have conspiracy.
Jingfang said: When the power of special punishment is transferred downward, it is called dividing authority. It is covered with dust and the sun does not shine brightly.
Before this incident, Wang Dun persecuted Shangshu Ling Diao Xie, Pu She Zhou Wei, Hussar General Dai Ruosi and others, which was the fulfillment of the special punishment.
Wang Dun committed the crime of bullying his superior and was eventually killed.
On Bingzi day in November, a white rainbow passes through the day.
The historian did not see it, but Hua Bao, the prefect of Guiyang, said that he had seen it.
In July of the ninth year of Xianhe, Emperor Cheng, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
In July of the first year of Xiankang, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
In July of the second year, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
Because she is a member of the Queen's clan and is distinguished, this is also a manifestation of women's mastery of national power, so white rainbows shine through the sun year after year.
On Renshen day of the first month of the eighth year, there were sunspots in the sun, which did not disappear until Bing sun.
In the summer, Emperor Cheng died.
In the eighth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, Zhang Chonghua was in Liangzhou. The sun was strong and red like fire. There was a three-legged crow in the middle. It had a clear image and disappeared after five days.
On Gengchen day in October of the tenth year, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as eggs.
In March of the eleventh year, Wushen, there were two sunspots in the sun, as big as peaches.
The emperor was still young at that time and could not personally manage the affairs of the country for a long time.
On Bingwu in October of the third year of Shengping, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as eggs.
Emperor Mu died soon after.
On the night of Wuchen in September of the third year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, two rainbows appeared in the east.
On the Wuchen day of April in the fourth year, the sun's halo was very thick and dense, and a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
At the end of October, there are sunspots in the sun.
In February of the fifth year of Xinyou, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as plums.
At Xinwei in March of the sixth year, a white rainbow penetrated the sun, and the sun was haloed, five times.
In November, Huan Wen deposed the emperor, which was the first year of Xian'an in Jianwen.
Jian Wen It was Ding Chou in November of the second year of Xian'an, and there were sunspots in the sun.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Xiaowu and Ningkang, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as plums.
In March of the second year of the year, there were two sunspots in the sun, as big as duck eggs.
It’s already November.
There are sunspots in the sun, as big as eggs.
At that time, the emperor had grown up, but Queen Kang Xian was still attending the court as a cousin-in-law, which really harmed the emperor's ethics, so there was a flaw in the sun.
In February of the thirteenth year of Taiyuan, there were two sunspots in the sun, as big as Li.
On Xin Mao in June of the fourteenth year, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as plums.
On Xin Mao, November of the 20th year, there were sunspots in the sun again.
At this time, King Kuaiji interfered in the government affairs as the younger brother of Emperor Xiaowu.
On the day of Renchen in the twelfth month of the first year of Emperor Long'an's reign, the sun was haloed and there was a bright light on its back.
After this, Emperor An could no longer take care of various government affairs personally, and Yuan Xian, the prince of Kuaiji, took over the power exclusively.
In November of the fourth year of Xinhai, there were sunspots in the sun.
In the second month of the first year of Yuanxing, there was a halo and a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
On Gengzi Day in March, a white rainbow passes through the day.
Soon, Huan Xuan captured Kyoto and the king's army was defeated.
In the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne.
It was Gengwu in the fifth month of the first year of Yixi.
There are colorful prominences on the sun.
In the sixth month of May, Bingzi, the sun was haloed and bright.
At that time, Lu Xun was approaching Kyoto, and the city was heavily guarded inside and outside.
In July, Lu Xun was defeated and fled.
In July of the seventh year, five rainbows appeared in the east.
Divination said: The emperor will be deposed.
After this, Liu Yu replaced the Jin Dynasty. In the tenth year, the sun was located in the Dongjing area, and a white rainbow more than ten feet high crossed the sun in the south.
The disaster was within the boundaries of Qin and was a symbol of Qin's demise.
On Renchen day of the first month of the second year of Yuanxi reign of Emperor Gong, white air penetrated the sun. There was a one-foot-long straight line of Er air in the east and west. The white air penetrated Er air and intersected with it.
○Monthly changes
In November of the fourth year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, the moon was hazy and the Beidou was obscured.
The fortune telling said: If there is a big funeral, the world will be amnesty.
In May of the seventh year, Emperor Wen died, and Emperor Ming ascended the throne and granted amnesty to the world.
In the third month of the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, there was a total lunar eclipse on the night of Renshen and Bing.
There is another lunar eclipse on Ding night, which is also good.
Divination says: A total lunar eclipse will bring worries to adults.
He also said: The nobles of his country are going to die.
On the leap month Yihai day of the fourth year of Haixi Gongtaihe, the halo of the moon covered the star Zhen, and a white halo penetrated the north side of the moon. The halo covered the three stars on the handle of the bucket.
The divination said: The king will do evil by this.
In six years, Huan Wen deposed Emperor Huai.
On the Jiazi day of the third month of the fifth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a population beside the moon.
Divination says: If there are people near the moon, there will be rebellious officials and traitors around the emperor, and the people will kill each other.
It is a sign of Huan Xuan's usurpation of power and rebellion.
On the first day of the twelfth month of the ninth year of Yixi, the moon still appeared in the east.
This is called concealment, and the king will decline.
At this time, Liu Yu was assisting the government and threatening himself, which was exactly what he should do.
On Yiwei day, November of the eleventh year, the moon entered the Yugui star and had a halo.
Divination says: The monarch is worried and treasure appears.
One saying is: If there is dizziness next to the moon, the world will be amnesty.
○The waning month violates the fifth latitude
Whenever the moon eclipses five stars, his country will perish.
The five stars invade the moon, and their divided areas have the appearance of exile.
On the Jiachen day of the twelfth month of the fifth year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, the moon touched Saturn, and the divination said: The heroine should respond to this phenomenon.
On Yi Chou day in October of the second year of Qinglong, the moon reached Saturn again.
Ditto for divination.
On Wuyin day, the moon crossed the Taibai star, and the divination said: The king will die, and there will be a war.
In July of the first year of Jingchu, Gongsun Wenyi rebelled.
In the first month of the second year, Emperor Xuan was sent to conquer him.
In the first month of the third year, the emperor passed away.
On March 14th of the fourth year, both Taibai and the moon appeared as double images in the daytime, and the moon touched Taibai.
Ditto for divination.
On the last day of October in the first year of Jingchu, the moon touched the star Yinghuo.
Divination said: The noble person will die.
In April of the second year, Situ Han passed away.
On Jiawu Day, the first month of the first year of King Jiaping of Qi, Taibai star attacked the moon.
Emperor Xuan asked Empress Dowager Yongning to abolish Cao Shuang and others.
On the Gengchen day in November of the second year of Emperor Hui's Tai'an reign, the Sui star invaded the middle of the month.
Divination said: There is a sign of exile in the country.
On the day of Renyin in the twelfth month, the Taibai star invades the moon.
Divination said: There will be war in the world.
On Yimao day of the first month of the third year, the moon crossed the Taibai star, and the divination was the same as that of the second year of Qinglong.
In July, the left guard general Chen Qi and others led the emperor to attack the king of Chengdu. The six armies were defeated and the rebels forced the court.
Two years later, Emperor Hui died.
On Xinsi day in November of the second year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the moon touched the star Yinghuo.
Divination said: A rebellious minister appears.
At the end of the twelfth month of the third year, Taibai entered the moon and was in the position of Dou Su.
Guo Pu said: The moon corresponds to the hexagram "Kan" and is the symbol of the underworld.
When Taibaijin travels to invade, God's will seems to be saying that the criminal justice system has lost its integrity and destroyed its laws and regulations.
On the day of Dinghai in the twelfth month of the fourth year, the moon and the year star were in the position of the house.
The divination says: The army of the corresponding country is starving and the people are in exile.
In March of the first year of Yongchang, Wang Dun rebelled and led Jiang Jing's troops to attack. The Kyoto division was defeated and the general was killed.
Also, General Liu Wei of Zhenbei was defeated and fled. The people all left their fields and were trapped in the chaos of war.
In April, the rebels killed Sima Cheng, the governor of Xiangzhou and King Qiao, and Gan Zhuo, the general of Zhennan.
In the second month of the first year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, the Taibai Star invaded the moon.
April Jiawu.
The moon and Taibai star.
In the fourth year of the fourth year, on the fourth day of April and the fourth day of the seventh month, the moon covered the Taibai Star.
Divination says: The monarch dies.
There will also be wars, and the master will take this as an evil.
The next year, Shi Jilong's troops invaded the south of Mianshui in a large scale, so the security inside and outside was tight.
On Xinwei day in April of the fifth year, the moon violated the Sui star and was in the field of Wei.
Divination said: There will be famine in the country and the people will be in exile.
On the last day of Yi, the moon meets the stars of the year and is in the field of Pleiades.
In winter, Miannan and Zhucheng were defeated, and more than ten thousand people fled.
On the second day of the second month of the sixth year, Taibai entered the moon.
Divination said: The king will die.
On April Jiawu day, the moon violated the Taibai star.
Divination says: The leader of the people will be evil.
In the twelfth month of the eighth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, the moon was in the place of Dongjing, which violated the Sui star.
Divination said: There is famine in Qin and the people are in exile.
At this time, military revolutions occurred year after year.
In November of the tenth year, the moon shook Saturn, in the field of Yugui.
Divination said: There is a war in Qin.
At that time, Huan Wen attacked Fu Jian, and Fu Jian held the city of Chang'an while Huan Wen's troops retreated.
In August of the twelfth year, Huan Wen defeated Yao Xiang.
On the day of Renwu in the eleventh month of the first year of Shengping, the moon shook the stars of the year, and they were in the field of Fangsu.
Divination said: The people are hungry.
He also said: There is a disaster in Yuzhou.
In the leap month of the second year, on Yihai day, the moon violated the year star and stayed in the house.
Account as above.
Three years later, Xie Wan, the governor of Yuzhou, was defeated.
On Yiyou day in the third month of the third year, the moon crossed the Taibai star and was in the Pleiades.
The divination said: You will die.
He also said: There is a war in Zhao land, and the Hu people are uneasy.
In the first month of the fourth year, Mu Rongjun passed away.
In the fifth year of the first lunar month, the moon appeared in the wilderness of Weisu, covering the Taibai star.
Divination said: The world is scattered and in chaos.
On the third day of the third month, the moon touches Saturn and is in Zhen.
Divination says: The sun is a sign of great mourning.
In May, Emperor Mu died.
In July, Murong Ke attacked Lu Hu, the governor of Jizhou, in Yewang and occupied the city of Yewang. Lu Hu was defeated and fled.
At that time, Huan Wen led a large group of troops and was stationed in Wan. When he heard that Lu Hu was defeated, he withdrew.
It was Bingxu in the tenth month of the first year of Emperor Ai's Xingning reign. The moon was about to turn white, and he was in the field of Xu Nuxing.
Divination said: The world is scattered.
He also said: The disaster happened in Yangzhou.
Three years later, Luoyang was captured.
After that, Huan Wen used all Yangzhou's money and property to conquer the north. He achieved great success and killed most of his soldiers.
By the time he conquered Yuan Zhen, the Huainan area was already in ruins.
Later, Murong Wei and Fu Jian alternately invaded the border.
In the first month of the third year, Yi Mao, the moon star was in Rigel.
Divination said: Rigel is the division of Yizhou.
In June, General Zhenxi and Yizhou Governor Zhou Fu died.
In October, Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, entered Yizhou and rebelled.
Zhu Xu led his troops to help the governor Zhou Chu conquer and pacify the rebels.
On the second day of the second month of the first year of Haixi Taihe, the moon covered the star Yinghuo in the field of Betelgeuse.
Divination said: This is a sign that civil strife will occur and the monarch will not die.
He also said: Rigel corresponds to the Wei region.
Five years later, Murong Wei was destroyed by Fu Jian.
In February Wuyin of the twelfth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, the star Yinghuo invaded the moon.
Divination says: There will be rebellious ministers dying, or there will be people killing each other.
He also said: When a female relative is in power, the world will be in chaos.
At that time, King Langye was assisting the government, and the princess's cousin Wang Guobao was favored because he was a relative by marriage.
At the same time, Yuan Yue, a native of Chen County, secretly had a personal relationship with Gou Jin, sowing discord between the prime minister and the prime minister, and colluding with cronies.
In the thirteenth year, Emperor Xiaowu beheaded Yuan Yue in a busy market.
As a result, a gap arose between the principals and ministers, and war began.
On the day of Wuzi in the twelfth month of the thirteenth year, the stars entered the moon and were in danger.
Divination says: If a rebellious minister wants to kill the monarch, there will definitely be evil within him within three years.
After that, Murong Chui, Zhai Liao, Yao Chang, Fu Deng, and Murong Yong all relied on their troops to fight for victory.
On the last day of the twelfth month of the fourteenth year, the moon violated the star of the year.
Ditto for divination.
In the fifteenth year, Zhai Liao occupied Sizhou and Yanzhou, but many troops and horses failed to conquer it several times. Murong also invaded Bingzhou and Jizhou.
In July, there was a drought.
In August, floods occurred in various counties in Miazhong, and another locust plague occurred in Yanzhou.
In the first month of the eighteenth year, Yiyou, Yinghuo enters the moon.
Divination said: Worry in the palace is not a thief but a thief.
He also said: If there are rebellious ministers, there will be murderers.
In September of the 21st year, Emperor Xiaowu died violently in the inner palace. The people declared that his wife Zhang had rebelled privately.
Also, Wang Guobao was evil and cunning, and was eventually killed.
It's April of the nineteenth year, and the moon is dying and the stars are at the end.
Divination said: Due to hunger, Yan will perish.
Twenty years later, Murong Chui sent his son Murong Bao to attack Wei, but he was defeated and tens of thousands of people died in the battle.
In the twenty-first year, Murong Chui died, and the Yan Kingdom declined.
It was Gengwu in the sixth month of the first year of Emperor Long'an's reign, and the moon was about to turn white, outside Taiwei Duanmen.
Divination says: There will be war in the country.
On Yiyou day, the moon is dying and the star is on the east wall.
Divination says: There will be famine, and there will be war in the Wei territory.
In June of the second year, Xi Hui sent Deng Qifang and others to lead 10,000 people to attack Murong Bao at Huatai, but Qifang failed.
In September of the third year, Huan Xuan and others raised their troops to go to war, and martial law was imposed both inside and outside.
In the first month of the fourth year, Yihai, the moon is full of stars, at the boundary of Altair.
The divination says: There is a military death in Wuyue, and the heroine is in distress.
At the end of June, the moon fills in the stars again, at the boundary of Altair.
At the end of October, the moon is dying and the star is in the field of Pollux.
Divination said: Due to hunger, there will be war in Hu land.
In May of the fourth year, Sun En captured Kuaiji and killed Xie Yan, the internal historian.
Later, Gao Yazhi was defeated in Yuyao, with 78 out of 10 dead.
In July, Empress Dowager Li passed away.
In the first year of Yuanxing, Sun En invaded Linhai and starved many civilians to death. Almost all of them fled.
In April of the first year of Yuanxing, Xinchou, the moon shook the stars.
In July, a severe famine occurred and people ate each other.
In the eleventh month of the second year, Xinsi day, the moon was confused.
Accounting for the same as above.
In December of the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne, moved the emperor and empress to Xunyang, and made Queen He of Yong'an the Lord of Lingling.
In February of the third year, Liu Yu killed all the Huan family.
In the second month of the third year, Jia Chen, the moon picks up the star of the year in the left corner.
Divination said: The world is in war.
On Bingchen in February of that year, Liu Yu rebelled and killed Huan Xiu and others.
In the first month of the second year, various people attacked Huan Zhen and finally wiped out all the Huan clan.
On the fourth day of the fourth month of the first year of Yixi, the moon crossed Saturn and was in the boundary of the east wall star.
Divination said: A certain place will be destroyed.
He also said: It symbolizes the death of a noble person.
At the end of July, the moon covers Saturn and is in the boundary between the stars on the east wall.
Divination said: A certain country will perish due to conquest. One theory: It symbolizes the exile of the country's people.
In the tenth month of the twelfth lunar month, at the end of the month, Saturn is in the field of camp stars.
Account as above.
In November, Wei Yongzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, passed away.
In February of the second year, Sima Guofan and others captured Yiyang.
In three years, Situ defeated Yangzhou governor Wang Mi and died.
In the first month of the fourth year, Sima Zun, the Taibao and King of Wuling, passed away.
In March, Zuo Pu Shekong Anguo passed away.
On Bingwu day in the twelfth month of the second year, the moon covered the Taibai star, in the boundary between the dangerous stars.
Divination said: Qi will perish.
He also said: The king of a powerful country is about to die.
In April of the fifth year, Liu Yu's army went north to attack Murong Chao, and finally eliminated them.
In the sixth month of the seventh year of Gengzi, the moon violated the Sui star and was at the boundary of the Bi star.
The divination said: There is war and famine in the border lands.
At the end of August, the moon clashes with the star of the year, in the realm of beauty, charm and life.
Divination said: There will be war and famine in Yizhou. In the seventh month, Zhu Lingshi defeated Shu. The Shu people quickly conquered Shu, but Zhu Ling attacked them again.
In the first month of the eighth year, Gengxu, the moon violated the Sui star, which was at the boundary of the Bi star.
Account as above.
In July of the ninth year, Zhu Lingshi destroyed Shu.
In the fifth month of the twelfth year, on Jiashen day, the moon crossed the Sui star and was in the left corner.
Divination says: There will be a famine.
On Renshen day in April of the 14th year, the moon opposed Saturn and was in the division of Zhang Xing.
Divination said: There will be a great mourning in the world.
The next year after this, Emperor An died.
In the seventh month of the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, the moon clashed with the star of the year.
The divination is exactly the same as the previous divination.
On December 4th, the moon clashed with the Taibai star near the Yulin star.
In June of the second year, Emperor Gong abdicated the throne and gave way to Song Dynasty.
○Five-star gathering house
On Renxu day in the fourth year of Taihe, the fourth year of Emperor Wei Ming's reign, the Taibai star violated the Sui star.
Divination says: If Taibai star violates the five stars, there will be large-scale war.
In March of the fifth year, Zhuge Liang led a large army to invade Tianshui.
At that time Emperor Xuan was appointed as a general and resisted and repelled them.
At the end of February in the second year of Qinglong, Taibai star invaded Yinghuo star.
Divination said: A large army will be launched and a large-scale war will occur.
In April of this year, Zhuge Liang occupied Weinan. Wu also raised troops to join him, and the Wei army rushed to the east and west.
In the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the three stars Saturn, Suixing, and Taibai gathered near Bi Pleiades.
Divination said: Soldiers are mourning.
Bi Pleia is the Pleiades star, which corresponds to Zhao Di.
Later, Queen Jia framed and killed the prince. King Zhao deposed the queen, killed her, and beheaded Zhang Hua and Pei Yu. Then he usurped the throne and deposed the deposed emperor as the supreme emperor. From then on, the world suffered from turmoil and disasters one after another.
In November of the second year of Yongning, the two stars Yinghuo and Taibai fought in Xuwei.
Divination said: There will be a large-scale war, the army will be defeated, and the generals will be killed.
The place of distinction is Qi Di.
In December, the star Yinghuo invaded the Taibai star near the camp star.
Divination said: There will be war in the world, which is a bad omen for the death of the king.
He also said: The Prime Minister of the country will be changed.
At first, King Sima Ji of Qi arrived in Kyoto, so he stayed behind to assist in government affairs, so he became arrogant and arrogant.
In the middle of this month, the king of Chengdu and the king of Hejian sent a message to Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, to attack him. Sima Jiong and Sima Yi fought and attacked and burned the imperial palace. Sima Jiong was defeated and was executed and eliminated.
He also beheaded more than 2,000 people under his brother Sima Shi, the general of the army.
In the second year of Tai'an, the King of Chengdu attacked the King of Changsha again. As a result, both public and private households suffered from hunger and hardship, and the people's financial resources were exhausted.
In the first month of the third year of Tai'an, Yinghuo offended Sui Xing.
Divination says: There will be a war.
July.
Chen Jin, the general of the left guard, attacked Chengdu on behalf of the emperor, and the six armies were defeated miserably. In September of the first year of Guangxi, Saturn violated the Sui star.
Divination says: Saturn conjuncts the Sui star, which is a sign of civil strife.
At that time, Sima Yue was in power, but was eventually eliminated because of his arrogance and rudeness, which was the fulfillment of civil strife.
On the day of Guiwei in December, Taibai crosses Saturn.
Divination said: There will be civil strife and large-scale war in the country.
After that, the king of Hejian was killed by Yue, the king of Donghai.
In the first month of the second year, the King of East China Sea killed Zhuge Mei and others.
In May, Ji Sang defeated Feng Song's troops and killed King Dongyan.
In August, Gou Xi defeated Ji Sang.
In July of the sixth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, Yinghuo, Suixing, and Taibai stars gathered between Niu and Nu, wandering forward and retreating.
The divination of the case said: Niu and Nuo were separated in Yangzhou. After that, both of them fell into decline, and Emperor Yuan was able to revive in Yangzhou.
In the fifth month of Guiwei in the first year of Jianwu, the two stars Taibai and Yinghuo met near Dongjing.
Divination said: The combination of gold and fire is called Shuo, which indicates a funeral.
At that time, Emperor Min was in trouble and was living in Pingyang. He died in the land of Kou Ting in July.
In the seventh month of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Suixing and Yinghuo stars met near Dongjing.
On the last day of August, the Taibai star meets the Sui star and meets near the Wing star.
Divination said: This is a sign of famine in the army.
On Bingchen day in June of the third year, the Taibai star and the Suixing star met near the house.
Ditto for divination.
In the first year of Yongchang, Wang Dun attacked the capital and the six armies were defeated.
Wang Dun died soon after.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, on Yichou day, Taibai star violated Suixing in the camp.
Divination said: This is a sign of famine in the army.
In February of the fourth year, Shi Jilong captured Youzhou and moved more than ten thousand people to the south.
In the fifth year, Shi Jilong led 50,000 enemy troops to invade Miannan and plundered more than 7,000 people.
He also led 20,000 cavalry to besiege and capture the city of Zhu, killing and plundering more than 5,000 people.
On the day of Guichou in the twelfth month of the fourth year, Taibai crossed Saturn and was near Jisu.
Divination says: The monarch will lose his land.
In the seventh year, Murong Huang called himself King Yan.
In March of the seventh year, the Taibai star Yinghuo star converged in Taiwei and violated the left law star.
The next year, Xianzong died.
In December of the eighth year of the lunar month, the Taibai star and the Yinghuo star were near the Wei constellation.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war.
After that, Yu Yi sent out a large number of troops to attack Shi Jilong, thus gaining dictatorship at the top.
On the day of Dingwei in the eighth month of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's reign, the Taibai star crossed the Sui star and was near Zhensu.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war.
This year Shi Jilong's general Liu Ning invaded and captured Didao.
In May of the fourth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, Yinghuo entered Lousu and violated Saturn.
Divination said: Large-scale wars will occur, there will be funerals, and disasters will occur in Zhao.
This year Shi Jilong died. The next year Ran Min killed Shi Zun and more than 100,000 people from various ethnic groups. Afterwards, Chu Pei went north to conquer and lost his army and died.
On March 18th, the sixth year of the lunar calendar, Yinghuo offended the star of the year.
Divination says: There will be war.
In the third month of the seventh year, Wuzi, Sui Xing and Yinghuo merged into Kui Su.
This year Liu Xian killed Shi Zhi and other Hu generals, causing chaos in the Central Plains.
On Dingmao day in the seventh month of the twelfth year, Taibai star opposed Saturn near Liusu.
Divination said: There will be a big war in Zhou Dynasty.
In August of this year, Huan Wen defeated Fu Jian and was defeated. He defeated Yao Xiang in Yishui and stabilized the Zhou Dynasty.
On Wuwu in August of the second year of Shengping, Yinghuo violated Saturn and was near Zhang Su.
Divination said: The army will rise.
In the eighth month of the third year of the lunar month, Taibai crossed Saturn, in Taiwei.
Divination said: The king will take this as evil.
On Dingmao day in October of the fifth year, Yinghuoxing attacked Suixing near the camp.
Divination said: The minister has a hidden agenda.
He also said: There is war in the Wei area.
At that time, Huan Wen was in power and plotted to overthrow the Jin Dynasty.
In the eighth month of the first year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, the Taibai star violated the Sui star and was in Taiwei.
On the day of Jiayin in June of the third year, the Taibai star covered the Yinghuo star in the Taiwei Duanmen.
In six years, Duke Haixi was deposed.
In the first month of the second year of Jianwen's Xian'an year, the Sui star crossed Saturn near the female star.
Divination says: There will be civil strife.
In July, Emperor Mu died. Huan Wen took over the power and murdered Wang Tanzhi and others in response to the civil strife.
On Guiyou day in November of the second year of Xiaowu and Ningkang, the Taibai star covered the Yinghuo star and was near the Yingshi star.
Divination says: Gold and fire combine to form a flash, which indicates death in war.
In July of the first year of Taiyuan, Fu Jian attacked Liangzhou, captured it, and captured Zhang Tianxi.
On Ji Chou day in the twelfth month of the eleventh year of Tai Yuan, the Taibai star violated the Sui star.
Divination said: It indicates famine in the army.
At that time, the north of the Yellow River was not pacified, and the army was away for many years. A serious famine occurred in winter.
On Ding Chou day in September of the 17th year, Suixing, Yinghuo, and Saturn appeared near Kangsu and Disu at the same time.
On Guiyou day in December, Saturn will leave, but the Yinghuo star and the Sui star will still be together.
Divination said: The three stars converge, which interrupts the normal operation of the stars, indicating that there will be famine and military deaths inside and outside, and the king and ministers will be replaced. In October of the 19th year, Taibai, Saturn, and Yingluo gathered near Di.
On the Guichou day of the twelfth lunar month, the Taibai star crosses the Sui star and is in the constellation Dou.
Divination said: It indicates unrest and famine. There is war in the country.
Dou Su is the dividing line between Wu and Yue.
In the first year of Long'an, Wang Gong and others launched an attack to expose Wang Guobao's crimes, and the court executed him.
After this, floods, droughts and famines occurred in successive years.
In February of the first year of Emperor Long'an, both Suixing and Yinghuo entered the Yulin.
Divination said: There will be a war in the Chinese army.
In April, Wang Gong and others raised troops to ask questions, and martial law was imposed inside and outside.
On Gengzi day in August of the first year of Yuanxing, the Taibai star crossed the Sui star and was in the southeast of the General star.
Divination said: There will be famine among the soldiers in Chu.
He also said: The disaster occurred in the place where the admiral star separates.
In the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne.
In three years, Liu Yu killed all the Huan family.
On the day of Ding Chou in October of the second year, Taibai crossed Saturn and was near Lousu.
Account as above.
On Renchen Day in February of the third year, Taibai Star and Yinghuo Star met near Yulin Star.
In December of the second year, Huan Xuan succeeded in usurping the throne and brought Emperor An and Empress out of the country.
In February of the third year, Liu Yu launched a rebel army, and Huan Xuan forced Emperor An to go eastward.
At the end of December in the second year of Yixi, Yinghuo and Taibai both entered the Yulin star and met near Bisu.
In the first month of the third year, Murong Chao invaded Huaibei and Xuzhou as far as Xiapi.
In August, Liu Jingxuan was sent to conquer Shu.
On the day of Guihai in the second month of the third year, Yinghuo, Saturn, Taibai, and Chenxing gathered near Kuisu and Lousu, following Saturn, and formed the boundary between Xuzhou and Xuzhou.
At that time, Murong Chao was called Yue in Qi, and his military deployment was from Xuzhou to Yanzhou. He invaded and looted for many years, all the way to Huai River and Si River. Yao Xing and Qiao Zong were named Yue in Qin and Shu respectively. Lu Xun and Wei invaded from all sides from the north and south.
Five years later, Liu Yu went north and destroyed Murong Chao.
On Xinmao day of June, Yinghuo star invaded Chenxing and was in Yisu.
Divination said: There will be war in the world.
On August 9th, the Taibai star shook the Yinghuo star.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war.
In the fourth year, Yao Lue sent many soldiers to conquer Helianbobo, but they were severely defeated.
On the Jiaxu day in April of the fifth year, Yinghuo star invaded Chenxing and stayed in Dongjing.
Divination said: There will be wars.
On the Xin Chou day of the twelfth lunar month, the Taibai star crossed the Sui star and was near Kuisu.
Divination said: Large-scale war will occur, and there will be war in Lu.
In April of this year, Liu Yu conquered Murong Chao.
In February of the sixth year, Murong Chao was killed in Lu.
In the seventh month of the seventh year, on Ding Mao, the year star crossed Saturn and was near Rigel.
Divination says: The conjunction of the Sui star and Saturn is a sign of civil strife.
He also said: There will be a war in Yizhou. If we cannot win, we will lose our land.
At this time, Zhu Lingshi attacked Shu and later destroyed it.
The next year, Xie Hun and Liu Yi were killed.
On Jiashen Day in July of the eighth year, Taibai crossed Saturn and was near Dongjing Su.
Divination said: There will be large-scale war in Qin.
On Bingwu day in February of the ninth year, Yinghuo and Saturn both invaded Dongjing constellation.
Divination said? There is a war in Qin.
On Renchen day in March, the Sui star, Yinghuo star, Saturn, and Taibai star gathered in Dongjing constellation, following the Sui star.
Dongjing is the dividing line between Qin and Qin.
In the thirteenth year, Liu Yu pacified Guanzhong, and then shook the succession of Jin's throne.
In the tenth month of the fourteenth year of Guisi, the star Yinghuo entered Taiwei and violated the star of the General of Xibo. It still moved forward to Zuoyemen, stayed for twenty days and then moved retrograde.
On March 5, the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, he left the general star of Xibo and headed about three feet to the west, and then headed back to Taiwei.
At that time, Saturn was in Taiwei, and Yinghuo and Saturn were in the shape of a hook. On Bingxu in April of this year, it left Duanmen.
Divination said: The stars Yinghuo and Saturn are in the sky, and the world will change its dynasty.
In December, Emperor An's younger brother, King Langxie, ascended the throne as emperor. This was Emperor Gong.
In the second year, the Zen position was given to Song Dynasty.
