In the past, the Zhou Dynasty learned from the lessons of the Xia and Shang dynasties. King Wen, King Wu, and Duke Zhou formulated laws and regulations, established five titles such as duke, marquis, uncle, son, and male, and enfeoffed 800 vassal states, among which more than 50 had the same surname as the emperor.
Zhou Gong and Kang Shu established vassal vassals in Lu and Wei, each with a radius of hundreds of miles; Jiang Taigong established vassal in Qi, which was also the place where the five princes and nine states were the chief.
The "Book of Songs" records the system at that time: The army is used as a fence, and the grand master is used as a wall.
Use the princes of the big country as a barrier, and use the royal family with the same surname as a pillar.
If one can govern with virtue, the world will be at peace, and the castle of the son of the feudal clan will be strong.
The castle cannot be destroyed and the clan cannot be isolated. Otherwise, fear and uneasiness will arise.
Therefore, relatives and virtuous people are awarded titles together, and commending and commending people with meritorious deeds is fundamental to the prosperity and decline of the country and the stability of the world, and cannot be changed.
Therefore, when the Zhou Dynasty was strong, the Dukes of Zhou and Shao participated in running the country, reaching a state where no one broke the law and the criminal law was put aside; when it declined, the Five Hegemons supported them and guarded the world together.
Since King You and King Ping, the country has been declining day by day, and has even become uneasy between powerful vassal states. It has also split into two small kingdoms, the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty. There is a high platform for the emperor to escape debts and refuge, and there are rumors that the guillotine, which symbolizes royal power, has been stolen and hidden.
However, the world still calls it the common master, and the powerful princes dare not destroy it.
After more than 800 years, all the merits were finally lost, the throne ended with King Nan, the emperor was demoted to a commoner, and died of natural causes.
Although the title and throne were lost in the world, the branches and leaves still seemed to be maintained. No one dared to occupy the empty throne. There was no emperor in the world for more than thirty years.
The Qin Dynasty relied on its superior terrain and deceitful troops to annex the six vassal states east of Mount Wei, and won victory in one go.
Therefore, it boasted that it knew the world well, thought that one person knew the cause of founding the country, slandered and ridiculed three generations, eradicated and eradicated ancient methods, and secretly gave itself the title of emperor, but its children were ordinary people, with no flesh and blood of the same origin to help them, and no vassal states with land to protect them outside.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang rose up with a wooden stick, and Liu Bang and Xiang Ji immediately destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
Therefore, it is said that the Zhou Dynasty enjoyed the country for too long and the Qin Dynasty did not reach a hundred years, both of which were caused by the power of the country.
In the early years of the rise of the Han Dynasty, the world had just been peaceful and there were few clans with the same surname. Emperor Gaozu learned from the experience of the Qin Dynasty, which collapsed due to isolation and helplessness, so he began to divide the territory and establish princes and second-class titles.
There are more than a hundred cities and towns among the meritorious officials. The children of the royal family are more noble and have a territory larger than that of the Nine Kingdoms.
From Yanmen to the east to the north bank of the Liao River are the states of Yan and Dai.
Changshan Mountain to the south, Taihang Mountain to the east, across the river and Jishui, and into the sea, are the states of Qi and Zhao.
The Gushui and Swimming areas, including Guishan and Mengshan, were the two kingdoms of Liang and Chu.
Containing rivers and lakes in the east and close to Kuaiji, is the Kingdom of Wu.
To the north is the Huaihe River, including Mount Lu and Hengshan, and is the Huainan Kingdom.
Going south from the Han River to Jiuyi Mountain is the Kingdom of Changsha.
The vassal states are connected one after another, surrounded by the north, Shu, and south sides, and bordered by Hu Di and Nanyue.
The emperor himself has Hedong, Henan, Hanoi, Dongjun, Yingchuan, and Nanyang, from Jiangling to Bashu in the west, and from Yunzhong to Longxi in the north, including the capital, a total of fifteen counties, among which there are also the fiefdoms of princesses and princes.
A large vassal state spans several states and counties, connects dozens of cities, and has the same palace and official system as the capital. It can be said to be overkill.
Even so, Emperor Gaozu established the foundation and had no leisure for a day. Emperor Hui's reign was short, and Empress Gao used a woman as regent. However, the country was safe and sound, and there was no excess to worry about. Later, the disaster that destroyed the Lu family and the success of Emperor Wen's imperial career also relied on the power of the princes.
However, the feudal lords were originally powerful in their country, and the currents were overflowing. The smaller ones are dissolute and illegal, while the larger ones are rampant and unruly, causing harm to themselves and the country.
Therefore, Emperor Wen adopted Jia Yi's suggestion to divide Qi and Zhao, and Emperor Jing adopted Chao Cuo's strategy to weaken Wu, Chu and other states.
Emperor Wu implemented his father's plan and issued a favor order, which enabled the princes and kings to allocate part of the households and cities to their children without having to abolish the migration, and the vassal state itself fell apart.
From then on, the State of Qi was divided into seven small states, the State of Zhao was divided into six, the State of Liang was divided into five, and the State of Huainan was divided into three.
When the prince began to be crowned king, the larger ones were no more than ten cities.
Although Changsha, Yan, Dai and other countries still have their old names, they no longer have the previous north-south boundaries.
When Emperor Jing suffered from the disasters of the Seven Kingdoms, he suppressed and weakened the princes and dismissed officials from various countries.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the two kings of Hengshan and Huainan rebelled, so they established laws on the officials of the princes and severely punished those who violated the law. The princes could only receive food, clothing, taxes, and rent, but could not participate in political affairs.
By the time of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, the princes were all descendants of their ancestors and had an alienated relationship with the emperor. They were born in palaces and were not respected by scholars and common people. Their power was no different from that of wealthy families.
The emperors all died young and had no heirs for three consecutive dynasties. Therefore, Wang Mang knew that the Han Dynasty was in danger both internally and externally and was weak, so he had no scruples and became treacherous. Relying on the authority of his aunt and the Queen Mother, he pretended to be Duke of Zhou to deceive people's hearts, dominate the court, and make the world run without going down the steps.
Once the treacherous plan was completed, he usurped the emperor's position, sent officials separately and quickly spread the word throughout the world, issuing the emperor's orders.
The princes and kings of the Han Dynasty were so frightened by the lustful power that they all prostrated on the ground and offered jade seals and ribbons, fearing that they would be left behind. Some even sang praises and flattery to please them. How sad!
So I found out how the princes changed from strong to weak from beginning to end, as a punishment.
