The Han Dynasty took the burning books of the Qin Dynasty as a warning and vigorously promoted Confucianism. The number of students in Taixue often reached more than 10,000, and the schools in various prefectures and states were also fully staffed. The schools were located in the mountains and fields, and even shops and markets were opened close to the schools. The prosperity of the schools reached such an extent.
At the end of the Han Dynasty, the political situation was turbulent, and Confucianism declined.
After the Zhengshi period of the Wei Dynasty, the Taoist theory of Xuanyuan Nihility was gradually advocated, and therefore fewer people studied Confucianism.
At that time, Xun Pin, Zhi Yu and others, although they deleted new rituals and changed official positions, they could not change the customs.
After the founding of the People's Republic of China, the Central Plains was in turmoil and even fell. All civilization and ethics were ruined. The Jin Dynasty moved to Jiangzuo. Everything was being created. The country was busy with affairs and had no time to run schools. In the Song and Qi Dynasties, Chinese studies were sometimes opened, but there was no extensive encouragement and supervision. The establishment time was less than ten years, but they were abandoned for many years. Because the state only provided empty provisions in the regulations for the establishment of schools, they were suddenly abandoned.
There are no schools in each township, and few ministers are proficient in the classics. The great scholars in the court only practice the classics themselves but refuse to teach students. The young people are ignorant and have no place to study and study the classics. The three virtues and six arts have been neglected for a long time.
After Emperor Gaozu became emperor, he was deeply saddened and worried about this situation, so he issued an edict to search for knowledgeable scholars, rectify the five rituals, approve the six laws, revise the calendar, and correct the balance.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu issued an edict saying: There are no wise men in the two deserts who have not taught Confucianism by virtue of their classics and skills, and have established a good reputation and achieved moral success.
In the Wei and Jin dynasties, the atmosphere was turbulent and Confucian learning declined. Perhaps because of this, the moral integrity could not be established.
I leave the court very late every day, just because I want to hear news about talented people. If you appoint talented people to get talented people, you should be rewarded.
Doctors on the Five Classics should be established, with one doctor for each classic, and schools should be established widely to accept young people to study.
So Pingyuan Mingshanbin, Wu Jun Lu Lian, Wu Xing Shen Jun, Jianping Yan Zhizhi, Kuaiji Hechang, etc. were appointed as replacement doctors, and each of them presided over a school.
There were hundreds of students in the academy, and the imperial court provided them with salaries.
Among them, those who choose things to report, if they are enlightened and wise, will be awarded as officials.
For more than ten years, people who were proficient in Confucian classics and well-read in Confucian classics gathered in the capital.
He also selected students to go to Yunmen Mountain in Kuaiji and study with He Yin in Lujiang.
Doctors were sent to each state and county to establish schools.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu issued another edict: To establish a country and be the monarch of all people, establishing enlightenment and promoting education are the most important things; cultivating knowledge and sharpening virtues, classics study is the must way.
I have established a foundation that has spread throughout the world. Although I have worked hard to develop Confucianism, there are not many talented people, and the virtues are still lacking. It is not enough to cultivate the princes and nobles and make them obey the laws of Confucianism. I want to encourage them to respect their elders, practice it at home, and then become a model for the world.
Wherever the prestige is now, the Rong people in China are also inspired. They should vigorously open schools and widely recruit the children of the royal family and nobles to practice the ten ethics and promote the three virtues, so that the imperial education can be spread far and wide, and the exquisite words can be promoted.
So the crown princes, princes, royal families, and princes began to study in schools.
In vain, Emperor Gaozu condescended to go to the school in person to pay tribute to Zizi and other saints of the previous generation, talk to the students, encourage them, and comfort them with silk. The school was solemn and the students were numerous, and the journey of the Great Way reached such a prosperous level.
Among them, Fu Manrong, He Tongzhi and Fan Zhen were already famous in contemporary times; among the famous Confucian scholars at that time, Yan Zhizhi, He Yu and others were among the top candidates.
Now the deeds of these people are connected together and compiled into "The Scholars".
Fu Manrong, courtesy name Gongyi, was born in Anqiu, Pingchang.
His great-grandfather Fu Tao was a scholar in the Jin Dynasty.
His father Fu Yinzhi was the chief secretary of Sikong during the Song Dynasty.
Fu Manrong lost his father very early, and he lived in the South China Sea with his mother and brother.
Fu Manrong has been attentive and studious since he was a child, and he is proficient in "Laozi" and "Book of Changes". He is bold and free and likes to exaggerate. He once said: He Yan has questions about nine things in "Yi". From my perspective, He Yan does not study at all, so I know that Uncle He Ping has shortcomings.
Fu Manrong gathered students to teach them their studies and regarded this as his profession.
Fu Manrong Ren Piao rode to join the army.
Emperor Ming of the Song Dynasty loved "The Book of Changes" and gathered courtiers to discuss the "Book of Changes" in the Qingshu Palace. He ordered Fu Manrong to hold the scriptures and answer questions.
Fu Manrong was very beautiful in appearance and manners. Emperor Ming of the Song Dynasty often compared him with Ji Shuye. He also ordered the Wu man Lu to explore the portrait of Ji Shuye in Weizhou and give the portrait to Fu Manrong.
Fu Manrong moved to Situ to join the army.
When Yuan Can was appointed Danyang Yin, he requested that Fu Manrong be appointed as Jiangning Order. Fu Manrong entered the capital and was awarded the title of Shangshu Waibinglang.
At the end of the Ming Dynasty, he served as the governor of the auxiliary state and the governor of Nanhai.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, he served as the minister of Tongzhi Sanqi.
In the early years of the Yongming Dynasty, he led the crown prince's orders and served the crown prince.
General Wei Wang Jian and Fu Manrong were very friendly and had a deep friendship. Wang Jian ordered Fu Manrong to co-write the "Mourning Clothing Yi" with Sima Xian of Hanoi and Wujun Lu Cheng. After writing the "Mourning Clothing Yi", Wang Jian wanted to review the rituals and music with Fu Manrong.
Coinciding with Wang Jian's death, Fu Manrong was promoted to Minister of the Secretariat, Grand Sima, and joined the army. He also left the capital to serve as the prefect of Wuchang.
During the Jianwu period, Fu Manrong entered Beijing and was awarded the title of Zhongsan doctor.
At that time, Emperor Ming did not attach great importance to Confucianism, and Fu Manrong's residence was beside Waguan Temple. Fu Manrong set up a high seat in the hall of his home. When guests came, he would climb on the high seat and lecture on the scriptures to them. There were often dozens or hundreds of students gathered to listen to the lectures.
Liang Guotai Mansion was established. Because Fu Manrong was a great Confucian scholar with a high reputation, Emperor Gaozu summoned him to worship him as Sima and as the prefect of Linhai.
In the first year of Tianjian, Fu Manrong died during his tenure at the age of eighty-two.
Fu Manrong is the author of "Annotation of Zhouyi", "Annotation of Mao's Poems", "Annotation of Mourning Clothes", "Laoziyi", "Zhuangziyi" and "On Semantics".
The deeds of Fu Manrong's son Fu Qu are in "The Biography of Good Officials".
He Tong, whose courtesy name was Shiwei, was from Sa County, Lujiang. He was the sixth-generation grandson of He Pang, the governor of Yuzhou.
His grandfather He Shaozhi was a member of the imperial court during the Song Dynasty.
His father, He Xin, was invited to the court by Qi Shi.
He Tongzhi has been interested in "Three Rites" since he was a child. He takes his heart as his teacher, studies independently, works hard to improve, and never lets go of the book. He read three hundred chapters of "Li" and read them all with proficiency, and the sentences could be spoken smoothly.
Taiwei Wang Jian was the master of Confucianism at that time, and he also respected He Tongzhi very much.
He Tong first became an official in Yangzhou, and then became a bachelor of Zongming Hall. He was promoted repeatedly, and later he served as Situ Chaqi, a member of the military, and Shangshu Temple Minister.
During the Jianwu period of Qi Dynasty, he served as the Zhenbei Ji Office, joined the army, served as an assistant to the crown prince, and led the Zhongzheng of Danyang City.
At that time, the infantry colonel Liu Shan and the conscript Wu Bao had both passed away, and the only scholar in the capital was He Tong.
He Tongzhiming was familiar with the art of technique and application. At that time, the standard principles of good and bad etiquette in the country all depended on him, and he was famous for a while.
He Tongzhi successively served as an infantry captain and a doctor of Guozi. Soon he was transferred to hussar to join the army and was transferred to Sima.
In the last years of Yongyuan, war broke out in the capital, but He Tongzhi often gathered students to comment on and study the meaning of the classics, and he was very diligent and never slacked off.
In the early years of ZTE, He Tongzhi was worshiped as a general of heroic cavalry.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he respected Confucianism and appointed He Tongzhi as Minister Zuocheng.
At that time, various systems were in the process of being created. He Tongzhi relied on "Li" to determine his views, which was of great help in formulating the system.
In the second year of Tianjian, He Tongzhi died during his tenure at the age of fifty-five.
Emperor Gaozu mourned his death and planned to grant him a title and an official position. According to the previous regulations, there was no precedent for conferring official positions on Zuocheng after his death. However, Emperor Gaozu specifically issued an edict to confer the post of Minister of Huangmen to He Tong. Confucian scholars felt honored by this favor.
He Tongzhi wrote about one hundred articles in "Li Yi".
He Tongzhi's sons were named He Chaoyin and He Chaohui.
Fan Zhen, courtesy name Zizhen, was born in Wuyin, Nanxiang.
He is the sixth generation grandson of Fan Wang, the general of Jin'an North.
His grandfather Fan Xuzhi served as Zhongshu Lang.
His father, Fan Meng, died young.
Fan Zhen lost his father when he was very young. His family was poor and he served his mother with filial piety and respect.
When Fan Zhen was less than 20 years old, he heard that Liu Shan of Pei State had gathered students to discuss the meaning of the classics, so he went to study with Liu Shan as his teacher.
Fan Zhen has outstanding talents, is different from ordinary people, and studies diligently. Liu Shan thinks he is a genius and crowns him personally.
Fan Zhen studied under Liu Shan for many years. Every time he went home, he often wore straw sandals and common clothes and walked back and forth.
Liu Shan's family had many princes and nobles who rode in carriages and horses. Fan Zhen was under Liu Shan's family and did not feel ashamed at all because of his poverty.
When Fan Zhen grew older, he became proficient in classics, especially the "Three Rites".
Fan Zhensheng has a straightforward nature and likes to make honest and extraordinary remarks, so the scholars and friends who associate with him often feel unhappy.
Fan Zhen only has a good relationship with his cousin Xiao Chen. Xiao Chen is known as an eloquent person, but he is often very impressed by Fan Zhen's concise and thoughtful diction.
Fan Zhen first became an official and served as the chief registrar of Qining Man. After his meritorious service, he was promoted to the position of lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace.
During the Yongming Dynasty, the Qi family and the Wei family lived in harmony and friendship, with envoys exchanging visits every year. Qi specially selected talented and learned scholars to serve as envoys. Fan Zhen, his cousin Fan Yun, his cousin Xiao Chen, Langxie Yan Youming, Hedong Pei Zhaoming and others were sent as envoys one after another, and they all left an outstanding reputation in neighboring countries.
At that time, Xiao Ziliang, the king of Jingling, recruited guests extensively, and Fan Zhen was also among those recruited.
During the Jianwu period, Fan Zhen moved to the post of chief military officer.
He left the capital and served as the prefect of Yidu, but resigned due to the death of his mother. He went home to mourn in Nanzhou.
When Emperor Gaozu's rebel army arrived in Nanzhou, Fan Zhen came to greet the rebel army in black mourning clothes.
Gaozu and Fan Zhen once lived together in the west residence owned by Xiao Ziliang, King of Jingling, and had a relationship. Now they were very happy to see Fan Zhen.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Emperor Gaozu appointed Fan Zhen as the prefect of Jin'an. During his tenure, Fan Zhen was honest and frugal, only using the state salary.
After serving for four years, he was recruited as Shangshu Zuocheng.
When Fan Zhen left home and returned home, even his relatives had nothing to give him. They only gave things to Wang Liang, the former minister.
When Fan Zhen was serving in Qi, he and Wang Liang were both ministers in the Taifu Palace. They were originally friendly to each other. By this time, Wang Liang was dismissed and deposed at home.
After Fan Zhen personally welcomed Emperor Gaozu's army, he was determined to serve as a minister. Soon his ambition was not realized, and he often became unhappy, so he became close to Wang Liang in private to correct the current situation.
Later, he was eventually moved to Guangzhou because of Wang Liang's incident, which was recorded in "The Biography of Wang Liang".
At first, when he was still in the Qi Dynasty, Fan Zhen once accompanied Xiao Ziliang, the king of Jingling.
Xiao Ziliang firmly believes in Buddhism, while Fan Zhen strongly claims that there is no Buddha.
Xiao Ziliang asked Fan Zhen: If you don't believe in cause and effect, then how can there be wealth and poverty in the world?
Fan Zhen replied: Life is like flowers on the same tree. They grow on the same branch and bloom on the same pedicle. They fall with the wind. Some flowers blow open the curtain and fall on the mat, while others meet the fence and fall next to the dirty soil pit.
Your Majesty, you are the one who is on the mat; this is the case with me, your Majesty, who is lying next to the filthy pit.
Although high and low have different paths, where does cause and effect ultimately end?
Xiao Ziliang couldn't reason with him, and was deeply surprised by Jian Long's views.
After returning, he discussed his own principles and wrote "Theory on the Destruction of Gods", saying:
Someone asked me: You said that the spirit will disappear. How do you know that it will disappear?
The answer is: The spirit is the body, and the body is the spirit. Therefore, when the body exists, the spirit exists. When the body withers, the spirit disappears.
Jian: Body is the name for things without consciousness, and spirit is the name for things with consciousness.
There is a difference between things that are conscious and unconscious; the spirit and the body are not allowed to be one. I have never heard of the idea that body and spirit are one.
Answer: The body is the material form of the spirit, and the spirit is the external expression of the body. Therefore, the body refers to its material form, and the spirit refers to its external expression. The body and the spirit cannot be separated from each other.
Jian: The spirit is not a material form, and the body is not an external expression. They cannot be distinguished. What is the reason? Answer: The names are different, but the essence is the same.
Question: Since the names are different, how can the ontology be the same?
Answer: The relationship between spirit and material entity is like the relationship between sharpness and knife; the relationship between body and external form is like the relationship between knife and sharpness. The concept of sharpness is not a knife, and the concept of a knife is not sharpness.
However, if you abandon the sharpness, there will be no knife. If you abandon the knife, there will be no sharpness. I have never heard that the knife is gone but the sharpness still exists. How can it be allowed that the body is gone but the spirit exists?
Question: The relationship between a knife and sharpness may be just like what you just said; but the relationship between body and spirit is not the same.
Why do you say this?
The material entity of trees has no consciousness, but the material entity of people has consciousness. People have both material entities like trees, but also have consciousness that is different from trees. Isn't it true that trees only have the same body, but people have both body and spirit?
Answer: What you said is really strange!
If a person has a material form like a tree as his body and a consciousness different from that of a tree as his spirit, then he can be like what you just said.
Now the material entity of human beings itself has consciousness, while the material entity of trees itself has no consciousness. The material entity of human beings is not the material entity of trees, and the material entity of trees is not the material entity of people. How can we say that people have material entities like trees, but also have consciousness that is different from trees!
Question: The difference between the physical entity of humans and the physical entity of trees is precisely because humans have consciousness.
If people have no consciousness, what is the difference between them and trees?
Answer: People do not have unconscious material entities, just as trees do not have sentient material entities.
Question: Isn’t the body of the deceased a material entity without consciousness?
Answer: This form is a material entity without human consciousness.
Question: In this case, people really have material entities like trees, and they also have perceptions that are different from trees.
Answer: Dead people have material entities like trees, but they have no consciousness different from trees; living people have consciousness different from trees, but they do not have material entities like trees.
Question: Aren’t the bones of a dead person the same as the remains of a living person?
Answer: The physical skeleton of a living person is different from the physical skeleton of a dead person, and the physical skeleton of a dead person is different from the physical skeleton of a living person. The difference is already very clear. How can there be a physical skeleton of a living person and the skeleton of a dead person?
Question: If the skeleton of a living person is not the skeleton of a dead person, then the skeleton must not have been transformed from the skeleton of a living person. If it was not transformed from the skeleton of a living person, then where did the skeleton of the dead come from?
Answer: This is the form of a living person turned into the skeleton of a dead person.
Question: Although the body of a living person has turned into the skeleton of a dead person, isn’t it because there is a living body and then a dead body? Then we can know that the dead body is the living body.
Answer: It is like changing from a living tree to a dead tree. Could it be that the material entity of the dead tree is the form of the living tree?
Question: If the living tree body becomes a dead tree body, then the dead tree body becomes the living tree body; the silk body becomes the thread body, and the thread body becomes the silk body. What is the difference between the two?
Answer: If a dead tree is a living tree and a living tree is a dead tree, then it should wither when its branches and leaves are lush and bear fruit when it is withered.
And a living tree should not become a dead tree, because a living tree is a dead tree, and there is no need for change.
A living tree is the same as a dead tree, so why don't they wither first and then grow and flourish?
Generally speaking, trees always flourish first and then wither. Why?
What you said about silk and glutinous rice can also be refuted in the same way.
Question: The fading of the living form should be eliminated all at once. Why does it take a long time when it is about to become a dead form?
Answer: This is because the formation and destruction of bodies generally follow a certain procedure.
Those things that are suddenly created must suddenly disappear, and those things that are gradually generated must be gradually destroyed.
Things that arise suddenly, such as storms and rains, are of this type; things that are formed gradually, animals and plants are one type of creation.
Some are formed suddenly and some are formed gradually. This is the law of all things.
Question: If the body is the spirit, are things like hands also the spirit?
Answer: These types of things are all part of the spirit.
Question: If they are all part of the spirit, then if the spirit can think, should things like hands also be able to think?
Answer: Things like hands should also feel pain and itching, without thinking about right and wrong.
Question: Are perception and thinking the same thing or different things?
Answer: Perception is thinking, shallow thinking is called perception, and deep thinking is called thinking.
Question: In this case, there should be two kinds of thinking. Since there are two kinds of thinking, are there two kinds of spirit?
Answer: There is only one human body, how can there be two kinds of spirit!
Question: If there cannot be two kinds of spirit, then where can there be the perception of pain and itch, and the thought of judging right and wrong?
Answer: Creation is like brothers and feet, although they are different, they all belong to the same person; judgments of right and wrong, feelings of pain and itch are different, but they all belong to the same spirit.
Question: The thought of judging right and wrong has nothing to do with siblings, so where does it have something to do with it?
Answer: The thinking of right and wrong is governed by the heart.
Question: Does the heart refer to the heart among the five internal organs, or does it not refer to the heart of the five internal organs?
Answer: It refers to the heart among the five internal organs.
Question: What are the differences between the five internal organs, but the heart only has the worry of judging right and wrong?
Answer: What is the difference between the seven orifices? Their functions are different.
Question: Thoughts have no definite direction, so how do we know that thoughts are governed by the heart?
Answer: Each of the five internal organs has its own function. Except for the heart, none of them can think. Therefore, we know that the heart is the foundation in charge of thinking.
Question: Why are thoughts not entrusted to organs like the eyes?
Answer: If thinking can be entrusted to the organ of the eye, why can’t the vision of the eye be entrusted to the organ of the ear?
Question: Thoughts have no foundation, so they can be entrusted to organs such as the eyes; the eyes have their own basic functions and do not need to be temporarily entrusted to other organs.
Answer: Why is it said that the eyes have its basic function but thinking has no foundation? If thinking has no foundation in one's body and can be widely entrusted to other places, then Zhang A's feelings can also be entrusted to Wang Yi's body, and Li Bing's temperament can also be attached to Zhao Ding's body.
Is this right? No.
Question: The body of a saint is like that of a mortal, but there are differences between mortals and saints, so we know the difference between body and spirit. Answer: Not so.
The pure gold can shine, but the dirty gold cannot shine. Can the pure gold that shines have a dirty material entity that does not shine?
How can the spirit of a saint be attached to the body of a mortal? There is no spirit of a mortal entrusted to the body of a saint.
Therefore, the eyebrows are divided into eight colors and the eyes have double pupils, which is the appearance of Xunxun and Huahua. The face is like a dragon and the mouth is like a horse's mouth, which is the appearance of Xuanyuan and Gaotao. This is the difference in physical appearance.
Bigan's heart has seven orifices and four cloths, while Jiang Boyue's courage is as big as a fist. This is the difference between the internal organs.
Therefore, we know that the status of a saint is determined by heaven and always exceeds that of ordinary people. Not only is the Tao different from ordinary people, but also the body is also superior to ordinary people.
You say that mortal saints have the same body shape, but I don’t agree.
Question: You say that the body of a saint must be different from that of a mortal. So, what is the reason why Yang Huo is like Zhongni, Xiang Ji is like Shun, Shun, Xiang Ji, Confucius and Yang Huo have different intelligences but the same appearance?
Answer: Min is similar to jade but not jade, and 鸸 is similar to phoenix but not phoenix. This is the case for all things, and of course people should also be like this.
Xiang Ji and Yang Huo look like saints in appearance but not in substance. Their organs are different from those of saints. Even if they are similar in appearance, it is of no use.
Question: The difference between mortals and saints is that their bodies and organs are different. This is acceptable; saints have the highest status, so there should be no different situations. However, Confucius and Zhou Gongdan have different bodies, Shang Tang and King Wen have different appearances, and their spirits and appearances are not the same. From this we can see it more clearly.
Answer: Saints are similar in that their internal organs are the same, but human bodies are not necessarily the same. Just like horses with different coat colors but they can all run fast, and jade with different colors but all equally beautiful.
Therefore, the Jin Dynasty's white jade with vertical thorns and the Chu Dynasty's Heshi's jade are both extremely valuable. Yiliu and Uiliu also travel thousands of miles a day.
Question: The body and the spirit are inseparable. I have heard this truth. When the body withers, the spirit will also disappear. Logically speaking, this should be the case.
So, may I ask what the scriptures say about building an ancestral temple for him and worshiping him with the etiquette for ghosts and gods? What does it mean?
Answer: The teachings of the sages are like this. This is a way to calm down the filial son's longing for his relatives and encourage the frivolous mind. It makes the deceased become a god and put it in a prominent position. This is what it refers to.
Question: Boyou appeared in armor after his death, and Peng Sheng appeared in the form of a pig after his death. The incident of the Japanese is recorded in the annals of history. Is it just teaching?
Answer: There are many strange things, some of which have been passed down, and some of which have disappeared.
There are many people who die in misfortunes, but they will not turn into ghosts. Peng Sheng and Bo You, who can just appear as ghosts like this, suddenly meet a pig standing like a human and appear, are not necessarily Peng Sheng of Qi State and Bo You of Zheng State.
Question: It is said in the Book of Changes that the various conditions of ghosts and gods are similar to those of heaven and earth and do not violate the laws of heaven and earth.
He also said: There is a car full of ghosts.
What does this mean?
Answer: There are birds and beasts, which are different situations of flying and running; there are people and ghosts, which are the differences between tangible and intangible.
I don’t know the saying that people die and become ghosts, and ghosts die and turn into humans.
Question: What is the use of knowing that the body withers and the spirit dies along with it?
Answer: Buddhism endangers national politics, and monks corrupt people's customs. Like a sudden storm, fog rises everywhere, and strange stories wander around without stopping. I feel sad for this bad habit and want to save people who are addicted to the poison of Buddhism.
Why do those people who spend all their money to serve monks and Buddhas refuse to help their relatives or sympathize with the poor and needy?
It’s really because I have a strong desire for fame and fortune, but little intention to help others.
Therefore, if you give a handful of rice to a poor friend, your stinginess will be revealed; if you give a thousand grains of grain to a wealthy monk, your joy will be revealed everywhere.
Isn't it just a rush, because from the monks you can get hope of getting more money and food, but from your friends you can't get a handful of money in return.
Monks engage in almsgiving, but do not help the poor in need. When they have merit, they must attribute it all to themselves. They also mislead people with futile lies, scare people with the pain of Avici Hell, deceive people with absurd words, and fool and make people happy with the happiness of Tusita Paradise.
Therefore, many people took off the clothes of Confucian scholars and put on the cassocks of monks. They abandoned the rituals of worshiping their ancestors and placed the bottles and bowls dedicated to the Buddha. Every family abandoned their relatives and everyone abandoned their children and grandchildren. As a result, soldiers ran out of the army, officials ran out of the government offices to pray to gods and worship Buddha, food was used up in wandering, and money was used up in civil engineering projects to build Buddhist temples.
This is the reason why illegal and chaotic things cannot be banned and the voices praising peace are still blocked. For this reason, if the popularity of Buddhism is not prohibited, there will be no end to the ills it brings.
If we handle things in accordance with nature, everything will change on its own, suddenly appear on its own, and suddenly disappear on its own. We will never reject it when it comes, nor retain it when we go. We will comply with the laws of nature and be content with its own characteristics.
The villain takes pleasure in cultivating the fields, while the gentleman maintains his indifferent and ascetic quality. Farming the fields provides food, and the food will not be exhausted; raising silkworms provides clothing, and there will be no shortage of clothing. The people below have enough energy to serve the emperor, while the king above treats the people with inaction. The ability to protect oneself, to rectify the country, and to enable the king to dominate are all due to the use of this principle of divine reduction.
As soon as the "Lun on the Destruction of Gods" in the Japanese chapter was written, both the government and the public were in an uproar. Xiao Ziliang gathered many monks to question Fan Zhen, but they could not make Fan Zhen reason.
Fan Zhen had been in the south for many years and was recalled to the capital.
After returning to the capital, the imperial court appointed him Zhongshu Lang and Doctor Guozi. He died during his tenure.
Fan Zhen has ten volumes of collected works.
Fan Zhen's son Fan Xu, also known as Changcai.
He inherited his father's knowledge and became a doctor of Taixue at the beginning of his career.
Fan Xu was an eloquent person. During the Datong period, he served as host and guest, responsible for welcoming and answering envoys from the north.
Fan Xu moved to Pingxi to consult with the king of Xiangdong and join the army, and served as an assistant to the king of Xuancheng.
He left the capital and served as the internal history of Poyang and died in the county.
Yan Zhi's courtesy name was Xiaoyuan, and he was a native of Zigui, Jianping.
His grandfather Yan Qin was a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi during the Song Dynasty.
Yan Zhizhi has been proficient in Zhuangzi and Laozi since he was a child. He can talk about the metaphysical theories of Laozi and Zhuangzhuang, and has a very sophisticated understanding of "Mourning Clothes", "The Classic of Filial Piety" and "The Analects of Confucius".
When he reached adulthood, he extensively studied "Li", "Book of Changes", "Mao Shi" and "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu" annotated by Zheng.
He has a simple and filial temperament, is respectful and kind, and does not put his own merits above others.
Yan Zhi's father died when he was young, so he only ate vegetables for twenty-three years. Later, he changed his habit of eating only vegetables because he contracted wind and cold.
During the next year of Qi Yong, he first became an official and served as the minister of the Luling Kingdom. Moved to serve as the Right Changshi of the Guanghan Kingdom.
King Guanghan was executed, and no one in the country dared to deal with the body of King Guanghan. Yan Zhi rushed to mourn him and personally handled the funeral of King Guanghan. He carried the coffin to the cemetery with bare feet. After the burial, he built a tomb for King Guanghan. After the burial, he went home. People at the time thought that Yan Zhi was very righteous.
During the Jianwu period, Yan Zhizhi moved to Yuanwailang and Sanqi Changshi.
Soon he was appointed as the Houxiang of Kangle. During his tenure in the county, he was an honest official. The people and subordinate officials praised him.
In the second year of Tianjian, Yan Zhizhi was appointed as a rear army cavalry member to join the military.
Emperor Gaozu went down to Shao to recruit Confucian scholars who were knowledgeable about ancient and modern times to study the five rituals. There was a report from the minister, and Yan Zhi was able to study the ominous rituals.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, doctors of "Five Classics" began to be established. Doctors of each classics opened schools to teach students. Yan Zhi was appointed to be a doctor of "Five Classics".
Yan Zhi's school was located in Qiaotou, and there were often hundreds of students.
The master of the house explained the meaning of the scriptures, and all the students from the five halls must come. More than a thousand people listened to his lectures.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, Yan Zhizhi moved to the Fujun Record Office to join the army, and also served as a doctor.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Yan Zhizhi died in the academy at the age of fifty-two.
After Yan Zhizhi became ill, he refused to accept his salary. As a result, his wife and children lived in poverty.
After the death of Master Yan Zhi, there was no place to store the funeral coffin, so his students bought a house for his family, and only then could the funeral arrangements be completed.
Yan Zhi is kind by nature and likes to do good deeds quietly, even when no one knows about it.
When Yan Zhizhu was young, he was traveling in the mountains and saw a sick man. Yan Shan asked him the name of the patient, but the patient could not answer. Yan Zhizhi then put the patient in the car, took him home with him, and gave him some medicine.
The patient died six days later, and Yan Zhizhi bought a coffin for him to bury him in. In the end, he did not know who the patient was.
Yan Zhi was once walking along Laotan and saw a patient lying by the embankment. Yan Zhi got out of the car and asked the patient about the situation. The patient himself said that his surname was Huang. His family was originally in Jingzhou and he worked as a domestic servant. He fell ill and was very sick and dangerous. The ship owner who hired him threw him on the shore when he was about to sail the ship.
Yan Zhizhi sympathized with him very much, so he took him home in his car and treated him. A year later, the man named Huang recovered from his illness. He asked to be Yan Zhizhi's slave for life to repay Yan Zhizhi's great kindness.
Yan Zhizhi refused to accept it and sent him money and food to ask him to go home.
Yan Zhizhi had many benevolent deeds like this.
Yan Zhizhi wrote four hundred and seventy-nine volumes of "Annotations on Evil Etiquette".
He Yuan's courtesy name was Delian, and he came from Shanyin in Kuaiji.
His grandfather He Daoli was proficient in the "Three Rites" and served as Sangong Lang and Jiankang Ling in the Song Dynasty.
He Tan inherited his family education from an early age.
During the Qi Dynasty, Liu Xian of Pei State was the Prime Minister of Kuaiji. When he saw He Yu, he was very surprised by his talents and thought highly of him.
Liu Xian once visited Zhang Rong of Wu County with He Chang. Liu Xian pointed to the brush and ink and said to Zhang Rong: This young man has a smart and agile mind and will become a master of Confucianism in the future.
After Liu Xian returned to the capital, he recommended He Yuan as the son of the emperor.
He Tuan was recommended as Ming Jing, Jijiu, and soon served as Guozi's assistant.
He successively served as a doctor of Taixue and Taichang Cheng at the invitation of the imperial court. He resigned when his mother died.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was appointed as Taichang Cheng. A minister recommended him to study Bin Li. Emperor Gaozu summoned him to lecture on the meaning of "Li". He was deeply surprised by his knowledge and issued an edict to go to court on the first and fifteenth day of every month and participate in lectures in Hualin Garden.
In the fourth year of his reign, the Five Classics School had just been opened, and he was ordered to hold a doctorate in the Five Classics. He specially ordered Hechang to write the "Five Classics Meanings" for the crown prince.
Hechang was familiar with rituals and related old practices. At that time, he was reforming and creating the ritual and music system. Most of the ideas put forward by Hechang were directly adopted and implemented.
In the seventh year of Yujian, Hua Xun was appointed as an infantry captain and received a doctorate in "Five Classics".
In the ninth year of Tianjian, He Chang fell ill. He was responsible for sending doctors to deliver medicine and often asked questions. He Yi died in the academy at the age of fifty-nine.
He Chang is the author of "Etiquette", "Book of Changes", "Laozi's Explanation", "Zhuangzi's Explanation", "Chaoting Boyi", a total of 100 chapters, and "Bin Rites Notes" in 145 volumes.
He Chang was particularly proficient in "Li". There were often hundreds of students in his academy, and dozens of disciples participated in Ming Jing countermeasures.
He Tan has two sons.
The eldest son, He Ge, was named Wenming.
He was familiar with the "Three Rites" since he was a child, and as an adult, he extensively studied "The Classic of Filial Piety", "The Analects of Confucius", "Mao Shi" and "Zuo Zhuan".
When he first became an official, he served as the minister of the Kingdom of Jin'an and a doctor of Taixue. He served as a student of the King of Eastern Hunan.
Emperor Gaozu ordered him to explain the rituals to King Shaoling, King Xiangdong and King Wuling in Yongfu Province.
He Jin was gradually promoted to join the army of the Prince of Eastern Hunan, and was transferred to the post of Minister Yi Cao Lang.
Soon after, he was dismissed from the Moling Order and moved to the doctorate of Guozi. When he taught Chinese studies, there were often hundreds of students.
He Ge came out of the capital to serve as Xizhonglang and consulted the king of Xiangdong to join the army. He also served as the Jiangling order.
King Xiangshu began to set up a school in the palace, and ordered He Ge to lead the scholars to offer wine and teach the "Three Rites". Many people from the official families in Jingchu came to listen to He Ge's lectures.
He Ge served as Nanping County Supervisor twice, and the people and officials were grateful to him.
Soon, He Ge was awarded the title of General Zhenwei, concurrently the chief historian of Pingxi, and the governor of Nanjun.
He Ge was very filial by nature, and he often regretted that he was greedy for salary instead of farming and could not provide timely support to his parents while they were still alive.
Therefore, He Ge held the post of county magistrate in Jingzhou successively, and the salary he received was not given to his wife and children, but was kept specially to prepare to return to his hometown to build a temple to express his longing for his parents.
In the sixth year of Datong, He Ge died during his tenure at the age of sixty-two.
He Ge's younger brother He Ji was also proficient in the "Three Rites". He served successively as Minister of the Ancestral Hall of the Shangshu and General Secretary of the Zhongshu. He accumulated merit and was promoted to captain of the infantry school, Huangmenlang of the Zhongshu, and Zhulang.
Sima Yun, courtesy name Zhensu, was born in Wen County, Hanoi. He was the seventh-generation descendant of Sima Cheng, the hussar general of the Jin Dynasty and king of Qiao Lie.
His grandfather, Sima Liang, served as Sikong Zhonglang during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Sima Duan, was invited to the imperial court by Qi Shiren.
Sima Yun lost his father when he was young, and his family was poor, but he loved learning very much. He studied under Pei Guo, worked hard, and was dedicated to excellence, and was highly regarded.
When he reached adulthood, Sima Yun was knowledgeable and proficient in classics, especially the "Three Rites".
During the Jianwu period of Qi Dynasty, Sima Yun left his home to serve as an official and was invited by the court to move to the palace to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, Sima Yun was the governor of the state. He was dismissed and granted the order of Jiyang, and his government continued to be clean and honest.
Sima Yun entered the capital and was worshiped as Shangshu Temple Minister.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Concubine Chen of Ancheng passed away. Xiao Xiu, the governor of Jiangzhou, Prince Ancheng, and Xiao Dan, the governor of Jingzhou, king of Shixing, all petitioned for dismissal because the concubine was a concubine who had raised them and had a loving mother's kindness. Emperor Shao refused to allow it and ordered them to return to their duties. However, the concubine died in the capital, so there was no mourner at the funeral.
Shi Ren Zhou She Lun said: He Yanxian said that children raised by a loving mother do not mourn for the relatives of the loving mother, and the wife of the son of a loving mother does not follow her husband to mourn for the loving aunt. This is because there is no provision for mourning for Xiaogong.
Yu Weizhi said: Not only does the son of a loving mother not follow his loving mother to mourn for his loving relatives, but the grandson also does not follow his father to mourn for his loving mother. From this point of view, it is very clear that the grandson does not mourn for his loving grandmother.
Examine the etiquette of grieving within the family, and it is not allowed to be the same as the common etiquette; check the ancient etiquette, and at the auspicious ceremony held twenty-five months after the death of the father and the Shan ceremony held twenty-seven months after the death, the son must accept the hanging sacrifice from the guests.
Now the two princes, King Ancheng and King Shiheung, should put on mourning clothes on the day after the funeral, wear plain clothes all day long, and stand in the position of the mourner to accept the guests' condolences.
Emperor Gaozu ordered: King Ancheng and King Shixing are far away from the capital, and their sons should preside over the memorial services on their behalf.
Zhou She also said: "Li" said: The Xuanwu crown on white is the crown worn by descendants. Accordingly, the clothes worn by the prince during sacrifices should be different from the clothes worn by ordinary people.
They should make clothes made of bundled cloth, use silk as collars and belts, and should not listen to music for three years.
It is also stated in "Li" and "Spring and Autumn" that no sacrifices are made to concubines from generation to generation, which probably only refers to women who have not been given gifts by the king's orders.
Since Concubine Wu was ennobled by the imperial court and could be sacrificed according to the rites of King Ancheng, then Concubine Wu should enjoy the rites of sacrifice, and the temple should not be destroyed until all the five generations of relatives were gone.
Although the status level of Concubine Chen is no different from that of Concubine Wu, she is only the loving mother of the two kings. The loving grandson does not follow his father in mourning for his loving grandmother, so the sacrifices he enjoys in the ancestral temple should not continue. If the son wants to sacrifice the loving mother, the grandson should stop. This is consistent with what the scriptures say.
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu ordered the ceremonial officials to agree on the mourning attire and duration of the mourning period for the prince to mourn his loving mother.
Sima Yun advocated: The Song Dynasty's five-service system stipulates that the prince should mourn for his foster mother in order to train his adoptive mother. According to the provisions of the "Li" that his concubine's mother lovingly raised him, he should mourn for minor merits.
According to the article "Zeng Zijian": Zi You said: mourning for a loving mother is like mourning for a mother. Is this in line with etiquette?
Confucius said: This is not in line with etiquette.
In ancient times, men had masters outside and loving mothers at home. They were sent by the king to educate their children. There was no mourning ceremony for them. Zheng Xuan explained: This refers to the son of the king.
If the king's son does not mourn for his loving mother, then it can be clearly understood that the king's son does not mourn for his loving mother.
The scripture "Mourning Clothes" says: A gentleman's son mourns for the concubine who raised him.
The biography says: The son of a gentleman refers to the son of a nobleman.
Zheng Xuan annotated the "Internal Rules" and stated that the ritual system of establishing three mothers was only implemented within the scope of the Qing officials.
Using these bases to deduce, then the regulations on mourning for a loving mother do not involve the sons of princes who enjoy the fifth-level titles at the upper level, and do not involve the sons of the third-level scholars such as sergeants, sergeants, and corporals at the lower level.
If mourning for a loving mother is only within the scope of the ministers, it is checked that the sons of princes have not mourned according to this regulation, let alone the sons of the emperor.
I think this provision should be deleted in accordance with the "Li" in order to clarify the confused concepts of the previous generations.
Gaozu thought otherwise. He said: There are three places in "Li" about a loving mother: First, when the biological mother of a concubine's son dies, other childless concubines are ordered to raise the child. The relationship between mother and child is determined by fate. After the adoptive mother dies, the adopted son mourns for her for three years, "Mourning Clothes". "Qi Sheng Zhang" says that mourning for a loving mother is like mourning for a mother, which refers to this situation; secondly, when the biological mother of the son of the legitimate wife dies, the concubine is asked to raise the child with kindness and care. Although it is the same as the mother's love, there is no rule that the son of the legitimate wife regards the concubine as his mother. Because of the deep affection and great kindness, the adopted son wears small mourning clothes for the adoptive mother after her death. "Mourning Clothes Called, Gongzhang" does not directly say The reason why we say "raising one's own concubine" is to show that this is different from the loving mother who has to mourn for three years; thirdly, the child does not have a mother, but chooses a lowly person to raise the child. This form is like a master or a nanny, but it also has the feeling of a loving mother and a loving child, so it is also called a loving mother.
Since the children do not mourn for the master or nanny after their death, there is no need to mourn for such a loving mother after her death.
The "Nei Principles" says that the mother with suitable conditions should be selected from among the mothers to be her son's teacher; the second is the loving mother, and the third is the nanny. This is a clear written provision about loving mothers.
The selection of mothers mentioned here refers to selecting someone to serve as the third mother, not to select the brother's mother to serve as the third mother.
How do you know this?
If she is the mother of brothers, then she has given birth to a son first, and the status of the first son is the eldest concubine. The etiquette enjoyed by the eldest concubine has been improved. It is different from the status of ordinary concubines. How can a concubine with a lower status be allowed to give birth to a son and lower her status to become a nanny? This is impossible.
Also, it may make sense for a person to have multiple brothers; if it is understood this way, if it is the first son born, should the positions of the three mothers be vacant?
By inference from Qiandian, it is very clear that the mothers mentioned in "Nei Lian" refer to the three mothers and do not refer to the brothers' mothers.
The loving mother Ziyou asked about should refer to the kind of loving mother Ren Shibao did, not the kind of loving mother who should serve in mourning for three years. That's why Confucius gave such an answer.
Isn't it a clear proof that Ren Shibao's loving mother and son do not have to mourn?
Zheng Xuan did not distinguish between the three types of loving mothers, and gave vague explanations. He quoted Ren Shibao's example of a kind mother who did not need to mourn to explain "the concubine who raised oneself." The etiquette fallacy that future generations will understand actually comes from Zheng Xuan's comment.
It is said in the scriptures that "the son of a gentleman" refers to starting from the high-ranking officials, but it also clearly points out that the high-ranking officials are still within the scope of sending, and there should be no difference from the sending to the top. Therefore, the text says that "the son of a gentleman" refers to the son of a nobleman.
If you call them aristocrats, then they are all inclusive.
The scriptures of "Biao" and "Zhuan" complement each other, complement each other, and explain each other. It is known that the rules for strengthening the etiquette for loving mothers and changing from wearing gills to wearing Xiaogong mourning clothes are common to all officials and above.
The regulations of the Song Dynasty do not violate the original intention of the "Li", and it is really doubtful to eliminate them.
So Sima Yun and others requested that the relevant etiquette be changed in accordance with the order of Emperor Gaozu: if the son of the legitimate wife is raised by his father's concubine after the death of his mother, he should mourn for his adoptive mother for five months after his adoptive mother dies. Both the noble and the low should adopt the regulations and make it a permanent system.
Sima Yun accumulated merit and moved to the palace to serve as a consultant, with the right to know the affairs of Zuo Cheng. Soon after, he was awarded the title of Shangshu Zuo Cheng.
He came out of Beijing to serve as the internal history of Shixing and died during his tenure.
Sima Yun's son Sima Shou inherited his father's studies and was proficient in the "Three Rites".
During the Datong period, he served as minister of the ancestral hall of Shangshu and went to Beijing to serve as Qu'aling.
Bian Hua, whose courtesy name is Zhaoqiu, was born in Jiyin Yuanju.
He is the sixth generation descendant of Zhongzhen Gongtutong, the hussar general of Jin Dynasty.
His father was a thrifty man who gave everything he wanted.
Bian Hua lost his father when he was young. His family was poor, but he loved to study.
When he was fourteen years old, Bian Hua was called to serve as a national scholar and he was proficient in "The Book of Changes".
After becoming an adult, Bian Hua studied the Five Classics extensively. He studied together with Pingyuan Mingshanbin and Kuaiji He Qian, and they had a good friendship.
When he first became an official, he was appointed as the minister of the Yuzhang Kingdom of Qi. After his meritorious service, he was promoted to the imperial court and went to the west to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, Bian Hua moved to Linchuan Wang Gongcao to join the army and served as an assistant to Guozi. He was transferred to Ancheng Wang Gongcao to join the army and was also a doctor of "Five Classics", gathering students to teach Confucian classics.
Bian Hua covered a wide range of subjects, was knowledgeable, witty and eloquent. He explained scriptures and analyzed their meanings. He was the leading figure at that time.
After the Jin Dynasty moved to Jiangzuo, music rhythm became a unique skill, and it was not until Bian Hua that he became proficient in music rhythm.
Bian Long moved to the post of Minister Cao Lang, and left the capital to serve as Wu Ling. He died.
Cui Lingen is from Wucheng, Qinghedong.
He has been attentive and eager to learn since he was a child. He followed his teacher to learn all the Five Classics, and he was especially proficient in the Three Rites and the Three Legends.
Cui Lingen first served as an official in the Northern Dynasties and served as Dr. Taichang. In the thirteenth year of Tianjian, he returned to Liang Dynasty.
Because Cui Lingen was proficient in Confucianism, Emperor Gaozu promoted him to the rank of Minister of Dispersed Cavalry, and he was promoted to the rank of Infantry Colonel and Doctor of the Imperial Academy.
Cui Lingen gathered students to teach Confucian classics, and the number of students who listened to his lectures often reached hundreds.
He was simple by nature and had no literary talent, but when it came to explaining scriptures and analyzing their meanings, he was very interesting. The prestigious Confucian scholars in the capital praised him and valued him. Assistant Kong Yu especially liked his teachings.
At that time, the teaching assistant Yu Sengdan was also proficient in Du Yu's annotations, so he wrote "Shen Du Can't Conquer" to answer Cui Lingen. Their books were circulated in the world at the same time. Yu Sengdan, a native of Yuyao, Kuaiji, taught "Zuo Shi Zhuan" to students, and hundreds of people listened to his lectures.
Yu Sengxi had a comprehensive understanding of the purpose and style of writing "The Biography of the Zuo Family", and no one could compare with him at that time. Before this, when Confucian scholars discussed the celestial body, two views, Huntian and Gaitian, coexisted. Those who said that the celestial body was Gaitian did not agree with Tantian's point of view, and those who said that the celestial body was Huntian did not agree with Gaitian's point of view.
Zha Ximo established his own point of view and combined the theories of Tantian and Gaitian.
Cui Lingen went to Beijing to serve as the internal history of Changsha. When he returned to Beijing, he was awarded the title of Doctor of the State. There were many students who studied with him.
He went to Beijing to serve as General Mingwei and Governor Guacong, and died during his tenure.
Cui He wrote twenty-two volumes of "Collection of Mao's Poems", forty volumes of "Collection of Zhouli", forty-seven volumes of "Sanli Yi Zong", twenty-two volumes of "Zuo Shi Jing Chuan Yi", ten volumes of "Zuo Shi Regulations", and ten volumes of "Gongyanggu Liang Wen Ju Yi".
Kong Qian came in from Shanyin in Kuaiji.
When he was young, Wang Yu worshiped He Yin as his teacher. He was proficient in the Five Classics, especially the Three Rites, Xiaozhi and the Analects of Confucius. He expounded and taught these scriptures dozens of times and had hundreds of students.
Renxi successively served as an assistant teacher of Guozi, a doctor of "Five Classics" three times, and moved to the post of Shangshu Temple Minister.
He left Beijing and served as magistrate of two counties.
Kong Qian was a Confucian scholar who only knew the classics and was not good at governing the people. He had no political achievements during his tenure as county magistrate.
When turmoil broke out during the Liqian period, Kong Yu died at home.
Kong Chuxuan, the son of Kong Qian, focused on studying Confucianism, and his official position was promoted to Doctor of Taixue.
Kong Chuxuan, the son of brother Kong Ling, was also proficient in the "Three Rites" and had a great reputation, but he died young.
Lu Guang, a native of Fanyang Zhuo, said he was a descendant of Lu Chen, a middle-ranking official in Zhi Sikong.
Lu Chen was trapped and died in the army during the rebellion. During the Jin Dynasty, Lu Chen was still among the famous families in the Central Plains, and there were descendants of Lu Chen.
Lu Guang was proficient in scriptures since he was a child and had Confucian knowledge.
Lu Guang returned to chisel during the Tianjian period.
At first he was appointed as the Minister of Sanqi, a member of the Yuanwai Sanqi family, and then went to Beijing to serve as the prefect of Quanda. However, he was dismissed from office because of his guilt.
Soon, Lu Guang was appointed as General Zhechong, and the imperial court assigned him a thousand soldiers for the Northern Expedition. After returning to the imperial court, he was worshiped as an infantry captain and a doctor of Guozi, and taught all the "Five Classics" in the academy.
At that time, Confucian scholars from the north, including Cui Lingen, Sun Xiang, Jiang Xian and others, gathered students to teach Confucian classics, but their pronunciation was vulgar and clumsy; only Lu Guang spoke clearly and elegantly, unlike the northerners.
Pushe Xu Mian was also proficient in Confucian classics, and he deeply appreciated Lu Guang.
Soon after, Lu Guang was appointed as a regular attendant of Yuanwai Sanqi, but his position as a doctor remained unchanged.
He also left the capital and served as Xinwu, the successor of Guiyang, Changshi, and the prefect of Xunyang.
He was also appointed as the chief historian of Wuling King, and his post as governor remained unchanged. He died during his tenure.
Shen Jun, courtesy name Shisong, was born in Wukang, Wuxing.
The family has been a farmer for generations, until Yingkong. He loved learning, and he and his uncle Taishi Shuming chose Shen Jun as their teacher from the same clan. He studied under Shen Junmu for many years. He assigned himself tasks to study day and night. Sometimes he would doze off and hit himself with a wooden stick. He was so concentrated.
After Shen Lin's death, Licai left the capital and traveled to various schools, so he became proficient in the Five Classics, especially the Three Rites.
Shen Jun initially served as the lieutenant of the kingdom, and was gradually promoted to the rank of minister and assistant to the prince.
At that time, Lang Lubao, the official of the Ministry of official affairs, wrote a letter to Pu She Tu Pad to recommend some candidates: Doctor Chen Zhida in the "Five Classics" must be replaced, considering that the imperial court must carefully select suitable talents to replace him.
As long as it is a sage's book that can be studied and its views must be established based on "Zhou Guan", then "Zhou Guan" is actually the source and foundation of various scriptures.
However, the knowledge of "Zhou Guan" has not been taught to each other for many years. Sun Xiang and Jiang Hao from the north also studied and taught it. However, because their pronunciation is like that of Southern Chu and Zhu Xia, which is far apart and difficult to understand, students are reluctant to study. Only the assistant teacher Shen Jun is particularly proficient in the book "Zhou Guan".
Recently, he often opened lectures. Many Confucian scholars, such as Liu Hua, Shen Hong, and Shen Xiong, came to his forum to worship him as their teacher, and brought scriptures to listen to his lectures. None of them were not impressed, and no one had any criticism.
I think that such a person should be recruited immediately and ordered to specialize in this subject of knowledge and teach "Zhou Guan" over and over again, so that the authentic classics of the saints can be valued again after being abandoned, and the knowledge that has been lost for many years can be taught to scholars.
Xu Mian followed Lu Ren's suggestion and wrote a memorial recommending Shen Jun as a doctor of the Five Classics.
Shen Jun lectures in the school, and there are often hundreds of students attending his lectures.
Shen Jun left the capital and served as Huarong Ling. After returning to the capital, he was awarded not only as a member of the Sanqi Shilang, but also as a doctor of "Five Classics".
At that time, He Chen, a member of Zhongshushe, was ordered by the emperor to compile "Liang Guan", so he petitioned Shen Jun and Confucius Qubu to serve as bachelors in the Western Province to help him write "Liang Guan".
After the book "Liang Guan" was completed, Shen Jun entered the court and served as Zhongshu General.
Later he left the capital and served as Wukang Ling, and died during his tenure.
Shen Jun's son, Shen Wen'a, inherited his father's studies, and was especially proficient in "The Biography of the Zuo Family".
During the Taiqing period, Shen Wen'a was promoted from assistant teacher of Guozi to doctor of "Five Classics".
Those who inherited Shen Jun's studies include Zhang Ji of Wujun and Confucius Yun of Kuaiji. Their official positions were promoted to doctor of the Five Classics and minister of the temple.
Taishi Shuming was a native of Wucheng, Wuxing. He was a descendant of Wu Taishi Ci.
Taishi Shuming was proficient in "Zhuangzi" and "Laozi" since he was a child. He also studied "The Book of Filial Piety" and "Book of Rites". He was particularly proficient in the three books of "Zhuangzi", "Laozi" and "Book of Changes". He was second to none at the time. During each lecture, there were often more than 500 people listening.
Uncle Taishi served as Guozi's assistant coach for consecutive years.
He liked Taishi Shuming's knowledge. When he came to Beijing to serve as the governor of Jiangzhou, he also took Taishi Shuming to Jiangzhou.
He was appointed governor of Yingzhou, and Taishi Shuming moved to Yingzhou with the palace. Everywhere he went, Taishi Shuming opened a school to teach, and people in the south of the Yangtze River inherited his teachings.
In the thirteenth year of Datong, Taishi Shuming passed away at the age of seventy-three.
Confucius was born in Shanyin, Kuaiji.
He lost his father when he was young, and his family was poor, but he loved learning. When he was cultivating fields and collecting wood in the mountains, he often took books with him and read and recited them whenever he had free time.
He worked hard and persevered, and finally became proficient in Confucian classics, especially "Guwen Shangshu".
Confucius Qu initially served as the Minister of the Successor of Changsha and as an assistant to the Confucius of the Kingdom. He lectured on "Shang Shu" forty times, and there were often hundreds of people listening to his lectures.
He Chen, a member of Zhongshushe, was ordered by the emperor to compile "Liang Guan". He petitioned Confucius Qu to be a bachelor of the Western Province to help him write "Liang Guan".
After the book "Liang Guan" was completed, Confucius served as Minister Wen, but he did not take up the post.
A long time later, he also served as host, guest, and guest, and his position as a bachelor remained unchanged.
He also accumulated merit and was promoted to be the minister of the Xiangdong Kingdom, a permanent minister, and a minister of scattered cavalry outside the service. He was also appointed as Yunhui Lujiang Gongji Office to join the army, and was transferred to serve as Zhongshu General Secretary.
Soon he was moved to the rank of infantry school captain, but his position remained unchanged.
When Emperor Gaozu wrote the "Explanations of the Five Classics" and "The True Sayings of Confucius", he specifically ordered Confucius to check various books and find materials to prove his righteousness.
After the matter was completed, Gaozu ordered Jie Ziguai, right guard Zhu Yi, and Zuo Cheng He Chen to take turns every day in the Shilin Pavilion to practice scriptures, ask questions, and assess the scholars.
Zhizi Qu accumulated merit and was promoted to Tongzhi Zhengyuanlang, but his position remained unchanged.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, Confucius died during his tenure at the age of fifty-one.
Confucius Qu wrote a total of 20 volumes of "Shang Shu Yi", 30 volumes of "Collected Comments on Shangshu", a 100-volume continuation of Zhu Yi's "Collected Comments on Zhouyi", and a 150-volume continuation of He Chengtian's "Ji Li Lun".
Huang Kan, a native of Wu County, is the ninth generation descendant of Huang Xiang, the governor of Qingzhou.
Huang Kan loved studying since he was a child. He worshiped He Chang as his teacher and devoted himself to learning from He Chang. As a result, he became proficient in Confucian classics, especially the Three Rites, the Classic of Filial Piety, and the Analects of Confucius.
When he first became an official and served as an assistant to Guozi, he gave lectures on classics and meanings in the academy, and hundreds of students attended his lectures.
Huang Kan wrote fifty volumes of the "Book of Rites". After it was completed, it was presented to the emperor, who ordered it to be handed over to the secret pavilion for collection.
Soon, Huang Kan was called to Huayongji to lecture on "Book of Rites". Zhidan thought that he was very knowledgeable, so he was appointed as a member of the Yuanwai Sanqi Shilang, and his position as an assistant teacher remained unchanged.
Huang Kan was very filial by nature, and often required him to recite the "Filial Piety Sutra" twenty times a day, which was modeled on the recitation of the "Avalokiteśvara Sutra".
When Huang Kan's mother passed away, he resigned from his post and returned to his hometown to mourn.
King Shaoling of Qianxi admired Huang Kan's knowledge and went to welcome Huang Kan with generous gifts.
After Huang Kan went to King Shaoling, he contracted a heart disease and died in Xia Shou in the eleventh year of Datong at the age of fifty-eight.
The ten volumes of "On Meaning" and "Book of Rites" written by Huang Kan were valued by scholars at that time, and some scholars inherited his theories.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen's Ministry of Civil Affairs, said: In the past, Shusun Tong lectured on Confucian classics on horseback during the war years, and Huan Rong lectured on Confucian classics during the turmoil and hunger.
Fu Manrong and He Tongzhi taught Confucian classics in the late Qi Dynasty, but did not change their ambitions due to the current situation. He Chang, Yan Zhizhi and others encountered the opportunity of Liang's advocating Confucianism and attaching importance to Confucianism. They all enjoyed high officials and generous salaries, and studied ancient rituals as a reference for the contemporary era. These Confucian scholars did their best.
Fan Zhen wore black mourning clothes to welcome the rebels, and Yi Yuan was lucky enough to be favored. It was only right that his intention was not realized!
