◆Biography of Wang Chong, Wang Chong, courtesy name Zhongren, was from Shangyu, Kuaiji. His ancestors moved here from Yuancheng, Wei County.
Wang Chong's father died when he was young, and his fellow villagers praised him for his filial piety.
Later he went to the capital to study at Taixue, where he was taught by Ban Biao, a Fufeng native.
He is well-read and does not stick to chapters.
His family was poor and had no books, so he often went to Luoyang bookstore to read the books for sale, and he could memorize them after reading them once. So he understood the theories of various schools of thought.
Later, he returned to his hometown and lived in seclusion to teach.
He served as a meritorious official in the prefecture and county, but because he repeatedly advised the superiors, he left due to disagreements.
Wang Chong likes to make comments, which may sound weird at first, but if you think about it carefully, they are reasonable and well-founded.
He thought that those Confucian scholars with little knowledge clung to the chapters and sentences in the books and lost the essence and true meaning of the books. So I closed my door and thought deeply, and declined those social gatherings of congratulations and condolences. There were knives and pens placed on the door, windows and walls of his home. He wrote 85 chapters of "Lunheng", totaling more than 200,000 words, explaining the similarities and differences of objects and correcting people's doubts about certain things at that time.
Dong Qin, the governor, recruited him to work and was later transferred to Zhizhong. He resigned and returned home.
His friend Xie Yiwu from the same county wrote to the court recommending Wang Chong's talents. Suzong specially issued an edict to recruit him, but he was unable to make the trip due to illness.
When he was nearly seventy years old, his memory failed. Due to exhaustion of energy, he wrote sixteen chapters of "The Book of Cultivation of Nature", which discusses the principles of controlling cravings, maintaining the spirit, and guarding one's mind.
During the Yongyuan period, he died of illness at home.
◆Wang Fu Chuan, Wang Fu, Bye Xin, a native of Linjing, Anding.
When he was young, he was studious and ambitious, and was good friends with Ma Rong, Dou Zhang, Zhang Heng, Cui Yuan, etc.
The custom in Anping was to look down on the children of the younger wives, but Wang Fu did not have a maternal wife, so the village looked down upon him.
Since Emperor He and Emperor An, it was popular to serve as an official on the move, and powerful people recommended each other. However, Wang Fu was upright and unconventional, so he could not become an official.
But he felt very uncomfortable in his heart, so he lived in seclusion at home and wrote more than 30 books to satirize the political gains and losses at that time. He did not want his name to be known by others, so the book was called "The Theory of Qianfu".
The book denounces the shortcomings of the time and discusses customs and sentiments, from which the political fashion of the time can be seen. Here are five of them: 1. "Guizhong Pian" The emperor respects God the most, and God loves people the most.
Now that human ministers are entrusted by the king to govern the people whom God loves, how can they not allow them to be raised and relieved safely and smoothly?
Therefore, when a gentleman is in a position, he should think about how to benefit others, and those who are above should think about how to introduce wise people. Therefore, those who are in the upper position should not be resentful when they are below, and those who are in the front and behind will not be disobedient.
This is what the Book of Books says about heaven's work being replaced by human power.
The king established large and small official systems based on the arrangement of the stars in the sky. Therefore, the emperor did not dare to appoint officials casually due to partiality, and loyal ministers did not dare to accept official positions with an open mind.
Stealing other people's money is still called a robber, let alone stealing from a heavenly official for personal gain!
If you commit a crime, you must be punished. What’s more, if you commit a crime, how can you not admit your guilt?
The ministers of the Tang, Yu, Xia, Shang, and Wu dynasties served the king with the right way, and their kindness reached the grass and trees, and their kindness spread all over the country. Therefore, their blessings spread far and wide, and their tribe lasted for a hundred generations.
The ministers of the last generation used flattery to please the king, and did not think of how to obey God's will, and relied on killing to oppress the people.
For example, Bai Qi and Meng Tian were regarded by the Qin Dynasty as having great merit, but God regarded them as murderous devils; Xi Fu and Dong Xian were regarded by the monarch as loyal ministers, but God regarded them as thieves.
It is said in the Book of Changes: Those who have poor morals but hold high positions, and have low intelligence but want to do great things will rarely succeed.
Therefore, if the character is not proportional, the disaster will be severe; if the ability is not proportional, the disaster will be magnified.
For those who steal official positions, God has long taken away the mirror in which they can look at themselves.
Even if you have keen observation skills and the ambition to be benevolent and righteous, once you become rich and powerful, you will abandon your relatives and abandon your old ways, lose your true heart, alienate your close relatives, and stay close to your favor.
The predecessors have failed, but the people behind are still following the old path. It is really sighing!
Look at the intentions of the nobles in the previous dynasty in governing the country. Is there any difference between the way they treat babies?
Babies have common diseases, noble ministers have common mistakes, parents have common faults, and people have common faults.
The common diseases of babies are overeating and indigestion; the common mistakes of noble ministers are favoring the wrong people, excessive breastfeeding of babies is prone to diseases, and excessive wealth is prone to pride.
There are more than one or two people who love their sons but end up harming them, and pamper their officials and lead them to destruction.
The punishment was extreme, with some servants dying in prison, and some having their heads hanged in public display in the city. Isn't this not meritorious to God, but harmful to the people?
The birds regard the mountain as a low wall and build their nests on it. The fish think that the spring is shallow and use it as their nest. What they end up with is a fishing hook.
The noble family wanted the house to be auspicious and give it a good name, and wanted the door to be strong and use iron as the hinge. The reason for the final failure was not that there were too few taboos and the door hinges were rotten, but that there were too many possessions, which led to pride and transgression.
If you don't have the heart to obey heaven and support the people, but you want to be clever and use the prestige of the king to offend heaven and earth and deceive the gods.
This is tantamount to lying on a tired egg and wanting to be as safe as Mount Tai; walking on the road of life like morning dew clinging to tung leaves and wanting to make meritorious deeds for a lifetime, isn't it confusing?
Aren’t you confused!
2. "Fuxi Chapter" The king regards the world as his home and hundreds of millions of people as his sons.
If every farmer does not farm, the people of the world will starve; if every woman does not weave, the people of the world will suffer from cold.
The current custom is to lose the foundation of agriculture, and all people are doing business. The roads are clogged with cattle, horses and vehicles. Idle and opportunistic people are everywhere in the city. There are fewer people engaged in farming and mulberry planting, and more people living on leisure. "The Book of Songs" says: The capital of Shang was very neat and located in the center of the four directions.
Now when I look at Luoyang, there are ten times as many traders as there are farmers, and there are ten times as many people who are cheating and idle as there are traders.
This is like a farmer farming to feed a hundred people, a woman weaving to clothe a hundred people, and one person's labor providing for the enjoyment of a hundred people. Who can afford it?
Hundreds of counties, thousands of counties, and tens of thousands of cities in the world are all like this.
If we can't provide each other, then how can the people not endure hunger and cold?
How can people not do deviant things when they are hungry and cold?
With the number of criminals increasing, how can officials not use harsh punishments?
How can the people not resent the harsh punishments imposed on them?
If there are too many people who are grieving, then all the faults and punishments will come.
The people have no livelihood, and if God brings disaster, the country will be in danger.
Poverty comes from not being thrifty when you are rich, cowardice comes from not being humble when you are strong, disaster comes from not practicing virtue in times of peace, and danger comes from not being cautious in times of peace.
Therefore, when a wise king treats the people, he always worries about their sufferings, comforts their hardships, strengthens education, and is cautious to prevent troubles before they occur and cut off the sources of evil.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" praises saving through system regulations, which does not consume people's property and does not infringe on people's interests.
The "July" chapter of "The Book of Songs" covers everything from plowing fields and planting mulberries to as small as twisting hemp ropes in winter, educating them one by one, from spring to winter, and then over again.
From this point of view, people are not allowed to be unrestrained.
Nowadays, people dress luxuriously, eat noble food, and cook in order to satisfy their taste.
Some people conspire to do bad things; some engage in games and gambling; instead of plowing the fields, young people carry pellets to shoot birds and go to the mountains together to play; some use soil to make pills and sell counterfeit medicine. These people cannot resist the enemy externally, and they cannot stop rats and birds from stealing internally.
Some people make toys such as clay carts and tile dogs to deceive children. These are all useless things.
The Book of Songs once satirized some women who did not practice hemp but went to the market to sing, dance and play. Now some women do not even cook, raise silkworms and weave cloth, but instead imitate witches, pretend to be gods and ghosts, deceive the common people, and make ignorant women deceived.
Households with old, weak, sick and disabled people feel anxious and especially scared when someone is sick.
But the witches asked them to leave home and hide on the rugged mountain roads, where they would be exposed to the cold and wind, so that they could be taken advantage of by bad guys and take advantage of by thieves.
Some people's condition worsens until they die. But they didn't know that they were deceived by witches, and instead regretted that it was too late to worship God. This is a situation where witchcraft is particularly powerful.
Some cut good silk and wrote some congratulations; some used rhetoric to pray for God's blessing; some spent money and mines and cut it into small square pieces; some cut long threads and wrapped them around the wrist; some cut brocade silk and sewed it into long banners.
They waste materials for no reason, spend a lot of effort, turn solid into false, turn easy into difficult, eat good food, and waste good time.
The mountains and forests cannot be burned down by wildfires, and the rivers and seas cannot fill up the leaky cups. Both of these should be prohibited.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowen personally wore black silk cloth and used leather for shoes and belts. He lived a very simple life.
But now, the clothes, food, carriages, horses and housing of the noble relatives in the capital are more luxurious than those of princes and kings, which is too much.
Their coachmen, horsemen, servants and concubines all wear colorful silks, high-grade clothing, Gebu tribute cloth, and everything else.
The utensils and clothing include rhinoceros horns, ivory, pearls, gems, amber and tortoise shells, literary talents, gold and silver jewelry, all extremely gorgeous, showing off to each other.
They were marrying off daughters and wives. The vehicles stretched for miles, and the roads were covered with red clothing. The slaves rode horses and drove them side by side.
Rich people always want to be better than others, while poor people always feel inferior to others. The cost of a banquet is a lifetime of family wealth.
In ancient times, it was necessary to have a royal order to wear silk and ride on carriages and horses. Now, although the ancient system cannot be completely restored, the common people should be allowed to act roughly according to the system of Emperor Xiaowen.
In ancient funerals, a thick layer of firewood was laid out and the person was buried in the wild without sealing the soil or planting trees. The mourning period was also indefinite.
Later generations of saints used coffins instead, using paulownia wood as the coffin and sealing it with kudzu. The lower part would not touch the yellow spring and the upper part would not leak out the stench.
After the Middle Ages, wood such as catalpa, cypress, and cypress was used. Depending on the soil quality in various places, different glue paints were used to make it strong, reliable, and durable.
Nowadays, nobles in the capital must use the wood produced in the south of the Yangtze River, such as Ziyu camphor wood, and remote places are competing to imitate it.
As for the wood of Yuzhang, it is produced far away. It is cut from high mountains and transported from deep valleys. It passes through the Haihe River and turns to the Yellow River and Luoshui. It is processed by craftsmen for many years. It requires a lot of labor to move it and many oxen to transport it. It weighs a thousand kilograms and requires ten thousand men. It reaches Dunhuang in the east and Lelang in the west. It is a laborious and laborious journey for farmers, and it has passed thousands of miles.
In ancient times, only tombs were built, not tombs. In the Middle Ages, although tombs were built, they were not very high.
Confucius's mother died. The tomb was four feet high and collapsed when it rained heavily. Confucius's students asked for it to be repaired. Confucius cried and said: In ancient times, tombs were not repaired.
Later, when Confucius' son Bo Li died, there was only an inner coffin but no outer coffin.
Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty was buried in Zhiyin and Emperor Ming Dynasty was buried in Luonan. They were not buried with jewelry and did not pile up mountain tombs. Although the tombs were low, they were of the highest virtue.
Nowadays, the relatives of nobles in the capital and the rich families of the county are not very filial when their parents are alive, but after their death, they have a big funeral.
Some were buried with gold-laced jade boxes, and the coffins must be made of wood or catalpa wood. They buried many pearls, treasures, puppets, carriages and horses, built large tombs, planted pine and cypress trees, and built a cottage and ancestral hall. His father was buried in Nancheng, so it cannot be said that Zengzi was unfilial.
They believe that respecting the king and loving the father does not depend on spending more money to show off one's family name, nor does it depend on using more carriages and horses for ostentation. In the past, Duke Linggong of Jin levied more taxes to decorate the walls. The Spring and Autumn Annals commented that he was not a good monarch. Song Huayuan and Leju buried Duke Wen of Song generously. Gentlemen thought they were not good ministers.
What's more, ordinary officials and scholars dare to overstep the Lord and exceed the regulations of the state?
3. "Solid Tribute": A state will prosper if it has good ministers, but it will decline if it uses flattering ministers; a monarch will be stable if it has loyal ministers, but it will be in danger if it uses sycophants.
This is the conclusion of ancient and modern times, and it is also a truth recognized by everyone.
However, the grief for the country and the danger for the king continued one after another. Were there no loyal and upright people at that time? It’s really because the right path doesn’t work.
Within ten steps, there must be lush grass; within ten households, there must be loyal people.
The Shang Dynasty was so chaotic and there were still three wise men. The Wei Kingdom was so small and there were still many gentlemen.
Nowadays, in the vast land of the Han Dynasty, the scholars and people are numerous and prosperous. The government of the court is clear and clear, and the top and bottom are harmonious. However, there are no good officials among the officials, and there are not many good ministers in office.
Does this mean there are no wise men at this time? It must have been used improperly.
Those who are willing to follow the right path use it sparingly, while those who join in the evil deeds use it a lot. Therefore, there are groups of cliques, seeking mutual benefit, deviating from simplicity and tending to magnificence.
When selecting talents, they do not pay attention to their actual ability to do things and measure their talents. They just bluff and add inflated words.
A rough estimate is that nearly two hundred people are promoted each year.
Looking at their resumes, they all have the character of Yan Hui and Ran You. After carefully examining their talents, few of them meet the standards of middle-level talents. They all just focus on promotion and mutual recommendation.
The selection of scholars should focus on talents, not on perfection and blame.
Therefore, although the four friends of Confucius each have their own strengths, not everyone is perfect. The three benefactors of the Shang Dynasty were in the same dynasty, but the affairs of governing the country were not very ideal.
The ministers who assisted Han Emperor Gaozu to conquer the world came from the fallen Qin Dynasty; Emperor Guangwu employed many talents, many of whom came from Wang Mang.
What's more, in times of peace, can we say that there are no talents?
The orders of a wise ruler are like voices, and the responses of loyal ministers are like echoes.
The length of the sound wave, the size of the sound, the severity and speed of the sound must all echo each other.
Not to mention that stones are needed to cure jade, salt water to wash gold, fish to wash silk, and ashes to bleach cloth.
Generally speaking, things are originally made of cheap things to manage noble things, and ugly things are made into beautiful things.
Smart people can put aside shortcomings and learn from strengths and achieve results.
Nowadays, when selecting talents, we must strictly assess their performance. If there are minor flaws, there is no need to cover up their faults. They advance and retreat, silently and silently, each in their own way. Then how can civil servants and generals such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Zhou Bo, and Han Xin not come? Talents such as Wu, Deng, Liang, and Dou can be seen by standing on tiptoes.
Confucius once said: If you don't think carefully, if you think about it, why is it so far away?
4. "Love the Sun" A country can become a country because of its common people.
People can become people because they can produce grain.
Grains can be harvested because people are working.
Agriculture can be built because there is time and labor.
In a peaceful country, the days are long and comfortable, so the people are leisurely and have a surplus of labor; in a chaotic country, the days are fast and short, so the people are sleepy and have insufficient labor.
The days passed comfortably and long, not because the sun moved slower, but because the monarch was wise and the people were quiet and hardworking.
The days are short, not that the numbers in the almanac are reduced, but that the upper body is confused and the lower body is confused and exhausted, and always feels that the labor is not enough.
Confucius said: When the population increases, we should make them rich; when they are already rich, we should strengthen education.
Therefore, etiquette and righteousness come from wealth, thieves come from poverty; wealth comes from time and leisure, and poverty comes from having no days to make a living.
The sage deeply understood that labor is the basis for people's livelihood and the foundation of the country. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce the number of servants among the people so that they cherish the time and do not violate the farming season.
Therefore, Emperor Yao ordered Xihe, the god of the sun, to respect heaven and give the people enough time.
During the reign of Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, the country once stipulated that the new lunar month should be used as the first day of the new lunar month, and the complaints from the people would not be accepted. The emperor was very surprised when he heard it, and said: The people gave up their working time and traveled thousands of miles to come to the court. If they are not allowed to receive more restrictions, is this the original intention of governing the country?
So abolish this unreasonable system.
Nowadays, the people who have been wronged look up to them to complain, but it is difficult for the officials to see them like gods. People who have delayed their working time and come to the government to complain are in an endless stream. They are not informed until the sun is west, and they are not received when they are not happy.
Some took several days, even ten days and a half, to see the officials; some asked neighbors to send food before they could answer.
If the farming season is delayed too much, won’t the world suffer from hunger?
Confucius said: When it comes to hearing lawsuits, I am no different than others.
Judging from what he said, people with average talents or above can judge who is right and wrong. There are also small officials in the rural pavilion who can resolve cases, but most of them are unfair in their judgments and people are wronged. This is for a reason.
The party that thinks it has enough reason always thinks that it has the right to rule the world and will never give in casually, while the party that lacks reason will adopt the method of flattery and bribery.
The party that refuses to surrender will not benefit from the officials, and the party that pays bribes will get favoritism from the officials and pervert the law.
If things go wrong, the officials should be held accountable. Because they are held accountable, they have to exercise power and bend the law.
The common people are the weak and small party, but when they accuse powerful officials, how can they not lose the case due to the huge disparity in power?
The county magistrate believed the words of the official, so he could only uphold the original verdict.
If things go wrong, the county magistrate should be held responsible. The county magistrate is guilty and will blame it on the superior county.
One party is the common people, and the other party is the county official. If this kind of lawsuit continues, can the common people win?
As things turned out, the county was also guilty, and the county appealed to the state because of its guilt.
When the common people go to court with the county, is there any hope of winning? The state officials refused to accept the case, so the people had no choice but to come to the official residence. The government could not conduct a detailed trial, so it delayed the case.
The poor and weak people can delay it for less than ten days, but the rich and powerful can delay it for a thousand days.
With this kind of lawsuit, what unjust case can be cleared up?
The righteous people are full of anger but cannot get justice, and the cunning officials engage in crooked ways and avoid punishment. This is the reason why the people are oppressed and the world is becoming more and more poor.
In addition to God feeling pain and sending disasters, we only need to look at man-made disasters to know.
From the three prefectures and counties, to the county and county judicial officials, as well as the common people who are involved in lawsuits, there are about 100,000 people who are implicated in the lawsuits and find witnesses to bring them to court every day.
One person has something to do and two people are on staff, which means that 300,000 people are delayed in agricultural work every day.
Using the average farmer as a standard, three million people will go hungry every year.
In this way, how can thieves be eliminated and where will the peaceful days come from?
"The Book of Songs" says: Don't look back on chaos, who has no parents?
How can the king be wealthy when the living conditions of the common people are insufficient?
Is it worth pondering?
Can it not arouse deep thought?
5. "Shu Amnesty Chapter" When a doctor treats a patient, he must know the deficiency and excess of the patient's pulse and where the Qi stagnation is before he can prescribe a prescription, so the disease can be cured and the patient can live longer.
Those who govern a country must first know the sufferings of the people and the source of the chaos, and then take measures. Only then can bad people and evil deeds be stopped, and the country be stable.
There is nothing that causes the most suffering to the people now than those who continuously use money to atone their sins and obtain forgiveness. The more forgiveness and atonement you have, the more evil people will gain power and the good people will suffer.
How to prove it?
Cautious people do not make mistakes, and there are decent officials who are not afraid of violent people, but groups of cunning people dare to make random accusations because they know that they will be pardoned soon anyway.
There are only a few good-hearted and upright people who can go to the court to redress their grievances after being complained about. Among several people, only one in a hundred is interrogated by officials. Only six or seven out of ten people are sent back empty-handed after being interrogated by the minister.
Those who have done evil have violated the law. The victims hope that they will be sentenced severely to relieve their hatred, but instead they are all pardoned and released, making the evildoers proud. Some habitual thieves even walk past the door in good clothes. The filial people dare not accuse their enemies when they see it. The stolen goods do not dare to take them back. How can there be more pain than this!
Those who cultivate weeds cause losses to crops, and those who harbor bad guys cause harm to the people. "Shu Jing" says: King Wen of Zhou strictly enforced the law and never pardoned the bad guys.
The former kings formulated criminal laws not to make people suffer physical pain and shorten their lives; but to punish bad people and eliminate harm for the people.
Therefore, the scriptures say: God commands virtuous people to be rewarded with five services and five chapters; God uses five different punishments to punish guilty people. "The Book of Songs" satirizes the humanity of unfair law enforcement: This person should be convicted, but you excused him.
In ancient times, only those who were appointed by heaven to be kings were the first. After the great chaos in the world, there were too many lawbreakers, and it was difficult to hold them accountable one by one. Therefore, a general amnesty had to be adopted to give them a chance to reform, so that the people could live in peace, and promote the great order of the world.
This is by no means appeasing bad people, let alone indulging bad people.
Those people with evil nature are a group of wolves. Even if they are forgiven and pardoned, they never repent.
Some people were released from their shackles in the morning and arrested again at night. Even though there were strict officials, they could not stop them.
Why?
Anyone who dares to do bad things must have extraordinary abilities and be able to please their superiors.
For example, stuffing more ill-gotten gains and saying more things to please others to soften them up. If someone is not as honest and upright as the fifth ethical person, who wouldn't care about money?
Some people often say: If sins are not pardoned for a long time, bad people will flourish and officials will be unable to stop them. We should use various methods to enlighten them to break them up.
This is because we do not understand the fundamental source of political chaos and the causes of misfortunes and blessings.
Later, Huangfugui, the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty, was dismissed from his official post and returned to Anding. The people from the same town who used their goods and wealth to buy the governor of Yanmen also left their jobs and went home, and went to see Huangfugui with their business cards.
Huangfu Gui lay sleeping and did not come out to greet the man. After the man had already entered the door, he asked: "You used to eat wild goose meat in the county magistrate Renli. It tasted good, didn't it?"
Soon, someone reported that Wang Fu was at the door asking to see him.
Huangfu Gui had always heard of Wang Fu's reputation, so he got up quickly, with his clothes not tied yet, put on his shoes and went out to greet him. He held Wang Fu's hand and entered the room, sitting with him very happily.
People at that time said this: A governor with two thousand stones is not worth a common man.
That is to say, the moral character of scholars is noble.
Wang Fu finally stopped serving as an official and died at home.
◆Zhong Changtong, also known as Zhong Changtong, was born in Gaoping, Shanyang.
When he was young, he was studious, read extensively in books, and was good at diction.
When he was more than 20 years old, he studied in Qingzhou, Xuzhou, Bingzhou and Jizhou. Most of his friends thought he was different from ordinary people.
Gao Gan, the governor of Bingzhou, was Yuan Shao's nephew. He had always been noble and famous, attracting wanderers from all over, and many scholars attached themselves to him.
Zhong Changtong passed by Gao Gan, who entertained him well and asked about the major events at that time.
Changtong said to the senior officials: You have great ambitions but no great talents. You like to make friends with scholars but cannot choose talents. Therefore, I am worried about you. Please take this as a warning.
The senior cadre often felt that he was good. If he didn't accept his advice, Chang Tong would leave.
Not long after, the high officials rebelled against Bingzhou and were defeated.
The scholars of Bingzhou and Jizhou all differed in their ability to know people.
Zhong Changtong was a man of suave nature, who dared to speak out without caring about trivial matters, and who spoke impertinently in silence. Some people at that time called him Kuang Sheng.
Whenever summoned by the state or county, he often complained that he was ill and would not go away.
It is often thought that those who lobby the emperor just want to establish themselves and make a name for themselves, but fame does not last forever and life is easy to perish. They can enjoy themselves by wandering and admiring. They want to build a house and live in a clear land to satisfy their ambitions.
His argument is: Suppose you live in a large house with fertile land, with mountains on the back and water on the side, surrounded by ditches and ponds, surrounded by bamboos and trees, with a field in front and an orchard in the back.
Boats and carts can replace the labor of traveling and wading, which is enough to relieve the four-body struggle.
Raising relatives has a delicious meal, and the wife does not have to work hard.
When good friends arrive, they will be entertained with wine and food, festive events, and pigs and sheep will be killed to honor them.
Take a walk in Qiyuan, play in the plain forest, wash your feet on the shore of clear water, enjoy the cool breeze, go fishing, and shoot birds.
Sing under the dancing beauties, chant in the high hall.
Relax in the boudoir, think about the mystery of Lao Tzu, breathe fresh air, and seek to be like a perfect person.
Talking about Taoism and writing with a few close friends, looking down at the sky and the earth, commenting on the rights and wrongs of people.
Play the "South Wind" harp and sing the wonderful music of Qing Dynasty and Shang Dynasty.
A carefree life, looking between heaven and earth.
He will not be blamed at that time, and his life will be preserved forever.
In this way, one can rise above the sky and be beyond the universe.
Are you still envious of entering the imperial family?
He also wrote two poems to express his ambition. The poem says: The flying birds leave their remains, the singing cicada sheds its body.
The flying snake abandons its scales and armor, and the divine dragon loses its head and horns.
A great person can change, a noble person can transcend vulgarity.
Riding on the clouds without a saddle or bridle, riding the wind with no satisfaction.
The hanging dew becomes a tent curtain, and the Zhang Xiao becomes a scarf.
Hangzhou serves as dinner, and Nine Suns replace candles.
The stars are as bright as pearls, and the morning glow is as smooth as jade.
Liuhe allows me to roam as much as I want.
People and things can be left behind, so why be cramped.
Although the road is flat, there are only a few people there.
There is no right or wrong in anything you want, and there is nothing wrong with what you want.
It has been a circuitous and complex process since ancient times.
No matter what I do, the most important thing is still with me.
Put your worries in heaven and bury them in the earth.
The rebellion was dispersed in the Five Classics, and Heaven abandoned the Wind and Ya.
Baijia is too messy, please use a fire.
The ambition to fight is in the mountains, and the heart is in the sea.
The vitality becomes a boat, and the breeze can be the rudder.
Ao Xiang is in Taiqing, Zongyi is in Rongye.
The minister ordered Xun to be surprised when he heard Zhong Changtong's name, so he appointed him as minister.
Later he participated in the military affairs of Prime Minister Cao Cao.
Whenever he talks about ancient and modern times and the customs and practices of that time, he often sighs with anger.
Because the treatise is called "Chang Yan", it has a total of thirty-four chapters and more than 100,000 words.
In the year when Emperor Xian abdicated, Zhong Changtong died at the age of forty-one.
