On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the first year of the ordinary year, the year was changed, and the whole country was granted amnesty. Civil and military officials were given grades for their achievements, and agricultural officials who were filial and loyal to the fields were given a rank of nobility. Extraordinarily poor families were not levied normal taxes, and the widows, widowers, and lonely people were all provided with assistance and compensation.
Bingzi, a solar eclipse occurs.
In Ji Mao, Xiao Hong, king of Situ Linchuan, was appointed as Taiwei and the governor of Yangzhou. Xiao Jing, the general of Anyou and the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed as the general of Anxi and the governor of Yingzhou.
When Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Lai resigned due to his mother's death, Jin Ziguanglu's doctor Wang Feng took over as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Gengzi, Funan and Goryeo each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the second month of Renzi, the star Canopus appeared.
Guichou appointed Zhixuan, the crown prince of the King of Korea, as General Ningshu and Zhiwuwang.
In March Bing and Wu, Gao Xi sent an envoy to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of summer, the king of Henan sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
At the end of June, Tong He, the guard general, was appointed as the chariot and cavalry general.
At the end of the seventh month of autumn, the Yangtze River, Huaihe River, and ocean all rose and overflowed their embankments.
In Xinmao, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling, the general of Xinwei, was appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
In August Gengxu, the star Canopus appeared.
In Jiazi, the new chariot and cavalry general Wei Tiao passed away.
In the ninth month of Yihai, a star appeared in the east in the early morning, shining brightly like a flame.
In the winter of October 1911, General Xuanhui of Changsha and Wang Shenye of Changsha were appointed as generals of the army.
Xin You appointed Xiao Gang, king of Yin Jin'an in Danyang, as General Pingxi and governor of Yizhou.
In the first month of the second year of Jiaxu, Xiao Zong, the governor of South Xuzhou and the king of Yuzhang, was appointed as the general of Zhenyou.
The new governor of Yizhou, King Xiao Gang of Jin'an, was appointed governor of Xuzhou.
Xin Si, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs.
Shaoling said: The Chun Temple serves the solar terms and offers sacrifices respectfully. The pottery vessels are natural and honest, the black jade bis are complete in etiquette, and the care is based on the blessings of heaven's protection and care.
The competent authorities and counties will take care of those who are old and lonely, or those who are young and have lost their parents, and will provide food and clothing relief to them to maintain their livelihood.
In addition, a lonely garden was set up in the capital so that orphans would have a home and the elderly would not be in need.
If you die, bury him with dignity.
For particularly poor families, land tenant surveys are not levied.
Wuzi, amnesty to the world.
In the second month of Xinchou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
In March Gengyin, it snowed heavily, and the snow was three feet deep on the flat ground.
In the fourth month of summer, on Yi Mao, the altar in the southern and northern suburbs was rebuilt.
Bingchen, the edict said: "Respect and obey God, the sky will not be chaotic, personally hold the farm tools, work hard to show respect, go up and harmonize with the stars, and go down to teach the people to follow the seasons, distinguish the order of spring plowing, and it is not in the south according to the law."
The previous generations followed the rules and violated the etiquette. In the east, fertile fields were selected and established, hoping to comply with the old regulations.
On Guimao in the fifth month, a fire broke out in the Wanyan Palace and spread to burn down 3,000 houses in the harem.
Ding Si, the edict said: Princes, princes and ministers, I am now sending a watch and seal to celebrate the auspiciousness. Although it is the sincerity of all the officials to care for the country, I really feel a lot of shame in my heart.
If grace spreads all over rivers and mountains, benevolence covers animals and plants, the climate is harmonious in the four seasons, politics is peaceful, and auspiciousness descends from heaven, there is no need to feel ashamed. However, if there are many flaws in governance and simple education has not been formed, how can we reach out to the stars and receive blessings from the gods from afar?
This further shows my meager virtues and adds to my faults.
You can stop celebrating auspiciousness from now on.
In the sixth month of Ding Mao, General Xinwei and Yizhou Governor Wen Sengming betrayed the state and defected to Wei.
In the seventh month of Autumn, Dingyou gave the great craftsman Pei Sui Fu Jie to command all the armies to attack the north.
In Jiayin, Canopus appeared.
Huan Shuxing, the governor of Jingzhou in Wei State, led his troops to surrender.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, the land in Shigu Village, Zhongshiping County, split open and turned into a well, which was six feet six inches square and thirty-two feet deep.
In November of winter, Baekje and Silla each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
On the 10th day of the 10th century, the general Zhenshu, King Yulong of Baekje, was appointed as the general Ningshu.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Gengzi appointed Shangshu Ling Yuan Ang as the Superintendent of Zhongshu, Wang Chen, the prefect of Wu County, as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Fen as Youguanglu doctor.
Gengxu, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Before long, he appointed General Xuanyi and Prince Xiao Xu of Luling as the governor of Yongzhou.
On Yimao in March, Xiao Ping, the king of Baling, passed away.
On Ding Mao, the fourth month of summer, Liu Duan, king of Ruyin, passed away.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month, a solar eclipse occurs, which is a total eclipse.
In Guisi, a general amnesty was issued to the whole country, and orders were issued to all directions. All the sufferings of the people were immediately reported to the public. The ministers and ministers each kept their seals to report, and the prime ministers of the prefectures and states recommended those who were virtuous, upright, and dared to speak the truth.
In Autumn and August, Xinyou, the construction of the altar in the southern and northern suburbs and the fields used for farming by the emperor were completed, and the craftsmen were rewarded in varying amounts.
Jiazi, Canopus appeared.
The countries of Poli and Baiti each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the tenth month of winter, Yuan Ang was awarded the title of General of the Central Guard.
In November, during the Sino-Japanese War, General Fujun, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, and leading general Shixing Wang Xiao Dan passed away.
Xin Chou appointed Prince Zhan Shi Xiao Yuanzao as the leading general.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first lunar month, Xin Mao, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the world. All the poor and sick were provided with relief and compensation, and he issued orders to all directions to deal with cases and lawsuits in a timely manner.
On Bingwu, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
On Gengwu in February, the star Canopus appeared.
In Yihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
The edict said: Cultivating the fields is of great significance!
Sacrifices were produced from this, etiquette became prominent from this, and all the wise kings of ancient times prospered from this.
Reviewing the eight types of political affairs, carrying out land cultivation, ministering to hundreds of officials, respectfully performing etiquette, the etiquette of removing soil nine times is completed, and sacrifices continue.
In addition, the weather is good and the weather is changing. It coincides with seeing the beautiful moment, thinking about it and rewarding it.
It can be promulgated in various places to widely open up fertile land, public and private land, and make sure to fully reap the benefits of the land.
If there are those who want to return to farming but lack food and seeds, they will also be given loans and compensation, making sure they are generous and considerate.
The agricultural officer of Ren Xiaoti Litian was given a first-level title.
Relevant officials involved in farming selected a time to hold a banquet to express their condolences.
In the third month of Renyin, Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, the general who Zhenyou, was appointed as the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yanzhou in the south.
In June Yichou, Yizhou was divided to form Xinzhou, Jiaozhou was divided to form Aizhou, Guangzhou was divided to form Chengzhou, Nandingzhou, Hezhou, and Jianzhou, and Huozhou was divided to form Yizhou.
In Autumn and August, Ding Mao, the star Canopus appears.
On Gengwu in the tenth month of winter, Yuan Ang, the eunuch of the Zhongshu and the general of the Zhongwei, was appointed as Shangshuling.
On Ji Mao, the guard general Chang Yi died.
On the first day of November, Guiwei, a solar eclipse occurs.
Taibai appears during the day.
On the day of Jiachen, Shangshu Zuopushe and Wang Chen passed away.
On Wuwu day of the twelfth lunar month, iron coins began to be minted.
Langya Xiuguo sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, Dr. Zuo Guanglu and Nanping Wang Xiaowei of Kaifu Yitong Sansi were appointed as generals of the Zhenwei. They were changed to Dr. You Guanglu and Yitong Sansi remained as before.
General Zhengxi, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, Jingzhou Governor Poyang King Xiao Hui was promoted to General of Hussars.
Xia Houyi, the Taifu Qing, served as the central guard.
Wang Feng, the doctor of Youguanglu, served as the doctor of Zuoguanglu, and was awarded special promotion.
In Xinmao, Xiao Zong, the general of Pingbei and the governor of southern Yanzhou, Yuzhang Wang, was promoted to the title of general of Zhenbei.
General Pingxi and the governor of Yongzhou, Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an, was promoted to General Anbei.
On the Gengwu day of February, Wang Fen, the doctor of Te Jin and Zuo Guanglu, passed away.
Ding Chou. Canopus appears.
In the third month of the third month of the year, Jiawu, the Han Dynasty was divided and the Liao Dynasty was established in Yangzhou.
At the end of April in the Xia Dynasty, General Yunhui and Nankang Wang Xiao Ji were appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
In the sixth month of Yiyou, the dragons fought at Wangpi in Qu'a, and then walked west to Jianling City.
Wherever it passed, trees fell to the ground and broke, and the ground cracked dozens of feet.
Wuzi. Xiao Ji, Prince of Wuling, the prefect of Kuaiji, was appointed as the governor of Shu Yangzhou.
Gengzi appointed Yuan Shu, a regular servant of Wai Sanqi, as general of Pingbei and governor of Beiqing and Yanzhou, and led the army to conquer the north.
At the end of the seventh month of autumn, the foreign righteous soldiers who went north to conquer were rewarded with the first-level official rank.
In August Gengyin, Xuzhou governor Cheng Jingjun captured Wei Tongcheng.
In September Wushen, Juzuoqiu was conquered again.
On Wuwu day, Sister Jicha, the governor of Zhao Tomuji, surrounded Peishan.
In Renxu, General Xuanyi attacked Juchang in the tomb and entered the outer city, but failed to capture it.
In the tenth month of winter, Pei Sui and Yuan Shu attacked Jianling City of Wei State and captured it.
Xin Si captured Qumu again.
General Peng Shisun conquered Langye.
Jiashen also captured Tanqiu City.
In Xin Mao, Pei Sui captured Di City.
Bingshen also captured Zongcheng, so he marched and garrisoned Lijing.
In Renyin, Wei Jingxin, the governor of the East China Sea of ​​Wei State, offered Siwu City to surrender.
Cao Shizong, the governor of General Dingyuan's mouth, captured the city of Quyang in the state of Wei.
In Jiachen, Qinxu was captured again.
The defenders of Wei Guocheng and Panxi abandoned the city and fled.
On Bingchen in November, Peng Baosun captured Dongguan City.
In Renxu, Pei Sui attacked Ancheng in Shouyang. Bingyin, Wei's Ma Tou and Ancheng troops all came to surrender.
In December Wuyin, Jingshan City of Wei State surrendered.
In Yisi, the brave general Li Guoxing attacked Pingping Pass and captured it.
Xin Chou and Yang Faqian, the chief minister of Xinwei, attacked Wuyang Pass; Ren Yin attacked Xian Pass. All conquered.
In the spring of the sixth year on Bingwu of the first lunar month, Anbei general Xiao Gang, king of Jin'an, sent Chief Shi Liujin to capture Wei's Nanxiang County, and Sima Dong Dangmen captured Wei's Jincheng.
Gengxu also captured the two cities of Maquan and Diaoyang.
In the year of 1911, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the whole world.
Geng Shen, General Shu of the Wei State, and Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou, offered Pengcheng to surrender.
At Jisi, Yongzhou's vanguard troops captured Xincai County of Wei State.
The edict said: The imperial court's plan has been decided, and the external offensive will be carried out.
Hou Yuanzao of Xichang, the general in charge and the leader of the army, can go out in person and be the vanguard. Xiao Zong, the general of Zhenbei and the governor of South Yanzhou, the king of Yuzhang, will lead the heroes and follow up at lightning speed. The remaining armies will be dispatched at an agreed time.
The vanguard, center troops and follow-up troops are properly deployed. I will lead the six armies like rolling clouds and cross the Yangtze River in dragon boats.
Guiyou conquered the city of Zheng in Wei.
In Jiaxu, he appointed the former Wei Zhenshu general and Xuzhou governor Yuan Faseng as Sikong.
In February, Ding Chou, Canopus appears.
In Gengchen, Xiao Xu, the king of Luling, the governor of Southern Xuzhou, returned to the court and received military strategies.
At the end of the day, Zhan Jingyue captured Longkang City of Wei State.
On Bingwu in the third month, the year star appears in the South Dou.
The newly converted people were rewarded with long-term exemption from taxes, and all crimes were not investigated.
On Jiyou day, the emperor went to Baixia City to inspect where the six armies were stationed.
Yichou, the general of Zhenbei and the governor of southern Yanzhou, Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, was temporarily stationed in Pengcheng, commanding all the armies, and acting as agent for the affairs of Xuzhou Prefecture.
Jisi, appointed Yuan Jinglong, the former Wei State's temporary Pingdong general, as the governor of Hengzhou, and Yuan Jingzhong, the former Wei State's conquering general, as the governor of Guangzhou.
On the fifth day of the fifth month of summer, the Suyu weir was built, and the Caogong weir was built in Jiyin.
Venus appears during the day.
Renzi sent Xiahou Xuan, the central guard army, to take charge of the affairs of the armies in Shouyang and march northward.
In the sixth month of Gengchen, Xiao Zong, king of Yuzhang, defected to Wei, and Wei occupied Pengcheng again.
In the autumn and seventh month of Renxu, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In August Bingzi, Cao Zhongzong, the regular servant of Sanqi, was appointed as the leading general.
At Renwu, the star Canopus appeared.
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling, committed a crime and was dismissed from his official position and deprived of his title and fiefdom.
In Renchen, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
On the first day of Xinchou's first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, prisoners with crimes under capital punishment were pardoned.
On Ding Mao, the Hua Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In February of Jiaxu, the armies marching north were lifted from martial law.
The king of Henan sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
Dinghai, Canopus appears.
On Yimao in the third month, Koryo sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
On the fourth day of the fourth month of summer, Taiwei came and Wang Xiaohong passed away.
Nanzhoujin was reorganized into a school captain and its salary levels were increased.
The ministers who were in office under Shaoling each recommended talents they were familiar with. All honest officials were recommended by the imperial court. Two people were recommended in each state every year, and one person was recommended in each county.
On the sixth day of the sixth lunar month, Lin Yi State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the ninth month of autumn, Xiao Hui, the king of Poyang, the general of the Hussars, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of Jingzhou, passed away.
In the tenth month of winter, Xiao Yi, king of Yin Xiangdong in Danyang, was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou.
In the Gengchen month of November, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
On this day, Ding Guifei passed away.
Xin Si, Xia Houzhi, Hu Longya, Yuan Shu, Cao Shizong and other armies captured Shouyang City.
Ding Hai released Li Xian, the governor of Yangzhou in Wei State, and returned to the north.
Yuzhou was established in Shouyang, and Hefei was changed to South Yuzhou.
Xia Houyi of the Central Guard Army was appointed governor of Henan and Southern Henan.
General Pingxi and the governor of Mozhou, Cheng Su, were promoted to General Anxi.
The poor and exhausted governor surrendered his county and city.
In the spring and first month of the first year of Taitong, Yichou appointed Shangshu Zuopusheyi as Shangshu Pushe and Zhongwei General.
Shaoling said: I think about benefiting the people, but my daily efforts are not enough. As time goes by, I often deliberately give preferential treatment to simple actions.
The salary of each official has a fixed amount. It has been assessed and approved many times since previous generations. Recently, the old practice has been followed and there has been no time to change it.
From now on, cash can be issued on a long-term basis, on time, and no arrears will occur.
All errors in the loss of government supplies, no matter how small, will be forgiven.
However, the matter involves military reserves, and the use of existing public and private supplies is not covered by this regulation.
At the end of the Xin Dynasty, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and issued an edict: "Respect the seasons and show the etiquette, devoutly offer the green and black jade, consider and uphold the virtues of heaven, and benefit the people of the world."
Anyone who left his hometown due to the war and lived in other places was allowed to restore his residence and property and be exempted from five years of hard labor.
For extremely poor families, the three adjustments will not be levied.
The agricultural officer of Ren Xiaoti Litian was given a first-level title.
This month, Xiahou Kui, the governor of Sizhou, marched to the three passes and conquered everything he went.
At the end of March, the emperor went to Tongtai Temple, sacrificed his life in Jiaxu, returned to the palace, granted amnesty to the world, and changed the reign name.
Xiao Yuanzun, the general of the left guard, was appointed as the central guard army.
Dianken and Crocodile Wangli each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fifth month of Xia Bingyin, Cheng Jingjun conquered Lintong and Zhuken in Wei State.
In autumn and August at Renchen, Canopus appears.
In the tenth month of winter, during the Gengxu period, Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Yuzhou, surrendered to the State of Wei and surrendered to Guoyang.
Jiayin, pardoned the prisoners in East Yuzhou.
On Dingmao in November, Xiao Yuanzao of the Central Guard Army was appointed as the governor of the Northern Campaign and the general of the Northern Campaign to guard Guoyang.
In Wuchen, Yuan Ang, the Minister of the Secretariat, the General of Zhongwei, and the Third Division of Kaifu Yi were appointed as the supervisor of Zhongshu.
Set up in the western Xuzhou of Guoyan.
Koryo State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the spring and first month of the second year of Gengshen, Sikong Yuanfa monk concurrently served as the general of the Chinese army with his original official position.
Zhongshu Jian, Shangshu Ling, Zhongwei General, and Kaifu Yi were directly promoted to the rank of Zhongfu General.
Wei Weiqing Gai Ang served as the central leader.
In Yiyou, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In February, the star Canopus appeared.
This month, build Hanshan Burial.
In the third month of March, Xiao Ji, the governor of Nankang, was appointed General Anyou.
In Xinchou, the fourth month of summer, Fuhuangjian's governor, Wutida, offered Zhanyang to surrender and established Beisi Prefecture.
At that time, the political situation in Gongli was in chaos, and their Beihai Wang Douti, Fallen Wang Wusheng, and Dalu Kuangyuantan all came to defect to him; their leek merchants, Shi Wuxinggu, and Chensuyou, Shi Kuijin, also offered their land and surrendered.
In the sixth month of Dinghai, Wang Yuanor of the Linhuai Kingdom of Wei requested to return to his homeland, and his request was granted.
In the tenth month of winter, Dinghai appointed King Yuanhao of the North Sea of ​​Wei State as the lord of Wei, and sent Chen Qingzhi, the general of Shugong Zhihe, to escort him back to the north.
Deng Xian, the governor of Yuzhou in the Wei State, offered his land and surrendered.
On the Xinyou day of the first month of the first year of Zhongdatong, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and granted first-level titles to agricultural officials who were filial piety and Litian.
In Jiazi, Wang Yuanyue of Runan in Wei State requested to return to his homeland, and his request was granted.
Xin Si, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
In February Jiashen, Xiao Ji, the king of Yinwuling in Danyang, was appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
Xin Chou, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In March Bingchen, King Aluozhen of Henan was appointed as the general of Ningxi and the governor of the three states of Youtai Huisha.
Gengchen appointed Zhonghujun Lu Xunlian as Zhongquan General.
In the fourth month of the Xia Dynasty, Xiao Xu, the king of Nankang, was appointed as the general of the army.
In Guisi, Chen Qingzhi attacked Liangcheng of Wei State and captured it; he marched to massacre Kaocheng and captured Yuan Huiye, King of Jiyin of Wei State.
On Wuchen in May, Daliang was captured.
Guiyou, captured Hulao City.
The owner of the tomb, Yuan Ziyou, gave up robbing the fort and fled to Jiongjiu.
Yihai, five questions enter Dangdang.
On Renwu in the sixth month, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.
In the year of 1911, Jin Hong, the prefect of Huaiyin in the Wei State, surrendered Huyang City to surrender.
At the end of the leap month, Xiao Ji, General An You and King of Nankang who protected the army, passed away.
In Ji Mao, Wei Erzhu Rong attacked and killed Yuan Hao and occupied Luoyang.
In the ninth month of autumn, Zhuquehang's beautiful watch was damaged.
General Yang Kan of Anbei was appointed governor of Qingzhou and Jizhou.
In Guisi, the emperor went to Tongtai Temple and held the Four Uncovered Dharma Assembly. Then he sacrificed himself and entered the temple. Officials below the public minister paid 100 million yuan to redeem him.
In the tenth month of winter, the emperor returned to the palace, granted amnesty to the world, and changed the reign name.
In November of Bingxu, General Zhongfu and Kaifu Yitong were awarded the title of Zhongshu Supervisor.
In addition, Lu Wei, the general of Zhenwei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, Yinuo, was granted the title of Prince Shaofu.
Lu Zheng, Lu Zheng, and Zuo Ji were both awarded the title of Jin Zi Guang Lu.
Sikong and General Wudie were promoted to the rank of Chariot and Cavalry General.
Xiao Yuanzao, the general of central power, served as the general of the central defense army.
Lu Xian, the central leader, served as the leading general.
Wuzi, Bipanwu, the governor of Fuxi Danye, offered his city to surrender.
On the 10th day of the lunar month, Panpan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the spring of the second year, on the first day of the lunar month, Wuyin appointed King Jiaomian of Zhibao, the governor of Yong, as the General of Hussars and the governor of Laosu. Xiao Xu, the king of Luling, the governor of Mutu, was appointed as the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yinsu.
At the end of Guiwei, Canopus appears.
In April of summer, there was heavy rain and hail.
Renshen appointed Huizhi Gongdan as the general of Ningxi and the governor of Youtai Huizhou.
In the sixth month of Dingsi, Wang Yuanyue of Runan, the eunuch of Wei State, was sent back to the north to serve as the lord of Wei.
Gengshen appointed Shelianzun, the left servant of Shangshu Gengshu, as General Anbei and Longmu, and followed Hutan in his expedition to the north.
Diekenxi sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Renshen, Funan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the autumn and August of Gengxu, the emperor went to Deyang Hall and held a concert to bid farewell to the tomb owner.
Bandits and bandits gathered in the mountains and invaded the counties under the jurisdiction of Kuaiji County.
On Renwu in the ninth month, the Chaowu General Zhan Haizhen Fu Jie was given to attack the bandits in the mountains.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Xinsi, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and awarded first-level titles to the agricultural officials who had done filial piety to the fields.
In Bingshen, She Yinshengjin, the servant of Yunken Shangshu, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the north.
Xinchou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
In Jiayin, Canopus appeared.
Yimao, special enters the reed stem and dies.
Yichou appointed Wu Jijian, the governor of Lu Ye, as general Anyou.
In the fourth month of summer, the crown prince Xiao Tong passed away.
At the end of June, the former prince Zhan Shi Xiao Yuanyou was appointed as the Central Guard Army.
Shangshu Pushe Xu Mianjia was granted the title of Tejin and Youguanglu doctor.
Dandanxi sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
Guichou established Qi Ronggong Lu Fu, the son of Prince Zhao Ming, as the governor of Chentuye, as the king of Yuzhang County, Tarsi Gonglu as the county king of Huisi, and Di Huisheng Zhefan as the county king of Yueyang.
In Yihai, the seventh month of autumn, King Lu Bao of Sai was established as the crown prince.
Under the amnesty, those who are his father's heirs and those who are loyal, filial, honest and diligent in both civil and military affairs will be given a first-level title.
In Yiyou, Xie Ju, the Minister of Shizhong and the Five Soldiers, was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Gengyin, Shaoling said: It can be said that it is appropriate to promote love to the six relatives, to clarify the moral principles of the nine clans, and to award the marquis.
All relatives of the clan within the fifth service can be given to the Tinghou of Mu Shi Township, and each service is ranked according to their relative relative distance.
Those who have a close relationship will naturally follow the old rules.
In Renchen, He Jingrong, the Minister of Civil Affairs, was appointed as the right servant of the Minister.
Guisi. Canopus appears.
In September of Gengwu, Prince Zhan Shi Xiao Yuanzao was appointed as the general of the northern expedition and the governor of Yanzhou in the south.
Wuyin, Langya Xiuguo sent a memorial to pay tribute to local specialties.
On the 1st day of the 10th month in winter, I went to Tongtai Temple, where the great ancestor ascended the throne. He taught Buddhist disciples, both monks and laymen, the principles of the Mahaprajna Nirvana Sutra until Yimao.
Former Leshan County Hou Xiao Zhengze committed a crime and was exiled. When he arrived in Japan, he attracted fugitives and wanted to invade Guangzhou. The local defenders attacked and pacified him.
At the end of November, I went to Tongtai Temple, where the great ancestor ascended the throne. Teaching the principles of the Mahaprajnaparamita Sutra to monks and lay Buddhist disciples until Xinchou Day in December.
This year, wild grains grew in Wuxing County and were edible.
On the first day of the first month of the fourth year of spring, Bingyin, Nanping Wang Gaiwei, the general of Zhenwei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, was promoted to Grand Sima, Sikong Yuanfaseng was promoted to Taiwei, and Yuan Xian, the Shangshu Ling, the general of Zhongfu, and the third division of Kaifu Yitong was promoted to Sikong.
Kongdi, the son of Lucai, King Jinghui of Linchuan, was made king of Duohe County.
In the Wuchen period, Qieyan Yin was appointed as the governor of the troubled state.
The crown prince's right guard led Ying Zaohu as Pingbei General and Ye Mu, and escorted Zuo Tan into the Fallen Fort.
On Geng Wu day, he established the emperor's grandson, Lord Mo, as the king of Xuanyue County.
At the end of Gui Dynasty, Liu Shiming, the governor of Yanzhou in the south of Quzhou, surrendered the city and renamed Yanzhou in the south of Wei State as Qiaozhou, and appointed Shiming as the governor.
In February Renyin, the star Canopus appeared.
The new Taiwei Yuan Faseng returned to the north and became the Lord of Shu Wei.
General Anyou General Yuan Jinglong was appointed as the General of the Northern Campaign and the Governor of Xuzhou, General Yunhui Yang Kan was appointed as the General of Anbei and the Governor of Yanzhou, and Sanqi Changshi Wushu was appointed as the General of Zhenbei.
In Gengxu, the new governor of Huazhou, King Lu Yao of Shaoling, committed a crime and was removed from office and became a civilian.
Renzi appointed Wuling Wang Xiao Ji, the governor of Jiangzhou, as the governor of Yangzhou, and the leading general Gai Xian as the governor of Liaoye.
Bingchen, Shaoling County captured a white deer.
In the third month of the third month, Xiao Zixian, a minister in charge of the imperial examination and a doctor of the Imperial Academy of China, submitted a memorial requesting for the appointment of one assistant to teach the "Book of Filial Piety" and ten students to read through the "Book of Filial Piety" annotated by Emperor Gaozu.
In the fourth month of summer in Renshen, Panpan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In autumn and July, the stars fall like rain.
In August Bingzi, Tejin Lu Gao passed away.
In September Yisi, Xiao Ke, the eldest son of Prince Zhanshi of Nanping, was appointed as the leading general, Xiao Xu, the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yongzhou and the king of Luling, was appointed as the general of Anbei, the general of Xizhonglang and the king of Xiangdong, the governor of Jingzhou, Xiao Yi, was appointed as the general of Pingxi.
In the eleventh month of the twelfth month, Goryeo sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the 12th month of Gengchen, Taiwei was appointed one after another as General of Hussars, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and Maggot Governor.
In the spring of the fifth year, on the first lunar month of Xin Mao, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and granted first-level titles to agricultural officials who were filial piety and Li Tian.
At the third watch of the previous day, Nanjiao ordered Jie Dizhi and others to inspect the sacrificial site. Suddenly, they smelled an unusual fragrance floating in the air three times on the wind. Then during the sacrificial ceremony, after the music was played to welcome the gods, a divine light filled the altar, purple, yellow, white and various colors, and it disappeared after a meal.
Xiao Ji, the concurrent Dazai and King of Wuling, and others reported the matter to the court.
In Wushen, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Jiyou, the long star appears.
In Xinhai, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
Guichou appointed King Daqi of Xuancheng as the general of the central army.
The Henan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the second month of Guiwei, I went to Tongtai Temple and held a four-part Dharma assembly. I climbed up to the Dharma throne and revealed the meaning of the "Golden-Charactered Mahaprajna Sutra" until Ji Chou.
Canopus appears.
On Bingchen in March, Grand Sima Nanping Wang Xiaowei passed away.
In the fourth month of Xia Guiyou, Zang Dun, the censor Zhongcheng, was appointed as the leader.
In the fifth month of Wuzi, the capital city suffered a severe flood, and ships were allowed to pass on the imperial road.
On the sixth day of the sixth lunar month, Lan Xuan, the lord of Wei Hejianzhan City, killed the governor of Jianzhou in the tomb of Wei, and offered Wang Waiyan to surrender.
In the Xinmao period of the seventh month of autumn, the industry was changed to the name of stem industry.
In August Gengshen, former governor Yuan Jinglong was appointed as General Anyou.
Canopus appears.
Jiazi, Zheqianli sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Jiashen, Xiao Yuanyou, the Central Protector, passed away.
In September Jihai, General Qingche and Linhe Wang Zhengde were appointed as the Central Guard Army.
In Jiayin, Shangshu Ling and Sikong Yuan Ang were appointed as Tejin and Zuo Guanglu doctors, but Sikong remained as usual.
Panpan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the tenth month of winter, Gengshen appointed He Jingrong as Shangshu Zuopushe, Shangshu Zuopushe, Shangshu Xieju as Shangshu right Pushe, Shizhong and Guozi Jijiu Xiao Zixian as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the spring and February of the sixth year of Guihai, the emperor newly cultivated his own fields, granted amnesty to the world, and granted first-level titles to agricultural officials who were filial piety and Li Tian.
In March Jihai, the acting king of Henan, Kedazhen, was appointed as the governor of the two states of West Qinhe and the king of Henan.
In Jiachen, Baekje sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of summer and Ding Mao, Mars travels to the South Dou.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Linyi State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
At the end of August, Wuxing Wang Yang Shaoxian, the governor of Nanliang Prefecture, was appointed as the governor of Qin and Southern Qin states.
In the tenth month of winter, Dingmao appointed General Xinwu Yuan Qinghe as General Zhenbei and led the army to conquer the north.
On Bingwu in the leap twelfth month, there was thunder twice in the southwest.
On the first day of the first month of the spring of the first year of the reign of Emperor Hui, on the first day of the Wushen lunar month, the year name was changed and the whole country was granted amnesty.
On the ninth day of February, the star Canopus appeared.
Xin Si, the emperor personally went to the Mingtang to offer sacrifices.
In Dinghai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
Xinchou, Korea and Dandan each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
At the end of the third month, King Anlesadan, the king of Yixi, sent an envoy to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of summer, Gengzi, the Persian state offered tribute to local specialties.
In Jiachen, General Xingbian, the general of Zhangui Zhenshu, was appointed as the governor of Tu Zhao.
In Renxu, Lu Xu, the general of Anbei and the king of Luling, was appointed as the general of Annan and the governor of Liao Cong.
On Yi Mao in the seventh month of autumn, Canopus appears.
In Xinmao, Funan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Xinmao, the tenth month of winter, Xiao Yuanzao, the former governor of Yanzhou in the south, was appointed as the general protecting the army.
At the end of November, General Zhongwei, Tejin, and Doctor Xu Mian of Youguanglu passed away.
In Renxu, Lanqin, the governor of Beiliangzhou, attacked Mozhong and captured it. Yuanluo, the governor of Liangzhou of Wei State, surrendered.
Guihai rewarded those who surrendered to Liangzhou with various tax exemptions.
In Jiazi, General Xiongyong and the governor of Northern Yizhou, Yang Fashen, King of Yinping, was promoted to General Pingbei.
The moon travels to the left star.
In December Yiyou, Yang Huiyi, the former governor of Xuzhou in the north of Wei State, was appointed as the general of Pingbei.
In the Wuxu period, Yang Shaoxian, the general of Pingxi and the governor of the two states in southern Qin and Qin Dynasty, and the king of Wuxing, was promoted to the rank of general of cavalry.
Xin Chou, Pingxi General and Jingzhou Governor, Xiangshu King Xiao Yi, was promoted to General Anxi.
In the spring of the second year, on the first month of the first lunar month, Zang Dun was appointed as the central leader.
In February Yihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
Bingxu, Canopus appears.
In the third month of the Geng Shen period, the edict stated: Politics is about nurturing the people, virtue is about popularizing the people, the imperial court issues orders like the wind, and the people respond like grass.
With my meager virtues, time came and I managed to restore normal order in troubled times. Suddenly, thirty-six years have passed.
But the inner door cannot be closed, the defense reaches overseas, there are many barriers at the border, and the train and track documents are not unified.
The people are tired from transportation, and the soldiers work hard for border defense.
Developing land to obtain food cannot stop for a moment.
The governance is not clear enough, there are many irregularities in political affairs, the officials do not open their minds to give advice, the ears and eyes everywhere lack the ear of the wind, the states stop reporting evil and recommending heroes, and the counties forget to jointly govern the world.
As a result, people who have been slandered for violating the law have no way to appeal. Officials distort the law with ink and ink, and use events to create treachery. Stones that complain about injustice are displayed in vain, and bells are hung in vain.
Doesn't "Shang Shu" say: Only with feet and hands can one become a man, and only with good ministers can one become a saint.
I really need to rely on wise help to correct my shortcomings.
All officials in the government should make their own contributions and speak out. If the policies are not convenient for the people, they can state them in full.
For example, in other places around the world, the governors, governors and magistrates all submitted reports.
If the people talk about political affairs, they will report it to them.
I will read it myself to clear up my mistakes.
For civil and military officials in office, recommend people you know well, princes, generals and ministers, promote and appoint them according to their talents, correct mistakes and make up for political deficiencies, and do not hide anything.
At the end of the fourth month of Xia Dynasty, he appointed General Hussar and Master Yiyuan of Kaifu Tongsansi as Taiwei and Military Advisor General.
Prior to this, Shangshu Youcheng Jiang Zisi presented a sealed memorial and tried his best to discuss political gains and losses.
On Guimao in the fifth month, the edict said: The ancients said that the leakage of the house is at the top, and the knowledge is at the bottom.
The mistakes I make cannot be noticed by myself.
The sealed memorials of Jiang Zisi and others have been submitted recently. The minister can check them from time to time. Things that are harmful to the people should be stopped immediately. The memorials should be started in detail quickly and not to delay the matter.
In Yisi, Yuan Luo, the former governor of Liangzhou in the Wei Kingdom, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the north and the governor of Qingji and Qingzhou.
In the sixth month of Dinghai, the edict stated: The officials of the southern suburbs, Mingtang, and mausoleum temples are of the same rank as those invited from the imperial court. In terms of business affairs, they are lighter. They can be changed to the ministers of Sanqi.
In Yihai, the tenth month of winter, an imperial edict was issued to send out large-scale troops to conquer the north.
In the eleventh month of Jihai, the troops marching north were ordered to withdraw.
In Xinhai, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, in Renshen, the state of Wei requested Tongwen for reconciliation, and Shao Ling agreed.
Ding You appointed the Grand Administrator of Wuxing, the Prince Consort, and the Marquis of Liting Zhang Lan as Ministers of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Xinchou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and rewarded the filial piety and Litian officers with first-level titles.
That night there was a fire at Zhuque Gate.
Renyin, there are no clouds in the sky, falling dust, yellow color.
In Guimao, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling in Zhongshu Ling, was appointed as the governor of Jiang Cong.
In February Yiyou, the star Canopus appeared.
In Dinghai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
Ji Chou appointed Shangshu Zuopushe, He Jingrong, as the general of Zhongquan, and the guard general Xiao Yuanzao as the right general, Shangshu Zuopushe.
Appoint Shangshu's right servant She Xieju as Youguanglu doctor.
Geng Yin appointed Lu Xu, Annan's general and Luling's king, as the central guard general and the army guard general.
In March of 1898, Prince Zhaoming's son Xiao Jing was made King of Wudan, and Lu Zhen was made King of Yiyang County.
In the fourth month of Xia Dynasty, Ding Mao appointed Hedong Wang Xiaoyu, the governor of Nanlangxie and Pengcheng counties, as the governor of Southern Xuzhou.
In May Bingshen, Xiao Jizhong, the former Yangzhou governor of Wuling, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
In June, there is frost in Qushan, Qingzhou.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Guimao, the State of Wei sent an envoy to inquire about the matter and repair it.
In Jiyou, Xiao Rui, king of Yiyang, passed away.
This month, snow fell in Qingzhou, damaging crops.
In August Jiashen, the star Canopus appears.
On Xin Mao, the emperor went to Ashoka Temple to grant amnesty to the world.
In September, a great famine occurred in southern Yanzhou.
Qiyue, there are more than 2,000 hectares of wild rice barnyard in northern Xuzhou.
In the leap month of Jiazi, Xiao Yi, the general of Anxi and the governor of Jingzhou and the governor of Xiangshu, was promoted to the general of Zhenxi. Xiao Ji, the king of Wuling and the governor of Yangzhou, became the general of Anxi and the governor of Yizhou.
On Bingchen in October in winter, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
This year, there was a famine.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first month of Gengchen, General Xuancheng Wang Daqi of the Chinese Army was appointed as the General of the Chinese Army and the governor of Yangzhou.
In February Jihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
In the third month of Wuyin, Henan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Guiwei, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fifth month of Jiaxu, the State of Wei sent envoys to inquire about the matter and repair it.
At the end of the seventh month of autumn, Xiao Cha, the prefect of Nanlangxie and Pengcheng counties, appointed Yueyang Wang Xiaocha as the governor of Shu Yangzhou.
In Guihai, Shaoling offered a general amnesty to the world because of Li Yinzhi, the prisoner of Shuye, who sought the relics of the Tathagata's true body.
On the first day of the eighth month, an edict was issued to twelve prefectures including Nanyan, Beixu, Xixu, Shuxu, Qing, Ji, Nanbeiqing, Wu, Ren, Tong, and Sui. After experiencing famine, they pardoned the tax debts in arrears and did not levy this year's three tax adjustments.
On Dinghai, the twelfth month of winter, Jian Guozi assisted Pope Kan to present the fifty volumes of "Book of Rites and Yishu" he had written.
In the spring of the fifth year, on the first month of the first lunar month, Xiao Xu, the king of Luling, was appointed as the general of Hussar and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. General An You and Shangshu Zuopushe Xiao Yuanzao were appointed as the general of Zhongwei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
General Zhongquan and Danyang Yin He Jingrong served as Shangshu Ling in his original name, Zhang Zuan, Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel, served as Shangshu Pushe, and Liu Ru, Shangshu of Duguan, served as Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel.
Ding Si, Yushi Zhongcheng and Censor He Chen reported: Now in the northern and southern suburbs, people should drive royal vehicles for sacrifices and going back and forth from their fields, and no longer need to be pulled by people.
Sacrifice in the second suburbs requires the use of uncarved vehicles. Ordinary vehicles are used to and from the fields, and they are all accompanied by servants, and the generals and servants are not required to accompany them.
The edict was delivered to the minister for extensive discussion and implementation.
The uncarved chariot was renamed Datong chariot.
Offering sacrifices to the ancestral temple takes a jade chariot.
In Xinwei, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs. Shao ordered his filial piety Li Tian and those who were called good people from his fellow villagers to each be given a first-level title, and the reasons were written and sent to the court in a timely manner.
At the end of the third month, the edict said: "My sight and hearing are lacking in all directions, and the five consciousnesses are often obscured. The foreign documents signed by the DPRK are sometimes wrong."
All states, counties and counties must promptly report any political affairs that are inconvenient for the people, and must not deceive or hide anything.
If a grievance lawsuit results, the local area bears the fault.
From now on, as a permanent rule.
On the ninth day of the seventh month of Autumn, Lu Ling, king of Luling, the general of Hussar and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, was appointed as the governor of Xingye, and Lu Qi, the king of Xiangshu, was appointed as the general of guarding the army and the general of Anyou.
In August Yiyou, the Funan Kingdom sent an envoy to pay tribute to live rhinoceros and local specialties.
In the ninth month of Gengshen, the official minister of the capital was appointed to Ji as the minister of the Ministry of official affairs.
In the eleventh month of winter, Yihai, the commission sent an envoy to inquire about the matter and repair it.
At the end of the twelfth month of the lunar month, the prefect Yu and Deng appointed Yaobi as the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and the new Zhongshu Ling Youkenwang Luba was appointed as the leader of the Zhongshu.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the sixth year of Gengxu, prisoners in Si, Yu, Xu and Yan states were pardoned.
In February Jihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
On Bingwu, King Lu Yao of Shaoling, the governor of the silk industry, was appointed as the governor of Pingxi and Jianye, and General Yunhui and Wang Xiaohuan of Yuzhang were appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
Qin County presented a white deer as a tribute.
At the end of the fourth month of the Xia Dynasty, the edict said: The king's career rises in accordance with the times, and the virtuous people pass on their deeds to their heirs, and their reputation will never be erased. Generations change, guests with the second surname are in the throne, and the principle of three generations of descendants being granted titles still remains. The world is gradually becoming distant and the cemeteries are deserted. Thinking about ancient times makes me feel nostalgic and sad when I talk about them.
For all the tombs of the Jin, Song and Qi dynasties, the relevant officials must guard and protect them conscientiously, and do not allow the common people to invade and destroy them at will.
The number of guard soldiers is small and can be supplemented in full.
Those who have not been guarded before can be rationed at their own discretion.
In the fifth month of Wuyin, Yuanluo, the governor of Qianqing and Jizhou, was appointed as Dr. Youguanglu.
In Ji Mao, the King of Henan sent envoys to offer tribute horses and local specialties.
At the end of the sixth month, Huyang County presented a white deer as tribute.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Dinghai, the State of Wei sent envoys to inquire about the matter and repair it.
On the Wuwu day of the eighth month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
Xinwei, Shaoling said: There are laws for governing the country, and officials in the court must be consulted. Therefore, Shangshu Province has appointed Ling, Pushe, Cheng, and Lang to go to court every day to discuss current affairs, plan together, and then report.
This has not been the case recently. Whenever there is a difficult matter, a decision is sought immediately.
The ancients said that if the emperor is not Yao or Shun, how can he speak correctly?
Therefore, with the sage of Fangxun, he also consulted the four mountains, and with the wisdom of Chonghua, he also relied on scholars.
How can I, with my meager virtue, be able to make my own decision?
From now on, if there are any difficult matters in the minister's book, everyone will be summoned to discuss in the court first, and then the report will be announced. We cannot follow the past.
Military secrets and national affairs previously required consultation and review for accuracy, but now they are naturally handled in accordance with the old regulations.
Panpan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In September, he moved to Anzhou and set up Dingyuan County, accepting the leadership of Northern Xuzhou, and changed his office to Xuanye.
Cui Xi, the prefect of Jiancuo, made a memorial offering of strong rice with one stem and twelve ears.
In 1898, Te Jin, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Sikong Yuan Ang passed away.
On the 11th day of the 11th month of winter, the prisoners in the capital were pardoned.
In December of Renzi, Xiao Huan, king of Yuzhang, the governor of Liaozhou, passed away.
The general of the army guard, Wang Zhong, Lu Qian was appointed as the general of Zhennan and the governor of Liaoye.
A hanging industry was set up in Languisu in Yiye, and it accepted the leadership of Laoye; Mu Guai was abolished and twenty-four counties were merged, and all were changed to belong to Guizhou.
In the spring of the seventh year, on the first month of Xinsi, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the people. Those who had wandered or lost their hometowns would have their properties and houses returned, and they would be exempted from taxes for five years.
Xin Chou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices in the Mingtang.
In the second month of Yisi, Liang Mitai, the acting king of Danchang, was appointed as General Pingxi, governor of Huiliang two states, and Shi Dangong.
In Xinhai, the emperor personally cultivated his land.
On Yi Mao, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Ding Si appointed Zhong Lingjun and Youdan Wang Luxuan as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yiye.
In the third month of Yihai, King Dangchang sent an envoy to pay tribute to horses and local specialties.
Zhili, Genliao, and Chuili each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of Xia, Wushen, Wei sent envoys to Tongjian to repair it.
In the fifth month of Guisi, Wang Heli, the servant of Lu Chen, was appointed as the leader.
In the ninth month of autumn, Wuyin, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
On Bingwu in the tenth month of winter, Liu Ru, the servant, was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
In November Bingzi, Shao ordered to stop the enslavement of women everywhere.
Ding Chou, the edict said: The people have too much luck, which is the country's misfortune. Repeatedly applying favors, it becomes more and more encouraging for cunning thieves. I also know the disadvantages caused by this approach.
But not offering generous forgiveness is not a benevolent person's mind.
All wrongful expenditures and arrears in taxes will be exempted from all cases, no matter how many, among the people, no one has accepted the report before the dawn of November 9, the seventh year of Datong.
And Xia Shao said: Utilizing the principles of heaven and sharing the benefits of the earth is probably the motto of the saints of the past.
All the land and houses that have been confiscated, except public land, will be distributed to the poor people, so that they can receive the land according to their ability.
I heard that in recent times, wealthy families have been occupying public land in many ways, using expensive taxes to farm the land for the poor, disrupting current affairs, and causing extremely serious harm.
From now on, all public land cannot be rented to wealthy families; those that have been rented are specifically allowed not to be recovered.
If wealthy households give seeds to poor people for joint management, it is not prohibited by the regulations.
Ji Chou appointed Jin Ziguanglu doctor Zang Dun as the leading general.
In the twelfth month of Renyin, the edict said: The ancients said that losing a person's original place is like pushing him into a deep ditch. Escape is not the most important thing.
I have been heartbroken and sad for a long time. I often put down my chopsticks when I was about to eat, and took away my pillow when I was about to sleep. I sat alone with worries and stayed up all night feeling depressed, not for one person, but for the sake of all the people.
Most of the governors in the state were not good people, and the county magistrates and magistrates were accomplices of the evildoers. Yang Fu was worried and angry because of this, and Jia Yi shed tears because of this.
As for obtaining it from various sources among the people, some provide food, some provide stables and warehouses, some send missions, and some receive guests, but they are all collected from the people instead of their own expenses.
A large number of mobile troops were also sent out, which was called containment and prevention, and the cunning and thieves continued, and the brutal plundering became more frequent. Sometimes they sought the sacrifices of others, and sometimes they asked others to serve.
They also carried out plunder and unjust persecution. Good people lost their lives and wealthy households lost their wealth.
The resentment caused by the cruelty is not just one or two things.
It has also been banned frequently, but it is still not over. The foreign department collects them clearly and reports them based on the facts.
Public and private residences, farms, residences, and smelting were restored, as well as monks and nuns' monasteries. Within their boundaries, they should only be guarded according to quotas. Later, they even implemented extensive bans and crossed the boundaries to prohibit land and water collection, fishing, and firewood. This left the people with no place to let go.
From now on, anyone who crosses the territorial boundary and is prohibited from doing so will be punished according to military law.
If it is public land, it is forbidden to set up farmland at will and compete with the public for private gain. As for the people collecting firewood for cooking, it cannot be prohibited; and the people gathering and fishing should not be criticized or questioned.
Failure to comply will result in death penalty.
The State of Wei sent envoys to inquire about the matter and repair it.
Bingchen built the Shilin Pavilion in the west of the palace city and recruited scholars.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Li Ben, a local citizen in Jiaozhou, attacked Xiao Zhen, the governor. Xiao Zhen delivered the goods and was able to return to Yuezhou.
In the spring of the eighth year of the lunar month, Liu Jinggong, a commoner in Ancheng County, rebelled by relying on side factions. Xiao Xiao, the internal historian, abandoned the county and fled eastward.
In February of 1898, Xiao Yi, the governor of Jiangzhou and King of Xiangshu, sent his soldiers to join the army to attack Jinggong.
On the Wuchen day of March, Jing Gong was defeated, captured and sent to the capital, where he was beheaded in Jiankang Market.
This month, Songping Tun was established in Xincai and Gaotang, Jiangzhou, to cultivate barbarian fields.
He sent the governors of Yuezhou, Chen Hou, the governors of Mo, Kongdan, Kuiwang, and Xi, to attack Li Ben in Jiaozhou.
In the spring of the ninth year, in the leap month Bingshen, an earthquake occurred and hairy things grew.
In the second month of Jiaxu, thirty households of the Liao people were ordered to have a slave girl, and they were assigned to Danye.
In March, Prince Zhan Shiyin was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
In the fourth month of summer, King Linyi captured Langye and attacked Kuitong. Kuitong's general Lian Kai came again: You defeated King Tardan, but King Fuken failed and escaped.
In Xinchou, the eleventh month of winter, Wang Yunji, the general of Anxi and the governor of Yizhou, Wuwu, was promoted to the title of General of the Expedition to the West and Kaifu Yitong, the Third Division.
In the 12th month of Renxu, the leading general Zang Dun died; he appointed the light chariot general Xiao Yu of Hedong as the leading general.
In the spring and first month of the tenth year, Li Ben stole the name in Jiaosha and set up hundreds of officials.
In March during the Sino-Japanese War, the emperor went to Lanling to pay homage to Jianling Mausoleum.
Xinchou arrived at Xiuling.
Renyin, the edict said: It has been more than fifty years since I left my hometown, and I miss returning to the East. There is not a day that goes by that I don’t think about it.
Now that the four sides have surrendered, overseas princes are obeying orders, cases and lawsuits have gradually decreased, and national affairs have a little leisure, they can only go to the mausoleum to express their respects, which only adds to the sentimentality and sorrow.
Old and young people from my hometown came one after another from afar, with diligent and diligent expressions, as if they were returning to their father's side, which should be enough to comfort my heart.
All can be given a first-level official position and be rewarded.
The counties and towns it passes through will not pay this year's rent.
If the supervisory department has collected it from the public, it will be exempted from rent for two years.
And generally reward internal and external officials and military leaders in varying amounts of money and rice.
Therefore, he wrote the poem "Returning to the Hometown".
Guimao ordered the cemetery authorities to grant first-level official positions and rewards for those who were respectful and diligent.
Ding Wei, General Renwei and the governor of South Xuzhou, Linchuan Wang Zhengyi, was promoted to General Anshu.
In Jiyou, the emperor went to Beigu Tower in Jingkou City and changed the name of the building to Beigu Tower.
Gengxu went to Huibin Pavilion and hosted a banquet for thousands of people, old and young, from the emperor's hometown and nearby counties where he passed. Each of them was rewarded with two thousand coins.
In the fourth month of summer, Yi Mao, the emperor returned from Lanling.
Shaoling provided relief and pensions for the widowed, lonely and extremely poor people in varying amounts.
On Dingyou in the fifth month, the minister ordered He Jingrong to be dismissed from his post.
In the ninth month of autumn, Jichou, Shaoling said: This year, the rainfall in various places is moderate, and the harvest time has arrived. I hope that tens of thousands of boxes of grain will be accumulated, so that the people will be happy.
All sins in the world, regardless of their severity, whether they have been discovered or not, and those who have been arrested but not caught, will be pardoned and forgiven.
Anyone who embezzles or consumes government supplies, no matter how much, will be forgiven and exempted.
If the land is abandoned, if there is no farming during floods or droughts, if there is no written report at that time, the tax should be recovered, and if the cultivated land is not registered in the government books, the tax will be stopped.
In each Taizhou, those who are listed in the lower grades due to poor academic performance and arrears in taxes will be leniently forgiven.
Those who left their hometown due to famine and went to other places to seek food were allowed to resume their industries and be exempted from rent and taxes for five years.
In December, heavy snow falls from the sky, and the snow is three feet deep on the ground.
In the spring of the eleventh year, in the third month of Gengchen, Shaoling said: In the past, the Yellow Emperor's kindness was not far away, so he lived peacefully in Xuanhu Mountain and was silent in the court.
Since the fall of the avenue, simple customs have disappeared, competition has grown day by day, and hypocrisy has appeared more and more.
I rule the world with an axe-patterned screen behind me, and I will meet half of it in a hundred years.
In the middle of the night, he was still busy with political affairs in person; the sun was setting, and it was too late to have dinner.
When he retired from court, he was still wearing commoner clothes and only tasted wild vegetables.
No matter how noble one is, occupying the whole world is considered rich; he just wants to make the people happy and peaceful, and the small people to be stable and peaceful.
Even if you think twice before acting, you will still make many mistakes.
If it is inconvenient for the people to set up distant and near divisions, separate internal and external regulations, establish farms, transfer houses, residences, and smelters in all directions, urban earth dams, pontoon bridges, ferry taxes, farmlands, new and old county magistrates, and mobile troops for guarding and patrolling, the ministers, prefectures and counties should quickly make a list of them, and explain the omissions at the same time, so as to eliminate the suffering of the people.
In the fourth month of summer, Wei sent an envoy to inquire about the matter and repair it.
At the end of the tenth month of winter, Shao Ling said: Since Yao and Shun, redemption punishments have been introduced. After taking the throne, according to ancient times, criminals were allowed to hand over their assets. Some lower-level officials took advantage of this opportunity and could not prevent the occurrence of cunning and cunning, so one day not long ago, it was banned again.
The water flow is difficult to block, and people's hearts are turbulent. This not only violates the Buddhist teachings of compassion, but also damages the Confucian virtue of caring for living beings.
"Shang Shu" said: Rather than killing innocent people, it is better to let those who do not keep the right path go.
Can open a way out for the guilty again. All are allowed to lose money to redeem themselves.
At the end of the first month of the spring of the first year of the reign of Emperor Hui, the stone phoenix was shaking at the entrance of the tomb passage of Di Huixun. There were big snakes fighting in the tomb passage, and one of them was injured and escaped.
Guichou, Jiaozhou governor Yang Guo captured Jianing City in Jiaozhi, Li Ben fled to Quliao Cave, and Jiaozhou was pacified.
On the Yisi day of the third month, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole country: all those who are responsible for guarding and seizing thieves, discarding and losing government supplies, and military supplies and equipment, and those not forgiven by the pardon order, will be given leniency before the first month of the eleventh year; after the first month of the eleventh year, all will be forgiven and punished Punishment; if someone escapes and rebels and lives in a foreign country, and loses land after leaving his hometown due to famine, he can be allowed to restore his property, be exempted from taxes for five years, and stop collecting corvee; those who are arrested can return to their respective counties, and if their old fields and houses are still there, all their old houses will be returned to them.
In Gengxu, the emperor drove back to Taigui to attend a Dharma assembly. He stopped in the temple province and explained the "Golden-Charactered Three Wisdom Sutra".
In the fourth month of Xia Bingxu, Buddhist scriptures were taught at Tongtai Temple and a Dharma assembly was established.
Amnesty was given to the whole world and the year was changed.
Those who were filial to Li Tian and those who were their father's heirs were given first-level titles, and the rewards for the civil and military officials who guarded them varied.
That night, Tongtai Temple suffered a fire.
At Xinsi in June, there were sounds all over the sky, like the collision of wind and rain.
In Xinyou, the seventh month of autumn, Xiao Jing, the king of Wuchang, was appointed as the governor of Shu Yangzhou.
Jiazi, the edict said: The beasts know their mother but not their father; the treacherous and tyrannical children are better than the beasts, so that they do not even know their parents.
They often violate national laws and harm the elderly.
The old man is imprisoned, so you can feel sad and sympathetic.
From now on, if someone commits a crime, his parents, grandparents, and grandparents should not sit together.
Only treasonous crimes will not receive today's grace.
Bingyin, the edict said: four in the morning and three in the evening, a group of monkeys are happy, the name is not negative in essence, but the mood of joy and anger is meaningful.
Recently, I heard that people often use Jiumo money. If the amount of money is reduced, the goods will be expensive, and if the amount of money is sufficient, the prices will be low. This is not because goods are high or low, but because people's hearts are turned upside down.
As for remote areas, it is becoming more and more serious. It is just that the country has different policies, or simply there are different customs in the family. It only disrupts the national system and does not help people increase their wealth.
From now on a full amount of coins can be passed.
After the law comes into effect, a period of one hundred days will be set. If there are still violations, the men will be sentenced to transportation and the women will be sentenced to hard labor, both for three years.
In August Ding Chou, the governor of Shu Yangzhou, Wuchang Wang Xiaojing, died.
Appointed General Anjian and the governor of South Xuzhou, Linchuan Wang Zhengyi, as the governor of Yangzhou in his original name, and Xiao Lun, king of Danyang Yin Shaoling, as the general Zhenshu and the governor of South Xuzhou.
During the Sino-Japanese War, the Kepan Chao Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the tenth month of winter, Liu Zhe, the king of Ruyin, passed away.
In Yihai, Wang Xiaocha, the former governor of East Yangzhou, Yueyang, was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou.
On Renyin, the first month of the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, Xiao Xu, the general of Hussar, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of Jingzhou, died; Xiao Yi, the general of Zhennan and the governor of Jiangzhou and the king of Xiangshu, was appointed as the general of Zhenxi and the governor of Jingzhou.
In Xinyou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and issued an edict: "The movement of heaven makes up for the sutures, and the covering effect is broad; the changes of heaven's way breed the formation of virtue in all things."
I took a bath in the studio, worshiped God devoutly, respectfully gathered firewood, and offered sacrifices to Taiyi. The ceremony was completed. I was filled with emotion and joy, thinking about sharing the blessings of happiness with the general public.
But there is a general amnesty, and those who are extremely poor should not pay this year's land survey; those who were banned from serving as officials due to social justice discussions will be forgiven and the ban will be lifted; the fugitive rebels who are being punished will play with the accounts to hide their age and hide their male population. Those who wish to be merciful will be granted a hundred days, and each will surrender without being held accountable for past crimes; those who live in a foreign land will be allowed to restore their residential property and be exempted from taxes for five years; those who are filial and devoted to the land will be given a first-class title; those who live in the government and serve in the government will be rewarded with two years of hard work.
It can be promulgated to various places near and far, and a wide range of talents can be searched. Some people are famous for their virtues in the state, and their moral principles are practiced in the countryside.
Jiazi, the emperor personally went to the Mingtang to offer sacrifices.
At the end of February, a white air penetrated the sun.
In Gengchen, Situ Houjing of Wei State requested that thirteen states including Yu, Guang, Ying, Luo, Yang, Xiyang, Shujing, Beijing, Xiang, Shuyu, Nanyan, Xiyan, and Qi be surrendered to Liang.
In Renwu, Hou Jing was appointed as the general and king of Henan. Daxingtai acted according to the orders, just like Deng Yu's old practice.
In Dinghai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
In the third month of the month, Gengzi went directly to Tongtai Temple and held an unobstructed Dharma meeting to donate to himself. The ministers and other officials redeemed him with 100 million yuan.
On Jiachen, he dispatched Siye's governor Yu Mozu, Sai's governor Danmian, Renmaggot's governor Zhan Haizhen and others to meet Sister Liliao.
In the fourth month of summer, Dinghai, the emperor returned to the palace, granted a general amnesty to the world, changed the reign title, and granted the filial brother Li Tian and his father's heirs a first-level title. All the ministers in the court and the civil and military officials guarding him were rewarded.
On Dingyou in the fifth month, the emperor went to Deyang Hall, hosted a banquet for the ministers, and held a concert.
On Wuchen in the sixth month, Xiao Fan, the former governor of Yongzhou and Poyang king, was appointed as the general to conquer the north and the governor of Hanbei's military expedition.
In the autumn of July, Geng Shen, Fu Chuoren enters the hanging invitation ball.
Jiazi, Shaoling said: The two studies have been set up separately for a long time.
Now that Di Cheng and Ti Cheng have been settled, we can follow the old rules of the previous dynasties and set up Yiye in Manchi, Painting Boy in Nanyuzhou, change the box and gallbladder to Jincong, Jilu fell to Jinye, Xiqiu to wall industry, and Jinzhou to Zhijin industry.
In August Yichou, the imperial army marched northward and appointed Lu Lanlong, the governor of Southern Yuzhou, as the governor.
The edict said: Now that Dimu has just been recovered, I am in charge of the mountain and the prime minister is Qingming. I miss the people and work hard day and night. I should extend kindness to them and let them start anew.
All the people in the newly annexed states who were previously guilty of running away or betraying and entering the north will be exempted. The past crimes will not be investigated, and they will not be able to take revenge with personal grudges.
Any violation will be severely punished.
In Wuzi's reign, he appointed the general Baoliang as the official in charge of the affairs of Luxingtai Shangshu.
In the ninth month of Guimao, Wang Youyuan was built.
In Gengxu, the emperor went to the garden.
In November of winter, Wei sent General Murong Shaozong and others to Mount Sai.
In the great battle at Bingwu, Lilong was defeated, and Hu Guisun, the governor of Northern Yanzhou, and others all fell to Wei.
Shaozong marched and surrounded Tongzhou.
On Wuchen in December, he sent Prince Sheren Yuan Zhen back to the north to serve as the lord of Wei.
Xin Si appointed Xiao Fan, king of Poyang, the former general who conquered the north, as general Anbei and governor of southern Yuzhou.
In the spring of the second year of the lunar month, during the Wuxu Movement of 1898, the officials in office were ordered to recruit the people they knew.
In Jihai, the Wei army captured Guoyang.
Xin Chou appointed Shangshu Pushe Xie Ju as Shangshu Ling, and appointed Wang Ke, Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, as Shangshu Pushe.
On Jiachen, Yang Yaren, the governor of Yuzhou, and Yang Sida, the governor of Yinzhou, both abandoned the city and fled, and the Wei army marched in to occupy it.
On Yimao, General Hou Jing was appointed as the shepherd of South Yuzhou, and General Anbei and the governor of South Yuzhou, Poyang Wang Xiaofan, was appointed as the governor of Hezhou.
On the first day of March, General Fushu and King Gaoyan of Goryeo passed away, and his sons were appointed General Ningshu, King of Goryeo and Duke Lelang.
At the same time, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling who was the general of Zhenshu and the governor of South Xuzhou, was appointed as the general of Pingnan, the governor of Xiangzhou, and the third division of Tongsan. Xiao Yuanzao, the general of Zhongwei and the third division of Kaifuyi, was appointed as the general of Zhengdong and the governor of South Xuzhou.
On this day, Qu Liaodong beheaded Li Ben and sent his head to the capital.
In the fourth month of Xia Bingzi, Shao ordered the officials at court and prefectures and counties to recommend honest people who could manage the people and sent them to the capital with courtesy.
Wuyin appointed Xiao Yu, King of Hedong, the general who protected the army, as the governor of Xiangzhou.
In May of Xinchou, the new Zhongshu Ling Wang Xiao Lun of Shaoling was appointed as General Anqian and Kaifu Yitong Sansi, and Zhang Zan, the former governor of Xiangzhou, was appointed as the leading general.
In Xinhai, prisoners in Jiao, Ai, and De were pardoned.
Guichou, the edict said: Governing a country depends on having many talents, and the peace of the people depends on the proper employment of people.
I am not familiar with cooking affairs, especially lack of management methods. Being alone on the throne is like facing an abyss and valley.
All officials in the government must think about corrections and remedies, offer loyal advice, and inspire others.
Announced to the governors of various states, they searched extensively for outstanding talents, collected talents from the footprints of butchers and fishermen, exhausted the mountains and caves, and submitted reports in a timely manner.
This month, two moons appear at night.
At the end of August in autumn, Zhu Yi, the right-guard general, was appointed as the leader of the central army.
During the Wuxu period, Hou Jing rebelled and attacked castles such as Ma Tou, Muzha and Jingshan at will.
On Jiachen, General An Qian, Kaifu Yi and Shaoling King Xiao Lun of the Third Division were appointed to lead all armies to attack Hou Jing.
Pardon the prisoners in Southern Yuzhou.
In September Bingyin, Yuan Luo, the doctor of Zuo Guanglu, was awarded the title of General Zhenyou.
In the tenth month of winter, Hou Jing attacked Qiaozhou and captured Xiao Tai, the governor.
At the end of Ding Dynasty, Hou Jing marched to attack Liyang, and the prefect Zhuang Tie surrendered to Hou Jing.
Wushen appointed the new Guanglu doctor Linhe Wang Zhengde as General Pingbei to command all the troops in the capital and garrison Danyang County.
In Jiyou, Hou Jing crossed the Hengjiang River to quarry stones.
In Xinhai, Hou Jing's army arrived in the capital, and Linhe Wang Zhengde led his army to attach to the rebels.
In November of Xinyou, the bandits captured Shufucheng and killed Xiao Tui, Marquis of Nanpu, and Yang Dun, Sima of the Chinese Army.
In Gengchen, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling, led Xiao Nongzhang, the governor of Wuzhou, Tang Bochao, the former governor of Qiaozhou, and others into the capital for rescue, and stayed at Aijing Temple in Zhongshan.
In Yiyou, Xiao Lun marched to Hutou, fought with the bandits, and was defeated.
In Bingxu, Anbei General Poyang Wang Xiaofan sent his son Xiao Si, Xiongxin General Pei Zhigao and others to lead troops to Beijing for rescue and stationed in Zhanggongzhou.
In December of Wushen, the northwest sky split in the middle, and there was light like a flame.
Shangshu ordered Xie Ju to die.
In Bingchen, Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, Wei Can, the former governor of Hengzhou, Li Qianshi, the governor of Gaozhou, Guiyaren, the former governor of Sizhou, etc. all led their troops to Beijing for rescue and elected Zhongli as the governor.
On the first day of the first month of the third year of spring, Liu Zhongli led his troops to occupy the south bank.
On this day, the thieves crossed the army in Qingtang and attacked Weisai's camp in a sneak attack. Wei Can resisted until he died in the battle.
Gengshen, Shaoling King Xiao Lun, Dongyangzhou Governor Lincheng Gong Dalian and others led soldiers to gather on the south bank.
In Yichou, Zhu Yi, the leader of the army, passed away.
Bingyin appointed Sinongqing Fu Qi as the leader of the army.
In Wuchen, Li Qianshi, the governor of Gaozhou, and Fansai, the governor of Yuya, marched to the east of Zhihuan. They were defeated by the bandits and Wen Jiao died in battle.
On Renwu, Mars stayed in the heart.
Yiyou, Taibai Venus appears during the day.
At the end of February, King Huili of Nankang, the governor of Southern Yanzhou, and Xiangtan Hou Xiaotui, the governor of the former Qingji Prefecture, led the troops of Jiangzhou and stayed in Lantingyuan.
In Gengxu, General Anbei and Poyang Wang Xiaofan, governor of Hezhou, opened the Yitong Sansi Division in his original position.
On the Wuwu day of March, former Sizhou governor Yang Yaren and others marched to the north of Shufu, fought with the rebels, and were severely defeated.
Before long, the Crown Princess Wang passed away.
On Ding Mao, the bandit army captured the palace city and allowed the soldiers to plunder wantonly.
At this time, the thieves pretended to be an imperial edict and sent a large sum of money from Duke Shi Cheng to disband the reinforcements outside.
In Gengwu, Hou Jing claimed to be the commander-in-chief of all military affairs at home and abroad, the prime minister, and the minister of records.
At Xinwei, the reinforcements retreated and dispersed.
Bingzi, Mars stays in the heart.
On Renwu, the new leader Fu Qi passed away.
In the fourth month of summer, there was an earthquake in the capital.
Bingshen, the earth shook again.
In Jiyou, Emperor Gaozu fell ill because he was worried and angry because he could not provide what he asked for.
In this month, Ming Shaoxia, the governor of Qingji Prefecture, Zhan Haizhen, the governor of East Xuzhou, and Wang Fengbo, the governor of Northern Qingzhou, each offered their state cities to attach themselves to Wei.
On Bingchen in the fifth month, Emperor Gaozu passed away in Jingju Hall at the age of eighty-six.
Xin Si moved the coffin of Emperor Daxing to the front hall of Tai Chi.
In November of winter, Emperor Daxing was honored as Emperor Wu, and his temple name was Gaozu.
Yimao was buried in Xiu Ling.
Gaozu was born honest and filial.
When he was six years old, the Empress Dowager Xian passed away. He refused to drink water and rice soup for three days. He cried and suffered in pain. He was more than an adult, and his relatives both inside and outside were respected and surprised.
When Emperor Wen passed away, he was appointed as the advisor to King Yilidi and joined the army. He accompanied the army to the town of Jingzhou. When he heard the news, he handed in his resignation and hurried on at night without eating or sleeping. He traveled day and night, and there were strong winds and waves, and he did not stop for a short time.
Gaozu was originally strong and strong, but when he returned to the capital, he was so thin that his relatives and friends no longer recognized him.
I visited the house to worship my father, passed out for a long time, and vomited several liters of blood every time I cried.
During the period of mourning, rice is no longer eaten, only barley is eaten, only more than two liters per day.
Paying homage to the mausoleum, where the tears fell, the pine trees and weeds changed their colors.
When he was on the throne, he built the Great Aijing Temple in Zhongdan, the Shuqing Temple in Yixuanbian, and the Zijing and other halls in the court.
Seven temples were also set up, and they went there twice a month to display vegetarian food.
Whenever he bowed down, he would burst into tears, and his sadness would move everyone around him.
In addition, he has a quick mind and can conduct in-depth research on everything. He was fond of learning when he was young and was proficient in Confucianism and Taoism.
Although there are many things to do, he never leaves his hand to return books, lighting candles and studying by light, often until the fifth watch.
He wrote "Zhizhi Xiaojing Yi", "Book of Changes", as well as sixty-four hexagrams, two chapters of "Xici", "Wenyan", "Preface" and other chapters, "Yue She Yi", "Mao Shi Answers", "Spring and Autumn Answers", "Shang Shu Dayi", "The Doctrine of the Doctrine", "Confucius' True Words", "Laozi's Notes", a total of more than 200 volumes, all of which corrected the confusion of the previous Confucians and revealed the will of the ancient sages.
The princes and courtiers presented memorials to ask questions, and Emperor Gaozu explained them to them.
It also built the School of Decorative Guozi, increased the number of students, established five libraries, and established a doctorate in the "Five Classics".
In the early years of Tianjian, He Tongzhi, He Chang, Yan Zhizhi, Mingshan Bin and others expounded the emperor's will, and wrote the five rites of good fortune, bad luck, military, guest, and Jia, a total of more than a thousand volumes. As the emperor, Gaozu made decisions for him.
At this time, the atmosphere was dignified and respectful, and every family knew etiquette.
During the Dahui period, a pavilion was set up in the west of Taicheng, where the leader Yu Yu, the prince Zhou Xun, the minister Kong Wanggua and others took turns telling stories there.
The Crown Prince and King Xuancheng also set up forums in the Xuanyu Hall of Shugong and the Dangye Government Office. As a result, counties from all over the world gathered in the capital to pursue scholarship and admire moral character.
Emperor Gaozu believed deeply in Buddhism and was especially good at Buddhist classics. He wrote hundreds of volumes of commentaries on the Nirvana, Dapin, Jingming, and Sanhui sutras.
In his spare time when dealing with political affairs, he lectured at Huitai Temple in Chongyun Aohe. The audience of the famous monk Botong, scholars, and Buddhist disciples, both lay and monastic, often numbered more than 10,000 people.
He also compiled "General History" and wrote the preface of his praises, a total of 600 volumes.
He was naturally intelligent and agile, and he could write an article as soon as he started writing. He could compose hundreds of poems and write thousands of poems, and he would finish them just by annotating them. His literary talent and content were coordinated and coordinated beyond ancient and modern times.
Edicts, inscriptions, praises and remonstrances, proverbs, diction, letters, and memorials, from the time when they were among the people to when they ascended to the throne of God, all the collections include one hundred and twenty volumes.
He has a thorough understanding of the six skills, and his chess skills are at an extraordinary and refined level. He is good at all of them, including yin and yang, latitude and longitude, and divination.
He also wrote thirty volumes of "Jin Ce".
Cursive official script and letters, horseback riding and archery are all unique and exquisite.
Be diligent and tireless in political affairs.
Every winter month, as soon as the fourth watch of the day has passed, he is ordered to use a candle to check the memorial matters, and the pen to be exposed to the cold air will cause cracks in his hands.
He picks up on traitors to reveal secrets, has insight into people's hearts, often mourns his insubordination to the point of tears, and then agrees to report.
He only eats one meal a day. There is no fresh fish or fat in the meal, just coarse bean soup.
All kinds of affairs are complicated. If the head reaches the middle of the sky, it will be a waste of time.
He is wearing cloth clothes, and his bed is made of cotton green tents. He wears a hat for three years and a quilt for two years.
I often practice frugality myself, which is the same as sending money.
After the age of fifty, sexual intercourse is discontinued.
The female officials in the harem, from the imperial concubine on down, except for three kinds of sacrificial robes with pheasants painted on them, are in the sixth palace. No clothes are dragged on the ground, and there is no other brocade silk.
He did not drink alcohol or listen to music. He did not play music during ancestral temple sacrifices, banquets at conferences or various ritual ceremonies.
He has a dignified personality. Although he lives in a dark room in the small hall, he always tidies his clothes and hats, and fastens his clothes when sitting around. In the midsummer months, he never lifts his clothes to expose his upper body.
He does not have a dignified appearance and does not meet people. Although he meets the eunuchs and ministers in the palace, it is like receiving distinguished guests.
Throughout history, emperors and monarchs in ancient times were obedient, thrifty, dignified, respectful, versatile, and knowledgeable. I am afraid that few people can compare with him.
Shi Chen said: At the end of the Qi Dynasty, the destiny of heaven was completed, the rulers were fatuous and tyrannical, God abandoned the gods and became angry, and everyone opposed the departure of his trusted followers.
The great ancestor was wise, brave and wise. He raised righteous soldiers in Fancheng and Deng County, raised flags and established the name of the country, saved the people from dire straits and fires, commanded an army as brave as the Cangsi, set up a dragon and leopard formation, and annihilated the cruel monarch and put down the evil villain.
So he ascended to the throne of God, held the river map in his hand, opened the four gates to expand the way to attract wise men, accepted the ten kinds of capable officials in governing the country, and postponed the standards of integrity and integrity.
Literature was revived, sacrifices were repaired, the five rites were rectified, and the six laws were formulated. The audio-visual system in all directions was developed, all affairs were managed, political stability was achieved, and there was peace far away and silence nearby.
Coupled with the auspiciousness of heaven and earth, it continues every year and every season.
The countryside to be collected and taxed, and the places where documents and carriage tracks were used, were more than 10,000 miles to the south and 5,000 miles to the west.
Among them, there are thousands and hundreds of rare property and valuable real objects, all of which fill the national treasury and serve as tribute to the imperial court.
In thirty or forty years, this was prosperous enough.
Since Se and Jin, I am afraid there has been no such thing.
When he reaches old age, he entrusts his affairs to a group of favored officials.
Such people like Zhu Yi exercised power and established cliques, and political affairs were handled by bribery. The emperor's daily life and behavior were controlled by them, so the court regulations were chaotic and rewards and punishments were irregular. The way of small entry grows, this is probably what I am talking about.
Xiyi said that she could cry bitterly for it.
As a result, the sky was filled with extraordinary thieves and bandits, who took advantage of the opportunity to sneak attacks. The feathers of the eagles spread all over the palace, and the emperor was insulted with swords and guns. The people were in poverty and the palace was desolate. Alas!
How cruel is the way of heaven.
Although the fate of the country is exhausted, it is probably human behavior that makes it so.
