◆In the Biography of the Eight Kings of Xiaoming, Emperor Xiaoming had nine sons: Jia Gui was born as Emperor Zhang; Yin Gui was born as Emperor Liu Chang of Liangjie; the other seven kings did not record their mothers’ surnames in this book.
Liu Jian, the Qiancheng Ai King, was granted the title in the third year of Yongping.
He died the next year.
When he was young and had no sons, his country was destroyed.
Chen Jing Wang Liu Xian was granted the title of Guangping King in the third year of Yongping.
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, a minister sent Liu Xian, King Liu Gong of Julu, and King Liu Dang of Lecheng to the fiefdom.
Suzong had a loving nature and could not bear to be separated from the other kings, so they all stayed in the capital.
In the second year, according to the map, the household registrations in all countries were equalized, and the annual rent was 80 million.
Liu Xianbo was a dignified scholar who dabbled in scriptures and held discussions with other Confucian scholars at White Tiger Temple.
In the seventh year, the emperor thought that Guangping was in the north and had more border fees, so he changed the name to King Xiping and divided the eight counties of Runan into fiefs. After the emperor's death, the posthumous edict was changed to the title of King Chen, and he lived in Huaiyang County. That year he went to the fiefdom. He died in the thirty-seventh year of his life.
His son Liu Jun, King Si, was his heir. Liu Gong, King Jing of Pengcheng, was given the title of King Lingshou in the ninth year of Yongping.
In the fifteenth year, he was named the Julu King.
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, the title was changed to King Jiangling, and Nanjun was changed to a fiefdom.
In the second year of Yuanhe, the Third Duke said that Jiangling was located directly south of the capital and could not be enfeoffed, so he changed the title to the King of Liu'an and used Lujiang County as the fiefdom.
After Suzong's death, the posthumous edict changed the title to King Pengcheng and granted him the title of King of Chu County. In the same year, he was transferred to the fiefdom.
Liu Gongdun was dignified and dignified, and his actions were measured and respected by the officials and the people.
In the sixth year of Yongchu's reign, Liu Gong's son Anu was granted the title of Marquis of Zhuyi.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, Liu Gong was angry with his son Liu Youfu, and Liu Youfu committed suicide.
Zhao Mu, the Prime Minister of the State, reported the situation to the police because he falsely accused Liu Gong of making evil remarks during the sacrifice at the temple, which was treason.
Someone asked me to kill him. Liu Gong wrote a letter to defend himself.
The imperial court believed that he had always acted righteously and ordered a verification test. There was no evidence, so Zhao Mu was imprisoned and was exempted from the death penalty in the event of a general amnesty. Liu Gongli died in the forty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Daosi became the king of Kao. Liu Dang, the successful king of Jing, was granted the title of King Chongxi in the ninth year of Yongping, and the title of successful king in the fifteenth year of Yongping.
Liu Dang is very smart, knows "Historical Records", and likes to correct writing.
I am the same year as Suzong, so I am particularly dear to him.
In the fourth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, eight counties including You and Guanjin in Qinghe, Dongguang and Chengping in Bohai, Zhongshui, Raoyang, Anping and Nanshenze in Zhuojun were added to the Lecheng Kingdom.
When the emperor died, he went to the fief in the same year.
Liu Dang immediately disobeyed the law.
According to the old rules, palace people were prohibited from getting married and were not allowed to go to the fiefdom.
Ai Zhi, a skilled man from the old Yeting, married a man named Zhang Chu. Liu Dang summoned Ai Zhi to the palace and committed adultery with him. Zhang Chu wanted to write a letter to accuse him, but Liu Dang was afraid, so he secretly bribed Ai Zhi's sister Jiao to kill Zhang Chu. When the matter was discovered, Liu Dang hanged three eunuchs to silence him.
Liu Dangli died in the twenty-fifth year of his reign, and his son Liu Chongsi, the king of mourning, died.
Liu Yan, King of Xia Pi Hui, was granted the title in the 15th year of Yongping.
Liu Yan had good looks, and Suzong was always at his side when he came to the throne.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Liu Yanggang held a crown ceremony and issued an imperial edict to Master Liu Yan with the following official items: gold, silk and other items, each with its own distinction.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, a total of 17 counties including Linhuai County and Jiujiang's Zhongli, Dangtu, Dongcheng, Liyin and Quanjiao counties were added to the Xiapi Kingdom.
After the emperor died, he went to the fiefdom that year.
Later, Liu Yan had a heart problem, and Prince Liu was convicted and deposed. The concubines vied with each other to establish a son as their heir, and even wrote letters to tell each other.
Emperor He took pity on them and sent Liu Gong, King Jing of Pengcheng, to Xiapi to rectify his concubines and make his son Liu the crown prince. Liu Yanli died in the fifty-fourth year of his reign, and his son Liu Chengsi, King Zhen.
Liu Chang, the king of Liangjie, was named the king of Runan in the 15th year of Yongping.
The nobles in the maternal yin favored the emperor, and Liu Chang was especially favored. The rent of the land was double that of other countries.
When Suzong came to the throne, he followed the wishes of the late emperor and rewarded him with generous favors.
In the second year of Jianchu's reign, Liu Chang's uncle Yin Tang was granted the title of Marquis of Xiling.
In the fourth year, he moved to the throne of Liang and added six counties including Chenliu, Ningling, Jiyinzhibo, Shanfu, Jishi and Chengwu to the Liang fiefdom.
After the emperor died, he went to the fiefdom that year.
Liu Chang is intelligent and kind, but he is a arrogant young man and does not follow the rules very well.
After arriving in the fiefdom, he had nightmares many times. Bian Ji, an official, said that he could use Liu Ding to divine dreams, so Liu Chang asked him to use divination tools several times.
Liu Chang's wet nurse Wang Li and others also used this to say that they could see ghosts and gods, so they worked together to fortune-telling and offered sacrifices in the temple to pray for blessings.
Bian Ji and others flattered Liu Chang and said that King Shenyan should be the emperor.
Liu Chang was delighted and answered with them.
In the ninth year of Yongyuan, Liang Xiangju, the governor of Yuzhou, reported Liu Chang's rebellion and rebellion. He refused to accept his resignation when questioned.
Some officials requested that Liu Chang be summoned to be imprisoned by Tingwei, but He Di disagreed.
Yousi also reported that Liu Chang was exempted from the fiefdom and moved to Jiuzhen. The emperor couldn't bear it and only cut off Chengwu and Shanfu counties.
Liu Chang was ashamed and frightened, so he thanked me and said: "I am crazy and stupid by nature. I was born in a deep palace and grew up in the hands of my mother. I believe what I say."
When I returned home, I didn’t know how to prevent myself from being banned.
Serving as an official and serving as a servant in order to obtain wealth has fascinated my heart.
Chen Chang didn't realize it and made promises to them. Unknowingly, he was setting himself up for death and even committed a crime.
I was scared inside, and it was too late to regret.
He thought he should be killed, his soul would leave his body and return to hell.
Unexpectedly, His Majesty, because of his holy virtue, violated the law and refused to listen to the words of the Secretary, he pardoned me.
I have been trembling with fear for months, not daring to feel at ease.
Shang thought that he had failed the late emperor and caused his majesty to suppress the evil in the world for his ministers. It was true that the ministers were breathless and their muscles and bones were not connected.
Chen Chang knew that leniency could never be obtained again, so he vowed to keep his wife in check and not dare to go out unruly or waste any more.
There was a surplus from the rent, so we requested that the five counties of Suiyang, Gushu, Yu, Meng, and Ningling be eliminated, leaving four counties.
I have thirty-seven young wives, and those who have no children are willing to return to their families.
I have chosen to count 200 slaves and maids in Shuli. The rest of the tigers, officers and cavalry, craftsmen, drummers, warehouses, slaves, crossbows, and stables and horses have all been returned to this office.
I, the minister Chang, used my flesh and blood as my closest relatives, chaotically sanctified them, wandered into the clear stream, and now that I have found a living, I am indeed shameless, living in a big palace with evil, eating a big country, holding officials and subordinates, and hiding all kinds of things.
May your Majesty be more gracious and open the door to self-repentance for ministers, and let false ministers take the path of small kindness, so that ministers who know the world will be favored, can live and die, and be able to regret themselves.
I always put the criminal edict written by the minister in front of me and read it day and night.
I am a villain, and when I am greedy for seeing the light, I cannot lead myself away. I hope that your majesty will mourn for you and make you lose your breath for a moment.
If you don't listen to the promise, I will have no face to live for a long time. I will fall into the underworld and never be able to see the late emperor. This is indeed my sincerity.
I want to repay more for what I have received, but I am afraid that God's grace will not obey the promise. I will keep what I can, but it is enough for me.
The emperor's edict reported back: I am only a close relative of the king. I am pure and beautiful, but my minister is bad and cannot prevent evil, so that officials have to say something.
Now that the king has thought deeply about his regrets and taken responsibility for himself, I am very sad. The ambition is not due to the king, but to those boys.
For one day of self-denial and return to propriety, the world will return to benevolence.
Wang Qi is at peace and quiet, and has great leadership and virtue.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say: One modesty brings four benefits.
Small words are extremely auspicious.
Self-love through force.
Liu Chang resolutely gave in. After several memorials, he finally disagreed. Liu Changli died in the 27th year of his reign, and was succeeded by his son Gong Wang Liu Jian.
Liu Ribing, the king of Qing in Huaiyang, was granted the title of King of Changshan in the 15th year of Yongping. In the fourth year of Jianchu's reign, he moved to the throne of Huaiyang and added Xin'an and Xihua in Runan to the Huaiyin Kingdom. He died sixteen years after he was established, before he could have an heir.
Liu Chang, the mourning king of Jiyin, was granted the title in the fifteenth year of Yongping.
In the fourth year of Jianchu, Lihu of Dongjun and Changyuan of Chenliu were added to Jiyin Kingdom.
Thirteen years after he was established, he died in the capital, childless, and his fiefdom was abolished.
