Humans imitate the shapes of heaven and earth, possess the five constant natures of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith. They are intelligent, sensible, meticulous, and simple. They are the most spiritual among living animals.
Human hands and feet are not enough to provide for hobbies and desires, running is not enough to avoid harm, and there are no furs and feathers to protect against cold and heat. Therefore, humans must use all things to feed themselves. They use wisdom instead of relying on force. This is the reason why humans are noble.
Therefore, if people are not benevolent, they cannot form a group. If they cannot form a group, they cannot defeat external objects. If they cannot defeat external objects, their offerings will not be sufficient.
If a group is formed but the material is still not sufficient, the mentality of competition will arise. The saints of the previous generation deliberately took the lead in emphasizing the morality of respect, humility and charity, and the people were happy and followed them.
When the people who follow them form a group, they become monarchs; when everyone vie to join them, they become kings. "Shang Shu.
"Hong Fan" said: The emperor becomes the parents of the people and the emperor of the world.
The saints choose similar titles to rectify their status and call the king their parents. They understand that benevolence and humility are the foundation of kingship.
Benevolence will not be corrupted if it relies on reverence, and kindness must be majestic to survive for a long time. Therefore, etiquette is formulated to promote reverence, and criminal laws are formulated to show majesty.
Since the sage himself has the character of discernment, he must be familiar with the thoughts of heaven and earth, formulate rituals and education, establish legal systems and set up criminal laws, and always comply with the people's sentiments, so that he can manage the earth according to the laws of heaven.
Therefore, it is said that the previous kings established the ritual system based on the gods from heaven. According to the nature of the earth.
Prisons of punishment and majesty are used to imitate the killing power of God with thunder and lightning; gentleness, kindness, generosity and harmony are used to imitate God's ability to grow and nourish all things.
"Shangshu" says that Heaven rewards polite people according to their rank, and Heaven punishes sinful people.
Therefore, the sages formulated the five rites of good fortune, misfortune, military service, military affairs, and good fortune according to the order of heaven, and formulated the five punishments according to the principle of punishment from heaven.
For large punishments, armor is used, for lighter punishments, axes and irons are used; for medium punishments, knives and saws are used, for lighter punishments, drills are used; for small punishments, whips are used.
Large-scale punishments required the corpses to be displayed in the plains and wilderness, while small-scale punishments required public display in the streets and courts. This situation has a long history.
Since the time of the Yellow Emperor, the Battle of Zhuolu put down the Yandi Rebellion, and during the Zhuanxu Period, the Battle of Gonggong put down the Gonggong Rebellion.
During the reign of Tang Yu, he was able to bring peace to the world by offering sacrifices, and he still exiled Gonggong, banished Huandou, expelled Sanmiao, and killed Gun, and then the world surrendered.
In the Xia Dynasty, Youqi and the Youhu clan fought in Gan, and it was not until the Yin and Zhou dynasties that they used military force to pacify the world.
After the world was stabilized, weapons were collected and educated with etiquette and morality. However, the official position of Sima was also established, six armies were set up, mine fields were divided, and military taxes were formulated.
One mile of land area is divided into one well, ten wells form one link, ten links form one tenth, one tenth has a square of ten miles; ten points form one end, ten ends form one, and one has a hundred miles square; ten together form a seal, ten seals form a ji, and a ji has a thousand miles square.
If you have land to rent, you have to pay for soldiers.
Land is rented to meet food needs, and military taxes are used to meet military needs.
Therefore, four wells form a town, and four towns form a hill.
Qiu is the sixteen wells. There is one military horse and three oxen.
Four hills form a meadow.
There are sixty-four wells in Yidian, four military horses, one military chariot, twelve oxen, three soldiers, seventy-two soldiers, and weapons. The method of cultivating is called horse riding.
There are hundreds of miles together, with a total of ten thousand wells. Excluding mountains, rivers, salty land, water depressions, cities, villages, and gardens and avenues, there are a total of 3,600 wells, 6,400 wells required to pay military taxes, 400 military horses, and 100 military chariots. This is the largest among the official lands of Qing officials, and is called the House of Hundreds of Vehicles.
One letter is 316 miles long, with a total of 100,000 wells, of which 64,000 wells are required to pay military tribute, 4,000 soldiers and horses, and 1,000 chariots. This is the largest among the princes, and is called the Kingdom of Thousand Chariots.
The emperor's royal territory is thousands of miles square, with a million wells in total, 640,000 wells required to pay military tribute, 40,000 soldiers and horses, and 10,000 chariots, so he is called the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots.
The soldiers and carriage drivers were always well prepared with weapons. They hunted in the spring to reorganize the troops, pulled weeds in the summer to repair the camp, trained and hunted in the autumn, and conducted a grand review of the army during the hunting in the winter. They all gave lectures and training during the farming season.
The five feudal states are one genus, and each vassal has an officer; the ten feudal states are one company, and each company has a commander; the thirty kingdoms are one pawn, and each pawn has an official; the two hundred and ten kingdoms are one state, and each state has a pastoral officer.
Liangong and commander-in-chief review military vehicles every year, junior officers and principal officers review personnel every three years, and Qunmu inspect military vehicles and personnel on a large scale every five years. This was the late king's general policy to build up the country's armed forces and enrich its military strength.
After the kingship of the Zhou Dynasty declined and the legal system was destroyed, it was not until Duke Huan of Qi appointed Guan Zhong that the country became prosperous and the people became stable.
Duke Huan of Qi asked about the method of using troops to achieve hegemony. Guan Zhong replied: If you want to stabilize the army and improve the armaments, big countries will do the same. But if a small country wants to build armaments to control the enemy, it will be difficult to achieve the goal quickly.
Therefore, we relied on the formulation of internal affairs to rectify the military laws and regulations. Therefore, the soldier system was established in the lizhong, and the military affairs were completed in the governance of the feudal towns.
If ten or five people are connected together, they can live together and share joys, share sorrows and sorrows, and share blessings and misfortunes. Therefore, when fighting at night, they can hear each other's voices, and when fighting during the day, they can see each other. In times of crisis, they are enough to die for each other.
The formation of this kind of education eliminated the intrusion of Yi and Di externally, respected the emperor internally, and stabilized the domestic princes.
After the fall of Duke Huan of Qi, Duke Wen of Jin succeeded him. He also first stabilized his people, formulated the law of being imprisoned, commanded the princes, and succeeded him as the leader of the alliance.
However, his etiquette system has gone beyond the bounds of duty and made many mistakes, and he always acted in discord in order to seek quick success and quick gain, so it cannot be regarded as the legal system of the former king.
After Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, it gradually declined. By the time of Duke Cheng of Lu, a decree was made to make the hilly areas pay land tax. Duke Ai also assigned a tax to each of the land and family property. Things such as hunting, managing the army, and grand military parades all lost their orthodoxy.
"Spring and Autumn" recorded this and criticized it in order to preserve the royal way.
After that, wars broke out many times, and the people were weak and exhausted, and they lost the sense of sacrifice and sacrifice.
Confucius felt sad about this and said: To fight with untrained people is to abandon them.
Therefore, he praised Zilu and said: Zhong Yuan, when you go to a country with a thousand military chariots, you can put him in charge of the army.
Zilu also said: A country with a thousand chariots is sandwiched between several big countries. It is invaded by armies outside and famine inside. I will govern it. After three years, everyone will have courage and understand the truth.
This means that in managing taxes and the army, etiquette and righteousness must also be taught.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, weak countries were annexed and merged to form the Warring States Period. Some martial arts etiquette was slightly added as a game for fun and to show off to each other.
During the Qin Dynasty, it was renamed "Jiao Da". The etiquette of the previous kings was drowned in unrighteous music. Extraordinary and outstanding people assisted the situation according to the current situation. They used cunning and cunning to compete with each other. Wu had Sun Wu, Qi had Sun Bin, Wei had Wu Qi, and Qin had Shang Yang.
At this time, they joined forces vertically and horizontally, and turned to attack each other, competing for hegemony.
King Min of Qi became strong with the martial arts of Qi, King Hui of Wei worked hard with the soldiers of Wei, and King Zhao of Qin won with the sharp soldiers of Qin.
The secular world is fighting for utilitarianism, and the lobbyists regard Sun Bin and Wu Qi as the objects of respect.
At that time, Sun Qing was the only one who understood the royal way, so he criticized this situation and said: People like Sun Bin and Wu Qi advocate power and wealth and value cunning and cunning; when applied to a country that is violent, chaotic, ignorant and careless, it creates a gap between the monarch and his ministers, disunity between the superiors and subordinates, and poor political planning, so they can be cunning and cunning.
Those who are kind above are admired by those below, just like sons and brothers guarding their father and brothers, hands and feet guarding the brain and eyes. What can be compared with them?
Neighboring countries look at us from a distance, as happy as relatives, as fragrant as pepper orchid. Looking back at their king, it is like seeing fire in the eyes of enemies.
Is it human nature to be willing to attack what he likes for the sake of what he hates?
Therefore, using Jie to attack Jie can still be opportunistic; using Jie to deceive Yao is like using an egg to touch a stone, there is no chance of luck!
"Poetry" says: King Wu holds the flag and holds the weapon religiously, as fierce as fire, no one dares to stop us.
It is said that those who appease the people with benevolence and righteousness will be invincible in the world.
For example, Qi State competed in fencing skills, and received a bounty for each head.
If the military scale is small and the enemy is weak, this technique can be used. If the military scale is huge and the enemy is strong, it will be dispersed.
This is the army of a subjugated nation.
The Wei family used armed soldiers, wearing three layers of bell armor, wielding twelve-stone crossbows, carrying fifty arrows, putting their swords on top of their luggage, wearing helmets and carrying swords, carrying three days of food, and traveled hundreds of miles in one day. If he passed the exam, he would be exempted from taxes and given the benefits of land and housing.
If this is the case, then although their country's land is vast, their tax revenue must be very small, and their human strength will weaken after a few years.
This is an army that endangers the country.
The people of Qin were very narrow-minded in their education, but cruel and violent in their service.
He uses power to threaten the people, tortures them with poverty, makes them greedy for rewards, and uses punishment to guide the people, so that his people will be rewarded for their merits and will have no other way out if they don't go to war.
Merits and rewards increase mutually. Those who can get the heads of five people wearing bell armor can enslave five families. This is the most efficient, so it can take four generations to dominate the world.
However, the army is all seeking rewards and pursuing profits. It is a way for mediocre people to do business, but there is no stable system to maintain integrity.
Therefore, even if the land is vast and the army is strong, he is always afraid that the world will work together to suppress him.
As for the armies of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, it can be said that they were restrained to a certain extent, but they still did not follow the principles of benevolence and righteousness.
Therefore, Qi's method of stabbing cannot be used to withstand Wei's armed soldiers. Wei's armed soldiers cannot withstand Qin's elite soldiers. Qin's elite soldiers cannot be compared with the temperate troops of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin. The temperate troops of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin cannot compete with the benevolent and righteous troops of King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou.
Therefore it is said: Those who are good at commanding an army do not set up formations; those who are good at setting up formations do not fight; those who are good at fighting will not fail; those who are good at losing will not perish.
As for Shun's administration of hundreds of officials, he appointed Jiu Yao as the official in charge of justice and told him that the barbarians were disrupting China and were a group of people who looted and killed and committed crimes, and the criminal law had no effect. This means that those who are good at commanding the army do not need to form formations.
King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou went on an expedition and arranged their armies for mobilization before the war. Jie and Zhou were captured, which meant that those who were good at arranging formations did not fight.
Duke Huan of Qi conquered the powerful Chu State in the south and made it pay tribute to the Zhou Dynasty. He also attacked the Shanrong in the north and served as a vanguard for the Yan State.
King Zhao of Chu suffered from the disaster of the Lanlu war, the country was destroyed, the king went into exile, and the people came to see him off.
King Chu Zhao said: Go back!
Why worry about not having a monarch?
The people said: How can there be such a wise monarch?
and followed him together.
Some people ran to Qin, crying and asking for help, and Qin sent troops for them.
The two countries worked together to drive away the Wu army, and King Zhao of Chu returned to Chu. This means that those who are good at failure will not perish.
For example, the Qin State relied on the victory of the fourth generation to occupy the dangerous locations of the Yellow River and the mountains. It used wolves like Bai Qi and Wang Jian and their followers to conquer the six kingdoms and annex the world.
After exhausting force and treachery, neither the sergeants nor the people surrendered. The soldiers who served became slaves and became enemies, rising like strong winds, gathering like clouds, and finally overthrowing it together.
This is the most base strategy of using troops.
The army is used to resurrect a destroyed country, to reconnect the cutoff descendants, to save troubles and eradicate scourges.
Therefore, the descendants of generals like Yi Yin and Lu Wang had their own countries, and they shared the rise and fall of the Shang and Zhou dynasties.
In their last generation, they used cunning techniques at will, took pleasure in greed and cruelty, and filled the city with murder for the fight for the city, and filled the wilderness with the murder for the fight for the land.
Sun Bin, Wu Qi, Shang Yang, Bai Qi and others were all killed first, and their countries perished later.
The trend of retribution comes according to their categories, and this is their fate.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Gaozu himself was endowed with divine power, behaved generously and kindly, led heroes and heroines, and killed King Qin and Xiang Yu.
Adopt Xiao He and Cao Shen's literary governance, use Zhang Liang and Chen Ping's strategies, give full play to the eloquence of Lu Mai and Li Sheng, show the etiquette of Shusun Tong, and cooperate with each other in civil and military ways, and the general policy is complete.
After the world was stabilized, officials were set up in prefectures and counties according to the Qin State, and the northern and southern armies were stationed in the capital.
When Emperor Wu conquered Baiyue, seven more schools were established inside, and warships were built outside. They taught drills every season every year, and the armaments were managed.
In the reign of Emperor Yuan, according to Gong Yu's suggestion, the game of jiaodian was abolished, but there was no correct strategy for managing the army and reviving military morale.
The ancients once said: There are five natures in nature: metal, wood, water, fire, and earth. Human beings use them all. It is impossible to remove any of them. Who can remove the army?
When governing a family, whipping cannot be abandoned, when governing a country, punishment cannot be abolished, and when conquests cannot be eliminated from the world, when using them, one must distinguish the root from the bottom, and when implementing them, there must be adversity and smoothness.
Confucius said: If a craftsman wants to do things well, he must first make his tools sharp.
Wende is the sharp weapon of the emperor; power is the auxiliary of Wende.
If the influence of etiquette and music is deep, then force can make more people obey; if the scope of morality is wide, then the area controlled by prestige will be large.
The three generations were so strong that they reached the point where the army was stopped by punishment. They were not in order. This was the ultimate achievement of the emperor.
In the laws of the previous Zhou Dynasty, three categories of criminal laws, light, medium and heavy, were established to regulate the country and punish various ethnic groups: one is to punish new countries with light laws; the other is to punish peaceful and conservative countries with medium laws; the third is to punish disorderly countries with heavy laws.
Among the five punishments, there are 500 kinds of black punishment, 500 kinds of torture, 500 kinds of castration, 500 kinds of mutilation, and 500 kinds of death penalty. These are the so-called medium punishments used by the state to punish peace and prosperity.
Those who committed murder were beheaded in the market. Those who were tortured were asked to guard the city gates. Those who were tortured were asked to guard the gates. Those who were tortured were asked to guard the palaces. Those who were cut off were asked to guard the gardens. Those who had been shaved off after the punishment were asked to guard the accumulated supplies.
Among those slaves, the men were brought into the government as slaves, and the women were taken into the government to work as laborers in pounding rice and cooking.
Anyone with a title, as well as children over seventy years old and those who have not yet lost their teeth at seven years old, are not allowed to be slaves in the government.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, King Mu became angry and indulged, and asked Fuhou to formulate criminal laws according to the times to punish the world.
There are one thousand clauses for the punishment of ink punishment, one thousand clauses for the punishment of shackles, five hundred clauses for the punishment of hip punishment, three hundred clauses for the punishment of castration, and two hundred clauses for the punishment of death.
There are a total of 3,000 items for the five punishments, which are more than the 500 items for the medium punishment in peaceful countries. The pursuit is the so-called heavy punishment for countries that control unrest.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, the royal way was gradually destroyed, and political and religious customs were not popularized. When Zichan was the Prime Minister of Zheng, he cast criminal laws on the tripod.
Uncle Xiang of Jin Dynasty accused him and said: In the past, the king first discussed the circumstances of the crime and then determined the crime.
We do not formulate criminal laws because we are afraid that people will have fighting thoughts, so we still cannot prohibit and defend them, so we use morality to prevent them, decrees to supervise, etiquette to demonstrate, integrity to maintain integrity, and benevolence to educate; we enact official and salary status to encourage them to obey, and severely sentence criminals to make them afraid of indulgence.
I am afraid that I will not achieve the goal, so I teach them with loyalty, reward them according to their behavior, teach them with current affairs, use them gently, face them seriously, monitor them with strong force, and sentence them decisively.
In this way, we should also seek princes with extraordinary moral intelligence, officials with insight, loyal and trustworthy elders, and teachers who are kind and kind.
In this way, the people can obey the orders and there will be no disasters or disturbances.
If the people know that there are criminal laws, they will not be afraid of their superiors. If they want to argue, they will seek proof in the criminal code. If they are lucky enough to evade the criminal laws, they will not be able to govern.
The Xia Dynasty established the Yu punishment for those who violated government orders, the Shang Dynasty established the Tang punishment for those who violated government orders, and the Zhou Dynasty established the Nine punishments for those who violated government orders.
The rise of the three generations of criminal law occurred at the end of each generation.
Now that you are governing the state of Zheng, it will be very difficult for you to refer to the criminal laws of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties and cast the criminal laws on the tripod to govern the people!
"Poetry" says: According to King Wen's practice of teaching with virtue, then there will be peace in all directions every day. It also says: If the punishment is like King Wen, then all nations will obey in good faith. In this case, why make criminal laws?
When the people know about the disputes, they will give up etiquette and justice and go to the criminal documents for proof.
Trying to fight for every little thing like the tip of a cone will make the cases of confusion more numerous, and bribery will occur simultaneously.
I am afraid that the state of Zheng will decline while you are alive!
Zichan wrote back and said: According to what you said, Gongsun Qiao has no talent and cannot consider his descendants. I only use this to save the present generation.
Frivolous politics started to spread from here.
Confucius felt sad about this, and said: Use morality to induce them, use rituals to rectify them, and the people will not only have a sense of integrity, but also have people's hearts submissive; use decrees to induce them, use punishments to rectify them, and the people will only be temporarily exempted from sins, but they will not have a sense of shame. If the system of rituals and music does not rise, punishments will not be appropriate; if punishments are not appropriate, the people will not even know where to bind their hands and feet.
Meng appointed Yangfu as a military officer, and he asked Zengzi for advice. Zengzi replied: If the people in high positions fail to regulate things, the people will have long since abandoned their moral principles.
If you can find out the criminal's true feelings, you should show sympathy and mercy instead of being proud of yourself.
The decline of kingship lasted until the Warring States Period. Korea appointed Shen Buhai and Qin appointed Shang Yang. They implemented the law that if one person commits a crime, others will be punished at the same time, and a law was created to kill three tribes; corporal punishment and large-scale subjects were added, including the criminal law of gouging, beating, and cooking.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he annexed all the countries in the war, abolished the laws of the previous emperors, eliminated the official positions of etiquette and justice, exclusively used punishment, personally wrote documents, tried lawsuits during the day, and processed documents at night.
But evil and dishonest people appeared, criminals crowded the roads, prisons were as numerous as markets, and everyone in the world was filled with sorrow and resentment, and rebelled against Qin one after another.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Gaozu first entered Guanzhong and restricted it with three laws, saying: Those who kill should be sentenced to death, and those who harm others and steal should be compensated for their crimes.
Hundreds of millions of people are very happy to be exempted from numerous and harsh criminal laws.
After that, the ethnic minorities from all over the world did not surrender, the war did not stop, and the three laws were not enough to prevent evil people, so the Prime Minister Xiao He collected the laws of the Qin Dynasty, selected the ones that were suitable for the time, and formulated the Nine Chapters of Law.
By the time of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the people had just been freed from the poison of war, and everyone wanted to raise children and serve the elderly.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were appointed prime ministers, and they used inaction strategies to calm the people and obeyed their requests without disturbing them. As a result, the people had abundant food and clothing and few punishments were used.
When Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he personally practiced a quiet and inactive politics, encouraged people to farm and weave, and exempted and exempted land rents and military taxes.
Moreover, his generals and ministers are all former heroes, less gorgeous and more simple. They use the politics of Qin's demise as a lesson. They must be lenient in judgments and judgments, and it is shameful to discuss the faults of others.
Enlightenment became popular all over the world, and the custom of revealing people's privacy changed.
Officials are content with their duties, people are happy to produce, accumulation increases year by year, and the number of people gradually increases.
Customs and education are sincere and pure, and laws and regulations are simple.
Zhang Shizhi was selected as Tingwei, and those who had doubts and were difficult to convict were punished according to the people's support, so the punishment was greatly reduced. As a result, only 400 people were convicted throughout the year, creating a trend of shelving the criminal law.
Thirteen years after Emperor Xiaowen reigned, Taicang of Qi State ordered Chun Yugong to be sentenced for his crimes, and he was ordered to arrest and transport him to Chang'an.
Chunyu Gong had no sons but five daughters. When he was about to be arrested, he scolded his daughters and said: "Giving birth to a child without a boy is useless at a critical moment!"
His youngest daughter, Tiying, was sad and weeping alone, so she went to Chang'an with her father and wrote to the emperor: My father is an official, and everyone in the Qi State praises him for his integrity and fairness. Now his crimes should be punished.
I mourn that those who have died cannot be resurrected, and those who have been executed cannot recover. Even if they want to correct their mistakes and start a new life in the future, there is no way out.
I am willing to be taken into the government as a slave, so as to redeem my father's punishment and enable him to start a new life.
When the letter reached the emperor, the emperor felt sorry for her and ordered: Censor Zhizhao: I once heard that when the Yu family existed, uniforms with different levels of clothing and hats painted with different pictures and texts were used as a symbol of punishment, but the people did not commit crimes. How peaceful it is!
Now there are three types of corporal punishment in the criminal law, but the evil has not stopped. Where is the fault?
Could it be that my morality is shallow and my education is not clear?
I'm so ashamed.
Because the teachings and guidance are not correct, the ignorant people fall into sin. "Poetry" says: A gentleman who enjoys harmony and simplicity is the parents of the people.
Nowadays, people have sins, and criminal laws have been added before education. Some people want to correct their behavior and do good deeds, but there is no way to get there. I pity them very much.
The punishment is such that a person's limbs are cut off, his skin is carved with a knife, and he is unable to grow or recover for the rest of his life. How painful and immoral this kind of punishment is!
Is it consistent with the meaning of being the parents of the people?
I order that corporal punishment be abolished and replaced; criminals are now ordered to be classified according to their severity, and those who do not flee will be exempted from civilian status after their years of service.
The above serves as a rule.
Prime Minister Zhang Cang and Imperial Censor Feng Jing reported: "Corporeal punishment has been used to suppress evil for a long time."
Your Majesty issued a wise edict, pity the people who once made mistakes and were punished, and suffered all their lives. When the sinners want to correct their behavior and do good deeds, but there is no way to get there, such a great kindness cannot be compared with the ministers and others.
The ministers and others cautiously suggested that the criminal law should be confirmed as follows: all those who should be sentenced to the end of the sentence, the end of the sentence should be changed to the punishment of Chengdan and torture; those who should be punished with tattoos, the penalty of shaving their hair and having their necks tied with iron rings should be changed to the punishment of Chengdan and torture; those who should be punished should be beaten with bamboo boards for three hundred Those whose left foot should be chopped off should be beaten five hundred with a bamboo board; those whose right foot should be chopped off, and those who surrendered first after killing someone, plus officials who committed the crime of accepting bribes and breaking the law, guarding government property and stealing it themselves, and those who have been convicted and committed the crime of flogging, will be punished by abandoning the market.
The criminal's case has been decided. After serving his sentence, he will be changed to serve the punishment of guarding the city gate during the day and the punishment of beating. After three years, he will be changed to the punishment of ghost salary and white can.
Those who have served the Guixin Baican sentence for one year will be changed to serving the sentence of being a minister or being a concubine.
After one year of serving as a minister or concubine, they will be exempted from crime and become a commoner.
After two years of serving as a minister or a concubine, they will be changed to serve as a criminal.
Those who have served one year of being punished for being a criminal, and those who have been serving a sentence similar to being a criminal for two years will be exempted from crime for the people.
Among them, those who are on the run and those who have committed serious crimes do not apply to this law.
Those who served the punishment of Chengdu and torture before this decree but were not imprisoned will be exempted from the penalty in the same way as if they served the sentence of Chengdu and torture after completing their sentences.
I risked my life to ask for instructions.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Yes.
From then on, he had a reputation of being lightly punished externally, but actually he was killing people internally.
The person who cuts off his right foot will be punished by death.
The criminal who had his left foot cut off was beaten with a bamboo board five hundred times, and the criminal who was serving his sentence was beaten with a bamboo board three hundred times. Most of the prisoners were beaten to death.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, the emperor issued an order saying: There is no difference between flogging and death penalty. Those who are lucky enough to survive cannot take care of themselves.
The determined criminal law should be as follows: five hundred floggings should be changed to three hundred, and three hundred floggings should be changed to two hundred.
In this way, the criminal still cannot save his life.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing's reign, he issued another order: "Some of those who were sentenced to additional punishments died without finishing their punishments. I feel pity for them."
Three hundred floggings are reduced to two hundred, and two hundred floggings are reduced to one hundred.
He also said: The bamboo boards were used to teach them and to determine the laws on the instruments of execution.
Prime Minister Liu She and Yushi doctor Wei Wan asked for instructions: The bamboo board and staff are five feet long, the trunk is one inch, and the end of the bamboo is half an inch thick. The bamboo joints are all cut flat.
The key to being flogged. Hips.
The executioner must not be changed, and the executioner must be changed only after punishing a criminal.
From then on, those who were flogged were spared, but the cruel officials still used the punishment as a threat.
Since the death penalty is too severe and the life punishment is too light, people will easily break the law.
When Emperor Xiaowu came to the throne, he pursued the merits of conquering the barbarians externally, and pursued sensual desires internally. He frequently recruited and used people's manpower and materials. The people were severely depleted, the poor broke the law, the cruel officials had the power to impose sentences, and there were still more people who committed evil crimes.
So Zhang Tang and Zhao Yu were recruited, and the laws were determined one by one, and the law was made to not report people when they knew they had committed crimes, but to convict the head of the department who was responsible for on-the-spot supervision. He relaxed the harsh law enforcement of officials, and immediately killed the officials who released the prisoners.
From then on, evil and cunning officials took advantage of the loopholes in the law and compared each other, and the laws gradually became stricter.
There are a total of 359 articles in the law, 409 articles on death penalty, and 1,882 details. Compared with the old law, the number of sentences for capital crimes is 13,472 articles.
Documents fill several bookshelves, and not all important documents can be seen.
Therefore, the prefectures and states accepted and used contradictory laws, and people with the same crime were sentenced to different sentences.
The traitor takes advantage of the opportunity to make a deal. If he wants a person to live, he will attach a comment that will make him alive. If he wants to frame someone, he will attach a capital crime case to constitute a capital crime.
Everyone who discussed this felt wronged and grieved.
Emperor Xuan knew this was the case when he was among the people. When he ascended the throne, Tingshi Lu Wenshu wrote a letter saying that the Qin Dynasty had ten kinds of faults, and one of them was preserved, that is, the officials who dealt with criminals. What he said is in "The Biography of Wen Shu".
Emperor Xuan was deeply saddened by this and issued an order: "Recently, officials have been using the law to make the sentences heavier and heavier. This is my fault."
The verdict was inappropriate, causing guilty people to have evil thoughts, and innocent people to be killed instead. Father and son grieve and hate each other. I am very sad about this.
Now the court historian is sent to interrogate the prisoners together with the county. The task is light and the salary is small. Tingping is now set up, with an official salary of 600 dan and four personnel.
You must be treated fairly to satisfy me.
So he selected Yu Dingguo as Tingwei, and Huang Ba and others who asked for forgiveness from Mingcha were appointed Tingping. In the third month of autumn, they went to the court to discuss the crime.
At that time, the emperor often went to Xuanshi Palace, lived there, fasted and handled cases. The judicial and criminal laws were known to be fair.
At that time, Zheng Chang, the governor of Zhuo County, wrote in a memorial: A wise king appoints ministers who can speak out and advise, not to promote saintliness, but to prevent a happy life; to establish a legal system and make clear punishments, not for peace, but to save the decline and turmoil and revive them.
Now that the wise Lord hears the case in person, even if there is no court, the lawsuit will naturally be judged fairly; if it is to create future generations, it is better to delete and confirm the decree.
Once the law is established, the people will know what to avoid, and evil officials will not be able to play with the law.
Now instead of correcting the foundation of the law, we set up the end of the law to govern Tingping. If political decline and governance are lax, then Tingping will seize power and become the culprit of the turmoil.
Emperor Xuan did not have time to revise and correct it.
As soon as Emperor Yuan was established as emperor, he issued an order: "Laws are used to suppress rape and support the weak. They hope that it will be difficult for people to violate it and easy to avoid."
Nowadays, the laws are complicated and not concise. Those who are in charge of the legal regulations cannot distinguish them clearly, but they want to use them to control civilians who have no knowledge. Is this the proper meaning of criminal law?
He was ordered to discuss the parts of the laws and regulations that could be exempted and mitigated, and to report them one by one, just to make it convenient and stable for the people.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng in Heping, he also went down to Shao and said: "Fuxing" said that there are 3,000 items for the five punishments and 200 items for the death penalty. Now there are more than 1,000 items for the death penalty. The laws are complicated and have more than one million words. In addition to the legal text, additional cases are cited to judge cases, and the number is increasing day by day. People who were originally studying them don't know their origins. Isn't it difficult to understand and enlighten the masses!
Isn't it sad to use it to control kind-hearted people and cause innocent people to perish without knowing their faults?
Orders Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, doctors and people who are familiar with the law to discuss the commutation and exemption of death penalty and the omitted regulations, make them clear and easy to understand, and write them in separate articles.
Doesn’t it say so in the Book? You should be worried about criminal law!
To review and verify, it must be based on ancient laws, and I will do my best to review them.
However, there are no people in the government who are as discerning as Zhongshanfu. They cannot seize the opportunity to widely publicize the Lord's kindness and establish a sage system as the law of the generation. Instead, they only seek trivial things and list matters as small as a hair as a way to deal with Shao Ling.
Therefore, the emperor's theory was not established until now.
Some people who discussed it said that it is difficult for laws to be changed many times. This is because mediocre people do not understand that doubts block the way of governance, which is a common worry for smart people.
Therefore, we will briefly list the legal provisions that have been slightly more certain since the establishment of the Han Dynasty and are in line with ancient law for the convenience of contemporary times.
In the early days of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, even though there were three laws restricting them, they were still as omitted as if they missed the outline of a fish that could swallow a boat. However, during the Great Piercing Punishment, there was still a law to exterminate the three tribes.
The decree states: Anyone who kills any of the three tribes must first stab the face with a knife and then apply ink on the face, cut off the nose, chop off the left and right feet, beat him to death with a bamboo board, cut off his head and hang it on a tree, and chop his bones into meat paste in the market.
Among them, anyone who slanders or curses will have his tongue cut off first.
So this is called having the five punishments.
Peng Yue and Han Xin were all killed in this way.
In the first year of Gaohou, the crime and punishment of destroying the three clans and the evil words were exempted.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he ordered the Prime Minister, Taiwei, and Yushi: "The law is the guarantee for governing the world. Use it to prohibit cruelty and protect kind people."
Now that the criminals have been sentenced, I think it is undesirable for the innocent parents, wives, and children to be punished together.
Discuss it.
The left and right prime ministers Zhou Bo and Chen Ping reported: Convicting and arresting his parents, wife, children, and brothers from the same mother together is to severely punish his thoughts and make it difficult for him to break the law.
The method of arresting them has been practiced for a long time.
Regarding the foolish plan of the ministers, I think it is better to remain as before.
Emperor Wen also said: I have heard that if the law is correct, the people will be cautious, and if the punishment is appropriate, the people will obey.
It is the officials who govern the people and guide them with kindness. If they cannot guide them, they use unfair criminal laws to punish them. This is criminal law, but it harms the people and becomes violent.
I don't see the convenience of it, you should consider it carefully.
Chen Ping and Zhou Bocai said: Your Majesty is fortunate to extend great kindness to the world, so that the guilty will not be arrested and the innocent will not be implicated and punished. Such a magnificent moral conduct cannot be matched by the ministers.
The ministers carefully followed the edict and completely abolished the arrest law and the continuous sitting law.
After that, Niiguan Ping conspired to re-use the punishment of killing the three clans.
Therefore, it is said that when customs change, people's temperaments will be similar but customs will be very different. This is indeed the case.
With the kindness of Emperor Xiaowen and the wisdom of Chen Ping and Zhou Bo, there are still such huge wrongful punishments and ridiculous discussions, not to mention those mediocre people who are addicted to bad habits?
"Zhou Guan" has five hearings, eight discussions, three thorns, three pardons, and three pardons.
Five listening: One is to listen to words, the second is to observe facial expressions, the third is to observe breath, the fourth is to detect hearing, and the fifth is to detect vision.
Eight discussions: The first is the king's relatives within five generations, if guilty, the penalty will be reduced; the second is the king's past, the penalty will be reduced if the guilty, the third is the virtuous people, the penalty can be reduced, the fourth is the skilled people, the penalty can be considered reduced The fifth category is people with meritorious service, whose punishment can be reduced or reduced; the sixth category is those with high title, whose punishment can be reduced if they are found guilty; the seventh category, who are hard-working for state affairs, their punishment can be reduced if they are found guilty; the eighth category, who are descendants of the previous dynasty, whose guilty sentence can be reduced or reduced.
Three thorns: The first is to ask the officials, the second is to ask the officials, and the third is to ask the people.
Three excuses: one is imprudent, the other is unintentional, and the third is forgetfulness.
Three amnesties: the first is for young children, the second is for the elderly, and the third is for those born with dementia.
All prisoners were handcuffed on both hands and feet for major crimes, hands and feet for medium crimes, and hands for minor crimes. The king's kinsmen had their hands cuffed and those with noble titles cuffed their feet, waiting for the verdict.
In the seventh year of Emperor Gao's reign, he issued an edict to the censor: If there are doubts about the lawsuit, some officials will not dare to judge, the guilty will not be convicted for a long time, and the innocent will not be sentenced for a long time.
From now on, if there are any doubts about the lawsuits in the county or road, they will report to their respective 2,000 stone officials for trial and conviction. The 2,000 stone officials will report the crime committed by the prisoner and the sentence.
Those who could not be sentenced were handed over to the Tingwei, and the Tingwei also reported the results of the sentences.
If the court officer cannot decide, please report it carefully and carefully, and let me know the laws and regulations that should be consulted.
The emperor's kindness is so good, but the officials still can't act accordingly.
Therefore, in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he issued a new order: All kinds of doubtful lawsuits, even if the person is convicted of a crime through dance and literary tricks, but people are dissatisfied, they should be reviewed and reviewed immediately.
After that, judicial officials began to avoid the details of the law to achieve their own stupid intentions.
In the first year of Hou, another order was issued saying: Lawsuits are a major national event.
People are divided into stupid and wise people, and officials are divided into superior and inferior officials.
If there is doubt in the lawsuit and the person is convicted, if the person who ordered the trial and convicted has already presented the charges and later found that it was inappropriate, the person who convicted him shall not be guilty of negligence.
From then on, the criminal law became more detailed and had a similar meaning to the five hearings and three excuses.
Three years later, another order was issued: Elders and elders should be respected by everyone; widows and widowers who have no support should be pitied by people.
An order should be issued: Women aged over eighty and under eight, as well as pregnant women who have not yet given birth, musicians, and dwarfs should be interrogated and arrested without torture instruments.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaoxuan's reign in Yuankang, he issued another edict: I miss the elderly. Their hair and teeth have fallen out, their vitality has weakened, and they no longer have the desire to be violent and rebellious. Now there are elderly people who have fallen into unwarranted crimes and are locked up in jails, where they will not be able to live a good life. I feel pity for them.
From now on, if you are not a criminal who falsely accuses or kills someone over the age of 80, you will not be sentenced to any other punishment.
In the first year of Emperor Cheng Hongjia's reign, a decree was enacted: Those under the age of seven, who fight, kill, or commit the crime of beheading, should ask the imperial officer for instructions and let them know that they can avoid death.
It is consistent with the three amnesties for the young, weak, and the elderly.
These are laws that are similar to those in ancient times and are beneficial to the people if they are slightly formulated.
Confucius said: If there is a person who calls himself a king, he must go through thirty years of benevolent government; if a moral person governs the country for a hundred years, he can defeat evil without killing.
This means that when a wise king rises in an era of decline and chaos, he imparts moral education to people, changes and inspires them, and it must take thirty years before a benevolent government can be formed; as for moral people, although they are not included in the list of saints, it still takes hundreds of years to defeat evil and refrain from killing.
This is the way to govern a country.
Nowadays, the fortunes of the Han Dynasty are extremely prosperous. After more than two hundred years, during the six generations from Emperor Zhao, Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai to Emperor Ping, only one person in a thousand people was sentenced to death every year. From the punishment of resistance to crime to the right foot beheading, there were three people in a thousand people.
Ancient people once said: If a room full of people is drinking and one person cries against the wall, then everyone in the room will be unhappy about it.
The emperor treats the world as if he is in a house, so as long as one person does not receive equality, he will feel sad for it.
Nowadays, more than 10,000 people die of punishment every year in the county, and there are more than 2,000 prisons in the world. Among them, those who died unjustly are covered by the superiors and the inferiors. There is no fewer people in the prisons. This is the reason why a harmonious atmosphere has not been formed.
The reason why there are so many lawsuits and criminal laws is that the etiquette and morality education has not been established, the criminal law is unclear, most of the people are poor and impoverished, people with status and power seek personal gain, evil people cannot be immediately forced to prosecute, and the consequences of unfair judgments.
"Shangshu" says that Boyi promulgated codes and tried cases according to criminal laws, which means that creating ritual laws to prevent punishment is like using embankments to prevent water from flowing out.
Now the dike has been destroyed and etiquette has not been established; the death penalty has exceeded the limit, and the death penalty is easy to violate; hunger and cold have come together, and poverty has spread everywhere; heroes are seeking personal gain in vain, just like those who use bags to carry things. Once the evil is concealed, the habit of crime will gradually expand, which is why there are so many punishments.
Confucius said: In ancient times, people who understood the law were able to reduce punishments, which was the foundation; now, people who understand the criminal law do not let the guilty go, which is the end.
He also said: People who are trying lawsuits today are pursuing how to kill criminals; those who are trying lawsuits in ancient times are pursuing how to keep people alive.
It is better to spare the guilty than to kill the innocent.
Nowadays, judicial officials chase people up and down, treating ruthlessness as wisdom. Powerful people get credit and reputation, while fair people have more troubles.
The proverb says: The man who sells coffins hopes for a sick year.
It's not that he hates and wants to kill people, it's that he wants to profit from dead people.
Now the officials who are in charge of the judiciary want to frame people, and it is the same way.
There are a total of these five disadvantages, which are the reasons why there are so many lawsuits.
Since Jianwu and Yongping, the people have just been freed from the scourge of war. People have considered living and working in peace and contentment, which is the same as the situation between Gao Hou and Hui Emperor. However, politics is about suppressing violence and supporting the weak. There are no arrogant ministers in the court, and there are no heroes in the countryside.
Based on the general statistics of the population, the number of cases tried was eight-tenths less than that between Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, which can be said to be very peaceful.
However, compared with the Zhan Dynasty, it is still not satisfactory. This is because all the shortcomings have not been eliminated, and the criminal law is not correct at all.
Xunzi’s comments on punishment are so good! He said: People who write books and commentaries in the secular world believe that there was no corporal punishment in ancient times when the world was peaceful, and there were punishments such as torture and tattooing, which were replaced by wearing straw sandals and cloth without collars. In fact, this is not the case.
It is believed that in peaceful ancient times, people did not violate criminal laws. Not only were there no corporal punishments, but there was no need for elephant punishments.
It is believed that if people commit crimes, their punishments should be reduced directly. This means that those who kill people will not be sentenced to death, and those who hurt people will not be punished.
If the crime is extremely serious and the punishment is extremely light, and people are not afraid of punishment, then the disaster cannot be greater than this. Generally speaking, the original intention of enacting criminal laws is to prohibit violent evil and prevent it from happening before it happens.
Those who kill are not put to death, and those who hurt others are not punished. This is kindness to the violent and forgiveness to the evil.
Therefore, Xiang Xing did not originate in the peaceful ancient times, but just emerged in the current turbulent times.
All titles, official positions, rewards and punishments are given according to the level of merit and demerit.
When something loses its balance, it becomes the beginning of chaos.
Nothing is more unlucky than when morality does not match the title, talent does not match the official position, reward does not match the merit, and punishment does not match the crime.
Cruel conquests and killing of rebels are the power to govern the world.
Those who kill will be put to death, and those who hurt others will be punished. This is recognized by emperors of all ages. No one knows when it started.
Therefore, if there is peace in the world, the punishment will be heavy, and if the world is in chaos, the punishment will be light. If someone violates the law in a time of peace, the crime will be heavier, and if he violates the law in a time of turmoil, the crime will be light.
"Shangshu" says that punishments become heavier or lighter with the times, which illustrates this truth.
You will understand that what is said about "making elephant punishments" means that punishments are made according to the laws of heaven. How can there be such things as straw shoes and ocher clothes?
Xunzi's remarks were like this, and he commented based on secular remarks: Xia Yu succeeded Yao and Shun, and he thought that morality was declining, so he instituted corporal punishment. King Tang and Wu of Shang followed and implemented it because the social customs were less mellow than those of Tang and Yu.
Now the Han Dynasty has inherited the extreme abuses of the declining Zhou Dynasty and the brutal Qin Dynasty, and the social customs have become weaker than those of the three generations. However, the punishments of Yao and Shun are used like reins to control fierce horses, which violates the appropriate policy of saving the era.
Moreover, the original intention of abolishing corporal punishment was to protect the people. Now the penalty of forceps is reduced and transferred to the death penalty. Using death to control the people has lost the original intention of grace.
Therefore, tens of thousands of people die every year, which is the result of excessively harsh criminal laws.
As for robbers who climb over walls, angry and hurtful people, men and women who are sexually immoral, and officials who are evil and corrupt, such evils cannot be punished by punishments such as forceps.
Therefore, more than 100,000 people are punished every year, but the people are neither afraid nor ashamed. This is the result of the punishment being too light.
Therefore, officials who are regarded as capable by the world openly use killing thieves as a sign of dignity, those who are dedicated to execution are regarded as qualified for official positions, and those who abide by the law are regarded as unable to govern. It is impossible to list them one by one if they disrupt the reputation and harm the system.
Therefore, the legal framework is strict but the evil is not under control. The punishments were many, but the people were more contemptuous.
Thirty years have passed but benevolent government has not been implemented, and a hundred years have passed but cruelty has not been defeated. This is really due to the lack of rituals and music and the irregular punishment.
In fact, we should think about cleaning up the source, correcting the basic arguments, deleting the final laws, and writing 200 chapters to deal with the death penalty.
For the rest of the crime levels, those who should live alive according to ancient times can now serve corporal punishment if they violate the death penalty.
As for stealing and harming others, officials accepting bribes, corruption and bending the law, and sexual immorality between men and women, ancient punishments were restored and three thousand chapters were formulated.
False accusations, deceit, and trivial criminal laws are exempted.
If this is the case, then punishment can make people fearful and easily avoid confinement, officials will not kill people arbitrarily, the law will be the same, the severity will be consistent with the crime, the lives of the people will be preserved, the punishment will be consistent, it will comply with the harmony between heaven and man, and it will be consistent with the ancient system, forming a harmonious atmosphere.
Although the penalties and punishments of the Cheng and Kang eras could not be reached, the state of handling lawsuits during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen could almost catch up. The Book of Songs says that if you obey the people, you will be blessed by heaven.
"Shangshu" says that if you establish meritorious deeds, you will be immortal.
It means that if a person in government can comply with the will of the people and has achieved great achievements, he will inherit the blessings of heaven and become immortal. This is the so-called "one person is blessed and ten thousand people depend on him".
