Li Shiqi was born in Gaoyang, Chenliu County.
He likes to study, but his family is poor and he has no job to obtain food and clothing.
He worked as a gatekeeper for the village, but neither the officials nor the powerful people in the county dared to use him, thinking that he was a wild young man.
When Chen Sheng, Xiang Liang and others revolted, various generals captured many areas. Dozens of them passed through Gaoyang County. Li Shiqi heard that these generals were narrow-minded, rigid about trivial etiquette, self-righteous, and unable to listen to good advice, so Li Shiqi hid.
Later, I heard that Pei Gong led his army to the suburbs of Chenliu. There was a cavalryman under Pei Gong who happened to be Li Shiqi's fellow villager. Pei Gong often asked him whether there were sages and heroes in the city.
When the knight returned home, Li Shiqi said to him: I heard that Pei Gong was arrogant and contemptuous of others, but he was very far-sighted. This is really the person I want to associate with. Let me introduce him first.
If you see Pei Gong, tell him: There is a gentleman named Li in my hometown, who is over sixty years old and eight feet tall. People think he is arrogant, but he himself said that I am not frivolous.
The cavalry said: Pei Gong does not like to associate with scholars. If any of the invited guests wears a Confucian hat, Pei Gong will take off his hat and urinate in the hat.
When talking to people, they often curse scholars, so don't talk like a Confucian scholar.
Li Shiqi said: Just say so.
The cavalryman calmly explained to Pei Gong as Li Shiqi had warned him.
Pei Gong arrived at the official residence in Gaoyang County and sent someone to summon Li Shiqi. When Li Shiqi arrived, Pei Gong sat on the bed and asked two women to wash his feet. This was how he summoned Li Shiqi.
When Li Shiqi entered the room, he handed over his hands without bowing and said: "Do you want to help Qin attack the princes?"
Or do you want to lead the princes to destroy the Qin Dynasty?
Pei Gong scolded: You despicable Confucian scholar!
The people of the world have suffered from Qin for a long time, so the princes led their troops to attack Qin one after another. How can you say you are helping Qin?
Li Shiqi said: If you want to gather the people and rally the rebels to overthrow the tyrannical rule of Qin, you should not sit by the bedside and summon the old man.
So Pei Gong stopped washing his feet, got up, put on his clothes, asked Li Shi to sit on his seat, and apologized to Li Shi.
Li Shiqi then talked about the situation when the six countries united. Pei Gong was very happy, gave Li food to eat, and asked: "Do you have any good plans?"
Li Shiqi said: You have gathered less than 10,000 untrained men. If you want to directly attack the powerful Qin State, it can be said that you are putting your hand into the tiger's mouth!
Chenliu County is located at the heart of the world and is connected in all directions. Now there is a lot of food stored in the city. I have always been friendly with the magistrate of Chenliu. Now please appoint me as your envoy to order him to surrender.
If he doesn't obey, you send troops to attack him, and I will respond internally.
So he sent Li Shiqi to Chenliu County, and Pei Gong led his troops to follow him, and finally captured Chenliu.
Pei Gong granted Li Shi the title of Lord of Guangye.
Li Shiqi recommended his younger brother Li Shang to lead thousands of people to follow Peigong to the southwest to seize land.
Li Shiqi often worked as a lobbyist, traveling among the princes to lobby.
In the autumn of the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu attacked the Han army and captured Rongyang. The Han army retreated to Gong County.
When the Chu army heard that Han Xin had captured Tongguo and that Peng Yue had repeatedly caused trouble in the Liang area, they divided their forces to rescue him.
When Han Xin just attacked Qi from the east, the king of Han was besieged in Rongyang and Chenggao many times. He planned to abandon the area bounded by Chenggao County and garrison Gongxian and Luoyang to fight against the Chu army.
Li Shiqi then said: I heard that those who know the reason why the sky is the sky can achieve the emperor's career; those who do not know the reason why the sky is the sky cannot succeed.
The king regards the people as his heaven, and the people regard food as their heaven.
Aocang has been a transportation hub in the world for a long time. I heard that Aocang has a lot of grain stored in it.
The Chu army captured Rongyang, but instead of holding on to Aocang, they marched eastward and left the punished soldiers to garrison in Chenggao. This was heaven coming to help the king of Han.
Now that the Chu army is easily captured and the Mo army is about to retreat, I have given up a favorable opportunity. I think I have gone too far.
Moreover, if the two heroes do not stand side by side, Chu and Han will be at war with each other for a long time. The people's lives will not be peaceful, the country will be in turmoil, farmers will not be able to farm, women will not be able to weave, and the people of the world will be uneasy.
I hope that the King of Han can march again as soon as possible, seize Rongyang, seize the grain of Aocang, block the danger of Chenggao, block the road of Taihang, seize the danger of Feihu, hold on to the crossing of Baima, show the princes that Mo has controlled the favorable situation, and the people of the world will know who to submit to.
Now the states of Yan and Zhao have been pacified, but only the state of Qi has not yet been conquered.
Now Tian Guang occupies the Qi State, which covers an area of ​​thousands of miles. Tian Jian commands an army of 200,000 and is stationed in Licheng. The Tian family is powerful, backed by the sea and Mount Tai, blocking the passage of the Yellow River and Jishui, and is approaching the Chu State in the south.
I ask for Shao Shu to persuade the King of Qi to make him Mo's neighbor. The king of Han said: Good!
The king of Han followed Li Shiqi's plan and stationed himself in Aocang. He also sent Li Shiqi to persuade the king of Qi, saying: "Does your Majesty know where the world belongs?"
King Qi said: I don’t know.
Li Shiqi said: If the king knows where the world belongs, then the state of Qi can be saved; if the king does not know where the world belongs, it will be difficult for the state of Qi to be saved.
King Qi said: Who should belong to the world?
Li Shiqi said: The world belongs to the King of Han.
King Qi said: Why do you say this, sir?
Li Shiqi said: The king of Han and Xiang Yu fought hard to attack the Qin army in the west, and they agreed to attack Xianyang first and become the king of Guanzhong. Xiang Yu broke the covenant and proclaimed himself king in Hanzhong.
King Xiang moved to kill Emperor Yi, and the king of Han sent the Shu Han army to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, went out to fight, accused Xiang Yu of his mistake in killing Emperor Yi, gathered soldiers from all over the world, and established the descendants of the princes.
Every city captured was given to the generals who surrendered and made a marquis. The property obtained by the King of Han was shared among the soldiers, and the benefits were shared with the people of the world. Heroes and wise men were willing to obey his use.
The armies of the princes arrived from all directions, and the food of the Shu Han Dynasty was transported by ship.
King Xiang was guilty of violating the covenant and killing the Righteous Emperor; he never remembered the achievements of others, but never forgot the mistakes of others; he was not rewarded for victory in battles, and he was not given titles for those who captured the city; he was not entrusted with important tasks if he was not a member of the Xiang family;
Everyone in the world rebelled against him, talented people complained about him, and no one was used by him.
Therefore, all the talented people in the world went to the King of Han, and the King of Han could command them from his seat.
The King of Han sent troops from the Shu Han Dynasty to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties; crossed the Xihe River; aided the troops of the Shangdang; captured Jingxing and killed Anjun; defeated the Northern Wei Dynasty and captured thirty-two cities: this was the Yellow Emperor's army, not manpower, but God's blessing.
Now that we have captured the grain of Aocang, blocked the danger of Chenggao, garrisoned the ferry of Baima, blocked the main road of Taihang, and occupied the pass of Feihu, all those who surrender in the world will have to be eliminated first.
If your Majesty surrenders to the King of Han quickly, the state of Qi can be preserved. If you don't surrender to the King of Han, danger and destruction are just around the corner.
Tian Guang thought it was right, so he listened to Li Shiqi's words, withdrew the guards and equipment from Lixia, and drank as much as he wanted with Li Shiqi every day.
Han Xin heard that Li Shiqi had obtained more than 70 cities in Qi through lobbying, so he sent troops across the plains overnight to attack Qi.
When King Tian Guang of Qi heard about the arrival of the Han army, he thought Li Shiqi had deceived him, so he killed him and fled with his troops.
In the twelfth year of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, led his troops to attack Yingbu as prime minister and achieved great military exploits.
When Emperor Gaozu listed the heroes, he thought of Li Shiqi.
Li Shiqi's son, Li Shi, led troops into battle many times, but had little merit in battle and was not granted the title of Marquis. The emperor made Li Shi the Marquis of Gaoliang because of his father.
Later, Wuyang was renamed as a food town. After his death, his son Li Sui succeeded him.
Three generations later, Li Ping committed a crime and the feudal state was abolished.
Lu Jia, a native of Chu.
As a guest, he followed Gaozu to pacify the world. He was famous for his eloquence and eloquence. He often served as an envoy to the princes at Gaozu's side.
At that time, the country had just stabilized, and Wei Tuo pacified South Vietnam and became king there.
Emperor Gaozu sent Lu Jia to give Wei Tuo the seal and make him the king of South Vietnam.
When Lu Jia arrived, Wei Tuo sat down to receive him with his legs stretched out.
Lu Jia then said to Wei Tuo: "I am from the Central Plains, and the graves of my relatives and brothers are all in Zhending County."
Now that I have violated my customs and don't wear the clothes of the Central Plains, I want to become the king of the small Yue region, compete with the imperial court and become an enemy country, disaster is coming.
When Qin lost his power and the princes and heroes raised their armies, the King of Han was the first to enter Guanzhong and occupy Xianyang.
Xiang Ji broke the covenant and established himself as the overlord of Western Chu. All the princes belonged to him, which can be said to be very powerful.
However, the king of Han sent troops from Bashu to fight for the world and subdue the princes, so he killed Xiang Ji.
In the past five years, the country has been peaceful. This is not the result of human power, but the work of God.
The emperor heard that the emperor was proclaimed king in South Vietnam and did not help the people of the world to eliminate the tyrannical forces. The general originally wanted to send troops to kill the emperor, but the emperor took pity on the people who had just finished their hard work and needed to rest and recuperate, so he sent me to grant the emperor the seal, divide the talisman letters, and exchange envoys.
The king should go to the outskirts to welcome him, and to the north to proclaim his vassalship, but you actually want to use this newly-established country with unpopular hearts and unconsolidated political power to claim strength here.
If the King of Han really hears about it, he will dig up and burn the graves of your ancestors, annihilate your clan, and send a lieutenant general to lead a hundred thousand people to attack Yue. The Yue people will kill the king and surrender to the Han. It will be easy to conquer.
So Wei Tuo stood up in shock and apologized to Lu Jia: "I have lived among barbarians for a long time. It is really rude."
So he asked Lu Jia: Who is better among me, Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Han Xin?
Lu Mai said: The king is wiser than them.
He asked again: Who is more worthy than the emperor?
Lu Jia said: The emperor raised troops in Fengpei to attack the violent Qin, destroyed the powerful Chu army, brought benefits and eliminated harm to the people of the world, inherited the great cause of the five emperors and three kings, unified the world, and governed the country.
The Central Plains has hundreds of millions of people and thousands of miles of land. It is the most fertile land in the world. It has a large number of people, prosperous carriages and horses, rich everything, and unified political power. It has never been seen since the beginning of the world.
Now the king's population is only tens of thousands, and they are all barbarians. They are located between rugged mountains and seas, just like a county in Han Dynasty. How can the king compare with the king of Han?
Wei Tuo laughed and said: I did not raise troops in the Central Plains, so I became king here.
If I were in the Central Plains, how could I be inferior to the Han people?
So he liked Lu Jia very much and kept him feasting for several months.
Said: There is no one in South Vietnam who can talk to me. Since my husband came, I heard things I had never heard before.
The jewelry Lu bought as a reward was worth thousands of gold, and the other gifts he gave were also worth thousands of gold.
Lu Jia finally worshiped Wei Tuo as the King of Nanyue and asked him to surrender to the Han Dynasty and obey the orders of the Han Dynasty.
Lu Jia came back and reported that the emperor was very happy and worshiped Lu Mai as Taizhong doctor.
Lu Jia often discussed "The Book of Songs" and "Book of Songs" in front of the emperor.
The emperor scolded him and said: You and I conquered the world on horseback, why do we study the Book of Songs and the Book of Documents?
Lu Mai said: If you can conquer the world on a horse, can you also rule the world on a horse?
Moreover, King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou used force to seize the world but defended it with benevolence and righteousness. The combination of civil and military forces is the long-term way to govern the country.
In the past, the kings of Wu, Fu Chai and Zhi Bo, perished because of their aggressive military tactics. The Qin State, which blindly used criminal laws without changing them, finally perished.
If Qin can practice benevolence and righteousness after unifying the world and imitate the ancient sages, how can your majesty conquer the world?
Emperor Gao looked displeased and ashamed, so he said to Lu Jia: Please try to write for me the reasons why Qin lost the world and I was able to gain it, and the situations of successful and failed countries since ancient times.
Lu Jia wrote a total of twelve articles.
Every time he wrote a memorial, the emperor thought it was well written. The officials on the left and right cheered long live and called Lu Jia's book "New Speech".
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, the Empress Dowager Lu was monopolizing power and wanted to make several people named Lu kings, but she was afraid of the ministers' disapproval.
Lu Mai knew that he could not argue with Empress Dowager Lu, so he went home sick.
Because the land was good, I moved there to settle down.
He had five sons, so he took out the jewelry and property he got when he was sent to South Vietnam, sold them for a thousand gold, and distributed them to his sons, each of them two hundred gold, for them to use for production.
Lu Jia often rides in chariots and horses, leads ten waiters who sing, dance and play piano, and also has a sword worth a hundred gold. He said to his son: I will agree with you on terms. Which house I go to, you have to give my people good food and wine, try to satisfy me, and change the house every ten days.
Whoever I die in will get this sword and chariots and horses.
I have to be a guest in other places throughout the year. Each of your families will only take turns two or three times. When I am at your home, you must give me fresh food to eat. I will not disturb you for a long time.
When she was the Queen Mother, she allowed the Lu family to be king. The Lu family took over the power and planned to kidnap the young emperor and usurp the Liu family's world.
The right prime minister Chen Ping was very worried about this. He was not strong enough to compete with the Empress Dowager Lu, and he was afraid that it would harm himself, so he could only sit quietly and think deeply.
Lu Mai went to greet him, and he went into Chen Ping's room and sat down. Chen Ping was thinking about it and did not see Lu Mai.
Lu Mai said: What are you thinking about so deeply?
Chen Ping said: What do you think I am thinking?
Lu Mai said: "You are a prime minister, a feudal lord with 30,000 households in the city, you can be said to be extremely wealthy and you don't need anything."
However, if you are worried, you are just worried about Zhu Lu and the Young Emperor.
Chen Ping said: Yes.
What to do?
Lu Jia said: When the world is stable, everyone pays attention to the prime minister; when the world is in crisis, everyone pays attention to the general.
If the prime minister and the general unite, then the people will wholeheartedly submit to them; if the hearts of the people are united, even if there is chaos in the world, the power will not be divided.
Power is not divided, and the plan for the country is in the hands of two people.
I often want to talk to Taiwei Zhou Bo, but Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, always makes fun of me and does not pay attention to my words.
Why don't you interact more with the Taiwei and deepen our friendship?
Lu Jia also planned several events related to the Lu family for Chen Ping.
Chen Ping adopted his strategy, so he spent 500 gold to celebrate Jianghou Zhou Bo's birthday and had a drink with the Taiwei, who also returned the favor.
In this way, the relationship between the two people became closer, and Lu's conspiracy was further destroyed.
Chen Ping gave Lu Jia a hundred slaves, fifty carriages and horses, and five million yuan to pay for meals and drinks.
Lu Mai then used these properties to lobby the officials in the court, and his reputation grew.
Until the Lu family was executed and Emperor Xiaowen was established as emperor, Lu Jia was very helpful.
Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne and wanted to send someone as an envoy to South Vietnam. Prime Minister Chen Ping reported to the emperor that Lu Mai should be appointed as the Taizhong doctor and sent as an envoy to South Vietnam. Wei Tuo gave up his imperial title and agreed with the princes, which was in line with the court's wishes.
These events are recorded in "The Biography of South Vietnam".
Lu Jia finally died.
Zhu Jian, a native of Chu, once served as the prime minister of Huainan King Yingbu. He fled because of a crime and later followed Yingbu again.
When Ying Bu wanted to rebel, he asked Zhu Jian. Zhu Jian advised him not to rebel, but Ying Bu refused to listen and listened to his father Liang, so he rebelled.
The Han Dynasty suppressed Ying Bu. Hearing that Sai Jian had discouraged Yun Hu from making it, he gave Gui Jian the title of Lili Jun and his family moved to Chang'an.
Sai Jian is a eloquent and talented person, with a clean and upright character. His behavior is different from that of others, and he does not agree with others casually when interacting with others.
Marquis Piyang behaved improperly and was favored by Empress Dowager Lu. He wanted to make friends with Zhu Jian, but Zhu Jian refused to see him.
When Zhu Jian's mother passed away, she had no money to pay for the funeral because of poverty, so she borrowed money to buy mourning clothes and funeral utensils.
Lu Jia had always been friendly with Ji Jian, so he went to see Piyang Hou and congratulated him: "Pingyuan Jun's mother is dead."
Marquis Piyang said: Lord Pingyuan's mother is dead, why do you congratulate me?
Lu Mai said: A few days ago, Junhou wanted to make friends with Guijian. Mr. Pingyuan insisted on the principle of righteousness and refused to see you because of his mother.
Now that his mother is dead, if you really give generous gifts at the funeral, then he will become a good friend who will die for you.
Marquis Piyang then presented him with a hundred gold pieces of clothing and quilt. Other princes and nobles also went to send a total of five hundred gold to support the funeral because of Lord Piyang.
As time went by, some people slandered Piyanghou. Emperor Hui was furious and arrested Piyanghou and wanted to kill him.
The Queen Mother felt very ashamed, but could not say it herself.
Most of the ministers were deeply dissatisfied with the behavior of Marquis Piyang, so they all wanted to kill him.
The Marquis of Piyang was afraid and anxious, so he sent someone to see Sai Jian.
Sejian declined and said: Your case is at a critical moment and I dare not see you.
Zhu Jian then asked to see Ji Qiang, Emperor Xiaohui's lucky minister, and said: "You are favored by the emperor, and everyone in the world knows it."
Now that Hou Piyang was favored by the Queen Mother and was imprisoned, people on the road said that you had said bad things to the emperor, so the emperor wanted to kill him.
Today Marquis Piyang was killed, and tomorrow the Queen Mother will be angry and kill you too.
Why don't you speak kindly to the emperor for Piyanghou?
If the emperor listens to your words and releases Piyanghou, the queen mother will be very happy.
If both monarchs favor you, you will be doubly rich.
So Hong Jiru was frightened, followed Zhu Jian's plan, and advised the emperor, and the emperor released Piyanghou.
When Marquis Piyang was about to be imprisoned, he wanted to see Zhu Jian, but Zhu Jian didn't see him. Marquis Piyang thought Sai Jian had betrayed him and was furious.
It was a surprise when he managed to get out of prison.
After the death of Queen Mother Lu, the ministers wanted to kill all the Lu family members. The Marquis of Piyang had a close relationship with the Lu family, but in the end he was not killed.
The success of the plan was all due to the efforts of Lu Jia and Pingyuan Jun.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, King Li of Huainan killed Marquis Piyang because he had formed a party with the Lu family.
Emperor Xiaowen learned that it was Zhu Jian who was advising him, so he sent officials to arrest him and punish him.
When he heard that the official had arrived at the door, Zhu Jian wanted to commit suicide.
His sons and officials all said: "We don't know what happened, so why did we commit suicide?"
Zhu Jian said: If I die, the disaster will be gone and it will not affect you.
So he drew his sword.
When Emperor Wen found out, he said regretfully: I have no intention of killing Zhu Jian.
So he summoned Zhu Jian's son and worshiped him as a senior official.
He was sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu, but the Xiongnu Shanyu was rude. He died among the Xiongnu because he scolded the Xiongnu Shanyu.
Lou Jing, a native of Qi.
In the fifth year of Mo, I guarded Longxi and passed through Luoyang. Gaozu was there.
Lou Jing got rid of the crossbar in front of the cart and saw General Yu, a native of Qi, and said: I want to see the emperor to discuss something meaningful.
General Yu wanted to change him into gorgeous clothes. Lou Jing said: "I am wearing silk clothes, so I will wear silk clothes to greet you; if I am wearing coarse cloth clothes, I will wear coarse clothes to greet you. There is no need to change my clothes."
General Yu entered the palace to report to the emperor, who summoned him and gave him food.
After a while, the emperor asked Lou Jing, and Lou Jing said: Your Majesty established the capital in Luoyang, do you want to compete with the Zhou royal family in prosperity? The emperor said: Yes.
Lou Jing said: Your Majesty's attempt to conquer the world is different from that of the Zhou royal family. The ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty was Hou Ji. Yao granted him the title of Tai, and he accumulated good deeds for more than ten generations.
Gong Liu avoided Xia Jie and lived in Bin.
Because of Di's invasion, the king left Bin and came to live in Qi with his horse whip in hand, but everyone in the country rushed to submit to him.
When King Wen of Zhou Dynasty was the Western Bodhisattva, due to his virtue, the fighting between the Yu people and the Rui people calmed down. After they began to accept the mission, Lu Wang and Boyi returned from the seaside.
King Wu of Zhou attacked Shang Zhou, and eight hundred princes unexpectedly gathered in Mengjin, thus annihilating Shang and Yin.
King Cheng of Zhou succeeded to the throne, and the Duke of Zhou and others assisted him, so he built the Zhou Dynasty and established its capital at Luoyang, thinking that Luoyang was the center of the world. The princes paid tribute from all directions and reported their duties. The distance of the road was relatively even. If you have virtue, it is easy to become king, but if you don't have virtue, it is easy to perish.
Everyone who lives here must treat others virtuously, and do not want to rely on the dangers of the terrain to protect the world, and allow future generations to be arrogant, luxurious and abuse the people.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, they were divided into the kings of Eastern Zhou and the kings of Western Zhou. No one in the world came to see the king of Zhou, and the king of Zhou could not control them.
Not because the morals are weak, but because the strength is too weak.
Now your Majesty raised troops from Feng and Pei, and recruited 3,000 soldiers. He used these people to sweep the Shuhan area, pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and fought with Xiang Yu in Rongyang. There were seventy major battles and forty minor battles, causing the lives of all the people in the world.
Moreover, the land of Qin is surrounded by mountains and rivers, and the terrain is difficult. If there is a sudden war, millions of troops can gather.
With the old conditions, abundant resources and fertile land, it can become a natural treasury.
Your Majesty entered Guanzhong and made it the capital of the country. Although there was war in Huashan, Qin's old land could still be preserved and occupied.
If you fight with someone, you can't win completely without grabbing his throat and blowing his spine.
Now that your majesty has entered Guanzhong to build the capital and pacify the old land of Qin, this is also strangling the throat of the world and striking its backbone.
Emperor Gao asked the ministers, all of whom were from Shandong, and they all said that the Zhou Dynasty ruled for hundreds of years, while the Qin Dynasty only extended to the second generation, so it would be better to build the capital of Luoyang.
Emperor Gaoti hesitated and could not decide where to make his capital.
It was not until Zhang Liang, the Marquis of Liu, made it clear that he should enter Guanzhong, that he set off to the west to make Guanzhong his capital.
So the emperor said: The first person who was determined to be in Qin was Lou Jing, and Lou was Liu.
He gave Lou Jing the surname Liu, made him a doctor, and titled him Feng Chunjun.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, King Han Xin of Han rebelled, and Emperor Gao personally led his troops to attack him.
When he arrived in Jinyang, he heard that Han Xin was planning to unite with the Xiongnu to attack the Han army. The emperor was furious and sent an envoy to the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu hid the strong men and fat cattle and horses, and only saw the old and weak people and very thin livestock.
Ten batches of envoys came, and they all said that the Huns were easily defeated.
The emperor sent Liu Jing to go to the Huns again. When he returned, he reported to the emperor: When two countries are hostile and fighting, they should show off their strengths.
Now when I go to the Xiongnu, I only see thin livestock and old and weak people. They must have deliberately shown their shortcomings to lure us into being deceived and ambush surprise soldiers to defeat us.
I think the Huns are unattackable.
At this time, the Han soldiers had advanced northward and had crossed Gouzhu Mountain. More than 300,000 soldiers had been mobilized.
The emperor was angry and scolded Liu Jing: "You are a slave of Qi!"
I got the official position by talking nonsense, and now I want to stop me from sending troops with nonsense words.
Put Liu Jing in chains and stay in Guangwu.
So he went to Pingcheng. The Huns really came out with surprise troops and besieged Gaodi in Baideng. It took seven days to relieve the siege.
Emperor Gao went to Guangwu and released Liu Jing, saying: "I don't accept your words, so I was besieged in Pingcheng."
I have killed the ten groups of people who said they could attack the Huns.
So Liu Jing was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Neihou with two cadres, and his title was to be on duty during the day.
Emperor Gao returned from Pingcheng, and King Xin of Han fled to the Huns.
At this time, Maodun Chanyu's army was powerful, capable of shooting 400,000 cavalry, and he invaded the north several times.
The emperor was worried about this and asked Liu Jing.
Liu Jing said: The world has just been peaceful, and the soldiers are exhausted by the war and can no longer use force to conquer the Huns.
Mao Dun killed his father to become the Chanyu, took Qun Mu as his wife, and relied on force to display his prestige, but he could not be persuaded by benevolence and righteousness.
If we can plan in the long run and let his descendants become ministers, I am afraid that His Majesty cannot do this.
The emperor said: If it is possible, why can't it be done?
Just how to do it?
Liu Jing replied: If your majesty allows the eldest princess to marry the Chanyu and gives him generous gifts, he knows the kindness of the Han princess as his wife. The Xiongnu will definitely make the queen the Chanyu, and the son he will give birth to will be the prince, who will take the place of the Chanyu in the future.
Why?
Because the Xiongnu coveted the generous gifts from the Han.
Your Majesty sends gifts and condolences to the Xiongnu Chanyu several times every year, and sends envoys and debaters to teach them politely.
When Modu is alive, the Chanyu is of course your Majesty's son-in-law. If the Chanyu dies, your Majesty's grandson is the Chanyu.
Have you ever heard of a confrontation between your grandson and your grandfather?
The army can subtly subdue the Huns without going out on a campaign.
If Your Majesty is unwilling to send the eldest princess and lets people in the clan and harem pretend to be princesses, they will know about it and refuse to honor her or get close to her, which will be of no use.
Gao Di said: OK.
I want to send the eldest princess.
When Empress Lu found out, she cried day and night and said, "I only have one son and one daughter. Why should I throw her to the Huns?"
In the end, the emperor could not send the eldest princess, but chose a daughter from the family named eldest princess to marry Shan Yu.
Liu Jing was sent to conclude a peace treaty.
Liu Jing returned from the Xiongnu and said: The Xiongnu live in the two tribes of Aries and Loufan south of the Yellow River. They are very close to Chang'an, only 700 miles away. They can reach Guanzhong in one day and one night on horseback.
Guanzhong has just been destroyed by war and has a small population, but the land is fertile and can increase the population.
When the princes first emerged, without the Tian family of Qi, the Zhao, Qu, Jing and other royal families of Chu would not have been able to prosper.
Although His Majesty now has a capital in Guanzhong, he has very few manpower.
The north is close to the Xiongnu, and there are clans from six countries in Shubu. They are powerful. Once a mutiny occurs, Your Majesty cannot rest easy.
I hope that your majesty will move the Tian family of Qi State and the descendants of Chu Zhao, Qu, Jing, Yan, Tang, Han and Wei to enrich Guanzhong.
As long as the situation does not change, we can guard against the Xiongnu. If the princes rebel, we can lead them to crusade eastward.
This is a way to strengthen the foundation of the regime. The emperor said: OK.
So Liu Yao was assigned to move more than 100,000 people from each of the above-mentioned clans to Maggotshen.
Shusuntong was from Xuexian County.
During the Qin Dynasty, he was recruited as a doctor waiting for imperial edict because of his proficiency in classics.
A few years later, Chen Sheng raised an army. Qin II summoned doctors and Confucian scholars and asked: Wu soldiers from Chu captured Qi County and entered Chen County. What do you think of this?
More than 30 doctors and other scholars came forward and said: Ministers cannot cause rebellion. To cause rebellion is to commit rebellion, and the crime will not be forgiven.
May your Majesty quickly send troops to attack the rebels.
Qin II was furious and his expression changed.
Shusuntong stepped forward and said: What all the Confucian scholars said is wrong.
Today, the people have become one family, demolished the city, destroyed the weapons, and expressed to the world that they will no longer use them.
Besides, there is a wise monarch at the top, laws and decrees are carried out at the bottom, officials all perform their duties, and all directions are directed towards the court, how can there be anyone who is created?
These people are just thieves, so why should they care?
The county guards and lieutenants are hunting them now, so what is there to worry about?
Qin II was very happy. Asked every Confucian scholar, some said they were rebels, and some said they were thieves. So Qin II ordered the censor to write down the people who made the remarks and hand them over to the judge for trial to punish them for their wrong remarks.
All scholars who spoke of thieves were dismissed.
He gave Shusun Tong twenty pieces of silk and a set of clothes, and he was called a doctor. After Shusun Tong came out, he returned to the academy. The Confucian scholars said: "Why do you talk so flatteringly?"
Shusun Tong said: You don't know that I can hardly escape from the tiger's mouth.
So he fled to Xue County, which had surrendered to Chu.
Xiang Liang came to Xue County, and Shusun Tong followed him.
Xiang Liang was defeated in Dingtao, and he followed King Huai again.
King Huai became the Righteous Emperor and moved to Changsha County. Shusun Tong stayed behind to assist King Xiang. In the second year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han led the troops of the five princes into Pengcheng, and Shusun Tong surrendered to the King of Han.
Shusun Tong wore the clothes of a Confucian scholar, and the King of Han was disgusted, so he changed his clothes and wore short clothes in the style of the Chu people. The King of Han was very happy.
Shusun Tong surrendered to the King of Han, and there were more than a hundred scholars who followed him. However, Shusun Tong did not recommend him, only the strong men and reckless grassroots bandits.
The disciples all said: I have served you for many years, and I was lucky enough to defect to the King of Han. Now I do not recommend ministers, but only treacherous people. Why?
Shusun Tong then said: The king of Han is fighting for the world by force. Can you go and fight?
Therefore, I first recommend you to those heroes who are brave enough to kill the enemy. Please wait for me for now. I will not forget you.
The king of Han worshiped his uncle Sun Tong as a doctor and named him Sijun Ji.
The King of Han unified the world, and the princes in Dingtao jointly respected him as emperor. Shusun Tong formulated the court etiquette and the titles of duties of the monarch and his ministers.
Emperor Gao deleted the harsh etiquette laws that had destroyed the Qin Dynasty and implemented simple and easy-to-implement laws.
The ministers drank and competed for merit. When they were drunk, they talked nonsense and drew their swords to hit pillars. The emperor was very worried.
Shusun Tong knew that the emperor was getting more and more upset about this matter, so he persuaded the emperor: Those scholars cannot attack and kill with your majesty, but they can consolidate the country.
I am willing to recruit some scholars from the State of Lu to draft court rituals together with my disciples.
Emperor Gao said: Isn't it difficult to formulate etiquette?
Shusun Tong said: The five emperors have different music systems, and the three kings have different etiquette.
Etiquette is formulated based on the situation, people and customs at that time.
Therefore, we can understand the inheritance, deletion, and addition of etiquette in the Xia, Yin, Shang, and Zhou dynasties. It can be said that they are not repeated.
I hope to learn from the ancient etiquette and the rituals of the Qin Dynasty and formulate it accordingly.
The emperor said: We can try to formulate it. We must make it easy to understand the Han rites and consider whether I can implement it.
So Shusun Tong served as an envoy to recruit more than thirty Confucian scholars from the state of Lu. Among them, two Confucian scholars refused to go with him, saying: "You have already assisted ten masters, and you all flatter them in person."
Now the world has just settled down, the dead have not yet been buried, the injured have not yet recovered, and rituals and music must be established.
The rise of ritual and music is due to hundreds of years of accumulated virtue. We cannot accept what you are asking us to do.
What you are doing is not in line with the ancient ways, so we will not go.
Go ahead and don't tarnish our character.
Shusun Tong smiled and said: You are really pedantic and ignorant of worldly affairs. You do not understand the changes in the current situation.
So he went west with the 30 people he had recruited, and together with Gaodi's close officials and Shusun Tong's disciples, a total of more than 100 people tied thatches in the wild to determine the ceremonial positions. After practicing for more than a month, Shusun Tong said: "Your Majesty, you can give it a try."
After exercising the etiquette, the emperor said: I can do it.
So he ordered all the ministers to practice, and the rituals were completed just in time for the beginning of October.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Changle Palace was built, and all the princes and ministers came to worship in October.
Etiquette: Before dawn, the visitor is responsible for the etiquette, and the pilgrims are brought into the palace one by one. The palace is equipped with chariots, garrison soldiers, and guards, as well as various weapons and flags.
Paging trend, that is, rush to enter.
Hundreds of guards lined the steps of His Highness.
To the west stood the heroes, princes, generals, and military officials in order, facing east; to the east stood the civil servants and prime ministers, facing west.
Daxing ordered to preside over the ceremony of going to court, set up nine stations of masters of ceremonies, and shouted loudly to attract the ministers into the palace.
So the emperor came out of the house in a chariot, and hundreds of officials held halberds, calling for the clear way, and guided the princes and officials down to six hundred stone officials to come to the emperor in turn to congratulate him.
Everyone below the princes and kings was frightened and respectful.
After the worship, all the officials, big and small, prostrated themselves on the ground, and a banquet was held with strict etiquette.
The waiters in the palace all bowed their heads and stood up one by one to wish the emperor a birthday.
After nine drinks, the visitor said: The banquet is over.
If the censor reports someone who violates etiquette, he will be taken away.
During the whole process of worshiping and drinking, no one dared to make any noise or violate etiquette.
So Emperor Gao said: Only now do I know the dignity of being an emperor!
He worshiped his uncle Sun Tong as Fengchang and gave him five hundred catties of gold.
Shusuntong then said to the emperor: These disciples, Confucian scholars, have been following me for a long time. They worked with me to formulate etiquette. I hope your majesty can grant them official titles.
Emperor Gao named them all Lang.
Shusun Tong came out and gave all the five hundred gold he had received to the Confucian scholars.
The Confucian scholars said happily: Mr. Shusun is really a saint and understands the world today.
In the ninth year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao promoted his uncle Sun Tong to the title of Crown Prince and Tutor.
In the twelfth year, Emperor Gao wanted to make King Zhao Ruyi the crown prince. Shusun Tong said: In the past, Duke Xiang of Jin deposed the crown prince and established Xi Qi instead because of Li Ji. The Jin Kingdom was in chaos for decades and was ridiculed by the world.
Because the Qin Dynasty did not appoint Fusu as the crown prince early, Hu Hai used deception to win the throne and reduced the Qin Dynasty. This was witnessed by your Majesty personally.
Nowadays, the prince's loyalty, filial piety and benevolence are known to everyone in the world; Empress Lu and Your Majesty have endured hardships and had a simple diet. How can you turn your back on her?
If Your Majesty must depose the eldest son and establish a younger son, I would like to be killed first and paint the earth red with the blood of my neck.
Gaodi said: Don't do this, I was just joking.
Shusun Tong said: The prince is the foundation of the world's stability. If the foundation is shaken, the world will be chaotic and turbulent. How can you make fun of the world?
Gaodi said: I obey your words.
When the emperor was holding a banquet, he saw four old gentlemen invited by Zhang Liang to follow the prince to see the emperor. The emperor no longer had any intention of changing the prince.
Emperor Gao died and Emperor Xiaohui ascended the throne. So he said to Shusuntong: No one is familiar with the etiquette of the late emperor's mausoleum and temple.
Sun Tong, his uncle, was promoted to Fengchang and formulated the etiquette of the ancestral temple.
All kinds of rituals and laws formulated in the Han Dynasty were written by Mr. Shusun.
Emperor Hui's visit to the Changle Palace in Shubian would disturb the people, so he responded. When the construction of the Wukunan area was just beginning, Mr. Shusun reported to the emperor and asked the emperor: Why does your majesty build a pavilion corridor from the mausoleum of Emperor Gao, prepare a royal tour every month, and travel once a month to display Emperor Gao's clothes in the high temple?
Why are future generations allowed to walk on the temple roads of Gaodi?
Emperor Xiaohui was very frightened and said: "Tear it down quickly."
Shusun Tong said: The emperor never does wrong things.
Now it has been done and the people know it.
I hope that your Majesty will build another Gaodi Temple to the north of the Weishui River as a temple for traveling and wearing clothes. This will also increase and expand the number of Gaodi ancestral temples. This is the foundation of great filial piety.
The emperor then ordered officials to rebuild the Gaodi Temple.
Emperor Xiaohui often visited the palace. Shusun Tong said: "The ancients presented fruits in spring. Now is the time when the cherries are ripe and can be presented. I hope that your majesty will travel and take advantage of the opportunity to present cherries to the ancestral temple."
The emperor agreed to do this.
This is how the ritual of offering fruits to the ancestral temple arose.
Praising: The emperor of the Han Dynasty conquered the world with his southern and northern expeditions, and the Confucian scholars used their eloquent talents to achieve the great cause of unifying the world.
"Shenzi" said: A temple is not built with a piece of wood, and an emperor's achievements are not built with the strength of one person.
It is indeed true! Liu Jing did not pull the chariot and persuaded Emperor Gao to make Guanzhong the capital to stabilize the country. Shusun Tong gave up the battle formation and did not create Modai etiquette. This was because the timing was good.
Li Shiqi hid and guarded the gate, waiting for Mingjun to come out, but he was still inevitably cooked to death.
Zhu Jian was upright and honest at the beginning and never made friends with Piyang Hou. However, he died because he could not always keep his integrity.
Lu Jia was a high official, but he did not serve as an official for the Lu family. He was beyond reproach. He joined forces with Chen Ping and Zhou Bo and relied on the generals to defend the country's power. His status and reputation were both glorious and he was the best among them!
