Yang Hu Du Yu
Uncle Yang Hu was born in Nancheng, Mount Tai.
He has been an official of two thousand shi for generations, and he has been in Yanghu for nine generations. They are all famous for their integrity and virtue.
His grandfather, Yangxu, served as the prefect of Nanyang in Han Dynasty.
His father, Yang Gou, was appointed as the prefect of Shangdang.
Yang Hu is the grandson of Cai Yong and the younger brother of Queen Jingxian.
Yang Hu's father passed away when he was twelve years old. He obeyed filial piety more than etiquette and served his uncle Yang Dan with great respect.
Once when he was playing by the Wenshui River, he met an old man who said to him: This boy has good looks and is less than sixty years old. He will definitely make great achievements in the world.
After he left, no one knew where he was.
When he grew up, he was erudite and could write articles, and he was seven feet three inches tall. The man is handsome and good at talking.
Xiahou Wei, the general of the county, thought he was unusual and married his brother Xiahou Ba's daughter to him.
He was recommended as a planner, and he was called up four times to serve as an official or scholar in the state. He refused to take up the post in any of the five prefectures.
Guo Yi from Taiyuan saw him and said: This is Yan Hui today.
Both Wang Chen and Wang Chen were recruited by Cao Shuang.
Wang Chen persuaded him to apply, but Yang Hu said: It is not easy to entrust yourself to others to do things for others.
When Cao Shuang failed, Wang Chen survived as an old official, so he said to Yang Ku: "Always remember what you said before."
Yang Ku said: "It was not what I considered at the beginning."
He was so prescient and boastful.
Xiahou Ba surrendered to Shu, and his in-laws broke off all relations with him. Only Yang Hu got along with his wife calmly, and was more loving and courteous.
Soon his mother passed away, and his eldest brother Yangfa died again. He lived in mourning for more than ten years. He regarded himself as honest and honest, like a Confucian scholar.
Emperor Wen appointed him as a general and summoned Yang Hu, but he did not go. Instead, he was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu in a public car, and soon he was promoted to Shizhong and Huangmenlang.
At that time, the prince of Gaogui County was fond of writing articles, and those in official positions often contributed poems and poems. Runan and Di were reprimanded for violating the emperor's wishes.
King Chenliu ascended the throne and granted him the title of Marquis of Guanzhong and the title of 100 households.
Because the young emperor was unwilling to serve as a minister, Yang Hu asked to leave the palace to find a position to fill the vacancy, and was appointed secretary supervisor instead.
When the fifth-level title was established, he was granted the title of Jupingzi and was granted the title of 600 households.
Zhong Hui is favored and jealous, and Yang Ku is also afraid of him.
Zhong Hui was executed and appointed as the Prime Minister of the country, Zhonglang, and jointly took charge of Zhongshu affairs with Xun Xu.
He was promoted to the leader of the central army, and all the guards were under his command. He was on duty in the palace, in charge of the imperial army, and took care of both inside and outside the palace.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession, and because of his assistance, Yang Hu was promoted to the rank of general of the central army. He was given the rank of casual cavalry and permanent attendants, and was granted the title of county prince, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
He resolutely refused to be ennobled, so he changed the title to marquis, set up a doctor's order, prepared the positions of nine officials, and added a lady's seal and ribbon.
At the beginning of Taishi, the edict stated: Unifying the key institutions that govern the political power, and fairly managing the six official duties of governance, education, and etiquette are the foundation of the government.
Yang Hu has a high moral character, is loyal, upright, simple and excellent, is proficient in civil and military affairs, and is devoted to the country. Although he is entrusted with important responsibilities, he does not take charge of the country's important affairs, which is not in line with my original intention of handing the responsibility to the ministers and governing by doing nothing.
He appointed Yang Hu as Zuopushe and General Wei, and gave him soldiers in his camp.
At that time, Wang You, Jia Chong, and Pei Xiu were all famous people in the previous dynasty. Yang Hu was always humble and would not let his position be higher than theirs.
The emperor had the ambition to reduce Wu, and appointed Yang Hu as the commander-in-chief of Jingzhou's military affairs, holidays, casual cavalry and general guards.
Yang Hu led his troops to guard the south, opened schools, and comforted people near and far, which was very popular among Jiang and Han people.
Show your sincerity to the person who surrendered, and the person who surrendered will be free to leave if he wants.
At that time, the chief official died in office, and the next chief official was taboo and often destroyed the old government office. Yang Ku believed that life and death were in vain and had nothing to do with living quarters, so he sent underground documents to the guards to ban them generally.
Wu State was more than 700 miles away from each other, which often caused border troubles. Chai Hu was worried about this and used strategies to make Wu State give up its defense.
So the number of soldiers guarding the border was reduced by half, and more than 800 hectares of farmland were given to the soldiers, which made a huge profit.
When Chai Nian first took office, the army did not have a hundred days of food reserves. After a few years, it had ten years of savings.
Xia Shao dismissed the governor of Jiangbei and appointed General Nan Zhonglang. He added all the troops under his command in Jiangxia in the east of Han Dynasty to Lan Bing.
In the army, Shengjie often wore a light belt and no armor. In the place where he lived, he only had more than a dozen bodyguards, and he often neglected government affairs because of hunting and fishing.
I once wanted to go out at night. Military commander Xu Yin blocked the door with a weapon and said: "General and governor Wanli, how can you be negligent!"
The safety of the general is also the safety of the country.
If I die today, this door can only be opened.
Yang Hu smiled and admitted his mistake, and rarely went out after that.
Later, chariots and cavalry generals were added, and government offices were established to set up subordinates similar to the etiquette system of the three divisions.
Yang Hu resolutely declined and said: "I heard Shao Shu, promoted me like a Tai Secretary."
Since I became an official, it has only been more than ten years. I have accepted internal and external appointments, which are often very prominent and important positions.
Often because my intelligence cannot grow in a short time and grace cannot be bestowed upon me for a long time, I tremble all day long and regard glory as worry.
I heard that the ancients said that if one's virtue is not admired by others and receives a high title, a talented minister will not be promoted; if one's merit is not admired by others and enjoys a generous salary, then the meritorious minister will stop working hard.
Now, because I am a relative, things are related to the current situation. What I have to guard against is being overly favored and not afraid of being forgotten.
However, an edict was issued to bestow upon me glory that should not be given to me.
What achievements do I have that I can bear, and what mood do I have that I can enjoy with peace of mind.
After humiliating the high position, the overthrow will soon come. At that time, if you want to guard the shabby house of your ancestors, how can it be possible!
Disobeying the emperor's orders does offend the power of heaven, but so does submissive obedience.
It is said that the ancients were able to express their ambitions and maintain the moral integrity of ministers because they were known to others, and they did not force themselves if they did not want to.
Although I am a villain, I have such thoughts because I have received grace.
It has only been eight years since enlightenment was implemented in the world today. Although I seek talents on the sidelines and do not send away people who live in seclusion or low status, I cannot recommend virtuous people and make meritorious officials prominent, so that the emperor knows that there are many people who are better than me and there are many people who cannot be distinguished.
If there are virtues that have been neglected in the market, and there are talents who live in seclusion among the people, and the imperial government does not think it is a mistake to use me, and I do not feel ashamed to be in a high position, isn't the loss not great?
Although I have been in the official position for a long time, I have never been as favored as I am today by having both civil and military positions, and enjoying a high position equal to that of a prime minister.
Moreover, although my knowledge is not broad, as far as I know, the current Guanglu doctor Li Yi is of high moral character and fair in his office; Guanglu doctor Lu Zhi is incorruptible and has few desires, and is modest but different from others;
Although they are also favored and serve as officials inside and outside, they are no different from me, but they have not yet received such favors. If I surpass them, how can I satisfy the world's expectations, and how can it be of any benefit to the future!
Therefore, I vow to stick to my integrity and have no intention of seeking promotion.
Now the country is not yet stable and the border is troubled. Please retain the previous grace and allow me to return to the border as soon as possible.
If you stay in the capital, you will definitely suffer from external worries.
The ambition of an ordinary man cannot be taken away.
The emperor doesn't allow it.
When he returned to his post, Bu Chan, the governor of Wu Xiling, came to surrender from the city.
Wu general Lu Kang attacked fiercely, and ordered Yang Hu to respond to Bu Chan.
Yang Hu led 50,000 troops from Jiangling and sent Yang Zhao, the governor of Jingzhou, to attack Lu Kang, but failed to win. Bu Chan was finally captured by Lu Kang.
Relevant officials reported: Yang Hu led an army of more than 80,000 people, but the enemy army was only 30,000.
Yang Ku was slow to mobilize his troops in Jiangling, which allowed the enemy to set up defenses.
So Yang Zhao was sent to involve part of the army into the dangerous situation. There were few soldiers and food supplies, and the army suffered a setback.
Disobeying orders and not having the integrity of a minister.
He could be relieved of his duties and return home as a marquis.
Because of his crime, he was eventually demoted to General Pingnan, and Yang Zhao was dismissed as a civilian.
Yang Hu saw that Meng Xian was running a military prison and the Zheng people were afraid of it, and Yan Ruo was stationed in Cambodia and Laizi was obedient. He then invaded the strategic location, built five cities, collected fertile land, and seized the Wu people's wealth. The west of Shicheng was all owned by the Jin.
From then on, people continued to surrender, and they promoted virtue and credibility to appease those who had just come to rely on him, and they naturally had the ambition to annex Wu.
Every time he fought with the Wu people, he fought only on the day of open battle and did not carry out sneak attacks.
If any of the generals want to devise tricks, give them alcohol so that they will not be able to devise tricks.
Someone captured two young men from the state of Wu, and Yang Ku sent them home.
Later, Yu generals Xia Jiang, Dan Shi and others came to surrender, and the father of the two children also came with his family members.
Wu generals Chen Shang and Pan Jing came to invade, and Yang Ku chased them down. He praised them for their moral integrity and gave them extravagant funeral arrangements.
The descendants of Pan Jing and Chen Shang came to attend the funeral, and Yang Hu sent them back according to the ceremony.
When Wu general Deng Xiang attacked Xiakou, Yang Hu demanded that Deng Xiang be captured alive. After he was captured, he was pardoned.
Deng Xiang was very grateful for Yang Hu's kindness and led his subordinates to surrender.
Yang Hu sent troops to the territory of Wu. Every time he cut grains for military rations, he calculated them clearly and sent silk as compensation.
Every time he went on a hunting trip to Jiangmian with other people, he was always restricted to the area of ​​Jin.
If the animals are injured by the Wu people first and then obtained by the Jin soldiers, all the animals will be returned to them.
So the people of Wu were convinced and called him Yang Gong without naming him.
Yang Hu and Lu Kang faced each other and exchanged envoys. Lu Kang praised Ji Nian's virtue, which even Le Yi and Zhuge Kongming could not surpass.
Lu Kang was once ill, and Yang Hu gave him medicine. Lu Kang took the medicine without any suspicion.
Most people advised Lu Kang not to take it. Lu Kang said: How could Yang Hu be the one who administered the poison?
Comments at the time believed that Hua Yuan and Zi Fan appeared today.
Lu Kang often warned his soldiers: He specializes in virtue, and I specialize in violence. This means that if you don't fight, you will surrender first.
The only way to keep the boundaries is to not be demanding small profits.
Sun Hao heard that the border between the two sides was at peace, so he questioned Lu Kang.
Lu Kang said: A city or a village cannot be without integrity, let alone a big country!
If I don't do this, I will be promoting Yangku's virtue and will do no harm to him.
Yang Hu was loyal and selfless and hated evil and sycophants. People like Xun Xu and Feng Tong hated him very much.
Wang Yan, a distant nephew, once went to Yang Hu to explain the matter, and his words were very eloquent. Yang Hu didn't take it seriously, and Wang Shu stood up with a flick of his clothes.
Yang Hu looked at the guests and said: Wang Yifu is occupying a high position with great reputation, but he must be the one who has corrupted his morals.
In response to Bu Chan's battle, Yang Ku was about to kill Wang Rong according to military law. Therefore, both Wang Rong and Wang Yan resented him and often slandered Yang Hu.
People at that time said: When the two kings were in power, Yang Gong was slandered.
At the beginning of Xianning, he was appointed as the general of Zhengnan and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, with the right to recruit officials.
At first, Yang Hu believed that the crusade against Wu must rely on the advantage of the upper reaches.
At that time, there was a nursery rhyme in the state of Wu that said: Ah Tong, Ah Tong, floating across the river with a knife in hand.
If you are not afraid of animals on the shore, you are afraid of dragons in the water.
After hearing this, Yang Hu said: This must mean that the navy can make meritorious deeds and should consider how to use the name A Tong.
It happened that Wang Jun, the governor of Yizhou, was recruited as the chief agricultural officer. Yang Hu knew that he could be appointed. Wang Jun's nickname was Atong, so he was appointed to supervise the military affairs of Yizhou. He joined General Longxiang and secretly ordered the construction of boats to prepare for the strategy of going down the river.
Yang Hu repaired weapons, trained soldiers, and made extensive preparations for war.
At this time, Shangshu said: The late emperor obeyed the will of heaven and pacified Bashu in the west, and made peace with Wu Hui in the south. The country was able to rest and recuperate, and the people had a peaceful heart.
However, the State of Wu violated its faith and caused border wars to break out again.
Although fortune is given by God, achievements must be completed by people. Without a large-scale annihilation of the Wu Kingdom, the people will not be able to find peace.
It is also to make the late emperor's meritorious deeds more prosperous and to complete the teaching of ruling by doing nothing.
Therefore, Yao's campaign against Danshui and Shun's campaign against Sanmiao were all aimed at pacifying the world, stopping wars, and bringing happiness to the people.
When Shu was pacified, everyone in the world said that Wu Ying perished together. It has been thirteen years now, which can be said to be a week, and the day of pacification is today again.
Commentators often say that Wu and Chu were virtuous and then surrendered, and that they were rude and strong first. What Wu is talking about is the time of the princes.
The current dominance of the world cannot be compared with that of ancient times.
No speech that is in line with the Dao can adapt to changes. Therefore, although there are many strategies, there is only one hope when making a decision.
Anyone who survives by relying on danger means that the two opposing parties are equally powerful and strong enough to defend themselves.
If the forces of both sides are not equal in weight and strength, wise men will not be able to plan and dangers will not be protected.
As a country, Shu is not without dangers. The mountains tower into the clouds and the deep valleys do not see the sun. If you stand still in dangerous places, you can achieve success. It is said that one person is in charge of the barrier and a thousand people are not allowed to open it.
When it came time to advance, there was almost no barrier to restrict them. They killed generals and flags, killed tens of thousands of enemies, and took advantage of the victory to sweep all the way to Chengdu. All the cities in Hanzhong were cowered and did not dare to move.
It's not that they all have no intention of fighting, they just don't have enough strength to fight.
When Liu Chan surrendered, all the people guarding the fortress dispersed in droves.
Today, Jianghuai is more difficult to attack than Jianhe; the mountains and rivers are dangerous, but not more than Minhan; Sun Hao's tyranny is greater than that of Liu Hui; the Wu people's hardship is more serious than that of Bashu.
The Jin Dynasty has more troops than before, and its reserves and equipment are stronger than before. Now, instead of pacifying Wu at this time, we will continue to defend the country with troops, recruit the people to work hard, think about fighting every day, and experience ups and downs. It cannot last long. We should make timely decisions to unify the world.
Now if Liang Yi's army marches by land and water, Jingchu's army marches to Tan, Pingnan and Suiye's armies point directly at Xia Dan, Jian, Chao, Yi, and Cha's armies march to Zhengbi together, they use drums and flags to confuse the enemy, send troops from multiple directions to make the enemy misjudge, and use the Wu State in a corner to resist the armies of the world. The troops will be scattered and the defensive areas will be in trouble. Bahan's extraordinary troops attacked the empty areas of the Wu Kingdom. If a place was breached, the top and bottom would be shaken.
Wu defended along the river, with no inside or outside, thousands of miles from east to west, and relied on barriers to defend. Their opponents were strong and there was no peace.
Sun Hao had an indulgent temperament and was very suspicious of his subordinates. Famous ministers and generals were no longer confident, so Sun Xiu and others were afraid of being forced to surrender to us.
The generals are under suspicion in the court, and the soldiers are tired in the countryside. There is no strategy to protect the court, and there is no firm belief.
In ordinary days, we still consider whether to leave or stay. When the army comes to the city, there must be people who respond. In the end, we will not work together to dedicate ourselves to the court. Now we can know it.
Wu's custom is to fight quickly and not last long. Their weapons such as bows, crossbows, halberds, and weapons are not as good as those of the great powers in the Central Plains. Their only strength is water warfare.
Once the Wu Kingdom is invaded, Zihong will no longer be a danger. Withdrawing troops to defend the city, its strengths will be lost and its weaknesses will be exposed.
As our army penetrates deep into enemy territory, everyone has the ambition to complete the great cause as soon as possible. The Wu people fight within the territory and are determined to defend the city.
In this way, the war will not be delayed and victory will be inevitable.
The emperor fully adopted it.
When Taiyuan was defeated many times, Yang Hu went to the table again and said: Wu Guo will naturally be pacified after pacifying the Hu people, and the great cause of unification should be completed quickly.
However, many people who expressed opinions had different opinions. Yang Hu sighed and said: Things in the world are not as good as people want them to be. So there should be discontinuity but continuation.
If God gives you something but doesn't take it, wouldn't it make those who experience it regret later?
After that, Shaoshu ordered that the five counties of Nanwuyang, Mou, Nancheng, Liangfu and Pingyang in Taishan were designated as Nancheng County, and Yang Hu was granted the title of Nancheng Marquis, and the prime minister was set up the same as the county prince.
Yang Hu declined and said: In the past, I requested to be granted the title of Zhang Liang Ten Thousand Households, but Mo Gaozu did not go against his will.
I received a great title from the late emperor, how dare I receive a high title and be blamed for my incompetence!
Resolutely not accepting it, the emperor agreed to him.
Every time Yang Hu was promoted, he always remained humble and gave in. His sincerity was always obvious, so he gained a better reputation than his promotion.
Therefore, his reputation and virtue were far-reaching, and he was respected both inside and outside the court. All the scholars suggested that Yang Hu should be appointed as the prime minister of the Three Dukes.
皇帝正有兼并吴国的志向，依仗着羊祜在东南方任职，所以压下奏议。

Yang Hu served as a minister in two dynasties and was in charge of important positions. He was consulted on the pros and cons of political affairs. He was not involved in the pursuit of power and financial gain.
His excellent strategies and fair discussions are unknown to the world because the drafts were burned.
Outsiders don't know the reason for everything he reports.
Some people thought that Yang Hu was too cautious. Yang Hu said: What are these words?
When you enter the palace, you should be at the knees of the king, but when you leave the palace, you should not tell the truth. This is a warning to the king and his ministers not to keep secrets. I am afraid that I have not done enough.
If you can't recommend wise people and appoint talented people, then you have to face the difficulty of knowing people!
Besides, I can't do it if I receive a title from the court and then thank a private family.
Yang Hu's son-in-law once advised him to buy some property in preparation for his retirement and return to his hometown. Wouldn't it be a good idea?
Yang Hu remained silent and did not answer. Afterwards, he told his sons: This can be said to be knowing one thing but not knowing the other.
Ministers will betray their public conscience for their own selfish desires. This is a big confusion.
You should know what I mean.
He once wrote to his cousin Yangbao: After the border is settled, I will walk eastward with a scarf on my head, return to my hometown, and prepare a cemetery that can accommodate a coffin.
I am in a high position as an ordinary citizen, how can I be blamed for pursuing wealth!
Shuguang is my teacher.
Yang Hu loves mountains and rivers. Whenever there is a good time, he will go to Xian Mountain, where he will drink wine and compose poems, working tirelessly from morning to night.
He once sighed with emotion and said to Zhonglang Sculpture and others: Ever since the universe was created, a mountain has been created.
Since then, many sages and celebrities have climbed this mountain and looked far away, just like you and me!
They all disappear at any time, which makes people think of sadness.
If there is knowledge after death, the soul should also climb this mountain.
Setun said: The virtue of the public is the best in the world. It is inherited from the philosophers of the previous generations. The beautiful reputation will be passed down together with this mountain.
As for us people, we should do what Gong said.
Yang Hu was to be granted a title of land due to his meritorious service in the crusade against Wu. He requested that it be given to his uncle's son Cai Xi.
In Xia Shao, Cai Xi was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 300 households.
The Wu people invaded Yiyang and Jiangxia and plundered the population. Xia Shao sent his ministers to pass documents to question Yang Hu for not pursuing the crusade, and planned to move to the state capital and restore the original location.
Yang Hu said: Jiangxia is eight hundred miles away from Xiangyang. By the time we learned that the enemy soldiers were invading, they had already left for several days.
The infantry rushed over, how could they be saved?
I'm afraid it's not appropriate to mobilize the army to avoid blame.
In the past, Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty set up governors, usually close to the prefectures, because military forces were focused on concentration and not dispersion.
On the battlefield, forces wax and wane, so just defend carefully. This is a good experience from ancient times.
If the state capital is frequently moved, enemy troops appear and appear erratically, and one does not know where to locate the state capital.
The ministers who were sent could not be blamed.
Yang Hu fell ill and requested to enter the court.
When I arrived in Luoyang, I was catching up with Queen Jingxian's hearse for the funeral. I was extremely sad.
When the emperor went down to the palace, he ordered the sheep to be picked up and introduced him despite his illness. He ordered him to enter the palace in a car without having to bow down. He was treated very favorably and courteously.
After sitting down, he stated his plan to attack Wu in person.
Because Yang Hu was ill and was not suitable for frequent visits to the court, the emperor sent Zhongshu Ling Zhang Hua to ask him for advice.
Yang Hu said: Now the emperor has the reputation of the Zen Dynasty, but his merits are not yet obvious.
The Wu people's tyranny has reached the extreme and they can win without a fight.
By unifying the world and prospering rituals, music, and laws, the emperor became as famous as Sai Shun, and the ministers and Ji Qi shared the same merits, becoming a model for hundreds of generations.
If we give up the attack on Wu, if Sun Hao unfortunately dies, and the Xingren re-establish a good monarch, even though we have millions of troops, Kuangsi will not be able to cross it, and it will become a disaster in the future!
Zhang Hua fully agreed with his strategy.
Yang Hu said to Zhang Hua: You are the one who fulfills my ambition.
The emperor planned to let Yang Hu stay in bed and monitor the generals. Jian Nian said: "I do not necessarily need to personally participate in the capture of the county. When it is pacified, the emperor should worry about it."
I should not be involved in matters involving fame.
If the matter is over, there should be someone entrusted to give and receive, and I am willing to choose the person carefully.
The illness gradually worsened, so Du Yu was elected to replace him.
He died soon after, at the age of fifty-eight.
The emperor wore plain clothes and cried for him, very sad.
It was an extremely cold day, and the emperor's snot and tears turned to ice on his beard and hair.
When people in Nanzhou heard the news of Yang La's death on market days, they all cried bitterly. Businesses were closed and the streets were filled with the sound of crying.
The soldiers guarding the border of Wu State also cried for him.
Such is the influence of his benevolence, justice and morality.
He was given a coffin specially designed for high-ranking officials and nobles, a set of court clothes, 300,000 yuan, and 100 pieces of cloth.
The edict said: The general who conquered the south, the Marquis of Nancheng Yanghu, was modest and simple in virtue, and had an honest and far-reaching mind.
I began to serve in the imperial court at the time when I accepted the destiny and was loyal to the emperor. I assisted in the king's affairs, held great power in the imperial court, and served as the commander-in-chief in the local area.
He should have been prominent for a long time and always assisted me. But when he died suddenly, it is sad to mourn him.
As a posthumous gift to the attendants and tutors, they should maintain integrity as before.
Yang Hu was an honest and frugal person. He wore simple quilts and clothes. All the salary he received was used to support his tribe and rewarded his soldiers. He had no extra property in his family.
He left a will not to put Nancheng Houyin in the coffin.
Cousin Yang You and others stated Yang Hu's usual aspirations and requested that Yang Hu be buried in the cemetery of his ancestors.
The emperor refused and granted him a hectare of burial land ten miles away from the city, close to the imperial mausoleum, and the name Mi was granted.
When Yang Hu was buried, the emperor saw him off south of Da Sima Gate.
Yang Hu's nephew, King Sima You of Qi, expressed the intention of Yang Hu's wife not to bury Yang Hu as a marquis. The emperor issued an edict saying: Yang Hu has resolutely resigned for many years, and his ambition cannot be taken away.
After death, humility still survives, and the conduct left behind is even more inspiring. This is why Boyi and Shuqi are called virtuous, and why Ji Zi can keep his reputation.
Now let it be restored to its original conferment in recognition of virtue.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty passed away, Yang Hu said to Fu Xuan: "Three years of mourning, although the most important thing is to mourn according to etiquette, from the emperor to the common people, but Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished it, destroyed the etiquette system and harmed the principles. I often sigh for this."
Today, the emperor is extremely filial and has the character to have participated in the Alliance. Although mourning clothes have been cancelled, funeral rites are still carried out.
Since funerals are carried out, why do we need to cancel mourning clothes?
Wouldn't it be great if we reformed the weak mourning system of Han and Wei dynasties and revived the laws of the previous kings, thus making the customs honest and leaving a good reputation for generations?
Fu Xuan said: Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was unable to carry out the funeral ceremony of the king because of his shallowness in the last days, so he abolished it.
It has been canceled for hundreds of years. Once it is restored, it will be difficult to implement it.
Yang Hu said: "We cannot make everyone in the world practice funeral rites. How about we make the king mourn in formal attire?"
Fu Xuan said: If the king of the country does not abolish it, the world will abolish it. This is only the principle of father and son, and there will no longer be the principle of monarch and ministers. The Three Cardinal Guidelines will be damaged.
Yang Hu then gave up.
The articles written by Yang Hu and "The Biography of Laozi" have been spread all over the world.
The people of Xiangyang erected stone tablets and built temples at the place where Xian Goat Hu visited and rested, and offered sacrifices on time every year.
Everyone who saw the stele shed tears, so Du Yu named the stele the stele of tears.
People in Jingzhou avoided the taboo word "Hu" for Yang Hu. Houses were called doors instead of households, and Hu Cao was changed to Ci Cao.
Yang Hu had been building the government office for many years, and he was humble and did not recruit subordinate officials. He had just been appointed, and just in time to catch up with his death, he was unable to take up an official position in the government office.
His counselors Liu Yi, Pao Yin, Liu Mi, Sun Bo and others wrote to Du Yu saying: In the past, because we were elected, we were filled up in the government, so that we could all participate in state affairs together with Yang Hu, the general who went to the south.
Yang Hu has a humble character, noble conduct, high virtue and modesty, and a high and respectful position.
In the past, he accepted a high position and came to pacify Southern Xia. He not only enjoyed the etiquette of the Third Division, but also had the title of general.
Although he is in such a high position, he does not enjoy the corresponding etiquette.
To this day, the world admires and misses him, and heroes long to see his grace.
Those who worked with him became incorruptible if they were greedy, and established ambitions if they were timid. Even Boyi and King Liu's moral integrity could not compare with him.
Since he has been pacifying this place, his education has spread throughout Jianghan, and he has made far-sighted plans to expand the country's borders. All his plans have laws and regulations.
He devoted himself to the country, worked diligently and ignored life and death, recruited subordinate officials, and died before he was appointed.
It is Taifu's responsibility to recommend worthy people to serve the country; it is Taifu's wish to search for and reuse talents who live in seclusion; it is Taifu's regret to give up halfway.
He was humble throughout his life, but failed to get what he wanted in his later years. This is why people near and far are sad for him.
Where Zhaobo rested in the past, Gantang became a symbol of love; where Xuanzi traveled, people planted trees to commemorate him.
Missing this person can be extended to the tree, not to mention the people he recruited during his lifetime. Shouldn't he abandon them according to custom?
Begging to be told upwards so that those people can be treated as subordinate officials.
The silk hanging table said: Although Yu Yu started to build the government office without appointing subordinate officials and staff, his extreme humility is obvious.
He recruited his staff despite being ill, but he died before they arrived. There is no one in the family to inherit the government, and there are no appointed officials. People in this area feel sad and sad.
By honoring the memory of those who have passed away sincerely, people's virtues will return to their generosity, and they will not hesitate to grant four thousand households a fiefdom to soothe the hearts of the people of Zhao.
Please consider this matter.
It is not allowed to issue an edict.
Two years after Yang Hu's death, the state of Cheng was pacified. The ministers toasted and congratulated the emperor. The emperor held the wine glass and said with tears: This is Yang You'an's contribution.
So he reported his achievements in pacifying Yu State to Lanzhi Temple with a policy letter, and followed Xiao Bao's precedent to grant his wife a title.
The policy book said: The emperor sent an audience member Du Hong to inform the late minister and Taifu Ju Pingcheng Hou Yanghu: In the past, Wu was disrespectful and claimed the title of king by relying on dangers and obstacles. The border was not allowed to be opened up. This has been going on for many years.
Yang Ku was appointed to serve in Nanxia, ​​thinking about the disasters of the country, preaching royal teachings to the outside world, and planning major decisions of the court internally. He showed virtue and integrity, and the people of Jianghan and Han Dynasty were loyal. His actions had mature strategies and his plans had complete plans.
God failed to fulfill his ambition, and I mourn and regret this in my heart.
So he ordered the commanders to carry out the crusade according to God's will, quickly dispatched troops, and destroyed Wu in one expedition, which was very consistent with the past plan.
Rewards should not omit meritorious officials, and the country has regulations. The fiefdom should be expanded to commend the previous orders, but it violated the long-cherished wish of the Duke to be noble and modest.
Now I grant you the title of Lord of the Long Live Township of Xiahou, my wife, and a settlement of 5,000 households. I will also grant you 10,000 bolts of silk and 10,000 husks of grain.
When Yang Hu was five years old, he often asked his wet nurse to bring him the golden ring he played with.
The wet nurse said: You didn't have this thing before.
Yang Hu went to his neighbor Li's mulberry tree to find the golden ring.
The owner was surprised and said: This is what my dead son lost. Why did you take it away?
The wet nurse told her the whole story, and Mrs. Li was very sad.
People at that time were surprised by this and said that Li's son was the predecessor of Yang Hu.
Some people who are good at feng shui in cemeteries said that the place where Yang Hu's ancestral tomb was located had the aura of an emperor. If the tomb was excavated, there would be no descendants, so Yang Hu excavated it.
The people at the cemetery looked at it and said that there was still a third male with a broken arm. However, Yang Hu fell off his horse and broke his arm. He held the official position of Duke but had no son.
The emperor asked Yangji, the son of Yangku's brother, to be his heir. Yangji could not be another person's descendant because his father was dead. The emperor also ordered Yangji's younger brother, Yangyi, to be Yanghu's descendant, but he did not accept it.
The emperor became angry and withdrew the edict.
In the second year of Taikang, Yangpian, Yangyi's younger brother, was appointed Marquis of Juping and succeeded Yanghu.
Sheep Pian was an honest and prudent official. A private cow gave birth to a calf in the official's cowshed, and the calf was left behind when they moved away. When the official position reaches Sanqi and often serves as a servant, he will die early.
During the Taiyuan period of Emperor Xiaowu, Faxing, the great-great-grandson son of Yangku's brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Juping, with a settlement of 5,000 households.
Because his associates with Huan Xuan were killed, the fiefdom was cancelled.
Xun Bozi, a minister of the Shangshu Temple, argued in the court: I heard that Jiu Yao had no heirs, and Zang Wen felt deeply sorry for this.
High merit can last for a hundred generations, but endless rewards cannot last forever.
The late Grand Tutor and Marquis of Juping, Yang Hu, was of perfect virtue and virtuous. He was a person respected by the country. He had the merits of assisting the destiny of heaven and plotting to pacify Wu. However, he had no heirs and no sustenance for sacrifices.
Because Xiao He had great achievements in the Han Dynasty, he did not have any successors. I think the title of Marquis Juping should be the same as that of Deng Guo.
The late Taiwei Guangling Gongzhun favored the traitor Lun and caused harm to Huainan, because rebellion actually benefited him and he occupied a large fiefdom.
The laws and regulations of the Western Dynasty at that time were unfair, and the fiefdoms were not recovered after the ZTE.
Nowadays, the royal way is reforming, how can we not distinguish right from wrong. I think Guangling Kingdom should be eliminated.
The late Taibao Qianxing's title was originally the Duke of Miaoyang County. After the persecution, he was promoted to the title. He was first given Lanling as a gift, and then transferred to Jiangxia.
Many famous ministers in China and Korea were given unjustified gifts. Wei Guan's merits were not outstanding, but he only received great rewards. I think his fief should be recovered and restored to Leiyang. This would make the donation and withdrawal fair and distinguish between good and evil.
In the end there was no result.
Yang Hu's first mother was the daughter of Kong Rong, and she gave birth to her eldest brother Yang Shu, who became the governor of the Northern Guards.
At first, both Fu Deng and Guigu's half-brother Yu Cheng were ill. Yu La's mother considered that she could not take care of two people at the same time, so she concentrated on taking care of Yang Fa, and Yang Fa survived. And Yang Cheng finally died.
Yangfa's eldest son, Yanglun, has Gaoyang aspect.
Yang Lun's younger brother Yang Ji was the prefect of Kengai.
Yuji's younger brother, Shengyi, was initially a subordinate officer of the chariots and cavalry. Later, he served successively as General Pingnan, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Jiangbei, and guarded Wan. He was killed by Zhang Dan and posthumously promoted to General Zhennan.
Yang Nian's uncle, Feng Dian, was appointed as the prefect of Zhili.
His son Feng Cha is the prefect of the Silk School.
Yuncong's grandson is in charge, named Danxuan. He is talented and resourceful.
When someone interacts with him, he must pretend to be very warm and frank. People think they understand his heart, but this is not true at all.
At first, Taifu Yang Jun joined the army. At that time, there were many thefts in Jingzhao.
Zhihui planned to aggravate the criminal law. He would be sentenced to death for stealing a hundred coins, and asked the officials and family to discuss it together. Yang Liang said: In the past, Chu Jiang Yi's mother lost her cloth and thought that the theft was due to Ling Yin.
If the public has no selfish desires, thefts should naturally stop. Why should the criminal law be aggravated?
Yang Jun was ashamed and gave up.
Jiuliang was gradually promoted to Dahonglu.
At that time, Emperor Hui was in Tongdie. Locust and Gill Shu conspired. He felt uneasy and ran to Chaiye, where he was killed by Liu Yuanhai.
Jianhao's younger brother Fuidi was the governor of Tuzhou.
Du Yu, courtesy name Yuan Kai, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
His grandfather, Du Ji, was the official secretary of the Wei Dynasty.
His father, Du Shu, was the governor of Youzhou.
Du Yu had extensive knowledge and was familiar with the rise and fall of a country. He often said: Virtue cannot be expected to be achieved, but it is still possible to make meritorious deeds.
At first, his father and Emperor Xuan did not get along with each other, so he was removed from office and died in confinement. Therefore, Du Yu could not be called upon for a long time.
When Emperor Wen succeeded to the throne, Du Yu married the emperor's sister, Princess Gaolu, and initially served as Shangshulang, inheriting the ancestral title of Fengletinghou.
After four years in office, he was transferred to the Military Affairs Council of the Prime Minister's Office.
Zhong Hui attacked Shu and appointed Du Yu as the chief historian of Zhenxi.
Zhong Hui rebelled, and all his staff and assistants were killed. Only Du Yu escaped the disaster with his wisdom and increased the number of households by 1,150 households.
He drafted laws and regulations with Chariot General Maichong and others. After they were completed, Du Yu annotated the laws and regulations, and then reported: "The law is a decision-making regulation like a pencil ink stick, not a book that exhausts rationality."
Therefore, the wording of the regulations is simple and straightforward, and the determination of the prohibitions is clear and concise.
Regulations are straightforward and easy to distinguish; prohibitions are simple and difficult to violate.
If it is easy to distinguish, people will know to avoid breaking the law; if it is difficult to break the law, no one will break the law.
The foundation of criminal law lies in simplicity and straightforwardness, so the identity must be investigated.
When considering status, one must restrain small principles.
Ancient punishment books were engraved on bells and tripods and cast on gold and stone in order to block heretics and make them unable to reason.
What is being annotated now is all about collecting the essentials of the law and inferring them based on their titles.
Those who use the law make decisions based on the status regulations, uphold the fairness of the law, and eliminate trivial reasoning.
The edict was promulgated and implemented throughout the world.
During the Taishi period, he served as Yin of Henan.
Du Yu believed that the capital was the starting point for royal enlightenment. From near to far, all policies and measures should be prophesied in general.
Feng Shao formulated the regulations for dismissal and promotion, which roughly states: I heard that in ancient politics, people followed nature and pursued integrity with their own purity. Then there was the way of honesty and obedience; the spirit influenced the soul and communicated, and then the world's principles were achieved.
The simple atmosphere gradually dissipated, virtues were revealed and vices were revealed, official positions were established, titles and salaries were awarded, and six canons were announced for detailed inspection of officials.
However, we still need to rely on wise officials and establish loyal institutions so that the reputation will not exceed the merits and become excessively prominent, so that the merits will not lag behind the fame and be buried. Opinions must be widely solicited, and opinions must be expressed and adopted.
In the last days, if you can't govern far, you will resort to detailed regulations. If you doubt the officials, you will trust the ears and eyes. If you doubt the ears and eyes, you will trust the simple scripts.
The more complicated the simplified books are, the more hypocritical the officials are, and the more detailed the laws and regulations are, the more hypocritical they are.
In the past, the governors of the Han Dynasty also reported their work at the end of the year. There were no unified regulations for examination, and only general conditions were listed for whether their political achievements were good or bad.
The Wei family's assessment of officials, that is, the dispatch of officials from the capital, can be said to be extremely detailed.
However, because it is too detailed, it violates the original intention, so it has not been adopted in the past dynasties.
It is better to reiterate Tang Yao's old scriptures, discard the details and keep it simple, which will be simple and easy to implement.
It is human beings who can explain the common sense of things thoroughly and understand it from the heart and be able to analyze it.
It is unreasonable to exclude people and use the law exclusively.
Nowadays, the quality of the imperial examination is not as good as appointing prominent officials to evaluate the people under their jurisdiction.
After serving for one year, the outstanding person will be selected as the superior person every year, and the poor person will be classified as the inferior person. The name will be announced at that time.
For six years like this, the people in charge collected files and appointed those with outstanding performance over the past six years. Those who had been inferior in the past six years were dismissed from their posts.
Nowadays, the evaluation of political performance is indeed divided into difficulties and difficulties because of the different conditions for holding the position.
If something is considered superior because it is difficult, or inferior because it is easy, the person in charge must weigh the severity and slightly lower the grade, without completely bending the regulations.
"Edict of Ji Chou" believes that assessment is difficult to implement and uses the method of joint recommendation.
The reason for the recommendation is also based on hearsay.
It is not recommended to be promoted after six years, and it is not in line with the original intention of the ancient three-year assessment.
Nowadays, when there is an annual assessment, those who accumulate excellent ratings will be promoted, and those who accumulate poor ratings will be dismissed.
With the heart of a scholar and a gentleman, there will be no upright officials who are dismissed six times in six years, and officials with poor performance who are promoted six times in six years.
The Supervisor will also impeach at any time.
If officials at both the upper and lower levels blatantly tolerate mistakes, it means that public opinion is completely corrupted, and it has nothing to do with the assessment for dismissal and promotion.
Shi Jian, the captain of the Sili school, impeached Du Yu because of his original resentment, and Du Yu was dismissed from office.
At that time, the enemy invaded Longyou and appointed Du Yu as the military commander of Anxi, giving him 300 soldiers and 100 mounts.
When he arrived in Chang'an, he was appointed as the governor of Tongye, and concurrently as the captain of the Eastern Qiang army, the general of Qingche, and the official of Jiajie.
When the enemy was strong, Shi Jian was the general of Anxi and sent Du Yu to attack the enemy.
Si Geng believed that the enemy had strong soldiers and horses, but there was a huge disparity in strength between the government and the army. He should concentrate his forces and wait for the opportunity to attack in the spring. He stated five opinions that were not allowed and four that were not necessary.
Shi Jian was furious. He also reported that Du Yu had decorated the official residence at the city gate without authorization, and wasted military supplies by staying there. He sent the censor to deliver Du Yu to the court in a carriage.
Because Du Yu married a princess, within the scope of the eight arguments to reduce the punishment, he was treated as a marquis atonement. Later, the situation in Longyou finally turned out as Du Yu expected.
At that time, the imperial court believed that Du Yu was good at planning. When the Xiongnu commander-in-chief launched a fierce rebellion, he went from the west of Chazhou to Hedong and Pingyang. He ordered Si Yu to set up a strategy in the palace as a Sanhou, and soon he was appointed as the Minister of Zhi.
Zhu Ling then submitted a report to establish Yutian, a stable border, and other important matters of governing the country.
He also asked the producers to arrange new tools, build Changping warehouse to regulate grain prices, regulate grain prices, approve salt trafficking, formulate tax regulations, and made more than 50 suggestions that would benefit the country internally and aid the frontier fortresses externally, all of which were adopted.
When Shi Jian returned to the court from the army, his report of merit was not true, and he was impeached by Du Yu. They hated each other and had constant quarrels. Both of them were convicted and dismissed from office, and they assumed the title of marquis concurrently.
A few years later, he was appointed Shangshu of Duzhi.
The coffin of Queen Yuan will be moved to Junyang Mausoleum.
The old system was that after the burial, the emperor and his ministers were in mourning.
According to the minister's report, the crown prince should also remove his mourning clothes.
Du Yu suggested that the crown prince should restore ancient laws and mourn according to the emperor's wishes, and he obeyed.
Because the calendar at that time had errors and did not match the regular scales, Du Yu wrote the "Dual Dual Calendar", which became popular in the world.
Du Yu also requested to build a river bridge in Fupingjin because the Mengjin ferry was dangerous and there was a hidden danger of ships being sunk.
The reviewers believed that it was the place where the Yin and Zhou dynasties built their capital. Since the sages of the past dynasties had not built it, there must be a reason why it could not be built.
Du Yu said: "Building boats and building bridges" refers to building bridges on the river.
When the bridge was completed, the emperor and officials went to inspect it. They raised their glasses and said to Du Yu: If it weren't for you, this bridge couldn't be built.
Du Yu said: If it weren't for His Majesty's wisdom, I wouldn't be able to achieve this.
The water container from the Zhou Dynasty was still beside the emperor's throne when it arrived in Han Dynasty.
Due to the war in Momo, it no longer exists, and its shape and scale have not been passed down.
Du Yu creatively built it and reported it to the emperor. The emperor was very happy and praised it.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Xianning, heavy rains continued and locusts were infested.
Du Yu wrote a book about important matters for promoting agriculture, which were recorded in "Shi Huo Zhi".
During Du Yu's seven years in the court, he made countless reforms in various government affairs. He was praised both inside and outside the court, calling him "Du Wuku" and saying that there was no success that he did not participate in.
At that time, the emperor secretly had a plan to destroy the state of Wu, but most of the discussions in the court were contrary to this. Only Du Yu, Yang Hu, and Zhang Hua were in agreement with the emperor.
When Yang Hu fell ill, he recommended Du Yu to replace him, so he used his original official position as a leave to replace General Ping Cambodia and also conquered the Southern Army Division.
After Yang Hu's death, he paid homage to the general of Zhennan and the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Jingzhou, and gave him a chariot and a second son-in-law.
After Du Yu took office, he repaired mail weapons, showed force, selected elites, attacked Wu Xiling and governor Zhang Zheng, defeated the enemy army, and increased the number of food households by 365 households due to his meritorious service.
Zhang Zheng was a famous general in the Wu Kingdom. He occupied a key position. He was ashamed of his unpreparedness and failed, and did not tell Sun Hao the truth about the casualties.
Du Huan wanted to alienate the Wu border generals, so he sent a petition to return the captured Wu soldiers to Sun Hao.
As expected, Sun Hao summoned Zhang Zheng and sent Wuchang Supervisor Liu Xian to replace Zhang Zheng.
Therefore, when the army arrived, Wu Guozheng changed his generals, which led to annihilation.
After Du Yu made the arrangements, he reported the date for the crusade against Wu.
The emperor replied that large-scale operations could not be carried out until next year. Du Yu listed the best strategy and said: Since the leap month, the enemy has only been on alert, and no troops have been raised downstream.
Judging from the rational situation, the enemy is short of troops and cannot protect both ends. He must first protect the upper stream and try his best to protect the lower stream. He will live in an ignoble manner and will not send a large number of troops westward to empty the capital.
But His Majesty misheard, so he abandoned his plan and indulged the enemy.
Conquering Wu is indeed the country's long-term plan. If action will lead to failure, there is no need to take action.
The policy of attacking Wu is to ensure safety.
If you succeed, you will be able to create a Taiping foundation; if you fail, it will just take some time, so why not give it a try!
If we wait until the year after tomorrow, the weather and personnel will not remain unchanged, and I am afraid that it will be even more difficult to defeat Wu.
His Majesty's previous opinion was to order us to march separately in the territory we guarded. The restraints on the troops should be the same in the east and west. This is a foolproof plan and there is no worry of failure.
I do understand in my heart, and I dare not seek trouble with vague opinions.
Please consider it, Your Majesty.
More than ten days later, Du Yu wrote again: "Yang Hu has many differences with the ministers of the imperial court. Instead of planning extensively first, he secretly implemented this plan with His Majesty, which aroused even more different opinions."
Everything should be done by comparing the pros and cons. Now this action is nine out of ten beneficial, and the other one or two are nothing more than futile.
Those who talk about ruined situations are also impossible, but because the strategy did not come from themselves and the credit does not come from themselves, everyone is ashamed of his previous remarks, so he insists on his own opinion.
Recently, the imperial court has different opinions on both big and small matters. Although people's hearts are different, and because they rely on favor and do not consider the consequences, they easily express the same or opposite opinions.
In the past, Emperor Moxuan commented on Zhao Chongguo's superiority. After the incident came to pass, he scolded those who disagreed and kowtowed to apologize, in order to block heresy.
Since the autumn, the situation of crusade against the enemy has been initially revealed.
If it is stopped now and Sun Hao is afraid and comes up with a plan, maybe moving the capital to Wuchang, further improving and building the cities in the south of the Yangtze River, moving the residents to distant places, the cities cannot be attacked, there is nothing to plunder in the fields, and accumulating large ships in Xiakou, then next year's plan may come to nothing.
At that time, the emperor was playing Go with Zhongshu Ling Zhang Hua, and Du Yu's above table happened to be delivered.
Zhang Hua pushed away the chessboard and said in his hand: Your Majesty is wise and powerful, the court is peaceful both inside and outside, the country is rich and the military is strong, and your orders are consistent. The king of Wu State was dissolute and tyrannical. Killing the virtuous and conquering Wu now can be done without any effort.
The emperor agreed.
In the first month of the first year of Taikang, Du Yu sent troops to Jiangling. He sent troops such as Fan Xian, Yin Lin, Deng Gui, and Xiangyang Governor Zhou Qi to lead the army along the western Liaoning. He was granted control and dispatch authority. Within ten days, he continuously captured the city, just as Du Yu expected.
He also sent Yamen Guangshang, Qie Zhi, Yuken and others to lead a surprise force of 800 people to cross at night by boat and attack Lexiang. They set up many flags, lit fires in Bashan, and moved in key places to weaken the enemy's confidence.
Sun Xin, the governor of Wu, was extremely panicked and wrote to Wu Yan: The armies from the north flew across the river.
More than 10,000 Wu men and women surrendered. Danzhi, Huzhen and others ambush the army outside Luanchi City.
Jiti sent his army to fight against Wang Jun, but was defeated and returned to the city.
The ambush of Zhou Zhi and others followed Zhuti's army into the city, but Xunti did not notice it until he returned under the military tent and captured Qiang Xin.
Therefore, there was a song in the army saying: Instead of fighting, one person is worth ten thousand.
So they invaded Jiangling.
The governor of Wu State pretended to surrender and mounted his troops on the city wall, and Du Yu conquered it.
After pacifying the upper reaches, south of Yuanxiang and as far as Jiaoguang, all the prefectures and counties of Wu State came to see the wind and presented seals and ribbons. Du Yu held the talisman to appease them with the emperor's order.
Fourteen Wu governors and supervisors were killed or captured alive, as well as more than 120 Yamen and county guards.
Relying on the power of the army, the families of migrating soldiers and garrison troops were replenished in the north of the Yangtze River. The places where the southern county was past were appointed officials, and the Jing land was cleaned up. The people from Wu came to seek refuge as if they were returning home.
Wang Liao first reported that he had received Xun Ti's head, and then Si Xi sent Sun Xin alive. Luoyang regarded Sun Xin as a big joke.
At that time, the generals gathered for discussion, and some people said: The enemy has been invaded for hundreds of years and cannot be completely conquered.
Summer is coming soon, there is a lot of rain, and diseases and plagues will occur. We should wait until winter before taking any big action.
Du Yu said: In the past, Zuosu annexed the powerful Qi State with the help of Zha west. Now the military power has been strengthened and the momentum is overwhelming. After a few sessions, everything is solved and there is no longer any effort.
So he ordered the commanders to go straight to save the situation.
There was no city that did not give up resistance.
The dissenters then wrote to apologize.
After being pacified, the army triumphantly returned. Due to his meritorious service, he was promoted to the title of Marquis of Dangyang County. He increased the number of fiefs to a total of 9,600 households plus the previous ones. He named his son Du Dan the Marquis of Ting, with 1,000 households, and was given 8,000 bolts of silk.
When they first attacked Jiangling, the Wu people knew that Du Yu had a tumor on his neck. They were afraid of his plot and tied a gour around the dog's neck to display it. Whenever there is something like a lump on the big tree, it is cut down to reveal the white color and written "Du Yu Neck" on it.
When the city is captured, hunt and kill all those people.
After Du Yu returned to his post, he repeatedly stated his family background and official position, said that military service was not his specialty, and requested to retire.
The emperor did not allow it.
Du Yu believed that although the world was stable, he forgot that war would be dangerous; so he worked hard to teach military preparations and establish schools. Jianghan showed his kindness and his education affected all directions.
Break through the mountains and barbarians, set up military camps, occupy key areas, and stabilize the situation.
They also built the ruins of Shao Xinchen, blocked and cleared several rivers to irrigate more than ten thousand hectares of farmland, and carved stone tablets to divide the boundaries of the fields so that there were regulations and public and private benefits could be achieved at the same time.
The people trusted him and called him Father Du.
The old waterway only led from Mianhan to Jiangling for a thousand and several hundred miles, and there was no passage to the north.
Baqiu Lake, where Yuan and Hunan meet, has mountains and rivers inside and outside. It is indeed dangerous and solid, which is what Jingman relies on.
Du Yukaiyang traveled more than a thousand miles from Xiashui to Baling, eliminating water dangers in the Yangtze River internally and communicating with Linggui's water transport externally.
The South eulogized him and said: There will be no rebellion in the future generations due to Duong, who can understand the wisdom, fame and bravery.
There was nothing Du Yu knew about the public affairs that he would not do without doing it.
Everything that is built and formulated must be inspected from beginning to end, and there are very few mistakes.
Some people ridiculed him for his meticulousness, but Du Yu said: Yu Ji's achievement was to save the world, and I did the same thing.
Du Yu valued leaving a name for future generations. He often said that "high banks can become canyons, and deep valleys can become mountains and mausoleums." He carved two stone tablets to record his achievements. One stone sank under the Wanshan Mountains, and the other stood on the Xian Mountain. He said: "Who knows that they will not become mountains and mausoleums and deep valleys in the future!"
Du Yuxing didn't ride a horse and couldn't shoot through armor, but whenever there was a big event, he stood among the generals.
Make friends with others, be respectful and courteous, ask them nothing to hide, teach others tirelessly, be smart in doing things and cautious in speaking.
After achieving meritorious service, he took it easy and indulged himself in the classics and wrote "Collected Commentary of Zuo's Classics in the Spring and Autumn Period".
He also referred to the genealogy of each family and wrote "Explanation of Examples".
He also wrote "Picture of the Alliance" and "Chunqiu Long Calendar", forming a family study, which was completed when he was almost old.
He also wrote "Praise to Women".
Commentators at the time said that Du Yu's writing was straightforward and unpretentious, and was not valued by the world. Only secretary Zhi Yu praised it and said: Zuo Qiuming originally wrote a biography of "Spring and Autumn", and "Zuo Zhuan" became independent in the world. "Explanatory Notes" was originally written for "Zhuan", but it expounded more than "Zuo Zhuan", so it is unique in the world.
At that time, Wang Nai knew how to tell horses and loved horses very much, and Nian Neng was very good at amassing money. Zhu Yu often said that "Wang Zha has a horse addiction, and Nie Wan has a money addiction."
After Genshi heard about it, he said to Zhuxuan: What is your hobby?
He replied: I have a "Zuo Zhuan" addiction.
When Du Yu was in the town, he coveted gifts to the powerful and important people in Luoyang many times.
Someone told him the reason, Du Yu said: I am afraid that they will do bad things, and I do not seek any benefits.
When Du Yu first arrived in Jingzhou, he fell drunk in the house because of a party.
People outside heard the sound of vomiting, peeked into the house secretly, and saw a big snake lowering its head and vomiting.
People who heard about it thought it was strange.
Later, he was conscripted as Sili Xiaowei, and was promoted to a special rank. He died while traveling to Deng County at the age of sixty-three.
The emperor expressed his condolences and gave posthumously the titles of General Zhengnan and Kaifu Yitong.
Du Yu made a will in advance and said: "In ancient times, people were not buried together. I understand the truth from beginning to end, just like starting from something to nothing."
The saints in the Middle Ages were buried together, probably because they were not buried separately, but because they were alive to show their enlightenment.
From then on, gentlemen were buried together or separately. They could not know life, so how could they know death?
When I was working as a Tailang, I once passed by Xingshan in Mi County on official business.
There was a tomb on the mountain. When I asked the farmer, he said it was Dr. Zheng's memorial to Zhong, or it was the tomb of Zichan, so he led his entourage to pay homage and watch.
The tomb is built on the top of a mountain, with a wide view on all sides. It connects the middle of the north and south of the mountain and is tilted to the northeast, facing Xinzheng City, which shows that we have not forgotten our roots.
The tunnel blocks the back of the tomb and leaves the front empty without filling it with earth, which means that there are no treasures in the tomb and the method of deep burial is not adopted.
There are many beautiful stones on the mountain but they are not used. We must collect natural stones from the Lishui River to build the tomb. The purpose is not to waste labor, but these stones have no use in the world.
The gentleman praised the tomb for its friendship and meaning, but the villain had no profit. It has not been destroyed after thousands of years. This is because it was buried sparsely.
When I entered the imperial court last spring, because of the death of the Guo family, according to the old regulations of the mausoleum, I proposed to build a future cemetery south of Shushouyang in Luoyang City.
There is a hill in the middle of the obtained area, and there are no old tombs on it.
Although it is not as tall as Xingshan Mountain, it is close to the Erling Tombs in the east, the palace can be seen in the west, Yishui and Luoshui can be seen in the south, and Boyi and Shuqi can be seen in the north. The place is open and has a wide view, making it a safe place to rest.
Therefore, trees were planted to clear the way and construction was carried out according to a certain system. At that time, all the round stones from Luoshui will be used to open a tunnel to the south. The etiquette will be imitated by Dr. Zheng, hoping to improve himself with a thin burial.
Coffins, small burials and other matters should be commensurate with this.
The descendants fully abide by the will.
His son Siwang succeeded him.
Du Xi's courtesy name is Shigu.
He was famous when he was young. His first official position was the literary scholar Wang Yi of Changsha, and he was gradually promoted to the crown prince.
He has an upright and loyal temperament. He has repeatedly advised the prince to express his sincerity, which makes the prince feel worried.
Later, a needle was placed in the felt where Du Xi usually sat, causing Du Xi to bleed.
Afterwards, the prince asked Du Xi: What are you doing recently?
Du Xi replied: I was drunk and didn’t know.
The prince asked: "You like to be harsh on others, why do you do wrong things yourself?"
Later he was transferred to the post of General Guard Commander Shi.
Zhao Wanglun usurped the throne and appointed him as the censor of the book.
Sun Xiu asked to date Du Xi, but Du Xi rejected him. Although Sun Xiu was resentful, she was afraid of his high reputation and did not dare to harm him.
Emperor Hui was restored to power and promoted Du Xi to the rank of official official and prefect of Chengyang. However, he did not accept the offer and promoted him to Zuocheng, the minister of finance.
When he died at the age of forty-eight, he was given as a posthumous gift a regular attendant on horseback.
His son Du Yi succeeded him, see "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Shi Chen said: During the Taishi period, people and gods gave gifts, and Yang Gong proposed a strategy to pacify the Wu Kingdom. This shows the heart of heaven and earth.
In the past, the Qi State had Qianfu, and the Yan people worshiped ghosts at the north gate; the Zhao State had Li Mu, and the King of Qin stopped the momentum of annexing eastward.
Repay evil with kindness and eliminate old grudges.
Showing integrity in the south, the Wu people were defeated by the Han River, Jiangnan was pacified, and men, women, old and young returned home together.
As for success without taking any credit, he wears a scarf and lives in a poor alley. He is a generous and generous person.
Du Yu didn't know it from birth, he learned it with time, attacked cities and captured towns with his whip, and turned to war in the style of a Confucian general.
Confucius praised the four major disciples, but Du Yu respected three of them; "Spring and Autumn" is divided into five schools, and Du Yu was good at one of them, isn't he excellent!
Three years of funerals, no distinction between high and low.
It is lamentable that a person with a low status surpasses a person in power; it is too cruel for the prince to take off his mourning clothes after the burial.
He obeyed casually, did not seek the right path, and regarded the most outstanding people of the contemporary era as the concubines of the princes. Tan Gong learned to adapt etiquette, and Du Yu probably had the same situation.
Praising: Choosing water is dangerous and the river turns into a whirlpool.
Zhi Cocoon is kind and faithful, and millions of people surrender.
He swore an oath to go into battle without asking for a title.
In the literary world, Du Yu can be called omniscient.
