◆Biography of Qi Wu King Liu Yan Qi Wu King Liu Yan, courtesy name Bosheng, was Guangwu's eldest brother.
He has a resolute character, is generous and generous.
Since Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty, he has always been filled with anger and indignation. With the long-term plan of restoring the Han Dynasty and the country, he did not engage in managing the family property, but used his family property to make friends with the heroes of the world.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, thieves and thieves arose, especially in the south. Bo Sheng summoned all the heroes to discuss matters: Wang Mang was tyrannical and the people were falling apart.
Now there have been droughts for many years and wars and revolutions have occurred.
This is also the time when King Mang died in heaven, and it was a good opportunity to restore the emperor's imperial legacy and determine the future for eternity. Everyone thought it was right.
So they sent relatives and guests respectively, so that Deng Chen raised troops in Xinye, and Guangwu, Li Tong, and Li Yi raised troops in Wan.
Bo Sheng personally mobilized the disciples of Chongling, a total of seven to eight thousand people, and arranged guests, calling themselves the Zhutiandu tribe.
The clan member Liu Jia was sent to lure Xinshi and Pinglin soldiers Wang Kuang, Chen Mu and others. They joined forces and advanced, massacred Changju and Tangzixiang, killed Huyang Wei, marched to capture Jiyang, and took advantage of the situation to attack Wan.
Arriving at Xiaochang'an, he fought with Zhen Fu, an officer of Wang Mang's front team, and Qiuci, who belonged to Zhengliang.
It was a dense fog at that time, and the Han army was defeated. My sister Liu Yuan and my brother Liu Zhong were killed. Dozens of people in the clan died following the uprising.
Bo Sheng then gathered the troops and returned to Jiyang to defend himself.
Zhenfu and Liangqiu took advantage of the victory and left their baggage in Lanxiang. They led one hundred thousand elite troops to cross the Huangchun River southward, close to the Pubi River. They established a camp between the two rivers and removed the bridge behind them to show that they would never retreat.
When the soldiers from Xinshi and Pinglin saw that the Han soldiers had suffered several defeats, and the armies of Zhenfu and Liangqiuci were approaching, they all wanted to disperse and leave. Bo Sheng was very worried.
It happened that more than 5,000 soldiers from Xiajiang arrived in Yiqiu, so they went to explain the situation of joint operations to them, and the soldiers from Xiajiang agreed.
Bo Sheng's words to convince Jiang Bing were recorded in "Wang Chang Zhuan".
Bo Sheng then held a banquet for the sergeants and established an alliance.
Let the soldiers rest for three days, divide them into six groups, secretly raise their troops at night, attack and capture Lanxiang, and seize all the baggage.
Early the next morning, the Han army attacked Zhenfu from the southwest, and the soldiers from Xiajiang attacked Liangqiuci from the southeast.
When it was time to eat, Liangqiu Ci's army was defeated. Seeing that Zhenfu's army was fleeing, the Han soldiers rushed to pursue it. The Fu army retreated and was blocked by the Huangchun River. More than 20,000 people were beheaded and drowned, so Zhenfu and Liangqiu Ci were beheaded.
Wang Mang's general Yan You and Zhizong's general Chen Mao heard that Zhenfu and Liangqiu Ci's armies were defeated and prepared to defend Wancheng.
Bo Sheng swore an oath to Chen Bing, burned the accumulated supplies, broke the cooking cauldron, beat drums and advanced. He met Yan You and Chen Mao in Yuyang, fought, defeated their army, and beheaded more than 3,000 people.
Yan You and Chen Mao abandoned their troops and fled, so Bo Sheng surrounded Wancheng and named himself General Zhutian.
Wang Mang was greatly shocked and frightened when he heard about Bo Sheng's fame. He offered a reward of 50,000 households, 100,000 jins of gold, and the title of Grand Duke to anyone who could kill Bo Sheng.
He made the official offices in Chang'an City and the rural pavilions all over the world paint Bo Sheng's image on the side hall of the door, and got up early to shoot the image with arrows.
Since the death of Zhen Fu and Liang Qiu Ci, people have come to surrender every day, up to more than 100,000 people.
The generals held a meeting to discuss establishing the Liu family in order to comply with everyone's expectations, and the heroes all focused on Bo Sheng. However, the generals of Xinshi and Pinglin were willing to indulge, fearing Bo Sheng's majesty and wisdom and liking Sheng Gong's cowardice, so they jointly planned to establish Sheng Gong in advance, and then sent people to summon Bo Sheng to announce the results of their discussion.
Bo Sheng said: The generals want to establish the Liu clan, and their virtues are very profound. However, in my humble opinion, there are still some differences in private.
Now Chimei has raised troops in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, with hundreds of thousands of people. I heard that Nanyang has established a clan, and I am afraid that Chimei will also support one. In this case, internal fighting will inevitably occur.
Now that Wang Mang has not been destroyed, and the clan members attack each other, it will make the world suspicious and damage their own power. This is not a good way to defeat Wang Mang.
Moreover, the first uprising to claim the title of emperor rarely succeeds. Chen Sheng and Xiang Ji are the facts. Chung Ling is only three hundred miles away from Wan, which is not enough.
If we hurriedly establish ourselves, we will become the standard for the world, allowing future generations to take advantage of our weakness. This is not a good plan.
Now let's call him king and give orders.
If the one appointed by Chimei is a wise king, we can follow him and follow him; if he is not established, it is not too late to hold the title of honor after defeating Wang Mang and forcing him to land at Chimei.
Please consider it in detail. Most of the generals agreed and said: OK.
At this time, General Zhang drew his sword and said: Acting suspiciously will not lead to success.
There must be no objection to today's decision. Everyone had no choice but to obey.
Now that the Holy Duke has ascended the throne, Bai Bo was promoted to the rank of Great Situ and was granted the title of Marquis of Han Xin.
As a result, the heroes were disappointed and dissatisfied.
Attack Xinye from the rear of Pinglin but cannot capture it.
The magistrate of Xinye County climbed up the city tower and said: As long as I get a certificate from Situ Liugong, I am willing to go down first. When Bo Sheng's army arrived, Xin Yezai opened the door and surrendered.
In the fifth month, Bo Sheng attacked Bawan City.
In the sixth month, Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi.
Naturally, the brothers' reputation has become more and more prosperous.
In the Gengshi period, the emperor and his ministers could not feel at ease, so they conspired to kill Bo Sheng, so they united all the generals to complete their plan.
Gengshi took Bo Sheng's sword to look at it. Shen Tujian, the imperial censor of Hong Suyi, immediately offered the jade, but Geng still could not issue the order.
After the order was dismissed, Fan Hong, Bo Sheng's uncle, said to Bo Sheng: In the past at the Hongmen meeting, Fan Zengju wore the jade he wore to show Xiang Yu.
Is there a conspiracy behind the jade offering to Shentu and Jian today? Bo Sheng smiled and refused.
At first, Li Yi fawned over Gengshi's noble general. Guangwu was deeply puzzled and often warned Bo Sheng: "Li Yi can no longer be trusted." Bo Sheng didn't accept it again.
Liu Ji, a member of the same tribe as Bo Sheng's general, fell into battle several times and defeated the enemy. His bravery was the highest among the three armies.
At that time, he led an army to attack Lu Yang. When he heard that Gengshi had ascended the throne, he became angry and said, "It was Brother Bo Sheng who originally raised the army to plan for great things. How can Gengshi ascend the throne now?" Gengshi emperor and his ministers were very jealous when they heard about it, and regarded Liu Ji as a general to resist power, but Liu Ji refused to accept it.
Gengshi and the generals arranged thousands of troops to arrest Liu Ji first and were about to kill him. Bo Sheng firmly argued against it.
Li Yi and Zhu Kun persuaded Gengshi to arrest Bo Sheng at the same time. He was killed on the same day.
Bo Sheng had two sons. In the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu established Bo Sheng's eldest son Liu Zhang as King of Taiyuan, and his second son Liu Xing as King of Lu.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu, Liu Zhang was moved to the throne of Qi. In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, his posthumous uncle was promoted to King Wu of Qi.
◆Beihai Jing Wang Liu Xing passed the throne to Beihai Jing Wang Liu Xing, who was named King of Lu in the second year of Jianwu and succeeded Guangwu's brother Liu Zhong.
At first, Lord Nanton married all the daughters of Fan Zhong from the same county.
All women have a docile temperament. Ever since she was a virgin, she has never dressed up or left the boudoir. She is respected and loved by the entire clan.
They gave birth to three sons and three daughters: the eldest son Bosheng, the second son Zhong, and the third son Guangwu; the eldest daughter Liu Huang, the second daughter Liu Yuan, and the third daughter Boji.
The emperor's concubine, Nvjiandu, died of illness when Bo Sheng's brothers first launched their army. Fan Jugong, a member of Fan Nvjiandu's tribe, buried her.
In the second year of Jianwu, Liu Huang was granted the title of eldest princess of Huyang, and Boji was granted the title of eldest princess of Shouping.
Both Liu Yuan and Liu Zhong died in Xiaochang'an, and Liu Yuanjue was given the title of Princess Xinye. In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Liu Zhong was posthumously named King of Lu Ai.
Liu Xing was tried as the magistrate of Fengshi County that year.
He is a wise and strategic man, good at handling lawsuits, and has a good reputation.
Later he was promoted to the prefect of Hongnong, and he also had good governance.
After serving for four years, he petitioned for resignation and was recalled to the capital to attend the court meeting.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, he returned to his country.
Next year, Yi Lu rented more than Donghai, so he moved Liu Xing to be the king of Beihai.
In the 30th year, Liu Xing's son Liu Fu was granted the title of Marquis of Linyi.
In the second year of Zhongyuan, Liu Xing's two sons were granted the title of county marquis.
Emperor Xianzong attached great importance to Liu Xing. Whenever he encountered major political issues, he often passed documents to Liu Xing for consultation.
He died in the thirty-ninth year of his reign, and was succeeded by King Zijing Liu Mu.
◆Biography of Zhao Xiaowang Liu Liang Zhao Xiaowang Liu Liang was named Cibo and the uncle of Emperor Guangwu.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, he was promoted to Xiaolian and became the magistrate of Xiao County.
Brother Guangwu lost his father when he was young, and Liu Liang took good care of him.
When Guangwu raised his troops and told Liu Liang what had happened, Liu Liang was furious and said: "You and Bo Sheng have different ambitions and ethics. Do you want your family to be in danger now?" Instead, they conspired to raise an army! Later, as a last resort, he joined the army and went to Xiaochang'an. The Han army was defeated and Liu Liang's wife and two sons were killed.
When Gengshi came to the throne, he made Liu Liang the third elder of the country and followed him into the pass.
After the reform failed, Liu Liang fled to Luoyang when he heard that Guangwu had ascended the throne.
In the second year of Jianwu, Liu Liang was granted the title of King of Guangyang.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he moved to Zhao Wang and began to take the throne.
In the thirteenth year, he was demoted to Duke Zhao.
He goes to Beijing every year to worship.
In the seventeenth year of Jianwu's reign, he died in the capital.
Reigned for sixteen years.
Liu Xusi, the king of Zijie.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, Xu's second son was granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside.
In the second year of Jianchu's reign, Liu Xu's ten sons were granted the title of Tinghou. ◆Chengyang Gong Wang Liu Zhi Biography Chengyang Gong Wang Liu Zhi, courtesy name Ju Bo, was the son of Liu Chang, the Marquis of Kang Ling in Guangwu clan.
Liu Chang's great-grandfather, Jie Hou Liu Mai, was granted the title of Chongling Marquis in Chongling Township, Lingdao, as the son of King Ding of Changsha.
Liu Mai died, and his son Daihou Liu Xiongqu succeeded him.
Xiong Qu died, and Prince Kao Hou Liu Ren succeeded to the throne.
Liu Ren thought that the terrain of Chongling was low and humid, and the mountains and forests were poisonous, so he wrote a memorial requesting that the city be reduced and moved inland.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Yuan moved to Baishui Township in Nanyang, and the name of the country was still Chongling. So he lived with his younger brother Julu Captain Liu Hui and the Liu family.
After Liu Ren's death, his son Liu Chang succeeded him.
Liu Chang was modest, frugal and loyal. He gave all the gold treasures and property of his father to Kun's brothers. The governor of Jingzhou praised his righteous deeds and worshiped him as the captain of Lujiang.
More than a year later, when his brother Anzhong Hou Liu Chong raised an army, Wang Mang was afraid of hating the Liu family, so he conscripted Liu Chang to Chang'an and prevented him from returning to his fiefdom.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Liu Chang and Liu Chong both gathered in the capital to serve as auxiliary sacrifices in Mingtang.
Liu Chong saw that Wang Mang was going to harm the Han Dynasty, so he said to Liu Chang privately: Prince Mang of Anhan is monopolizing the state affairs, and all the ministers will not obey him, and the country will be overthrown by him.
The Queen Mother is old and Emperor Ping is young and weak. This is why Emperor Gao wanted to divide the children among his children. Liu Chang agreed from the bottom of his heart.
When Liu Chong was defeated, Liu Chang was afraid and wanted to make friends and establish a private party, so he married Gaolinghou Zhai Xuannu to Liu Zhi.
It happened that Zhai Xuan's younger brother Zhai Yi raised troops to attack Wang Mang. Nanyang County officials arrested and killed Zhai Xuan's daughter, and Liu Zhi was implicated and imprisoned in prison.
Liu Chang therefore wrote a letter to apologize and was willing to lead his children and clan as vanguard warriors.
Wang Mang was newly regent and wanted to comfort the clan, so he was not punished.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, all those in the Liu family who had been ennobled were demoted to sons, and they were deprived of their titles.
When Liu Chang died, Liu Zhi's titles were abolished and he was not allowed to be an official.
Because Liu Zhi was the legitimate son of the late Marquis Liu Chang, his behavior was honest and honest, and the Liu clan respected him.
When Guangwu raised his army and Liu Zhi's brothers led the army, Zhen Fu, the senior official of the front army, imprisoned all his family members in prison.
When the Han soldiers failed in Xiao Chang'an and Liu Zhi came back to protect Jiyang, Zhen Fu killed Liu Zhi's mother, brother, and wives.
Gengshi ascended the throne, and Liu Zhi was appointed Taichang General and succeeded Chonglinghou.
He followed him into the pass and was named King of Dingtao.
He also led his troops to defeat Liu Ying in Linjing.
When the revolution came to Chimei, Liu Zhi fled to Luoyang via a small road.
At this time, only Liu Zhi of the clan arrived first, and Guangwu was very happy when he saw it.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of King of Chengyang and was given a carriage, royal objects, carriages, horses, and clothes.
Liu Chang was posthumously named Marquis of Kang.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, Liu Zhi fell ill and offered the seal and ribbon of King Chengyang, hoping that the princes would offer sacrifices to his ancestors.
Emperor Guangwu personally visited his illness. Liu Zhi died at the age of forty-three, with the posthumous title of Prince Gong. He was buried in Beimang, Luoyang, before he could return to his fiefdom.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Liu Ping, Liu Zhi's legitimate son, was granted the title of Marquis of Caiyang to worship Liu Zhi; Liu Ping's younger brother Liu Jian was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoxiang.
◆Biography of Liu She, King of Sishui
Liu She, the king of Sishui, was the grandson of Emperor Guangwu.
Liu She's son Liu Zhong and Guangwu had been close to each other since childhood.
The rise of Han soldiers began to affect Tang Zi, and Liu Zhong trapped and killed Huyang Wei.
After Gengshi ascended the throne, Liu She followed him into the Pass and was named the King of the Yuan clan, with Liu Zhong as his attendant.
The reform failed, and Liu She and Liu Zhong fled east to Luoyang.
In the second year of Jianwu, Liu She was made king of Sishui, and Liu Zhong was made king of Zichuan.
In the tenth year of Jianwu's reign, Liu She passed away, and his youngest son Liu Huodan was granted the title of Marquis of Tangxi Valley, and was enshrined in the honor of Liu She.
Liu Zhong missed his late father during the funeral and cried for more than 20 days before he passed away.
The eldest son Liu Zhu was granted the title of Marquis of Ji'an to worship Liu Zhong, and Liu Zhong's son Liu Feng was granted the title of Marquis of Quyang.
Liu She followed his father's brother Liu Mao when he was eighteen years old. When the Han army rose, Liu Mao called himself Liu Derelict and gathered his troops in Jingxian and Mixian areas, calling him the new general.
He captured Yingchuan and Runan, and had more than 100,000 troops.
After Guangwu arrived in Hanoi, Liu Mao led his troops to surrender and was named King of Zhongshan.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, all those who were kings in the clan were demoted to the rank of marquis, and Liu Mao was granted the title of Marquis Rang.
Liu Mao's younger brother Liu Kuang also rose up with the Han soldiers.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yichun.
He is humble and upright in Yongping.
His son Liu Fu succeeded him and was granted the title of Marquis of Chaoyang. ◆The biography of Ancheng Xiaohou Liu Ci, named Ziqin, was the clan brother of Guangwu.
Grandfather Liu Li was the prefect of Cangwu.
Liu Ci lost his father when he was young.
His brother Liu Xian complained about the murder, and the officials captured Liu Xian and killed him.
Liu Ci and Liu Xian's son Liu Xin sold their rural residence, abandoned their property together, made friends with guests, and killed officials for revenge. They all fled for their lives, but were later pardoned and returned home.
It happened that Bo Sheng was raising troops, so he followed Bo Sheng to attack various counties.
After Gengshi ascended the throne, Liu Ci was granted the title of Guangluxun and the title of Marquis of Guanghan.
When Bo Sheng was killed, he acted as Da Situ and led troops to attack Runan.
Without pacification, Gengshi appointed Liu Xin as the powerful general to attack Runan on Liu Ci's behalf. Liu Ci and Gengshi both went to Luoyang.
Gengshi wanted to order a close general to seize Hebei, but he didn't know who to send. Liu Ci said that only Uncle Wen could be used among the Liu family's children, but the Grand Sima Zhu Tuna and others thought that was not possible. Gengshi was doubtful, but Liu Ci tried his best to persuade him.
On that day, Liu Ci was appointed as the prime minister and ordered to enter the pass first to repair the ancestral temple and palace.
He came back to welcome Gengshi and established his capital in Chang'an. He granted Liu Ci the title of King Wan, paid homage to the former Grand Sima, and asked him to hold the talisman to govern Guandong.
In the spring of the second year of Gengshi, Liu Ci named him Wan and put him in charge of the six military affairs.
Later, the Red Eyebrow broke the Gengshi, and the six tribes led by Liu Ci gradually dispersed and rebelled, so Liu Ci went to Wan to guard Yuyang.
When they heard that Guangwu had ascended the throne, they went west to Wuguan, where they were welcomed by Gengshi's wife who took them to Luoyang.
Emperor Guangwu commended Liu Ci for his loyalty and named him Marquis Shen in the second year of Jianwu.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he added a new household, was named Anchenghou, and participated in court meetings.
Since Liu Ci had a good reputation, he was kind and affectionate. He hosted private banquets for many times. He also often visited Liu Ci's mansion and received particularly generous favors and rewards.
Liu Ci often donated money to his old friends, but he did not leave them as legacies.
The emperor built a tomb hall for him, erected an ancestral temple, and set up officials and soldiers in the style of Chung Ling Xiaohou.
Jianwu died in the 28th year of his life and was succeeded by his son Liu Min.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor also granted Liu Min's younger brother Liu Song the title of Bainiuhou. Because the King of Chu conspired to rebel, he was implicated in Liu Min's confession, and his title was revoked. After Liu Min died, his son Liu Shang succeeded him and was granted the title of Bainiuhou.
After Liu Shang's death, his son Liu Chang succeeded him. ◆The biography of Liu Shun, the Xiaohou of Chengwu
Chengwu Xiaohou Liu Shun, courtesy name Pingzhong, was Guangwu's clan brother.
His father, Liu Qing, was the half-brother of Chongling Marquis Liu Chang.
Liu Shun and Guangwu were from the same hometown and had been close friends since childhood.
Gengshi ascended the throne, with Liu Qing as King of Yan and Liu Shun as General Huya.
When Gengshi surrendered to Chimei, Liu Qing was killed by the rebels. Liu Shun paid a visit to Guangwu and was named Nanyang Prefect. In the second year of Jianwu, he was named Chengwuhou. He had the largest household in the town and his land rent income was several times that of each clan member.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, he was sent to defeat the Liu'an thieves, so he became the prefect of Liu'an.
A few years ago, Guangwu wanted to recruit him to Beijing, and officials from Lu'an wrote a letter asking him to stay. When he died in the eleventh year of Jianwu, the emperor sent envoys back to Beijing to pay his respects in person. His son Liu Zun inherited the title, but was demoted to the rank of Marquis Duan due to his involvement in dealings with other kings.
◆The Huaihou of Shunyang Liu Jia is said to be the Huaihou of Shunyang Liu Jia, courtesy name Xiaosun, and the clan brother of Emperor Guangwu.
His father, Liu Xian, was the half-brother of Chongling Marquis Liu Chang.
Liu Jia lost his father when he was young and had a kind and generous nature. Nan Dunjun raised him as his own son. Later, he and Bo Sheng both studied in Chang'an and studied "Shang Shu" and "Spring and Autumn".
The rebels rose up, and Liu Jia followed Gengshi to fight.
When the Han army failed in Xiao Chang'an, Liu Jia's wife was killed.
Gengshi came to the throne, with Liu Jia as the partial general.
When Wancheng was conquered, he was granted the title of Xingdehou and then moved to the rank of general.
Defeat Yancen in the championship, Yancen surrendered.
When Gengshi made his capital Chang'an, he appointed Liu Jia as the king of Hanzhong and the general of Fuwei. He went to Hanzhong to entrust the land with the talisman festival, and the capital was in Nanzheng, with hundreds of thousands of supporters.
In the second year of Jianwu, Yancen rebelled, attacked Hanzhong, and besieged Nanzheng. Liu Jia was defeated.
Yancen then pacified Hanzhong and marched into Wudu, but was defeated by Li Bao, the Marquis of Gengshi Zhugong.
Yancen was defeated and fled to Tianshui, and Gongsun Shu sent general Hou Dan to attack Nanzheng.
Liu Jia collected tens of thousands of scattered soldiers and took Li Bao as his prime minister. He attacked Hou Dan from the south of Wudu but was unsuccessful and returned to Hechi and Xiabian.
After another battle with Yancen, Yancen led his troops north into Sanguan. When they arrived at Chencang, Liu Jia pursued and defeated Yancen.
In Gengshi, King Deng Liao Zhan led a red eyebrow army of 180,000 to attack Liu Jia. Liu Jia and Liao Zhan fought at the mouth of the valley and defeated Liao Zhan's army.
Liu Jia personally killed Liao Zhan and went to Yunyang to obtain food on the spot.
When Li Bao and others heard about Deng Yu's western expedition, they gathered troops to defend themselves and advised Liu Jia to sit back and watch the success or failure for the time being.
After Guangwu heard about it, he told Deng Yu, "Xiaosun has always been cautious and kind, and he and I have been close to each other since childhood. It must be the frivolous son of Chang'an who missed him." Deng Yu announced Guangwu's will, and Liu Jia came to meet Deng Yu in Yunyang.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he went to Luoyang, followed the expedition, and became the prefect of Qiancheng.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, he fell ill and petitioned to retire, so he was conscripted to the capital.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Shunyang.
In autumn, Liu Shen, Liu Jia's son, was granted the title of Huang Lihou.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu, Liu Jia passed away.
His son Liu Shen inherited the title, but Liu Shen committed a crime and was reduced to Nanxiang Marquis.
In Yongping, Liu Shen was the captain of the city gate.
Liu Shen died and his son Liu Xun succeeded to the throne.
Liu Xun died and his son Liu Zhang succeeded him.
