Wang Chang was a prince, a native of Handan, Zhao State.
He was originally a fortune-teller and fortune-teller, and he had some knowledge of astronomy and calculus. He often thought that Hebei had the aura of the Son of Heaven.
At this time, Liu Lin, the son of King Mu of Zhao, loved magic and practiced chivalry between Zhao and Wei. He had many connections with powerful and lawless people, and Wang Chang was friendly with him.
At first, when Wang Mang usurped the throne, there was a man in Chang'an who claimed to be Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Cheng, and Wang Mang killed him.
Wang Lang relied on this clue and falsely claimed that he was the true son of the emperor, saying: My mother was a singer who became the emperor. One time when she was going down to the palace, she suddenly collapsed.
When Ziyu was twelve years old, a doctor named Li Manqing took him to Shu. When he was seventeen, he arrived in Danyang. When he was twenty, he returned to Chang'an. He traveled between Zhongshan and Yanzhao, waiting for the arrival of the right time.
Liu Lin and others were even more confused, so they conspired with Li Yu, Zhang Shen and others to plan to support Wang Lang.
It happened that people said that Red Eyebrow was about to cross the Yellow River, so Liu Lin and others declared that Red Eyebrow was coming, and asked Liu Ziyu to see the reaction of the people, and many people believed it.
In December of the first year of Gengshi, Liu Lin and others led hundreds of chariots and riders, entered Handan City early in the morning, stopped at the palace, and made Wang Lang the emperor.
Liu Lin was the Prime Minister, Li Yu was the Grand Sima, and Zhang Shen was the General.
Send generals to capture Youzhou and Jizhou respectively.
Send the proclamation to the prefectures and counties and say: "I order the governors of each prefecture and the prefect of the prefecture: I am Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Xiaocheng."
In the past, I was harmed by the Zhao family. After Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty, he killed the fake Ziyu. Fortunately, someone who knew the destiny protected me, and I was able to escape from the riverside and disappear between Zhao and Wei.
Wang Mang's theft of the throne offended Heaven, and Heaven blessed us with the Han Dynasty, so we sent Zhai Yi, the governor of Dongjun, and Liu Xin, the Marquis of Yanxiang, to support the attack and go between the Hu people and the Han people.
Everyone in the world, on the shores of the earth, knows that I am hidden in the world.
The Liu brothers in Nanyue are all my pioneers.
I looked up at the astronomical sky and knew that God wanted me to rise here, so I ascended the throne of Zhao Palace on Renchen this month.
The auspicious atmosphere is fumigating, and the rain falls at the right time.
I heard that for a country's leader, the son inherits the throne from his father. This is a legal system that has not changed since ancient times.
Liu Shenggong didn't know I was there, so he temporarily became emperor.
They are all helping me by raising armies for justice, and they should allocate land so that their descendants can enjoy happiness.
I have ordered Duke Sheng and Prefect Zhai to hurry up and come to me with all the heroes.
Some people suspect that the governor and the two thousand stones were set up by the Holy Gong. They did not see my stagnation and suffering, and some did not know where to go. The strong relied on their own strength, and the weak were afraid and confused.
Now the common people are suffering from wounds, and I am afraid that more than half of them are dead or injured. I feel very sad, so I sent an envoy to issue an edict. Wang Lang saw that the people missed the Han Dynasty, and many people said that Zhai Yi was not dead yet, so he told these lies to comply with the popularity of the people.
So the north of Zhao and the west of Liaodong were invincible.
The next year, Guangwu received Wang Lang's letter from Jixian and rushed to Xindu. He sent troops to attack the next county and then turned to attack Bairen, but failed to capture it.
The people who discussed it thought that besieging the Bai people was not as good as pacifying Julu, so Guangwu led his troops to the northeast to besiege Julu.
Wang Lang's prefect, Wang Rao, defended the city and could not defeat it for dozens of days.
Geng Chun suggested: After besieging Wang Rao for a long time, the soldiers are exhausted, so it is better to attack Handan with a large number of elite soldiers.
If Wang Lang is killed, Wang Rao can surrender without a fight. Guangwu thought this was a good plan, so he left General Deng Man to surround Julu, led his army to attack Handan, and stationed troops at the north gate of the city.
Wang Lang sent troops several times but failed, so he sent his admonishment doctor Duwei to hold the talisman to ask Guangwu to surrender.
Dewey pretended that Wang Lang was actually the biological son of Emperor Cheng.
Guangwu said: Even if the emperor is resurrected, it will not be available to the world, let alone someone who pretends to be Ziyu! Dewey requested that he be granted the title of Marquis of Wanhu.
Guangwu said: As long as we can save his life. Dewey said: Although Handan is a small country, if it tries its best to hold on, it can still hold on for a long time, but it cannot be done to save lives. So he resigned.
Guangwu rushed to attack. After more than 20 days, Wang Lang Shaofu Li Li rebelled and opened the city gate to welcome the Han soldiers, so he attacked Handan.
Wang Lang fled at night and went on a dead end, and was killed by the pursuers.
Liu Yong, a native of Suiyang, Liang County, is the eighth generation grandson of King Xiao of Liang.
It is said that Liu Yong's father, Liu Li, was ennobled.
In the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, Liu Li had contacts with the Wei family of Emperor Ping's family, and was killed by Wang Mang.
When Gengshi came to the throne, Liu Yong went to Luoyang first, was succeeded as King of Liang, and made his capital Suiyang. Liu Yong heard that Gengshi was in political chaos, so he raised troops based on the feudal city, and appointed his younger brother Liu Fang as the auxiliary general.
So he summoned all the heroes from Pei, Zhou Jian and others, and served as generals at the same time, and captured Jiyin, Shanyang, Pei, Chu, Huaiyang, and Runan, and captured twenty-eight cities in total.
He also sent envoys to worship Shanyang Jiaoqiang, the bandit commander in the west, as General Hengxing.
At this time, Dong Xian, a native of Donghai, raised troops and occupied Donghai County, and Zhang Bu also pacified Qi.
Liu Yong sent envoys to worship Dong Xian as the general of the Yi Han Dynasty, and Zhang Bu as the general of the auxiliary Han Dynasty. They joined forces with them, so they separated the east.
Later, the reform failed, and Liu Yong proclaimed himself emperor.
In the summer of the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent Huya General Gai Yan and others to attack Liu Yong.
At first, Su Mao, a native of Chenliu, attacked the general for the purpose of reform and guarded Luoyang with Zhu Tuna and others.
After Zhu Jun surrendered to the Han Dynasty, Su Mao also returned to Guangwu. Guangwu sent Su Mao and Gai Yan to attack Liu Yong together. When there was disharmony among the troops, Su Mao rebelled, killed the governor of Huaiyang, plundered several counties, occupied Guangle and declared himself a vassal to Liu Yong.
Liu Yong took Su Mao as the Grand Sima and King of Huaiyang.
Gai Yan then besieged Suiyang for several months and captured Suiyang. Liu Yong and his family fled Yu County.
The Yu people rebelled and killed Liu Yong's mother, wife and children. Liu Yong and dozens of his men fled to Qiao County.
Su Mao, Jiaoqiang, and Zhou Jian joined forces to rescue Liu Yong, but were defeated by Gai Yan. Su Mao rushed back to Guangle, while Jiaoqiang and Zhou Jian followed Liu Yong to protect Huling.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, Liu Yong sent envoys to establish Zhang Bu as King of Qi and Dong Xian as King of Haixi.
Guangwu then sent Grand Sima Wu Han and others to surround Su Mao in Guangle. Zhou Jian led his troops to rescue Su Mao. Sum Mao and Zhou Jian were defeated, abandoned Guangle City and returned to Huling, while the Suiyang people in turn gathered the city to welcome Liu Yong.
Wu Han, Gai Yan and other combined forces surrounded Suiyang and the city ran out of food. Liu Yong, Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Zanhuang County.
The generals pursued him urgently. Liu Yong beheaded Qingwu and surrendered. Qingwu was granted the title of lord.
Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Chuihui and jointly established Liu Yong's son Liu Yu as King of Liang.
Jiaoqiang fled back to the west to defend himself.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent the captured general Ma Wu and the cavalry captain Wang Ba to surround Liu Yu and Zhou Jian in Chuihui. Su Mao led five soldiers to rescue them. Liu Yu and Zhou Jian also sent troops to fight Ma Wu and others, but they were defeated. However, Zhou Jian's nephew Zhou Song rebelled and closed the city gates to resist.
Su Mao, Zhou Jian, and Liu Yu all fled. Zhou Jian died on the road. Su Mao fled to Xiapi to join Dong Xian, and Liu Yu became the best.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent General Du Mao to attack Jiaoqiang and defend against the west. Jiaoqiang and Liu Yu fled to Dong Xian.
At this time, General Pang Meng of Pingdi rebelled, so he conquered Gaiyan, led his troops to join forces with Dong Xian, named himself King Dongping, and stationed troops in the north of Taoxiang.
Pang Meng is from Shanyang.
At first, he died among the soldiers in Xiajiang.
Gengshi ascended the throne and appointed him as the shepherd of Jizhou, and ordered him to lead the army under the command of Shangshu Ling Xie Gong to defeat Wang Lang.
After Xie Gong failed, Pang Meng surrendered. Guangwu ascended the throne and made him his attendant.
Pang Meng was humble and docile, and was loved by Guangwu.
Guangwu often praised and said: "The person who can entrust an underage orphan with a mission is Pang Meng." He was worshiped as General Pingdi and jointly attacked Dong Xian with Gai Yan.
At this time, the edict was only issued to Gai Yan but not to Pang Meng. Pang Meng thought that Gai Yan had said bad things about him, so he became suspicious and rebelled.
After hearing this, Guangwu was furious and personally led his army to attack Pang Meng.
Guangwu wrote to the generals: I always thought that Pang Meng was a trustworthy and loyal minister. Wouldn't the generals laugh at my words?
Pang Meng, an old thief, should be exterminated.
You each have strong horses and strong troops, and join forces in Suiyang! When Dong Xian heard that Guangwu was attacking Pang Meng, he went to Xiapi with Liu Yu, Su Mao, and Jiaoqiang, and returned to Lanling. He asked Su Mao and Jiaoqiang to assist Pang Meng, and they combined 30,000 troops to besiege Taocheng.
The emperor arrived in Mongolia at this time. When he heard the news, he left his baggage behind and personally led three thousand light cavalry and tens of thousands of infantry. He marched on a starry night and stationed himself in Rencheng, sixty miles away from Taoxiang.
Early in the morning, the generals requested to march, and the thieves also led their troops to challenge, but the emperor did not listen, so he rested and recuperated his soldiers to recharge their batteries in order to defeat the enemy.
When the city heard that the emperor had arrived, everyone felt more stable.
At this time, Wu Han and others were in Dongjun, and the emperor sent someone to summon him.
Pang Meng attacked the city with his entire army. For more than twenty days, his troops were too exhausted to capture the city. When Wu Han and his generals arrived, they led their troops into Taocheng. Emperor Guangwu fought in person and defeated Pang Meng's army.
Pang Meng, Su Mao, and Jiaoqiang fled at night, abandoning their baggage. Dong Xian and Liu Yu stationed tens of thousands of soldiers in Changli, and led their elite troops to defend Xinyang.
The emperor first sent Wu Han to defeat him, and Dong Xian fled back to Changli.
Wu Han advanced in pursuit, and Dong Xian was frightened, so he lured thousands of remaining thieves from the Five Schools to garrison in Jianyang, thirty miles away from Changli.
When the emperor arrived in Tibet, he was more than a hundred miles away from Dong Xian's residence.
The generals asked for troops, but the emperor refused to listen. Knowing that the five schools were short of food, he had to retreat, and ordered all ministries to fortify the walls to wait for his death.
Soon, the five schools ran out of food and retreated.
The emperor came in person and attacked Dong Xian from all sides. For three days, he once again defeated Dong Xian's army and all the soldiers fled.
The emperor sent Wu Han to pursue them, but Jiao Qiang led his troops to surrender. Su Mao rushed to Zhang Bu, and Dong Xian and Pang Meng walked into Zhuangshan County.
A few days later, Dong Xian's officials heard that Xian was still there, and gradually gathered together with hundreds of horses to welcome Dong Xian into Tancheng.
Wu Han and others captured Tancheng again, and Dong Xian and Pang Meng fled to Qu County.
Liu Yu didn't know where he was fleeing. The sergeant Gao Hu beheaded him and surrendered, and the entire Liang area was pacified.
Wu Han entered and besieged Qu County.
Next year, when the city ran out of food, Dong Xian and Pang Meng escaped and attacked Ganyu. Chen Jun, the prefect of Langfu, attacked, but Dong Xian and Pang Meng fled into the water.
When Wu Han captured Qucheng, his wife and children were all captured.
Dong Xian shed tears and thanked his soldiers, saying: "My wife and children have all been captured." well!
I have been suffering for a long time.
He only led dozens of cavalry to escape at night, hoping to surrender through the trail. However, Han Zhan, the captain of Wu Han, pursued and killed Dong Xian in Fang Yu, and Qian Ling, a member of Fang Yu, also beheaded Pang Meng and sent their heads to Luoyang.
Han Zhan was granted the title of Liehou, and Qianling was granted the title of Guannei Marquis.
Zhang Bu, whose courtesy name was Wengong, was not from Langfu County.
After the Han soldiers rose up, Zhang Bu also gathered thousands of people to attack nearby counties and captured several cities. He called himself General Wuwei and occupied Langfu County.
Gengshi sent Wei Jun Wang Hong as the prefect of Langfu, but Zhang Bu refused and was not allowed to enter.
Wang Hong issued a proclamation and told the officials to surrender. He took six counties including Ganyu and collected thousands of soldiers. They fought with Zhang Bu but were unable to win.
At this time, Liu Yong, the king of Liang, thought he was appointed by Gengshi and was greedy for Zhang Bu's strength. Following Gengshi's will, he appointed Zhang Bu as a general to assist the Han Dynasty and a loyal marquis. He supervised Qingzhou and Xuzhou and asked him to conquer those who disobeyed orders.
Zhang Bu was greedy for his title, so he accepted it.
He governed the military affairs in Ju County, with his younger brother Zhang Hong as the General of Guard, Hong's younger brother Zhang Lan as the General of Xuanwu, and Lan's younger brother Zhang Shou as the Governor of Gaomi.
He sent generals to capture the counties of Taishan, Donglai, Chengyang, Jiaodong, Beihai, Jinan, and Qi, and captured them all.
Zhang Bu showed his army to Wang Hong and said angrily: "What's wrong with me, Zhang Bu? Why did you attack me so hard before?" Wang Hong pressed his sword and said: "The governor is under the order of the imperial court, but you are resisting with your troops. I am just attacking the thieves. What's the point?" Zhang Bu remained silent for a long time, then left his seat and knelt down to apologize. Then he played music and offered wine to treat the guests with courtesy. Wang Hongtong was ordered to take charge of county affairs.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent Fulong, a doctor from Guanglu, to come here with a talisman and worship Zhang Bu as the prefect of Donglai.
When Liu Yong heard that Fulong had arrived in Jixian, he appointed Zhang Bu as King of Qi from Chidao. Zhang Bu killed Fulong and accepted Liu Yong's appointment.
At this time, the emperor was worried about Yuyang in the north and Liang and Chu in the south, so Zhang Bu was able to concentrate his efforts on Qi and occupied twelve counties. When Liu Yong died, Zhang Bu wanted to make Liu Yong's son Liu Yu the emperor, and himself the Duke of Han Dynasty, and appoint hundreds of officials.
Wang Hong advised: "The King of Liang served Gengshi, so many people in Shandong were able to submit to him."
Now if his son is made emperor, everyone will be suspicious. Moreover, there are many deceitful people in Qi, so we should make detailed plans. Zhang Bu stopped.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, Zhang Bu heard that the emperor would attack him, so he appointed his general Fei Yi as the king of Jinan and stationed troops there.
In the winter, Geng, the general of Jianwei, captured and beheaded Fei Yi, and then marched to capture Linzi.
Zhang Bu thought that Geng's troops were small and came from a long way, so he could win in one fell swoop, so he led all his troops to attack Geng Yan in Linzi.
Zhang Bubing was defeated and fled back to Ju County.
The emperor went to Ju County in person.
Zhang Bu retreated to save his life, and Su Mao led more than 10,000 people to rescue him.
Su Mao criticized Zhang Bu and said: Nanyang is as elite as Yancen and Yancen is as good at fighting, but Geng Yan defeated him and drove him away.
Why did the king attack his camp?
Since you called me, why didn't you wait for me? Zhang Bu said: I'm sorry, I have nothing to say. The emperor then sent envoys to tell Zhang Bu and Sum Mao that whoever could kill the other to surrender would be made a marquis.
Zhang Bu then beheaded Sumao and sent an envoy to surrender with Sumao's head.
Zhang Bu's three younger brothers were each taken to prison to plead guilty, but they were all pardoned.
Zhang Bu was granted the title of Marquis of Anqiu, and later he and his family lived in Luoyang.
Wang Hong also went to Ju County to surrender.
In the summer of the eighth year of Jianwu, Zhang Bu fled to Linhuai with his wife. He, his brothers Zhang Hong and Zhang Lan wanted to recruit his old troops and sailed into the sea. Chen Jun, the prefect of Langfu, pursued and beheaded him.
Wang Hong was the son of Wang Mang's uncle, Ping'ahou Wang Tan, and was a regular attendant during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Dong Xian, who was favored at that time, was the Grand Sima and favored Guisheng. Wang Hong repeatedly advised him against his will.
Before Emperor Ai died, he paid Dong Xian with a seal ribbon and said: Don't give it to others casually. At that time, the country had no heir, and there was fear both internally and externally. Wang Hong told Empress Yuan to seize Dong Xian's seal and ribbon. He took his sword to the middle gate of Xuande's harem, raised his hands and scolded Dong Xian, saying: The emperor has died and a new king has not yet been established. You have been favored so much that you should fall down and howl and cry. Why do you hold on to the seal and ribbon for so long to wait for disaster to come? Dong Xian knew that he would die if he did not hand over the seal and ribbon, so he did not dare to resist, so he knelt down and handed the seal and ribbon to Wang Hong.
Wang Hong presented the seal and ribbon to the Queen Mother, and the court appreciated it very much.
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne and became more suspicious of Wang Hong's arrogance, so he went out to serve as the prefect of Dongjun.
Wang Hong was afraid of being killed and often carried poison in his hands.
After Wang Mang's defeat, the Han army rose up, and Wang Hong single-handedly brought together more than 300,000 households in Edong County and surrendered to Gengshi.
Li Xian was born in Xuchang, Yingchuan.
At the time of Wang Mang, he was the subordinate order of Lujiang.
In the last years of Wang Mang, the Jiang thief Wang Zhougong and others raised more than 100,000 troops to attack counties and counties. Wang Mang took Li Xian as the partial general and led the Lujiang Company to defeat Wang Zhougong.
Wang Mang failed, and Li Xian took over the county to defend himself.
In the first year of Gengshi, Li Xian called himself King of Huainan.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Li Xian established himself as emperor, appointed hundreds of officials, owned nine cities, and more than 100,000 people.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu arrived in Shouchun and sent General Yangwu Ma Cheng and others to attack Li Xian and surrounded Shu County in Lujiang. In the first month of the sixth year of Jianwu, Shu County was captured.
Li Xian fled, and his sergeant Bo Yi chased Li Xian and surrendered. Li Xian's wives were killed.
Fengbo means Yupuhou.
Later, the remnants of Li Xian's party, Zhen Yu Lin and others, gathered thousands of people to camp in the mountains and attack the Anfeng County magistrate.
Yangzhou Mu Ouyang She sent troops to attack but could not win, so the emperor discussed and prepared to go to attack.
Chen Zhongwei, a native of Lujiang, told Ouyang She that he wanted to go to Xiaoyu to surrender when Chunyu Lin came. Chen Zhong then rode a bicycle and a white horse and went to persuade Chunyu Lin to finally surrender.
The mountain people built a temple for Chen Zhongsheng in front of him and called him "Baima Chen Zhi".
Peng Chong, courtesy name Botong, was from Wan County, Nanyang County.
His father, Peng Hong, was the prefect of Yuyang during the reign of Emperor Ai. He had a majestic appearance, was good at drinking and eating, and was famous on the border.
When Wang Mang was taking pictures, he killed those who did not join him. Peng Hong, He Wu and Bao Xuan were killed together.
Peng Chong was a county official when he was young. During the reign of Emperor Wang Mang, he was a great Sikongshi and followed Wang Yi to the east to resist the Han army.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he heard that his mother and brother were in the Han army. He was afraid that they would kill him, so he fled to Yuyang with Wu Han, a fellow countryman, and returned to his father's old official position.
Gengshi was established, and Han Hong, a close servant, was sent to Beizhou with a talisman to declare that by the emperor's order, he could exclusively appoint officials with a price of less than two thousand stones.
When Han Ming arrived at Ji, he thought that Peng Chong and Wu Han were both from the same hometown. They were very happy after meeting each other and immediately worshiped Peng Chong as a partial general. Acting as the prefect of Yuyang and the magistrate of Anle County in Han Dynasty.
Guangwu comforted Hebei, and when he arrived at Ji, he used letters to attract favors.
Chong prepared the cow wine and prepared to pay homage.
It happened that Wang Lang pretended to stand up and sent a message to Yan and Zhao. He sent generals to plunder Yuyang and Shanggu and quickly sent out troops. The people in Beizhou were confused and prepared to follow Wang Lang.
Wu Han suggested that Peng Chong return to Guangwu, which was mentioned in the "Biography of Wu Han".
It happened that Geng Kuang, the governor of Shanggu, also sent Kou Xun, the meritorious Cao Cao, to Peng Chong to jointly plan to join Guangwu.
Peng Chong then marched with 3,000 men, led by Wu Han's governor Shi, the captain Yan Xuan, the guard Gai Yan, and the Hunu county magistrate Wang Liang. They joined forces with the Shanggu army and headed south, following Guangwu in Guang'a.
Emperor Guangwu Cheng made Peng Chong the Marquis of Jianzhong and gave him the title of General.
So he surrounded Handan and Peng Chong transferred grain continuously.
After Wang Lang died, Guangwu pursued the bronze horse as far north as Ji.
Peng Chong went to visit him, thinking that he had made great achievements and had high expectations. Guangwu was unable to meet his demands when he met him, so he felt resentful.
After Guangwu knew about it, he asked Youzhou Mu Zhufu about it.
Zhu Fu replied: When Wu and Han sent troops to the north, the king gave Peng Chong the sword and relied on him to be the master of the north.
Peng Chong thinks that when he comes, you should shake hands with him at the small door and sit down with him.
That's not the case now, so he's disappointed. Zhu Fu therefore said: When Wang Mang was the prime minister, Zhen Feng went to the mansion in the evening to discuss matters. People at the time said: "I am a guest in the middle of the night, Uncle Zhen."
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, Zhen Feng became dissatisfied and was eventually executed. Guangwu laughed, thinking that it would not be like this.
After Guangwu came to the throne, Wu Han and Wang Liang were both sent by Peng Chong, and they were all ranked among the three princes. However, Peng Chong was not promoted, and he was even more frustrated and frustrated.
He sighed: "I should be crowned king for my merits, but now it's like this. Has your majesty forgotten me?"
At this time, Beizhou was broken up, but Yuyang was slightly intact, with the old salt and iron officials. Peng Chong turned to the grain trade, accumulated a lot of treasures, and became more prosperous. Zhu Fu was at odds with Chong and framed him many times.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, the emperor issued an edict to recruit Peng Chong. Peng Chong realized that Zhu Fu had betrayed him and wrote a letter willing to be recruited at the same time as Zhu Fu.
He also wrote letters to Wu Han, Gai Yan and others, saying how Zhu Fu had falsely accused him, and insisted on joining the expedition.
The emperor didn't allow it, and Peng Chong became even more suspicious.
But his wife, who had always been strong and unyielding, firmly advised Peng Chong not to accept the call.
Peng Chong also discussed with the officials he usually trusted, but they all had grudges against Zhu Fu, and no one advised him to accept the call and leave.
The emperor sent Hou Lanqing, a disciple of Peng Chongtang, to inform him. Peng Chong detained his disciple Lanqing, so he launched an army to rebel and appointed him as a general. He led 20,000 people to attack Zhufu Yuji, and divided his troops to plunder Guangyang, Shanggu, and Youbeiping.
He also thought that he and Geng Kuang had great merits, but the rewards were meager. He sent envoys several times to lure Geng Kuang, but Geng Kuang refused to accept them and often beheaded his envoys.
In autumn, the emperor sent guerrilla general Deng Long to rescue Ji.
Deng Long garrisoned Lunan, and Zhu Fu garrisoned Yongnu, and sent officials to report the situation.
The emperor read the letter and said angrily to the envoys: The two camps are hundreds of miles apart, how can they be able to rescue them in time?
By the time you go back, the Northern Army will definitely be defeated. As expected, Peng Chong brought his army to the river to resist Deng Long, and then sent another three thousand light cavalry to attack behind him, defeating Deng Long's army.
Zhu Fu was far away and had no time to rescue him, so he led the army to retreat.
In the spring of the next year, Peng Chong attacked Youbeiping and Shanggu counties.
He sent envoys to bribe the Huns with beautiful women and colorful silk fabrics, hoping to make peace with them.
The Xiongnu Chanyu sent General Zuonan's seven or eight thousand cavalry as wanderers to assist Peng Chong.
Younan made friends with Zhang Bu and Fuping Huosuo heroes, and allied with them as pledges to unite with each other.
So he captured Jicheng and established himself as King of Yan.
Peng Chong's wife had nightmares several times and witnessed many strange changes. Fortune tellers and those who were watching the situation said that the mutiny must have occurred from within.
Peng Chong suspected that his son, Lan Qing, was a hostage who had returned from the Han Dynasty, so he didn't believe it and made him live outside with his troops, preventing him from getting close to the people inside.
In the spring of the fifth year of Jianwu, Peng Chong fasted and lived alone in the toilet.
Because Peng Chong fell asleep, Cang Touzi Mi and three other people tied him to the bed together and announced to the officials outside: "The king is fasting, and all the officials are going to rest." He also pretended to be Peng Chong's order and taught him to pack up and tie up all the slaves and put them in their own place.
He also called his wife by Peng Chong's order.
When his wife came in, she was shocked.
Peng Chong hurriedly called out: "Hurry up and get decorative treasures for these generals." So the two slaves followed Chong's wife to the inner room to collect the treasures, leaving one family of slaves to guard Peng Chong.
Peng Chong said to Shounu: I have always loved you, child, but you were coerced by Zi Mi.
If you untie me, I will marry my daughter Pengzhu to you and give you all my property. Xiaonu wanted to rescue him, but when he looked outside, he saw that Zimi had heard Peng Chong's words and did not dare to untie him.
So he packed up his gold and jade clothes, packed them at Peng Chong's residence, prepared six horses, and asked his wife to sew two parcels.
After dark, he untied Peng Chong's hand and ordered him to tell the city gate general in his own handwriting: "I am sending Zi Mi to the residence of Lan Qing, the queen of the family. Open the door quickly and let them out. Don't stay." After writing, he beheaded Peng Chong and his wife, put them in a bag, and immediately left the city with the note to pay homage to Guangwu.
He was named Unjust Marquis.
Early the next morning, the door was tightly closed, and the officials climbed in through the wall. They were shocked and horrified when they saw Peng Chong's body.
His minister Han Li and others jointly established Peng Chong's son Peng Wu as king, and his son Lan Qing as general.
Han Li, the national counselor, beheaded Peng Wu's head and took him to the place where General Zhenglu was offering sacrifices to surrender.
Peng Chong's clan was wiped out.
Lu Fang, whose courtesy name was Junqi, was from Sanshui County, Anding County, and lived in Zuoguzhong.
During the reign of Wang Mang, everyone in the world missed Han De, so Lu Fang falsely claimed that she was Liu Wenbo, the great-grandson of Emperor Wu.
It is said that the sister of the great-grandmother Hunxie King of Xiongnu Guli was the Empress of Emperor Wu and gave birth to three sons.
During the Jiang Chong Rebellion, the prince was killed, the queen was convicted and died, the middle son Ciqing fled to Changling, and the boy Huiqing fled to Zuogu.
General Huo made him a second minister and welcomed him back.
Hui Qing could not leave, so he lived in Zuogu and gave birth to a son, Sun Qing, who had a son, Wen Bo.
Lu Fang often used these words to deceive and confuse Anding.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, he started an army with the Qiang and Hu from the state of Sanshui.
Gengshi arrived in Chang'an and recruited Lu Fang as the cavalry captain to calm him and pacify the west of Anding.
After the failure of Gengshi, the heroes of Sanshui jointly decided that Lu Fang was a descendant of the Liu family and should inherit the ancestral temple. So they jointly appointed Lu Fang as the general and king of Xiping, and sent envoys to make peace with the Western Qiang and Xiongnu.
Shanyu said: The Xiongnu and the Han were originally brothers.
Later, when the Xiongnu weakened, Huhanxie Shanyu surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent troops to protect him, and the Shanyu became a vassal for all generations.
Now that Han Zuo has been defeated, and the Liu family has returned to me, I should also establish him and let him respect me. So he sent King Julin to lead thousands of horses to meet Lu Fang. Lu Fang, his brother Lu Qin, and his brother Lu Cheng all went to the Xiongnu.
The Chanyu established Lu Fang as Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
With Lu Cheng as the Zhonglang general, he led the Huns cavalry back to Anding.
At first, Li Xing and Sui Yu from Wuyuan, Tian Sa from Shuofang, and Shi Tun and Min Kan from Daijun each raised their own troops and called themselves generals.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Shanyu sent King Wulou Qiequ to Wuyuan fortress to make peace with Li Xing and others, and told Li Xing that he wanted to make Lu Fang return to the Han Dynasty and become the emperor of the Han Dynasty.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Li Xing and Min Kan led troops to the Shanyu Courtyard to welcome Lu Fang, and they entered the fortress together and made Jiuyuan County their capital.
The five counties of Wuyuan, Shuofang, Yunzhong, Dingxiang and Yanmen were plundered. They all set up prefectures and magistrates, and fought with the Xiongnu. The northern frontier was invaded and suffered.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Lu Fang's general Jia Lan led Hu Qi to kill Liu Xing, the prefect of Daijun.
Lu Fang later executed the brothers Li Xing, the prefect of Wuyuan, so that Tian Sa, the prefect of Shuofang, and Qiao Hu, the prefect of Yunzhong, were frightened, rebelled against Lu Fang, and surrendered with the whole county. Guangwu ordered them to remain the prefects of the original county as before.
Later, Grand Sima Wu Han and Hussar General Du Mao attacked Lu Fang several times, but failed to conquer it.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang and Jia Lan jointly attacked Yunzhong, but could not capture it for a long time. Their general Sui Yu stayed in Jiuyuan, hoping to force Lu Fang to surrender.
Lu Fang knew that his subordinates were affiliated with the Han Dynasty and that their confidants were rebelling from within, so he abandoned his baggage and fled to the Xiongnu with more than ten cavalry. All his subordinates joined Sui Yu.
Sui Yu then went to the capital with his envoy Cheng Xun. Emperor Guangwu worshiped Sui Yu as the governor of Wuyuan, granted him the title of Marquis of Hu, and followed his younger brother Sui Xian as the Marquis of Wujin.
In the 16th year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang returned to Gaoliu County and sent an envoy to Min Kan's brother Min Lin to request his surrender.
The emperor then appointed Lu Fang as the acting king, Min Kan as the acting prime minister, and Min Lin as the acting Taifu. He gave him 20,000 pieces of silk, so that he could live in peace with the Xiongnu.
Lu Fang Shangshu Xie En said: My minister Lu Fang entrusted me with the late emperor's body, which was abandoned at the border. The Han Dynasty Sheji was abolished by Wang Mang. This is the worry of the descendants of the Liu family. They should rise up and kill the national traitors together. Therefore, I am connected with the Qiang Rong in the west and the Xiongnu in the north.
The Shanyu does not forget his old virtues, and he has the right to appoint me to help him. At that time, there were wars and revolutions everywhere.
I dare not be greedy and covet, but only hope to flatter the ancestral temple and establish the state. Therefore, I have usurped the title of Han Emperor for more than ten years. This is a crime worthy of death.
Your Majesty has great virtues and virtues. He personally leads the virtuous people. He surrenders to you at home and his favor extends to distant places.
For the sake of relatives, forgive my sins, show me kindness, make me acting king, and order me to guard the northern border.
There is no way to repay the heavy responsibility, but I hope that I can live in harmony with the Xiongnu to live up to the divine grace.
I would like to dedicate the emperor's jade seal to worship in the palace. The imperial edict ordered Lu Fang to enter the court in the first month of the next year.
In the winter of this year, Lu Fang entered the court and went south to Changping County. He was issued an edict to stop his journey and ordered him to come back next year.
Lu Fang had no choice but to return where he was. Feeling depressed and frightened, he betrayed him again and fought against Min Kan and Min Lin for months.
The Huns sent hundreds of horses to welcome Lu Fang and his wife out of the fortress.
Lu Fang stayed among the Huns for more than ten years and died of illness. The historian commented: It is said that people with great virtues will last for generations. Confucius said: If you are tolerant, you will win people's hearts. If you can win people's hearts, you will not be forgotten for a hundred generations.
We see that in the era of reform, the Liu family’s legacy remains. Who can resist a hero?
In this way, we can know how deep the kindness of Gaozu and Xiaowen is in people's hearts.
The people of the Zhou Dynasty missed Shaogong because Shaogong once heard about Gantang and did not cut it or cut it down, let alone his descendants.
This is probably why the Liu family was revived.
Do people like Wang, Liu, Zhang, Li, Peng, and Lu have the foresight to serve their country?
They were just taking advantage of the situation and doing random things, but they were able to show off their strength in the name of the fake Liu clan. Judging from their wisdom and strategy, it was not enough to scare the emperor of the Han Dynasty and inspire his heroic spirit!
