Geng Yan, courtesy name Bozhao, was from Maoling County, Fufeng County.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, his ancestors migrated from Julu to Fufeng with two thousand stones.
His father, Geng Kuang, was named Xiayou. He was a doctor who was proficient in Confucian classics. He and Wang Mang studied Laozi from his younger brother Wang Ji from Mr. Anqiu, who later became Shuo Tiaolian.
Geng Yan was eager to learn when he was young and learned from his father's studies. Because he often saw county captains taking exams for knights, setting up flags and drums, and practicing horse racing and archery, Geng Yan became interested in generals.
When Wang Mang was defeated and Geng Shi was established, the generals plundered the land and often used their own authority to replace the governors and magistrates at every turn.
Geng Kuang thought he was appointed by Wang Mang and felt uneasy.
Geng Yan was twenty-one years old at this time, so he resigned from his father's post and went to reform, so he brought tributes with him in order to consolidate himself.
When we arrived in the Song Dynasty, it happened that Wang Lang pretended to be Emperor Cheng's son Ziyu and raised troops in Handan. Geng Yan's subordinates Sun Cang and Wei Bao conspired together on the road and said: Liu Ziyu is the orthodox Emperor Cheng. If he doesn't surrender to him, where can he go? Geng Yan raised his sword and scolded: "Ziyu is a deceitful thief, and he will eventually become a prisoner."
I went to Chang'an to explain to the country the usefulness of the soldiers and horses of Yuyang and Shanggu. I also went out to Taiyuan and Daijun for dozens of days. When I came back, I suddenly attacked the mob with cavalry. It was as easy as destroying the dead. I see that if you don't know how to leave, the disaster of family execution is just around the corner.
Sun Cang and Wei Bao refused, so they went to surrender to Wang Lang. Geng Yan heard on the road that Guangwu was in Lunu, so he went north to pay a visit to Jin. Guangwu kept him as a subordinate. Geng Yan therefore persuaded Zhu, the army guard, to ask him to go back and send troops to pacify Handan.
Guangwu smiled and said: You are so ambitious at such a young age! Therefore, he was summoned several times to give him comfort.
Geng Yan then followed Guangwu as far north as Ji.
I heard that the Handan soldiers had just arrived, and General Guangwu was about to return south, so he summoned his officials to discuss it.
Geng Yan said: Now the soldiers are coming from the south, so we must not go south.
Peng Chong, the governor of Yuyang, is a fellow villager of Gong; the governor of Shanggu is my father.
If the men and horses from these two counties are mobilized and there are tens of thousands of horses, Handan will be easy to capture. Even the military attache and his confidants refused, saying: "If you want to die, you have to head south. How can you go north and enter the bag?" Guangwu pointed at Geng Yan and said: He is my master in the North Road. It happened that a commotion broke out in Ji at this time, Guangwu rushed to the south, and the officials and subordinates dispersed.
Geng Yan arrived in Changping and found his father Kuang, so he persuaded Kuang to let Kou Xun make an appointment with Peng Chong, each with 2,000 fast cavalry and 1,000 infantry.
Geng Yan joined forces with Jing Dan, Kou Xun and Yu Yang and headed south. Along the way, they killed more than 400 people below General Wang Lang, Jiu Qing, and Xiao Wei. They obtained 125 seals and ribbons, two talismans, and beheaded 30,000 people. They defeated a total of 22 counties in Zhuojun, Zhongshan, Julu, Qinghe, and Hejian. Then they went to Guang'a to catch up with Guangwu.
At that time, Guangwu was attacking Wang Lang. Legend has it that the soldiers and horses from the two counties came from Handan. They all thought they were Wang Lang's reinforcements and were frightened.
When the troops arrived, they all went to the barracks to pay homage to Guangwu.
When Guangwu saw Geng Yan and others, he was very happy and said, "I should share this great achievement with the scholar-bureaucrats in Yuyang and Shanggu." So they were all promoted to generals and sent back to lead their troops.
Geng Kuang was granted the title of General and Marquis of Xingyi, and he placed all the generals and subordinates on his own.
Geng Yan and others took advantage of the situation to attack Handan.
At this time, Gengshi summoned Zhao Yong, the prefect of Daijun, but Geng Kuang advised Zhao Yong not to answer the call and let him go to see Guangwu.
Guangwu sent Zhao Yong back to his dynasty and still served as the prefect.
When Zhao Yongbei returned, Zhang Ye, the magistrate of the county, rebelled in the city and recruited the Xiongnu and Wuhuan for aid.
Guangwu appointed Geng Yan's younger brother Geng Shu as General Hu, and ordered him to attack Zhang Ye and break through.
Zhao Yong had to resume his duties as county governor.
At this time, more than 200,000 thieves from the five schools invaded Shanggu from the north. Geng Kuang and Geng Shu defeated the thieves in succession, and they all retreated.
Gengshi saw that Guangwu's reputation was growing, and the emperor and his ministers had doubts, so he sent envoys to make Guangwu the king of Xiao, and ordered him to stop his troops and return to Chang'an with the meritorious generals. He also sent Miao Zeng to be the shepherd of Youzhou, Wei Shun to be the governor of Shanggu, and Cai Chong to be the governor of Yuyang, and annex the north.
At this time, Guangwu lived in Handan Palace and slept in Wenming Palace during the day.
Geng Yan entered the bedroom and went to the bed to take advantage of Guangwu's free time, so he said: Today is the beginning of political chaos, the monarchs and ministers are promiscuous, the generals are arrogant and domineering in the capital, and the princes and nobles are tyrannical in the capital.
The emperor's order could not leave the city gate, and the governors and governors below were moved and replaced at every turn. The people did not know what to do, and the soldiers and the people did not dare to feel at ease.
They plundered property, robbed women, and none of the rich and powerful people with gold and jade could survive.
The common people beat their chests and stamped their feet, but they thought about Wang Mang's dynasty even more.
Moreover, there are dozens of generations of bronze horses and red eyebrows, each with tens of millions of followers, so the reform cannot be successful.
The failure of reform is not far away. The prince raised the flag of righteousness in Nanyang and defeated an army of millions. Hebei was now pacified and the land of Tianfu was occupied.
If you attack with great righteousness, issue an order, and the people will respond, the world will be pacified as long as you send a message.
The world is the most important thing, don't let others get it.
I heard that a messenger is coming from the west, asking you to stop fighting, but don't listen.
Today many officials and soldiers have died. I would like to go back to Youzhou to recruit more elite soldiers to carry out the great plan. Guangwu was very happy, so he appointed Geng Yan as his general and sent troops from ten counties of Youzhou to the north with Wu Han.
Geng Yan went to Shanggu and killed Wei Shun and Cai Chong, the governors sent by Gengshi. Wu Han also killed Miao Zeng, the governor of Youzhou sent by Gengshi.
So he sent out all the soldiers from Youzhou, led them southward, followed Guangwu and defeated Bongma, Gaohu, Chimei and Qingdu, and pursued Youlai, Daqian and Wuban at Yuanshi. Geng Yan often led the fine cavalry as the vanguard to attack and drive away the bandits.
Guangwu took advantage of his victory and fought along the river. The enemy was in danger and he fought to the death.
At this time, the sergeant was exhausted, so he rushed back after being defeated, built a fortification and stood firm at Fan Yang, Xiao Guang Yang and An Ci, and won every battle.
Guangwu returned to Ji, and then sent Geng Yan and the thirteen generals Wu Han, Jingdan, Gai Yan, Zhu, Pitong, Geng Chun, Liu Zhi, Cen Peng, Ji Zun, Jian Tan, Wang Ba, Chen Jun and Ma Wu to pursue the thieves to Ludong, Pinggu, and fight again, beheading more than 13,000 people. Then they pursued the thieves between Wu Ending and Tuyin in Youbeiping, and then returned to Junmi.
The thieves scattered into western Liaoning and eastern Liaoning, or were attacked by Wuhuan and Qian people, and most of them were destroyed.
Guangwu ascended the throne and worshiped Geng Yan as General Jianwei.
Together with the hussar general Jing Dan and the strong crossbow general Chen Jun, they attacked the new thieves in Aocang, and the thieves were defeated and surrendered.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he changed the title of Geng Yan to the title of Marquis of Haoju, and granted him the title of Marquis of Haoju, and granted him two counties, namely Haoju and Meiyang.
In the third year, Yancen attacked Nanyang from Wuguan and captured several cities.
Du Hong, a native of Rang, led his troops to follow Cen.
Geng Yan fought with Yan Cen and others in Rang, and defeated Yan's army, beheading more than 3,000 of his troops, capturing more than 5,000 of his soldiers alive, and obtained 300 seals and ribbons.
Du Hong surrendered, and Yancen and several riders fled to Dongyang.
Geng Yan went from Guangwu to Chungling. When he met Guangwu, he asked him to collect the troops from Shanggu that had not been sent out from the north. He appointed Peng Chong in Yuyang, captured Zhang Feng in Zhuojun, also captured Fuping and Huosuo, and attacked Zhangbu in the east to level the land.
The emperor felt strong and agreed.
In the fourth year, Geng Yan was ordered to attack Yuyang. Geng Yan used his father to occupy Shanggu. He had the same merit as Peng Chong, and his brothers were not in the capital. He had doubts and did not dare to go alone. He wrote a letter asking him to return to Luoyang.
The emperor responded with an edict: "The general has devoted himself to serving the country since he was born. He has conquered the enemy and has made outstanding achievements. How can he avoid suspicion and ask for recruitment?"
For the time being, we will camp in Zhuo County together with Wang Chang, and then we will carefully consider the strategy. When Geng Kuang heard that Geng Yan was seeking conquest, he felt uneasy, so he sent Geng Shu's brother Geng Guo to the capital to serve.
The emperor thought it was very good, and the Jin Dynasty granted Geng Kuang the title of Marquis of Yu and Mi.
He ordered Geng Yan, Jianyi General Zhu, Hanzhong General Wang Chang and others to attack Wangdu. As a result, more than ten camps of Anxi mountain bandits were defeated.
At this time, the Zhenglu General Ji Zun stationed his troops in Liangxiang, and the heroic Cavalry General Liu happy stationed his troops in Yangxiang to resist Peng Chong.
Peng Chong sent his younger brother Peng Chun to lead more than 2,000 Xiongnu cavalry. Peng Chong himself led tens of thousands of troops and divided his troops into two groups to attack Zun Liu Xi. When the Xiongnu soldiers passed through the military capital, Geng Shu defeated them and killed the two Xiongnu kings. Peng Chong then retreated.
Geng Kuang and Geng Shu attacked Peng Chong and captured the military capital.
Five years later, Peng Chong died. The emperor commended Geng Kuang for his contribution and sent Dr. Guanglu to support Geng Kuang. He gave him clothes, armor, and a room, as he was invited by the court.
Geng Shu was granted the title of Hou Pinghou.
He sent Geng Yan and Wu Han to attack Fuping and captured the thieves in the plain. They won a great victory and more than 40,000 thieves surrendered.
Therefore, Geng Yan was ordered to attack Zhang Bu.
Geng Yan gathered all the surrendered soldiers, established units, appointed generals, and led the cavalry captain Liu Xin and Taishan prefect Chen Jun to lead troops eastward and cross the Ji River from Qiaoyang Bridge.
When Zhang Bu heard the news, he sent his general Fei Yi to garrison Lixia, and then divided his troops to garrison Zhua. In addition, he set up dozens of camps at Zhongcheng in Taishan to wait for Geng Yan.
Geng Yan crossed the river and attacked Zhu'a first. He attacked the city in the early morning and captured it before noon. Geng Yan deliberately withdrew a corner of the surrounding troops to allow his troops to rush back to Zhongcheng.
When the people of Zhongcheng heard that Zhu'a had been defeated, they were so frightened that they all fled with their families.
Fei Yi sent his younger brother Fei Gan to guard Juli respectively.
Geng Yan first threatened Juli when he advanced, and ordered his men to cut down more trees, threatening to fill in the holes.
A few days later, some people who surrendered said that Fei Yi had heard that Geng Yan was going to attack Juli and was preparing to come to the rescue. Geng Yan ordered the army to immediately build siege tools and sent orders to all troops to attack Juli City with all their strength in three days.
He also deliberately relaxed the guard on the captives so that they could escape.
The people who returned told Fei Yi the date of Geng Yan's attack, and when the time came, Fei Yi led 30,000 elite troops to rescue him.
Geng Yan was delighted and said to the generals: The reason why I built the attacking tools was to lure Fei Yi to come to the rescue. Now that Fei Yi has come, it is exactly what I hoped for.
Immediately, he divided three thousand people to surround Juli. He led his elite troops to the hills and highlands, took advantage of the high ground to attack together, defeated Fei Yi's army, and beheaded Fei Yi before the battle. Fei Yi's head was revealed to the city of Juli. The city was frightened, and Fei Gan led all his men to flee back to Zhang Bu.
Geng Yan collected his troops again and led his troops to attack the remaining camps. He defeated more than forty camps and Jinan was pacified.
At this time, Zhang Bu established his capital in Ju and sent his younger brother Zhang Lan to lead 20,000 elite troops to guard Xi'an. The prefects of various counties and more than 10,000 people guarded Linzi. The two places were forty miles apart.
Geng Yan was marching in the middle of the two cities.
Geng Yan saw that the city of Xi'an was small but very strong, and Zhang Lan's soldiers were also skilled. Although Linzi was well-known, it was actually easy to attack, so he ordered his generals to obey the order and attack Xi'an in the next five days.
After Zhang Lan heard about it, he was on guard day and night.
At midnight on the next four days, Geng Yan ordered all the generals to eat before dawn and rush to Linzi City at dawn.
The guard Xun Liang and others argued that they should attack Xi'an quickly.
Geng Yan said: Otherwise.
Xi'an heard that we were going to attack it and made preparations day and night. If Linzi arrives unexpectedly, it will definitely disturb them. I can capture it in one day by attacking it.
Xi'an will be isolated after taking Linzi, and Zhang Lan will be cut off from Zhang Bu, and they will definitely flee again. This is a good strategy to kill one and get two.
If we attack Xi'an first, we will not be able to capture it for a while, and we will garrison troops under the fortified city, and there will be many casualties. Even if we can capture it, Zhang Lan led his army to Linzi, combined his forces, and watched the situation. I penetrated deep into the enemy's territory, and there was no supply of food and grass behind me. Within ten days, I was trapped without fighting.
Your opinions may not agree. So he attacked Linzi, captured it in half a day, and marched into the city.
Zhang Lan was horrified when he heard this and led his troops to flee to the theater.
Geng Yan ordered his troops not to invade and plunder rashly. When they arrived at Jucheng, they had to wait until Zhang Bu arrived before launching an attack to anger Zhang Bu.
When Zhang Bu heard this, he laughed and said: "Yulai and Datong have more than ten thousand people, and I will defeat them all in their own camp."
Today there are fewer Geng Yan soldiers than them, and they are all tired, so what is there to fear? So, together with his third brother Zhang Lan, Zhang Hong, Zhang Shou and the former Datong Marshal Chongyi, they arrived with 200,000 soldiers to the east of Linzi Dacheng to attack Geng Yan. Geng Yan went out of the Zi River first and met Chongyi.
Zhang Bu was so angry that he attacked Geng Yan's camp directly and joined forces with Liu Xin and others. Geng Yan climbed up to the palace's bad platform to watch. When he saw Xin and others fighting, he led his elite troops to attack Zhang Bu's formation from the side under the east city and defeated Zhang Bu.
The flying arrow hit Geng Yan in the buttocks, and Geng Yan sent out to fight again early the next morning. At this time, the emperor was in Lu. He heard that Geng Yan was attacked by Zhang Bu and went to rescue him in person, but he had not yet arrived.
Chen Jun said to Geng Yan: "The bandit army is strong, so we can temporarily close the camp to recuperate and wait for the emperor's arrival." Geng Yan said: The emperor is about to arrive, and the ministers should kill the cows and drink wine to wait for the arrival of the officials. Instead, should they bother the emperor with thieves and captives? So they sent out troops to fight, from early morning to dusk, they once again defeated Zhang's infantry, killing countless people, and the ravines in the city were filled with corpses.
Geng Yan knew that Zhang Infantry was about to retreat, so he set up ambushes on his left and right wings in advance.
In the middle of the night, Zhang Bu led his troops to retreat. The ambush troops on both sides rose up and attacked, and chased them to the Jumeishui River. For eighty or ninety miles, dead bodies were piled up, and more than two thousand vehicles of baggage were collected.
Zhang Bu returned to the play, and the brothers dispersed.
A few days later, Guangwu personally came to Linzi to labor the army and hold a meeting of ministers.
The emperor said to Geng Yan: In the past, Han Xin defeated the Qi army at Lixia to establish the foundation, but now the general attacks Zhu Ayi to make a fortune. This is the western border of Qi, and the credit is enough.
However, Han Xin's attack has been surrendered, and the general defeated the powerful enemy alone. His contribution is even more valuable than that of Han Xin.
Tian Hengpang killed Li Shiqi again, and later Tian Heng surrendered. Emperor Gaozu ordered Li Shiqi's younger brother Li Shang not to retaliate.
Zhang Bu had killed Fulong before. If Zhang Bu came to return, I would also order Fulong's father, the great Situ Fuzhan, to release his grudge. This would be even more similar.
The general proposed the strategic decision to attack Zhang Bu in Nanyang before, thinking that Shukuo would be difficult to achieve, but now where there is a will, things can come true! Geng Yan then pursued Zhang Bu again, and Zhang Bu ran to Pingshou. He took off his shirt, exposed his limbs, and carried an ax to plead guilty to the army.
An order was sent to Zhang Bu to march to the camp, and his troops marched into the city to occupy it.
After establishing the banner of the county to which he belonged, there were still more than 100,000 troops and more than 1,000 vehicles of baggage, all of whom were dismissed and returned to their hometowns. Geng Yan again led troops to Chengyang, surrendered the remaining parties of the five schools, and pacified the entire territory. Zhenbing returned to the capital.
In the sixth year, Wei Xiao was rejected from the west and troops were stationed in Qi.
In the eighth year, Congdi attacked Long. The next year, he and Zhonglang Laishe divided their forces to pacify Anding and conquer all the forts in the north.
Geng Yan pacified a total of forty-six counties and captured a total of three hundred cities in his lifetime, without suffering any failure or setback.
In the twelfth year, Geng Kuang fell ill, and Emperor Guangwu visited him several times. When Geng Kuang died, he was granted the posthumous title Liehou.
In the thirteenth year, Geng Yan's food estate was increased, and he was awarded the seal of the general. After removing the general, he was invited to the court as a prince.
Whenever the emperor encountered different opinions from the four parties, he often summoned Geng Yan as his adviser to make plans.
He died in the first year of Yongping in the fifty-sixth year of his life. His posthumous title was Minhou.
Son of a loyal heir.
Zhong used his cavalry captain to attack the Xiongnu in the Tianshan Mountains, which was a meritorious service.
Zhongzu, his son Feng Si.
Feng Zu, a good heir, has no ban.
In Yanguangzhong, Princess Puyang, the emperor's sister of Shang'an, was promoted to the imperial court.
A good soldier and a descendant.
The tyrant Hou Mihou died, and Ziwen was the heir of Jin.
Wen Jin died, and his son was happy to have an heir.
After his death, his son showed an heir and became the left prisoner of Yulin.
Showing death, the son supports the heir.
Princess Changshe, the sister of Emperor Shanghuan, was the governor of Hedong.
Later, Cao Cao killed the Geng family and only supported Sun Hongcunyan.
Hou Shu of Mouping died, and his son succeeded him.
Princess Longli, the daughter of Shang Xianzong.
Attack the dead, and the son will be the heir.
Bao's younger brother is Princess Qinghexiao.
When Emperor An was established, he respected King Xiao, his mother was Queen Xiaode, and his concubine was the noble lady of Ganyuan.
The emperor took advantage of his uncle Baoyuan and sent him to oversee Yulin Zuoqi, who was promoted to the rank of general.
As a favor, he worked with Fan Feng, the imperial wet nurse, Wang Sheng, and others to depose the crown prince as King of Jiyin, and to exclude the Taiwei Yang Zhen, who complained about it.
Bao's disciple inherited the title of Marquis of Lin Lu from the princess, and was promoted to the rank of Attendant.
When Emperor An died, the Empress Dowager Yan used Bao and other concubines to have sex with her. They were all immoral and decided to avoid Bao and Cheng. They were all demoted to the rank of Tinghou and sent to the country.
Bao Yudao committed suicide and the country was destroyed.
A large number of nobles were invited by the Geng family. In the third year of Yangjia, Emperor Shun granted the title of Marquis Jimu Ping to his treasured son, the Minister of Attendant.
Yiheng was appointed Marquis of Yangting, and Cheng was appointed as the general of Yulin Zhonglang.
Later, when the nobleman passed away, the general Liang Ji asked the nobleman to treasure it, but he couldn't get it. Ji was angry, and Feng Yousi reported that he could seize the title.
Being frightened, he died and hid in Rang.
A few years later, Ji Tui found it and merged with more than ten members of his family.
The historian commented: Han Xin commented on Xiang Yu in front of Liu Bang and carefully predicted the situation between Chu and Han, so he knew that Gaozu would definitely win.
Geng Yan decided to make plans for Hebei and Nanyang, and he also saw that Guangwu's imperial career would be successful.
However, since Geng Yan conquered Qi, he has not made any new achievements.
Don't you want to make new achievements?
Or was it because the laws at that time did not allow him to make new achievements?
Being a general for three generations is considered unlucky and taboo among Taoists, but the Geng family has been able to commit suicide for generations for their fame. Could it be that the Geng family's use of troops is to stop killings with killing?
Why can alone prosper?
