Qingzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that in the area between Shuhai and Mount Tai, Ai built twelve pastoralists, and Qingzhou was one of them.
Because Qingzhou spans the sea, Shun divided Yingzhou into another state. Why did he send Qingzhou to Liaodong originally?
"Book of Rites of the Zhou Dynasty": Directly east of Qingzhou.
It is named after its location in the eastern polar region and its green color. "Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: The corresponding place of empty and dangerous places is Qingzhou.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established thirteen states, and Qingzhou continued to use its old name, which remained unchanged from the later Han Dynasty to the Jin Dynasty.
The whole state governs six counties, 37 counties, and 53,000 households.
Qi State was established as a county by the Qin Dynasty and as a country by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees five counties and 14,000 households.
There is Jili Pavilion Emperor in Xi'an, Linzi.
Pingru River in Dong'an comes out of the northeast.
Guangrao Changguo Leyi fiefdom.
Beihai County was established as Beihai County by Emperor Jing.
The ancient kingdom of Wang Yi. Seal this place.
There are three stone temples on the wall. Micellar Hou Kingdom.
There is Tianshan Temple in Jimo.
Jinan County falls setting.
He was in charge of five counties and five thousand households.
It is said that after Wei pacified Shu, he moved the home of Shu's powerful generals to the north of Liaohui, so he changed his name to Zha Chong Kuang Mo.
Le Anguo is also set.
It oversees eight counties and 11,000 households.
There is Chiyou Temple in Linji, Gaoyuan.
There is Bogu Temple in Bochang.
Shape Yihouxiang.
Quhou State.
Zou Shouguang Guan's feudal state.
dongchaoyang
Chengyang County is located in Beihai. From Wei to Jin, Beihai was divided and this county was established.
The county oversees ten counties and 12,000 households.
Juyuan Juzi country.
The platform is used to patrol the country in ancient times. Zhu Chunyu, therefore Chunyu the principality.
Dongwu Gaomi was changed to a county.
Zhuangwu, Guizhou, Zou, Pingchang, Chang'an
Donglai State was established as a county.
Oversaw six counties and 6,500 households.
Ye Houxiang.
When benefiting the country.
There are Huangyoulai Mountain and Songlin Laijun Temple in Qucheng, Luxiang. The prince country.
There is a temple for the king of Baizhirai.
Changguang County was established in the third year of Xianning.
It oversees three counties and 4,500 households.
Not its princely state.
Changguangting
In the tenth year of Emperor Hui's reign in Yuankang, Pingchang County was established.
In addition, Qianzou, Zhuangwu, Chunyu, Chang'an, Gaomi, and Pingchang counties in Chengyang were divided into Gaomi countries. After the Yongjia Rebellion, Qingzhou fell to the Shi family.
Cao Yi, a native of Donglai, served as governor and built Guanggu City, but was later destroyed by Shi Jilong.
In the last years of Shi Jilong's reign, Duan Chong, a native of western Liaoning, claimed to be King of Qi and occupied Qingzhou.
Murong Ke reduced Zhao and captured Qingzhou.
Fu's Pingyan occupies the entire territory.
After Fu's defeat, the governor Fu Lang surrendered the whole state.
The imperial court established Youzhou, and appointed Bielhun as the governor to guard Guanggu.
In the fourth year of Long'an, he was defeated by Murong De, and then the capital was established here, which was named Nanyan and then changed to Qingzhou.
Murongde sent Bingzhou Mu to guard Yinping, Youzhou Governor to guard Fagan, Xuzhou Governor to guard Jucheng, Qingzhou Governor to guard Shulai, and Yanzhou Governor to guard Liang Fu.
Murong Chao moved Qingzhou to Donglai County, which was later eliminated by Liu Yu. Chang Shi Yangmuzhi was left as the governor of Qingzhou, and Dongyang City was built as the administrative center.
After crossing the Yangtze River south from the Yuan Emperor, he established Qingzhou in Guangling.
So far, for the first time, Beiqing Prefecture was established to guard Shuyang City, and the overseas Chinese established the prefecture as South Qing Prefecture.
Later, South Qingzhou was cancelled, and North Qingzhou was directly called Qingzhou.
Xuzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that Saishan, Tongshanjian and Jindi loved to build twelve animal husbandry, and Tuye was one of them.
Incorporated into the direct area during hurricanes.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: The star Dixiu corresponds to Tuzhou.
It probably means soothing, and it is said that the state was named after his death.
Taiwan annexed the world and placed the three counties of Mi, Lan and Wangcheng here.
When Chu Mo was fighting, Dongyang County was divided.
The Han Dynasty also divided Shuhai County, changed the name of Swimming to Pei, changed Xue to Lu, divided Pei County into Chu State, and added Cambodian Yang County to Wu State.
Emperor Jing changed Wu to Jiangdu, Emperor Wu divided parts of Pei County and Shuyang County into Linhuai County, and changed Jiangdu to Guangling.
When the Thirteen Prefectures were established, the dispatch area was set as Xuzhou, which governed Chu State and the four counties of Donghai, Langye, Linhuai, and Guangling.
Emperor Xuan changed Chu to Pengcheng County, Houmo to Pengcheng State, put Guangqi County in Pei County into the scope of Pengcheng State, and changed Linhuai to Xiapi State.
In the first year of Taikang, Xiapi County in Huainan was divided into Linhuai County, and Langxie was divided into Dongguan County.
The whole state governs seven counties, 61 counties, and 81,021 households.
Pengcheng State was elected as a county.
It oversees seven counties and 4,121 households.
Pengcheng was originally Yin Bo Tai Pengguo.
Zhang Liang's fiefdom.
Guang Qi Fu Yang Wu Yuan Lu Wu
The Han Dynasty of Xiapi State established it as Linhuai.
It oversees seven counties and 7,500 households.
Jianshan, the tomb of Wang Wu, is in its west, which is ancient Yiyang.
When Han Xin was the king of Chu, he made Qianbao his capital.
The Marquis of Lingliang City.
Suiling Xia Qiu Chu Lingtong
Donghai County Han setting.
It oversees twelve counties with 11,100 households.
Tanyuan Tanzi Kingdom.
Danqiyu Mountain is in the west of the county.
Quxiang, Ben, Licheng, Ganyu, Houqiu, Lanling, Chengchang, Luhe Township, Qi
Langye traditional Chinese painting was established in the county.
It governs nine counties and 29,500 households.
Kaiyang Houxiang.
Falling close to Jumi, Linyi, Yangdu, Zhen, is the city of Qiuhua, Feilu and Ji's family.
Yuedong Anmengyin Mountain is in its southwest.
It was established during the Zuojiang period of Dongguan County.
It oversees eight counties and 10,000 households.
Dongguan was originally Luyunyi.
Zhu Xuying's mausoleum was granted to his father Lu Wang.
Anqiu was originally granted the title of Juquqiu.
There is a Haihai Temple in Linqu.
Drama wide
It was set up in Guangling County.
It oversees eight counties and 8,800 households.
There is Jianghai Temple in Sheyangyu Hailing in Huaiyin.
There are Jiangshui Temples in Lubao, Yandu and Huaipu River.
Linhuai County was established, Tongtong merged it with Gongwu, and re-established the county in the first year of Zuo Chen.
Overseeing ten counties and ten thousand households.
Xuyi, Dongyang High Mountain, Panjing, Gaoyou, Huailing Siwu, Xiangxu
In the tenth year of Taikang, the four counties of Ju, Gumu, Zhu and Shuwu in Chengyang County of Qingzhou were placed under the jurisdiction of Dongguan.
In the first year of Yuankang, Shuhai County was divided into Lanling County.
In the seventh year, Dongguan County was divided into Shu'an County, Linhuai was divided into Huailing County, and Tangyi County was established in Tangyi.
During the Yongjia Rebellion, both Linhuai and Huailing fell to the Shi family.
After Emperor Yuan crossed the river, Xuzhou only gained half of its territory, so he established four counties: Huaiyang, Yangping, Jiyin, and North Jiyin.
There were also people from Langye who followed Emperor Yuan across the river and established Huaide County and Langye County under their jurisdiction.
At that time, the people of You, Ji, Qing, Bing, Yanwu and Xuzhou north of the Huaihe River crossed the Yangtze River and the Huaihe River, and the Yuan Emperor established counties and counties to manage them.
The northern part of Haiyu in Wu County was divided, and seven counties were established: Tan, Qu, Licheng, Zhuqi, Houqiu, Xixi, and Xiangben. They settled in Qu'a. Nanshuhai, Nanlangye, Nandongping, and Nanlanling counties were established in Jiangcheng. Wujin was divided into Linhuai, Huailing, and Nanpengcheng counties, which belonged to southern Xuzhou, and Dunqiu County belonged to northern Xuzhou.
Emperor Ming also established Nanpei, Nanqinghe, Nanxiapi, Nandongguan, Nanpingchang, Nanzayin, Nanpuyang, Nanluping, Nantaishan, Nanjiyang, Nanlu and other counties to belong to Xu and Yanzhou. Initially, some counties were located south of the Yangtze River, some were located north of the Yangtze River, and some were controlled by Yanzhou.
Xi Jian was in charge of the military affairs of Qing and Yanzhou, the governor of Yanzhou, and the governor of Xuzhou, and guarded Guangling.
After Su Jun was pacified, he returned from Guangling to guard Jingkou.
In the Han Dynasty, Zhongli County was built into the original Jiujiang County boundary, which belonged to southern Xuzhou. To the north of the Yangtze River, there were also four states: You, Ji, Qing, and Bing.
During the reign of Emperor Mu, seven counties in the South East China Sea were assigned to Jingkou.
In the seventh year of Yixi, Huaibei was first divided into North Xuzhou, and Huainan was only called Xuzhou. It governed eleven counties including Pengcheng, Pei, Xiapi, Lanling, Dongguan, Shu'an, Langye, Huaiyang, Yangping, Jiyin, and Beijiyin. Xuyi County was established in Xuyi, which governed Kaocheng, Zhidu, and Yangcheng counties. Guangling was also divided into Hailing and Shanyang counties.
Later, You and Ji were merged into Xuzhou, and Qing and Qingzhou were merged into Yanzhou.
Jingzhou.
"Yu Gong" records that in the Jing and Hengyang areas, Shun established twelve pastoral areas, and Jingzhou was one of them.
"Zhou Rites": Zhengnan is Jingzhou.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Zhen Xingsan corresponds to Jingzhou.
Jing means strong, referring to the spirit of Jingzhou striving for strength.
It also means police, which means that the southern barbarians have repeatedly invaded and plundered, and the people of Jingzhou are righteous and obedient, but unruly, they are strong first and always on guard.
Another theory is that it was named after Jingshan Mountain.
During the Six Kingdoms period, this area was the territory of Chu State.
In the Qin Dynasty, Yanying of Chu State was taken as the southern county, Wuzhong area was called Qianzhong County, and Nanyang County was set up north of the Chu-Han River. After Chu was subtracted, central Guizhou was divided into Changsha County.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty divided Changsha into Guiyang County, changed central Guizhou into Wuling County, and divided Nanjun into Jiangxia County.
Emperor Wu also divided Changsha into Lingling County.
When the Thirteen Prefectures were established, the old name of Jingzhou was used, and it governed the seven counties of Nanjun, Nanyang, Lingling, Guiyang, Wuling, Changsha, and Jiangxia.
In the 13th year of the Jian'an reign of Emperor Xian of the Later Han Dynasty, Emperor Wu of Wei obtained all the land in Jingzhou and divided it into Xiangyang County to the north of Nanjun, Nanxiang County to the west of Nanyang, and Linjiang County to the west of Zhijiang.
When Wei was defeated at Chibi, the south of Nanjun belonged to Wu, and Wu and Shu divided Jingzhou.
At that time, Nanjun, Lingling, and the west of Wuling were the area of ​​Shu, the three counties of Jiangxia, Guiyang, and Changsha were the area of ​​Wu, and the three counties of Nanyang, Xiangyang, and Nanxiang were the area of ​​Wei.
Jingzhou has two names: north and south.
Shu divided Nanjun into Yidu County. After Liu Bei's death, all the land in the four counties of Yidu, Wuling, Lingling and Nanjun belonged to Wu.
Emperor Wen of Wei sent people from Hanzhong to establish Wei Xing and Xincheng counties. Emperor Ming divided the new city into Shangyong County.
Sun Quan divided Jiangxia into Wuchang County, Cangwu into Linhe County, and Changsha into Hengyang and Xiangshu counties.
Sun Xiu divided Wuling into Tianmen County and Xuandu into Jianping County.
Sun Hao divided Lingling into Shi'an County, divided Guanghu into Yuanman Sculpture, divided Qian again into Yingyi Sculpture, and divided Changsha into Ancheng County.
Jingzhou governs fifteen counties including Nanjun, Wuchang, Wuling, Yidu, Jianping, Tianmen, Changsha, Lingling, Guiyang, Hengyang, Xiangshu, Shaoling, Linhe, Shixing, and Shi'an, and the seven counties of Nanyang, Jiangxia, Xiangyang, Nanxiang, Weixing, Xincheng, and Shangyong belong to Jingzhou of Wei.
When Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty pinged Wu, Nanjun was divided into Nanping County, Nanyang was divided into Yiyang County, and Nanxiang was changed into Shunyang County. Shixing, Shi'an, and Linhe counties were added to Guangzhou, and Ancheng County in Yangzhou was added to Jingzhou.
The whole state governs 22 counties, 169 counties, and 357,548 households.
Jiangxia Junhan was set up.
He oversees seven counties and has two to four thousand households.
Anlu Hengwei Mountain is in the northeast, which was Peiwei Mountain in ancient times.
Yundu is the old Yunzi country.
Quling, Pingchun, Jingling and Zhangshan are in the northeast, which was Neifang Mountain in ancient times.
Nanxin City
Nanjun Han setting.
It oversees 11 counties and 55,000 households.
Jiangling was the original capital of Chu.
Edited by Yun Mengguan.
Dangyang Huarongdu was originally the capital of Ziguo.
Zhijiang was originally from Luo Kingdom.
Jingyang Prefecture Ling and Chu's favored minister Prefecture Marquis were granted the title of Yi.
Jianli Songzi Stone Head
Gong set up in Guoyang County.
It oversees eight counties with 22,000 and 700 households.
Yicheng original Yandi. The Prime Minister of the Fortress House in Zhonglu.
Chen plastic molding follows Jujing Mountain in its northeast.
Shaoyou was established as a county in the Qin Dynasty of Nanyang.
It oversees 14 counties and 24,400 households.
Wanxi Ehouxiang.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Luyang.
Prime Minister of the Duchy of Jijuoyang.
The Prime Minister of the Duke of Bowang.
Duyang Yehouxiang.
There is the Great Wall Mountain, which is called Fang. The Prime Minister of Wuyin Principality. Prime Minister of the Duke of Biyang.
Xinieyang, champion, Li, was established during the Taikang period of Shunyang County.
It oversees eight counties and 20,000 households.
Wudang Houxiang in Danshui, Nanxiang, Shunyang.
Analysis of Yin Building Yang
It was established during the reign of Lord Chen of Yiyang County.
It governs twelve counties and nineteen thousand households.
Xinyehouxiang.
Rang Deng was originally from the Deng Hou Kingdom.
Cai Yang followed Yuan and his country.
Anchang Jiyang Jue Xiping's Tongbai Mountain is in its south.
Yiyang Pinglin Chaoyang
Xincheng County pad placement.
It oversees four counties and 15,200 households.
Fangling Suiyang Changweichang Township
Weixing County was established.
It oversees six counties and 12,000 households.
Xingjin Ankang Xichang Xunyang
Shangyong County was established in Wei Dynasty.
It oversees six counties and 11,448 households.
Shang Luhouxiang.
Anfu North Wuwu Mausoleum Shang Lian Weiyang
Jianping County Wu and Jin each had Jianping County, which was merged into one county in the first year of Taikang.
It oversees eight counties and 13,200 households.
Wu Beijing, Qinchang Xinling Mausoleum, Xinling Mountain and Xinling Mountain were built, and Zi returned to the original Chuzi Kingdom.
Shaqu
Wu Zhi, Yidu County.
Under the jurisdiction of three counties, there are eight thousand and seven hundred households.
Yiling Yidaohen Mountain
Nanping County was established by Wu and was called Nanjun. In the first year of Taikang, it was renamed Nanqian.
He oversees four counties and 7,000 households.
As the tomb of the Tang Dynasty, Nan'an and Jiang'an
Wuling County Desert was established to take charge of ten counties and 14,000 households.
Linyuan, Longyang, Hanshou, Yuanling, Consort-in-law Yang, Youyang Mandala, Yuannan, Qianling, Wuyang
Wu was established in Tianmen County.
It oversees five counties and 3,100 households.
Lingyang Ao Zhongchong Linli Liyang
Changsha County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees ten counties and 33,000 households.
Linxiang, Junliling, Liuyang, Jianning, Wuchang, Luopu, Yibaling
Wu Zhi, Hengyang County, originally belonged to Changsha County.
It oversees nine counties and 23,000 households.
Xiangxiang Chongan Xiangnan Hunan Xiangxi Yanyang Hengshan Link Road Xinkang Yiyang
Wu Zhi, Hunan-Cambodian County, originally belonged to Changsha County.
It oversees seven counties and 19,500 households.
Lin Chaling Linyan Liyang Yinshan Xingan Xinning
Lingling County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees 11 counties and 25,100 households.
There is lemongrass in Quanling, and it is said that tribute was paid in ancient times for sacrifices.
Qiyang Linglingyingpu Taoyang Yongchang Guanyangying Road Chunling Lingdao Yingyang East boundary There are cultivated areas on the eastern boundary, which are said to be three fiefs.
Shaoling County presented it.
It oversees six counties and 12,000 households.
Liang Fuyi, the capital of Shaoling, built Shaoyang Gaoping
Guiyang County falls setting.
It oversees six counties and 11,300 households.
Chen Xiangyu granted the fief to Emperor Yi.
Leiyang comes to Wujin and Nanping
Wu Zhi, Wuchang County.
Chaisang has a gate of water.
There is Xiakou in Yangxinsha. On the other side is Miangkou, where there is a ferry.
Shayang and Hubei have the Xingxing and Ma Tou Iron Official Tombs.
Wu Zhi, Ancheng County.
He oversees seven counties and 3,000 households.
Pingdu Yichun New Edict Yongxin'an restored Pingxiang Guangxing
Emperor Hui divided the three counties of Guiyang, Wuchang, and Ancheng into Jiangzhou, and placed the three counties of Xincheng, Weixing, and Shangyong into Liangzhou. He also divided Yiyang into Sui County, Nanyang into Xinye County, and Jiangxia into Jingling County.
Emperor Huai divided the nine counties of Changsha, Hengyang, Xiangdong, Lingling, Shaoling, Guiyang and Guangzhou's Shi'an, Shixing and Linhe into Xiangzhou.
At that time, there was civil strife in Shu, and Emperor Huai divided the three counties of Huarong, Zhouling, and Jianli in Nanjun to establish Fengdu, and merged the four counties to form Chengdu County. It was a feudal state of Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, and his residence was in Huarong County.
During the Jianxing period of Emperor Min, Chengdu County was merged back to Nanjun, and Fengdu was merged into Jianli.
Emperor Yuan crossed the Yangtze River and established Xinxing County and Nanhedong County.
During the reign of Emperor Mu, Lingling was divided into Yingyang County, and Yiyang County was established for the Yiqiang people living in Nanjun.
In addition, the three counties of Linhe, Shixing, and Shi'an in Luzhou, Guiyang in Jiangzhou, and Basu in Yizhou, a total of five counties, were placed under Jingzhou, and the six counties of Changsha, Hengyang, Xiangdong, Lingling, Shaoling, and Yingyang were placed under Xiangzhou.
Huanxuan also divided Nanjun into Wuning County.
Emperor An also established the three counties of Nan Yiyang, Dong Yiyang and Changning.
In the thirteenth year of Yixi, Xiangzhou was abolished, and Changsha, Hengyang, Xiangshu, Lingling, Shaoling, and Yingyang were assigned to Jingzhou.
Yangzhou.
"Yu Gong" records that in the area entering the sea, twelve pastoralists were built, and Lao industry was one of them. "Zhou Li": Southeast means returning karma.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Ming Bao" says: Altair is the division of Yangzhou, corresponding to the Yue Kingdom.
It is believed that the energy of Jiangnan is restless and strong, and the temperament is light.
It is also said that there is a lot of water in the Yangzhou area and the water waves are strong.
In ancient times, it was the most remote country from Wang Ji among the five kingdoms. It was occupied by the Chu State during the Warring States Period.
Qin Shihuang unified the world and established three counties: Zhang, Kuaiji and Jiujiang.
Xiang Yu made Yingbu the king of Jiujiang and occupied the entire territory.
The Han Dynasty renamed Jiujiang Huainan and granted Yingbu the title of King of Huainan.
In the sixth year, Huainan was divided into Yuzhang County.
In the eleventh year, Yingbu was killed, and the prince Liu Chang was made King of Huainan, and Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu. The two feudal states occupied all of Yangzhou.
In the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign, Huainan was divided into two counties: Lujiang and Hengshan.
In the fourth year of Emperor Jing's reign, the prince Liu Fei was granted the title of King of Jiangdu. Zhang and Kuaiji counties were owned by the King of Jiangdu, but he did not get Yuzhang.
Emperor Wu changed the name of Jiangdu to Guangling, named the prince Liu Xu King of Guangling and belonged to Xuzhou.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the name of Zhang was changed to Danyang, and Huainan was renamed to Jiujiang.
Later, Emperor Mo Shun divided Kuaiji into Wu County, and Yangzhou governed the six counties of Kuaiji, Danyang, Wu, Yuzhang, Jiujiang, and Lujiang. Liu'an was abolished and merged into Lujiang County.
During the Xingping reign of Emperor Xian, Sun planned to divide Yuzhang into Luling County.
Sun Quan also divided Yuzhang into Poyang County and Danyang into Xindu County.
Sun Liang also divided Yuzhang into Linchuan County and Kuaiji into Linhai County.
Sun Xiu also divided Kuaiji into Jian'an County.
Sun Hao divided Kuaiji into Dongyang County, Wu into Wuxing County, Yuzhang, Luling, and Changsha into Ancheng County, Luling into Luling Southern Duwei, and Yangzhou governed the fourteen counties of Danyang, Yu, Heji, Xianxing, Xindu, Saixing, Quyin, Cu, Yizhang, Poyang, Linchuan, Ancheng, and southern Luling.
The area of ​​Lujiang and Jiujiang in Jiangxi, from the north of Hefei to Shouchun, all belonged to Wei.
After the Jin pacified Wu, the eleven counties of Ancheng, which belonged to Jingzhou, and Danyang were divided into Xuancheng, Wanling, Lingyang, Anwu, Jing, Guangde, Ningguo, Huai'an, Shicheng, Lincheng, and Chungu were set up as Xuancheng County, which also took charge of Wanling and Deng. The new capital was renamed Xinan County, and the southern part of Luling was renamed Nankang County.
Yangzhou governs a total of eighteen counties, 173 counties, and 311,400 households.
Danyang County setting.
It oversees 11 counties and 51,500 households.
Jian Yeben Moling was renamed Jianye by the Sun family.
When Emperor Wu was placed in power to pacify Wu, it was called Moling.
In the third year of Taikang's reign, the northern part of Moling was divided into Jianye and the city was renamed Ye.
In the second year of Taikang in Jiangning, it was separated from Jianye.
Danyang Danyang Mountain has many red willows in its west.
Yuhu Wuhu Yongshi Liyang Lishui originates from here.
Jiangcheng Jurong has Maoshan.
Hushu Moling
Xuancheng County was established in the second year of Zuo Chen.
Oversaw eleven counties with 23,500 properties.
Wanling Houxiang.
Peng Ze gathered in its southwest.
The Lingyang Huai River in Xuancheng flows into the Yangtze River in its northeastern part.
The place where the immortal Lingyang Ziming lived.
Anwu Lincheng Shicheng Jingchungu Xiaowu changed Chun to Yang.
Guangde Ningguo Huaian
Huainan County was transferred to Jiujiang County during the Qin Dynasty.
The desert was established as Huainan Kingdom, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established it as Jiujiang County.
Emperor Wu of Jin Dynasty changed it to Huainan County.
It oversees sixteen counties and 33,400 households.
Shouchun Chengde went to the west of Cai Yicheng and went to Yangping to Mount Ayoutu.
During the reign of Emperor Ming Mo of Fuling in Quanjiao, Liyang, it was reduced to Mahu.
Zhongli is located in Seiyi, Jiuzhou.
Hefei's Qiu Yin Mausoleum is located in the ancient Tushan Kingdom.
Shucheng Wujiang River
Lujiang County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees ten counties and 4,200 households.
Yangquan is my hometown, and there is Tongxiang.
There is a temple in the south of Zhitianzhu Mountain.
Falling into the sun and living in the nest, Jie died here.
Linhu, Xiang'an, Longshu, Liuyuan and Liuguo.
Wu of Piling County divided the land west of Kuaiji and Wuxi as farmland and established Dian Nongxiaowei.
In the second year of Seikang, the school captain was abolished and replaced by Piling County to take charge of seven counties and 12,000 households.
Dan Tu is old Zhu Fang.
Qu A Jiu Yunyang.
The Yanling Mausoleum of Wujin is adjacent to the Youli Mountain and Chunshen Jun Temple in Wuxi.
Wu Junhan setting.
It oversees 11 counties and 25,000 households.
Wu's hometown.
The tool area is in its west.
Jiaxing Haiyan Yanguan Qian Gunda Mat Industry is the birthplace of Wu Yekuang.
Xuan Zhou's face, Qu Shouchang, Yu Lou, Wuxing County, Wu Zhi. It oversees ten counties and 24,000 households.
Wucheng, Lin'an, Yuhang, Wukang, the old Fangfeng Kingdom.
Shu moved to the potential and dived.
The Great Wall in Anji County, Guzhang
Kuaiji County pot setting.
Oversees ten counties and 30,000 households.
Shanyin Kuaiji Mountain is in the south, and there are area tombs on the mountain.
There is Qiuting Pavilion in Shangyu, where Shun took refuge from Danzhu.
Yuyao said that Yushan is in its south.
In Juzhang Yin there is Qixiao Pavilion.
Luan Shining Shan Yongxing Zhuji
Wu Zhi, Dongyang County.
Under the jurisdiction of nine counties, there are 12,000 properties.
There is Chisongzi Temple in Changshan.
Yongkang Wushang Wu Ning Tai Mo Xin'an Feng An Ding Yang Suichang
Xin'an County Xingzhi.
Oversaw six counties and 5,000 households.
Shixin Sui'an Yishe Haining Liyang
Wu Zhi, Linhai County.
It oversees eight counties and 18,000 households.
Zhang'an Linhai Shifeng Yongning Ninghai Songyang Angu Hengyang
Jian'an County was originally the Minzhong County of the Qin Dynasty. In the fifth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, he established the Minyue King.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the King of Minyue was eliminated and the people moved here. It was called Dongye and then renamed Dongcheng.
In the Later Han Dynasty, it was changed to the title of Duwei, and in the Wu Dynasty, Jian'an County was established.
It oversees seven counties and 4,300 households.
Jian'an Wuxing Cambodia Ping Jianyang General Le Shao Wu Yanping
Jin'an County was established in the third year of Taikang.
It oversees eight counties and 4,300 households.
Former Feng Xinluo Wanping Tongan Marquis Luojiang Jinan Wenma
Yuzhang County sculpture setting.
It oversees sixteen counties and 35,000 households.
Nanchang Haihun
Wu Zhi, Linchuan County.
It oversees ten counties and 8,500 households.
Linru, Fengnan City, Shuxingnan, Fengyi, Huanganpu, Xining, newly built Poyang County Wu.
It oversees eight counties and 6,100 households.
Guangjin, Poyang, Le'an, Yuhan, Shanyang, Liling Mausoleum, Geyang, Jinxing
Wu Zhi, Luling County.
It oversees ten counties and 12,200 households.
Xichang Gaochang Shiyang Baqiu Nanye Dongchang Suixing Jiyangxingpingyangfeng
It was established in the third year of Taikang in Nankang County.
It oversees five counties and 1,400 households.
The capital of Gan and Yu pacified Nankang and Jieyang
In the first year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, the relevant departments reported that the territory of Jing and Jie was vast and difficult to manage, so they divided Yangzhou into Yuzhang, Poyang, Luling, Linchuan, Nankang, Jian'an, Jin'an, and Jingzhou's Wuchang, Guiyang, and Ancheng, a total of ten counties, and established Jiangzhou after the name of the river.
In the first year of Yongxing, Xunyang County in Luhong and Chaisang County in Wuchang were divided into Xunyang County, which belonged to Jiangzhou. Wujiang and Liyang counties in Huainan were divided into Liyang County.
Because Zhou Chuang first proposed to conquer Shi Bing, he divided Yangxian in Xing County and Beixiang in Changcheng County and set up four counties: Yixiang, Guoshan, Linjin and Yangxian. He also divided Yongshi in Danyang into Pingling and Yongshi, a total of six counties, and set up Yixing County to commend Dandan's contribution. These counties all belong to Yangzhou.
Piling County was also granted to Prince Pi of the East China Sea, and was renamed Jinling to avoid Sima Pi's taboo.
In the first year of Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, Pengze County in Yuzhang belonged to Xunyang County.
After Emperor Min ascended the throne, he changed the name of Jianye to Jiankang to avoid the imperial taboo.
Emperor Yuan crossed the river and established his capital in Yangzhou. He changed the prefect of Danyang to Danzhiyin, and established Xincai County in Jiangzhou.
Xunyang County established Jiujiang and Shangjia counties, and then abolished Jiujiang County and merged it into Xunyang.
At that time, the Si, Ji, Yong, Liang, Qing, Bing, Yan, Yu, You, and Ping prefectures were all occupied. The resulting area south of the Yangtze River was only the Yang, Xing, Bao, Hong, Liang, Yi, Kui, and Lu prefectures. More than half of the rest of the local areas were occupied, and Yuzhou only occupied Qiaocheng.
In the first year of Emperor Ming's reign, Yongjia County was divided into prisons to oversee the four counties of Yongning, Angu, Songyang, and Hengyang. Yangzhou administered the eleven counties of Danyang, Wujun, Wuxing, Xin'an, Dongyang, Linhai, Yongjia, Xuancheng, Yixing, and Jinling.
Since the war and division of the Central Plains, people were sent south to cross the Yangtze River and established overseas in Lulu, and Chunan City was not the original area.
When the Hu invaders invaded south, the people of Huainan all crossed the Yangtze River.
In the early years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Fu Ze and Dan Bao caused trouble in the Liao and Jin areas, and Hu bandits came in large numbers. More and more people were crossing south, and they settled in Lusu and other counties south of the Yangtze River. They also established Songzi County in Xunyang, which belonged to Yangye.
In the fourth year of Shengchen's reign, Qiao established Weijun, Guang, Gaoyang, Tangyi and other counties, and all the counties under his jurisdiction settled in Jingyi. Lingyang was renamed Guangyang.
In the second year of Xiaowu Ningkang, Yongning County of Yongjia County was divided into Lecheng County.
At that time, the people of Shangdang crossed the Yangtze River and established Shangdang County, which consists of four counties, and settled in Wuhu.
Soon Shangdang County was abolished as Shangdang County, and Xiangcheng County was abolished as Fanchang County. Both counties belonged to Huainan County.
In the eighth year of Yixi reign of Emperor An, Xunyang County was abolished and transferred to Chaisang County. Chaisang remained a county. Later, Shangjia County was abolished and transferred to Pengze County.
In the old Jiangzhou, Jingling County was in charge of Jingzhou, and when He Wuji was appointed governor, the above table states: Since Jingling is far away from the state capital, three hundred miles away from Jiangling, the residents of Sui'an County established by Jingzhou moved into the country, and they wanted to rely on Jingling County to help Jiangbin's defense, so Jingling County was returned to Jingzhou.
There are also two counties, Hongnong from Sizhou and Songzi from Yangzhou, who live in Xunyang. They live in mixed households, so they should be appointed governors.
An Di agreed to He Wuji's suggestion.
Later, Songzi County was abolished and became Songzi County, and Hongnong County became Hongnong County, both of which belonged to Xunyang County.
Jiaozhou.
"Yu Gong" records that it is the Yangzhou area, which is the land of South Vietnam.
After Qin Shihuang captured and pacified Yangyue, he used 500,000 relegated border guards to guard Wuling.
From north to south, the road into Yuedi must pass through steep peaks. There were five such peaks at that time, so they were called Wuling.
Later, he sent Ren Xiao and Zao him to attack Vietnam and captured Luliang, so they pacified South Vietnam and set up three counties, including Guilin, Nanhai and Xiang, which were not included in the thirty-six counties. Nanhai Lieutenant was set up to take charge of the three counties, which is the so-called Southeast First Lieutenant.
In the early Han Dynasty, the three counties of Lingnan, Changsha and Yuzhang were granted to Wu Rui and he was named the King of Changsha.
In the eleventh year, he appointed Marquis Zhi of Nanwu as King of Nanhai.
Lu Maidu brought Nanyue back to the Central Plains, appointed Zhao Zhao as the King of Nanyue, and divided the three counties south of Changsha and gave them to him.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he conquered and pacified Lu Jia, and set his territory as the seven counties of Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Rinan, Jiuzhen and Jiaoxi, which were the three counties of Lingnan in the Qin Dynasty.
During the Yuanfeng period, Dan'er and Zhuya counties were established, and Jiaotu governor was appointed to supervise them.
In the fifth year of Emperor Zhao's reign, Dan'er was abolished and merged into Zhuya.
In the third year of Emperor Yuan's reign, Zhuya County was abolished.
The turtle constituency Yaoping settled in the Ministry of Transport and began to set up Jingyi for local city adjustment.
In the sixth year of Emperor Shun's Yonghe reign, Zhou Chang, the prefect of Jiaotu, requested to establish the county as a state. After the court's review, the request was not approved, so he immediately appointed Zhou Chang as the governor of Jiaosha.
Emperor Huan established it as Gaoliang County, and Emperor Ling changed it to Gaoliang County.
In the eighth year of Jian'an, Zhang Jin was appointed governor and Shi Xie was appointed governor of Jiaoshai. They jointly requested that the county be established as a state, so Zhang Jin was appointed as pastor of Jiaozhou.
In the fifteenth year, the prefecture moved to Fanmo. The imperial edict granted Chijie to the governor of the outlying prefecture, and the county granted him the music of advocacy to pay attention to the town, and also granted the dance of Jiuxi and Liuyi.
In the fifth year of Wu Dongji's reign, the four counties of Lufu, Dongyuan, Yuta, and Zhizhe were divided into four counties to build Luye, and the four counties of Mandan, Danzhi, Lichen, and Sui were designated as Jiaozhou.
Shu Liang was appointed governor, but was unable to enter the country due to war. Lu Dai attacked to quell the war, and returned Kuidian.
In the fifth year of Huwu, Suya married again.
In the seventh year of the prime minister's reign, the three former counties were established in Guangzhou.
When Sun Hao arrived, three counties were established: Li, Niu, and Nu. Shu appointed Su as the governor of Pan, and led Kuiye as the governor from afar. After pacifying Shu, he appointed Huo Yiyao, the prefect of Jianning in Shu, to lead Jiaozhou. He could choose his own officials first and report them later.
After Jinping County, it is appropriate to cancel the merger of Xia Tong.
Bianye takes charge of seven counties, fifty-three counties, and 25,600 households.
Hepu County setting.
Oversaw six counties and 2,000 households.
Hepu, Nanping, Dangchang, Xu Wen, toxic Zhuguan
Cochin County election settings.
It oversees 14 counties and 12,000 households.
Long Bian Gou Lu Wang Hai Lou west Yu Wu Ning Zhu Yuan Quyi
Jiaoxing North Belt Jixu Anding South Dinghai Pingchao
Xinchang County Xingzhi.
Take charge of six counties.
The Mi Ling woman conquered the place where she was in power and pacified it.
Jianing Wuding Fengshan Linxi West Road
Wuping County Xingzhi.
Oversaw seven counties and five thousand households.
Wuning Wuxing Jinshangen Ning'an Wufu'an Fengxi
Jiuzhen county luck setting.
He oversees seven counties and 3,000 households.
Xupu Yifengjin Wujianchu Changle Fule Songyuan
Jiude County was established, and it was the land of Yue Chang family in Zhou Dynasty.
It governs eight counties and has no households under its jurisdiction.
Jiude Xianhuan Nanlingyang Suifulingquxu Puyangduji
Rinan County was established as Xiang County, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty changed its name to this.
Oversees five counties and 600 households.
There are four countries south of Xianglin from here, and the people there claim to be descendants of the immigrants. Today there are bronze pillars, which were also chosen to be erected in Qianbao as the boundary.
Pay taxes.
Lu Rongxiang County Government Office.
Zhu Wu's Western Volume Bijing
Guangzhou.
"Yu Gong" records it as the Yangzhou area, the land occupied by Zhao in the late Qin Dynasty.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zaobao was designated as Jiaotou County.
In the fifth year of Wu Huangwu's reign, the four counties of Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin and Gaoliang were separated from Jiaozhou and established in Guangzhou, which soon returned to its original state.
In the sixth year of Yong'an, Jiaozhou was once again divided into Guangzhou, and Hepu County was divided into the northern part of Hepu, and the captain was sent to take charge of it.
Sun Hao divided Yulin into Guilin County.
During the Taikang period, Wu was pacified, and the three counties of Shi'an, Shixing and Linhe in Jingzhou were assigned to Guangzhou.
It governs ten counties, sixty-eight counties, and 43,120 households.
Nanhai County was established in Qin Dynasty.
It oversees six counties and 9,500 households.
Panyu Sihui Zengcheng Boluo Longchuan flattened
Wu Zhi, Linhe County.
Oversaw six counties and 2,500 households.
Congratulations to Xie Mu, Feng Cheng, Feng Yang, Xing'an, Fuchuan
The star of Shi'an County is located.
Oversaw seven counties and six thousand households.
Shi'an, Shiyang, Qianle, Lipu, Chang'an, Xi, Qianyong, Shixing prefectures and counties were established.
Oversaw seven counties and five thousand households.
Qujiang, Guiyang began to flourish, and Hanyuyan was established in Yangzhong, Suyang, Cangwu County and Han Dynasty.
It oversees twelve counties with seven hundred households.
Guangxin Duanxi Gaoyao Jianling Tomb Xinning Mengling Zhangping Nongcheng Yuanxi Linyundu Luowucheng
Yulin County was established as Guilin County during the Qin Dynasty, and Emperor Mowu changed its name.
Oversaw nine counties and six thousand households.
Bushan Alin Xinyi Jinping was founded Yuping led Fangwu Xi Anguang
Guilin County was established.
He oversees eight counties and 2,000 households.
Tanzhong Wu Feng Su Ping Sheep Ping Long Gang Jia Yang Wucheng Jun Teng
Wu Zhi, Gaoliang County.
Take charge of three counties and 2,000 households.
Tranquility, Gaoliang, Siping
Happy County Wu Zhi.
It oversees five counties and 1,200 households.
Guanghua Haian Huaqian Moyang Xiping
Wu Zhi, Ningpu County.
It oversees five counties and 1,220 households.
Ningpu Link Road Wu'anping Mountain
Emperor Wu later abolished Gaoxing County.
In the first year of Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, the three counties of Linhe, Shixing and Shi'an and a total of 20 counties were established as Xiangzhou.
Emperor Yuan divided Yulin into Jinxing County.
Emperor Cheng divided Nanhai into Shuguan County, and returned Shixing and Linhe counties to Jingzhou.
Emperor Mu divided Cangwu into three counties: Jinkang, Xinning, and Yonghu.
During the Taihe period of Emperor Ai, Xin'an County was established, Emperor An divided Dongguan into Yi'an County, and Emperor Gong divided Nanhai into Xinhui County.
