Emperor Xiaoxuan had five sons.
Note that the empress gave birth to Emperor Xiaoyuan, the urgent maggot gave birth to King Xian of Huaiyang, Zhiyin, the envoy of Wei gave birth to King Xiaoxiao of Chu, Xingxiao, the nephew of Gongsun, Prince Shuhusi, King Liu, and the nephew of Rong, Prince Ai of Zhongshan, died.
Huaiyang Xianwang Liu Qin was established as king in the third year of Yuankang, and his mother Zhang Shidan was favored by Emperor Xuan.
After Queen Huo was deposed, the emperor wanted to make Zhang Tuzi his queen.
As time went by, I was wary of Huo's intention to harm the crown prince, so I changed my mind and chose someone who had no sons in the harem and was cautious. So I made Wang Jiantun, a native of Changling, the queen, and asked her to raise the crown prince like a mother.
The queen was not favored and rarely slept with or met the emperor. Only Zhang Jiantun was favored the most.
When King Xian of Huaiyang grew up, he liked scriptures and laws, was smart and talented, and Emperor Xuan liked him very much.
The prince was kind-hearted and fond of Confucianism. Emperor Xuan praised King Xian several times and said, "You are really my son!"
I often wanted to make Zhang Jianzi the queen and Prince Xian the prince. However, because the prince grew up in civilian life, Emperor Xuan relied on the Xu family when he was young, and Empress Xu had been killed when he came to the throne. The prince lost his mother when he was young, so he couldn't bear it.
After a long time, Emperor Xuan summoned and made Wei Xuan the lieutenant of Huaiyang Kingdom because Wei Xuancheng, the son of the former prime minister Wei Xian, pretended to be crazy and gave the marquis to his brother. He was praised by the court for his knowledge of Confucian classics and noble conduct.
When Emperor Xuan died and Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he ordered King Xian to go to the feudal country.
At this time, Zhang Biandan had passed away. King Xian had a maternal grandmother. His uncle Zhang Bo and his three brothers would be rewarded by King Xian if they went to Huaiyang to visit their mother every year.
Later, King Xian wrote a letter asking for the relocation of the Zhang family to Huaiyang. Zhang Bo wrote a letter saying he hoped to stay at his ancestral graves but refused to move.
King Xian resented him.
Later, when Zhang Bo went to Huaiyang, King Xian rewarded him less.
Zhang Bo said: The debt is several million. I hope King Xian will repay it for me.
King Xian refused. Zhang Bo left and sent his brother Zhang Guang to threaten King Xian, saying that he was even more lax in treating his grandmother. Zhang Bo wanted to write a letter to his mother asking for leave to go home.
King Xian sent someone to give Zhang Bo fifty pounds of gold.
Zhang Bo was happy and wrote back a letter of thanks. He praised King Xian very much with flattering words, and said: There are no good ministers in the court today, and disasters have occurred many times, which makes the court miserable. later.
The people all place their hopes on the king. Why does the king quietly do not ask to visit the court and assist the emperor?
His younger brother Zhang Guang persuaded King Xian several times to follow Zhang Bo's strategy. He himself went to the capital to lobby the powerful dignitaries to request an audience on King Xian's behalf.
King Xian did not adopt his opinion.
Later, Zhang Guang wanted to go to Chang'an. When he said goodbye to King Xian, he said that he would do his best to work with Zhang Bo to petition for the king's admission to the court.
The king is about to arrive in Chang'an and can rely on Marquis Pingyang.
When Zhang Guang heard that King Xian wanted to request an audience, he sent Pegasus to tell Zhang Bo.
Zhang Bo knew about King Xian's change of mind and sent another letter to King Xian, saying: "Zhang Bo is fortunate to be the king's confidant. He has made stupid suggestions several times, but they have not attracted your attention."
I traveled north to Yanzhao and other places, and wanted to visit the reclusive scholars in various places. I heard that there was a Mr. Si in Qi who was familiar with "Sima's Art of War" and was a talented general. Zhang Bo once paid a visit to him and took the opportunity to go and inquire about the ruling principles of the Five Emperors and Three Kings. His words were brilliant and could not be understood by ordinary people.
Now the border is unstable and the world is in turmoil. Unless this person, no one else can bring peace to the world.
I also heard that there is a wise man next to Beihai. He is a rare talent that can only be found in several lifetimes, but it is difficult to attract him.
Acquiring these two talents and recommending them to the court would be a great achievement.
I am willing to rush west to Chang'an to recommend these two people to help the Han Dynasty in crisis, but I don't have the money to reach the dignitaries.
The king sent an audience to reward me with oxen, wine, and thirty pounds of gold, but I refused. He also sent someone to ask for my daughter's hand in marriage, offering a bride price of two hundred pounds, but I did not agree.
I happened to receive a letter from Zhang Guang saying that the king had sent him west to Chang'an, and he and I would try our best to request an audience.
I thought that the king had given up on this matter, but I didn't expect that the king would change his mind and befriend me kindly. I am willing to repay your kindness with my life.
What's the matter with the court meeting?
If your Majesty gives me some money and allows me to work hard, this is the reason why Tang Yu achieved great achievements.
Mr. Si has a profound knowledge of Taoism and has a wide range of books. He hopes to know the king's hobbies and can present them in time.
King Xian was very happy to receive the letter and wrote back to Zhang Bo: Fortunately, Zigao, you condescended to be considerate, and the compassion from your heart showed extremely high sincerity, offered good strategies, and told me the most important thing. Although I am not smart, how dare I not understand your thoughts!
Now send a company to repay your debt of two million.
At this time, Jingfang, Zhang Bo's son-in-law, died because of Mingxiao's "Yi Yi". "Yin Yang" won the emperor's favor and summoned him several times to discuss state affairs.
He thought he was ostracized by Shi Xian and Wulu Chongzong, and his plan was not adopted. He told Zhang Bo these things many times.
Zhang Bo often wanted to deceive the King of Huaiyang and show off to him, so he recorded all the disasters reported by the capital and the secret words the emperor said when he summoned him, and gave them to the King of Huaiyang as evidence. He lied to him that he had seen Zhongshu Ling Shijun requesting an audience and promised him five hundred catties of gold.
A wise man only considers merit and does not care about the cost.
Although Dayu made the people exhausted when he controlled the floods, his success benefited the people for generations to come.
Now it is said that the emperor is less than forty, his hair and teeth have fallen out, the prince is young, the sycophants are dictatorial, and the yin and yang are not balanced. Nearly half of the people died due to disease, epidemics, and famine, and the harm of floods was no more than this.
Your Majesty is preparing to save the world and will compare his merits with those of the ancient holy kings. How can you slack off?
I have already made a memorial to the king with a learned and enlightened scholar, stating the way to protect the country and pointing out the dangers of disasters. When the king meets, he will first explain the general idea and then give a memorial. The emperor will definitely be very happy.
When things are successful and achievements are established, the king will have the reputation of Zhou Gong and Shao Gong. The treacherous ministers will flee in all directions. The ministers will change their moral integrity and their merits will be unparalleled. The emperor's favor for Liang Wang and Zhao Wang will definitely be transferred to the king. We foreigners will also be rich. How can we count on the king's money?
King Xian was happy and wrote back to Zhang Bo: "In the past, edicts were issued prohibiting princes from attending court. I feel so sad that I don't know what strategy to use."
Zi Gao, you have always had the talent of Yan Yuan and Ran You, the intelligence of Zang Wu Zi, the eloquence of Zigong, and the bravery of Bian Zhuang Zi. You have the best of all four, which is rare in the world.
It's been started, and I hope it will finally come to fruition.
Asking for an audience is a reasonable thing, but how to use money?
Zhang Bo wrote back and said: I have promised Shi Jun that I need to use it to accomplish this.
King Xian gave Zhang Bo five hundred catties of gold.
It happened that Jingfang left the capital to serve as county governor and left the emperor's side. Shi Xian knew the whole situation and reported it.
The conversation in the imperial palace was leaked by the Jingfang, and the Zhang Bo brothers misled the princes and kings, slandered the government, and acted cunningly, so they were all arrested.
Relevant departments submitted a petition to arrest Liu Qin, but the emperor could not bear to bring him to justice, so he sent Wang Jun, an admonishing doctor, to reward Liu Qin with a seal and a letter saying: The emperor told the King of Huaiyang.
Relevant departments have accused you. Your uncle Zhang Bo has written to you many times, slandering the state affairs, ridiculing the emperor, praising and recommending princes, and citing the conquests of Zhou Gong and Shang Tang to confuse you. What he said is particularly bad and disobedient.
You didn't report him, but you often gave him money and kind words in return. Your sin has reached a point where it cannot be forgiven. I can't bear to hear this, and I feel sad for you.
Looking at the origin, the bad things come from Zhang Bo. Your intentions are different from those of evil people.
I have ordered you not to punish you, but I have sent Wang Jun to remonstrate with you to explain my intention.
Doesn’t the Book of Songs say it? Be loyal to your position and behave with integrity. You have to encourage me!
Wang Jun pointed out the king of Huaiyang and said: Etiquette is a ritual for the princes to make a joint pilgrimage to pay homage to the betrothal gift. Therefore, they should fulfill the etiquette with one heart and one mind and serve the emperor with respect.
Besides, didn’t Wang study the Book of Songs?
"The Book of Songs" says: He was made a prince in the state of Lu and a vassal of the royal family of Zhou. Now Wang uncle Zhang Bo has written to you many times, and what he said is contrary to the holy way.
Fortunately, you are bound by the edict, understand the classics, and know that your status as a prince should not leave the country.
The emperor's kindness spreads to everyone in the court, but you calmly accept Zhang Bo's words, often give him money, and respond to each other. There is no greater sin of disloyalty than this.
As always, if a prince commits a crime in the capital, no matter how serious it is, even if he is not killed, he will definitely be punished by exile, removal from office, demotion, dethronation, etc., and there will be no one who will not be held accountable.
Now the sage monarch pardons your crimes, but also takes pity on you for going astray and forgetting your duty, being deceived by Zhang Bo. He gives you a seal and a letter, and sends an admonishment official to explain your intention. How can we estimate the great kindness of the emperor!
The crime committed by Zhang Bo and others was serious, and the officials attacked him together, which cannot be forgiven by the king's law.
From now on, you should no longer worry about Zhang Bo and others, and you must abandon him together with everyone else.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that the most important thing is to be able to change one's past.
"The Book of Changes" says that if you use Imperata for sacrifices, you will not encounter any mistakes. It means that the ministers must correct their mistakes and purify themselves to assist the emperor, and then they can avoid mistakes.
You should be careful and vigilant, consider how to repent and change your behavior, make up for the heavy responsibility, and express the emperor's great kindness.
In this way, you will enjoy long-lasting wealth and honor, and the country will be stable.
At that time, King Liu Qin of Huaiyang took off his hat, kowtowed and apologized, saying: I failed to fulfill my duties as a king of princes, and my crime was so obvious that your Majesty could not bear to punish the crime according to law, so he showed great kindness and sent envoys to explain the truth and fulfill the duties of princes.
Considering that Zhang Bo's crime is particularly serious, he should be sentenced to death.
The minister Liu Qin is willing to reform himself wholeheartedly and accept the edict respectfully.
I should deserve to die.
The three brothers Jingfang and Zhang Bo were all exiled from the city, and their wives and children were exiled to the border.
When Emperor Cheng came to the throne, because King Huaiyang was his uncle as a relative, he was respected by Emperor Cheng, far above other princes and kings.
The King of Huaiyang wrote a letter stating that his uncle Zhang Bo was being bullied by Shi Xian and others, so he requested to return to his hometown for the exiled Zhang Bo's family.
The prime minister and the imperial censor impeached the King of Huaiyang again: He and Zhang Bo had communicated privately with each other in the past, and their intentions were not what a prince should have. Thanks to the emperor's grace, he was not punished. The matter happened before the pardon.
Instead of repenting, he quoted past events and thought he was upright, which was unbecoming of a prince and committed the crime of disrespect.
However, the emperor granted King Huaiyang's request and promised King Xian to move the exiles back.
King Xian died in his thirty-sixth year.
His son King Wen Liu Xuan succeeded to the throne and died after reigning for twenty-six years.
His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne, but was cut off by Wang Mang.
Liu Xiao, King Xiao of Chu, was established as King Dingtao in the second year of Ganlu's reign, and was granted the title of King of Chu three years later. Emperor Cheng entered the dynasty during the Heping period. He was ill at that time. The emperor took pity on him and issued an edict: It is said that human beings are the most noble of life in the world, and filial piety is the most important thing in human behavior. King Liu Xiao of Chu has always been filial and kind. In the more than 20 years since he became a feudal country, he has not heard of any minor mistakes. I admire him very much.
Now he is suffering from bad luck and is seriously ill. The Master deplored it and said: What a sad fate! Can such a person suffer from such a disease?
I feel sorry for him.
He is kind and noble without appearing to be different from the public. How will the princes be encouraged?
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? Rewards are given to virtuous people in recognition of their kindness. Now is the first month of the dynasty. King Xiao is ordered to come to court with one of his sons, and his son Liu Xun is named the Marquis of Guangqi with a settlement of 4,300 households in Guangqi County.
The next year, Liu Xiao died.
His son Liu Wen, King Huai, succeeded to the throne and died a year later. He had no sons and was cut off.
In the second year, Emperor Cheng appointed Liu Wen's younger brother Liu Yan, Marquis of Lu, as King Si.
He died in the 21st year of his reign, and his son Liu Yu succeeded to the throne, which was cut off by Wang Mang.
At the beginning, when he became emperor, Liu Jing, Liu Yu's younger brother, was appointed King of Dingtao.
When Liu Xun, Marquis of Guangqi, died, Mi was named Yanghou, and his son Liu Xian succeeded him.
Emperor Ping died without a son, so Wang Mang made Liu Xian's son Liu Ying his son, who succeeded Emperor Ping.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and made Liu Ying the Duke of Ding'an.
After Wang Mang was executed by the Han Dynasty, Liu Ying was in Chang'an during the Gengshi period. Fang Wang and others from Pingling knew the astronomical phenomena very well and believed that the Gengshi Emperor would definitely fail. Liu Ying was the one who should be established as emperor according to the imperial tradition. Together they sent troops to take Liu Ying to Linjing and established him as the emperor.
Emperor Gengshi sent Prime Minister Li Song to defeat them and kill Liu Ying.
Liu Zi, the king of Dongping, was established as king in the second year of Ganlu.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and went to the feudal state.
When he grew up, he committed a crime for colluding with bad people. The emperor refused to punish him because he was the closest relative. His master was in line with the country.
After some time, King Si served the Queen Mother, which was not in line with the Queen Mother's wishes. The Queen Mother wrote about this and asked to guard Du Mausoleum.
The emperor then sent Zhang Zijiao, the Taizhong doctor, to receive the seal order and inform him, saying: The emperor told King Shuping.
It is said that the kindness of close relatives is not more important than filial piety, and the principle of respecting noble people is not greater than loyalty. Therefore, when the princes are in power, they should not be proud to fulfill their filial piety, and be temperate and prudent to assist the emperor. In this way, they can maintain wealth and national stability forever.
Now I hear that you have a lack of self-cultivation, there is disharmony within the feudal country, rumors have appeared one after another, and slander has arisen from within. I feel sorry for you and I am afraid for you.
Doesn’t the Book of Songs say it? Miss your ancestors, cultivate your own morality, always follow the destiny, and pray for blessings.
I know that when you were in the prime of your life, you neglected your morality, your mind was deviated, and you did not take good advice, so I personally sent Zijiao, the Taizhong doctor, to convey my wishes to you.
Confucius said: If you fail to correct your mistakes, this is a fault. You should think carefully and do not go against my will.
He also specially gave it to the Queen Mother with a seal, saying: The emperor sent officials and eunuchs to report this to the Queen Mother of Dongping.
I heard something and the Queen Mother paid a little attention to it.
There is no greater happiness in a happy family than harmony, and there is no greater source of disaster than internal division.
King Dongping was raised by you, and therefore he is on the throne. He is still young and full of energy, and has little time to study. He despises his ministers, and his relationship with you, the Queen Mother, is different from others. Under such circumstances, the only person who can do it without disrespecting etiquette is a saint!
Legend: When a father conceals something for his son, integrity lies in it. The Queen Mother clearly understands this meaning and must be careful.
Within a family, between mother and child, they are connected by blood but have different voices. How can the kindness of flesh and blood be ignored?
Can it be ignored?
Once upon a time, Zhou Gong warned Bo Qin: "You can't abandon an old friend if he's not making any serious mistakes. Don't seek perfection from a person."
Because it is an old friend's kindness, I still tolerate his small shortcomings, not to mention such a flesh-and-blood relationship!
I have sent a messenger to tell King Si that he has repented and confessed his crime. Queen Mother, please be lenient and tolerant to ease this matter. He should not dare to do so in the future.
Queen Mother, please try your best to eat, stop worrying, treat illness carefully, and take care of yourself.
Liu Yu was ashamed and frightened. He kowtowed in front of the messenger and apologized, willing to change his mind and make amends on his own.
The edict also ordered Si Wang's master and the state minister to say: Human nature has five qualities: benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith. When he grows up, what he hears and sees is related to his hobbies and desires. Therefore, after the five permanent things disappear, evil thoughts arise, lust disturbs his nature, and profit overcomes his moral heart. There is no one who does not lose his home.
King Si is now in the prime of life, strong and mighty, but he has received little instruction from his master, and has little knowledge. From now on, if he dares to tell King Si about anything other than serious knowledge of the Five Classics, such as outings and hunting, etc., his name will be reported immediately.
Liu Yu reigned for twenty years, and Emperor Yuan died.
Liu Yu told Xin and others in the palace: The ministers of the Han Dynasty commented that the emperor was young and could not govern the world. They thought that I knew the system and laws, and suggested that I assist the emperor.
I saw the minister working hard at night. If I were to do this job, I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to do it.
The weather is hot now and the emperor is young. I am afraid there will be no place to observe filial piety. I almost got the throne!
When Emperor Yuan was buried, Liu Yu cried three times in total, drank wine and ate meat, and never left his wife and concubines.
The concubine Qucuo was originally favored by him, but later became estranged from him. She often sighed and called to heaven.
When Liu Yu heard about this, he deposed Qu Teng as a palace maid with no status, asked her to clean the palace streets, and often whipped her.
Qu Suo secretly wrote down Liu Yu's faults in separate notes, and asked his family to report him several times.
When Liu Zi found out, he hanged Qu Chang.
Relevant departments petitioned to arrest Liu Yu, and the emperor issued an edict to cut off Fan and Kangfu counties.
Three years later, the emperor ordered Yousi to say: It is said that benevolent government is to be close to one's relatives. This is an ancient truth.
In the past, King Dongping made mistakes and the relevant departments asked him to be deposed. I couldn't bear it.
I also asked for the reduction of the feudal state. I dare not be arbitrary, because he is the closest relative and has never been forgotten.
Now I am pleased to hear that he has repented, respects the art of practicing scriptures, is close to benevolent people, and does not ask for illegal requests from officials.
Didn’t the legend say that?
If you change it day by day, a gentleman will praise it.
Restore the closed counties that were removed before.
In the court meeting the following year, Shangshu asked for the books of the Confucius and the "Historical Records". The emperor asked the general Wang Feng about this matter, and replied: I heard that the princes went to court to recruit people, study articles, and correct laws and regulations. I did not mention anything that was not in line with etiquette.
Now that King Dongping has the honor to come to the court, he does not consider restraint and prudence to prevent mistakes, but asks for books, which is not the principle of court employment.
Some of the books of the philosophers are against the classics and slanderous saints, some record ghosts and gods, and believe in strange objects and strange phenomena; the "Historical Records" contains the treacherous strategies of the powerful forces in the Warring States Period, the strange strategies of the counselors when the Han Dynasty just emerged, catastrophic changes in the sky, and dangerous terrain: none of them are suitable for princes and kings.
Can't give it to him.
The excuse for disagreeing should be: The Five Classics were produced by sages, and everything is recorded.
The king is indeed willing to follow the right path. His masters and ministers are all Confucian scholars. He teaches and recites morning and evening, which is enough to correct his behavior and cheer his mood.
Small tricks undermine great righteousness, small principles are not understood, and may affect the long-term cause, so it is not enough to pay attention to them.
Those who are beneficial to the scriptures will show no mercy to the king.
What was said was reported to the emperor, and the emperor obeyed Wang Feng's words and refused to give it to King Si.
King Dongping Si died in the thirty-third year of his reign, and his son Yang King Liu Yun succeeded him.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, the ground of Wuyanwei Mountain swelled up on its own and was covered with grass, resembling the shape of a galloping road, and stood up on the side of the stone of Hushan Mountain.
Liu Yun and Queen Ye personally went to the stone to offer sacrifices, carved a stone like the stone in Hushan, used Shubeicao as a god, and offered sacrifices together.
In the third year of Jianping, Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and others relied on the favored minister Dong Xian to report the matter.
At this time, Emperor Ai was ill and disgusted with many things. He handed the matter over to the relevant departments, arrested King Yang and Queen Ye, put them in prison for interrogation, and sent wizard Fu Gong, maid Hehuan and others to curse the emperor during sacrifices and pray for Liu Yun to become emperor.
Liu Yun and Gao Shang, who knew about the disaster, observed the stars and said that the emperor's illness would definitely not be cured, and Liu Yun should win the world.
The standing stone symbolizes the rise of Emperor Xuan.
Relevant departments requested that King Yang be killed, and the emperor issued an edict to depose him and move him to Fangling.
Liu Yun committed suicide and Ye was executed and abandoned in the market.
In the seventeenth year of his reign, the feudal state was eliminated.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang wanted to change Emperor Ai's approach, so he petitioned the Empress Dowager to appoint Liu Yun's prince Liu Kaiming as King of Dongping, and he also appointed Liu Chengdu, the grandson of King Si, as King of Zhongshan.
Liu Kaiming reigned for three years and died without any sons.
He also established Xingkuang, the son of Liu Kaiming's elder brother Yanxiang Hou Liu Xin, as the king of Sechu, succeeding Liu Tilong.
Wang Ling assumed the position of regent, and Yizhan, the governor of Sejing, and Xingzhi of Leisubao planned to send troops to kill Yuling, and he was declared emperor.
The army was defeated and all were destroyed by Wang Ling.
Liu Tong, the Ai King of Zhongshan, was established as the King of Qinghe in the 52nd year of Niu. Three years later, he moved to Zhongshan, but he did not go to the feudal country because he was young.
In the fourth year of Jianzhao's reign, he died in his official residence and was buried in Duling. He had no sons and was cut off.
The Queen Mother went back to live in the Rong family of her relatives.
Emperor Xiaoyuan had three sons.
Queen Wang gave birth to Xiao Chengdi, Fu Zhaoyi gave birth to Liu Kang, King of Dingtao, and Feng Zhaoyi gave birth to Liu Xing, King of Zhongshan.
Liu Kang, the co-king of Dingtao, was established as King of Jiyang in the third year of Yongguang.
Eight years later, he moved to Shanyang King.
After another eight years, he moved to Dingtao.
King Dingtao Gong was loved by Emperor Yuan when he was young. When he grew up, he was versatile and familiar with music. The emperor valued him very much.
His mother Fu Zhaoyi was favored again and almost replaced the queen and crown prince.
The incident was recorded in "Emperor Yuan" and "Standard's Biography".
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he abided by the wishes of the late emperor and treated King Dingtao Gong differently from other kings.
He died in the 19th year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Xin.
Fifteen years after he ascended the throne, Emperor Cheng had no sons and was conscripted into the palace as the crown prince.
Because the prince wanted to serve as a great clan and could not only care about his private relatives, the emperor appointed Liu Jing, the son of King Chu Si, as King Dingtao to succeed King Gong.
When Emperor Cheng died and the crown prince ascended the throne, he was the Emperor Xiaoai.
Two years after he ascended the throne, he honored the King of Gong as the Emperor of Gong, placed his dormitory temple in the capital, and arranged the order of Zhao and Mu with the same etiquette as Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Tao Wangjing was changed to King Xindu.
Liu Xing, the Xiaowang of Zhongshan, was established as King of Xindu in the second year of Jianzhao.
Fourteen years later, he moved to the throne of Zhongshan. When Emperor Cheng was discussing the establishment of a crown prince, Kong Guang, the imperial censor, believed that "Shangshu" contained lessons from the demise of the Yin Dynasty and inherited the throne. When the elder brother died, the younger brother succeeded. King Zhongshan was the son of Emperor Yuan and should be the next emperor.
Emperor Cheng believed that King Zhongshan had no talent and they were brothers, so they could not enter the ancestral temple together.
Both Wang and Zhao Zhao wanted Emperor Ai to be the crown prince, so they made him the crown prince.
The emperor named Xiao Wang's uncle Feng Shen the Marquis of Yixiang, and also granted Xiao Wang Wanhu the title to express his comfort.
He reigned for thirty years and died. His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne.
After reigning for seven years, Emperor Ai died without a son, so he recruited Liu Shu, King of Zhongshan, to the palace and ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Ping.
The Empress Dowager believed that the emperor was a descendant of Emperor Cheng, so she established Liu Chengdu, the son of Taoxiang Qinghou, the grandson of King Shu Pingsi, as King of Zhongshan, succeeding King Xiao.
It was cut off when Wang Mang died.
Zan said: The descendants of Emperor Xiaoyuan are all over the world, but the heirs are cut off in the generation of his grandchildren. Isn't it God's will?
Huaiyang Xianyu was very smart among the princes at that time. He seduced him and almost fell into a state of immorality.
"The Book of Songs" says that greedy people are the black sheep, and this has been true in ancient and modern times.
