Ban's ancestors had the same surname as Chu and were descendants of Ling Yin Ziwen.
When Ziwen was born, he was abandoned in a field, and a tiger nursed him.
Chu people called breast-feeding "gu" and tigers "yuzhan", so they named it "guyugan" with the courtesy name Ziwen.
The people of Chu called the tiger "Ban", and his son named him "Ban".
The Qin State subtracted the Chu State and moved between the Jin State and the Dai State, so they took Ban as their surname.
In the last years of Qin Shihuang's reign, Ban Yi took refuge in Loufan and raised thousands of horses, cattle and sheep.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, the state imposed no restrictions on the common people. During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, Banshi dominated the border areas with wealth, went out and hunted, fluttered flags, played drums and played loudly, and died at the age of more than a hundred years old. Therefore, many people in the north used "一" as the character.
Ban Ru, the son of Ban Yi.
Ban Ru was praised by people in this state and county for his chivalrous and righteous actions.
Ban Ru's son is the squad leader and the official is the prefect of Shanggu.
Ban Hui, the squad leader's son, became the eldest son county magistrate due to his outstanding talents.
Ban Hui's son Ban Kuang was elected as Xiaolian and served as a Lang. He accumulated merits and was promoted to the rank of Captain of Henong. Da Sinong repeatedly wrote letters saying that he had high merits and entered the court as the captain of Zuo Caoyue's cavalry school.
In the early years when he became emperor, his daughter entered the palace as Jieyu. He retired and returned to his hometown. His family wealth reached a thousand gold and he moved to Changling.
Later, Changling was abolished, and all the ministers and famous officials there moved to Chang'an.
Ban Kuang has three sons: Banbo, Banbo and Banzhi.
Banbo studied the Book of Songs with Shi Dan when he was young.
The general Wang Feng recommended Banbo as a suitable attendant. The emperor summoned Banbo in the banquet hall. He was handsome, recited and preached very well, and he was worshiped as a regular attendant.
At that time, the emperor was keen on studying. Zheng Kuanzhong and Zhang Yu lectured on "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" in the Jinhua Palace every morning and evening. The emperor Shao ordered Banbo to study.
After understanding the righteousness, he discussed the similarities and differences with Xu Shang and was promoted to the captain of Fengche.
After the end of the year, the lecture activities in Jinhua Palace were suspended, and Ban Bo left the palace to associate with Wang and Xu's descendants. Living among the dandies was not his preference.
Because Ban's ancestral home was originally in the northern border, Ban Bo was born to be generous and generous, and repeatedly requested to be sent as an envoy to the Huns.
During the Heping period, Chanyu came to see him, and the emperor ordered Banbo to greet him at the foot of the fortress with amulets.
It happened that the Shi family and the Li family in Dingxiang area killed people because of their personal grievances, and also killed the officials who were chasing them. Banbo wrote a letter expressing his willingness to be temporarily appointed as the prefect of Dingxiang for a month.
The emperor sent his lieutenant general Wang Shun to come and escort Shanyu in place of Banbo. At the same time, he brought a seal and seal ribbon and appointed Banbo as the prefect of Dingxiang on the spot.
The people in Dingxiang heard that Banbo had always been of high status, was young, and had requested to govern this difficult-to-govern place. They were worried that he would use threats when he first arrived, and both officials and people were afraid of him.
After Bamber arrived, he greeted the elderly and old friends who had friendships with his grandparents and fathers, invited them together, served them with food and wine every day, and treated them like descendants serving their elders.
As a result, the county's official affairs became even more chaotic.
Those who were treated as distinguished guests by Bamber were all local celebrities. They were grateful for Bamber's hospitality. After getting drunk, they all advised Bamber to arrest a large number of thieves and inform the thieves in detail where they planned to escape and hide.
Bamber said: That's what I want from you.
So he summoned the chief officials of each county, selected shrewd and capable secretaries, and divided into teams to search. Even the hidden thieves could not escape, and all the thieves were captured within ten days.
The people in the county were very shocked and praised the god Banbo.
A year later, the emperor summoned Bamber.
班伯上书说想绕道故郡到祖坟前祭奠。

The emperor came down to Shao, and the prefect and the captain greeted Ban Bo.
So he summoned his clan members, showed favor according to their proximity and distance, and distributed hundreds of gold.
People were proud of this, and the older people wrote down the deeds.
On the way to Beijing, he suffered a stroke. After entering the capital, he recuperated from his illness in the name of serving Dr. Guanglu. The emperor gave him a very generous reward, and he could not be used for many years.
At the time when Queen Xu was deposed, Ban Bo's nephew supported the palace, and Li Ping, the waiter, was Jieyu, and Zhao Feiyan was the queen, so Ban Bo claimed to be ill.
After a long time, the emperor went out of the palace to visit Bamber. Bamber was very frightened and got up to go to court to pay his respects.
Since the death of General Wang Feng, Fuping Marquis Zhang Fang and Dingling Marquis Chun Yuchang began to be favored. If the emperor traveled incognito, he would sit in a carriage together and hold the reins of the horse; when he entered the palace, he would hold a banquet and drink, drink wildly with Zhao Feiyan, Li Ping and the servants, and talk and laugh loudly.
At that time, there was a painted screen placed in the tent of the carriage they were riding in. On it was a picture of Shang Zhou drunkenly relying on Daji to have fun all night long.
The emperor respected Banbo very much because he had just been appointed, so he turned around and pointed at the painting and asked Banbo: Shang Zhou was unethical, how could he reach this point?
Bamber replied: "Shangshu" says: "Listen to women's words. How can you indulge in such behavior in the court?"
As the saying goes, all evil must return to its homeland, nothing could be more extreme than this.
The emperor said: If this is not the case, what is the warning of this picture?
Bamber replied: Shang Zhou was addicted to wine, which was the reason why Wei Zi left him; the style calling was the reason why "Daya" lingered.
The origin of the sexual immorality warned against in the Book of Songs and the Book of Documents all lies in wine.
The emperor sighed and said, "I haven't seen Bansheng for a long time, and today I heard Zheng Zheng's words again!"
Zhang Fang and others were very unhappy. After a while, they took the opportunity to leave the palace under the pretext of going to the toilet.
At that time, Ting Linbiao of Changxin Palace sent people to see and hear these things.
Later, the emperor went to Shu Palace to see the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother cried and said: The Emperor's face has become thin and dark recently. The Ban Shizhong was originally recommended by the general, so you should favor him and bring him closer to you so that he can better assist your Majesty.
Instead, Marquis Fuping should be expelled from the court.
The emperor replied: Yes.
After Wang Yin, the chariot and cavalry general, heard about this, he suggested that the Prime Minister's imperial history had written about Fu Pinghou's crimes, so the emperor exiled Zhang Fang and made him a border captain.
Later, the emperor summoned Zhang Fang to the court again. The Queen Mother wrote to the emperor: What I said before has not yet worked. Today, Marquis Fuping has entered the court again. How can I remain silent?
The emperor apologized and said: Please allow me to carry out your will now.
At that time, Xu Shang was the Shaofu, and Shi Dan was the Guanglu Xun. The emperor then recruited Xu Shang and Shi Dan as Guanglu doctors. Banbo was promoted to Shuiheng Duwei, and together with the two teachers, he served in the middle school. Their salary was two thousand dan.
Whenever the emperor went to Shu Palace to see the Queen Mother, Banbo often followed him. When there were important events in the court, they were sent together to announce the emperor's intentions to the ministers.
The emperor also gradually became tired of entertainment and feasting, and started studying scriptures again. The queen mother was very happy.
Prime Minister Fang Jin wrote another letter, and Fu Qianhou Zhang Fang was eventually exiled from the court.
When Bamber died of illness at the age of thirty-eight, everyone in the court felt sympathy and regret.
Ban Zhen was knowledgeable and talented, and Shi Dan, the general on the left, promoted Ban Zhen as a virtuous and upright person. Ban Zhuan served as Yilang by responding to policy, and was promoted to the doctor of admonishment and the right Cao Zhonglang general. Together with Liu Xiang, he collated the secret collection of books.
Banbo often reported the matter of schooling, and was able to receive an imperial edict to study in front of the emperor.
The emperor valued his talent and rewarded him with a copy of the Book of Secrets.
At that time, the book could not be shown to the people. Even if King Shu Pingsi asked for "Tai Shi Gong" and the books of Zhu Zi in his uncle's honor, the general still told him that it was not possible.
See the "Biography of King Dongping" for details. Banbo also died young, and his son was named Bansi, who became famous in the world.
When Ban Zhi was young, he served as a regular attendant of Huangmen Langzhong. He was upright, upright and clean.
In his later years, Emperor Cheng made King Tao the crown prince and sent Zhongdun many times to ask his ministers for their opinions, but Ban Zhi did not dare to answer presumptuously.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he demoted Banzhi to the rank of captain of the Xihe vassal state and moved to the post of prime minister of Guangping.
When Wang Mang was young, he had a similar status to his brother Ban Zhi and had a friendly relationship. He treated Ban Bo like an elder brother and treated Ban Zhi like a younger brother.
After Banbo passed away, Wang Mang dressed in mourning clothes and sent rich funeral objects.
After Emperor Ping came to the throne, the Queen Mother came to the court to listen to the government, and Wang Mang presided over the government. He planned to bring peace to the world through culture and education, and sent envoys to various places to visit customs and collect carols, but Ban Zhi did not present any carols.
Gongsun Hong, the prefect of Langye, lectured about the disaster in the palace. The chief minister Zhenfeng sent his men to the two counties to persuade the officials and the people to talk about auspiciousness instead of disaster, and wrote a letter to impeach Gongsun Hong for fabricating ominous things.
The Queen Mother said: Those who do not promote virtue should be treated differently from those who talk about disasters.
Moreover, Ban Zhi is a virtuous person, and I sympathize with her family.
Gongsun Hong was thrown into prison alone and executed.
Ban Zhi was greatly frightened and wrote a letter of gratitude and apology, expressing his willingness to return the seal and join the court as Yanlingyuan Lang. The Queen Mother agreed.
Spend your life enjoying your original salary.
Therefore, the Ban family was not prominent during Wang Mang's time, and there were no major disasters.
At first, Emperor Cheng was generous by nature and could listen to straightforward opinions, so Wang Yin, Zhai Fangjin and others discussed the emperor's faults according to the law, but Liu Xiang, Du Ye, Wang Zhang, Zhu Yun and others offended the emperor wantonly. Therefore, everyone from the emperor's teacher Anchanghou, the emperor's uncle, the generals, brothers, ministers, ministers, relatives in the harem, Shi, Xu and other families who were favored were slandered.
Only Gu Yong once said: At the time of Jianshi and Heping, the dignitaries of the Xu family and the Ban family moved the previous dynasty, showing off in all directions, and gave excessive rewards, which made the inner palace empty. The favor you have received has reached the limit, and it is impossible to exceed it. But now, the favor received by the rising family cannot even be enjoyed by God, and it is ten times higher than the favor received by the Ban and Xu family mentioned earlier.
What Gu Yong said was intended to ridicule the Zhao family and the Li family, and did not criticize the Ban family.
Ban Zhi's son is Ban Biao.
Ban Biao, also known as Shupi, studied with his cousin Ban Si since he was a child. Ban's family has books given by the emperor, and the family is rich in wealth. Many scholars come from far away, including Bai Yangxiong, a friend of his father's generation, who does not fail to visit him.
Although Ban Si studied Confucianism, he admired the learning of Lao and Zhuang.
Huan Sheng wanted to borrow his books, and the class heir replied: People like Zhuangzi abandon the sage and wisdom, practice life and maintain their true energy, are quiet and nihilistic, and do not pursue fame and fortune. They return all things to nature. They only influence each other between teachers and friends, and are not manipulated by worldly forces.
If he fishes in a mountain ravine, then nothing in the world will be able to interfere with his will; if he lives in seclusion in a small mountain, nothing in the world will be able to change his happiness.
Not bound by saints, not tempted by people's kings and nobles, letting one's body indulge one's own will, people who talk about it find it difficult to name it, so it is very precious.
Now that you have been bound by benevolence and righteousness, you have tied the shackles of fame, you have convinced Zhou Gong and Confucius, you have spread the essence of Yan Hui and Min Ziqian, and you have been restrained by secular education, why do you need to show off by following the great ways of Lao and Zhuang?
In the past, a man went to Handan to learn how to walk, but he didn't succeed. Instead, he forgot the original way of walking, so he had to crawl back!
I'm worried that you will do the same, so I won't lend you the book.
This is how Ban Si behaves and expresses his opinions. Ban Biao only devoted himself to the way of saints.
At the age of twenty, Emperor Guangwu ascended the throne in Jizhou when Wang Mang was reduced.
At that time, Kaixiao occupied Longxi and supported the people to stand up for themselves and recruit heroes. Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself emperor in the Shu desert. The world was in chaos and the heroes were divided. The powerful ones connected prefectures and counties, and the smaller ones occupied counties.
Wei Xiao asked Ban Biao: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was destroyed, the Warring States Period was full of disputes, and the world was divided. It took several generations for the country to settle down. Could it be that the chaos of the Warring States Period would happen again today?
Will there be a person who will rise up to inherit the heavenly destiny? I hope sir can comment.
Ban Biao replied: The rise and fall of the Zhou Dynasty was different from that of the Han Dynasty.
At the beginning, the Zhou Dynasty established five levels of titles, allowing each vassal state to govern its own affairs. The royal family declined, while each vassal state became stronger and stronger. Therefore, in the last years of the Zhou Dynasty, disputes among the vassals occurred. Objective conditions determined all this.
The Han Dynasty inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty and established prefectures and counties. The emperor had autocratic authority, and ministers did not have the power of a century-old foundation. When he became emperor, his relatives had exclusive power. Emperors Ai and Ping were short-lived. The throne was not succeeded three times. The crisis appeared from above, but did not endanger the foundation.
Therefore, although the Wang family's dignitaries endangered the imperial court and could steal the throne and change the title of the country, they could not win the hearts of the people.
Therefore, after he ascended the throne, all the people in the world lamented the decline of the Han Dynasty. In the past ten years, due to external disturbances and internal troubles, various places had risen up one after another. People who founded the country were everywhere, claiming to be descendants of the Liu family, and they spoke the same words without any discussion.
The heroes who own the state and city today do not have the capital to inherit the foundation of the Seven Kingdoms from generation to generation. "Book of Songs."
Daya. It is said in "Emperor": The great Heaven looks down on the world with great clarity, supervises all countries, asks for people's decisions and gives them.
Nowadays, the people sing songs and sigh longingly for the Han Dynasty, and it is clear that the people's hearts are towards the Han Dynasty.
Wei Xiao said: What you said about the situation of the Zhou and Han dynasties is very true. As for just seeing that the ignorant people are accustomed to the Liu family name, they think that the Han Dynasty can be revived. What you say is crude!
In the past, when the Qin Dynasty lost power, Liu Ji raised an army and conquered the world. How could the people know about the Han Dynasty at that time?
Ban Biao was deeply touched by Wei Xiao's words, and lamented that it was difficult to stop his crazy and violent behavior, so he wrote "The Theory of King's Mandate" to remedy the situation.
That article read:
When Emperor Yao abdicated, he said: Shun, destiny has destined you to be the heir to rule.
Shun also surrendered the world to Yu according to destiny.
As for Ji and Yi, they all assisted Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty. Their glory benefited people all over the world, and their virtues were passed down to future generations. As for Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, they controlled the world.
Although they lived in different eras and had different methods of changing dynasties, they all responded to the destiny of heaven and obeyed the people's wishes.
Therefore, the Liu family inherited the imperial lineage of Emperor Yao, and the Liu family has been famous in history books for generations.
Tang Yao was the Huode, and the Han Dynasty was also the Huode. He began to raise troops in Daze, Pei County. The goddess cried at night to show the Red Emperor's talisman. In this regard, the emperor's national rule must have the virtues of Mingsheng and Xianyi, and the foundation accumulated over the generations, and then be sincere and understanding to the gods, and the flowing water will be exerted on the people, so it can be protected by ghosts and gods, and the people of the world will come to join them. I have never seen a person who can rise to the throne without a certain foundation and whose merits are not recorded.
The worldly people saw the rise of Emperor Gaozu from a commoner, but they could not understand the truth. They thought that they could draw their swords and rise up in troubled times. The lobbyists even compared the fight for the sky to chasing wild deer. You can get it if you are lucky and quick. They don't know that the power of the emperor is destiny and cannot be obtained by using bright force.
How sad!
This is exactly why there are so many rebellious officials and traitors in the world.
Like this, you are not only ignorant of the way of heaven, but also ignorant of human affairs.
Those hungry and homeless slaves, those who were wandering on the road due to hunger and cold, just wanted to have a piece of coarse clothing, a little food, and their biggest wish was just a piece of gold. However, they finally died in the ravine.
Why?
Poverty is also destiny.
What's more, how can the emperor's dignity, the wealth of the world, and the power of the gods be easily possessed?
Therefore, although he met the opportunity and secretly gained power, he was as brave as Han Xin and Ji Bu, as strong as Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji, and as smooth as Wang Mang, he was eventually cooked, beheaded, chopped into meat paste and his limbs were split. What's more, an unknown person, far inferior to the above-mentioned people, planned to seek the position of emperor.
Therefore, inferior horses cannot gallop thousands of miles, birds such as chaffinches cannot spread their wings and soar thousands of miles, rafts and thin materials cannot bear the heavy responsibility of pillars, and small people cannot preside over the great cause of the emperor.
"The Book of Changes" says that the tripod breaks its legs and spills the public food, saying that it is not qualified for its job.
At the end of the Qin Dynasty, the world's heroes elected Chen Ying as king. Chen Ying's mother dissuaded him and said: "Since I married into the Chen family, your family has been poor for generations. It is not auspicious to suddenly become rich. It is better to delegate military power to others. When things succeed, you can receive some favors from him. If things don't work out, others will be responsible for the disaster."
Chen Ying listened to his mother's words, and Chen was safe.
Wang Ling's mother also foresaw that the Xiang family would perish and the Liu family would prosper.
At that time, Wang Ling was a Han general, and his mother was captured by Chu. A Han envoy came to Chu land. After Wang Ling's mother saw him, she said to him: I hope you can tell my son that the King of Han has the spirit of an elder and will surely win the world. Let him serve the King of Han carefully and not have any second thoughts.
After speaking, he committed suicide in the face of Mo Shi to strengthen and encourage Wang Ling.
Later, the world really returned to the Han Dynasty, and Wang Ling became the prime minister and was granted the title of marquis.
With the intelligence and wisdom of ordinary people, they are able to deduce the subtleties of affairs and explore the key to misfortunes and blessings. They can also keep the family worry-free for generations to come, and their name will go down in history. Not to mention they act like men!
Therefore, poverty and enlightenment have their own destiny, and good fortune and misfortune lie in the individual! Chen Ying's mother understood the reason for decline, and Wang Ling's mother knew the reason for Xiao's rise. By examining these four points, the emperor's status can be judged.
As for Gaozu, there are five reasons for his rise: first, he is a descendant of Emperor Yao; second, his appearance is very strange; third, he is a powerful person with signs of an emperor; fourth, he is tolerant and tolerant; fifth, he is good at understanding people and making good use of them.
In addition, he treats people with integrity and likes strategies, is good at listening to other people's suggestions, and is afraid of not being able to catch up when he sees the advantages. He trusts others as much as he uses himself, adopts correct suggestions as naturally as mountains and rivers, and adapts to the current situation as smoothly as thousands of rivers returning to the sea. Before; imitating Zhou Gong's virtue of vomiting food, he was able to adopt Zhang Liang's strategy; he changed it by asking women to wash their feet while receiving visitors, so that they could hear Li Shiqi's lofty opinions; he adopted the advice of the soldier Liu Jing, cut off his nostalgia for his homeland, and settled in Chang'an. Admiring the reputation of the four reclusive old men, he reluctantly gave up their love and did not establish Mrs. Qi's master as the prince; he recruited Han Xin from ordinary soldiers and recruited Chen Ping from among the exiles. The heroes of the world tried their best and put forward many good strategies. This was all because Gaozu had great talent and broad strategies, so he became an emperor.
As for those auspicious and efficacious signs, I have probably heard about them.
At first, when she was pregnant with Emperor Gaozu, Liu Yu dreamed of intercourse with gods and men, thunder and lightning, dark clouds rolling, and strange things like dragons and snakes appearing.
When Gaozu grew up, he often had supernatural powers and was often different from ordinary people. Therefore, when Wang Lao and Wu Fu saw that Gaozu was possessed by a dragon when he was drunk, they wrote off all his wine debts. When Duke Lu saw Gaozu's strange appearance, he betrothed his daughter to him. Qin Shihuang stayed away in order to suppress the emperor's aura. Empress Lu knew where Gaozu was when she saw the clouds in the sky. When Emperor Gaozu was ordered to move to Lishan Road to slay the White Snake, and stationed in Guanzhong to the west, the five stars of gold, wood, water, fire and earth gathered together with Jingchen.
Therefore, both the Marquis of Huaiyin and the Marquis of Liu said that this was a gift from heaven, not a human effort.
Looking at the gains and losses of ancient and modern times, examining the success and failure of actions, examining the rise and fall of emperors in the past, and examining these five factors, if the choice is not commensurate with the status, the effective signs are different from this standard. If you are greedy for power and wealth, are uneasy about your duties and try to occupy a high position, do not know your own capabilities, and do not know the destiny, you will definitely not be able to protect your family, you will not be able to live a long life, you will encounter dangers as dangerous as a broken tripod, and you will be punished by being killed by iron.
The hero can truly understand this truth and wake up secretly. He is afraid of being condemned by heaven for his unreasonable actions. He has a far-sighted and thoughtful approach, and takes the approach of Wang Ling and Chen Ying who know their own duties, and eliminates the unreasonable actions of Han Xin and Yingbo to usurp the Han Dynasty. Think, if you don’t believe the lie that conquering the world can be achieved through conquest, understand that the emperor’s authority is naturally given by God, and don’t be greedy for things that are unattainable and be ridiculed by the two mothers Wang Ling and Chen Ying. This will extend the blessing to future generations and enjoy God-given blessings forever!
Knowing that Wei Xiao would never wake up, he fled to Hexi.
Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, appreciated his elegant conduct and went to visit him to discuss everything with him.
He was promoted to Maocai and served as Xu Ling, but he resigned from his official position because of illness.
After that, he was called upon by the Three Lords many times.
He is not careful about his salary when he is an official, so the place he goes to is not suitable for his purpose; his knowledge is not used by others, his knowledge is profound but not vulgar; his words are not flashy, and he talks but does not write.
Ban Biao had a son named Ban Gu. His father died when he was twenty years old. He wrote "Ode to You Tong" to express his aspirations by stating the good and bad fate.
The poem reads:
Ban Shifeng is a descendant of Zhuan Xiang. In the middle of his family's life, he showed great prominence in the Chu Kingdom. After the death of Chu, he left his homeland and became famous in the Jin and Dynasties in the north.
During the tenth reign of Emperor Mo, the officials were in high positions, and the banners and honor guards were displayed in the emperor's capital.
Wang Mang's crimes were so heinous that he almost killed the Han Dynasty. My father was in trouble and traveled far away, singing loudly. Finally, he saved himself and set an example for the people, escaping the evil like the benevolent people in ancient times.
The ancestors of Yimei were so virtuous and wise, and they were able to help the people even when they were poor. It's a pity that I have been alone since I was young. I am afraid that I will ruin my ancestral career and have no way to become famous. Am I not strong enough to pursue the career of my ancestors?
I deeply regret the decline of my family.
Living in seclusion in a secluded room is not enough for long thoughts. The years are long and my mind is far away. I dare not stand side by side with virtuous people and do good deeds. I am afraid of insulting my ancestors but stick to good deeds.
My heart and soul often intersect with the gods, and my sincerity often emerges in the middle of the night. In my sleep, I climbed the mountain and looked into the distance, as if I saw the god in the valley. He handed me the Gewan in his hand, and looked back at the valley to tell me not to fall into the abyss.
When I woke up in the morning, I lay on my back and meditated. My mind was hazy and I didn't know whether it would be good or bad. The Yellow Emperor is far away and I have no one to ask, so I can only make assumptions and guesses in my mind.
The book says that if you climb high and meet gods in a dream, you will be able to master Taoism without getting confused. Ge Wan is entangled in Zhimu, singing "South Wind" is a symbol of peace and happiness, and the fear in his heart is like facing the abyss, and he knows "The Book of Songs". The admonitions of two poems in "Xiaoya".
The dream has told me the symbol of auspiciousness, and the gods have given me warning. Why not join the officialdom as soon as possible to catch up with the wise men of the same generation? Time flies and will never come back again.
Although he has been warned by the gods and has doubts, he has been lingering for a long time and it is difficult to move forward. Only heaven and earth are long and infinite, and lonely life is so short.
There are many dangers in the complicated world, but there are too many difficulties and too little wisdom.
The ancient sages were able to wake up and extricate themselves when they encountered troubles, how could ordinary people prevent it in advance?
When Wei Shuwu held his hair to welcome his brother Cheng Gong, Cheng Gong instead shot him to death as an enemy.
Guan Zhong bent his bow to shoot Xiaobai, the enemy's son, but when Duke Huan came to the throne, he actually appointed him as prime minister. How unpredictable the changes of things are, who can predict its end and beginning!
Yong Chi was dissatisfied but was the first to be rewarded, Ding Gong showed kindness but was killed; Table Concubine caused disaster because of being favored, and Wang Tuzi gained luck because of sadness.
The world is so erratic, but the old man from Saibei is able to realize the truth that good and bad things depend on each other.
Shan Bao regulates the five internal organs in the body but is injured by the tiger. Zhang Yi practices etiquette externally but develops internal fever and dies. Some people say that the golden mean can save people from disaster, but Yan Hui and Ran You are not satisfied.
Jie Yan tried to lure Zi Lu to follow him, but it was useless to talk about the Tao of Confucius.
Zilu did not avoid the troubled times and was finally killed in the troubled times. Although the door of the traveling sage has not been saved, even if it is covered with meat, what will it do? Being too strong will lead to danger, and avoiding disasters depends on the way of the saints; the vitality of all things originates from the roots, and only when the roots are strong can the branches and leaves flourish.
The monsters go so far as to blame the shadow, which is a manifestation of not having attained the great path.
When Chongli prospered in Gaoxin, the Chu State was strong along the Yangtze River; the Qin State was powerful among the six countries because of Boyi; the Qi State prospered because of the Three Rites. Seeking benevolence and gaining benevolence is so sincere. It is also the same principle to look up to the way of heaven.
Zhou of Shang brutally killed three benevolent people, and King Wu of Zhou became the emperor after winning five of them. Li Ji cruelly killed his filial son. Duke Wen of Jin traveled in the year of the dragon and returned in the year of the tiger. King Wu of Zhou returned to his army and finally fulfilled his destiny.
The dragon salivated in the court of Emperor Xia, and after three generations, the Kingdom of Zhou was overthrown. In the palace of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, a female chicken turned into a male, which eventually led to disaster after five lifetimes.
The way of heaven is long, but the human world is short, and the distance is unknown. We must use divination to conspire with ghosts and gods, so as to understand the past and the present.
When Chen Wan was young, he learned through divination that he would occupy Qi in the future. There are records in history books that Duke Zhou used tortoise shells to predict fortune.
King Xuan of Zhou and Duke Cao Boyang foreshadowed their success and failure in their servants' dreams, while Duke Cheng of Lu and Duke Ling of Wei foreshadowed Mi Ming in their inscriptions.
Shu Xiang's mother heard Bo Shi's cries and knew that he was the one who lost the Jin Dynasty. Xu Fu could tell from the texture of Zhou Yafu's face that he would starve to death in the future.
The Tao is integrated and formed in nature. Although Taoism has different branches, its origin is the same.
Gods determine destiny before people's hearts, and destiny changes with people's actions.
Things in the world are like an endless stream, and life's misfortunes and blessings are met with gains and losses.
The three generations of the Le family are of the same origin, and although the changes have occurred from generation to generation, there is no lack of retribution.
He understands that the way of heaven is subtle and confusing, so everyone is confused.
Zhuang Zhou and Jia Yi had crazy and confusing ideas, and promoted the theory that life and death are equal to one disaster and one blessing. Talking loudly and going against one's true intentions is actually a fear of being a bull or a bird.
What is valuable is the wise sayings of saints, which are in line with nature and based on morality as the basis for decision-making.
Wealth and honor are what people want, but it is unethical and a gentleman would not dare to do so. Death is what people hate, but if you die because you abide by the Tao, you will not escape it. Observe the Tao without holding on to two ends. Set your mind to be light-hearted and not be burdened by material desires.
Although the three benevolent people acted in different ways, they were all committed to benevolence. Boyi and Liu Xiahui left and left differently but both gained a good reputation.
Duan Qianmu protected the Wei State by living in peace, and Shen Baoxu saved the Chu State by wearing thick calluses on his feet.
Ji Xin burned himself to protect the emperor, and Sihao insisted on his integrity without being confused.
Even plants and trees are divided into categories. People who can practice the way of benevolence and righteousness will surely gain honor.
A person's reputation should be immortal after death. This is the right path followed by the sages.
Guantian.com is grand and inclusive. It actually assists integrity to protect kindness and seeks the way of the sages to save the world. A virtuous person will have like-minded friends, and an honest person will definitely get help from others.
The beautiful music of Yu Shun's "Shao" attracted the phoenix to come to court, and even after a hundred years, Confucius forgot to listen to it.
King Su's articles showed etiquette and attracted Qilin, and the Han Dynasty pursued him in different generations.
Spiritual energy and magical power can move all things, and divine movement can reach subtle realms.
The ape raised by Ji took up his bow and turned his eyes, then howled, Li Guang's arrow shot and the stone opened.
How can one communicate with spiritual objects without sincerity? Who would believe it if there is no actual effect!
If you have mastered a small skill such as Yashe, you can still sense the Saruishi, not to mention being obsessed with the Dao!
From Confucius and Taihao until today, there have been many sages and sages in the Jingwei Heavenly Way. It's okay to die in the morning and evening, or forget about discarding your body. If I can live as long as Peng Zu and Lao Dan, I will tell those who come to me to express my deep love for you.
Luan said: Heaven created all things in the darkness and determined their lives. Only sages can do this by restoring their original intention and promoting the great road.
The vitality of heaven and earth moves all things, flowing around without stopping, preserving itself and leaving a good name, and setting an example for the people.
It is a great shame and pain to sacrifice one's life for righteousness and practice the Tao, but to be sorrowful because of external things!
If you stick to the good path and are not stained by popular customs, how can your color change?
If you guard the road and lead to seclusion, you will be as good as a god!
During the Yongping period, Ban Gu was appointed as Lang and was responsible for collating the royal collection of books. He concentrated on erudition and made writing his career.
Some people ridiculed that this had no practical use. At the same time, they felt that Dongfang Shuo, Yang Xiong and others thought they had not encountered the era when Su Qin, Zhang Yi, Fan Ju, and Cai Ze lived, and did not use upright principles to convince the other party and show the integrity of a gentleman, so I would like to answer those scoffers.
That article read:
The guest laughed at the host and said: I heard that sages have unshakable words and magi have unchangeable duties, but they only respect reputation.
Therefore, the sage must establish virtue, and secondly, meritorious service.
Virtue will not flourish especially after death, and merit will not be revealed if it is not at the right time. Therefore, the saint's actions are busy, coming and going. Confucius could not wait until the mat was warm while sitting, and Mozi could not wait until the chimney was blackened when he lived in peace.
It can be inferred from this that the implementation of morality is the primary task of the sages, and writing is only a minor matter for the sages.
Now you are lucky enough to be born in the era of sage, wearing loose clothes and broad belt, having a good reputation externally, high moral cultivation internally, and having good literary talent for a long time.
But it never raises its head and tail, flaps its wings and flutters its scales, transcends the mud, and soars above the wind and clouds, making people frightened when they see the shadow and terrified when they hear the sound.
In vain, I indulge in the classics with my head on my head, my body on my back with books, and I am resigned to living in a dilapidated old house, with no one to refer to me and no one to rely on.
Only meditate freely on the universe, think carefully in the details, and concentrate on memorizing silently, year after year.
However, talents cannot be brought into play during their lifetime, and their functions cannot be contributed to the contemporary era. Even if vertical and horizontal debates are like turbulent waves, and extravagant rhetoric is like spring flowers blooming, it is still useless for evaluating political achievements.
After thinking about it, it is better to consider methods that can be effective quickly, and adopt methods that can win the appreciation of the government and the public, so that one can have a prominent reputation while alive and have a beautiful title after death. Isn't it smarter?
The host smiled leisurely and said: Like the guests' comments, it is exactly what they say: they only see the snobbish surface, but do not realize the efficacy of morality. They guard the weak light in the corner of the room and do not look up to see the brilliant sun in the sky.
In the past, the king's way was desolate, the Zhou Dynasty lost its royal power, the princes fought for hegemony, the nations competed, the seven heroes fought, the Central Plains was divided, and the dragons and tigers fought.
The lobbyists rushed around to lobby and rescue him, and the rest followed the princes like the wind, and the number of people who became famous for a while was even more numerous. At that time, everyone used their abilities, and the lead sword could be used. Therefore, Lu Zhong defeated the enemy with one arrow, accepted a large amount of gold and declined, and Yu Qing abandoned the phase in the blink of an eye.
The kind of songs that are sung casually and the pleasant sounds are, when measured by the standard of music, are lewd, frivolous and unpleasant to the ears. They are not music like "Shao" and "Xia";
As for those who unite the country, those who join forces break up the alliance, flee to other countries to talk, and wander in foreign countries with plausibility. Shang Yang, with his imperial way and tyranny, went to Qin Xiaogong, and Li Sigao talked about current affairs to please Qin Shihuang. They all took advantage of the favorable opportunity. In a turbulent situation, relying on luck and using magic to seek temporary wealth, it will flourish in the morning and wither in the evening. Before the wealth can be seen, disaster has already come. The gangster regrets it in vain, let alone the gentleman, how can he use these methods?
Moreover, achievements cannot be built by hypocrisy, and reputation cannot be established by fraud. Han Fei cleverly used excuses to please the monarch, and Lu Buwei used deception to buy power with money.
Chapters such as "Speaking of Difficulties" were written, and Han Fei was also imprisoned; after Qin came to the throne, Lu Buwei's family was also killed.
Therefore, Confucius promoted wealth as floating clouds and Meng Ke cultivated the most powerful righteousness. Are they happy to make pedantic remarks?
But because the right path cannot be doubted.
Now the Han Dynasty has purged the world and eliminated dangers and conquered all directions. Strengthening national discipline and carrying forward the imperial principles, the foundation is deeper than Fuxi and Shennong, and the scale is broader than Huangdi and Tang Yao; the Han Dynasty rules the world, shining on the people like the sun, monitoring the people like gods, tolerating the people like the sea, and nurturing the people like spring.
Therefore, in the whole world, there are no different people who come from the same source, bathe in the vast and far-reaching virtues, and enjoy peace and happiness, just like branches attached to trees and leaves attached to branches, just like grass and trees growing in mountains and forests, birds and fish living in mountains, rivers and swamps.
Now it is unreasonable for you to talk about the Warring States period while living in peace and prosperity. You are confused by rumors and doubt the facts you see. It is unreasonable to try to measure Mount Tai with the standard of a mound or to measure the abyss with the depth of a trickle.
The guest said: Shang Yang and Li Si are the bad guys who caused chaos during the weekend. I already know their fate.
I would venture to ask, did the ancient scholars, those who lived up to their standards, helped the world become famous, and were praised by future generations, spent their entire lives in silence?
