In the "First Book", Duke Shen of Lu received poems from Fuqiu Bo and wrote exegesis, which is called "Shi of Lu"; the "Shi" explained by Yuan Gusheng of Qi is called "Shi of Qi"; the "Poetry" explained by Han Ying of Yan is called "Shi of Han"; all three schools have Ph.D. The "Poetry" explained by Mao Chang from Zhao is called "Mao Shi", and he did not establish a doctorate.
◆The biography of Gao Xu, named Ji Hui, was from Pingyuan County.
Great-grandfather Gao Jia taught the Yuan Emperor with "Lu Shi" and became the prefect of Shanggu.
Gao Xu's father, Gao Rong, taught Gao Jiaxue when he was young, and became Guanglu doctor during the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping.
Because of his father's relationship, Gao Xu served as a doctor and taught "Lu Shi" from generation to generation.
He is famous for his honest words and deeds.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the father and son pretended to be blind and ran away, refusing to serve as Wang Mang's officials.
When Guangwu came to the throne, the Grand Sikong Song Hong recommended him to be a high-ranking official, he was appointed as a Lang, and he was granted the title of Fu Lichang.
After resigning from the official position, he was recruited as a doctor.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of Grand Secretary of Agriculture.
He was famous in the imperial court for his official residence.
In the thirteenth year, he died in office and was given money and a cemetery plot.
◆Bao Xian's biography, Bao Xian's courtesy name is Ziliang, and he was born in Qu'a, Kuaiji.
When he was young, he was a Zhusheng and studied in Chang'an. He studied "Lu Shi" and "The Analects of Confucius" with his doctorate from Xijun as his teacher.
In the last years of his life, Wang Mang returned to his hometown and was arrested by red-browed thieves in the East China Sea.
For more than ten days, Bao Xian could chant sutras in the morning and evening freely. The red-browed thieves were surprised and sent him away.
So he lived in the East China Sea and built a monastery to teach.
After Guangwu ascended the throne, he returned to his hometown.
Huang Fan, the prefect, was appointed as the governor of the household, and wanted to find Bao Xian to teach his son.
Bao Xian said: Etiquette can be learned, not taught.
Huang Fan sent his son to ask him for advice, and he became his teacher. For filial piety and honesty, he was awarded the title of doctor.
During the Jianwu period, he entered the imperial court to teach the crown prince to study the Analects of Confucius, and also wrote chapters and sentences of the Analects of Confucius.
He was awarded the title of admonishment to the senior official, Shizhong, and Youzhonglang general.
In the fifth year of Yongping, he was promoted to Dahonglu.
Every time he came to see the emperor, the emperor would give him a few sticks.
If there is any doubt in the scriptures, Xiao Huangmen is often sent to his home to ask.
Xianzong believed that Bao Xian had the kindness of a teacher and lived a poor life. He often rewarded Bao Xian with rare silks and silks, and his salary was more than that of other ministers. Bao Xian was given to the poorest among the living.
When he was seriously ill, Xianzong went to see him in person.
Eight years later, at the age of seventy-two, he died in office.
His son Bao Fu was awarded the title of doctor, and he also used "The Analects of Confucius" to teach and teach in the imperial court.
◆In the biography of Wei Ying, Wei Ying was named Jun Bo and was a native of Rencheng.
It is easy to learn when you are young.
In the early years of Jianwu, he went to study for a doctoral degree and studied "Lu Shi".
He studied behind closed doors and made no friends, and everyone in the capital praised him.
Later he returned home and became a county official. He taught Ming scriptures and taught literature to King Yin.
He was dismissed from his official post due to illness and became a professor in Shan Zezhong, often with hundreds of students and disciples.
In the early years of Yongping, he became a doctor and was promoted to minister.
In the thirteenth year, he was promoted to Dahonglu.
In the eighteenth year, he was awarded Doctor Guanglu.
In the fourth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was awarded the title of "Five-Guan Zhonglang General".
Wei Ying was proficient in Confucian classics and had a pure moral character. He had thousands of disciples who came from far away to learn from him.
Suzong valued him very much, visited him many times, discussed problems in front of the emperor, and received special rewards.
At this time, the Confucian scholars of the capital were gathered at Baihu Temple to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics, and Wei Ying was asked to explain the difficulties. Chun Yugong, the servant, reported to the emperor. The emperor personally attended the meeting to preside over it, just like the old thing in Shiqu.
In the second year, Wei Ying was appointed as the governor of Shangdang and was awarded the title of cavalry captain. He died in office.
◆The biography of Fu Gong, Fu Gong's courtesy name Shuqi, was a native of Dongwu, Langfu, and the son of Situ Fuzhan's younger brother.
Fu Zhan's younger brother Fu An, whose courtesy name was Zhiwen, changed the chapters and sentences in order to clarify "Qi Shi" and wrote nine chapters of "Explanation". He rose to the rank of Guang Luxun. Fu Zhan had no sons, so he took Fu Gong as his queen.
Fu Gong has a filial nature and treats his stepmother with great respect. When he was young, he passed on the Fu An School and was appointed as a man.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of county magistrate.
He served for thirteen years and became famous for his political integrity and fairness.
Qingzhou selected him as a special scholar. He ranked first in Taichang's classics examination, was awarded a doctorate, and was promoted to the prefect of Changshan.
He built schools and taught more than one disciple, so Beizhou was mostly Fu's school.
In the second year of Yongping, he replaced Liang Song as the imperial servant.
In the fourth year, the emperor personally went to Piyong and during the ceremony, he conferred Fugong the title of Sikong. Confucian scholars considered it an honor.
At first, Fugong's father Fu An's chapter was too complicated, so Fugong deleted the redundant words and the final version was 200,000 words.
After reigning for nine years, he asked to go home due to illness and was granted a salary of thousands of dollars to last his life.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor came to Langfu and introduced Fugong, which was like a ceremony to meet the three princes.
In the winter of the second year of Jianchu, Suzong held a feast and called Fugong the third elder.
In the 90th year of his reign, he passed away in the first year of Yuanhe and was buried under the Xianjie Mausoleum.
His son Fushou was promoted to the prefect of Dongjun.
◆In the biography of Ren Mo, his courtesy name is Shuben. He was a native of Fan County, Shu County.
When he was young, he studied "Qi Shi", traveled to the capital, and taught his disciples for more than ten years.
When his friend Dong Fengde died of illness in Luoyang, Ren Mo personally pushed the deer cart to carry Dong Fengde's funeral to the cemetery, which made him famous.
He was a meritorious officer of the county and resigned due to illness.
Later, Ben died on the road at the funeral of his teacher.
When he was about to die, he told his brother's son Ren Zao: "My body must be sent to the teacher. If I am still conscious after death, my soul will not feel ashamed; if I am not conscious, I have to leave it alone."
Ren Zao listened to him.
◆Jing Luan's biography, Jing Luan's courtesy name is Han Bo, and he was born in Zitong, Guanghan.
When he was young, he studied scriptures with his teacher and traveled all over the seven states.
He was able to attack "Qi Shi" and "Shi Shi Yi", and also absorbed the pictures and latitudes of "Heluo", and wrote "Yi Shuo" and "Poetry Interpretation". He also wrote "The Internal and External Notes on Rites", which is called "The Rite Brief".
He also copied Fengjiao's miscellaneous books, listed the predictions, and wrote an article "Xingdao".
And wrote "Moon Order Chapters and Sentences".
His writings total more than 500,000 words.
He wrote many letters describing extraordinary disaster relief techniques.
The prefectures and counties were not established. End with life.
◆Xue Hanzhuan, Xue Hanzi Gongzi, a native of Huaiyang.
They have been studying "Han Shi" for generations, and both father and son are famous for their interpretation of the chapters and sentences of the scriptures.
When Xue Han was young, he passed on his father's studies and was particularly good at predicting disasters and prophecies. He often taught hundreds of students.
In the early years of Jianwu, he became a doctor and was ordered to compile the prophecies.
Among those who talked about "Poetry" in the world, Xue Han was ranked first.
In Yongpingzhong, he was the prefect of Qiancheng and had particularly good political achievements.
Later, he was convicted of the Chu incident and was imprisoned to death.
The most famous disciples were Jianwei Du Fu, Tantai Jingbo in Kuaiji, and Han Bogao in Julu.
◆In the biography of Du Fu, Du Fu was named Shuhe, and Qian was a native of Wuyang.
Very talented when he was young.
Learned from Xue Han and settled on "Korean Poetry Chapters".
Later he returned to his hometown to teach students.
Shen Yi is quiet, takes Tao as his pleasure, and every move is based on etiquette.
There were more than a thousand disciples, and they were later conquered by the hussar general Wang Cang of Dongping. When Cang came to the country, all the officials of the imperial family were recruited to supplement the royal family. Within a year, they all went back.
Du Fu was a doctor at that time and couldn't bear to leave. Cang heard about it and sent him off with carriages, horses and property.
Established Taiwei Mansion.
He built a junior high school and served as a bus commander. He only lasted a few months and died in office.
His "Poem Titles and Meanings" is passed down and recited by scholars, and is called "Du Junfa".
◆Zhao Xunzhuan, whose courtesy name is Bochun, was born in Shouchun, Jiujiang.
Great-grandfather summoned his ministers to serve as Shaofu during the reign of Emperor Yuan.
His father, Jianwu Zhong, was a county magistrate, and he was dissolute and unruly.
Zhao Xun studied "Han Shi" when he was young. He had extensive knowledge of classics and biographies, and was famous for his ambition and righteousness. The villagers say: Virtue and virtue call for Bochun.
He went out to serve in various prefectures and counties many times and recruited Situ Mansion.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, he was promoted to Captain of Cavalry and served as Suzong's minister.
He was awarded the title of General Zuo Zhonglang and taught the princes in the dynasty.
The emperor commended him and showed great favor to him. He was awarded the title of Grand Administrator Chenliu and was given swords, money and supplies.
In the second year of Yuanhe, he became Yin of Henan.
In the second year of Zhanghe, he was appointed as Kuaizuo Guangluxun. He died in office and was given a tomb to accompany the garden mausoleum.
His grandson was called Zhaoxiu, and he became the governor of Qingzhou.
◆The biography of Yang Ren, whose courtesy name is Wenyi, was from Langzhong, Bajun.
In Jianwu Middle School, he studied "Han Shi" as a teacher. After a few years, he returned home and taught his students quietly.
Serve as a county meritorious official, promote filial piety and integrity, and grant titles to men.
Taichang was appointed to Yang Ren as a doctor. Yang Ren himself believed that he was under fifty and should not continue his studies, so he went to the government to be elected.
Xianzong issued a special edict to supplement the Beigong Guards Order. The emperor introduced him and asked about the current political situation.
Yang Ren replied that he should be lenient in government, appoint wise men, and suppress arrogant relatives first.
There are also twelve things that are beneficial to the country, which are all urgent tasks of the world.
Xianzong commended him and gave him money.
After the death of Xianzong, all the noble families were vying to enter the palace. Yang Ren wore armor and held a halberd, and strictly guarded the door. No one dared to enter casually.
When Suzong came to the throne, all the Ma clans jointly accused Yang Ren of being cruel and cruel. The emperor knew about Yang Renzhong and liked him even more, and he was promoted to Fang.
Tolerance is the rule of government, and students are encouraged to teach and study history, so that they can all enter the school.
Among them, those who were proficient in classics were commended to their superiors, and some contributed to the court, which led to a great development of righteous learning.
More than a thousand hectares of farmland were cultivated.
He resigned from office because of his brother's funeral.
Later, Situ Huanyu Mansion was established.
There was Song Zhang, who was corrupt and illegal, but Yang Ren never spoke to him and sat at the same table. People at that time respected his integrity.
Later he became the Langzhong Order. Die in office.
◆Zhao Ye's biography, Zhao Ye's courtesy name is Changjun, a native of Shanyin in Kuaiji.
When he was young, he worked as a county official and was ordered to greet the postal supervisor. Zhao Ye thought it was shameful to do such a servant job, so he abandoned his carriage and left.
He went to Zizhong County, Qianwei, and went to Du Fu to study "Han Shi" and study it in depth.
After twenty years, he cut off contact with his family and refused to go back. His family held a funeral for him.
He returned after Du Fu's death.
The state called him to replenish his job, but he didn't do it.
There is a way to do it.
Die at home. ◆Biography of Wei Hong, courtesy name Jingzhong, a native of Donghai.
When he was young, he and Zheng Xing of Henan were both fond of ancient studies.
At first, Xie Manqing from Jiujiang was good at speaking "Mao's Poems" and provided exegesis for "Mao's Poems".
Wei Hong learned from Xie Manqing and wrote "Preface to Mao's Poems", which is very elegant and is still popular in society today.
Later, he received the "Guwen Shangshu" from the great Sikong Dulin and wrote the "Xunzhi" for the "Guwen Shangshu".
At this time, Xu Xun of Jinan worshiped Wei Hong as his teacher, and later studied with Du Lin. He was also famous for Confucianism, and ancient learning flourished.
Guangwu was appointed as Yilang.
Wei Hong wrote four chapters of "Old Rites of the Han Dynasty", recording miscellaneous events in Xijing; he also wrote seven poems, odes and poems, all of which have been handed down to the world.
After the ZTE, Zheng Zhong and Jia Kui wrote "Mao's Poems", and later Ma Rong wrote "Mao's Poems" and Zheng Xuan wrote "Mao's Poems".
"Qianshu" contains seventeen chapters of "Li", a biography of Lu Gaotang's life in Han Dynasty.
Later, Xiao Fenyong from Xiaqiu was granted the title of Hou Cang, who was from the same county, and Hou Cang was granted the title of Dai Sheng, the son of Dai De and De's elder brother, who was from Liang, and Qingpu, who was from Pei.
So those who were grateful were called "Da Dai Li", those who were Dai Sheng were called "Xiao Dai Li", and those who were Qing Pu were called "Qing Shi Li". All three families established doctors.
Kong Anguo presented fifty-six chapters of the ancient "Li" and six chapters of the "Zhou Guan Jing". His books were handed down from previous generations, and there were no famous writers.
After the ZTE, there were also "Da Dai" and "Xiao Dai" doctors. Although they were passed down from generation to generation, none of them became famous among the scholars.
During the Jianwu period, Cao Chong studied the Qing clan and passed it on to his son Cao Bao, who wrote "Han Rites" and the events are recorded in the "Qingyan Biography".
◆In the biography of Dong Jun, Dong Jun was named Wenbo and was a native of Zizhong County, Qianwei County.
Learn "Qingshi Rites".
His teacher was Da Honglu, Wang Lin.
In the middle of the Yuan Dynasty, he raised the Ming Sutra, promoted the animal sacrifice order, and resigned due to illness.
In Jianwu, he promoted filial piety and integrity and established Situ's mansion.
Dong Jun was well versed in ancient and modern knowledge and wrote many times about the pros and cons of political affairs.
At the beginning of Yongping, he was a doctor.
At this time, the five suburbs sacrifices and ancestral temple rituals and music were being created, as well as the majestic etiquette and uniforms. Dong Jun was often called to consult, and many of them were adopted. He was called Tongru at that time.
He has been promoted to general of the five sense organs, and often teaches more than a hundred students.
Later, he was demoted to the rank of Cavalry Commander due to some circumstances. He died at home when he was more than seventy years old.
During the Zhongxing Dynasty, Zheng Zhong wrote the "Zhou Guan Jing", and later Ma Rong wrote the "Zhou Guan Zhuan", which was awarded to Zheng Xuan, and Zheng Xuan wrote the "Zhou Guan Annotation".
Zheng Xuan originally studied "Xiao Dai Li", but later used ancient scriptures to proofread it and adopted the best meanings in the ancient scriptures, so it was called Zheng's study.
Zheng Xuan also annotated forty-nine chapters of the "Book of Rites" passed down by Xiao Dai, which together are called "Three Rites".
According to the "Previous Book", both mother and son of Qi and Hu conferred the title of "Gongyang Chunqiu" to Duke Ying of Dongping, Duke Meng of Donghai was granted the title, Mengqing was granted the title Suimeng of Lu, and Suimeng was granted the title of Yan Pengzu of Donghai and Yan Anle of Lu.
Peng Zu studied under the Yan family of "Chun Qiu", Anle studied under the Yan family of "Chun Qiu", and Xia Qiu Jianggong passed down the "Gu Liang Chun Qiu". All three schools have Ph.D.
Jia Yi, Taifu of Liang Dynasty, compiled the "Exegesis of Zuo's Biography in the Spring and Autumn Period" and awarded it to Zhao Ren Guan Gong.
◆Ding Gong's biography, Ding Gong's courtesy name is Ziran, and he was born in Dongmin, Shanyang.
Study "Gongyang Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Ding Gong was a shrewd scholar. He often taught hundreds of students and was often called upon by the prefectures and counties.
In the early days of Jianwu, he served as an admonition to the officials and doctors, and was granted the title of Marquis within the Pass.
In the eleventh year, he was promoted to Shaofu.
His disciples came from far away, and there were thousands of them on the list, and they were called great Confucians in the world.
Taichang Louwang, Shizhong Chenggong, Changshui School Captain Fan Gui, etc. were all students of Ding Gong.
In the 20th year, he was awarded the title of Jijiu Lieutenant and Cavalry Captain among his servants. He and Liu Kun, his servant, were all around Guangwu and asked them about everything.
Died in office.
◆Zhou Zechuan, whose courtesy name is Guidu, was born in Anqiu, Beihai.
When he was young, he studied "Gongyang Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" and taught in seclusion. He often had hundreds of students.
In the last years of Jianwu's reign, he summoned the Grand Sima Mansion and asked Cao to sacrifice wine.
It had only been a few months since we were recruiting for Ph.D.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he was promoted to the Lingchi Order.
He was loyal to the public and self-denial, and pitied the lonely, old and weak. He was loved by both officials and the people.
In the fifth year of Yongping, he was promoted to General Youzhonglang.
Ten years, the teaching is too often.
Zhou Ze spoke out boldly and argued with the court many times based on his reasoning.
Later, Liao Xin, the governor of the North, was imprisoned for corruption and his property was confiscated. Emperor Xianzong gave Liao Xin's stolen goods to honest officials. Only Zhou Ze, Guang Luxun Sun Kan, and Da Sinong Changchong received special rewards.
At this time, the capital was peaceful and those in power encouraged each other.
Sun Kan, courtesy name Zigui, was from the Feng family in Henan.
He is well versed in classics, has ambitions, is honest and upright, and loves scholar-bureaucrats, but he has never taken away a single hair from others, and he prides himself on being honest and upright.
In the last years of Wang Mang, the world was in chaos, and the clan was old and weak on the battlefield. Sun Kan once fought hard and fell into the enemy's position. He didn't care and was injured in many places. It was only through him that the clan was saved from disaster. Everyone in the county admired his bravery for justice.
In Jianwu, he became an official in counties and counties.
He is fair and honest, and his salary and salary are not given to his family, but are provided to his guests.
Later, he served as a long-time official. He achieved good results wherever he went and was respected by officials and the people.
It's clear when you go there, it's not careless at all.
He once served as a county magistrate. When he visited the prefect, he walked slowly. The head of the pavilion reprimanded Sun Kan's imperial officials, so Sun Kan took off his seal and ribbon and left without going to the government.
Later, he served as Zuo Fengyi again. Because he was impatient with his subordinates, the Sili school captain dismissed him from his post.
A few months later, he was promoted to the imperial censor, and then promoted to minister.
In the eleventh year of Yongping, he was awarded Guang Luxun.
Sun Kan was honest and courageous in politics. He spoke out often and adopted many opinions.
In the 18th year, he asked to retire due to illness and was appointed as a lieutenant in charge of cavalry. During his tenure, Sun Kan's actions were similar to Zhou Ze's, so the capital's title was Ergui.
In the twelfth year of Yongping, Zhou Ze was appointed as Situ's deputy, which was equivalent to actual teaching.
Zhou Ze has a simple temperament, does not value dignity and formality, and is not expected to be a prime minister.
Only a few months is too common.
Be honest in government, follow the rules, and respect the ancestral temple.
Often lying in the sick palace, his wife took pity on his old illness and went in to ask him what was wrong with him. Zhou Ze was furious and thought his wife had violated the fasting ban, so he arrested her and sent her to prison to plead guilty.
The world suspected that he pretended to be active.
At that time, I made up a sentence that said: If you are born in a disharmonious life, as a Taichang wife, you must fast for three hundred and sixty days a year and fast for three hundred and fifty-nine days.
In the 18th year of Yongping's reign, he was awarded the title of Captain of Cavalry in Shizhong.
Later, he changed the name of "three old and five" many times.
Jian retired from junior high school and died at home.
◆Zhong Xingzhuan, Zhong Xingzi Wen, a native of Ruyang County, Runan County.
When he was young, he studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" from Shaofu Ding Gong.
Ding Gong recommended that Zhong Xing was good in knowledge and conduct. Guangwu summoned him and asked him about the classics and principles, and his answer was very clear.
Guangwu commended him and awarded him the title of Langzhong, and he was promoted to Zuozhonglangjiang.
The imperial edict was issued to determine the chapters and sentences of the Spring and Autumn Annals, delete duplications, and use them to teach the crown prince.
He also asked the princes of the clan to learn chapters and verses from Zhong Xing.
Seal the customs within the territory.
Zhong Xing himself believed that he had no merit and did not dare to be knighted.
The emperor said: "Master taught the prince and the princes a lesson. Isn't this a great achievement?"
Zhong Xing said: My teacher is Ding Gong.
So Ding Gong was granted the title again, but Zhong Xing still resolutely resigned and refused to be knighted. Died in office.
◆The biography of Zhen Yu, a long essay with the character Zhen Yu, was born in Anqiu, Beihai.
Be quiet and self-sufficient, not seeking fame or fortune.
Studying "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals", there are often hundreds of students and professors.
During the Jianwu period, he worked for the prefectures and counties, was recruited and awarded doctors, and was promoted to Prince Shaofu. He died in office.
Zhen Yu passed on his legacy to his son Zhen Pu, who passed it on to his son Zhen Cheng. Cheng was very fond of learning and did not care about housework. He often taught hundreds of apprentices.
Because Zhen inherited the inheritance from three generations, all the Confucian scholars obeyed him.
He built the junior high school and promoted filial piety and integrity. He died when Liang Xiang was appointed.
The descendants continue to pass on their knowledge.
◆Lou Wangzhuan, the second son of Lou Wang, was born in Yongqiu County, Chenliu County.
When he was young, he studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
He has a clean conduct and is well-known in the village.
In Jianwu, King Xu of Zhaojie heard about his high reputation and sent an envoy to offer him jade and silk to ask him to be his teacher, but Lou Wang refused.
Later he became an official in the county.
In the early years of Yongping, he served as Shizhong and Yueqi Xiaowei, and gave lectures in the palace.
In the 16th year of Yongping's reign, he was promoted to chief minister of agriculture.
In the eighteenth year, Dai Zhouze did too much.
In the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was demoted to the rank of Taizhong doctor due to circumstances, and later became Zuo Zhonglang general.
He was tireless in teaching students and was known as the leader of Confucianism in the world, with more than 9,000 students.
In the 80th year of Yongyuan's twelfth year, he died in office. Thousands of students came to pay his respects to him. Confucians considered it an honor.
◆Cheng Zengchuan, courtesy name Xiusheng, was born in Nanchang, Yuzhang.
He studied in Chang'an and studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" for more than ten years. Later he returned home to teach. Hundreds of people including Gu Feng of Kuaiji were his students.
He wrote more than 100 books, all of which are general explanations of the Five Classics, and also "Mencius Chapters".
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, he was promoted to Xiaolian and promoted to Haixi Ling. He died in office.
◆The biography of Zhang Xuan, whose courtesy name is Jun Xia, was born in Heyang, Hanoi.
When he was young, he studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" and mastered several techniques.
In the early days of Jianwu, he cited Ming classics, supplemented Hongnong's literature, and was promoted to Chencang County Cheng.
He was pure and inactive, concentrating on studying the scriptures. When he was teaching, he often did not eat all day long.
When someone discusses a problem with him, he often puts forward the theories of various schools so that he can choose the one he thinks is appropriate. All Confucian scholars admired his erudition, and he had more than a thousand students.
When Zhang Xuanxian was the county magistrate, he once went to the government for work. He didn't know where the officials were, so the officials told his subordinates to reprimand him.
At that time, You Fufeng Langyan Xu Ye was also a great Confucian. Hearing that Zhang Xuan was a living being, he summoned him to try and talk to him. He was shocked and said: "When we meet today, I really understand my ignorance!"
Because he was invited to the court, he debated all day.
Later, Zhang Xuan resigned from the official position, was promoted to be filial and honest, and was awarded the title of Lang.
At that time, there was a shortage of doctors in "Yanshi". Zhang Xuan won the first place in the examination and was awarded the doctorate.
After a few months, all the students came to tell Zhang Xuan that he also talked about "Yan Family" and "Ming Family" and should not specialize in "Yan Family" as a doctor.
Guangwu asked him to return to his post temporarily and die without being promoted.
◆The biography of Li Yu, whose courtesy name was Yuanchun, was from Qixian County, Fufeng County.
I studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" when I was young.
Thoughtful and focused, well-read. He was very famous in Taixue and was highly appreciated by Ban Gu, a fellow county man.
Ban Gu recommended Li Yu to the hussar general Dongping Wang Cang, and all the dignitaries in the capital were vying to make friends with him.
The prefectures and counties asked for summons. After Li Yu arrived, he often resigned due to illness.
He was once a professor in Shendi, and had hundreds of students and disciples.
Also studied ancient science.
I once read "Zuo Shi Zhuan". Although I thought the literary style of "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was good, I thought it was not in line with the profound meaning of the saint. In the previous life, Chen Yuan, Fan Sheng and others had many criticisms. They quoted prophecies from illustrations and did not follow the logic, so they wrote forty-one chapters of "Nan Zuo Shi Yi".
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Weiwei Ma Liao promoted Li Yufangzheng to the post of Yilang.
Later he was awarded a doctorate.
In the fourth year, Li Yu was ordered to discuss the "Five Classics" with other Confucian scholars at Baihu Temple. Li Yu used the meaning of "Gongyang" to argue with Jia Kui.
Then he was promoted to Shangshu Order.
When Ma was deposed, Li Yu was dismissed from office and returned home because he was promoted by Ma Liao.
After more than a year, he conquered again, was promoted to a servant, and died in office.
◆He Xiu's biography, He Xiu's courtesy name is Shaogong, and he was a native of Fan County, Rencheng County.
His father served as Shaofu.
He Xiu was a simple man and stammered in speech, but he had profound thoughts and studied the Six Classics intensively. No Confucian scholar at that time could catch up with him.
Because he was the son of a minister, he was not liked by the doctor, so he left in a hurry.
If you are not an official in a state or county, everything you say and do must be in line with etiquette.
Grand Tutor Chen Fan recruited him to participate in political affairs.
Chen Fan failed, so he was convicted and deposed, and he was prohibited from serving as an official. So he wrote "Spring and Autumn Gongyang Exegesis", meditated deeply, and did not leave the house for seventeen years.
There are also annotations and textual researches on "The Classic of Filial Piety", "The Analects of Confucius", and "Feng Jiao Qi Fen", which are all full of references and do not stick to words.
He also used "Spring and Autumn" to refute more than 600 articles about Han Dynasty affairs, which wonderfully captured the original meaning of "Gongyang".
He Xiu was also good at calculus, and together with his teacher, Dr. Yang Bi, he supplemented Li Yu's thoughts and wrote "Gongyang Mo Shou", "Zuo Shi's Late Death", and "Gu Liang Failed Disease".
The party ban was lifted and Situ was recruited.
The princes of the group expressed that He Xiu had profound Taoism and should participate in the war and make suggestions. The flattering ministers were not happy with him, so he was appointed as an advisor. He made many loyal suggestions and was promoted to an admonishment official. He died in the fifth year of Guanghe at the age of fifty-four.
◆Fu Qianzhuan, Fu Qian's courtesy name is Zishen. His first name was Zhong, also known as Zhi, and later changed to Qian. He was from Rongyang, Henan.
When he was young, he worked hard and determined to study in Imperial College.
He was talented and good at writing articles. He wrote "The Chun Qiu Zuo Shi Zhuan Jie", which is popular up to now.
He also used "Zuo Zhuan" to refute the sixty articles on Han affairs refuted by He Xiu.
Due to his filial piety and integrity, he was promoted slightly, and in the last years of Zhongping, he was awarded the title of Governor of Jiujiang.
After he was dismissed from office, he was involved in chaos and died of illness on the road.
He has written more than ten articles in total, including fu, stele, edict, secretary, "Lianzhu" and "Nine Indignations".
◆The biography of Yingrong, whose courtesy name is Ziyan, was born in Changping County, Chen State.
He was erudite and proficient in the biography of Zuo Shi in the Spring and Autumn Period. He worshiped Taiwei Yang Ci as his teacher.
The county promoted him as Xiaolian, the state recruited him, and he was recruited by public transport, but he was not accepted.
In Chupingzhong, he avoided chaos in Jingzhou and gathered more than a thousand disciples.
Liu Biao was appointed as the prefect of Wuling but refused to go.
He wrote more than 50,000 words of "The Regulations of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period" and died in Jian'an.
◆Xie Gaizhuan, Xie Gaizhiwenyi, was from Zhangling, Nanyang.
He was familiar with "Chun Qiu Zuo Shi" and was a famous Confucian scholar at that time with hundreds of disciples.
During the Jian'an period, people from Hedong were happy to write detailed notes on "Zuo's" and asked Xie Gai about dozens of difficult things. Gai gave him explanations one by one, which was called "Xie's Interpretation" and became popular in society.
He was employed as a carriage commander, but because his parents were old, he resigned due to illness.
I wanted to return to my hometown, but the road in Jingzhou was blocked, so I couldn't go.
Kong Rong, the Shaofu, wrote a letter recommending him: I heard that Emperor Gaozu created great achievements, Han Xin and Peng Yue conquered riots, and Lu Jia and Shusun Tongjin wrote the "Book of Poems".
Guangwu Zhongxing, Wu and Geng assisted, Fan Sheng and Wei Hong talked about the old business of poetry and calligraphy, so they were able to use both civil and military forces, which became a long-term peace and stability plan.
The emperor's holy virtue is pure and clear, just like the second ancestor. He has suffered from misfortune but has been happy for three years.
Today, my father's eagle is flying, Uncle Fang's Han is flying, and Master Wang's electric bird of prey has been destroyed. The world is at peace and there is no need for conquest. Instead, we should visit famous scholars to take charge of etiquette and discipline.
I think that Xie Gai, the former chariot commander, has the good temperament of Zeng Shen and Shi Yu, as well as the literature of Bu Gao and Yan Yan. He is well-versed in books, and has read all the ancient and modern classics. He can handle problems with ease, has no doubts, has a clean character, has extraordinary ethics, and loves the ancient roads.
There are few who can match him, near or far. Now Xie Gai wanted to resign and go home because his parents were old and sick, but the road was difficult and he couldn't return home. He made the talented people flee with Pu Pu, crossed the mountains and rivers, and fell into Jingchu, never to return.
From now on, it would be troublesome to give away female musicians to lure Yu Yu, and to engrave statues to ask for help from Fu, wouldn't it be troublesome?
I thought I wanted to find where Xie Gei was and call him back.
The Chu State prevented Sun Qing from leaving the country, and the Han Dynasty pursued Kuang Heng in the plains, respecting Confucianism and learning, for fear of losing talented people!
In the book, he was ordered to be summoned and returned, and he was awarded the title of Yilang. He died of old age.
In Jianwu Zhong, Zheng Xing and Chen Yuan studied Chunqiu Zuoshi.
At that time, Han Xin was ordered by the Ministry of Finance to write a letter to establish a doctor for "Zuo Shi". Fan Sheng and Han Xin could not decide, so Chen Yuan wrote a letter praising "Zuo Shi" and named Li Feng of Wei County as a doctor of "Zuo Shi".
Later, those shallow and stubborn people among the Confucian scholars argued many times in the court.
After Li Feng's death, Guangwu finally violated everyone's opinions and stopped filling the doctorate.
◆The biography of Xu Shen, named Shuzhong, was from Zhaoling, Runan County.
He has a simple and honest personality. When he was young, he studied scriptures extensively. Ma Rong often praised and respected him. People at that time praised him and said: Xu Shuzhong's research on the Five Classics is unparalleled in the world.
He served as a meritorious officer in the county and was promoted to Xiaolian. He was promoted again and appointed as the county magistrate of Lujiao.
Die at home.
First, Xu Shen believed that there were good and bad interpretations of the Five Classics, so he wrote "The Different Meanings of the Five Classics" and 14 chapters of "Shuowen Jiezi", both of which have been handed down to the world.
◆Cai Xuan's biography, Cai Xuan's courtesy name Shuling, was from Nanton, Runan County.
Having learned the Five Classics well, there are often more than a thousand disciples, and there are 16,000 registered disciples.
Even conquest and expansion are not enough.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he specially ordered Yilang to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics, which was in line with Emperor Shun's wishes.
When he was promoted to minister, he became the prefect of Hongnong and died in office.
Historians commented: After Guangwu became middle-aged, he used fewer troops and focused on Confucian classics. From then on, the social atmosphere gradually became simpler.
Those who wear Confucian clothes, talk about the morals of the previous kings, travel around the countryside, and gather in private lecture houses all over the country.
As for the place where the doctor is located, there are people who have traveled thousands of miles to carry food and live in exquisite houses, often in the thousands. Those famous scholars who have opened their doors to teach disciples have no less than ten thousand students on the list. They are all professional professors and there are no errors or impure heresies.
Some even argue in the court, form cliques in private, formulate complicated regulations, and visit hermits in caves to formulate a family's doctrine.
That’s why Yang Xiong said: Today’s scholars are not only eloquent, but also a little frustrated.
Originally, there was only one principle of books, which meant unity. People who are well-educated cannot change, so ordinary people despised them for being stubborn, and Yang Xiong said that all the noisy knowledge was learned from teachers.
And to become famous, not many people really come from far away. It's so ignorant and unintelligible.
But what they talk about is benevolence and righteousness, and what they teach is the method of saints.
Therefore, everyone knows the outline of king, minister, father and son, and every family knows the way to return from evil to righteousness.
During the reigns of Emperors Huan and Ling, the monarch's education was corrupted, the discipline of the court was weakening day by day, the country was in constant chaos, and no one with average intelligence or above knew that the country was falling apart and it was difficult to maintain it. But the powerful ministers who hold the power have no conspiracy to usurp the throne, and the heroes and nobles succumb to the opinions of the despicable people. This is because everyone recites the words of the late king, and the subordinates are afraid of rebellion and obey the situation.
As for disciples like Zhang Wen and Huangfu Song, they have made great contributions to half of the world, and their prestige spreads far and wide. They look up and look forward to their great achievements, but they still devote themselves to the faint master. When Han Zuo died, the gods and men were all gone, and then the heroes of the world rose up together, and Cao Pi succeeded to the throne.
Isn't it the merit of Confucianism to find out the reasons for the decline but still delay it for such a long time?
Therefore, it is not accidental that the merits of scholars are commended in the classics of ancient teachers. Its significance is extremely far-reaching.
Disobeying the Spring and Autumn Annals is a crime of murder and death. What an important thought this is.
