◆Preface to the Biographies of Scholars: Once upon a time, during the reigns of Wang Mang and Gengshi, the world was in turmoil, rituals and music collapsed, and domestic documents were incomplete. Guangwu Zhongxing was fond of classics. Before he ascended the throne, he visited refined scholars, collected incomplete classics, repaired omissions, and collected prose. In the past, scholars from all over the world mostly fled into the mountains and forests with their books in their arms.
From then on, they all gathered in the capital carrying books. Fan Sheng, Chen Yuan, Zheng Xing, Du Lin, Wei Hong, Liu Kun, Huan Rong and others also came one after another.
Therefore, the country established doctors of the Five Classics, and each taught students according to his own family method. There were Shi, Meng, Liangqiu, and Jing in the Yi, Ouyang, and Xiaoxiahou in the Shangshu, Qi, Lu, and Han in the Shi, Dai and Dai in the Rites, and Yan and Yan in the Spring and Autumn. There were fourteen doctors in total, and Taichang took the lead in turn.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Taixue was built, and ancient models were studied. Bamboo bamboo rafts, wooden beans, and shields and axes used for dancing were all listed in Taixue. Students wearing straight collars and learning square steps walked slowly in it.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Piyong, Mingtang and Lingtai were built.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and saluted in person.
The emperor began to wear a crown that reached the sky, and wore the clothes of the sun, moon and stars. He was a chariot with dharma objects.
After the guests were dined and the rituals with the princes were completed, the emperor was sitting down to give a lecture. Confucian scholars were holding scriptures and asking questions. There were countless ministers and scholar-bureaucrats who walked around the bridge gate to watch and listen to the lecture.
After that, for the descendants of the meritorious officials and the last members of the four surnames, separate schools were established, and talented people were selected to teach. All the people from Yulin in Qimen were taught the chapters and verses of the "Book of Filial Piety", and the Xiongnu also sent their children to school.
Beautiful! So grand! It flourishes in Yongping! When the junior high school was built, the Confucians gathered at Baihu Temple to assess similarities and differences for several months.
Suzong personally came to give instructions. For example, in the third year of Emperor Xuan's Ganlu, he discussed the story in Shiqu Pavilion with Confucian scholars Wei Xuancheng, Liang Qiuhe and others. He ordered Shi Chen to write "White Tiger Tongyi".
He also ordered the talented students to receive "Guwen Shangshu", "Mao Shi", "Gu Liang" and "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu". Although they did not establish academic officials, they all promoted Gao Di to be a lecturer and give them a close handle. This was to catch the omissions and recluse, and to attract many families.
Xiaohe also visited Dongguan many times and read many books.
When Empress Deng exercised the power of the emperor, many scholars were slack.
At this time, both Fan Zhun and Xu Fang wrote letters stating the importance of teaching, and saying that there were too many Confucian positions for which they were not qualified, so they ordered the ministers to carefully select, and all the doctors in the three departments who were proficient in Confucian classics were elected.
After Emperor An took over the government, he did not pay attention to art and literature. Doctors reclined on seats without giving lectures. Friends looked at me and I looked at you. They were lazy and undisciplined. The school building was also ruined and became a vegetable garden. Here, shepherds and woodcutter gathered firewood and cut grass.
Emperor Shun was inspired by Zhai Youfu's words, so he rebuilt the school and built a total of 240 rooms and 1,850 rooms.
After taking the Ming Jing examination, the first disciples were recruited, and ten members of the first and second departments were added. Except for the senior scholars in the county and country, all the disciples were recruited.
In the first year of Benchu, the Empress Dowager Liang issued an edict: All the generals, down to six hundred stones, would send their children to school. Every year, they would dine with guests and gather with the princes in this month. This was a common practice.
Since then, the number of people studying abroad has increased, reaching more than 30,000 students.
However, the chapters and sentences gradually became sparse and more pompous, and the Confucian spirit declined.
The party members were executed, and most of the famous and philanthropic people were exiled and abandoned. Later, they accused each other out of anger, some secretly traded gold goods, and changed the characters of the Lantai lacquer script to match his private documents.
In the fourth year of Xiping's reign, Emperor Ling ordered all the Confucian scholars to rectify the Five Classics and engrave them on stone tablets, using ancient Chinese, seal script, and official calligraphy to verify each other.
At first, Guangwu moved the capital back to Luoyang, and those documents and secretaries were carried in 2,000 vehicles. From then on, the number was three times as many as before.
When Dong Zhuo moved the capital, the officials and the people were disruptive, and the classics and articles collected in Piyong, Dongguan, Lantai, Shishi, Xuanming, and Hongdu were lost one after another. The large ones were connected into curtains, and the small ones were made into bags.
When Wang Yun packed up and transported to Chang'an, there were only more than seventy cars. The road was difficult and half of them were lost!
Later, there was great chaos in Chang'an, and they were all burned down and wiped out!
There are many scholars in Tokyo, so it is difficult to record them in detail. Now we only record those famous scholars who can understand the classics. As "The Scholars", if there are biographies, we will not re-record them.
If it is due to the succession of teachers, it should be marked as a certificate, and it should also be written here.
"The First Book" says: Tian He passed the Book of Changes to Ding Kuan, Ding Kuan taught Tian Wangsun, and Wangsun taught Peiren Shi Yan, Donghai Mengshan, and Langji Liangqiu He. Therefore, "Yi" has Shi, Meng and Liangqiu's studies.
In addition, Jingfang of Dongjun County received the Book of Changes from Jiao Yanshou of the Liang Kingdom, and became known as the Jingshi School.
There was also a direct biography of "Yi" by Fei from Donglai, who taught it to Wang Heng of Langfu and became a scholar of Fei's family.
This book is written in ancient Chinese characters and is titled "Gu Wen Yi".
It is also said that Pei Ren Gao passed down the Book of Changes and taught his sons Gao Kang and Lanling Wu Jiangyong, who studied under the Gao family.
The four families of Shi, Meng, Liangqiu, and Jing all had Ph.D.s, but the Fei and Gao families did not.
◆In the biography of Liu Kun, Liu Kun was named Huan Gong, a descendant of Chen Liudong, a descendant of King Xiao of Liang.
Learn etiquette when you are young.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, he learned "Shi Yi" from Dai Bin, a native of Pei, and was able to play the elegant Qin and know how to clear the horn.
During Wang Mang's time, his disciples often numbered more than 500.
In the Spring and Autumn, when dining with guests, and shooting with the princes, they often prepare rituals, using plain wood gourd leaves as beans, mulberry and mugwort arrows, fearing that the ceremony will be neglected, they will sing "dodder" and poems as a festival.
Every time the ceremony is performed, the county magistrate Liu Kun often leads his officials to watch.
Wang Mang believed that Liu Kun had offended the imperial court by gathering disciples and performing lavish ceremonies privately, so he arrested Liu Kun and his family members and sent them to Waihuang Prison.
Soon, Wang Mang failed, and Liu Kun and his family were spared from punishment.
After the chaos in the world, Liu Kun took refuge in Fudu Mountain in Henan.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he was promoted to Xiaolian, but he refused to go and ran away to teach students in Jiangling.
Guangwu heard about it and appointed him as the Jiangling Order.
At that time, there were continuous fires in Jiangling County. Liu Kun often kowtowed to the fire, which could bring rain and stop the wind.
He was granted the title of Yilang and promoted to Shizhong and Hongnong Grand Administrator.
Previously, tigers were causing trouble on the Xiao and Heyi roads, making travel impossible.
Liu Kun was in power for three years and implemented benevolent government. Even the tiger carried its cubs across the Yellow River.
Guangwu heard about it and thought it was strange.
In the 22nd year of Jianwu's reign, he was recruited to replace Du Lin as Guang Luxun.
The imperial edict asked Liu Kun: You used to go against the wind and put out fires in Jiangling, and later you became the prefect of Hongnong and crossed the Yellow River north. What kind of policies did you implement that led to this kind of thing?
Liu Kun replied: This is just a coincidence.
People around him laughed at his simplicity.
The emperor smiled and said: This is what the elder said.
Let the people on the left and right write it down in the book.
He was ordered to teach the crown prince and more than 50 princes and princes.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of Captain of Cavalry.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he requested to return home because of his old age, and was granted a residence in Luoyang, with a salary of a thousand stones for life.
He died in the second year of Zhongyuan.
His son Liu Yi, also named Junwen, inherited the career of Professor Liu Kun and had many students.
In Yongpingzhong, he was the concubine among the princes.
He built junior high school and was promoted to Zongzheng. He died in office and took charge of Zongzheng for the rest of his life.
◆The biography of Wa Dan, whose courtesy name is Ziyu, was born in Yuyang, Nanyang.
"Mencius Yi" has been passed down from generation to generation.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he often retreated from the world to teach his students, determined not to be an official, and had as many as several hundred students. In the early years of Jianwu, he was slightly promoted and became a doctor. In the eleventh year of Jianwu, he was promoted to Dahonglu. He wrote seven chapters of "Yi Tong Lun". Wa Dan had profound knowledge, and the Book of Changes respected him and called him a great Confucian.
He died in office for seventeen years at the age of seventy.
At this time, Zhongshan Jiao Guiyanghong, whose courtesy name was Meng Sun, also taught students "Meng's Book of Changes" and became famous. He was the Shaofu in Yongpingzhong.
◆The biography of Ren An, named Dingzu, was from Mianzhu, Guanghan.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue, studied "Mencius' Book of Changes", and mastered several classics.
He also studied the Hetu Talisman Book with Yang Hou, a native of the same county, and studied its techniques in depth.
At that time, people said that he said: I want to know Zhonghuan and ask Ren An.
He also said: He lives in the present and travels in the past, appointing his ancestors.
After finishing his studies, he went home to teach his disciples, all of whom came from far away places.
Started to serve as an official in the state and county.
Later, the Taiwei repeatedly recruited him, awarded him a doctorate, and even summoned him on the bus, but he refused to go because of his illness.
Liu Yan, the governor of the state, recommended it. At this time, the road was blocked and the edict was not fulfilled.
He died at home at the age of seventy-nine, the seventh year of Jian'an.
◆Yang Zhengchuan, named Zixing, was born in Jingzhao.
He was young and eager to learn. He studied "Liang Shiyi" from Dai Junfan and was good at expounding the classics.
There is a popular saying in the capital: "The classics are spoken by Yang Zixing."
Teach hundreds of people.
Fan Sheng once suffered from being a nun and was imprisoned. Yang Zheng then got naked, pierced his ears with arrows, took Fan Sheng's son and hid by the roadside, waiting for the emperor's carriage. He kowtowed with a memorial and shouted: "Fan Sheng has only one son from his third marriage. He is only three years old now and has become an orphan. How pitiful he is."
Fearing that the emperor would be frightened, the martial cavalryman Hu Ben raised his bow and shot Yang Zheng, but Yang Zheng still refused to move away. He stabbed Yang Zheng with his halberd again, wounding Yang Zheng's chest, but Yang Zheng still refused to retreat.
The emperor was moved by his weeping and pleading, and issued an edict: "Begging Yang to be a teacher."
Immediately issued an edict to release Fan Sheng. Yang Zheng became famous for this.
Yang Zheng likes to drink, is dissolute and does not pay attention to details, and is resolute and self-reliant, but he attaches great importance to friendship.
At that time, the emperor's son-in-law Liang Song and the queen's brother Yin Jiu were envious of his reputation and asked to be friends with him.
Yang Zheng often discussed with them, encouraged each other, agreed with each other, and were unyielding.
I once went to Yang Xuhou Ma Wu's place. Ma Wu didn't want to meet Yang Zheng and couldn't get up because he was sick.
Yang Zheng entered the house, climbed up to the bed and attacked Ma Wu, grabbed his arm, and asked him: "You have been favored by the country and hold an important position as vassal assistant. You don't want to ask for wise men to repay the emperor's special favor. You are arrogant and arrogant towards the world's talents. This is not a way to maintain your health."
If you dare to move your hands or feet today, the knife will go into your side.
Ma Wu's sons and the people around him were all horrified, thinking it was robbery. They stood next to Ma Wu with weapons in hand. Yang Zheng's expression did not change, as if nothing had happened.
Yin arrived just in time to criticize Ma Wu and make him friends with Yang Zheng.
Yang Zheng's Congo willfulness is like this.
A junior middle school was built, and the official rank was Zuozhonglangjiang.
◆Zhang Xingzhuan, named Junshang, was from Yanling, Yingchuan.
Study "Liangqiu Yi" to teach students.
During the Jianwu period, he promoted Xiaolian to be a minister. He went back due to illness and gathered his disciples to give lectures.
Later, Situ Fengqin's mansion was established, and Feng Qin was promoted to Xiaolian and doctor.
At the beginning of Yongping, the minister promoted wine.
In the tenth year of Yongping, he was awarded the title of Prince Shaofu.
Xianzong asked him many times about scriptures.
Since then, his reputation has spread far and near. There are nearly ten thousand disciples from far away, and he is respected by the Liangqiu family.
In the fourteenth year of Yongping, he died in office.
His son Zhang Li passed on Zhang Xing's education and became the captain of Zhangye's vassal state.
◆Dai Pingzhuan, named Cizhong, was born in Pingyu, Runan.
Study "Jing's Book of Changes".
When he was sixteen years old, the county elected him as a doctor, and he was awarded the title of doctor.
At this time, the imperial court convened a meeting of ministers. All the ministers were seated at the table, but Dai Ping stood alone.
Guangwu asked him what he meant.
Ping replied: The wise men are not as good as me in preaching the scriptures, but they sit on top of me, so I will not sit down at the table.
Guangwu immediately summoned him to the palace and ordered him to discuss difficult questions with the Confucian scholars, and Dai Ping explained many of them.
The emperor thought it was very good. He was appointed as a minister and met with him many times to inquire about political gains and losses.
The emperor said to Dai Ping: "Servants should correct and assist in national affairs, and should not remain silent if they have opinions."
Dai Ping replied: The emperor is too strict.
The emperor said: Why am I too strict?
Dai Ping said: The former Taiwei of Xicao, Jiang Zun, was an upright, loyal and filial man, and had a thorough knowledge of the past and present. However, the emperor listened to the slander and did not know the truth, so he was banned from serving as an official.
They say the emperor is strict. The emperor was angry and said: "Does Runanzi want to restore the party disaster?"
When Dai Ping went out, he tied himself as a Tingwei and ordered him to come out.
Later, he was summoned again, and Dai Ping apologized and said: "I have no integrity, but I say arrogant and unreasonable things. I cannot lay down my body to persuade him. I live in an ignoble way. I am truly ashamed of the holy dynasty."
The emperor ordered the minister to lift Jiang Zun's imprisonment, and appointed Dai Ping as the general of Hu Ben Zhonglang, who also served as a servant.
The imperial court celebrated the first day of the lunar month, and all the officials gathered together. The emperor ordered those ministers who could explain the scriptures to ask each other questions. If the scriptures did not make sense, he took his seat and gave it to someone who could explain it. Dai Ping therefore sat on more than fifty seats.
There is a popular saying in the capital: "Execution of the Bible is endless and Dai Shizhong is the best."
After serving for eighteen years, he died in office. He was given a coffin and two hundred thousand yuan.
At this time, Nanyang Wei Man's courtesy name Shuya also studied "Jingshi Yi" and taught students.
In Yongpingzhong, he became the prefect of Hongnong.
According to Sun Qi's biography, Sun Qi's courtesy name was Zhong, and he became a martial artist in Jiyin.
When he was young, he was a student and studied "Jingshi Yi" and "Guwen Shangshu".
His family was very poor, but he was very filial to his mother. He raised pigs in the swamp to support his mother.
People from far away who studied with him took scriptures and pursued him beside the fields to study. The villagers were inspired by his benevolence and righteousness.
The Yellow Turban thieves set out and passed through Sun Qi's township. They agreed not to invade Mr. Sun's house.
The county promoted him as Founder and sent officials to bring sheep and wine to Sun Qi. Sun Qi drove the pigs into the swamp without even looking at him.
Situ Huangwan specially appointed him, but if he didn't go, he would die at home.
In Jianwu, Fan Sheng passed down Meng's Yi to teach Yang Zheng. Chen Yuan and Zheng Zhong both passed down Fei's Yi, and later Ma Yuan also passed down Fei's Yi.
Ma Rong taught it to Zheng Xuan, who wrote "Yi Zhu", and Xun Shuang wrote "Yi Zhuan". From then on, "Fei Shi" flourished and "Jing Shi" declined.
"Qianshu" says: Jinan Fu Sheng's "Shang Shu" was awarded to Zhang Sheng and Qiancheng Ouyang Sheng of Jinan. Ouyang Sheng was awarded to Ni Kuan of the same county, and Ni Kuan was awarded to Ouyang Sheng's son. It was passed down from generation to generation until his great-grandson Ouyang Gao, who became "Ouyang Sheng". Shangshu "Ouyang's School"; Zhang Sheng was awarded the title of Duwei of Xiahou, and the title of "Duwei" was granted to his son Shichang. Shichang passed down his clan to his son Sheng, who was called Daxiahouxue; Sheng was awarded to Cong brother Zi Jian, and Jian was called Xiaoxiahou's school; all three families established doctors.
Kong Anguo of Lu also passed on the ancient literature "Shangshu" to Du Weichao, and the imperial court awarded it to Jiaodong Yongtan, which was called "Shangshu" ancient literature, but he failed to establish a doctorate.
◆Ouyang She's biography, Ouyang She's character Zhengsi, Le'an Qiancheng people.
From Ouyang Sheng's biography "Fu Sheng Shangshu" to Ouyang She's eighth generation, all of them were Ph.D.
Ouyang She inherited the family business and was courteous and courteous.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he served as the chief minister of society.
Gengshi was established as emperor and appointed as the original military commander.
Shizu Guangwu pacified Hebei and arrived at Yuanwu County. Seeing that Ouyang She had performed well in the county, he promoted him to the post of captain of Henan and later acted as the governor.
After Shizu became emperor, he became Yin of Henan and was granted the title of Marquis of Yang.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he was dismissed from his official position due to some circumstances.
In the second year, he was granted the title of shepherd of Yangzhou and promoted to the prefect of Runan.
Recommend and select talented people, and your political performance will be very good.
In the ninth year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Yehou.
Ouyang She was in the county and taught hundreds of people. He worked for nine years and was recruited as the chief disciple.
He was found to have embezzled more than 10 million yuan in Runan and was imprisoned.
More than a thousand people stood outside the palace gate to plead for Ouyang She. Some even shaved off their own hair to take the punishment.
Pingyuan Lizhen, seventeen years old, heard about the prison sentence and rode from the capital to Huojia County, Hanoi. He tied himself up and wrote a letter asking to die on behalf of Ouyang She.
Said: My teacher, the Great Situ Ouyang She, is profound in knowledge and respected by Confucian scholars. He is a doctor of the eighth generation and should be punished with a serious crime for embezzlement.
Ouyang She's family was weak, and his son was still young and could not teach him. After his death, he was forever deposed. In this way, the emperor had a reputation for killing virtuous people; below, the students lost a good teacher.
Please kill me instead of Ouyang She.
According to the report, Ouyang She was already dead in prison.
Chen Yuan, the official of Ouyang Sheyun, wrote a letter to pursue the case, and his words were sincere. The emperor then gave him a coffin, a seal and a ribbon, and three thousand funeral strings.
His son Ouyang Fu inherited the title.
Ouyang Fu died without a son, and the country was destroyed.
Cao Zeng of Jiyin, also known as Boshan, studied Shangshu with Ouyang She. He had three thousand disciples, and he reached the position of admonishing the officials.
His son Cao Zhi, from Yin, Henan, passed on his father's studies and taught his children.
Chen Liuchen, whose courtesy name was Shuming, was also appointed as the chief of Qi by Situ Dinghong according to Ouyang Shangshu.
◆Mou Changzhuan, Mou Changzi Jungao, a native of Linji, Le'an.
His ancestors were granted the title of Mou. At the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the country was destroyed, so they took Mou as their surname.
Mou Chang studied "Ouyang Shangshu" when he was young, but he did not become an official when Wang Mang was there.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, the Grand Sikong Song Hong appointed him as a doctor, promoted him to the prefect of Hanoi, and dismissed him from the official position because he did not cultivate enough land.
Since Mou Chang became a doctor and the governor of Hanoi, more than a thousand people often listened to his lectures, and there are more than ten thousand people recorded in the records.
The "Shang Shu Zhang Ju" was written based on Ouyang's theory, called "Mou Shi Zhang Ju".
He was promoted to Zhongsan doctor again, and the emperor allowed him to take his officials and family back home for treatment for one year, and he died at home.
His son Mou Xing was a reclusive professor with thousands of disciples.
Suzong heard about his recruitment and wanted him to be a doctor. He died on the road.
◆In the biography of Song Deng, Song Deng was named Shuyang and was a native of Jingzhao Chang'an.
His father, Song You, was appointed Taiwei.
When Song Deng was young, he wrote "Ouyang Shangshu" and taught thousands of students.
Ren Ruyin ordered him to be shrewd and capable in politics, and he was known as "Priest".
He was promoted to Prime Minister of Zhao and entered the court as Minister of Public Affairs.
Emperor Shun, because Song Deng was familiar with rituals and music, asked him to preside over the Imperial Academy.
He secretly complained to powerful ministers many times, so he was released from the court and appointed as the prefect of Yingchuan.
During his tenure, there were no two prices for goods in business. If something was lost on the road, no one would pick it up.
He was dismissed from office due to illness and died at home. The people of Ruyin set up a community to worship him.
◆Zhang Xun's biography, Zhang Xun's courtesy name is Ziyi, and he was born in Dingtao, Jiyin.
When he was young, he entered Imperial College and was able to recite "The Chun Qiu Zuo Shi Zhuan".
Use "Da Xia Hou Shangshu" to teach students.
Established the Duke's mansion, promoted him to a high position, and granted him the title of Yilang.
Together with Cai Yong, he composed the text of the Six Classics, was promoted to the rank of Shizhong, presided over the office of secretary, and adopted different opinions.
He took advantage of many opportunities to state political gains and losses to the emperor and won awards from the court.
He was promoted to the prefect of Danyang, and his politics were clear and clear, and the people loved him very much.
In the seventh year of Guanghe's reign, he was promoted to Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture.
In Chu Pingzhong, he died in office.
◆The biography of Yin Min, named Youji, was born in Duyang, Nanyang.
When he was young, he was a living being.
He began to study "Ouyang Shangshu", and later "Guwen" and "Mao Shi", "Gu Liang" and "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu".
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, a report was sent to the emperor stating "Hong Fan"'s methods for eliminating disasters.
At that time, Shi Zufang founded the world and did not take this matter into consideration. He ordered Yin Min to wait for the imperial edict, appoint a doctor, and establish the Great Sikong Mansion.
The emperor believed that Yin Min was knowledgeable about the classics and ordered him to correct the prophecy and remove the description of Wang Mang's writings written by Cui Fa.
Yin Min reported back: The prophecy was not written by a saint. There are many typos in it, which are very similar to secular slang, which may harm future generations.
The emperor did not accept it.
Yin Min added based on the missing text: Jun Wukou, for Hanfu.
The emperor felt strange when he saw it, and summoned Yin Min to ask him what was the reason.
Yin Min replied: I saw people in the past adding and subtracting books without thinking about their own abilities, so I also learned to do this, selfishly hoping that I would not be found guilty.
The emperor was very dissatisfied. Although he did not accuse him, Yin Min was not allowed to be reused from now on.
Yin Min and Ban Biao were good friends. When they met, they often talked until the sun went down, forgetting to eat, and staying up late at night. They thought they were the best in Zhong Ziqi, Boya, Zhuang Zhou, and Hui Shi.
Later, he was promoted to the post of Changling Order.
In the fifth year of Yongping, an edict was issued to arrest the man Zhou Liu.
Zhou Lu had a good reputation and had a good relationship with Yin Min. Because of this, Yin Min was dismissed from office. When he was released from prison, he sighed and said: Deaf and mute people are really wise people in the world.
Otherwise, why would those who are aware of things encounter such disasters?
In the eleventh year of Yongping's reign, he was promoted to admonish an official and died at home.
The biography of Zhou Fang, named Weigong, was from Ruyang, Runan.
His father, Zhou Yang, lost his father when he was young and his family was poor. He once opened a hotel to accommodate guests without charging any compensation.
When Zhou Fang was sixteen years old, he became an official in the county.
Shizu went on a tour of Runan and summoned the governor to examine the classics. Zhou Fang was particularly good at reciting and was awarded the title of Shoucheng.
Zhou Fang is not yet an adult, please go.
He studied "Guwen Shangshu" from Gai Yu, the governor of Xuzhou, and he was familiar with the classics and meanings. He was promoted to be filial and honest, and was awarded the title of doctor.
He is the author of thirty-two chapters of "Shangshu Miscellaneous Notes", totaling 400,000 words.
The Taiwei Zhang Yu recommended him to be a doctor and promoted him to the Grand Administrator of Chenliu. However, he was dismissed from his official position for breaking the law.
Died at home at the age of seventy-eight.
There is another biography about his son Zhou Ju.
◆The biography of Kong Xi, whose courtesy name was Zhonghe, was from the state of Lu.
From Kong Anguo down, "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi" were handed down from generation to generation.
Great-grandfather Confucius Zijian traveled to Chang'an to study in his youth and became friendly with Cui Zhuan.
When Cui Zhuan became an official and Wang Mang was appointed as the Great Yin of Jianxin, he once persuaded Confucius to become an official.
Zijian answered him, "I have the desire to be a commoner, and you have the ambition to be an official. Isn't it great that everyone listens to his own preferences?"
Since the paths we take are different, please don’t do it again.
He went back and died at home.
Kong Xi and Cui Zhuan's grandson Cui Xiang were good friends. They traveled together in Taixue and studied "Spring and Autumn".
After reading the current affairs of Wu King Fu Chai, Kong Xi discarded the book and sighed, saying: So, this is what is called painting a tiger instead of a dog.
Cui Xiang said: Yes.
In the past, when Emperor Xiaowu was the emperor, he was only eighteen years old. He believed in the ways of saints and followed the example of the previous kings. Within five or six years, he was said to be more thrifty than Emperors Wen and Jing.
In the end, I acted arbitrarily and forgot my previous benefits.
Kong Xi said: There are many such things in the book!
Liang Yu, the neighbor's student, echoed: "So, is Emperor Wu also a dog?"
Kong Xi and Cui Xiang remained silent.
Liang Yufa was angry and hated them, and secretly wrote a letter to Cui Xiang and Kong Xi for slandering the late emperor and ridiculing the world.
The court handed over the matter to the person in charge, and Cui Xiang went to the jailer for interrogation.
When Kong Xi saw that his arresters were coming, he was afraid of being executed, so he wrote to Suzong to complain: My stupid point is that anything called slander means that there is no such thing in fact, and it is just a fabricated slander.
As for Emperor Xiaowu, the political good and bad were written as clearly as the sun and moon in the history of Han Dynasty.
This is called telling the truth and not fabricating it.
If the emperor is good, all the good in the world will be attributed to him; if the emperor is not good, all the evil in the world will be concentrated on him. There are reasons for this, and you cannot blame others.
Moreover, since the emperor came to the throne, he has done nothing wrong in politics, but has done many good things for the people. Everyone in the world knows it, so why should we ridicule him?
If what is being criticized is the truth, then one should repent and correct it resolutely; if what is said is inappropriate, one should be tolerant, so why should he be blamed?
The emperor did not overestimate the original number, but thought deeply about it, just to vent his personal anger and satisfy his own wishes.
We will die if we are killed, but people in the world will definitely change their past views on the emperor and observe the emperor's intentions from this incident.
From now on, if I see something inappropriate, I will never say it again.
The reason why I am not afraid of death and dare to say this without any worries is because I truly care for the great cause of the world for Your Majesty.
If the emperor doesn't take care of me, what can I do?
Duke Huan of Qi personally exposed the faults of his ancestors to inspire Guan Zhong, and then all his officials were able to serve the country wholeheartedly.
Now the emperor actually wants to conceal the facts because the tenth emperor was a long time ago. Isn't it too far away from Huan Gong?
I'm afraid that the person in charge will be harmed suddenly, and he will be resented and wronged, and he will not be able to appeal, so that people in future generations will casually compare him to the emperor. Can he be redressed and covered up by his descendants?
I respectfully went to the court to await severe punishment.
The emperor originally had no intention of incriminating Kong Xi and others, so he sent the memorial to him, and immediately issued an edict to grant Kong Xi the title of Lantai Order without questioning the charges.
In the spring of the second year of Yuanhe, the emperor visited the East. When he came back, he passed by Lu and went to Queli. He sacrificed oxen to Confucius and his seventy-two disciples. He played music from the Yellow Emperor, Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, and Six Dynasties. He held a meeting with sixty-three Confucian men over twenty years old and ordered Confucian scholars to speak the Analects of Confucius.
Kong Xiyin thanked the emperor.
The emperor said: Isn't today's meeting an honor for you, Kong?
Kong Xi replied: I heard that there are no wise saints who do not respect their teachers and their teachings.
Now that the Emperor, as the Son of Heaven, has come to us in person, he is paying homage to our teacher and making his holy virtue more glorious.
As for glory, I dare not bear it.
The emperor laughed and said: "If you are not a descendant of a saint, how can you say such good things!"
He appointed Kong Xi as a doctor, gave him money and silk to praise Chenghou and the Kong family, ordered Kong Xi to return to the capital with him, and asked him to correct his books in Dongguan.
In the winter of this year, when the Jin Dynasty was granted the order, Cui Xiang used the "Jialin" to divine. He couldn't tell, so he stopped Kong Xi and said, "You might as well resign."
Kong Xi said: Studying is not about being a person, and officials are not about choosing what kind of official they should be. Good or bad luck depends on oneself. Is it a matter of divination?
If you die in office, your will will be buried on the spot. The second sons, Chang Yan and Ji Yan, are both in their teens.
Pu Ban ordered Xu Junran to persuade them to return to their place of origin in Lu, and replied: "To return with my father's coffin now is a violation of my father's will; to leave without leaving the tomb is unbearable."
So he stayed in Huayin.
Chang Yan was good at the study of chapters and sentences, and Ji Yan kept his family business and passed down the studies of "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi". There are hundreds of disciples.
In the first year of Yanguang, heavy hail fell in the west of the river, as big as a bucket.
Emperor An ordered people with Taoist skills to report the disaster and summoned Kong Jiyan in Deyang Palace. The emperor personally asked Kong Jiyan what was the reason.
Kong Jiyan replied: This is a sign that yin overcomes yang.
Now that the ministers have exclusive power and the queen mother's party is strong, the emperor should cultivate his virtue and consider these two things.
The emperor remained silent, and everyone around him hated Kong Jiyan.
If you want to be filial and honest, you won't be able to do it.
Three years later, at the age of forty-seven, he died at home.
In the past, Emperor Ping took power over Wang Mang. He named Kong Jun, a descendant of Confucius, as Baochenghou, and posthumously named Confucius as Baocheng Xuanni.
After Wang Mang failed, he lost his feudal state.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Shizu granted Kong Zhi, Kong Jun's son, the title of Marquis of Cheng.
After Kong Zhi passed away, his son Kong Sun inherited the throne.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan, he moved to Baotinghou.
Kong Sun died and his son Kong Yao succeeded him.
After Kong Yao passed away, his son Kong Wan inherited the throne.
It has been passed down from generation to generation that in the early years of Emperor Xian's reign, all feudal states were cut off.
◆Yang Lun's biography, Yang Lun's courtesy name is Zhongli, and his name is Chen Liudong.
When he was young, he was a student and worshiped Situ Dinghong as his teacher and studied "Guwen Shangshu".
He was appointed as literary director of the county.
After passing through several county generals, his ambitions were not in line with the times. Because he did not know how to deal with the secular "official skills", he resigned, and from then on he no longer accepted appointments from the states and counties.
He taught in Dazezhong and had more than a thousand disciples.
In the junior middle school of the Yuan Dynasty, the county invited him with courtesy, and the three prefectures recruited him. He was recruited by bus, but he was not allowed to come because of illness.
Later, he became a doctor of characteristics and became Prince Fu of Qinghe.
This year, when Emperor An passed away, Yang Lun abandoned his official position and went to the funeral, wailing and weeping constantly in the palace.
Empress Dowager Yan dismissed his official position and was convicted because of his expertise.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and ordered Yang Lun to be exempted from punishment, and he stayed in Gongling to hold funerals.
After serving enough, he was recruited to serve as a servant.
At this time, Shao Ling ordered Ren Jia to commit corruption while in office and was promoted to the prefect of Wuwei. Later, the administrator reported that Ren Jia had stolen tens of millions of stolen goods and was summoned to the imperial court for questioning, involving more than a hundred generals and ministers.
Yang Lun then wrote a letter saying: I heard that "Spring and Autumn" said that to punish evil, you must find the root cause. If the root cause is eliminated, the rest will naturally be eliminated; when lifting fur, you must hold the fur collar. If the fur collar is straight, the fur will naturally be in order.
Now the corruption crime committed by Ren Jia is extremely serious, but it has not been dealt with. Instead, he has been transferred to the county as a criminal. If the person who was originally recommended is not punished, the crime of rape cannot be banned.
In the past, Hulu Ling Zhang Die, Xiao Ling Ma Yinxian, Xuzhou Governor Liu Fu and others were all executed after their crimes were understood. However, there are still many officials who are like wolves. Isn't this why the recommended people are not punished?
In the past, when Qi became a powerful hegemon, he killed five treacherous ministers and implicated all the recommended people, thus stopping the spread of slander.
If you continue to cut off, you will suffer chaos. This is what Huang Shigong warned.
The sages and wise kings who listen to the words of ordinary people are like dust added to Mount Song and Mount Tai, and clouds and mist gathered in Huaihai. Although they do not add anything, they do not lose anything.
I hope the emperor will pay attention and investigate.
The book is delivered. The person in charge thought that Yang Lun's words were too direct and the wording was not tactful, so he made it public.
Shangshu reported that Yang Lun had discovered state secrets and spoke passionately to show his integrity. He was charged with disrespect and concluded to be guilty of ghost salary.
The imperial edict considered that Yang Lun had made many loyal remarks, so he was especially forgiven and dismissed from office and returned to his hometown.
In the second year of Yangjia, he was awarded the title of Taizhong doctor.
General Liang Shang was appointed as the chief historian.
Because of the disagreement, he was sent to serve as the king of Changshan, but he was unable to take up his post due to illness.
The imperial edict urged him to go, but Yang Lun stayed in Hanoi and wrote a letter because of his illness: "If you stay, you will die, and if you don't go north, you will not go north."
Even if you are beheaded, you will not change your mind, and you will not regret even after nine deaths.
The defense of an ordinary man is stronger than the three armies.
Because I dare to write lyrics.
The emperor then issued an edict saying: Yang Lun came out of the low place and went up to the high ground. He did not follow the king's orders and stopped the road without permission. He took advantage of his illness and indulged his wild ambitions.
So he recruited Tingwei and ordered him to forgive his sins.
Yang Lun was summoned three times, but he always disagreed with his opinions.
After returning home, he lectured behind closed doors and did not interact with others.
The bus was called again, and he escaped and died at home.
Guangwu Zhongxing, Beihai Mou Rong studied "Da Xia Hou Shangshu", Donghai Wang Liang studied "Xiao Xia Hou Shangshu", and Pei Guo Huan Rong studied "Ouyang Shangshu".
Huan Rong studied and taught for generations, and Tokyo said he was the most prosperous.
Fufeng Du Lin passed the "Gu Wen Shangshu", Jia Kui, a native of the same county as Du Lin, did textual research on him, Ma Rong wrote the biography, and Zheng Xuan made the annotations. Therefore, the "Gu Wen Shangshu" has become the most important in the world.
