General Li Guang was a native of Chengji County, Longxi County.
His ancestor was Li Xin, a general of the Qin State who captured Prince Dan of Yan.
His home was originally in Huaili County, but later moved to Chengji.
The art of archery has been passed down from generation to generation in Li Guang's family.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Wen's reign, the Huns invaded Xiaoguan with great force. Li Guang joined the army to fight against the Huns as a son of a good family. Because he was good at riding and archery, and killed many enemy heads, he was appointed Zhonglang.
Li Guang's cousin Li Cai was also appointed as Zhonglang. Both of them were appointed as regular servants of the martial arts, with an annual salary of 800 shi of food.
Li Guang once traveled with the emperor, often charging into battle, resisting enemies, and killing ferocious beasts. Emperor Wen said: What a pity! You haven't encountered a good opportunity. If you catch up with the Emperor Gaozu's era and be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households, what's the point?
After Emperor Jing came to the throne, Li Guang was appointed as the Captain of Longxi, and then as the Cavalry General.
During the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, Li Guang served as the captain of Xiaoqi and followed the Taiwei Zhou Yafu to fight back against the Wu and Chu rebels. He captured the enemy's flag at the foot of Changyi City and became famous.
However, because King Xiao of Liang privately awarded Li Guang the General's Seal, the court did not reward him after he returned to the court.
He was appointed as the governor of Shanggu, and the Huns came to fight every day.
Sun Kunxie, the Duke of Dian, cried to the emperor and said: Li Guang's talent is unparalleled in the world. He relies on his talent to fight the enemy head-on many times. I'm afraid he will lose this good general.
So he was appointed as the prefect of Shangjun.
Later, Li Guang was transferred to the prefecture of the border counties, and then to the prefecture of Shangjun.
He served as the prefect of Longxi, Beidi, Yanmen, Daijun, and Yunzhong, and was famous for his vigorous fighting.
The Huns invaded Shangjun in a large scale, and the emperor sent a eunuch to study military affairs with Li Guang and fight against the Huns.
The eunuch led dozens of cavalry on horseback. When they encountered three Huns, they fought with them. The three Huns turned around and fired arrows, wounding the eunuch and almost killing all his cavalry.
The eunuch fled back to Li Guang. Li Guang said: "This must be a Xiongnu expert in shooting vultures."
Li Guang then took a hundred cavalry to chase the three Huns.
The three men had no horses and traveled on foot.
After walking for dozens of miles, Li Guang ordered his cavalry to spread out to the left and right and outflank them in two directions. He personally shot the three men, shot two to death and captured one alive. As expected, it was the Huns' eagle shooter.
After tying him onto his horse, he saw thousands of Huns cavalry in the distance. When they saw Li Guang, they thought he was a cavalryman luring the enemy. They were surprised and ran up the mountain to set up their formation.
Li Guang's hundreds of cavalry were also frightened and wanted to run back.
Li Guang said: We are dozens of miles away from the main army. According to the current situation, as soon as our hundred cavalry run away, the Huns will chase and shoot us, and they will be killed immediately.
If we stay, the Xiongnu will definitely think that we are a large army coming to lure the enemy, and they will not dare to attack us.
Li Guang ordered the cavalry: Advance!
The cavalry moved forward, and when they reached a place about two miles away from the slave position, they stopped and ordered: Everyone, dismount and unsaddle!
The cavalry said: There are so many enemies and they are so close. What should we do if there is an emergency?
Li Guang said: Those enemies thought that we would run away, but now we have taken off our saddles to show that we will not run away. This will make them more convinced that we are soldiers who lure the enemy.
So the Huns cavalry finally did not dare to attack.
A Hun general riding a white horse came out to guard his soldiers. Li Guang immediately mounted his horse and galloped with more than a dozen cavalry. He shot the Hun general riding a white horse to death. Then he returned to his cavalry team, took off the saddle, and asked the soldiers to let go of their horses and lie down casually.
It was dusk at this time, and the Xiongnu army always felt strange and did not dare to attack.
In the middle of the night, the Xiongnu soldiers thought that the Han Dynasty had an ambush nearby and wanted to sneak up on them at night, so the Xiongnu troops retreated.
The next morning, Li Guang returned to his army camp. The army did not know where Li Guang was going, so they were unable to respond later.
Several years later, Emperor Jing died and Emperor Wu ascended the throne. All the ministers on the left and right thought that Li Guang was a famous general, so Li Guang was transferred from the prefect of Shangjun to the chief of the imperial guard of Weiyang Palace, and Cheng Bushi also came to be the chief of the imperial guard of Changle Palace.
Cheng Bushi and Li Guang both served as governors of border counties and were also in charge of military garrison.
When it came time to attack the Xiongnu, Li Guang marched without strict formations and formations. He stationed troops near places with abundant water and lush grass, and set up camps and lodgings, which was convenient for everyone. He did not call for self-defense at night. The shogunate simplified various documents and books, but he placed sentries far away, so he did not encounter danger.
Cheng Bushi had strict requirements on the organization of the troops, marching columns, and garrison formations. He kept watch at night, and the military clerks had to wait until dawn to process performance appraisals and other official documents and books. The troops had no rest, but they never encountered danger.
Cheng Bushi said: Li Guang's army is simple and easy, but if the enemy suddenly attacks him, he will be unable to stop him; but his soldiers are comfortable and happy, and they are willing to die for him.
Although my army is busy with military affairs, the enemy does not dare to invade me.
At that time, Li Guang and Cheng Bushi at the border of the Han Dynasty were both famous generals, but the Huns were afraid of Li Guang's strategy, and most of the soldiers were willing to follow Li Guang and suffered the hardship of following Cheng Bushi.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Cheng Bushi was awarded the title of Taizhong Dafu because he repeatedly spoke out and remonstrated. He was an honest man and strictly abided by the court documents and laws.
Later, the Han Dynasty used the city of Mayi to lure Chanyu and sent a large army to ambush in the valley near Mayi. Li Guang was appointed as the general of Xiaoqi and was controlled by the guard general Han Anguo.
At that time, Shanyu discovered the Han army's plan and ran away.
None of the Han troops had any military exploits. Four years later, Li Guang was appointed as a general from the guard and went out to Yanmen Pass to attack the Huns.
The Huns had more troops and defeated Li Guang's army and captured Li Guang alive.
Shan Yu usually heard that Li Guang was very talented, so he ordered: If Li Guang is captured, he must be brought alive.
The Huns cavalry captured Li Guang. At that time, Li Guang was injured and injured, so they placed Li Guang between two horses and placed him in a rope net bag to lie down.
After walking for more than ten miles, Li Guang pretended to be dead and squinted when he saw a Hun boy riding a good horse next to him. Li Guang suddenly jumped on the Hun boy's horse, took advantage of the situation to push the boy off, took his bow, and galloped southward for dozens of miles. He met the remaining troops of his again, and led them into the pass.
The Huns dispatched hundreds of cavalry to chase him. As Li Guang fled, he picked up the bow of the Hun boy and shot the chasing cavalry, so he was able to escape.
So he returned to the capital of the Han Dynasty, and the court handed Li Guang over to the law enforcement officials.
The law enforcement officer ruled that Li Guang had suffered too many casualties, and he himself was captured alive by the enemy and should be beheaded. Li Guang used money and materials to atone for his death penalty and reduced his position to serve the people.
In the blink of an eye, Li Guang has been living at home for several years. Li Guang's family and Guan Qiang, the grandson of the late Yingyin Hou Guanying, live in seclusion in Lantian and often go hunting in Nanshan.
One night he went out with an entourage on horseback and drank with others in the fields.
When he came back, he walked to Ba Ling Pavilion. Ba Lingwei was drunk and shouted loudly, prohibiting Li Guang from passing.
Li Guang's entourage said: This is the former General Li.
Tingwei said: The current general is not allowed to pass, let alone his predecessor!
So he detained Li Guang and asked him to stay under Ba Ling Pavilion.
Not long after, the Xiongnu invaded and killed the prefect of Liaoxi and defeated General Han. General Han moved to Youbeiping.
So the emperor summoned Li Guang and appointed him as the right governor of Beiping.
Li Guang immediately asked to send Lieutenant Ba Ling to join him, and he was killed when he arrived in the army.
Li Guang was stationed in Youbeiping. When the Xiongnu heard about it, they called him the "Flying General of the Han Dynasty" and avoided him for several years, not daring to invade Youbeiping.
Li Guang went out hunting and saw a stone in the grass. He thought it was a tiger and shot at it.
Then he ejaculated again, but after all, he couldn't ejaculate anymore.
Li Guang had been stationed in various counties. When he heard about tigers, he often went to shoot them himself.
When he was stationed in Youbeiping, he went to shoot the tiger again. The tiger jumped up and injured Li Guang. Li Guang also shot the tiger to death in the end.
Li Guang was an upright official, and he distributed rewards to his subordinates. He always shared food and drink with the soldiers.
From his life to his death, Li Guang served as an official with a salary of two thousand stone for more than forty years. He had no extra property in his family and never talked about family property.
Li Guang was tall and had ape-like arms. He was good at archery and was gifted. Even if his descendants or outsiders learned from him, no one could compare with him.
Li Guang's speech was slow and he didn't talk much. When he was with others, he would draw military formations on the ground, and then shoot arrows. Whoever hit the denser rows or the wider rows would be punished with drinking.
He specialized in archery as a pastime until his death.
When Li Guang led his troops, he encountered a place where food and water were short of food. He found water, but the soldiers had not drank all of it, so he did not go near the water. The soldiers had not yet fully eaten, and Li Guang did not taste a morsel of food.
Li Guang was kind, gentle and not harsh to the soldiers, so the soldiers loved him and were willing to use him.
Li Guang's method of archery is to not shoot if he sees the enemy approaching and if he is not within a few dozen steps, he will probably miss the target. As soon as it is fired, the enemy will immediately fall to the ground with the sound of the bowstring.
Therefore, he led his troops to be trapped and humiliated several times, and he was also injured by wild beasts when shooting at them.
Not long after, Shi Jian passed away, so the emperor summoned Li Guang and asked him to succeed Shi Jian as Lang Zhongling.
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Li Guang was appointed as the rear general. He followed General Che Weiqing's army out of Dingxiang to conquer the Xiongnu.
Many generals were made marquises for their military merits because they killed the enemy's heads in compliance with the prescribed amount, but Li Guang's army had no military merits.
Two years later, Li Guang, who held the title of Langzhongling, led 4,000 cavalry from Youbeiping. Bowang Marquis Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry to join Li Guang in two separate routes.
After marching for several hundred miles, King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led 40,000 cavalry and surrounded Li Guang. Li Guang's soldiers were very frightened, so Li Guang sent his son Li Gan to ride towards the Xiongnu army.
Li Gan galloped alone with dozens of cavalry, passed through the Xiongnu cavalry formation, and protruded from its left and right wings. He came back and reported to Li Guang: "The enemy Huns are very easy to deal with!"
The soldiers felt relieved.
Li Guang formed a circular formation, facing outward. The Huns attacked fiercely, and arrows rained down.
More than half of the Han soldiers were dead, and their arrows were all used up.
Li Guang ordered the soldiers to draw their bows fully and not to release arrows. Li Guang personally used the big yellow crossbow to shoot at the Huns' lieutenants, killing several of them, and the Huns army gradually dispersed.
It was getting late at this time, and the officers and soldiers were all expressionless, but Li Guang looked calm and paid more attention to rectifying the army.
From then on, everyone in the army admired his bravery.
The next day, they went to fight hard again. Bowang Hou's army also arrived, and the Huns retreated.
The Han army was very tired and could not pursue him.
At that time, Li Guang's army was almost completely wiped out, so he had to withdraw his troops and return to the court.
According to the laws of the Han Dynasty, if Bowang Hou marched slowly and delayed the deadline, he should be sentenced to death, use money to atone for his crime, and be reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang's merits and demerits were equal to each other, so he was not rewarded.
At first, Li Guang's cousin Li Cai and Li Guang served Emperor Wen together.
By the time of Emperor Jing, Li Cai had accumulated merit and obtained an official position with an annual salary of two thousand dan.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he served as the prime minister of the country.
Five years before Yuan Shuo, Li Cai was appointed as General of Qingchao. He followed General Wei Qing to attack King Youxian of the Xiongnu. He met the requirement of beheading the enemy and was named Marquis of Le'an.
Two years ago in Yuanshou, he was appointed prime minister on behalf of Gongsun Hong.
Li Cai's talents were among the lower class, and his reputation was far from that of Li Guang. However, Li Guang was not granted a title or land, and his official position was not higher than Jiuqing, but Li Cai was made a lord, and his official position reached Sangong.
Some of Li Guang's officers and soldiers also received the title of marquis.
Li Guang once chatted privately with the astrologer Wang Shuo and said: Since the Han Dynasty attacked the Xiongnu, I have never failed to participate. However, the talents of the officers below the rank of captain in each army were not as good as those of average people. However, there were dozens of people who were made marquises for their military merits in attacking the Huns. I, Li Guang, am not worse than others, but I don’t have any merit to obtain the fief. Why is this?
Shouldn't I be granted the title of Marquis because of my fortune?
Or is this the way it was meant to be?
Wang Shuo said: General, think about it yourself, has there ever been anything worth regretting?
Li Guang said: I was once the governor of Longxi. The Qiang people rebelled once. I tricked them into surrendering. More than 800 people surrendered. I used deception to kill them all on the same day.
To this day, my biggest regret is this incident.
Wang Shuo said: There is no greater disaster than killing those who have surrendered. This is why generals cannot be made marquises.
Two years later, General Wei Qing and General Huo Qubing led a large-scale expedition against the Xiongnu. Li Guang personally requested several times to accompany them.
The emperor thought that he was old and did not agree. It took a long time before he allowed him to go and made him a former general.
This year is the fourth year of Yuanshou.
Li Guang soon followed the general Wei Qing on an expedition against the Huns. After leaving the border fortress, Wei Qing captured the enemy soldiers and knew where the Shan Yu lived. He led his elite troops to chase the Shan Yu and ordered Li Guang to merge with the troops of General You and attack from the east.
The east road is somewhat circuitous, and the army is walking in a place where there is a lack of water and grass, so it is inevitable that they will not be able to march together.
Li Guang personally requested: "My position is a former general, but now the general ordered me to send troops from the east route. Besides, I have been fighting against the Xiongnu since I was a boy, and I have only got a chance to confront the Shanyu today. I am willing to be a vanguard and fight to the death with the Shanyu first."
General Wei Qing was secretly warned by the emperor, thinking that Li Guang was old and had a bad fate, so he should not let him confront the Chanyu, as he might not be able to realize his wish to capture the Chanyu.
At that time, Gongsun Ao had just lost his title of Marquis and was appointed lieutenant general, accompanying the general on the expedition. The general also wanted Gongsun Ao to fight against Shanyu with him, so he deliberately transferred former general Li Guang away.
Li Guang also knew the inside story at the time, so he insisted on asking the general to withdraw the transfer order.
The general did not agree to his request, and ordered the chief historian to write a document and send it to Li Guang's shogunate, and said to him: Hurry up to the right general's chariot troops and follow the document.
Li Guang set off without saying goodbye to the general. He was very angry and went to the military headquarters. He led his troops and joined forces with Zhao Shiqi, the right general of the chariot army, and set off from the east road.
The army has no guide and sometimes loses its way and ends up falling behind the general.
The general fought with Shanyu, but Shanyu fled, and Wei Qing had no choice but to return his troops.
The general traveled south across the desert and met the former general and the right general.
After Li Guang paid an audience with the general, he returned to his army.
The general sent Chang Shi to bring dry food and wine to Li Guang. The envoy asked Li Guang and Zhao Shiqi about the situation of losing their way. Wei Qing wanted to write a letter to the emperor reporting detailed military information.
Li Guang didn't answer. The general sent Chang Shi to urgently order the personnel of Li Guang shogunate to go for trial and confrontation.
Li Guang said: The captains are not guilty. It was me who lost my way. Now I will personally go to the shogunate to be tried and confronted.
When he arrived at the shogunate of the general, Li Guang said to his subordinates: I have fought more than seventy battles with the Xiongnu since I was a boy, and now I have the honor to follow the general on an expedition to fight the Shanyu army. However, the general sent my troops to take a circuitous and long road, and they lost their way. Isn't it God's will?
Besides, I am already over sixty years old. After all, I can no longer bear the insults of those swordsmen and pen officials.
So he drew his sword and killed himself.
All the soldiers in Li Guang's army cried bitterly.
When the people heard the news, whether they knew him or not, whether they were old or young, they all shed tears for Li Guang.
The right general Zhao Shiqi was handed over to the law enforcement officials alone, and he should be sentenced to death. He should use property to atone for his crime and be reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang had three sons named Danghu, Jiao and Gan, all of whom were appointed Langguan.
Once the emperor was playing with the jester Han Yan, and Han Yan acted a little wanton. Li Danghu went to beat Han Yan, but Han Yan ran away, so the emperor thought Danghu was brave.
Li Danghu died early, and Li Jiao was named the prefect of Daijun. Both of them died before Li Guang.
Li Danghu had a posthumous son named Li Ling.
When Li Guang died in the army, Li Gan was following the hussar general Huo Qubing.
In the second year after Li Guang's death, Li Cai used his position as prime minister to occupy the open space on both sides of the road in front of Emperor Jing's mausoleum. He was convicted and should be sent to law officials for investigation. However, Li Cai did not want to be tried and confronted and committed suicide. His feudal state was abolished.
Li Gan served as a school lieutenant and accompanied General Hussar to attack King Zuoxian of the Huns. He fought hard, captured King Zuoxian's war drums and flags, and beheaded many enemies. As a result, he was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei and granted 200 households in the city. He succeeded Li Guang as Langzhongling.
Soon, Li Gan resented the general Wei Qing for causing his father to die of hatred, so he wounded the general. The general concealed the incident and did not make it public.
Not long after that, Li Gan followed the emperor to Yong County and went hunting in Ganquan Palace.
General Huo Qubing was related to Wei Qing, so he shot Li Gan to death.
Huo Qubing was a noble and favored man at the time, so the emperor concealed the truth and said that Li Gan was killed by a deer.
More than a year later, Huo Qubing passed away.
Li Gan had a daughter who was the prince's concubine and was very favored. Li Gan's son Li Yu was also favored by the prince. However, he was greedy for money and profit, and the Li family gradually declined.
When Li Ling reached his prime, he was appointed as the supervisor of Jianzhang Camp, supervising all the cavalry.
He was good at archery and loved to nurse soldiers. The emperor believed that the Li family would be generals for generations, so he asked Li Ling to lead 800 cavalry.
Li Ling once penetrated more than two thousand miles into the Xiongnu territory, crossed the Juyan Sea, observed the terrain, and came back without encountering any enemies.
He was later named Cavalry Captain and commanded 5,000 Chu soldiers in Danyang. He taught archery in Jiuquan and Zhangye and stationed them there to guard against the Huns.
A few years later, in the autumn of the second year of Tianhan, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, led 30,000 cavalry to attack King Youxian of the Xiongnu in the Qilian Mountains. Emperor Wu sent Li Ling to lead 5,000 infantry archers and sent troops to a place about a thousand miles north of Juyanhai. He wanted to use this method to disperse the enemy's forces and prevent them from dealing with the General of the Second Division.
Li Ling had to return his troops by the scheduled time, but Chanyu surrounded and intercepted Li Ling's army with 80,000 troops.
Li Ling's army only had 5,000 men. They had shot all their arrows and most of the soldiers were dead, but they also killed more than 10,000 Huns.
Li Ling's army fought while retreating. They fought continuously for eight days and returned to a place more than a hundred miles away from Juyanhai. The Huns soldiers blocked the narrow valley and cut off their return. Li Ling's army lacked food and reinforcements were not available. The enemy stepped up their attack and persuaded Li Ling to surrender.
Li Ling said: I have no face to repay the emperor!
So he surrendered to the Huns.
His army was completely wiped out, and only more than 400 people were able to escape and return to the Han Dynasty.
After Chanyu got Li Ling, he had heard about the reputation of Li Ling's family and was very brave in war, so he married his daughter to Li Ling to make him noble.
When the Han Dynasty found out, they killed Li Ling's mother, wife, children and his entire family.
From then on, the reputation of the Li family fell into decline, and people in Longxi who had been guests of the Li family were all ashamed of it.
Tai Shigong said: "The Analects of Confucius" says that if a person in a superior position behaves correctly, things can be carried out without giving orders; if he behaves improperly, no one will obey even if he gives orders.
This is General Li!
The General Li I saw was honest and kind, like a country boy, and was not good at talking. But on the day of his death, people all over the world, whether they knew him or not, mourned him heartily.
His loyal character has indeed gained the trust of the soldiers!
The proverb says: Peach and plum trees cannot speak, but a path is naturally trampled under the tree.
Although this is a trivial matter, it can be used to describe a big principle.
