Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, was from Huaiyin.
When he was a commoner, he was poor, had no good character, could not be elected to be an official, and could not make a living by doing business. He often lived in other people's homes and had nothing to do, so most people hated him.
I went to the countryside many times to have a casual meal at the pavilion in Nanchang. For several months, the pavilion chief's wife was worried about Han Xin, so she made breakfast in advance and took it to the bed in the inner room to eat.
When it was time to eat, Han Xin went, but no food was prepared for him.
Han Xin also understood their intentions. In a rage, he actually left and never came back.
Han Xin was fishing under the city, and there were several old ladies rinsing the silk cotton. One of them saw that Han Xin was hungry, so she gave Han Xin food to eat. This continues for dozens of days until rinsing is complete.
Han Xin was very happy and said to the aunt: I will repay you heavily in the future.
The aunt said angrily: "A man can't support himself. I give you food out of pity for you, the young master. Do I hope you will repay me?"
A young man among the Huaiyin butchers insulted Han Xin and said: Although you are tall and like to carry a sword, you are actually a coward.
He insulted him in public and said: If you are not afraid of death, stab me with a sword; if you are afraid of death, crawl under my crotch.
So Han Xin looked at him carefully, lowered himself to the ground, and crawled under his crotch.
People all over the street laughed at Han Xin and thought he was timid.
When Xiang Liang led his army across the Huaihe River, Han Xin followed him with a sword, but he had no reputation among Xiang Liang's men.
Xiang Liang was defeated, and Han Xin was subordinated to Xiang Yu, who made him a doctor.
He repeatedly offered suggestions to Xiang Yu in order to be reused, but Xiang Yu did not adopt them.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, entered Shu, and Han Xin left the Chu army and submitted to the king of Han. Because he had no reputation, he only served as a minor official receiving guests.
Later, he was sentenced to beheading for breaking the law, and all thirteen people who were accomplices in the crime were killed. When it was Han Xin's turn, he looked up and happened to see Teng Gong and said: Doesn't the King of Han want to achieve the feat of unifying the world?
Why do you want to kill the strong man?
Teng Gong felt that his words were extraordinary and saw that he was handsome, so he let him go.
Talked with Han Xin, admired him very much, and reported the matter to the King of Han, who appointed Han Xin as the Commander-in-Chief of Su Su. But the king of Han did not see that he had any special talents.
Han Xin talked to Xiao He many times, and Xiao He thought he was a genius.
When they arrived at Nanzheng, dozens of generals from all walks of life fled on the way.
Han Xin speculated that Xiao He and others had recommended him to the King of Han many times, but the King of Han did not use him and ran away.
Xiao He heard that Han Xin had escaped and had no time to report to the King of Han, so he chased him personally.
Someone reported to the King of Han that: Prime Minister Xiao He has escaped.
The king of Han was furious because losing Xiao He was like losing his right and left hands.
A day or two later, Xiao He came to see the King of Han. The King of Han was both angry and happy. He scolded Xiao He and said: Why did you run away?
Xiao He said: I don't dare to run away, I will chase the escaping person.
The king of Han said: Who are you chasing?
He replied: It’s Han Xin.
The King of Han cursed again: Dozens of generals from all walks of life have fled, but you did not chase anyone; but you chased Han Xin, which is a lie.
Xiao He said: Those generals are easy to get.
As for outstanding figures like Han Xin, there is no second person in the world.
If the king wants to be the king of Hanzhong for a long time, he will naturally not need Han Xin. If he wants to fight for the world, there will be no one except Han Xin who can discuss important matters with you.
But it depends on what the king decides.
The King of Han said: I also want to develop eastward, how can I stay here for a long time with my heart depressed?
Xiao He said: The king is determined to develop eastward. If Han Xin can be reused, Han Xin will stay. If he cannot be reused, Han Xin will eventually run away.
The King of Han said: For your sake, let him be a general.
Xiao He said: Even if he becomes a general, Han Xin will definitely not stay.
The king of Han said: Appoint him as a general.
Xiao He said: Great.
So the King of Han summoned Han Xin to appoint him.
Xiao He said: The king has always been arrogant and disrespectful to others. Now appointing a general is like calling a child. This is the reason why Han Xin is leaving.
The king is determined to appoint him. He must choose a good and auspicious day, fast in person, set up an altar and square, and complete the etiquette.
The king of Han agreed to Xiao He's request.
All the generals were very happy when they heard that they were going to become generals. Everyone thought they were going to be generals.
When the general was appointed, it was Han Xin who was appointed, and the whole army was surprised.
After the ceremony of appointing Han Xin, the King of Han took his seat.
The king of Han said: The prime minister has praised the general many times. What strategies does the general use to teach me?
Han Xinqian gave in and took advantage of the situation to ask the King of Han: "Now that we are fighting for the world in the east, isn't the enemy King Xiang?" The king of Han said: Yes.
Han Xin said: The king himself estimates that compared with King Xiang in terms of bravery, strength, kindness, and military strength, who is better?
The king of Han was silent for a long time and said: "I am not as good as King Xiang."
Han Xin bowed twice and said in agreement: "I also think your Majesty is not as good as him."
However, I have served him before. Please let me tell you about King Xiang's character.
When King Xiang roared in anger, thousands of people were so frightened that they did not dare to move, but he could not let go and use talented generals. This was just the bravery of an ordinary man.
King Xiang was respectful and kind to others, and his words were gentle. When someone was sick, he would feel distressed and shed tears, and would share his food and drink with him. When someone had made military exploits and was about to be ennobled, he would put the engraved seal in his hand and play with it until it lost its edge and was reluctant to give it to him. This is what is called the kindness of a woman.
Even though King Xiang dominated the world and made the princes surrender, he gave up the favorable terrain in Guanzhong and built his capital in Pengcheng.
He also violated the agreement of the Righteous Emperor and made his close followers kings. The princes were indignant.
When the princes saw that King Xiang had moved Emperor Yi to a remote place in the south of the Yangtze River, they all went back and expelled their own kings, occupied good places and made themselves kings.
Every place King Xiang's army passed through was devastated and destroyed. Most of the people in the world were resentful. The common people were unwilling to surrender, but they were forced to obey by force.
Although he was the hegemon in name, he actually lost the support of the people in the world.
Therefore, his advantages can easily be turned into disadvantages.
Now the king can really do the opposite: appointing the brave and capable talents in the world, what can't be punished?
If all the cities in the world are given to meritorious ministers, who wouldn't be convinced?
As a righteous teacher, obeying the soldiers' wish to return eastward, what kind of enemy cannot be defeated?
Moreover, the three kings that Xiang Yu enfeoffed were all generals of the Qin Dynasty. They led the children of Qin to fight for several years, and many of them were killed and escaped. They also deceived their subordinates to surrender to the princes.
Upon arriving at Xin'an, King Xiang cunningly buried alive more than 200,000 Qin troops who had surrendered. Only Zhang Han, Sima Xin, and Dong Yi survived. The fathers and brothers of Qin hated these three men to their bones.
Now, relying on his power, Xiang Yu forcibly made these three kings, and no one in Qin loved them.
When the king entered Wuguan, Qiu did not commit any crime. He abolished the harsh laws of the Qin Dynasty and made a three-part agreement with the people of Qin. All the people of Qin did not want the king to be king in Qin.
According to the agreement made by the princes, the king should be the king in Guanzhong. The people in Guanzhong all know this. The king lost the title he deserved and entered Hanzhong. The people of Qin all regretted it.
Now that the king has mobilized his army to advance eastward, the Sanqin fiefdom can be pacified with just one document.
So the King of Han was very happy, thinking that it was too late to get Han Xin.
Just follow Han Xin's plan and deploy various generals to attack targets.
In August, the King of Han sent troops to advance eastward through Chencang and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, troops went out of Hangu Pass and subdued the king of Wei and the king of Henan. The king of Han and Yin also surrendered one after another.
The king of Han then joined forces with the king of Qi and the king of Zhao to attack the Chu army.
In April, when they arrived at Pengcheng, the Han army was defeated and returned in disarray.
Han Xin gathered the scattered troops and met the King of Han in Xingyang, and defeated the Chu army between Jingxian and Suoting. Therefore, the Chu army was never able to advance westward.
After the Han army was defeated in Pengcheng, King Sima Xin of Sai and King Dong Yi of Zhai rebelled against Han and surrendered to Chu. Qi and Zhao also rebelled against Han and reconciled with Chu.
In June, King Bao of Wei asked for leave to return to his hometown on the pretext of visiting his mother's illness. As soon as he arrived in the feudal state, he immediately cut off the main transportation road at Linjin Pass at the Yellow River ferry, rebelled against the king of Han, and made peace with the Chu army.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to lobby Wei Bao, but failed.
In August of this year, the King of Han appointed Han Xin as Prime Minister Zuo to attack King Bao of Wei.
The king of Wei stationed the main force in Puban and blocked Linjin Pass, the Yellow River ferry. Han Xin added more suspects and deliberately arranged warships to pretend to cross the river at Linjin. However, the hidden troops used wooden basins to float across the river from Xia Yang and attacked Anyi.
King Bao of Wei panicked and led his army to attack Han Xin. Han Xin captured Wei Bao, pacified Wei and reorganized it into Hedong County.
The King of Han sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to lead the troops eastward and attack Zhao and Dai in the north.
In the leap month of this year, the army of Dai was defeated. Zaiyu said that he had captured Xia alive.
After Han Xin conquered Wei and destroyed Dai, the King of Han immediately sent people to transfer Han Xin's elite troops to Xingyang to resist the Chu army.
Han Xin and Zhang Er led tens of thousands of troops to break through Jingxing Pass and attack Zhao.
When King Xie of Zhao and Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, heard that the Han army was about to attack Zhao, they gathered troops at Jingxingkou, claiming to be an army of 200,000.
Li Zuoche, Lord of Guangwu, proposed a plan to Lord Cheng'an: I heard that the Han general Han Xin crossed the Xihe River, captured Wei Bao, and captured Xia alive. He said that he had recently been bloodbathed, and now he was assisted by Zhang Er, and planned to seize Zhao. This was an expedition to leave the country in the spirit of victory, its edge unstoppable.
However, I heard that when food and wages are transported thousands of miles, the soldiers will look hungry. If they cut firewood and grass for cooking, the army will not always have enough to eat.
At present, on the Jingxing road, chariots cannot march side by side, and war horses cannot line up. The marching army is hundreds of miles away, and the food transport team is bound to lag far behind. I hope that you will temporarily allocate 30,000 troops to me to intercept their food and grass from hidden paths. You will dig deep trenches, build high forts, hold on to the barracks, and do not engage in battle with them.
They could not fight forward or retreat backward. I sent out surprise troops to cut off their retreat, so that they could not plunder anything in the wilderness. In less than ten days, the heads of Han Xin and Zhang Er could be delivered to the general's tent.
I hope you will consider my plan carefully.
Otherwise, he will definitely be captured by the two of them.
Cheng'anjun was a rigid scholar who believed in Confucianism. He often claimed that a righteous army did not need deceit and trickery. He said: I heard in military books that if you have ten times the enemy's force, you can surround it, and if you have twice the enemy's force, you can engage it. Now Han Xin's army is said to be tens of thousands, but in fact it is only a few thousand. He has traveled thousands of miles to attack us, and he is already extremely exhausted.
Now that we can't avoid attacking like this, how can we deal with the arrival of powerful follow-up troops?
The princes will think that I am coward and will attack us easily.
Don't adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy.
Han Xin sent people to secretly investigate and learned that Lord Guangwu's strategy had not been adopted. The detective came back and reported. Han Xin was overjoyed and dared to lead his troops into the narrow road of Jingxing.
We were still thirty miles away from Jingxingkou, so we stopped and camped.
In the middle of the night, he sent an order to set off. He selected two thousand light cavalry, each holding a red flag, and went up the mountain from a hidden path. They hid on the mountain to observe Zhao's army. Han Xin warned: During the battle, when the Zhao army sees that our army is defeated and flees, they will definitely mobilize to chase our army. You rush into the Zhao army's camp, pull out the Zhao army's flag, and erect the Han army's flag.
Then he asked the deputy general to convey the order to start the meal. Said: We will have dinner after we defeat Zhao Jun today.
The generals didn't believe it and replied falsely: "Okay."
Han Xin said to his officers: Zhao Jun has occupied favorable terrain and built a camp. If they can't see our general's flag and honor guard, they will not come out to attack our vanguard, for fear that we will retreat when we reach a dangerous place.
Han Xin sent out ten thousand people as the vanguard, walked out of Jingxingkou, and formed a battle formation with the river behind him.
Zhao Jun saw it from a distance and laughed.
At dawn, Han Xin set up the general's flag and guard of honor and drove out of Jingxingkou with great fanfare. The Zhao army opened their camp and attacked the Han army. The two armies fought for a long time.
At this time, Han Xin and Zhang Er pretended to abandon their flags and drums and fled back to their positions by the river.
The troops in the riverside position opened the camp gate and let them in. Then there was a fierce battle with Zhao Jun.
As expected, the Zhao army mobilized in full force to compete for the banner and drums of the Han army, chasing Han Xin and Zhang Er.
Han Xin and Er Xin have entered the riverside position. The whole army fought desperately, but Zhao Jun could not defeat them.
The 2,000 light cavalry sent by Han Xin in advance, when the Zhao army went out to chase the loot, rushed into the empty camp of the Zhao army, pulled down all the Zhao army's flags, and erected the 2,000 red flags of the Han army.
At this time, the Zhao army could no longer win and could not capture Han Xin and others. They wanted to retreat to the camp. The camp was filled with red flags of the Han army. They were shocked and thought that the Han army had captured all the generals of King Zhao. The army was in chaos and fled one after another. The Zhao generals could not stop them even if they killed the deserters.
So the Han soldiers attacked from both sides, completely destroyed the Zhao army, captured a large number of troops, and captured Zhao Wangxie alive on the bank of the Sishui River.
Han Xin sent an order to the entire army not to kill Lord Guangwu. Anyone who could capture him alive would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins.
So someone tied up Guangwu Jun and sent him to the military camp. Han Xin personally untied him and asked him to sit facing east while he sat facing west, treating him like a teacher.
The generals presented their heads and prisoners, congratulated Han Xin, and took the opportunity to say to Han Xin: The Art of War says: The marching formation should have mountains on the right and behind, and water on the front and left. This time, the general ordered us to form a formation with our backs against the enemy, saying that he had defeated the Zhao army. We were not convinced, but we actually won the victory. What kind of tactic was this?
Han Xin replied: This is also in the art of war, but you didn't pay attention.
Isn’t it said in the art of war that you should be trapped in a place of death and then survive, and that you should be trapped in a place of death and then survive?
Besides, I have never had the opportunity to train the soldiers. This is what is called driving the people in the streets to fight. In this situation, if the soldiers are not put to death, everyone must fight to save themselves. If they are left with a way to survive, they all run away, how can we still use them to win?
The generals all said with admiration: "Okay."
The general's strategy is beyond our reach.
So Han Xin asked Lord Guangwu: "I want to attack Yan State in the north and Qi State in the east. How can I succeed?"
Lord Guangwu declined and said: I heard that a general who has lost a battle is not qualified to talk about bravery, and a doctor who has lost his country is not qualified to plan the survival of the country.
Now I am a prisoner who has been defeated and my country has perished. What qualifications do I have to discuss important matters?
Han Xin said: I heard that Baili Xi was in Yu State and Yu State perished, but in Qin State, Qin State was able to dominate. This is not because he was stupid in Yu State but became smart in Qin State, but because the king appointed him or not, and adopted his opinions or not.
If Cheng Anjun had really adopted your strategy, Han Xin and I would have been captured alive.
Because I didn't adopt your plan, I can serve you.
Han Xin resolutely asked for advice and said: I wholeheartedly follow your plan and I hope you will not refuse.
Lord Guangwu said: I have heard that if a wise man thinks a lot, he will lose something; if a fool thinks a lot, he will gain something.
So as the saying goes: A madman can also choose a saint.
I am afraid that my strategy is not enough to adopt, but I am willing to offer my foolishness and serve you faithfully.
Cheng'anjun originally had a plan to win every battle, but once he lost it, his army was defeated under Hacheng and he died on the river.
Now the general crossed the Xihe River, captured the king of Wei, and captured Xia Shuo alive in Yanyu. He conquered Jingxing in one fell swoop, defeated the Zhao army of 200,000 in less than one morning, and killed Lord Cheng'an.
The fame spread all over the world, and the prestige shocked the world. The farmers had a premonition of the imminent military disaster, so they put down their farm tools, stopped farming, dressed well, ate well, passed the time, listened intently to the news of the war, and waited for death to come.
These are the general's strategic strengths.
However, at present, the people are working hard and the soldiers are tired, making it difficult to fight.
If the general mobilized his exhausted army and stayed under the strong city of Yan State, the battle would probably take too long and the force would not be enough to conquer it. If the truth is exposed, the power will weaken, it will last for a long time, the food will be exhausted, and the weak Yan State refuses to surrender, Qi State will definitely refuse to defend the border in order to strengthen itself.
If Yan and Qi refused to surrender, the outcome of Liu Xiang's victory could not be determined.
Like this, it is the general's strategic shortcoming.
My knowledge is shallow, but I privately think that attacking Yan and Qi is a mistake.
Therefore, those who are good at leading troops in war do not use their own shortcomings to attack the enemy's strengths, but use their own strengths to attack the enemy's shortcomings.
Han Xin said: Even so, what should we do?
Even if there are smart and wise people, they don’t know how to plan for Qi.
If this is the case, then the great things of conquering the world can be achieved. When using troops, it is natural to bluff first and then take actual action. This is the situation I am talking about.
Han Xin said: OK.
followed his plan. An envoy was sent to the State of Yan, and the State of Yan surrendered immediately after hearing the news.
So he sent someone to report to the King of Han and requested that Zhang Er be appointed King of Zhao to pacify the State of Zhao.
The king of Han agreed to his request and made Zhang Er the king of Zhao.
The State of Chu sent strange troops across the Yellow River to attack the State of Zhao many times. Zhang Er and Han Xin of the State of Zhao went back and forth to rescue the State of Zhao. During the march, they pacified the cities of the State of Zhao and then mobilized troops to support the King of Han.
The Chu army was tightly besieging the King of Han in Xingyang. The King of Han broke out from the south, went to Wanxian and Yexian areas, accepted Yingbu, and rushed into Chenggao. The Chu army hurriedly surrounded Chenggao.
In the sixth month, the king of Han escaped from Chenggao and crossed the Yellow River eastward. Only Teng Gong accompanied him, and went to Zhang'er's army stationed in Xiuwu.
As soon as you arrive, you will live in a shelter.
The next morning, he claimed to be the envoy of the King of Han and rode into the Zhao army's camp.
Before Han Xin and Zhang Er got up, the King of Han seized their seals and military symbols in their bedrooms, summoned the generals with military flags, and changed their positions.
After Han Xin and Zhang Er got up, they found out that the King of Han was coming and were shocked.
The King of Han seized the troops commanded by the two of them, ordered Zhang Er to defend Zhao's territory, appointed Han Xin as the prime minister, and asked him to collect the troops that Zhao had not sent to Xingyang to attack Qi.
Han Xin led his troops to the east. Before they crossed Pingyuanjin, they heard that the King of Han sent Li Shiqi to persuade the King of Qi to submit.
Han Xin planned to stop his advance. Fan Yang's lobbyist Kuai Tong advised Han Xin: The general was ordered to attack Qi, and the king of Han only secretly sent a secret envoy to persuade Qi to surrender. Is there an order to stop the general's attack?
Why not march?
Moreover, Li Sheng was just a scholar. Sitting in a carriage and using his tongue, he conquered more than 70 cities in Qi. The general led an army of tens of thousands, and it took more than a year to conquer more than fifty cities in Zhao. After many years of service, is it not as good as the contribution of a young scholar?
Han Xin thought he was right, followed his strategy, and led his army across the Yellow River.
After the King of Qi listened to Li Sheng's advice, he persuaded Li Sheng to have a good time and drink, and removed the facilities to guard against the Han army. Han Xin took the opportunity to raid Qi's troops and soon reached the capital Linyi.
King Tian Guang of Qi thought he had been betrayed by Li Sheng, so he cooked and killed him, fled to Gaomi, and sent envoys to Chu to ask for help.
After Han Xin pacified Linyi, he pursued Tian Guang eastward to the west of Gaomi City.
Chu State also sent Long Qie to lead an army of 200,000 troops to rescue Qi State.
Qi King Tian Guang and Sima Longqie joined forces to fight Han Xin. Before the battle, someone advised Long Qie: The Han army is far away from the country and fights to the death. Its sharp edge is unstoppable.
The Qi and Chu armies fought on their own land, and the soldiers easily escaped.
It is better to have a deep trench and a high base, unable to hold on. Let the King of Qi send his trusted ministers to pacify the cities that have fallen. If the officials and people of these cities know that their king is still there and the Chu army comes to rescue them, they will definitely rebel against the Han army.
The Han army lives two thousand miles away, and the people in Qi's cities and towns rise up to rebel against them. They will inevitably lose food, which will force them to surrender without a fight.
Long Qie said: I have always understood Han Xin's character and it is easy to deal with him.
Moreover, I rescued Qi and made Han Xin surrender without a fight. What credit do I have for that?
Now that I have defeated him, half of Qi's land can be entrusted to me. Why not fight?
So he decided to start a war and set up a battle array with Han Xin across the Weishui River.
Han Xin ordered more than 10,000 bags to be made overnight, filled with sand and soil, blocked the upper reaches of the Weishui River, led half of the army across the river, attacked Long Qie, pretended to be defeated, and ran back.
Long Qie said happily: "I have known that Han Xin is timid."
So he crossed the Weishui River to pursue Han Xin.
Han Xin ordered the sandbags blocking the Weishui River to be excavated. The river surged forward, and more than half of Long Qie's army had not yet crossed the river. Han Xin immediately returned to the army and counterattacked fiercely, killing Long Qie.
Long Qie's troops on the east bank of the Weishui River that had not yet crossed the river scattered and fled. King Tian Guang of Qi also fled.
Han Xin pursued the defeated troops as far as Chengyang and captured all the Chu soldiers.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin surrendered and pacified the entire Qi State.
He sent someone to write to the King of Han, saying: Qi is cunning and capricious, and its southern border borders Chu. If a temporary acting king is not set up to pacify it, the situation will not be stable.
In order to facilitate the current situation, I hope that I will be allowed to temporarily act as King Qi.
At this time, the Chu army was tightly besieging the King of Han in Xingyang. Han Xin's envoy arrived. The King of Han opened the letter and read it. He became furious and cursed: I am besieged here and I am waiting for you to help me day and night, but you want to make yourself king!
Zhang Liang and Chen Ping secretly stepped on the King of Han's feet, leaned into the King of Han's ear and said: "The Han army is currently in a disadvantageous situation. How can we prevent Han Xin from becoming king?"
It is better to take the opportunity to make him king, treat him well, and let him guard Qi by himself.
Otherwise, an accident may occur.
The King of Han woke up and deliberately cursed again: Since a man has conquered the feudal lords, he must be the real king. Why should he be a temporary acting king?
He sent Zhang Liang to appoint Han Xin as King of Qi and mobilized his army to attack the Chu army.
After the Chu army lost Long Qi, King Xiang was frightened and sent Wu She from Xuyi to persuade King Han Xin of Qi, saying: "The people of the world have suffered from Qin's tyranny for a long time, so we all work together to attack it."
After the collapse of the Qin Dynasty, the land was divided according to merit, and each became a king in order to stop the war.
Now the King of Han is marching east again, invading other people's realms and plundering other people's fiefdoms. He has broken through the Three Qin Dynasties, led his army out of Hangu Pass, gathered the armies of various princes, and marched eastward to attack Chu State. His intention is not to stop until he annexes the entire world. He is too greedy to go so far.
Moreover, the King of Han could not be trusted. He had fallen into King Xiang's hands many times. It was King Xiang's mercy that allowed him to survive. However, once he escaped, he broke his alliance and attacked King Xiang again. He was so unapproachable and untrustworthy.
Now, even if you think you have a deep friendship with the King of Han and fight for him with all your strength, you will still be captured by him in the end.
The reason why you can continue to this day is because King Xiang still exists.
At present, the victory or defeat of Liu and Xiang's battle for the world is yours.
If you stand to the right, then King Han wins; if you stand to the left, then King Xiang wins.
If King Xiang is eliminated today, you will be eliminated next.
You have an old friendship with King Xiang. Why don't you rebel against Han and unite with Chu, divide the world into three parts, and make yourself king?
Now, if we let this opportunity go, we will inevitably side with the King of Han and attack King Xiang. Should a smart and wise man do this?
Han Xin declined and said: "I serve King Xiang, but my official position is no more than a doctor, and my position is just that of a guard holding a halberd. I don't listen to his words, and I don't use his plans, so I carry the Chu State and return to the Han Dynasty."
The King of Han granted me the title of general, gave me tens of thousands of horses, took off his clothes for me to wear, gave me good food to eat, and listened to his words, so I can be where I am today.
If someone is close to me and trusts me, it would be unlucky for me to betray him, even if I die, I will not change my mind.
I hope you can express my gratitude to King Xiang for his kindness!
After Wu She left, Kuai Tong, a native of Qi, knew that the key to victory in the world lay in Han Xin. He came up with a strange plan to impress him, and used his capacity as a fortune teller to persuade Han Xin, saying: I once learned the art of fortune telling.
Han Xin said: "What method does Sir use to read people's faces?"
Kuai Tong replied: The nobility and humiliation of a person lie in the bones, sorrow and joy lie in the complexion, success and failure lie in the decision-making. Use these three items to verify that your appearance is foolproof.
Han Xin said: OK, sir, what do you think of my face?
Kuai Tong replied: I hope the entourage will stay away for the time being.
Han Xin said: People around you should leave.
Kuai Tong said: Judging from your appearance, you are just a prince, and you are also dangerous and unsafe.
Looking at your back, you look noble but indescribable.
Han Xin said: What does this mean?
Kuai Tong said: At the beginning, when the world was raising troops to revolt, heroes and heroes established their names one after another. With a shout, people with lofty ideals in the world gathered like clouds and mist, mixed like fish scales, like flames flying, and strong winds rising.
At this time, all they cared about was the destruction of the Qin Dynasty.
Now, the dispute between Chu and Han has made innocent people all over the world terrified, and the bones of father and son are exposed in the wilderness, countless of them.
The Chu people rose up in Pengcheng and fought in all directions, chasing the defeated troops as far as Xingyang. Taking advantage of their victory, they advanced like rolled mats, and their momentum shocked the world.
Then the army was trapped between Jing and Suo, blocked in the mountainous area west of Chenggao, and could no longer advance. It has been three years.
The King of Han led hundreds of thousands of troops to resist the Chu army in Gongxian and Luoyang. Relying on the dangerous mountains and rivers, although they fought several battles in a day, they were unable to achieve much success. As a result, they suffered setbacks and failed, and could hardly save themselves. He was defeated in Xingyang and wounded in Chenggao, so he fled to Wan and Ye counties. This is what is said to be exhausted of wisdom and courage.
The morale of the soldiers was dampened by being trapped in dangerous fortresses for a long time, the food in the warehouses was exhausted, the people were tired and miserable, complained, the hearts of the people were turbulent, and they were helpless.
In my estimation, if the situation is like this, the world's sages will not be able to quell this world's chaos.
Today the fate of King Liu and King Xiang hangs in your hands.
If you assist the King of Han, the King of Han will be victorious; if you assist the King of Chu, the King of Chu will be victorious.
I'm willing to work tirelessly and offer stupid tricks, but I'm afraid you won't adopt them.
If you really can follow my strategy, it is better to let both Chu and Han remain unharmed and continue to exist at the same time. You and they will divide the world into three parts and stand side by side. In such a situation, no one will dare to act rashly.
Relying on your virtuous and holy virtues, possessing many troops and equipment, occupying the powerful Qi State, forcing Yan and Zhao to submit, sending troops to the empty areas of Liu and Xiang's armies to contain their rear, complying with the people's wishes, going west to stop Liu and Xiang from fighting, and asking for the lives of the soldiers and people, then the world will quickly rise to respond. Who dares not to obey!
Then, the territory of the big country was cut off, the power of the powerful country was weakened, and the princes were divided into feudal states. After the princes are restored, the world will be grateful and obey Qi's orders.
If you secure the old territory of Qi and occupy the Jiaohe and Sishui river basins, and inspire the princes with kindness and be respectful and humble, then the kings of the world will come to pay homage to Qi one after another.
It is said that if you do not accept the benefits given by heaven, you will be punished; if you do not take action when the time comes, you will suffer disaster.
I hope you will consider this matter carefully.
Han Xin said: The king of Han gave me very generous treatment. I was given a ride in his carriage, his clothes were given to me to wear, and his food was given to me.
I heard that those who ride in someone else's car have to share someone else's troubles, those who wear someone else's clothes have to think about someone else's worries in their hearts, and those who eat someone else's food have to die for someone else's cause. How can I seek personal gain and betray my trust!
Kuai Tong said: You think you are friendly with the King of Han and want to establish achievements that will last forever. I privately think this idea is wrong.
When King Changshan and Lord Cheng'an were still common people, they formed a friendship that they would not regret even if they had their heads cut off. Later, they had a dispute over Zhang Xiao and Chen Ze, which made the two hate each other.
King Changshan betrayed King Xiang, fled in embarrassment, and surrendered to the King of Han.
The king of Han lent him troops to attack eastward, and killed Lord Cheng'an south of the Sang River. His head was missing, and he was ridiculed by the people of the world.
The friendship between these two people can be said to be the best in the world.
But in the end, they all want to kill each other. Why?
Disasters arise from insatiable greed and the unpredictable nature of people's minds.
Now that you plan to use loyalty and trustworthiness to make friends with the King of Han, it will definitely not be as strong as the friendship between Zhang Er and Chen Yu, and the relationship between you is much more important than the affairs of Zhang Xiao and Chen Ze, so I think you are wrong in concluding that the King of Han will not harm you.
The officials Wen Zhong and Fan Li saved the Yue Kingdom from the brink of destruction and assisted Gou Jian in dominating the princes. After becoming famous, Wen Zhong was forced to commit suicide and Fan Li was forced to flee.
The wild beasts have been hunted, and the hounds have been cooked and killed.
In terms of friendship and friendship, you and the King of Han are not as good as Zhang Er and Cheng'anjun. In terms of loyalty and trustworthiness, you are not as good as Wen Zhong, Fan Li, and Gou Jian, the king of Yue.
Judging from these two examples, it is enough for you to judge right from wrong.
I hope you will consider this thoughtfully.
Moreover, I have heard that those whose bravery and strategy make the monarch feel threatened are in danger; while those who have outstanding achievements and crown the world will not be rewarded.
Please let me talk about the king's achievements and strategies: you crossed the Xihe River, captured the King of Wei, captured Xia Shuo alive, led the army to seize Jingxing, killed Lord Cheng'an, captured the State of Zhao, subdued the State of Yan with your prestige, pacified the State of Qi, destroyed 200,000 Chu troops to the south, killed Chu General Long Qie to the east, and reported victory to the King of Han to the west. This can be said to be unparalleled merit in the world. And the strategy is outstanding and rare in the world.
Now that you possess power that threatens the monarch, and have achievements that cannot be rewarded, you have surrendered to the Chu State, and the Chu people do not trust you; you have surrendered to the Han State, and the Han people are shocked and frightened: You have such great achievements and prestige, where can you go?
I am in the position of a minister and have the vibration that makes the king feel threatened. My reputation is higher than that of anyone in the world. I feel dangerous for you privately.
Han Xin said: Sir, let’s stop here for now! Let me think about it.
A few days later, Kuai Tong said to Han Xin: If you can listen to the good intentions of others, you can foresee the signs of changes in things, and if you can think over and over, you can grasp the key to success.
There are very few people who are unable to make correct judgments by listening to opinions and make mistakes in decision-making, yet can achieve long-term peace and stability. A person who rarely makes mistakes when listening to opinions cannot use rhetoric to confuse him; a person who is well-planned and does not put the cart before the horse cannot use rhetoric to confuse him.
Those who are willing to do errands of chopping wood and feeding horses will lose the opportunity to fight for the power of the country of ten thousand chariots; those who are content with a meager salary will not get the high position of public minister or prime minister.
Therefore, being decisive in doing things is a sign of a smart person's decisiveness, and being hesitant is the bane of doing things. If you only focus on small things, you will lose sight of the big things in the world. If you have the wisdom to judge right and wrong, but do not dare to act rashly after making a decision, this is the bane of everything.
Therefore, as the saying goes: A tiger that hesitates and cannot make a decision is worse than a wasp or a scorpion stinging; a horse that hesitates is not as good as a bad horse that walks calmly; a warrior Meng Ben who is doubtful is not as good as an ordinary man who is determined to work hard to achieve his goal; even with the wisdom of Yu Shun and Xia Yu, closing his mouth and not speaking is not as effective as a deaf-mute using gestures.
These proverbs illustrate that taking action is the most valuable thing.
All undertakings are difficult to succeed but easy to fail. Opportunities are difficult to seize and easy to lose.
Opportunity, opportunity, if you throw it away, it will never come back.
I hope you will consider it carefully.
Han Xin was hesitant and couldn't bear to betray the King of Han. He also thought that because of his outstanding achievements, the King of Han would not take away his Qi State, so he declined Kuai Tong.
Kuai Tong's advice was not adopted, so he pretended to be crazy and became a wizard.
When the King of Han was besieged in Guling, he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and recruited King Han Xin of Qi, so Han Xin led his army to meet the King of Han at Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu was defeated, Gaozu used a surprise attack to seize the military power of King Qi.
In the first month of the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin, the king of Qi, was granted the title of King of Chu, and Xiapi was established as the capital.
When Han Xin arrived at Xiapi, he summoned the floating mother who had given him food and gave her a thousand catties of gold.
When it was his turn to go to the countryside, the head of the pavilion in Nanchang gave him a hundred coins and said: You are a villain, and the good deeds you do have a beginning and an end.
He summoned the young man who had insulted him by letting him crawl under his crotch, appointed him as a lieutenant, and told the generals and ministers: This is a strong man.
When he insulted me, couldn't I have killed him?
It was just that there was no point in killing him, so I endured the momentary insult and achieved what I have achieved today.
King Xiang's fleeing general Zhong Limei lived in Yilu and had always been friendly with Han Xin.
After King Xiang died, he escaped and joined Han Xin.
The King of Han resented Zhong Limei. Hearing that he was in Chu, he ordered Chu to arrest Zhong Limei.
When Han Xin first arrived in Chu State, he patrolled the counties and cities he belonged to, bringing armed guards with him when he came in and out.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, someone wrote a letter accusing Han Xin of treason.
Emperor Gao adopted Chen Ping's plan and asked the emperor to go out on an inspection tour to meet with the princes. There was Yunmengze in the south. He sent envoys to inform the princes to gather in Chen County and said: "I want to inspect Yunmengze."
In fact, he wanted to attack Han Xin, but Han Xin didn't know it.
When Emperor Gaozu was about to arrive in Chu, Han Xin wanted to send troops to rebel, but he thought he was not guilty. He wanted to see Emperor Gaozu, but he was afraid of being captured.
Someone said to Han Xin: If you kill Zhong Limei and go to see the emperor, the emperor will be happy and there will be no trouble.
Han Xin went to see Zhong Limei for discussion.
Zhong Limei said: The reason why the King of Han did not attack Chu was because I am here with you and you want to arrest me to please the King of Han. If I die today, you will die soon after.
So he scolded Han Xin and said: You are not a loyal person!
Finally he cut his neck and died.
Han Xin took his head and went to Chen County to pay homage to Emperor Gao.
The emperor ordered the warriors to tie up Han Xin and put him in the accompanying car.
Han Xin said: It is true as people say: when the cunning rabbit dies, the excellent hunting dogs are cooked and killed; when the high-flying birds are gone, the fine bows and arrows are collected; when the enemy's country is destroyed, the adviser dies.
Now that the world is at peace, I should have been cooked and killed!
The emperor said: Someone has accused you of treason.
So Han Xin was given torture instruments.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he pardoned Han Xin's sins and changed his title to Marquis of Huaiyin.
Han Xin knew that the king of Han was afraid of his own abilities and often excused himself from attending court meetings and attending court meetings due to illness.
From then on, Han Xin was resentful day and night, unhappy at home, and felt ashamed of being in the same position as Jianghou and Guan Ying.
Han Xin once visited General Fan Kuai. Fan Kuai knelt down to greet him and called himself a minister. Said: How come the king is willing to come?
Han Xin went out and said with a smile: I have been with people like Fan Kuai in my life.
The emperor often discussed the quality of the generals with Han Xin in his spare time, and believed that each had its own strengths and weaknesses.
The emperor asked Han Xin: How many troops can I command with my talents?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty can only command a hundred thousand people.
The emperor said: How are you?
Answer: I am the more the merrier.
The emperor smiled and said: The more you have, the better. Why are you still captured by me?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty cannot lead troops, but he is good at controlling generals. This is why I was captured by Your Majesty.
Besides, Your Majesty was given by God and cannot be achieved by human power.
Chen Xi was appointed as the governor of Julu County and bid farewell to the Marquis of Huaiyin.
Marquis Huaiyin held his hand and walked in the courtyard avoiding the attendants. He looked up at the sky and sighed: "Can you listen to my intimate words?"
I have something on my mind that I want to talk to you about. Chen Xi said: Everything is at the command of the general!
The Marquis of Huaiyin said: The area under your jurisdiction is where the best soldiers from all over the world gather; and you are His Majesty's trusted and favored minister.
If someone reports that you are rebelling, Your Majesty will not believe it; if someone reports you again, Your Majesty will become suspicious; if someone reports you three times, Your Majesty will be furious and personally lead his troops to encircle and suppress you.
If I work as an internal agent in the capital for you, the world can get it.
Chen Xi has always known Han Xin's talents and strategies. I am convinced and say: I will definitely follow your advice!
In the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled.
The emperor personally led his troops there, but Han Tuo was ill and had no followers.
Secretly sent someone to Chen Xi and said: Just raise troops, I am here to assist you.
Han Xin discussed with his retainers and falsely issued an edict at night to pardon the criminals and slaves serving in various government offices, intending to mobilize them to attack Empress Lu and the prince.
The deployment is completed and we are waiting for news from Chen Xi.
One of his retainers offended Han Xin, who imprisoned him and planned to kill him.
His younger brother wrote a letter of rebellion and reported to Empress Lu that Han Xin was preparing to rebel.
Empress Lu planned to summon Han Xin, but was afraid that he would not submit, so she conspired with Xiao Xiangguo to pretend that Chen Xi was coming from the emperor, saying that Chen Xi had been captured and executed, and all the princes and ministers came to congratulate him.
Xiao Xiangguo deceived Han Xin and said: Even if he is ill, he must work hard to go to the palace to congratulate him.
When Han Xin entered the palace, Empress Lu ordered the warriors to tie Han Xin up and kill him in the bell chamber of Changle Palace.
When Han Xin was about to be executed, he said: I regret that I did not adopt Kuai Tong's plan and was deceived by women and boys. Isn't it God's will?
So he killed the three Han and Xin tribes.
Emperor Gaozu returned to the capital from the army that suppressed Chen Xi's rebellion. When he saw that Han Xin was dead, he was happy and pitied him, and asked: What did Han Xin say before he died?
Queen Lu said: Han Xin said he regretted not adopting Kuai Tong's plan.
Emperor Gaozu said: That man is a lobbyist of Qi State.
He ordered Qi to capture Kuai Tong.
Kuai Tong was brought, and the emperor said: "Did you instigate the Marquis of Huaiyin to rebel?"
Answer: Yes. I did teach him that the boy would perish by not following my plan.
If that kid adopts my plan, how can Your Majesty destroy him?
The emperor said angrily: "Cook him."
Kuai Tong said: Oh, boil me to death, it is unfair!
The emperor said: You instigated Han Xin to rebel. What injustice is there?
Kuai Tong said: When the laws of the Qin Dynasty were corrupted and the political power collapsed, the six kingdoms of Shandong were in chaos. The princes from all walks of life revolted one after another. For a time, the heroes of the world gathered like crows.
The Qin Dynasty lost its throne, and all the heroes in the world came to snatch it, so those with high intelligence and quick actions were the first to get it.
Zhi's dog barked at Yao. Yao was not unkind, just because he was not the owner of the dog.
At this time, I only knew that there was Han Xin, but not His Majesty.
Moreover, there are too many people in the world who are sharpening their weapons and holding sharp knives in their hands who want to do what Your Majesty is doing, but they are just not up to the task.
How can you cook them all to death? Emperor Gaozu said: Let him go.
Kuai Tong's sins were forgiven.
Tai Shigong said: When I went to Huaiyin, the Huaiyin people told me that even when Han Xin was a commoner, his ambition was different.
His mother passed away and the family was too poor to bury her, but he still looked for a high and spacious cemetery where thousands of families could be placed next to the tomb.
I looked at his mother's grave and it was true.
If Han Xin could humbly give in and not boast about his achievements or rely on his own talents, that would be enough. His achievements in the Han Dynasty can be compared with those of Zhou Gong, Zhao Gong, and Taigong in the Zhou Dynasty, and future generations can enjoy endless sacrifices.
However, he failed to commit himself to doing this, and the world was already stable. Instead, he plotted rebellion and killed the clan. Isn't it right?
The integration of monarch and minister has been difficult since ancient times.
Han Xin was valued by Prime Minister Xiao He and highly recommended to Liu Bang. Because of his strategies, he was worshiped as a general.
In the battle of Weishui, they attacked halfway across the river, and in the battle of backwater, they uprooted the Zhao flag and changed it to the Han flag.
Belonging to the side of the Han Dynasty will increase the Han State's certainty of victory, and belonging to the Chu State will stabilize the Chu State.
In the end, he did not consider the three parts of the world, and ended up with Gaozu pretending to be Yunmeng and being demoted, which is really sighing.
