Bian Que was from Miao, Bohai County. His surname was Qin and his name was Yue.
When he was young, he was the manager of a guesthouse.
A guest named Chang Sang came to the guest house. Only Bian Que thought he was a strange person and always treated him respectfully.
Chang Sangjun also knew that Bian Que was not an ordinary person. He had been coming and going for more than ten years. One day, he asked Bian Que to sit with him and quietly said to Bian Que: I have a secret medical prescription. I am old and I want to pass it on to you. Please don't leak it.
Bian Que said: "I respectfully obey my orders."
Then he took out the medicine in his arms and gave it to Bian Que, and said: Take this medicine with the dew on the grass and trees, and you will know many things in thirty days.
Then he took out all his secret recipes and gave them to Bian Que.
Suddenly the person disappeared, maybe he was not a mortal.
Bian Que took the medicine as he said for thirty days, and he could see the people on the other side of the wall.
Therefore, when diagnosing other people's diseases, you can see all the symptoms in the five internal organs, but on the surface, you are still taking the patient's pulse.
Sometimes he practiced medicine in the state of Qi, and sometimes he practiced medicine in the state of Zhao.
When he was in Zhao State, his name was Bian Que.
During the reign of Duke Zhao of Jin, the power of many officials was strong but the power of the monarch was weak. Zhao Jianzi was a doctor, but he was in charge of state affairs alone.
Zhao Jianzi fell ill and was unconscious for five days. The doctors were very worried and summoned Bian Que.
Bian Que came into the room to examine the patient and walked out. Doctor Dong Anyu asked Bian Que about his condition. Bian Que said: "His blood is normal, why should you be surprised!"
Once upon a time, Duke Mu of Qin was in this situation and fell into a coma for seven days before he woke up.
The day he woke up, he told Gongsun Zhi and Ziyu: I am very happy when I arrive at the Emperor of Heaven.
The reason why I stayed there for such a long time was that the Emperor of Heaven wanted to teach me.
The Emperor of Heaven told me that the Jin Kingdom was about to be in chaos and that the Five Dynasties would not be able to live in peace.
Then someone will become the overlord, and he will die soon after becoming the overlord.
The sons of overlords will make their country's men and women promiscuous. Gongsun Zhi wrote down these words and kept them. Later, the history books of Qin recorded this matter.
You have heard of the promiscuity of Duke Xian of Jin, the dominance of Duke Wen of Jin, and the indulgence of Duke Xiang of Jin after defeating the Qin army in Miao Mountain. You have heard of these.
Now your lord's illness is the same as his, and he will be cured in less than three days. He will definitely say something after he recovers.
After two and a half days, Zhao Jianzi woke up and told the doctors: I was very happy when I went to the Emperor of Heaven. I played with the gods in the center of the sky, where various musical instruments played many music and dances were performed. It was not like the music and dance of the three ancient times. The music was heart-stirring.
There was a bear trying to catch me, and the Emperor of Heaven ordered me to shoot it. I shot the bear, and it died.
A crab came over, I shot it again, and hit it again, and the crab died.
The Emperor was very happy and gave me two bamboo baskets with jewelry inside.
I saw my son beside the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven entrusted me with a Zhai dog and said: Give it to your son when he grows up.
The Emperor of Heaven told me: The Jin Kingdom will decline from generation to generation, and will perish after seven generations.
The Qin people will defeat the Zhou people to the west of Fan Kui, but they will not be able to possess his power. After hearing these words, Dong Anyu recorded and collected them.
People told Zhao Jianzi what Bian Que had said, and Zhao Jianzi gave Bian Que 40,000 acres of land.
Later, Bian Que passed through Guo State.
When the prince of the Guo Kingdom died of illness, Bian Que came to the gate of the palace of the King of Guo and asked a concubine who was fond of medicine: What disease did the prince have? Why did the capital hold rituals to ward off evil spirits and diseases more than many other things?
The concubine said: The prince's disease is caused by the irregular circulation of blood and qi, the intertwining of yin and yang and the inability to drain it. It violently breaks out on the surface of the body, but in fact the internal organs are damaged.
The human body's righteous energy cannot stop the evil energy, and the evil energy accumulates and cannot be released. Therefore, the yang energy weakens and the yin evil becomes strong, so the person suddenly faints and dies.
Bian Que asked: When did he die?
The concubine replied: From the time the rooster crows to now.
Asked again: Has it been buried?
He replied: Not yet, he died less than half a day ago.
Please inform Mr. Guo that I am a Qinyue native of Bohai County, and my home is in Midi. I was unable to look up to the king's majesty and pay homage to him.
I heard that the prince passed away unfortunately and I can revive him.
The concubine said: Sir, are you not talking nonsense?
Why do you say the prince can be resurrected!
I heard that in ancient times, there was a doctor named Yu Fu. He did not use decoctions, medicinal wine, trowels, needles, needles, guides, massages, medicinal irons, etc. He could identify the location of the disease as soon as he undressed and examined the acupoints of the five internal organs, then cut the skin and muscles, dredged the meridians, and tied them Tendons, massage the brain, touch the bones, straighten the diaphragm, cleanse the stomach, cleanse the five internal organs, cultivate the essence, and change the expression and complexion. If the gentleman's medical skills can be like this, then the prince can be reborn; if he can't do this, but you want to resurrect him, you can't deceive the baby who just learned to laugh.
After a long time, Bian Que looked up at the sky and sighed and said: The treatment methods you mentioned are like looking at the sky through a bamboo tube or looking at patterns through the gaps.
The treatment method I use can tell the cause of the disease without taking the patient's pulse, looking at the face, listening to the voice, or observing the patient's posture and expression.
If you know the external manifestations of a disease, you can infer the internal causes; if you know the internal causes of the disease, you can infer the external manifestations.
Diseases in the human body will be reflected from the body surface, and based on this, patients thousands of miles away can be diagnosed. I have many ways to make decisions, and I cannot just look at the problem from one angle.
If you think what I said is untrue, try going in and examining the prince. You should hear his ears ringing, see his nose flaring, and feel his legs and genitals, which should still be warm.
After hearing Bian Que's words, the concubine's eyes were dull and he could not blink, his tongue was stuck out and he could not speak. Later, he went in and told Guo Jun what Bian Que had said.
Guo Jun was very surprised after hearing this. He went out of the inner court to meet Bian Que at the middle gate of the palace and said, "I have heard about your noble moral character for a long time, but I have never had the opportunity to meet you."
This time, sir, you are passing through our small country. I hope you can help us. I, the king of this remote country, am so lucky.
As long as the husband is here, my son can be saved. Without the husband, he will throw his body into the wild and fill the ravines, and he will never come back.
Before he finished speaking, he started sobbing with sadness, his mind was in a daze, and he shed tears for a long time. The teardrops rolled down and stuck to his eyelashes. He couldn't restrain his sorrow, and his appearance and expression changed.
Bian Que said: Your prince's disease is what people call corpse disease.
That's because the Yang Qi sinks into the Yin vessels, and the pulse Qi entangles and impinges on the stomach. The meridians are damaged and the meridians are blocked. They flow into the lower burner and the bladder respectively. Therefore, the Yang vessels sink and the Yin Qi rises. The Yin and Yang Qi converge, block each other, and cannot be unblocked. The yin energy reverses upward movement, and the yang energy has to move inward. The yang energy is in vain stirring in the lower part but cannot rise. The upper part is blocked and cannot be driven by the yin energy. There are veins above that isolate the yang energy, and there are muscles and joints below that destroy the yin energy. In this way, the yin energy is destroyed and the yang energy is isolated, making the person's complexion decayed and the blood vessels confused, so the person's body becomes as quiet as if he was dead.
The prince actually did not die.
Because if yang attacks yin and blocks the internal qi, it can be cured; if yin attacks yang and blocks the internal qi, it will die.
These conditions will suddenly occur when the five internal organs are reversed.
A good doctor can cure the disease, a bad doctor can endanger the patient through confusion.
Bian Que then asked his disciple Ziyang to sharpen the needle stone and use Sanyang and Wuhui to inject needles.
After a while, the prince woke up.
He also asked his disciple Zi Bao to prepare a medicinal iron that could penetrate into the body for five minutes, and then mix and boil the medicine with eight prescriptions, and then apply it alternately under the two flanks.
The prince was able to sit up.
After further harmonizing the yin and yang, my body returned to the same as before after just taking the decoction for twenty days.
Therefore, people all over the world believe that Bian Que can resurrect the dead.
Bian Que said, "I can't resurrect the dead. He should live. All I can do is help him recover."
When Bian Que arrived in Qi, Marquis Huan of Qi treated him as a guest.
He went to the court to pay homage to Marquis Huan and said, "You have a small illness between your skin and muscles. If it is not treated, it will go deep into your body."
Marquis Huan said: I am not sick.
After Bian Que walked out of the palace, Huan Hou said to the people around him: Doctors love utilitarianism and want to attribute the cure of people to their own merits.
Five days later, Bian Que went to see Huan Hou again and said, "Your disease is already in your blood. If you don't treat it, it may go deep into your body."
Marquis Huan said: I am not sick.
After Bian Que went out, Marquis Huan was unhappy.
Five days later, Bian Que went to see Huan Hou again and said, "Your disease is already in the intestines and stomach. If it is not treated, it will invade deeper into the body."
Marquis Huan refused to answer.
After Bian Que went out, Marquis Huan was unhappy.
Five days later, Bian Que went there again. When he saw Huan Hou, he backed away and ran away.
Marquis Huan sent someone to ask him why he ran away.
Bian Que said: If the disease is between the skin and flesh, decoctions and medicinal irons can cure it; if the disease is in the blood, acupuncture and stone can cure it; if the disease is in the intestines and stomach, medicinal wine can cure it; if the disease enters the bone marrow, even the God in charge of life can do nothing.
Now that the disease has entered the bone marrow, I dare not ask for treatment.
Five days later, Marquis Huan fell seriously ill and sent for Bian Que. Bian Que had already fled Qi.
Marquis Huan fell ill and died.
If Marquis Huan could know in advance the hidden symptoms and let good doctors diagnose and treat them as early as possible, then the disease could be cured and his life could be saved.
People worry that there are too many diseases, and doctors worry that there are too few treatments.
Therefore, there are six types of illness that cannot be cured: those who are arrogant, indulgent and unreasonable are the first incurable; those who despise the body and value money are the two incurable; those who dress inappropriately and eat improperly are the three incurable; those who have Yin and Yang disorder and the five internal organs are not functioning properly are the four incurable; those who are very weak and unable to take medicine are the five incurable; those who are superstitious in witchcraft and do not believe in medical skills are the six incurable.
It is very difficult to cure a situation like this.
Bian Que's reputation spread throughout the world.
When he arrived in Handan, he heard that the local people respected women, so he became a doctor to treat women's diseases; when he arrived in Luo, he heard that Zhou people respected the elderly, so he became a doctor specializing in treating deafness, blindness, limbs, and pain; when he arrived in Xianyang, he heard that Qin people loved children, so he became a doctor to treat children's diseases; he changed the scope of his treatment according to the customs of various places.
Li Xi, the imperial physician of Qin, knew that his medical skills were not as good as Bian Que's, so he sent someone to assassinate Bian Que.
Up to now, people all over the world who talk about pulse diagnosis methods follow Bian Que's theory and practice.
This man in Taicang was the chief officer in charge of the granary in the capital of Qi State. He was from Lingan, his surname was Chunyu, and his given name was Yi.
Young but fond of medical skills.
Eight years after Han Gao's death, he once again studied medicine with Gongcheng Yangqing from Yuanli in the same county.
At this time, Yang Qing was over seventy years old and had no descendants who could inherit the medical skills, so he asked Chunyu Yi to put aside all the medical prescriptions he had learned before, and then gave him all the secret recipes he had mastered. He also taught him the pulse books of Huangdi and Bian Que, and the method of diagnosing diseases by observing different colors on the face, so that he could know the patient's life and death in advance, determine difficult diseases, judge whether they could be cured, and the theory of pharmaceuticals.
After studying for three years, he cured people's illnesses, predicted death and life, and accomplished many things.
However, he traveled among the vassal states to practice medicine and study, and did not take care of his family. Sometimes he refused to treat others, so many patients resented him.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, someone wrote to the court to accuse him. According to the criminal law, he had to be escorted to Chang'an in a carriage.
Chunyu Yi had five daughters who followed him and cried.
He got angry and cursed: If you don't give birth to a boy, there will be no one available at the critical moment!
So the youngest daughter Tiying was very sad after hearing her father's words, so she followed her father westward to Chang'an.
She wrote to the court and said: My father is an official of the court. The people of Qi State praise him for his integrity and justice. Now he has violated the law and been sentenced.
I am very sad that people who are executed cannot regenerate, and those who are disabled by torture cannot recover. Even if they want to change their ways, there is no way to do it, and in the end they cannot do so.
I would rather join the government and become a slave to atone for my father's sins and give him a chance to reform.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty read Tiying's petition, felt compassion for her, and pardoned Chunyu Yi, and abolished corporal punishment that year.
Chunyu Yi lived at home, and the emperor issued an edict asking him how many people had cured people and made decisions about life and death, and what their names were.
The question asked by Chunyu Yi of Taicang before the imperial edict was: What are the specialties of medical skills and what diseases can they cure?
Are there any medical books?
Who did you learn medicine from?
How many years have you studied? Who have you cured?
Where are they from? What disease do you have?
How is your condition after treatment? All answered in detail.
Chunyu Yi replied:
When I was young, I was fond of medical prescriptions, and most of the time I tried to treat people with the medical prescriptions I learned had no effect.
In the eighth year of high school, I was able to meet my teacher, Gongcheng Yangqing in Linshan Fanli.
Yang Qing was now over seventy years old, and I was able to pay him a visit and serve him.
He said to me: Put aside all the medical books you have studied, these are incorrect.
I have the pulse diagnosis books of Huang Di and Bian Que taught by ancient ancient doctors, as well as the method of diagnosing diseases by observing the different colors of the face, so that you can predict the patient's life and death, determine difficult diseases, and determine whether they can be cured. There are also books on pharmaceutical theory, which are all very insightful.
My family is rich, and just because I like you in my heart, I want to teach you all the secret recipes and books I have collected.
I said: I'm so lucky, these are not things I dare to hope for.
After saying that, I left the seat and thanked the teacher again. I studied the "Pulse Book", "Shang Jing" and "Xia Jing" taught by him, as well as facial diagnosis, auscultation, external observation of yin and yang, pharmacology, meteorite magic, Fang Zhongshu and other secret books and medical skills. I paid attention to analysis and experience while studying, which took about a year.
The next year, I tried to treat people, but although it was effective, it was not perfect.
I have studied with him for about three years in total. The patients I have treated and the people who have diagnosed their conditions and made decisions about life and death have all been effective and have reached a sophisticated level.
Yang Qing has been dead for more than ten years now. I have studied with him for three years. I am now thirty-nine years old.
A censor named Cheng from the State of Qi reported that he had a headache. After checking his pulse, I told him: Your condition is serious and cannot be explained clearly at once.
After coming out, he only told his brother Chang: This is gangrene, which occurs between the intestines and stomach. It will swell in five days, and in eight days, you will vomit pus and blood and die.
Cheng's illness was caused by having sex after drinking too much.
As a result, he died as expected.
The reason why I was able to diagnose his illness was because when I took the pulse, I could detect the pulse qi of the liver disease.
If the pulse is heavy and turbid but calm, this is a serious disease on the inside but not obvious on the outside.
Pulse theory says: The pulse is long and straight like a bowstring, and cannot change with the changes of the seasons. The disease is mainly in the liver.
Although the pulse is long, straight and hard but uniform and harmonious, it means that the meridians of the liver are diseased. If the pulses are sometimes sparse and sometimes dense, restless and powerful, it means that the meridians of the liver are diseased.
If the meridians of the liver are diseased but the meridians are even, the disease is caused by the tendons and marrow.
His pulse was sparse, dense, stopped, and weak. His illness was caused by drinking heavily and having sex.
The reason I knew he would swell up after five days and die after eight days of vomiting pus and blood was that when I cut his pulse, I found that the Shaoyang meridian had a pulse pattern similar to that of the pulse pulse.
Daimai is a disease of the meridians. If the disease develops throughout the body, the person will die.
Symptoms of the collaterals occur. At this time, the Dai pulse appears in the first branch of Guan on the left hand. This is the heat accumulated in the body but the pus and blood have not come out. When it reaches the fifth branch of Guan, it reaches the boundary of Shaoyang meridian. Eight days later, it will vomit pus and blood and die. Therefore, when it reaches the second branch of Guan, pus and blood will appear. When it reaches the boundary of Shaoyang meridian, it will swell. Afterwards, the sore will burst and pus will leak out and die.
Once the internal heat scorches the Yangming meridians and burns the branches of the collaterals, collateral disease will lead to stagnation and swelling of the meridians. The stagnation and swelling of the meridians will then cause erosion and dissociation. Therefore, the collaterals are blocked alternately.
This causes the heat evil to invade the head, causing the head to be disturbed and causing a headache.
The boy, the second son of the King of Qi, was ill, so he called me to take his pulse and diagnose him. I told him: This is a gas diaphragm disease. This disease makes people feel depressed, unable to eat, and often vomit gastric juice.
This disease is caused by depression and frequent anorexia.
I immediately prepared some qi decoction for him to drink. The diaphragmatic qi subsided in just one day, and he was able to eat after another two days. After three days, he was completely cured.
The reason why I knew his condition was because when I took his pulse, I found that he had a heart disease. The pulse was turbid, heavy, and irritable. This was Yang collateral disease.
Pulse theory says: If the pulse is strong and rapid when it reaches the finger, but is difficult and inconsistent when it leaves the finger, the disease is in the heart.
The whole body feels warm and the pulse is strong, which is called Double Ninth Festival.
Excessive yang energy will disturb the mind, so the heart will be depressed and unable to eat, and the collaterals will be diseased. If the collaterals are diseased, blood will come out from the top, and if the blood comes out from the top, the person will die.
This is a disease of inner sorrow, a disease of melancholy.
A doctor named Xun of Qi State was ill. Many doctors believed that the adverse qi started from the lower body and traveled upwards into the abdomen and chest, so they used acupuncture to treat him.
After examination, I said: This is a hernia. This disease makes people unable to urinate and defecate.
Xun replied: "I haven't been able to urinate or defecate for three days."
I gave him fire medicine decoction. After taking one dose, he could urinate and defecate. After taking the second dose, his urination and defecation were very smooth. After taking the third dose, he was cured.
His illness was caused by sexual intercourse.
The reason why I knew the disease he was suffering from was because when I took the pulse, the pulse in the cunkou of his right hand was urgent. The pulse did not reflect any disease in the five internal organs. The pulse in the cunkou of his right hand was strong and fast.
A fast pulse means heat evil is surging in the middle and lower burners. A fast pulse in his left hand means heat evil is flowing downwards. A fast pulse in his right hand means heat evil is surging up. There is no reaction of disease qi from the five internal organs, so it is said to be "gushing hernia".
The middle burner accumulates heat, so the urine is red.
A man named Xin from the Imperial Palace of Qi State was ill. I went to his house for diagnosis and treatment. After taking his pulse, I told him: It is the pulse Qi of a fever. However, due to summer heat, excessive sweating and weak pulse, it will not lead to death.
He also said: I got this disease when I bathed in running water when the weather was very cold, and my body became hot after bathing. He said: Well, that's it!
Last winter, when I was on an envoy to the State of Chu for the King of Qi, I walked to the Yangzhou River in Ju County. I saw that the Ju Bridge was badly damaged.
I immediately prepared a liquid decoction and fire medicine for him to drive away the heat evil. After taking one dose of the medicine, he no longer sweated. After taking two doses of the medicine, the fever subsided. After taking three doses, the disease stopped.
After letting him take the medicine for another twenty days, he felt like a healthy person.
The reason why I knew about his illness was because when I checked his pulse, I found that his pulse belonged to the "Bingyin pulse" where heat evil merges into the body.
Pulse theory says: Death caused by internal heat and external heat being confused and intertwined.
When I took his pulse, I found no internal heat and external heat mixed together, but they were both Yin pulses.
Those with Yin pulse and smooth pulse can be cured by Qing method. Although the heat evil is not completely eliminated, it can still be cured and life saved.
I diagnosed that his kidney qi was sometimes heavy and turbid. I could vaguely detect this situation at Taiyin Cunkou, which was water qi.
The kidneys are responsible for the movement of fluids, so we know his condition from this.
If it is not treated for a while, it will become a disease with alternating colds and hotness.
The Queen Mother of the King of Qi was ill and summoned me to check her pulse. I said: It is a disease caused by wind-heat attacking the bladder, making it difficult to defecate and defecate, and the urine is red in color.
I gave her the gunpowder decoction. After one dose, she was able to defecate. After two doses, she was cured and her urine was the same color as before.
This is a disease caused by urinating while sweating. The disease is caused by taking off clothes and letting the sweat dry.
The reason why I knew about the illness of the Queen Mother of Qi was because when I took her pulse, I found that the opening of the Taiyin was moist, which was due to wind-induced pulse energy.
Pulse theory says: The pulse is large, solid and strong when the pulse is cut forcefully, and is large, tense and strong when the pulse is cut gently, which indicates kidney disease.
But when I took the pulse at the kidney area, the situation was opposite. The pulse was thick and restless.
A thick pulse indicates a disease in the bladder; a restless pulse indicates heat in the middle burner, and the urine is red in color.
Cao Shantao in Zhangburi, Qi State, fell ill. After checking his pulse, I said: This is Fei Xiaobing disease, combined with cold and heat syndrome.
I told his family: This disease is fatal and cannot be cured.
You just satisfy the sick person's request and provide for him, and there is no need to treat him any more.
Medical theory says: This disease will cause you to go crazy and run around in three days, and you will die in five days.
Then he died as expected.
Shanta's illness was caused by having sex after being angry.
The reason I knew about Shantao's illness was because I took his pulse and found out from the pulse that he had lung-qi heat.
Pulse theory says: If the pulse is not steady or pulsating, the body is weak.
This is the result of repeated illnesses of the lungs and liver. So when I took the pulse, the pulse shape was unstable and there was a phenomenon of substituted pulse.
An unstable pulse means that the blood energy cannot be stored in the liver; the pulse is sometimes chaotic, sometimes impetuous, and sometimes grand.
This is because the collaterals of the lungs and liver are severed, so it is said to be fatal but cannot be cured.
The reason why I say add cold and heat is because his spirit is weak and his body is like a corpse.
A person whose spirit is scattered and whose body is like a corpse will definitely become weak. For a weak person, acupuncture cannot be used, nor can strong medicines be taken.
Before I diagnosed and treated him, the imperial doctor of Qi State had already diagnosed and treated his disease. He applied moxibustion on his foot Shaoyang pulse and asked him to take Banxia Pills. The patient immediately had diarrhea and became weak in the abdomen. He also applied moxibustion on his Shaoyin pulse, which severely damaged his liver and tendon Yang Qi. This repeatedly damages the patient's vitality, so it is said to be an injury caused by cold and heat.
Therefore, it is said that people will go crazy after three days. This is because the collaterals of the liver cross the breast and are connected to the Yangming meridian. Therefore, the crossing of the collaterals causes the heat evil to invade the Yangming meridian. If the Yangming meridian is injured, the person will run crazy.
Death after five days is because the liver and heart meridians are five minutes apart, and the vitality of the liver is exhausted in five days. When the vitality is exhausted, the person dies.
Pan Manru, the lieutenant of Qi State, suffered from lower abdominal pain. After I checked his pulse, I said: This is the gas left in the abdomen, which has accumulated to form a "mast disease".
I said to Qi's imperial servant named Rao and his internal history officer named You: If the lieutenant cannot prohibit sexual intercourse himself, he will die within thirty days.
After more than twenty days, he urinated blood and died.
His illness was caused by drinking and having sex.
The reason why I knew his illness was because I took his pulse and it was deep and weak. The combination of these three conditions indicates a diseased pulse in the spleen.
Moreover, the pulse at the cunkou of the right hand was tight and small, showing the pulse condition of a lump.
The two qi restrict and influence each other, so you will die within thirty days.
If the three Yin meridians of Taiyin, Shaoyin and Jueyin appear together, it is consistent with the rule of death within thirty days; if the three Yin meridians do not appear at the same time, the time to decide life and death will be shorter; if the intersecting Yin meridians and Dai meridians appear alternately, the time to death is still short.
Therefore, his three Yin meridians appeared at the same time; as mentioned before, he died of urinating blood.
Zhao Zhang, the prime minister of Marquis Yangxu, was ill and summoned me. Many doctors thought it was a cold in the abdomen.
After diagnosing the pulse, I concluded that it was wind disease. The symptom of Xiangfeng is that after swallowing food, it is always vomited out, and the food cannot be retained in the stomach.
According to medical theory: You will die in five days. As a result, he died ten days later.
The disease is caused by alcoholism.
The reason why I knew Zhao Zhang's illness was because when I took his pulse, it was slippery. This is a sign of wind in the body.
If food is swallowed and always spit out, and the stomach cannot hold it, medical science says that one will die within five days. This is the dividing line mentioned above.
He died ten days later. The reason for the expiration date was because he liked to drink porridge, so his stomach was full. His stomach was full, so it exceeded the scheduled time of death.
My teacher said: If the stomach can hold digested food, it will exceed the scheduled time of death. If the stomach cannot hold digested food, it will die before the time limit.
The King of Jibei fell ill and called me for diagnosis and treatment. I said: "This is wind syndrome, which makes the chest full."
He made some medicinal wine for him, and after three days of drinking it, he was cured.
His illness was caused by lying on the ground while sweating.
The reason why I know the cause of King Jibei's illness is that when I took the pulse, there was wind evil in the pulse and the heart pulse was heavy and turbid.
According to the pathology, when the disease invades the body surface, the yang energy on the body surface is exhausted, and the yin energy will invade.
When Yin Qi invades and becomes aggressive, the cold Qi will flow up and the hot Qi will flow down, causing a person's chest to feel full.
When a person is lying on the ground while sweating, his pulse will be cold and cold.
For people with a cold and yin pulse, disease pathogens will inevitably invade the inside. During treatment, the yin and coldness should be caused to flow out with sweat.
The wife of Sikong Chu in the Beigong of Qi State was ill. Many doctors believed that it was the wind that invaded the body, mainly the lungs, so they acupunctured the Foot Shaoyang meridian.
After diagnosing the pulse, I said: It is a hernia disease. The hernia affects the bladder, making it difficult to defecate and defecate, and the urine is red in color.
This disease causes enuresis when encountering cold air, causing the person's lower abdomen to swell.
Her illness was caused by having sex after she wanted to urinate but couldn't.
The reason why I knew her illness was because when I took the pulse, the pulse was large and strong, but the pulse was difficult. This was because there was a change in the Jueyin Liver Meridian.
If the pulse is difficult, it is a hernia affecting the bladder.
The reason why the lower abdomen is swollen is because the Jueyin meridians gather in the lower abdomen. If the Jueyin meridians are diseased, the parts connected to it will also change. This change will cause the lower abdomen to swell.
I burned her foot Jueyin liver meridian, burning one point on each side, and she no longer had enuresis and her urine was clear, and the pain in her lower abdomen stopped.
Then she was given gunpowder decoction. After three days, the hernia disappeared and the disease was cured.
Once upon a time, the wet nurse of the King of Jibei said that she had fever in the soles of her feet and felt depressed in her chest. I told her: It was a fever syndrome.
Three acupoints were pricked on each sole of her foot. When the needles were removed, they were used to hold the acupoints to prevent blood from flowing out. The disease was quickly cured.
Her illness was caused by excessive drinking.
The King of Jibei called me to diagnose the illness of his maids. When I diagnosed a woman named Shu, it seemed that she was not sick.
I told Mr. Yongxiang: If you have injured your spleen, you should not work too hard. According to pathology, you will vomit blood and die in the spring.
I asked the King of Jibei what talents this person has?
The King of Jibei said: She likes Fang skills, has many skills, and can create new ideas in old Fang skills. Last year, she bought it from the private sector. Four people like her shared 4.7 million yuan. Asked again: Is she sick?
I replied: She is very ill and will die according to the pathological conditions.
The King of Jibei called her for treatment again, but her expression did not change. He thought what I said was wrong and did not sell her to other princes.
In the spring of the next year, she followed the king to the toilet with a sword in hand. The king left, but she stayed behind. The king sent someone to call her, but she fell face forward in the toilet, vomited blood and died.
Her disease is caused by sweating. According to pathological theory, patients who sweat are seriously ill internally. From the outside, their hair and face are shiny, and their pulse is not weak. This is also a disease of Neiguan.
Dr. Qi Guozhong was suffering from dental caries. I burned the Yangming pulse on his left hand and immediately prepared Sophora flavescens decoction for him. I rinsed his mouth with three liters of it every day. After five or six days, the disease was cured.
His illness was caused by bad habits, opening his mouth while sleeping and not rinsing after eating.
The beauty of King Sichuan was pregnant and had dystocia, so she called me for diagnosis and treatment. I took a pinch of hyoscyamus powder and drank it with wine, and she gave birth quickly.
I checked her pulse again and found that it was irritable.
She had a rapid pulse and other ailments, so I gave her a dose of Shishi, and then blood clots came out from her vagina. There were about five or six blood clots as big as beans.
The servant of the prime minister of Qi State followed his master to the palace. I saw him eating outside the boudoir door and saw that his face looked sick. I immediately told the matter to the eunuch named Ping. He liked to diagnose pulse and learned from me.
I used this slave as an example to guide him and told him: This is a sign of damage to the spleen. By next spring, the chest septum will be blocked and he will not be able to eat. According to the pathology, he will bleed to death in the summer.
He went to the prime minister and reported: "Your servant's servant is sick, very ill, and his death is just around the corner."
The prime minister asked: How did you know?
He replied: When the prime minister went to court and entered the palace, he was eating outside his boudoir door. I and Duke Taicang were standing there. Duke Taicang told me that suffering from this disease would lead to death.
The prime minister summoned this retainer and asked him: Is your servant sick?
The retainer said: My slave is not sick and has no pain in his body.
In the spring, he really fell ill. In April, he died of bleeding.
The reason why I knew about his illness was that his temper generally affected the five internal organs. If the spleen was injured, a certain part of the face would show a corresponding disease color. If the spleen is injured, the face looks yellow, but if you look closely, it will be the color of dead grass with green to gray.
Many doctors are unaware of this situation and think that there are parasites in the body or that the spleen has been damaged.
The reason why this person was seriously ill and died in the spring was because his face turned yellow due to spleen disease. Yellow belongs to the earth in the five elements. The spleen earth cannot overcome the liver wood, so he will die in the spring when the liver wood is strong.
The cause of death in the summer, according to the pathology, is Neiguan disease, which is serious but the pulse is normal. For Neiguan disease, the patient will not feel any pain, as if there is no pain at all. If any disease is added to the disease, he will die in the second month of spring.
That's why he died in April. When I checked his pulse, he was in good spirits and nourished his nature.
If he can do this, the person will still be plump and plump, and he can delay it for a while.
His illness was caused by excessive sweating, exposure to fire, and exposure to wind outside.
He summoned me to check his pulse because of King Shichuan's disease. I said: This is a disease with severe symptoms caused by heat evil invading the upper part of the body, causing headaches, body heat, and making people feel depressed.
I splashed cold water on his head and acupunctured his foot Yangming meridian, three points on the left and right, and he was cured quickly.
His illness was caused by washing his hair and not drying it before going to bed.
My previous diagnosis was correct, so it's called "kei" because the heat is retrograde to the head and shoulders.
Huang Changqing, the brother of King Huang Ji of Qi, held a banquet at home and invited me.
The guests are seated, but the food has not yet been served.
When I saw Song Jian, the Queen's younger brother, looked unusual, I said, "You are sick. Four or five days ago, you had pain in your waist and flanks that made you unable to lean down or urinate."
If it is not treated quickly, the pathogenic factors will infiltrate the kidneys.
Heal it quickly before it stays in the five internal organs.
Now your condition is just that the pathogenic factors have just invaded and infiltrated the kidneys. This is what people call "kidney paralysis". Song Jian said: You are right, I did have pain in my back.
Four or five days ago, it was raining. Huang's sons-in-law came to my house and saw the ashlar stone under the wall of my warehouse. They wanted to lift it. I wanted to follow suit, but when they couldn't lift it, they put it down.
At dusk, I started to feel pain in my lower back and couldn't urinate. It hasn't healed yet.
His illness was caused by his fondness for lifting heavy objects.
The reason why I was able to diagnose and treat his illness was because I saw the color of his face. The temples were dry and the color was dry at the edges of the kidney disease areas on both cheeks. That's why I knew that the disease had occurred four or five days ago.
I made a soft decoction for him and he was cured in eighteen days.
A maid named Han of the King of Jibei suffered from back pain, aversion to cold and fever. Many doctors thought it was a cold-heat disease. After checking her pulse, I said: It is internal cold and blocked menstruation.
I gave her medicine and moxibustion. After a while, her menstruation came and she was cured.
Her illness was caused by wanting a man but not being able to.
The reason why I knew her illness was that when I took her pulse, I found that her kidney pulse had disease energy and her pulse was stagnant and discontinuous.
This kind of pulse appears hard and strong, so menstruation is blocked.
His liver pulse was hard, straight and long, like a bowstring, extending beyond the left hand cun, so the disease was caused by wanting to get a man but not being able to.
A woman named Bo Wu in Linyi was very ill. Many doctors thought it was a cold and fever disease that would lead to death and could not be cured.
After checking my pulse, I said: This is pinhole disease.
This disease causes a person's belly to become enlarged and the skin on the abdomen to be yellow and rough. The patient feels uncomfortable touching the abdomen with his hands.
我用芫花一撮用水送服，随即泄出约有几升的蛲虫，病也就好了。 Thirty days later, my body was the same as before the illness.
Pinworm disease is caused by cold dampness. Too much cold dampness accumulates and cannot be dispersed, turning into insects.
I could know her illness because when I took her pulse and followed the pulse position in her ulnar area, she found that her ulnar pulse was tight and thick, and her hair was withered. This was a symptom of an insect.
Her face was shiny because her internal organs were free of evil spirits and her illness was not severe.
Sima Chunyu of Qi State was ill. After checking his pulse, I said: You should have Dongfeng disease.
The symptom of Dongfeng disease is that one vomits food after swallowing it. The cause of this disease is that one runs away after eating a full meal.
He replied: I went to the king's house to eat horse liver. I was very full. When I saw the wine being served, I ran away. Later I rode a fast horse home. When I got home, I ejaculated dozens of times.
I told him: Take the fire agent soup with rice juice and you will be cured in seven or eight days.
Doctor Qin Xin was at the side at that time. After I left, he said to the captains in the left and right cabinets: What disease does he think Sima has?
He replied: I think it is cave wind disease and it can be treated.
Qin Xin smiled and said, "This is because I don't know."
According to pathology, Sima's illness would lead to death in nine days.
After nine days without death, the Sima family summoned me again.
After I went there, I asked about the condition, and it was exactly what I diagnosed.
I made fire rice soup for him and let him take it. After seven or eight days, he was cured.
The reason why I knew his illness was because when I diagnosed his pulse, his pulse pattern completely complied with the normal rules.
His condition and pulse were consistent, so he would not die.
A man named Po Shi from Qi State was ill. After checking his pulse, I told him: "The lungs are damaged and cannot be cured. He will urinate blood and die ten days later on Dinghai Day."
Eleven days later, he urinated blood and died.
His illness was caused by falling from a horse onto a hard stone.
The reason why I was able to diagnose his illness was because when I took his pulse, the pulse conditions of the lung and yin pulse were scattered and scattered, as if they came from several channels and were inconsistent.
At the same time, his face turned red, which was a sign that the heart pulse was suppressing the lung pulse.
The reason why I knew he fell off his horse was because he had cut his Yin channel.
The anti-yin meridian enters the large stomach collateral meridian in Xuli, and then invades the pulmonary meridian.
His pulmonary veins had scattered pulses again, and his face turned red when he should have been white. This was a sign that the heart pulse invaded the lungs.
The reason why he did not die as expected is because my teacher said: If the patient can eat and drink water, he will be able to survive the death period. If he cannot eat or drink water, he will die before the death period.
This man liked to blow millet. Millet can replenish lung energy, so he delayed his death.
The reason for his blood in urine is as stated in the theory of pulse diagnosis: If a patient likes to be quiet during recuperation, his qi and blood will decline and die; if he is active, his qi and blood will rise and die.
This person likes to be quiet, not impatient, and can sit peacefully for a long time and sleep on a table, so blood will be excreted from the bottom.
The doctor named Sui of the King of Qi was ill, so he made Five Stone Powder and took it himself.
I went to greet him and he said: I am sick and I hope you can diagnose and treat me.
I immediately diagnosed and treated him and told him: You have a disease caused by heat in your internal organs.
Pathology says that if there is heat in the internal organs and the patient cannot urinate, he cannot take Wu Shi Powder.
The stone medicine is so powerful that your urination frequency will decrease after taking it. Please stop taking it immediately.
Look at your face, you're going to get sores and swelling.
He said: Bian Que once said that Yin stones can cure diseases with Yin deficiency and heat, and Yang stones can cure diseases with Yang deficiency and cold.
The prescriptions of medicinal stones all distinguish between yin and yang, cold and heat, so if the internal organs are hot, use Yin stone softening agent to treat them; if the internal organs are cold, use Yang stone hardening agent.
I said: What you said is wrong.
Although Bian Que said this, it is necessary to make a careful diagnosis, establish standards, establish rules, consider and weigh, and based on the principles of color and pulse, ups and downs, and compliance, and check whether the patient's behavior and breathing are coordinated before drawing a conclusion.
Medical theory says: If there are yang-heat diseases in the body and yin-cold symptoms on the body surface, strong medicines and meteorites cannot be used to treat them.
Because the powerful medicine enters the body, the evil energy will make the heat evil energy more unbridled and accumulate deeper.
The theory of diagnosis says: For diseases where there is more external cold than internal heat, strong medicines cannot be used.
Because strong medicines entering the body will stimulate Yang Qi, the symptoms of Yin deficiency will be more serious, Yang Qi will be stronger, and evil Qi will flow everywhere and gather in acupoints, eventually causing gangrene.
I told him that after more than a hundred days, the gangrene appeared on the breast and spread to the supraclavicular fossa, whereupon he died.
This means that theory only summarizes the general situation and puts forward general principles.
If mediocre doctors fail to learn and understand deeply, they will make mistakes in identifying the yin and yang principles.
When the King of Qi was a Marquis of Yang Deficiency, he was seriously ill, and many doctors thought it was a serious illness.
I diagnosed his pulse and thought it was paralysis. The root of the disease was in the lower part of the right side of the body. It was as big as a clasped cup, making the person breathless, with rising negative Qi and unable to eat.
I gave him gunpowder porridge, and after six days, the Qi went down. Then I asked him to take pills, and after about six days, the disease was cured.
His illness was caused by improper sexual intercourse.
When I diagnosed his pulse, I couldn't identify which meridian had the disease, but I could roughly tell where the disease was.
I once diagnosed and treated a man named Cheng Kaifang in Wudu, Anyang. He said he was not sick, but I said he would suffer from tracheitis. In three years, his limbs would no longer be under his control, and he would become mute and unable to make a sound, and he would die at this time.
Now I heard that he can no longer move his limbs. Although he is mute, he is not dead yet.
His illness was caused by wind evil after drinking alcohol many times.
The reason why I knew about his illness was because when I took his pulse, I found that his pulse condition was in line with the teachings of "Qi Ke Shu": If the internal qi is opposite, death will occur.
Cut his pulse and get the pulse pattern of kidney qi counteracting lung qi. According to this principle, he will die in three years.
A Gongchen named Xiang Chu in Anling Ban was ill. I diagnosed his pulse and said, "This is male hernia."
Hernia is a disease that occurs under the chest septum and connects to the lungs.
It is caused by sexual intemperance.
I said to him: You must not do anything that requires strenuous effort. If you do such things, you will vomit blood and die.
Later, Xiang Chu went to play Cuju. As a result, his waist became cold, he sweated a lot, and he vomited blood.
I checked his pulse again and said: He will die at dusk the next day.
He will die then.
His disease was caused by sexual intercourse. The reason why I knew his disease was because when I took the pulse, I found the anti-yang pulse. If the anti-yang pulse energy enters the upper part of the body, he will die the next day.
On the one hand, there is an anti-yang pulse, and on the other hand, it is connected to the lungs. This is a male hernia.
Chen Chunyuyi said: There are too many other diseases that can be correctly diagnosed and treated to determine the time of life and death and can be cured. Because I have forgotten it over time and cannot completely remember it, I dare not use these to answer.
Asked again: Many of the diseases you diagnose and treat have the same names, but the diagnosis results are different. Some people are dead and some are still alive. Why is this?
The answer is: In the past, most of the names of diseases were similar and could not be accurately identified. Therefore, the ancient sages established the pulse method, so that people can use these established standards and established rules to weigh and weigh people. According to the rules, measure a person's yin and yang conditions, distinguish people's pulse conditions, and then name them. Pay attention to the correspondence with natural changes and refer to the human body.
However, the pulse method cannot be fully fulfilled. Diagnosis and treatment of patients must be based on the method of dividing pulses to distinguish diseases with the same name and tell the cause of the disease.
Now all the patients I treat have records of their diagnosis and treatment.
The reason why I distinguish diseases in this way is because my teacher died just after I completed my medical studies. Therefore, I recorded the diagnosis and treatment situation and expected the time of life and death to verify the correspondence between my mistakes, correct results and pulse conditions. Because of this, I am now able to distinguish various diseases.
Asked again: When you decide the patient’s time of death or aliveness, sometimes it fails to come true. Why?
The answer is: This is all because the patient eats without restraint, or because he takes medicine inappropriately, or because he uses acupuncture treatment inappropriately, so his death does not correspond to the predicted date.
He also asked: When you were able to diagnose and treat illnesses and discuss the indications of medicines, did the ministers from various princes and dynasties ask you for advice?
When King Wen of Qi fell ill, he didn't ask you to diagnose him. Why?
He replied: The king of Zhao, Jiaoxi, Jinan and Wu all sent people to summon me, but I dare not go.
When King Wen of Qi was ill, my family was poor and I had to treat people to make a living. At that time, I was really worried about being appointed as a doctor by the officials and being restrained. Therefore, I transferred my household registration to the names of relatives, neighbors, etc. I did not take care of the family affairs, but only wanted to practice medicine and travel around, looking for people with excellent medical skills for a long time to ask for help. I visited several teachers, and I learned all their main skills. I also got all their medical prescriptions and medical books, and conducted in-depth analysis and evaluation.
I lived in the feudal state of Marquis Yangxu, so I served him.
When he entered the court, I followed him to Chang'an. Because of this, I was able to treat Xiang Chu and others in Anling.
Ask me: Do you know the reason why King Qi Wen fell ill?
I replied: I have not seen King Qi Wen's condition with my own eyes, but I heard that King Qi Wen suffered from asthma, headaches and poor eyesight.
I presumed that this was not a disease.
Because his body was fat and his energy had accumulated, his body could not move, and his bones could not support his body, so he was asthmatic. This did not require medical treatment.
According to pulse theory: When a person's pulse energy is strong at the age of twenty, he should do running exercises; when he is thirty years old, he should walk briskly; when he is forty years old, he should sit still; when he is fifty years old, he should lie down; when he is over sixty years old, he should keep his vitality deep.
King Wen of Qi was less than twenty years old. His pulse was strong and he should run more, but he was too lazy to move. This was a sign of not following the laws of nature.
Later I heard that some doctors treated him with broilers, and his condition immediately became worse. This was a mistake in analyzing and judging his condition.
According to my analysis, this is a manifestation of the struggle for healthy energy in the body and the intrusion of disease and evil energy into the body. This was not a disease that young people could recover from, so he died.
For this kind of disease, you should adjust your diet, choose sunny weather, drive or walk out, to expand your mind, harmonize your bones, muscles, blood vessels, and relieve the stagnant qi in the body.
Therefore, at the age of twenty, it is the period when people say that the quality of Qi and blood is strong. From a medical point of view, the treatment method of Bianstone should be used. Using this method will cause the Qi and blood to flow irregularly.
Asked again: Who did your teacher Yang Qing study from?
Do the princes of Qi know about him?
He replied: I don’t know who Yang Qing’s teacher is?
Yangqing's family was very wealthy. He was proficient in medical skills, but he refused to treat people. Perhaps because of this, he was not famous.
Yang Qing told me again: Never let my descendants know that you learned medical skills from me.
Asked again: How did your teacher Yang Qing fall in love with you? Why do you want to teach you all the secret medical skills?
He replied: I didn’t know that my teacher Yang Qing’s medical skills were exquisite.
I later learned that it was because when I was young, I liked various medical techniques and prescriptions. I tried his prescriptions, and most of them were effective and exquisite.
I heard that Gongsun Guang of Tangli in Shichuan was good at using ancient medical prescriptions, so I went to see him.
I can be his student and learn from him the medical prescriptions for regulating yin and yang and the medical theories passed down orally, and I will record them all.
I want to learn all his exquisite medical skills. Gongsun Guang said: I have brought out all my secret medical skills. I will not be gracious to you. I am already old and there is nothing left for you to learn.
These are the exquisite medical prescriptions I learned when I was young. I teach them all to you. Don’t teach them to others.
I said: I am very lucky to be able to serve and study in front of you and get all the secret recipes.
Even if I were to die, I would not dare to pass it on to others casually.
After a few days, Gongsun Guang had nothing to do, so I made an in-depth analysis and discussion of medical prescriptions. He thought that my discussion of the medical prescriptions of the past dynasties was wise.
He said happily: You will definitely become a Chinese doctor.
The medical skills I am good at are all neglected. My compatriots who live in Linyi are good at medical skills, but I am not as good as him. His medical prescriptions are very wonderful and cannot be understood by ordinary people.
When I was middle-aged, I wanted to ask him for advice. My friend Yang Zhongqian disagreed and said: You are not the kind of person who can learn medical skills.
I must go with you to see him, and he will know that you love medicine. He is also old, but his family is wealthy.
Before I went there, it happened that Yang Yin, the son of Yang Qing, came to present a horse to the King of Qi, and presented it to the King of Qi through my teacher Gongsun Guangjin. Because of this, I became familiar with Yang Yin.
Gongsun Guang entrusted me to Yang Yin again and said: Chunyu Yi likes medical skills. You must treat him well. He admires the way of saints.
So he wrote a letter recommending me to Yang Qing, so I got to know Yang Qing.
I served Yang Qing respectfully and cautiously, so he liked me.
He also asked: Have any officials or common people ever learned medical skills from you? Has anyone learned all your medical skills? Where are they from?
He replied: Linshan was born in Songyi. He asked me for advice, and I taught him how to look at his face and diagnose diseases. He studied for more than a year.
Gao Ming and Wang Yu, the imperial doctors sent by the King of Jibei, asked me for advice. I taught them the distribution of meridians up and down and the connection positions of abnormal meridians. I often discussed the location of acupoints and the direction of evil and good and reverse when the energy of the meridians circulates. I taught them how to select the acupoints that need meteorite acupuncture treatment for diseases. I learned it for more than a year.
King Sichuan often sent Feng Xin, an officer in charge of horses in the Taicang Department, to ask me to teach him medical skills. I taught him the massage techniques, how to use medicines, and how to determine the nature and taste of medicines and their compatibility to prepare decoctions.
Gao Yonghou's family minister was named Du Xin. He liked diagnosing pulses and came to study. I taught him the distribution of upper and lower meridians and "Five Color Diagnosis", and he studied for more than two years.
Linyi called a man named Tang An to study. I taught him "Five Color Diagnosis", the location of the upper and lower meridians, "Odd Cough Technique", and the principles of the four seasons and the corresponding yin and yang. Without success, he was appointed as the doctor of the King of Qi.
He also asked: Can you make no mistakes when diagnosing and treating people's illnesses and determining their life and death?
He replied: When I treat a patient, I must first feel his pulse and then treat him.
If the pulse condition is weak and inconsistent with the condition, he will not be treated. Only if the pulse condition is consistent with the condition, he will be treated.
If the pulse cannot be carefully detected, errors will often occur in determining the time of death and life and whether the patient can be cured. I cannot be completely free of mistakes.
Tai Shigong said: No matter whether women are beautiful or ugly, they will be jealous when they live in the palace; whether scholars are virtuous or not, they will be jealous when they enter the court.
So Bian Que suffered disaster because of his medical skills, and the Duke of Taicang made himself invisible and was sentenced to punishment.
Tiying wrote to the emperor, and her father finally found peace.
So Lao Tzu said that all beautiful things are unlucky. Where does he say that about people like Bian Que?
People like Taicang Gong are close to what this sentence means.
