Taigong looked at Lu Shang, who was from the East China Sea.
His ancestors once served as officials in the Four Mountains, assisting Xia Yu in water management and made great contributions.
Shun and Yu were granted the title of Lu, and some were granted the title of Shen, with the surname Jiang.
During the Xia and Shang dynasties, some places in Shen and Lu were granted to descendants of other branches, and some descendants became commoners. Lu Shang is their descendant.
Lu Shang's original surname was Jiang. Because he took the name of his fiefdom, he was called Lu Shang.
Lu Shang was once very famous. When he was old, he took the opportunity of fishing to ask to see Zhou Xibo.
Before going out hunting, Xibo made a divination, and the hexagram said: The prey obtained is neither a dragon nor a chi, nor a tiger nor a bear; what he obtains is the assistant minister who will become the overlord.
So Xibohou went out hunting, and sure enough he met Taigong on the north bank of the Wei River. After talking with Taigong, Xibo was overjoyed and said: I have long heard the Taigong, the ancestor of our country, say: A saint will definitely come to Zhou, and Zhou will prosper.
That's you, right?
Our grandpa has been waiting for you for a long time.
So he called Lu Shang "Tai Gong Wang", and the two of them rode back together and respected him as military advisor.
Some people say that Taigong was very knowledgeable and once assisted King Zhou of Shang Dynasty.
Because King Zhou was unruly, Taigong left.
He went around lobbying the princes of various countries, but failed to find a king, so he finally went west to join Zhou Xibo.
Some people say that Lu Shang was a scholar who lived in seclusion by the sea.
When Zhou Xibo was imprisoned in Youli by King Zhou, Xibo's ministers San Yisheng and Hong Yao knew about Lu Shang, so they asked him to come out.
Lu Shang also said this: I heard that Xibo was virtuous and always respected and cared for the elderly. Why not go there?
In order to rescue Uncle Xi, these three people searched for beautiful women and rare treasures, and presented them to King Zhou to redeem Uncle Xi.
As a result, Xibo was released and returned to Zhou.
Although there are different legends about Lu Shang's return to the Zhou Dynasty, the general consensus is that he was the teacher and assistant minister of King Wen and King Wu.
After Zhou Xibochang escaped from Youli and returned to the country, he and Lu Shang secretly planned how to implement virtue and overthrow the rule of the Shang Dynasty. Many of them were military tactics and cunning tactics. Therefore, future generations who talked about military tactics and the secret power of the Zhou Dynasty all respected the basic strategies of the Grand Duke.
Zhou Xibo was upright and peaceful. Especially after the territorial dispute between the Yu and Rui kingdoms, he was praised as King Wen who was destined to receive the destiny.
Xibo also conquered Chongguo, Mixu and Quanyi, and built Fengyi on a large scale.
Two-thirds of the princes in the world turned their hearts to the Zhou Dynasty, which was mostly the result of the Taigong's planning.
After King Wen died, King Wu came to the throne.
In the ninth year, King Wu wanted to continue to complete King Wen's great cause and campaigned eastward against Shang Zhou to see if the princes gathered to respond.
When the army was leaving, Lu Shang, who was respectfully called "Master Shangfu", held a yellow ax in his left hand and a Bingbai jade in his right hand, swearing to be the master, and said: Cang Si Cang Si, command the troops, assemble the ships, and behead those who are late.
So the army arrived at Mengjin.
There were as many as eight hundred princes who came without being summoned. The princes all said: It is time to conquer Shang Zhou. King Wu said: Not yet.
He returned as a teacher and wrote "Tai Oath" with Tai Gong.
Two years later, Shang Zhou killed Prince Bigan and imprisoned Jizi.
King Wu was preparing to conquer the Shang Dynasty again, and a divination revealed that the tortoise sign was unlucky, with a sudden storm coming.
The ministers were frightened, and only Taigong persuaded King Wu to march, so King Wu led his troops to fight.
On the first day of the eleventh year, King Wu swore an oath in Muye to attack Shang Zhou.
Shang Zhou's army collapsed completely.
Shang Zhou turned around and fled, boarding Lutai, whereupon his pursuers killed King Zhou.
The next day, King Wu stood on the social altar, and the ministers held water in their hands. Wei Kangshufeng laid out the colorful mats, and Master Shangfu brought the animals for sacrifice. Shi Yi prayed according to the policy book and reported to the gods about the crusade against the evil Shang Zhou.
Distribute the coins accumulated by Shang Zhou in Lutai and distribute the grain accumulated by Shang Zhou in Juqiao to help the poor.
Build and raise the height of Bigan's tomb, and release the imprisoned Jizi.
He moved the Jiuding, which symbolizes the highest power in the world, to the Zhou Dynasty, fixed the government affairs of the Zhou Dynasty, and started to create a new era together with the people of the world.
Most of the above-mentioned matters were based on the advice of Master Shangfu.
At this time, King Wu had pacified Shang Zhou and became the king of the world, so he awarded the title of Yingqiu of Qi State to his master Shangfu.
Master Shangfu went east to his own feudal country, living and traveling at a very slow pace.
The people in the guest house said to him: I heard that opportunities are hard to come by but easy to lose.
This guest slept so peacefully, I'm afraid he didn't go to the feudal country to take up his post.
After hearing this, the Grand Duke dressed up overnight and set out on the road, arriving at his own kingdom at dawn.
Just when Laihou led his troops to attack, he wanted to compete with Taigong for the camp.
Yingqiu is adjacent to Laiguo.
The Lai people were a Yi tribe. They took advantage of the chaos of Shang and Zhou and the Zhou Dynasty had just settled down. There was no time to pacify the remote areas, so they competed with Taigong for territory.
After Taigong arrived in his feudal country, he straightened political affairs, followed its customs, simplified etiquette, opened up industry and commerce, and developed the advantages of fishery and salt industry. As a result, more people joined Qi State, and Qi State became a great power.
When King Cheng of Zhou came to the throne at a young age, Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai rebelled, and Huaiyi also rebelled against the Zhou Dynasty. King Cheng sent Zhao Kanggong and ordered Tai Gong to say: From the sea in the east, to the Yellow River in the west, to Muling in the south, and to Wudi in the north, the five-level princes here are guarded by local officials. If there is any crime, I order you to attack.
Therefore, Qi can conquer other countries and form a great country, with its capital at Yingqiu.
Taigong was already more than a hundred years old when he died, and his son Dinggong Lu Ji succeeded to the throne.
When Ding Gong died, his son Yi Gong succeeded him.
When Duke Yi died, his son Gui Gong and his loving mother succeeded him.
When Duke Gui passed away, his son Aigong Buchen succeeded him.
When Duke Ai was in power, the Marquis of Ji framed Duke Ai to the king of Zhou. The king of Zhou boiled Duke Ai to death in a big cauldron, and appointed Duke Ai's younger brother Jing as the king of Qi, namely Duke Hu.
Duke Hu moved the capital to Bogu during the reign of King Zhou Yi.
Shan, the younger brother of Duke Ai, resented Duke Hu, so he and his followers led the people from Yingqiu to attack and kill Duke Hu, and established themselves as Duke Xian of Qi.
In the first year of Xian's reign, they all expelled Hu Gong's disciples and took the opportunity to move the capital from Bogu to Linzi.
In the ninth year, Duke Xian died and his son, Duke Wu, succeeded him.
In the ninth year of Duke Wu, King Li of Zhou fled and lived in Sheyi.
Ten years later, the Zhou royal family was in chaos, and the ministers presided over the state affairs, which was known as the "Republic".
In the twenty-fourth year, King Zhou Xuan ascended the throne.
In the twenty-sixth year, Duke Wu died and his son Li Gong Wuji succeeded him.
Duke Li was ruthless and wreaking havoc, so Duke Hu's son returned to Qi. The people of Qi wanted to make Duke Hu's son their king, so they attacked and killed Duke Li together.
Hu Gong's son also died in the battle.
The people of Qi then appointed Chi, the son of Duke Li, as Duke Wen of Qi. He killed more than seventy people who attacked and killed Duke Li.
Duke Wen died in the 12th year, and his son Cheng Gongtu succeeded to the throne.
Chenggong died in the ninth year, and his son Zhuang Gonggu succeeded to the throne.
In the twenty-fourth year of Duke Zhuang, Quan Rong killed King You, and the Zhou royal family moved its capital eastward to Luoyi.
Qin began to rank among its princes.
In the fifty-sixth year, the Jin people killed their king, Jin Zhaohou.
In the sixty-fourth year, Duke Zhuang died and his son Li Gong Lufu succeeded him.
In the ninth year of Duke Li, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the 19th year, Duke Huan of Lu killed his brother Yin Gong and established himself as Lord of Lu.
In the twenty-fifth year, Beirong attacked Qi.
The prince of Zheng suddenly came to rescue Qi, and the Marquis of Qi wanted to marry his daughter to him.
The prince suddenly said: Zheng is small and Qi is big, I am not worthy of your daughter.
I declined.
In the thirty-second year, Li Gong's brother Yi Zhongnian passed away.
His son's name was Gongsun Wuzhi. Li Gong doted on him and gave him the same level of care, clothing, life and treatment as the prince.
In the thirty-third year, Li Gong died, and the prince's sons came to the throne, namely Xianggong.
In the first year of Xiang AD, when Duke Xiang was still the prince, he had a fight with Wuzhi. After he came to the throne, he lowered Wuzhi's salary, carriages, horses and clothing, and Wuzhi was very resentful.
In the fourth year, Duke Huan of Lu and his wife came to Qi.
Duke Xiang of Qi had an affair with Mrs. Lu in the past.
Mrs. Lu is the sister of Duke Xiang. She married Duke Huan of Lu as his wife during the reign of Duke Li of Qi. This time she came to Qi with Duke Huan of Lu and committed adultery with Duke Xiang.
When Duke Huan of Lu found out about this, he scolded his wife angrily, and she told Duke Xiang of Qi.
Duke Xianggang of Qi hosted a banquet for Duke Huan of Lu, got him drunk, and sent his strongman Peng Sheng to carry Duke Huan of Lu into the chariot. He then broke Duke Huan's ribs and killed Duke Huan. Duke Huan was already dead when he got out of the car.
The people of Lu blamed Qi for this, and Qi Xianggong killed Peng Sheng to apologize to Lu and atone for his sins.
In the eighth year, Qi State conquered Ji State, and Ji State was forced to move its capital.
In the twelfth year, Duke Xiang sent Lian Cheng and Guan Zhifu to garrison in Kuiqiu. They agreed to go there when the melons ripened in July, and sent someone to replace them when the melons ripened the next year.
They went to garrison for a year, but after the ripening period passed, Duke Xiang still did not send anyone to replace them.
Someone asked Duke Xiang to send someone to replace them, but Duke Xiang refused.
So the two were angry and planned a rebellion through Gongsun Wuwu.
Lian said that he had a cousin who was not favored in the palace of Duke Xiang, so he asked her to spy on Duke Xiang secretly and said to her: "When the matter is completed, I will let you be Gongsun Wuzhi's wife."
In the twelfth month of winter, Duke Xiang visited Gufen and went hunting in Peiqiu.
He saw a wild boar, and the attendant said it was Peng Sheng.
Duke Xiang was furious and shot the wild boar away with an arrow. The wild boar then stood up and barked like a human being.
Duke Xiang was so frightened that he fell off the carriage and injured his foot. His shoes also fell off.
After returning, he whipped the shoekeeper named Fu three hundred times.
Fu left the palace.
When Wuzhi, Lian Cheng, Guan Zhifu and others heard that Duke Xiang was injured, they led their troops to attack Duke Xiang's palace.
He happened to meet Fu who was helping Duke Xiang put on his shoes. Fu said, "Don't go in yet so as not to disturb the palace. Once the palace is disturbed, it will be difficult to attack again."
Wu Wu didn't believe this, so Fu asked him to check his wounds, and then Wu Wu believed it.
They waited outside the palace and asked Fu Xian to go in and inquire.
After Fu first entered, he immediately hid Mr. Xiang behind the door of the house.
After a long time, Wuzhi and others felt a little scared and went into the palace.
Fu Gui, the people in the palace and the trusted ministers of Duke Xianggang counterattacked Wuzhi and others, but failed to win and were all killed.
When I entered the palace ignorantly, I could not find Duke Xiang.
Someone saw human feet exposed under the door of the house. When he opened the door, he saw that it was Duke Xiang who was behind the door. He killed Duke Xiang and made himself king of Qi out of ignorance.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Huan's reign, Lord Qi Wuzhi went to Yonglin for a visit.
Some people in Yonglin once resented Wuzhi. When Wuwu went to play, the people of Yonglin attacked and killed Wuzhi. They announced to the officials of Qi: Wuzhi killed Duke Xiang and established himself as king. I have put him to death.
Please ask the officials to appoint the other princes who should take the throne. I will obey your orders.
At the beginning, Duke Xiang got Duke Huan of Lu drunk and killed him, and he committed adultery with Lady Lu. He also repeatedly killed and punished inappropriately, indulged in womanizing, and bullied ministers many times. His younger brothers were afraid of being implicated in the disaster, so Duke Xiang's second brother, Gong Zijiu, fled to the state of Lu. His mother was the daughter of the state of Lu.
Guan Zhong and Zhao Hu assisted him.
Prince Xiaobai, the third younger brother of Duke Xiang, fled to Ju State, and Bao Shuya assisted him.
Xiaobai's mother was the daughter of the King of Wei, and she was favored by Duke Li of Qi.
Xiaobai has been friends with the doctor Gao Xi since he was a child.
After the Yonglin people killed Wuzhi, the ministers discussed the matter of establishing a king. The Gao family and the Guo family secretly recalled Xiaobai from Ju.
When the State of Lu heard that Wuzhi was dead, it also sent troops to escort the young master Jiu back to Qi, and ordered Guan Zhong to lead another army to block the passage of Ju State. Guan Zhong shot an arrow at the belt hook of Xiaobai's waist.
Xiaobai pretended to be dead, so Guan Zhong sent someone to report to Lu.
The troops escorting Prince Jiu from the state of Lu slowed down, and it took them six days to reach the state of Qi. Xiaobai had already entered the state of Qi first, and Gao Xi made him the king, Duke Huan.
After Duke Huan was shot in the hook of his belt, he pretended to be dead to confuse Guan Zhong, and then hid in Wen's chariot and drove quickly. Because he had the two major families of the Gao family and the Guo family as internal agents, he was able to enter Qi first and ascend the throne, and sent troops to resist the Lu army.
In autumn, the Qi soldiers fought with the Lu soldiers at Qianshi. The Lu soldiers were defeated and fled, but the Qi soldiers cut off the Lu soldiers' retreat.
The State of Qi wrote to the State of Lu, saying: Zijiu is my brother. I cannot bear to kill him with my own hands. Please ask the State of Lu to kill him.
Zhao Hu and Guan Zhong were my enemies. I asked for them to be handed over to me alive, and I was willing to chop them into pieces. Otherwise, Qi soldiers will besiege Lu.
The people of Lu were afraid and killed Zijiu in Shengdu. Zhao Hu committed suicide and Guan Zhong asked for his imprisonment.
When Duke Huan came to the throne, he sent troops to attack Lu, intending to kill Guan Zhong.
Bao Shuya said: I am honored to follow you, and you finally became the king.
I can no longer help you improve your exalted status.
If you only want to govern Qi, Gao Xi and I will be enough.
If you want to become an overlord, don't worry about Yiwu.
The country where Yiwu lives must be strong and cannot lose this talent.
So Duke Huan listened to this.
He pretended to recall Guan Zhong to take revenge, but in fact he wanted to let him rule.
Guan Zhong knew it, so he asked for Qi to be returned.
Bao Shuya welcomed Guan Zhong. As soon as he arrived at Tangfu in Qi State, he removed Guan Zhong's shackles and asked him to fast, bathe and see Duke Huan.
Duke Huan rewarded him with generous gifts and appointed Guan Zhong as a doctor to preside over government affairs.
After Duke Huan got Guan Zhong, he worked with Bao Shu, Xi Peng, and Gao Xi to manage the political affairs of Qi State, implemented the military service system with five families as the basic units, developed the advantages of commercial circulation, fishery and salt industry, used them to relieve the poor, reward the capable people, and everyone in Qi State was happy.
In the second year of Duke Huan, Qi conquered and destroyed Tan, and the king of Tan fled to Ju.
When Duke Huan fled in the early years, he visited the country of Tan. The king of Tan was rude to Duke Huan, so he attacked him.
Five years later, the Lu army was defeated.
Duke Zhuang of Lu asked for the city of Sui to be used for peace, and Duke Huan agreed to make an alliance with the Lu people in Ke.
When the oath was about to be made, Cao Mo of Lu kidnapped Duke Huan of Qi with a dagger on the altar and said: "Return the occupied land of Lu!"
Duke Huan agreed.
Then Cao Mo threw away the dagger and returned to his seat of ministers facing north.
Duke Huan regretted not returning the occupied territory of Lu and had Cao Mo killed.
Guan Zhong said: If you agree to someone else's request when you are kidnapped, and then break your promise and kill someone, you are satisfied with a small pleasure, but you have lost your trust among the princes, and you have lost the support of the people in the world. You cannot do this.
Duke Huan then returned all the territory that Cao Mo had lost after three defeats to Lu.
When the princes heard about it, they all believed that Qi was trustworthy and were willing to surrender.
In the seventh year, the princes and Duke Heng of Qi met in Zhendi for an alliance. From then on, Duke Huan of Qi became the overlord of the princes in the world.
In the fourteenth year, Chen Ligong's son Chen Wan, named Jingzhong, fled to Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi wanted to appoint him as a minister, but he humbly declined; so he was appointed Gongzheng in charge of hundreds of works.
This is the ancestor of Tian Chengzi and Tian Chang.
In the twenty-third year, Shan Rong invaded Yan State, and Yan asked Qi State for help.
Duke Huan of Qi sent troops to rescue Yan, and then attacked Shanrong. He only returned to Guzhu after arriving at Guzhu.
King Yanzhuang sent Duke Huan into the territory of Qi again.
Duke Huan said: Except for the emperor, the princes cannot send each other out of their own borders. I cannot be rude to Yan.
So the territory of Qi State where Yan Jun went was divided with ditches and given to Yan State, so that Yan Jun could rebuild the government of Zhao Gong and pay tribute to the Zhou royal family, just like in the days of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou.
After the princes heard about it, they all obeyed Qi.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Min of Lu's mother was called Ai Jiang, and she was the sister of Duke Huan of Qi.
Aijiang had an affair with Qingfu, the son of Lu Gong, and Qingfu killed Duke Min. Aijiang wanted to make Qingfu the king, but the Lu people instead made Duke Li.
Duke Huan called Ai Jiang back to Qi and killed him.
In the twenty-eighth year, Duke Wen of Wei was invaded by the Di people and asked Qi for help.
The state of Qi led the princes to build a city in Chuqiu and placed the king of Wei there.
In the twenty-ninth year, Duke Heng and his wife Cai Ji took a boat trip.
Cai Ji was familiar with the nature of water, so she rocked the boat and jolted Duke Huan. Duke Huan was afraid and ordered her to stop, but she still did not stop. After getting off the boat, Duke Huan was angry and sent Cai Ji back to Cai State, but he did not break off the marriage.
The king of Cai State was also very angry, so he married Cai Ji to someone else.
After hearing this, Duke Huan became even more angry and raised troops to attack Cai Guo.
Thirty years ago in the spring, Duke Huan of Qi led the princes to attack Cai State, and Cai State was defeated.
Duke Huan continued to attack Chu.
King Chu Cheng led his troops to meet the enemy and asked: "Why did you enter my country?"
Guan Zhong replied: In the past, Duke Kang ordered me to be the first king of Taigong: "You have the right to conquer the fifth-level princes and guard the officials in various places to assist the Zhou Dynasty."
The territory that my late king has the authority to conquer extends to the sea in the east, the Yellow River in the west, Muling in the south, and Wudi in the north.
Baomao, who was supposed to pay tribute from the Chu State, did not pay tribute, resulting in incomplete sacrificial supplies for the emperor, so he came to hold him accountable.
Once upon a time, King Zhao of Zhou did not return from his southern expedition and died in the south, so he came to question him.
The King of Chu said: "I did not pay the tribute. It is indeed my fault. I dare not not pay it in the future."
As for King Zhao of Zhou, he never returned and was not in our territory of Chu. Please go to the bank of Han River to question him.
The Qi army continued to march in Xingdi.
In the summer, King Chu ordered Qu Wan to lead his army to resist the Qi army, and the Qi army retreated to Zhaoling.
Duke Huan met Qu Wan and showed off to him that he had many soldiers and generals.
Qu Wan said: Only if you are righteous can you win; otherwise, the Chu State will use Fangcheng Mountain as the city wall and the Yangtze River and Han River as the moat. How can you attack it?
Duke Huan of Qi made an agreement with Qu Wan and then led his troops to retreat.
Passing through the State of Chen, Yuan Taotu, the official of the State of Chen, deceived Duke Huan and asked the Qi army to take the difficult road to the east, but was discovered by the State of Qi.
In autumn, Qi State attacked Chen State.
This year, the king of Jin killed Prince Shen Sheng.
In the summer of the thirty-fifth year, Duke Huan and the princes met at Kuiqiu.
King Xiang of Zhou sent his strategist Kong to reward Duke Huan with the meat used to sacrifice King Wen and King Wu, bows and arrows decorated with red color, and the carriages used by the emperor. He also gave Duke Huan permission not to bow down to express his gratitude. Duke Huan wanted to agree, but Guan Zhong said, "No."
Duke Huan then bowed down and accepted the reward. In autumn, he met with the princes again at Kuiqiu, and Duke Huan of Qi became more and more proud.
The king of Zhou sent Zai Kong to attend the alliance meeting.
When the princes saw Duke Huan acting like this, some of them became disloyal.
The king of Jin was seriously ill and was late on his journey, just in time to kill Kong.
Zaikong said: Duke Huan of Qi is proud. It doesn't matter if he doesn't go.
Jinjun listened to this and did not go to the alliance meeting.
In this year, Duke Xian of Jin died, and Rick killed Xi Qi and Zhuo Zi, the youngest sons of Duke Xian. Duke Mu of Qin escorted Yi Wu back to Jin to become king because his wife was the sister of Duke Xian of Jin.
Duke Huan also crusaded against the chaos in Jin and reached Gaoliang. He sent Xi Peng to establish Yiwu as the king of Jin and then withdrew his troops.
At this time, the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty was in decline, and only the four kingdoms of Qi, Chu, Qin, and Jin were strong in the world.
Jin Xiangong of Jin State had just finished attending the alliance meeting and died soon after. The country was in chaos.
Duke Mu of Qin was located in a remote area and did not participate in the alliances between the princes of the Central Plains.
King Chu Cheng had just taken over the land of Jingman and considered himself the country of Yi and Di.
Only the state of Qi was able to convene an alliance meeting among the princes of the Central Plains, and Duke Huan of Qi had fully demonstrated his great virtue, so all the princes from all over the world were in submission and came to participate in the alliance meeting.
Therefore, Duke Huan declared: I marched south to Zhaoling and saw Xiong'er Mountain; I marched north to Shanrong, Lizhi, and Guzhu Kingdoms; I marched west to Daxia, crossing the quicksand; I bound horses' hooves, fastened their chariots to the dangerous road of Taihang, and went straight to Beier Mountain before returning.
No one among the princes can disobey me.
I convened three chariot alliances, six chariot alliances, and nine princes to unite the world.
What is the difference between the past three generations when they received their destiny and me now?
I want to offer sacrifices to Mount Tai and worship Father Liang in Zen.
Guan Zhong tried his best to dissuade him, but Duke Huan refused to listen. Guan Zhong then introduced that the ceremony of enshrining Zen could not be performed until various rare and exotic objects from far away were available, and Duke Huan gave up.
In the thirty-eighth year, the younger brother of King Xiang of Zhou conspired with the Rong and Zhai people to invade Zhou. Qi State sent Guan Zhong to Zhou to negotiate peace between the two sides.
The Emperor of Zhou wanted to receive Guan Zhong with the courtesy of a minister, but Guan Zhong kowtowed and said: "I am an accompanying minister, how dare I accept this courtesy!"
After repeated humility, I accepted the courtesy of the following ministers and met the emperor.
In the thirty-ninth year, Wang Zidai, the younger brother of King Xiang of Zhou, fled to Qi.
Qi State sent Zhongsun to ask King Xiang of Zhou to apologize on his behalf.
King Zhou Xiang was very angry and refused to agree.
In the forty-one year, Duke Mu of Qin captured Duke Hui of Jin and released him back to his country soon after.
This year, both Guan Zhong and Xi Peng died.
After Guan Zhong fell seriously ill, Duke Huan of Qi asked him: After your death, who among the ministers can be the prime minister?
Guan Zhong said: There is nothing better than a wise minister like a king.
Duke Huan said: "How is Yi Ya?"
He replied: He killed his own son to please the king, which is unkind and cannot be used.
Duke Huan asked: "How is this person doing?"
He replied: He abandoned his parents to cater to the king, which is unkind and unapproachable.
Duke Huan said: "How is this man Shudao?"
He replied: Castrating yourself to please the king is unkind and cannot be trusted.
After Guan Zhong's death, Duke Huan did not listen to Guan Zhong's words, but still closely appointed these three people, who had exclusive power.
In the forty-second year, the Rong people attacked Zhou, and Zhou asked Qi for help. Qi ordered all the princes to send troops to defend the Zhou royal family.
In this year, Prince Chong'er of Jin came to Qi, and Duke Huan of Qi married his daughter to Chong'er.
Forty-three years.
At first, Duke Huan of Qi had three wives: Wang Ji, Xu Ji, and Cai Ji. None of them gave birth to a son.
Duke Huan was lustful and had many favored concubines, among whom there were six concubines with the same status as his wives: Changwei Ji, born to Wu Gui; Shao Wei Ji, born to Hui Gong; Zheng Ji, born to Xiao Gong Zhao; Ge Ying, born to Xiao Gong Pan; Mi Ji, born to Yi Gong Shang; Song Huazi, born to Gongzi Yong.
Duke Huan of Qi and Guan Zhong once entrusted Duke Xiao Gong Zhao to Duke Xiang of Song Dynasty and established him as the crown prince.
Yi Ya was favored by Duke Huan's eldest son, Wei Ji, and through the eunuch Shu Diao, he gave generous gifts to Duke Huan, so he was also favored by Duke Huan. Duke Huan agreed to make Yi Ya the crown prince.
After Guan Zhong's death, the five princes all asked to be crown princes.
On the day of Yihai in the tenth month of winter, Duke Huan of Qi died.
Yi Ya entered the palace, and Shu Dao killed the officials with the help of his favored ministers, and established the young master Wu Gui as the king of Qi.
Prince Zhao fled to the Song Dynasty.
When Duke Huan was seriously ill, the five princes each formed a party and demanded to be crowned prince.
After Duke Huan died, they fought against each other, so that no one in the palace dared to bury Duke Huan in the coffin.
Duke Huan's body lay on the bed for sixty-seven days, and all the maggots on the body crawled outside the door.
On Yihai day of the twelfth month, Wu Gui ascended the throne, and then he put the coffin in and announced the funeral to all countries.
At night on Xinsi day, I put on my clothes and put my coffin in the hall.
There were more than ten sons of Duke Huan, and a total of five of them had ascended the throne: Wugui died three months after he ascended the throne, without a posthumous title; then came Duke Xiao; then Duke Zhao; then Duke Yi; and finally Duke Hui.
In March of the first year of Xiaogong, Song Xianggong led the army of princes to send Prince Zhao of Qi back to the country and attacked Qi.
The people of Qi were afraid and killed their king Wugui.
When the people of Qi were about to make Prince Zhao the king of Qi, the tribes of the other four princes attacked the prince again. The prince fled to the Song Dynasty, and the Song Dynasty fought against the troops of the four princes of Qi.
In May, the Song army defeated the army of the fourth prince and made Prince Zhao the king, who was Qi Xiaogong.
Song Jun was the fourth prince who came to conquer the rebellion because Duke Huan and Guan Zhong had entrusted the prince to him.
Because of the war, Duke Huan of Qi was not buried until August.
In the spring of the sixth year, Qi State attacked Song Dynasty because Song State did not participate in the alliance meeting in Qi State.
In the summer, Song Xianggong passed away.
In the seventh year, Duke Wen of Jin came to the throne.
In the tenth year, Xiaogong passed away. Pan, Xiaogong's younger brother, asked his son to make a prescription to kill Xiaogong's son and made Pan the king, who was Zhaogong.
Duke Zhao is the son of Duke Huan, and his mother's name is Ge Ying.
In the first year of Zhaogong, Duke Wen of Jin defeated the Chu army in Chengpu. He called the princes to make an alliance in Jiantu and met with the emperor of Zhou. The emperor made Jin the overlord of the princes.
In the sixth year, he invaded Qi.
Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
The Qin army was defeated in Huodi.
In the twelfth year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In May of the 19th year, Duke Zhao died, and his son She was made King of Qi.
She's mother was not favored by Duke Zhao, so no one in Qi was afraid of him.
Duke Zhao's younger brother, Merchant, failed to become king after Duke Huan's death. He secretly befriended wise men and cared for the people, so he was very popular among the people.
After the death of Duke Zhao, his son She succeeded to the throne, but he was weak. The merchants and others killed Qi Junshe in front of Zhaogong's grave in October. The merchants established themselves as kings, namely Duke Yigong.
Duke Yi was the son of Duke Huan, and his mother's name was Miji.
In the spring of the fourth year of Duke Yi, when he was still a son, Duke Yi and Bingrong's father hunted together and competed with each other for the prey, but Duke Yi failed to win. After he came to the throne, Duke Yi cut off Bingrong's father's foot and asked Bingrong to drive for him.
Yongzhi's wife was very beautiful, so Duke Yi snatched her into the palace and made Yongzhi his companion.
In the fifth month, Duke Yi was playing in Shenchi. Bingrong and Yongzhi were joking with each other while taking a bath.
Yongzhi said that Bingrong was the son of the man who cut off his feet, while Bingrong said that Yongzhi was the husband who had his wife taken away from him.
Both of them were ashamed of these words and hated Duke Yi together.
So the two of them planned for Yi Gong to go to the bamboo forest to play. They killed Yi Gong in the car, threw the body in the bamboo forest and escaped.
After Yigong came to the throne, he became arrogant and arrogant, and the people did not join him.
The people of Qi deposed the son of Duke Yi and welcomed the prince Yuan from Wei to return to Qi. He made him the king of the country, namely Duke Hui.
Duke Hui was the son of Duke Huan. His mother was a daughter of Wei State named Shao Wei Ji. She fled to Wei State to avoid civil strife in Qi.
In the second year of Duke Hui, Chang Zhai came to Qi. Prince Chengfu attacked and killed Chang Zhai and buried him at the north gate.
Zhao Chuan, the official of Jin State, killed the king of Jin Linggong.
In ten years, Duke Hui died, and his son Qinggong Wuye succeeded him.
At first, Cui Zhu was favored by Duke Hui. After Hui Gong's death, the Gao family and the Guo family were afraid of being coerced by him, so they expelled Cui Zhu from the country, and Cui Zhu fled to Weiguo.
In the first year of Qing AD, King Zhuang of Chu became stronger and conquered the State of Chen. In the second year, the State of Chu besieged the State of Zheng. Zheng Bo surrendered and soon restored Zheng Bo.
In the spring of the sixth year, the state of Jin sent Choke as envoy to the state of Qi. Qi Qinggong asked his mother to sit behind the curtain and watch.
When Choke went up the stairs, his wife saw that he was hunchbacked and laughed at him.
Choke said: If I don't repay this humiliation, I will never cross the Yellow River again!
After returning home, he asked the Lord of Jin to attack Qi, but the Lord of Jin refused.
When the envoys from Qi arrived in Jin, Chu Ke captured four of the envoys from Qi in Hanoi and killed them all.
In the eighth year, the state of Jin attacked Qi, and the state of Qi forced the young master to take him as a hostage in the state of Jin, and the Jin army left.
In the spring of ten years, Qi State conquered Lu State and Wei State.
When the officials of Lu and Wei went to Jin to ask for help, they all went through Chuke.
The state of Jin sent Chuoke to lead the army with eight hundred chariots as the general of the central army, Shi Xie to lead the upper army, and Luan Shu to lead the lower army to rescue Lu and Wei and attack Qi.
On Renshen Day in June, the Jin army and the Qi army fought at the foot of Miji Mountain.
On Guixi day, the two armies formed a formation on the saddle.
Pang Chou's father served as Qi Qinggong's chariot warrior.
Qinggong said: "Rush forward, defeat the Jin army and then have a meal."
Qi Guo shot Chuke and his blood flowed to his feet.
Chuke wanted to retreat to the camp, but the driver of his chariot said: I have been wounded twice since entering the battle. I dare not say the pain because I am afraid of frightening the soldiers. I hope you can endure the pain and continue to fight.
So Chu Ke went into battle again. During the battle, the Qi army was in a critical situation. Pang Chou's father was afraid that Qi Qinggong would be captured alive, so he exchanged positions with Qinggong. Qinggong became a warrior on the right side of the chariot. The chariot tripped over a tree and broke down.
Han Jue, a young general of Jin State, bowed down in front of Qi Qinggong's chariot and said: Our Lord Jin sent me to rescue Lu and Wei.
He was mocking the Marquis of Qi. Chou's father pretended to be Qing Gong and asked Qing Gong, who was disguised as a warrior on the right side of the car, to get out of the car to get some water. Qing Gong was able to escape and ran back to the Qi army's formation.
Chuke of the Jin Dynasty wanted to kill Chou's father. Chou's father said: I died for the king and was killed. From now on, there will be no ministers who are loyal to the king.
Chuke let him go, and Choufu was able to escape and return to the Qi army.
The Jin army pursued the Qi army as far as Maling.
Qi Qinggong asked to offer a treasure to apologize, but Chu Ke refused. He insisted on getting Uncle Xiao Tong, who laughed at Chu Ke, and ordered the state of Qi to change all the fields to the east-west direction.
The people of Qi replied: Uncle Xiao Tong is the mother of Qi Qinggong.
Qi Jun's mother has the same status as Jin Jun's mother. What do you plan to do with her after you get her?
Moreover, you defeated Qi as an army of justice, but ended up being violent and rude. Is it allowed to do this?
So Chuke agreed to them and only asked Qi to return the occupied territories of Lu and Wei.
In the eleventh year, Jin began to set up six ministers to reward meritorious personnel in the Andi War.
Qi Qinggong met with Jin Jun and wanted to pay homage to Jin Jinggong with the courtesy of meeting the emperor. Jin Jinggong did not dare to accept it, so Qi Jun returned home.
After returning home, he opened his safari gardens, reduced taxes, provided relief to orphans, widows and disabled people, and used the country's savings to save the people. The people were also very happy.
Qi Qinggong returned generous gifts to the princes.
Until the death of Duke Qing, the people surrendered and no princes invaded Qi.
In the seventeenth year, Qing Gong died and his son Linggong Huan succeeded to the throne.
In the ninth year of Duke Linggong, Luan Shu, the official of Jin, killed his king, Duke Li of Jin.
In the tenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Duke Dao of Jin attacked the state of Qi, and the Marquis of Qi asked his son Guang to serve as a hostage in the state of Jin.
In the 19th year, the Marquis of Qi made Prince Guang the crown prince, asked Gao Hou to assist him, and sent him to Zhongli to attend the princes' alliance meeting.
In the twenty-seventh year, the state of Jin sent Zhongxianzi to attack the state of Qi.
The Qi army was defeated and Duke Linggong fled to Linzi City.
Yan Ying tried to persuade Ling Gong not to run away, but Ling Gong didn't listen.
Yanzi said: Our king has no courage.
The Jin troops surrounded Linzi, but the Qi people guarded the inner city and did not dare to attack. The Jin troops burned the outer city and withdrew their troops.
In the twenty-eighth year, at the beginning, Duke Linggong married a daughter of the state of Lu, gave birth to his son Guang, and established him as the crown prince.
Later, he married Zhong Ji and Rong Ji.
Rong Ji was favored, and Zhong Ji gave birth to a son named Ya, who was entrusted to Rong Ji to raise.
Rong Ji asked for Li Ya to be crown prince, and Duke Linggong agreed.
Zhong Ji said: No.
Guang was established as the prince and already ranked among the princes. If you depose him now for no reason, you will definitely regret it.
Lord Linggong said: It all depends on me to abolish the establishment.
So he moved Prince Guang to the east and made Gao Hou assist Ya as the crown prince.
When Ling Gong fell ill, Cui Zhu welcomed the original crown prince Guang and established him as the king, who was Duke Zhuang.
Duke Zhuang killed Rong Ji.
On the day of Renchen in the fifth month, Duke Ling died and Duke Zhuang ascended the throne. Prince Ya was captured and killed in Judouqiu.
In August, Cui Zhu killed Gao Hou.
When Jin heard about the civil strife in Qi, he attacked Qi and reached Gaotang.
In the third year of Duke Zhuang's reign, Luan Ying, a senior official of Jin State, fled to Qi State. Duke Zhuang treated him as a grand guest.
Yan Ying and Tian Wenzi tried their best to dissuade him, but Duke Zhuang refused to listen.
In the fourth year, Duke Zhuang of Qi sent Luan Ying to secretly enter Quwo to respond to Qi's internal affairs. Qi's soldiers then went up to the Taihang Mountains and entered the Mengmen Pass.
Luan Ying was exposed, and the Qi army withdrew back to the country and captured the Chaoge City of Jin.
Six years ago, Duke Tang's wife died. After Duke Tang died, Cui Zhu married her.
Duke Zhuang committed adultery with her again, went to Cui Zhu's house many times, and even gave Cui Zhu's crown to others.
Zhuang Gong's attendant said: "You can't do this."
Cui Zhu was very angry and took advantage of Duke Zhuang's attack on Jin. He wanted to conspire with Jin to attack Duke Zhuang but failed.
Duke Zhuang once whipped the eunuch Jia Ju, and Jia Ju was appointed as a chamberlain, looking for loopholes for Duke Zhuang to avenge Cui Zhu.
In the fifth month, the king of Ju State, Ju Zi, went to court to see the king of Qi. Duke Zhuang of Qi hosted a banquet for the king of Ju on Jiaxu Day.
Cui Zhu refused to go to court on the grounds of illness.
On the day of Yihai, Duke Zhuang visited Cui Zhu's condition and then pursued Cui Zhu's wife.
Cui Zhu's wife went into the inner room and closed the door with Cui Zhu, unable to get out. Duke Zhuang was holding a pillar in the front hall and singing.
At this time, the eunuch Jia Ju blocked Duke Zhuang's attendants from outside and entered the courtyard himself, closing the courtyard door from the inside. Cui Zhu's disciples swarmed forward with weapons in hand.
Duke Zhuang went up to the high court platform to ask for reconciliation, but was rejected; Duke Zhuang also asked for an oath of alliance, but was also rejected. Duke Zhuang finally asked to be allowed to commit suicide in his ancestral temple, but everyone still did not allow it.
Everyone said: Cui Zhu, the king's minister, is seriously ill and cannot come in person to obey your orders.
This place is very close to the palace. We only know how to catch lewd people and will not obey the orders of anyone other than Cui Zhu.
Duke Zhuang tried to escape by jumping over the wall, but was shot in the thigh. He fell back into the wall and was killed.
Yan Ying stood outside the gate of Cui Zhu's courtyard and said: If the king dies for the country, his ministers should die for him; if the king flees for the country, the ministers should follow him in exile.
The king dies and flees for his own selfish interests. Except for his favored personal ministers, no one else will die and flee for this purpose.
Yan Zi and others opened the gate and entered the courtyard. He placed Duke Zhuang's corpse pillow on his lap and caressed the corpse while crying. After getting up, he paused three times to express his grief and then walked out of the courtyard.
Others said to Cui Zhu: Yan Ying must be killed!
Cui Zhu said: He is a popular person. If we let him go, we will win over the people.
On Ding Chou day, Cui Zhu made Chujiu, the half-brother of Duke Zhuang, the king of Duke Jin.
Jinggong's mother was the daughter of Sun Xuanbo, a great official of the state of Lu.
After Jinggong ascended the throne, he made Cui Zhu the right prime minister and Qingfeng the left prime minister.
The two prime ministers were afraid of domestic unrest, so they swore an alliance with the people: Whoever doesn't follow Cui Qing will die!
Yanzi looked up to the sky and sighed and said: I can't do it. I only follow those who are loyal to the emperor and benefit the country! Refuse to take part in the oath.
Qingfeng wanted to kill Yanzi, but Cui Zhu said: "He is a loyal minister, let him go."
Taishi of Qi is recorded in Jian Ce: Cui Zhu killed Duke Zhuang, and Cui Zhu killed Taishi.
Taishi's younger brother once again recorded that Cui Zhu killed him again.
Taishi's younger brother also recorded that Cui Zhu let him go.
In the first year of Jing Gong, Cui Zhu initially gave birth to sons Cheng and Qiang. After their mother died, Cui Zhu married the daughter of the Dongguo family and gave birth to Ming.
Dongguo's daughter asked her ex-husband's son Wu Jiu and her own brother Dongguo Yan to assist Cui Zhu.
When Cheng committed a crime, the two family ministers Wujiu and Dongguo Yan immediately punished Cheng severely and made Ming the crown prince.
Cheng requested to go to Cui Yi to report his old age and return to his hometown. Cui Zhu agreed, but Erxiang refused, saying: Cui Yi is the place where the Cui clan's ancestral temple is located, and Cheng cannot go.
Cheng and Qiang were angry and informed Qingfeng about the incident.
Qingfeng had a conflict with Cui Zhu and wanted the Cui family to fall.
Cheng and Qiang killed Wu Jiu and Dong Guo Yan in Cui Zhu's home, and everyone in the family fled in all directions.
Cui Zhu was furious, but there was no one around him, so he had to ask a eunuch to drive for him to see Qingfeng.
Qingfeng said: Let me kill Cheng and Qiang for you.
So Cui Zhu's enemy Lu Pu'ao was sent to attack the Cui family, killing Cheng and Qiang. The Cui family was wiped out, and Cui Zhu's wife committed suicide.
Cui Zhu was homeless and committed suicide.
Qingfeng became the prime minister and had great power.
In October of the third year, Qingfeng went out hunting.
After Qingfeng killed Cui Zhu, he became more arrogant, drank heavily, went hunting, and ignored government affairs.
His son Qingshe was in power, and there were internal conflicts.
Tian Wenzi said to Tian Huanzi: Turmoil is about to break out.
The four families of Tian, ​​Bao, Gao and Luan jointly planned to eliminate the Qing family.
Qingshe sent armored soldiers to surround Qingfeng's palace, and the disciples of the four families worked together to defeat the Qing family's house.
When Qingfeng returned, he was unable to enter his home and fled to the state of Lu.
The people of Qi blamed the state of Lu, and Qingfeng fled to the state of Wu.
The state of Wu rewarded Qingfeng with the land of Zhufang. Qingfeng and his people lived here and were richer than when they were in Qi state.
In the autumn of this year, the people of Qi moved Duke Zhuang to bury him and displayed Cui Zhu's body in the market to vent the people's anger.
In the ninth year, Jinggong sent Yan Ying as envoy to Jin. Yan Ying privately told Shu Xiang: The power of Qi will eventually return to the Tian family.
Although Tian has no great merits, he can use public affairs to do private favors. He is kind to the people and is supported by the people.
In the twelfth year, Jinggong went to Jin State and met with Jin Pinggong, hoping to jointly attack Yan State.
In the eighteenth year, Jinggong went to Jin again and met with Jin Zhaogong.
In the twenty-sixth year, Jinggong was hunting in the suburbs of Lu State, and then entered the capital of Lu State, where he consulted with Yan Ying about the etiquette system of Lu State.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Zhao of Lu fled to Qi State to avoid Ji's rebellion.
Jinggong wanted to grant the title of Qianshe family and land to Zhaogong, but the Zi family dissuaded Zhaogong not to accept it. Zhaogong asked Qi to send troops to attack Lu and capture Yunyi. He captured Yunyi and gave it to Lu Zhaogong to live in.
In the thirty-second year, a comet appeared in the sky.
Jinggong sat on the cypress bed and sighed: "Who will own this magnificent pavilion?"
The ministers shed tears of worry.
Yanzi laughed instead, and Jinggong was very angry.
Yanzi said: I laugh at the ministers for being too flattering.
Jinggong said: The comet appears in the northeastern sky, which is exactly opposite the geographical position of Qi State, and everyone is worried about it.
Yanzi said: You build high platforms and dig deep pools, you collect more taxes for fear that you will get less, you impose excessive punishments for fear that they will not be harsh, and the most vicious star is about to appear. What comet are you afraid of?
Jinggong said: Can we use sacrifices and prayers to get rid of comets?
Yanzi said: If blessing can make the gods come, then praying can also make them go away.
But there are thousands of people who are unhappy and resentful, and if you ask one person to pray for mercy, how can he overcome the complaints of all the people?
At that time, Jinggong built a large palace, kept many dogs and horses, was extravagant, taxed heavily and punished severely, so Yanzi took the opportunity to remonstrate with Jinggong of Qi.
In the forty-second year, King Helu of Wu attacked Chu and captured Ying, the capital of Chu.
In the forty-seventh year, Yang Hu, a senior official of Lu State, attacked the Lord of Lu but failed. He fled to Qi State and asked Qi State to attack Lu.
Bao Zi admonished Jinggong, so Jinggong imprisoned Yang Hu.
Yang Hu found an opportunity to escape and fled to Jin.
In the forty-eighth year, Jinggong and Lu Dinggong reconciled at the Jiagu League Meeting.
The plow hoe said: Confucius is well versed in etiquette but cowardly. Please allow the Lai people to perform songs and dances. We will seize the opportunity to capture Lord Lu, so that Lu can satisfy our demands.
Jinggong was worried that Confucius would become the prime minister of Lu and that Lu would achieve hegemony, so he followed the plan of plowing and hoeing.
During the alliance meeting, Qi State presented the Lai people with music and dance. Confucius ascended the stage and ordered the relevant personnel to capture the Lai people and behead them. Then he cited the etiquette system to condemn Jinggong.
Jinggong was so ashamed that he returned the occupied territory of Lu to apologize, and then left.
This year, Yingyan died.
In the fifty-fifth year of the Jin Dynasty, the officials Fan and Zhongxing rebelled against their monarch. The Jin monarch was in a hurry to attack the two clans, so they sent people to Qi to borrow grain.
Tian Qi wanted to cause rebellion and form a party with the rebellious ministers of Jin, so he advised Jinggong: "Fan and Zhonghang have been kind to Qi many times and must be saved."
Jinggong sent Tian Qi to rescue them and provide them with food.
In the summer of the fifty-eighth year, the legitimate son of Duke Jinggong’s wife Yan Ji passed away.
Jinggong's favorite concubine Rui Ji gave birth to a son Tu. Tu was young, his mother was born in a lowly position, and Tu behaved badly. The officials were worried that Tu would become the prince, so they advised Jinggong that they hoped to choose the older and virtuous among the princes to be the prince.
Jinggong was old and hated talking about the prince. He also doted on Tu's mother. He wanted to make Tu the prince, but he didn't want to propose it himself. So he said to the officials: "Enjoy yourself in time. Is the country still afraid of not having a monarch?"
In the autumn, Jinggong was seriously ill, so he ordered Guo Huizi and Gao Zhaozi to make their youngest son Tuli the prince, expelled the other princes, and moved to Laidi.
After Jinggong passed away, Prince Tu became the king, who was Yan Ruzi.
In the winter, Qi Jinggong had not yet been buried, and the other princes fled abroad for fear of being killed.
Tu's half-brothers Shou, Ju, and Qian fled to Wei, and the young masters Zao and Yangsheng fled to Lu.
Lai people sang about this: You can't attend Jinggong's funeral, and the national military is not allowed to plan. Followers of the princes, where will you go?
In the spring of the first year of Yan Ruzi's reign, Tian Qi pretended to be loyal to the Gao family and the Guo family. Every time the two families went to court, Tian Qi would ride for them and say: You have gained the king's trust, and all the officials are in danger and want to plot rebellion.
He also said to the group of doctors: Gao Zhaozi is too terrible. Before he starts to persecute us, let's get rid of him first.
The doctors all obeyed him.
In June, Tian Qi, Bao Mu and other officials led troops into the palace to attack Gao Zhaozi.
When Zhaozi heard about it, he and Guohuizi rescued the king.
The king was defeated and Tian Qi's disciples pursued him. Guo Huizi fled to Ju State, but Tian Qi came back and killed Gao Zhaozi.
Yan Yu fled to the state of Lu.
In August, Qi doctor Bingyi fled to Lu.
After Tian Qi defeated the two prime ministers of Gao and Guo, he sent people to Lu to welcome back Yang Sheng.
After Yang Sheng arrived, he hid in Tian Qi's home.
On the Wuzi day of the tenth month, Tian Qi invited all the doctors and said: "Chan'er's mother will hold a meager ceremony at home today. Please come and drink."
During the banquet, Tian Qi put Yang Sheng in a big bag and placed it in the center of the seat. Then he opened the bag and released Yang Sheng, saying: "This is the king of Qi!"
All the doctors paid their respects on the spot.
Then he had to make an oath with all the officials to make Yangsheng the king. At this time, Bao Mu was already drunk, so Tian Qi deceived everyone and said: Bao Mu and I made a plan to make Yangsheng the king.
Bao Mu said angrily: "Have you forgotten Jing Gong's decree that Tu be the king?"
All the officials looked at each other and wanted to regret it. Yang Sheng came forward, kowtowed and said: If you can help me, I will do it, otherwise I will give up.
Bao Mu was also afraid of causing trouble, so he said: "We are all the sons of Jinggong, what's the big deal?"
So he made an alliance with everyone and established Yangsheng as the king of Qi, which was the duke's mourning.
Duke Ai entered the palace and sent people to exile Yan Ruzi to Ni. On the way, he set up a tent and killed Yan Ruzi inside, and expelled Ruizi, his mother.
Ruizi was originally humble and a young boy, so he had no power and the people of the country despised them.
In the first year of mourning, the state of Qi attacked Lu and captured the two places of Xi and Chan.
At first, Yang Sheng fled to Lu, and Ji Kangzi married his sister to him.
After Yang Sheng returned to the country and ascended the throne, he sent someone to the state of Lu to welcome his wife.
His wife Ji Ji had an affair with Marquis Ji Yi and told the truth to her family. The Lu people did not dare to give Ji Ji to the Qi State, so the Qi State attacked the Lu State and finally took Ji Ji to Qi.
Ji Ji was favored by Duke Mourning, and Qi State returned the occupied land of Lu State.
Bao Zi had conflicts with Duke Ai, and their relationship was not harmonious.
In the fourth year, Wu and Lu attacked the southern part of Qi.
Bao Zi killed Duke Mourning and reported his mourning to the State of Wu.
King Wu Fu Chai cried and mourned outside the military gate for three days according to etiquette. He was about to march by sea to attack Qi.
The Qi army defeated the Wu army and the Wu army retreated.
Zhao Yang of Jin State attacked Qi State and withdrew his troops after reaching Lai.
The people of Qi unanimously supported Duke Yu's son Ren as the king of Qi, which was Duke Jian.
In the spring of the fourth year of Duke Jian, at first, when Duke Jian of Qi and his father, Duke Du, were both in the state of Lu, they favored the officials and supervised them.
After Duke Jian ascended the throne, he was asked to preside over state affairs.
Tian Chengzi was very worried about this and went to court several times to inquire about the situation.
Tian Yang, Lord Jian's charioteer, advised Lord Jian: "Fields and prisons cannot coexist. You have to choose one of them."
Duke Jian didn't listen.
One night during the imperial court, Tian Ni happened to kill someone, so he arrested Tian Ni and sent him to the palace.
The Tian family was very united at this time, so they asked the imprisoned Tian Ni to pretend to be seriously ill, and took the opportunity to have his family visit the prison and bring wine to the guard. The guard got drunk and was killed, and Tian Ni escaped.
The supervisor and the Tian family vowed to reconcile the matter at the Tian family's ancestral hall.
At first, Tian Bao wanted to be Jian Zhi's retainer and asked the doctor Gongsun to recommend him to Jian Zhi. However, Tian Bao decided not to do so when Tian Bao was in mourning.
After that, he finally became a retainer and was favored by the supervisor.
The supervisor said to Tian Bao: I want to expel all the Tian family and make you the head of the Tian family. Is that okay?
Tian Bao replied: I am just an alienated branch of the Tian clan, and there are only a few people in the Tian clan who disobey you, so why expel them all?
Tian Bao then informed Tian about the incident.
Tian Ni said: He is favored by the emperor. If you, Tian Chang, don't take action first, you will suffer disaster.
Tian Ni lived in the king's palace to support him.
On the day of Renshen in the fifth month of summer, brothers Tian Chang took four cars to see Duke Jian.
The eunuch, who was in the tent, came out to meet them and closed the palace door as soon as they entered.
The eunuchs resisted Tian, ​​and Tian Ni killed the eunuchs.
Jian Gong was drinking with his wife and concubines on the Tandai, and Tian Chang took him to the palace.
Duke Jian picked up the weapon and wanted to fight back. Taishi Ziyu said: Tian Chang is not planning to harm you, but to eliminate harm for you.
Tian Chang came out of the palace and lived in the arsenal. When he heard that Duke Jian was still angry, he wanted to escape and said: "There is no king anywhere!"
Tian Ni drew his sword and said: Hesitation is the root of bad things.
Who among us with the surname Tian cannot be the patriarch of the Tian family?
If you cowardly run away without caring about everyone, my ancestors will not spare you unless I kill you. Tian Changcai stayed.
The supervisor ran home and gathered his disciples to attack all the gates of the palace, but without success, he fled.
The Tian clan members were in hot pursuit.
Someone in Fengqiu caught Jianzhi and reported it, and Tian killed Jianzhi at Guomen.
Tian Chang wanted to kill Dalu Zifang, but Tian Ni interceded for him and was pardoned.
In the name of Mr. Jian, he stopped the car on the road and drove out of Yongmen.
Tian Bao gave him the car, but he didn't want it, saying: "Tian Ni interceded for me. If Tian Bao gave me the car, people would think that I have a personal relationship with Mr. Tian."
I am a retainer who is in charge of prison, but I have secretly colluded with his enemies. How can I run away to meet the scholars of Lu and Wei?
On Gengchen day, Tian Chang arrested Duke Jian in Chuzhou.
Duke Jian said: If I had listened to Tian Yang's words earlier, I would not be in the situation I am today.
On the day of Jiawu, Tian Chang killed Duke Jian in Chuzhou.
Tian Chang appointed Ao, the younger brother of Duke Jian, as Lord of Qi, which was called Duke Ping.
After Ping Gong came to the throne, Tian Chang became the prime minister, specializing in the power of Qi State, and divided the vast land east of Anping of Qi State into the territory of the Tian family.
In the eighth year of Ping Gong's reign, the State of Yue destroyed the State of Wu.
In the twenty-fifth year of the reign of Emperor Pinggong, his son Xuan Gongji succeeded him.
In the fifty-first year of Xuangong's reign, Xuangong died and his son Kang Gongdai succeeded to the throne.
Tian Hui rebelled in Linqiu.
In the second year of Kanggong's reign, Han, Zhao and Wei began to become princes.
In the 19th year, Tian Chang's great-grandson Tian He began to become a prince and exiled Kang Gong to the seaside.
In the twenty-sixth year, Duke Kang passed away, and the Lu family stopped offering sacrifices.
The Tian family finally took possession of the Qi State, and when King Qi Wei was king, he became the lord of the world.
Tai Shigong said: When I arrived in Qi, I saw that the land of Qi starts from Mount Tai in the west, connects Langye in the east, and reaches the sea in the north. There are two thousand miles of fertile land in between. Its people are broad-minded and deep and wise. This is their nature.
Because of Taigong's sage, he established the foundation of the country, and because of Huangong's virtue, he implemented good governance, so he summoned the princes to form an alliance and became the overlord. Isn't it logical?
Guangsheng and Boda, indeed have the style of a great country!
