Pei Sui, named Yuanming, was born in Wenxi, Hedong. He was a descendant of Pei Chuo, the governor of Xiangzhou in the Wei Dynasty.
His grandfather, Pei Shousun, lived in Shouyang County and was the former army commander of Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty.
His father's name was Pei Zhongmu, who served as a general of cavalry.
Pei Sui could write articles when he was ten years old, and was good at "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu".
In the early years of Jianwu in the Southern Qi Dynasty, Xiao Yaochang, the governor, recommended him to be the governor of the state government.
There is the Bagongshan Temple in Shouyang County. Xiao Yaochang erected a monument for it and asked Pei Sui to write the inscription. The inscription was highly praised and appreciated.
After Pei Sui passed the examination as a scholar, he ranked first in high school in the imperial examination and was appointed as a minister.
After Donghunhou came to the throne, Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an, was appointed as the general of Fujun and the governor of Yangzhou. He recommended Pei Sui to join the army.
Later, when Xiao Yaoguang was defeated, Pei Sui returned to Shouyang, and met the governor Pei Shuye who offered Shouyang to surrender to the Wei State. All the noble families in Yuzhou were expelled and plundered, so Pei Sui followed everyone and moved north. Emperor Xuanwu of the Wei State valued him very much and appointed him as Situ, Zhongshu Lang, and the prefect of Wei County.
The State of Wei sent Wang Su to guard Shouyang. Pei Sui firmly requested to follow Wang Su and secretly planned to return to the south.
In the early years of Tianjian, Pei Sui escaped from Wei and returned to the Southern Dynasty. He was appointed as a consultant to the rear army and joined the army.
Pei Sui himself asked to serve on the border, so he was appointed as the general of the auxiliary country and the governor of Lujiang County.
At that time, the Wei general Lu Po led an army of 50,000 troops to suddenly attack Lujiang County. Pei Sui led his men to resist and defeated the Wei army. Pei Sui was appointed as the general of the right army.
In the fifth year, during the expedition to Shaoyangzhou, the Wei army built a long bridge across the Huaihe River to meet the river.
Pei Sui built a fortress and pushed towards Long Bridge, winning every battle. Therefore, he secretly helped build ships without chimneys.
It was raining heavily and the water level of the Huaihe River surged. Pei Sui and his men took a ship and went straight to the long bridge. The Wei army was shocked and defeated. Pei Sui and others took advantage of the victory to pursue and defeated the Wei army.
Pei Sui then conquered Yangshi City and killed the city lord Yuan Kang.
He also captured Huoqiu City and beheaded the city lord Ning Yongren.
After that, Xiaoxian was pacified and Hefei was captured.
Pei Sui was granted the title of Son of Yiling County due to his meritorious service, and was granted the title of 300 households in the town.
He was moved to the post of Champion Changshi and Grand Administrator of Guangling County.
Pei Sui and his fellow villagers entered Wei Wu Temple and discussed the emperor's achievements.
His wife's nephew Wang Zhuanzhi secretly reported to Emperor Gaozu that Pei Sui had told many lies and showed signs of being disloyal to the monarch.
Therefore, Pei Sui was demoted and appointed as the governor of Shi'an County.
Pei Sui was determined to make meritorious service on the border and was unwilling to go to a place that was too quiet, so he wrote a letter to Lu Sengzhen saying: In the past, Ruan Xian and Yan Yan had the sigh of "Two Shi". My talents are not as good as those of the ancients. Now it is "Third Shi". This is not my wish. What should I do?
Before reaching Shi'an County, the Wei army happened to attack Suyu, and Emperor Shao ordered Pei Sui to go and resist the Wei army.
Pei Sui marched to Zhidu, and the Wei army retreated.
Pei Sui moved to the right army to consult and join the army, and was the Sima of Yunhui Mansion of King Yuzhang, and led his troops to help guard Stone City.
Later, he served as the governor of Tongling County. He cultivated and farmed fields, which was convenient for both the public and private parties.
He was also moved to the post of guerrilla general Zhu Yi Zhihe and was on duty in the palace province.
Soon, he was moved to the post of General Jiajie, Mingwei General, Xirong Xiaowei, and governor of Beiliang Prefecture and Qinzhou Prefecture.
He also created thousands of hectares of farmland and filled granaries with grain, which made it possible to save or stop transportation to the border, and both the army and the people were able to stabilize. So they sent more than a thousand pieces of silk one after another, and Pei Sui calmly said: "You shouldn't be like this, but I can't go against your wishes."
So, he only symbolically accepted two pieces of silk.
After returning to the court, he was appointed to Shizhong, General Yunqi, and General Zhu Yizhihe, and was moved to the rank of Great Craftsman.
In the second year of ordinary life, Yizhou governor Wen Seng Mingxian rebelled against Yizhou and defected to Wei, and the Wei army came to support him.
The emperor appointed Pei Sui as General Jiajie and Xinwu to lead the army to attack the Wei army.
Pei Sui penetrated deep into the territory of the Wei State and borrowed roads from the border towns to catch him by surprise. The Yizhou Governor Qian Zhou deployed by the Wei State occupied Shanggong Maggot. He defeated Lao Hua and then surrounded Fucheng. Feng Shou tied his hands behind his back and asked for surrender, and Yizhou was pacified.
Pei Sui was awarded the title of Controller, Supervisor of Military Affairs in Northern Xuzhou, General Xinwu, and Governor of Northern Xuzhou. Before he could take office, he was moved to Governor of Military Affairs of Yuzhou, Northern Yuzhou, and Huozhou, and Governor of Yuzhou, and was based in Hefei.
Four years later, Pei Suijin was awarded the title of General Xuanyi.
In the year of sending, the Liang Dynasty army was preparing for the Northern Expedition. Pei Sui was appointed as the governor to conquer various military forces. He led three thousand cavalry to attack Shouyang first.
In the ninth month of Renxu, the troops arrived in Shouyang overnight, attacked the outer city of Shouyang, killed the soldiers guarding the gate and entered the inner city. Xiang fought nine rounds in one day. Cai Xiucheng, the rear army, did not arrive in time because he was lost. Pei Sui withdrew and returned to the army because of the lack of support.
In Qianxiang, Pei Sui once again reorganized the army and gathered soldiers. Several generals were ordered to use different clothing colors to distinguish themselves from each other.
Pei Sui himself led the cavalry in yellow robes and attacked Diqiu, Zongcheng, Lijiang and other cities first, but they were all captured.
Ancheng, Matou, Shaling and other garrisons were massacred.
In the winter of the next year, construction of Shaopei began.
The next year, he captured Xincai County of Wei State and occupied the territory as far as Zhengcheng. People from Ru River and Ying River responded everywhere.
Wei's generals guarding Shouyang, Chang Sun Zhi, and Wang Yuanchen of Hejian led an army of 50,000 people and came out of the city to challenge. Pei Sui led four generals to divide into four wings to wait for the Wei army. He ordered General Li Zulian to pretend to escape and lure Chang Sun Zhi. Chang Sun Zhi led all his troops to chase Li Zulian. During the attack, Pei Sui's ambushed four-wing troops were dispatched one after another, and the Wei army was severely defeated.
More than 10,000 people were beheaded.
Changsun Zhi and others ran for their lives. After returning to the city, they closed the city gate and held on, not daring to go out to fight again.
In May of the same year, Pei Sui died in the military camp.
He was forced to be given the title of Shizhong and Zuowei General, and he was given a propaganda department. He was promoted to the title of Marquis and added 700 households.
Mi Hao Lie.
Pei Sui was usually taciturn, unsmiling, deep-thinking, and strategic. He was tolerant and open-minded in politics and could win the heartfelt support of the soldiers.
He was upright and dignified, and the officers and officers respected him, and few dared to break the law.
After his death, all the people in Huaihe and Danshuijian shed tears. They believed that if Pei Sui had not died, Luoyang would not have been captured.
Pei Sui's son Pei Zhili, named Ziyi, was born in the middle of the imperial family. He was appointed as King Shaoling's constant servant of the left side of the country and Xinweixing joined the army.
When King Shaoling was appointed governor of Nanyan Prefecture, Pei Zhili was appointed Changliu to join the army. However, he did not take up the post. He still stayed in Suwei and was appointed as General Zhihe.
When his father passed away in the period of mourning, he assumed his father's title and requested to follow the army to conquer Shouyang. He was appointed General Yunhui and moved to the position of regular servant of Sanqi.
He also attacked Guangling City of Wei State and pacified the city of Weizuo. He was awarded the title of General Xinwu, Governor of Western Yuzhou, General Qingche, Minister of Huangmen, and was moved to Sima of King Xuanxu of the Chinese Army.
Soon he was appointed as the governor of the military affairs of Xuzhou, Renzhou and Suizhou in the north, General Xinwu, and the governor of Jiuzhimaggot.
Later, he was recruited to serve as the prince's left guard, concurrently as the Weiwei Qing, and then as the Shaofu Qing.
After Pei Zhishan died, Mi was named Zhuang.
His son Pei Zheng, during the Chengsheng period, was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen.
After the fall of Siduo, he entered Liwei as usual.
Pei Zhigao, also known as Rushan, was the son of Pei Sui's elder brother, Pei Mao, a doctor in Zhongsan.
When he first entered the officialdom, he served as a state official and Xindu county magistrate. At the invitation of the court, he moved to join the army.
Pei Zhigao read a lot of books. When he was young, he thought that his will and spirit were great. He often followed his uncle Pei Liao on his expeditions to the east and west. He made meritorious deeds wherever he went. He was highly regarded by Pei Sui, who entrusted him with all military and government affairs.
During the Battle of Shouyang, Pei Sui died in the military camp. Pei Zhigao was subordinate to Xiahou Kui and pacified Shouyang. He was awarded the title of Changshi of Yuzhang in Pingbei and the prefect of Liangjun. He was named the male of the capital county and had 250 households in the city.
At that time, Ruyin of the Wei State came to join the Liang Dynasty. The emperor ordered Pei Zhigao to meet him and awarded him the title of Jiajie, General Biaoyong, and Governor of Yingzhou.
Some soldiers and civilians took advantage of the darkness to rebel and jumped over the wall. Pei Zhigao led his servants and subordinates to fight back hard, and the rebels fled.
Pei Zhigao returned to Kyoto because of his father's death.
He was appointed as General Lightspeed, participated in the crusade against the bandits in Yinling, and pacified the bandits, and Pei Zhigao was appointed as the governor of Qiaozhou.
He returned to Beijing and served as general of the Zuo Army, as governor of Nanqiao County, as supervisor of Northern Xuzhou, and as a regular servant of Yuanwai Sanqi.
Soon, he was awarded General Xiongxin and Governor of Western Yuzhou, but other official positions remained the same.
After the Hou Jing Rebellion broke out, Pei Zhigao led a large army into the city for rescue. Fan Ming, the governor of Southern Yuzhou and the successor king of Poyang, ordered the general manager of the tomb, Si You, to reinforce the troops and stationed them in Zhang Gongzhou.
When Liu Zhongli arrived at Hengsi, Pei Zhigao sent more than 200 ships to meet Su Kuishan. They met with Tong Sai and others, and they all set up camp in Zhishan and occupied Jianxing stem.
After the city was captured, Yuzhi's chef returned to Hedan and went westward upstream with Lu Rui, the king of Poyang.
When they first arrived at Qiancai, there were nearly 10,000 people in the army and no master. Emperor Yuan of Liang sent Xiao Huizheng to summon Pei Zhigao and appointed him as a servant and general guarding the army.
After Pei Zhigao arrived, he followed the emperor's will and was awarded the title of Tejin and Jin Ziguanglu.
Pei Zhuyin passed away at the age of seventy-three.
He was forced to be given the title of Shizhong and Yitong, as well as the Ministry of Propaganda.
Mi Hao Gong.
Pei Zhigao's son Pei Ji served as the prince's right guard and governor of Junzhou many times.
When the Western Wei Dynasty captured Jiangling, Pei Ji fought hard and died.
Pei Zhiping, also known as Ruyuan, is Pei Zhigao's fifth younger brother.
When he was young, he also followed Pei Sui on the expedition, and was named Dutinghou for his military merits.
He had successively served as the permanent attendant of King Wuling and the prefect of Fufeng and Hongnong counties. However, he did not take up the post and was awarded the title of Shi, the governor of Qiaozhou and the prefect of Yangping county.
He participated in the resistance against Hou Jing, and after the city was captured, he moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi, general of right guard, and prince Zhan Shi.
Pei Zhiheng, whose name is Ruyue, is Pei Zhigao's thirteenth younger brother.
When he was young, he liked to wander around. He valued chivalry and loyalty and was unwilling to engage in production.
Because of his absurd indulgence, Pei Zhigao made him a narrow quilt and fed him only vegetarian food to encourage him.
Pei Zhiheng sighed and said: "When I become rich, I must make a hundred quilts."
So he and Jiaxiang's several hundred servants came to Shaopi and reclaimed wasteland on a large scale, thus achieving wealth and accumulation.
When Xiao Gang, Taizong of Liang Dynasty, was still the prince, he heard about Pei Zhiheng and invited him to the capital. He was made a regular servant of the King of Hedong, the commander of the Zhidian Palace, and the general of Zhihe.
During Hou Jing's rebellion, Pei Zhiheng served as General Zhenwei, attached to Poyang King Xiao Fan, and joined him in the crusade against Hou Jing.
After Hou Jing crossed the Yangtze River, Pei Zhiheng and Xiao Fan's eldest son Xiao Si returned to Beijing for reinforcements.
They crossed the Huaihe River in a company and occupied Dongcheng.
After Kyoto was captured, Pei Zhiheng retreated back to Hefei, and together with Xiao Fan went upriver to Huancheng.
Hou Jing sent Ren Yue upriver to attack Jinxi, and Xiao Fan ordered Pei Zhiheng to go downstream to rescue him. Before reaching the destination, Xiao Fan died and Pei Zhiheng returned.
At that time, Xunyang King Xiao Daxin was in Jiangzhou. Xiao Fan's deputy general Mei Sili secretly invited Lu Quzu to attack. The tomb owner killed Chuang Moli and then resisted Xiao Daxin.
Xiao Daxin offered Jiangzhou to surrender to Hou Jing.
Pei Zhiheng led his troops and surrendered to Emperor Liang Yuan together with his brother Pei Zhigao. In accordance with the emperor's will, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, a minister of Tingwei, and the internal history of Hedong County.
He also followed Wang Sengbian to resist Hou Jing in Baling. After Hou Jing retreated, Pei Zhi was moved to the post of Chijie, General Pingbei, Governor of Shuxuzhou, and Central Protector. He was named Qiongkong Fort and had a settlement of 3,000 households.
He also followed Wang Zhipan to pursue Zhuijing and pinged Ying, Lu, Jiang, Jin and other states. Pei Zhiheng always served as the vanguard and charged into the battle.
At the stone place, Jing was defeated and Jing ran away to the east. Monk Bianyi ordered Tomb Zhiheng and Siqi to enter the imperial wall to guard.
Later, Duiqu relied on his wings to rebel, and Tomb Zhangzhiheng followed Wang Sengbian to the south to attack Lu Na.
He killed Lu Na's general Li Xianming on the battlefield, thus quelling the Japanese rebellion.
Pei Zhiheng also defeated King Yawuling at Xikou.
After he came back, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing County and made a hundred quilts to realize his original wish.
Later, Jiangling was captured, and the Southern Qi Dynasty sent Gao Huan, the king of Shangdang, to support Marquis Zhenyang in attacking Shuguan. Xiao Fangzhi, king of Jin'an, followed the emperor's will and appointed Pei Zhiheng as envoy Chijie, general Zhenbei, governor of Xuzhou, and governor of the army. He was also sent to the Advocacy Department to go out of the capital to guard Qicheng.
Pei Zhiheng had not yet built the barricades of the military camp, but the Southern Qi army had already arrived. Most of the soldiers in Pei Zhiheng's team died in the battle, and their arrows were exhausted. Pei Zhiheng also died on the battlefield at the age of forty-one.
He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and Sikong Gong, with the nickname Zhongzhuang.
He was succeeded by his son Xiao Fengbao.
Xiahou Dan, named Shilong, was the eldest son of the chariot general Xiahou Xiang.
In the early years of the Southern Qi Dynasty, Xia Houzhi left home to become an official and became an imperial minister.
At the end of the Yongyuan Dynasty, Xiahou Xiang was appointed Sima of King Nankang of Xizhonglang. He followed the palace to guard Jingzhou, while Xiahou stayed in the capital and served as the commander-in-chief of Shuhunhou.
During Cui Huijing's rebellion, Xiahou Xuan was awarded the title of General of Valiant Cavalry for his service in protecting the emperor.
When Emperor Gaozu raised a righteous army, Xia Houxiang and Chief Shi Xiao Yingzhou negotiated and jointly raised the righteous flag. They secretly sent messengers to Kyoto to welcome Xiahou Zhi. Xiahou Zhi carried a warrant from Queen Xuande and ordered King Nankang to compile the throne to inherit the emperor's rule.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Xia Houzhi was appointed Shangshu Libulang, and soon moved to the position of Shizhong. He dedicated the emperor's jade seal to Gaozu.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xia Houzhi served as the prefect of Xuancheng County.
Soon he was called to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and concurrently as a general of Youxiaoqi.
In the sixth year, he served as the Changshi of King Shixing of Pingxi and the Grand Administrator of Nanjun. He was relieved of his duties due to the death of his father.
During the mourning period, he fully complied with the etiquette. He built a thatched shed next to his father's grave and lived in Baomian. He gave away all the property left by his father to his younger brothers.
In the eighth year, Xia Houzhi was appointed as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Sizhou, general Xinwu, governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as the prefect of Anlu County.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County.
Xiahou Zhi was very dignified and helpful in his official position in the state, and he was favored by the people on the border.
In the twelfth year, he returned to the court with his original title, was awarded the title of Duguan Shangshu, and was transferred to General Shizhong and Youwei, and concurrently served as Yuzhou Dazhongzheng.
In the fifteenth year, he served as General Xinwu, Changshi of Anxi, and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia County.
In the seventeenth year, he was summoned to serve as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi and the prince's right guard. He was moved to the left guard general and concurrently served as the former army general.
Soon he served as General Mingwei and Grand Administrator of Wuxing County.
He also implemented benevolent policies in his position as county governor. The officials and people in the county gave him a statue and set up stone tablets to praise his virtues.
In ordinary three years, he was summoned to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and concurrently as a general of Youxiaoqi. He was transferred to the position of Taifuqing, and his position as a regular servant remained the same.
He was dismissed from office due to official affairs. Soon after, the emperor issued a special order to reinstate him.
Five years later, he was transferred to the Central Guards Army.
In the sixth year of the Liang Dynasty's large-scale Northern Expedition, he first sent Pei Sui, the governor of Yuzhou, to lead Zhan Sengzhi, the governor of Qiaozhou, Ming Shaoshi, the prefect of Liyang County, Yu Hong, the prefect of Nanqiao County, and Zhang Cheng, the prefect of Jinxi County. These people were all talented generals in the world. They attacked Shouyang City from the south road, but Pei Sui died before they could capture it.
He appointed Xia Houzhi as the envoy to hold the festival, and rode forward to replace Pei Sui. He fought with the Wei generals Hejian Wang Yuanchen and Linhuai Wang Yuanor. He fought frequently and won every time.
Soon, the emperor issued a secret order for them to return to Fei so that the soldiers and horses could rest and wait until the weir was built before marching.
In the summer of the seventh year, the water in the Huaihe River dike was so heavy that the city of Shouyang was about to be submerged. Emperor Gaozu sent the Northern Army Yuanshu to lead Peng Zhousun, Chen Qingzhi and others to gradually advance.
The Soviet army built city walls along both sides of Danba Cheng and rushed out from behind the Xia royal army. Xiahou Zhiyu Zhan Sengzhi returned to attack and defeated the Wei army.
They also attacked Lijing, and Liang Zhenwei's general Wei Fang came from the North Road to join Xiahou's direct troops.
After the two armies joined together, wherever they went, all Wei troops surrendered and the city was captured.
A total of fifty-two cities surrendered, and 75,000 men and women were captured, with rice and 200,000 stones.
The emperor issued an edict to establish Qiongcong in Shouyang Dynasty according to the system of the previous dynasty, and changed Hedanyan to Muliaochuan. He appointed Emperor Xiabao as envoy Chijie, governor of Yuzhou and the military affairs of the five states along the Huaihe River, Huozhou, Yizhou, and Yuchu, and general Yunhui, Suiye, and Luqiongye.
The Shouchun area had long been devastated by war, and most of the people were dispersed. Xiahou Zhi implemented the policy of mitigating penalties and lowering taxes, allowing the people to work hard on farming and save themselves from labor. Soon, the people's household registration funds expanded to the original scale.
In the second year of Datong, Xia Shi Huangjin was titled General Pingbei.
Three years later, he died in office in the state town.
When Emperor Wu of Liang, the founder of the family, heard the bad news, he wore plain clothes to mourn on that day and posthumously awarded him the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
The name of Mi is Xiang.
Five hundred people including Xiahou Jian, a state citizen, petitioned the emperor to build a temple for Xiahou with an erect stele, and the emperor issued an edict to allow it.
Xiahou Zhi was personable, handsome in appearance, generous in temperament, and very generous. He dabbled in literature and history, was eloquent, and could answer questions.
Xia Houyi, who was of the same clan as him, served as the internal history of Hengyang County. On the day he bid farewell to the emperor, Xia Houzhi sat beside the emperor. Emperor Wu of Liang, the great ancestor, said to Xia Houzhi: Is the relationship between Xia Houyi and you distant or close?
Xia Houyi replied: He is my cousin.
Emperor Gaozu knew that Xia Houyi was estranged from Xia Houzhi, so he said: You, a northerner, can't tell the difference between you and your fellow clan members.
Xia Houxuan replied: I heard that brothers and sisters in the same service are easy to alienate, so I can't bear to say that they are the same clan.
At the time, people thought he was good at coping.
Xiahou Yi served as governor of six counties and three states. He did not save any property for himself. Instead, he casually distributed the official salary and emperor's rewards to his relatives and friends.
He is frugal by nature. The place he lives in and the clothing and supplies are just enough for his needs. He does not pursue luxury or luxury.
Xia Houzhi loved music very much in his later years. He kept more than a dozen geishas and concubines, all of whom had no good looks or clothes.
Whenever guests came, the geishas would play music through the curtains. People at that time said that the curtains were the clothes of the Xiahou geishas.
Xia Houyi had two sons: Xiahou Yi and Xiahou Sun.
Xia Houyi granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng and successively held official positions such as Prince Sheren and Horse Washing.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing rebelled and invaded the capital. Xia Houyi and his younger brother Xia Houshen led their troops into the capital to fight. Both of them died in the siege.
Xiahou Kui, courtesy name Ji Long, was the younger brother of Xiahou Xuan.
He just left home and became an official, and took up the post of King Nankang of the Southern Qi Dynasty to join the army.
In the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty, he was moved to Situ.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was appointed Prince Xima, Zhongsheren, and Zhongshulang.
After his father passed away, he mourned for his father. After the mourning period was over, he was awarded the title of Master Craftsman and took charge of the construction of Tai Chi Hall.
In the first year of the ordinary year, he was appointed as the chief official of King Shaoling and carried out the affairs of the state.
In the year of dispatch, he served as the general of holiday and expedition, and randomly went to the north for expedition. After returning, he was awarded the title of Minister of Huangmen.
In the second year, as Pei Sui's adjutant, he assisted in the expedition against Zhanye and pacified Zhankai.
Three years later, he replaced his brother Xia Baozhi as the governor of Yuxingxing. Soon after, he was moved to the post of governor of Jiajie, Zhengyuan general, and the governor of the two counties of Xidan trapped Dansu.
In the seventh year, he was conscripted as a Weiwei, but without any official title, he was appointed as Chijie, Supervisor of all military affairs in Sizhou, General Xinwu, Governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as the prefect of Anlu County.
In the eighth year, the emperor ordered Xiahou Kui to lead Zhuangwu General Pei Zhili and Zhihe General Ren Sizu from Yiyang Road to attack the three passes of Pingping, Muling and Yinshan, and finally captured these three passes.
At this time, Zhan Sengzhi, the governor of Qiaozhou, surrounded Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Yuzhou, Shu State, in Guangling, and entered its outer city.
Wei general Yuan Haobo led his army to rescue. Zhan Sengzhi met the Wei army and defeated the team. Xiahou Kui came from Wuyang to join Zhan Sengzhi and cut off the Wei army's retreat.
Yuan Qinghe built a fence in the city to strengthen his defense facilities. When Xiahou Kui arrived, Yuan Qinghe asked for surrender.
Xiahou Kui wanted to give the credit to Zhan Sengzhi. Zhan Sengzhi said: Yuan Qinghe wants to surrender to you, but is not willing to surrender to me, Sengzhi. If I accept his surrender today, it will definitely be against his will; and I, Sengzhi, command a ragtag group of people recruited and cannot command the surrendering army according to the law.
You have always been very strict in managing the army. No one dares to disobey orders. It is most appropriate for you to accept surrender and surrender.
Therefore, Xia Houkui climbed up the city wall, pulled down the flags of the Wei army, and raised the banners and drums of the Liang Dynasty army. No one dared to act rashly. Yuan Qinghe rectified his troops and left the city, and no one in the army engaged in secret activities.
The total number of men and women who surrendered was more than 40,000, and they had 600,000 hu of millet, and the rest of the items were roughly the same.
After Yuan Xianbo heard the news, he ran away overnight. The Liang Dynasty army pursued him closely, capturing more than 20,000 people alive and killing countless others.
The emperor ordered Zhan Sengzhi to take charge of Yuzhou and guard Guangling.
Xiahou Kui led the army to station in Anyang.
Xiahou Kui sent his generals to massacre Chu City and captured all the troops. From then on, the North Road of Yiyang was cut off from the Wei State.
In the second year of Datong, Wei Yuan Yuanda, the governor of Yingzhou, requested to surrender to the Liang Dynasty. Emperor Wu of Liang ordered Yuanshu, the governor of Yingzhou, to greet Yuan Yuanda. Xiahou Kui also came from Chu City to join him, so he stayed in the county to guard.
The emperor ordered Wei Ying Prefecture to be changed to Beisi Prefecture, and appointed Xiahou Kui as the governor of Beisi Prefecture and to supervise Si Prefecture.
In the third year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie and was granted the title of General Renwei. He was granted the title of Marquis of Baocheng County with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as a right-guard general, but resigned due to the death of his biological mother.
At that time, Liu Ming, the governor of Southern Yanzhou of Wei State, surrendered to the Liang Dynasty with Qiao City. The emperor ordered to send General Yuan Shu of Zhenbei to lead the army to respond. He appointed Xiahou Kui as General Yunhui to act according to the opportunity and crusade against the north.
Soon, Xia Houkui was appointed as the envoy Chijie, supervising the military affairs of southern Yuzhou, and the governor of southern Yuzhou.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, in charge of the military affairs of the seven states of Yuzhou, Huaizhou, Chenzhou, Banzhou, Jianzhou, Huozhou and Yizhou, and the governor of Yuzhou.
Yuzhou had been invaded by wars for many years, and most people were unemployed. Xia Houkui led his troops to build a dike in Canngling, irrigated more than a thousand hectares of fields with water, and harvested more than one million shi of millet a year later, which was used as a reserve and to provide for poor families. The people in the territory relied on him to survive.
Xiahou Kui's elder brother Xia Houzhi had previously held this official position, and now Xiahou Kui is in this position again.
Both brothers left benevolence to the village, and the common people sang songs to praise them: "I have a state, and I often stay in Xiahou; the former brother and the latter brother are good administrators."
Xia Houkui served as an official in the state for seven years. He made great achievements and gained a good reputation. People near and far relied on him.
There were a total of 10,000 troops and 2,000 horses. These people were all elite soldiers and generals who were good at riding and shooting. It became a grand event at that time.
Xia Houkui had a bold and extravagant temperament. He had hundreds of geisha and concubines in his back room, all dressed in silk clothes and decorated with gold and jade jewelry.
He also liked to make friends with people and never regarded himself as aloof because of his high official position. His home was often full of distinguished guests, including civil and military officials. People at that time also praised him for this.
In the fourth year of Datong, Xia Houkui died in Yuzhou at the age of fifty-six.
The emperor held a mourning ceremony in Shao, and gave him 200,000 yuan for the funeral and 200 pieces of cloth.
He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and General Anbei.
Mi Hao Huan.
Xiahou Kui's son Xia Houzan succeeded him and became an official to the rank of Taipuqing.
Xiahouzan's younger brother, Xiahoufan, was rough and frivolous in his youth. He often stayed in the countryside, leading his father's troops and acting as a defense support for Zhouxiang. The governor Xiao Yuanming chose him as the governor of the government.
After Xiao Yuanming died in the battle of Pengcheng, Xiahou Pu became Hou Jing's long history again.
Soon, Hou Jing raised his troops to rebel, and Xia Houyu was the first to cross the river as a pioneer. He stopped his troops at the Shilin Pavilion in the west of the capital, broke into the mansions, and the wealthy families among the people, and plundered them, taking all their children, property, and goods.
Xiao Yuanming had four concubines in the state, Zhang, Yu, Wang and Ruan, all of whom were very beautiful.
After Xiao Yuanming died in the battle of Wei, all his concubines returned to his mansion in the capital. After the Xiahou Zhus arrived, they entered the mansion and took them all as their concubines.
Yu Hong is from Xiangyang.
He was eight feet tall, fair-skinned, and handsome.
He followed the emperor on many expeditions, often served as the vanguard of the army, and served successively as the prefect of Nanqiao County, Xuyi County, and Jingling County.
He often said to others: When I am a county guard, there are so-called four erasures: the fish and turtles are all in the water, the deer and deer are in the mountains, the rice and grain are in the fields, and the people are all in the villages.
A man's life in this world is as light as a speck of dust settling in the grass, and as short-lived as a white horse jumping over a mountain gap.
How long can we enjoy the joy and wealth of life!
Therefore, he drank wine and rewards as much as he wanted, and had more than a hundred concubines. He was rich in gold, silver, pearls and jade, and his clothes, toys, carriages and horses were all top-notch at the time.
Yu Hongqian was appointed Sima of the King of Pingxi Xiangdong and the prefect of Xinxing and Yongning counties. He died in his official position.
Wei Fang, whose courtesy name is Yuan Zhi, is the son of Wei Rui, a general on horseback.
He first served as the chief clerk of Ning Shuo of King An of Qi and Jin Dynasty. When Emperor Gaozu came to Yuzhou, he called him as the chief clerk.
Wei Fang is seven feet seven inches tall, has an eight-gauge belt, and has a very majestic appearance.
In the first year of Tianjian, he served as the prefect of Xuyi County. After returning to Beijing, he was awarded Tongzhilang. Soon he was appointed as a soldier of Qingchao King Jin'an to join the army. He moved to Zhenyou as a consultant to King Shixing to join the army. He resigned due to the death of his father.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yongchang County and served as the chief historian of Qingchetong King and the prefect of Xiangyang County.
He was transferred to the post of General Jiajie, General Mingwei, and Grand Administrator of Jingling County.
During his tenure in the county, his administration was tolerant and orderly, and he was praised by officials and people.
In the sixth year, the army launched a large-scale northern expedition, appointed Wei Fang as General Zhenwei, and marched north with Xuan Jiansai and Su Longyou.
In the seventh year, Emperor Xia Mai failed to attack Biezhen, so Emperor Wu of Liang sent him to lead the army from North Road to rendezvous in Shouchun City.
Soon, Wei Fang was moved to serve as the long history of King Yunhui's mother Chen and the prefect of Yaopeng.
Huang Jie assisted the feudal king in his work many times and was famous for his achievements every time.
In the eighth year of ordinary times, Emperor Gaozu Liang Wu sent and led troops such as Ji Tuusei to attack Guoyang, and appointed Wei Fang as General Mingwei to lead the army and join Cao Zhongzong.
General Yilong of the Yun Army suddenly arrived with his army, but Guoyang's military camp had not yet been established and he had only more than 200 people under his command.
Wei Fang's cousin Wei Xun was brave, courageous and powerful, and was the support of the entire army. Tong Tomb ordered Wei Hui to attack Yun's army with a single horse and a spear. As a result, the Wei army was defeated many times. Wei Xun's mount was also injured and could not move forward. At this time, Wei Gan's helmet was hit by three random arrows.
Everyone was in panic and asked Wei Fang to break out.
Wei Fang sternly reprimanded them and said: Today we can only fight to the death.
He took off his helmet, jumped off his horse, and sat on the throne to direct the battle. therefore.
The soldiers all fought desperately, one against a hundred.
The Wei army then began to retreat, and Tong Gan pursued the deserters all the way to Guoyang.
The Wei army also sent Changshan Wang Yuanzhao, generals Li Jie, Qifushi, Fei Mu and others with an army of 50,000 to come to aid. Wei Fang led his generals Chen Du, Tang Bochao and others to attack the Wei army from a flank and defeated the Wei army.
Wang Wei, the lord of Guoyang City, surrendered to the city.
Wei Fang climbed up the city wall, selected 4,200 people who surrendered, and issued weapons to each of them. He also sent 30 people who surrendered to report the news to Li Jie, Fei Mu and others.
When the soldiers of the Wei army heard the news, they immediately collapsed and fled in all directions. At this time, Wei Fang's army took advantage of the victory and pursued them, killing almost all of the Wei army and taking prisoners.
He captured Fei Mu's younger brother Fei Chao and escorted him and Wang Wei to the capital.
After Huang Jie returned to the capital, he was led by the crown prince's right guard and then transferred to Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi.
He also served as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Liangzhou and Nanqinzhou, general Xinwu, and governor of Liangzhou and Nanqinzhou.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as the governor of all military affairs and the governor of North Xuzhou. Four hundred households were added to the fiefdom, but his duties as a general and a general remained as before.
After three years in office, Wei Fang died at the age of fifty-nine.
His nickname is Yihou.
Wei Fang has a generous and honest character, takes money very lightly, likes to give charity, and is especially harmonious with his younger brothers.
Whenever he returned from a long trip or went to war, he would always wrap up and sleep in a room with his brothers. At that time, people called them "Three Jiangs".
At first, the concubines of Wei Fang and Cheng Xingren were both pregnant, so they got married on their own.
Later, the two concubines gave birth to a boy and a girl respectively. Before they grew up, Zhang Shu passed away, leaving behind a widow and orphaned children. Wei Fang often went to help and care for them.
After Wei Fang was appointed governor of Northern Xuzhou, a powerful family wanted to marry Wei Fang. Tong Su said: I can't break my promise to my dead old friend.
He asked his son Wei Qi to marry Zhang Su's daughter, and then married his own daughter to Zhang Su's son. At that time, people praised Wei Fang for being nostalgic and loyal to his old friends.
Wei Fang's eldest son Wei Can succeeded him, and there are other legends.
Shi Chen said: Pei Sui's poetry and literary talent have long been famous, and he also has profound thoughts and strategies; Xia Houyi is studious and eloquent;
As for serving as state and county officials, presiding over their affairs, and defeating the enemy and pacifying the border areas, they all have merit and achievements, which is indeed in line with their civil and military positions. They should be famous officials of the Liang Dynasty.
