◆Biography of the Eight Kings of Emperor Zhang, Emperor Xiaozhang’s eight sons: Song Gui was born as Xiao Wang Liu Qing of Qinghe, Liang Gui was born as Emperor Liu Zhao, Shen Gui was born as King Hui of Jibei Liu Shou, and King Xiao of Hejian Liu Kai. The other four kings do not remember their mother's name.
Liu and his wife, the king of Qianchengzhen, were granted the title in the fourth year of Jianchu.
Emperor He ascended the throne. Because Liu and his wife were the eldest brothers, they respected him very much and treated him with courtesy. He died in the fifteenth year of his life.
His son Liu Chong succeeded to the throne. Liu Chong was named Fu Hu.
In the seventh year of Yongyuan, the country was renamed Le'an.
He died in the twenty-eighth year of his reign and became the king of Yi.
Both father and son died in the capital and were buried in Luoyang.
His son Liu Hong succeeded to the throne. Emperor An Liu Hu passed away before he left for his country.
Liu Hong gave birth to Emperor Liu Zan. After Emperor Zhi was established, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict, believing that the land of Le'an was despicable and humid, and there were too few rents and taxes, so she changed the title of Liu Hongbo to King of Hai.
He died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign and was named King Xiao.
Prince Xiao had no children, so the Empress Dowager made Emperor Huan Liu Zhi's younger brother Liwuhou Liu Kui the King of Bohai to serve Liu Hong's sacrifices.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, Liu Kui conspired and the relevant officials requested that Liu Kui be deposed. Emperor Zhi could not bear to depose him, so he demoted him to the title of King Ying Tao and had to pay the tax of a county.
Later, Liu Kui wanted to rely on Wang Fu, the official official of Zhongchang, to restore his feudal state, and promised to give him 50 million yuan as a gift to thank him.
Emperor Zhi was about to die and issued an edict to restore Liu Kui to the throne of Bohai.
Liu Kui knew that it was not Wang Fu's credit, so he refused to thank Wang Fu for the money.
Wang Fu became angry and secretly collected Liu Kui's crimes.
At first, when the Ling Emperor Liu Hong was proclaimed, there were rumors on the road that Liu Kui did not establish himself as emperor, but held a grudge and wanted to seize the conscription documents by force. Both Zhong Chang Shi Zheng Sa and Zhong Huangmen Dong Teng had the courage to associate righteousness with the strong and light men, and colluded with Liu Kui many times.
Wang Fu conducted reconnaissance and thought there must be a conspiracy, so he secretly reported it to Duan Zhen, the captain of Sili School.
In the first year of Xiping, Zheng Sa was arrested and sent to Beisi Prison.
The minister ordered Lian Zhong to submit a report to slander Zheng Sa and other plots to welcome Liu Kui, which was a treasonous act.
So he ordered the governor of Jizhou to arrest Liu Kui and question him about the implementation. He also sent Dahong Zhijie, Zongzheng and Tingwei to Bohai to force Liu Kui to denounce him, and Liu Kui committed suicide.
Eleven concubines, seventy children, and twenty-four prostitutes all died in prison.
Fu, Prime Minister and below were all executed for the crime of disloyalty by leading King Bohai Liu Kui.
In the twenty-fifth year of Liu Kui's reign, the feudal state was removed.
The people all sympathized with him.
In Pingchun, King Liu Quan was mourned, and he was granted the title in the fourth year of Jianchu. He died that year and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed.
Liu Qing, the Xiaowang of Qinghe, whose mother was a noblewoman of the Song Dynasty.
Guiren, the eighth grandson of Song Chang, was born in Pingling County, Fufeng County.
His father, Song Yang, was praised by the village for his respectfulness and filial piety, and he should not be drafted by the state or county.
Song Yang's aunt is the maternal grandmother of Empress Ma of Mingde.
After Ma heard that Song Yang's two daughters were both talented and beautiful, she took them to teach them a lesson.
At the end of Yongping, both daughters were selected into the prince's palace, and the prince liked them very much.
When Suzong came to the throne, they were all nobles.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the great nobleman Liu Qing was born. In the second year, he was established as the crown prince, and Song Yang was recruited as Yilang. He was highly praised and rewarded.
The empress dowager liked her because she was a good person, dedicated to Changle Palace, and did the cooking work herself.
After the death of the Empress Dowager, Empress Dou was favored by Su Zong. Because both noble sisters were favored by the emperor, and Liu Qing was the prince, he was jealous of them and conspired with her mother Biyang Zhu to frame the Song family.
Outside, let her brothers collect her faults, even small ones; inside, let her attendants spy on her gains and losses.
Later, I intercepted a letter from the nobleman at Yeting Gate, saying: I want some raw dodder when I am sick, and I want my family to look for it. Therefore, he slandered her and said that she wanted to do magic tricks to pray for ghosts and gods to bring disaster on Queen Dou. She used dodder as a means of victory. She was slandered and framed day and night. The noble mother and son gradually became alienated from the emperor.
Liu Qing came to live in Chenglu Temple. A few months later, Queen Dou hinted that Ye Ting had ordered a noble man to survive and framed the noble man. Please test it and implement it.
In the seventh year, the emperor deposed the crown prince Liu Qing and established the crown prince Liu Zhao. Liu Zhao is the son of Liang Guiren.
So he issued an edict saying: The Crown Prince has a confusing and unpredictable nature, which started when he was a child and has become more obvious now. I'm afraid he inherited his mother's vicious style and cannot worship in the ancestral temple or be the master of the world.
Killing relatives for the sake of justice, let alone surrendering?
Now Prince Liu Qing is deposed as King Qinghe.
Crown Prince Liu Zhao was raised by the Queen and was educated by his mother when he was a child, which induced him to have a good character and he was expected to become a great person.
Most concubines have a loving mother as their mother and have a lifetime of kindness. How can it be compared with the righteousness of a direct descendant?
Now Zhao is the crown prince.
So the noble sister Ju Bing was sent to Cai Lun of Xiaohuangmen to conduct the examination and implementation. They all adhered to the above-mentioned will and attached it to the facts, so they were sent to the violent room.
The two noble men committed suicide by drinking medicine at the same time.
The emperor still mourned them and ordered Ye Ting to bury them in Fan Zhuoquan.
Song Yang was relieved of his official position and returned to the county.
The county arrested him again for the crime. Song Yang's friends Qianhuai County Magistrate Zhang Jun, Zuofeng Yipeiguo Liu Jun and others rushed to explain and were exempted from the crime.
Song Yang lost his ambition, became haggard and melancholy, and died at home.
Although Liu Qing was still young at the time, he knew how to avoid suspicion and was afraid of causing trouble. He did not dare to mention the Song family when he spoke. The emperor took pity on him and ordered the queen to give Liu Qing the same clothes as the prince.
The prince was particularly dear to Liu Qing. He lived in the same room in the palace and drove in the same car when leaving the palace.
When the prince came to the throne, he treated Liu Qing more favorably than the other kings. They often discussed private matters together.
Later Liu Qing grew up and moved to Bing.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan, the emperor moved to the Zhangde Hall of the North Palace and taught at Baihu Temple, so that Liu Qing could stay in the palace.
The emperor executed the Dou family in order to obtain the "Biography of Foreign Relatives". He was afraid that the attendants on the left and right would not dare to look for it, so he ordered Liu Qing to ask King Qiancheng for it privately, and took it to the emperor alone in the evening. He also ordered Liu Qing to send a message to Zheng Zhong, the official of Zhongchang, to search for the historical archives of Emperor Wen's execution of Bo Zhao and Emperor Wu's execution of Dou Ying.
When the general Dou Xian was executed, Liu Qing came out to live in the mansion and gave 300 slaves, horses, money and silk, curtains, treasures and toys. The palace was filled with money and silk, ranging from the middle master to the left and right.
Liu Qing was sick and sometimes uneasy. The Emperor asked him morning and evening, sent meals and medicine, and showed his utmost concern.
Liu Qing was careful, respectful and filial. He thought he was a deposed person, so he was even more cautious, fearing that he would violate the law.
Every time he went to visit the mausoleum temple, he often got up in the middle of the night, dressed up, and waited for dawn; he restrained his subordinates from riding abreast with the kings' horses and horses.
It is often said that the funerals of nobles are incomplete, and they are often lamented and regretted. During the four solar terms, the solstice and the twelfth day, sacrifices are made in private rooms at home.
After Dou's death, the wet nurse was made to offer sacrifices far north of the city.
When Empress Dowager Dou died, Liu Qing requested to go to the tomb to pay his respects, and the emperor agreed. The imperial edict was ordered to give sacrificial utensils at four o'clock.
Liu Qing shed tears and said: "Although I will not receive support in life, I can offer sacrifices in death. My wish is fulfilled."
If he wanted to ask for an ancestral hall, he might be suspected of being the same as Empress Gonghuai of Liang Dynasty, so he didn't dare to say anything.
He often cries to the people around him, thinking it is a lifelong hatred.
Later, he wrote a letter saying that his grandmother Wang was old and suffered from a serious illness. There was no medicine in remote places, so she requested to come to Luoyang for treatment.
So the Song family was ordered to return to the capital, and Liu Qing's uncles Song Yan, Song Jun, Song Gai, Song Xian and others were conferred the title of Lang.
In the fifteenth year, the officials thought that the solar eclipse was too yin-yin, so they sent a petition to send all the princes to the country.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The responsibility for the difference between Jiazi is mine alone.
The kings were young and left their parents very early. They helped each other until they were weak. They often missed their parents with "Polygonium" and "Kaifeng".
Enga was cowardly and knew that it was not a national system, so he stayed in the capital for the time being.
In winter, the kings worshiped Zhang Ling from the emperor. The imperial edict was given to each of the kings and the Yulin Cavalry, forty men each.
Later, Wei Yunjin, the central master, embezzled more than ten million yuan in private. He ordered an interrogation and trial, and blamed Liu Qing for not reporting the case. Liu Qing said: Wei Yunjin is a master and was selected by the imperial court. I only know to listen to him and follow his instructions. There can be no pickets.
The emperor praised Liu Qing's answer and gave Liu Qing all the property that Wei Yanjin had embezzled.
When the emperor passed away, Liu Qing cried in front of the palace, vomited several liters of blood, and fell ill.
The next year, when the kings came to the country, Empress Dowager Deng authorized King Qinghe to appoint lieutenants and internal historians, and gave him everything for the emperor's use. Song Yan and others were all officials in Qinghe.
When Liu Qing arrived at the country, he issued an order: "I was born in a deep palace and grew up in the imperial court. I rely on the Ming Lord and do nothing to achieve success."
Because of my poor fortune, I left my parents very early. Recently, the emperor passed away. I was deeply saddened by this great worry.
I have been gifted a great country, and my duty is to serve as an assistant to the imperial court. I will soon leave the capital, and I am alone and worried. I was terrified day and night, not knowing how to deal with myself.
I heard that even a wise man cannot govern alone. He must be assisted by wise people.
Now that the officials and subordinates are in their respective positions, they have to consider the pros and cons, and the common people can follow the emperor's instructions without guilt.
It is important to inspect and supervise mistakes and evil, to clearly understand what is prohibited by laws and regulations, and not to cause me to commit the crime of neglect.
Empress Dowager Deng, because the Emperor Liu Long was young, was afraid of an accident, so she left Liu Qing's eldest son Liu and his aunt Geng Ji in Qinghe Mansion.
In the autumn, Emperor Shang died and Liu succeeded him as Emperor An.
The Queen Mother sent Zhonghuangmen to send Geng Ji back to her feudal country.
The emperor's biological mother, Zuo Ji, was named Xiao'e, and Xiao'e's sister was named Daye. They were born in Qianwei.
At first, uncle Zuo Sheng was convicted and executed for speaking evil, and his family was not considered an official. Er'e entered Yeting when she was only a few years old. When she grew up, she became a talented person.
Xiao'e is familiar with history books and likes poetry.
Emperor He granted the royal palace to all the people, so they were able to enter the Qinghe mansion.
Liu Qing began to hear that Er'e was beautiful, so he rewarded his nanny to get Er'e for him.
Later, I was very happy, and other concubines could not compare with me.
After the two sisters died, they were buried in the capital.
Liu Qing was king for twenty-five years before he went to seal the country.
In the same year, he fell seriously ill and said to Song Yan and others: "The Qinghe River is low and wet and the soil is thin. I would like to request that I be buried next to the nobles' tomb after my death."
The court has shown great favor, and a shrine should be built so that the concubine, mother and son can eat together, so that the soul can be sheltered, and there will be no regrets after death.
So he wrote to the Queen Mother and said: My land is low and humid, and I want to ask the nobles to follow Fan Zhuo after I die. Even if I die, I will not be immortal!
Now while your mouth can still speak and your eyes can still see, be brave enough to ask.
Every breath of life, I hope to be pitied.
He died at the age of twenty-nine.
The imperial court sent Sikong Chijie and Zongzheng to attend the condolence ceremony, and also sent Changle Yezhe Pushe and Zhongyezhe to help take care of the funeral. They also gave dragons Jiuqi and tigers to support hundreds of people, and the etiquette was the same as that of King Lehaigong.
The Queen Mother sent Ye Tingcheng to send Zuo Ji to mourn, and she was buried with the king in Guangqiu.
Zimin King Huwei succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Yongchu, the Empress Dowager granted Song Yan the title of Marquis of Shengxiang, divided Qinghe into two kingdoms, and granted Liu Qing's youngest son Chang Bao the title of King of Guangchuan. All eleven of his children were township princesses and received a salary from the town.
In the second year, Chang Bao died without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
Huweili died three years later and had no children.
Empress Dowager Deng then appointed Yanping, the son of Liu Chong, King of Le'an, as King of Qinghe, which was Prince Gong.
When the Queen Mother passed away, officials wrote: King Xiao of Qinghe was a man of pure virtue and beauty. He gave birth to a saint and was destined to inherit the throne and be the master of the country.
When the Han Dynasty was established, Emperor Gaozu honored his father as the Supreme Emperor, and Emperor Xuan named his father as Emperor Kao. He left Zhao Zhao and right Mu, arranged them in an orderly manner, and also set up gardens and guarded mausoleums. The meaning of large-scale succession must not be forgotten. The past regulations cannot be forgotten.
She should be given the honorific title of Emperor Xiaode, the concubine of the emperor Zuo will be called Empress Xiaode, and the posthumous title of Emperor Xiaode's mother, Song Guiren, will be Empress Jingyin.
So he offered sacrifices to the Gaomiao, and sent Situ Chijie and Dahonglu to Qinghe with the seal and ribbon of the policy book to catch up with the title. He also sent the regular attendant to hold the Tailao sacrifice ceremony, and the ceremonial attendant Liu Zhen and others as well as the princes of the clan attended.
The mausoleum of Zun is called Ganling, the temple is called Zhaomiao, and the ministers and ministers are appointed, and military chariots are set up to protect them, just like Zhangling.
Guangchuan was also merged into Qinghe State.
Respect Geng Ji as a noble person in Ganling.
He also named the female younger brother the eldest princess of Niyang, Bie De as the eldest princess of Wuyang, Jiu Chang as the eldest princess of Puyang, and Zhi De as the eldest princess of Ping clan.
The other seven princesses all died early, so they were not promoted to nobility. He posthumously presented the seal ribbon to Xiaoguiren, the younger brother of Jingyin, and posthumously named Song Yang Muhou of Dangyang.
Song Yang's four sons were all marquises, each with a settlement of 5,000 households.
The Song family has more than ten officials including officials, principals, ministers, officials, visitors, and lieutenants.
After Xiaode, his half-brothers Song Ci and Song Dasheng, as well as nine other disciples, were all doctors of Qinghe country.
Geng Guiren is the grandson of Geng Shu, the Marquis of Mouping. Geng Bao, your elder brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Mouping.
Because Geng Bao was his uncle, the emperor favored him very much and treated him generously, and he was promoted to the rank of general. The story has been recorded in the "Biography of Geng Shu".
Yanping died in the 35th year of his reign, and his son Liu Lian succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Chong Liu Bing passed away, he summoned Liu Lian to the capital to discuss succession to the throne. General Liang Ji and the Empress Dowager Liang established Emperor Chong Liu Zan, and Liu Lian returned home.
Liu Lian was a rigorous man and had rules in his movements. All the court officials, Taiwei Li Gu and others supported him.
At first, Cao Teng, the minister of the imperial court, went to pay homage to Liu Lian, but Liu Lian did not treat him politely, and the eunuchs hated him for this.
When the emperor died, the ministers all discussed making Liu Lian emperor, but Cao Teng said that Liang Ji was not allowed to do so, so he made Huan Emperor.
The words are in "The Biography of Li Gu".
Liu Lian was convicted.
In the first year of Jianhe, Liu Wen, a native of Ganling, colluded with Liu Quan, a demon thief from Nanjun, and spread rumors that King Qinghe should succeed to rule the world and wanted to make Liu Lian the emperor.
When the matter was discovered, Liu Wen and others kidnapped Qinghe Prime Minister Xie Fan and took him to Simamen of the palace. They said: The king should be made the emperor and Xie Fan the duke.
Xie Fan refused to listen to them and scolded them, so Liu Wen assassinated Xie Fan.
So Liu Wen and Liu Tuna were arrested and killed.
Officials impeached Liu Lian due to his impeachment, and he was demoted to the rank of Marquis of Wei clan. He moved to Guiyang and committed suicide.
After three years of establishment, the feudal state was abolished.
Liang Ji hated the name Qinghe and changed it to Ganling the next year.
The Empress Dowager Liang appointed Prince Jinghou Li of Anping Xiao as the King of Ganling, and served Emperor Xiaode to offer sacrifices, making him the King of Wei.
Liu Lili passed away in the twenty-fifth year, and Liu Ding, King Zizhen, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Dingli died in four years, and Prince Xian Liu Zhong succeeded to the throne.
The Yellow Turban bandits arose, and Liu Zhong was captured by the countrymen and released soon after.
Emperor Ling believed that one should kiss one's relatives, and it was most important to kiss one's relatives, so he ordered the restoration of Liu Zhong's feudal state.
Liu Zhongli died in the 13th year of his reign, and his son was killed by the Yellow Turban Army. In the 11th year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished because he had no heirs.
Liu Shou, King Hui of Jibei, and his mother Shen Guiren, were from Yingchuan. He has been an official for two thousand years.
When the noble was thirteen, he entered Yeting.
Liu Shou was named king in the second year of Yongyuan. Divide Taishan County into a country.
Emperor He abided by Suzong's old custom, and his brothers all stayed in the capital, and their love was extremely close.
The officials asked the kings to return to the feudal kingdom, but the emperor could not bear them leaving. He waited until the emperor died before returning to the feudal kingdom.
In the first year of Yongchu, Empress Dowager Deng granted Liu Shou's uncle Shen Zhuan the title of Marquis of Xinting.
Liu Shouli passed away in the 31st year of his reign. Since Yongchu, Rong and Di rebelled, and the country's finances were insufficient. When the newly crowned king passed away, the funeral expenses were reduced to tens of millions and ten thousand pieces of cloth. When the king who succeeded the throne died, the money was five million and five thousand pieces of cloth.
At this time, only Liu Shou respected his relatives the most, and specially sent him 30 million yuan for funeral expenses and 30,000 pieces of cloth.
Zijie King Liu ascended to the throne.
In the first year of Yongning, Liu Deng's five younger brothers were granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside, and all of them were taxed in Taishan.
Liu Dengli passed away in the fifteenth year, and Prince Ai Wang Liu Duo succeeded to the throne.
Liu Duoli died three years ago without any sons.
In the fourth year of Yonghe's reign, Liu Anguo, the marquis of Zhanxiang, was appointed King of Jibei, and was named King of Li.
Liu An passed away seven years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, and his son Xiao Wang Liu Ci succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Benchu, Liu Meng, Liu Ci's younger brother, was granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Ci lost his father when he was nine years old, and he has the most filial nature.
In the first year of Jianhe, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict saying: King Liu Ci of Jibei spent his childhood guarding the vassal state and practicing filial piety. When his father died, he mourned excessively. He lived in a thatched hut, sitting and lying on earthen mats, never leaving his mourning stick, and his hair was not combed or washed, which resulted in sores and swelling on his body.
Since the beginning of mourning, in the 28th month of the twelfth month, since every feudal country has mourned, I have never heard of anyone like him.
The court considered this to be extremely valuable. Isn't it said in the Book of Books: Make it clear with morality, so that everyone will compete to do good.
"The Book of Songs" says: The filial piety of a filial son will never be exhausted. It will be bestowed upon your kind and teach the world.
Now, 5,000 more households have been granted to Liu Ci to make his place more spacious, so as to comfort the grief of the filial son.
Liu Cili died in the seventh year, and his son Liu Luan succeeded to the throne.
When Liu Luan died, his son Liu Zheng succeeded to the throne and had no sons.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Kai, the filial king of Hejian, was granted the title in the second year of Yongyuan, and was divided into Lecheng, Bohai and Zhuojun.
He arrived in the country in the first year of Yanping.
Liu Kai abides by the law, and his subordinates all respect and love him.
In the first year of Yongning, Empress Dowager Deng named Liu Kai's son Liu Yi as the King of Pingyuan to serve the sacrifices of King Huai Liu Sheng, and her son Liu De as the King of Anping to serve the sacrifices of King Liu Dang of Success.
Liu Kaili died in the 42nd year of his reign, and King Zihui Liu Zheng succeeded to the throne.
Liu Zheng was arrogant and cruel, and did not abide by the laws of the country. Emperor Shun promoted Shen Jing of Wu County to the rank of Prime Minister of Hejian because he was a shrewd and capable person serving as his censor.
Shen Jing went to the country to pay homage to King Liu Zheng. Liu Zheng was disheveled and sat in the palace with his feet stretched out.
The minister read out the etiquette, but Shen Jing stood still and asked the master of ceremonies, where is the king?
Huben said: Isn't this the king? Shen Jing said: If a king does not wear royal clothes, what is the difference between him and ordinary people?
Now that the prime minister has come to pay homage to the king, is it allowed to pay homage to someone who is rude?
The king was ashamed, changed his clothes, and then bowed to Shen Jing.
Shen Jing went out of the palace and invited Liu Zheng's master to question him and said: "Go to the capital. The emperor ordered me to supervise because the king is disrespectful."
You have taken the state's salary in vain and failed to fulfill your responsibility to teach the king.
He was punished because of the memorial. The imperial court issued an edict to blame Liu Zheng and questioned and condemned his master.
As a result, Shen Jing arrested many traitors and petitioned them to be punished for their crimes. Killed dozens of people who had committed heinous crimes, and released more than a hundred people who had been wrongly imprisoned.
Liu Zhengnai corrected his behavior and repented.
In the first year of Yangjia, all thirteen of Liu Zheng's younger brothers were granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Zhengli died ten years ago, and Zizhen King Liu Jian succeeded to the throne.
Liu Jianli died in ten years, and Liu Li, King of Zi'an, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Li died in the 28th year of his reign, and his son Liu Ye succeeded to the throne. In the 41st year of Liu Li's reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
In the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, in the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Empress Dowager Deng summoned the princes of Jibei and Hejian to Liu Yi, the Marquis of Liwu. She admired Liu Yi's beauty and considered him a descendant of Liu De, Huai King of Pingyuan, and stayed in the capital.
More than a year later, the Queen Mother passed away.
Wang Sheng, the wet nurse of Emperor An, and Jiang Jing, the minister of Zhongchang, framed the brothers Deng Zhi and Liu Yi, saying that they had conspired with King Zhao, the chief minister of Zhongzhong, to seize the throne and were treasonous.
He was demoted to the title of Marquis of Duxiang and sent back to Hejian.
Liu Yi then declined the guests, refused to interact with them, and kept to himself.
In the fifth year of Yongjian's reign, his father Liu Kai wrote a letter requesting that Liwu County be divided and given the title of Liu Yi, and Emperor Shun agreed.
Liu Yi died and his son Liu Zhi succeeded him. He was established as Emperor Huan by General Liang Ji.
The Empress Dowager Liang honored King Xiao of Hejian as Emperor Xiaomu, and his wife Zhao as Empress Xiaomu. The temple was called Qingmiao and the mausoleum was Lecheng Ling.
They all set up orders and ministers to make the Situ hold the policy books and seals and ribbons in a strict manner, and the sacrifices were too tight.
In the second year of Jianhe's reign, Liu Shuo, the emperor's younger brother, the Marquis of Duxiang, was granted the title of King of Pingyuan. He stayed in Boling and served Liu Yi's descendants.
He respected Liu Yi's wife, Ma, as a noble of Xiao Chongbo Garden, and designated the three counties of Liangxiang and Gu'an in Zhuojun and Liwu in Hejian as Tangmuyi, and the income from the town was used for bathing.
Liu Shuo, the Marquis of Duxiang, was fond of drinking and made many mistakes. The emperor sent Ma Guiren to manage the king's household affairs.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Shu, the Marquis of Jiedu Ting, was granted the title of the son of King Xiao of Hejian.
Liu Shu died and was succeeded by his son Liu Chang.
Chang died and was succeeded by his son Liu Hong, who was made Lingdi by General Dou Wu.
In the first year of Jianning, Empress Dowager Dou issued an imperial edict to honor the imperial ancestor Liu Shu as Emperor Xiaoyuan. His wife, Xia, was named Empress Xiaoyuan, the mausoleum was called Dunling, and the temple was called Jingmiao.
They all set up ministers and ministers to make Situ Chijie serve policy books and seals in the river, and use Tailao to offer sacrifices. They often sent Zhongchang to serve in the river at the beginning of the year.
In the third year of Xiping, the envoy worshiped Liu Lizi, the king of Hejian An, as Liu Kang, the king of Jinan, and served Emperor Xiaoren to offer sacrifices.
Liu Kang passed away and was succeeded by his son Liu Binbei. In the twelfth year of Jian'an, he was killed by the Yellow Turban bandits.
His son Liu Kai succeeded him, and in the 13th year of his reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
Liu Shu, the Huaiwang of Chengyang, was divided into Jiyin and the country in the second year of Yongyuan. He died in the fifth year of Lili and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed and still merged into Jiyin.
Liu Wansui, the mourning king of Guangzong, was granted the title in the fifth year of Yongyuan, and he was divided into Julu as the country.
He died this year and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed. Still merged into Julu.
Liu Sheng, King Huai of Pingyuan, was the eldest son of Emperor He.
The mother's name is not recorded.
He had a difficult-to-treat disease when he was young, so he was granted the title in the first year of Yanping.
He died in the eighth year of his life and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, Empress Dowager Deng made Liu De, the son of Liu Chong, King of Le'anyi, the King of Pingyuan. As a descendant of Liu Sheng, he was the King of Ai.
Liu Deli died in the sixth year without any children. In the first year of Yongning, the Queen Mother appointed Liu Kaizi, the king of Hejian, and Liu Yi, the duxianghou, as the successor of the Pingyuan king. Emperor An deposed him and removed the feudal state.
The historian commented: "Zuo Zhuan" said that Wu Ziyi was ignorant, very virtuous and magnanimous. Whoever is the king of Wu must be his descendant.
Emperor Zhang was a well-educated elder, honest and honest in his dealings, and all the people who inherited the Han Dynasty were his descendants. The words of the ancients are really trustworthy!
