◆The biography of Guo Gong, named Zhongsun, was born in Yangzhai, Yingchuan. The family has been officials for generations.
His father, Guo Hong, studied "Xiao Du Lv" and the prefect Kou Xun used Guo Hong to make judgments on Cao Cao. He stayed in prison for thirty years and his methods were fair.
In all cases judged by Guo Hong, there is no resentment when he retreats. The county will compare Hong to Donghai Yugong.
Guo Hong died at the age of ninety-five.
Guo Gong inherited his father's business when he was young and taught hundreds of disciples.
Later he became a county official and was called into the government.
During the Yongping period, Dou Gu, the captain of Fengche, sent troops to fight against the Huns, and Qin Peng, the captain of cavalry, served as deputy commander.
Qin Peng was stationed elsewhere and often killed people according to the law. Dou Gu reported that Qin Peng had exclusive power and requested that he be killed.
Xianzong then cited officials and ministers to assess Qin Peng's crime.
Because Guo Gong understood the law, he was summoned to the court to participate in the review.
Everyone who discussed it agreed with what Dou Gu said, but Guo Gong said alone: ​​According to the law, Peng should be beheaded.
The emperor said: When the army goes out for battle, the captain is unified under the governor.
Since Peng has no axe, can he have the power to kill people?
Guo Gong replied: "Unifying under the governor is a matter of trilogy." Today's special general Peng Zhuan is a little different from this.
Military affairs are as urgent as human breathing, and the commander is not allowed to be notified in advance.
Moreover, under the system of the Han Dynasty, Zhuoge was the same as Wu, and he was not considered guilty legally.
The emperor listened to Guo Gong's opinion.
There are also brothers who commit murder together, and it is hard to pin the blame on whom.
The emperor believed that the elder brother should not discipline his younger brother, so he reported that the elder brother should be sentenced severely and the younger brother should be commuted to death.
The imperial edict was read out by Sun Zhang, who made a mistake and was punished twice. The minister reported that Sun Zhang had falsely conveyed the imperial edict and should be cut in half for his crime.
The emperor called Guo Gong to ask again, and Guo Gong replied: Sun Zhang should be fined.
The emperor said: Sun Zhang falsely issued an imperial edict to kill people, how can he say that he was only fined?
Guo Gong said: In law, there is a distinction between intentional homicide and manslaughter. Sun Zhang's mistake in conveying the order is considered manslaughter, and manslaughter is lighter in terms of regulations.
The emperor said: Sun Zhang lives in the same county as the prisoner, so I suspect he did it on purpose.
Guo Gong said: The road is as flat as a hammer, and as straight as an arrow. A gentleman will not cheat and deceive. The king regards heaven as the law, and punishment should not be compromised.
The emperor said: OK.
He was awarded the title of Tingweizheng, but was later dismissed for breaking the law.
Later, he was promoted three times, and in the third year of Yuanhe, he was promoted to Tingwei.
Guo Gong's family has been in charge of law for generations, and their affairs are in Kuanping. When he was a magistrate, he decided on prisons and sentences, and mostly acted on the principle of mercy. Therefore, he reported to the emperor the forty-one things that meant severe punishment could be mitigated, and everything was implemented according to the law. In the first year of Zhanghe, the prisoners in the world were pardoned before Bingzi in April, and their death penalty was reduced to one level, without being flogged, and they were sent to Jincheng. However, the article did not mention those who escaped unnoticed.
Guo Gong went to Fengshi and said: The reason why the holy grace reduces the death penalty and makes the border guards more important is that human life is the most important thing.
There are probably tens of thousands of people on death row today, and since the pardon, many criminals have been arrested. Even if the edict does not involve them, they should all be punished with serious crimes.
Thinking of God's kindness, all those who were convicted of capital crimes were reborn, but those who were arrested after escaping did not benefit from the kindness.
I think that those who have committed capital crimes before and are imprisoned after the pardon may not be flogged to Jincheng, so as to save lives and benefit the frontier.
Suzong thought it was very good and immediately issued an edict to pardon him.
Guo Gong reported on the legal system, and many people saved their lives.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, he died in the official government. The middle son, Guo Rizhi, also understood the law. His official position was the prefect of Nanyang, and he was famous in politics.
◆Chen Chong's biography, Chen Chong's courtesy name is Zhaogong, and he was a member of the Pei Kingdom.
My great-grandfather, Chen Xian, served as Minister of Law and Order during the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang assisted the government and made many changes to the Han Dynasty system, which made Chen Xian dissatisfied.
When Wang Mang killed He Wu, Bao Xuan and others who were not attached to him because of Lu Kuan's affairs, Chen Xian sighed: "The Book of Changes" says: "A gentleman acts when the opportunity arises. If I don't wait until the end of the day, I can pass away!"
Immediately asked to resign and left.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he summoned Chen Xian to serve as the chief bandit officer, but Chen refused to take up the post on the grounds of illness.
At this time, the three sons Shen, Feng, and Qin were all in official positions, so they were all dismissed from their positions. The father and son returned to their hometown together, staying behind closed doors. They still held sacrifices in the twelfth lunar month according to the custom of the Han family.
When people asked him why, Chen Xian said: Do my ancestors know about Wang's wax sacrifice?
Later, Wang Mang summoned Chen Xian and said that he was seriously ill, so he collected all the laws and regulations at home and hid them in the walls.
Chen Xian had a kind and tolerant character, and often warned his descendants: When negotiating for others, you should rely on lightness. Even if you have the benefit of a hundred gold, never compare yourself with others.
In the early years of Jianwu's reign, Chen Qinzi and Chen Gong served as the left prisoner of the Tingwei and died early.
Chen Gong gave birth to Chen Chong, who learned about the family business. When he was young, Chong served as a state and county official and was called to Situ Baoyu's mansion.
At this time, the three houses were very friendly, and it was considered noble to refuse to do anything.
Chen Chongchang disagreed and worked hard alone, explaining contemporary politics to Bao Yu several times.
Bao Yu was convinced of his ability to favor, so he resigned from Cao Cao and took charge of the world's lawsuits.
His judgment was fair and did not fail to satisfy everyone's wishes.
At that time, Situ's lawsuits were delayed for decades. The matters were complicated and easy to judge, and bad officials had to rely on them to make a difference.
Chen Chong wrote seven volumes of "Resignation and Litigation Bi" for Bao Yu. The rules for dealing with the case were all in accordance with the categories of things.
Bao Yu played this, and later the government took it as an example.
After being promoted three times, in the early years of Emperor Suzong's reign, he became minister.
At this time, the old practices of the Yongping period were inherited. The official administration advocated strictness, and the ministers generally tended to impose heavy sentences in handling cases. Chen Chong believed that the emperor had just ascended the throne and the harsh politics of the previous generation should be changed.
So Shangshu said: I have heard that in the previous king's government, rewards were not excessive and punishments were not excessive. Rather than being forced to do so, I would rather be excessive than excessive.
Therefore, Tang Yao wrote the "Yao Canon", which advocated "forgiveness of disasters". The Duke of Zhou gave a precept, not to miss the rules of Boyi in prison, but to respect the five punishments in order to achieve the three virtues.
From this point of view, the government of sages is centered on punishment.
In the past, prisons were strictly enforced, so bad guys were dealt with harshly. Since bad guys are equal, it is better to be lenient. After His Majesty came to the throne, most of them followed this rule, calling on the officials many times to promote the moderate policy.
However, some officials did not obey everything, and used harsh punishments.
Those who try cases are eager to torture, and those who enforce the law are tired of slandering fraud and abuses. Some even pretend to be public and practice private, and show dominance.
Being in charge of government is like playing the harp. If the big string becomes too fast, the small string will break.
Therefore, Zigong denied Zang Sun's fierce methods and praised Zheng Zhiqiao's benevolent government.
"The Book of Songs" says: Neither hard nor soft, administration is excellent.
Nowadays, holy virtues fill the heaven and earth. We should follow the ways of the ancestors and eliminate the cumbersome methods. Use punishment lightly to benefit the people, promote virtue, and serve the heart of heaven.
The emperor respectfully accepted Chong's words and advocated generosity in everything.
Later, he called on officials to put an end to cruel punishments, lift the ban on evil, exonerate the innocent of his predecessors, and write down more than fifty things in the law and fix them on the law.
From then on, the folk customs were peaceful and good omens appeared frequently.
In the Han Dynasty, it was customary to decide cases and impose the death penalty in the third month of winter. At this time, the emperor changed the date to the first ten months of winter.
In the second year of Yuanhe, there was a drought. Jia Zong, the captain of Changshui School, and others came forward and believed that the prison would not last for three winters, so the yin energy was weak and the yang energy vented, causing the drought. This is the root of the matter.
The emperor handed his words to the ministers for discussion, and Chen Chong reported: During the winter solstice, Yang Qi sprouts, so in November there are orchids, Shegan, Yun, Lychee and other flowers.
"Shi Ling" says: All things are shaken, and the body is settled.
Heaven regarded it as right, and Zhou Dynasty used it as the beginning of the year.
In December, when Yang Qi rises and domestic chickens and pheasants hatch, the earth is considered to be in good health, and it was regarded as the beginning of the year in the Shang Dynasty.
In the twelfth month of the twelfth month, Yang Qi has arrived, heaven and earth have joined together, all things have emerged, and stinging insects have begun to vibrate. People think it is righteous, and the Xia Dynasty regarded it as the beginning of the year.
The three micro-forms are written to connect the three unifications.
Zhou began with heaven, Shang began with earth, and Xia began with humans.
If the execution is carried out at this time, then the capital of Shang and Zhousui should bleed, which is not in line with the people and the will of God.
"Moon Order" says: Mengdong's moon is like prison and punishment, and there is no crime left.
It shows that the punishment should be completed at the beginning of winter.
"Moon Order" also says: In the midwinter moon, the body wants peace and things want to be quiet.
If one uses force to reduce anger, it cannot be said to be peaceful; if one uses severe punishment, it cannot be said to be tranquility.
Those who discussed it all said: The cause of the drought is due to the change of laws.
I believe that the Shang and Zhou dynasties did not use trivial measures to end the prisons, but turned them into a prosperous and peaceful world without disasters.
Since the Yuanhe period, three winters have been used, and floods and droughts often cause disasters.
From this point of view, disasters are caused by themselves, not because of changes in the law.
The Qin Dynasty was an tyrannical government and carried out executions in all seasons. The Han Dynasty had just emerged and changed to simpler methods.
Xiao He drafted the criminal law and set it in the autumn of the year to avoid the beginning of spring, without considering the righteousness of heaven and earth, and the spring of the king of Yin and Tuesday, which is really against the right path.
Your Majesty explores the secrets and analyzes the details, believes in the right way, eradicates the mistakes of a hundred years, and establishes the great achievements of eternal life. There are teachings of welcome from above, and the benefits of flattery from below. Check the text of "Spring and Autumn", and it is consistent with the meaning of "Yue Ling". There should be no doubt about the holy merits and beautiful deeds.
The emperor accepted the memorial and made no further changes.
Chen Chong has a thoughtful nature and often talks about the meaning of being a minister. He is not afraid of hardship.
Since he was in the Privy Council, he had sent his disciples to his disciples and refused to be close friends. He only stayed in public houses. The court valued him very much.
The queen's younger brother, Dou Xian, recommended Zhen Ding to make Zhang Lin the minister. The emperor asked Chen Chong about this. Chong replied: Although Zhang Lin is talented, his daily behavior is corrupt. Dou Xian deeply hated Chen Chong because of this.
Zhang Lin was finally used, and Zang Xun was used to atone for his crime.
After the emperor's death, Dou Xian and others came to power and often hated Chen Chongxian. So he reported to the Queen Mother and asked Chong to be in charge of the funeral, trying to find fault and slander him.
Bao De, the minister of Huangmen, always respected Chen Chong and persuaded Dou Xian's younger brother Xia Yanghou Dou Dao: "When Chen Chong served the late emperor, he was very trusted, so he stayed in Taige for a long time, and the reward was somewhat special."
Now that he is not rewarded for his loyalty and ability, and cares about his minor mistakes, it will indeed harm the virtue of assisting the government and allowing loans.
Dou was also a good scholar and believed that Chen Chong was right, so Chen Chong got the opportunity to become the prefect of Taishan.
Later he became the prefect of Guanghan.
The wealthy gentry in Xizhou engaged in mergers and acquisitions, many officials were treacherous and corrupt, and hundreds of lawsuits were filed every day.
When Chen Chong took office, he appointed good officials Wang Huan and Tan Xian as his confidants. The number of lawsuits was gradually reduced, and the county was quiet and serious.
In the south of Xunluo County, every time it rains, cries are often heard in the house for decades.
Chen Chong heard about it and suspected that there must be a reason for it, so he sent officials to investigate the case.
The official came back and reported: When the world was in decline, many people died down here, but their bones were not allowed to be buried. Is this the possible reason?
Chen Chong sighed sadly and ordered the county government to collect all the coffins and bury them.
From then on the crying stopped.
Later, when Dou Xian became the general to conquer the Huns, there was no one below the rank of public minister or in the county who did not send officials' children as gifts. However, Chen Chong and Zhongshan Prime Minister Runan Zhang Chen and Dongping accordingly followed the right path and did not flatter.
Later, Emperor He heard about it and promoted Chen Chong to the position of Chief Agriculture Officer, Zhang Chen to the position of Imperial Servant, and Ying Shun to the position of Zuo Fengyi.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, Chen Chong replaced Guo Gong as a court captain.
Kind and reserved personality.
Later, he became a judge. He discussed difficult cases many times and often presented memorials in person. Every time he attached a sutra, he asked for forgiveness. The emperor often listened to him and saved many prisoners.
Only at this time did the number of cases with profound stories decrease a lot.
Chen Chong also cleaned up the laws and regulations, and eliminated them out of "Fu Xing".
He also said: I have heard that there are three hundred rites and three thousand majestic rituals, so in the "Fu Xing", the decapitation of the great punishment is two hundred, and the five punishments and the like are three thousand.
Where etiquette goes, punishment takes away. If etiquette is violated, punishment will follow. They are both exterior and interior.
Today's law decrees six hundred and ten death sentences, one thousand six hundred and ninety-eight punishments, and two thousand six hundred and eighty-one atonements. It comes from the one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine in "Fu Xing", of which four hundred and ten are great punishments, one thousand five hundred for one's punishment, and seventy-nine atonements.
"Spring and Autumn Period Baoqian Tu" says: The king will practice his method every three hundred years.
In the three hundred and two years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the constitution has been slightly increased and the regulations are unlimited.
There are three schools of law, and their explanations are different.
It is necessary to order Sangong and Tingweiping to make decrees that should be consistent with the law, so that the general punishment can be 200, and the punishment and atonement can be 2800, and the total number can be 3000, and all the remaining orders should be deleted, corresponding to the etiquette, so as to change the hearing and hearing of thousands of people, so as to obtain the reputation of not using punishment measures, which can be passed down to endless generations.
There was no time to implement it, so the jailer was ordered to socialize with the prisoners to compensate for the crime.
The imperial court issued an edict to exempt him from punishment and worship him as minister.
Promoted to Dahonglu.
Chen Chong experienced two counties and three ministers, and his deeds were famous at that time.
In the 16th year, he served as Sikong on behalf of Xu Fang.
Although Chen Chong specializes in law, he is also a master of classics. He made a report to Wen Cui and was named Prime Minister.
He died after reigning for three years.
Tai Chang Nanyang Yin Qin replaced Sikong.
