Human beings contain the spiritual energy between yin and yang of heaven and earth, and have emotions of sadness, joy, joy and anger.
The sages passed down their examples as standards for the people. Control their arrogance to prevent them from rioting; worship heaven and earth, worship ghosts and gods devoutly, arrange the order of honor and inferiority, and establish the moral principles of husband and wife, and then the country and family can be governed well.
"Biography" says: For one day, if one restrains oneself and returns to ritual, the world will return to benevolence.
Since the beginning of the world, the Sui people have drilled wood to make fire. Their ambitions have been modesty and frugality. Their feelings do not care about jade and silk. Instead, they drink the clear water on the banks of streams in spring, and set fires near forests in autumn to drive away hogs. There is nothing imperfect about it.
Xuanyuan and Zhuanxu obeyed the gods, and Yao and Yushun of Tang Dynasty investigated the archaeological system. It was passed to the prosperous Zhou Dynasty, and the regulations and systems were greatly completed.
It not only left an example of setting up hundreds of officials and formulated unchangeable laws and regulations; it also had 300 rules on etiquette and 3,000 kinds of rituals, all of which were used to promote and spread the will of God and adjust and standardize human behavior.
At the end of the Zhou Dynasty, the world's social customs changed, the king's rule declined, things went against the traditions of a beautiful country, and even the way of running a family in etiquette was lost.
Chang Jianzi asked Taishu about the etiquette of yielding and dealing with others, and he replied: "That can only be called a ceremony but not a true etiquette."
The truth that is a matter of course has been ignored ever since.
In the eleventh year of Duke Ai, Confucius returned to Lu from Wei, studied the models of the three generations, and wrote down the lessons of hundreds of kings. At that time, there was no wise king, so his ideas could not be implemented.
If sentiment is allowed to develop, benevolence will inevitably be thrown aside; if heresy is allowed to cause trouble, the style of Confucianism may be excluded.
Therefore, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished the two-year mourning system, and Emperor Guangwu combined the suburban sacrifices into one.
This practice of catering to the current customs is not worthy of recognition. However, during the Yuanding period of the Western Han Dynasty and the Yongping era of the Shu Han Dynasty, they promoted education and respected the gentry, advocated Confucianism and appointed Confucian scholars. The prosperity of the two deserts era was the most beautiful in the Zao period.
Later, the small fish in the mountains became offerings in temples, and the wild boars in the swamp also went against the norm. The ritual and music system was abandoned for a long time, and the world advocated glitz, but the sacrificial etiquette was generally preserved.
During the Cao and Wei Dynasties, the rules and regulations were very good.
Wang Sheng, Gao Tanglong and others were erudite and well versed in the records of their predecessors, such as the three thousand articles of "Zhou Rites" and the seventeen articles of etiquette.
People hoped for great governance in the world, but what they caught up with at that time was not good governance. If the laws passed down from the Zhou Dynasty were used too much, they would violate the customs of the time, but the remaining chapters and books still have something for reference.
In the first year of Jingchu, a round mound was built on Weisu Mountain in the south of Luoyang. On the day of the sacrifice, the ancestor Emperor Shun was served as a meal. The jade sacrificial vessels contained fresh fish and the pottery vessels contained clear water. If the scholar-bureaucrats did not plan for him, then who could do these things!
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Jing went to war without having time to formulate a manufacturing system.
During the Lichen period, Chengxi was pacified, Kyushu was unified, etiquette books were centralized, musical instruments and sacrificial vessels were placed in one place, so Confucian scholars from the Qilu area came to seek refuge with their books.
Emperor Wu also wanted to promote etiquette and standards in order to put down the bandits and bandits.
In the auspicious sacrifices at that time, the three-ridged green grass was not trimmed, and in the Riguan Peak sacrifice to the sky, no large jade was used; in the funeral rites at that time, dark clothes and cloth crowns were worn, and the banquet was canceled and the meals were reduced.
Once the principle of Yi Qian and San Benefit is preached, education will be carried out.
When Emperor Yuan revitalized the Jin Dynasty, many affairs had to be dealt with expediently, and the previous rules and regulations were almost extinct.
Therefore, Dai Miao, the constant attendant, submitted a seal to the court and said: When the earth is renewed, all things begin to prosper, sweeping away the evils of modern times, and setting an example for thousands of years.
Therefore, advocating loyalty and integrity creates cultural and educational customs; organizing the appearance of playing the piano can lead to harmonious resonance.
He wanted to use these to promote etiquette and civilization and encourage the emperor to lead by example.
Later, when the royal power declined and Li Guo came to power, he issued political orders himself, but the relevant officials tarnished the civility and whitewashed the powerful ministers. The emperor's prestige was ruined, and the ministers did whatever they wanted.
"Ji" says: Without fame and position, it is impossible to promote rituals and music. Could it be that this is the case? At the beginning of the burial period, Bao Su and Qian Yi formulated national regulations, and during the period of the burial period, Bao Pi and Wang Xie revised the court etiquette.
There are five types of etiquette in "Zhou Guan", namely auspicious etiquette, unlucky etiquette, military etiquette, guest etiquette, and honorable etiquette. Among them, the most important auspicious etiquette is sacrifice, so the third of the eight political affairs in "Hongfan" is called sacrificial ceremony.
Sacrifice is a way to express filial piety, serve ancestors, and communicate with gods.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty and the destruction of Confucianism by the Qin Dynasty, many aspects of the system have not been able to return to the way they were in ancient times.
After more than 400 years in Tokyo and Xijing, there have been many changes.
The Wei Dynasty followed the chaos at the end of the Han Dynasty, and the old regulations were completely destroyed. Wang Can and Wei Jian, the ministers, were ordered to draft and formulate court etiquette.
After the establishment of the Jin Dynasty, Emperor Wen ordered Xunjie to follow what had been done in the Wei Dynasty and write a new etiquette system. Taking into account the situation at that time and the ancient dispatch system, he changed the chapters and articles in it. Yang Ku, Ren Kai, Yu Jun, and Ying Zhen jointly reviewed it and made it into 165 chapters, which were presented to the emperor.
In the early years of Taikang, Shangshu Pushe Zhu Zheng submitted a memorial request to Shangshu Lang Zhiyu for consideration.
Zhiyu wrote a memorial regarding the changes that should be made: I compiled the "Five Rites" compiled by the late Taiwei Xun Pin. I believe that it is a beautiful thing for an emperor to create an emperor's legacy and pass it on to future generations; it is a major event to govern a country by making the etiquette prosperous and guiding education. Therefore, my previous statement on etiquette matters was delayed, so please implement it as soon as possible.
It is also believed that the part of "Mourning Clothes" contains the most doubts and should be supplemented and confirmed.
He also believes that the current ritual system is too long and should be classified and merged.
The memorial had not been approved for a long time, so I was afraid of being ignored.
For auspicious rituals such as wedding ceremonies, there have been few changes in the relevant system; as for "mourning clothes", they are very commonly used in daily life, but they are particularly easy to lose their essence.
Therefore, Zi Zhang suspected that Gaozong had been in mourning for three years without speaking. Zi Si did not allow his son to mourn for his biological mother who had been abandoned. Zi You believed that half-brothers should mourn each other, but Zi Xia believed that Qi Xi should mourn. After Confucius died, his disciples did not understand how to mourn.
These people were all smart and well-versed in studying etiquette. They read the laws of the Zhou Dynasty at first and studied with Zhongni at the lower end. They were immersed in the precepts of saints and studied for many years. However, they still behaved like this when they encountered funerals. This shows that funerals are easy to be confused and must be treated carefully.
What's more, since then, the scriptures have been burned and scattered, and they have become further away from the saints. It is natural that there are errors in the mourning system.
Therefore, the volume of "Mourning Clothes" is less than one volume, but there are many arguments and explanations.
For the three-year mourning period, Zheng Xuan said it was twenty-seven months, and Wang Su said it was twenty-five months.
Zheng Xuan said that the mourning clothes should be worn for three months after the burial, while Wang Su said that they would not be worn as soon as the funeral was over.
After the remarried stepmother passed away, Zheng Xuan said that she should be mourned, while Wang Su said that he should live with his stepmother in other people's homes and be raised before mourning for her.
For children who died under the age of eight, Zheng Xuan said that after the child was born for a month, he would cry for a day, and Wang Lu said that the day of crying should be changed to mourning for a month.
There are many situations like this.
The text of "Mourning Clothes" is very brief, and annotations are needed to understand its content. Later generations' explanations are not detailed, and the world thinks it was written by Zixia.
Zheng Xuan and Wang Su took the "Jing" and "Zhuan" as the basis, but they have similarities and differences. Everyone in the world can't figure it out, and no one knows which one is correct. However, Xunti only wrote down the ancient "Jing" text, completely deleting Wang Xia's "Biography" and the annotations of the previous generations of Confucian scholars. It was impossible to implement it.
When it comes to applying it to specific things, naturally there will be different explanations. One says this and the other says this. It cannot be used to determine the system.
I believe that we should now refer to the "Book of Rites" and appropriately select the statements in the "Zhuan" to make up for its shortcomings and unify the differences.
We can make the regulations clear according to the "Mourning Clothes Change" written by Wang Xingbao, so as to eradicate doubts and disputes, and then make the system have no two forms, all based on the same regulations.
In addition, the etiquette of dispatching the Ministry must be promulgated throughout the world, so it should not be too complicated.
The title is set at 165 articles, each of which is a volume, with a total of more than 150,000 words. I still think that the volumes are full of complicated words and most of them are repetitive.
Let's take a look at the rituals of sacrificing mountains and rivers in "Shang Shu Yao Dian". It only lists the number of sacrifices and coins in detail for Dongyue, and describes the rituals used. The rest is just as before.
"The Rites of Zhou" records the rituals for offering sacrifices to the Five Emperors of Heaven and Earth and for the enjoyment of the ancestors. The same things are mentioned only as "and it is the same". The language is simple and the meaning is clear.
Nowadays, if the ritual situation is the same but the name is different, it is divided into separate chapters. The volumes are numerous and unclear.
You should omit the verbal communication categories and merge them according to the situation. If the things are different, list their differences.
In this case, one-third is subtracted.
After Dian Yu refined the new etiquette regulations, he submitted them in the first year of Yuankang.
He proposed only the system of the Mingtang and the Five Emperors, the Second Society and the Six Sects, and the good and bad princes, a total of fifteen articles.
An edict came down to approve his proposal.
Later, Cian Yan and Tan Sheng continued to engage in this work, but ultimately failed. After the fall of the Central Plains, Zhi Yu's "Annotation on Jue Sui" became a news item at that time.
During the Eastern Jin Dynasty, Pushe Diao Xie and Taichang Baosheng supplemented and compiled old documents, and Cai Mo, the Guanglu doctor, continued to do this work.
At the end of the first month of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Ming of the Wei Dynasty, Emperor Wu was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of heaven.
At that time, the system in the suburbs of the Han Dynasty still existed, and the additions and losses made to it by Wei were very clear.
In the eighth month of the fourth year, the emperor went to the east for inspection and passed by Fanchang. He sent Zang Ba, the governor of Jinwu, to handle the affairs of the Taiwei on his behalf and sacrificed a bull to the Zen altar.
In the tenth month of the first year of Jingchu (Yimao), we began to build round mounds on Weisu Mountain in the south of Luoyang.
Shaoling said: In the early years of the Western Han Dynasty, after the Qin Dynasty burned books and harassed Confucian scholars, the remaining documents were collected for the purpose of offering sacrifices to heaven and earth.
From the Houtu of Ganquan to the Wuzhi of Yong, many of the altars and positions of the gods are uncommon. This is because there are no routines in setting up and abolishing them. They are like this at one time and this way at another. For more than four hundred years, there has been no etiquette for sacrifices. Things that have happened in ancient times have been missing.
The lineage of Zhizhi was passed down from Zhaxianzhi.
Nowadays, Yuanqiu is worshiped as the ancestor Emperor Shun, and Yuanqiu is called Emperor Huangtian.
Those who worshiped at Fangqiu were called Huanghuangdi, and they were shared by Shun's concubine Yishi.
Those worshiped in Tianjiao are called the Gods of Huangtian, and they are entitled to the emperor Taizu Wu.
Those who offer sacrifices on the outskirts of the country are called the Emperor's Only, and they are shared by Queen Wuxuan.
Emperor Gao Zuwen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of enjoying heaven.
On the winter solstice of Renzi in December, the emperor was worshiped in Yuanqiu for the first time, sharing the emperor's love with the ancestor.
From the beginning until the end of the Wei Dynasty, there were no more suburban sacrifices.
In the twelfth month of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, he sent the minister Chijie, the Taibao Hexin, and the Taiwei Sili Xiaowei Kuitai to hold the emperor's jade seal and policy book and give the Zen throne to the Jin Dynasty.
In Bingyin, Emperor Wu set up a mandala in the southern suburbs, burned firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, and reported to heaven. At that time, there was no ancestor sharing.
In the first month of the second year of Taishi, Shaoling said: A minister had previously discussed the timing of suburban sacrifices and the application of Wei etiquette. I thought it would be difficult to re-enact it, so I implemented it as a custom. As a result, there were many discussions, and it was not determined in time. It was impossible to serve the gods on time and use the ancestor test to share the enjoyment.
It is difficult to catch up with the passage of time, and it is difficult to feel at ease if the offerings to the gods and ancestors are reduced, so it is better to worship in the suburbs immediately.
At that time, the officials discussed that the five emperors were the heavens, and the king's Qi changed with time, so the names were different, but they were actually the same god.
When worshiping in Mingtang and worshiping heaven in the southern suburbs, the gods of the Five Emperors should be removed. In the Five Suburbs, the titles of the five spirits related to the stars of the five directions should be changed. They are all collectively called the God of Haotian and each has a god.
In the outskirts of the country, the practice of worshiping one after another was eliminated.
The emperor unanimously agreed.
On Ding Chou in the second month, Emperor Xuan was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of enjoying heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of enjoying God.
In November of this year, a minister made another proposal, saying that in ancient times, building mounds and conducting suburban sacrifices were consistent. Round mounds and square mounds should be built in both the southern and northern suburbs, and mandalas should be built, and the sacrifices during the summer and winter solstice should be merged into the second suburbs.
The emperor agreed again, just like Emperor Xuan adopted Wang Lu's proposal.
This month's Gengyin day is the winter solstice, and the emperor personally worships heaven in the southern suburbs.
From then on, Yuanqiu and Fangze were no longer set up separately.
In the first month of the third year of Taikang, the emperor personally offered sacrifices in the suburbs, and all the princes and princes attended the sacrifices.
In October of the tenth year, another edict was issued saying that the "Book of Filial Piety" said that Hou Ji was used to enjoy the heaven during the suburban sacrifice, and Sai Wang was used in the Mingtang to enjoy the heaven during the ancestral sacrifice.
However, "Zhou Guan" says that when offering sacrifices to heaven, one is ranked as God, and when offering sacrifices to earth, one is ranked among the mountains and rivers in all directions.
Mountains and rivers are not equal to the earth, so the God of Mingtang cannot be equal to the sky.
In the past, people proposed to remove the Five Emperors’ statues in the Mingtang, but this was incorrect based on the inspection of etiquette documents.
Moreover, the "Preface to Poetry" says that King Gendou's achievements began with Hou Mo, so he was promoted to be worthy of heaven.
Emperor Xuan started his business with his divine martial arts and was already worthy of heaven. It is logically inappropriate to use the late emperor to claim heaven.
Or restore the throne of the Five Emperors in Mingtang and Southern Suburbs.
The fallen boy established his capital in Dansai, but failed before he could even build a suburban temple.
After Wutong crossed the Liao Dynasty, it was not until the second year of Zhuxing that we began to discuss the establishment of suburban sacrificial rituals.
Shangshu Ling Diao Xie and Guozi Jijiu Du Yi suggested that they should wait until they return to the capital to steal the day.
Situ Baosu set up suburban sacrifices as much as possible as soon as he moved the capital based on his selection, thinking that the sacrifices should naturally be performed locally.
General Wang Dao, Pushe Xunsong, Taichang Huayuan, and Zhongshu Shilang Lihu all agreed to Ganzhu's proposal, so the matter was implemented and the southern suburbs were established in Sidi.
The system at that time was formulated by Taichang He Dun, and most of it was in accordance with the rituals of Zhenhe and the early Jin Dynasty.
On the Xinmao day of the second month, the emperor personally performed a sacrifice in the countryside, and the etiquette and regulations regarding food and drinks were all in accordance with the previous situation of Genshu Tong's first sacrifice in the countryside.
At that time, the North Altar had not yet been set up, and all the gods on earth were placed together with the gods.
In July of the third year, an edict was issued to establish the northern suburbs. Before it could be established, Emperor Ming died.
In the first month of the eighth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, in memory of the previous generation's will, he established it in the south of Fuzhou Mountain.
When worshiping the sky, there are five emperors and other gods: sun, moon, five stars, twenty-eight constellations, Wenchang, Beidou, Santai, Siming, Xuanyuan, Houtu, Taiyi, Tianyi, Taiwei, Gouchen, Beiji, Yushi, Leiden, Sikong, Fengbo and the old man, a total of sixty-two gods.
When offering sacrifices to the ground, there are forty-four gods in total: Wuyue, Siwang, Sihai, Sidu, Wuhu, Five Emperors, Zuochen of the Five Emperors, Yishan, Yueshan, Baishan, Huoshan, Yiwutitleshan, Lanshan, Chaxun, Hedengshan, Qianluliao and Xiannong.
The sacred thrones on the hills in the south of the Yangtze River were all established during the Shu and Jin Dynasties, just like the small rivers in Guanzhong during the Xijing period of the Han Dynasty had sacrificial positions.
At Xinwei of this month, sacrifices were held in the northern suburbs and began to be shared by Queen Xuanmu and Zhang. This was a precedent from the Wei Dynasty, not the old system of the Jin Dynasty.
In the first month of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, he planned to offer sacrifices in the northern suburbs, but there was some doubtful discussion.
Taichang Guhe said in the table: During the Taishi period, the sacrifices of the winter and summer solstice were merged into the suburban sacrifices of the heaven and earth.
The time in the northern suburbs has no explicit regulations handed down from ancient times. Some are on the summer solstice, and some are on the winter solstice when Yang Qi returns.
At the end of the first month of the first lunar month of Guangwu in the Han Dynasty, the northern suburbs ceremony began, and it was the same month as the southern suburbs ceremony.
After the ZTE, various systems were simplified, and the seven suburban rituals were combined into one place. The charter regulations have not yet been fully formulated, so it is appropriate to apply such rituals temporarily.
In the Xianhe year, it was agreed to establish another northern suburb, which was also carried out in the first month.
The Wei Dynasty inherited the system of offering sacrifices to heaven in the first month and using the land to share the benefits.
At that time, Gao Tangjian and others believed that according to the etiquette and regulations, no land should be used to worship the sky. They also praised that in "The Rites of Zhou", the suburban sacrifices of the three kings all used the lunar calendar.
So I accepted the suggestion of inscription.
In the same month, Xinwei performed the southern suburbs ceremony and Xinsi performed the northern suburbs ceremony. The emperor personally participated in the ceremony.
Three years later, he attacked Danbao and defeated him. Ji Mao, in the southern suburbs, offered sacrifices to heaven with great merit.
This year, the emperor was so miserable that he did not return.
In the second year, the suburban sacrificial ceremony should be held. The central government believed that in accordance with the "Zhou Rites", Zongbo should perform the officiating ceremony on his behalf, and the three Dukes should perform the sacrificial services.
Only Shangshu Zuocheng Wang Nazhi said: Since it is necessary to sacrifice to heaven, it is natural that when the emperor is ruling from the south, there will be a monarch there to carry out the decree. There is nothing to discuss.
Whether we should hold a memorial ceremony in the countryside or not, how can we discuss and decide like today?
The proposer also said: We should hold sacrifices in the suburbs now, so we can let the three princes do their work in accordance with the previous etiquette system.
Nazhi also said: Sacrifice to heaven is a supreme thing and can only be done by one person, so it is not the emperor who cannot offer sacrifices.
Anyone above common people only performs steamed sacrifices and tastes the sacrifices. If the legitimate son is away, the concubine will perform it. There are still people who can go to worship the heaven without personally accepting the mission of the heaven.
Nazhi also said: Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and offered sacrifices in the suburbs of February; Emperor Zhongxing of the Yuan Dynasty offered sacrifices in the suburbs of March.
Now that the time for offering sacrifices in the suburbs has not passed yet, we look forward to the emperor's return every day. Don't do anything in advance so that after the emperor returns, he will no longer be able to offer sacrifices in person.
So he listened to Nazhi's advice.
Although the color of the sacrificial coins, silk, jade, and jade used in temple sacrifices in the suburbs is clearly stipulated, the Qin Dynasty mostly used the red-haired black hyena horse, but the Han Dynasty only said to use the calf, regardless of its color.
During the Shu and Jin Dynasties, black animals were used for sacrifices in the southern suburbs and northern suburbs, and red animals were used for Mingtang sacrifices and temple sacrifices.
There is a provision in the etiquette that if you have something to tell your ancestors, you should make a complaint in the community temple, but there is no rule about making a complaint in the suburban temple.
According to Modai's ceremony, after the emperor's death, the Taiwei was asked to sacrifice the Mi number given to him in the southern suburbs to heaven and the spirits of the dead, and nothing else was heard of it.
In July of the fourth year of Wei Wentong and Dong Chi, the emperor was about to patrol the east. Because the army was about to set off, he sent Taichang to use a big bull to worship the sky in the southern suburbs.
After the death of Saitong, Taiwei Zhongxun paid homage to heaven in the southern suburbs. This was because of important events.
During the Eastern Jin Dynasty, these rituals were abandoned.
According to the rules of the ritual, worship the sun at the edge of the beam in the morning during the spring equinox, and worship the moon at dusk at the west during the autumnal equinox.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty worshiped the sky in Taishi. He went out from Daxuan in the early morning and bowed to the sun facing east. In the evening of the same day, he bowed to the moon facing west.
Taking advantage of the days of offering sacrifices in the suburbs, they did not go to Cambodia or the west to perform sacrifices.
From now on, regular prayers will be performed in the early morning and evening.
Therefore, Emperor Wen of Wei's edict said: The Han family does not worship the sun in the eastern suburbs, but worships the sun and the moon in the morning or evening in front of the palace facing east or west. This is cumbersome and vulgar, like what ordinary people do, and is not the right way to serve God and communicate with gods.
On Yihai, the first month of the second year of Huangchu, he worshiped the sun outside the east gate, and he violated the etiquette of worshiping the sun and moon at the second equinox.
In the second month of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Ming of the Wei Dynasty, he worshiped the sun in the morning in the eastern suburbs. In August, he worshiped the moon in the western suburbs at night. This is in line with ancient rituals.
In the second year of Genxun Zuochen, a minister reported that the emperor would go to worship the sun at the spring equinox as usual, but because the weather was not suitable for the weather, there was no need to go out of the city in person.
The edict said: Etiquette should be maintained consistently. If it is done as instructed, it will be different from the etiquette regulations written by the late Taiwei, and there will be no customization.
In the past, there was a national crisis that had not yet been resolved, so I often listened to your advice. Now that the war is over, only these things are the most important.
According to this Shao Shu, the emperor personally worshiped the sun.
This provision was later abolished.
According to the rules of etiquette, worshiping Houji in the countryside is worthy of enjoying heaven, and worshiping King Wen in the Mingtang is worthy of enjoying God.
After Emperor Wen of Wei came to the throne, he did not enjoy the Mingtang etiquette of the Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Taihe reign of Emperor Ming, Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang. King Qi also implemented this etiquette.
In the early years of the Jin Dynasty, Emperor Wen was used to share the benefits, and later Emperor Xuan was used to share the benefits. Soon after, Emperor Wen was used to share the benefits. There were no changes in other aspects.
From this point of view, the situation in the rituals of suburban sacrifice and Mingtang is inconsistent in terms of sharing.
Zhiyu’s opinion is that: It was the old practice of the Han and Wei dynasties to worship the gods of the Five Emperors in the Mingtang.
According to the new rites, the Five Emperors are God and the Emperor of Heaven.
Remove the five emperors' thrones in the Mingtang and worship only God.
An Zhongni said that worshiping Hou Ji in the suburbs is worthy of enjoying the sky, and worshiping King Wen in the Mingtang is worthy of enjoying God. The "Li" of Zhou stipulates that when worshiping the sky, traveling to worship the God, and when worshiping the earth, traveling to worship the surroundings.
If hope is not equal to earth, then it is completely clear that God is not equal to heaven.
For sacrifices in round hills in the suburbs, a place is cleared and sacrifices are made on the spot. The sacrifices are made of silkworm cocoons and chestnuts, and the utensils are pottery. Things return to the way they were at the beginning, so they are shared by the ancestors.
During the sacrifice in the Mingtang, various items are displayed as offerings, jade sacrifices are offered, and canopy bean sacrificial vessels are arranged in rows. In terms of etiquette, there is no difference between humans and ghosts and gods, so ancestors who are more recent are used to share the offerings.
The altars of Jiaoqiu Mingtang are actually different, and the utensils for sacrificing animals are completely different from rough and fine.
Moreover, sharing it with the ancestors does not mean respecting the solemn virtues, and offering sacrifices twice in three days does not mean it is too much. It was clear that it was not a god.
In the past, in ancient times, people who were alive were Ming kings, and after death they were matched with the five elements. Therefore, Taiwu matched with wood, Shennong matched with fire, Shaowu matched with gold, Zhuanxu matched with water, and Huangdi matched with earth.
These five emperors are gods worthy of heaven. They offer sacrifices together in the suburbs and report sacrifices in the Mingtang.
When offering sacrifices to heaven, one wears a fur coat and a crown, and the same is true when offering sacrifices to the Five Emperors.
Some people believe that the emperor, who dominates the five spirits, assists God in cultivating all things.
It was passed down from generation to generation and no one abolished it. It was only in the early days of Jin that different opinions were followed.
The "Gengwu Shaoshu" stipulates that during Mingtang sacrifices and southern suburbs sacrifices, the deities of the five emperors should be removed and only the gods should be sacrificed. The new etiquette adopts this.
In the past, Taishi ordered Han Yang to write a letter suggesting that sacrifices to the Five Emperors should be carried out as usual.
In the tenth year of Taikang, the Shao Order was implemented.
New etiquette should be formulated, and worshiping the Five Emperors in Mingtang and suburbs should be the same as the old etiquette.
Shaoling approved his opinion.
During the Shu and Jin Dynasties, there was no time to implement it.
The etiquette of the Han Dynasty stipulates that Taishi will present the calendar of the current year every year. Before the Beginning of Spring, Beginning of Summer, Beginning of Great Heat, Beginning of Autumn, and Beginning of Winter, he will often read out the decrees about the five o'clock. The clothes worn by the emperor will follow the colors of the five o'clock.
The emperor sat down, and the minister ordered the following officials to take their places. The third prince of the minister put the order on the case, carried it in, and after reading it at their respective seats, gave them a cup of wine.
Wei family often performs this kind of ceremony.
In the first year of Emperor Jingchu of Wei Ming Dynasty, the general officer said: Now I only see the decrees for the four seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter. As for the seasons of wearing yellow clothes, they are simply missing and not performed. I don’t know why.
Gao Tanglong, the chief official of Sanqi Chang, believed that among the five elements, yellow represents the central earth, and each of the four seasons has eighteen days.
Earth is born from fire, so wear yellow clothing at the end of the fire-dominated period, but not in the other three seasons.
Relevant government decrees are issued according to the four seasons, not according to the five elements, so wearing yellow clothes does not have a government decree.
This shows that the Wei family did not read the Great Summer Order.
There are also those systems for accepting the destiny.
Fu Xian said: On the day of the Beginning of Autumn, white vehicles shine in the palace, and white flags are displayed in front of the jade steps.
Then the flags and vehicles on that day will be white.
It was Dingwei in June of the fifth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign. Someone asked me to read the autumn decree.
Xun Yi, the regular servant of Sanqi, and the servant of Huangmen, Cao Yu, retorted: Cao Yu, the third Duke of Shangshu, asked to read the autumn decree. There is no such provision in the old ritual regulations.
Chen and others discussed based on the suggestion of Chen Huaheng, the Guanglu doctor, that Emperor Wu would not cancel this event during the spring and winter because of the high heat in autumn and summer, which often left vacancies and did not read the decree.
The reason why the former kings read the decrees according to the seasons is because obeying the heavenly hour when it comes is an important matter to make the color of the clothes correct and to show respect and solemnity.
Nowadays, most of the clothing regulations are no longer in line with the old etiquette, and the weather is extremely hot. The ministers thought that they could follow Hua Heng's suggestion and follow the old rules and not read the decree.
Shaoling approved.
In March of the sixth year, a minister reported that summer would begin on the sixteenth day of this month.
Nowadays, the formal service is gradually being completed, and the decrees are read in all seasons. This is a way to pay tribute to the heaven and the prosperity of the country. Therefore, it is recommended that the summer decrees should be read now.
The memorial was approved.
The book "Li" tells about the month of Meng Chun, so he chose an auspicious day and a good time. The emperor personally carried the grass on his back, placed it next to the driver of the second chariot, and led the three princes, nine ministers, princes and officials to plow the fields.
In Taiwan, academics were destroyed, and those etiquette were abolished for a long time.
This ceremony was only implemented after Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty.
The first three emperors of Wei also cultivated the fields themselves.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, Yousi asked you to worship the God of Agriculture in the temple when farming began. Yousi could be asked to carry out this task.
The edict said: The major affairs of the country are in sacrifices and farming.
Therefore, the ancient sage kings plowed their own fields and used them as offerings for temple sacrifices in the suburbs. They also used their actions to educate and influence the people of the world.
In modern times, farming in the fields is limited to walking a few steps in the fields. It is only in the name of worshiping ancient people, and there is no actual purpose of offering sacrifices to encourage farming. It is just a waste of money to mobilize troops and disciples.
Nowadays, following the Zhou Dynasty system of thousands of acres of farmland, we must personally experience the hardships of farming with the officials and officials to set an example for the world.
The organizers revised the relevant systems in detail and went to Henan to find good land south of Shujiao and north of Luoshui.
If there is no official land, it will be adjusted and replaced according to the situation, and the land of the common people is not allowed to be invaded.
So the emperor took a wooden chariot to farm and used Tailao to worship the God of Agriculture.
After Emperor Hui, these things were abandoned.
During this period, Wutong planned to restore the system of cultivating the fields, and the minister asked the emperor whether he should worship the god of agriculture in person when cultivating the fields.
He Xun replied: There is no provision in the selected etiquette that the Supreme Being should be sacrificed in person, but the "Li" of Zhou says that the king wears velvet clothes and a crown when offering sacrifices to the four gods, and wears an embroidered hat when offering sacrifices to Sheji and the Five Sacrifice. Based on this, it cannot be said that there is no reason for personal sacrifice.
Two additional rules of etiquette should be added.
The provisions written by He Xun and others were not detailed enough, so the matter was not implemented in the end.
Later, Emperor Ai wanted to implement that kind of ritual, but he was not able to do so.
Etiquette stipulates that at the county level, the god of agriculture is usually worshiped at the Yiwei celestial temple and cultivated on the land of Party B. On the Bingxu day, people go to the Xufang field to worship Feng Bo, and on the Ji Chou day, they go to the Choufang field to worship the Rain Master. Sheep and pigs are used as sacrifices.
On the first day of spring, everyone carries green flags and green headscarves and goes to the fields outside Shu to hold a Spring Festival ceremony.
The people who welcomed the spring paid homage to him and then returned to the city without offering any sacrifices.
Not welcome in the other three seasons.
Although the emperor performed the ritual of cultivating the fields, the feudal towns did not follow the ritual of the princes who cultivated hundreds of acres of fields.
To the end of Emperor Wu. A senior official said: In ancient times, the princes cultivated hundreds of acres of fields and personally took charge of the grass production to worship the Sheji Ancestral Temple, thus encouraging and advocating agricultural production.
Now each king governs his own kingdom and should implement the system of cultivating the fields according to ancient rituals.
But it was not implemented in the end.
"Zhou Rites" stipulates that the queen leads her concubines to sacrifice silkworms in the northern suburbs.
According to the etiquette of luck, the queen personally went to the garden in Shujiao to pick mulberry and worshiped the silkworm god in the silkworm room. She was called the Yuan woman and Princess Yu. Shaolao was used as a sacrifice in the temple.
In the first month of the seventh year of Emperor Huangchu's reign, Emperor Wen of Wei ordered the Queen of the Imperial Palace to worship the Silkworm God in the northern suburbs, in accordance with the regulations of the Zhou Dynasty.
In the sixth year of Emperor Wu's Taikang reign, Hua Jiao, a regular servant of Sanqi, reported: Under the system of the previous kings, the emperor and the princes personally cultivated thousands of acres of land, and the queen and his wife personally engaged in raising silkworms and picking mulberries.
Nowadays, His Majesty is wise and benevolent and follows the tradition of the previous kings. The Queen embodies the great virtue of Zisheng and is in line with the moral principles of assisting the Qiangang. However, the Dao of Kun has not yet flourished, and the silkworm ceremony is still insufficient.
Therefore, it is believed that we should follow ancient precedents and implement the Wai Yi Ceremony.
The edict said: In the past, the emperor personally plowed the fields to worship the gods, and the queen personally raised silkworms to prepare the ceremonial clothes. These behaviors were used to observe filial piety and promote enlightenment.
Now there is a system in Yutian, but the silkworm ceremony is not carried out because there are too many affairs in the palace and there is no time to carry it out.
Now that the world is at peace, we should follow the etiquette to show it to the world.
We will carefully follow ancient laws and regulations, plus modern precedents, to consider the current situation and implement it next year.
So the Silkworm Ceremony was performed in the western suburbs, which was opposite to the Jutian Ceremony.
He asked Chengcan, the servant, to draft the relevant provisions of the ceremony.
The silkworm altar is one foot high and two feet long on each side, with steps stretching out in all directions. The steps are five feet wide. It is outside the outer gate of the curtain palace in the southeast of the queen's mulberry picking altar. It is ten feet away from the curtain palace to the southeast. In the southwest of the silkworm room, the mulberry forest is on its side.
A total of six wives of the princes were selected to serve as silkworm mothers.
When the silkworm is about to be born, the auspicious queen is chosen to wear twelve hairpins. According to the precedents of the Han and Wei dynasties, she wears Tsing Yi, rides on a mica-mounted chariot painted with oil paint, and drives with six light black horses.
The female minister wore a Diao Chan pendant and rode with her, and the carriage was equipped with basket hooks.
The princess, the third lady, the ninth concubine, the concubine, the concubine, the dowager, the county and township lord, the prince's wife Tejin, the foreigner's return, and the married woman all wore walking robes and blue clothes, and each carried a basket hook to perform the silkworm ceremony.
Two days before mulberry picking, the silkworms born in the Silkworm Palace are placed on the thin bed.
On the day of mulberry picking, the queen had not yet arrived, so Tai Zhuling used a Tailao to sacrifice at dawn, and a visitor supervised the sacrifice.
After the sacrifice is completed, the offerings are removed, and the remaining offerings are distributed to those who follow the mulberry pickers and serve the sacrifice.
The queen went to the western suburbs to ascend the silkworm altar, and people below the princess accompanied her and lined up beside the altar.
The queen faced Shu personally and picked mulberry leaves from three branches. The concubines and princesses each picked mulberry leaves from five branches, and everyone from the county king below picked mulberry leaves from nine branches. They all handed the mulberry leaves to the silkworm mother and returned to the silkworm room.
After the matter is over and the queen comes back and sits down, the people below the princess will take their seats, hold a banquet, and reward silk according to their rank.
In the former Han Dynasty, there were only official societies but no official bureaucracy. Wang Mang set up the official bureaucracy but later abolished it.
Therefore, from the Mo to Wei Dynasties, only Taishe had Ji God, while Guansha did not have Ji God, so there were often two social gods and one Ji God.
In the early Jin Dynasty, the Wei system was still used without any increase or decrease.
In the ninth year of Taikang, the ancestral temple was rebuilt, and the Sheji Altar and the ancestral temple were moved together.
So an edict was issued saying: The god of the community is actually one god, and now the two communities are merged into one place to worship.
So Fu Xian, the Chariot and Cavalry Sima, said: "The Sacrifice Law" has corresponding descriptions of Wangshe and Taishe respectively.
The emperor wanted to perform suburban and temple sacrifices respectfully, so he wore the imperial crown and farmed the fields himself.
The reason for doing the farming yourself is to show that you value the offerings for the sacrifices.
If you work the land yourself, you can worship it yourself. If you build a temple for yourself, you must cultivate the land to worship it.
The country is based on people, and people rely on food as their lifeblood, so they build temples for the people to pray and worship.
Different situations require different offerings, which is why there are two temples.
When Wang Jinghou discussed Wangshe, he also said that in the spring, he prayed for a good harvest in the fields, and in the autumn, he offered the harvest to the gods.
When discussing Taishe, it was said that the king cared about the territory and built a shrine for the people, which was called Taishe, and no longer built a shrine for himself in the capital.
Jinghou's view was based on the "Sacrifice Law".
"Articles and Laws": When the number of people below the rank of officials reaches a certain number, they will build a shrine, which is called setting up a shrine.
Jinghou explained: It is the current Lishe.
Jinghou explained the "Sacrifice Law" and regarded Zhishe as a human society.
However, in other discussions, Taishe is referred to as the human society, and I don’t understand what he means.
Taishe is where the emperor performs sacrifices for the people, so it is called Tianzishe.
"Jiao Te Sheng" says: The emperor will be exposed to frost, dew, wind and rain when he offers sacrifices in Taishe.
Since there were many people with various surnames, the king built a shrine for them all, so it was called Taishe.
If it is a cooperative, the number is inconsistent, and the place name is roughly used as the name. This is the case with the cooperative alliance in Qingqiu mentioned in "Zuo Zhuan".
Since the common people's social temples are no longer called "tai", if they don't build temples in the capital, then where can they be built?
"The Law of Sacrifice" also says that the king establishes seven sacrifices for each surname, and the king establishes seven sacrifices for himself.
To say that it is for oneself means to offer sacrifices for oneself; to say that for each surname means to offer sacrifices for each surname.
Taishe and Qisi are exactly the same in terms of the writing style of their records.
The interpreter had no idea what to do about this, so he said that among the ancient tomb classics, there were only five sacrifices and no seven sacrifices.
I think among the sacrifices, the five sacrifices are the major sacrifices of the country, and the seven sacrifices are the minor sacrifices.
Among the sacrifices mentioned in "Zhou Rites", all small sacrifices are wearing crown clothes such as Xuan Mian.
When Jinghou explained Dali, he said: Just like Du Bo in the Zhou Dynasty, ghosts will not become Li ghosts if they have a destination.
Nowadays, those who say that there are no second societies claim that it is Jinghou's claim. The "Sacrifice Law" does not say that there are no second societies, but says that it is a legend and there is no relevant written record.
With Jinghou's understanding, he even used analogies to explain, but some people want to abolish the expressly stipulated regulations based on oral opinions. In this way, not only the two societies should be taken seriously, but Jinghou's explanation cannot be easily abolished.
After receiving the edict not long ago, "Shang Shu Zhao Gao" held a community sacrifice in Xinyi. Only one set of Tailao was used as a sacrifice, which was a clear proof that the second community was not carried out.
According to "Jiao Te Sheng", it is said that the sacrifice of Sheji is too strong. If we must cite a set of records that are too strong to prove that there are no two shes in the Sheji sacrifice, then there is no need for sacrifice in the Jiji sacrifice.
The person who explained it said that the situation of the Ji Festival can be understood by citing the community sacrifices.
If it is possible to cite the sacrifices of the community to illustrate the rituals of Ji, why can’t we cite a sacrifice to illustrate the rituals of the two communities?
The important affairs of the country lie in sacrifices and military affairs.
If there are two sacrificial rituals but one is abolished, it is better to preserve it by offering multiple sacrificial rituals.
Besides, there is a basis for preserving it, but there is no basis for abolishing it?
"The Rites of Zhou" records that the Feng people were in charge of setting up the low earthen wall around the altar of the community, and Ji was not mentioned.
Today, there is no Ji God in the emperor's temples, probably based on this record.
However, the state presides over the sacrifice of Sheji, so Sheji is frequently mentioned in scriptures and biographies.
"The Rites of Zhou" records that the king wore a Xumian when he offered sacrifices to Sheji. This is a clear indication that the king's shrine has the God of Ji.
There is no mention of Ji in the record of Feng Ren taking charge of the society. The interpreter thinks that the text is omitted, which can be deduced from the above.
It is suggested that the second shrine should still be established, and the God of Ji should be added to the imperial shrine.
At that time, Cheng Can proposed that Jinghou discussed that Yu Taishe was not established in Kyoto, and wanted to overthrow Zheng's theory.
Fu Xian once again expressed his opinion: If we follow Cheng Can's statement, then Jinghou's explanation will be destroyed.
"Daya" says that the tomb soil was then set up. Mao Gong explained that the tomb soil is Taishe.
Jinghou used the interpretation of "The Book of Songs" by Lu Yi.
In "The Five Colors of the Earth" in "Gong of Yu", Jinghou explained that the king used five colors of soil to make the Taishe. When he divided the princes in the four directions, he used the soil of their orientation and color to show the division of the land. According to this, the Taishe was located in Kyoto again.
I don’t know where the so-called Jinghou’s discussion was found. It is inconsistent with Jinghou’s explanation. It violates the clear text in the classic records and undermines Jinghou’s explanation.
Although I am stubborn and ignorant, I have been studying since I was a child and cannot be silent. I would like to express my opinion again.
Liu Sai and Fu Xian had the same opinion.
The edict said: The God of Society was originally one God, but became two. Everyone has different opinions. There is no need to change!
Still following the old rules, it is exactly the same as Wei's system.
Later, Zhiyu reported to the court that he believed: The "Sacrifice Law" of Chen'an said that the king established a society for each surname, which was called Taishe, and the king established a society for himself, which was called Wangshe. "Zhou Li" said that the great Situ was responsible for setting up the low earthen walls around the altar of Sheji. It also said that blood sacrifices were used to sacrifice Sheji, which is Taishe.
It is also said that the enfeoffed person is in charge of building the King's altar, and it is also mentioned that the military should conduct relevant ceremonies at the altar, which is the King's altar.
In Taishe, pray for the people and inform the gods. There is a certain time for such prayer reports, and the person who presides over them must comply with them.
Therefore, the presiding officer would do everything to ward off disasters, offer sacrifices to the gods, kill animals, sacrifice military drums, etc. here.
These are the rules that have been clearly recorded in the Second Society and have been respected by previous dynasties.
Because "Shang Shu Zhao Gao" records that three animals were used to worship the gods of the community in Xinyi, and "The Book of Songs" says that a tomb was set up, there is no mention of the two communities. Therefore, the Imperial Society was abolished and only the Tai Society was established.
What "Poems" and "Books" talk about each refers to one thing, and they all occurred before Zhou Gongdan established the ritual and music system. They cannot be used to change the express regulations in "Zhou Rites" or the formal regulations in "Sacrifice Law".
In the past, when temples and shrines were rebuilt to create a place for social sacrifices, there was a lot of discussion in the court about using ancient rituals to correct the current system.
Emperor Shi Zuwu personally issued a wise edict, affirming the system of the two societies as a long-lasting and unchanging system.
New etiquette rules should be determined and comply with the regulations of the second society.
Shaoling listened to his advice.
In the first year of Emperor Jianwu of the Yuan Dynasty, the second shrine and the Yiji sacrificial place were established in Luojing.
At that time, Taishe's blessing said: Earth's virtues are selfless and its kindness is boundless.
Establish Taishe to protect all nations.
All over the world, everyone is in good health.
At that time, the Imperial Society's blessing said: If Kun De is profound, the country will be free from worries.
Establishing an imperial shrine, carrying forward the authentic tradition, offering sacrifices on time, and bringing happiness to all.
The etiquette of the Han Dynasty stipulates that on the morning of the first day of each month, the Taishi should present the calendar for that month. The ministers and ministers of the relevant departments listened quietly and read the decrees and implemented them on time according to the calendar.
Two days before and after the first day of the Lunar New Year, people bring sheep and wine to worship the sun god in front of the social god.
If something happens to the sun, sheep are sacrificed to the gods in order to save the sun.
The host wears a long crown, a middle coat with crimson trim on the collar and cuffs, crimson pants and socks to salute, just like in the past.
Since the founding of the Jin Dynasty, when the sun and the moon are about to meet, Taishi will report the situation of Heshuo. Three days before the event, the Minister will declare and be responsible for the martial law inside and outside the palace.
Zhiyu's "Jueji" says: Anyone who saves from a solar eclipse wears a red frame scarf to boost the power of Yang.
When the solar eclipse was about to occur, the emperor wore plain clothes and left the main palace, and there was strict security inside and outside the palace.
The Taishi climbed up to the mourning platform, and when the sun changed, he beat the drum at the palace gate.
Hearing the sound of drums, all the ministers wearing red scarves and swords entered the palace to guard the palace.
Officials of the Three Orders and above all stood in front of the doors of their institutions with swords in hand.
Wei Weiqing rode around the palace city, patrolling and guarding, over and over again.
At the same time, drums were played in the temple, using the rituals of the Zhou Dynasty.
He also made a rope with red silk thread to tie the god of society, and Zhu Shi made speeches to the god of society to blame it.
The social god is the Goulong God, the emperor's superior, so Chen Ci came to blame him.
The sun returned to normal, and then he gave up.
In the mid-Jian'an period of the Han Dynasty, officials were about to meet at court on New Year's Day, but Taishi reported that there was a solar eclipse on New Year's Day.
The courtiers didn't know whether they should go to court, so they jointly asked Shangshu Ling Xun or for advice.
At that time, Liu Shao, a planner in Guangping, was present and said: Zi Shen and Pi Chong are good historians in ancient times, but when it comes to predicting floods and fires, they sometimes miss the weather.
The book "Li" stipulates that when the princes meet the emperor together, there are four reasons why they cannot complete the ceremony after entering the door, and solar eclipse is one of them.
However, the system passed down by the saints does not cancel the rituals of court meetings in advance because of unexpected changes. This is because sometimes disasters disappear on their own without happening, and sometimes there are errors in calculations.
Xun Yu and everyone else thought it was reasonable and listened to his opinion, so the court meeting continued as usual, and there was no solar eclipse. Liu Shao became famous because of this incident.
In the third and fourth years of Emperor Wu's reign in Xianning, the court meetings on New Year's Day were canceled because New Year's Day coincided with Heshuo, which changed Wei's old system.
In April of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, on the first day of the lunar month, Kong Yu, the minister of Zhongshu, wrote: "Spring and Autumn" says that when there is a solar eclipse, the emperor beats drums in the temple to attack Yin; the princes beat drums in the court hall to attack themselves.
According to the talisman issued by the Chancellor, if there is a change in the sun, drums should be beaten in front of each door, which is against the regulations of sales.
The edict said: "The problem stated is in line with the right path. Immediately send an order to change the original arrangement."
In the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, Taishi reported that New Year's Day would be the first day of the new year, but later it became unclear whether the court meeting should be cancelled.
Yu Bing was assisting in the government affairs and wrote Liu Shao's comments and showed them to senior officials up to the eighth seat.
At that time, some people said that Liu Shao's opinion was not in line with the spirit of etiquette. If Xun followed him, it was a temporary fault of a wise man.
Therefore, Cai Mo wrote a paper criticizing Liu Shao, saying: The disasters proposed by Liu Shao disappeared on their own and did not occur. He also believed that even Zi Shen and Bi Zao made mistakes, so he did not need to take Taishi's report very seriously. These principles are naturally correct.
But he was wrong when he said that the system passed down by the saints did not cancel the court etiquette in advance because of disasters.
The occurrence of disasters is to condemn and inform the king. It is a warning from heaven that the king attaches great importance to. Therefore, he wears plain clothes and stops playing music and retreats from his sleep. The officials wear plain clothes, offer offerings and beat drums to save it personally.
In all matters that revere God and accept God's warning, it is better to follow it carefully than to doubt it and cancel it.
So when Confucius and Lao Dan were helping people perform funerals in the countryside, because the funeral had to be held without stars, they stopped the coffin when there was a solar eclipse and asked how they knew there would be no stars.
But Liu Shao canceled this kind of ceremony, which was abandoning the custom of sages.
Duke Huan of Lu encountered a disaster on Renshen day, but he held a sacrifice on Yihai day three days later. The Spring and Autumn Annals criticized him.
The disaster was over, but the fear still persisted, so the sacrifices in the ancestral temple were cancelled. Not to mention that it was against etiquette to hold a celebration and entertainment party after knowing that Tianyi was coming.
The "Book of Rites" refers to the situation where the princes were unable to complete the etiquette after entering the house. It refers to the fact that the Japanese officials did not warn the princes. After the princes entered, they only knew about the solar eclipse when they saw it. It was not that they knew there would be a solar eclipse in advance and did not cancel the court meeting.
Quoting this can be said to have lost its original meaning.
Liu Shao relied on the "Book of Rites". The affairs of Master and Lao Dan in the countryside were also mentioned in the "Book of Rites", but they violated it, and there was no basis for making or choosing.
However, Xun Ling praised it and the Han Dynasty followed it, so these statements are still quoted today. No one understands its error. Gentlemen in the future will use it as a standard, so they must correct it.
So Yu Bing listened to everyone's opinions and canceled the court meeting.
During the Yonghe period, Yin Hao assisted in government affairs and wanted to adopt Liu Shao's ideas without canceling the court meeting.
Wang Biaozhi, based on the old rules from Xianning and Jianyuan times, added: "The Book of Rites" says that there are four reasons why the princes met the emperor together and were unable to complete the ceremony and were interrupted. He thought it meant a sudden accident, rather than knowing in advance that those events would happen, but he hoped that the historian's calculations were wrong, so he did not cancel the etiquette of the court meeting in advance.
So he listened to Biao Zhi's opinion.
In "Shangshu", there is a sentence "Sacrifice to the six sects". Confucian scholars have different interpretations, often in different ways.
Wang Mang established six ancestral halls based on the "Six Sons" mentioned in the "Book of Changes".
When Emperor Wei Ming was in power, he doubted this and asked Wang Su. Wang Su also believed that it was the six sons mentioned in the "Book of Changes", so he did not cancel it.
After Jin received the Mandate of Heaven, Sima Biao and others stated in a statement that no new rituals should be established for the sacrifices of the six sects, so they stopped those sacrifices.
Later, Zhiyu reported on this matter and thought: When Shun took over the throne, he sacrificed to God in class, worshiped in the six sects, and worshiped the mountains and rivers in sight. Therefore, the six sects are not the names of God, nor are they the gods of mountains.
"The Rites of Zhou" states about the responsibilities of the Si Shi: He is responsible for the use of animals when offering sacrifices to the ancestors.
Regarding the responsibilities of party officials, it is said: The sacrifices in the Spring and Autumn Period are also like this.
The sect mentioned in the responsibilities of the fourth master is juxtaposed with the society, so the level is the same as the society.
The honorable sacrifice mentioned in the Party Responsibilities does not involve the society, so this god is different from the society.
In the Zhou Dynasty, no sacrifice was more important than Jiao She. Zong was equal to She, so it is clear that it is an important god.
In addition, "Yue Ling" talks about Meng Dong praying to Tianzong, so the sacrifices in "Zhou Rites" and Tianzong in "Yue Ling" are the gods of the six sects.
When Guangwu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne in Gaoyi, he worshiped six sects according to the "Book of Yu".
In the early Yuan Dynasty of Emperor An, a sacrificial place was set up in the direction of Qian. The etiquette was the same as that of Taishe.
Wei inherited this system, and in the second year of Jingchu, there was extensive discussion about this god. The courtiers had different opinions and held their own opinions.
Only Liu Shao, the regular servant of Sanqi, believed that all things contain two opposite and complementary qi of yin and yang, and the two agitate each other to produce a neutralizing qi.
The six sects are the harmonious qi of Tai Chi and are the sects of the six qi.
"Yu Shu" is called the Six Sects, and "Zhou Shu" is called the Tianzong.
At that time, we investigated and studied the various similarities and differences and followed his advice.
It was used by the Han and Wei Dynasties and became an important sacrifice.
Anyone who worships and worships a hundred gods will not bless them if they indulge themselves and fail to worship the gods. No one dares to cancel what has been established.
New etiquette should be formulated, and the sacrifices to the six sects should be made as before.
The edict obeyed his opinion.
The book "Li" says that the king established seven sacrifices for each surname, called Siming, Zhongliu, Guomen, Guoxing, Dali, Hu, and Zao.
On the day when the moon Xuanwu arrives in mid-spring, Tailao is used to worship the God of Gaomei.
In the "Silk Clothes Chapter" of "Mao Shi", Gao Zi mentioned the spiritual star.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao also established the Lingxing Temple.
When Emperor Wu arrived, because of Li Shaoxing, he began to worship the stove; when Prince Ru was born, he began to establish the Gaomei God.
"Han Yi" says that the country also has five sacrifices. When there are officials to carry out sacrifices, the etiquette is simpler than the sacrifices related to the country. This means that the relevant regulations and systems have been preserved.
It is also said that in the month of mid-spring, Gaomei Temple is often set up in the south of the city and special sacrifices are used for worship.
In addition, also during this month, Canopus is worshiped at the Canopus Temple in the southern suburbs of the capital.
Sacrifices are made to the Zao in the Beginning of Summer, and to the Heart Star in the Xinxing Temple in the south of the city in autumn.
During the Yuankang period, there was also the Gaomei Altar in Luoyang, and people worshiped beside it. Some people called it the Falling Star.
Since then, I have never heard of any of the above-mentioned sacrifices. After the end of the Jin Dynasty, no seven sacrifices were set up, spiritual stars were placed in the southern suburbs for worship, and no special shrines were set up.
"Zuo Shi Zhuan" talks about "dragon meets the tiger", which has long been in the classics.
The etiquette of "Hamou" is from the beginning of spring to the beginning of summer until the beginning of autumn. If the county is in drought for a long time, the counties and counties will clean the Sheji Temple respectively.
When there is a drought, the ministers and officials perform owl rituals according to their rank to pray for rain, turn off various things with yang attributes, wear soap-colored clothes, carry earth dragons, set up native people, and use two rows of dancing boys, changing every seven days, just like the old practice.
In the second year of the reign of Genti Shengkong, there was a long drought in spring.
On Dingsi in April, Xia Shao said that various places with droughts should carry out extensive rituals to pray to gods for rain.
On Gengwu in May, people begin to pray to the gods of Sheji Mountain for rain.
In the sixth month of Wuzi, it rains in time.
This is the old tradition of the Yu Festival.
It happened again in April of the third year of Sai Ao and in February of the tenth year.
If there is too much rain, a Ying Festival will be held, wearing a red frame scarf and red clothes, shutting down various things with negative attributes, wrapping a red rope around the body of the social god, and beating a red drum.
"The Rites of Zhou" says that the king also uses the same etiquette when he offers sacrifices to the God of Haotian, the sun, the moon and the stars, the commander of the division, the god of wind and rain, the god of society and Ji, the five soils, the five pans, mountains, forests, rivers and lakes, and all things in the four directions. He also uses the same etiquette when symbolically offering sacrifices to the four categories and four directions.
In June of the second year of Emperor Huangchu of the Wei Dynasty, Gengzi performed ritual sacrifices to the Five Mountains and Four Dus for the first time. They arranged the groups of sacrifices one by one, and buried the guis and bis in the soil or sunk them into the water as offerings.
In July of the sixth year, the emperor led the navy into the Huaihe River.
In the ninth month of Renxu, an envoy was sent to sink the jade into the Huaihe River.
In August of the fourth year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, the emperor went on a tour to the East and sent envoys to worship Zhongyue in the special ox shrine.
In the first year of Xianxi, Emperor Yuan of Wei Dynasty, he patrolled to Chang'an and sent envoys to use bis and coins to worship Jianshan in the temple.
During the reign of Emperor Mu, He Qi discussed the restoration of temple sacrifices to the Five Mountains and said: According to the system of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, the emperor patrolled once every five years. According to the directions corresponding to the seasons, he burned firewood to offer sacrifices to the Five Mountains.
Therefore, disasters and epidemics do not occur, but wind, rain, cold and heat come with the seasons.
When it was passed down to the third generation, although the years were different, the etiquette did not change. The Five Mountains were regarded as the three princes, and the four mountains were regarded as the princes. It was recorded in the classic biographies, which is often said. If it exists, it will be followed, and no one dares to abolish it. In the Qin Desert, the capitals of Xijing, Jing, Wei, and Changcheng were established. Although they are not recorded in the sacrificial documents, because they are close to Xiandui, they can have temple sacrifices like treating big rivers. Can the originally established sacrifices be cancelled? Since the Yongjia turmoil, China has been turned upside down, and these things have disappeared.
Only in the area under the king's jurisdiction was the Diugua Mountain of Sadi. In the old days, hundreds of corpse officials were selected from Taiwan Province to serve and carry out relevant tasks.
During the Zhongxing Dynasty, there were no responsible officials. Lujiang County often sent senior officials to take charge of praying and honoring the gods in the four seasons. In spring, they thanked the cold for dispelling the cold and in winter, they prayed for the collection of large ice.
Since the Shenghe period, these systems have been destroyed again.
It is estimated that there are more than one or two kinds of temple sacrifices that do not comply with the old regulations.
Looking at their real names, they are ghosts with excessive etiquette and ignorance; looking at their waste, they are a silverfish for the common people.
However, the great god of the mountain is even more lacking in worship, the etiquette and customs are decadent and disordered, the relationship between the gods is messy and confusing, and the public and private situations are tense and urgent, gradually it becomes increasingly corrupt.
The reason for the creation of nature is that the country has suffered many disasters and has no time to deal with these affairs. Start-up or construction has been stopped, and there is no time to deal with many things.
Now that the culprit has been eliminated, the old rules and regulations should be enforced again.
The Yuedu area is a place with good customs and education, and the people who have gained a new life are all blessed with virtue.
However, which gods and how to worship them have not yet been determined. The system of hunting tours and the practice of burning firewood and offering sacrifices have been abandoned for a long time.
We advocate clarifying the ancient laws and regulations, and wait until the emperor returns to the north to examine the ancient laws and regulations and formulate a comprehensive system.
There are no records in the old documents about the animal cells placed in the doudou and the words used to pray to the worshipers. We can let the ritual officials formulate some regulations, strive to be sincere and simple and easy to implement, and use them to express the original purpose of Mingde and Xiangxiang. Just like this.
For the rest of the evil spirits and ghosts, we can roughly follow the laws and abolish the worst ones first, so that evil ghosts and righteous gods will not be confused.
It was not taken seriously at the time.
In the past, when King Wu entered Yin, he enfeoffed the descendants of the previous dynasty without waiting to get off the bus. This was because he remembered the virtues of the previous dynasty.
As a great sage, Confucius was always a companion and did not receive a title or title.
During the reign of Emperor Moyuan, Kong Ba was awarded a title as the emperor's teacher, named Baochengjun, and was regarded as a descendant of Confucius.
In the first month of the second year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, the Shaoling Emperor granted Yilang Kong Xian the title of Zongshenghou. He granted him the title of a hundred households and enshrined the incense of Confucius. He ordered Lu County to build an old temple and set up officials from hundreds of households to guard it.
In November of the third year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, the title of Kong Zhen, the sage saint of the clan, was changed to the title of Fengsheng Tinghou.
He also issued an edict to Taixue and the State of Lu to prepare three animals at all times to offer sacrifices to Confucius.
In the third year of Emperor Taining's reign, Emperor Ming issued an edict to let Feng Shengting Hou Kongting preside over the sacrifices to Confucius at the Four Seasons Temple, just like the old practice in Taishi.
Etiquette stipulates that at the beginning of establishing a school, wine and food must be offered as a memorial to the sages and teachers, and coins must be used as offerings during the ceremony.
Although schools were established in the Han Dynasty, this kind of etiquette has never been practiced.
In February of the second year of the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, the emperor finished studying "The Analects of Confucius", in May of the fifth year he finished studying "Shangshu", and in December of the seventh year he finished studying "Book of Rites". They all sent Taichang to prepare wine and food in memory of Confucius.
In the seventh year of Emperor Wu's reign, the crown prince finished studying the Classic of Filial Piety.
In the third year of Xianning, he finished studying the Book of Songs, and in the third year of Taikang, he finished studying the Book of Rites.
In the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the crown prince finished studying the Analects of Confucius.
In the second year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the crown prince finished studying the Analects of Confucius.
The prince personally prepared wine and food to offer sacrifices to Confucius.
In the first year of Emperor Xiankang's reign, the emperor finished studying the Book of Songs.
In March of the first year of Emperor Mu's reign, he finished studying the Classic of Filial Piety.
In July of the third year of Xiaowu and Ningkang, the emperor finished studying the "Book of Filial Piety".
They all served wine and food as the old custom, and both Emperor Mu and Xiaowu temporarily used the middle hall as the Imperial Academy.
In the old practice, Fengdi was worshiped in Tingwei Temple. The new etiquette moved the sacrifice to the Law Office, which was equivalent to worshiping the ancestors in Taixue.
In the old practice, sacrifices were held on the social day, but the new etiquette was changed to the month of Mengqiu to comply with the political affairs of autumn.
Tian Lu believes: According to the "Book of Yu", Sai Qiong set up judges to be in charge of the prisons, and they were aware of everything. The country valued his achievements, and the people missed his justice, so the prison officials worshiped his shrine and the prisoners offered sacrifices to him.
The purpose of the establishment of Taixue is to attach great importance to Taichang, so setting up sacrifices in Taixue is to respect the saints and take care of the important things.
The Law Office is a lower-ranking organization than the Tingwei. Moving the sacrifices to the office is to eliminate the important and lighten it.
The law is not a formal official office, and there are no rules for its disposal or establishment. It should be worshiped at Tingwei as in the old practice.
In addition, the sacrifice was held in mid-spring. The original intention was to take the meaning of attaching importance to life and change it to Mengqiu to comply with the punishment of killing. In principle, it was not enough to change the old system.
New etiquette should be established, exactly like the old system. Order: Agree.
Every New Year's Day, reed ropes and peach stalks are often set up to kill the harem in front of the palace and various government offices to ward off evil spirits.
During the inspection of Moyi, these were set up in midsummer, with peach seals and no chicken killing.
Emperor Ming of the Wei Dynasty promoted the Zhou ritual, so He Yan proposed to use special animals for sacrifices such as Zhou Chai.
Killing chickens should have started in the Wei Dynasty. The peach seal originally came from the Han Dynasty system and was used to assist Mao Jin, and it should have been abolished by the Wei Dynasty.
It’s just not clear what the basis was for changing Midsummer to New Year’s Day.
In the first year of Qinglong, Emperor Wei Ming ordered all counties and counties not to go to temples for sacrifices in any mountain that was not recorded in the sacrificial regulations.
In December of the first year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, the edict stated: In the past, the Holy Emperor and King Ming worshiped the Five Mountains and Four Mountains, famous mountains and lakes, and each had a certain system to report the changes and harmony of Yin and Yang.
However, for those who rule the world with the Tao, the ghosts there are ineffective and the gods will not harm people. Therefore, the ministers and historians do not have words to make their hearts feel ashamed when they offer sacrifices. Therefore, although people at that time were cautious in worshiping the gods in the netherworld, no obscene sacrifices occurred.
People in the last days do not believe in Tao sincerely, violate etiquette and blaspheme the gods, pray and ask for whatever they want without respecting them at all, blindly seek to live by luck, and evil spirits encourage each other, abandoning the right way and embarking on evil paths, so the Wei Dynasty is very dissatisfied with this aspect.
They studied the old rituals and formulated a system in detail so that those who performed the deities' achievements in the human world would definitely be rewarded, and evil and unruly ghosts could not cause trouble in the process.
In the first month of the second year, an official issued a petition asking for temple sacrifices to be held at the vernal equinox and to eliminate evil spirits. The edict said: "It is not bound by the regulations on sacrifices, and they should be abolished."
The "King System" stipulates that the emperor will set up seven temples, and those below the princes will have different levels according to their levels. The records of etiquette are very detailed.
In May of the 18th year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty granted ten counties in Hebei to Emperor Wu of Wei as Wei Gong.
In July of that year, he began to build an ancestral temple in Ye, and he established five temples according to the etiquette of the princes.
Although he was later knighted and became a king, nothing changed.
In the first year of Yankang, Emperor Wen succeeded to the throne. In July, he honored the emperor as the great king, and Mrs. Ding was called the great queen.
In November of the first year of Huangchu's reign, he accepted the Zen throne, and he honored the great king as the great emperor, and Emperor Kao Wu as the emperor.
In June of the second year, since the ancestral temple in Luojing had not yet been completed, he worshiped Emperor Wu at the Jianshi Hall Temple and personally held the offerings to pay homage, just like saluting at home.
Examining the "Li" book, it is stipulated that when building a palace, the ancestral temple should be built first. Common people do not have a temple, so they offer sacrifices in their bedrooms. It is very inconsistent with etiquette for an emperor to do this.
In the sixth month of the third year of Taihe, Emperor Ming also honored his great ancestor Dachangqiu as the direct emperor, and his wife Wu as the empress Gao. They were enshrined in the ancestral temple in Ye.
The temple in the temple is dedicated to Emperor Wen's great ancestors Chu Shi, great ancestor Gao Huang, and ancestor great emperor. They are all in one temple. Emperor Taizu Wu is a single temple and will not be destroyed for a hundred generations. However, the sacrifices in the temple are only four rooms in the temple.
In November of this year, the ancestral temple in Luojing was completed. Because the family ties had been fulfilled, the priest's shrine was moved to Yuanyi, and Taifu Taichang Hanji and Taichang Zongzhengcao Kejie were sent to welcome the shrines below Emperor Gao. They were all in one temple and still only had four rooms.
In June of the first year of Jingchu, Qun Gong and Yousi Cai again petitioned to formulate a system of seven temples, saying: The three holy masters of Dadian succeeded each other and thus achieved the emperor's career.
Emperor Wu established a great foundation and rectified chaos, and was called Taizu of Wei.
Emperor Wen accepted the will of heaven and abolished the imperial decree, and accepted the throne in accordance with the current situation. He was called Wei Gaodan.
The emperor fulfilled his great mission, pacified China, and reestablished rituals and music. He should be called Wei Liezu.
Two temples are set up to the north of Taizu's temple. On the left is Wenyi's temple, named Gaozu Zhaotao, and on the right is Mingtong's temple, named Liezu Muzu.
The temple of the third ancestor will never be destroyed.
The remaining four temples were replaced and moved when the family ties were fulfilled, in full accordance with the etiquette of the temples of Hou Ji and King Wen and King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty.
Emperor Wen's empress Zhen was sentenced to death, so she was not listed in the temple.
When Emperor Ming came to the throne, a minister asked Mi to be Empress Wenzhao, and sent Sikong Wanglang to the mausoleum to announce her wishes to the emperor.
Sangong wrote again: Since ancient times, people have recognized Qiu Mo as their ancestor, and have set up a separate temple to worship Cha Mian.
Today's Empress Wen Zhao has left saintly virtues and great teachings to her descendants, but there is no limit to the amount. Speaking of it, with the dignity of the imperial concubine, after her soul transformed into a god, she did not have a temple to receive sacrifices. This is not repaying virtue and showing filial piety.
When examining the ancient system, we should establish separate sleeping temples in accordance with the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty.
The memorial was approved.
In February of the first year of Taihe, a temple was built in Ye.
In April, Luoyi began to build the ancestral temple. When digging the ground, they found a jade seal with a side length of one inch and nine minutes. The seal on it was "The Emperor is envious of his relatives."
Emperor Ming was so excited when he saw the seal that he went to the temple to offer sacrifices.
By the end of December of the first year of Jingchu, another official petitioned to build a temple for Empress Wenzhao in the capital to carry out permanent worship. The standards of music, song and dance were the same as those in the ancestral temple, and the temple in Ye was cancelled.
In the first year of Xianxi, Emperor Yuan of Wei, the Jin Dynasty granted the title of Emperor Wen to the title of King, and appointed Marquis Wuyang Xuanwen as King Xuan and Marquis Zhongwu as King Jing.
In August of this year, Emperor Wen died, and Mi was given the title King Wen.
In December of the first year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, Bingyin accepted the Zen position. Ding Mao, after his ancestor, King Xuan was named Emperor Xuan, King Bo Kao Jing was named Emperor Jing, King Kao Wen was named Emperor Wen, Princess Zhang of Xuan was named Queen Xuanmu, and King Jing's wife Yang was Queen Jing.
In the first month of the second year, a minister requested the establishment of seven temples.
The emperor thought that the project was too big, so Shao Ling should build a temple.
So the officials submitted a proposal: In ancient times, the ancestral temple had only one palace, which was dedicated to the ancestor gods.
When it came to the Zhou Dynasty, it was designated as seven temples to distinguish distant ancestors of the clan.
The Holy Spirit’s purpose is profound and grand. Imitate the ancient times, devoutly worship the style of Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty, abandon the prosperity of seven temples, and follow the ancient style of one palace.
In the past, Shun accepted Yao's abdication and was appointed by heaven, so he ascended the throne. After thirty years, the lunar month coincided with the New Year's Day and other calendars, and he abided by Wenzu's system. The Lu family did not change Tang Yao's ancestral temple and continued to use the old palace.
We can use the ancestral temple of Wei according to the old practice of the Yu family.
The memorial was approved.
So they worshiped General Zhengxi, Lord Yuzhang, Lord Yingchuan, Lord Jingzhao, as well as Emperor Xuan, Emperor Jing and Emperor Wen as the Three Zhaos and Three Mu.
At that time, the emperor Xuan's god was not in place, and the Taizu shrine was empty, so there were six generations worshiped in the temple, and seven temples in total including Emperor Jing. The relevant rituals were based on Wang Su's explanation.
In July, another edict was issued saying: The person in charge reported not long ago that it is indeed reasonable to use the old temples in Wei.
However, I still feel that it is not emotionally appropriate to worship the gods, and another temple should be built.
So another ancestral temple was built.
In November, Xiahou, the wife of Emperor Jing, was honored as Queen Jinghuai.
Ren Peng raised the objection that when Xia Bao was a concubine, there was no royal industry.
The emperor did not listen.
In the first year of Taikang, Princess Lingshou Xiuli was sacrificed in the Ancestral Temple. There was no such situation in the ritual system.
Emperor Wei Ming established another temple to worship the Lord of Pingyuan. Jin was different from Wei again.
In the eighth year, due to the sinking of the ancestral temple, another building needed to be built. The officials discussed and reported: In ancient times, the seven temples were not built in the same place, so they should naturally follow the ancient rituals.
The edict also said: Although there were seven temples in ancient times, since modern times, they have been one temple and seven chambers. Nothing has been abolished in terms of etiquette, and the expression of family affection is relatively smooth. This is also an appropriate approach adopted with different times.
Let’s use the original place.
In the 10th year of Taikang, it was rebuilt inside the Xuanyang Gate. It was extremely magnificent, but the system set up at the ridge was still the same as before.
After the ancestral temple was completed, the emperor adopted Zhi Yu's advice and led hundreds of officials to move the deities to the new temple. The chariots, horses, clothing, and entourage used by the deities from Zhengxi and below were all in accordance with the emperor's ceremonial standards.
When Emperor Wu died, the god master of Zhengxi was moved away, and when Emperor Hui died, the god master of Yuzhang was moved away.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the prince's two sons, Ai's grandson Sima Zang and Chong's grandson Sima Shang, were sacrificed in the ancestral temple. During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Prince Huaicha's mourning was sacrificed in the ancestral temple. They were known as the Four Sorrows in the Underworld.
In the early years of Emperor Huai's reign, Emperor Wu ordered Yang Houmi to be named Empress Wu Miao and be buried next to Junyang Mausoleum. In addition, she was offered sacrifices in the Hongxun Palace Temple instead of the ancestral temple.
After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, he succeeded Emperor Wu from above and used Emperor Wu as the god of supplementary sacrifices. This was imitated by the old practice of Emperor Guang of Han who succeeded Emperor Yuan of Han above.
At that time, the divine master in Xijing was destroyed in the hands of the enemy, and the ancestral temple was built in the Eastern Jin Dynasty and all rebuilt.
Soon after, Emperor Huai's divine master was enshrined, and Yingfujun's divine master was moved away. Although the divine throne has seven chambers, it is actually only five generations. This is because Diao Jian's opinion was adopted to include the brothers in the dynasty algebra.
At that time, various systems had just begun to be formulated, and the original etiquette had not been fully restored. The divine sovereignty of the emperors was placed in another room.
On Yimao, the first month of the third year of Taixing, an edict was issued saying: Although I am the successor to Emperor Wu from above, I will all call the emperors Huai and Min in the north as Yuchen.
Nowadays, when offering sacrifices at the Ancestral Temple, it is inappropriate from a moral and ethical point of view to not serve wine in person but to have a priest perform the ceremony.
This should be rearranged according to etiquette.
Taichang Huaheng proposed: Now that the emperor succeeds Emperor Wu, he should follow the precedent of the ancestors of the Han Dynasty and not personally serve wine as a salute.
He also said: The current sage is the heir to Wutong, but Zhaomu in the ancestral temple is only the fourth generation. His predecessors, Taichang Hehe and Dr. Tanzhong, both believed that a separate sacrificial temple should be established to clean up and repair the tomb.
However, Chen Yu thought that every temple room should accommodate the god and the Lord, and there was no need to stick to the prescribed number.
There were two ancestors and three sects in the Yin Dynasty. If you stick to seven families, you only need to make up for your father's sacrifice.
If we consider this point, we should resume the sacrifices to Yuzhang and Yingchuan, and improve the etiquette of the seven temples.
The commander of the hussar, Shi Wenqiao, suggested: It is against etiquette that brothers cannot enter the ancestral temple together to be sacrificed together. Moreover, Guangwu Fenjian is revitalizing the desert house. Do not attach the name after the filial son to make his career appear miraculous and extraordinary to fulfill the nine lives mentioned in the prophecy. In addition, the ancient system cannot coexist in the same temple, so a separate place for sacrifice is set up.
Today's emperor is different from Guangwu on the issue of naming, and personally presides over the Yanchang sacrifice. It is both reasonable and reasonable.
Taichang Huaheng wanted to restore the two princes' positions in the ancestral temple to improve the etiquette of the same temple for seven generations. Wen Dui thought this was right.
General Wang Dao agreed with Wen Dui's opinion.
He also said: If there is no father-son relationship, you can directly say that the emperor dares to sue a certain emperor during the sacrifice. If an emperor is counted as one life, there will be situations where he will not sacrifice his own father, which is worse than ordinary people.
The emperor listened to Wen Wei's opinions and implemented them all.
Therefore, the etiquette system was re-established and the positions of Zhaomu of Suitong and Zuobei were restored to follow the old rules of the time when Shantong inherited the throne. Naturally, the three emperors Yan, Huai and Biet followed the principle of respect in the "Spring and Autumn Classic" and remained in the ancestral temple without modification.
When Gentong died, Yitong was moved out again.
However, Hutong's divine position is still lower than that of Xingmu, so there are ten kanshi. When Grandma passed away, Ti Ka was moved out again, and there were still ten rooms.
At that time, the Imperial Ancestral Temple was being expanded, so the three moved-out temples were returned to the Western Reserve, where they were called the Ancestral Temple and used as remote temples.
In the fifth month of the seventh year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, he first established the goddess Wu Dao as Queen, and offered sacrifices in the temple to serve the ancestors.
Sheng Hu collapsed and Chen Yi succeeded to the throne. Since brothers were considered equal to each other, the god master did not move out of Sailiu, and there were eleven rooms.
When Yitong died and Tantong came to the throne, in July of that year, a minister reported: When the Yin Festival is held in October, the Lord of Jingzhao Prefecture should move into the ancestral hall.
In the past, the three palaces of Junshenzhu, Zhanmu and Tichuan were destroyed. In the early days of the Zhongxing Dynasty, they temporarily lived in Tianfu, on the west side of the temple gate.
During the Xiankang period, Taichang proposed that he be returned to the Western Reserve's secluded room and given the title of 祧, which may not be in line with etiquette.
Now the divine master of Jingzhao has moved in, creating the fourth generation of distant ancestors, always in the upper position of Taizu.
In the past, the great ancestor of Danxu had lived for a long time, so he moved away and had a place to stay.
Nowadays, the ancestral temple is mainly decorated with leek, but the fourth ancestor is put aside. This is wronging the ancestors and accommodating the grandson;
The leader Situ Cai Mo proposed that the four princes should be built in separate temples. If this cannot be implemented, they should be moved and placed in the Ancestral Temple. No one dares to underestimate his ancestors. King Wen and King Wu are not in front of Buzhou.
On the day of the Yin Festival, the god of conquering the west was placed facing east, located above Emperor Xuan.
Since then, the god who moved out of the temple has been hiding in the place where the peach sacrifice was held in Zhengxi, and the sacrifices and offerings must not be interrupted.
Feng Huai, the general guarding the army, suggested: Etiquette says: If there is no temple, set up an altar to offer sacrifices. It can be placed in another room and worshiped on the altar during the Yinshi Festival.
The general of the auxiliary state called King Qiao Sima Wuji and others proposed: Confucian scholars believe that King Tai and Wang Ji moved out and hid in the place where King Wen and King Wu offered sacrifices.
According to this, the god who moved out of Fujun should be in Emperor Xuan's temple.
But now there is no room for the Lord of God, so some modifications should be made and another room should be built.
In addition, when the Yinjia Ceremony is held in the Ancestral Temple, the god who conquers the west should be placed facing the east.
Shangshu Lang Sunchuo and Wuji had the same opinion, saying: Although Taizu first ascended to the ninth position, the road will be smooth only if he follows it, replacing the most noble among human nobles. The morality of pursuing family relationships is used to form the basis of education and shine for generations.
Shang Shulang Xu Chan proposed: "Li": Remove the peach for the altar, remove the altar for the cicada, and only sacrifice him when there is a sacrifice.
Nowadays, the god of the fourth ancestor has moved out and can be kept in a stone chamber. When there is prayer time, sacrifices can be made in a place like an altar with cicadas.
He also sent Xu Chan to Kuaiji to visit the official Yu Xi.
Yu Xi replied: Wei Xuancheng and others in the Han Dynasty buried the destroyed god in the garden. Researchers from the Wei Dynasty said it should be buried in the middle of the two levels.
Moreover, the god's master was originally located in the Ancestral Temple. If it is now placed in another room for worship, it would be better to store it permanently.
In addition, these four monarchs do not conform to the etiquette system for adding honorary titles, which further proves that they should be destroyed rather than enshrined.
At that time, Jian Wen was appointed as Fujun, and Monk Shulang Liu Shao and others reported: The four ancestors lived together in Xiqiu, kept the god in the stone room, and offered sacrifices only when they were picked and included, just like the old etiquette of the previous dynasty.
At that time, the son of Fan Xuan's brother, who was a native of Chenliu, asked him about this aspect of etiquette. Fan Xuan replied: "The worshipers in Shun's temple were all common people. Later, it was revoked after a long time. It was not placed in the higher position of Shun, and it was not ranked in the order of Zhao and Mu."
Nowadays, the four monarchs are still from their origins, but they are not enshrined based on their merits.
If one follows Yu Shun's practice of burying the god in the garden, it would be like a place to bury his descendants; if one follows the Xia people's practice of burying the god, it is not suitable for the current situation of the ancestral temple.
A workaround should be considered, that is, to build a special palace. If the family ties are not exhausted, they can be placed in the upper position of Emperor Xuan during the Qiang Festival. If the family ties are exhausted, there is no reason to place them among the descendants of the lower rank.
Later, Taichang Liu Xia and others had the same opinion as Cai Mo.
Dr. Zhang Ping suggested: Some people suspect that those displayed in the Taizu Temple are all deities who were later revoked. I think there are no different records in ancient doctrines.
If Yu is not in the position of Gun, then why should there be any doubts about moving the God Lord to the position of Taizu?
Therefore, Jingzhao's shrine was moved to the Western Reserve, also called "祧", with the same etiquette as when the first three ancestors and gods were moved out, so there were still eleven in the main room.
After Emperor Mu died, Emperor Ai and Haixi were his brothers, so there was no moving in or out.
In the early years of Xian'an, Emperor Jianwen succeeded Emperor Yuan, and the lineage order advanced, so the two gods Yingchuan and Jingzhao returned to Zhaomu's position.
When Jianwen died, Yingchuan was moved out again.
In the fifth month of Renxu in the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu issued an edict: In the past, when building the Taizu Temple, all aspects were frugal. Taizu's throne was in vain and no Mingtang was built.
Rural sacrifices are a major national event, but there are many deficiencies in following the ancient system, which should be discussed in detail.
Xu Miao, a doctor in the temple department, proposed: There are no different records in the classics about Yuanqiu Suburban Sacrifice. Emperor Xuan once identified its meaning and used the holy scriptures to regulate it.
After the ZTE, the research was more complete and sufficient, and the two suburbs of the north and south were determined. It is indeed not something that other theories can easily change.
It is appropriate to follow the old system.
Emperor Wu established the ancestral temple for the sixth generation, and his ancestors were Sanzhao and Sanmu.
Emperor Xuan was the founder of the foundation, so he should actually be regarded as Taizu, and in terms of family ties, he was actually Wang Kao.
The four temples are in the upper position and have not yet caught up with the migration and inheritance, so they have the right to assume the position of Chaoshu.
The succession of thrones between brothers does not technically involve two generations.
Therefore, the number of generations of temple worshipers today is not enough. If you want Taizu to occupy the right position, you will violate the rule of serving seven generations.
In addition, the "Li" says that after a concubine becomes king, he must also sacrifice his ancestors and establish a temple. It says that after the descendants of the side branch inherit the line, those close to him must restore their status.
There have been six generations of Jingzhaofu Lords, so this divine position should be restored. Then Emperor Xuan has not exceeded the sixth generation, and the throne of Taizu cannot be determined until the previous generation has moved.
After the Jingzhao shrine is moved, it should be kept in the stone chamber, and it does not need to be involved even when performing chair sacrifices and interspersed sacrifices.
Why?
According to the literature, the moved god was promoted to be together with Taizu. Ascension means from bottom to top. It does not mean that the venerable can be lowered to the same status as the humble.
The princes and grandsons who died in infancy, the four masters of the underworld, because of their important status as crown princes, were attached to the throne of the imperial ancestor to be sacrificed. When the god of the temple to whom they were attached should move away due to generations of estrangement, these descendants of the sacrifice were removed together with the throne of the emperor.
The various systems of the Mingtang have summarized the key points of the program, and there should not be any gaps in the sacrificial rituals.
Moreover, the person who calls himself a king regards the world as his home and is not necessarily limited to one country. Therefore, King Ping of Zhou and Emperor Guangwu did not abolish the throne of the monarch in the Erjing period.
In the Mingtang ritual system, I have always had doubts about the deity who is worthy of sharing, but I still haven’t figured it out.
Examine the Great Sacrifice to God in the Book of Changes, and you will be worthy of enjoying Zu Kao. If both Zu and Kao are worthy of sharing, then God is also Heaven, which makes the principle of respecting the father clear at a glance.
"The Rites of Zhou" says that when worshiping God in the countryside, if you have something to tell Heaven, you use four pieces of jade like the usual etiquette in suburban worship, so we talk about them together.
If God refers to the five emperors, why doesn't the Sutra say that the heavenly travelers are worshiped as sacrifices to the five emperors, and the earthly travelers are worshiped as sacrifices to the four directions?
Che Yin, the attendant, had the same opinion.
He also said: Since the Mingtang system is so difficult to understand, and the purpose of music is to make people harmonious, and the purpose of etiquette is to make people humble, the traditional and simplified ones are different, and the musical instruments and ritual vessels are also different.
Since there are thatched houses and wide and tall houses, and their specifications cannot be unified, why stick to the rules and regulations instead of promoting the essential spirit to adapt to modern people's sentiments?
There is peace everywhere, and there is no war in Heshuowen. At that time, we can continue to respect the etiquette of Mingtang and Yong.
At that time, most of the court officials agreed with this opinion, so they followed the original system without any changes.
In the sixteenth year, the main hall of the Imperial Ancestral Temple was rebuilt. There were fourteen main rooms, one each in the east and west, for a total of sixteen rooms. The building was eight feet four feet high.
Dharma chariots were prepared and the gods were moved to the temple. The four gods from Zhengxi to Jingzhao, as well as the prince and grandson, all wore ceremonial clothes corresponding to their deities.
The four gods do not use the same rituals as those with emperor titles, which is different from the Taikang years.
After each god entered the temple, they set up preserved meats and minced meat to offer sacrifices.
When the new temple was completed, the god returned to his room and set up preserved meat to offer sacrifices.
In February of the 19th year, Zheng, the concubine of Kuaiji, the mother of Jian Wen, proclaimed the empress dowager to Emperor Jian Wen and established her temple on the west side of the road to the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
After Xiaowu's death, the god master of Jingzhao was moved out again, just like the precedent of Sizuo during Emperor Mu's time.
In April of the ninth year of Yixi, a large temple ceremony was about to take place, and the edict issued an extensive discussion on the etiquette of moving and removing the shrine.
The Great Sima Langye King Dewen proposed: In the early years of Taishi, the throne of Taizu was fictitiously established. However, tracing back to the long history of family ties, as far as Zhengxi, the throne should be removed when the generation is up, so Emperor Xuan officially established the throne of Taizu.
In addition, Han Guangwu moved the gods of eleven emperors to Luoyi, so it can be inferred that there was no system for removing the gods.
Another temple should be built to house the gods of the four princes and to be preserved permanently without the need for sacrifice.
Xu Guang, the chief minister, suggested: The four princes were once at the top of the temple and enjoyed the sacrifices from all over the world. If it is buried in the deep ground, it may not be completely appropriate in terms of reason.
It can be moved and kept in the Western Reserve as a distant memorial, but it will never be offered as a persimmon sacrifice again.
The Taiwei consulted Yuan Bao, who joined the army, and suggested that the old system should be used without changing it. The four princes should still be sacrificed during the big temple ceremony. From a reasonable point of view, it is more appropriate.
At that time, Liu Yu was assistant to the government, and his intention was the same as Da Sima's proposal. He would change the old system when the ceremony was held in the big temple in the future.
It happened that Emperor An passed away, and the sacrifice to Tianlu was terminated before the time came.
In the eleventh month of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's Xianning reign, Empress Dowager Hongxun Yang passed away. The ancestral temple stopped offering sacrifices at that time, and the Heaven and Earth Hall removed all music and no offerings.
In the tenth month of the fifth year of Emperor Mu's ascension, there was a big sacrifice, but no music was played because it was after the death of the emperor.
In September of the eleventh year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, the emperor's daughter died. When it was time to hold sacrifices at the Yan Temple, Zhongshu's minister Jie Xiangshang played: According to the "Mourning Clothes Biography", if anyone in the palace dies, no sacrifice ceremony can be held for three months, regardless of age or status.
Although the princess is a baby, I think it is worth considering.
So the minister asked him to send Sangong to preside over the sacrifice.
In April of the seventh year of the Yihupan, the emperor was about to go to the temple to offer sacrifices in person and inspect the sacrifices on the eve of the sacrifices. However, the ritual notes stipulated that worship was not necessary.
Xia Shao asked about the reason, and the doctor reported that this is how it has been passed down through the ages.
The emperor said: This is not a ritual to show respect to the ancestral temple.
So he came back after worshiping. From then on, it became a system. Anyone who inspected the animals on the eve of a sacrifice must pay homage in person. It was not abolished until after Shu Jin Dynasty.
According to the old practice of Wei, the emperor built a secondary hall in the northeast of the temple, and the emperor entered through the north gate.
The new etiquette is to set up a secondary hall on the right side outside the middle gate of the south gate, and the emperor enters through the south gate.
Zhiyu believes: The second hall is a place for resting. When going to the elders, it is respectful not to show oneself, and it is respectful to go through an inconspicuous place. Now it is located in the upper position and enters from the south gate. It is not a respectful attitude.
New etiquette should be formulated and all should be done according to the old sayings.
Heeded his advice.
As for etiquette, if there is a big event, you should ask Zumi, and if there is a small matter, just ask Zumi. It has been abandoned for a long time since the Qin and Han Dynasties.
In July of the fourth year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, he was about to patrol the east. Since the army was about to set off, he sent Taicong special cattle to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices.
When Emperor Wen died, he sent the Taiwei to the southern suburbs to report the situation of Mi Ce.
From the time of sending people to the capital of Jin Dynasty, the rituals were followed after the suburbs and temples. It was only after the Eastern Jin Dynasty that these rituals were abolished.
In the third year of its prosperity, Fuzi overthrew and brought chaos to the capital, forcing Ku and others to set up a temple and perform those rituals.
He reported to the late emperor and the empress: The rebellious minister Su Jun overthrew the country, destroyed the three righteousnesses, and insulted the whole world.
Chen Tao Kan, Chen Wen Dui, Chen Litai and others killed the enemy's leader with their own hands and respectfully carried out God's punishment.
I hope that the heroic spirits of Emperor Zhongzongyuan, Suzu Minghuangtong, and Queen Mingmu will clearly detect the guilty people, eradicate them, and eliminate these murderers to stabilize the ancestral temple.
Even if I lose my head and my body is broken, it will still be the same as when I was alive.
In the third year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, Xia Shao said: Li, the queen has no heirs and chooses to raise a son from a branch line to inherit the family. She should inherit the orthodoxy and pursue justice. How can she care about her family ties anymore!
After Han Xuan succeeded Emperor Zhao, he gave Mukao the imperial title.
Saitong was established as an external vassal, but Dong Hong and others cited the precedent of the death of Taiwan to mislead the courtiers, so they respected Emperor Jie and built a temple in the capital.
He also favored the concubine from the feudal town and gave her the same status as Kenzhi. It was against etiquette to overstep the rank and neither the people nor the gods would help him.
He expressed opposition and blame for Shi Dan Zhongzheng's opinions, which resulted in the Ding family and Fu family being punished by Wang Mang Fenru.
From now on, it will be implemented accordingly.
I specially order the ministers and relevant departments to take the events of the previous generation as a profound lesson. If the successors in the future want to inherit the throne from among the princes, they should explain the truth of being the heirs of their predecessors.
Anyone who dares to be sycophantic and eccentric, to seduce the emperor, and to adopt unreasonable titles, such as calling Kao the emperor and mother the queen, will be punished by the assistant ministers without mercy.
The special words are written on the gold policy and kept in the ancestral temple.
After that, the Noble and Normal Ways were established, and no outsiders were respected.
Four years after his arrival in Xingmu Yusu, Situ Chucha proposed the posthumous ceremony, but not only did the emperor refuse to obey, but Zuo Pu Shesuosui and others also praised Yin Yun's system and thought it was not acceptable, so they only posthumously presented the king of Wu as the Taibao.
In the second year of Wutong Youxing's reign, some ministers said that Prince Gong of Fallen Evil should be called Huang Kao.
He Xun suggested: Due to the etiquette principle, a son would not dare to add his title to his father as a title.
The emperor obeyed him again.
