◆Liang Tongchuan, Liang Tong, courtesy name Zhongning, was a native of Anding Wushi.
His ancestor was Liang Yi'er, a doctor of the Jin Dynasty. Liang Tong's grandfather was named Zidu, who moved from Hedong to the north. Zidu's son Liangqiao moved to Maoling with tens of millions of family assets, and returned to Anding in the last years of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping.
Liang Tong had a resolute character and loved the law.
Started to serve as an official in the state and county.
In the second year of Gengshi's reign, he summoned the general Zhonglang and sent him to Hujing Prefecture to be appointed the governor of Jiuquan.
After the failure of the reform, the Red Eyebrow Army entered Chang'an. Liang Tong, Dou Rong and the governors of various counties raised troops to defend their territory. They all discussed how to establish a commander-in-chief.
They began to rank in order, and everyone recommended Liang Tong. Liang Tong firmly declined and said: In the past, Chen Ying refused to be king because his mother was still alive.
Now I have respect for my relatives, but I have little virtue and little ability, so I am really not qualified for the job.
So everyone elected Dou Rong to be the general of Hexi and the governor of Wuwei.
Liang Tong's political views were strict and his prestige reached neighboring counties.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Liang Tong and other envoys sent to the imperial court with Dou Rong's chief minister Liu Jun to pay tribute, hoping to reach the emperor's temporary residence. The emperor issued an edict and conferred the title of General Xuande on Liang Tong.
In the summer of the eighth year, Emperor Guangwu personally conquered Kaixiao. Liang Tong, Dou Rong and others led their soldiers to join Guangwu.
After the defeat of Wei Xiao, Guangwu granted Liang Tong the title of Marquis of Chengyi, and Tong's brother Liang Xun and cousin Liang Teng were also granted the title of Marquis of Guannei. Liang Teng was made the captain of Diannong in Jiuquan, and all of them were sent back to Hexi.
In the twelfth year, Liang Tong, Dou Rong and others came to the capital and went to the court as marquises. They were also granted the title of Gaoshan Marquis, paid homage to the Taizhong doctor, and named their four sons as Lang Lang.
When Liang Tong was in the court, he repeatedly reported things that were beneficial to the country.
He believes that if the law is too light, bad guys will increase, and the punishment should be increased and things should be done in accordance with the old laws.
So Shangshu said: I have seen that Emperors Yuan and Ai gave special punishments lightly and dealt with one hundred and twenty-three things. Those who killed people with their own hands were reduced to one level of death penalty. From then on, the standard was set, so people easily broke the law and officials killed people at will. The ministers heard that the principle of establishing a king should be based on benevolence and righteousness. Only the benevolent can love the people, and the righteous can govern the government. If you love the people, you should eliminate cruelty, and if you regulate politics, you should eliminate rebellion.
Punishment should be moderate and not too light. Therefore, the Five Emperors had methods such as exile, execution, release, and killing, and the Three Kings had methods such as large openings and skin carvings.
Confucius said: A benevolent person must be brave. He also said: The right words for financial management, and the wrong words for banning people are called righteousness.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty was ordered by heaven to punish the Qin Dynasty and pacify the world. He made a three-chapter agreement, which is indeed very appropriate.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty advocated leniency and kindness, and used softness to overcome toughness. In a time of peace, except for sparing corporal punishment and sitting on each other, everything else was still done according to the rules.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, China was strong and prosperous, with abundant financial resources, expeditions to distant places, and troop deployments many times. Some heroes violated prohibitions, and traitors took advantage of loopholes in the law. Therefore, they attached great importance to the chief offenders and harboring criminals, and punished those who coerced and followed them. This was used to break up cliques and punish those who hid and refused to retaliate.
Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty was wise and upright, and ruled the world. His ministers acted according to the law without making mistakes.
When Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping came to the throne, they did not last long and did not handle many cases. Prime Minister Wang Jia casually changed the old laws of the late emperor. Within a few years, more than a hundred things happened, some of which were unreasonable and some of which could not satisfy the people.
Now I state some of the things that are harmful to the political system on the left: I think that your Majesty has noble moral character, adapts to the situation, brings order to chaos, has more merits than King Wen and King Wu, and has the same moral character as Emperor Gao, so I should not act according to the decline of the last generation.
We should clearly understand the interests and disadvantages, consider the gains and losses, instruct the officials, choose the good and follow it, and establish unchanging regulations as the rules for future generations. Then the world will be very lucky.
The matter was brought to the attention of Sangong and Tingwei. Everyone believed that harsh punishments were not the current urgent task of King Ming. The old law had been in effect for a long time and could not be changed in one morning.
What Liang Tong proposed should not be adopted.
Liang Tong wrote again: The officials believe that what I said cannot be implemented.
Looking back on what I said, it cannot be called severe punishment.
I mean that after Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Xiaoxuan, they implemented many scriptures and traditions. Today we should focus on reality, refer to the past, and follow the old rules. It will not be difficult to change. This is my greatest wish.
If you hope to be summoned, if you are facing ministers and ministers, you can also speak the key points orally.
The emperor ordered his minister to inquire about the situation, and Liang Tong replied: I heard that the Holy Emperor and Ming King instituted punishments, so even in the heyday of Yao and Shun, four murderers were killed.
"The Book of Books" says: God punishes guilty people, and the five punishments have five uses.
He also said: Scholars subject the people to punishment.
Confucius said: If the punishment is not appropriate, then the people will put their hands and feet where they are.
The meaning is neither light nor heavy.
"Spring and Autumn" advocates righteousness and extermination of relatives, not avoiding relatives, in order to prevent troubles, save chaos, and stabilize the people. Isn't it the kindness of benevolence? The main thing is to put an end to the path of ruthless thieves! Since the rise of Emperor Gaozu and the arrival of Emperor Xiaoxuan, the emperor has been wise and his ministers loyal, and his strategies are profound and broad. He still abides by the old rules and does not make casual reforms. It is called governance in the country and there are fewer cases resolved.
In the early Yuan and Jianping dynasties, more than a hundred sentences were reduced, but the number of thieves increased, numbering in the tens of thousands every year.
Recently, a group of thieves broke out near Kyoto and even burned down Maoling and Weiyang Palace was also on fire.
Later, thieves from Longxi, Beidi, and Xihe crossed the prefectures and counties, colluded for thousands of miles, captured warehouses, robbed officials and people, and issued edicts to arrest them, but the harvest was not great year after year.
At this time, the world was peaceful and the people were stable, but thieves were still rampant. This was all caused by inappropriate punishments and fools breaking the law at will.
From this point of view, mitigating the punishment will only cause serious troubles; bad people will benefit and kind people will suffer. Therefore, I hope that your majesty will adopt the opinions of the virtuous ministers Kong Guang and Shi Dan.
The memorial was sent, but he was taken away without reporting.
Later Liang Tong served as the prefect of Jiujiang and was granted the title of Marquis of Lingxiang.
Liang Tong also had great achievements in governance in the county, and the officials and the people all feared and loved him.
Later died in official position.
◆In the biography of Liang Ji, Liang Ji's courtesy name is Bozhuo.
His shoulders were hunched like an eagle's wings, and his eyes were upright like a jackal. He looked straight at people with no expression on his face and his speech was slurred.
Learning can only be done by copying and writing and keeping accounts.
He has been a noble royal relative since he was a child, idle and unruly. He is fond of drinking and drinking, and is good at archery, playing chess, five grids, six gambling, playing ball, and playing with money. He also likes to drive hawks and dogs, and race horses and fight cocks. At first, he served as the Minister of Huangmen, and was promoted to the official positions of Shizhong, Huben Zhonglangjiang, Yueqi, Infantry Colonel, and Zhijinwu.
In the first year of Emperor Shun Yonghe's reign, Liang Ji was appointed Yin of Henan. During his tenure, he was brutal and cruel and did many illegal things.
His father, Liang Shang, had a close friend, Lu Fang, the commander of Luoyang, who discussed many of Liang Ji's shortcomings with Liang, and Liang Shang blamed Liang Ji for this.
Liang Ji had a grudge, so he sent someone to assassinate Lu Fang on the road. He was afraid that Liang Shang would find out, so he put the suspicion of assassinating Lu Fang on Lu Fang's enemies. He also asked Lu Fang's younger brother Lu Yu to be the order of Luoyang, asking him to capture the enemies who killed Lu Fang.
As a result, more than 100 members of Lu Fang's enemy's clan, relatives, and guests were killed. When Liang Shang died and was not buried, Emperor Shun appointed Liang Ji as the general and Liang Ji's younger brother, Shizhong Liang Buyi, as the Yin of Henan. When Emperor Shun of the Han Dynasty died, Emperor Chong of the Han Dynasty was only two years old and still in his infancy. The Queen Mother took charge of the court and ordered Liang Ji, Taifu Zhao Jun, and Taiwei Li Gu to participate in Shangshu affairs and take charge of the government.
Although Liang Ji refused to take responsibility, he was even more extravagant and cruel.
Soon, Emperor Chong of the Han Dynasty died again, and Liang Ji welcomed Emperor Zhi.
Emperor Zhi is young but very smart. He knew that Liang Ji was arrogant. When he met with the ministers in court, he looked at Liang Ji and said: This is a domineering general.
Liang Ji was very angry after hearing this, and ordered his cronies to put poison into soup cakes and give them to Emperor Zhi. Emperor Zhi died that day. After the death of Emperor Zhi, Liang Ji ushered in Emperor Huan and framed Li Gu and former Taiwei Du Qiao. Everyone in the country sighed and felt in danger. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Li Gu".
In the first year of the founding of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty granted 13,000 households in Liangji food towns, and increased the number of people recommended by the General's Palace for outstanding candidates and the number of talented people. The number of officials in the General's Palace was twice that of Taiwei, Situ, and Sikong.
Liang Buyi was also granted the title of Marquis of Yingyin, Liang Buyi's younger brother Liang Meng was granted the title of Marquis of Xiping, and Liang Ji's son Liang Yin was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangyi, each with a settlement of 10,000 households.
In the first year of peace, Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty granted another 10,000 households in Liangji and Hebei provinces, adding to the previous 30,000 households. Zaixuan, a native of Hongnong, had a treacherous and evil nature and wanted to please Liang Ji, so he wrote to the emperor saying that Liang Ji had the meritorious service of Zhou Gong and became king. Now that his son has been enfeoffed, his wife should also be enfeoffed as the king of the city.
Emperor Huan then granted Liang Ji's wife Sun Shou the title of Lord of Xiangcheng. In addition to the tax from Xiangcheng, he also enjoys the tax from Yangzhai County. The annual income is 50 million, and he is given a red seal ribbon, which is equal to the eldest princess.
Sun Shou was very beautiful, and was good at pretending to be demonic. He painted his eyebrows flat and thin, wore pink makeup that looked like tear stains on his cheeks, his bun was on the side, twisted his waist, and his feet seemed unable to support his weight. He put on a clever smile to seduce Liang Ji.
Liang Ji also changed the style of carriages and carriages, creating flat-top curtain carriages, piqus, narrow crowns, folded scarves, body-hugging fans, and foxtail singles. Sun Shouxing was jealous because she was able to subdue Liang Ji. Liang Ji doted on her very much and was also afraid of her. In the past, Liang Ji's father Liang Shang gave the beauty Youtongqi to Emperor Shun of the Han Dynasty.
You Tongqi made a small mistake, so Emperor Shun returned her to Liang Shang. Liang Shang did not dare to keep her and married her off.
Liang Ji sent someone to snatch her back. When Liang Shang passed away, Liang Ji secretly lived with You Tongqi in the west of the city.
Sun Shou found out that Liang Ji was out, so he brought many slaves with him, snatched You Tongqi home, cut off his hair, slashed his face, beat him severely, and wanted to write a letter to the emperor to report the matter.
Liang Ji was very frightened and kowtowed to Sun Shou's mother, asking her not to do this. Sun Shou also gave up because he had no choice but to do so. However, Liang Ji still had an affair with You Tongqi and gave birth to a son named Boyu. He hid him and did not dare to let him out.
Soon, Sun Shou still found out and taught her son Liang Yin to kill Youtongqi's family.
Liang Ji was afraid that Sun Shou would kill Boyu, so he often hid him in the wall.
Liang Ji favored a servant named Qin Gong, who became the Taicang Order and had access to Sun Shou's residence.
When Sun Shou met the Qin Palace, he often sent away the slaves who served her, pretending to have something to discuss, so she had an affair with him.
The Qin Palace favored Liang Ji externally and Sun Shou internally. It was so powerful that the governor and county governor went to see him and bid farewell to him when they were appointed.
Liang Ji listened to Sun Shou's words and dismissed many people in power in the Liang family. On the surface, he was showing humility, but in fact, he was raising the status of the Sun family and relatives.
As many as ten people from the Sun family became servants, ministers, captains, county guards, and chief officials under their false names. These people are greedy, violent and dissolute.
They each sent their cronies to record the wealthy households in the counties under their jurisdiction, added other charges, imprisoned them, tortured them, and asked them to pay for their sins. Those who contributed less money were often executed or exiled.
There was a Fufeng man named Shisun Fen who was very rich but stingy by nature.
Liang Ji gave him a carriage and horses, and borrowed 50 million yuan from him. Scholar Sun Fen gave him thirty million.
Liang Ji was furious and informed the county officials, falsely accusing Shi Sun Fen's mother of being a slave in charge of his family's property, saying that she had stolen ten husks of white pearls and a thousand pounds of purple gold and escaped. So the scholar Sun Fen brother was imprisoned, tortured, and killed in prison, and all his family's money of more than 170 million was confiscated.
The property collected from various parties, as well as the tribute items throughout the year, had to be given to Liang Ji first, while the emperor received the inferior ones.
There was an endless stream of officials and common people bringing property to the Liang family to plead guilty. Liang Ji also sent people out to the fortress to contact foreign countries and conduct extensive searches for rare treasures. Taking advantage of the opportunity to travel, they asked for singers and servants from various places, and the people they sent relied on their power and acted tyrannically, robbing and humiliating women of the people, and beating officials and soldiers. Everyone hated them wherever they went. Liang Ji then built a large mansion, while Sun Shou also built a courtyard across the street, maximizing civil engineering to show off and compete with each other. There are deep and dense rooms where guests are received and where they sleep every day. The houses are connected and the doors are connected. The pillars and walls of the courtyard are carved with patterns and painted with gold paint.
The windows, large and small, are decorated with silk patterns, carved with trivial patterns, and decorated with cyan, with clouds and immortals painted on them. The pavilions and pavilions are connected by passages, and you can climb up and look at each other. Stone steps bridge across the river. Gold, silver, pearls and jade, exotic treasures, filled the warehouses.
Fetch famous horses from distant Dawan.
They also opened gardens and used soil to build mountains.
There are nine slopes in ten miles to imitate the East and West Xiaoshan Mountains.
The deep forest and gloomy stream look like a real natural scene.
Rare birds and beasts fly away among them. Liang Ji and Sun Shou were traveling in a man-drawn cart with a feather-decorated hood hung with gold and silver inlays, touring the mansion.
They brought many singers with them, beat the bells, played the sheng and Xiao, and sang heartily all the way. Sometimes they stayed up all night, enjoying themselves. When guests come, the gatekeeper does not inform them. The guests had no choice but to bribe him heavily, so much so that the gatekeeper's savings amounted to thousands of gold.
Liang Ji also added gardens, and the prohibitions were the same as those of the royal family. The garden is vast, reaching Hongnong in the west, Xingyang in the east, Luyang in the south, and the Yellow River and Qishui in the north. It encompasses mountains, forests, swamps, and stretches into hills and wilderness, and the surrounding territory stretches thousands of miles.
He also built Tuyuan in the west of Henan City, stretching for dozens of miles. He mobilized soldiers and civilians from several counties under his jurisdiction to build pavilions. It took several years to complete the construction. Then a proclamation was sent to the local area to collect raw rabbits and cut off a handful of rabbit fur as a mark. If anyone violated the ban and harmed these rabbits, he would be sentenced to severe punishment, including corporal punishment or death. There once was a businessman from the Western Regions who, unaware of the ban, killed a rabbit by mistake. People reported him, and more than ten people died. Liang Ji's second brother once secretly sent people to Shangdang for hunting. When Liang Ji found out, he arrested his second brother's guests and killed more than thirty people in one time. No one came back alive. Liang Ji also built another mansion in the west of the city to accommodate those fleeing traitors. Sometimes innocent people were captured and used as slaves, as many as thousands of people, which was called self-sale.
In the first year of Yuanjia of Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Huan wanted to honor Liang Ji with special grace because of his meritorious service in making him emperor, so he convened with the ministers to discuss the courtesy for Liang Ji.
The official in charge then asked Liang Ji to go to court without bowing. He could wear boots and a sword when he went to the palace. He could pay homage to the emperor and pay tribute without calling him by his name. The etiquette was similar to that of Xiao He. All the remaining households in Dingtao and Chengyang granted to Liang and Ji were granted to him, adding a total of four counties, which was equal to that of Deng Yu in the early Eastern Han Dynasty.
The reward was money, slaves, colorful silks, carriages and horses, clothes, and mansions, equal to Huo Guang's.
Use these special courtesy to show Liang Ji's merits. Every time he goes to court, he does not sit with the three princes, but has a seat to himself.
I went to court in ten days to review the affairs of the Shangshu Province.
Announce these practices to the world as a system that will last forever. Liang Ji also felt that the courtesy offered was meager and was very unhappy. He holds great power and commits evil acts even more recklessly.
All matters in the court, big and small, were decided by him without consulting him. The guards and ministers in the palace were all arranged by him. He knew all the situations in the palace and every minute thing.
All civil and military officials who were transferred to their posts or summoned by the emperor must first go to Liangji Mansion to submit a letter of thanks before they dared to go to Shangshu Province to accept orders.
Wu Shu, a native of Xiapi, was appointed as the magistrate of Wan County. Before taking office, he bid farewell to Liang Ji.
Many of Liang Ji's relatives and friends are in Wan County. Liang Ji interceded for them and asked Wu Shu to take care of them. Wu Shu replied: "Every villain who does bad things should be killed."
General, you assume the position of general by virtue of the queen's majesty. You should reward the virtuous and make up for the shortcomings of the court.
Wan County is a big city, a place where scholars gather together. Since I sat here to listen to the teachings, I have never heard you praise a loyal elder. And if you ask me to take care of those who should not take care of me, I really dare not obey your orders.
Liang Ji remained silent after hearing this, feeling very unhappy. When Wu Shu arrived in Wan County, he killed dozens of Liang Ji's disciples who had harmed the people.
Liang Ji hated Wu Shu deeply from then on. Later, Wu Shu was transferred to the position of governor of Jingzhou and bid farewell to Liang Ji before leaving. Liang Ji held a farewell banquet for him and secretly poisoned the wine.
Wu Shu died in the car as soon as he went out. There was also Hou Meng, the governor of Liaodong, who had just received the appointment and did not go to see Liang Ji. Liang Ji had him cut in half on the pretext of other matters.
At this time, the doctor Yuan Zhu, who was from Runan, was nineteen years old. He was very angry when he saw Liang Ji's cruelty and wantonness.
So he went to the palace gate and wrote to the emperor, saying: I heard Zhongni sighing that the phoenix bird would not come and the Yellow River would not come out. He lamented that his humble status could not cause the political situation of the Qingming Dynasty.
Now Your Majesty has the position to bring clarity to the political situation, and he has the talent to bring clarity to the political situation. However, the world is not yet harmonious enough to respond to the great destiny, and the wise and foolish cannot occupy their positions. This is because power is in the hands of powerful ministers, and the government and the public are blocked by decrees.
The four seasons run, and when the year is over, it will retreat. The highest title and deep favor in the world rarely do not lead to disaster.
At present, the general's power has reached the extreme, his achievements have been completed, and he can serve as a warning. Liang Ji should be allowed to follow the etiquette of becoming an official, resign, and rest in peace.
Ancient books say: If a tree has many fruits, it is easy to break its branches and harm the heart of the tree.
If Liang Ji's power is not restrained, his wealth and life will not be saved.
When your ministers hear these words from me, they will look sideways and gnash their teeth with hatred. It's just that I was promoted because I was young, so I dared to offend taboos and write a letter to speak out.
In the past, Shun and Yu warned each other not to be as arrogant and carefree as Danzhu; Zhou Gong warned King Cheng not to be as tyrannical and unethical as King Zhou of Yin. I hope that your Majesty will abolish the crime of defamation so that people in the world can dare to speak.
Yuan Zhu's memorial was delivered to the emperor. Liang Ji heard about it and secretly sent people to arrest Yuan Zhu. Yuan Zhu changed his name and surname. Later, he pretended to have died of illness, used cattails as his body, and bought a coffin for burial.
Liang Ji discovered Yuan Zhu's scam, secretly arrested Yuan Zhu, beat him to death, and concealed the incident.
Liu Chang, a student from Guiyang, was a famous Confucian at that time and had always been close friends with Yuan Zhu. Liang Ji insulted him by calling him to fill the vacancy of a minor official like Ling Shi.
At that time, Hao Xie and Hu Wu, both from Taiyuan, loved to express their honest opinions and profound insights. They are all friendly with Yuan Zhu.
Originally, Hao Xie and others jointly submitted a letter to the Sangong Mansion, recommending noble and virtuous people in the world, but not to the general. Liang Ji now recalled this incident and was very angry; he also suspected that Hao Xie and others were Yuan Zhu's accomplices. So he ordered the officials in Zhongdu to issue official documents to capture those who wrote letters to the Sangong Mansion recommending virtuous people, and kill them all. He also killed Hu Wu's family, killing more than 60 people in total.
When Hao Xie escaped before, he knew that he would not avoid disaster, so he used a car to pull the coffin to Liang Ji's house to submit a letter.
After the letter was delivered, he committed suicide by taking poison.
In this way, his family was saved. After Liang Ji was executed, the imperial court issued an edict to pay homage to Yuan Zhu and others.
All the cruel and vicious things Liang Ji did were similar to this situation.
Liang Buyi loved scriptures and treated virtuous corporals. Liang Ji was secretly jealous of him, so he told Emperor Huan through the Zhongchang Shi that he should be transferred to Guangluxun. He also hinted that the ministers jointly recommended Liang Yin, Liang Ji's son, to be the Yin of Henan.
Liang Yin, also known as Hu Gou, was only sixteen years old at this time. He was ugly and could not wear official clothes or hats. Everyone who saw him on the road laughed at him.
Liang Busu felt ashamed that he was estranged from his brothers, so he resigned and went home, closing the door with his younger brother Liang Meng and not participating in foreign affairs.
Liang Ji didn't want Liang Buyu to interact with guests, so he secretly sent someone in disguise to wait in front of his door and take note of anyone coming and going.
Ma Rong, the governor of Nanjun, and Tian Ming, the governor of Jiangxia, visited Liang Buyi when they first took office. Liang Ji hinted to the state and county officials to find other things to frame them, and sentenced them all to shaved heads and whippings, and sent them to Shuofang.
Ma Rong attempted suicide and Tian Ming died on the road.
In the second year of Yongxing reign of Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty, Liang Ma, son of Liang Buyi, was granted the title of Marquis of Yingyin, and Liang Tao, son of Liang Yin, was granted the title of Marquis of Chengfu.
In total, Liang Ji's family has seven people who have been granted the title of marquis, three queens, six nobles, two generals, seven women and daughters who have settled in the city and become "kings", and three people who have married princesses. The remaining fifty-seven people hold official positions such as Qing, General, Yin, and Xiao.
Liang Ji had been in power for more than 20 years, and his power was extremely powerful. He exerted his despotic power inside and outside the court. All officials looked sideways and did not dare to disobey his orders. The emperor had no choice but to respect him and did not dare to handle all government affairs personally.
Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty was already dissatisfied with Liang Ji's arrogance.
In the first year of Yanxi, Taishi ordered Chen Shuo to pass through Xiaohuangmen Xu Huang and state that the great general should be blamed for the solar eclipse disaster. Liang Ji knew about it and suggested that Luoyang ordered Chen Shuo to be arrested and tortured. Chen Shuo died in prison, and Emperor Huan was furious.
At first, the wife of Deng Xiang, a native of Yeting, named Xuan, and gave birth to a daughter, Deng Meng. Deng Xiang died, and Xuan remarried Liang Ji.
Liang Ji was the uncle of Liang Ji's wife, Sun Shou.
Sun Shou sent Deng Meng to the harem, where he was favored by Emperor Huan and made a nobleman. Liang Ji wanted to recognize Deng Meng as his daughter to consolidate his position. So Deng Meng changed his surname to Liang.
At that time, Deng Meng's brother-in-law Bing Zun served as Yilang. Liang Ji was afraid that Bing Zun would prevent Xuan from letting his daughter change her surname, so he met an assassin in Yancheng who assassinated Bing Zun and also wanted to kill Xuan.
The Xuan family lived in Yanxi, and were neighbors to Yuan She, a regular servant of the Central Government. Liang Ji sent assassins to the Yuan family's house, hoping to enter the Xuan family from there.
When Yuan She found out, he beat drums to gather the people and told Xuan the situation. Xuan immediately ran to Emperor Huan to report.
Emperor Huan was furious and discussed with Shan Chao, Ju Yuan, Tang Heng, Zuo Xuanguan, Xu Huang and others to kill Liang Ji. This incident is recorded in "Eunuch Biography".
Liang Ji suspected Shan Chao and others, so he sent Zhang Yun from Zhonghuangmen to stay in the palace to prevent accidents.
Ju Yuan ordered the officials to arrest Zhang Yun, saying that he had entered the palace without permission and had evil intentions.
Emperor Huan therefore came to the front hall, called all the ministers in, and announced the matter. The minister, Yin Xun, was sent to hold the talisman, and officials below Shangshu Cheng and Shangshu Lang were sent to guard various official offices in the palace with weapons. Gather all the talismans and send them to the palace.
Huangmen ordered Ju Yuan to lead the knights, Huben, Yu Lin, Duhou swordsmen and halberds from the left and right stables, totaling more than a thousand people, together with Sili captain Zhang Biao, to surround the Liangji mansion. He sent Guangluxun Yuan Xu to collect the seal and ribbon of General Liangji with a talisman, and conferred him the title of Marquis of Bijingdu Township.
Liang Ji and his wife Sun Shou committed suicide that day.
A total of more than 300 Liang Ji's former officials and guests were dismissed from office. The court was therefore empty. Only Yin Xun, Yuan Xu and Tingwei Handan Yi were in the court.
At that time, because the incident suddenly broke out in the palace, the messengers rushed back and forth to report the incident. The ministers were at a loss and the government and the people were in great commotion. It took several days to settle down, and the people all applauded and celebrated.
Liang Ji's property was confiscated and sold by the court, totaling more than three billion yuan, which was used to replenish the national treasury and reduce half of the world's taxes.
Liang Ji's gardens were demolished and given to poor people for farming and grazing.
The meritorious personnel who killed Liang Ji were evaluated, and dozens of people below Shangshu Ling Yin Xun were awarded.
