◆Huangfu Song's biography, Huangfu Song's character is Yizhen, he was the son of the brother of Huangfu Gui, the general who conquered Liao Dynasty.
Father Huangfu Festival, Yanmen Prefecture.
When Huangfu Song was young, he had ambitions of literary and martial arts. He was good at "Poems" and "Books", and learned to bow, sword and ride horses.
He began to be promoted as Xiaolian and Maocai.
Taiwei Chen Fan and General Dou Wu were summoned one after another, but neither of them went.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, he was promoted to Yilang by a public chariot and promoted to the governor of the North.
In the past, Julu Zhangjiao claimed to be a great teacher. He believed in the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi, adopted disciples, knelt down and stated his faults, and used talisman water to recite mantras to cure diseases. The patients were cured, and the people believed in him.
Therefore, Zhang Jiao sent eight of his disciples to all directions to educate the people of the world by doing good deeds and deceiving and confusing them.
Over the past ten years, hundreds of thousands of believers have contacted counties and counties, and no one from the eight prefectures of Qing, Xu, You, Ji, Jing, Yang, Yan, and He did not respond.
So thirty-six squares were set up.
Fang is equal to the title of general.
There are more than 10,000 people in Dafang and six or seven thousand in Xiaofang. Each party has a general.
Rumors were spread that: Cang Tian is dead, Huang Tian should be established, and the age of Jiazi will bring good luck to the world.
Written in white clay on temple gates in the capital and on state and county government offices, they are all marked with the character Jiazi.
In the first year of Zhongping, Dafang Ma Yuanyi and others first collected tens of thousands of people from Jing and Yang, and gathered at Ye regularly to set off.
Ma Yuanyi visited the capital many times, using Zhongchang Shifeng and Xu Feng as internal agents, and agreed to start an uprising both inside and outside the capital on March 5.
Before the rebellion broke out, Zhang Jiao's disciple Jinan Tang Zhou wrote a letter to report, so he drove Ma Yuanyi to Luoyang.
Emperor Ling used Zhou Zhang to issue orders to the three princes and officials, and ordered Zhou Bin to take the three government officials with him. He asked the palace guards and the people if they believed in Zhang Jiao, killed more than a thousand people, tracked down Jizhou, and arrested Zhang Jiao and others.
Zhang Jiao and others knew that the matter had been exposed, so they notified all parties day and night and started revolts at the same time.
They all wore yellow scarves as a symbol. At that time, they were called "yellow scarves" and also "moth thieves".
Kill people and sacrifice to heaven.
Zhang Jiao was called General Tiangong, Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Bao was called General Digong, and Zhang Bao's younger brother Zhang Liang was called General Renggong.
Wherever he went, government offices were burned, villages and towns were robbed, states and counties lost their basis, and many officials fled.
Within ten days, the whole country responded and the capital was shaken.
The imperial court ordered the prefectures and counties to repair offensive and defensive positions, select and prepare ordnance, and set up captains at Hangu, Dagu, Guangcheng, Yique, Longyuan, Xuanmen, Mengjin, and Xiaopingjin passes.
Call the ministers to a meeting.
Huangfu Song believed that the ban on the party should be lifted, and he gave Zhongzang money and Xiyuan stable horses to the sergeants.
Emperor Ling adopted his opinion.
So he recruited the best soldiers from all over the world. Generals were widely selected, and Huangfu Song was appointed as the left Zhonglang general. He held the talisman, and together with the right Zhonglang general Zhu Ai, they sent out five schools, Sanhe knights and recruited brave warriors, totaling more than 40,000 people. Huangfu Song and Zhu Ai unified their armies and joined forces to attack the Yingchuan Yellow Turbans.
Zhu Ji had previously fought against the thief Bo Cai and was defeated, so Huangfu Song marched to defend Changshe.
Bocai led a large army to besiege the city, but Huangfu Song had few soldiers. The army became frightened, so he summoned the military officers and said: "There is a strange change in the army, not because there are more soldiers than there are fewer soldiers."
Nowadays, thieves have camped on grass and are prone to catching fire due to the wind.
If you set fire to it at night, you must be frightened and dispersed. I will send troops to attack and surround it on all sides. Tian Dan and Jimo will use the fire ox to attack Yan and win.
That night, there was a strong wind, so Huangfu Song ordered his sergeants to tie up ropes and climb up the city. He sent elite and brave men to go out on the small road, lit fires and shouted, and the city raised torches in response. Huangfu Song beat drums and rushed to the enemy's position. The thieves fled in panic.
At this time, Emperor Ling sent Cao Cao, the cavalry captain, to arrive with his troops. Huangfu Song, Cao Cao and Zhu Ji joined forces to fight again. They defeated the rebel army, beheaded tens of thousands of people, and made Huangfu Song the Marquis of Duxiang.
Huangfu Song and Zhu Ji took advantage of their victory to attack Runan and Chen Guohuangjin, pursued Bo Cai in Yangdi, attacked Peng Tuo in Xihua, and defeated them all.
The remaining thieves either surrendered or fled, and the three counties were pacified.
They also attacked Dongjun Huangjin Buji in Cangting, captured Buji alive, and beheaded more than 7,000 people.
At that time, Lu Zhi, the general of Bei Zhonglang, and Dong Zhuo, the general of Dong Zhonglang, attacked Zhang Jiao, but they all failed, so they ordered Huangfu Song to lead troops to attack Zhang Jiao.
Huangfu Song fought against Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Liang in Guangzong. Zhang Liang's troops were elite and brave, but Huangfu Song could not defeat him.
The next day, Huangfu Song closed the camp and allowed the soldiers to rest and observe the changes in the enemy's army.
Knowing that the thieves and sergeants had become lax, they quietly gathered their troops at night, waited until the rooster crow, launched a charge, and fought until dark. They defeated the enemy army, beheaded Zhang Liang, and won the 30,000-level leader. About 50,000 people went to the Yellow River and drowned. They burned more than 30,000 vehicles and equipment, captured all the enemy's wives, children, and arrested many.
Zhang Jiao died of illness first, so he opened his coffin, killed his body, and reported it to the capital.
Huangfu Song, together with Feng Yi and Guo Dian, the governors of Julu, attacked Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Bao in Xiaquyang and killed him.
More than 100,000 people were captured, and their corpses were piled up and sealed with earth to build a palace in the south of the city.
Huangfu Song was appointed General of Zuo Chaoqi and Jizhou Mu, and was granted the title of Marquis of Huaili. He served in Huaili and Meiyang counties, totaling 8,000 households.
Because the Yellow Turbans had been pacified, the year was changed to Zhongping.
Huangfu Song petitioned to reduce one year's land rent in Jizhou to help the hungry people. Emperor Ling agreed.
The common people made a song: The world is in chaos, the city has turned into ruins, the mother cannot protect her son, the wife has lost her husband, help Huangfu to live in peace again.
Huangfu Song loved to nurse his soldiers and was very popular. Every time you take a break during the march, you have to wait for the military tent to be set up before entering your own tent.
The sergeants have all eaten, and then I eat.
Some officials accepted bribes for certain reasons, and Huangfu Song even gave them money and gifts. The officials were ashamed, and some even committed suicide.
Huangfu Song has eliminated the Yellow Turbans, and his fame shocked the world. However, the political affairs of the imperial court became more and more chaotic day by day, and the country was empty and troubled.
The previous letter made Hanyang Yan Zhong rashly say to Huangfu Song: What is rare and easy to lose is time. When the time comes, the opportunity also comes.
Therefore, highly cultivated people move with the times, and smart people take advantage of opportunities.
Now that you have encountered rare luck, you are taking advantage of opportunities that are easy to change, but if you do not grasp the luck and do not take advantage of the opportunity, how can you maintain your reputation?
Huangfu Song said: What are you talking about?
Yan Zhong said: The way of heaven has no relatives, but the people use their talents.
Now the general is ordered by the emperor in late spring to fight against thieves, and then returns to the throne at the end of winter. He marches like a god, no longer planning, destroying a strong enemy is easier than defeating a withered enemy, and digests ice faster than melting snow. Within ten months, the magic soldiers are like lightning to eliminate bandit chaos, seal corpses and carve stones, report to the court, shock the court with great power, and become famous overseas. Although Tang Wu's actions are not higher than that of a general.
Now that you have established immortal achievements and have a noble character, how can you find safety by serving a mediocre master?
Huangfu Song said: You work hard day and night and never forget to be loyal to the emperor. Why are you uneasy?
Yan Zhong said: Otherwise.
In the past, Han Xin could not bear to meet the King of Han at a meal and lose the great cause of establishing a three-thirds of the world. The sharp sword had choked his throat, and he sighed with regret. This was because the opportunity was lost and the plan was wrong.
He got angry and took advantage of the situation to rise up and destroy everything. It means to show favor, to reward those who surrender first, and to use troops to deal with those who surrender later.
The people of Jizhou were recruited and the people of the seven states were mobilized. The announcement was issued first, and the army followed. Cross the Zhang River, cross Mengjin, kill the eunuchs, and eliminate the group of evil spirits. Even children can do it, and women can wear their clothes and use their lives, let alone whip the soldiers of the bear and ride the force of the wind! The work has been accomplished and the world is in order. Then please call God to express the destiny, unify the four seas, call the south, move the divine weapon to the generals to rise, and push the Han Dynasty to fall. This is really the key to the divine plan, and it is a good time to cause trouble. Rotten wood cannot be carved, and the decaying world is not easy to help.
If you want to assist the unavailable court, carving decayed wood is like walking on a mud ball uphill or sailing a boat against the wind. Is it easy?
Moreover, eunuchs now live in groups and seek the same evil. The emperor's orders cannot be implemented. The power is in the hands of the eunuchs. The foolish master cannot stay with him for a long time. The credit is too great, and the villain is jealous. If he does not plan his plan in advance, it will be too late to regret.
Huangfusong became frightened and said: "Extraordinary plans cannot be carried out under normal circumstances. Great achievements cannot be achieved by mediocre people."
The clown in the yellow turban is not the enemy of Qin and Xiang. If they are newly combined, they will be easily separated and will not contribute to their achievements.
And God will not protect the rebels until they forget the Lord.
If you want to achieve unattainable achievements in vain and hasten the arrival of disaster, it is better to be loyal to the dynasty and abide by the integrity of the ministers.
Although there were many slanders, he was exiled and abandoned, and he still had a good reputation and was immortal even after death.
I dare not listen to abnormal remarks.
Yan Zhong knew that the plan could not be adopted and ran away.
At the time when Bian Zhang and Han Sui were causing trouble in Longyou, in the spring of the next year Huangfu Song was ordered to return to Chang'an to defend the garden and mausoleum.
Bian Zhang and others invaded Sanfu again and sent Huangfu Song to attack them.
At first, when Huangfu Song was conquering Zhangjiao, he passed by Ye and saw that the building of Zhao Zhong's house exceeded the regulations, so he sent a memorial to confiscate his house.
Also, Chang's attendant Zhang asked a private person to ask for fifty million from him, but Huangfu Song refused to give it. Zhao and Zhang hated Huangfu Song because of this, and reported to Huangfu Song that the battle was fruitless and expensive.
In the autumn of this year, he was recalled and received the seal and ribbon of General Zuo Chaoqiu. He cut off 6,000 households and changed his title to Duxiang Hou, with 2,000 households.
In the fifth year, the Liangzhou bandit kingdom surrounded Chencang. Huangfu Song was appointed as the general of the left, and Dong Zhuo, the former general in charge, each led 20,000 people to resist.
Dong Zhuo wanted to go to Chencang soon, but Huangfu Song refused to listen.
Dong Zhuo said: A wise man never misses an opportunity, a brave man never hesitates.
If you save it quickly, the city will be saved; if you don't save it, the city will be destroyed. The situation of preservation or destruction was at this moment, Huangfu Song said: Not like this.
It is better to surrender the enemy's army without fighting than to win a hundred battles.
Therefore, you must first act like you are invincible and wait for the enemy to be able to defeat you.
The invincible lies with me, but the victorious lies with the enemy.
The enemy is hard to defend against, but I am very proactive in attacking, hitting wherever I want.
The ones that are more than enough seem to be moving above the Nine Heavens, and those that are not enough seem to be trapped under the Nine Earths.
Now, although Chencang is small, the fortifications that defend the city are strong and complete, and it is not a trap in the Nine Heavens. Although the kingdom is strong, if I can't save anything if I attack, it is not a situation above the Nine Heavens.
Without a situation above the Nine Heavens, those who attack will suffer. If you fall under the Nine Grounds, your defense will not be broken.
The kingdom is now in a vulnerable position, and Chen Cang can be guaranteed not to be breached. I can mobilize a large number of troops and receive a complete victory, so why should I save him?
He never listened to Dong Zhuo.
The kingdom surrounded Chencang. From winter to spring, for more than eighty days, the city was firmly defended, but it was not captured in the end.
The bandit troops were so exhausted that they had no choice but to rescue themselves.
Huangfu Song commanded the troops to attack.
Dong Zhuo said: No, the art of war says that the defeated enemy should not be pursued, and the retreating troops should not be forced.
Now, when we pursue the kingdom, we are forcing the retreating troops. We are pursuing the defeated enemy and the besieged beasts. They still have to struggle. The bees are poisonous, not to mention so many people!
Huangfu Song said: That's not the case.
In the past, when I did not attack, it was to avoid his fierceness. Now, when I attack, I wait until the enemy is weakened.
We attack the exhausted enemy, not the retreating troops.
The troops of the kingdom were ready to flee and had no fighting spirit.
Using a majestic formation to attack the defeated enemy is not called chasing the poor bandits.
He led his troops to attack alone and made Dong Zhuo's rear. After a few battles, the kingdom was severely defeated and more than ten thousand people were beheaded.
The kingdom fled and died.
Dong Zhuo was ashamed and jealous. Therefore, he hated Huangfu Song.
The next year, Dong Zhuo was appointed as the shepherd of Bingzhou, and he was ordered to hand over his troops to Huangfu Song. Dong Zhuo did not obey the imperial order.
Huangfu Song's nephew Huangfu Li was in the army at this time and advised Huangfu Song: "This dynasty is in turmoil, political corruption, and the people are suffering terribly. The only ones who can save the crisis from overthrowing are your Excellency and Dong Zhuo."
Now the two have developed a grudge and are irreconcilable.
Dong Zhuo was ordered to deliver troops to you, but he refused to do so. This is a violation of the emperor's order.
He was delayed because of the chaos in the capital. This was treason.
He is violent and has no loyal people, and his soldiers will not follow him.
Your Excellency is now a marshal. You rely on the power of the country to defeat him. You have shown your loyalty to your superiors and eliminated evil for your subordinates. This is Huan Wen's career!
Huangfu Song said: Although Dong Zhuo is guilty of disobeying orders, I am also responsible for punishing him.
It is better to report it to the court openly and let the court handle it.
So he wrote to the court.
Emperor Ling blamed Dong Zhuo for something wrong. Dong Zhuo resented Huangfu Song even more.
When Dong Zhuo later came to power, in the first year of Chuping, he recruited Huangfu Song as the city gate captain and wanted to kill him.
Huangfu Song was about to go, but Liang Yan, the chief historian, persuaded him: The Han Dynasty was weak and the eunuchs were in chaos. Although Dong Zhuo killed the eunuchs, he could not be loyal to the country. He robbed the counties of the capital, deposed the emperor and established the emperor as he wished.
If you recruit a general today, you will not only suffer great disasters, but you will also suffer humiliation.
Now Dong Zhuo is in Luoyang, and the emperor comes to the west. He uses the general's troops, 30,000 elite soldiers, to welcome the emperor. He is ordered to attack the rebels. He issues orders to the sea, recruits troops, and gathers all the commanders. The Yuan family comes to attack him from the east, and the general goes to attack him from the west. It is not a problem to capture Dong Zhuo.
Huangfu Song refused, so he was called up.
The officials followed Dong Zhuo's order and told Huangfu Song to hand him over to the jailer, preparing to kill him.
Huangfu Song's son Jianshou had a good relationship with Dong Zhuo, so he rushed from Chang'an to Luoyang and defected to Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo was preparing wine to welcome him. Jian Shou walked up to Dong Zhuo and questioned Dong Zhuo. He scolded Dong Zhuo out of righteousness and kowtowed with tears.
Everyone present was moved by this and stood up to ask Dong Zhuo not to kill Huangfu Song. Dong Zhuo got up and took Huangfu Jianshou to sit with him.
He sent someone to free Huangfu Song from prison, and then appointed Huangfu Song as Yilang and promoted to Yushi Zhongcheng.
When he arrived at Dong Zhuo and returned to Chang'an, he was greeted by the officials and ministers at the roadside.
Dong Zhuo hinted that all officials below Zhongcheng, the censor, must bow down and submit to Huangfu Song. After everything was done, he took Huangfu Song's hand and said, "Are you convinced by Yi Zhen?"
Huangfu Song smiled and apologized to him. Dong Zhuo finally relieved his hatred.
When Dong Zhuo was killed, Huangfu Song was appointed General of the Western Conquest and promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry.
In the autumn of this year, he was appointed as Taiwei. In winter, he was dismissed from office due to the appearance of meteors.
He was appointed as Guanglu doctor again and promoted to Taichang.
Not long after, Li Chu rebelled, and Huangfu Song also died of illness. He presented the seal and ribbon to General Hussar and appointed one of his family members as Lang.
Huangfu Song was a benevolent, prudent and diligent person. He wrote more than 500 things that would be beneficial to the country, and then destroyed the drafts and did not publicize them to the outside world.
He was also an open-minded corporal and tried his best to promote him. There was no guest in the house who stayed because he was not recommended.
At that time, people praised him and supported him.
Jianshou was also famous at that time. Later, he became a servant, but he could not resign and died of illness.
◆The biography of Zhu Jun, whose courtesy name is Gongwei, was from Shangyu County, Kuaiji County.
My father died when I was young, and my mother used to sell silk fabrics.
Zhu Jun was famous for being a filial piety to his mother, and he served as a secretary in the county. He loved justice more than wealth, and the villagers admired him very much.
At that time, Zhou Gui of the same county summoned the government, and when he set out on his journey, he borrowed a million dollars from the county treasury to pay for clothing. Later, the county urgently demanded payment, and Zhou Gui's family was too poor to pay back. Zhu Jun stole his mother's silk to prepare money for Zhou Gui to solve the problem.
As a result, his mother lost her inheritance and became furious and scolded him.
Zhu Jun said: A small loss will lead to a big benefit. It is inevitable to be poor first and then rich.
Yangdu Shang, the magistrate of Shangyu County, met Zhu Jun and thought he was not an ordinary person. He introduced him to Wei Yi, the prefect, and he took up some positions in the county. The succeeding prefect Yin Duan took Zhu Jun as his chief official.
In the second year of Xiping's reign, Yin Duan was impeached by the state because he failed to attack the traitor Xu Zhao. He was guilty of abandoning the city.
Zhu Jun wore rags, walked along the narrow road, brought hundreds of gold to the capital, and bribed the officials in charge of the memorial. Because he was able to change the memorial to Dingzhou, Yin Duan was sent to Zuo School for labor reform.
Yin Duan was very happy that he was exempted from the exemption, but he didn't know the reason, and Zhu Jun never said it.
Later, the prefect Xu Wanggui promoted Zhu Jun to be filial and honest, and was promoted to the Lanling Order. His political achievements were very good, and he was commended by the Prime Minister of the East China Sea.
At this time, a group of thieves broke out in Jiaozhi tribe, but Mu Shou was too weak to stop them.
He also handed over the rebels Liang Long and more than 10,000 people, who rebelled with Kong Zhi, the prefect of Nanhai, and conquered the counties.
In the first year of Guanghe, he appointed Zhu Jun as the governor of Jiaochengzhi. He ordered Zhu Jun to recruit 5,000 soldiers in the county plus the ones he had dispatched. They marched in two directions and arrived at the state border. He stopped advancing. He first sent envoys to the county to observe the strength of the thieves and publicize the power of the court to shake their hearts. Then he joined forces with the soldiers of the seven counties to force the thieves. He killed Liang Long and tens of thousands of people surrendered. They were all pacified within a month.
Zhu Jun was granted the title of Marquis of Tingting in the capital for his meritorious service, with 1,500 households, 50 jins of gold, and conscription as an admonishment official.
When the Yellow Turban bandits arose, many ministers recommended Zhu Jun as a talented man. He was appointed as the Right Zhonglang General, holding the emperor's festival, and he and the Zuo Zhonglang General Huangfu Song attacked the Yingchuan, Runan, and Chen Kingdom thieves, and they were all put down.
Huangfu Song went up to report on the situation of pacifying the thieves, and attributed the credit to Zhu Jun. Therefore, the Jin Dynasty granted Zhu Jun the title of Marquis of Xixiang, and promoted him to the rank of Lang General in the town of thieves.
At this time, Zhang Mancheng, a yellow turban in Nanyang, raised an army. He claimed to be the envoy of the gods and had tens of thousands of people. He killed Chu Gong, the governor of the county, and stayed in Wanxia for more than a hundred days.
Later, the prefect Qin Jie killed Zhang Mancheng, and the thieves appointed Zhao Hong as their commander. The army gradually grew to more than 100,000 people and occupied Wancheng.
Zhu Jun, Jingzhou governor Xu Chu and Qin Jie gathered 18,000 troops to surround Zhao Hong. From June to August, they could not capture Zhao Hong.
The manager wanted to recruit Zhu Jun.
Sikong Zhang Wen Shangshu said: In the past, the Qin State appointed Bai Qi, and the Yan State appointed Le Yi. It took many years before they could defeat the enemy.
Zhu Jun's crusade against the Yingchuan bandits has been successful. He has led his troops to the south. The plan has been made. Changing generals before the battle is taboo for military strategists. Zhu Jun should be given some time to win.
Therefore, Emperor Ling did not recruit Zhu Jun.
Zhu Jun therefore attacked Zhao Hong severely and finally killed him.
The remaining thief commander Han Zhong took Wan again to resist Zhu Jun.
The Jie soldiers were few and invincible, so they set up a siege and fortified the city. They raised earthen hills to serve as the inner city and beat drums to attack the southwestern side of the city. The thieves attacked with all their strength.
Zhu Jun himself led five thousand elite troops, assaulted the northeast of the city, and climbed into the city.
Han Zhong had no choice but to withdraw from the small town and asked to surrender in fear.
Sima Zhang Chao, Xu Chu and Qin Jie all wanted to accept Han Zhong's surrender.
Zhu Jun said: The military has the same physical appearance but different potential.
In the past, during the reign of Qin Xiang, the people had no fixed masters, so they rewarded those who came to join him to encourage those who had not yet returned.
Now that the country is unified, only the Yellow Turbans can cause chaos. Accepting surrender cannot encourage good people, and only crusade can punish evildoers.
Accepting surrender now will further encourage the idea of ​​​​causing chaos. If it is advantageous to the thieves, they will go to war. If it is not advantageous, they will beg for surrender. It is not a good idea to indulge the enemy and encourage the rebellion.
Due to the hasty attack, they were unable to win consecutive battles.
Zhu Gan climbed up Tushan Mountain to look around, then turned around and said to Zhang Chao: I understand!
The thieves' outer perimeter was strong, but the inner camp was pressed hard. They could neither surrender nor escape, so they fought to the death.
It’s not enough for ten thousand people to unite, let alone one hundred thousand!
The harm of a strong attack is too great.
It is better to remove the siege and gather the troops into the city.
When Han Zhong saw that the siege had been lifted, he would definitely come out on his own. When he came out, his thoughts would disperse. This is an easy way to break through.
After the siege was lifted, Han Zhong came out to ask for a battle, and Zhu Jun attacked and won a great victory. And they took advantage of the victory and pursued for dozens of miles, beheading more than 10,000 people.
Han Zhong and others surrendered.
But because Qin Jie hated Han Zhong and killed him, the remaining thieves were frightened and uneasy, so they still stationed themselves in Wanzhong with Sun Xia as their commander.
Zhu Jun rushed to attack, but Sun Xia escaped and chased him to Jingshan Mountain in western Hubei. He defeated him again and beheaded more than ten thousand people before the thieves were disbanded.
In the spring of the next year, the imperial court sent an envoy to appoint Zhu Jun as the Right Cavalry General on the Emperor's Day. He returned to the capital in triumph and was appointed Guanglu Doctor.
He resigned from the official position due to the death of his mother, and later came out from home to serve as an official. He was appointed as a master craftsman, and transferred to the Shaofu and Tai servants.
Since the Yellow Turban rebellion, there have been countless followers from Heishan, Huanglong, Baibo, Zuoxiao, Guo Daxian, Yu Digen, Qingniujiao, Zhang Baiqi, Liu Shi, Zuo Zhuzhangba, Pinghan, Daji, Sili, Juzai, Lei Gong, Fuyun, Feiyan, Baique, Yangfeng, Yudu, Wulu, Li Damu, Bairao, Qigu, and Kuca, and they have appeared in the valley.
Among them, the loud one is called Lei Gong, the one riding a white horse is called Zhang Baiqi, the brisk one is called Feiyan, the one with many beards is called Yu Digen, and the one with big eyes is called Damu. Each of these titles has its own reasons.
The big one has 20,000 to 30,000 people, and the small one has 6,000 to 7,000 people.
Zhang Yan, a bandit commander from Changshan, was light, brave and good at walking, so he was called Feiyan in the army.
He was very loved by the soldiers, and interacted with bandits in Zhongshan, Changshan, Zhaojun, Shangdang, and Hanoi valleys. Their number reached one million, and they were called Black Mountain Bandits.
All counties and counties in Hebei suffered from them, and the imperial court could not attack them.
Zhang Yan sent an envoy to the capital to beg for surrender. The imperial court awarded Zhang Yan the rank of Lieutenant General in times of difficulty, allowing him to manage affairs in the valleys of Hebei. He could be promoted to filial piety, honesty, and planning officials every year.
Zhang Yan gradually invaded Hanoi and approached the capital, so he appointed Zhu Jun as the governor of Hanoi and led his troops to repel him.
After that, many of the thieves were put down by Yuan Shao, which was recorded in the "Biography of Yuan Shao". Zhu Jun was again appointed as the Guanglu doctor, and he was assigned to the garrison and cavalry. Soon, he was awarded the title of Chengmen Xiaowei and Henan Yin.
At this time, Dong Zhuo was in power and thought Zhu Jun was a veteran. On the surface, he pretended to trust him, but in his heart he was jealous of him.
When the Kwantung Army became powerful, Dong Zhuo was afraid. He convened many meetings with ministers and moved the capital to Chang'an, but Zhu Jun often stopped him.
Although Dong Zhuo hated Zhu Jun for opposing him, he wanted to take advantage of his fame, so he asked him to be promoted to Taiwen as his deputy.
The imperial envoy offered him an official position, but Zhu Junci refused to accept it.
He said: If the country's capital moves westward, it will definitely disappoint the hopes of the people of the world and become a disaster for Shandong. I don't see how it is right.
The messenger asked: I called you to worship, but you refused. I didn't ask you about moving the capital, but you talked about moving the capital. What's the reason?
Zhu Jun said: I am not qualified to be the deputy prime minister; moving the capital is not a top priority.
It is appropriate for me to resign those who are incompetent and say that those are not the urgent matters of the day.
The envoy said: I have never heard of the capital relocation, and the state has not announced it. How did you know about it?
Zhu Jun said: Prime Minister Dong Zhuo told me everything, so I know!
People could not submit to him, so he was not appointed as the deputy prime minister.
Dong Zhuo later entered the Pass and left Zhu Jun to guard Luoyang. Zhu Jun conspired with the Shandong generals to act as an internal agent.
Later, he was afraid of being attacked by Dong Zhuo, so he abandoned his official position and ran to Jingzhou.
Dong Zhuo appointed Hongnong Yang Yi as Henan Yin and guarded Luoyang.
Zhu Jun heard about it and marched into Luoyang again, but Yang Yi ran away.
Zhu Jun believed that Henan was in ruins and had nothing to rely on, so he went east to garrison Zhongmou and notified the prefectures and counties, asking them to send troops to attack Dong Zhuo.
Tao Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, sent out 3,000 elite soldiers, and other states and counties also gave some. Tao Qian wrote a letter to recommend Zhu Jun as a riding general.
Dong Zhuo found out and sent tens of thousands of his generals, including Li Chun and Guo Si, to Henan to resist Zhu Jun.
Zhu Jun attacked and was defeated by Li Chu and Guo Si.
Zhu Jun himself knew that he was invincible, so he stayed in Guanxia and did not dare to move forward.
After Dong Zhuo was executed, Li Ju and Guo Si rebelled, while Zhu Jun was still in Zhongmu.
Tao Qian believed that Zhu Jun was a famous official with many military exploits and could be appointed to great tasks, so he and other heroes recommended Zhu Jun as the grand master, notified the shepherds, and challenged Li Ju and others to welcome the emperor.
Because the memorial to Zhu Jun said: Tao Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, Zhou Qian, the former governor of Yangzhou, Yinde, the prime minister of Langfu, Liu Kui, the prime minister of the East China Sea, Ji Lian, the prime minister of Pengcheng, Kong Rong, the prime minister of Beihai, Yuan Zhong, the prime minister of Pei, Ying Shao, the prefect of Taishan, Xu Chu, the prefect of Runan, Fu Qian, the former prefect of Jiujiang, Dr. Zheng Xuan, etc., dared to speak out the driving general of Henan Yin Mufu : After the country suffered the disaster of Dong Zhuo, there was also the rebellion of Li Chu and Guo Si. The young master was kidnapped, Zhongliang was brutally killed, Chang'an was isolated, and it was unclear what the good or bad outcome would be.
Therefore, there is no scholar-bureaucrat who is not afraid of being an official and governing people. I think if there are not wise and wise people, how can we stop the chaos!
It has been three years since the army was launched. The states and counties watched each other and did not take credit for attacking. They only fought against each other for selfish reasons and did not trust each other.
The humility and others discussed together to eliminate the difficulties, and they all said: Generals and princes are civilized and military, and they are in line with the times. All upright people will not fail to look up.
Therefore, we encourage each other to select capable troops who can penetrate deep into the enemy's army and point directly at Xianyang. There is a lot of supplies and food, which can last for half a year. With one heart and one mind, we trust the marshal.
At that time, Li Chu used the strategy of Taiwei Zhou Zhong and Shangshu Jia Xu to recruit Zhu Jun to the court.
The military officials were afraid of entering the pass and wanted to respond to Tao Qian and others.
Zhu Jun said: "When summoning ministers with the emperor's order, you should go there without waiting for the carriage, let alone the emperor's edict?"
Moreover, Li Chu and Guo Si were treacherous villains, and Fan Chou was mediocre and useless. They had no other far-reaching plans, and since they were equal in power, trouble was bound to happen.
If I take advantage of their unpreparedness and act suddenly, great things can happen.
So he resigned from Tao Qian and went to Li Chu's recruitment. If he becomes a servant again, Tao Qian and others will have nothing to do.
In the fourth year of Chuping's reign, Zhu Jun replaced Zhou Zhong as Taiwei, and also served as minister of book affairs.
In the autumn of the next year, he was dismissed from his post due to the solar eclipse, and resumed his military duties as a hussar general, holding the Emperor's Festival to guard Kantung.
Before setting off, when Li Chu was about to kill Fan Chou, Guo Si became suspicious and started fighting with Li Chu. Chang'an was in chaos, so Zhu Jun did not go to guard Guandong and stayed in the court as the chief minister.
Emperor Xian ordered Zhu Jun, Taiwei Yang Biao and more than ten people to persuade Guo Si to reconcile with Li Chu.
Guo Si refused and detained Zhu Jun and others as hostages.
Zhu Jun, who always had a strong personality, fell ill and died that day.
Zhu Jun's son Zhu Hao was also talented and virtuous, and was promoted to the governor of Yuzhang.
The historian commented: Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun both received orders when the country was in chaos because of their talents as generals.
Successfully conquer the enemy, and become famous all over the world.
At a time when weak leaders were humiliated and evil thieves were disobedient, this was the time when Lord Ye rose up in high spirits and Zhai Yi raised his troops to kill Wang Mang. Therefore, Liang Yan presented the rules and the Shandong Alliance did not go to Zhengtian's great cause, but practiced the small faith of ordinary people. As a result, they were embarrassed and ridiculed by knowledgeable people.
Is it God who wants to encourage this kind of rebellion?
Why can't wise and brave people reach this point from beginning to end?
In the history of Huaqiao, Jin Pingyuan, it is said that his father, Guanglu doctor Huabiao, often said that his grandfather, Wei Taiwei Hua Xin, said: People at that time said that Huangfu Song did not take credit for himself. In the battle of Ruyu, they attributed the credit to Zhu Jun and defeated Zhang Jiao.
Generally speaking, fame is the most important thing in the world. If you really don't compete with the world, the most important thing is, then the resentment will not be deep!
For example, when Duke Huangfu was in danger, he was able to preserve his family, life, and wealth. Isn't his noble character and integrity very commendable?
Therefore, Yan Zi first did not boast about his good deeds. This may be the key to establishing himself.
