In the past, the system of the kings, from the emperor, princes to slaves, their official titles, salary, life and death system had different levels. The small ones could not surpass the big ones, and the lowly ones could not surpass the noble ones. Therefore, the top and bottom were orderly and the people's hearts were stable. Therefore, different geographical conditions such as land, rivers, lakes, hills, fertile land, plains, and depressions were identified, and the people were taught planting and livestock raising techniques. In this way, the people's supplies for daily life and funerals, including grains, livestock, fish, turtles, birds, beasts, firewood, wood, instruments, and other materials were produced. Production must follow certain seasons, and consumption must be controlled.
Before the first month of the lunar calendar, one cannot go into the mountains and forests to cut down trees. Before the first month of the lunar calendar, one cannot go to the rivers and lakes to fish.
In addition to complying with seasonal production, they are also not allowed to cut down small trees in the mountains, cut young grass by the lake, catch young insects, fish, or beasts, or collect bird eggs. This is to adapt to the seasonal climate and allow various organisms to reproduce and thrive. In this way, you can give full play to the effects of nature and make all kinds of property reserves abundant.
Then, according to the natural conditions of the area, the scholars, farmers, industry and merchants gave full play to their intelligence and physical strength, got up early and went to bed late, managed their own industries, and exchanged with each other: the results of their work met their respective needs. In this way, there is no additional requisition of civilian manpower and material resources, and there is sufficient property in areas near and far.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says: The monarch uses decrees to determine the changes in nature, assists the heaven and earth to suit the needs of the world, teaches the people to engage in production, produces various kinds of property, uses it in various aspects, and makes various utensils so that the world can benefit. This is the greatness of the sage, and this is what it means.
"Guanzi" said: In ancient times, scholars, farmers, workers, and merchants were not allowed to live together.
Scholars discuss benevolence and righteousness with each other in the place where they study, craftsmen discuss skills with each other in the government office, businessmen discuss wealth and profit with each other in the market, and farmers discuss farming affairs with each other in the fields. They are engaged in one occupation from morning to night and do not change when things change.
Therefore, even if their father and brother's teachings are not strict, they can teach their children well; their children can learn skills even if they do not work hard. They are content with where they live and are happy to pursue their own professions. Even if they see strange and gorgeous items, they will not accept them because they are not suitable for their customs. This is just like the customs of the Rong people and Di people in the northwest and the Wuyue people in the southeast cannot be integrated.
In this case, people's desires are few and things are simple, and property is abundant without competition.
So the rulers use morality to guide them and use rituals to unify them. Therefore, the common people have integrity and courtesy, value benevolence and righteousness, and despise wealth.
This is the summary of why the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties were able to develop along the right path and govern the country without resorting to harsh politics.
When the Zhou royal family declined and etiquette was destroyed, Duke Zhuang of Lu violated Zhou etiquette by carving on the rafters of his father Huan Gong's temple and dyeing the pillars red.
Zang Wenzhong, a senior official in the State of Lu, violated the Zhou rites by carving mountain shapes on the tops of the columns and painting algae on the short columns on the beams. Shiqing Ji of Lu State played music and dance in the temple with eight hundred people. The three families of Meng Sun, Shu Sun and Ji Sun of Lu State actually sang the poem "Yong" to remove the sacrifices when worshiping their ancestors. This trend spread to ordinary scholars and civilians. Everyone deviated from the system of the Holy King and gave up their business. The number of people working in agriculture decreased, and the number of people doing business increased. There was a shortage of food and an abundance of luxury goods. This trend of decline developed after Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, etiquette and righteousness were greatly destroyed, superiors and subordinates offended each other, the politics of various countries were very different, the ethos of the officials were different, the activities of pursuing profit could not be curbed, and there was no end to the behavior of destroying the hierarchy.
As a result, merchants sold rare and exotic goods, craftsmen produced utensils with no practical value, and scholars engaged in crooked activities to obtain wealth in pursuit of the favor of the times.
A deceitful person goes against the facts and obtains a name by deception; a treacherous person violates the law and harms others to seek profit; a person who murders the monarch and usurps the power of the country becomes a prince; and a person who robs the fiefdom of a great official becomes a hero.
Etiquette and righteousness cannot restrain a gentleman, and punishment and killing cannot frighten the common people.
The rich use silk to decorate their houses and walls, and their dogs and horses eat grain and meat with leftovers, while the poor cannot even wear coarse cloth and often eat beans and drink raw water.
They are all common people with registered households, but their status is different due to different financial resources. Although some become slaves, they still have no resentment.
Therefore, those who play political tricks and do evil can be rich all their lives; those who follow justice and stick to the right path are not immune to the threat of hunger and cold.
This trend emerged from the upper echelons of society and stemmed from the destruction of the legal system.
Therefore, these things are listed to record the changes in the world.
In the past, when King Gou Jian of Yue was besieged on Kuaiji Mountain by Wu soldiers, he appointed Fan Li and Ji Ran to assist in state affairs.
Ji Ran said: If you know how to fight, you will organize your defense; if you know when to use what, you will truly understand the value of things.
If you understand the relationship between time changes and the supply and demand of goods, you can understand the market conditions of various goods.
Therefore, when there is a drought, ships are purchased in advance to prepare for floods, and when there are floods, vehicles are purchased in advance to prepare for drought. This is in line with the laws of development and change of things. The State of Yue pursued the policy of Ji Ran, and after ten years of rule, the country became greatly wealthy. It rewarded the soldiers with large sums of money, and finally avenged the State of Wu and washed away the shame of being besieged in Kuaiji.
Fan Li sighed and said: Ji Ran had ten strategies, but the king of Yue only used five to realize his wish.
Since it can be used to enrich the country, I also want to use it to enrich the family.
So he took a small boat and wandered around the rivers and lakes, changing his name and surname. When he went to Qi, he was called Yi Yi Zipi, and when he went to Taoyi, he was called Zhu Gong.
Fan Li believed that Taoyi was at the center of the world and was well connected with the princes and countries in all directions, making it very convenient to trade goods. So he managed the property, hoarded it, adapted to circumstances, used his ingenuity to make profits, and selected people to lend money, so that the debt could be recovered without the need for recovery.
Therefore, people who are good at making money must first be able to choose people, and secondly, they must be good at seizing opportunities.
In his 19th year, Duke Zhu earned a thousand pieces of gold three times and distributed it twice to his poor friends and distant brothers.
Later, when he got old and frail, he left it to his children and grandchildren to make the decision. The children and grandchildren could inherit the family business and develop it, and eventually the family would be rich.
Therefore, when people in later generations talk about rich men, they all praise Duke Tao Zhu.
After Zi Gan studied under Confucius and became an official, he returned to Wei and became an official. He also made money by doing business between Cao and Wei.
Among the seventy disciples of Confucius, Duanmu Ci, Zigong, was the richest. Another favorite disciple of Confucius, Yan Yuan, was so poor that he lived in a narrow alley.
Zigong, with his high chariot and four horses, followed by knights cheering in front and behind him, went out as envoys to the princes with bundles of silk and generous gifts. Wherever he went, he fought with the king in the same court.
However, Confucius praised Yan Yuan for his wisdom and ridiculed Zigong, saying: Yan Hui's knowledge is almost close to the holy way. Although his pocket is often short, he enjoys it.
Zigong did not follow the teachings, he only made money through business, speculated about right and wrong, and got lucky.
Bai Gui, a native of Zhou. During Wei Wenhou's time, Li Ke was the prime minister and devoted himself to guiding farming and land utilization, while Bai Gui liked to observe the price changes in the market in different periods, so he advocated that when others give up, I take, and when others take, I give.
Bai Gui can not pay attention to food and drink, restrain his hobbies and desires, save on clothing, share the joys and sorrows with the servants and servants in charge, and seize opportunities for wealth as quickly as beasts and ferocious birds seize food.
Therefore Bai Gui said: My business pursuit is just like Yi Yin and Lu Shang plotting state affairs, Sun Tzu and Wu Qi using troops to fight, and Shang Yang promoting reforms.
Therefore, for those who are not smart enough to adapt to changes like me, not brave enough to be resolute and decisive, not benevolent enough to make correct choices, and not strong enough to stick to principles, even if they want to learn my way of making money, I will never tell them.
Most people today who talk about how to make money in business regard Bai Gui as their ancestor.
Yidun made his fortune by operating Chiyan, while Guo Zong, a Handan native, accumulated his family fortune by smelting iron and casting ironware, and his wealth was comparable to that of princes.
Wu Shiying was engaged in animal husbandry. When the livestock multiplied in large numbers, he sold them all, purchased strange things and silk fabrics, and secretly presented them to the Rong King.
King Rong rewarded him with livestock worth ten times as much as the donated items. The livestock given were so many that the number of cattle and horses was calculated using the valley as a unit.
Qin Shihuang ordered that Wu Shizhen be treated as a monarch and that he and his ministers should go to the palace to meet him at the specified time.
The widow of Bajun was named Qing. Her ancestors discovered a cinnabar mine. Several generations of people had been enjoying the profits from the mining, and their family wealth was countless.
Qing is a widow. She can keep her ancestors' family property and use money to protect herself from infringement.
Qin Shihuang believed that she was a chaste woman and treated her like a guest, so he specially built a Nuhuaiqing platform for her.
According to the system of the Qin and Han Dynasties, princes and feudal lords levied rent taxes, usually two hundred yuan per household per year.
The annual income of a thousand-household prince is 200,000 yuan, and expenses such as meeting the emperor, visiting princes, offering sacrifices, and locking gifts all depend on 200,000 yuan.
Farmers, craftsmen, merchants, etc. among the common people, if their families have 10,000 yuan, they can get 2,000 yuan in interest every year, and those with one million yuan can have an income of 200,000 yuan every year, and all the labor, rent and taxes are spent from the house. This kind of family.
General desires for food and clothing can be satisfied as best as possible. Therefore, fifty horses are raised on the land, one hundred and sixty-seven cattle are raised, two hundred and fifty sheep are raised, two hundred and ten pigs are raised in the swamps, thousands of rocks of fish are raised in the ponds, and large tree trunks are planted in the mountains.
There are thousands of jujube trees in Anyi; thousands of chestnut trees in Yan and Qin; thousands of orange trees in Shu, Mo, and Jiangling; thousands of tangerine trees in Huaibei and south of Rongshui, between the Yellow River and Jishui; thousands of acres of lacquer trees in Chen and Xia; thousands of acres of mulberry trees in Qi and Lu There are thousands of acres of bamboo orchards in the Wei River; and there are thousands of acres of fertile farmland with a yield of one bell per acre in the suburbs of the famous cities with thousands of households in the county, or thousands of acres of gardenias and madders, or thousands of acres of ginger and leeks: all such families are as wealthy as Qianhuhou.
The proverb says: If a poor man wants to get rich, it is better to work than to farm, to do business than to work, and to do business on the street than to embroider.
This means that doing business is a reliable way for poor people to get rich.
In a city that extends in all directions, in a year, one can sell thousands of jars of wine, thousands of jars of vinegar and sauce, and thousands of jars of syrup, slaughter and sell thousands of cattle, sheep, and pigs, sell thousands of clocks of rice, thousands of carts of firewood, thousands of ships, and thousands of timber buildings. Thousands of bamboo poles, hundreds of chariots, thousands of ox-carts, thousands of lacquered wooden vessels, 30,000 jins of bronzes, unvarnished wooden vessels, iron vessels and thousands of stones of gardenias and madders, 200 horses, 250 oxen, sheep and pigs Two thousand, a hundred servants, a thousand catties of sinew and cinnabar, thirty thousand catties of other silk, wadding, and bundles of cloth, a thousand bolts of satin, a thousand stones of coarse cloth and leather, a thousand buckets of lacquer, a thousand bucks of distiller's yeast, salt, and black beans, sea fish, and knives Thousands of catties of fish, thousands of small miscellaneous fish, thirty thousand catties of salted fish, three thousand jin of dates and chestnuts, thousands of fox and mink fur coats, thousands of lambskin coats, thousands of felt blankets, thousands of various fruits and vegetables, and thousands of usury money. Brokers regulate prices. A greedy businessman makes a profit of three-tenths if he makes a large profit but does not sell well. A calm businessman makes a profit of five-tenths if he makes a small profit but quick turnover. Their income can also be compared with that of Qian Huhou.
This is the general picture. The ancestors of the Zhuo family in Shu County were from Zhao State and made their fortune by smelting iron.
When the Qin State conquered the state of Fang, it exiled the Zhuo family to Shu County. The couple pushed a cart to the place of exile.
Among the fellow exiled prisoners, those who had a little extra money rushed to give it to the officials in charge, begging to be moved to a closer place and placed in Jiameng County.
Only the Zhuo family said: Jiameng County is a small place and the land is barren.
I heard that the land at the foot of Marriage Mountain is fertile and produces big taro. With it, you will not be hungry until you die.
The people there are very good at doing business and it is easy to do business.
So he asked to be exiled further away.
The officials sent his family to Lin. The whole family was very happy. They mined and smelted iron in the mountains where there were iron ores, cast iron tools, planned and managed carefully, and did business with people in the Yunnan and Shu regions. He was so wealthy that he had eight hundred servants. He usually goes fishing and hunting, and is as happy as the king.
Cheng Zheng was a captive exiled from Shandong to the southwest region. He also ran a smelting and casting industry and sold ironware to local ethnic minorities. He was as wealthy as the Zhuo family.
After the decline of the Cheng and Zhuo families, during the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, the wealth of Chengdu native Luo Pei reached tens of millions.
When Luo Ai went to the capital to do business, he took nearly a million dollars with him, and he managed the money for the Shi family from Pingling.
Luo Fei is a strong and courageous person.
The Shi family's wealth was slightly inferior to that of the Pinglingru family and the Ju family. He trusted Luo Pei very much and gave him a lot of money to do business in Ba, Shu and the capital. After a few years, he made more than 10 million yuan in profits.
Luo Fei used half of the money to bribe Wanggen, the Marquis of Quyang, and Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, and relied on their power to lend the remaining half to the county. No one dared to owe him anything.
He monopolized the profits from the well salt business and made a fortune twice as much as his capital in one year.
The ancestors of the Kong family in Wan County were from Daliang and were engaged in the smelting and casting industry.
Qin destroyed Wei and moved the Jie family to Nanyang. The Kong family vigorously engaged in the smelting and foundry industry, and planned farmland and water conservancy. They traveled with chariots and horses, made friends with the princes, and took the opportunity to trade with the princes and make profits, and won the reputation of "the leisurely son".
However, his profit exceeded the capital spent, and he made more money than those who care about everything. His family accumulated wealth worth thousands of gold. Therefore, everyone doing business in Nanyang imitated Kong's grace and generosity.
The people of Lu are frugal in their customs, and the Bing family is even more prominent. Mr. Bing started his career by smelting iron and his wealth reached tens of millions.
But his family, from father to brother to descendants, all abide by a family rule: when you bend down, you must gain something, when you raise your head, you must gain something, and every move must be profitable. His family made loans and did business throughout the counties.
Because of the influence of the Bing family, many people in Zou and Lu areas abandoned literature and went into business to make profits.
The custom in Qi despises slaves, but Dao Xian likes to value slaves.
The fierce and cunning servants gave people a headache, but Dao Xian took them in and sent them to run the fish and salt merchants' profits. Some of them went out in teams to make friends with the county guards and ministers, and Dao Xian trusted such servants even more. Dao Xian finally relied on their strength to accumulate tens of millions of money.
So the slaves said: It is better to be a slave in Dao's family than to go out to seek officialdom. It means that Dao Xian can make Hao Nu personally wealthy and make them do their best for themselves.
After the decline of Daoxian, during the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, a man named Wei from Linzi had assets of fifty million yuan.
The people of Zhou were frugal and stingy enough to begin with, and Shishi was even more generous. He dispatched hundreds of vehicles loaded with goods to do business in various counties and states.
Luoyang is located in the center of Qi, Qin, Chu and Tang. Rich families boast to each other that they have been doing business abroad for a long time, so they often pass by Luoyang without entering their homes.
Being able to use this kind of people, Shishi can make as much as 100 million.
After the decline of Shishi, by the time of Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai, and Wang Mang, the wealth of Luoyang natives Zhang Changshu and Xue Zizhong also amounted to tens of millions of dollars.
Wang Mang appointed them all as Nayanshi, hoping to follow the example of Emperor Mowu, but he failed to get the benefits of appointing them as officials.
An ancestor of the Ren family in Xuanqu County worked as a warehouse manager in a local area.
When the Qin Dynasty was defeated, local heroes scrambled to seize gold, silver and jade, but only the food stored in Ren's kiln warehouses.
When the Chu and Han Dynasties were fighting over Rongyang, farmers were unable to farm, and the price of food rose to ten thousand yuan per stone. As a result, all the gold and jade of the heroes fell into the hands of the Ren family. As a result, Ren became rich.
The rich compete for luxury, but the Ren family does not pretend to be frugal and frugal, and vigorously engages in farmland and animal husbandry.
People rush to buy bargains, but Ren prefers expensive and high-quality things.
His family's wealth lasted for several generations. But the family rules of the protagonist Ren stipulate that he will not eat anything that is not produced by his own farming and livestock, and he is not allowed to drink alcohol or eat meat until official business is completed.
Therefore, the Ren family became a role model in the village, so he was rich and respected by the emperor.
When the country opened up the frontier area, only Qiaotao had a thousand horses, two thousand cattle, ten thousand sheep, and tens of thousands of grains.
During the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms of Wu and Chu, the princes and princes in Chang'an City wanted to follow the army out of the country to fight, and borrowed money from moneylenders at usurious rates for their travels. The moneylenders believed that their food towns and feudal states were all in the Guandong area, and the outcome of the war in Guandong was uncertain, so they refused to lend money.
Only the Wuyan family loaned them a thousand gold coins and charged ten times the interest.
After three months of fighting, the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms of Wu and Chu was put down.
Within one year, Wu Yan earned ten times the interest and became a rich man in Guanzhong.
Most of the wealthy businessmen in the Guanzhong area were from wealthy families with the surname Tian, ​​among which Tian Qiang and Tian Lan were the richest.
The Li family of the Wei family and the Du family of Anling also had great wealth.
After the decline of the previous wealthy people, from the reigns of Emperors Yuan and Cheng to Wang Mang, the wealthy families in Chang'an, the capital, included Fan Jia from Duling County, Zhi Gang from Maoling County, Ru family and Ju family from Pingling County, Wang Junfang who sold elixirs, Fan Shaoweng and Wang Sun Daqing who sold black beans in Chang'an County. They were all wealthy families in the world.
Fan Jia has 50 million yuan, and everyone else has tens of millions in property.
Wang Sunqing used money to support the scholars and associate with outstanding talents. Wang Mang appointed him as the capital city division, which was the Shu Shiling in the Western Han Dynasty.
The above-mentioned people are all very famous and outstanding rich people.
As for the wealthy people in other counties and counties, there are countless wealthy people who hold patents and gain prominence in the countryside through bribery.
Therefore, Qin Yang became rich in a state because of his large fields; Weng Bo became the first household in the county by selling animal oil; Zhang made a fortune by selling soy sauce and lived a luxurious life that exceeded the regulations of the system; Zhi made a fortune by sharpening knives and setting up a tripod to eat; Zhuo made a fortune by selling dried meat, and was surrounded by chariots and riders; Zhang Li became rich by treating horses and struck bells to eat; their lives all exceeded the regulations of the hierarchical system.
But they usually stick to their careers, accumulate profits bit by bit, and gradually become rich.
As for the Zhuo family from Shu, the Kong family from Wan, and Daoxian from Qi, they openly took advantage of the profits from the mountains, rivers, copper, iron, and fish and salt markets, planned and competed with the emperors for profits, and monopolized the livelihood of the common people. They all fell into illegality, luxury, and evil.
What's more, those who got rich through tomb robbing, gambling, robbery, crime and treachery, such as Qu Shu, Ji Fa, Yong Lecheng and others, still stand side by side with kind people and are not punished. This is a way to corrupt customs, damage education, and lead to social chaos.
