Zongyang, named Mingzha, was a native of Nieyang County, Nanyang County, and had lived in Jiangling for generations.
His grandfather's name was Zong Bing, who was recruited by the Southern Song Dynasty as the crown prince and concubine. He did not accept the appointment and had a high reputation.
Zongyang's father, Zongfan, served as Xizhonglang to consult and join the army.
Zongyang was diligent in studying when he was young, and he was measured and talented.
At the age of twenty, he passed the Yingzhou scholar examination, served as a regular attendant of King Lin, and joined the army as a knight.
King Situ Jingling of the Southern Qi Dynasty gathered the scholars to the West Residence and painted portraits of them, including Zong Yang.
During the Yongming Dynasty, Southern Qi and Wei made peace. The emperor ordered Zong Yang and Ren Fang, the lieutenant of the Shangshu Palace, to receive the Wei envoys. They were all talents selected at that time.
Prince Nanjun, the direct grandson of Emperor Wu of Qi, lived in Xizhou. He asked Zong Yang to be in charge of the secretary. Zong Yang was already known by everyone for his good calligraphy and was praised for his loyalty and integrity, so he made this appointment.
Soon, Prince Wenhui passed away, and Prince Nanjun became the grandson of the emperor. Zongyang was still in charge of the secretary.
After the emperor's grandson ascended the throne and became emperor, Zongyang voluntarily distanced himself from him because of his many failings. He was appointed magistrate of Moling County and moved to Shangshu Duguanlang.
In the last years of Longchang, the Young Emperor was executed, and most of the old officials who had been favored in the past suffered disaster. Only Zong Yang and Fu Zhao were spared from disaster because of their integrity.
After Emperor Ming came to the throne, he appointed Zong Yang to govern Yingzhou. He was famous for his competent work. Later, he resigned and returned to his hometown because his father was old.
When the King of Nankang was the governor of Jingzhou, he regarded Zongyang as his best friend.
After Liang Gaozu rebelled against the division, Zong Yang moved to Xizhonglang to consult and join the army, but the post of Biejia remained.
At that time, in terms of status and reputation in the western countries, only Zong Yang and fellow countrymen Le Ai and Liu Tan were highly respected and trusted by the people of the state. Therefore, the leading general Xiao Yingzhou trusted and relied on him very much and consulted him on everything.
Gaozu's righteous army set out from Yongzhou, and Yingzhou sent Zongyang out from Yang to report the strategy in person and escort military supplies. Gaozu was very polite to him.
In the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty, Zong Yang moved to the post of Censor Zhongcheng, but resigned due to the death of his father.
When the period of mourning expires, he will be promoted to the title of Champion General and Chief of the Guards.
In the first year of Tianjian, Zong Yang was moved to the post of Chief of the Zhengqi and Grand Administrator of Shuhai County, but his duties as general remained as before.
In the second year, he was called to serve as the crown prince's right guard.
In the winter of this year, Zong Yang moved to the post of Minister of the Fifth Army and participated in the general election of the officials in charge.
Three years later, Zong Yang died at the age of forty-nine.
His son Zong Yaoqing succeeded him.
Zongyang's cousin Zongyue had a good reputation and good behavior. People in the state praised him and said he was more famous than Zongyang.
He served as Shangshu Kubu Lang, governed Yingzhou, and Beizhong Lang recorded affairs and participated in the military.
Liu Tan, courtesy name Dedu, was a native of Anzhong County, Nanyang County, and the seventh-generation grandson of General Liu Qiao of the Jin Dynasty.
Liu Tan was known to his cousin Liu Qiu when he was a boy.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty in the Southern Dynasty, Liu Tan became the official servant of the Nanjun King. Soon after, he was appointed as the magistrate of Xiaoling County, and moved to Nanzhonglang to record affairs and join the army. He was famous for his ability in handling affairs in the palace positions he held.
When King Nankang was the governor of Jingzhou, Liu Tan appointed his Xizhong Langzhong soldiers to join the army and also served as Changliu.
After the rise of Emperor Gaozu's righteous army, Liu Tan moved to consult and join the army.
At that time, Yang Gongze, the general of the auxiliary state, was appointed as the governor of Xiangzhou. He led his troops to Xiakou and discussed with the people in charge of state affairs in the western countries. Xingtan said to them: The people in Yiye are easy to be harassed and hard to trust.
If warriors are sent there, the people will be afraid of being embezzled and plundered; if literati are sent there, the prestige will not be enough.
If it is necessary to stabilize this state and city so that the soldiers and civilians have enough food and clothing, then the best candidate is the veteran minister.
After the Battle of Xianwen, I secretly thought that I was still competent.
So the birth-bearer obeyed his words.
He was granted the title of Assistant to the Chief of History of the State and Governor of Changsha to manage nearby affairs.
Xing Dan used to work in the wing industry and had many old friends. Many of them came to welcome Liu Tan.
After Su Pi took office, he selected people who were qualified to do the work as officials and went to ten counties respectively to mobilize all the people. More than 300,000 hu of rice were transported to the rebel troops as military supplies.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun sent Liu Xizu, the governor of Ancheng County, to defeat Fan Sengjian, the governor selected by Xitai, in Pingdu. Liu Xizu issued a letter of war to Xiangzhou, so Wang Tanken, the king of Maggot Castle, responded.
The Wulu people expelled their internal historian Chu Rong, and the Yongyang people Zhou Hui raised troops to attack Shi'an Qi. They all came to respond to Wang Sengsai.
Gua fell into a trap, and Deng Daoli also participated in it in order to avenge himself.
Wang Sencan himself was known as the General of Pingxi and the Governor of Xiangzhou. He appointed Zhou Shu from Yongyang as the mastermind and raised an army in Naipo.
From then on, all the counties within the fishery territory swarmed into existence; only four counties, Zuobao, Laobi, Subi and Luo, were still intact.
The Lao people wanted to escape by boat, but Liu Tan gathered all the boats and set them on fire. He sent General Yin Falue to resist Wang Sencan, and the two armies were in a stalemate.
Zhong Baoti, the commander of Qianyi Town, secretly formulated a plan to respond to Wang Sencan. He invited hundreds of scholars and common people to formulate a plan and agreed on a date to rebel against the city.
Liu Tan heard about their plot, but pretended not to know. He deliberately handled the case until late at night, and the city gate was not closed because of this, deliberately confusing them.
Zhong Xuanshao had not launched a rebellion yet, so he went to Xingtananaguo the next day to ask why the city gate was not closed.
While Liu Dan stayed with him for a long talk, he secretly sent his trusted soldiers to Zhong Baoqi's home to search for letters.
Zhong Shiti was sitting and talking in Xipi's corner. Before he got up, the soldiers sent out had come back and reported how they had obtained Xuanchi's documents. Zhong Xuanti quickly bowed his head and Supi killed him on his seat.
Xingtan burned the document, and the rest of the party ignored it. Everyone felt ashamed and obeyed Liu Tan, and the territory was peaceful.
After several months of confrontation between Yin Falue and Wang Sengken, Jianchenqiu was pacified, Renzhou returned to the fishing industry, and the bandits began to disperse.
In the early years of Tianjian, Xi Xie was awarded the title of Lord of Yiqiu Shu due to his meritorious service, and was granted a residence of 300 households.
He was moved to the post of Sima Pingxi and the prefect of Xinxing County.
In the third year of Tianjian, he moved to Xizhonglang Changshi and died at the age of sixty-two.
His son Liu Quan succeeded him.
Bimai, whose courtesy name is Lanwei, is the sixth-generation grandson of Bi Tong, a scumbag from Chenmo County. He has lived in Jiangling for generations.
Le Ai's uncle, the governor Zong Maggot, once placed some utensils to test several of his nephews.
Le Ai was still very young at the time, but he only took books, so Samo was surprised by him.
He also took one volume each of history books and biographies and gave them to Bi Yilong and others, asking them to talk about the contents of the books after reading them.
Bi Mai was able to tell all the contents after reading it briefly, and Zong Yin fell in love with him even more.
At that time, King Yi of Yuzhang of Qi was the prefect of Wuling, and he was elegant, kind and kind in his administration. When Yi was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, Bimai was recruited to be the chief administrator.
When Xingsai was an official in Zhituye, he also called Leai to join the army in Zhengbei Prison and moved to the post of prime minister.
He later resigned due to his father's death. Local officials and people went to Zhouxiang to ask him to bury his father before returning to serve as an official.
At that time, Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang in Qi, was the governor of Wuling and Deng. He admired Luan Jie's political performance very much, so when Xiao Yi was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, he asked Le Ai to ride in the army and serve as the governor of the state, and to know the state affairs.
Xiao Yi once asked Le Ai about the customs, the location of the foundation of the city moat, the dangers of the mountains and rivers, etc. Le Ai opened his mouth and answered as if looking at a map or genealogy. Xiao Yi valued him even more.
Someone in the state was jealous of Le Ai and spread rumors that the front of his official office was as busy as a market. Xiao Yi sent someone to spy secretly and saw Le Ai studying behind closed doors.
When Xiao Yi returned to Kyoto, he made Le Ai serve as a lieutenant in prison, join the army, and be in charge of secretary. He was also appointed magistrate of Zhijiang County.
After returning, he served as Grand Sima Zhongbing and joined the army, taking charge of the office of the department.
In the eighth year of Yongming Dynasty, Prince Badong, the governor of Jingzhou, rebelled. After the failure, he burned the government official buildings. For a time, all the documents and files wrapped in the official offices were burned clean.
Emperor Wu summoned Le Ai and asked him about Liang. Le Ai gave a detailed and quick answer. The emperor was very satisfied with him.
He was appointed to govern Jingzhou and ordered to entrust him with the restoration of the official offices of the prefecture.
Le Ai returned to Zhoubao and repaired the palace and furnished hundreds of buildings. It was all completed quickly, and no common people were used as laborers.
The people of Jingzhou think that this is a mansion that has never existed since King Chen of Jin moved the state government here.
In the ninth year, Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang, passed away. Le Ai resigned from office and went to mourn. He led the old officials of Jing and Xiangzhou to erect a monument in front of the tomb of the king of Yuzhang.
Le Ai later served as a chariot and cavalry Pingxi Lushi, joined the army, and became an infantry captain. He asked for help in guarding the border and returned to the west.
When the King of Nankang was appointed Xizhonglang, he asked Le Ai to serve as a consultant to join the army.
After Liang Gaozu's uprising army rose, Lu Zhancheng led Bimai, Sai Qu, and Liu Tan to join the rebel army and appointed them as managers.
After the founding of the Liang Dynasty, Le Ai moved to the post of Sima of Zhenjun, Minister of Zhongshu, and Zuocheng of Shangshu.
At that time, Le Ai had to be consulted on all matters such as the construction of weapons and armor, ships' rations, and the court's etiquette and constitution.
Soon, Le Ai was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, while Zuo Cheng remained in his post.
On the way to the east with the emperor, Le Ai concurrently served as Wei Weiqing.
In the early years of Tianjian, Le Ai was moved to the post of General Xiaoqi and concurrently the Minister of the Shaofu. Soon he was moved to the post of Yushi Zhongcheng and concurrently served as the Dazhongzheng of the state.
At the beginning, Le Ai set out from Jiangling and got eight spokes on the ship for no reason. Just like Zhong Cheng walking to avoid the road, he was promoted today.
Le Ai has a fair and strong nature, and is very competent in his official position in Xantai.
At that time, King Xuanwu of Changsha was about to be buried, but the official of the Che Prefecture suddenly lost the silk rope net on the car and was about to hold the officer in charge responsible.
Le Ai said: When the weapons depot of the Jin Dynasty caught fire, Zhang Hua believed that it was inevitably caused by the accumulation of oil and thousands of stones.
Now if it is found that there is ashes wrapped in the warehouse, then it is not the fault of the official Che.
Later, after checking the garage, it was found that there was dust accumulation, so people praised Luan Ai for his broad knowledge and magnanimity.
In the second year, Sheng Yin served as Chijie, governor of the military affairs of Lu Cong, Xuan and Kunye, champion general, Pingyue Zhonglang general, and Guangzhou governor.
Tu Wuyu, the former governor of Luye, resigned from office and returned to his hometown. On the way, he encountered a rebellion by maggots, expelled the internal secretary Cui Mushu, and plundered Xu Yuanyu's property.
Tu Chengyu hurried back to Luye and borrowed troops from Diemai, pretending to attack the bandits, but in fact he wanted to attack Leai.
Le Ai noticed his intention and killed Xu Yuanyu.
Soon, Bi Jinmao was awarded the title of General Zhenglu. He died in office.
Bimai's sister is married to Liu Qiu, a fellow soldier from the same county. She is also a sensible, knowledgeable and polite person.
When Le Ai was a state official, he welcomed his sister to live in the official residence and gave her one-third of his official salary. The people in the west praised this very much.
Bimai's son was named Le Nazuo, with the courtesy name Genbei. When he was young, he and his younger brother Shuang Gai both had a good reputation.
When I was young, I studied in the capital and visited Xuan Mat. I admired Xuan Diao very much after meeting him.
When Emperor He of Qi was the prime minister, he called Luan Jizhang to join the army in the prime minister's mansion, and Xiao Yingzhou, the commander of the army, called him to be the chief secretary.
After the founding of the People's Republic of China, Luan Diezuo was awarded the title of Qibu Lang.
In the second year of Yue, Bimai went out to guard Yinghu. Wazuo stayed in Jingyi and moved to Jinbulang. He resigned because of his father's death.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the title of Zhongshu Tongshi Shiren and served as the governor of the state.
Later, he was summoned as the Minister of Sanqi in Tongzhi, took charge of Tongshi again, and was moved to the position of Minister Youcheng.
When the King of Jin'an took office, he again granted Fa Cai the title of "Biejia" to engage in history.
Later, he was called to serve as Shangshu Youcheng and served as General Zhaoyi and Mi Ling.
The salary that Die Li did not accept amounted to nearly one hundred gold by the time he resigned. The county magistrate sent this money to the treasury.
Emperor Gaozu commended his father-in-law for his noble integrity and said: "If an official can do this, he can set an example for local officials."
That day Fa Cai was moved to the post of Taizhou Qing.
His mother was soon awarded the title of Internal History of Chen County, but he felt that it was a shame to become famous because of the salary concession, so he refused to accept the appointment.
Soon after he was elected, he was promoted to General Yunqi and Minister of Shaofu.
He also served as the chief historian of Xinwu and the prefect of Jiangxia County.
Since I was replaced, I asked for a way home.
After arriving home, he immediately designated a part of the house as a temple, aloof from the outside world.
Because the crown prince thought that Dieli was an old minister, he repeatedly issued preferential treatment orders and called him to the east to serve as an official. Facai died before he set out at the age of sixty-three.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen's Ministry of Civil Affairs in the Southern Dynasty, said: Xiao Yingzhou mobilized the people of the whole state to join the uprising team, but the people at that time could not understand it.
These three people are the deterrent force of Chu Di.
They are all powerful people in the management and establishment of Liang Chaoshang.
In a certain aspect of military and political affairs, Liu Tan had more credit; in terms of official duties, Le Ai was better.
In the end, they all ascended to favored official positions. This is as it should be!
