In May of the fourth year, Wang Mang said: "Baocheng's masters and friends offered wine to Tang Lin and Yuan Jianyi to offer wine to Langye County. He was a man of discipline, filial to his parents, respectful to his elder brothers, loyal to things, benevolent to others, respectful of the court, and caring for the people. He was widely familiar with ancient books, and his virtues were pure and perfect until he was old, without any fault."
Lu Ta was granted the title of Jianshan Fortress, and Xian Zhi was granted the title of Dehou. They were both given the rank of special advance. The etiquette for receiving them was the same as meeting the three princes.
He was rewarded with a big house, three million in money, and the treatment of a pen and a cane.
In June, he again awarded the thatched soil that symbolized the feudal state to the princes in the Mingtang, saying: I planned the land system and the five feudal princes according to the text of the classics, in line with the explanations of the classics, and through the principles of the classics. After thinking and discussing again and again, it has been almost nine years since the first year of the founding of the country, and it was officially finalized today.
I personally set up the aragonite steps, displayed jingmao and four-color soil, prayed respectfully to Mount Tai, the national clan, the God of the Earth and my ancestors, and then conferred it.
Each returned to his own feudal state to educate and discipline the people in order to establish meritorious deeds.
Those princes in the border areas or in the Jiangnan area, although they were not summoned by Shaoling but were sent to the capital to serve the emperor, Na Yan was in charge of the goods and the money in the capital was allocated to distribute their salaries. The duke was 800,000 yuan per year, the marquis and earl were 400,000 yuan per year, and the viscount and baron were 200,000 yuan per year.
Still can't quite get it though.
Wang Mang liked to talk empty words, envied the ancient system, and often granted titles to people. His character was actually stingy, and he used the undetermined land plan as an excuse, so he first granted the title of thatched land to symbolize the feudal state to comfort those who liked the title.
This year, six financial and economic management systems were reaffirmed.
Every time a management system is issued, laws and regulations must be set up to prevent it. Those who violate it may even be executed for the most serious crimes. Officials and civilians are punished for more crimes.
He also levied a tax on all those who kept slaves and slaves, each slave had to pay 3,600 yuan. The people of the world became more resentful and thieves rose up.
Nayan and Feng Chang advised him on the six management systems. Wang Mang was furious and removed Feng Chang from his official position.
Set up law enforcement on the left and law enforcement on the right.
Select capable officials, Hou Baren, to supervise the Sixth Lieutenant and the Sixth Team respectively. Their powers are like the governors of the Han Dynasty, and they will accompany one person from each county to handle relevant matters.
Guatianyi and others from Linhuai County acted as thieves and occupied Changzhouyuan, the capital of Kuaiji County. Lu Mu, a woman from Langxie County, also started to rebel.
At first, Lu's mother's son was a county official and was unjustly killed by the county magistrate.
Lu's mother used her family's property to buy wine, meat, and weapons. She secretly treated poor young men and gained more than a hundred people, then attacked Haiqu County, killed the county magistrate and went to worship her son's grave.
Then she led her troops to the sea, and her team gradually grew, eventually totaling tens of thousands of people.
Wang Mang sent an envoy to pardon the thieves on the spot. The envoy came back and said: The thieves dispersed and often reunited again.
When asked about the reason, they all said that they were unable to take action because of the cumbersome and strict prohibitions.
The income from hard work is not enough to pay taxes.
If you keep the door closed and stay safe, you will be implicated by your neighbors who secretly mint money and hide copper, and the traitors will use it to blackmail the people.
The people had no choice but to turn into thieves.
Wang Mang was furious and removed them from their official positions.
Some of them followed his intention and said that the rebellious people were arrogant and cunning and should be punished. They also said that the fate of the people was like this and they would soon be eliminated. Wang Mang was happy and always promoted them.
In August of this year, Wang Mang personally went to the southern suburbs to create a powerful force.
Weidou was made of copper mixed with five-color stones. It was shaped like a Big Dipper and was two feet and five inches long. It was intended to be used to intimidate various peasant armies.
The mighty battle was forged, and Siming was asked to carry it. When Wang Mang went out, it was in front of him, and when Wang Mang entered the palace, he put it next to him.
On the day when Wei Dou was cast, the weather was extremely cold, and hundreds of officials and horses froze to death.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, a fire broke out at the south gate of the Northern Army camp.
The Grand Sima Sima Yun Fei Xing was appointed as the shepherd of Jingzhou. Wang Mang met him and asked him about his plans after taking office. Fei Xing replied: Most of the people in Jingzhou and Yangzhou rely on the mountains, forests and lakes, and use fishing and woodcutting as their occupations.
Some time ago, the country implemented the six-management system and levied taxes on mountains, forests, lakes and swamps, which harmed and deprived the people of their interests. Coupled with successive years of drought, the people were hungry and poor, so they became thieves.
After I arrived at my post, I wanted to order the thieves to return home, loan them farm tools, cattle, seeds, and grain, and reduce or exempt them from taxes, hoping to disband and appease them.
Wang Mang became angry and dismissed Fei Xing from his official position.
Officials all over the country sought illegal profits one after another because they could not get their salaries. The property of the county chiefs and governors accumulated thousands of gold.
Wang Mang wrote a letter to Shao saying: After a thorough investigation of the Huns' invasion of the Central Plains in the second year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, all military officers and border officials who have made illegal profits and increased their property and made a fortune will have four-fifths of their family property confiscated to support the urgent needs of border defense.
Government officials traveled all over the country in carriages, carefully examining corruption cases, mobilizing officers to report on their generals, and slaves to report on their masters. They hoped to use this method to suppress evil, but the evil became more and more serious.
The emperor's grandson Gong Chonggong Wang Zong drew a portrait of himself, wearing the emperor's clothes and the emperor's crown, and engraved three seals: the first is "Wei Zhi Guan, Cun Ji Xia, Nanshan, Hidden by Thin Ice", the second is "Su Sheng Bao Ji", and the third is "De Feng Chang Tu".
In addition, Wang Zong's uncle Lu Kuan's family was exiled to Hepu County, and he secretly contacted Wang Zong. After being discovered, Wang Zong committed suicide after investigation and verification.
Wang Mang said: Wang Zong's kinship is that of the emperor's grandson, and his title is that of Grand Duke. He knew that Lu Kuan and others were rebels, so he tried to associate with them. He engraved three steel seals. The meaning of the seals is very sneaky, not satisfied, and coveting undue hope.
The principle of "Spring and Autumn" is that you should not have any evil thoughts towards the king and your parents, and if you have evil thoughts, you should punish them.
I was so confused that I deviated from the right path. I committed such a crime. How sad!
Wang Zong was originally named Wang Huizong. Because the system stipulated that double names should be abolished, the original name is now restored to Wang Huizong.
He devalued his title, changed his name, gave him the title of Gong Chong Miao Bo, and buried him in Gucheng County, his original feudal state, according to the etiquette of an earl.
Wang Zong's sister Wang Zhi was the wife of General Wang Xing. She prayed to ghosts and gods to bring disaster to her mother-in-law and killed her maid in order to silence her.
Finally, when the incident was discovered, Wang Mang asked the official Zhongchang to question Wang Zhi and blame Wang Xing for the incident. Both Wang Zhi and Wang Xing committed suicide.
The incident involved Si Ming Kong Ren's wife, who also committed suicide.
When Kong Ren saw Wang Mang, he took off his hat to plead guilty. Wang Mang asked the minister to impeach Kong Ren: He was sitting in a cart with astronomical images and a mare, with the green dragon symbol on the left, the white tiger symbol on the right, the bird symbol in the front, and the turtle symbol in the back. He held the Five Power Festival in his right hand and the Mighty Dou on his left shoulder. The title was called Red Star. These were not used to let Kong Ren do whatever he wanted, but to respect the majestic orders of the new dynasty.
Kong Ren took off the astronomical crown without authorization, which was a crime of disrespecting the emperor.
Wang Mang issued another edict instructing him not to impeach him, but to replace him with a new hat.
He's moody like this.
Appoint Zhidaohou Wangshe as the general of the guard.
Wang She is the son of Quyanghou Wanggen.
Wang Gen served as Chief Sima during the reign of Emperor Cheng and once recommended Wang Mang to succeed him. Wang Mang was grateful to him and thought that Quyang was not a good name, so he followed Wang Gen as Zhidao and let Wang She inherit his title.
This year, the Red Eyebrow Army Li Zidu, Fan Chong and others gathered together due to famine, and started an uprising in Langxie County. They looted everywhere, with a total of ten thousand troops.
Wang Mang sent envoys to mobilize local troops to attack them, but they could not win.
In the spring of the sixth year, Wang Mang saw that there were many thieves, so he asked Taishi to calculate the outline of the calendar for 36,000 years. He changed the year name every six years and announced it to the whole country.
The following report says: "Purple He Tu" says: Taiyi and Huangdi both became gods and ascended to heaven, playing fairy music on Qianshan Mountain in Kunlun Mountains.
The wise emperors whose descendants have gained auspiciousness should play fairy music on Zhongnan Mountain in Qin.
I wasn't smart enough to follow it consciously, and I didn't understand it until now.
Then General Ningshi was called General Gengshi. It means obeying the destiny.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say it? It is said that renewal is excellent moral character. In the process of movement and change, new things are constantly produced, which is called Yi.
I will enjoy this happiness!
I want to use this method to dazzle the people and eliminate thieves.
Everyone laughed at these practices.
For the first time, he presented "Xin Yue" to Mingtang and Ancestral Temple.
Ministers began to wear buckskin hats.
Someone heard the melody of the music and said: It is sad, serious and low, not the music to revitalize the country.
At this time, the Kanto region suffered from drought and famine for several consecutive years, and the number of tribes such as Lizidu gradually increased. Gengshi general Lian Dan failed to win in Yizhou and was recalled.
After the restoration, he sent Guo Xing, the Great Sima Protector, and Li Bi, the Yongbu Mu Li Bi, to attack the tribal leader Ruodou and others, and sent Taifu Xishu Shi Sun Xi to pacify the thieves in various places.
At the same time, the Xiongnu invaded the border very severely.
Wang Mang then recruited a large number of strong men from all over the country, as well as condemned criminals and domestic slaves of officials and civilians. He named them Zhutu Xiyong and used them as elite soldiers.
All fees were collected from officials and civilians across the country, one-thirtieth of the estimated property was taken, and all silk and silk were transported to Chang'an.
Officials from the ministerial level to the county officials wearing yellow seals were ordered to maintain military horses. The number of horses was determined according to each person's salary.
He also extensively recruited specialized talents who had unique skills that could be used to attack the Xiongnu, and planned to hire them by upgrading their positions.
There are tens of thousands of people who suggest things that are beneficial to the country: some say that you can cross rivers without boats and connect people and horses, and you can cross an army of millions; some say that you don’t need to carry a bucket of grain, but just take medicine, and the army will not be hungry; some say that you can fly, flying a thousand miles a day, to spy on the Huns.
Wang Mang asked him to try it. The man made two wings from the feathers of a big bird, attached feathers to his head and body, and wrapped them with ring ties all over his body. After flying a few hundred steps, they fell off.
Wang Mang knew that they could not be used, so he insisted on gaining the reputation of cherishing talents, so he appointed them all as commanders, rewarded them with chariots and horses, and waited for their departure.
At the beginning, the right bone of the Xiongnu was Hou Xudang, and his wife was the daughter of Wang Zhaojun, who had returned to the Central Plains.
Wang Mang sent Wang Zhaojun's nephew and prince Wang She to lure Xu Budang to the border, coerced him to come to Chang'an, and forced him to be the Duke of Xu Bushan Hou'an.
At first Wang Mang wanted to seduce Xubutang, but Grand Sima Yanyou advised: Xubutang is on the right side of the Xiongnu. His army has never invaded the border and always tells the Central Plains news about Chanyu. This is a huge help.
Now we welcome Subudang to Chang'an East Street. He is just a Huns. It is better to let him stay with the Huns.
Wang Mang didn't listen.
Xu Bu Dang has been brought here, and he wants to send Yan You and Lian Dan to attack the Xiongnu. They are both given the surname Zheng and are called the Second Zheng General. They want to kill Shan Yu Yu and set up Xu Dang to replace him.
They sent troops to West Malan of Chang'an City but did not set off.
Yan You, who had always been resourceful and talented, opposed Wang Mang's attack on foreigners in the West. Wang Mang did not listen to his repeated advice, so he wrote three articles about the historical lessons of the distrust of ancient famous generals Le Yi and Bai Qi, and about border defense matters, and submitted them to Wang Mang in a tactful and tortuous way.
When the court meeting was held, Yan You firmly stated that the Xiongnu could put their power aside and worry about the thieves in Shandong first.
Wang Mang was furious and wrote a policy letter to Yan You, saying: You have been in office for four years. The foreign tribes that disturbed the Central Plains cannot be suppressed. The thieves and evil spirits cannot be eradicated. You are not afraid of the majesty of heaven and do not obey the emperor's orders. You are vicious in appearance and think you are kind in vain. You are stubborn and unchangeable. You have second thoughts and destroy military plans.
I can't bear to hand it over to the judicial department. I should hand over the seal of Grand Sima Wu Jianbo and return to my hometown.
Dong Zhong, the descendant of Fu Bo, was appointed as the Grand Sima.
The Yiping County Company led the field report to the county. The county's estimate of the people's property was untrue, and Wang Mang levied it at one-thirtieth.
Thinking that Tian Kuang was loyal and caring about the country, he promoted his title to earl and rewarded him with two million yuan.
The general public cursed him.
Many people in Qingzhou and Xuzhou abandoned their homes and fled. The old and weak died on the road, while the strong joined the ranks of thieves.
Suye Junlian led Han Bo to report: A strange man, ten feet tall and ten feet tall, came to my palace and said he wanted to fight against the Xiongnu.
He said his name was Juwuba, and he grew up in Zhaoru, southeast of Penglai and northwest of Wucheng. He could not fit in a light vehicle and could not be dragged by three horses.
Immediately, he hitched four horses to a large cart, set up a tiger flag, and loaded up the giant horse to come to the capital.
Juwuba sleeps with his head resting on a pillow and eats with iron chopsticks. This is God asking him to assist the new dynasty.
I hope you will build a large armored chariot, a suit of clothes worn by Meng Ben and Xia Yu, and send a general and a hundred warriors to meet him on the road.
If the gates of the capital cannot accommodate him, open them higher and wider, and show him to the foreign tribes, so that he can intimidate and stabilize the world.
Han Bo wanted to use it to ridicule Wang Mang.
Wang Mang heard this and resented Han Bo. He asked Ju Guuba to stay in Xinfeng County where he was located, and changed his surname to Ju Mu, which meant that thanks to the birth of this person, Queen Mother Wen, this was the destiny that made him the overlord.
Put Han Bo in jail, thinking that those words were not what he should say, and put him to death.
In the second year, the year name was changed to Emperor of the Earth, which was based on the outline of the 36,000-year calendar.
On the last day of the first lunar month of the first year of the Earth Emperor's reign, a nationwide amnesty was announced.
The following report said: When the troops are marching, anyone who dares to run around and make noise and violate the law will be beheaded. Do not wait until the execution season. This order will be implemented until the end of the year.
So in the spring and summer, people were killed in the city, and the people were terrified. When they met on the road, they only looked at each other and did not dare to talk.
On Renshen Day in February, the sky was dark when the sun was at its peak.
Wang Mang hated this phenomenon and reported below: Some time ago, there was darkness, the Yin energy invaded the Yang energy, and the black energy caused disasters. The people were all surprised.
Wang Kuang, the general of Zhaoyu, sent his subordinates to pursue the person who reported the abnormal accident in order to cover up the emperor's ears and eyes. Therefore, he was condemned from heaven and should be punished by law to remedy such a catastrophe.
Wang Mang saw that there were many thieves from all directions, and wanted to deter them again, so he sent a message: My great emperor Huangdi brought peace to the world. He led his army as a general, erected gorgeous chariot covers, and set up Beidou-shaped ritual vessels. He set up generals in the base camp, and set up five generals outside the camp, twenty-five generals, and one hundred and twenty-five partial generals. , there are 1,250 generals, 12,500 lieutenants, 37,500 commanders, 112,500 military commanders, 225,000 chiefs, 450,000 palace officials, and 13.5 million soldiers, which is consistent with what the "Book of Changes" says Bows and arrows are sharp, used to intimidate the world.
I accepted the words of the talisman, followed the ancients, and planned to gradually set it up.
Therefore, the positions of the former Grand Sima, the rear Grand Sima, the Left Grand Sima, the Right Grand Sima, and the Zhongda Sima were established, and the pastoral officers of each state were given the rank of general, the commanders, company commanders, and Dayin of each county were given the rank of partial generals, the subordinate commanders and commanders were given the rank of general Pi, and the county chiefs were given the rank of school lieutenant.
Envoys riding in chariots passed through various counties, nearly ten batches a day. There was no existing food supply in the warehouse, and the horses driving the chariots could not satisfy them, so they requisitioned the chariots and horses on the road and provided them to the people.
In July, strong winds damaged Wang Lu Tang.
He continued: "At the time of Ren Wu, there was a violent storm that destroyed houses and destroyed trees. I was very surprised and suspicious about this, I was very trembling about this, and I was very afraid of this."
After lying down and thinking about it for ten days, the confusion was finally resolved.
In the past, the Fu Ming text said that Wang An should be established as the newly moved king, and Wang Lin should be established in Luoyang as the king of Tongyiyang.
At that time, I was acting as the emperor, but I did not dare to accept the offer, so I asked them to accept the duke.
After that, the Golden Chamber Wenci came, and public opinion said: Wang Lin founded the country in Luoyang and became the king of Yiyang, which meant that he occupied the center of the country and was the successor of the new dynasty, and should be the crown prince. From then on, Wang Lin was ill for a long time. Although he recovered later, he did not fully recover. When he went to court, he had to sit on a blanket, and someone else would hold the blanket and push it in the carriage.
When Wang Lutang came to court, he had to put up curtains in the west wing and the back dressing room to rest. Because the queen was ill, Wang Lin temporarily left his original residence and came to live here. His concubines lived in Dongyong Lane.
On Renwu day, a storm damaged the west wing of Wang Road and the dressing room in the back pavilion.
There is an elm tree ten meters thick in the southeast of Zhaoning Tangchi. It falls to the east and hits the wall. The east pavilion is the west wall of Shuyong Lane.
I was horrified that these places were broken and broken, roof tiles were destroyed, houses were excavated, and trees were uprooted.
The astronomer also reported that the moon invaded the front star of Antares, which was a sign, and I was very worried about it.
By lying down and considering the words of "Purple Pavilion Picture", both Taiyi and Huangdi gained auspiciousness and became immortals, and the great monarchs of future generations will ascend Mount Zhongnan.
The so-called Xinqian King is the successor of Taiyi Xinqian.
King Tongyiyang was the successor who promoted the five ethics and ascended to the throne by virtue of etiquette and righteousness, thus ascending to the fairyland.
Wang Lin had an elder brother and was called the prince, which was not a correct title.
Duke Xuanni said: "My title is unfair, my words are inappropriate and unreasonable, and the execution of punishments is incorrect and inappropriate, so the people don't know what to do. Since I came to the throne, the yin and yang have not been harmonious, and the wind and rain have not been at the right time. Severe droughts and locusts and borers have caused many disasters. Food is scarce. The people are suffering from famine. Foreigners have disturbed the Central Plains, and thieves and evildoers have caused trouble. The people are terrified and do not know what to do."
Think deeply about these crimes, which lie in wrongful status.
Wang An should be made the new king, and Wang Lin should be the king of Yiyang. I hope to use this measure to protect my two sons and have prosperous descendants, exclude foreign tribes from all directions externally, and stabilize the Central Plains internally.
This month, the tiger-patterned clothes that were used by the emperor and were stored in boxes in the inner chamber of Duling's dormitory temple, which had been abandoned and unused, came out and stood up on their own in the outer hall. It took a long time for them to shrivel and fall to the ground.
The officials and soldiers who saw it reported the incident. Wang Mang hated it, so he reported: "Yellow is cherished and fiery red is despised, so the ministers and attendants should all wear bright red clothes."
Many people who specialize in observing the clouds said that there were signs of large-scale construction. Wang Mang also saw that there were many thieves in various places. He wanted to show that he was a man with an open mind and could build a foundation for generations to come, so he wrote: Since I inherited the destiny, I have encountered unfortunate fate and cycles of disasters. The treasury is empty, the people are poor, the ancestral temple has not been built, and sacrifices are held in the Mingtang Ancestral Temple. I think about it day and night and dare not forget it.
I deeply thought that the auspiciousness and prosperity could not be better than this year, so I chose the north of Boshui and the south of Langchi as a good location.
I chose the south of Jinshui and the west of Mingtang, which are also good addresses.
I plan to lay the foundation stone here myself.
So construction was carried out in the south of Chang'an City, with a total base area of ​​100 hectares.
On Jiashen day in September, Wang Mang stood on the car to inspect, and personally raised the stick and made three blows.
The great Situ Wang Xun and the great Sikong Wangyi held the talisman, and dozens of people including the minister, the regular minister, and the law enforcement Du Lin supervised and directed the construction.
Cui Fa and Zhang Han persuaded Wang Mang: People with noble virtues must have rich etiquette. The structure and scale of this project should be made grand and magnificent, so that people all over the country know it, and it should not be surpassed by thousands of generations.
Wang Mang widely solicited many design drawings from craftsmen across the country, used the Pythagorean theorem to measure and calculate, and officials and civilians donated money and food to help with construction out of Chen's kindness. There was an endless stream of people on the road.
More than ten buildings in total, including Jianzhang Palace, Chengguang Palace, Baoyang Palace, Datai Palace, Chuyuan Palace, Heping Le Pavilion, Dang Road Pavilion and Yang Lu Pavilion, were demolished in Shanglin Garden in the west of Chang'an City, and their wood and bricks were used to build nine ancestral temples.
Since this month, it has rained heavily for more than sixty days.
The common people were asked to pay 600 dendrobium of rice grain to become a Langguan. Those who turned out to be Langguan could increase their salary and reward titles until they attached to the city.
The nine ancestral temples are: the first is the Taichu Ancestral Temple of the Yellow Emperor, the second is the Zhaomiao Temple of the founder of the Yu Emperor, the third is the Tongzumu Temple of King Chen Hu, the fourth is the Zhaomiao Temple of King Qijing Shizu, and the fifth is the Zumu Temple of King Minwang of Jibei. A total of five ancestral temples are never allowed to be abolished; the sixth is Jinan Bo Wang Zunmi Zhao Temple, the seventh is Yuancheng Ru Wang Zunmi Mu Temple, the eighth is Yangping Qingwang Qi Zhimu Temple, and the ninth is Xindu Xian Wang Qi Mi Mu Temple.
The palaces are all stacked houses.
The Taichu ancestral temple is 40 feet long in the east, west, north and south, and 17 feet high. The remaining temples are equal to half of it.
It is wrapped in copper leather and decorated with patterns inlaid with gold and silver, using all kinds of arts and crafts techniques.
Using the high ground as the foundation and building up the lower areas next to it, the cost of the project was incalculable, and tens of thousands of slaves and civilians died from exhaustion.
Ma Shiqiu, a man from Julu County, and others planned to mobilize the troops of Yandi and Fangdi to attack Wang Mang. Wang Dan, the clerk of Dasikong, found out and reported it.
Wang Mang sent the Sangong officials to arrest and pursue their party members. Thousands of authority figures in various counties and counties were implicated, and they were all executed.
Granted Wang Dan the title of auxiliary prince.
Since Wang Mang's measures were out of season and the people were resentful, Wang Mang was still content with this situation. He continued to report: Since the formulation of such expedient laws, Chang'an has become the central city of the six major counties. The sound of alarm drums has become less frequent, the number of thieves has weakened, and the people have settled in the countryside. As a result, there has been a bumper harvest. This is the effect of adopting expedient measures.
Now the Xiongnu have not been destroyed, the southwestern barbarians have not been exterminated, the four directions are like a mess, the thieves have not been completely eliminated, and large-scale construction projects to respect the ancestors and gods are being carried out, and the people are wavering.
It is still necessary to implement this law now and terminate it by the end of the second year to protect the good people and save the stupid and evil people.
This year, large and small coins were abolished and replaced by cloth. The cloth was two inches long and five cents wide, and was worth twenty-five coins.
The money is one inch in diameter and weighs five baht. Each piece is a unit.
Both currencies circulate simultaneously.
Anyone who dares to mint money privately or use only cloth, or whose neighbors know about it but do not report it, will be confiscated as slaves of the government.
Taifu Pingyan died, and Yu Tangzun was appointed as Taifu.
Tang Zun said: The national treasury is empty, the people are poor, and the root of the disaster is excessive luxury.
So he wore short sleeves and short clothes, rode in a simple carriage driven by a mare, used hay as a cushion when sleeping and sat, used earthenware as utensils, and used earthenware to hold food and present it to the officials.
When he went out and saw men and women walking inseparably, Tang Zun got out of the car and used a symbolic punishment, dirtying their clothes with a red rag.
Wang Mang heard this, appreciated his approach, and issued an edict clearly warning the ministers to consider following his example.
Tang Zun was granted the title of Pinghua Marquis.
At this time, Zhang Ba from Nanjun, Yangmu and Wang Kuang from Jiangxiajun and others started an uprising in Green Forest Mountain in Yundu County. They called themselves Xiajiang Soldiers, with more than 10,000 troops.
Three houses of residents in Zhongshui Township, Wugong County, collapsed and turned into a swamp.
In the first month of the second year, the state shepherd was raised to the status of the Three Dukes, and lax officials were investigated and exposed. In addition, the deputy positions of state shepherd and ministry supervisor were set up. Their salaries were Yuanshi level, and they wore ceremonial crowns and performed tasks like the governors of the Han Dynasty.
This month, Wang Mang's wife died, and she was given the title of Queen Xiaomu. She was buried in the west of Changshou Garden in Weiling. She was asked to serve Wen Mu forever, and her cemetery was named Yi Nian.
At first, Wang Mang's wife cried blindly because Wang Mang killed her son several times. Wang Mang asked the prince Wang Lin to live in the palace to take care of her.
Wang Mang raped Yuan Bi, a waiter next to Wang Mang's wife.
Later, Wang Lin also committed adultery with her. Fearing that the matter would be leaked, the two planned to kill Wang Mang together.
Wang Lin's wife Liu Qing, the daughter of the Grand Master of the State, could observe the stars and told Wang Lin that there would be a white-clothed society in the palace.
Wang Lin was happy, thinking that what he planned would succeed.
Later, he was demoted to King Tongyiyang and sent to live in an outside house, which made him even more worried and fearful.
When Wang Mang's wife became seriously ill, Wang Lin sent her a letter saying: The emperor is very strict with his descendants. In the past, both the eldest grandson and the second grandson died at the age of thirty.
Now I, Wang Lin, am just thirty years old. I am afraid that if something happens to the queen, I don’t know where she will die!
Wang Mang came to check on his wife's condition. When he saw the letter, he became very angry. He suspected that Wang Lin had malicious intentions and refused to allow him to attend the funeral.
After being buried, Yuan Bi and others were arrested for interrogation, and they fully admitted the adultery, murder, etc.
Wang Mang wanted to cover up the incident, so he sent people to kill the investigators, Si Mingcheng, and buried them in prison. His family didn't know where they were.
Wang Lin was given poison, but Wang Lin refused to drink it and committed suicide.
The hussar general Tongshuo Wanglin in the ordering service gave the ghost clothes and seal, and wrote in the policy letter: The talisman said that Wang Lin should be established as the king of Tongyiyang. This means that thirty-six thousand years after the founding of the new dynasty, the talents who are the descendants of Wang Lin will rise like a hidden dragon.
In the past, I mistakenly followed the opinion of public opinion and made Wang Lin the crown prince. Later, when the storm happened, I obeyed Fu's orders and made him the king of Tongyiyang.
Before and from now on, he did not show obedience, so that he could not enjoy his blessings and died young and short-lived. How sad!
After examining his deeds, he was given the title of Mi, and he was given the title of Mi Wang.
He also ordered the Grand Master to say: "Wang Lin didn't understand astrology at first, but it all started with Liu Qing."
Liu Chi also committed suicide.
This month, Wang An, the newly moved king, died of illness.
At the beginning, when Wang Mang went to feudal states for the princes, he favored his servants to increase their rank, energy and enlightenment.
Huaineng gave birth to his son Wang Xing, Zengzhi gave birth to his son Wang Kuang and his daughter Wang Yun, and Kaiming gave birth to his daughter Wang Jie. They all stayed in the Xindu Kingdom because their identities were unknown.
When Wang An became seriously ill, Wang Mang was worried that he would not have a son, so he wrote a memorial for Wang An and asked him to report: Although the mother of Wang Xing and others was born in a humble background, her kinship is still that of a prince and cannot be abandoned.
Wang Mang handed the memorial to the ministers for circulation, and they all said: "Wang An loves his brother so much that he should be granted a title during spring and summer."
So envoys were sent to meet Wang Xing and others in the king's chariot, and Wang Xing was granted the title of Gong Xiu Gong, Wang Kuang was the Gong Jian Gong, Wang Yun was the Mu Xiu Ren, and Wang Jie was the Mu Chou Ren.
Wang Mang's grandson, Duke Minggong, Wang Shou, died of illness. Four people died in one month.
Wang Mang destroyed the temples of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty and buried their descendants in them.
Li Yan, the great Yin of Wei Cheng County, discussed with the fortune teller Wang Kuang. Wang Kuang said to Li Yan: Since the founding of the new dynasty, land and slaves have not been allowed to be bought and sold, the currency has been changed several times, people and materials have been frequently requisitioned, the army has harassed them, foreign tribes from all over have invaded, the people are resentful, and thieves have revolted. The Han Dynasty will be revived.
Your surname is Li. The pronunciations of Li and Zheng are similar. The sound of Zheng belongs to fire, so you should be an auxiliary in the Han Dynasty.
So he wrote a prophecy for Li Yan, saying: Emperor Wen was angry and supervised the army in the underworld, notifying the Huns in the north and the Yue people in the south.
Liu Xin in Jiangzhong became an enemy and avenged his grievances. He wanted to restore and inherit the cause of his ancestors and sent troops in the Four Years Congress.
There is a big thief in the rivers and lakes. He calls himself King Fan and his surname is Liu. Tens of thousands of people have gathered in groups. They do not accept the order of pardon and want to shake Chang'an and Luoyang.
In the eleventh year, there will be an attack. The Taibai Star shines brightly and the Sui Star enters Dongjing Su. His orders should be carried out.
It also explains that the good and bad fortunes of Wang Mang's ministers have their own dates.
It was compiled into more than 100,000 words.
Li Yan asked his subordinates to copy the book, but the subordinates escaped and reported him.
Wang Mang sent envoys to arrest Li Yan on the spot, handed him over to judicial officials for trial, and was executed.
When thieves broke out in Sanfu District, they set up the official post of Captain of the Thief Catcher, and asked law enforcers to pursue the thieves in the suburbs of Chang'an. They set up alarm flags that sounded drums to attack the thieves, and envoys followed them to supervise.
Taishi Zhongjingshang and Gengshi General Hujun Wangdang were sent to lead the army to attack Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Guoshi and Zhongcaofang assisted Guo Xing in attacking Gouding.
The money and grain transported across the country were sent to Xihe County, Wuyuan County, Shuofang County and Yuyang County, each with millions of dollars, and they wanted to use it to attack the Xiongnu.
In autumn, frost fell and froze beans to death. There was a serious famine in the Kanto region and there was a locust plague.
Common people who violated the ban on minting money were forced to sit next to each other and were confiscated as slaves of the government.
Among them, the men rode in prison carts, and the children and women walked. Their necks were tied with iron chains, and they were driven to the government where the money was minted. There were hundreds of thousands of them.
Six or seven out of ten died of sorrow after changing their marital relationship upon arrival.
Scholars Sun Xi, Jing Shang, Cao Fang and others attacked the bandits but failed to win. The army acted recklessly and the people became more miserable.
Because Wang Kuang's prophecy said that the Jing and Chu regions would rise, and the surname Li became his assistant, Wang Mang wanted to defeat them, so he appointed Li Qin, the minister in charge of herding, as a general and Yangzhou shepherd. He named Li Sheng and asked him to lead the army to attack bravely.
Chu Xia, a native of Shanggu County, volunteered to persuade Gua Tianyi to surrender. Wang Mang appointed him as Zhonglang and asked him to persuade Gua Tianyi to surrender.
Guatianyi wrote a document expressing his surrender, but died before he could come out.
Wang Mang came to bury his body, built a tall tomb and temple for him, and gave him the nickname Guan Ning Shang Nan. He hoped to use this method to attract the rest of the people, but no one was willing to surrender.
On Bingchen day of the leap month, a nationwide amnesty was announced, and the national mourning for all people and the private mourning clothes before the Shao Shu was issued were also lifted.
Lang Guanyang Chengxiu offered his fortune and said that another queen should be established. He also said: The Yellow Emperor became a god with the help of one hundred and twenty women.
Wang Mang then dispatched forty-five officials each, including Zhongsan officials and envoys, to patrol the country in separate directions, and widely selected beautiful women who were highly praised by their neighbors and put them on the list.
Wang Mang dreamed that there were five bronze figures standing in the Changle Palace. He hated to do anything. Thinking that the words "The Emperor has just unified the country" were engraved on the bronze figures, he sent Shangfang workers to chisel out the words on the chests of the bronze figures in his dream.
Sensing the spirit of the Han Gaodi Temple, he sent Huben warriors into the Han Gaodi Temple, drew their swords and threw them in all directions, chopped down the doors and windows with axes, sprinkled peach wood soup on the walls, and whipped the walls with earth-red whips.
Some people say that the Yellow Emperor became an immortal because of the gorgeous chariot cover he built, so Wang Mang built a nine-story gorgeous chariot cover, eight feet and one foot high, decorated the frame of the chariot cover with gold and feathers, loaded it in a four-wheeled cart with mechanical internal equipment, harnessed six horses, and was guarded by three hundred strong men wearing yellow turbans and yellow clothes.
When Wang Mang goes out, let him go in front.
The officials said privately: This looks like a coffin, not a thing for gods.
This year, Qin Feng, a native of Nanjun, had nearly 10,000 troops.
Chi Zhaoping, a girl from Pingyuan County, was able to explain the gambling scriptures and win by throwing eight gambling tools. She also gathered thousands of people in dangerous areas of the Yellow River.
Wang Mang summoned the ministers to ask about the plan to capture the thieves, and they all said: These criminals who have violated the laws of heaven, walking corpses, will not live long.
Gongsun Lu, the former general of the left, was summoned to attend the meeting. He said: Taishi Ling Zongxuan was in charge of the astronomical calendar, speculated on the changes in luck, and regarded dangerous signs as auspicious signs, confusing astronomy and causing trouble for the court.
Taifu Pinghuahou used hypocritical words and deeds to cover himself up to steal his reputation and status, which harmed his children. The national teacher Jiaxinggong reversed the Five Classics, destroyed the teacher's teachings, and caused ideological confusion in the academic world.
Zhang Han, a male scholar of Ming Dynasty, and Sun Yang, a Hou of Geography, established the well-field system. The people lost their land and property.
Xi and Lu Kuang established a six-point management system, which made industrial and commercial people desperate.
It is said that Cui Fa, the Marquis of Fu, boasted and flattered his horse to please him, which made it difficult for his subordinates to achieve their goals.
These few people should be executed to comfort the whole country!
He also said: The Huns should not attack, but should make peace with them.
I'm afraid that the new dynasty's worries are not with the Xiongnu, but within the country.
Wang Mang got angry and asked the Huben warriors to help Gongsun Lu away.
However, he adopted some of his opinions and demoted Lu Kuang to serve as the governor of Wuyuan County because of the resentment and criticism of the people.
The six-management system was not initiated by Lu Kuang alone. Wang Mang abandoned him in order to satisfy everyone's wishes.
At first, people from all over the country took risks and became thieves because of hunger and poverty. Gradually they gathered into groups, often looking forward to returning home after a good harvest.
Although the troops numbered in the tens of thousands, the leaders were only called Giant, Engaged, Three Elders, and Jijiu. They did not dare to capture the city. They robbed everywhere to make ends meet and just ate every day.
The county chiefs, state shepherds, and county prefects were all killed and wounded in random collisions. The thieves did not deliberately want to kill them, but Wang Mang never understood this truth.
This year, a great Sima Shi went to Yuzhou to handle a case and was captured by thieves. The thieves sent him to the county.
This person came back and reported the situation.
Wang Mang was furious and thought this was a false accusation and sent him to prison.
So the following article condemns the four assistants and the three justices: "Li" means to manage and govern the people.
Promoting virtuous politics, showing kindness, and educating and educating the people are the principles of good politics.
Suppressing the strong, supervising the treacherous, arresting and executing thieves, these are the standards of righteous behavior.
That's not what it is now.
When thieves occur, they cannot be arrested or punished until they form a group and rob the court officials who are riding in the carriage.
The official got away and said in vain: "I listed the crimes to accuse the thief. Why did he do this kind of thing?" The thief said it was just because of poverty.
The thief sent me out, which is what some confused people usually talk about nowadays.
Think about it, due to poverty, hunger and cold, people commit crimes and commit crimes. Large groups rob, and small individuals steal. However, these two methods are now planned and organized in hundreds of thousands. This is the culprit of the rebellion. Can hunger and cold be the explanation?
The Seventh Duke should sternly warn the officials, soldiers, lians, and other great officials to seriously discipline and raise the good people, and quickly capture and destroy the thieves.
If there are people who do not work together, hate evil deeds, condemn thieves, and falsely say that they are forced to do so because of hunger and cold, they will be arrested and imprisoned, and their crimes will be investigated.
As a result, the officials were even more frightened. No one dared to tell the true situation of the thieves, and they were not allowed to mobilize the army without authorization. Therefore, the thieves were finally unable to be subdued.
Only Tian Kuang, the leader of Yiping County Company, was always decisive and brave. He mobilized more than 40,000 people over the age of 18, distributed them weapons in stock, and engraved military decrees on stones to announce to them.
The Red Eyebrow Army heard this and did not dare to enter the county boundary.
Tian Kuang took the initiative to impeach and accuse him. Wang Mang blamed Tian Kuang: mobilizing troops without issuing tiger charms is an unauthorized war and rebellion. This crime should be treated the same as delaying military aircraft.
Because you promised to catch and destroy the thieves, you will not be punished for the time being.
Later, Tian Kuang volunteered to cross the county boundary to attack the bandits, and all the bandits targeted by his army were defeated.
Wang Mang used an edict stamped with the imperial seal to order Tian Kuang to act as the pastor of Qingzhou and Xuzhou.
The field report said: The thieves have just occurred and their base is very weak, but they are not something that the local security officials and neighborhood reserves can catch.
The responsibility lies in the fact that the main officials at the county level did not care. The county deceived the county, and the county deceived the court. In fact, there were a hundred people, but they only said ten people. In fact, there were a thousand people, but they only said one hundred people.
The imperial court ignored it and did not immediately inspect and punish it. It eventually spread to several states, and then it sent generals and more envoys to supervise the situation.
The counties and counties tried their best to serve their superiors, handle inquiries and inspections, provide food and drinks, and prepare supplies and expenses to save themselves from the death penalty. They had no time to think about thieves and official affairs.
The general cannot personally lead the officers and soldiers to charge into battle. Once they engage in battle, they are defeated by thieves, which gradually weakens their morale and wastes the people's money and food in vain.
Fortunately, they got the order of pardon last time. The thieves wanted to disperse, but someone intercepted them. They retreated into the valley in fear, and spread the news to the thieves who had surrendered in various counties. They were even more frightened, fearing that they would be deceived and destroyed. Because people's hearts are easily shaken during famine, and there were more than 100,000 people in ten days, which was why there were so many thieves.
Now in the Luoyang-Cambodian area, the price of rice is worth two thousand yuan per stone.
I saw the edict, saying that I wanted to send the Grand Master and Gengshi General. They are both authoritative ministers and they must bring more people. However, the people along the way are exhausted and cannot provide supplies. If there are too few followers, they cannot be used to intimidate distant places.
We should quickly select officials from Zhou Mu and Dayin below, clearly define their rewards and punishments, and let them collect scattered rural settlements and small feudal states without castles, move their old and weak residents to big cities, store food, and work together to hold on.
If thieves come to attack the city, they will not be able to capture it. There will be no food in the places they pass through. With this development trend, it is impossible for them to gather in large numbers.
Like this, if you appease them, they will surely surrender, and if you attack them, they will definitely be destroyed.
If more generals are sent out in vain, the local officials and people will fear them more than they fear thieves.
The many envoys riding in the carriages should all be transferred back so that local officials and people can rest and recuperate.
If you entrust me with the task of pacifying the thieves in the two states, I will definitely pacify them.
Wang Mang was afraid and disliked Tian Kuang, so he secretly sent his replacement and sent an envoy to give Tian Kuang the Shao Shu with the imperial seal.
The envoy arrived, met Tian Kuang, and asked his replacement to supervise his troops.
Tian Kuang accompanied the envoy to the west and arrived in Chang'an, where he was appointed Shiwei Dafu.
After Tian Kuang left, the situation in Qidi finally got out of control.
In the first month of the third year, the nine temple buildings were completed and the gods were placed.
Wang Mang went to visit him. The motorcade was organized according to the highest standards. His carriage was harnessed to six horses. The horses were covered with harnesses made of dragon-shaped patterns woven with colorful feathers, and had prosthetic horns on their heads, which were three feet long.
The canopy and ten large chariots led the way.
So Da Situ and Da Sikong, who were in charge of the temple construction project, were each rewarded with 10 million yuan, and those below the rank of minister, middle minister, etc. were all rewarded.
Qiu Yan, a great craftsman of the feudal temple, was given as an attached city to Handanli.
In February, a fire broke out at Baqiao. Thousands of people poured water on it but it did not go out.
Wang Mang hated this, so he wrote: The three emperors symbolize spring, the five emperors symbolize summer, the three kings symbolize autumn, and the five hegemons symbolize winter.
From the Three Sovereigns, the Five Emperors to the Three Kings, the transfer of national ruling power was determined by virtue; the emergence of the Five Hegemons was due to the fact that there were no authoritative emperors to rule during this period, so they had to fill the vacancies of the times, and thus gained destiny, so their principles of governing the country were messy. Most of the streets that come to mind in Chang'an are named according to the places nearby.
From the late night of Guisi day in February to the morning of Jiawu day, fire burned over the bridge, burning from Shuduan to the west end. It was not until the evening of Jiawu day that the bridge was burned out and the fire was extinguished.
Da Sikong inspected and interrogated, and some people said that the poor stayed under the bridge, maybe they were warming themselves by the fire, which caused this disaster.
The next day is the last day of Yi, the day of the beginning of spring.
I inherit the destiny as a descendant of the divine ancestors Huangdi and Yudi, and I will be the emperor for four years to fifteen years.
It was completely destroyed just at the end of three years of winter, reflecting the chaotic and domineering Baqiao, which was intended to be used to complete the governing principles of the new dynasty's unification and longevity.
He also used the destruction of this bridge to warn us that we should open up the road to the east.
Now that there is a famine in the East, the people are hungry and the roads are blocked, Grand Master Shuyue quickly formulated laws and regulations, opened granaries all over the East, helped the poor people, and implemented the principle of benevolence.
Ba Pavilion should be renamed Changcun Pavilion, and Pa Bridge should be renamed Changcun Bridge.
This month, the Red Eyebrow Army killed Grand Master Xi Zhongjing Shang.
People in the Kanto region cannibalize people.
In April, Taishi Wang Kuang and Gengshi General Lian Dan were sent to see him off outside the gate of the capital. It rained heavily and stopped until his clothes were wet.
The old man sighed and said: This is crying for the army!
Wang Mang said: Thinking of the unfortunate fate, it merged with the gas of disaster, and it ended last year.
Severe droughts, frost disasters, and locust plagues continue to occur, and famines come one after another. People's lives are difficult and they are wandering everywhere. It is especially severe this spring. I am very sad.
Now the Grand Master Shuyue is sent to Li Xinhou to open granaries all over the East to help the poor people.
In places where the Grand Master's office did not pass, officials and visitors were assigned to open the granaries at the same time to protect the kind people.
Taishi Gong then went to Yanzhou with Ambassador Wuwei Siming, Grand Sima on the right, and Gengshi General Junhou Liandan to appease the officials and people, as well as the original lawless thieves in Qingzhou and Xuzhou who had not been completely disbanded or had gathered again later, all of them were wiped out in order to stabilize the hundreds of millions of people.
The Grand Master and General Gengshi together commanded more than 100,000 elite soldiers, and the soldiers were allowed to go wherever they passed without restraint.
The people in Shubu area made up a saying for them: I would rather meet the red eyebrow army than the Taishi soldiers!
Robbery by the Taishi soldiers was a trivial matter, but Gengshi soldiers massacred us!
Finally it was as Tian Kuang said.
Wang Mang also sent many doctors and envoys to teach the people how to boil grass and trees into glue. The glue could not be eaten, which would increase the waste of manpower and material resources.
Wang Mang reported below: Considering the people's difficulties, even if granaries are generally opened to relieve them, it may not be enough.
The ban on the mountains, forests, lakes and swamps across the country should be temporarily opened. Those who can use the products of the mountains, forests, lakes and swamps and comply with the seasonal laws should be allowed to do so and not be made to pay taxes.
By the time Emperor Di Huang returned to his original state in the thirtieth year, it would have been the sixth year of Wang Guang's reign.
If powerful officials and cunning wealthy people are allowed to monopolize those benefits and ordinary people do not benefit, then that is not my intention.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say it? The interests of the nobility are reduced and the interests of the common people are increased, and the people are extremely happy.
"Shu Jing" says: Failure to do what is said is called disorder. well!
Ministers, can you not worry?
At this time, the troops in Xiajiang were strong. Zhu Tun from Xinshi and Chen Mu from Pinglin and others gathered their troops to attack small rural towns.
Wang Mang sent General Kong Ren of Si Ming to inspect Yuzhou, General Yan You of Nayan and General Chen Mao of Zhizong to attack Jingzhou. They each took more than 100 officers and soldiers with them. They entered the Yellow River by boat from the Wei River and arrived at Huayin County, where they boarded a transport vehicle and went to the jurisdiction to recruit soldiers.
Yan You said to Chen Mao: "Sending out generals without giving them military talismans and having to ask for instructions first before taking action is like leading a hound and asking it to catch wild beasts."
In summer, locusts flew from the east, covered the sky, flew to Chang'an, flew into Weiyang Palace, and attached themselves to the palaces and pavilions.
Wang Mang set up rewards and mobilized officials and civilians to capture and beat him.
Because the price of grain in the country was high, Wang Mang wanted to defeat it, so he set up guards in the big warehouse. They held halberds and crossed each other to guard the warehouse door. This is called "the government starts from the small door on the side".
Hundreds of thousands of refugees entered Hangu Pass. So they set up support officials and distributed food to them.
The envoys supervised the leaders and stole the grain together with the petty officials. Seven or eight out of ten refugees starved to death.
Before that, Wang Mang asked Wang Ye of Zhonghuangmen to manage Chang'an trade and purchase supplies from the people at low prices. The people hated him very much.
Wang Ye made great contributions by saving acquisition costs and was rewarded with the title of Affiliated City.
Wang Mang heard that there was a famine in the city and asked Wang Ye about the situation. Wang Ye said: They are all refugees.
So he bought some polished rice and gravy from the market, took it in, showed it to Wang Mang, and said, "The food of the residents all looks like this."
Wang Mang believed him.
In the winter, Soluhui and others from Wuyan County occupied the county seat and raised troops.
Lian Dan and Wang Kuang captured the county seat and beheaded more than 10,000 people.
Wang Mang sent his lieutenant general holding the Shao Shu stamped with the royal seal to comfort Lian Dan and Wang Kuang, promoted them to dukes, and bestowed titles on more than ten officers and soldiers with meritorious services.
Tens of thousands of troops including Lieutenant Dong Xian of the Red Eyebrow Army were active in Liang County. Wang Kuang wanted to attack them. Lian Dan believed that the soldiers who had recently captured the county were tired and should be temporarily allowed to rest and regain their combat effectiveness.
Wang Kuang refused to obey and led the army forward alone. Lian Dan had to follow him.
In the battle at Chengchang, the army was defeated and Wang Kuang fled.
Lian Dan sent an officer to hand his seal and talisman to Wang Kuang, saying: "I can run away, but I can't!"
Then he stopped, fought and died.
More than 20 people including Colonel Ruyun and Wang Long were fighting in another place. When they heard the news, they all said: General Lian is dead, who are we still alive for?
Pegasus rushed towards the bandit army, and they all fought and died.
Wang Mang was hurt and told the following: I think that you have many selected elite soldiers, and you are allowed to use the good horses, warehouse grain, and stock money of each county by yourself. However, you ignored the strategies and tactics mentioned in the edict, left your own authority signs, rode your horses and shouted, and were killed by random knives. How sad!
Mi was given the nickname Guo Gong.
The general Ai Zhang said to Wang Mang: When the emperor was testing the Yellow Emperor, Huang Zhi became a general, defeated and killed Chi You.
Now I occupy the position of Zhonghuangzhi, and I am willing to pacify the Shandong area.
Wang Mang sent Aizhang to the east to join forces with Grand Master Wang Kuang.
He also sent General Yang Jun to defend Aocang. Chief Situ Wangxun led more than 100,000 people to Luoyang and was stationed in Nangong. Grand Sima Dong Zhong trained soldiers in the Chinese army's North Base Camp to practice martial arts. Chief Sikong Wangyi also took charge of the duties of the three princes.
Wang Xun, the great Situ, had just set out from Chang'an and spent the night in Ba Chang's stable, where he lost his golden iron ax.
Wang Xun's official Fang Yang, who was always insolent and forthright, cried and said: "Creation is what the scriptures say about losing the sharp ax!"
He self-impeached and resigned.
Wang Mang beat Fang Yang to death.
Bandits from all over the country would attack the city by tens of thousands of people, killing officials below two thousand stone level.
Grand Master Wang Kuang and others fought many times without victory.
Wang Mang knew that the hearts of the people in the country were divided and betrayed, and that the situation had come to an end, and there was nothing he could do anymore, so he discussed sending Si Guoxian, the customs official, and others to patrol the country separately, and abolished the prohibitions on the well field system, the prohibition of buying and selling slaves, and the collection of taxes on mountains, forests, lakes, and swamps. He also took back all the edicts that had been inconvenient to the people since he ascended the throne.
The envoys were waiting for the audience and had not yet set off. It happened that Shizu, his brother Qiwu King Liu Boxheng, and Wan County native Li Tong led thousands of Chunling descendants to recruit Zhu Tun from Xinshi, Pinglin Chen Mu and other troops to jointly capture Jiyang County.
At this time, Yan You and Chen Mao defeated the Xiajiang soldiers, and thousands of people including Cheng Dan and Wang Chang escaped alone and entered Nanyang County.
In November, there was a meteor shining brightly in Zhangsutian District, traveling southeast, and disappeared after five days.
Wang Mang summoned and asked Taishi Ling Zongxuan several times, but many mathematicians responded hypocritically, saying that the astronomical phenomena were safe and good, and that all groups of thieves were about to perish.
Wang Mang reluctantly comforted himself with these words.
In the first month of the fourth year, the Mo army received support from Xiajiang Wang Chang and other troops. They attacked the front team official Zhen Fu and his subordinate Zhengliang Qiuci, killing them all and annihilating tens of thousands of their troops.
At first, the capital was surprised when they heard that there were hundreds of thousands of thieves in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, but they had no reports, official titles, flags, or badges.
People who like to be nosy say privately: Are these people like the three emperors in ancient times who didn't want documents or titles?
Wang Mang also secretly felt strange and asked the ministers, but no one answered.
Only Yan You said: This is not surprising.
Since the Yellow Emperor, Shang Tang and King Wu of Zhou marched and used troops, they had to have organizational systems, flags and orders. Now these people do not have these systems. They are just groups of hungry and cold thieves, like livestock in groups, and do not know how to use these methods.
Wang Mang was very happy and all the ministers admired him.
Later, when Liu Bosheng of the Han army was involved, he called himself a general. After attacking the city, occupying the territory, and killing Zhen Fu, he issued a proclamation to promote his own ideas and denounce Wang Mang's crimes.
When Wang Mang heard this, he became worried and scared.
The Han army took advantage of the victory and surrounded Wancheng.
At first, Liu Shenggong, the distant brother of Shizu, joined the Pinglin Army first.
On the first day of the Xinsi lunar month in March, Wang Chang and Zhu Qian, the generals of Pinglin soldiers, Xinshi soldiers and Xiajiang soldiers, jointly supported Liu Shenggong as emperor, changed the title to the first year of Gengshi, and appointed various officials.
Wang Mang was even more frightened when he heard the news.
He wanted to show that he was in a stable mood, so he dyed his hair and beard black, summoned the beautiful women from all over the country, and made the daughter of a historian in Duling County his queen. He gave her a betrothal gift of 30,000 kilograms of gold, carriages, horses, slaves, various silks, pearls and jade and other valuables worth hundreds of millions.
Wang Mang personally greeted them between the steps on both sides of the front hall, and held a dinner ceremony for the newlyweds in the Shangxi Hall.
There were three concubines, Meiyu, and Heren, with titles similar to those of the Three Dukes; nine concubines, with titles similar to Jiuqing; twenty-seven beauties, with titles similar to Dafu; and eighty-one imperial concubines, with titles similar to Yuanshi: a total of one hundred and twenty people, all wearing seals and holding bow bags.
Empress Shi's father, Shi Chen, was granted the title of Marquis of Peace, and was appointed General of Ningshi. Shi Chen's two sons were both served as servants.
That day, strong winds blew, excavating houses and breaking trees.
The ministers congratulated and said: Gengzi said that the rain washed the road yesterday, Xin Chou said that it was clean and quiet, and there was no dust. That night, the east wind was strong, blowing from the northeast.
Xinchou day is the day of the main emperor in "Xun Gua".
"Xun Gua" symbolizes wind, and its meaning is submission. The principle of being a queen is clear, and the norms of being a mother are in place. This is the creation effect of gentleness and kindness.
"Book of Changes" says: Grant such great blessings to the king's mother.
"Book of Rites" says: Accept the happiness given by God. This kind of happiness is unlimited and endless.
All the forces that wanted to rely on the overthrown Han Dynasty and the Liu family who were kings with their virtues of fire were washed away and completely wiped out.
The crops are plentiful, the crops are multiplying, the people are happy, everyone is TOEFL, and the whole country is very lucky!
Every day, Wang Mang, together with the alchemist Zhaojun from Zhuojun, studied the art of sexual intercourse in the harem and indulged themselves in wanton debauchery.
A nationwide amnesty was announced, but it was also said: Liu Boxheng, the cousin-in-law of the former Chongling Marquis of the Han Dynasty, and his clan, relatives, and party members, arrogantly created rumors, confused the masses, betrayed the destiny, and personally killed the Gengshi general Lian Dan and the front army officer Zhen Fu, people who belonged to Zhengliang Qiuci, as well as the rebel leader Yu of the Xiongnu in Beidi and the South bandits Lu Ruodou and Meng Qian. This proclamation does not apply.
Anyone who is able to catch these people will be granted the title of Grand Duke, with a fief of 10,000 households, and a reward of 50 million treasures.
He also issued an edict saying: Grand Master Wang Kuang, State General Aizhang, Si Ming Kong Ren, Yanzhou Mu Shouliang, Zuzheng Wang Hong and Yangzhou Mu Li Sheng quickly advanced a total of 300,000 troops from their respective states and counties to encircle and suppress the thieves in Qingzhou and Xuzhou.
Nayan General Yan You, Zhizong General Chen Mao, Chariot and Cavalry General Wang Xun, and left army officer Wang Wu quickly advanced a total of 100,000 troops from their respective states and counties to encircle and hunt down the ugly people in the front team.
Make it clear to them that if they surrender, they will have a way to survive. If they remain stubborn and do not disband on their own, then we will all work together to encircle and annihilate them!
Grand Sikonglong Xingong is a relative of the royal family. In the past, as General Huya, the rebels were defeated when they pointed to the east, and the rebel leaders were crushed when they attacked to the west. He was a minister with high authority and extraordinary talents in the new dynasty.
If the cunning thieves do not disband, Da Sikong will be sent to lead an army of millions to conquer them!
So seventy-two people, including Qi Gonggan Shi Kai Xiao, were sent to separate routes and issue pardon orders to various places.
As soon as Wei Xiao and others left the capital, they fled.
In April, Shizu, Wang Chang and others attacked Yingchuan County and captured Kunyang, Lin and Dingling counties.
Wang Mang was even more frightened when he heard the news. He sent Grand Sikong Wangyi to Luoyang in a chariot. He and Situ Wangxun mobilized millions of troops from various counties, called "Huya Five Mighty Soldiers", to pacify Shandong area.
He has the right to grant titles on his own, and the military and political plans are decided by Wang Yi. He appoints many experts who are familiar with the sixty-three military arts and strategies and tactics. Each of them carries books, receives weapons, and is a candidate officer.
He took out all the military supplies in the warehouse and handed them to Wang Yi, bringing more valuables and beasts with him, hoping to show the imperial court's wealth and use it to frighten the Shandong region.
When Wang Yi arrived in Luoyang, each state and county selected elite troops, led by state pastors and county governors. There were 420,000 people who gathered according to the prescribed time limit, and the rest were on the road in an endless stream. The troops, horses, weapons and equipment were all powerful and complete, and there had never been any troops sent out since ancient times.
In June, Wang Yi and Grand Situ Wang Xun set out from Luoyang and wanted to go to Wan County. They took the road to Yingchuan County and passed through Kunyang County.
Kunyang City had surrendered to the Han army at this time, and the Han army was guarding it.
Yan You and Chen Mao joined the two commanders, who commanded the army to surround Kunyang City.
Yan You said: The person who calls himself the emperor is in Wancheng and should advance quickly.
Once that place was captured, other cities were naturally pacified.
Wang Yi said: With a million troops, all enemies in the places they pass through should be destroyed. Now capture this county, kill all the people inside, and march forward on the enemy's blood. The troops in the front will sing victory songs and the troops behind will dance in victory. Isn't it wonderful?
Then they surrounded Kunyang City on dozens of floors.
The city's defenders requested surrender, but were not allowed.
Yan You added: "Don't intercept the retreating army. When surrounding the city, you must leave a gap for the people inside. You can follow the law of war to make it possible for them to escape, so as to frighten Wancheng."
Wang Yi didn't listen.
It happened that Shizu mobilized thousands of troops from Lin County and Dingling County to rescue Kunyang City. Wang Xun and Wang Yi despised them and led more than 10,000 people to inspect the positions. They warned each military camp to restrain their subordinates from taking unauthorized actions. They fought alone and fought the Han army, which did not go well.
The army did not dare to come to the rescue without permission, so the Han army took advantage of the victory and killed Wang Xun.
The defenders in Kunyang City rushed out and attacked from both sides. Wang Yi fled and the army was in chaos.
The strong wind blew away the roof tiles, and the heavy rain was like splashing water. The army collapsed, shouting, and the tigers and leopards trembled in fear. The soldiers fled and each returned to their own counties.
Wang Yi returned to Luoyang alone with thousands of Chang'an warriors he led.
When the Guanzhong area heard the news, they were shocked and frightened, and thieves started revolting one after another.
I also heard from the Han army that Wang Mang had poisoned Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty.
Wang Mang gathered the officials below the Duke to Wang Lutang, opened the policy letter he had written on behalf of Emperor Ping to request relief from the disease and save his life, and later stored it in a safe, and showed it to the ministers with tears.
He ordered Zhang Han, a man of Mingxue, to praise his virtues and matters related to his destiny, and took the opportunity to say: "The Book of Changes" says: Ambush the army in the dense grass, climb the tall mountains to look out, and dare not advance. It will not rise until three years.
Mang is the emperor's name. Sheng means Liu Boxheng. Gaoling refers to Zhai Yi, the son of Gaolinghou.
If Liu Boxheng and Zhai Yi established underground armed forces in the era of the new emperor, they would still be eliminated and would not succeed. The ministers all shouted "Long live".
He also ordered Dongfang to transport several people in a prison car, saying that Liu Boxheng and others would be executed.
The people knew it was false.
In the early days, General Wang She of the Guard always supported the Taoist priest Ximen Junhui.
Ximen Junhui was fond of astronomical prophecies and said to Wang She: There is a star that shines brightly and sweeps the palace. The Liu Family Association will be revived, and the name of the Grand Master is.
Wang She believed what he said and told the Grand Sima Dong Zhong about it. They went to the duty room of the Imperial Preceptor in the palace many times to talk about the stars, but the Imperial Preceptor did not answer.
Later, Wang She came here and said to Liu Xin in tears: "I really want to protect the safety of our two families with you. Why don't you believe me?"
Liu Xin then talked to him about astronomy and personnel matters, and the Eastern army would definitely succeed.
Wang She said: Marquis Ai of Xindu has been ill since he was a child, and Gong Xianjun has always been a drunkard. He suspects that the emperor is not the son of our Wang family.
Duke Dong is in charge of the elite troops of the Chinese army, I am in charge of the palace guards, and Marquis Yixiu is in charge of the palace guards. If we all conspire together to kidnap the emperor and surrender to the east, the emperor who is currently stationed in Nanyang County can save our family; otherwise, we will all be killed and exterminated!
Yixiuhou was Liu Xin's eldest son and served as a lieutenant general in the fifth palace. Wang Mang always liked him.
Liu Xin resented Wang Mang for killing his three children and was afraid of a disaster, so he planned with Wang She and Dong Zhong to take action.
Liu Xin said: We should wait for Taibai Star to appear before taking action.
Dong Zhong put Sun Ji, the Marquis of Wu, in charge of the army because of his eldest daughter in the department, and discussed with Sun Ji.
When Sun Ji returned home, his expression changed and he couldn't eat.
His wife was surprised and asked him, and he told her what had happened.
His wife told her brother Chen Han from Yunyang County about these circumstances, and Chen Han wanted to report them.
In July, Sun Ji and Chen Han went to report together, and Wang Mang sent envoys to summon Dong Zhong and others respectively.
At this time, Dong Zhong was giving a lecture on martial arts and conducting a large-scale military training. Wang Xian, the guard of the army, said that Dong Zhong had been planning for a long time and had not taken action. He was afraid that the news would be exposed, so it was better to kill the envoy and lead the army in.
Dong Zhong refused to obey, so he met with Liu Xin and Wang She at the minister's office in the palace.
Wang Mang asked Zouwei to question them, and they all admitted it.
The eunuchs in the palace drew out their swords and sent Dong Zhong and others to their duty room. Dong Zhong drew out his sword and wanted to wipe his neck. Wang Wang, the attendant, reported that Da Sima Zao was killed, and the eunuchs took their swords and killed him together.
The minister's office was in panic, and they informed each other that the soldiers who were being intensively trained rushed to Langguan Yamen one after another, with their swords unsheathed and arrows loaded on their bows.
Gengshi General Shi Chen inspected the yamen of various Lang officials and told the Lang officials: "Da Sima was insane and attempted to make a conspiracy. He had just started and was executed."
Order them all to lay down their weapons. Wang Mang wanted to use Dong Zhong to avoid disasters, so he asked the Huben warriors to chop Dong Zhong into pieces with a horse-cutting sword, put it in a bamboo vessel, and announced that "the rebels have come out."
The following article pardons Da Sima's subordinate officials, officers and soldiers who were deceived by Dong Zhong and participated in the conspiracy without being discovered.
The family that arrested Dong Zhong buried them in a hole with strong vinegar, poison, knives, and thorn strips.
Liu Xin and Wang She both committed suicide.
Because these two people were close relatives and old subordinates, Wang Mang disliked people saying that he had an internal collapse, so he did not publicly announce their punishment.
Because Yixiu Hou Liu Die was always cautious, Liu Xin never informed him of their plan, so he only dismissed the general Zhonglang from his service and appointed him as the official Zhongsan.
Later, a white-haired old man in green clothes appeared next to the cactus on the rockery in the palace. The man who saw it said privately that he was the Grand Master.
Wang Xi, the Marquis of Yangong, was always good at fortune-telling. Wang Mang asked him to make a fortune-telling with yarrow, saying: Worried about war and fire.
Wang Mang said: How did the children learn these evil ways?
This is my imperial ancestor uncle Wang Ziqiao coming to pick me up.
Wang Mang's army suffered a defeat outside, and the ministers were subverting internally. There was no one around him who could be trusted. He could no longer consider distant counties and wanted to ask Wang Yi to come back to discuss with him.
Cui Fa said: "Wang Yi has always been careful. Now that he has lost his army and has to move back, I am afraid that he will commit suicide out of loyalty. We should find a way to comfort him."
So Wang Mang sent Cui Fa to ride a carriage to tell Wang Yi: I am old and have no son from my first wife, and I want to pass on the state power to you.
I order you not to examine your guilt and not to mention those things again when we meet.
Wang Yi arrived and appointed him as Grand Sima.
In the Great Changqiu period, Zhang Han served as the Grand Situ, Cui Fa served as the Grand Sikong, Miao Xin from Shourong in the Sizhong served as the National Preceptor, and Tongshuo Wanglin served as the General of the Guard.
Wang Mang was so depressed that he couldn't eat, so he only drank wine and ate abalone.
When I got tired from reading military books, I took a nap on my desk and stopped going to bed.
He likes to do tricks to seek good luck and avoid disaster. When the situation is urgent, he still blindly tries to defeat the enemy.
He sent envoys to tear down the screens at the tomb gates of Weiling and Yanling, saying: Don't let the people think of the Han Dynasty anymore.
and blackened their walls with ink.
He called the general Suisu, Shenshui the assistant general, and Yougeng Kemu Xiaowei and Qian Bingyaojin Duwei. He also said: With a big ax, he cut down the dead wood; the water flowed out and drowned the remaining fire.
There are too many tricks like this to be recorded.
In autumn, the Taibai star reaches Taiweiyuan and shines on the ground like moonlight.
The Kui Cui brothers from Chengji County kidnapped the great Yin Li Yu together, and appointed their nephew Kai Xiao as the general. They attacked and killed Chen Qing, the shepherd of Yongzhou, and Zheng Wang Xun, the soldier of Anding County. They annexed their armies and sent proclamations to all counties, listing Wang Mang's crimes ten thousand times more than those of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
This month, Deng Ye and Yu Kuang, both from Xi County, raised troops in Nanxiang, with more than a hundred troops.
At this time, the magistrate of Xi County led thousands of troops to station in Zhengting to defend Wuguan.
Deng Ye and Yu Kuang said to the county magistrate: The Emperor of the Liu family has ascended the throne, why don't you know the destiny?
The county magistrate asked for surrender and all his troops were accepted.
Deng Ye claimed to be the general of the left to assist the Han Dynasty, and Yu Kuang claimed to be the general to the right to assist the Han. They captured Xixian and Danshui counties, attacked Wuguan, and the captain Zhu Meng surrendered.
Attacked Song Gang, the doctor of the right team, killed him, and attacked Hu County from the west.
Wang Mang was even more worried and didn't know how to deal with it.
Cui Fa said: "The Rites of Zhou" and "The Legend of Zuo Shi in the Spring and Autumn Period" say that when a country encounters a great disaster, it will cry to defeat it.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says that you should cry loudly first, and then laugh.
We can sigh and pray to God for help.
Wang Mang knew that he had failed, so he led a large number of ministers to the southern suburbs and stated the story of how he received his destiny. He looked up to the sky and said: Since God has decreed that the state power will be handed over to me, Wang Mang, why not eliminate those thieves?
If I, Wang Mang, are wrong, I hope you will send down thunder and kill me, Wang Mang!
So he beat his chest and cried loudly. He couldn't cry anymore and kowtowed to the ground.
He also wrote a strategy letter to the heaven, stating his achievements, with more than a thousand words.
All the Confucian scholars and common people gathered together to cry every morning and evening, and prepared porridge for them. Those who cried very sadly and could recite the policy were appointed as Langguan, numbering more than 5,000 people.
They were led by Yue Pan.
Wang Mang appointed nine generals, all using "Hu" as the general's name, called "Nine Tigers". He led tens of thousands of elite soldiers of the capital guard force to the east and took their wives and children into the palace as hostages.
At this time, there were still 60 boxes of 10,000 kilograms of gold stored in the palace, and there were several boxes in Huangmen, Goudun, Zangfu, and Zhongshangfang.
There were many coins, silks, pearls, solid jade and other kinds of property in Changle Palace's Yufu, Zhongyufu and the capital. Wang Mang was even more stingy about them and rewarded each soldier of the Nine Tigers 4,000 coins.
The soldiers were very resentful and had no will to fight.
General Jiuhu arrived at Huixi in Huayin County and guarded the dangerous points, starting from the Yellow River in the north and reaching Mount Xiao in the south.
Yu Kuang led thousands of archers and climbed up to challenge.
Deng Ye led more than 20,000 people from Minxiang County south to the Zaojie and Zuogu lines, defeated one of them, and went north to attack them behind the Nine Tigers Defense Line.
The six tigers were defeated.
Shi Xiong and Wang Kuang returned to the court to accept the death penalty. Wang Mang asked the messenger to ask them where the dead people were, and they all committed suicide; the other four tigers fled.
There are also three tigers, Guo Qin, Chen Gong and Cheng Zhong, who gather scattered soldiers to defend the capital warehouse.
Deng Ye opened the Wuguan Pass to welcome the Han army. Prime Minister Sizhi Li Song led more than 2,000 people to Hu County and attacked the capital warehouse with Deng Ye and others. However, they failed to capture it. Deng Hua sent Wang Xian, an official in Hongnong County, as a school captain and led hundreds of people to cross the Wei River northward and entered Zuofeng Yi's territory. They captured the city and occupied the territory.
Li Song sent partial general Han Chen and others to go straight west to Xinfeng County, where they fought Wang Mang's General Bo Shui, but General Bo Shui was defeated and fled.
Han Chen and others chased the escaping defeated soldiers until they reached Changmen Palace.
Wang Xian went north to Pinyang County, and all the local officials he passed came to welcome the surrender.
Shen Jie, a native of Shuoyang County, and Wang Dadu, a native of Xiabang County, led troops to follow Wang Xian. Yan Chun from Yatai County of Sanfuge County, Dong Xi from Maoling County, Wang Meng from Lantian County, Ru Chen from Huaili County, Wang Fu from Panyi County, Yan Ben from Yangling County, and Tu Menshao from Duling County all had thousands of troops, and they named themselves generals of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, Li Song and Deng Ye believed that the small storage area in the capital had not yet been captured, let alone Chang'an City. They could only attack the city after waiting for the arrival of Emperor Gengshi's army.
He took his army to Huayin County and made siege equipment.
The troops near Chang'an gathered under the city from all sides. When they heard that the troops from the Wei family in Tianshui County were about to arrive, they all rushed to advance into the city, hoping to gain great achievements and rob property.
Wang Mang sent envoys to pardon the prisoners in various prisons in the city, and distributed weapons to the prisoners. They killed pigs and drank their blood. They swore an oath to them: If there is anyone who does not serve the new dynasty, the ghosts of the society will remember him!
Gengshi General Shi Chen led them across the Wei Bridge, but they all scattered and fled.
Shi Chen came back alone.
Soldiers from various ministries dug up the graves of Wang Mang's wife, children, father, and grandfather, and burned their coffins as well as the Nine Temples, Mingtang, and Piyong. The fire shone into the city.
Someone said to Wang Mang: The guards at the city gate are from the Cambodian region and cannot be trusted.
Wang Mang transferred Yue cavalry to serve as guards. Each city gate was equipped with 600 people, each with a captain.
On the first day of October, the first day of the Wushen lunar month, the siege troops entered through the Xuanping city gate, making it what the people call the capital gate.
Zhang Han inspected the city gate and was killed when he encountered soldiers.
Wang Yi, Wang Lin, Wang Xun and Yu Tang respectively led their troops to fight at the foot of Beique.
The soldiers of the Han army coveted the reward stipulated by Emperor Gengshi for capturing or killing Wang Mang, so more than 700 soldiers fought bravely.
It happened to be dark, and the officials and nobles all fled.
On the second day of the month, Zhu Di, Zhang Yu and others in the city were afraid that they would be robbed. They formed a group, ran and made noise, burned the gate of Shangfang's workshop, cut open the small door of Jingfa Hall, and shouted: "Rebel Wang Mang, why don't you come out and surrender?"
The fire burned to the official offices of the harem, where the head of the Huang royal family lived.
Wang Mang avoided the fire and went to the front hall of Xuanshi, but the fire always followed him.
The palace women cried and said: What should be done!
At this time, Wang Mang was wearing a full set of sky-blue clothes, wearing an imperial seal, and holding the head of Emperor Yu.
Tian Wenlang held the wipe in front and moved the pointer at any time. Wang Mang turned his seat and sat in the direction pointed by the bucket handle, saying: God has given me the virtue and mission of governing the country, what can the desert army do to me!
Wang Mang didn't eat at this time and felt a little sleepy.
On the third day of Gengxu, it dawned in the morning. The courtiers supported Wang Mang, walked south from the front hall down the palace avenue, walked west out of the White Tiger Gate, and arranged a car with the new prince Wang Yi to wait outside the gate. Wang Mang boarded the car and headed to Jiantai. He wanted to rely on the water in the pool as a defense, but he still held on to his fortune and power. He was followed by more than a thousand officials including the official Gongqing, Shizhong, Huang Menlang and so on.
Wang Yi had been fighting day and night, and was extremely tired. The soldiers were almost dead and wounded. He flew into the palace, and after many twists and turns, he came to the stage. He saw his son, Wang Mu, the servant, taking off his clothes and hat and trying to escape. Wang Yi stopped him and asked him to return. Both father and son guarded Wang Mang.
The soldiers entered the palace and shouted: Where is the rebel Wang Mang?
A beautiful woman came out of the room and said: He is on the stage.
A large number of soldiers chased after him and surrounded hundreds of soldiers.
On the stage, bows and arrows were also used to shoot at the surrounding soldiers, and the surrounding soldiers retreated slightly.
The arrows on the stage were all used up, and there were no more arrows to be fired, and the soldiers were fighting hand to hand.
Wang Yi, his son, Zou Pan, and Wang Xun died fighting, and Wang Mang hid in the inner room.
After Shen Shi, a large number of soldiers came to the stage. Wang Yi, Zhao Bo, Miao Xin, Tang Zun, Wang Sheng and Zhongchang Shi Wang Shen all died on the stage.
Businessman Du Wu killed Wang Mang and took off his seal tie.
The captain of the school, the Duke of Donghai County, who was the former chief minister of Daxing, came to visit. When he saw Du Wu, he asked where the owner of this tie was.
Du Wu replied: In the room in the northwest corner of the room.
The official knew him well, so he cut off Wang Mang's head.
The soldiers split Wang Mang's body. His limbs, joints, muscles, and bones were cut into many pieces. Dozens of people competed to kill him.
The official took Wang Mang's head and went to Wang Xian.
Wang Xian claimed to be the general of the Han Dynasty. Hundreds of thousands of troops in the city belonged to him. He lived in Changle Palace, took Wang Mang's concubines as his concubines, and used Wang Mang's carriages, horses, clothes, and utensils.
On the 6th day of Guichou, Li Song and Deng Ye entered Chang'an, and generals Zhao Meng and Shen Tujian also came. Because Wang Xian had seized the imperial seal and failed to hand it over, he hid many maids secretly, and used the emperor's guard of honor to capture and kill him.
Wang Mang's head was sent to Emperor Gengshi and hung in the streets of Wancheng. The people threw it at it, and some cut off his tongue and ate it.
Wang Mang's Yangzhou shepherd Li Sheng and his commander Kong Ren were defeated in the Shandong area. Li Sheng died in a fight, and Kong Ren led his troops to surrender. Then he sighed and said: I heard that if you enjoy someone's salary, you have to die for his cause.
Then he drew his sword and committed suicide.
Du Pu, the eunuch of Cao's Ministry, Shen Yi, the great Yin of Chending County, and Jia Meng, the leader of Jiujiang County Company, all defended the county and refused to surrender, so they were killed by the Han army.
Wang Qin and Guo Qin, the great Yins of Shangdu County, were guarding the capital warehouse. When they heard that Wang Mang was dead, they surrendered. Emperor Gengshi believed that they had upheld integrity and granted them the title of marquis.
Taishi Wang Kuang and General Aizhang surrendered in Luoyang and were sent to Wancheng to kill them.
After Yan You and Chen Mao were beaten at the foot of Kunyang City, they fled to Qiao County, Pei County. They claimed to be generals of the Desert Army and called a gathering of local officials and civilians.
Yan You preached to them about Wang Mang's theft of the throne, God's will to destroy him, and the revival of the wise Han Dynasty. Chen Mao fell to the ground and cried.
Hearing that Liu Sheng, the former Zhongwu Marquis of the Han Dynasty, gathered his troops in Runan County and claimed to be emperor, Yan You and Chen Mao surrendered to him.
Liu Sheng appointed Yan You as Grand Sima and Chen Mao as Prime Minister.
They failed for more than ten days, and both Yan You and Chen Mao died.
All counties and counties surrendered, and the whole country returned to the rule of the Han Dynasty.
Earlier, Shentu Jian had followed Cui Fa to study the Book of Songs. When Shentu Jian came to Chang'an, Cui Fa surrendered to him.
Later, he promoted Wang Mang's replacement of the Han Dynasty, and Shentu Jian asked Prime Minister Liu Ci to kill Cui Fa to show the public.
Shi Chen, Wang Yan, Wang Lin, Wang Wu and Zhao Hong also surrendered and were killed.
At first, everyone in the troops who established their own names wanted to be granted the title of marquis.
Shen Tujian had not only killed Wang Xian, but also threatened that the people in the Sanfu area were cunning and killed his monarch together. Therefore, the officials and civilians in the Sanfu area became frightened, and the counties under their jurisdiction gathered troops to separate themselves. Shen Tujian and others failed to capture it, so they sent flying horses to report to Gengshi Emperor.
In February of the second year of Gengshi, Emperor Gengshi came to Chang'an and issued an edict announcing a general amnesty. As long as they were not Wang Mang's children, everyone else would be pardoned for their crimes, so the Wang family could be preserved.
All the Sanfu areas were pacified, and Emperor Gengshi made his capital Chang'an and lived in Changle Palace.
The treasury was intact, except for the Weiyang palace fire that attacked Wang Mang for three days. Once Wang Mang died, he settled down and returned to his original state.
After the arrival of Emperor Gengshi, it took more than a year for the political education to be implemented throughout the country.
In the summer of the next year, hundreds of thousands of people from the Red Eyebrow Army, Fan Chong and others entered Hangu Pass, supported Liu Penzi as emperor, and attacked Emperor Gengshi, who surrendered to them.
The Red Eyebrow Army burned the palaces and streets of Chang'an and killed Emperor Gengshi.
The people were starving to the point of cannibalism, and hundreds of thousands of people died. The city of Chang'an was in ruins, and no one walked in the city.
All the ancestral temples and tombs of the ancestors of the Han Dynasty have been excavated, but only Du Ling and Ba Ling are still intact.
In June, King Shizu ascended the throne, and then the state power was re-established and the country was at peace.
Praise says: Wang Mang started his career as a relative of the emperor, worked hard and worked hard to gain fame. His family praised him for his filial piety, and his teachers and friends praised him for his benevolent character.
When he ascended to a high position, he assisted in government affairs. During the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, he worked hard in governing the country and acted with integrity. His every move was often praised by people.
Could it be that he is what Confucius said: He must have a reputation in his family and in the court. On the surface, he seems to be in favor of generosity and kindness, but in his actions he violates it?
Wang Mang originally had no benevolent character, but he had the talent for smooth talk, hypocrisy and treachery. He also used his four uncles to experience the power held by Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng. When the Han Dynasty declined midway, the throne had no heirs three times, and the Queen Mother Wang lived long enough to be his protector for a long time, so he was able to carry out his treacherous and evil methods, thus causing the disaster of usurping the throne and stealing political power.
Based on these facts, it can be deduced that this is also the time of heaven and cannot be achieved by human power.
When he stole the emperor's position and occupied a position that he should not occupy, the trend of defeat was faster than that of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou, but Wang Mang casually believed that he was the reincarnation of the Yellow Emperor and Yu Shun.
So he began to indulge in violence, exercised his power and power wantonly, deceived God, harmed the people, and was extremely vicious, poisoning the whole country and spreading disasters to foreign countries in all directions, but it was not enough to satisfy his desires.
Therefore, the people all over the country sadly lost their intention to live happily. The court and localities were resentful. They mobilized from far and near. The capital could not be defended and the body was torn apart. Finally, the cities across the country were reduced to ruins and tombs were excavated, killing all the living and the dead. Since there are written records of unscrupulous people like rebellious ministers and traitors, if we look at the disasters they caused and the failures they suffered, none are as severe as Wang Mang.
In the past, the Qin Dynasty burned Chu Jing, Shu Jing and other classics to establish his own family's claims. Wang Mang quoted the Six Classics to embellish fallacies. Their purpose was exactly the same, but their methods were completely different, which led to their destruction. They all had no virtue and stole the throne. They were not destiny. They were just some variegated obscenities and extra leap months. They were the targets of the Holy Kings.
