Preface to the biographies of Yimin. "The Book of Changes" says: The meaning of Dun Gua is very great!
He also said: Don't serve princes and nobles, keep your noble reputation. Therefore, Emperor Yao took heaven as the law and could not make Chao Fu and Xu You accept his throne; King Wu of Zhou was a perfect man, and in the end he could only fulfill the innocent reputation of Boyi and Shuqi, the two sons of Lord Guzhu, for not eating Zhou Su.
Since then, the trend of seclusion has become more popular. Most people's deeds are roughly the same, but their motivations for seclusion are very different.
Some live in seclusion to satisfy their ambitions; some avoid the entanglements of big men to perfect their moral character; some seek a quiet environment to suppress impatience; some avoid dangerous disputes to seek temporary safety; some are cynical to establish their integrity; some despise wealth and honor to preserve their innocence.
However, seeing that they are willing to work in the fields and fish in the rivers and seas, must they be so interested in fish, birds, forests and grass?
But everyone has different personalities.
Therefore, even though Liu Xiahui suffered humiliation and was dismissed three times, he still refused to leave Qi. Lu Zhonglian would rather jump into the sea and die than respect Qin as emperor. Even his status as the king of a thousand-year-old country could not tempt him.
If they were put in another position, they wouldn't act the same way. Their stubbornness does have the appearance of seeking fame and fame, but they are like cicadas shed in the dust, jumping out of this filthy environment, far behind those who sharpen their heads to pursue fame and fortune.
Xunzi said it well: If you have high ambitions, you will look down on wealth; if you are moral, you will look down on princes.
The middle path of the Han Dynasty declined and Wang Mang usurped the throne. People with lofty ideals had strong indignation.
At that time, I don’t know how many people threw away their black gauze hats and left their official positions.
Yang Xiong said: The swan geese flew so high that the hunter’s arrow missed.
It is a metaphor for those who have traveled far away.
Emperor Guangwu came to the throne and sat sideways waiting for the wise men. He was hungry and thirsty. He sent people to recruit people from Qiuyuan with banners, silk and push carts. There was an endless stream of messengers on the rugged mountain roads.
For example, Xue Fang, Feng Meng and others invited him but refused to come out. Yan Guang, Zhou Dang, Wang Ba and others came out but refused to take their seats.
At that time, all conditions were in place, and people with lofty ideals were also thinking about the sage emperor. Isn't this a great opportunity to promote the free people and make the people of the world surrender?
Emperor Suzong also paid courtesy to Zheng Jun and hired Gao Feng to complete their honor.
Since then, the emperor's virtue has gradually declined, and villains have taken over. The hermits are wary and feel that it is shameful to stand with those ministers. They even walk away, losing the way of neutrality. Now record those who lived in seclusion, and those who returned to seclusion one after another after coming out, are listed in this article. Xiang Changchuan, whose courtesy name is Ziping, was born in Chaoge, Hanoi. He lives in seclusion and does not serve as an official. He has a moderate personality and is proficient in Laozi and the Book of Changes.
He was poor and had no resources for food. If a good person gave him some food, he would accept part of it and return the rest.
Wang Mang's chief minister, Wang Yi, summoned him, but it took several years for him to arrive. He wanted to recommend him to Wang Mang, but Xiang Chang resolutely refused.
Hidden at home.
After reading the "Book of Changes" to the two hexagrams "Loss" and "Benefit", I sighed deeply and said: I already know that wealth is worse than poverty, and nobleness is worse than lowliness, but I don't know how death is worse than life.
During the Jianwu period, after his son and girl got married, he severed ties with his family and said, "Just think of me as dead."
So he acted randomly and traveled to the famous Five Mountains with his friend Beihai Qinqing, but in the end he didn't know where he ended up.
Feng Meng's biography, Feng Meng's courtesy name is Zikang, and he was born in Duchang, Beihai.
His family was poor and he worked as a pavilion chief in the county.
At that time, the county captain passed by the pavilion, and Peng Meng was waiting to greet him. He dropped his wooden shield and sighed, "How can a man serve as a servant for others?"
So he went to Chang'an to study and became proficient in the Spring and Autumn Classic.
At this time, Wang Mang killed his son Yu. Pengmeng said to his friends: The three cardinal principles are severed!
If you don't leave, disaster will bring harm to others.
He immediately took off his hat and hung it on the gate of Dongdu City. After returning, he moved his family to the seaside and lived in Liaodong.
Fengmeng had always understood the art of yin and yang, and knew that Wang Mang would be defeated soon, so he put a clay basin on his head and cried in the market: "New! New!"
So he hid.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he went to Langfu Mountain to cultivate his aspirations and practice Taoism. Everyone was influenced by his virtues.
The governor of Beihai heard about his noble character and sent officials to pay homage to him, but he did not respond to his courtesy.
The prefect held a grudge and sent people to arrest him.
The official kowtowed and said: "Zikang is a great sage and is famous all over the world. Wherever he is, people respect him like a father. If you go, you will definitely not be able to catch him. You will only bring humiliation to yourself."
The eunuch became angry, imprisoned the officials, and sent others to go.
When the man walked to Laoshan, people united to defend him with crossbows. The officials were wounded and bleeding and ran back.
Later, the imperial court summoned Fengmeng with an edict. Meng told the envoy that he was too old and had lost his way to the east-west direction, and said to the envoy: "The reason why the imperial court summoned me is because it thought I would be beneficial to politics. I don't even know the direction. How can I help the time?"
Hitched home immediately.
If you don't come out for continuous recruitment, you will die.
At first, Fengmeng was good friends with Xu Fang, Pingyuan Li Ziyun, and Wang Jungong from the same county. They all knew the theory of yin and yang and harbored virtuous behavior.
Xu Fang and Ziyun each raised thousands of apprentices. When the emperor was in trouble, he would not leave alone, but he worked as a cattle broker and secluded himself.
People at that time commented: "The King of the East Wall is a refuge from the world."
Biography of Zhou Dang, named Bo Kuang, a native of Guangwu, Taiyuan.
The family fortune is thousands of gold.
His father died when he was young and he was raised by his tribe. However, he was not treated politely and when he grew up, his property was not returned.
Zhou Dang went to the township and county to file a lawsuit, and the owner was returned to him.
Soon, he dispersed his family property to the clan and dismissed all his servants, so he went to Chang'an to study.
At first, Xiang Zuo once insulted Zhou Dang in front of everyone, and Zhou Dang remembered it for a long time.
Later, after reading "Spring and Autumn", I understood the meaning of revenge, so I stopped talking and went back, notifying my hometown assistant to set a date for the fight.
After a confrontation, Zhou Dang was injured by Xiang Zuo and was trapped.
Xiang Zuo was impressed by his loyalty and sent him home in a car to recuperate. He revived after a few days and left when he woke up.
From then on, he restrained himself and cultivated his will, and the state praised him for his noble character.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the Zhou party refused to leave due to illness.
From now on, the thieves will run rampant and destroy the counties and counties. They will not come in until they reach Guangwu and pass through the city gate.
During the Jianwu period, he called Zhou Dang to serve as Yilang. He resigned due to illness, so he sent his wife to live in Mianchi.
When he was summoned again, he had no choice but to put on short cloth and single clothes, and a silk head made of grain husk, waiting to see the minister.
When Guangwu introduced him, Zhou Dang fell to the ground and paid homage. He stated that he was willing to abide by his will, and the emperor agreed.
Dr. Fan Sheng reported that the Zhou Dynasty was ruined: I heard that Emperor Yao did not need Xu You and Chaofu, but established his name in the world; the Zhou Dynasty did not wait for Boyi and Shu Qi, but the king's way was achieved.
I met Zhou Dang of Taiyuan, Wang Liang of Donghai, Wang Cheng of Shanyang, etc., and received great favors. The envoy invited me repeatedly before I was willing to get on the carriage.
When your majesty came to see the court, the Zhou party did not show courtesy, bowed down and refused to pay homage, and showed off their arrogance and arrogance. They all left at the same time.
Zhou Dang and others were incapable of romance in humanities and incapable of killing the king in martial arts. They had a good reputation and were almost ranked among the three princes.
I am willing to sit with them under the cloud platform and test the methods of governing the country.
If it is not what I said, I am willing to bear the sin of vanity.
It is disrespectful to dare to use false reputation for personal gain and boast.
In the memorial, the emperor passed it to the ministers.
The edict reads: Since ancient times, the Ming King and the Holy Lord must have some unwelcome guests.
Boyi and Shuqi did not eat millet from the Zhou Dynasty, and the Zhou party in Taiyuan did not receive my salary, but they also had their own ambitions.
Give forty pieces of silk.
Zhou Dang lived in seclusion in Mianchi, wrote the first and second chapters of the book, and died.
The people of the city considered him a worthy person and built a temple to commemorate him.
At first, Zhou Dang, Tan Xianbosheng and Yanmen Yinmo, both of the same county, kept their integrity and refused to serve as officials for Wang Mang.
During the Jianwu period, he could not be summoned.
Wang Ba's biography, Wang Ba's courtesy name is Ru Zhong, and he was born in Guangwu, Taiyuan.
There are clear festivals in childhood.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he gave up his crown and belt and broke off all relations with the officials.
During the Jianwu period, he was called to the minister's office and paid homage to him by name, but not as a minister.
Someone asked him why.
Ba said: The emperor has dissatisfaction with his subjects, and the princes have dissatisfaction with others.
Situ Houba gave way to Wang Ba.
Yan Yang ruined the king's domineering ways: Wang Ruzhong, a secular party in Taiyuan, had this kind of trend.
So it was stopped.
Returned home due to illness. Live in seclusion and keep your ambitions, with a thatched hut.
After failing to call for several times, he died.
Yan Guangzhuan, Yan Guang, courtesy name Ziling, also known as Zun, was born in Yuyao, Kuaiji.
He became famous at a young age and traveled and studied with Emperor Guangwu.
When Guangwu became emperor, Yan Guang changed his name and lived in seclusion.
The emperor missed his talent, so he sent someone with the image to find it.
Later, someone from Qi State reported that there was a man wearing a sheep fur fishing in the lake.
The emperor suspected that it was Yan Guang, so he prepared a carriage and black silk and sent someone to invite him.
It took three times to come out.
Let him live in the military camp, make a bed, and have meals delivered by the eunuch in the morning and evening.
Situ Houba and Yan Guang were old friends and sent someone to deliver the letter.
The messenger said by the way: When Mr. Hou heard that your husband had arrived, he wanted to see you immediately, but he was busy with official duties, so he did not come.
I hope you will go to him at dusk and talk.
Yan Guang didn't answer, so he gave the visitor a pen and paper, and said to himself: "Mr. Junfang, it's very good to be a third official."
I hope you can have a kind heart, supplemented by morality, and make the world happy. If you flatter and follow the will, you will be killed.
Hou Ba read the letter, sealed it and sent it to the emperor. The emperor smiled and said: "What a crazy slave."
So I drove to the hotel immediately.
At this time, Yan Guang was still sleeping and had not gotten up. The emperor walked to the bedside. Touching his belly and saying: Oh! Ziling, can't you help me govern the country?
Yan Guang still slept silently. After a long time, he opened his eyes and stared at the emperor and said: In ancient times, Tang Yao was very virtuous and wanted to give up the throne to Father Chao. Father Chao washed his ears after hearing this.
Scholars all have their own ambitions, so why force others?
The emperor then said: Ziling, how can I not make you submit?
So he got in the car and left with a sigh.
Another time, the emperor invited Yan Guang in and talked with him about the past. The two talked to each other for several days.
The emperor calmly said to Yan Guang: How am I better than before?
Answer: You are a little fatter than before.
So they slept together, Yan Guang put his feet on Guangwu's belly.
The next day, Taishi reported that there was a guest star in the sky invading the throne of the emperor, and the situation was urgent.
The emperor smiled and said: I am sleeping with my old friend Yan Ziling!
Emperor Guangwu worshiped Yan Guang as an admonishment official, but Yan Guang refused to do so, so he farmed in Fuchun Mountain. Later generations called the place where Yan Guang fished Yan Linglai.
In the seventeenth year of Jianwu's reign, he sent someone to invite Yan Guang, but he still refused to come out.
Yan Guang lived to the age of eighty and died at home.
The biography of Jing Dan, named Dachun, was born in Fufeng.
When he was young, he studied in Taixue. He was proficient in the Five Classics and was good at talking about it. Therefore, people in the capital said this: The Five Classics are rich in content and spring.
He has a high-spirited nature and has never greeted anyone with a business card.
In the last years of Jianwu, King Pei Liu Fu and other five kings lived in the Beigong. They were all very good guests. They sent people to invite Jing Dan again, but they couldn't come.
Xinyang Hou Yinjiu, the younger brother of Queen Guanglie, relied on the status of his relative Guisheng, so he lied to the Five Kings and asked for tens of millions of dollars to make an appointment to invite Jing Dan, and also had someone rob him on the way.
Jing Dan had no choice but to arrive, so Yin deliberately prepared wheat rice, green onion leaves and other food. Jing Dan refused to push it away and said: "I think the monarch can provide delicious food, so I came to visit, why are you so meager?"
So they set up a separate banquet before eating.
When Yin got up, the people on the left and right pushed a chariot. Jing Dan smiled and said: I heard that Xia Jie once used people to drive. Is this it?
All the guests sitting there changed their colors.
Yin had no choice but to ask someone to replace the chariot.
From then on, Jing Dan lived in seclusion, not interacting with people, and died.
Liang Hongchuan, whose courtesy name was Boluan, was born in Pingling, Fufeng.
His father, Liang Rang, served as a minor official guarding the city during Wang Mang's time and was granted the title of Yuan Bo. Wang Mang asked him to sacrifice to Emperor Shaohao, so he lived in the north and died.
Liang Hong was young at the time. Because of the troubled times, he rolled up a mat and buried his father hastily.
Later, Liang Hong entered Taixue to study. Because his family was poor, he was very frugal. He has read a lot of books and is very proficient, but he doesn't like writing articles.
After studying, he herded pigs in Shanglin Garden.
Once, a fire accidentally broke out and burned down someone else's house. Liang Hong found the burned house, learned about the damage, and used pigs as compensation.
The owner of that house is still too few.
Liang Hong said: I have no other property and am willing to use my own labor as compensation.
The master agreed.
So I worked very hard in the morning and evening.
The neighbor old man saw that Liang Hong was not an ordinary person, so he blamed the owner of the house and called Liang Hong an elder. From then on, the owner respected Liang Hong and returned all his pigs.
Liang Hong refused to accept it and returned to his hometown.
Some wealthy families envied Liang Hong's noble moral character and wanted to marry their daughters to him, but Liang Hong refused.
There was a girl from the Meng family in the same county. She was fat, ugly and dark, but she could lift a stone mortar. She didn't like the girl she chose, and she was still unmarried at the age of thirty.
The father asked why, and the daughter said: I want to find someone like Liang Boluan.
When Liang Hong heard about it, he went to pay the betrothal gift.
The woman requires cloth clothes, hemp shoes, thread baskets, textiles and other tools as dowry.
When you get married, you dress up and enter the house.
After seven days, Liang Hong stopped talking to his wife.
The wife knelt in front of the bed and said: I heard that you have high moral character and are very strict in choosing your partners. You have not agreed to several women, and I have also chosen several people.
Now that I have been chosen by you, please tell me clearly if I have made any mistakes so that I can correct them.
Liang Hong said: I want to find someone who is dressed simply and live in seclusion in the mountains together.
Now that you are wearing nice clothes and applying makeup, are you the person I want?
The wife said: I tested you on purpose. I still have clothes for seclusion.
So he changed his hair into a bun, put on cloth clothes, dressed himself up for work, and stepped forward.
Liang Hong said happily: "This is really Liang Hong's wife!"
You can spend a lifetime with me!
So he named her De Yao and named her Meng Guang.
Not long after, the wife said: I often hear that you want to live in seclusion to avoid danger. Why are you silent now? Do you want to bow to power?
Liang Hong said: You are right.
So they went into Baling Mountain together and started farming and weaving.
On weekdays, he spends his time reading poetry and playing the piano. I often envy the elegant people of my predecessors and write hymns for the twenty-four sages after Shangshan Sihao.
One day, I went out along the east gate and passed the capital, and wrote a song called "Song of Five Ains": Climbing Beimang Mountain, I saw that the imperial capital was very gorgeous, the palaces towered into the clouds, and the hard work of life was infinite and endless.
Suzong was very disapproving after hearing this and sent people to look for Liang Hong, but he could not find him.
So Liang Hong changed his surname to Yunqi, his given name was Yao, and his courtesy name was Hou Guang. He lived with his wife in the Qilu area.
Not long after, I went to the Kingdom of Wu again, and when I was about to set off, I wrote a poem: Passing through the old country and running into the distance, my future stopped and I thought about the southeast. I was confused and haggard, and my ambition was rising and falling.
I want to ride a horse and gallop, but I hate the slanderous words that hurt people.
He actually promoted the villain and abandoned the virtuous, and shouted first with a sharp tongue.
Bo Luan is not ashamed to be independent, maybe Bo Le lives in a foreign country.
What is the need for temporary freedom? Learn from Confucius and travel around.
If I could see a virtuous person and my heart would be happy, I would rather abandon my carriage and ride a boat.
When I arrived at Yanling, I asked for Ji Zha, and when I arrived at Haiyu, I met Lu Lian.
Even if the sages cannot be found, they are still willing to meet the gods.
The smoke scenery is beautiful in March in Yangchun, and the wheat is green and in bud.
Good times don't last forever, and the fragrance turns into a fishy smell in an instant.
My heart is sad and unhappy, and my stomach is full of knots and worries.
The crowd kept shouting, and it was hard to find a place to hide.
So when I arrived in Wu, I found a wealthy man named Gao Botong who lived under the eaves and pounded rice for others.
When he comes home every day, his wife cooks for him. She dare not raise her eyes to look at her husband, but often raises the plate to her eyebrows.
Botong felt strange when he saw it, so he said: "This hired man can make his wife respect him so much. He is definitely not an ordinary person."
So he was allowed to live at home.
Liang Hong wrote more than ten articles behind closed doors.
Later, he fell ill and felt very sleepy, so he told his master: "In the past, Yanling Jizi buried his son between Yingbo and did not go to the countryside. After I die, please don't let my son carry the coffin back."
After Liang Hong died, Bo Tong and others buried him next to Yaoli's grave in the state of Wu. They all said: Yaoli was a martyr, and Liang Boluan was very noble, which allowed them to get close.
After the burial, the wife returned to Fufeng.
At first, Liang Hong's friend Gao Hui from Jingzhao liked to read "Laozi" when he was young and lived in seclusion in Huayin Mountain.
When Liang Hong traveled east, he thought of Gao Hui and wrote a poem: Birds are chirping looking for friends, and I also think of Gao Hui, hoping he can come here. The two never met again.
Gao Hui was also a proud man and had never been an official in his life.
Gao Fengzhuan, Gao Feng, courtesy name Wentong, was born in Nanyang Ye.
When he was young, he was a student, and his family was engaged in farming. However, Gao Feng specialized in reading and never rested day and night.
My wife once went to work in the fields and dried the wheat in the courtyard, calling Gao Feng to protect the chickens.
At this time, it was raining heavily, but Gao Feng was holding a bamboo pole and chanting scriptures. Unconsciously, the rainwater flowed into the wheat.
When his wife came back, she felt strange and asked him, and he realized it.
Later he became a famous Confucian and taught his disciples in the Western Tang Mountains.
Neighbors who were fighting over property were fighting with weapons. Gao Feng went to try to persuade him. As a last resort, he took off his turban, knelt, and resolutely requested: "Why have you forgotten all about benevolence, righteousness, and humiliation?"
The combatants were moved and put down their weapons to apologize to him.
Gao Feng was old, but he persisted in his ambitions tirelessly, and his reputation spread far and wide.
The eunuch continued to summon him, but Gao Feng was afraid that he would not be able to avoid it. He claimed that he was from the Wu family and should not be an official. He also pretended to have a lawsuit with his widowed sister-in-law over property, so he did not go out to serve as an official.
He fished invisibly and died at home. Tai Tong's biography, Tai Tong's courtesy name is Xiaowei, and he was born in Ye, Wei County. He lives in seclusion in Wu'an Mountain, digging caves as his residence and collecting medicine as his occupation.
During the early years of Jian's reign, he was not summoned by the state.
When the governor arrived at Ye, he sent an official to visit Tai Tong.
Tong Zaibing went to express his thanks.
The governor took the meeting gift and asked Tong: "It's very hard for Xiaowei to live like this. What should I do?"
Tong said: Fortunately, I was able to save my life and maintain my peace.
Isn't it like having an envoy read out the imperial edict in the morning and working hard at night? Isn't it not painful?
So he left, secluded himself, and never disappeared.
According to the biography of Han Kang, Han Kang's courtesy name was Boxiu, also known as Tianxiu, and he was a native of Baling, Jingzhao.
The family background is very famous.
He often went to famous mountains to collect medicinal herbs and sold them in Chang'an market. The price was always the same for more than thirty years.
At that time, a girl asked Han Kang to buy medicine, but Kang insisted that the original price should remain unchanged.
The girl lost her temper and said: Are you Han Boxiu?
Aren't they sold at two prices?
Han Kang sighed and said: "I originally wanted to keep my name from others, but now the little girl knows my name, why are I selling medicine?"
So he fled to Baling Mountain.
The doctor invited Han Kang several times on his bus, but Han Kang never came.
Emperor Huan prepared a black silk curtain as a gift and used a carriage to hire him.
The envoy went to Han Kang's home with the emperor's edict, but Han Kang had no choice but to agree.
But instead of taking an An chariot, he took a diesel chariot and set off early in the morning before the messenger set off.
When they arrived at the pavilion, the pavilion chief knew that Han Zhengjun would pass by, so he sent someone to repair the road and bridge with a cow.
Suddenly, he saw Han Kang arriving in a chariot and wearing a scarf. Thinking that he was an old man farming, he asked someone to take the cow away.
Han Kang untied the cow in front of the car and gave it to him.
Soon after, the official arrived and found that the old man who had the cow taken away was Zheng Jun.
The envoy wanted to tell the emperor to kill the pavilion chief.
Han Kang said, "I gave him this cow myself. What's the crime of the pavilion chief?"
The messenger gave up.
Han Kang fled halfway, and later died of a long life without any illness.
Jiao Shen's biography, whose courtesy name is Zhongyan, was born in Maoling, Fufeng.
When I was young, I loved the learning of Huangdi and Laozi. I lived in seclusion in the valley, built a house in a cave, and admired the skills of pine and Qiao Daoyin.
When they merged with Ma Rong and Su Zhang in the countryside, Ma Rong was famous for his talent and erudition, and Su Zhang was famous for his honesty, but they both put caution before Jiao Shen.
Wu Cang of Runan valued him very much. So he sent a letter to observe his ambition and path: Zhong Yan's feet: Qin's place is vague. Although he rides on the clouds and walks on the mud, his habitat is different. Every time the west wind blows, why don't he sigh!
I heard that Huang and Lao said that they took advantage of the void and entered the underworld, hid themselves and escaped, and also managed the country and nourished the people, and made achievements in politics.
It's like climbing a mountain to the point where it becomes extinct, God doesn't see its proof, and people don't see its effect.
I think what do you think of it, sir?
In the past, Yi Yin did not have the right to treat the kings of Yao and Shun.
In today's Ming Dynasty, the world has opened up. Chao and Xu Wuwei are in Jishan, while Yi and Qihui are in Shouyang Mountain.
Being able to ride a dragon or a phoenix or fly among the clouds with one single step is beyond the imagination of a fox, rabbit or sparrow.
Jiao Shen didn't answer.
When he was more than seventy years old, he refused to marry. Later, he suddenly returned home and told himself the day when he was going to die, and he died on time.
Later, someone saw Jiao Shen in Dunhuang, so he was different from his previous life. Some people said that he was an immortal.
Ma Yao, a native of the same county as Jiao Shen, lives in seclusion in the mountains and makes a living by catching rabbits.
The place where he lived was secularized, and the people praised him and called him Mr. Ma Mu.
Dai Liang's biography, Dai Liang's courtesy name Shuluan, was born in Shenyang, Runan.
Great-grandfather Dai Zun, named Zigao, served as a censor during the reign of Emperor Ping.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and returned to his hometown claiming to be ill. His family was rich, good at giving, and chivalrous. There were often three to four hundred people at home.
At that time, people said this: Dai Zigao, a great man in Guandong.
On Dai Liang's birthday, his mother brayed, and Liang often imitated it for entertainment.
After his mother died, his brother Boluan lived in the house and drank porridge, which was not rude, but Liang ate meat and drank alcohol. He cried in grief, and both of them lost weight.
Someone asked Dai Liang: Is it appropriate for you to be in mourning?
Liang said: Yes.
Ritual is to control feelings. If love is not lost, what are the etiquettes?
If you eat delicious food but don't feel its sweetness, your appearance will be ruined. If the taste doesn't leave your mouth, you can eat it.
The critics could not convince him.
Dai Liang's talents were both high and unique, and often surprised the common people.
Xie Jixiao from the same county asked: Who do you think can be compared with others in the world?
Liang said: I am like Confucius who was born in the state of Lu, and Yu the Great came from the Western Qiang and was the only one in the world. Who can be my mate?
Dai Liang was promoted to be filial and honest, but he refused.
He summoned Sikong Mansion again. Within a year, the prefectures and counties urged him, so he went to the Mansion with modest words, sent his wife away, and fled into the mountains of Jiangxia. If you travel leisurely but do not serve, you will end up with a long life.
At first, Dai Liang's five daughters were all virtuous. Whenever someone wanted to marry, they were allowed to marry, and they were accompanied by loose clothes, cloth quilts, bamboo hats and wooden clogs. The five daughters can obey their father's instructions and have the demeanor of a hermit.
Fa Zhenzhuan, Fa Zhen's courtesy name is Gao Qing, a native of Fufeng, and the son of Fa Xiong, the prefect of Nanjun.
He is a great Confucian in Kansai who is eager to learn and not stick to any particular school. He is well versed in both internal and external classics.
Disciples came from far away, including Chen Liu, Fan Ran and hundreds of others.
The true nature of Dharma is quiet and has few desires, and is not interested in hearing about human affairs.
The prefect asked to see him, and Fa Zhen arrived with a scarf.
The prefect said: In the past, although Duke Ai of Lu was not a virtuous man, Zhongni still served as his minister.
The prefect is weak, and I would like to ask you to serve as a meritorious officer and praise this dynasty. How about it?
Fazhen said: Because the Ming Dynasty treated me with such courtesy, I dare not stay with the guests.
If you want to use me as an official, I will be north of Beishan and south of Nanshan.
The prefect felt strange and did not dare to say anything more.
When setting up a government office and promoting virtuous people, the Dharma and the truth are not enough.
Tongjun Tian Ruo recommends Fa Zhen Dao: A scholar of Fa Zhen, proficient in poetry, calligraphy, etiquette, and music, with all the knowledge and classics, goes out of the deep mountains, entertains himself peacefully, and is happy to forget his worries. He will follow Lao Tzu's high footsteps and will not be succumbed to Xuan Xunxun's etiquette.
I wish that the Holy Dynasty would add the post of Sangong, and I would definitely be able to sing the song "Qing Temple" and attract the phoenix.
It happened that Emperor Shun was on a hunting tour in the west, and Tian Ruo recommended him.
Emperor Xu wanted to invite him, so he called him four times.
Fazhen said: Since I can't escape from this world, how can I drink the water that Xuyou washes my ears with?
So he lived in seclusion.
My friend Guo Zhengcheng said: Fazhen's name can be heard, but his body is rare. If he runs away from his name but his name follows me, he avoids his name but his name follows me. He can be regarded as a master of all generations.
So they published a book praising him and called him Mr. Xuande.
He died at the age of eighty-nine, five years after his death.
The biography of Hanyin Laofu, Hanyin Laofu, I don’t know who he is.
During the Yanxi period of Emperor Huan, the emperor was lucky enough to visit the mausoleum, pass by Yunmeng, and visit the Mianshui River. The common people all went to see it, and there was an old man who continued to farm alone.
Zhang Wen, the minister of Nanyang, felt strange and sent someone to ask: "People are coming to watch, but my father keeps plowing alone. Why?"
The old man smiled but did not answer.
Zhang Wen came down and walked a hundred steps to talk to his father in person.
The old father said: I am a savage and I don’t understand this.
May I ask why the emperor was established because of chaos in the world?
Or is it to establish the emperor because of governance?
Is the purpose of establishing the Son of Heaven to be the father of all people in the world?
Or enslave the common people to support the emperor?
In the past, the sage kings ruled the world, raised rafters and raised rafters, and all surnames were peaceful.
Today, your king works hard for the people but indulges himself and enjoys leisurely life without restraint.
I'm ashamed of you. How can you bear to let others watch?
Zhang Wen was greatly ashamed after hearing this.
Ask him his name and leave without telling him.
The biography of Chen Liu's father, Chen Liu's father, I don't know who he is.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, the party's insurrection broke out, and Huang Shuwai ordered Zhang Sheng, a native of Chenliu, to leave his official position and return to his hometown. Meeting friends on the road, we spread the grass together and sat on the ground to talk.
Zhang Sheng said: I heard that the people of Zhao killed Mingdu, and Confucius went to the riverside and returned;
Today there is chaos in the officialdom and the slander of loyal and good people. Will the virtuous and gentlemen leave the court?
If virtue is not established and people are helpless, their lives will be inevitable in the future. What should we do?
So they hugged each other and cried.
The old father walked past in a hurry, leaning on his staff and sighing: Oh, why is the second doctor crying so sadly?
The dragon does not hide its scales, the phoenix does not hide its feathers, the snare is hung high, no matter where it goes, what is the use of crying?
The two wanted to talk to him, but left without knowing where they ended up.
The biography of Pang Gong, Pang Gong, was from Xiangyang, Nanjun.
They live in the south of Xian Mountain and have never been to the city. The husband and wife treat each other as if they were guests.
Liu Biao, the governor of Jingzhou, invited him several times but could not give in, so he went to visit him.
He said to him: If you can protect yourself, how can you protect the world?
Pang Gong laughed and said: "The swan makes its nest in the high forest, and only has a place to rest at night; the stork makes its nest in the abyss, and only finds its home at night. People's choices and actions are also human nests."
For the time being, everyone has his own place to stay, the world is not protected.
So he plowed the soil on the ridges while his wife weeded the fields.
Liu Biao pointed out and asked: "Master works in the fields and refuses to receive official salary. What will he leave to his descendants in the future?"
Pang Gong said: "Everyone in the world leaves danger to their descendants, but now I leave peace to our descendants. Although the legacy is different, it can't be regarded as no legacy."
Liu Biao sighed and left.
Later, Pang Gong and his wife went to Lumen Mountain, but they never came back because they were collecting medicinal herbs.
