Xue Xuan, courtesy name Ganjun, was a native of Tan County, Shuhai.
When he was young, he served as the secretary of Tingwei and the history of the capital ship prison.
Later, when Da Si Nong Doushi was an official, he was promoted as an honest official and was replaced by the county magistrate.
Zhao Gong, the prefect of Langye, inspected the county and saw Xue Xuan and admired his talents very much.
Let Xue Xuan follow him to inspect the counties under his jurisdiction one by one. Return to the government office, let his wife and son meet Xue Xuan, and inform Xue Xuan: When the king of Gan becomes the prime minister, my two sons are still suitable to be prime ministers.
Xue Xuan was found to be clean and honest, and he was promoted to Lelang Duweicheng.
The governor of Youzhou recommended Xue Xuan as Maocai and became Wanjuling.
General Wang Feng heard about Xue Xuan's talents and recommended him to be the Chang'an Order. Xue Xuan's governance was indeed very famous. Because he was familiar with the legal provisions, he was appointed as the replacement censor Zhongcheng.
At that time, Emperor Cheng had just ascended the throne, and Xue Xuan was appointed as the Censor Zhongcheng. He was responsible for executing the decrees in the court and controlling the governor outside the court. The memorial said: Your Majesty has the highest moral standards, is kind and kind, and loves the people. His body is toiled before the sun sets to the west, but he does not have time to eat, but he does not have comfortable and comfortable enjoyment. He honestly adheres to the saint's way, and his punishments are very fair. However, a good atmosphere has not yet been formed, and yin and yang are not reconciled. This is because the ministers are incompetent, and the teachings of the sages are not harmonious.
I have thought about it privately. One of the reasons may be that most of the officials implemented strict laws and regulations, and the punishments, rewards and education were complicated and trivial. Most of the blame lies with the provincial governors.
County and county urged each other and were very harsh with each other internally. This trend also spread to the people.
Therefore, there is a lack of joy in receiving distinguished guests in the countryside, and the people of the nine tribes have forgotten the friendship between their relatives. The loyalty and virtue of offering food and drink to help people in crisis have further declined, and the etiquette of seeing off those who have left and comforting those who have returned is no longer practiced.
If the moral norms of society are not prevailing, then the yin and yang will be blocked, and the harmonious atmosphere will not flourish. This may not be due to this reason.
"Poetry" says: When people lose friendship, they often lose their harmony in trivial matters such as food and drink.
As the saying goes: People will not be loyal to harsh politics, and the hardships of corvee work will undermine the emperor's favor. When the governor reports political affairs, he should clearly warn them so that they clearly know the important affairs of the dynasty.
I am ignorant and do not understand the principles of governing the country. I hope that the wise Lord will examine my opinions.
The emperor approved and adopted his opinion.
Xue Xuan repeatedly talked about things that were beneficial to governance. He recommended the governor of the county with a salary of two thousand dan in his memorials. He was very clear about what he despised and rejected and what he praised and recommended, so he was very famous at that time.
As the governor of Linhuai, punishments, rewards and education were widely implemented.
It happened that there were robbers in Chenliu County who were disrupting the order. The emperor appointed Xue Xuan as the prefect of Chenliu. The robbers were put to rest, and the officials and the people respected his prestige and credibility.
He entered the imperial court as Zuo Fengyi on trial. One year later, he was officially appointed because he was qualified.
At the beginning, Yang Zhan, the leader of Gaoling, and Xie You, the leader of Liangyang, were both greedy, cunning, and disrespectful. They knew the shortcomings of the county officials. Officials who had previously been lucky enough to earn two thousand shi could not be investigated after repeated inspections.
When Xue Xuan took office, they came to the government office to see him. Xue Xuan arranged wine and dinner for them to sit across from each other, and the hospitality was very thoughtful.
Then they secretly visited the bribes obtained by their crimes, and fully obtained the information about their acceptance and request for bribes.
Xue Xuan noticed that Yang Zhan had corrected his mistakes and showed respect for himself, so he wrote on the slip with his own hands, listing the bribes he had illegally obtained item by item. After sealing it, he sent it to Yang Zhan and said: The people will expose you item by item as written on the slip. Some people think that you are suspected of being a thief.
Feng Yi respects you respectfully, and considering that the ten gold method is very serious, he cannot bear to expose you.
Therefore, I secretly tell you in a handwritten letter that I want you to consider your own advancement and retreat, so that you can feel proud in the future.
If there are none of these things, please seal and return this letter so that I can prove your innocence.
Yang Zhan himself knew that the bribe obtained from the crime was consistent with what was recorded in the letter, while Xue Declaration was gentle and had no intention of harming himself.
Yang Zhan immediately took off the seal and handed it over to his subordinates. He wrote a letter to thank Xue Xuan without any words of resentment or dissatisfaction.
However, Liang Yang ordered Xie You to consider himself a great Confucian scholar and famous, and despised Xue Xuan.
Xue Xuan sent a separate document to publicly rebuke him, saying: Announcement to Shuoyang Order: Officials and people have revealed that Liang Yang's order is cumbersome and harsh in governing government affairs, banishing and punishing more than a thousand people to work; collecting hundreds of thousands of money to provide for his own illegal squandering; trading is left to wealthy officials, and the price and quantity cannot be known.
The test was conclusive, so I wanted to send officials to examine and interrogate, but I was worried that I would disappoint the person who recommended me and make the Confucian scholars feel ashamed, so I sent officials to supervise Liang Yangling.
Confucius said: Examine your own talents before taking up official positions. If you are not qualified, give up.
Liang Yang ordered you to consider this matter in detail. I am about to transfer in to take over your duties.
After Xie You received the message, he also lifted the seal and left.
In addition, the north of Pinyang County faces Shangjun and Xihe. It is the meeting point of several counties, and there are many thieves.
Its county magistrate, Xue Gong from Pingling, was a filial son of the county. He was gradually promoted according to merit. He had never governed the people and did not handle the affairs within his duties well.
Suyi County is small and remote, located in the mountains. The people are cautious, simple and easy to manage.
The county magistrate Yin Shang from Julu was an official who had been in charge of the county for a long time. He served as the chief of the building. He was promoted to Maocai, promoted and transferred to Suyi.
Xue Xuan asked Yin Shang and Xue Gong to change their posts as county magistrates in accordance with the law.
After two men had been in office for several months, both counties were well governed.
Xue Xuan sent documents to comfort and encourage them, saying: In the past, Meng Gongchuo was an excellent retainer in Wei, but he was not suitable to be a high official in Teng and Xue. Therefore, some people rely on virtue to become prominent, and some people are promoted based on merit. How can the paths of gentleman's careers be the same?
There are wise officials in each county under his control, and Feng Yi hangs down his clothes and enjoys the results.
I hope you will do your best to perform your duties and achieve meritorious careers.
When Xue Xuan learned about the crimes committed by the officials and people in the county, he summoned the county chief and informed him that he would carry out the punishment himself.
Tell him: The reason why the government does not report the case on its own is because it does not want to replace the county to govern and take away the reputation of the virtuous commander.
All the officials were happy and scared. They took off their hats and thanked Xue Xuan for his kindness and accepted the admonishment.
Xue Xuan was an official with clear rewards and punishments, applied the law fairly and enforced it resolutely. Every official position he held had laws and regulations worth recording. Most of them were kind and forgiving, caring for others, and seeking benefits for the people.
The Chiyang Order recommended Wang Li, an upright official and jailer, but before the government could summon him, they heard that Wang Li had collected money from the prisoners' families.
Xue Xuan cross-examined and blamed the county magistrate, and the county magistrate interrogated the jailer Wang Li. It turned out that his wife had secretly collected 16,000 yuan from the prisoner for two nights. The jailer Wang Li did not actually know.
Wang Li committed suicide out of shame and fear.
Xue Xuan heard about this and sent a document to Chiyang County saying: Wang Li, an honest official recommended by Chiyang County, was jailed by his family. Wang Li did not know it, but committed suicide to prove his innocence.
Wang Li is indeed an honest scholar, which makes people feel very pitiful and pitiful. Now, the government decision Cao Tie is written on his coffin to show off his heroic spirit.
Those who were close friends with Wang Li in the government affairs department would go to his funeral.
At the winter solstice, the officials were on vacation. Cao Cao, the thief, and Zhang Fuwei were unwilling to take the vacation and went to the government office to handle official business.
Xue Xuan came out to enlighten him and said: Etiquette advocates harmony, and social moral norms focus on popularity.
On the day of the winter solstice, officials take a vacation in accordance with the law. It has been a long time since it was first implemented.
Although the government office has public responsibilities and affairs, the family also longs for private love and affection.
Cao Cao should obey everyone and go home to accompany his wife and children, arrange food and drinks, entertain the neighbors, and laugh and have fun together. This is also very appropriate!
Zhang Fu was ashamed.
All the officials thought Xue Xuan's words were right.
Xue Xuan pays attention to the dignified and upright appearance, and is elegant and generous in his advances and retreats. It is worth watching.
He has a deep and quiet temperament and is resourceful. He thinks about the duties of the officials and seeks ways to facilitate and ease them.
Down to the money pen and inkstone, everything is designed to make it easy to use and save money.
Officials and people praised him, and the county was quiet and peaceful.
Xue Xuan was promoted to the post of Shaofu and was responsible for providing and setting up the accounts needed by the emperor. He handled his duties very well.
More than a month later, Yu Yong, the imperial censor, passed away. Gu Yong wrote a memorial saying:
The virtue of an emperor is not more important than recognizing the good and evil of people. If one can identify the good and evil of people, then all officials will be qualified for their respective positions, and the official positions in the court will not be vacant. Therefore, Gao Tao said: Being able to recognize the good and evil of people is smart and can select talents as officials.
The imperial censor is responsible for the customs and education of the dynasty inside, and assists the prime minister in comprehensively governing the world outside. He has a heavy responsibility and a high position, which is not something that mediocre people can do.
Talents should now be selected from among the hundred palaces to fill this vacancy.
If you choose the right person, then everyone in the world will be happy and all officials will be convinced; if you don't choose the right person, then this important duty will be ruined and the emperor's achievements will not prosper.
Your Majesty, you are as wise as Emperor Yu, reflected in this move. How could you not be extremely cautious?
I personally saw that Xue Xuan, the young master, was very talented, pure in character, and well versed in handling government affairs. He previously served as Yushi Zhongcheng, executing laws under the emperor's chariot, being fair and upright, not following the trend of the crowd, and behaving appropriately and in a timely manner; he served as the prefect of Linhuai and Chenliu, and both counties were praised for their good governance; he was appointed Zuo Fengyi, recommended Advocating education, cultivating good deeds, performing majesty and kindness together, all kinds of duties are beautiful and orderly, people who break the law and make troubles have disappeared, people who have filed lawsuits have not been in the prime minister's house for many years, and after the amnesty, only one-tenth of the thieves in the third auxiliary are left.
The achievements and results are outstanding, which has never happened since Zuo Neishi started setting up.
Confucius said: If you praise a person, you must test that person. The assessment of Xue Xuan's political performance is clearly recorded in the prime minister and the censor. I dare not praise him too much to commit the crime of deception.
I heard that the talent of a wise man is not more important than governing the people. Xue Xuan has already achieved results.
His talents in laws and regulations are enough to serve as a court official, and his talents in Confucianism, etiquette and music are enough to plan the foundation of kingship and make decisions on state affairs. He has talents in several aspects at the same time, and he has the ability to eat less and obey justice. Xue Xuan's integrity, Xue Xuan did not have the help of persuasion from his clique, I was worried that your majesty ignored the poetry of "The Lamb", abandoned fair and honest ministers, and appointed people with a gorgeous and vain reputation. Therefore, I went beyond my duties and stated Xue Xuan's character and talents, hoping that your majesty would pay attention to investigate.
The emperor thought his words were right and appointed Xue Xuan as the imperial censor.
A few months later, Xue Xuan replaced Zhang Yu as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
Xue Xuan appointed Zhao Gong's two sons as prime ministers.
Tangong was the son of Zhao Guanghan's elder brother, and he had a reputation as a capable official.
Xue Xuan was appointed prime minister, and the custom of accepting lawsuits was that documents less than ten thousand yuan would not be handed over. Later generations followed the precedent of Xue Hou.
However, the subordinates accused him of being complicated and trivial and without important points, and could not be called a wise man.
At that time, the emperor liked erudite Confucian scholars, but Xue Xuan's classics knowledge was very shallow, and the emperor also despised him.
After a long time, hordes of thieves arose in Guanghan County, and the prime minister and censor dispatched officers to pursue and hunt them down, but they could not be quelled.
The emperor appointed Captain Chang Hu of Hedong as the prefect of Guanghan to handle affairs according to the laws governing the army.
A few months later, they beheaded their commander Zheng Gong and surrendered thousands of people before they were pacified.
When the Empress Dowager Qiongcheng died, the funeral was in a hurry, and the officials collected taxes to handle it quickly.
Later, the emperor heard about this incident and used it to blame the prime minister and the censor. He issued an edict to dismiss Xue Xuan and said: As prime minister, you have been in office for six years, but I have never heard of your loyal and filial behavior and the actions of setting an example for all officials.
Since I am not a saint, disasters and disasters have occurred many times. There have been no harvests for years. The warehouses have been empty. The people have suffered from famine. They have been scattered on the roads. The number of people who died due to diseases and plagues has been counted in the tens of thousands, even to the point of cannibalism. Robbers and thieves have sprung up. Many positions have been vacant. This is because I have no virtue and the ministers who assist me are incompetent.
In the past, many thieves in Guanghan County were rampant and brutal, killing officials and people. I felt sad and sad about this incident. I asked you many times, but your answers were always inconsistent with the facts.
Xizhou is so isolated that it is barely a county.
There is no limit to the taxes collected by the third assistant. The cruel officials collude with each other to do bad things and invade and harass the people. You are ordered to investigate the case, but you have no intention of getting the true situation of the matter.
The nine ministers and below all acted according to your will and were all guilty of deception. The fault was your fault.
A judicial officer impeached you in accordance with the law for your laxity and negligence in holding office, which opened the way to deception, damaged and weakened moral education, and failed to set an example for the world.
I can't bear to send you to the judge. You should hand in the seal of Prime Minister Gao Yanghou and be dismissed from your post and go home.
At the beginning, Xue Xuan was appointed prime minister, and Zhai Fangjin was appointed minister.
Xue Xuan knew that Zuo Jin was a famous Confucian scholar and had the talents of a prime minister, so he made a close friendship with him.
Later, Fang Jin actually replaced him as prime minister. In gratitude for Lian Xuan's past kindness, two years after Yan Xuan was dismissed, Fang Jin recommended that Xue Xuan clearly understood the legal provisions and was familiar with the country's various systems. The mistakes he had made previously were minor and he could be promoted again.
The emperor conscripted Changen, and granted him the title of Zhizui, plus the favored title of Tejin. His status was second to that of the Marquis of Anchang, the national advisor, and he was assigned to Shizhong and also in charge of the affairs of the minister.
Lan Xuan was respected again.
He participated in political affairs for several years. Later, he was convicted of being friendly with Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang and was dismissed from his post and returned home.
At first, Xue Xuan had two younger brothers, Xue Ming and Xue Xiu. Xue Mingguan went to Nanyang Prefecture. Xue Xiu served successively as county magistrate, Jing Zhaoyin, and Shaofu. He was good at communicating with people and was praised by the villagers.
The stepmother followed Xue Xiu in official posts for a long time.
When Xue Xuan was the prime minister, Xue Xiu was appointed as the Order of Chuojian. Sa Xuan welcomed his stepmother, but Xue Xiu refused to send her away.
When his stepmother fell ill and died, Xue Xiu resigned from his official position to mourn.
Xue Xuan told Xue Xiu that three years of mourning was rarely possible. The brothers refuted each other and had disagreements. Xue Xiu then completed the mourning period, so the brothers were not harmonious.
A long time later, when Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne, Dr. Shen Xianren came to Shizhong, who was also from Donghai. He slandered Xue Xuan by saying that Xue Xuan did not provide for his mother, that he did not wear mourning clothes after his mother died, and that he had little affection for his flesh and blood. He had previously been dismissed from office due to disloyalty and unfilial piety, and he should not be made a marquis and stay in the imperial office again.
Zhengxuan's son Bichi was appointed as the minister of Youcao. Hearing his words many times, he bribed Yang Ming, a retainer, in order to disfigure Shenxian's face and prevent him from holding an official position.
There happened to be a vacancy in the post of secretary, and Xue Kuang was worried that Shen Sheng would become the secretary, so he ordered Yang Ming to block the road outside the palace gate and attack Shen Qi, cutting off his nose and lips, and causing eight wounds on his body.
The matter was handed over to Yousi, and Yushi Zhongchengzhong and others reported: Xue Kuang is a minister in the court, and his father was the original prime minister. He was named a prince twice. He did not warn each other and uphold the teachings. Instead, his flesh and blood were suspicious of each other. He suspected that Shen Xian listened to Xue Xiu's words and slandered Xue Xuan.
What Shen Xian said was what Xue Xuan had done, what everyone had seen, and what the court should have heard.
Xue Kuang knew that Shen Xian was involved in the affair, and was worried that he would file a report against Xue Xuan after becoming a minister, so he openly ordered Zhelong and others to approach the palace, block the road and injure the ministers, hoping to block the hearing and vision of the court and block the way to cut off discussion.
Xue Kuang was ferocious and cunning and had nothing to fear him. The people were noisy and spread rumors, which was different from ordinary people fighting and fighting out of resentment and anger.
We have heard that respecting one’s neighbors means being close to the Lord.
According to etiquette, you have to get off the vehicle after passing the monarch's gate. When you see the horses of the monarch's carriage, you should touch the crossbar in front of the carriage. The monarch's livestock must also respect them.
According to the principle of "Spring and Autumn", if the intention is bad but succeeds, you cannot escape punishment, and the beginning of such behavior that offends the emperor cannot be encouraged. Xue Kuang is the chief villain. He hurt others with his own hands. The consequences and intentions are both bad and disrespectful.
Yang Ming should be severely convicted, and both Yang Ming and Xue Kuang should be executed in a busy city and their bodies should be displayed to the public.
Ting Weizhi believed: Legally speaking, if someone cuts someone with a knife in a fight, he will be sentenced to a full sentence or a penalty of Cheng Dan. The person who hurts someone will be charged with an additional level, and he will be charged with the same crime as the person who planned it.
The emperor's proclamation ordered that no charges should be brought against him for defamation and deception.
Ancient books say: A person who does not treat others morally and is beaten is as guilty as the person who beats him because he hates him for being dishonest.
Shen Xian was very friendly with Xue Xiu, but he repeatedly publicized Xue Xuan's sins and spread them widely, which was very inappropriate and could not be said to be honest.
Xue Kuang hurt Shen Xian because of his father, and the plan had already been decided. Later, when he heard about the appointment of candidates for Sili, he urged Yang Ming according to the previous plan. He did not set up the plan because he was worried about Shen Xian being appointed Sili.
It was originally a fight that turned out to be private. Although Shen Xian was stabbed and injured on the road outside Yemen, it was no different from the fights between ordinary people.
Those who kill are put to death and those who injure others are sentenced. This is a common principle from ancient times to the present, and it cannot be changed in three generations.
Confucius said: We must distinguish our correct names.
If the status is not correct, the punishment will be inappropriate. If the punishment is inappropriate, the people will not know what to do.
Now that Xue Kuang is regarded as the chief villain, it is disrespectful for Yang Ming to hurt people with his own hands, which makes no distinction between public and private affairs.
The main meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is to determine the crime by inferring the original intention.
Investigating the root cause, Xue Kuang vented his anger because his father was slandered, and had no other major sins.
But to add slanderous and deceptive words, to aggregate small faults to promote the crime of great punishment, to subject people to the death penalty, and to violate the edicts of the sages, I am afraid that this is not the original intention of the law and cannot be implemented.
A wise ruler does not increase punishment because of his anger.
Yang Ming should be sentenced to the crime of injuring others. Xue Kuang and the conspirators should have their titles lowered and be sentenced to death and Cheng Dan.
The emperor asked the ministers about this matter.
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Shidan believed that Zhong Cheng's opinion was correct, and everyone from the general to Dr. Yi Lang believed that Ting Wei was correct.
Xue Kuang was eventually transferred to Dunhuang with a first-class charge reduced.
Xue Xuan was convicted, dismissed as a civilian, returned to his original county, and died at home.
Xue Xuan's son Xue Hui also became an official with two thousand stones.
When Xue Hui was appointed as the magistrate of Pengcheng, Xue Xuan was transferred from Linhuai to Chenliu. Passing through his county, he saw that the bridge and post box had not been repaired.
Xue Xuan knew in his heart that Xue Hui lacked talent, so he stayed in Pengcheng for a few days, inspecting the official residence, handling and placing miscellaneous utensils, and inspecting the vegetables in the garden. He never questioned Xue Hui about his duties as an official.
Xue Hui himself knew that governing Pengcheng County was not in line with Xue Xuan's wishes, so he sent his subordinates to escort Xue Xuan to Chenliu and asked him to enter the palace to ask for an audience.
Xue Xuan smiled and said: The way to be an official is to use the laws as a teacher. You can ask and learn.
As for being able to do it and not being able to do it, each has its own qualifications and talents, so how can it be learned?
Everyone spread the word and believed that Xue Xuan's words were right.
When Xue Xuan was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang for the second time, his wife died and Princess Jingwu was left alone. The emperor ordered Xue Xuan to marry the princess.
When Xue Xuan was dismissed and returned to his original county, the princess stayed in the capital.
Later, when Xue Xuan died, the princess presented a memorial, hoping to welcome Xue Xuan back and be buried in Yanling. The memorial was approved.
Xue Kuang secretly returned to Chang'an from Dunhuang. During the amnesty period, he stayed and had an affair with the princess.
Emperor Ai's maternal relatives, the Ding family and the Fu family, were dignitaries. Princess Afu served them but alienated the Wang family.
During the Yuanshi period, Wang Mang respectfully called himself Duke An Mo, and the princess spoke slanderously against Wang Mang.
Xue Kuang and Lu Kuan were friendly with each other. When Lu Kuan's affairs were discovered, Wang Mang punished Xue Kuang together, publicized his crimes, and sent an envoy to give the princess poison in accordance with the Shao Order of the Empress Dowager.
The princess was furious and said: The Liu family is lonely and weak, the Wang family specializes in government affairs and excludes the royal family, and why would the sister-in-law reveal what happened in her sister's boudoir and execute her?
The messenger forced the princess to be guarded, but the princess finally drank poison and died.
Xue Kuang was beheaded in the market.
Wang Mang reported to the Queen Mother that the princess was seriously ill.
The Queen Mother wanted to attend her funeral, but Wang Mang firmly persuaded her, and the Queen Mother stopped.
Zhu Bo, whose courtesy name is Ziyuan, is from Duling.
His family was poor. When he was young, he worked as a pavilion chief in the county. He liked to make friends with young guests, hunt and fight, and was fearless.
Gradually promoted to a meritorious officer, he was upright and righteous, loved to socialize, followed the scholar-bureaucrats, and did not avoid wind and rain.
At that time, Xiao Yu, the son of the former general Wangzhi, and Chen Xian, the son of the imperial censor Wan Nian, were known for their outstanding talents because they were the sons of Gongqing, and Zhu Bo was friendly with them.
At that time, the counties where the imperial mausoleums were located were all under the jurisdiction of Taichang, and Zhu Bo was appointed as Anlingcheng because Taichang was found to be clean and honest.
Later he resigned from the official position and went to Jingzhao. He successively served as Cao Shilie's deputy, and went out of Beijing to become the postal governor and secretary. He handled the local affairs under his jurisdiction very well, and everyone in the county praised him.
Chen Xian was appointed as Yushi Zhongcheng. He was convicted of leaking words that were prohibited by the palace and was imprisoned.
Zhu Bo resigned from his official position and secretly walked to Tingwei's house to investigate Chen Xian's case.
Chen Xian was tortured and interrogated and was seriously injured. Zhu Bo pretended to be a doctor and went to prison. He was able to see Chen Xian and fully knew the crime he had committed.
Zhu Bo was released from prison, changed his name, and suffered the punishment for Chen Xian. He was beaten hundreds of times, and Chen Xian was finally exempted from the death penalty.
Chen Xian was sentenced to be released from prison, and Zhu Bo became famous because of this incident and became a county meritorious official.
After a long time, Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, and General Wang Feng took control of the government. He petitioned Chen Xian to be the chief historian.
Chen Xian recommended Xiao Yu and Zhu Bo as shogunate officials. Wang Feng was surprised by Zhu Bo's talents, so he recommended Zhu Bo to be the magistrate of Luyang. Later, he was transferred to Yunyang and Pingling counties. Because of his best political performance, he was appointed to the capital as the magistrate of Chang'an.
After the Qingming Dynasty in Kyoto, he was promoted to governor of Jizhou.
Zhu Bo was originally a military attaché and had no experience in handling matters in a civil service. When he became a governor and inspected his subordinates, hundreds of officials and civilians blocked the road and complained on their own. The government offices were full. Officers came to report and requested to stay in the county temporarily. They registered and met with everyone who complained on their own. After the matter was completed, they set off. They wanted to use this to observe and test Zhu Bo.
Zhu Bo understood in his heart and told the outsiders to prepare the carriages and horses quickly.
The officers reported that the carriages and horses were ready. Zhu Bo came out and boarded the carriages to meet with those who had complained on their own. He sent officers to clearly inform the officials and the people: Those who want to complain to the county magistrate, and the governor does not supervise the officials in Huang Shou, should go to the county on their own.
If you want to complain to the official Mo Shou, who has two thousand stones, wait for the envoy to come back from inspecting his subordinates and go to the governor's office.
People who were wronged by officials or who complained about robbers and thieves had to go to their respective departments to handle the matter.
Zhu Bo stopped the car and issued a verdict, and four to five hundred people left, like gods.
The officials and the people were shocked. They did not expect Zhu Bo to deal with the unexpected events to such an extent.
Later, Zhu Bo slowly investigated and found out that he was always engaged in instigating people to gather in gatherings.
Zhu Bo killed this official, and all the prefectures and counties were afraid of Zhu Bo's majesty.
Zhu Bo was transferred to Bingzhou governor and canal guard, and was promoted to Langxie prefect.
The custom in Qi County is that people are slow-tempered and arrogant to cultivate their reputation. Zhu Bo had just taken office, and the right Cao Shidu wrote a letter saying that he was ill and bedridden.
Zhu Bo asked the reason and replied: Fear!
According to precedent, when the governor of Erqianshi had just arrived, he always sent officials to express condolences and express greetings before we dared to formally take office.
Zhu Bo was so angry that his beard stood up straight, he slapped the desk and said: Do the boys from Qi County want to make this a custom?
Zhu Bo then summoned various Cao Shishu and county officials, selected those who seemed to be available, and issued an edict to fill the vacancies.
Expulsion and dismissal of various officials who complained of illness, and let them walk out of the government office wearing white scarves.
The county was shocked.
Soon, his disciple Yue Gan was an old and respected Confucian scholar who taught hundreds of people.
Zhu Bo came out to instruct Tubu and said: "The old Confucian scholar in Gan Sui is not familiar with the etiquette of officials. For the time being, the chief secretary will teach him to kneel down and sit up until he is familiar with it."
He also told the meritorious officials: Most of the subordinate officials wear loose clothes and long trousers, which does not comply with the rules and regulations. From now on, the officials will keep their clothes three inches off the ground.
Zhu Bo particularly disliked Zhu Sheng, so he abandoned the Yicao in the counties he visited, saying: "How can we set up another Yicao!"
Literary Confucian officials from time to time submitted documents to express their opinions and cited scriptures and so on. When Zhu Bo saw it, he said to them: The prefect is an official of the Han Dynasty. He only handles affairs according to the three-foot laws and regulations. It has nothing to do with the saint's way you mentioned.
For the time being, take your road and go back. When Yao and Shun appear, explain it to them again.
This is how he uses frustration to drive others away.
Zhu Bo served for several years and greatly changed the customs of Qi County. The etiquette of the governors was the same as that of the officials of Chu and Tang.
Zhu Bo governed the counties and counties, and often asked the subordinate counties to appoint local heroes and officials, either literary or military, as appropriate.
When there were powerful thieves and other sudden changes in the county, Zhu Bo sent documents to instruct them to deal with them.
Among them, those who exert their talents and achieve results will be generously rewarded; those who are deceitful and incompetent will be punished immediately, so the powerful are intimidated.
In Gumu County, eight of my friends committed murder in revenge in the county court, but none of them were caught.
The chief official personally took the document and reported it to the prefect's mansion. The thief Cao Yushi confessed his feelings and asked to go to the aunt's palace. The matter was shelved and no instructions were issued.
The meritorious officials all went to express their feelings, but they did not send it out.
So the prime minister went to the prefect's house, and Zhu Bo then met the prime minister and said, "I think the county has its own officials, and the prime minister has never participated in this matter. Does the prime minister think that the prime minister should be involved in this matter?"
When the secretary came in, Zhu Bo did not need to draft anything, but casually drew up a message and said: The government official announced to the aunt Lingcheng: There is a report from the county that the thieves have risen and have not been captured.
As soon as the proclamation arrived and the prime minister took up his post, Wang Qing did not try his best to complete the duties stipulated by the law!
Wang Qing was very frightened when he received the notice, and his relatives turned pale with panic. Wang Qing ran around day and night and captured five people in more than ten days.
Zhu Bo also sent a document saying: Wang Qing is worried about the public affairs, and it is very effective!
As soon as the message arrived, he came to the house with his merit book.
The subordinates below can also be appointed, and the remaining people will be captured slowly.
He controls his subordinates, all of this kind of thing.
Because of his outstanding political achievements, Zhu Bo came to Beijing to try out the post of Zuo Fengyi and officially took office one year later.
When he governed Zuo Fengyi, he was inferior to Xue Xuan in etiquette, wisdom and intelligence, but he used more force and cunning, could set up traps, lacked benevolence, could not facilitate people, and dared to punish and kill.
However, he can also relax his charity and be exempted from time to time, so his subordinate officials do their best for him.
Changling's surname was Shang Fangjin. When he was young, he stole someone else's wife and was stabbed, leaving a wound on his cheek.
The meritorious officer of the government took the bribe and reported to the government to appoint Shang Fangjin as the commander-in-chief.
After Zhu Bo heard about it, he summoned him to see him on other official business. Looking at his face, it turned out that there were scars.
Zhu Borang avoided the left and right and asked Shang Fangjin: What kind of trauma is deportation?
Shang Fangjin knew that the truth had been learned by Zhu Bo, so he knelt on the ground and acknowledged the situation.
Zhu Bo smiled and said: "A real man always has such lustful things."
Feng Yi wants to clear away your shame and re-appoint you. Can he take the initiative to serve?
Shang Fangjin was happy and scared at the same time, and replied: I will try my best!
Zhu Bo then warned Shang Fangjin: Don't leak the conversation. If you have anything to do, write it down and tell me.
So I trusted him closely and acted as my eyes and ears.
Shang Fangjin exposed the thieves in his department and other lurking traitors sooner or later, which was a meritorious service.
Zhu Bo promoted Shang Fangjin to serve as county magistrate on trial.
After a long time, Zhu Bo summoned the meritorious officer, closed the door of the pavilion, blamed him for what happened to Shang Fangjin and others, gave him paper and pen, asked him to write it down by himself, and told him: If you accept more than one penny in total, you must not hide anything.
If you tell half a lie, you will be beheaded!
The meritorious officer was so frightened that he wrote out all the dirty money, no matter how big or small, he didn't dare to hide it.
Zhu Bo knew that he answered correctly based on the actual situation, so he asked him to return to his seat and accept the instructions to correct himself.
Throw down the knife and let him cut off the things he recorded, and let him go out and take up his post.
Later, the meritorious officers often trembled with fear and did not dare to make mistakes.
Zhu Bo then made him become prominent. Zhu Bo was promoted to Da Si Nong.
More than a year later, he made a minor mistake and was demoted to become the governor of Jianwei.
Previously, Nanman Ruo'er had become a thief many times. Zhu Bo made close friends with his brothers and asked them to act as internal agents. He attacked and killed Ruo'er, and the county was quiet.
Zhu Bo was transferred to Shanyang Prefecture, but was relieved of his official position because of illness.
He was also recruited as a Guanglu doctor and promoted to Tingwei. His responsibilities were to be in charge of resolving difficult matters and presiding over the world's justice in prison proceedings.
Zhu Bo was worried that he would be deceived by his subordinates. After taking office, he summoned the chief supervisor, Dian Fa, and the history of law, and said to them: "Tingwei was originally a military attache and did not know the law. Fortunately, there are all good officials, so there is nothing to worry about!"
However, it has been nearly twenty years since Tingwei has governed counties and judged prison cases. He has been exposed to it for a long time, including legal provisions and personnel.
The secretary and the chief prisoner will try to write down dozens of cases that were difficult to understand when officials discussed the cases in the past, and ask Tingwei. Tingwei can make assumptions for you.
The supervisor thought that Zhu Bo was just trying to show off his strength, and expected that he might not be able to do it, so he stated it point by point together.
Zhu Bo summoned all the officials and officials and sat down together to ask questions. Zhu Bo judged the severity of the punishment for them, and eight or nine out of ten of them were correct.
All the officials admired Zhu Bo's ability, which was better than ordinary people.
Every time Zhu Bo was promoted and changed his official position, he would always show his unpredictability like this wherever he went, in order to clearly tell his divination chiefs that he could not be deceived.
After a long time, Zhu Bo was promoted to the post-general and became friendly with Hongyang Houli.
Wang Li was found guilty and returned to his fiefdom. A minister reported to Wang Li's accomplices and friends, and Zhu Bo was found guilty and exempted from office.
More than a year later, Emperor Ai ascended the throne. Since Zhu Bo was a famous minister, he was summoned. Zhu Bo was appointed from his family and became Guanglu doctor, promoted to Jingzhao Yin, and a few months later was promoted to Da Sikong.
At the beginning, when the Han Dynasty arose, it inherited the official system of the Qin Dynasty and set up prime ministers, imperial censors, and Taiwei.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the Taiwei was deposed and the Grand Sima was appointed, with the title of General and no official official title.
When he became emperor, He Wu was one of the nine ministers. He suggested: In ancient times, the people were simple and the government was simple. The country's assistant ministers must choose wise men and saints. However, they must imitate the three lights of the moon and stars in the sky and set up the official positions of the three princes, each with their own specialties.
The declining custom in the last days is that political affairs are complicated and the prime minister's talents cannot compare with those in ancient times. However, the prime minister alone is responsible for the duties of the three ministers. Therefore, politics has been in decline for a long time and cannot be clear and stable.
The official positions of the three public officials should be set up, the responsibilities of the ministers and officials should be determined, the duties should be divided, and political affairs should be delegated to evaluate the merits and results.
Afterwards, the emperor asked his teacher Zhang Yu, the Marquis of Anchang. Zhang Yu thought He Wu's opinion was right.
At that time, Wang Gen, Marquis of Quyang, was appointed as the Grand Sima Hussar General, while He Wu was appointed as the Imperial Censor.
So the emperor gave Quyanghou Wanggen the seal of the Grand Sima, appointed subordinate officials, dismissed the Hussar General from his position, appointed He Wu, the imperial censor, as the Grand Sima, and made him a marquis. His salary was increased to the same as that of the prime minister to prepare for the official positions of the three princes.
Most of the people who discussed it believed that the ancient and current systems were different. The Han Dynasty's titles from emperor to assistant historian were different from those in ancient times. However, only the three officials were changed, and the positions were difficult to distinguish clearly, which was not beneficial to political governance.
At that time, the wells in more than 100 residences of the officials of the Yushi Mansion had dried up; and there were many cypress trees in the Yushi Mansion, and thousands of wild crows often rested on them. They were called morning and evening crows, and the crows flew away for several months and did not come back. The elderly people felt very strange about this.
More than two years later. When Zhu Bo was appointed Grand Sikong, he wrote in a memorial: Emperors' ways of governing the country do not necessarily inherit from each other. They all have their own changes according to the priorities of the world.
Emperor Gao accepted the mandate of heaven with his holy virtue, established the royal business, and appointed a censor, whose status was second to the prime minister. He was in charge of organizing the legal system, participated in political affairs according to his duties, governed hundreds of officials, and supervised each other between superiors and subordinates. After two hundred years, the world was stable and peaceful.
Now it has been changed to Da Sikong, who has the same status as the Prime Minister and does not receive the protection of the gods.
According to precedent, officials with outstanding political achievements of 2,000 shi were selected, officials with 2,000 shi were selected as censors, and those who were qualified were selected as prime ministers. The rankings were very orderly, in order to respect the emperor's virtue and respect the country's prime minister.
Nowadays, the officials in Zhongerqianshi are appointed as prime ministers without having experienced the imperial censor. Their power is very light, which is not a method of respecting national politics.
I think the official position of Da Sikong can be abolished, and the imperial censor should be re-established and follow the original official system.
I am willing to do my best to appoint the imperial censor as an example for all officials.
Emperor Ai listened to his advice and appointed him as the imperial censor.
When the great Sima Fu was relieved of his duties, Emperor Ai appointed Dingming, Marquis of Yang'an, as the great Sima Wei general, and appointed subordinate staff. The great Sima was given the same title of general as before.
Four years later, Emperor Ai changed the prime minister to Da Situ, and established Da Sikong and Da Sima.
At the beginning, He Wu was appointed as the Grand Sikong, and he and Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin submitted a memorial: In ancient times, the most virtuous and talented among the princes were selected as state uncles. The "Book" said: Discuss with the twelve state uncles.
This is a method used to expand the audio-visual range and discern the subtle points. Nowadays, the governor of the Ministry occupies the official position of Zhoubo, presides over the discipline of a state, selects and recommends high officials, and the recommended officials are as high as Jiuqing. Those who are disgusted are immediately dismissed. The responsibilities are heavy and the power is great.
The great principle of "Spring and Autumn" is to appoint noble people to control humble people, and not to use low-status people to rule high-status people.
The governor's status was lower than that of the doctor, but he was in charge of two thousand shi of officials. The importance was disproportionate and the order of status and hierarchy was lost.
We request that the provincial governor be abolished and the prefecture be established instead to conform to the ancient system.
The memorial was approved.
When Zhu Bo petitioned for the restoration of the imperial censor's official position, he also wrote: "The Han family has great virtues and has established counties and counties throughout the world."
The governor of the Ministry was ordered to take charge of the government affairs of a state, supervise and inspect the county, and the officials and people were peaceful.
According to precedent, those who have served in the ministry for nine years are recommended as prime ministers. Among them, those with outstanding talents and outstanding achievements are promoted. The positions are low and the rewards are generous. Officials are dedicated to meritorious service and are willing to make progress.
Previously, Prime Minister Zhai Fang made a petition to abandon the governorship and establish a state pastoral ministry. The salary would be two thousand dan, and his status would be second to that of Jiuqing.
If the vacancy of Jiuqing is to be filled by state ministers with outstanding political achievements, then people with moderate talents will just keep themselves. I am afraid that their achievements will decline and those who do evil will not be able to stop them.
I request that the prefecture be abolished and the governor be established as before. The memorial was approved.
Zhu Bo was honest and frugal, and did not like wine, women, sex, entertainment, and entertainment.
From the humble to the rich and noble, there is no variety of dishes for meals, and there are no more than three bowls and plates on the table. He sleeps peacefully at night and gets up early, and his wife rarely sees him.
Has a daughter but no son.
However, he was willing to make friends with scholar-bureaucrats. When he was the governor of Jiuqing, the house was full of guests. Those who wanted to be officials recommended him, and those who wanted revenge took off their swords and brought them to him.
Zhu Bo managed world affairs and treated scholars like this, so he made great achievements with his own strength, but in the end he was defeated.
At first, Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Dingtao, wanted to take the honorary title. The Empress Dowager's cousin Gao Wuhou Fu happy was appointed as the Grand Sima. Together with the Prime Minister Kong Guang and the Grand Sikong Shidan, he insisted on integrity.
Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, was also the cousin of the Queen Mother. He was flattering and wanted to obey the Queen Mother's wishes. When Zhu Bo had just been recruited and appointed as Jing Zhaoyin, he colluded with him in an attempt to get the Queen Mother a title to promote filial piety.
Therefore, Shi Dan was dismissed from office first, and Zhu Bo replaced him as the Grand Sikong. He presented sealed memorials to the inner court many times, saying: Prime Minister Jie Guang's ambition is to protect himself and not to worry about the country; Grand Sima Fuxi is extremely noble and is the closest relative, but he flatters the ministers and forms cliques with the ministers, which is not beneficial to political governance.
The emperor then dismissed Fu happy and banished him back to his fiefdom. He dismissed Kong Guang as a commoner and appointed Zhu Bo as prime minister instead of Kong Guang.
Zhu Bo presented a memorial and declined, saying: "According to precedent, the number of food fiefs granted to the prime minister does not exceed one thousand households, but I am the only one who exceeded the limit. I am really ashamed and afraid, and I hope to return one thousand households."
The emperor granted his request.
Empress Dowager Fu was still resentful of Fu happy, so she sent Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, to persuade the prime minister politely and ordered him to write a memorial to remove Fu happy from his position.
Zhu Bo accepted the Queen Mother's order and discussed it with the imperial censor, Tang Xuan. Tang Xuan said: "The matter has been decided before. Wouldn't it be inappropriate to do this?"
Zhu Bo said: "I have agreed to the Marquis Kong Xiang, and it is the Queen Mother's will."
The common people prayed to each other and even died for him, let alone the supreme Queen Mother?
I only have one death left.
Tuxuan then agreed.
Zhu Bo did not want to reprimand Fu Xi alone. Since the original chief minister, Fanxiang Hou He Wu, had been dismissed from his post and returned to his fiefdom due to his fault. The situation was similar to Fu Xi's, so he raised the memorial together: Fu Xi and He Wu were officials before, which was not beneficial to political governance. Although they have been dismissed from office, the rewards of titles and fiefs are not what they deserve. Please exempt them from civilian status.
The emperor knew that Empress Dowager Fu always resented Fu happy and suspected that Zhu Bo and Zhao Xuan had accepted the empress dowager's order, so he summoned Xuan Xuan to the minister to interrogate the truth.
After Te Xuan confessed, the emperor ordered General Peng Xuan of the Left to interrogate him together with Chinese and Korean officials.
Peng Xuan and other impeachment officials said: Zhu Bo is the prime minister, Zhao Xuan is the minister, Fu Yan was granted the title because he was a relative of his maternal family, and he occupies a special position. They are all assistant ministers and people trusted by the emperor. They do not consider being loyal to the emperor, but focus on official affairs. They are committed to promoting kindness and education and setting an example for all officials. Everyone knows that Fu happy and He Wu have already made decisions with the emperor's favor, and the matter has been pardoned three times. Zhu Bo persisted in heresy, harmed the emperor's kindness, made friends with relatives who had the trust of the nobles, betrayed the emperor, favored ministers, overturned and disrupted political affairs. He was the leader of treacherous ministers, supported his ministers, deceived the emperor, was unfaithful as a minister, and did not abide by the rules of a minister. Tsang Xuan knew that what Zhu Bo said was illegal and it was disrespectful to distort moral principles and obey. Fu Yan and Zhu Bo discussed removing Fu happy from his position, which was disrespectful.
We asked the emperor to order his visitors to summon Zhu Bo, Tang Xuan, and Fu Yan to go to the prison where Tingwei held the prisoners.
The emperor ordered: The general, the officials who have won two thousand stones, the officials of two thousand stones, all the officials, doctors, and Yilang will discuss it.
Forty-four people including Right General Jiao Wang believed that it could be allowed as Peng Xuan and others said.
Fourteen people including Gong Sheng, the remonstrating official, believed that according to the righteousness of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the ministers used evil and cunning to serve the monarch, which was unacceptable under the national law.
If Uncle Sun Qiao, a senior official in the Lu State, wanted to dominate the state affairs of the Lu State, he framed his elder brother Ji Sun Xingfu to the Jin State. The state of Jin arrested and imprisoned Xingfu to disturb the state of Lu. The Spring and Autumn Annals paid attention to and recorded this incident.
Now Fu Yan has given up the decree and destroyed the clan, interfered and disrupted the court affairs, and made friends with ministers to deceive the emperor. He set up schemes, which is the main source of trouble. He should be charged with the same crime as Zhu Bo and Tang Xuan, both of whom are guilty of treason.
The emperor exempted Fu Yan from the third-class death penalty, cut off a quarter of Fu Yan's food, and asked the visitors to summon the prime minister to the prison where the prisoners were held.
Zhu Bo committed suicide and the fief was taken back.
At the beginning, Zhu Bo was promoted from imperial censor to prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxiang. Zhao Xuan was promoted from the Shaofu to the imperial censor, and he received his official position in the front hall together. When he was led to the hall to receive his orders, there was a loud sound like the ringing of a bell.
This incident is recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
Zan said: Xue Xuan and Zhu Bo both came from Zushi, and successively held official positions and were promoted to prime ministers.
Xue Xuan's place was well governed, and he was a teacher of the officials of the time. When he became prime minister, he lost his reputation because he showed his shrewdness by being harsh and cumbersome, and his talents were indeed limited.
Zhu Bo worked hard to make progress without considering morality and justice, which was nothing worthy of praise. He also saw that during the Xiaocheng era, he entrusted important responsibilities to ministers, so he resorted to abusing his power.
The current monarch has changed, and his likes and dislikes are different from those of the previous monarchs. Zhu Bo relied on the Ding family and the Fu family, and obeyed the Marquis of Kongxiang.
After the incident was discovered, he was blamed and fell into the charge of deceiving the emperor. When the truth was revealed, he drank the poison.
Wang Yu said: Wang Chong has been cheating for a long time!
Celi is like this too!
