Fu Kuan, the Marquis of Yangling, followed Pei Gong Liu Bang as a cavalry officer with the title of the fifth official of Wei State. He once served as a retainer and started an uprising in Hengyang.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Anyang and Gangli, attacked Qin general Zhao Bi's army in Kaifeng, and defeated Qin general Yang Xiong's army in Quyu and Yangwu, capturing twelve enemy heads. Pei Gong granted him the title of Qing.
Later he followed Pei Gong to Bashang.
Peigong became the queen of Han Dynasty and gave Fu Kuan the title of Gongdejun.
He followed the King of Han into the Hanzhong area and was promoted to the right cavalry general.
Soon after, he followed the King of Han to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and the King of Han gave Diaoyin County as his seat.
During the conflict between Chu and Han, he followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu, the overlord of Western Chu, and was ordered to meet the King of Han in Huai County. The King of Han gave him the title of Marquis of Tongde.
When he followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu's generals Xiang Guan, Zhou Lan, and Long Qie, the soldiers he led captured an enemy cavalry general at the foot of Aocang Mountain, thus increasing his food supply.
Fu Kuan was once under the command of Huaiyin Marquis Han Xin, and defeated Qi's garrison at Lixia and defeated Qi's general Tian Jie.
Later, it came under the command of Cao Shen, the prime minister, and conquered Bo County of Qi State, adding more food towns.
Because of his meritorious service in pacifying Qi, the king of Han divided the token in half and gave him half to show his credibility, so that his title could be passed down from generation to generation. He was granted the title of Marquis of Yangling, with a settlement of 2,600 households, and he was granted the title of a settlement before.
Later, he served as the right prime minister of Qi State and stationed troops to guard against Tian Heng's rebellion.
He served as prime minister of Qi for five years.
In April of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, he attacked Chen Xi, who rebelled against the Han and proclaimed himself king. He was under the command of Taiwei Zhou Bo, who replaced Fan Kuai, the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, and defeated Chen Xi.
In January of the next year, he was transferred to Dai Guo Xiangguo and led troops to garrison the border counties.
Two years later, he served as the prime minister of the country and continued to lead troops to garrison the border counties.
Fu Kuan died in the fifth year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
His son Qinghou Fu Jing inherited the title, and his son Qinghou died after reigning for twenty-four years.
Fu Jing's son, Gonghou Fu Ze, inherited the title and died after reigning for twelve years.
Fu Ze's son Fu Yan inherited the title. In the thirty-first year, he was executed for treason with Liu An, King of Huainan, and his fiefdom was abolished.
Jin She, the Marquis of Xinwu, followed Pei Gong Liu Bang as an attendant official and raised troops in Wanqu.
He once attacked Jiyang.
Defeated the army of Qin general Li You.
He also attacked the Qin army in the south of Bo County and northeast of Kaifeng. He killed one general with a thousand cavalry, captured fifty-seven heads, and captured seventy-three people. He received the title given by Pei Gong and was named Lord Linping.
Later, they fought in the north of Lantian, killing two Qin army chariot commanders and one cavalry officer, beheading 28 heads and capturing 57 people.
Then he led his army to Bashang.
At that time, Peigong was the king of Han Dynasty and granted Jin She the title of Marquis of Jianwu and promoted him to the rank of Cavalry Commander.
Jin She followed the King of Han and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties.
In addition, he led his troops to march westward to attack Qin General Zhang Ping's army in Longxi, defeated the Qin army, and pacified six counties in Longxi. The soldiers he led killed four Qin army chariot commanders, four military commanders, and twelve cavalry officers.
Later, he followed the King of Han to attack the Chu army eastward and reached Pengcheng.
As a result, the Han army was defeated. Jin She defended Yongqiu, and then left Yongqiu to attack Wang Wu and others who rebelled against the Han.
After seizing Liang, he led his troops to attack the Chu general Xing Shuo's army stationed in Shannan, and defeated Xing Shuo. He personally captured Xing Shuo's two captains, 12 Sima and junhou, and surrendered 4,180 enemy officers and soldiers.
In addition, the Chu army was defeated in the east of Xingyang.
In the third year of the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Jin She was given a city of 4,200 households.
Jin She also led his troops to Hanoi and attacked the Zhao general Ben Hao who was stationed in Chaoge. He was defeated. The soldiers he led captured the two generals alive and captured 250 horses.
He followed the King of Han to attack the area east of Anyang, reaching Jipu and capturing seven counties.
He also led another troops to defeat Zhao's army, captured alive Zhao's two Sima soldiers and four military commanders, and recruited 2,400 Zhao officers and soldiers to surrender.
He also followed the King of Han to conquer Handan.
He led his troops to capture Pingyang alone, and personally beheaded Zhao's acting prime minister who was stationed in Pingyang. The soldiers he led beheaded the leading county guard and the county guard, forcing Ye to surrender.
In this campaign, he followed the Han king to attack Chaoge and Handan, and defeated the Zhao army separately, forcing the six counties of Handan County to surrender.
After leading his army back to Aocang, he immediately defeated Xiang Yu's army in Chenggaonan, destroyed and cut off the channel transporting grain and wages from Xingyang to Xiangyi.
They defeated the Xiang champion team at the foot of Lucheng and captured a large area of ​​land stretching from Zeng, Tan and Xiapi in the east to Qi and Zhuyi in the south.
He also defeated Xiang Han's army at the foot of Jiyang City.
Then he sent his army back to attack Xiang Yu's troops under Chen County City, and defeated Xiang Yu.
In addition, Jiangling was pacified, and the king of Linjiang's Zhu Guo, Da Sima and eight of his subordinates who were in Jiangling were surrendered. He personally captured Linjiang Wang's common lieutenant alive and escorted him to Luoyang, thus pacifying Nanjun.
After that, he followed the King of Han to Chen County and arrested the evil Chu King Han Xin. The King of Han divided the talisman representing the voucher into two halves and gave one half to Jin She to show his credibility, so that his title could be passed down from generation to generation. He provided for 4,600 households in the settlement and was titled Xin Wuhou.
Later, Jin She followed Emperor Gao as a cavalry captain to attack Dai Wang, defeated Dai Wang Han Xin at the foot of Pingcheng, and then led his army back to Dongyuan.
Because of his meritorious service, he was promoted to general of chariots and cavalry, and then led the troops of Liang, Zhao, Qi, Yan, and Chu princes to attack Chen Xi's prime minister Hou Chang in separate groups, defeating him and forcing Qu Nicheng to surrender.
Later, he followed Emperor Gaozu and made great achievements in attacking Tingbu. He was granted an additional 5,300 households with stipulated food settlements.
In several important battles, Jin She beheaded 90 enemies and captured 132 people. He also defeated the enemy 14 times, surrendered 59 cities, pacified one county and one country, and 23 counties. He captured alive one person each from the princes, kings and Zhuguo, and 39 officials of different ranks ranging from less than 2,000 shi to 500 shi.
In the fifth year of his reign, Jin She passed away and was given the posthumous title Suhou.
His son Jin Ting inherited the title of Marquis.
Twenty-one years later, in the third year of the reign of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty, he was deprived of his title and exempted from the fiefdom because he drove the people beyond the regulations.
Kuai Chenghou, named Gui, was from Peixian County and his surname was Zhou.
He once served as Gaozu's bodyguard and followed Gaozu in rebellion as a retainer.
He once accompanied Emperor Gaozu to Bashang, and then went west to enter the Shu and Han regions. Later, he returned with Emperor Gaozu and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties, and was granted the title of Chiyang as a food town.
He was ordered to lead his troops eastward to cut off the enemy's transportation channels. Then he followed Gaozu on his expedition and crossed Pingyin Ferry to the east, meeting up with the troops of Huaiyin Marquis Han Xin in Xiangguo. At that time, the battles were sometimes won and sometimes defeated, and the situation was grim, but Zhou Ji never meant to deviate from Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu granted him the title of Marquis of Xinwu, with a settlement of 3,300 households.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Zhou Gui was granted the title of Marquis of Kuai Cheng, and at the same time, he was exempted from the original food fief.
Emperor Gaozu once wanted to attack Chen Xi personally, but Marquis Kuai Cheng tried to dissuade him with tears: In the past, the King of Qin conquered the world without going out in person. Now you often go out in person. Doesn't this mean that you have no more people to dispatch?
Emperor Gao believed that Zhou Xie sincerely cared for him, and made an exception to allow him to enter the palace without having to walk quickly. He would not be punished with death if he killed someone.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Zhou Hui died of old age and was given the posthumous title Zhenhou.
His son Zhou Chang inherited the title of marquis, but was exempted from the fiefdom due to a crime.
In the second year of the Zhongyuan period of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Zhou Ju, the son of Zhou Jie, was granted the title of Marquis on his behalf.
In the third year of Yuanding, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhou Ju was appointed as Taichang official. He committed a crime and was exempted from his fiefdom.
Tai Shigong said: Fu Kuan, the Marquis of Yangling, and Jin She, the Marquis of Xinwu, both received high titles. They followed Emperor Gaozu and raised troops from Shandong, attacked Xiang Yu, killed famous generals, defeated dozens of enemy armies, and surrendered dozens of cities. They did not suffer setbacks or hardships. This is also a gift from God.
The Marquis of Kuai Cheng and Zhou Jie were staunch and loyal, and were never doubted by anyone. Every time Gaozu went on an expedition, he never failed to shed tears. This can only be done by a person with a very painful heart. He can be said to be a loyal and kind gentleman.
