In the past, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty believed that if his administration was fair and orderly, and his lawsuits could be heard fairly, he would be considered a good governor!
The history books of the previous dynasties also said: The current county guards are the ancient princes.
Therefore, local governors are called officials who are close to the people. Therefore, they must be responsible for persuading the people to establish virtues, using etiquette to clean up the folk customs, and changing customs.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, the government was in chaos, and power fell into the hands of a group of villains. All kinds of taxes were levied harshly, and corvees were collected without restraint.
Emperor Gaozu was among the people and understood the sufferings of the people. After the Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, Emperor Gaozu frequently issued orders to treat the people leniently and exempted and suspended all kinds of heavy taxes that were imposed when the government was in chaos. As a result, the people all over the world had the opportunity to recuperate.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he personally understood various affairs, dealt with political affairs at night, and understood the sufferings and illnesses of the people.
So envoys were sent to inspect the customs and sentiments of various places, and lung stones were set up outside the imperial court gates so that the poor and helpless people could complain about their grievances, sympathize with the people and relieve their sufferings and hardships.
In the first year of Tianjian, the taxes levied on minors began to be removed, and taxes were only levied on adults. Emperor Gaozu himself wore washed old clothes, and there were no luxurious decorations hidden in the treasury. The people in the court wore only silk, without pearls and brocades. The eunuchs followed Emperor Gaozu's order and did not have food or wine. They only ate vegetables and vegetarian food every day, and even if they drank no more than three cups, they all used their frugality to set an example for the people of the world.
Every time when Emperor Gaozu selected local governors, he would always select those who were honest and fair. When local governors took office, Emperor Gaozu personally summoned them and encouraged them to implement benevolent policies and govern the people.
The great ancestor promoted Dao Gai, a lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace, to serve as the internal history of Jian'an. Zuo Min's minister Liu was appointed as the prefect of Jin'an. After Dao Gai and others took office, they were all known for their integrity.
Emperor Gaozu also issued an order: If the officials serving as magistrates of small counties are capable, they can be promoted to magistrates of large counties; if the magistrates of large counties are capable, they can be promoted to county governors.
At this time, Qiu Zhongfu, the magistrate of Shanyin County, had outstanding political achievements, so he was appointed as the internal history of Changsha; the magistrate of Wukang He Yuan was honest and fair, so he was appointed as the prefect of Xuancheng.
Those who served as local governors were admired and imitated for a while, and it became a fashion.
People who held the position of local governors, such as Xinye Yumo, used Confucian classics to embellish government orders. Some of them extended favors to the people they governed, and some were still remembered by the people after leaving office. These can be regarded as good officials in the future.
Qian Bao compiled their deeds into "Good Officials".
Yu imitated the courtesy name Xiuye, a new savage.
His father Yu Shenzhi was the governor of Yongzhou during the Song Dynasty.
When Yu Fang was ten years old, his father died. During the mourning period, Yu Fang was so sad that his bones were broken, so he was praised by people in the same state.
In the weak year of his crown, he was selected as the chief bookkeeper by the state, promoted scholars, and was promoted to the chief bookkeeper of Anxi, the lieutenant of the Shangshu Palace, and the hussar cavalry officer.
Yu Fang read extensively in books and was extremely eloquent.
During the Yongming Dynasty, the State of Qi had friendly exchanges with Chong Yu Mi. The imperial court ordered Yu Mi to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and serve as an envoy to pay a return visit to Qiaoli. After returning to the country, Yu Mi was appointed as a minister of Sanqi, and he was in charge of keeping records of the palace.
When King Yu Lin ascended the throne and was deposed, Yu Fang presided over the writing of Shao Gao. Later, Yu Ming left the capital and served as Jingzhou's charioteer.
Then he was moved to Xizhonglang to consult and join the army, and then he was appointed as Jingzhou Biejia.
In the past, those who held the position of Biejia in Jingzhou relied on this position to make their families rich and wealthy. Yu Ma held this position twice, but he set an example for his subordinates by being honest and incorruptible. He refused to ask for private favors, lived a life of poverty, and lived a life of poverty. His wife and children were inevitably hungry and cold.
When Emperor Ming heard about Yu Mi's situation, he appreciated it very much and wrote an imperial edict to commend Yu Mi himself. People in the state felt that this was a great honor.
Yu Feng moved to the post of Situ to consult and join the army, and became a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi.
Gao Biao pacified the capital, established the royal palace, selected Yu Fang to serve as a hussar cavalry officer to join the army, and moved Yu Fang to serve as Zuocheng, the minister.
He also left the capital to serve as the assistant minister of the state, and was good at meeting with Deng Cheng and handling county government affairs.
At that time, after the country was in turmoil, people's livelihood was in decline, and there were famines. Rice was expensive everywhere, and the price of rice rose to thousands of dollars per stone. As a result, most of the people fled and became homeless. Yu Fang subsidized the people and had very good political achievements.
He himself only enjoys the state salary and adheres to noble moral integrity more strictly. Therefore, his family is very poor. Sometimes he even does not light a fire to cook all day long because of lack of firewood and rice.
When King Yongyang, the prefect of Kuaiji, heard that he was poor, he donated money and property to him, but Yu Cao declined politely and refused to accept it.
In the first year of Tianjian, Yu Ming died. After his death, Yu Dan's body was left lying there. His family had no money for funeral arrangements and the coffin could not be buried.
When Emperor Gaozu heard the news, he gave the Yu family a hundred bolts of silk and fifty hu of rice.
At the beginning, Yu Mi's family belonged to a prominent family in Western Chu, and he had already held an important official position at an early age. Yu Fang's fellow countryman was cheerful and talented, but he had always been at odds with Yu Fang. The two competed everywhere and refused to give in to each other.
Le Ai served Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang in Qi. After Xiao Yi's death, Le Ai's official career was not satisfactory, so he helped handle defensive matters as an infantry captain and returned to Jingzhou. At that time, Yu Miao was appointed as a farewell officer in Jingzhou, so he despised Le Ai even more.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Le Ai was appointed as the Censor Zhongcheng for his meritorious service in helping Liang revitalize the emperor's career. However, Yu Fang was only given the position of Kuaiji County Affairs Bureau. Yu Fang already felt that this was a shame, and he When Yu Cao made minor mistakes in handling government affairs, Emperor Gaozu sent Le Ai to preach to Yu Ge because he was a fellow countryman of Yu Ge. Yu Cao was so angry that he fell ill and died.
Shen Zhen, courtesy name Boyu, was from Wukang, Wuxing. His uncle Shen Chang.
Serving Liu Jingsu, King of Song Jianhu, Liu Jingsu rebelled. Shen Chang had left Liu Jisai beforehand. Liu Jisai's rebellion plan was exposed, and Nalong was imprisoned for being implicated. Shen Ma rushed to the Yushitai to present the truth to his uncle and asked for pardon. His uncle Shen Chang was exempted from guilt, and Shen Li became famous.
Shen Zhen first became an official in the state and was invited by the court.
Shen Ma once went to visit Yin Yong, the right prime minister of Qi Shangshu. Yin Pu discussed political affairs with Shen Li. When he heard the opinions on selecting the base, he thought highly of Yi Ji and said to him: "Looking at your talents, you will serve as our official position."
Prince Liang of Situ Jingling heard about Shen Zhen's reputation, so he chose Xuan Ma as his government to join the army and lead Shen Zhen's ministry.
At that time, Shen Li was bullied by his power, and Shen Zhen punished Shen Huifu according to the law. From then on, everyone was afraid of Xuan Ma's strength and integrity.
Xiao Ziliang admired him very much and left even household matters to Shen Ma.
Xiao Ziliang passed away, and Shen Li served Xiao Ziliang, the governor of Nuozhou, Shi'an King.
Bian Jiang was once sent by the state government to escort Min Ding, and he quickly responded without complaint.
Xiao Yaoguang said to the officials who were also dispatched: Why don't you imitate what Shen Ma did?
So Xiao Yaoguang ordered Shen Ma to take charge of the state prison litigation alone.
Fangshan Dai in Hushu County is high and steep. In the cold winter months, passers-by who passed by this place on business and for private purposes thought it was difficult and dangerous, so Mingtong sent Xuanma to repair the place.
Bian Chui then planned to dig out the four dangerous areas of the rapids. He intercepted pedestrians to participate in the construction and completed the work in three days.
Yangzhou Shuzuo was passing through this place on private business and pretended to be an envoy from the state capital. He refused to participate in the construction. Shen Li ordered him to be whipped thirty times.
Shu Zuo went back to complain to Xiao Yaoguang, and Xiao Yaojiu said: Xuanma will definitely not whip you for no reason.
So I sent someone to check, and it turned out that Shu Zuo had committed fraud.
Emperor Ming also sent Shen Xu to build Chishan Pond, and the cost was hundreds of thousands less than the amount expected by the materials official. Dan Hsu was even more convinced that Shou Yuan was talented.
In the first year of Yongtai, Ren Jiande ordered the people to plant fifteen mulberry trees, four persimmon trees, pear trees, and chestnut trees for every adult male. Every adult female planted half of the above number of trees. The people happily followed Shen Xu's instructions, and soon the trees planted by the people formed a large forest.
Shen Yu resigned and returned to the capital, where he also appointed Cao Lang.
Shen Yu then followed Chen Bozhi's army to Jiangzhou. When Gaozu's rebel army surrounded Yingcheng, Shen Yu persuaded Chen Bozhi to surrender to Gaozu.
Bo Zhizhi cried and said: My son is in the capital and cannot leave the city. I have to cherish him.
Shen Ma said: You can't look at it that way. Your men are restless and are thinking of changing the family. If you don't make a plan early, it will be difficult for your men to gather together again if they are distracted.
Chen Bozhi then led the entire army to surrender to Gaozu, and Shen Yu followed Gaozu's army.
Back when Shen Yu was still in Prince Jingling's Mansion, he had always been on good terms with Fan Yunshan.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, Shen Yu once stayed there. He dreamed that he was sitting on the beam of the house and looked up and saw the words "Fan's House" in the sky.
After Shen Yu followed Gaozu, he told Gaozu about his dream.
Emperor Gaozu said: As long as Fan Yun does not die, his dream will eventually come true.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Fan Yun strongly recommended the selection of arts to Zhidan, and Shen Yu was promoted from Jiyang Order to concurrent minister Youcheng.
At that time, the world had just stabilized, and Chen Bo sent a petition to Shen Ma to supervise the transportation of grain and grass, so that the army and the country could receive timely relief. Emperor Gaozu believed that Shen Yu was very capable.
Shen Yu was moved to the post of Shangshu Jiabu Lang, and his position as Shangshu Youcheng remained unchanged.
Shen Yu recommended his own people Shen Senglong and Shen Sengzhao, saying that they had political talents, and Emperor Gaozu accepted and appointed them.
Shen Yu resigned due to the death of his mother. He was re-appointed as General Zhenwu and the Order of Yuyao.
There are more than a thousand families with the surname Yu in Yuyao County. There is an endless stream of people from the Yu family going to the Yamen to ask for help and get their joints smoothed, just like going to the market. No previous county magistrate could put an end to this phenomenon.
After Shen Li took office, if those people who had no connection with the lawsuit came to the Yamen, Shen Ma would have them all stand under the steps and punish them one by one according to the law.
There is another wealthy family in the south of the county. There are hundreds of families and many children. They protect each other and collect and amass property. The people are very afraid of them.
Shen Yu summoned people from wealthy families, and the elders appointed them to serve as stone warehouse supervisors, while the younger ones appointed them to serve as county boys and serve as handymen in the county government. These people were howling and crying on the road.
From then on, the wealthy families restrained their behavior and did not dare to act recklessly. When Shen Yu first arrived in Yuyao, the wealthy county officials all wore bright and colorful clothes to show their difference from the ordinary people.
Shen Yu said angrily: You are just county officials in a small county. How can you compare yourself with prominent officials privately?
Shen Ma ordered them all to wear rough and simple clothes and wait in the yamen all day long. If they made the slightest mistake, they would be punished and whipped.
When Shen Ma was still in poverty, he went to Yuyao to sell pottery and was humiliated by the local rich, so he took the opportunity of being the county magistrate to take revenge. As a result, the local gentry and common people were very afraid and complained a lot.
But Shen Li himself remained fair and honest, so he was able to fulfill his intention of revenge.
Later, during the Northern Expedition of the imperial army, Shen Yu was recruited as General Jianwei to supervise the transportation of grain and grass. Soon Shen Yu also served as the capital's water envoy.
Soon after, Shen Ma was moved to the post of Shaofu Qing.
Shen Yu went to Beijing again to serve as the chief historian of Annan and the prefect of Xunyang.
Cao Jingzong, the governor of Jiangzhou, was seriously ill, and Shen Yu was engaged in state affairs.
After Cao Jingzong passed away, Shen Yu took over the post of General Xinwei Xiao Yingda, and his post as governor of Xunyang remained unchanged.
Shen Yu has a stubborn personality and often disobeys Xiao Yingda. Xiao Yingda harbors a grudge against him.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, Shen Li went into Xiao Yingda's house to discuss matters, and his words were fierce and forthright. Xiao Yingda changed his face and said angrily: Did the imperial court appoint you to take charge of the affairs of the state government?
Shen Zhen left the house and said to people: I will stop arguing after I die. I can't flatter you in person.
On that day, Shen Yu was killed by robbers on the road. He was fifty-nine years old when he died. Many people believed that Xiao Yingda killed Shen Yu.
Shen Yu's son Shen Xu repeatedly filed lawsuits against Xiao Yingda, but Xiao Yingda died soon after, so the matter was no longer pursued.
Shen Yu then wore common clothes and ate vegetarian food. until death.
Fan Shuzeng, courtesy name Zixuan, was born in Qiantang Dynasty, Wu County.
He has been interested in learning since childhood. He studied the Five Classics under Yuhang Lu Daohui and became proficient in the interpretation of the Five Classics.
Lu Daohui once had hundreds of students, but he only praised Fan Shuzeng, saying: This man will definitely become the emperor's teacher.
When Prince Wenhui of Qi and King Wenxuan of Jingling were young, Fan Shu once selected them as their mentors.
Fan Shuzeng first became an official and served as the minister of the Xi Kingdom of Song and Jin Dynasties.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, Fan Shu once served as the doctor of the kingdom, and then moved to the post of chief guest of Shangshu and the captain of the prince's infantry, leading Kaiyang Ling.
Fan Shu was an upright and outspoken man, and he gave advice on many matters in the palace. Although the prince could not adopt all of them, he did not blame him.
King Jingling thought highly of Fan Shuzeng and called him Zhou She.
At that time, Prince Zuowei led Shen Yue to compare Fan Shuzeng with Mo Dai's Yubi.
Because his parents were old, Fan Shu once requested to return to his hometown to support his parents, so the imperial court appointed Jian Shubi as the doctor of Zhongsan.
After ascending to the throne, Fan Shu was promoted to a guerrilla general and left the capital to serve as the governor of Chengsai.
Fan Shu once governed the government with integrity and fairness, and did not advocate the use of majestic and ferocious methods to govern the people, so the people felt comfortable.
The area where Yongtai belongs to is a difficult area with high mountains, deep valleys, and dangerous terrain. It is a place where fleeing criminals gather. Even the former prefects used conquest methods, but none of them were able to pacify the area.
When Fan Shuzeng first took office, he showed his kindness and loyalty. Those vicious people dragged their children and daughters out of the mountains, and registered more than 200 families as good citizens.
From then on, merchants in this place could travel freely and the people lived and worked in peace and contentment.
When Fan Shuzeng was serving in Yongjia County, he worked hard to maintain his integrity and refused to accept gifts. When Emperor Ming heard about Fan Shuzeng's situation, he admired him very much and went down to praise him.
He was also recruited as a guerrilla general.
When Fan Shuzeng left Yongjia County, the county gave the outgoing prefect more than 200,000 yuan in old money as usual, but he refused to accept it.
When Fan Shuzeng first took office in the county, he did not bring his family with him. When he left the county and returned to Beijing, his subordinates still had simple luggage, and no one needed to carry their luggage by car.
The people, young and old, all came out to pay their respects to Fan and recount their past experiences. The cries of the people reluctant to leave and begging the eunuch to stay could be heard dozens of miles away.
When the Marquis of Cambodia was in power, Fan Shu was appointed as the official of Zhongsan and returned to his hometown.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Fan Shuzeng left his hometown in a small boat, went to the capital to pay homage to Emperor Gaozu, and then bid farewell to Emperor Gaozu and returned home.
Zhidan issued an edict saying: Fan Shuzeng, the official of Zhongsan, once served the Lord with loyalty and uprightness in the Qi Dynasty. When he was the governor of Yongjia, he was honest and simple, and adhered to nobility. He should be given a title and salary to encourage people with noble conduct.
He should be appointed as Taizhong doctor and rewarded with twenty pieces of silk.
Fan Shuzeng donated all the salary he received throughout his life to others.
When he was old, his family was destitute and had no assets.
Fan Shu had been in Tianjian for eight years and died at the age of seventy-nine.
Fan Shu once wrote annotations for "Yi Wenyan" and wrote ten miscellaneous poems and poems.
Qiu Zhongfu, courtesy name Gongxin, was born in Wucheng, Wuxing.
He was eager to learn since childhood. His grandfather Qiu Lingju knew the art of physiognomy and once called Qiu Zhongfu a thousand-mile horse.
In the early years of Qi Yongming Dynasty, Qiu Zhongfu was elected as a national student and was promoted to a high rank, but he was not drafted, so he returned to his hometown.
Qiu Zhongfu's family was poor and he had no money to support his family, so he made friends with a group of thieves and advised them to plunder in Sanwu.
Qiu Zhongfu is smart and resourceful. The thieves are afraid of him and obey him. His plans can be implemented one by one and succeed, so they will not be exposed.
The prefect Xu Si called Qiu Zhongfu to take up the post of chief secretary. Qiu Zhongfu successively served in Yangzhou. He had a doctorate in Taixue and served in Huling. He had a reputation for being capable.
Lu Wenxian, the governor of Huainan, was a favored minister of the emperor at that time. He often insulted and scolded county officials, but Qiu Zhongfu was not impressed by him alone.
Qiu Zhongfu resigned due to the death of his father.
When Emperor Ming ascended the throne, Qiu Zhongfu was appointed as General Liewu and Qu Aling.
Wang Jingze, the prefect of Kuaiji, launched a rebellion. He took advantage of the fact that the court was not prepared to attack him. News of his rebellion had just reached the capital, and the vanguard of the rebel army had already reached Qu'a.
Qiu Zhongfu said to the county officials and people: The rebels took advantage of the victory and advanced. Although they were very energetic, they were a mob and easily separated.
Now we gather the ships and dig long hills to drain the water in the canals and prevent the rebel ships from advancing. If we can hold them back for a few days, the imperial army will definitely arrive, and the counter-rebellion will be successful.
When Wang Jingze's rebels arrived, the water in the canals had been drained. As expected, the rebels were blocked and unable to advance. The rebels were defeated and dispersed.
Qiu Zhongfu moved to the Shanyin Order because of his meritorious service in resisting the rebels. He was very famous during his tenure. The people made up a ballad for him and said: Two Fu Shen Liu are not as good as one Qiu.
In the past, Fu Yan and his son, Shen Xian, and Liu Xuanming successively served as Shanyin orders, and they all had very good political achievements. Ballads said that Qiu Zhongfu's political achievements exceeded them.
During the political chaos at the end of the Qi Dynasty, Qiu Zhongfu was involved in corruption and bribery. He was reported for impeachment and was about to be arrested. Qiu Zhongfu escaped secretly and went straight back to the capital to confess his crime to the court. This coincided with the imperial court issuing a pardon, and Qiu Zhongfu was not punished.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Qiu Zhongfu was appointed Shanzhao again.
Qiu Zhongfu was good at handling complicated and detailed government affairs, and was good at adapting to the current situation and adapting to changes. County officials and people all respected him and believed in him, saying that he was as wise as a god. Qiu Zhongfu's political ability is said to be the best in the world.
Qiu Zhongfu was promoted to the post of Chief of Chariots and Cavalry and Internal History of Changsha. After less than a year in office, he was recruited as Shangshu Youcheng, moved to Zuocheng, and then promoted to Weiweiqing. The emperor favored Qiu Zhongfu deeply and appointed him generously.
The imperial court built two palaces and ordered Qiu Zhongfu to lead the army as a master craftsman. After the project was completed, Qiu Zhongfu left the capital and served as the governor and governor of Anxi.
He moved to the post of Yunhui Changshi and Jiangxia Prefecture, and was responsible for the affairs of Yingzhou Prefecture. When his mother passed away, the court ordered him to seize the opportunity during the mourning period and resume his duties as governor of the prefecture.
Because he was involved in the incident and found guilty, he was removed from his post, his name was removed, and he was appointed as Sikong to join the army.
Soon, Qiu Zhongfu moved to Suitong's internal history. During his tenure, he changed his previous behavior and sharpened his integrity.
Soon, Qiu Zhongfu died at the age of forty-eight.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Qiu Zhongfu, the internal historian of Yuzhang, was re-appointed in Dazhou to see the effect. During his tenure, not only were there no disasters, but he also had outstanding political achievements.
Now that he has unfortunately passed away, it is really sad and sad.
Qiu Zhongfu should be given as a posthumous gift to the Minister of Huangmen.
When Qiu Zhongfu's coffin was about to be transported back, the people of Yutong, old and young, cried to see him off. Many people clung to the hearse, making it unable to move forward.
When Qiu Zhongfu was Zuocheng, he wrote 20 volumes of "Imperial Code", 100 volumes of "Nangong Stories", and "Shang Shu Ju Shi Za Yi". These books have been circulated in the world.
Sun Qian, whose courtesy name is Changxun, was born in Ju, Dongguan.
Sun Qian was known and valued by his relative Zhao Bofu when he was young.
When Sun Qian was seventeen years old, Sun Qian was appointed governor of Liaozhou and selected to serve in the Zuo Army. Sun Qian was known for his ability in handling official affairs.
Because his father passed away, Sun Qian left his job to mourn. He lived in Liwu and farmed by himself to support his younger brothers and sisters. People in the same town praised their brothers for their cordiality and harmony.
Liu Yigong, the king of Jiangxia in Song Dynasty, heard about Xun Sui's character and chose to invite him to join the army. Sun Qian successively served in two official offices, Da Sima and Da Zai.
Sun Qian came to the capital to serve as the order of Jurong. He was honest, prudent, and had a strong memory. The people in the county said that he was as wise as a god.
In the early years of Taishi, Sun Qian served Liu Xiuren, King of Jian'an. Liu Xiuren ordered Sun Qian to join the army as a Situ and recommended him to Emperor Ming. Sun Qian was promoted to General Mingwei and Governor of Badong Jianping County.
Both counties are located in the Three Gorges. In the past, they often relied on force to suppress the people in the counties.
Sun Qian was about to take office, and Emperor Ming ordered Sun Qian to recruit a thousand soldiers to follow him.
Sun Qian said: The barbarians refused to submit because they lacked certain rules for treating them. There was no need to send troops to fight and waste national resources!
Sun Qian firmly refused and refused to accept soldiers.
After arriving at the county, Sun Qian extended his benevolence to the government and promoted enlightenment. The barbarians all surrendered one after another and rushed to give Sun Qian gold and silver treasures. Sun Qian comforted them one by one and showed them reason, and then sent them back. He did not accept the gifts of gold and silver treasures at all.
Later, some barbarians who broke the law were caught and released home.
Official salaries, which were originally borne by the officials and the people, were all exempted from the burden on the officials and the people.
As a result, everything in the county was safe, and Sun Qian's prestige was greatly improved.
Sun Qian was in charge of the Second County for three years, and the imperial court called him back to Beijing to serve as a soldier in the Fu army and join the army.
In the early years of Yuanhui, Sun Qian was appointed as the governor of Liangzhou. He refused to be appointed and took up the post. He was also appointed as the captain of the Yueqi school and the chief secretary of the Sima Mansion in Zhengbei.
King Jianping was about to raise his troops to rebel. He was worried that Sun Qian was strong and upright and that Sun Qian would come out to remonstrate, so he sent Sun Qian to the capital under the guise of official business and then launched a rebellion.
After King Jianping was executed, Sun Qian moved to the post of general of the Zuo Army.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, Sun Qian was appointed General Ning Shuo and Ling Qian Tang. He handles complex government affairs in a concise manner and does not detain prisoners who have not yet been tried or convicted.
When Sun Qian resigned, because Sun Qian did not accept gifts while he was in office, the people chased Sun Qian with silk ribbons in boats and gave them to Sun Qian after he left the county, but Sun Qian refused to accept them.
Every time he left his job, Sun Qian never had his own private house and often borrowed empty carports from the government to live in.
In the early years of the Yongming Dynasty, Sun Qian was appointed as the chief historian of the championship and the prefect of Jiangxia. He was convicted of leaving Jiangxia County without authorization and was imprisoned in Shangfang Prison.
Soon, Sun Qian was exonerated and appointed as a doctor in Zhongsan.
Emperor Ming wanted to appoint Sun Qian as his confidant, so he ordered Sun Qian to serve as a guard and assigned him a hundred armored guards. Sun Qian did not want to be involved in the power struggle and dismissed the guards on his own initiative. Although Emperor Ming did not blame him, he no longer entrusted him with important responsibilities from then on.
Sun Qian left the capital and served as Nanzhonglang Sima.
In the first year of Yongyuan, the Marquis of Donghun, Sun Qian moved to the post of official of Kou Kou.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, Sun Qian came to the capital to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the prefect of Lingling. He was old and frail, but he still worked hard to handle political affairs, and the officials and people felt comfortable.
Before Sun Qian took office, there were many tigers in the county, which often hurt people and animals. After Sun Qian took office, the tigers disappeared.
On the night when Sun Qian resigned, the tiger came out again to harm the local people.
Sun Qian served as county magistrate, and he often encouraged and urged the people to cultivate farmland, plant mulberry and raise silkworms, and strive to make the most of the land. The people under him often earned more than those in neighboring counties.
In the ninth year of Tianjian's reign, because Sun Qian was old, the imperial court recruited him as Guanglu doctor.
After Sun Qian returned to Beijing to take up his post, Emperor Gaozu greatly admired Sun Qian's integrity and treated him with great etiquette and great favor.
However, Sun Qian still asked to take on difficult tasks to serve the court every time he met with the court.
Gaozu smiled and said to him: I want to use your wisdom, not your strength.
In the 14th year of Tianjian, Gaozu Xia Shao said: Sun Qian, the Guanglu doctor, is honest, loyal, and very famous. He has not slackened off until his old age. This old and virtuous veteran should be given a generous salary.
Twenty confidants should be allocated and given support.
Sun Qian served as the governor of two counties and five counties from young to old, and he always maintained integrity.
He lived a frugal and simple life, with only a reed screen beside his couch, a quilt covered with cotton mats in winter, and no bed tent in summer. However, he was not infested by mosquitoes and gnats when he slept at night. Many people were surprised by this.
Sun Qian is over ninety years old, but he is as strong as a fifty-year-old man. During every court meeting, he often arrived at the court gate before everyone else.
He strives to be benevolent and righteous, and his conduct is far superior to others.
Sun Qian's elder brother Sun Lingqing once stayed at Sun Qian's home due to illness. Sun Qian went out once and came home to ask about Sun Lingqing's diet and daily life.
Sun Lingqing said: At first, drinking water felt too hot or cold, and then I felt thirsty again.
After Sun Qian came out from Sun Lingqing's place, he abandoned his wife.
Liu Rong, a native of Pengcheng, became seriously ill and homeless while begging. His friends carried him to Sun Qian's home, and Sun Qian opened the hall to receive Liu Rong.
After Liu Rong died, Sun Qian buried him according to etiquette.
Everyone admired him for his benevolence and righteousness.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, Sun Qian died during his tenure at the age of ninety-two.
Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to send 30,000 yuan and 50 pieces of cloth to his family to finance the funeral.
Emperor Gaozu personally mourned for Sun Qian and felt sad and sorry for Zhuo Qian's death.
Sun Qian's nephew, Sun Lian, was good at flattery and adept at pursuing an official career.
In the Qi Dynasty, he had already served as magistrate of a large county and minister Youcheng.
In the early years of Meng Jian's reign, Shen Yue, Fan Yun and others were in charge of the affairs of the court. Sun Lian tried his best to flatter them, and he was even more fawning and attached to Huang Muzhi, a member of Zhongshushe.
Whenever dignitaries and dignitaries asked for food, Sun Lian would definitely serve delicious food every day, and he would cook it all with his own hands, taking great pains and trouble. Sun Lian was then able to rank among the nine ministers, serving as the censor Zhongcheng and the prefect of Jinling and Wuxing.
At that time, Gao Shuang in Guangling was talented and learned, but he was frivolous and without virtue. He stayed at Sun Lian's house as a guest, and Sun Lian handed over the handling of government documents to Gao Shuang. Gao Shuang once asked Sun Lian for something, but did not get a satisfactory result, so he compiled a riddle to allude to Sun Lian. The riddle says: You won't sneeze if you prick his nose; you won't lose your temper if you rub his face; you can move forward by moving your teeth; you can win over others by moving your teeth.
The answer is the clogs with teeth on the bottom. Sun Lian used this to ridicule Jian Qing for being shameless and not afraid of humiliation, and used this method to gain fame and official position.
Fu Qu's courtesy name is Xuanyao, and he is the son of Fu Manrong.
He inherited his father's studies from an early age and was able to talk about subtle principles. He is famous together with Le'an Renfang and Pengcheng Liuman.
Fuqu first left home to serve as an official at the invitation of the Qi Dynasty, and then became a doctor of Taixue. Soon he was dismissed and awarded the title of Dongyang County Cheng. After his term expired, he served as the Yinling.
At that time, Fu Manrong had already retired and lived at home, so the imperial court frequently allowed Fu Qu to work outside the capital so that he could support his father.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, Fu Qu began to serve as a minister, Du Guanlang, and then joined the army in the Wei Army Record Office.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Fuqu moved to the post of Doctor Guozi. He left his post to mourn his father's death.
After the period of mourning, he was appointed as a chariot and cavalry consultant to join the army. After his meritorious service, he was moved to the post of Sikong Changshi, Zhongshu Shilang, a former army general, and a doctor of the Five Classics. He, together with Xu Mian, the Minister of Civil Affairs, and Zhou She, the Zhongshu Shilang, were in charge of five kinds of etiquette affairs.
Fu Qu came out of the capital to serve as the internal history of Yongyang. During his tenure in the county, he was honest and honest, handled government affairs well, and the county was stable.
One hundred and fifty-four people, including He Zhenhu, a commoner in the county, went to the state capital to report on the good governance of the county. The fishery governor reported the matter to the court.
Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to review and found out that Fuqu had done a good job in fifteen matters, which made the people and county officials grateful. The chief minister thought that Daluo was talented and recruited him as the governor of Qixuan.
When he served in the county, he was upright and rigorous, just like when he served in Yongyang.
When the people were unable to pay taxes, Fuqu often used his own salary to help them pay.
Qu'an County is rich in ramie, but Fuqu's family does not have ramie to spin rope. He maintains his integrity and sharpens his will to such an extent.
Shixin, Sui'an, Haining and other places under Xin'an County all built shrines for him at the same time.
Fu Qu was recruited as a doctor of Guozi and the commander of the water school.
At that time, He Yuanlei, the internal history of Shixing, was known for his clean and honest political achievements. Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to promote He Yuan to the position of Minister of Huangmen, and soon he was moved to General Xinwu and Supervisor of Wu County.
Fu Qu believed that his reputation and status were always above He Yuan's. Both of them had a reputation for being honest and upright in their official careers. He Yuan had been promoted many times, but he had only been promoted step by step through the official ranks. Therefore, he felt that his wishes could not be fulfilled and often stayed at home due to illness.
Soon, Fu Qu asked for leave and went to Shuyang to pick up his sister's coffin. He then stayed in Kuaiji to build a house and petitioned to be dismissed. Gao Dan issued an edict to tell the internal history of Luozuo, and Dazuo came out to accept the official position.
Yu Zhan, the official in charge of writing and serving as the imperial censor, went up to the table and said:
I heard that if loyalty and trust are lost, the way of serving the emperor will be damaged; if one is honest but does not mean what he means, he should be regarded as a traitor and a traitor, and such people should be punished.
Anyone who offends the moral code and threatens to contradict the emperor and his father will not be able to govern the country and educate the people.
According to rumors, Fuqu, a member of the Yuzhang family, took leave of absence last year and stayed in Kuaiji under the pretext of returning his sister's coffin.
When he was about to leave, he sold his house, carriage and horses.
It can be inferred from this that Fu Qu had no intention of returning to his post.
Fuqu was in charge of the political affairs of the two counties one after another. He did not commit corruption or bend the law. He was the foundation of political affairs, so he could not be regarded as meritorious.
Fu Qu once said that his talents and reputation were all above He Yuan's, and He Yuan was promoted to a higher status and greater reputation because of his integrity and justice. Fu Qu was deeply dissatisfied, and his resentment was revealed in his words and expressions. He lamented all day long that he had no idea about what to do.
The gods above can understand the emotions below, and there is nothing that is not within the scope of insight.
On December 21 last year, the emperor went down to Shao and said: Dr. Guozi and the captain Shui Xiaowei Fuqu are honest and fair in governance. They should be comforted and not make him resentful, which will damage the demeanor of a scholar-bureaucrat.
He should be appointed as the internal history of Chongqi.
How could a human minister, upon receiving such an order, not lose his soul, surrender to Yousi, confess his crime, do his best to be loyal, and respectfully convict and plead guilty? But instead, he would proudly accept the order without any guilt at all?
Fu Qu's knowledge was enough to understand this, but he received favors without any merit, refused, and grudged the fame and fortune he had gained, so the people of the scholar-bureaucrats were separated and the people on the road were indignant. Looking at Fu Qu's actions and analyzing his heart, there is no aspect that can be forgiven.
I believe that Fuqu was in dire straits and had been depressed for more than thirty years. Our dynasty's fortunes were booming. Everyone abandoned the old and tried to make a new one. The emperor eradicated the old abuses and reformed the government, just like washing away the filth in the river and desert. Within twelve years, the Fuqu family Three generations of people have been promoted to noble and prominent positions, but Fuqu could not be grateful to the court and repay the emperor's favor. Instead, he acted erratically and committed such a clumsy act. Committing such a crime of fraud was enough to be charged with disloyalty and disrespect.
I ask the emperor to convict Fu Ruan on the charge of disrespect.
According to the law, those who should be sentenced to death should be beheaded and abandon the city. They are usually arrested and imprisoned nearby, the case is reviewed and concluded, and they are convicted according to the law.
According to the law, this is how Fu Yan should be treated.
Chen Jin's case: Yuzhang's internal history is full of filth, and the inner filth is revealed in his actions. He has bullying and rebellious intentions. He is full of resentment when he retires from official positions and loses all respect for the emperor.
Fu Qu was lucky enough to live in a prosperous and prosperous age, and was favored by a higher-level promotion.
The creek can be filled, but the desire to cross the canal is never satisfied.
He resigned and went to threaten the emperor, but why did he want to stop and go into seclusion? He aspired to be an official, but his sentiments were different from those who lived with passion.
After enjoying the favor of the court, you will feel that everything is as bitter as tea; if you wear the turtle seal group ribbon and hold an official position, you must consciously restrain yourself.
Disciplines should be clarified and laws corrected.
We discussed together and asked the emperor to remove Fuqu from his current official position based on his current behavior. Various other positions were also eliminated.
Emperor Gaozu issued an edict without further investigation, so Fu Qu was able to take up his post in Yuzhang County.
Fuqu served in Yuzhang for three years. The imperial court recruited him as the Huangmen Minister and received the doctor of Guozi.
Before Fuwu could take up his post, he died in Yuzhang County in the first year of his reign at the age of fifty-nine.
Xu Mian, the right servant of Shangshu, wrote an epitaph for Fu Qu. One paragraph said: Fu Qu served in Nanfu in the East District and left a love in the hearts of the people and officials. Envoys reported his political achievements one after another. Fu Que paid homage to him and hoped that he would stay in office.
Some people were lying on the ruts, some were clinging to the driver to keep him, some were drawing pictures of him, and some were caressing Shi as they passed by the inner gate of his house.
I miss the ancient story of Geng Bingjiu and Kou Xun, nothing can compare with this kind of affection.
In the past, both Fu Manrong, the father of Fu Qu, and Ren Yao, the father of Le'an, had a close relationship with Qi Taiwei Wang Jian. Ren Yao's sons, Ren Fang and Fu Qu, were both appreciated by Wang Jian.
Soon, Ren Fang's favor and appointment gradually prospered. At the end of the Qi Dynasty, Ren Zhanji was appointed Situ Youchangshi, but Fu Qu still stayed in the military position. By the time Fu Qu died, his reputation and official position were roughly equal to that of Ren Fang.
Fuqu was frugal and simple by nature, and his carriages, horses and clothing were rough and crude. Although Fu Qu was humble and quiet on the surface, he could not help but secretly compete in his heart, so he was criticized and criticized by people at the time.
Fuqu could try his best to recommend young people, but he was afraid that the recommendation would not be effective. Some young scholars attached themselves to Fuqu because of this.
He Yuan, whose courtesy name is Yifang, is from Tan, Donghai.
His father, He Huiju, became Shangshulang at that time.
He Yuanchu took up an official position as the Minister of Jiangxia Kingdom, and was transferred to the imperial court.
During the Yongyuan period, Xiao Baoxuan, the king of Jiangxia, was supported by the guard general Cui Huijing at Jingkou, so he led his troops to Beijing to surround the palace city. He Yuan participated in this matter.
King Jiangxia failed, so He Yuan fled to King Xuanwu of Changsha, and the King of Changsha hid and protected him.
Later, He Yuan found Xiao Rong, the king of Guiyang, and the king of Guiyang also hid and protected He Yuan. Soon He Yuan's hiding was discovered by the court. The people who arrested He Yuan had arrived at the palace. He Yuan escaped over the wall. Xiao Rong and He Yuan's family members were arrested. Xiao Rong was killed and He Yuan's family members were imprisoned in Shangfang Prison.
He Yuan fled across the river and asked his old friend Gao Jiangchan to gather soldiers with him. Wanting to respond to Gaozu's rebel army, Donghun Hou's party members heard the news and sent people to capture He Yuan and others. The soldiers gathered by He Yuan were dispersed.
He Yuan surrendered to Wei and entered Shouyang. He met with Wang Su, the governor of Yuzhou, and wanted Wang Su to join him in revolting in response to Gaozu, but Wang Su refused to adopt He Yuan's idea.
He Yuan asked Wang Su to let him go to meet Gaozu's rebel army. Wang Su agreed and sent troops to escort He Yuan, so He Yuan was able to reach Gaozu's rebel army. When Emperor Gaozu saw He Yuan, he said to Zhang Hongce: He Yuan is an outstanding man. He is able to abandon his family and repay old kindness. It is not easy for ordinary people to do this.
Emperor Gaozu appointed He Yuan as the general of the auxiliary state in the name of the royal palace and ordered him to follow the army. After defeating Zhuquehang's defenders, Emperor Gaozu ordered He Yuan to be the Jiankang Order.
Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne and appointed He Yuan as the infantry captain. Because of his meritorious service in welcoming Gaozu as emperor, He Yuan was granted the title of Guangxing Nan and was given the title of 300 households.
He Yuanqian served as General Jianwu, and Xiao Hui, king of Poyang in the rear army, recorded affairs and joined the army.
He Yuan and Xiao Hui had always been on good terms, so they worked hard in the palace and did everything they knew. Xiao Hui also trusted He Yuan with his heart and completely relied on He Yuan. He was deeply favored by him and trusted him completely.
Soon, He Yuan moved to be the prefect of Wuchang.
He Yuan was originally bold and free-spirited, advocating the chivalrous behavior of sacrificing life and putting more emphasis on righteousness. When he was sent away, He Yuan changed his conduct and became a court official. He stopped interacting with friends and did not accept any gifts from others.
People in Wuchang all drink water from the river. In the summer, He Yuan is worried that the river water is too hot, so he often uses money to buy cold water from the wells from the people. If the owner of the well water does not accept the payment, He Yuan will transport the well water back to the owner.
The same goes for most other things.
Although this kind of behavior seems a bit hypocritical, it shows his careful and detailed intentions.
He Yuan's carriages and horses were extremely shabby, and his clothes were very simple. Among his utensils were no exquisite and valuable products such as copperware or lacquerware.
There are many aquatic products in Jiangzuo and the prices are very cheap, but He Yuan only eats a few pieces of dried fish every time.
However, He Yuan was upright and stern by nature, and many officials and common people were whipped and punished for minor offenses. So someone reported He Yuan to the court, and He Yuan was conscripted to the capital and handed over to the court for interrogation. He was found guilty of dozens of crimes.
At that time, the scholar-bureaucrats who committed crimes and were convicted were not subject to the criminal law of the station test. He Yuan thought that he had not taken bribes and had withstood the punishment of the station test for twenty-one days. Even though he refused to plead guilty, he was still expelled for the crime of hiding the emperor's ceremonial guard.
Later, He Yuan was appointed as General Zhennan and Ling Wukang.
He further strengthened his integrity, eliminated all kinds of unethical sacrifices, was impartial and devoted to his duties, and the people praised him very much.
The prefect Wang Bin inspected his counties, and each county held a grand banquet to entertain Wang Bin. When he arrived in Wukang, He Yuan only prepared dry food and tea.
When Wang Ao left, He Yuan sent him to the border and presented him with a bucket of wine and a goose as a farewell farewell to Wang Bin.
Wang Bin and He Yuan joked: In the Jin Dynasty, Lu You gave gifts with a bucket of wine and a plate of venison. If your gift exceeds that of Lu Na, will you be laughed at by the ancients?
When Emperor Gaozu learned of He Yuan's talent, he promoted him to be the prefect of Xuancheng.
Being promoted from county magistrate to governor of a large county near Gyeonggi Province was something that did not happen in modern times.
After Xuancheng County was plundered by rebels, Tanda tried his best to appease the people and handle government affairs. He was also famous for his political achievements.
A year later, He Yuanqian was appointed as General Shugong and Internal Secretary of Zhao Yu.
At that time, Lu Thunlang of Xinglu Fort was the governor of Guaiye. When he took office, he looted and plundered along the road, but when he entered the Shixing territory, he did not even damage the vegetation.
When he was in office, he liked to build roads, build walls and build people's houses, streets and lanes, and city warehouses. He organized them one by one, just like building a home.
He Yuan did not use any of Tian Zhi's salary. At the end of the year, he selected the most disadvantaged people and used his salary as their taxes. He often did this.
However, he handled litigation cases just like others. He was no better than ordinary people. However, he was decisive by nature. People did not dare to do bad things. They were afraid of him but respected and loved him.
Wherever He Yuan served, the people set up shrines to worship him, and reported his political achievements to the public. Emperor Gaozu often issued edicts to praise and commend him.
In the 16th year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu issued an edict saying: He Yuan first served in Wukang and had a reputation for being honest and fair. Then he governed two counties, which further demonstrated his integrity.
Administering government first repairs the roads, leaving a beneficial administration that is respected and loved by the people. Even the virtuous governors of ancient times did not go far beyond that.
He Yuan should be promoted to a glorious position in the court in recognition of his performance in the county.
He should be given the title of Minister of Huangmen, who is responsible for serving people from far away.
He Yuan immediately returned to the county and was appointed as the chief historian of Renwei.
Soon, He Yuan left the capital and was appointed General Xinwu to supervise Wu County.
In Wujun, he often made mistakes due to drinking and was moved to Dongyang Prefecture.
During He Yuan's tenure, he hated the powerful and wealthy families and treated them as enemies, while treating poor and weak families as his own children. Therefore, those rich and powerful families were particularly afraid of He Yuan.
He Yuan served in Shuyang for more than a year, but was dismissed from his post and returned home because he was slandered by those he had punished.
He Yuan was an upright man and did not attach personal importance to himself. He was in the officialdom, cut off personal requests, and did not meet with powerful people himself.
When He Su writes letters to others, he treats them with the same equal courtesy, no matter how high or low they are.
When he met people at gatherings, he would not show a humble expression to flatter and flatter people, so He Yuan was often hated and hated by some mediocre and shallow scholar-bureaucrats.
He Yuan's integrity and justice are truly the first in the world.
He served in several counties. Although he saw those things he wanted, he still would not change his moral integrity and pursue greed. He Yuan's wife and children suffered from hunger and cold, and their lives were similar to those of the poorest people.
He Yuan was dismissed from Shuyang and returned home for a long time, but he never talked about his personal honor and disgrace. Therefore, the scholars respected He Yuan even more.
He Yuan values ​​righteousness over wealth. He is willing to help others in emergencies and does not talk empty words. This is actually his nature.
He Yuan often said to people jokingly: If you can find a false statement from me, then I will reward you with a piece of string.
Many people were watching and waiting in secret, but still couldn't find him.
Later, He Yuan was appointed to join the army to consult on the expedition to the west and to pacify Sima.
Ordinary two years later, He Yuan died at the age of fifty-two.
Emperor Gaozu gave his family very generous gifts.
Yao Cha, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: There are biographies of Xun officials in the history books of previous dynasties. What is the reason?
It is the times that have prompted this situation.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, corvee labor was heavy and all kinds of traitors appeared one after another. Appointing good officials and adopting the governance methods of the Qing Dynasty could not stop traitors. Therefore, cruel officials were appointed and executions were used to stop traitors. However, at the same time, the indiscriminate use of punishments also caused a lot of resentment.
With the rise of the Liang Dynasty, harsh punishments and laws were eliminated in favor of simplicity, glitz and glamor were eliminated in favor of simplicity, the people were educated with the principles of filial piety and brotherhood, and encouraged to farm and grow mulberry trees. As a result, fierce and cunning people became sages like You Yu, and frivolous people became loyal and kind people.
Honest folk customs have been generally formed, and people naturally and consciously abide by the prohibitions.
It is true that in the days of Yao and Shun, every family had a man of high virtue who could be given the title of prince.
As for cruel officials, they were not chosen as biographies in the Liang Dynasty.
