King Wuzhu of Minyue was the same as King Yao of Yuedonghai. Their ancestors were all descendants of King Goujian of Yue, and their surname was Zou.
After the Qin Dynasty annexed the world, they all had their royal titles abolished and became rulers, and their place was set up as Minzhong County.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wu Zhuheyao led the Yue people to join Wu Rui, the magistrate of Poyang County, who was known as Pojun, and followed the princes to destroy the Qin Dynasty.
At that time, Xiang Ji had the power to command the princes and did not make Wu Zhu and Yao kings. Therefore, they did not join the King of Chu.
The King of Han attacked Xiang Ji, but Wu Zhu and Yao led the Yue people to assist the King of Han.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Wu Zhu was re-established as the King of Minyue. He was proclaimed king in the original place of Minyue and established his capital in Dongye.
In the third year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, he listed the contributions of the Yue people during the reign of Emperor Gao. The court believed that Lord Yao of Fujian had the most credit and his people were willing to join him, so Yao was appointed King of Donghai and established his capital in Dongou. The world called him King of Dongou.
Several generations later, in the third year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, King Wu Liu Bi rebelled and wanted Minyue to follow him to rebel against the Han Dynasty. Minyue was unwilling to follow, so only Dongou followed King Wu to rebel.
When King Wu failed, Dong Ou accepted the heavy bribes from the Han Dynasty and killed King Wu Liu Bi in Dantu. Therefore, he was not killed and returned to his own country.
Ziju, the son of King Wu Liu Bi, fled to Minyue. He resented Dongou for killing his father and often persuaded Minyue to attack Dongou.
In the third year of the founding of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Minyue sent troops to besiege Dongou.
Dongou ran out of food and was in great distress. He was about to surrender, so he sent someone to ask for help from the Emperor of Han.
The emperor asked Tian Fu about this, and Tian Fu replied: It is common for the Yue people to attack each other, and their attitudes are capricious. It is not worth bothering the Central Plains court to come to the rescue.
From the Qin Dynasty, they began to abandon them and did not treat them as subordinate countries.
So Zhuang Zhu, the Chinese doctor, questioned Tian Fu and said: "I am just worried that my strength is not enough to save them, and my kindness is shallow and cannot cover them. If you really have the ability to save them, why abandon them?"
Moreover, the Qin State even abandoned the entire Xianyang, so how could it just abandon the Yue State?
Nowadays, when small countries encounter difficulties and have no other choice, they come to the emperor for help. If the emperor does not come to rescue them, where will they go to complain and ask for help?
How can the emperor raise and protect the people of all nations?
The emperor said: The captain's opinion is not worthy of discussion.
I had just ascended the throne, and I didn't want to take out the tiger talisman to mobilize troops from the county to fight.
So he sent Zhuangzhu to Kuaiji with the talisman to mobilize troops for the expedition.
The prefect of Kuaiji wanted to resist the order and refused to send troops to Zhuang Zhu for the expedition. Zhuang Zhu killed an army commander and clearly stated the emperor's will, and then the prefect of Kuaiji sent troops from the sea to rescue Dong Ou.
Before the army reached Dongou, Minyue led his troops to evacuate.
Dong Ou requested that the entire country be moved to areas that the imperial court could directly manage, so he led all the people to move here and live in the Jianghuai area.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Fujian and Vietnam attacked South Vietnam.
South Vietnam abided by the emperor's restrictions and did not dare to send troops to fight back without authorization, but reported the matter to the emperor.
The emperor sent Wang Hui, a great general, to lead his troops from Yuzhang, and Han Anguo, a great farmer, from Kuaiji. They both served as generals.
Before their army crossed the Yangshan Mountains, King Ying of Minyue sent troops to guard the dangerous place to fight against the Han army.
Ying's younger brother Yu Shan discussed with the Prime Minister of Dongyue and the clan members and said: Our king sent troops to attack South Vietnam without authorization without asking the emperor for instructions, so the emperor sent troops to attack.
Now that the Han Dynasty's army is numerous and powerful, if we can defeat them by luck now, the emperor will definitely send more troops in the future until our country is wiped out.
Now if we kill the king and apologize to the emperor, if the emperor accepts our request, the war will be stopped and our country will be preserved intact. If the Emperor does not accept our apology, we will fight hard; if we cannot win, we will flee to the sea. Everyone said: Good attention!
So he killed Ying with a spear and halberd, and sent an envoy with his head to Daxing Wang Hui.
Wang Hui said: Our army came here to kill the King of Dongyue. Now that the head of the King of Dongyue has been delivered, Dongyue has also apologized. The disaster has been eliminated without fighting. There is no greater benefit than this.
He stopped the military operation in a flexible and convenient way, informed Han Anguo of the situation, and sent an envoy to Chang'an with the head of the King of Dongyue to report to the emperor.
The emperor issued an edict to stop the military operations of Wang Hui and Han Anguo's troops, saying: Wang Ying and others of Dongyue were the first to commit evil, and only Wu Zhu's grandson Yao Junchou did not participate in this conspiracy.
The emperor then sent a lieutenant general to establish Chou as the king of Yue Yao to perform the sacrificial rituals to the king of Minyue.
After Yu Shan killed Ying, his prestige spread throughout the country, and most of the people in the country belonged to him, so he secretly proclaimed himself king.
King Yao could not correct the mistakes of his people and keep them on the right path.
After the emperor heard this, he thought it was not worth raising troops for Yu Shan's cause, saying: "Yu Shan conspired with Ying many times to cause trouble, and later killed Ying first, so that the Han army could avoid hardship."
So he appointed Yu Shan as the king of Dongyue and lived with King Yao at the same time.
In the fifth year of Yuanding, South Vietnam rebelled. King Yu Shan of East Vietnam wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, requesting that he lead eight thousand soldiers to follow General Lou Chuan to attack Lu Jia and others.
When his army arrived in Jieyang, he used the storm at sea as an excuse to stop advancing and adopted a wait-and-see attitude. He secretly sent people to contact South Vietnam.
When the Han army captured Panyu, the East Vietnamese army did not come.
At this time, Yang Pu, the general of Louzhou, sent an envoy to write to the emperor, willing to lead troops to attack East Vietnam.
The emperor said that the soldiers were tired and tired, so he did not approve the request of General Lou Chuan. He stopped the military operation and ordered the officers to garrison at Meiling in Yuzhang to wait for orders.
In the autumn of the sixth year of Yuan Ding, Yu Shan heard that General Lou Chuan requested to attack him, and that the Han army had advanced to the border of East Vietnam and was about to attack, so he rebelled and sent troops to resist the Han army's only route.
He also gave General Zou Li and others the official title of "General Tun Han". The army entered Baisha, Wulin and Meiling and killed three captains of the Han army.
At this time, the Han Dynasty sent Zhang Cheng, a great farmer, and Liu Chi, the former Shanzhou Marquis, to lead their troops to garrison here. They did not dare to attack the East Vietnamese army and retreated to a favorable place. They were all executed for their cowardice and fear of the enemy.
Yu Shan carved the seal of Emperor Wu and proclaimed himself emperor, deceiving his people and spreading absurd remarks.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty sent General Han Shuo of Henghai to set out from Juzhang and cross the sea to march from the east; General Yang Pu of Louchuan set off from Wulin; Lieutenant Wang Wenshu set out from Meiling; two Yue people who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty and were made marquises became General Gechuan and General Xiase, and they set out from Ruoye and Baisha.
In the winter of the first year of Yuanfeng, all these generals led their troops into East Vietnam.
Dongyue has been sending troops to defend dangerous places. It sent General Lianbei to guard Wulin, defeated several lieutenants of General Louchuan, and killed the chief officials.
General Lou Chuan led Qiantang people Yuan Zhonggu to kill General Yibei and was named Yu'erhou.
His own army did not go to Wulin.
The original Yue Yanhou Wu Yang had stayed in the Han Dynasty before that, and the Han Dynasty sent him back to East Yue to persuade Yu Shan. Yu Shan refused to obey.
When Han Yue, the general of Henghai, led his troops to East Vietnam, Wu Yang, the Marquis of Yueyan, led 700 people in his town to rebel against East Vietnam and attacked the East Vietnam army in Hanyang.
He discussed with Jiancheng Hou Ao and his men, and King Yao Jugu, saying: "Yu Shan was the first to cause trouble and hijack us people."
Now that the Han Dynasty's army has arrived, they are numerous and powerful. We have planned to kill Yu Shan, and the generals who have surrendered to the Han Dynasty may be able to get away with their sins.
So everyone killed Yu Shan together and led their soldiers to surrender to General Henghai. Therefore, the Han Dynasty granted King Yao Jugu the title of Marquis of Dongcheng, with a settlement of 10,000 households; the title of Marquis of Chengcheng, Ao, became the Marquis of Kailing; the title of Marquis of Yue Yan, Wu Yang, was the title of Beishi Marquis; the title of General Han Yuo of Henghai was made the Marquis of Jidao; and the title of Liu Fu, the captain of Henghai School, was the title of Marquis of Liaoqi.
Liu Fu is the son of Liu happy, the co-king of Chengyang. He was originally a Marquis of Haichang, but he lost the Marquis title for breaking the law.
In the past, I did not achieve military merit when I joined the army. I was granted the title of Marquis because I was a descendant of the clan.
The other generals had no military exploits, so they were not awarded the title.
The general of East Vietnam had many armies. When the Han army arrived, he gave up his army and surrendered, so he was named Marquis of Wuxi.
So the Emperor of the Han Dynasty said that Dongyue was a small and dangerous place, while Minyue was strong and capricious. Therefore, the officers were ordered to lead all the East Vietnamese people to migrate to the Jianghuai area.
East Vietnam has become a place of emptiness.
Tai Shigong said: Although the Yue Kingdom was a barbarian, did its ancestors ever have great merits for the people? Otherwise, why has it been passed down from generation to generation for so long?
After several generations, he was always the king, but Gou Jian was once the hegemon.
However, Yu Shan actually did something treacherous and unethical. The country was wiped out and the people were relocated. The descendants of their ancestors, King Yao Jugu and others, were also granted the title of Marquis of Wanhu. It can be seen from this that Dongyue has been a duke for generations.
Perhaps this is the legacy left by Dayu.
