He also said: A mad person is aggressive, but a greedy person is unwilling to do bad things.
This is probably a partial approach that cannot be perfect.
However, if there is something not to do, there must be something that must be done; since we are talking about making progress, there will also be something not to do.
In this way, people's temperaments are still different, and what they do and what they don't do are just appropriate for each.
In the era of peace, it can be said that a lot of people who deviate from one's own way can become famous and upright, and their words and deeds match.
Some ambitions are as strong as gold and stone, capable of crushing violence; some have consciousness as severe as winter frost, with integrity in their hearts.
There are also those who make friends, live and die together, go to justice and take risks, and live and die together.
Although this kind of thing is not perfect, its style is truly worth remembering.
It's just that the plots of this kind of thing are very complicated and difficult to separate into logical categories. In a word, some special purposes are not worth studying deeply. Without them, some things will be missed; if they are written down, the article will have no center.
Although its name and style are different, its conduct and conduct are all excellent, so it is always classified into the "Ding Xing Pian". It can be regarded as a missing article in the history, and the description is just omitted.
◆The biography of Qiao Xuan, whose courtesy name is Jun Huang, was born in Langzhong, Ba County.
When he was young, he was easy to learn and could speak "Yi" and "Spring and Autumn".
He was appointed as an official in the state and county.
In the second year of Emperor Yongshi's reign, there was a solar eclipse, and the imperial court issued an edict to appoint one person each to be honest, humble, and righteous.
The state held the title of Qiao Xuan, went to the bus, answered policy questions, got a high rank, and was awarded the title of Consultant.
Emperor Cheng began to hold regular meetings and went out casually many times.
Zhao Feiyan was made queen, but Zhao Feiyan was jealous of her and many of her princes were killed.
Qiao Xuan wrote: I heard that the emperor upholds the destiny to inherit the clan, protect the great cause of the ancestors, and continue the emperor's throne. The most important thing is to have successors. Therefore, "Yi" has the meaning of "Qian Gu", and "Poetry" praises many blessings.
It means being able to inherit the past, being capable in dealing with things, and correcting the mistakes of parents. It means having many children and grandchildren is a blessing to the family and the country. Now the emperor's successor has not been established, and everyone in the world is looking forward to it. However, the emperor does not care about the country's big plans, and only engages in trivial matters. He is seduced by women and devotes his attention to non-serious things.
When I heard that the harem prince had given birth to many children and could not survive, I felt extremely sad and worried, and I will not forget it for a moment.
If the guards are unprepared, disasters often occur and unexpected events occur.
Suddenly there are drunken and crazy husbands, fighting on the road, no dignity of honor, who knows the difference between up and down.
This is why tigers start under your vehicles and thieves appear around you.
I hope that the emperor will think of the great things in the world, cherish his golden body, and benefit from the blessings of the nine daughters, so as to preserve endless blessings. The world will be fine.
At this time, disasters occurred frequently, and Qiao Xuan stated the reasons for them.
If the emperor does not adopt it, he will remain in the Langguan position for a long time and will not be promoted.
Later, he was promoted to Taichang Cheng and resigned due to the death of his younger brother.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty of Emperor Ping, there was a solar eclipse, and he ordered the ministers to promote honest and outspoken people.
Da Honglu and Zuo Xian raised Qiao Xuan to the bus to answer the emperor's policy questions. He was also awarded the title of Yi Lang and was promoted to Zhongsan Dafu.
For four years, eight people who are wise in politics and able to change customs are selected.
At that time, everyone held the title of Qiao Xuan and was appointed as an envoy of embroidered clothes. They uphold integrity and traveled all over the country with the imperial servant Wang Yun and others to observe the customs. Wherever they went, they specialized in killing bad people and rewarding good people.
Before the matter was completed, Wang Mang took charge of the emperor's affairs, so Qiao Xuan threw away the embroidered messenger's car, changed his name, ran back home privately, and hid himself.
Later, Gongsun Shu claimed that he had a false name in Shu and hired him many times, but he refused to go.
Gongsun Shu then sent an envoy to summon him with gifts; if Qiao Xuan refused to go, he would be given poison.
The prefect himself sent the seal to Qiao Xuan's home, saying: "You are already famous for your high integrity, and the court intends to use you. You should not resign, or you will bring disaster."
Qiao Xuan looked up to the sky and sighed: "For a great sage like Tang Yao, Xu You was ashamed to be his minister. For someone as virtuous as King Wu of Zhou, Boyi would rather starve to death than eat his corn."
Who is Gongsun Shu and who am I?
Keep your ambitions high, live a good life, and die without regrets!
For receiving poison.
Qiao Xuan's son Qiao Wangying kowtowed in tears and said to the eunuch: "There is a big enemy in the east now. The army is attacking. The country is spending a lot of money, there are a lot of military supplies, and the country's treasury is insufficient. I am willing to spend tens of millions of my family's money to atone for my father's death."
The prefect made a request for him, and Gongsun Shu agreed.
Qiao Xuan therefore hid in the fields until Gongsun Shu's death.
At this time, wars continued for many years, and no one could talk about his studies. Qiao Xuan alone taught his disciples to study the classics diligently.
He died in the eleventh year of Jianwu.
The next year, when the world was at peace, Qiao Xuan's younger brother went to the capital to report Qiao Xuan's deeds to the emperor. Guangwu praised Qiao Xuan's deeds, ordered the county to sacrifice him in a prison, and ordered the locality to return Qiao Xuan's family money.
At that time, there was a Jian named Fei Yi, who refused to accept Gongsun Shu's fake post, so he painted his body with paint to act as a ghost, pretended to be crazy and escaped, and lived in the Tibetan mountains for more than ten years.
After Gongsun Shu was eliminated, he became the prefect of Hepu.
King Qiao Ying was good at explaining the Book of Changes and used it to teach Xianzong, and he was appointed as the guard order of Beigong.
◆The biography of Li Ye, whose courtesy name is Juyou, was born in Zitong, Guanghan.
When he was young, he was ambitious and upright, admiring himself and not following the popular customs.
He studied "Lu Shi" with Dr. Xu Huang as his teacher.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, he cited the Ming Sutra and was awarded the title of Lang.
When Wang Mang came to power on behalf of the emperor, Li Ye resigned due to illness and refused to be appointed by the state and county.
The prefect Liu Xian forced him to come out. Li Ye had no choice but to go to Liu Xian when he was ill. Liu Xian got angry and came out to teach him a lesson: A wise man does not avoid disaster. This is like a sword and crossbow shooting into a busy city. The less fortunate will die first.
After hearing your reputation, I wanted to ask you to work with me to manage the county government. You don't know how to praise me, and you are just claiming that you are ill. Is this right?
He was ordered to go to prison to recuperate and wanted to kill him.
A guest said to Liu Xian: Zhao Jianzi killed Dou Mingdu, and Confucius refused to cross the river.
I have never heard of people who seek virtuous people being threatened with jail time!
Liu Xiancai released Li Ye and promoted him as Founder.
Wang Mang appointed Li Ye as a bartender, but he refused to leave due to illness, so he hid in the valley and lost his name until Wang Mang's death.
Gongsun Shu set up a false name. He often heard people say that Li Ye was talented, so he recruited him and wanted to use him as a doctor. Li Ye insisted that he could not afford to be ill.
A few years later, Gongsun Shu thought he had lost face because he did not summon Li Ye, so he sent Dahong Yinrong to threaten Li Ye with poison and an edict: if he obeyed the order, he would give the Duke the throne; if he did not, he would give poison.
Yin Rong persuaded Li Yedao: Today the world is falling apart, no one knows who is right and who is wrong.
Why try the unpredictable abyss with your small body?
The imperial court admires your reputation and morality, and has kept your official position and position vacant for seven years now. It has cherished you all the time and will not forget you.
Isn't it good to serve your close friends at the top and consider your children and grandchildren at the bottom?
If you don't go there for a few years now, if you are suspected of being hostile, disaster may befall you immediately. This is not an option.
Li Ye had no choice but to sigh and said: "You can't enter a country that is in danger, and you can't live in a country that is in chaos."
Doing evil deeds personally is not allowed by righteousness.
When a gentleman sees danger and gives orders, how can he be lured with heavy bait from a high position?
Seeing that Li Yezhi couldn't give in, Yin Rong said again: "You should call your wife, children and children to discuss it."
Li Ye said: It took me a long time to make up my mind. Why did I ask my wife?
He drank poison and died.
Gongsun Shu was shocked when he heard that Li Ye was dead. He felt it was shameful to carry the name of killing a wise man, so he sent envoys to pay homage to Li Ye and perform hundreds of funeral rites.
Li Ye's son Li Fu resigned and refused to accept it.
After Gongsun Shu's puppet Shu was pacified, Guangwu issued an edict to show Li Ye's inner circle. "Yi Bu Ji" records Li Ye's high integrity and paints his image.
At first, during the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Hao of Shu County was appointed as the Order of Meiyang, and Wang Jia was appointed as Lang.
Wang Mang usurped the throne of the Han Dynasty, and they all abandoned their official positions and returned to the west.
When Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself emperor, he sent envoys to recruit Wang Hao and Wang Jia. He was worried that they would not go, so he captured their wives first.
The messenger said to Wang Jia: Let's go on the road quickly, my wife can be saved.
Wang Jia replied: Dogs and horses know their owners, let alone humans?
Wang Hao committed suicide first and gave his head to the messenger.
Gongsun Shu was furious and killed Wang Hao's family members.
When Wang Jia heard about it, he sighed and said, "I'm a step too late!"
He bent his sword against the messenger and died.
At this time, Ren Yong from Jianwei and Feng Xin from the same county as Li Ye were both eager to learn and knowledgeable about the present and the past.
Gongsun Shu was recruited many times and promised high officials and generous salaries, but he used glaucoma to escape the world's difficulties.
Ren Yong's wife had committed adultery before and kept it secret. She watched her son fall into a well and did nothing to save her.
Feng Xin's maid also committed adultery with Feng Xin.
When they heard that Gongsun Shu had been executed, Ren Yong and Feng Xin both washed their faces and looked at each other and said: "The world is at peace and our eyes are clear."
Those who commit adultery and adultery commit suicide.
After Guangwu heard about it, he recruited them, but they all happened to die of illness at home.
◆The biography of Liu Mao, whose courtesy name is Ziwei, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
Lost his father when he was young.
A person lives with his mother. His family was poor and he relied on his labor income to support his mother. His filial piety was praised by the villagers.
When he grows up, he can study the Book of Rites and teach hundreds of students.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, he promoted filial piety and integrity and was promoted to five former princes of the country. However, his mother died and he was dismissed.
When the mourning period expires, he will be appointed Juyang Order.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne of the Han Dynasty, Liu Mao abandoned his official position and hid in Hongnong Mountain to teach his students.
In the second year of Jianwu, he came back from Hongnong Mountain and served as a subordinate of the county.
At this time, more than 200,000 people from Chimei came to attack the county and killed the chief officials and government officials.
Liu Mao carried the prefect Sun Fu on his back, climbed the wall and hid in a hollow, and narrowly escaped death.
That night, the two people fled to Yu County.
They hide during the day and come out to find food at night.
In this way, it took more than a hundred days before the red-browed thief left and was able to return to the county.
In the second year, the imperial edict was issued to visit the righteous people in the world.
Sun Fu said to Liu Mao: I was attacked by Red Eyebrows in front of me. The officials and the people were in chaos and fled up the mountain. I was surrounded by thieves and my life was tied to my hair. Fortunately, you carried me on my back to climb the city and get out of Baoyu County.
You and your brother risked their lives to find food in the mountains, and my wife and I were able to save our lives. This is a very high moral integrity.
We should praise and promote righteous people.
The imperial edict immediately conscripted Liu Mao as Yilang and promoted him to Zong Zhengcheng.
Later, he was awarded the title of Shizhong and died in office.
In Yanping, hundreds of people from Xianbei invaded Yuyang. The eunuch Zhang Xian led his officials to chase them out of the fortress. Looking at the fireworks of the prison camp in the distance, they followed closely.
Yan Shuo, who was carrying soldiers and horses, was worried about an ambush and tried hard to persuade him not to pursue him, but Zhang Xian, the prefect, refused to listen to him.
Zhang Xian still forced his way forward, but Yan Shui had no choice but to advance forward to fight. Sure enough, the Xianbei soldiers who were ambushing him suddenly attacked and Yan Shui was wounded ten times and died on the battlefield.
Zhang Xian drew his sword and chased the scattered soldiers, but was unable to stop them. The enemy captured Zhang Xian and shot him. Chief Wei Fu and meritorious officer Xu Xian quickly went to rescue Zhang Xian. Zhang Xian fell under his horse. Wei Fu covered Zhang Xian with his body, and the enemy captured them all.
The imperial court took pity on Yan Shu and other righteous martyrs, issued an edict to praise them, and gave them great rewards. Each of his sons was appointed a doctor.
In the second year of Yongchu, the big thief Bi Hao and others entered the territory of Pingyuan, and the county magistrate Liu Xiong led his officials to chase them by boat.
When he arrived at the Yanci River, he fought with the thieves. Liu Xiong was defeated and captured, and the thieves stabbed him with a spear.
At this time, the assistant of the minor official came forward to kowtow and beg for mercy, and was willing to die in Liu Xiong's place.
Bi Hao and others let Liu Xiong go to stab Suo Fu. The spear penetrated his heart and back, killing him immediately.
The prefect of Dongjun captured Bi Hao and others and reported the situation to the court.
The edict commemorated the mourning, granted two hundred thousand yuan in money, and appointed the doctor who was appointed by his father as his assistant.
◆Biography of Wen Xu, courtesy name Cifang, a native of Qi County, Taiyuan.
He became an official in the state.
In the second year of Jianwu, the cavalry captain Gongli Shu led his troops to pacify Beizhou and arrived in Taiyuan. He visited handsome people and asked them for their plans.
Gongli garrison met Wen Xu and thought he was a genius. He recommended Wen Xu to the emperor, so the imperial court recruited him to serve as a censor. He was promoted to captain of Wuling, but he resigned due to illness.
In the sixth year, Wen Xu was granted the title of Visitor and promoted to the Colonel of the Qiang Protector.
Wen Xu went to Xiangwu to inspect his subordinates and inspect the criminal administration, but he was arrested by Gou Yu, the general of Nang Guixiao.
Gou Yu said to Wen Xu: If you cooperate with me, the world can win.
Wen Xu said: "If you accept the heavy responsibility of the country, you can only put your life on the line. For the sake of righteousness, you must not be afraid of death and betray the kindness of the court."
Gou Yu and others persuaded him again and again.
Wen Xu, who was already strong, was furious and scolded Gou Yu and others: "How dare the ugly prisoners threaten the Han generals!"
He killed a few people with his sword.
There were many thieves and they were vying to kill Wen Xu. Gou Yu stopped them and said, "This is the day for the death of a righteous man. You can give him a sword."
Wen Xu took the sword, put his beard in his mouth, looked around at the people around him and said, "I have been forced to kill by thieves, so don't let your beard be stained by dirt again."
He fell on his sword and died.
Wen Xu was in charge of registering Han Zun, and Wang Zhong was responsible for collecting the corpse and burying it.
Guangwu felt sorry for him when he heard about it, and ordered Wang Zhong to send the funeral to Luoyang. He gave Wen Xu a cemetery next to the city, sent him a thousand dendrobiums and five hundred pieces of silk, and appointed his three sons as doctors.
The eldest son, Wenshou, was appointed Houxiang of Zouping after his mourning period expired.
In his dream, Wen Xu told him: I have been a guest away for a long time and miss my hometown.
Wen Shou abandoned his official position and wrote a letter asking to go home and bury his father.
The emperor approved his request and sent his father's coffin back to the old cemetery in his hometown.
◆Peng Xiu's biography, Peng Xiu's courtesy name is Ziyang, and he was from Piling, Kuaiji.
When he was fifteen years old, his father was appointed as a county official. During the holidays, Peng went home with his father and was robbed and kidnapped on the road. When Peng was in distress, he drew his sword and grabbed the robber's head and said: "My father was humiliated and my son died. Aren't you afraid of death?"
The thieves shouted to each other: This kid is a righteous man, don't force him.
Since I apologized to him, Xiangsui left.
He became famous in his hometown.
Later he became an official in the county and became a meritorious official.
At this time, Zai Chao, the captain of the western region, was acting as the governor. He arrested the jailer of Wu County for a minor offense and planned to kill him. Zhong Liyi, the chief registrar, tried his best to remonstrate with him. Zai Chao became angry and ordered Zhong Liyi to be arrested and wanted to interrogate him. Even the governor did not dare to remonstrate with him.
Peng Xiu pushed the pavilion straight into the court, knelt in the court, and said: The prefect was furious at the chief clerk. May I ask, what crime did he commit?
Zai Chao said: He was ordered to do so for three days, but he did not carry it out at all. To abandon his life would be disloyal. Isn't this a sin?
Peng Xiuyin paid his respects and said: "I once opposed Marquis Wen face to face, and Zhu Yun climbed over the palace threshold. If he were not a virtuous king, how could he have loyal ministers?"
Now I congratulate the prefect for being a wise king and the chief administrator for being a loyal minister.
Zai Chao forgave Zhong Liyi's punishment and pardoned the jailer's sins.
Later, he was engaged in state recruitment.
At this time, several hundred people including the thief Zhang Zilin made a rebellion, and the county reported to the state, asking Peng Xiu to be appointed magistrate of Wu County.
Peng Xiu and the prefect went to beg the thieves. When the thieves saw the prefect and Peng Xiu's chariots and horses, they fought to shoot, and the arrows flew like rain.
Peng Xiu used his body to cover the eunuch and was shot to death by a stray arrow, but the eunuch was saved.
The thieves heard about Peng Xiu's favor on weekdays and killed the man who shot Peng Xiu with a crossbow. Some of the other thieves surrendered and some fled.
He said: We surrendered for Lord Peng, not for the sake of the prefect.
◆Solu Fangzhuan, Solu Fang's courtesy name is Junyang, and he is from Dongjun.
He taught more than a thousand students using "Shang Shu".
He first served as a county magistrate.
During the Gengshi period, envoys inspected the prefectures and states. If the prefect committed a crime, he should be beheaded. Suo Lufang stepped forward and said: The reason why the world now resents Wang Mang and returns to the imperial Han Dynasty is the reason why the Holy Government is merciful.
But when the messenger came to the county, he did not show any kindness.
When the prefect was executed, he did not dare to say anything, but he was afraid that the whole world would be frightened and suspicious.
Oh, it is better to use someone who has merit than someone who has made mistakes. I am willing to take the life of the prefect with my body.
So he stepped forward and killed him.
The messenger thought that he had sacrificed his life for justice, so he pardoned him. It became famous because of it.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed the Luoyang Order and was known for his shrewdness and ability.
He resigned due to illness and went home. He advised the officials and received many loyal suggestions. Later, he resigned due to illness.
In the last years of Jianwu, when he could no longer be recruited, Guangwu sent someone to carry him to the capital in a sedan chair. He was summoned at Yuntai, Nangong, and given two thousand dendrobiums of grain, he was sent home and his son was consecrated as the prince's concubine.
Die at home.
◆Zhou Jiachuan, courtesy name Huiwen, was from Ancheng, Runan.
My great-great-great-grandfather Zhou Yan was a county general Cao Cao during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
The eunuch wanted to kill someone unjustly, but Zhou Yan refused to listen to his advice, so he killed the prisoner and deposed Zhou Yan at the same time.
The prisoner's family stood guard at the palace gate, crying out for injustice and ordering a reexamination. Zhou Yan met the prefect and said, "I hope you will write the documents carefully, with my name written on them. The prince only said that you were ill at that time."
When he came out of the prefect's office, he said to the governor: "When you are questioned, just blame me, Zhou Yan."
If you say something to Fu Jun, I, Zhou Yan, will use my swords in my hands.
The envoy then arrested Zhou Yan and imprisoned him.
He was tortured many times and refused to tell the truth.
According to the crime, he should be thrown into the Jamshi room, so he sighed and said: I am a descendant of King Ping and the great-great-grandson of Zhenggong. How can I go to see the late king without cutting off the sword?
He went on a hunger strike and died.
Zhou Yan had five sons, all of whom were governors and prefects.
Zhou Jia became an official and became the governor of the county.
In the last years of Wang Mang, a group of thieves entered Ruyang City. Zhou Jia followed the prefect He Chang to attack the thieves. He Chang was hit by a stray arrow. The county soldiers fled one after another. The thieves surrounded him for dozens of miles and fought with swords. Zhou Jia supported He Chang and defended He Chang with his own body.
Because he scolded the thieves and said: You are all slaves of others. Being thieves is already treason. Is there anyone who kills his own superiors?
I, Zhou Jiaqing, sacrificed my life to redeem the officer's life.
Because he looked up to the sky and cried.
The thieves looked at each other and said, "This is a righteous man!" He returned his carriage and horses and sent him away.
Later, the prefect Kou Xun promoted Zhou Jia to the title of Xiaolian and the minister of minister.
Guangwu summoned him and asked him about Zhou Jia's death.
Zhou Jia replied: The governor is injured and his life is in the hands of thieves. I am too stupid and coward to die.
The emperor said: This is the elder.
The imperial edict ordered Zhou Jia to marry the princess, but Zhou Jia said that he was seriously ill and did not dare to marry the princess.
He was promoted to the prefect of Lingling and served for seven years before passing away.
Lingling praised his legacy, and officials and people built a shrine in his honor.
Zhou Jia's uncle and brother Zhou Chang, named Bochi, was kind-hearted and served as Yin of Henan.
In the second year of Yongchu, there was a severe drought in the summer, and there was no rain after long prayers. Zhou Chang collected and buried the bones of more than 10,000 people who died in Luoyang, and a sweet rain fell at the right time, and this year he had a good harvest.
The position reaches Guang Luxun.
◆The biography of Shishi, whose courtesy name is Juqing, was born in Jinxiang, Shanyang, and his last name was Si.
When he was young, he entered the Imperial Academy and became a student, and became friends with Zhang Shao of Runan.
Zhang Shao was named Yuan Bo.
The two took leave and returned home.
Shi Shi said to Uncle Yuan: "I will come back in two years' time and come to your house to pay homage to Lord Zunlingtang and see your son."
So the two agreed on a date together.
Later, when the day came, Zhang Yuanbo told his mother all the details of the incident, and asked his mother to prepare wine and dinner to wait for Fan Shi's arrival.
His mother said: After two years apart, why do you take the words spoken thousands of miles away so seriously?
Answer: Fan Juqing is a very faithful person and will definitely not break the contract.
Mother said: In this case, I will prepare wine and food for you.
On that day, Fan Juqing really arrived, went to the hall to worship, and parted happily.
Shi Fan was appointed as the meritorious official of the county.
Later, Zhang Yuanbo fell seriously ill, and fellow county residents Zhi Junzhang and Yin Zizheng visited him day and night.
When Uncle Yuan was dying, he sighed: I regret not seeing my dead friend!
Yin Zizheng said: "Jun Zhang and I are wholeheartedly recruiting you. We are not dead friends. Where can you find a dead friend?"
Yuan Bo said: You two are my living friends, but Fan Juqing of Shanyang is my dead friend.
Soon, he passed away.
Shi Fan suddenly dreamed of Uncle Yuan's black crown hanging with tassels on his clothes and he shouted: "Ju Qing, I have died on a certain day. I should be buried on time and return to the underworld forever."
You have not forgotten my words. Can you be there for the burial?
Paradigm suddenly woke up, lamented and cried, reported to the prefect, and asked to be allowed to go to the funeral.
Although the prefect didn't believe it in his heart, he believed that Shi Shi's feelings were valuable, so he agreed to attend the funeral.
Paradigm dressed in his friend's mourning clothes and rode horseback on the day of burial.
Before the paradigm arrived, Yuan Bo's mourning had already begun. He arrived at Xiengjing and was about to lower the coffin. At this time, the coffin could not be lifted and refused to enter.
His mother patted the coffin and said: Uncle Yuan, is there still hope?
He stopped the coffin for a while and saw plain carriages and white horses coming wailing.
His mother took a look and said, "This must be Fan Juqing!"
When Juqing arrived, he kowtowed to the coffin and said, "I've gone to Uncle Yuan!"
Life and death are different paths, farewell forever.
More than a thousand people who attended the funeral shed tears.
The paradigm then held on to the silk ribbon as a guide, and the coffin moved forward.
Paradigm stayed next to the tomb, repaired the tomb tree, and then went back.
Later he arrived in the capital and studied at Taixue.
At this time, Zhu Changsha and Chen Pingzi were also at Taixue and did not know Shi Shi. Chen Pingzi was ill and was about to die. He said to his wife: I heard that Fan Juqing of Shanyang was a righteous man and could be trusted to die.
After I die, it will be fine if I just bury my body in front of Juqing's house.
So he tore off a piece of vegetarian food and wrote a letter to Ju Qing.
After his death, his wife followed Hirako's will.
At this time, Fan Shi just returned from an trip. He read Chen Pingzi's letter and his tomb. He was so sad that he bowed to the tomb and cried non-stop, thinking that he was his dead friend.
So he took care of Pingzi's wife and children and personally sent the funeral back to Linxiang.
At a place four or five miles away from Linxiang, he put the plain calligraphy on the coffin, cried goodbye and left.
Pingzi's brother heard about it but couldn't find him.
Changsha sent a messenger to the capital to write a letter indicating Fan Shi's behavior. The three prefectures were all vying to recruit him, but they were not accepted.
The most talented person in Juzhou was promoted to the rank of governor of Jingzhou.
My friend Kong Song from Nanyang had a poor family and his parents were old, so he changed his name and was hired as a pawn on Ali Street in Xinye County.
Shishi inspected the new fields, and the county chose Kong Song as a guide to welcome Shishi.
Fan Shi knew him as Kong Song. He held Kong Song's arm and said, "Aren't you Kong Zhongshan?"
He sighed and talked about his life experiences, saying: "In the past, you and I both wore long robes and studied at the Imperial Academy. I was favored by the country and became the governor, but you actually concealed your identity and stayed in the army. What a pity!"
Kong Song said: Hou Ying has been a soldier of the Yi clan for a long time, guarding the city gate, and he is very happy.
Confucius wanted to live in Jiuyi, and he did not mind being humble.
Being poor is the duty of a scholar. Is this despicable?
Shifan ordered the county to replace Kong Song. Kong Song thought that he was hired first and the date of employment had not expired, so he refused to go.
When Kong Song was in Ali, he acted righteously and strictly, and all the children in the street obeyed his teachings.
So the government conscripted him.
On the way to the capital, they stayed in the pavilion. Thieves stole his horse. Soon after they learned that it was Kong Song's horse, they scolded each other: Kong Zhongshan is a good man, how can he invade it?
So the horse was returned to Kong Song.
Kong Song was appointed as the governor of Nanhai.
Shi Fan was later promoted to the prefect of Lujiang and became famous. He died in office.
◆Li Shanchuan, the second grandson of Li Shan, was born in Yuyang, Nanyang. He was originally a servant of Li Yuan from the same county.
An epidemic was prevalent in Jianwu, and Li Yuan's family members died of illness one after another. Only an orphan, Li Xu, was born. In just a few dozen days, the family had tens of thousands of dollars in wealth. The slaves discussed privately and wanted to kill Li Xu too, so that everyone could divide the property.
Li Shan pitied Li Shi, but was unable to stop him, so he secretly carried Li Xu and ran away, hiding in the Shanyang Xiaqiu world, feeding him himself, feeding him food and water, and his milk also produced milk, so as to avoid the heat and cold, and prepare for hardships.
Although Li Xu was in his arms, Li Shan treated him like an elder brother. If something happened, he would kneel down and ask for instructions before reporting.
The villagers were moved by his deeds and followed him in doing good deeds.
When Li Xu was ten years old, Li Shan took him back to the county to reorganize his old business.
He complained to the chief minister about the slaves, and he rounded them up and killed them all.
At this time, Zhong Liyi Ren Xia Qiu ordered him to write a letter recommending Li Shan's deeds.
Guangwu issued an edict to grant Li Shan and Li Xu both sacrifices for the prince.
Li Shan was recruited by the government during the reign of Emperor Xianzong. Because he could manage difficult places, he was promoted to the governor of Rinan.
On his way to his post in the capital, he passed by Xuyuyang and passed Li Yuan's tomb. A mile away, he took off his court clothes and started weeding with a hoe.
After paying homage to the tomb, he wept and grieved endlessly. He cooked rice with his own hands and held a tripod to offer sacrifices to Li Yuan.
She cried and said: Madam Jun, the good is here.
Sorry, I left after a few days.
When you reach the official position, you should govern with benevolence and influence other people.
He was promoted to the governor of Jiujiang, but died of illness on the road before he arrived.
Li Xuguan arrived at Hejian.
◆The biography of Wang Yi, whose courtesy name is Shaolin, was born in Xindu, Guanghan.
Wang Yi once went to the capital and saw a scholar lying ill in an empty house. He took pity on him and looked at him.
The scholar said to Wang Yi: "I am going to Luoyang. I am ill and bedridden. My life will be in danger. I have ten pounds of gold under my waist. I am willing to give it to you. When I die, please bury my body."
Before I could ask the scholar his name, the scholar died.
Wang Yi immediately sold a pound of gold and started a burial business for him. The remaining gold was all placed under the coffin, and no one knew about it.
Later, Wang Ai returned. A few years later, the county appointed Wang Ai as the chief of the Dadu Pavilion.
On the day he took office, a horse ran into the pavilion and refused to go. On that day, an embroidered quilt floated in the strong wind and fell in front of Wang Yi. Wang Yi reported to the county government, and the county government returned the horse and the embroidered quilt to Wang Yi.
Later, Wang Yi rode to Luoxian County. The horse galloped and led Wang Yi into a house.
The owner looked at it and said happily: "The horse thief was caught today!"
Ask Wang Yi how he got this horse. Wang Yi explained in detail the situation of the horse and the quilt embroidery.
The master was sad for a long time, and then he said: "The embroidered quilt and the horse were lost in the whirlwind. What kind of charisma do you have to get these two things?"
Wang Yi himself wanted to bury the scholar, so he told him, and also told the scholar's appearance and the place where the gold was buried.
The master exclaimed: "That's my son."
The surname is Jin Mingyan.
When I went to the capital before, I didn't know where he was, and I never thought that you had buried him.
A great kindness is not repaid for a long time. God uses it to commend your virtue.
Wang Yi returned the quilt and horse to their owner. Jin Yan's father refused to accept it and gave Wang Yi a lot of things. Wang Yi gave in and left.
At this time, Jin Yan's father Renzhou was engaged, so he told the new capital order about the matter. Taking advantage of Wang Ai's vacation, he and Wang Ai went to greet Jin Yan's funeral, and all the remaining gold was there.
Wang Yiyou became famous.
Wang Yi became an official in the county and was engaged in state governance.
Promote outstanding talents and grant them the title of magistrate of Meichan County.
When he arrived, he arrived at Erting.
The director of the pavilion said: There is a ghost in the pavilion, which has killed passers-by many times. You cannot stay here.
Wang Yi said: Benevolence and righteousness defeat evil and evil, virtue eliminates ominousness, there is nothing to avoid!
Just stay in the pavilion.
I heard a woman shouting at night.
Wang Yi prayed and said: If you have any injustice, you can come and seek justice.
The woman said: "I don't dare to enter without clothes."
Wang Yi then threw a piece of clothing to her.
The woman then came to complain and said: "My husband is the magistrate of Fu County. When he became an official, he passed by this pavilion and stayed here. The director of the pavilion was a bad guy. He killed more than ten members of my family, buried them downstairs, and robbed all my family's belongings."
Wang Yi asked the pavilion chief who his last name was.
The woman said: This is the current Youyou under your sect.
Wang Yi said: Why did you kill passers-by many times?
The woman replied: I cannot complain to myself during the day and state my grievances at night. The passer-by often sleeps and does not respond. She is very angry, so she kills the passer-by to vent her hatred.
Wang Yi said: I will resolve this unjust case for you and never kill kind people again.
The woman took off her clothes, threw them on the ground, and suddenly disappeared. The next day Wang Yi called Youyou for interrogation and confessed all the crimes. He was immediately arrested and a dozen of his accomplices were executed.
They sent officials to take their mourning back to their hometowns, and Erting was at peace from then on.
◆Zhang Wu Chuan, Zhang Wu, was from Youquan County, Wu County.
My father, Zhang Ye, was a servant of the county. He sent the eunuch's wife back to his hometown and went to Hanoi Pavilion. She was robbed and robbed at night. Zhang Ye died fighting with the thieves, and his body was not found.
Zhang Wu was still young at the time and could not remember his father's face.
Later, Zhang Wu entered the Imperial College to study. On festival days, he often took his father's sword and went to the place where his father died in battle to pay homage and come back crying.
The Fifth Lun of the prefect commended Zhang Wu for his filial piety and commended him for his filial piety and integrity.
When his mother died, he grieved excessively. His father's soul did not return and he died of grief.
◆Lu Yu was passed down, with the courtesy name Zhi Chu, from Wuxian County, Kuaiji.
It has been the common surname in the county for generations.
His grandfather, Lu Hong, whose courtesy name was Zichun, was a minister in Jianwu.
He was a handsome man who liked to wear Yue cloth. Guangwu also liked this kind of Yue cloth when he saw it. From then on, he often ordered Kuaiji County to offer Yue cloth.
His father died one after another when he was young, and he became an official in the county.
At this time, the people were hungry, so the prefect Yin Xing sent gruel to the people in Duting one after another.
All the hungry people were called together one after another and their names were asked one by one.
When the matter was over, Yin Xing asked how many people had eaten the gruel?
One after another, they immediately replied that there were more than 600 people, and they also named each one, without any mistakes.
Yin Xing admired his talent very much.
The governor inspected his subordinates, inspected the criminal administration, summoned them one after another, and recruited them to work as other officers.
He resigned due to illness and returned to the county to serve as a servant.
At this time, Chu Wangying rebelled and secretly searched for talents from all over the world. Chu Wangying's rebellion was discovered, and Xianzong obtained the case record, which contained Yin Xing's name, so he conscripted Yin Xing to Tingwei Prison.
One after another, Liang Hong, the chief secretary, Shi Sixun, the meritorious officer, and more than 500 people from the secretariat went to Luoyang Prison for interrogation. The officials could not bear the pain, and most of them died. Only Lu, Liang Hong, and Siuxun tortured the five poisons, and their muscles festered, but they never said anything.
The mother had no choice but to cook some meals and give them to the servants to be delivered one after another. Although Lu Wei was beaten all over his body, he spoke generously, his appearance did not change, and he just cried over the food. His interrogator felt strange and asked him why. They said one after another: My mother is here and I am not allowed to see her, so I am crying.
His interrogators were furious, thinking that the servants had spread the news and wanted to summon him for interrogation.
They continued: Because when I ate the soup that was delivered, I knew that it was my mother who had mixed it herself, so I knew that it was my mother who came and not someone else who sued me.
The interrogator asked: How do you know it was your mother who did it?
He continued: "My mother often cuts meat, and there is nothing wrong with it. One inch is the standard for cutting green onions. I know this based on this."
The interrogator asked about Lu Lu, and Lu Lu's mother came as expected, so he privately felt that Lu Lu was good, and wrote a letter about Lu Lu's deeds. The emperor pardoned Yin Xing and others, returned them to their hometown, and banned them from serving as officials for life.
Die of old age one after another. The eldest son, Lu Chou, was the governor of Guangling and was talented in governance.
The second son, Lu Feng, was the prefect of Le'an.
The youngest son, Lu Bao, was diligent in his studies and did not seek fame, so he failed despite continuous recruitment.
Favorite Lu Kang, the prequel has been seen.
◆Biography of Dai Feng, named Pingzhong, from Gang County, Jibei Province.
At the age of fifteen, he went to Taixue and became his teacher, Lord Shen of the East China Sea.
When Lord Shen passed away, Dai Feng sent Lord Shen to mourn in the East China Sea, passing through Dai Feng's own house.
His father and mother thought Dai Feng would come home and married him in advance.
Dai Feng only stayed home for a while, and then left without staying overnight, returning to the capital to finish his studies.
At that time, his classmate Shi Jingping died of plague. Dai Feng treated him and carried out his funeral. He used the food he brought to buy a small coffin and sent his funeral home.
When his family was buried, they were very surprised to see the books and other things that Jingping had brought with him when he left in the coffin.
Dai Feng later met a thief, and all his property was robbed, leaving only seven pieces of string. The thief didn't know where the string was. Dai Feng then caught up with the thief and gave the string to the thief, saying: "I know you are poor, so I give it to you."
The thief exclaimed: This is a wise man!
All the items that were grabbed first were returned to him.
Later, he was appointed as Xiaolian and appointed as Guanglu. However, his uncle died and he resigned from the official position.
The edict seeks virtuous, upright and upright people who dare to speak outright and have good virtues who can ward off disasters and subjugate monsters. The ministers and governors will each select one person.
Both the county and the chief minister raised Dai Feng.
He was called up in the public car and introduced by the emperor. He ranked first in answering questions and was promoted to Yilang and appointed as Xihua Ling.
At this time, the locusts in Ru and Ying areas were plagued by locusts, and they could not enter the territory of Xihua.
At that time, the governor was on inspection in the county, and locusts suddenly flew in in large numbers. When the governor left that day, the locusts suddenly disappeared. This scene was regarded as a strange thing.
There was a severe drought that year, and Dai Feng's prayers were ineffective, so he accumulated a pile of salary, sat on it, and set fire to himself.
The fire started and the rain came, and people near and far were amazed.
Ascend to Zhongshan phase.
At this time, there were more than 400 prisoners in each county. The charges had been written and they were about to be executed.
Dai Feng took pity on these prisoners and sent them home to meet their relatives. He set a return date, and no one defaulted on the deadline.
The edict praised him.
In the twelfth year of Yongyuan, Tai Chang died in office.
◆The biography of Li Chong, Li Chong's courtesy name is Daxun, and his name is Chen Liuren.
The family is poor, and there are six brothers who alternately wear the same clothes.
Li Chong's wife quietly said to Li Chong: We are so poor now. We can't stay like this for a long time. I have private money, so I think it's better to live separately.
Li Chong pretended to answer her and said: If we want to separate, we should cook wine and eat. He called relatives and friends in and outside the village to discuss the matter together.
The wife bought wine and treated the guests as Li Chong said.
Li Chong knelt down at the banquet table and told his mother: "This woman is not a good person. She taught me to separate my mother and brother. According to her crime, she should be sent away."
So he immediately scolded his wife and kicked him out. The wife left with tears in her eyes.
The people sitting there were greatly surprised and did not dare to say anything. Everyone went back.
Later, when his mother died, Li Chong was guarding the tomb. Someone stole the tomb tree. Li Chong killed the person who stole the tree.
After the mourning period was over, he built a monastery and taught his students.
The prefect Lu Ping asked him to be a meritorious officer, but he refused.
Lu Ping was angry, pushed Li Chong into a ditch, and demoted him to acting county pavilion chief.
Li Chong had no choice but to take up his post.
Later, he and the emperor's official car were recruited, but it didn't work.
In Yanping, there were ministers from Zhaogong and Zhong Erqianshi, who each promoted hermits and great Confucian scholars. They required high moral cultivation and encouraged young people to advance. Li Chong was awarded the title of doctor.
Lu Ping was also a doctor at this time, and I admired him very much every time we attended gatherings.
Li Chong was promoted to Shizhong.
The general Deng Zhi was a noble relative and held great power in the world, so he looked down upon anyone, because Li Chong was a man of high integrity and was always respectful to others.
Once, a banquet was held for Li Chong, and the hall was full of guests. Deng Zhao knelt down and said: Thanks to the Queen, I am a general. The work in the government has just begun, and we need a group of talented people from all over the world to help where I can't. I hope you will recruit such talents widely.
Li Chong then stated that there were virtuous people living in seclusion in the country, but they did not satisfy the general. Deng Zhi wanted Li Chong to stop talking and persuaded him to eat a piece of meat.
Li Chong threw the meat to the ground and said, "Do scholars like to eat meat?"
After that, he got up and left.
Deng Zhi was very unhappy.
Zhang Mengju, who was sitting with him in Runan, went to criticize Li Chong and said: Yesterday, I heard that you had an endless conversation with General Deng. You provoked him in person and made him unable to step down. You spoke carelessly. This is not a blessing to your descendants.
Li Chong said: "What a man values ​​in life is to do his own thing. How can he care about his descendants?"
Therefore, he was dissatisfied with his noble relatives.
He was promoted to General Zuo Zhonglang. He was eighty-eight years old and was the third elder of the country.
Emperor An often came to see him and gave him a few sticks.
Die at home.
◆Miao Shu's biography, Miao Shu's courtesy name was Duke of Yu, and he was a native of Zhaoling, Runan.
When he was young, his father died, and his four brothers shared a share of the family property.
After the brothers got married, their wives asked for separation and they often quarreled.
Miao Xu was extremely angry and hit himself for closing the door. He said: "Miao Xu, you cultivate your moral character and learn the ways of saints because you want to straighten the customs. Why can't you straighten your own family?"
After hearing this, Miao Xu's younger brother and each of their wives kowtowed and apologized, and the family became a harmonious and moral family.
Miao Xu became an official in the county and was the chief bookkeeper.
At this time, the county magistrate was accused and put on trial. The officials were all afraid and confessed their innocence. Only Miao Xu was the only one to prove his innocence.
Liang Zhan, the prefect of Longxi, summoned Miao Xu to be the judge of Cao Shi.
In the early years of Emperor An's reign, Liang Zhan died in his official residence, and Miao Wei returned to Longxi in mourning.
At the beginning of the burial, when the Xiqiang rebelled, all Liang Zhan's wives fled to other counties to escape the rebellion. Miao Wei stayed there alone to build a tomb for Liang Zhan.
A secret room was built next to the well. He hid in it during the day and built a tomb with earth at night. When the Qiang thieves were put down, the tomb was also built.
Liang Zhan's wife thought Miao Xu was dead long ago. When she came back to see him, she was greatly surprised.
There is a legend in Guanxi that Miao Xu was given gifts of carriages, horses, clothes, and money, but Miao Xu refused to accept them and went home.
The government conscripted him, and he was promoted to Zhong Mou Ling.
The county was close to the capital, and there were many prominent and powerful people. When Miao Wei took office, he executed a group of traitors and more than a hundred people who had entrusted noble relatives and guests to death, which made him famous.
Die in office.
◆Chen Chongchuan, courtesy name Jinggong, was a native of Yichun County, Yuzhang County.
When he was young, he was friends with Lei Yi, who was from the same county, and they both studied "Lu Shi" and "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
The prefect Zhang Yun promoted Chen Chong to Xiao Lian, and Chen Chong gave it to Lei Yi. He wrote more than ten letters successively, but Zhang Yun refused to obey him.
In the second year of Lei Yi's promotion of filial piety and integrity, Chen Chong and Lei Yi were both at the Lang Office.
There was a colleague who owed hundreds of thousands of dollars in interest. Creditors came every day to press for debts, so Chen Chong secretly paid the money back on his behalf.
The same official later found out and thanked him profusely.
Chen Zhongdao: I didn't return it on my behalf, it was probably someone with the same name as me who did it.
He never said that he paid the interest on his behalf.
Another fellow servant went home to visit his relatives and mistakenly took away a pair of trousers belonging to his neighbor.
The owner suspected that Chen Zhong had taken it, but Chen Zhong refused to tell him and bought a pair of pants to return to him.
Later, the person who returned home came back and returned the pants to the owner, and the matter became clear.
After Chen Chong and Lei Yi were both appointed ministers, Lei Yi suffered on behalf of his contemporaries and was deposed. When Chen Chong saw Lei Yi being deposed, he also resigned due to illness.
Later, he promoted outstanding talents and was awarded Xiyang Order.
He had special political achievements and extraordinary achievements. He was about to be promoted to the prefect of Kuaiji, but his sister mourned him and he resigned.
Later, he was recruited by Situ and appointed as a censor. He died.
◆Lei Yi Zhuan, whose courtesy name is Zhonggong, was born in Poyang County, Yuzhang County.
He first served as a meritorious officer, promoted good people, and did not take credit for himself.
Lei Yi once saved a man from death. The sinner later thanked him with two pounds of gold, but Lei Yi did not accept it.
When the gold owner saw that Lei Yi was not around, he quietly placed the gold on the tent on the hanging bed to catch the dust.
It was only after repairing the house and cleaning that I discovered it.
The gold owner was dead and could not be returned, so Lei Yi had no choice but to send the gold to the county.
Later, he was promoted to be Xiaolian and was appointed Minister of the Secretariat. His fellow minister committed a crime and should be punished. Lei Yi silently confessed his crime, so he was punished as a military officer and sent to the border to guard against the enemy.
Tongtai Lang found out about it, resigned from his position and asked for atonement for Lei Yi's crime.
Emperor Shun's edict removed all their punishments.
Lei Yi returned to the county and promoted his talents to Chen Chong, but the governor refused. Lei Yi pretended to be crazy and ran away with his hair scattered, not obeying his orders.
The villagers made a jingle and said: Glue paint is said to be strong, not as good as Lei and Chen.
The three governments recruited them at the same time.
Lei Yi was the agent of the envoy.
The envoy Chijie inspected the customs of the county and state, and a total of seventy people were convicted by the prefect.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Imperial Censor and served as the Nandun Order. He died in office.
His son Lei Shou was promoted to the prefect of Cangwu.
◆Fan Ran's biography, Fan Ran's courtesy name is Shi Yun, Chen Liuwai is a yellow man.
When he was young, he was a county official. At the age of eighteen, he was ordered to welcome the postal supervisor. Fan Ran thought it was shameful and ran away to another place.
He went to Nanyang and studied under Fan Ying.
He traveled to Sanfu again and studied the art of menstruation with Ma Rong. After a few years, he returned.
Fan Ran is a maverick, and what he does often goes against the times and is unconventional. I often envy Liang Boluan and Min Zhongshu for their conduct.
He was very close to Li Gu of Hanzhong and Wang Huan of Hanoi. But he despises Jia Weijie, Guo Linzong and others.
Wang Huan later served as the magistrate of Kaocheng, and the county bordered Waihuang. He wrote to Fan Ran many times, asking him to go, but Fan Ran did not go.
Wang Huan was promoted to the Grand Administrator of Hanyang. When he was about to leave, Fan Rancai and his younger brother Fan Xie carried ale on foot and set up an altar beside the road to wait for Wang Huan.
When Fan Ran saw Wang Huan's entourage in his car, there was an endless stream of people, so he didn't tell Wang Huan and just argued with his younger brother on the roadside.
Wang Huan heard that it was Fan Ran's voice and immediately got out of the car to meet him.
Wang Huan said: "We are in a hurry on the road. This is not the place to talk about our farewell feelings. You can come with me to the front pavilion to rest and have a good talk."
Fan Ran said: You were in Kaocheng, and I wanted to go there, but because you were poor and lowly, you didn't dare to climb high, so you cut yourself off from wealthy friends.
Now you have traveled thousands of miles and there is no chance to meet you, so my brother and I are waiting for you here to say goodbye to you.
If I go with you, it will attract ridicule from Mu Gui.
Then he got up and said goodbye, brushed his clothes and left.
Wang Huan kept looking at Fan Ran until he could no longer see him, but Fan Ran left without looking back.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, Fan Ran was appointed as the chief of Laiwu, but his mother died and he could not take up the post.
Later, he was recruited to the Taiwei Mansion. Because he was too radical and could not follow the secular rules, he often encouraged himself in the court.
Public opinion wanted him to serve as an official, so he fled in hiding between Liang and Pei. He walked on the road with no clothes and sold divination in the market.
He was imprisoned by the party members and was not allowed to be an official for life. Pushing a deer cart, carrying his wife and son, he collects wheat and makes a living. Sometimes he rests in an inn, sometimes he sleeps under a tree.
After more than ten years of this, I built a thatched house and lived in it.
The place where he lived was remote, and sometimes there was no food, but Fan Ran was at ease, and his speech and appearance did not change.
Lu Liwei's song says: Dust is born in the steamer, Fan Shiyun, fish is born in the cauldron, Fan Laiwu.
After the party ban was lifted, he was recruited by the three governments and accepted Sikong's orders.
At this time, the Xiqiang people rebelled and the Yellow Turbans started a rebellion. The imperial court ordered the officials of each government not to enter the country without permission. Fan Ran himself requested to be dismissed from his post as a crime, and the edict was written to forgive him regardless of the crime.
He also summoned the captain's mansion, but he refused to go because he was ill.
In the second year of Zhongping, he died at home at the age of seventy-four.
When he was dying, he told his son in his will: I was born in a dull and dark era, and coincided with the social customs of licentiousness and luxury. When life cannot save the world, how can death be the same as the world!
When the breath is gone, I bury my body in ordinary clothes. The clothes only need to be able to cover my body. The coffin only needs to be able to hold my body. After the burial, I dig a hole. Once the hole is dug, I bury it.
No need for memorial service in Kuangzhong, food, water, or food.
The height of the tomb should be such that a person's elbows can be hidden when standing.
The two people who know my thoughts are Li Zijian and Wang Zibing. They are neither here now. It is a rule not to increase the number of villagers, clans, relatives and friends.
So each faction in the two governments ordered Shi to attend the funeral to pay his respects.
General He Jin wrote to Grand Administrator Chen Liu, collecting information about Fan Ransheng's parallel affairs, and decided on a posthumous title. Everyone agreed that he should be named Mr. Chastity.
More than 2,000 people attended the funeral, and the governors and governors each erected monuments in honor of Fan Ran.
◆Dai Jiuzhuan, whose courtesy name was Jingcheng, was from Shangyu County, Kuaiji County.
When he became an official in Cao Cao's office in the county, Ouyang, the governor of Yangzhou, participated in the impeachment of the eunuch on the charge of corruption. He sent troops to investigate Xue An's warehouse files and account books, and arrested Dai and sent him to Qiantang County Prison.
Deep prison torture, five poisonous tortures: whip, scour, burn, emblem, and black ink, used interchangeably.
Dai is generous, dares to speak, and his color remains unchanged.
He also burned a Wu ax and ordered him to wear it, then held it in his elbow and armpit.
Dai then said to the jailer: "Burn the ax thoroughly and don't let it get cold."
Every time he took the exam, because he stopped eating and refused to eat, the meat was burnt and rotten. If it fell on the ground, Dai would pick it up and eat it.
After all the torture methods used by the interrogators were exhausted, and there was no other method available, Dai was asked to lie under the boat and smoked with horse dung.
For two days and one night, everyone said that Dai had been suffocated to death. When he turned the boat over, Dai opened his eyes and cursed: "Why don't you add a little fire to kill the suffocation!"
He was burned again, and a large needle was used to pierce his fingernails, causing them to scratch into the dirt, and the nails were completely damaged.
The interrogator told Xue An about this situation, and An called Dai over and said to him: "The prefect has committed many crimes. I was ordered to test the truth. Why did you resist with your flesh and blood?"
Dai Jiuzhi replied: "The prefect cut the talisman and the minister should die to serve the country."
Although you were ordered to interrogate and should have redressed the injustice, why did you frame Zhongliang, forcefully extract a confession, and make the ministers slander the king, and the son testified against the father!
You, Xue An, are mediocre and foolish, and are accustomed to doing injustice. The day I am tortured to death, I will tell God that I will kill you in the pavilion with the ghosts.
If I don't die, I will kill you with my own hands and tear your body apart.
Xue An admired Dai Jiu's righteousness and heroism very much, so he immediately removed his shackles and handcuffs, and then had a good talk with him, praising his words and explaining county affairs.
When Zheng Chenggong returned to the capital, he was dismissed from his post and sent back to his hometown.
The prefect Liu Chong promoted Dai to be Xiaolian, and Guanglu was in charge. He died of illness.
◆Zhao Bao's biography, Zhao Bao's courtesy name was Weihao, and he was a native of Dongwucheng, Ganling.
Zhao Zhong, his uncle's brother, was a regular attendant. Zhao Bao considered it a great shame and humiliation for his family to have a eunuch and refused to associate with Zhao Zhong.
He first came out of Shizhou County, promoted filial piety and integrity, and was promoted to the order of Guangling.
After serving for three years, he was politically educated during the Qingming Dynasty. The commander-in-chief reported to the imperial court and reported Zhao Bao's actions, and he was promoted to the prefect of Western Liaoning.
Acting vigorously and resolutely, his reputation spreads far and wide.
In the second year after taking office, Zhao Bao sent someone to greet his mother, wife and son. When he was about to arrive at the county, he passed through Liucheng and encountered more than 10,000 Xianbei invaders and invaded and plundered the fortress.
Zhao Bao led 20,000 infantry and cavalry to confront the thieves.
The thief brought Zhao Bao's mother to the battlefield to show him. Zhao Bao cried out in grief and said to his mother: "You are useless as a son. I want to get a little salary to support my mother, but I didn't expect to harm my mother."
He used to be his mother's son, but now he is the emperor's minister. He has no regard for personal favors due to his righteousness, and if he violates his loyalty, he can only be punished by death.
The mother said to Zhao Bao from a distance: Weihao, everyone has his own destiny, how can we care about each other and compromise our loyalty!
In the past, Wang Ling's mother killed an envoy of the Han Dynasty with her sword in order to strengthen Wang Ling's ambition. You should encourage her!
Zhao Bao immediately attacked and defeated all the thieves. However, Zhao Bao's mother, wife, and son were all killed by the thieves.
After Zhao Bao buried his mother, he petitioned to be buried.
Emperor Ling sent someone to express his condolences and named Zhao Bao the Marquis of Yu.
After Zhao Bao buried his mother, he said to the villagers: "It would be unfaithful to escape calamity by eating salary; it would be unfilial to kill one's mother to show justice."
What kind of appearance does such a person have in this world?
Died from vomiting blood.
◆Xiang Xuchuan, Xiangxu's son Xingxing, Hanoi Chaoge people, descendants of Xiang Chang.
When he was young, he was a Zhusheng with a weird and unruly temperament.
He often reads "Laozi" and seems to be a scholar.
He is also like a madman. He likes to wear his hair disheveled and wear red raw silk hair. He often sits on the wooden bed in Zaobei. He has been like this for many years, leaving traces of his knees, ankles, and toes on the bed.
He doesn't like to talk, but he likes to shout loudly.
What the guests wanted to do from him was often hidden.
There were disciples named Yan Yuan, Zigong, Ji Lu and Ran You.
Sometimes he rides a donkey into the market and begs for food from people; sometimes he invites all the beggars to stay at his house and provides food and drinks for them.
At that time people did not know his depth.
The county prepared gifts to invite people to be recruited, commending them as filial, honest, virtuous, upright, and upright. However, when the government called for recruitment, they did not go.
He was recruited along with Jiang Gong from Pengcheng and Wei Zhu from Jingzhao, but Xiang Xu did not respond.
Later, the characteristics of the imperial court came and he was awarded the title of Prime Minister of Zhao.
When he went to take office, people at the time said that Xiang Xu would remain frugal, but Xiang Xu instead rode in a gorgeous car and drove a good horse. The public suspected that he was a hypocrite.
After taking office, he did not read any documents, and the official residence was overgrown with wormwood.
When serving in the conscription and conferment service, whenever there is an important event in the court, he behaves solemnly and solemnly, and all the officials are afraid of him.
When Zhang Jiao was in trouble, he wrote to Xu stating the interests and gains of the country. He slightly mocked the people around the emperor, saying that if the country did not want to use troops, as long as the generals were sent to read the "Book of Filial Piety" facing north on the river, the thieves would naturally be eliminated.
Zhang Rang, the constant servant of the Central Committee, falsely accused Xiang Xu of not wanting to send a general who was ordered by the country to leave the army. He suspected that Xiang Xu and Zhang Jiao were from the same group and wanted to act as insiders.
Arrest him, send him to Huangmen Beisi Prison, and kill him.
◆Lang Fu Chuan, courtesy name Han Ru, was born in Xindu, Guanghan.
The official county is Wuguanbu.
There was a severe drought in the summer, and the prefect went out to pray for the mountains and rivers in person, and it didn't rain for days.
Liangfu then exposed himself naked in the court, and prayed impassionedly: "I, Liangfu, are the assistants of the prefect, just like my brothers and sisters. I cannot advise the loyal, promote the virtuous, repel the bad, adjust the yin and yang, and obey the will of God, so that the heaven and the earth are not separated, all things are scorched, and the people stretch their necks to look at each other. There is no place to complain. The blame is all my fault."
Now the prefect changed his clothes and blamed himself. He prayed for the blessings of the people sincerely and sincerely, but he did not get the inspiration from heaven.
I've decided to plead for mercy now. If it doesn't rain by noon, please use my body to counteract my immorality.
So he surrounded himself with firewood and hay, placed the fire next to it, and prepared to ignite the fire and burn himself.
Before noon, the sky suddenly became cloudy and it rained heavily, moistening the entire county. At that time, the society said that it was his sincerity.
◆The biography of Liu Yi, named Zixiang, was born in Yingyin, Yingchuan.
My family has been a wealthy family for generations and has often helped the poor, but I don't think I have done any good deeds.
I once traveled to the territory of Runan and met Zhang Jili of Chen State who was going to mourn his master. The car was damaged by strong water and blocked on the road.
Liu Yi saw it and asked: "When you go to the teacher's funeral, you should arrive quickly."
He got out of the car immediately and gave the car to Zhang Jili. Without even telling him his name, he whipped his horse and drove away.
Zhang Jili guessed that it was Liu Zixiang, and later made a special trip to Yingyin to return the car to him.
Liu Yi said goodbye behind closed doors and did not see him.
I usually keep my mind and recuperate at home, and do not apply for jobs against my will.
Zhongfu from Henan came to the county and cited Liu Yi as a meritorious official. Liu Yi believed that Zhongfu was the son of a famous feudal lord and came to serve.
Zhong Fu believed that Liu Yi had chosen the right time to become an official and respected him very much.
Relying on Mrs. Cheng's power, Huang Gang of Yangzhai demanded that the mountains and swamps be occupied for planting.
Zhong Fu summoned Liu Yi and asked: "The Cheng family is Guisheng, and if he is not allowed to be around the emperor, he is afraid of causing resentment. If he gives it to him, it will usurp the interests of the people. What should we do?"
Liu Yi said: Famous mountains and great rivers are not for the sake of people, but for the common people.
If the prefect complies with his request, he will gain a reputation as a flatterer. If he gets into trouble as a result, his master, Shenfu, will not become an orphan.
Zhong Fu listened to Liu Yi's words and refused to give Huang Gang.
So Liu Yi was promoted to be filial and honest, but he refused.
Later, when the Yellow Turban bandits broke out and there was a famine in the counties, Liu Yi helped hundreds of hungry people.
For poor families in the countryside, the dead are helped to bury, and the widows and widowers are helped to marry.
Emperor Xian moved the capital to Xijing, and Liu Yi was appointed as the chief minister.
At this time, thieves were everywhere and the roads were blocked, making it very difficult to reach the post.
Liu Yi left at night and hid during the day before arriving in Chang'an.
The imperial edict commended his loyalty and diligence, and he was specially appointed as Yiyi Lang and promoted to Chenliu Grand Administrator.
Liu Yi lost all his treasures, leaving only his carriage and horses, and rode back eastward.
After leaving the customs for hundreds of miles, I saw a scholar-official died of illness on the roadside with no one to bury him, so he traded a horse for a coffin and took off his clothes for burial.
He met his old friends who were hungry on the road, and couldn't bear to abandon them, so he killed the ox driving them to help them.
Many people asked him not to do this. Liu Yi said: "You are not a person with lofty ideals if you don't save someone in the face of death."
Because they all starved to death.
◆Biography of Wang Lie, courtesy name Yanfang, a native of Taiyuan.
He studied under Chen Chen when he was young and was famous for his righteous deeds.
There was a cattle thief in the village. The owner of the cattle caught the thief. The thief apologized and said, "I am willing to accept the punishment. Please don't let Wang Yanfang know about it."
When Wang Lie heard about it, he sent someone to thank him and gave him six feet of cloth.
Someone asked him the reason for this, and Wang Lie said: The thief is afraid that I will know his sins, and he is ashamed.
Since he has a sense of shame, he must be able to change his evil ways and do good, so he is encouraged in this way.
Later, an old man lost his sword on the road. A passerby saw it and stood guard there. At night, the old man came back and found the sword. Strangely, he asked the man what his name was, but he didn't answer. So he told Wang Lie about this.
Wang Lie sent people to investigate and found out that it was the man who had stolen the cattle before.
When those who were arguing about the merits of the lawsuit were about to ask Wang Lie to judge the rights and wrongs, some walked back to the road, and some came back when they saw Wang Lie's house.
Wang Lie's virtue is so touching.
In order to promote filial piety and honesty, all three government officials failed to recruit him.
He was devastated by the Yellow Turban and Dong Zhuo wars and fled to Liaodong, where he was respected by the ethnic minorities.
The prefect Gongsun Du received him as a brother and asked about the political gains and losses.
Wanting to use him as a long history officer, Wang Lie made a deal and ruined himself, so that he could avoid being appointed as a long history officer by Gongsun Du.
Cao Cao knew that Wang Lie was famous and sent people to recruit him, but he didn't come.
He died in Liaodong in the 24th year of Jian'an at the age of seventy-eight.
