◆Liu Yanchuan, Liu Yan, courtesy name Junlang, was from Jingling, Jiangxia, and was a descendant of King Lu Gong.
During the reign of Emperor Suzong, the Liu family moved to Jingling.
When Liu Yan was young, he served in prefectures and counties, and was awarded the position of doctor because he was a member of the emperor's clan.
After leaving office, Liu Yan lived in Yangcheng Mountain, focusing on learning and teaching his disciples.
Later, he was recommended as a virtuous and upright person, and was gradually promoted to Nanyang Prefect, Zongzheng, and Taichang.
At that time, Emperor Ling's political education was in decline and there were military rebellions everywhere. Liu Yan believed that the power of the governor was small and he had no ability to stop it, and the people he appointed were incompetent, so the rebellions often increased. So he suggested that the governor should be appointed to control one side and carefully select ministers who hold important positions as shepherds.
Liu Yan secretly sought help from the governor of Jiaozhi to avoid the chaos at that time.
His suggestions were not implemented in time, but Xi Jian, the governor of Yizhou, was disturbing the people with his administration. Rumors spread far and wide, and Zhang Yi, the governor of Bingzhou, and Geng Bi, the governor of Liangzhou, were both killed by bandits, so Liu Yan's proposal was adopted.
Liu Yan was sent to serve as the envoy to supervise the army and lead the shepherd of Yizhou. Huang Wan, the imperial servant, served as the shepherd of Yuzhou, and Zongzheng Liu Yu served as the shepherd of Youzhou. They all served as the shepherd of the state with the salary of their original positions.
The importance of the status of the state pastor begins here.
At this time, Yizhou's thieves and horses also called themselves "Yellow Turbans", gathered thousands of people who were suffering from labor, first killed Mianzhu Ling, attacked Luo County, killed Xi Jian, and then attacked Shu County and Qianwei. Within a month, they captured and destroyed three counties.
Ma Xiang called himself the Son of Heaven and had a tribe of more than 100,000 people. Ma Xiang sent troops to conquer Bajun and killed Tangbu, the prefect of Bajun.
Jia Long, a minister of Yizhou, originally led hundreds of soldiers to garrison in Jianwei, so he gathered the officials and people to attack Ma Xiang and defeated him. Jia Long sent officials and soldiers to meet Liu Yan.
After Liu Yan took office, he appointed Jia Long as the school captain and moved him to Mianzhu.
Liu Yan comforted and sheltered those who escaped and rebelled, and tried his best to implement a policy of tolerance and kindness, but in his heart he planned to rebel.
Zhang Lu, a native of Pei State, had a beautiful mother, and was familiar with the myths of gods and ghosts. He had contacts with Liu Yan's family. Liu Yan appointed Zhang Lu as the governor of the Sima. He and other Sima Zhang Xiu led troops to kill Su Gu, the prefect of Hanzhong, by surprise. They cut off the Xie Valley and killed the envoys who came and went.
Zhang Lu had occupied Hanzhong, so he killed Zhang Xiu and merged his troops.
Liu Yan wanted to achieve his arrogance by establishing strict criminal laws, so he used other things as an excuse to kill more than a dozen powerful people in the state, which made the scholars and the people complain.
In the second year of Chuping, Jianwei governor Ren Qi and Jia Long rebelled together. They were defeated by Liu Yan and all the rebels were killed.
From then on, Liu Yan's spirit gradually became stronger and stronger, and he built the emperor's carriage and more than a thousand baggage vehicles.
Liu Yan had four sons, Liu Fan served as Zuo Zhonglang, Liu Dan served as the censor of the book, and Liu Zhang served as the captain of Fengche. They all followed Emperor Xian in Chang'an, and only Liu Mao, the commander of another department, followed Liu Yan in Yizhou.
The imperial court sent Liu Zhang to inform Liu Yan, who kept Liu Zhang behind and refused to let him go back.
In the first year of Xingping, General Ma Teng and Liu Fan discussed killing Li Cui. Liu Yan sent 5,000 Shu soldiers to help, but they were defeated. Liu Fan and Liu Dan were both killed. Liu Yan was already sad because of the loss of his two sons. Then there was a fire that burned down the carriages and supplies in the city. The fire also burned the people's houses.
The senior officials in Yizhou, such as Tanti and others, coveted Liu Zhang's gentleness and kindness and appointed him as the governor.
The emperor issued an edict and appointed Liu Zhang as the envoy to supervise the army and lead the herdsman of Yizhou, and appointed Chang Wei as the general of Zhengshu Zhonglang.
Before this, Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, wrote a letter to accuse Liu Yan of violating his identity and comparing himself to the emperor in terms of carriage utensils and clothing, so he went to Wei to garrison troops with gills to guard against Liu Biao.
At first, tens of thousands of people from Nanyang and Sanfu fled to Yizhou, and Liu Yan collected them all into his tribe, called Shuzhou soldiers.
Liu Zhang has a weak and tolerant temperament and lacks authority and strategy. The invasion of Shuzhou was violent and became a disaster for the people. Liu Zhang was unable to stop it. The old scholars complained and rebelled.
When he was in Bazhong, he was very popular with the people and soldiers, and Liu Zhang handed over the power to him.
Seeing the discord among the people, Zhao Wei secretly colluded with the prominent families in the state.
In the fifth year of Jian'an, Zhao Wei turned his forces to jointly attack Liu Zhang. Shu County, Guanghan, and Qianwei all betrayed Liu Zhang and responded.
The people of Shuzhou were afraid of being beheaded, so they worked together to fight to the death for Liu Zhang. As a result, they defeated the rebels, attacked Zhao Wei in Jiangzhou, and killed Zhao Gan.
Zhang Lu stopped obeying Liu Zhang because he was confused and cowardly.
Liu Zhang became angry and killed Zhang Lu's mother and younger brother, and sent general Pang Xi and others to attack Zhang Lu, but was defeated by Zhang Lu many times.
Most of Zhang Lu's troops were deployed in the Bajun area, so Liu Zhang appointed Pang Xi as the governor of Bajun.
Zhang Lu took the opportunity to attack Bajun in a sneak attack, and finally dominated the desert area of ​​Bajun.
In the thirteenth year, Cao Cao personally led troops to conquer Jingzhou, and Liu Zhang sent an envoy to pay his respects.
Cao Cao granted Liu Zhang the title of General Zhenwei and his brother Liu Mao the title of General Pingkou.
Therefore, Liu Zhang sent his chariot officer Zhang Song to Cao Cao, but Cao Cao did not receive him according to etiquette.
Zhang Song was filled with resentment and upon his return, he persuaded Liu Zhang to sever ties with Cao Cao and become friendly with Liu Bei.
Liu Zhang accepted Zhang Song's opinion.
In the sixteenth year, Liu Zhang was frightened when he heard that Cao Cao would send troops to Hanzhong to conquer Zhang Lu. Zhang Song persuaded Liu Zhang to welcome Liu Bei to resist Cao Cao.
Liu Zhang immediately sent Fa Zheng and his troops to meet Liu Bei.
Liu Zhang's chief secretary, the Brazilian Huang Quan, dissuaded him and said: Liu Bei has a reputation for bravery. If you treat him as a subordinate now, you will not be able to satisfy his wishes; if you treat him as a guest, one country cannot tolerate two masters, which is not a way to make yourself safe.
Wang Lei, who was engaged in Guanghan, hung himself upside down on the gate of Yizhou City to dissuade Liu Zhang, but Liu Zhang refused to accept any of them.
Liu Bei rode from Jiangling to Fucheng. Liu Zhang led tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry to meet Liu Bei.
Zhang Song persuaded Liu Bei to sneak attack Liu Zhang when they met, but Liu Bei couldn't bear it.
The next year, Liu Bei went out to garrison Jiameng.
Zhang Song's brother Zhang Su, the prefect of Guanghan, was afraid that disaster was imminent, so he reported Zhang Song's plot to Liu Zhang. Liu Zhang arrested and executed Zhang Song and ordered the guards at all passes to block the roads.
Liu Bei was furious and turned his troops to attack Liu Zhang. He captured everything he pointed at.
In the 19th year, Liu Bei marched and surrounded Chengdu for dozens of days. There were 30,000 elite troops in the city with enough food to last for a year. The officials and the people wanted to resist.
Liu Zhang said: My father and son have been in Yizhou for more than 20 years. They have not shown any kindness to the people, but they have fought for three years. Many people died in the wilderness, just because of me.
How can I feel at ease!
So he opened the city gate and went out to surrender. All his subordinates cried.
Liu Bei moved Liu Zhang to the Public Security Bureau and returned the treasure to him. Later Liu Zhang died of illness.
The next year, Cao Cao defeated Zhang Lu and pacified Hanzhong.
Zhang Lu is the public flag.
At first, Zhang Lu's grandfather, Zhang Ling, lived in Shu during the reign of Emperor Shun. He studied Taoism in Heming Mountain and made talismans to confuse the people.
Those who accepted Zhang Ling's Taoist teachings always took out five buckets of rice, so they were called rice thieves.
Zhang Ling passed it on to his son Zhang Heng, and Zhang Heng passed it on to his son Zhang Lu. Zhang Lu then called himself "Shijun".
Those who came to learn Taoism were called "ghost soldiers" at first, and later "jijiu".
Each of the sacrificial wine leaders leads their subordinates, and the one with the largest number of people is called "Litou".
They all require everyone to be honest and trustworthy, and no deception or falsehood is allowed. If anyone is sick, he only needs to tell him about the mistakes he has made.
All sacrificial wine houses are built on the roadside, just like the inns, and rice and meat are placed to provide for pedestrians.
The person who comes to eat takes as much as he wants. Taking too much will make him sick.
Those who broke the law were first forgiven three times and then punished.
They did not have officials and assistants, they were responsible for the management of the wine sacrifices, and the common people and barbarians were convinced and submitted.
The imperial court was unable to attack him, so it sent people to confer Zhang Lu Zhenyi Zhonglang General and Hanning Prefecture, and accepted his tribute.
During the rebellion between Han Sui and Ma Chao, tens of thousands of people from Guanxi defected to Zhang Lu.
At that time, someone obtained the jade seal underground, and his subordinates wanted to honor Zhang Lu as King Hanning.
Zhang Lu's meritorious Cao Yan Pu dissuaded him and said: "There are more than 100,000 people in Hanchuan, the surroundings must be strong, the property is rich, and the land is fertile. If you can assist the emperor with the best strategy, you can become Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin. Secondly, you can be compared with Dou Rong, and you will not lose wealth."
Nowadays, officials are appointed in the name of the emperor, and they have enough power to kill and kill arbitrarily.
If you rush to become king, you will surely sow the seeds of disaster.
Zhang Lu adopted his opinion.
Zhang Lu had been in Hanchuan for nearly thirty years. When he learned that Cao Cao was conquering him and had reached Yanghuguan, he wanted to surrender the entire Hanzhong.
Zhang Lu's younger brother Chuiman refused and led tens of thousands of people to defend the territory and resist.
Xuancao defeated Zhang Wei and killed him.
Zhang Lu learned that Yangping Pass had been captured and was ready to plead guilty and surrender.
Yan Pu said: At present, surrendering due to emergency circumstances will not achieve much merit. It is better to rely on the Bazhong area for the time being and then surrender, which will definitely achieve greater merit.
In this way, Zhang Lu fled to Nanshan. His men wanted to burn all the treasure warehouses. Zhang Lu said: "I originally wanted to submit to the imperial court, but my wish failed to come true."
The purpose of escaping today was to avoid the front of the army, and there was no malicious intention.
So he closed the palace and left.
Cao Cao entered Nanzheng and praised Zhang Lu very much.
And because Zhang Lu originally had good intentions, he sent people to comfort and appease him.
Zhang Lu immediately came out with his family and subordinates to greet Cao Cao. Cao Cao awarded him the post of General Zhennan and the title of Lu Zhonghou, with a settlement of 10,000 households. Cao Cao prepared to return to the Central Plains and treated Ba Ba with the courtesy of guests. He named Ba Ba's five sons, Lili and others as marquises.
After the death of Tui Zhou, Mi was given the title of Qubao, and his son inherited the official position vertically.
On the day: Liu Yan saw that the current situation was difficult, and he first sought a place where he could perish before others, hoping to rise when he saw the opportunity.
When the territory is vast, pride and arrogance will arise; when wealth is abundant, the desire for extravagance will develop. This is a state that ordinary people must reach.
Liu Zhang was able to block the passes, accumulate strength, guard and govern the territory of his ancestors, and could persist as the years changed. However, he hurriedly handed over power and waited to be exiled and ostracized. He was really a so-called sheep in tiger skin. He was scared to death at the sight of a jackal. What a shame!
◆The biography of Yuan Shu, Yuan Shu, courtesy name Gongdao, was born in Ruyang, Runan, and was the son of Sikong Yuan Feng.
When he was young, he was famous for his chivalrous spirit, and he often went hunting with his young master buddies. Later, he changed a lot.
He was recommended as Xiaolian and was transferred to Henan Yin and Huben Zhonglang generals many times.
At that time, Dong Zhuo was preparing to change his position as emperor and appointed Yuan Shu as the post-general.
Yuan Shu was afraid of being involved in Dong Zhuo's troubles and ran to Nanyang.
It happened that Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, killed Zhang Zi, the governor of Nanyang, and led his troops to obey Yuan Shu.
Liu Biao wrote a letter recommending Yuan Shu to be the governor of Nanyang. Yuan Shu also wrote a letter recommending Sun Jian to be the governor of Yuzhou. Sun Jian was asked to lead the troops in Jingzhou and Yuzhou and defeated Dong Zhuo in Yangren.
Yuan Shu's cousin Yuan Shao took advantage of the fact that Sun Jian had not returned from his crusade against Dong Zhuo and was far away, so he sent his general Zhou Xin to capture Sun Jian's Yuzhou.
Yuan Shu was very angry and beat Zhou Xin away.
Yuan Shao discussed making Liu Yu the emperor, but Yuan Shu liked to indulge and was afraid of making an older person emperor, so he refused to agree on the grounds of public opinion. When they got together, there was a gap between the two.
So the two of them each made friends as foreign aid to influence each other's ideas. Yuan Shu befriended Gongsun Zan, while Yuan Shao allied with Liu Biao.
Most of the heroes attached themselves to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shu got angry and said: "Are these princes not following me, but following my servants?"
He also wrote to Gongsun Zan, saying that Yuan Shao was not born to the Yuan family. Yuan Shao was furious when he found out.
In the third year of Chuping, Yuan Shu sent Sun Jian to attack Liu Biao in Xiangyang, and Sun Jian died in the battle.
Gongsun Zan wanted Liu Bei to conspire with Yuan Shu to force Yuan Shao, but under the joint attack of Yuan Shao and Cao Cao, they were all defeated.
In the fourth year, Ai Shu led his troops into Chenliu and stationed in Fengqiu.
The remaining bandits in Montenegro and the Xiongnu Yu Fuluo and others helped Yuan Shu and fought with Cao Cao in Kuangting, but they were defeated.
Yuan Shu withdrew his troops to defend Yongqiu, then led the remaining troops to Jiujiang, killed Chen Wen, the governor of Yangzhou, and became the governor of Yangzhou himself, also known as Xuzhou Bo.
Li Ji entered Chang'an and wanted to make friends with Yuan Shu as a foreign aid, so he appointed Yuan Shu as the general of the left. During the holiday, he made him the Marquis of Yangzhai.
At first, when Yuan Shu was in Nanyang, there were still hundreds of thousands of households and a population of several million. However, he did not pay attention to regulating the legal system. He relied on plundering to save money, was extravagant and indulgent, and was greedy. The people were disgusted with him.
When Yuan Shu was young, he saw a prophecy book that said that the one who replaced the Han Dynasty would be Dang Tu Gao, which meant that his name matched the prophecy book.
And because the Yuan family came from the state of Chen, they were descendants of Shun. Replacing red virtue with yellow virtue is in line with the order of operation of the five virtues, so he has the idea of ​​​​transgression and rebellion.
When he heard that Sun Jian had obtained the imperial seal, he imprisoned Sun Jian's wife to obtain the imperial seal.
In the winter of the second year of Xingping, the emperor was exiled and was defeated in Caoyang.
Yuan Shu gathered his subordinates and said to them: The current situation in the country is chaotic and chaotic, and the Liu family is weak.
The fourth generation of my family has served as the prime minister of the three princes, and the people have surrendered. I want to obey the heaven above and obey the people's hearts below. What do you think?
No one dared to answer.
Chief Secretary Jian Xiang stepped forward and said: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty, from Houji to King Wen, accumulated kindness and merit, owned one-third of the world, and also obeyed and served Emperor Yin.
Although you have been prosperous for generations, can you compare with the prosperity of the Zhou Dynasty?
Although Moshi was weak, it was not as bad as Yin and Zhou.
Yuan Shu was speechless and sent someone to summon Zhang Fan. Zhang Fan excused himself from illness and sent his younger brother Zhang Cheng to deal with the situation.
Yuan Shu asked Zhang Cheng: In the past, when the emperor of Zhou declined, the hegemony of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin emerged; the Qin Dynasty was in political chaos, and the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty and took power.
Now, with my vast land and numerous scholars and people, I want to seek blessings from Duke Huan of Qi and compare my merits with those of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. Is that okay?
Zhang Cheng replied: Dispatch depends on virtue and not on the number of people.
If they can implement virtuous government and meet the needs of the people of the world, even ordinary people can become the overlord and emperor.
If one commits arrogance, does not exercise restraint, and goes against the trend of the times, this will be abandoned by everyone, and who can make it prosper?
Yuan Shu was very unhappy after hearing this.
After Bai Sunjian's death, his son Sun Ce took command of Sun Jian's men. Yuan Shu sent Sun Ce to attack Liu Yao, the governor of Yangzhou, and defeated Liu Yao. Sun Ce took the opportunity to occupy Jiangdong.
Sun Ce heard that Yuan Shu was about to claim the title of emperor, and wrote to Yuan Shu to dissuade him, saying: Dong Zhuo was cruel and cruel, bullying and cruel to the court, and poisoned the queen mother. His cruelty spread to Hongnong, the emperor was exiled, the palace and ancestral temple were burned down, so the heroes became angry and quickly rose up.
After the death of the culprit Dong Zhuo, the young emperor returned eastward and sent envoys to obey the court's orders, publicize the court's kindness, demand an end to the war, cultivate civility, and start from scratch together with the court.
However, Yuan Shao in the north of the Yellow River united with the Black Mountain bandits for evil intentions. Cao Cao harmed his subordinate Xuzhou, Liu Biao in the south arrogated authority and caused trouble in Jingzhou, Gongsun Zan rebelled north of the Great Wall, Liu Yao used force to separate the regime, and Liu Bei fought for the alliance leader, so he failed to obey the order to put away his weapons and stop the war.
I thought you had the same idea as the country, but you left the country alone and fully embraced your own plan to conquer the world. This is probably not what the country expects of you. Cheng Tang attacked Jie and said that there were many crimes in Xia; King Wu of Zhou attacked Zhou and said that the Yin Dynasty had many crimes.
Although these two emperors had sage morals, if the emperors at that time had not committed immoral crimes, they would not have been able to conquer the world by force.
The current emperor is not guilty of any crime against the world, but because of his young age, he was coerced by violent ministers, which is different from the time of King Chengtang and Zhou Wu.
In addition, it is said that the young emperor is wise, intelligent, and has precocious talents. Although the world has not yet enjoyed the emperor's favor, everyone in the world obeys him.
If you assist the emperor and revitalize the court, you will have the virtues of Zhou Gongdan and Zhao Gongsi, which is the hope of the people in the world.
Your family has inherited the position of prime minister of the Han family for five generations. No one can compare with the prosperity of the dignitaries and favors. Therefore, you should be loyal to the court and maintain your integrity to repay the emperor.
Many contemporary people are deceived by the prophecies and prophecies, and add words and phrases that are completely different to each other indiscriminately, just to please their masters, regardless of the success or failure of the plan. This is something that has been done with caution since ancient times. How could we not seriously consider it!
Loyal advice may offend the ears, and different opinions may arouse hatred, but as long as it is beneficial to noble and wise people, I will not dare to hide it.
Yuan Shu couldn't listen, so Sun Ce cut off all contact with him.
In the second year of Jian'an, Yuan Shu used the talisman made up by Zhang Jiong from Hanoi to finally assume his name and call himself the "Zhong Family".
He appointed the prefect of Jiujiang as the Yin of Huainan, established a hundred officials, and held sacrifices to heaven and earth in the suburbs. He sent an envoy to tell Lu Bu about the arrogance of his name. And he married Lu Bu's daughter for his son.
Lu Bu captured Yuan Shu's envoy and sent him to Xu County.
Yuan Shu was furious and sent his generals Zhang Xun and Qiao Rui to attack Lu Bu and returned with a heavy defeat.
Yuan Shu then led his troops to attack Chen State, seducing and killing Chen King Liu Chong and Chen State Prime Minister Luo Jun. Cao Cao then personally conquered Yuan Shu.
Yuan Shu was very frightened when he found out, and immediately crossed the Huaihe River to escape, leaving Zhang Xun and Qiao Rui behind to resist Cao Cao in Qiyang.
Cao Cao defeated the two men and killed Qiao Rui. Zhang Xun retreated and fled.
Yuan Shu's army was weak, his main generals died, and everyone rebelled. Coupled with drought and poor harvests, the scholars and people suffered from hunger and cold, and the food along the Yangtze and Huaihe Rivers was almost exhausted.
At that time, Shu Zhong should serve as Yuan Shu's Prime Minister of Pei. Yuan Shu gave him 100,000 dendrobium rice as military rations. Shu Zhong should give all the food to the hungry people.
Yuan Shu was furious after hearing this and ordered his troops to kill him.
Zhong Ying said: I knew I must die, so I did this.
I am willing to sacrifice my own life to save the people from disaster and hardship.
Yuan Shu's horse held his hand and said: Zhong Ying, do you only want to enjoy the world's reputation for yourself, but are not willing to share it with me?
Although Yuan Shu was proud of his reputation and unpredictable, he was naturally proud and indulgent, arrogant and looked down upon others.
When the name was stolen, the debauchery and extravagance became increasingly serious. He had hundreds of concubines, all of whom were wearing silk clothes and eating delicacies. However, while his subordinates were hungry and poor, he never cared about them.
In this way, all the property is used up and it is impossible to stand on one's own feet.
In the summer of the fourth year of Jian'an, Yuan Shu burned the palace and went to his subordinates Chen Jian and Lei Bo in Qianshan. He was rejected by Chen Jian and others. Finally, he was very poor and distressed, and the soldiers broke up and fled.
Yuan Shu was sad and angry, and didn't know what to do, so he gave the title to Yuan Shao and said: It has been a long time since the destiny of the Han Dynasty left the Han Dynasty. The government relies on the support of the people of the world and comes from selfish sources.
Heroes fight to chase and divide the territory.
This is no different from the Seven Kingdoms at the end of the Zhou Dynasty, only the stronger one annexed the others.
The Yuan family was destined to rule the world, and the auspiciousness of their destiny was outstanding.
Now you own four states and have a household registration of one million people. No one can compete with you in terms of power, and no one can be higher than you in terms of status.
Although Cao Cao wanted to support the weakened imperial court, how could he reconnect the broken destiny and revive the destroyed imperial court?
I respectfully send you my destiny in the hope that you will revive it.
Yuan Shao secretly agreed with Yuan Shu's view. Yuan Shu wanted to go to Qingzhou and seek refuge with Yuan Tan. Cao Cao asked Liu Bei to block his way, but Yuan Shu couldn't get through and returned to Shouchun.
In June, we arrived at Jiangting.
Yuan Shu sat on the bamboo bed and sighed and said: Is this what Yuan Shu has done?
Yuan Shu became ill due to his anger, vomited blood and died.
His wife and children took refuge with Yuan Shu's former subordinate Liu Xun, the governor of Lujiang.
Sun Ce defeated Liu Xun, and they were taken in and taken care of by Sun Ce. Yuan Shu's daughter was selected into Sun Quan's harem, and his son Yuan Yao served as a doctor in the state of Wu.
On the Sun: The signs of destiny come true, which can be seen but cannot be expressed.
However, people who are generally destined to receive destiny probably attribute it to their faith and obedience!
If you don't do things according to the Tao, even if you are powerful and resourceful, you will not be able to obtain destiny.
Trying to get something that is impossible to obtain, gradually losing loyalty and trustworthiness, and turning into treacherous things happen.
What's more, if you do it with indulgence, is it used to deceive God?
Although he used the talisman to claim the title of emperor, how could he be tolerated by others if he returned it?
◆The biography of Lu Bu, Lu Bu, courtesy name Fengxian, was a native of Wuyuan and Jiuyuan.
Because of his strong martial arts skills and bravery in combat, he served in Bingzhou.
The governor Ding Yuan served as the cavalry captain and was stationed in Hanoi. He appointed Lu Bu as chief administrator and was very close to him.
When Emperor Ling died, Ding Yuan was summoned by He Jin and led his army to Luoyang to serve as Jinwu.
When He Jin was defeated, Dong Zhuo lured Lu Bu to kill Ding Yuan and annex his troops.
Dong Zhuo appointed Lü Bu as the Cavalry Commander, and swore to him that they would become father and son. He admired and trusted him very much.
Soon, Lu Bu was promoted to Zhonglang General and was named Dutinghou.
Dong Zhuo knew that he was vicious and indulgent, and he was always suspicious and fearful. He often asked Lu Bu to protect him when he went out to stay.
Lü Bu once made Dong Zhuo unhappy, so Dong Zhuo pulled out a small halberd and threw it at Lü Bu.
Lu Bu was able to avoid the encounter with his quick movements, and apologized with a smile on his face, so Dong Zhuo felt calm.
But from then on Lu Bu secretly hated Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo asked Lü Bu to guard the central gate, but Lü Bu secretly had an affair with Dong Zhuo's maid. He became increasingly uneasy, so he went to see Situ Wang Yun and told Wang Yun how he was almost killed by Dong Zhuo.
At that time, Wang Yunzheng secretly planned to kill Dong Zhuo with his servant Sun Rui, so he told Lu Bu about the situation and asked him to act as an internal coordinator.
Lu Bu said: How to deal with the relationship between father and son?
Wang Yun said: Your own surname is Lu, so you are not your own flesh and blood.
Now I don’t even have time to think about death, so how can I care about the relationship between father and son?
When Dong Zhuo threw his halberd at you, was there any affection between father and son?
Lu Bu agreed to Wang Yun and stabbed Dong Zhuo to death at the gate of Hemen. The incident has been seen in "The Biography of Dong Zhuo".
Wang Yun appointed Lu Bu as General Fenwei. He was assigned the title of Marquis of Wen.
Since Wang Yun refused to pardon the Liangzhou people, Dong Zhuo's general Li Cui and others joined forces with each other and turned their forces to attack Chang'an.
Lu Bu failed in the battle with Li Cui, so he led hundreds of cavalry, tied Dong Zhuo's head to the saddle, escaped from Wuguan, and rushed to Nanyang.
Yuan Shu treated Lu Bu very well, and Lu Bu relied on himself to kill Dong Zhuo. If you are kind to the Yuan family, you will indulge your subordinates in looting.
Yuan Shu had a headache, and Lu Bu felt uneasy, so he left Yuan Shu and went to Hanoi to join Zhang Yang.
At that time, Li Jie and others were very concerned about offering a reward for Lv Bu's capture, and Zhang Yang's generals were all plotting against Lv Bu.
Lu Bu was afraid and said to Zhang Yang: I am from the same hometown as you. If you kill me now, you may not get much credit.
It's better to sacrifice me alive, so that I can gain the title and favor of Li Ji and others.
Zhang Yang thought Lu Bu was right.
Soon, Lu Bu was able to escape and defected to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shao and Lu Bu attacked Zhang Yan in Changshan.
Zhang Yan had more than 10,000 elite soldiers and several thousand cavalry.
Lu Bu often rode a good horse named Red Rabbit that could leap over city walls and fly across trenches. He and his fierce generals Cheng Lian, Wei Yue and dozens of others rode to attack Zhang Yan's military formation. Sometimes they went three or four times a day and came back each time with the enemy's heads chopped off.
After fighting for more than ten days, Zhang Yan's army was finally defeated.
Lu Bu relied on his military exploits and once again asked Yuan Shao to increase his army, but Yuan Shao refused. Most of Lu Bu's generals and soldiers were vicious and brutal, which gave Yuan Shao a headache.
Lu Bu felt uneasy and asked to return to Luoyang.
Yuan Shao agreed to his request and appointed Lu Bu as the Sili Xiaowei in the name of the emperor. He sent warriors to escort Lu Bu and secretly asked him to kill Lu Bu.
Lu Bu suspected that Yuan Shao was plotting against him, so he sent Jin to play the zheng in the camp while he quietly escaped.
When Yuan Shao's troops rushed towards him late at night, Lu Bu had already escaped.
After Yuan Shao found out, he was worried that Lu Bu would be harmful to him, so he sent people to chase Lu Bu with a reward, but none of them dared to approach Lu Bu, so that Lu Bu could surrender to Zhang Yang.
Passing by Chenliu on the way, the prefect Zhang Miao sent someone to meet Lu Bu and treated him well. When they were about to part, the two held each other's arms and vowed to be good friends.
◆Zhang Miao, courtesy name Meng Zhuo, was from Shuping. He was known as a chivalrous person since childhood.
At first he was summoned by the government, and soon he was promoted to the prefect of Chenliu.
During Dong Zhuo's rebellion, Zhang Miao and Cao Cao raised rebels together.
When Yuan Shao became the leader of the alliance and showed a proud look, Zhang Miao rebuked Yuan Shao with his upright morality. Yuan Shao already resented Zhang Miao and learned that he had a close relationship with Lu Bu, so he asked Cao Cao to kill Zhang Miao.
Cao Cao ignored him, but Zhang Miao felt uneasy.
The first year of Xingping. Cao Cao went east to attack Tao Qian and sent general Chen Gong from Wuyang to garrison Cambodia County.
Chen Gong took the opportunity to persuade Zhang Miao: Now the world is divided and heroes are rising at the same time. You have a team of 100,000 people. You are in a place where you can fight on all sides. You can look down on the world with your sword. You can be a hero among people, but you are controlled by others. Isn't it too despicable?
Now the troops in this state are at war, and the land is empty. Lu Bu is a fierce warrior, good at fighting, and brave and invincible. Take him and occupy Yanzhou together, wait and see the situation in the world, and wait for the changes in the current situation. This can last for a lifetime.
Zhang Miao listened to Chen Gong's advice, so he, his younger brother Zhang Chao, Chen Gong and others welcomed Lu Bu and asked him to be the herdsman of Yanzhou and occupy Puyang. All counties and counties of Yanzhou responded.
After Cao Cao found out, he led his army to attack Lu Bu. The two sides fought many times and lasted for more than a hundred days.
At this time, there was a drought, locusts were infested, food was insufficient, and people began to eat people. Lu Bu moved his troops to Shanyang and garrisoned them.
In the second year of Xingping, Cao Cao regained all the cities in Yanzhou and defeated Lu Bu in Juye. Lu Bu fled to Liu Bei.
Zhang Miao went to Yuan Shu's house to ask for help, leaving Zhang Chao with his family and subordinates to garrison Yongqiu.
Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao for several months and killed Zhang Chao and the Zhang family.
Zhang Miao was killed by his soldiers before he arrived in Shouchun.
At this time, Liu Bei led Xuzhou Mu and lived in Xiapi, and he and Yuan Shu were confronting each other on the Huaihe River.
Yuan Shu wanted to unite with Lu Bu to attack Liu Bei, so he wrote to Lu Bu, saying: I sent troops to the capital, but failed to kill Dong Zhuo and dismembered him.
The general killed Dong Zhuo and avenged Yuan Shu. This was his first credit.
Once upon a time, Jin Yuanxiu went south to Fengqiu and was defeated by Cao Cao. The general's attack on Cao Cao made my eyes bright and I could see clearly both far and near. This is the second credit.
Since Yuan Shu was born, he has never heard of Liu Bei in the world, but Liu Bei actually sent troops to fight with me.
With the general's power, he was able to defeat Liu Bei. This is the third achievement.
The general has three great contributions to Yuan Shu. Although Yuan Shu has no talent, he is willing to serve you until his death.
The general has been fighting for years and has suffered from insufficient military rations. Now he has sent 200,000 hu of rice.
This is not the end, food will continue to be sent.
It's up to you to accept it or not.
Lu Bu was very happy when he received the letter, and immediately deployed his troops to attack Xiapi and captured Liu Bei's wife and children.
Liu Bei was defeated and fled to Haixi. Hungry and exhausted, he asked Lu Bu to surrender.
Lu Bu was angry that Yuan Shu stopped bringing grain, so he prepared chariots and horses to welcome Liu Bei, appointed Liu Bei as the governor of Yuzhou, and sent him to garrison Xiaopei.
Lu Bu called himself Xuzhou Mu.
Yuan Shu was afraid that Lü Bu would harm him and proposed marriage for his son, but Lü Bu agreed again.
Yuan Shu sent general Ji Ling and others with 30,000 infantry and cavalry to attack Liu Bei. Liu Bei asked Lu Bu for help.
The generals said to Lu Bu: The general often wants to kill Liu Bei, now he can be killed by Yuan Shu.
Lu Bu said: No.
If Yuan Shu defeats Liu Bei, the north will be connected to Mount Tai. I am surrounded by Yuan Shu, so I have to rescue him.
So he led more than a thousand infantry and cavalry and rode to that place.
When Ji Ling and others heard that Lu Bu had arrived, they all put away their weapons and stopped attacking.
Lu Bu was stationed outside Peixian County, sent someone to call Liu Bei, and invited Ji Ling and others to drink and dine with him.
Lu Bu said to Ji Ling: Xuande is my brother. He is embarrassed by you, so I came to save him.
I, Lu Bu, don't naturally like to bring others together to use force. I only like to persuade others to stop using force.
So he ordered the officers who were maintaining military discipline to set up the halberd at the gate of the military camp. Lvula turned around and said, "Look at the twigs on the halberd. If I hit it, you should stop fighting each other. If you don't hit it, you can stay and fight."
Lu Bu then shot an arrow and hit the branch on the halberd.
Ji Ling and others were surprised and said, "The general is mighty."
The next day they had another joyful gathering, and then each withdrew his troops.
Yuan Shu sent Han Yin to tell Lü Bu about the arrogance and asked to take his daughter-in-law away. Lü Bu asked his daughter to go with Han Yin.
Chen Gui, the Prime Minister of Pei State, was worried that Yuan Shu and Lu Bu would marry, and Xuzhou and Yangzhou would join forces, which would cause endless disasters.
So he went to persuade Lu Bu and said: Duke Cao welcomes the emperor and assists in government affairs. It is best for the general to work together with Duke Cao and discuss together for the sake of the country. If he marries Yuan Shu now, he will definitely bear the reputation of injustice and will be in danger of laying eggs.
Lu Bu also complained about Yuan Shu, but his daughter was already on the road, so he chased her back, broke off the marriage, captured Han Yin and sent him to Xu County, where Cao Cao killed Han Yin.
Chen Gui wanted to send his son Chen Deng to see Cao Cao, but Lv Bu refused to agree. Just as the imperial envoy arrived, he granted Lv Bu the position of general of the left. Lu Shi was very happy and immediately agreed to Chen Deng's journey, and asked him to bring Ding's memorial to thank the court for its grace.
When Chen Deng saw Cao Cao, he told him that Lu Bu was brave but lacked strategy and made rash decisions about defecting or defecting. He should be dealt with early.
Cao Cao said: Lu Bu has a vicious nature like a wolf cub. It is really difficult to raise him for a long time. No one but you knows his true condition.
Immediately, Chen Gui's salary was increased to two thousand dan, and Chen Deng was appointed as the prefect of Guangling.
When they were about to leave, Cao Cao held his hand and said, "I'll leave the matter of tying the border to you."
Ask him to gather people secretly as internal agents.
At first, Lu Bu was appointed as the shepherd of Xuzhou through Chen Deng, but he didn't get it.
When Chen Deng came back, Lü Bu got angry, pulled out his halberd and struck it on the table, saying: "Your father advised me to work together with Cao Cao to break off our marriage to Yuan Gongdao."
Now I haven't got what I asked for, but you and your son are both noble, and I was just betrayed by you.
Chen Deng remained calm and replied slowly: "I met Cao Gong and he said that raising a general is like raising a tiger. You should be fed with meat. If you are not fed enough, you will eat people."
Cao Gong said: It's not like what you said.
It's like raising an eagle, letting it be used by me when it's hungry, and flying away when it's full.
That's what Duke Cao said.
The unhappiness in Lu Bu's heart was finally eliminated.
Yuan Shu was angry that Lu Bu had killed Han Yin, so he sent his generals Zhang Xun, Qiao Rui and others to cooperate with Han Xian and Yang Feng, leading tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry to attack Lu Bu in seven directions.
At that time, Lu Bu only had 3,000 troops and 400 horses. He was worried that he would not be able to withstand the attack, so he said to Chen Gui: You are responsible for recruiting Yuan Shu's troops. What do you think we should do?
Chen Gui said: Han Xian, Yang Feng and Yuan Shu were just troops gathered in a hurry.
There was no definite strategy in the first place and it was impossible to maintain each other.
My son Chen Deng calculated that they were like chickens lined up in a queue, unable to roost together, and they would soon be separated.
Lu Bu adopted Chen Gui's strategy and wrote to Han Xian and Yang Feng, saying: The two generals rescued the emperor with their own hands, and I killed Dong Zhuo with my own hands. Together we will establish a reputation and will leave a mark in history.
Now that Yuan Shu is rebelling, we should attack him together. Why do you and the bandits come here to attack me?
But now we can join forces to defeat Yuan Shu, eliminate harm to the country, and build merit for the world. This opportunity cannot be lost.
He also promised that after defeating Yuan Shu's army, the general would give them all the money and food.
Han Xian and Yang Feng were very happy, so they attacked Zhang Xun and others in Xiapi and captured Qiao Rui alive. The rest of the troops fled. Many people were killed and wounded, fell into the water and drowned, and almost the entire army was wiped out.
At that time, Xianba and others from Taishan conquered Jucheng and promised to give Lu Bu property and coins to befriend Lu Bu, but before they could send them in time, Lu Bu went to ask for them in person.
Lu Bu's commander-in-chief, Gao Shun, advised him not to go, saying: "The reputation of the general has spread, and people near and far are afraid of you. What do you want that you cannot get? Instead, you go to ask for the goods in person?"
If you don't get it, won't it damage your reputation?
Lu Bu didn't listen.
Having arrived at Jucheng, Zang Ba and others did not know Lu Bu's intention, so they stood firm in Jucheng and refused Lu Bu. As a result, Lu Bu came back without getting anything.
Gao Shun was clean, dignified in appearance, rarely spoke, and commanded his troops neatly. He was sure to win every battle.
Lu Bu is born to make decisions or change his opinions at will, and his actions are unpredictable.
Gao Shun often advised: "The general refuses to think carefully when doing things, often makes mistakes, and always makes mistakes in what he says and does."
Can mistakes happen again and again? Lu Bu understood Gao Shun's loyalty but refused to accept it.
In the third year of Jian'an, Lu Bu finally defected to Yuan Shu and sent Gao Shun to attack Liu Bei in Peixian County and defeated Liu Bei.
Cao Cao sent Xiahou Dun to rescue Liu Bei, but was defeated by Gao Shun.
Cao Cao then personally led his troops to attack Lu Bu, and the troops arrived at Xiapi City.
Cao Cao sent a letter to Lu Bu, telling him about the blessings and misfortunes.
Lü Bu wanted to surrender, but Chen Gong and others tried their best to sabotage Lü Bu's plan because they were guilty of Cao Cao. They also said to Lü Bu: Duke Cao is coming in a hurry, and the situation cannot last long. If the general uses infantry and cavalry to station outside the city, I will lead the rest of the troops to close the city gate and guard it.
If Cao Cao attacks the general, I will lead my troops to attack Cao Jun from behind; if Cao Cao only attacks the city, the general will rescue him from outside.
In less than a month, Cao Cao's army will run out of food, and they can launch an attack to defeat Cao Cao.
Lu Bu agreed with him.
Lu Bu's wife said: In the past, Cao treated Chen Gongtai as carefully as he treated a baby, but Chen Gong still abandoned Cao Cao and took refuge with us.
Now the general's benefits to Gongtai are not greater than those of the Cao family, but he plans to leave the whole city, his wife and children and go far away alone?
If something unexpected happens, can I still become the general's wife?
So Lu Bu gave up, but secretly sent someone to ask Yuan Shu for help, and personally led more than a thousand cavalry out of the city. After being defeated, he returned to the city, holding the city and not daring to go out.
Yuan Shu could not rescue him either.
Cao Cao dug deep ditches around the city and blocked up the Yishui and Swimming rivers to flood Xiapi City. Three months later, the whole city rebelled.
Lu Bu's general Hou Cheng asked his retainer to graze his famous horse, but the retainer defected on horseback.
Hou Cheng chased the retainer and recovered the horse. The generals made up gifts to congratulate Hou Cheng.
Hou Cheng made some wine and meat, and went to meet Lü Bu first and said: "With the general's power, the lost horse was recovered. The generals came to congratulate me, but I didn't dare to try it, so I gave it to you first."
Lu Bu got angry and said: I forbid drinking, and you are planning together. Do you want to take advantage of drinking to influence me?
Hou Cheng was disgusted and afraid, so he and other generals captured Chen Gong and Gao Shun, and led his men to surrender.
Lu Bu and his men boarded the Baimen Tower.
As the soldiers surrounded him tightly, Lu Bu asked those around him to cut off his head and go to see Cao Cao.
The people around him couldn't bear it, so they went downstairs to surrender.
Lu Bu saw Cao Cao and said: From now on, the world will be peaceful.
Cao Cao said: Why do you say that?
Lu Bu said: There is no one you worry about more than me, Lu Bu. I have surrendered now.
Let me command the cavalry and you command the infantry, and the world will be pacified easily.
Then he turned to Liu Bei and said, "Xuande, you are a guest here, and I am a surrendered prisoner." I am tied too tightly with the rope. Can't you say something for me?
Cao Cao smiled and said: The tiger must be tied tightly.
So he ordered Lu Bu's rope to be tied loosely. Liu Bei said: No.
Didn't you see that Lu Bu served Ding Jianyang and Dong Taishi?
Cao Cao shook his head.
Lu Bu looked at Liu Bei and said: You guy with big ears is the most unbelievable!
Cao Cao said to Chen Gong: Gongtai thought he was resourceful all his life, what do you think now?
Chen Gong pointed at Lu Bu and said, "This man did not accept my opinion, and that's why he got to this point."
If you take my word for it, the results are hard to predict. Cao Cao said: What should I do with your old mother?
Chen Gong said: Old mother depends on you and not on me.
It is said that those who govern the world with filial piety will not kill other people's parents.
Cao Cao then asked: What about your wife and children?
Chen Gong said: I heard that those who achieve the feats of overlord and emperor never stop others from offering incense and sacrifice.
Chen Gong insisted on being punished and walked out the door without looking back. Cao Cao shed tears for him.
Lu Bu, Chen Gong and Gao Shunquan were strangled to death, and their heads were sent to the Xu County market for public display.
Zan said: Liu Yan started to set up mediocre state pastors in the hope that he could enjoy happiness in the future. How can it be said that he relied on them?
The land was taken away, he was driven away, Yuan Shu was incompetent and greedy, and Lu Bu also failed.
