Liang Xiaowang Liu Wu was the son of Emperor Xiaowen and his half-brother to Emperor Xiaojing.
His mother is Queen Mother Dou.
Emperor Xiaowen had four sons: the eldest son was the prince, who was Emperor Xiaojing; the second son was named Wu; the third son was named Ginseng; and the fourth son was named Mingsheng.
In the second year after Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he named Liu Wu the acting king, Liu Shen the king of Taiyuan, and Liu Sheng the king of Liang.
Two years later, Emperor Wen changed the title of King Dai to King of Huaiyang.
All the fiefdoms of Dai State were assigned to King Taiyuan, and he was named King of Dai.
Liu Shen reigned for seventeen years and died in the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign. His posthumous title was King Xiao.
Liu Deng, the son of King Xiao, succeeded to the throne and became King Dai Gong.
King Dai Gong reigned for twenty-nine years and died in the second year of Emperor Wu Yuanguang's reign.
Liu Yi, the son of King Gong, succeeded to the throne and is the current acting king.
Nineteen years later, the Han Dynasty expanded the pass, with Changshan as the boundary, and moved King Dai to King Qinghe.
The relocation took place in the third year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign.
Initially, in the tenth year when Liu Wu was granted the title of King of Huaiyang, King Liu Sheng of Liang passed away, and his posthumous title was King Huai of Liang.
King Huai was the youngest son of Emperor Xiaowen and was favored more than the other sons.
The next year, Emperor Wen changed the title of King Liu Wu of Huaiyang to King of Liang.
Liu Wu was first granted the title of Prince of Liang in the twelfth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign.
It took eleven years from the time when King Liang was first named King of Dai to when he was changed to King of Liang.
In the fourteenth year of King Liang's reign, he entered the dynasty.
In the seventeenth and eighteenth years, he entered the court for two consecutive years and stayed in the capital. He did not return to his feudal country until the second year.
In the twenty-first year, he entered the court again.
In the twenty-second year, Emperor Xiaowen died.
He entered the DPRK in the twenty-fourth year and entered the DPRK again in the twenty-fifth year.
At that time, Emperor Jing had not yet established a prince.
When the Emperor was having a banquet with the King of Liang, he once said in a casual conversation: After thousands of years, I will pass on you, the King of Liang.
After hearing this, King Liang quickly declined.
Although he knew that what Emperor Jing said was not true, he was secretly happy.
The Queen Mother was equally happy.
That spring, the seven kingdoms of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao rebelled.
Wu and Chu first attacked Liang's Jibi and killed tens of thousands of people.
King Xiao of Liang guarded Suiyang City and appointed Han Anguo, Zhang Yu and others as generals to resist the troops of Wu and Chu.
Wu and Chu were blocked by Liang and did not dare to cross the Liang Kingdom to march westward. They had a stalemate with Taiwei Yafu and others for three months.
Wu and Chu were destroyed, and the number of Wu and Chu troops killed and captured by Liang was roughly as many as the imperial court. The following year, the imperial court established a prince.
Later, because the King of Liang was the emperor's brother and had made great achievements, he was granted the title of a great country and occupied the fertile land in the world.
Its fiefdom is bounded by Mount Tai in the north and reaches Gaoyang in the west. There are more than 40 cities in total, most of which are large counties.
King Xiao of Liang was the youngest son of Empress Dowager Dou. He was very favored and received countless rewards.
Therefore, King Xiao of Liang built Dongyuan with a radius of more than 300 miles and expanded Suiyang City to 70 miles.
A great deal of construction work was carried out, palaces were built, and overhead passages were built, which were more than thirty miles long from the palace to the platform.
There are banners awarded by the emperor, and thousands of people are accompanying them when they go out.
Horses are galloping and hunting everywhere, and the splendor of the scene is like that of an emperor.
When entering and exiting the palace, pedestrians are prohibited from clearing the road, and people are warned and warned.
The heroes from all over the country and the lobbyists from the east of Mount Laoshan, such as Yang Sheng, Gongsun Gui, Zou Yang and others from Qi, all returned to Liang.
Gongsun Guiduo had many strange and bizarre plans. When he first visited the King of Liang, the King of Liang gave him a thousand pieces of gold and an official position of lieutenant. The Liang State called him General Gongsun. The Liang Kingdom forged many weapons, including hundreds of thousands of bows, arrows, and spears. The treasury had nearly one trillion yuan in money, and there were even more pearls, jade, and treasures in the capital.
In October of the 29th year, King Xiao of Liang came to Beijing to meet Emperor Jing.
Emperor Jing sent an envoy to hold the talisman and drive the emperor's horse-drawn carriage to the pass to greet King Liang.
After meeting Emperor Jing, he submitted a memorial requesting to stay in the capital, and was allowed to do so because the Queen Mother loved Prince Xiao very much.
When King Xiao entered the palace, he accompanied Emperor Jing on a chariot. When he left the palace, he went hunting with the chariot and went to Shanglin Garden to shoot birds and beasts.
Liang Guo's ministers, Langguan, and visitors only need to register their names in the name book so that they can enter and leave the emperor's palace, no different from the officials of the imperial court.
In November, the emperor deposed Prince Li, and Empress Dowager Dou wanted to make Prince Xiao his successor.
The ministers, Yuan An and others dissuaded Emperor Jing, and Empress Dowager Dou's motion was blocked. From then on, she no longer mentioned the matter of making Prince Liang his successor.
Because this matter is very secret, no one in the world knows about it.
The King of Liang then bid farewell to the court and returned to the feudal state.
In April of this summer, the emperor made King Jiaodong the crown prince.
The King of Liang resented Yuan An and the ministers who participated in the heir discussion, so he planned with Yang Sheng, Gongsun Gui and others to secretly assassinate Yuan An and more than ten other ministers who participated in the heir discussion.
The court searched for the murderer, but failed to find it.
So the emperor suspected King Liang and captured the murderer, who was indeed the mastermind.
So Emperor Jing sent envoys constantly on the road to Liang State, where they repeatedly conducted inspections and arrested Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng were hiding in the harem of King Liang.
The envoy was urgent to question the officials of Erqianshi. Liang Xiangxuan Qiu Bao and Nei Shi Han Anguo came to admonish the king of Liang. The king of Liang ordered Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui to commit suicide, and then handed them over.
The emperor resented King Liang for this.
The King of Liang was frightened, so he sent Han Anguo to confess to the Queen Mother through the eldest princess and ask for forgiveness, and then he was forgiven.
The emperor's anger gradually dissipated, and King Liang wrote a letter requesting an audience.
After arriving at Hangu Pass, Mao Lan persuaded King Liang to take a cloth chariot and bring only two cavalry to the capital, hiding in the eldest princess's garden.
The imperial court sent envoys to welcome King Liang, but King Liang had already entered the pass. All his entourage, chariots and horses were outside the pass, and he did not know where he was.
The Queen Mother cried: Your Majesty killed my son!
Emperor Jing was worried about this.
So the King of Liang, carrying the instrument of torture on his back, prostrated himself before the palace gate, confessed his crime and asked for punishment. The Queen Mother and Emperor Jing were very happy, and wept relative to each other. The brotherhood was as good as before.
Then the officials accompanying King Liang were summoned into the pass.
However, Emperor Jing gradually alienated King Liang and no longer rode with him in chariots.
In the winter of the thirty-fifth year, King Liang went to Beijing again to see the emperor.
He submitted a memorial requesting to retain the capital, but the emperor did not agree.
After King Liang returned to his feudal state, he felt confused and depressed.
When he went hunting in the Liangshan Mountains in the north, someone offered him a cow. The cow's feet were long on his back. King Xiao was disgusted by it.
In mid-June, King Liang fell ill with fever and died six days later. His posthumous title is King Xiao.
King Xiao of Liang was very filial. Every time he heard that the Queen Mother was ill and couldn't eat or sleep well, he often wanted to stay in Chang'an to serve the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother also loved him.
When she learned that King Liang had died, Empress Dowager Dou cried very sadly and refused to eat or drink, saying: Your Majesty really killed my son!
Emperor Jing was sad and worried about it, and didn't know what to do.
Emperor Jing discussed with the eldest princess and divided the Liang Kingdom into five kingdoms. All five sons of King Xiao were granted the title of king, and all five daughters were also granted the title of Tang Muyi to them.
After reporting these measures to the Queen Mother, the Queen Mother became happy and added an extra meal because of Emperor Jing's treatment.
The eldest son of King Liang Xiao, Liu Mai, inherited the throne and was named the King of Gong; the second son, Liu Ming, was named the King of Jichuan; the third son, Liu Pengli, was named the King of Jidong; the fourth son, Liu Ding, was named the King of Shanyang; and the youngest son, Liu Bushi, was named the King of Jiyin.
Before the death of King Xiao of Liang, his property amounted to hundreds of millions and was incalculable.
After his death, there were still more than 400,000 kilograms of gold left in his treasury, and other properties were also equivalent to this.
In the third year of Liang Gong's reign, Emperor Jing died.
King Gong died after reigning for seven years and was succeeded by his son Liu Xiang, who became King Ping.
In the fourteenth year of Liang Ping King Liu Xiang's reign, Liang Ping King's mother was the Queen Mother Chen.
The mother of King Gong is Queen Mother Li.
Queen Mother Li is the biological grandmother of Prince Ping.
King Ping's queen's surname was Ren, and she was called Queen Ren.
Queen Ren was very favored by King Ping Liu Xiang.
At first, when King Xiao was still alive, he had a bottle worth thousands of gold.
King Xiao warned his descendants to take good care of the bottle and not give it to others.
After Queen Ren heard about it, she wanted to get the bottle.
The Queen Mother Li, the grandmother of King Ping, said: The late king had a will not to give away the bottles to others.
Even if other things are worth hundreds of millions, you can take them for yourself.
Queen Ren insisted on getting this bottle.
King Ping Liu Xiang directly asked people to open the treasury to get the bottles and gave them to Queen Ren.
Empress Dowager Li was furious. The imperial envoy came to the Liang Kingdom. Empress Dowager Li wanted to tell the envoy personally about the matter. King Ping Liu Xiang and Queen Ren stopped her and closed the door. Empress Dowager Li struggled to open the door, and her fingers were caught in the crack of the door. Finally, she could not see the envoy from the imperial court.
Empress Dowager Li secretly committed adultery with the Chief Food Officer and the doctor Yin Ba, so King Ping and Queen Ren sent people to dissuade Empress Dowager Li with this hint. Empress Dowager Li gave up because of her lewd behavior.
Later, Queen Mother Li died of illness.
When she was ill, Queen Ren did not ask for her health; after her death, she did not pay homage to her.
During the Yuanshuo period, there was a Suiyang man named Lei Anfan. Someone insulted his father. This man went out in the same car with the retainer of the Huaiyang prefect. The prefect's retainer got out of the car and left. Lei Anfan killed his enemy in the car and ran away.
The governor of Huaiyang was furious and blamed Liang Guo's two thousand stone officials.
Officials with less than 2,000 dan were very urgent to arrest the rebels, so they arrested the relatives of the rebels.
Lei Lian knew the secrets in Liang's palace, so he reported to the court in detail the events surrounding the dispute between King Ping and his grandmother over the Lei Zun.
At that time, officials below the prime minister knew about this incident and wanted to use it to attack the senior officials of Liang State, so they submitted a petition to the emperor.
The emperor handed the matter over to the officials for investigation and interrogation, and it was indeed true.
The minister asked the emperor to depose King Ping Liu Xiang and make him a commoner.
The Emperor said: Empress Dowager Li committed adultery, and Liang Wang Liu Xiang did not have a good master, so she fell into such an unjust situation.
So the fiefdoms of eight cities in Liang were reduced, and Queen Ren was beheaded in the city.
There are still ten cities left in the Liang Kingdom.
Liu Xiang died in the 39th year of his reign and was posthumously named King Ping.
His son Liu Wushang was established as King of Liang.
King Liu Ming of Jichuan was the second son of King Xiao of Liang. In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jichuan by the Marquis of Huanyi.
Seven years later, due to the crime of shooting the lieutenant, the relevant officials in the court petitioned to kill King Jichuan. The emperor could not bear to kill him, so he deposed Liu Ming as a civilian and demoted him to Fangling. The fiefdom belonged to the court and became a county.
King Liu Pengli of Jidong was the son of King Xiao of Liang. He was named King of Jidong in the sixth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
Twenty-nine years later, Liu Pengli was arrogant and fierce, without the demeanor of a human king. He secretly went out at night with dozens of his slaves and desperate youths to rob, kill, and plunder other people's property for fun.
More than a hundred people were found to have been killed by him. The whole country knew about it and no one dared to go out at night.
The son of the man he killed wrote a letter to report.
Relevant officials in the imperial court petitioned to have him executed. The emperor couldn't bear it and deposed him as a commoner and demoted him to Shangyong. The fiefdom belonged to the imperial court and became Dahe County.
Liu Ding, the Ai King of Shanyang, was the son of Liang Xiaozi. He was named King of Shanyang in the sixth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
After reigning for nine years, he died without a son. The feudal state was abolished and the land belonged to the imperial court and became Shanyang County.
Liu Bushi, the Ai King of Jiyin, was the son of King Xiao of Liang. He was named King of Jiyin in the sixth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He died after one year in office without any sons. The feudal state was abolished and the land belonged to the imperial court and became Jiyin County.
Tai Shigong said: Although King Xiao of Liang was granted the title of king in a fertile land because he was the brother of the emperor and the beloved son of the queen mother, he also coincided with the prosperity of the country and the prosperity of the people, so he was able to accumulate wealth, expand the palace, and his carriages, horses and clothing were similar to those of the emperor.
However, doing so would also constitute an act of transgression.
Mr. Chu Shaosun said: When I was a Langguan, I heard about the deeds of King Liang Xiao from the old Langguan who liked to gossip in the palace.
I privately believe that the trouble that made King Xiao of Liang resentful and dissatisfied, and wanted to be emperor was caused by the imperial court.
The Queen Mother at that time was the heroine of the country. Because she loved her youngest son, she wanted Prince Liang to be the crown prince.
The ministers of the DPRK do not promptly tell the reason why they cannot do this, but instead just flatter the Queen Mother, talk about trivial things, and privately please the Queen Mother in order to get rewards. This is not a loyal minister!
If ministers could speak openly and honestly like Wei Qihou and Dou Ying, how could there be any subsequent disasters?
Emperor Jing was having a banquet with Prince Xiao of Liang and was serving the Queen Mother to drink. Emperor Jing said: After I live forever, I will pass on the throne to you, Prince Liang.
The Queen Mother was very happy about this.
Before the banquet, Dou Ying fell to the ground and remonstrated: The legal system of the Han Dynasty stipulates that the throne is passed on to the eldest son and grandson. How can the emperor pass it to his younger brother now, violating the regulations of Emperor Gao without authorization?
Emperor Jing was silent at that time.
The Queen Mother was also very unhappy.
Once upon a time, King Zhou Cheng and his young brother were standing under a tree. He picked up a tung leaf and said to his brother: I will seal you with this.
Duke Zhou heard this and went forward to pay homage and said: "It's very good that the emperor entrusts his younger brother."
King Cheng said: I was just joking with him.
Duke Zhou said: As a monarch, you should not do inappropriate things or make jokes. What you say must be done.
So King Cheng granted Yingxian County to his younger brother.
From then on, King Cheng did not dare to make jokes throughout his life, and he would always do what he said.
"The Classic of Filial Piety" says: Don't say things that are illegal and don't do things that are unreasonable.
This is the clear teaching of the sage.
At that time, the emperor should not have used such nice words to make a wish to King Liang.
King Liang had the Queen Mother to rely on, and he had been arrogant for a long time. He had heard Emperor Jing's wish many times that he would pass the throne to King Liang after a long life, but in fact he did not do so.
In addition, according to the system of the Han Dynasty, the princes and dynasties should only meet the emperor four times in total.
When he first arrived in the capital, he went to the palace to have an audience, which was called "a small meeting"; in the early morning of the first day of the first lunar month, he held a leather cushion and placed jade to congratulate the emperor on the first month, which was called a "dharma meeting"; three days later, the emperor hosted a banquet for the princes and kings and gave them money and property; two days later, the princes and kings went to the palace to have a small audience again, and then said goodbye and returned to the country.
The total stay in Chang'an was only twenty days.
The so-called "Xiao Jian" means meeting each other in the palace without formal ceremony and having banquets in the forbidden areas of the palace, which are not accessible to ordinary scholars.
Now the king of Liang went west to Chang'an to see the emperor and stayed in the palace for nearly half a year.
He entered the palace and sat in the same carriage as the emperor, and when he left the palace he rode in the same carriage as the emperor.
The emperor used exaggerated words to sarcastically say that he would be emperor in the future, but in fact he could not fulfill it, which made the king of Liang complain and plot rebellion. Then the emperor started to worry about him. Isn't this too far away from the truth?
Except for the great virtuous and virtuous people, no one knows how to be humble and give in.
According to the etiquette system of the Han Dynasty, when an audience with the emperor was held to celebrate the first lunar month, it was usually a king and four princes who met together. Such an opportunity only occurred once in more than ten years.
But now the King of Liang often goes to Beijing to meet with him year after year and stays in Beijing for a long time.
As the saying goes: Arrogant children do not know how to be filial.
This is a good thing to say. Therefore, we should set up good masters and tutors for the princes and kings, and let loyal and upright people to speak out to assist them, just like Ji An, Han Changru and others. If they dare to speak out and give advice, how can disaster happen?
I heard that Prince Liang went to the capital to pay homage to the Empress Dowager Dou, and his family members met each other. He and Emperor Jing sat together in front of the Empress Dowager, and their mother, son, and brothers happily exchanged intimate words.
The Queen Mother said to Emperor Jing: I heard that the system of the Yin and Shang Dynasties respected their brothers, and the system of the Zhou Dynasty respected their ancestors. This principle is the same.
A hundred years later, I entrust King Liang Xiao to you.
Emperor Jing knelt on the seat, raised his body and said, "Yes."
After leaving the palace after the banquet, Emperor Jing summoned Yuan An and other ministers who were proficient in Confucian classics and said: "What does the Queen Mother mean when she says such a thing?"
Yuan Ang and others all replied: The Queen Mother wants to make Prince Liang the emperor's crown prince.
Emperor Jing asked about the reason, and Yuan Ang and others said: According to the tradition of the Yin and Shang Dynasties, one's brothers are close to each other, so the inheritance is passed down to his younger brothers.
The tradition of the Zhou Dynasty respected its ancestors, so it was passed down to their sons.
The tradition of the Yin and Shang Dynasties advocates simplicity. Simplicity means imitating heaven and being close to relatives, so it is passed down to the younger brother.
The tradition of the Zhou Dynasty advocates beauty, and beauty imitates the earth. Zun means respect, respecting its origin, so it is passed down to the eldest son.
According to the system of the Zhou Dynasty, when the prince dies, a legitimate grandson is established.
According to the system of the Yin Dynasty, when the prince dies, his younger brother is appointed.
Emperor Jing said: What do you think?
Everyone answered together: The current system of the Han Dynasty is modeled after the Zhou Dynasty. The system of the Zhou Dynasty cannot establish brothers, but should establish sons.
Because of this, "Spring and Autumn" accused Song Xuangong of this.
After Song Xuangong died, he passed the throne to his younger brother instead of having a son.
After his brother succeeded to the throne and died, the throne was given to his elder brother's son.
His younger brother's son fought for the throne and thought he should succeed his father, so he killed Xuangong's son.
So the country was in chaos. Disasters continue.
Therefore, "Spring and Autumn" says: A gentleman respects and follows the right path, and the chaos in the Song Dynasty was caused by Duke Xuan.
The ministers and others asked to see the Queen Mother to explain this truth.
Yuan An and others went to the palace to see the Queen Mother and said: The Queen Mother said that she would establish King Liang. So, who will be established after King Liang dies?
The Queen Mother said: I will raise the emperor's son again.
Yuan An and others stated the following historical facts to the Queen Mother: Duke Xuangong of the Song Dynasty did not establish a legitimate son who should succeed to the throne, which led to troubles. The troubles lasted for five generations without ending, and failure to restrain petty selfishness would harm the great righteousness.
After hearing this, the Queen Mother understood the truth and was happy. She immediately asked King Liang to return to the feudal country.
When the King of Liang heard that this opinion came from Yuan An and other ministers, he became resentful of them and sent people to kill Yuan An.
Yuan An turned around and saw the assassin and said: I am the General Yuan you mentioned. You can't get the wrong person, can you?
Assassin said: It's you!
The assassin killed Yuan An, discarded his sword, and stuck the sword in Yuan An's body.
Check the sword, it has just been sharpened.
Asking the craftsmen who made or sharpened swords in Chang'an City, the craftsmen said: Someone from Liang Guolang came to sharpen this sword.
After getting clues and discovering the conspiracy, he sent envoys to hunt down the murderer.
There were more than ten ministers whom the King of Liang wanted to kill. The law-enforcement officials traced the root cause, and the clues of the King of Liang's rebellion were clearly revealed.
The Queen Mother couldn't eat it and cried day and night.
Emperor Jing was very worried about this and asked the ministers for advice. The ministers believed that only by sending officials who were proficient in classics to deal with the matter could the Queen Mother's worries be relieved.
So Tian Shu and Lu Jizhu were sent to handle the case.
Both of them are proficient in classics and know great rituals.
After returning from the case, he went to the Ba Chang stable, took a fire and burned all the testimony of King Liang's rebellion, and played back and forth to Emperor Jing with his bare hands.
Emperor Jing asked: How did the case go?
The echo said: The king of Liang did not know.
The only people involved in this incident were his favorite ministers Yang Sheng, Gongsun Gui and others.
The ministers and others executed them according to the law, and King Liang was safe and sound.
Emperor Jing was very happy and said, "Hurry up and see the Queen Mother."
When the Queen Mother learned of this, she immediately got up and sat down to eat, her mood restored to calm.
Therefore, people who are not proficient in classics and do not understand the ancient and modern rituals cannot be appointed as three princes and close ministers.
A person who is ignorant is like peering into the sky through a tube.
