"Kingdom" says: The east is called barbarians.
Yi means root, which means that God is benevolent and cherishes all living beings, and all things grow out of the ground against the soil.
Therefore, people in the East are docile by nature and can be easily controlled by morality, so that a country of gentlemen and a country of immortality appeared.
The Yi are divided into nine branches, they are the Yi, Yu, Fang, Huang, Bai, Chi, Xuan, Feng and Yang.
So Confucius wanted to live in the Jiuyi area.
In the past, Yao ordered Xizhong to live in Woyi. There was a place called Yanggu, where the sun rose.
Emperor Taikang of the Xia Dynasty lost his virtue and the Yi people began to rebel.
Since Shaokang, the Yi people have admired the teachings of the imperial court for generations, so they submitted themselves to the emperor and presented their music and dance.
Jie's rule was brutal, and barbarians from various tribes invaded the interior. Chengtang of the Yin Dynasty changed the destiny, attacked and pacified Xia.
By the time of Zhongding, Lan Yi invaded the interior.
In the more than three hundred years since then, the Yi people sometimes surrendered and sometimes rebelled.
When Wu Yi declined, Dongyi gradually became stronger and stronger, so they moved to the Huaihe River and Mount Tai areas respectively, and gradually lived in the Central Plains.
When King Wu of Zhou destroyed Zhou, Sushen came to contribute arrowheads made of stone and arrows made of wood.
Guan Shu and Cai Shu betrayed the Zhou court, so they recruited and seduced the Yi Di. Zhou Gong conquered Guan Shu and Cai Shu and finally pacified Shu Yi.
During the reign of King Kang of Zhou, Sushen came again.
Later, Xu Yi usurped the title of emperor and led the nine barbarians to attack Zongzhou and attack westward to the bank of the Yellow River.
King Mu of Zhou was afraid that Xu Yi would be strong, so he separated the princes in the east and asked King Xu Yan to rule them.
King Xu Yan lived in Shumian, Huangchi. The land was five hundred miles in circumference. King Yan promoted benevolence and righteousness, and thirty-six countries came to worship him from all over the land.
King Zhou Mu later got the horses Chiji and Quer, so he sent Zaofu to ride the horses to inform the Chu State and order the Chu State to attack the Xu State. They arrived in one day.
So King Wen of Chu raised a large number of troops to attack Xu State and destroyed Xu State.
King Xu Yan was kind but ignorant of political skills and could not bear to let his countrymen fight, so he failed.
King Xu Yan was finally defeated at the foot of Shushan Mountain in Wuyuan County, Pengcheng City. Tens of thousands of people followed him, so Shushan Mountain was called Xushan Mountain.
King Zhou Li was cruel and unruly, and Huaiyi invaded. The emperor sent Guo Zhong to attack Huaiyi, but failed to win. King Xuan of Zhou ordered Duke Zhao to go and conquer Huaiyi, and pacified Huaiyi.
When King You of Zhou became debauched and violent, the barbarians from all sides invaded alternately. It was not until Duke Huan of Qi established his hegemony that he repelled the barbarians.
When King Chu Ling was applying for an alliance, Huaiyi also came to participate in the alliance.
Later, the Yue Kingdom moved to Langye and fought with the Huaiyi. From then on, they invaded and harmed all the countries in the Central Plains and invaded and destroyed small countries.
Qin State annexed the six countries, and Huaiyi and Siyi were scattered into ordinary people's houses.
Chen She raised an army and the world collapsed. Weiman, a native of Yan State, took refuge in North Korea and thus ruled North Korea.
More than a hundred years later, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty destroyed North Korea, and since then the Yicai have been banned from visiting Kyoto.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the Qi people invaded the border. In the early years of Jianwu, the Qi people came to pay tribute again.
At that time, the Liaodong governor's sacrifice to Xu was very powerful in the north, and his reputation was very high overseas. So Jia, Qi, Wa, and Han came to the court from thousands of miles away to contribute. Therefore, after Emperor Zhang and Emperor He, envoys communicated with each other.
At the time of trouble in Yongchu, Shu Yi began to invade and plunder; Emperors Huan and Ling were in political chaos, and Shu Yi gradually spread.
Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, barbarians from all over the world came to submit. Although there were frequent rebellions, the envoys did not stop. Therefore, the customs, customs, and geographical environment of these countries can be roughly described.
Dongyi generally have settled in one place for generations and like to drink, sing and dance. Sometimes they wear crowns, silk clothes, and utensils such as zu and beans.
This is the reason why China lost its etiquette and can be found in Siyi.
The barbarians, barbarians, Rong, and Di are collectively called the four barbarians, just like the dukes, lords, uncles, sons, and men are all called princes.
Fuyu country is a thousand miles north of Xuantu.
It borders Gaoguli to the south, Yilou to Shumian, Xianbei to the west, and Weishui to the north.
The area has a radius of two thousand miles, and it is originally a territory for reducing people.
At first, the king of the Northern Yi Suoli Kingdom went out on a tour, and his maid became pregnant. When the king came back, he planned to kill her.
The maid said: I saw an air mass in the sky as big as an egg before, and it landed on my body, and I became pregnant.
The king imprisoned her and she later gave birth to a boy.
The king ordered the boy to be thrown into a pigsty, and the pigs breathed on him to prevent him from dying.
Then he threw him into the stable to be breaded, and the horse also panted at him like a pig.
The king thought he was a god, so he allowed the child's mother to adopt him and named him Shuming.
When Shuming grew up, he was good at archery. The king hated his bravery and wanted to kill him.
Dongming escaped, went south to Yishui, and struck the water with his bow. As a result, all the fish and turtles gathered and floated to the surface. Shuming was able to cross the river on the fish and turtles, and he went to Fuyu and became the king there.
The land of Fuyu State is the flattest and most open among the Dongyi regions, and the soil is suitable for growing grains.
That bundle produced famous horses, red jade, mink uranium, and jade beads as big as jujubes.
They built a walled city with palisades, and within the city were palaces, warehouses, and prisons.
The people there are strong and brave but cautious and kind-hearted, and do not engage in invasion and looting.
They used bows and arrows and swords and spears as weapons.
They use the six animals as their official names, including horse, ox, and dog, and the cities and villages are all under the jurisdiction of each official. They use Zu and Dou to eat and drink. During court meetings, they practice the etiquette of paying homage, washing titles, and bowing to ascenders and descenders.
They worship the gods in the twelfth lunar month and hold grand gatherings for many days, eating, drinking, singing and dancing together, which is called "Yinggu".
At this time, we should stop using torture and arresting people in prison, and release the prisoners.
When a war breaks out, they also sacrifice to heaven, kill cows, and use their hooves to predict good or bad luck.
Pedestrians on the road like to sing and shout, no matter day or night, and their singing never stops.
The custom in Nabu was to use severe punishment, and all the family members of those who were executed were taken into slavery.
The penalty for stealing something is twelve times the amount.
Adultery between men and women was punished to death, especially vicious and jealous women. After being killed, their bodies were placed on the mountain.
When the elder brother dies, the younger brother takes his sister-in-law as his wife.
After death, there is an outer coffin but no inner coffin.
They killed living people and buried them in hundreds of people.
The king was buried in a jade box. The Han court often gave the jade box to Xuantu County in advance. When the king died, he sent people to pick up the jade box and bury the king.
During the Jianwu period, all the countries in Dongyi came to contribute and pay homage.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Fuyu sent envoys to offer tribute, and Guangwu rewarded them generously. From then on, the envoys communicated with each other every year.
In the fifth year of Emperor An's reign, King Fuyu led seven or eight thousand infantry and cavalry troops to invade and plunder Lelang for the first time, killing and injuring officials and people, and later surrendered again.
In the first year of Yongning, King Fuyu sent Crown Prince Weiqoutai to the court to pay tribute. The emperor gave Weiqoutai a seal ribbon, gold and silk fabrics.
In the first year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Shun, King Fuyu came to the capital to pay homage. The emperor performed Huangmen Guangchuang and Jiaodian Opera to see him off.
In the fourth year of Yanxi reign of Emperor Huan, King Fuyu sent an envoy to pay tribute and congratulations.
In the first year of Yongkang, Wang Futai led more than 20,000 invaders to invade Xuantu. Gongsunyu, the prefect of Xuantu, defeated Qutai and killed more than a thousand people in Quhehe.
In the third year of Xitong's reign, King Fuyu once again presented a memorial and donated items.
Guilan was originally affiliated with Zhitu. When Fu was a child, he went to Xuanzhou and asked to belong to the Liao tomb.
Yi Lou is the ancient Gu Yuan Seal.
Yixi is more than a thousand miles northeast of Guizhen. It is close to the sea to the east and borders Tanzuoju to the south. I don't know where the northern boundary of Yilou is.
There are many mountains and dangerous places in that place.
The people look like the Fuyu people, but their languages ​​are different.
It was wrapped in grain and linen, and produced red jade and fine mink.
They have no king or officials, and each tribe has its own leader.
They live in the mountains and forests, and the local climate is extremely cold. They usually live in caves, and the depth of the caves is considered noble. Rich families have such deep caves that they need nine ladders to connect them.
They like to raise pigs, eat pork, and wear clothes made of pig skins.
In winter, lard is smeared on the body, which is somewhat thick, to resist the wind and cold.
In the summer they were naked, covering their front and back with a foot of cloth.
The people there were stinky and unclean. The toilet was built in the middle and people lived around it.
After the rise of He, Lou was sent to go to He.
Although the Tanlou tribe has a small population, they are brave and powerful. They live in dangerous mountainous areas and are good at archery, and their shots can hit people's eyes.
The bow is four feet long and has the same power as a crossbow.
The arrows are made of ash wood, one foot and eight inches long, and the arrowheads are made of bluestone. The arrowheads are smeared with poison, and the person who is shot will die immediately.
They are good at sailing and like to plunder. The neighboring countries are afraid and worried, but they can never subdue them.
The eating utensils of Selou Fuyu generally use tuna beans, but Yilou does not use tzu beans. This is a country with the least orderly laws and customs.
Gaoguli is a thousand miles away from Shumian in Liaodong. It borders Korea and Jiaqi to the south, Shumian and Woju, and Fuguan to the north.
The area is two thousand miles in radius, with many mountains and deep valleys, and people live in the valleys.
Gaoguli lacks farmland and agriculture, and hard work cannot meet their own needs. Therefore, the custom is to save money on food, but like to build palaces.
According to legend in Saiyi, Bao Li was sewn into another branch, so his language and laws were many the same, but he dragged one foot when he knelt down and always ran when walking.
There are a total of five tribes in Gaoguli, including Xiaozhengsu, Juenu, Baguisu, Jinsi and Guilou.
Originally, the Xiaonu tribe was king, but later gradually weakened, and was later replaced by the Guilou tribe.
The official positions set up by Gaoguli include Xianjia, Duilu, Peizhe, Guzou Dajia, Zhubu, Youtai, Envoy, and Silk Yi Ancestor.
Emperor Mowu destroyed Korea and made Gaoguli a county, under the jurisdiction of Xuantu, and gave Gaoguli drummers and musicians.
The customs in Nabu are licentious, and everyone likes to be clean. At night, men and women gather together to sing and dance.
The people of Gaoguli like to offer sacrifices to ghosts, gods, crops, and sporadic things. In October, they offer sacrifices to heaven and hold large-scale gatherings, which is called ASEAN.
There is a large cave in Shubu of Gaoguli, called Suishen, and they also welcome and worship the Suishen God in October.
People attending the party wore silk clothes with exquisite and bright colors and patterns, and decorated themselves with gold and silver jewelry.
Both Dajia and Zhubu wear turbans, which look like crowns and turbans but without the back; Xiaojia wears folding wind crowns, shaped like ben.
They did not have prisons, but they had punishments. After discussion, the officials killed the guilty people and took the criminals' wives and children as slaves.
In their marriages, the man goes to the woman's home, gives birth to the child, brings the child back when the child grows up, and then gradually prepares the equipment for final use.
All the gold, silver, property and money were spent on lavish burials. They piled stones into graves and planted pine and cypress trees on the graves.
The people in Nahuo are ferocious and impatient, strong, good at fighting, and like to loot for the bandits. Woju and Shujia both belong to the rule of Gaoguli.
Gouli are also called 芊, and there is another race that lives by the river, so they are called Xiaoshui 芊.
Juli produces excellent bows, which are the so-called "Qiu bows".
In the early years of Wang Mang's reign, he fine-tuned Gouli's army to attack the Xiongnu. The Naguo people refused to go out, so Wang Mang forced them to go on the road. These people all escaped from the border and became bandits.
Dayin Tiantan in western Liaoning pursued the Gouli people and died in battle.
Wang Mang ordered his general Yan You to attack Juli. Yan You lured Juli Marquis Fu into the border pass, killed him, and sent his head to Chang'an.
Wang Mang was very happy and changed the name of King Gaogouli to Marquis of Xiagouli. As a result, the invasion of the border areas by the Qi people became more and more serious.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Gaogouli sent envoys to pay tribute, and Guangwu restored Gaogouli's title as king.
In the winter of the 23rd year, more than 10,000 people including Juli silkworms, Dai Sheng and others came to Lelang to return to the country.
In the spring of the twenty-fifth year, Juli invaded Youbeiping, Yuyang, Shanggu, and Taiyuan, but the Liaodong prefect Ji Xi used his kindness and faith to attract the Juli people, and they all opened the way.
Later, when King Gouli was born, he could see Shuxi when he opened his eyes, and the people of the country followed him. When he grew up, he was very brave and strong, and violated the boundaries many times.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Yuanxing's reign, the Gouli Palace invaded Liaodong again and looted six counties. The prefect Geng Kui defeated the Gouli army and killed their commander.
In the fifth year of Yongchu reign of Emperor An, the Gouli palace sent envoys to pay tribute and requested that it be under the jurisdiction of Xuantu.
In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Juli and Jiaqi invaded Xuantu and attacked Huali City.
In the spring of the first year of Jianguang, Feng Huan, the governor of Youzhou, Yao Guang, the prefect of Xuantu, Cai Xi, the prefect of Liaodong, and others led their troops out of the border to attack Gouli and Zhiqi. They captured and killed the commander of Jianguang and obtained many weapons, horses and property.
The palace then sent Crown Prince Suicheng to lead more than 2,000 people to meet Yao Guang and others, and sent envoys to pretend to surrender. Yao Guang and others believed the Gouli Palace, and Suicheng took the opportunity to occupy the dangerous terrain to block the army. At the same time, he quietly sent 3,000 people to attack Xuantu and Liaodong, burning the city walls and killing more than 2,000 people.
The imperial court then mobilized more than 3,000 cavalry from the vassal states of Guangyang, Yuyang, Youbeiping, and Zhuojun to rescue them, but the Qi people had already evacuated.
In the summer, the Qian people and more than 8,000 Xianbei troops in Liaodong attacked the Liao army, killing and looting officials and people.
Cai Xi and others pursued the enemy to Xinchang. Cai Xi died in the battle. Gong Cao Geng Hua, Bing Cao Long Duan, and Bing Ma Yu Gongsun Jiu protected Cai Xi with their bodies, and they all died in the battle. More than a hundred people died in the battle.
In autumn, Gong led thousands of cavalrymen from Ma Han and Jiaqi to surround Xuantu.
King Fuyu sent his son Wei Qiutai to lead more than 20,000 people to join forces with the prefectures and counties to attack. They defeated King Gouli and killed more than 500 enemies.
This year the palace died, and his son succeeded him.
Yao Guang wrote a letter saying that he wanted to take advantage of Juli's funeral to attack Juli, and everyone who participated in the discussion agreed that it was okay.
Chen Zhong, the minister, said: In the past, the palace was fierce and cunning, and Yao Guang could not attack him. It is unethical to take advantage of the palace's death to attack Gouli.
Envoys should be sent to express condolences and condolences, while blaming Juli for his past crimes, pardoning his previous crimes without punishing him, and striving for future benefits.
Anti adopted his opinion.
In the second year, Suicheng returned the captured Han people to the Han Dynasty and returned to Xuantu.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Suicheng and others were so violent and rebellious that it is unspeakable. They should kill their severed limbs and chop them into meat paste to inform the people. Fortunately, they encountered an edict of pardon and surrendered.
Xianbei and Huiqi invaded and looted for years, driving and plundering the people, often counting thousands, but the number of people sent back was only dozens or hundreds, which was not an approach that aspired to moralization.
From now on, whoever fights against the imperial court and submits to the imperial court himself, and who returns the captive population, will be given a ransom of forty bolts of fine silk for each person, and half of the amount for the children who are returned.
After Suicheng died, his son Bogu succeeded to the throne.
Since then, the people have been reduced and surrendered, and there have been few wars on the border of Shubu.
In the first year of Emperor Shun's Yangjia reign, six military camps were established in Xuantu County.
During the reigns of Emperor Zhi and Emperor Huan, Jiaqi once again invaded Anping in the east of Liao Dynasty, killed Dai Fangling, and abducted the wife and children of the prefect of Lelang.
In the second year of Jianning, Prefect Xuantu made several attacks and killed hundreds of people. He surrendered during the day and asked to be under Xuantu's jurisdiction.
Shuwoju is located on the side of Gaima Mountain in Gaoguli, with the sea to the east, bordering Yilou and Fuyu to the north, and Guqi to the south.
Shuwoju is narrow in the east-west direction and long in the north-south direction, which can be equivalent to a thousand miles square.
The land there is fertile, backed by mountains and facing the sea, and is suitable for grain growth. The people are good at farming and have village leaders.
The people in Nabu are naturally upright, brave and tenacious, and are good at fighting on foot with a spear in hand.
There are similarities between speech, food, shelter, clothing and sentences.
For their funeral, a large wooden coffin was built. It is more than ten feet long. One end of the wooden coffin is dug out to serve as a door. The newly deceased is buried temporarily to let the skin and flesh rot away, and then the bones are taken out and put into the coffin.
The whole family was put into a coffin. They used wood to carve the image of the deceased in life, and the number of images they carved increased with the number of dead people.
Emperor Wu subtracted North Korea and made the Woju area Xuantu County.
Later, it was invaded by barbarians, and Xuantu County was moved to the northwest of Gaoguli, while Woju was changed to a county, under the jurisdiction of the eastern Lelang Commandery.
At the time of Guangwu, the captaincy officers were removed, and later these places were granted the title of Wojuhou, the leader of Woju.
Woju's land was small and sandwiched between big countries, so it belonged to Gouli.
Gouli also appointed the chief among them as envoys to supervise Woju, requiring Woju to pay taxes, mink, cloth, fish, salt, and food from the sea, and recruit Woju's beauties as maids and concubines.
There is also Beiwoju, also known as Zhigoulou, which is more than 800 miles away from Nanwoju.
The customs of North Woju are the same as those of South Woju.
The southern part of the border is connected with Yilou.
The Yilou people like to invade and plunder by boat, and the people in Beiwoju are afraid. Every summer, they often hide in rock caves and wrap their faces. In winter, when the waterway for boats is blocked, they go down the mountains and live in villages.
The old man who wrapped it said that he once got a piece of coarse cloth in the sea. The shape of the clothes was like that worn by a man of average height, but the two sleeves were three feet long.
On the shore, I saw a man riding a broken boat with a face on his head. He and he couldn't understand each other. He died without eating.
He also said that there is a kingdom of girls in the sea, where there are no men.
Some legends say that there is a sacred well in the Daughter Kingdom, and you can give birth to a child if you look at the sacred well. It borders Gaoguli and Shuanghui in the far north, borders Lihan in the south, connects directly to the sea on the far side, and leads to Lelang in the west.
Zi, Woju, and Gouli were originally places in Korea.
In the past, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty granted Korea to Jizi. Jizi taught the people etiquette and the techniques of farming and raising silkworms, and also formulated eight prohibitions.
People there never steal from each other, and there is no need to close their doors.
Women are chaste and trustworthy.
When eating and drinking, use canopies and beans as ritual utensils.
More than forty generations later, Hou Zhun came to North Korea and claimed the title of king.
There was great chaos in the early Han Dynasty, and tens of thousands of people from Yan, Qi, and Zhao took refuge in North Korea. Weiman, a native of Yan, defeated Zhun and ruled North Korea by himself, passing the country on to Sun Tzu Youqu.
In the first year of Yuanshuo, Nanlu, the leader of Hui, and others betrayed Youqu and led 280,000 people to Liaodong to belong to the mainland. Emperor Wu established the territory he destroyed as Canghai County, which was revoked a few years later.
In the third year of Yuanfeng, Emperor Wu destroyed North Korea and established four counties: Lelang, Lintun, Xuantu and Zhenfan.
In the fifth year of Emperor Zhao's first year, Lintun and Zhenfan were abolished and merged with Lelang and Xuantu.
The administration of Xuantu County was moved to Gouli.
From the east of Shanshan Daling, Woju and Jiaqi belong to Lelang.
Later, due to the vast land within the territory, the seven counties in Lingshui were divided and the eastern commander of Lelang was set up.
After belonging to the country, customs gradually declined and legal prohibitions gradually increased, reaching more than 60 items.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, the commander-in-chief was reduced, so the places east of Lingdong were abandoned. All these places were granted to the chief leaders of the reduction and they were made county marquis. They came to worship and celebrate every four seasons.
There are no kings or officials in Jiaren. Their official positions include marquis, city king, and three elders.
The old man in Nabu said that he and Juli were of the same race, and their language, laws, and customs were generally similar.
People in Nabo are ignorant and simple by nature, have few desires and do not beg from others.
Both men and women wear clothes with curved collars.
Their custom is to value mountains, and each has its own territorial boundaries for the mountains, and they must not interfere with each other unnecessarily.
People with the same surname do not intermarry.
They have many taboos, and some people get sick and die. They often abandon their original residences and build new ones.
They know how to grow hemp, raise silkworms, and make silk and cotton cloth.
They know how to observe the stars and know in advance whether the harvest will be good or bad.
They usually worship the sky in October and drink, sing and dance day and night, which is called "Wutian".
The tiger was also worshiped as a god.
When villages invade each other, they always punish each other with people, cattle and horses, which is called "blame".
He who kills must pay with his life.
They rarely invade other countries and steal.
The dirty people can fight on foot. The spears they make are three feet long. Sometimes several people hold one spear together.
Lelang's sandalwood bow was produced in Chian.
There are many leopards with patterns on their bodies, there is a short horse that can ride under the fruit trees, and the sea is full of panfish. The messengers must contribute these things when they come.
Han is divided into three races: one is called Ma Han, the other is called Chen Han, and the third is called Benchen.
Mahan is in the west, and there are fifty-four countries. Mahan is adjacent to Lelang to the north and Japanese to the south. Chenhan is in the east, with twelve countries, and the north of Chenhan is bordered by Jiaqi.
There are also twelve countries in the south of Chenhan in Benchen, and the south of Benchen is also adjacent to Japan.
There are a total of seventy-eight countries in Han, and Boji is one of them.
There are more than 10,000 households in large countries and several thousand households in small countries, each living between the mountains and the sea, with a land equivalent to more than 4,000 square miles. With the sea as the border in the east and west directions, they were all ancient Chen countries.
Mahan was the largest, and everyone jointly appointed the man from Mahan as King Chen, established the capital in the country of Mozhi, and ruled all the territories of the three Hans.
The kings of various countries were originally people of the Mahan race.
The Mahan people know how to farm and raise silkworms and make silk cotton cloth.
That bundle produces chestnuts as big as pears.
There is a long-tailed hawk with a tail five feet long.
The villages in Mahan are all mixed together and there is no city wall.
They built houses of earth, shaped like tombs, and they opened the doors on the roofs of the houses.
They do not know how to kneel down and worship, and there is no distinction between men, women, old and young.
They do not value gold, silver, treasures, brocade, silk and woolen fabrics, nor do they know how to ride oxen or horses. They only value jade beads, which they attach to clothes as decorations and make necklaces and earrings.
They generally don't wear hats, their hair is exposed, and they wear cloth robes and straw sandals.
The people in that bundle are strong and brave, and young people often show off their strength when building houses. They often use ropes to connect their bare backs, hang up big logs, and cheer and jump, thinking they are strong.
They often finish farming in May to offer sacrifices to ghosts and gods, and drink and party day and night. Everyone gathers together to sing and dance. When dancing, dozens of people often follow the rhythm by tapping their feet on the ground.
Farming ends in October, too.
In each village in each country, there is a person responsible for worshiping the gods, who is called the King of Heaven.
They also built Sutu Pagodas, erected large logs, and hung bells and drums on them to serve ghosts and gods.
The southern border of Mahan is close to Japan, and there are also people with tattoos.
Chen Han, the old man in Nabo said that he was a fugitive from the Qin Dynasty. To avoid hard labor, he came to South Korea, and Ma Han carved out the eastern region for them to live in.
They call the country "Bang", the bow "Arc", the thieves "Kou", the wine drinker "Xing Shang", and they call each other "disciple", which is a bit like the language of the Qin Dynasty, so some people call them Qin and Han.
Chenhan has walls, fences and houses.
Some small cities have their own leaders. The big leader is called Chenzhi, the second is Jianzi, the third is Fan Zhi, the third is Shaxi, and the third is Yijue.
The land in Chenhan is fertile and suitable for growing grains.
They know how to raise silkworms, grow mulberries, and weave silk.
They know how to drive, ride oxen and horses, and marry according to etiquette.
People give way to each other on the road.
Chenhan produces iron, and Hui, Wa, and Mahan all buy iron from them.
In all their trade, iron was used as currency.
The customs in Nabu include singing, dancing, drinking, playing drums and playing the harp.
When a child is born and hopes that the child will have a flat head, rocks are placed on the child's head.
Benchen, Tongchen and Han lived mixedly. Their walls and clothes were the same, but their languages ​​​​and customs were different.
The people all look tall, have beautiful hair, and clean clothes.
But the criminal law is severe.
Benchen's country is close to Japan, so many people have tattoos.
At first, King Zhun of Korea was defeated by Wei Man, so he led thousands of remaining people to escape to the sea, attacked Mahan, defeated Mahan, and proclaimed himself the king of Han.
Zhun's descendants were extinct, and the Mahan people appointed themselves King Chen.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, Sumaxuan and others from Liansi in South Korea came to Lelang to pay tribute.
Guangwu named Sumati the King of Han Liansi County and asked him to be under the jurisdiction of Lelang County and to see him in court all year round.
In the last years of Emperor Ling's reign, Han and Jianyi were both strong and powerful. The counties and counties were unable to subdue them. The people suffered from chaos and chaos, and many people fled to South Korea.
To the west of Wulong, there is an island with Zhou Hu State on it.
The man in Nabu was short, had his head shaved, and wore leather clothes, with only a top but no bottom.
They like to raise cattle and pigs, and travel by ship to Korea to do business.
The Japanese live in the sea to the southeast of Korea and live on islands. There are more than a hundred countries in total.
Since Emperor Wu destroyed Korea, the Japanese have sent envoys and translators to about thirty countries with the Han Dynasty. Each country calls itself a king, which has been passed down from generation to generation.
The king of Japan lived in the kingdom of Yamatai.
The border of Lelang County is 12,000 miles away from Yamatai Kingdom and more than 7,000 miles away from Koye Korea, the northwest border of Japan.
Wadi is roughly located in Shuye, Kuaiji, and is close to Zhuya and Dan'er, so their laws and customs are mostly the same.
The soil there is suitable for growing rice and hemp, as well as for raising silkworms and growing mulberry trees. The Japanese know how to weave silk and hemp into cloth.
That bundle produces white jade beads and sapphire.
There is red soil on the mountains.
The climate is warm, and vegetables grow in both winter and summer. There are no cows, horses, tigers, leopards, sheep, or magpies.
Their weapons include spears, shields, and wooden bows, and their arrows are made of bamboo or bone.
Men all get tattoos on their faces, and the left and right and the size of the patterns on their bodies are used to distinguish people of high and low status.
The clothes worn by men are wrapped with the entire piece of cloth stretched across it and tied together.
Women wear their hair in a bun, and their clothes are like thin quilts, covering their bodies from head to bottom. They also apply cinnabar powder on their bodies, similar to the powder used by people in the Central Plains.
They have walls, fences and houses.
Parents and brothers live separately, but there is no distinction between men and women when they gather together.
Eat and drink with your hands, and use ritual vessels such as tents and beans.
They are customarily barefoot and believe that squatting and sitting are respectful to others.
People are alcoholics by nature.
Many people live long lives, and many live to be over a hundred years old.
There are many women in the country, and the leaders have four or five wives, while others have two wives, and some have three wives.
Women are not sexually immoral or jealous.
Moreover, the custom there is no stealing, and there are few disputes and lawsuits.
The wife and children of the offender will be confiscated, and in serious cases, the entire family will be killed.
When a person dies, his body is kept in a state of burying for more than ten days, and people are kept crying at home. They do not eat or drink, but other people go to the deceased's home to sing and dance for fun.
They roasted the bones for divination and used them to judge good or bad luck.
They traveled across the sea and asked a person not to dress, wash, eat meat, or be close to women, which was called "continuous decline".
If it is auspicious on the way, the poor person will be given money and property; if he is sick or killed outside, it will be considered that the poor person is not careful, and he will be killed together.
In the second year of Jianwu Zhongyuan, the Wonu Kingdom sent people to bring tributes to worship and celebrate. The messenger called himself a doctor. The Wonu Kingdom was at the southernmost end of the Wono Kingdom.
Guangwu gave the seal and ribbon to the Japanese slaves.
In the first year of Yongchu reign of Emperor An, the Japanese king Shuai Sheng and others presented 160 people, hoping to have an audience with him.
During the reigns of Emperors Huan and Ling, the Japanese were in great chaos and fought against each other. They had no king for many years.
There was a woman named Himihu who would not marry when she was older and practiced the art of ghosts and gods. She was able to confuse everyone with her magic, so everyone jointly made her the king.
She had thousands of servants and maids, but few saw her. Only one man provided her with food and drink and preached her words.
The palace buildings and walls where she lived were guarded by people with weapons.
Legal customs are very strict.
Crossing the sea more than a thousand miles east from the Queen's Kingdom to the Konu Kingdom, although they are all Japanese, they are not under the Queen's jurisdiction.
More than 4,000 miles south from the Queen's Kingdom to the Dwarf Kingdom, people are three or four feet tall.
One year's journey by boat from the Dwarf Kingdom to the southeast will lead to the Naked Kingdom and the Black Tooth Kingdom. This is as far as the envoy can go.
There are Shuti people overseas in Kuaiji, and they are divided into more than 20 countries.
There are also Yizhou and Chanzhou.
Legend has it that Qin Shihuang sent the alchemist Xu Fu to lead thousands of boys and girls across the sea in search of the Penglai Immortal. However, he did not find the Immortal. Xu Fu did not dare to come back for fear of being beheaded, so he lived on Yizhou with tens of thousands of families for generations.
People often go to Kuaiji to do business.
Someone in Shuye County, Kuaiji encountered strong winds while sailing at sea and was drifted to Chanzhou.
Chanzhou is located very far away and there is no way to travel there.
The argument goes: In the past, Jizi was far away from the fate of the declining Yin Shang Dynasty and took refuge in Korea.
The customs in Korea had not been heard of at first. After Jizi implemented the eight prohibitions, people became aware of the laws and prohibitions. Therefore, there was no adultery and theft in the city, and the houses were not closed at night. This changed the ignorant and shallow customs and became close to tolerant and simple laws. This was implemented for hundreds of thousands of years. Therefore, Shu Yi generally formed a gentle and prudent custom, which was different from the Yi people in the other three areas.
As long as there is political understanding, there will be morality.
Zhongni felt angry and thought that Jiuyi could live there.
Some people suspect that Jiuyi is humble.
Confucius said: If talented and virtuous people live there, what is the point of being despicable? This is the only way to think about it.
After that, North Korean merchants went back and forth to do business and gradually came into contact with the Central Plains.
However, Wei Man, a native of Yan, disturbed the customs of Korea, and the customs became shallow and different from then on.
"Laozi" said: The more clearly the law becomes clearer, the more thieves will be.
Like Jizi, who simplifies legal provisions and governs with faith, this is the basis for the sages to formulate laws!
Zan said: Living in Woyi, a place called Yanggu.
They live in the mountains and live on the sea, which is how they are different from the clans in the Central Plains.
In the last years of the Qin Dynasty, chaos occurred, and the people of Yan fled from the disaster.
The customs of the Chinese people were mixed in, and the original customs were weakened, so they had contacts with the Han Dynasty.
Being far away through translation, sometimes surrendering and sometimes betraying.
