Zhai Fangjin, courtesy name Ziwei, was from Shangcai, Runan.
His family has been humble and humble for generations. Fang Jin's father Zhai Gong was fond of learning and served as a county scholar.
When Fang Jin was twelve or thirteen years old, his father died and he could no longer continue his studies. He worked as a minor historian in the prefect's mansion. He was considered slow and could not do good things, and was repeatedly scolded and insulted by the governor.
Fang Jin was very sad, so he went to meet Cai's father in Runan and asked him what he was suitable for.
Cai's father thought that his appearance was unusual and told him: You have the bone image of a feudal lord. You should use it according to the classics and study the knowledge of Confucian scholars.
Fang Jin was tired of being a minor historian. After hearing what Cai's father said, he felt very happy, so he returned home saying he was ill, said goodbye to his stepmother, and wanted to go west to the capital to study scriptures.
His mother felt pity for Fang Jin when he was young, so she came to Chang'an with him, knitted shoes for him to study, and taught him "Spring and Autumn" by a doctor.
After more than ten years of accumulation and study, he became proficient in Confucian classics, and his number of disciples increased day by day, and all the Confucian scholars praised him.
Take Shece Jiake as the man.
Two or three years later, he was promoted to Mingjing and moved to Yilang.
At this time, there was a mature and knowledgeable scholar Hu Chang from Qinghe, who was studying the same classics as Fang Jin.
Hu Chang was a senior, but his reputation was not as good as Fang Jin's. He was jealous of Fang Jin's talent, and did not praise Fang Jin when discussing.
After Fang Jin knew about it, he waited for Hu Chang to gather his students to give lectures, and sent students under his disciples to Hu Chang's place to ask for advice on difficult issues in the scriptures, and record Hu Chang's teachings accordingly.
After such a long time, Hu Chang felt uneasy knowing that Fang Jin respected and humbled him. From then on, he was known as Fang Jin among the scholar-bureaucrats, and they became close friends.
During the Heping period, Fang Jin became a doctor.
A few years later, he was moved to Shuofang as governor. When serving as an official, he is not cumbersome and harsh, and his observations are carried out in an orderly manner, which is very prestigious.
He reported to the imperial court many times and was moved to the position of Prime Minister Sizhi.
He followed Emperor Cheng to Ganquan and drove on the Chi Road. Chen Qing, the captain of Sili School, impeached him, so Fang Jin had his carriage and horses confiscated.
After arriving at Ganquan Palace, they gathered in the palace and talked with Chen Qing and Tingwei Fan Yanshou. At that time, Chen Qing was being impeached by a memorial. Chen Qing said himself: "What happened in the past should be punished as a crime. Now that the Minister has come with a memorial to impeach me, the verdict should be wrapped up here."
When I was a minister, I had something to report, but I suddenly forgot about it and put it aside for more than a month.
Fang Jin therefore impeached Chen Qing and said: Chen Qing was ordered to investigate and expose the ministers, so he was the minister. He understood that confidential matters were carefully arranged and planned, and the Ming Lord personally handled them without slacking off.
Chen Qing was guilty but did not punish him. He was not afraid of it and set up an example of not convicting him in advance.
Moreover, he leaked the information about promoting the minister, saying that speed does not matter, which undermines the wisdom and wisdom of Shengde, and is not careful in following the edict. These are all disrespectful manifestations, and I would like to impeach him for this.
Chen Qing was dismissed from his official post.
It happened that Haoshang from the North was arrested by the county magistrate of Yiqu and later fled. The magistrate captured his mother and tied her with the boar under the capital pavilion.
A guest at the Haoshang Brotherhood Conference, claiming to be Sili Peng and Chang'an County Lieutenant, killed six of the wife and children of the Yiqu County Magistrate and then escaped.
The prime minister and the imperial censor requested that the governor, the commander of the Sili school, and the governor of the ministry be sent to jointly hunt down the person and find out the person who had committed an unspeakable crime.
Juanxun, the captain of the Sili School, reported: According to the classics and meanings of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the king's humble official position is ranked above the official positions of the princes, which means respecting the king's order.
I was fortunate enough to accept the mission, with the responsibility of supervising and inspecting officials below the rank of minister. Now Prime Minister Xue Xuan has requested to send a censor to let the prime minister's subordinate officials supervise and inspect the emperor's ministers. This is very contrary to the principle of disobedience.
Xue Xuan originally did not have a teacher to learn Confucianism, so he relied on his ministry to establish his prestige. Looking at what Haoshang did, it was nothing more than a disaster to the family, but Xue Xuan wanted to be authoritarian because of this, which was harmful to our country and did the last thing he should have done.
It is hoped that the matter will be handed over to officials below the level of Zhongko, Tejin, Liehou, and General to rectify the country's legal system.
Commentators believed that it was not appropriate for the Prime Minister to send documents to supervise the ministers.
It happened that Haoshang was arrested and executed. His family was moved to Hepu.
According to the old practice, the position of Sili Xiaowei was below Sizhi. When he was newly appointed, he met the Prime Minister and the Censor. During the court meeting, the Sili Xiaowei was in front of Zhong Erqian Shi, and he and Sizhi welcomed the Prime Minister and the Censor.
At the beginning, Fang Jin had just taken up his post, and Wu Xun had recently been appointed as Sili, so he refused to meet the prime minister and the imperial censor. Later, when they met at court, the etiquette was very arrogant.
Fang Jin secretly observed him and found that Juanxun visited Guangluxun and Xin Qingji privately. He went out again and met his uncle Hou Shang of Chengdu on the road. He got off the car and stood aside, waiting for Wang Shang to pass before getting in the car.
Therefore, Fang Jin reported Juan Xun's crime and said accordingly: I heard that the revitalization of the country lies in respecting the elders and observing the etiquette of the nobles. This is the law and discipline of the king.
According to the scriptures and meanings of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the Lord is respected as the Prime Minister, and everything in the country is under his command.
When the prime minister comes to see the emperor, the emperor should stand up from his seat; when the emperor is on the way, when the prime minister pays homage, the emperor should get off the car.
All ministers should accept the teachings of the Holy Dynasty and inform the world.
However, Juanxun was an official with two thousand stones. He was fortunate enough to be sent on an envoy, but he did not abide by the etiquette. He looked down upon the prime minister and despised the minister. He also distorted etiquette and lost his grace. He was treacherous and flattering and had no normal heart. He was dignified in appearance and cowardly in heart.
Those who destroy the dignity of the country and disrupt the order of the court should not hold official positions.
I request the Prime Minister to dismiss Juan Dong.
At that time, Taizhong doctor Ping was in charge of the affairs. He reported that Fang Jin was the minister of the country. He did not first correct himself to set an example for others. He had previously violated the law and drove on the road. Chen Qing, the minister, tried to impeach him fairly. Fang Jin did not feel guilty or regretful but harbored personal hatred. He recorded Chen Qing's chatting words in order to slander and deceive him and convict him.
Later, Prime Minister Xue Xuan asked to send a military official to supervise Sili Xiaowei because of a bad guy who killed six innocent family members. Sili Xiaowei Juanxun himself submitted a memorial to the court, and now Fang Jin impeached Juanxun again.
Commentators believe that Fang Jin does not use morality to assist the prime minister, but only favors and helps ministers. If he wants to win and establish authority, this source should be stopped and cut off.
Juanxun has always acted fairly and upright, and is disgusted by traitors. You can be a little tolerant and let him achieve his fame.
Because the emperor's impeachment by Fang Jin was appropriate, he could not abolish the law just because he suspected others of fraud in advance, so he demoted Juanxun to the rank of Changling Order.
Fang Jin dismissed two ministers in one year, and everyone in the court was afraid of him.
Prime Minister Xue Xuan valued Fang Jin very much and often warned the minister: "Serve Si Zhi with caution, and Zhai Fangjin will definitely be in power soon."
At this time, Changling was being built and the imperial mausoleums and cities were being built. Many of the emperor's internal and external relatives and the children and guests of his close ministers had exclusive power for personal gain. Fang Jin arranged for a historical inspection and revealed that tens of millions of filthy items had been secretly hidden.
The emperor believed that he was qualified for the position of public minister and wanted to use him to govern the people. He transferred him to the position of Jing Zhaoyin. Fang Jin attacked the powerful and powerful, and everyone in the capital was afraid of him.
At that time, Hu Chang was the governor of Qingzhou. When he heard about this, he wrote to Fang Jin: I heard privately that your decrees are very strict. With Jing Zhaoyin's talents, I am afraid that he will feel uncomfortable.
Fang Jin knew in his heart what Hu Chang was referring to, and then relaxed his dignity a little.
Fang Jin served as Jingzhaoyin for three years, and was promoted to imperial censor in the second year of Yongshi.
A few months later, Prime Minister Xue Xuan happened to be exempted from being a civilian because of the riots caused by thieves in the vast desert and the three auxiliary officials of Zha during the funeral of the Empress Dowager.
Fang Jin was also demoted to Zhijinwu because he was ordered to hold funerals when he was appointed Jingzhao Yin and disturbed the people.
Twenty days later, the official position of prime minister became vacant. Most of the ministers recommended Fang Jin. The emperor also valued Fang Jin's talents, so he promoted Fang Jin to be prime minister and made him the Marquis of Gaoling, granting him a land of thousands of households.
Fang Jin was already rich, but his stepmother was still alive. He paid attention to cultivating family conduct and worshiped his mother very piously and generously.
When his stepmother passed away and was buried twenty-six days later, he took off his funeral clothes and started working. He believed that as the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, he did not dare to go beyond the country's system.
As prime minister, he was impartial and honest, and did not ask the four counties and counties for personal matters.
The law is strict and strict, and the ministers and ministers are reported to the nine ministers. The laws are strict and detailed and are deeply slandered. There are many people who conspire to frame him.
People such as Chen Xian, Zhu Bo, Xiao Yu, Feng Xin, and Sun Hong all came from aristocratic families in the capital. Because of their talents, they served as ministers at a young age and were very famous at that time. However, Fang Jin came from behind because of his outstanding performance and was promoted to prime minister in more than ten years. Chen Xian and others were impeached according to the law, and they were all dismissed.
Previously, Chen Xian was the first to become an official, and he had become famous in the court since he was appointed as the censor in the early years of Emperor Yuan.
As soon as Emperor Cheng came to the throne, he was promoted to the governor of the Ministry, and successively served as the prefect of Chu, Beihai, and Shujun.
During the Yangshuo period, Jingzhao Yin Wangzhang was deeply responsible for the ministers, and recommended Feng Yewang, the prefect of Langye, to be suitable to replace the general Wang Feng to assist the government, and Chen Xian, the prefect of Shujun, to be the imperial censor.
At this time, Fang Jincai was appointed as governor from doctor.
Later, Fang Jin served as Jing Zhaoyin, and Chen Xian entered the imperial court from Nanyang Prefecture as Shaofu, and was very close to Fang Jin.
Previously, Fengxin had served as the governor of Gaodi County, Jingzhaoyin, Taipu, and Weiwei. His achievements and qualifications as an official were superior to Fang Jin's.
When the official post of imperial censor became vacant, Chen Xian, Fang Jin, and Feng Xin, all famous ministers, were all on the list of candidates, and Fang Jin got the official post.
It happened that Prime Minister Xue Xuan had something to do with Fang Jin, so the emperor sent two thousand stone and five people to jointly interrogate the prime minister and the censor. Chen Xian blamed Fang Jin, hoping to get his position as censor, so Fang Jin held a grudge.
Previously, General Wang Feng petitioned to appoint Chen Tang as Zhonglang, and all political matters were done after discussing with Chen Tang.
After Wang Feng's death, his cousin, Chariot and Cavalry General Wang Yin, replaced Wang Feng to assist the government, and he also valued Chen Tang.
Feng Xin and Chen Xian were both friendly with Chen Tang, and Chen Tang also repeatedly praised Feng Xin and Chen Xian in front of Wang Feng and Wang Yin.
A long time later, Wang Yin died, and Wang Feng's younger brother, Hou Shang of Chengdu, was appointed as General Sima Wei to assist the government.
Wang Shang had always hated Chen Tang, so he reported his crimes. The emperor asked Yousi to investigate and confirm, then dismissed Chen Tang and exiled him to Dunhuang.
At that time, Fang Jin was the new prime minister. Chen Xian was frightened and uneasy, so he ordered Xiaoguan Du Zixia to detect Fang Jin's intentions and secretly defend himself.
After Zixia visited Fang Jin, he found out Fang Jin's intentions and did not dare to speak for Chen Xian.
Not long after, Fang Jin reported that Chen Xian and Feng Xin were evil, corrupt and selfish.
They all knew that Chen Tang was treacherous, flattering, capricious, and eloquent and eloquent, but they still kept close contact with him and gave him money and gifts to seek his recommendation.
They later became Shaofu and donated property to Chen Tang many times.
Feng Xin and Chen Xian were lucky enough to be among the nine ministers. They did not want to be loyal and upright, and they knew in their hearts that improper behavior would have no effect. However, they flattered evil ministers in order to gain relatives and favors, and they were so harsh that they lost their integrity.
Confucius said: Can such a person serve the king with him?
I’m talking about Chen Xian and Feng Xin.
Their mistakes and evils have been revealed and they are no longer suitable for holding official positions. I request that they be removed to make it known to the world.
The emperor agreed.
More than two years later, the emperor issued an edict to recommend talents with Fang Zhengyan. Hongyang Marquis recommended Chen Xian to respond to policy questions. The emperor appointed Chen Xian as Guanglu doctor to Shizhong.
Fang Jin reported again: Chen Xian's former name was Jiu Qing, and he was dismissed because of his corrupt behavior. He himself knew that his crimes were exposed, and he was lucky enough to get the job thanks to Hongyang Houli, but no one dared to report him.
Chen Xian was corrupt, harsh and allowed to live in the world. He did not care about the shame. He should not accept Fang Zheng's recommendation and only occupied the position of minister in the inner dynasty.
Moreover, Hongyang Houli was impeached for deliberately not following the truth when selecting and recommending talents.
The emperor issued an edict to remove Chen Xian, but ordered not to impeach him.
A few years later, Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, the son of the Empress Dowager's sister, was found guilty. Because of the Empress Dowager, the emperor removed Chun Yuchang from his official position but did not punish him.
A senior official requested that Chun Yuchang be sent to his county. Chun Yuchang bribed Li with money and immediately submitted a sealed memorial to Chun Yuchang, requesting him to stay. He said: Your Majesty has already issued a Shao letter because of the empress dowager. You really can't have any other plan.
Later, Chunyu Chang was arrested and imprisoned because his secret affairs were exposed.
Fang Jin impeached Li for being treacherous, disrupting the government, trying to subvert and threaten the emperor, being cunning and unethical, and asked the emperor to sentence him to prison.
The emperor said: "Hongyang Hou is my uncle. I can't bear to use legal sanctions, so I send him to the county."
So Fang Jin went to Li's cronies again and said: "Li has always done many bad things, and everyone knows that."
The evil ministers took it upon themselves to collude with him and become close friends with him. They hoped that Li Neng would participate in political affairs and gain personal gain.
Now that he has been expelled to the county, the people he has close relationships with are not suitable to serve as ministers or county guards.
After the inspection, General Zhu Bo, Julu Prefect Sun Gui, and former Guanglu doctor Chen Xian became close friends and became each other's confidants. They had a pact to become buddies against justice and wanted to support each other until death; they all harbored inner feelings. He has an unkind character, but has outstanding intelligence, surpasses everyone, is brave and courageous, and does not hesitate in doing things. He usually advocates cruelty, cruelty, cruelty, and violence, and relies on cruelty and viciousness to establish prestige, without any intention of benevolence and benefit.
Everyone in the world knows it, and even fools are confused.
Confucius said: What should I do if I employ people without courtesy?
What should I do if I employ people who are not benevolent?
This means that people without benevolence and righteousness are of no use to the country. People without benevolence and righteousness who are very talented are a disaster for the country.
These three people are all treacherous and cunning, which is a concern for the country, but they are deeply colluded with each other to win the trust of noble relatives and treacherous ministers. This is a great worry for the country, and it is something that ministers should sacrifice their lives to admonish. In the past, Ji Sunxing's father once said: When you see someone who is good for you, you love him, just like a filial son who supports his parents, and when he sees someone who is disadvantageous, he attacks him, just like an eagle chasing away birds.
Even if the eagle's wings are injured, it will not escape.
It is indeed difficult to offend a noble relative's close friends. If they are offended, all the enemies will be resentful, and good and evil will cover up each other.
I am fortunate enough to serve as prime minister, and I dare not not do my best.
Ask the emperor to remove Zhu Bo, Sun Hong, and Chen Xian and return them to their former counties to eliminate the evil gangs and cut off the hope of the evil gangs.
The emperor is ready to play.
Chen Xian had been dismissed from office and prohibited from holding office again. He was sent back to his hometown and died of illness due to worry and anger.
Fang Jin was rich in knowledge and talent, and he also knew the law and officials. He decorated the law with elegant writing and was called the Tongming Prime Minister. The emperor valued him very much. Fang Jin reported to the emperor everything that was not in line with his wishes and ordered him. He also explored the emperor's hidden will to consolidate his position.
Previously, Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang was a relative, but because he was good at strategy, he was listed as the Jiuqing. When he first took office, Fang Jin interacted with Chun Yuchang alone, praised and recommended him.
When Chun Yuchang was executed for treason, all those who were friendly to Chun Yuchang were dismissed from their posts because of him. Because Fang Jin was a minister, the emperor always valued him and concealed the secrets for him.
Fang Jin felt guilty and asked to resign and go home.
The emperor replied: Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang has already confessed his crime. Although you associate with him, doesn't it say so in the scriptures? If you know your mistakes in the morning, you will correct them in the evening. A gentleman praises him. What doubts do you have?
Please stay focused and don't slack off. See your doctor and take medicine to take care of yourself.
Fang Jin just got up to do things, and reported one by one to Chunyu's elders, Yin Sunbao of Jingzhao and Xiao Yu of Youfufeng. There were more than 20 people who had been dismissed from their posts as governors with more than 2,000 shi. Fang Jin was trusted by the emperor.
Although Fang Jin studied "Gu Liang Zhuan", he loved "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and astronomical ephemeris. His "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was taught to the national teacher Liu Xin, and the ephemeris was taught to Chang'an Lingtian Zhongshu.
Fang Jin valued Li Xun and appointed him as Yi Cao.
Fang Jin had been prime minister for nine years. In the spring of the second year of Suihe, Mars entered the heart of the sky. Li Xun wrote in a memorial: You know the tactics of dealing with changes.
It has been reported many times in the past that Yingshisu, Dongjingsu, and Mars show signs and changes, and mountains, rivers, and springs show disasters contrary to common sense, but the rumors spread by the people have come true.
These three things have been fulfilled, which can be said to be chilling.
In this photo, the Ti star raises its horns, the Wandering Star is in the center of the arc, Sirius raises its horns, the Tiangong star shines, Venus crosses the sky, Saturn goes retrograde, the auxiliary stars sink and disappear, Mars guards the home for thirty years, and the day of death is approaching.
You have no merit in saving the world, and you have no excuse to be humble and avoid the virtuous people. If you want to be in a high position and be a minister without merit to protect yourself, how difficult it is!
The great punishment is getting worse day by day. How can we only guarantee the result of being expelled?
There are more than 300 people in your house. I hope you will choose the right people and work together to preserve your integrity and turn bad things into good ones.
Fang Jin was very worried about this matter and didn't know what to do.
It happened that Lang Bili was good at observing astrology and said that the minister should bear this responsibility.
The emperor then summoned Fang Jin.
After Fang Jin came back, before he could commit suicide, the emperor sent a document saying: The emperor asked the prime minister: You have the ambition of Confucius and the courage of Meng Ben. I am kind-hearted and united with you, hoping to achieve something.
It's just that in the ten years since you took the throne, disasters have struck. The people have suffered from starvation, drowned by diseases and plagues, the latch of the door has lost itself, the country has lost its guards, and there are many thieves.
The officials and the people were cruel and brutal, beating and killing good people, and the number of cases tried and decided every year was more than before.
Writing letters to each other, talking to each other on the road, forming cliques with evil intentions, concealing things from each other, all losing loyalty, the ministers being restless and jealous of each other, where does the responsibility for these mistakes lie?
Observing your governance, you have no good intentions to help me make the people prosperous and stable.
Although the food harvest in the county has been mostly good recently, there is still a lot of food for the people. Those who went to guard the city have not been able to return. I have never forgotten this sooner or later.
I hope that the money used in the past can be the same as it is now, and that people have their own fixed expenses.
You are not balanced, but you listen to the advice of your subordinates. If the money is not enough, you petition for an expeditious increase in taxes. You levy taxes on cities and surrounding areas, use money as a substitute for labor, tax on horses, cattle, and sheep, and increase taxes on salt and iron. There is no common sense in the changes.
Since I don't know clearly, I agree to implement it according to the above memorial. Later, the reviewers thought it was inconvenient and the edict was conveyed to you. You said that you were selling distiller's grains, but later you requested to stop.
Less than a month later, you submitted another petition to sell the distiller's grains.
I really wonder why you always follow the popular strategy instead of having a loyal and firm mind. How can you assist me in commanding my subordinates?
And if you want to occupy a prominent and noble position for a long time, isn't it difficult?
The Sutra says: Being in a high position without danger is the way to maintain your dignity for a long time.
I want to remove you from your official position, but I can't bear it.
You must carefully consider careful strategies, eliminate the source of evil, worry about the country as much as you worry about your family, and devote yourself to stabilizing the people to assist me.
Since I have repented, you should also reflect on yourself, eat hard and do your duty with all your heart.
I will send the Minister to reward you with ten stones of good wine and an ox. Please consider it carefully.
Fang Jin committed suicide that day.
The emperor concealed the letter and sent Jiuqing to give Fang Jin the seal and ribbon of Prime Minister Gaolinghou. He also rewarded Fang Jin with a vehicle and a coffin. He set up offerings in the young mansion and wrapped the pillars and thresholds with white cloth.
The emperor went to express condolences in person many times, and the gifts were different from the old practice of other prime ministers.
The emperor gave Fang Jinmi the title of Gonghou, and Fang Jin's eldest son Zhai Xuan inherited his position.
Zhai Xuan, also known as Tai Bo, was also proficient in Confucian classics and behaved honourably. He was a gentleman.
When Fang Jin was still alive, he served as the captain of Guandu and the prefect of Nanjun.
In the name of Zuo Jin's youngest son.
Yi Zhan, whose courtesy name is Sai Shen, was appointed as a minister when he was young because of his father's relationship. He was gradually promoted to Zhucao, and when he was twenty years old, he was moved to the post of Zhimo Duwei.
Wo Xing ordered Xingli to marry the Marquis of Quyang, who had always been well-known in the prefectures and counties, and despised Xingdanzhan's youth.
Mo Yizhan acted as the prefect and inspected the counties and went to Qian. Prime Minister Shi rested and stayed at Chuanshe.
Liu Li paid homage to Prime Minister Shi with wine and food. Halfway through the drink, it happened that Zhai Yi went to pass on his family. The foreign officials reported the arrival of the captain, but Liu Li's conversation remained the same as before.
After a while, Zhai Yi arrived, and Tong walked in alone, but Liu Li stayed away.
After Zhai Yi came back, he was furious and pretended to summon Liu Li for other reasons. Because he was the guard, he stole ten pounds of gold and killed innocent people. He sent the eunuch Xia Hui and others to tie up Liu Li and transfer him to Deng's prison.
Because Wan was a large county, Xia Hui was worried about being usurped and imprisoned. He reported it to Zhai Yi so that he could personally transfer Liu Li to Deng during his subsequent inspection of the county.
Zhai Yi said: If you want me to escort him personally, then it is better not to admit him!
He took Liu Li in a prison car and paraded around Wan City before sending him away. The officials and the people did not dare to do anything, and Zhai Yi was so powerful in Nanyang.
Liu Li's family sent light and fast cavalry from Wuguan to inform Marquis Quyang. Marquis Quyang reported to Emperor Cheng, who asked the Prime Minister about this.
Fang Jin sent officials to order Zhai Yi to release Liu Li, the county magistrate of Wan.
After Liu Li was released from prison, the officials came back to report the situation.
Fang Jin said: "This kid doesn't know how to be an official. He thinks that as long as he goes to jail, he will be sentenced to death."
Later, Zhai Yi was dismissed from his post for breaking the law. He was appointed from his home as the prefect of Hongnong, and then moved to the post of prefect of Hanoi and pastor of Qingzhou.
The official position he held was very prestigious, and he had the style of his father. He was promoted to the governor of Dongjun.
A few years later, Emperor Ping passed away and Wang Mang temporarily became emperor. Zhai Yi felt disgusted with him, so he told his sister's son, Chen Feng, who was in Cai Cai: "The Marquis of Xindu temporarily occupied the position of emperor and commanded the world. He deliberately chose the royal family to treat the younger ones as children. In the name of assisting Zhou Gong to become king, Zhai Yi temporarily tested the people of the world. He will definitely replace the Han family. Gradually, his thoughts can be seen clearly."
Now the royal family is weak, there is no powerful vassal state externally, the whole world bows its head and obeys, and there is no one who can defend the country and save the country from disaster.
I am fortunate to be the son of the prime minister and personally guard the county. Both father and son have been deeply benefactored by the Han Dynasty. Morally, they should fight against the enemies of the country and stabilize the country.
I want to lead the army to the west to kill those who should not take the throne, and select the descendants of the royal family to assist him in ascending the throne.
If you have bad luck and fail to succeed, and you die for your country to gain fame, you can still not feel ashamed in front of the late emperor.
I want to raise an army now, will you follow me?
Chen Feng was eighteen years old and full of courage, so he agreed to Zhai Yi.
Zhai Yi then formed an alliance with Liu Yu, the captain of Shujun, Liu Xin, the Marquis of Yanxiang, and Liu Huang, the Marquis of Wuping, Liu Xin's younger brother.
When Sun Qing, the king of Dongjun, was summoned to the capital because he had always been brave in strategy and knew the art of war, Zhai Yi forged a document and issued an order to arrest Wang Sun Qing in the name of a serious crime.
Therefore, on the day of the examination in September, he killed the magistrate of Guan, commanded the magistrate's cavalry and infantry, recruited brave people in the county, and arranged generals.
Liu Xin, Marquis of Yanxiang, was the son of Wang Yun of Dongping.
Liu Yun was killed, and Liu Xin's brother Kaiming succeeded him as king. Kaiming died without a son, and Liu Kuang, Liu Xin's son, became king again. Therefore, Zhai Yi led the army to annex Ding Dongping and made Liu Xin the emperor.
Zhai Yi proclaimed himself Great General Sima Zhutian, and appointed Su Long, the teacher of King Ping of Cambodia, as prime minister, and Lieutenant Gao Dan as imperial censor. He sent documents to various counties and counties, saying that Wang Mang had killed the filial emperor with poisonous wine, and pretended to adopt the title of emperor. Now that Liu Xin had ascended the throne, he ordered all counties to jointly carry out God's punishment for Wang Mang.
The whole country was shocked. When Zhai Yi's army arrived in Shanyang, it numbered more than 100,000 people.
When Wang Mang heard about this incident, he was very alarmed. He named his best friend Qingche General Chengwu Hou Sun Jian as Fenwu General, Guangluxun Chengdu Hou Wangyi as Huya General, Mingyi Hou Wang Jun as Strong Crossbow General, Chun Wangcheng Gate School Captain Wang Kuang as Zhenwei General, Zong Bo Zhongxiao. Hou Liuhong is the Fenchong general, Zhongshaofu Jianwei Hou Wangchang is the backbone general, Zhonglang General Zhenqiang Hou Dou is the Fenwei general, a total of seven people. They choose to appoint Guanxi people as school captains and military officials, lead the soldiers in Guandong, and mobilize emergency troops to fight against Zhai Yi.
Wang Mang also appointed Wu Rang, his imperial servant, as General Jinu to station at Hangu Pass. He appointed Hou Lu of Mengxiang, a great craftsman, and General of Hengye to station at Wuguan. Liu Xin, the Marquis of Hongxiu in Xihe, appointed General Yangwu to station in Wan. Zhen Han was appointed as the general to garrison Bashang, Changxiang Hou Wangpan was appointed as the chariot and cavalry general to garrison at Pingle Hall, the cavalry captain Wang Yan was appointed as the general Jianwei to garrison in the north of the city, and the city gate captain Tong Hui was appointed as the city gate general. They all led the troops to defend Baixing.
Wang Mang held his baby in his arms and met with the ministers every day and claimed: In the past, when King Cheng was young, the Duke of Zhou was regent, and Guan Cai kidnapped Lu Fu to rebel. Today Zhai Yi also kidnapped Liu Xin to rebel.
Saints have been worried about this since ancient times, not to mention that I, Wang Mang, am short-sighted!
All the ministers said: If you don't encounter this change, you won't be able to show your holiness.
Wang Mang therefore imitated the "Book of Zhou" and wrote the "Da Gao", saying:
In Jiazi, the tenth month of the second year of residence, Emperor She said: "Use the Great Dao to inform the princes, kings, three princes, princes, Ruqing officials, and Yuanshi imperial officials."
God showed no mercy, and descended to bring disaster to Tang, Fu, Ding, and Dong.
I thought deeply that the young boy should inherit the Mo family's unfinished calendar service. I didn't meet those wise people to help me guide the people to live a happy life, let alone know the destiny! well!
I think of the boy, if he crosses the deep pool, I hope to find a way to help him cross, and I will try my best to get closer to accept the responsibility granted by Emperor Gao. How can I dare to compare myself with Duke Zhou!
A powerful and powerful spirit descended from heaven to calm the Han Dynasty and let me take charge of the government.
Because of the auspicious omen of Chishi, the Empress Dowager accepted the divine decree from heaven and asked me to take office in Shao, just like Zhou Gong's old practice.
Zhai Yi, the former governor of Dongjun who rebelled against the enemy, raised troops and mobilized the people without authorization, saying that there was a great disaster in the capital and that the people in the capital were also uneasy.
So he incited Hou Xin of Yanxiang to boldly offend his ancestors and disrupt the order established by his ancestors.
God has given me the precious turtle in his power. He already knew that this disaster existed in our country and made the people uneasy. It is God who has repeatedly blessed our country of Han.
When news of Zhai Yi's rebellion was heard in the court, it was said that there were 400 outstanding men in the Liu clan and 90,000 virtuous people among the people. I will work with these people to plan state affairs, and I will eventually achieve great success.
There will be military affairs in the country, and the heavens show good signs, and I also divined good omens, so I sent a general to tell the prefect of the county, the princes, ministers, ministers, and chiefs: I got the auspicious divination, and I hope to join you in the crusade against the scattered ministers in Yanxiang, Cambodia.
You, the monarchs of the counties, may object and say: The harm has been great, and the people cannot be quiet. Liu Xin is also a relative of the princes in the imperial palace and the uncle of the boy. He should be respected and not punished.
Being an emperor does not violate the divination of destiny, so I thought deeply about the suffering of the young child and said: Alas!
The harm caused by Zhai Yi and Liu Xin has really alarmed people who have no wives and no husbands. How pitiful!
I accepted the service of the Han family that God left for me, and asked me to personally relieve the suffering. Therefore, I attacked Zhai Yi to eliminate the chaos for the children, not because I was worried about myself.
I agree with the letter written by Marquis Quanling, the king of the country, who said: King Cheng was young and frail, and Duke Zhou was in the position of the emperor to govern the world. Within six years, he met with the princes in the Mingtang, formulated rituals and music, promulgated weights and measures, and the world was in great service.
The Empress Dowager obeyed the will of God and agreed to temporarily occupy the throne.
The Crown Prince is the son of Emperor Xiaoping. He is still in his infancy. Since he is the son of a human being, he should know the principles of being a human son so that the Empress Dowager can exert the kindness of a loving mother.
Raise him up, crown him, and then give him the position of wise king. Alas!
For the sake of my son, I think of the chaos of Tsang, Fu, Ding, and Dong, which cut off the descendants of the Han Dynasty, messed up the distinction between concubines and concubines, harmed and disrupted the Han Dynasty, caused many disasters, and almost ended the Han Dynasty's destiny. well!
How can we not work together to prevent this from happening again!
I dare not go against God's destiny.
God regards the peace of the emperor as a good thing and revitalizes our country of Han, so I can do divination as auspiciousness and accept this task with peace of mind.
Now that God is helping his people, not to mention it is also auspicious to use divination?
At first, the Empress Dowager had the help of Yuancheng Shalu, the auspiciousness of Shengming, the heroine of Yinjing, and the Emperor Yuan gave birth to an emperor, which brought about the auspicious omen of the world. Therefore, she received the inspiration of the Queen Mother of the West and the proof of the divine bag to protect my royal family, stabilize my eldest son, reproduce my descendants, and continue the achievements of my Han Dynasty.
Those who are harmful to the country's orthodoxy and disrespectful of direct heirs should be punished quickly and not avoid relatives.
Don't I love these people?
Just for the sake of the royal family.
Therefore, I enfeoffed the princes extensively and enfeoffed great-grandsons and great-grandsons together to protect our capital and pacify the country. I also recruited Confucian scholars extensively to give lectures in the court, compile and correct erroneous and improper doctrines, formulate rituals and music, unify weights and measures, and unify customs. Customs; straightening the position of heaven and earth, showing the etiquette of sacrifice, stabilizing the five temples, and paying homage to the abandoned ancestral temples without written records; building spiritual platforms, establishing Mingtang, opening universities, and honoring the names of Zhongzong and Gaozong.
In the past, I, Emperor Gaozong, advocated virtue and established a military administration, and defeated and pacified the Western Regions. Therefore, I received the auspicious omen of the White Tiger's mighty victory, and we were married to the Queen Mother according to the righteousness of husband and wife in the universe of heaven and earth.
After the Empress Dowager came to power, the auspiciousness of tortoises, dragons, linfeng and the five virtues were inherited from each other.
"He Tu" comes from the distant Kunlun, and "Luo Shu" comes from Chongbi.
Prophecies were written down by prophets in ancient times, so they are confirmed today.
This is the reason why God wants to stabilize my royal family and enable me to achieve great things. well!
The difficulties faced by God in showing its majesty to help the Han Dynasty became even greater.
You should think about the words of your old friend Quanlinghou. If you can't reflect on the past carefully, how can you know that the Empress Dowager and the Queen Mother worked so hard?
God is concerned about the way our Han Dynasty will succeed, so I dare not fail to do my best to complete the achievements of my ancestors and stabilize the affairs planned by the royal family.
I stated the truth clearly to the princes, princes, ministers, officials, Yuanshi and Yuanshi: God helps those who speak sincerely. God has entrusted the people to me. How can I not try my best to fulfill the merits of my ancestors to appease the people?
God also comforts my people. If they suffer, how can I not help them by obeying the wishes of my ancestors and letting them rest?
I heard that a filial son is good at understanding his father's thoughts, and a loyal minister is good at adult beauty.
I think if the father wants to build a house, then the son should pound the soil and frame the wood outside; if the father wants to plow the land, the son should sow and harvest.
How dare I not personally accept the great responsibility of my ancestors to stabilize the people?
Just like the ancestors followed Tang and Wu's example in conquering the traitors, they put justice first and did not follow the law for selfish reasons.
You have to do your best!
The princes, princes, ministers, officials, Yuanshi, and imperial officials should try their best to assist the country in prospering the Han Dynasty. I also hope that you, the talents of the clan and the example of the people, will obey the way and know the destiny.
God helps those who are loyal, you cannot change God's destiny!
What's more, now that heaven is about to descend and give stability to the Han Kingdom, only the evil men Zhai Yi and Liu Xin are rebellious and want to kill each other and their families. Do they also know that destiny cannot be changed?
I thought for a long time: God wants Zhai Yi and Liu Xin to die just like a farmer erasing weeds. How dare I not complete my task of farming?
God also praises the ancestors. How could I not complete the divination? How could Yi not obey the will of the divination?
I want to follow the legacy of my ancestors and work to stabilize the people and the country, not to mention that it is a good omen now!
So I want to lead you to conquer, and don't dare to make any mistakes. This is the case with the divination display.
So Wang Mang sent the doctor Huan Tan and others to issue a notice stating his intention to restore the throne to Ruzi.
After Huan Tan came back, Wang Mang appointed him as an official to the nearby city.
The generals went east to Chenliuzhuo, fought with Zhai Yi, defeated Zhai Yi, and cut off Liu Huang's head.
Wang Mang was very happy and went down to Shao again and said:
The Empress Dowager encountered family misfortune. Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai, and Emperor Ping all had no sons. Now the line of succession has been extended. No kindness can be deeper than this, and no faith can be more firm than this.
Emperor Xiaoping was short-lived and died early. His youngest son was too young, so he issued an edict to allow me to temporarily occupy the throne.
I accepted the wise edict, shouldered the responsibilities of the country, took charge of the important task of educating my legitimate son, accepted the entrustment of raising him, and shouldered the high expectations of the people in the world. I was afraid and cautious, and did not dare to enjoy ease.
I thought that the Empress Dowager was thinking about the lost scriptures, the decline of kingship, and the unfinished work of Han Dynasty writings, so I recruited Confucian scholars extensively, established laws and regulations, enriched things for use, and made exquisite utensils to provide convenience to the people of the world.
The royal way proves that the foundation has been established. What has been abandoned for thousands of years and lost in hundreds of generations has finally been completed today. The morals are almost the same as those of Tang and Yu, and the achievements can be compared with those of Yin and Zhou.
Now Zhai Yi, Liu Xin and others are committing rebellion and committing treason, spreading rumors to confuse the people, hoping to usurp the throne and kill my son. Their crimes are greater than Guan Cai, and their ferocity is more ferocious than animals.
Liu Xin's father, the former Dongping Wang Yun, was unfilial and disrespectful. He personally poisoned his father, King Si, and was called a big rat. Later, Liu Yun was eventually killed for committing treason.
Zhai Yi's father, the former Prime Minister Fang Jin, was a sinister, flattering and vicious man. His brother Xuan was good at pleasing people with his pleasant words and flattery. He was kind on the outside but jealous on the inside. He killed more than ten people in the township of Runan.
These two families, who have committed many evil deeds, confuse the people of the world and want to be in harmony with each other. This is what the time and destiny should destroy, and what God wants to eliminate.
When Zhai Yigang first launched his army, he wrote a letter saying that Yu, Xin and others had conspired with King Shuping Xiangfu to rebel. He arrested them and put them in shackles and handcuffs. In order to intimidate the masses, they first stigmatized each other for rebellion, and then arrested each other and put weapons on them. This was clear evidence that they would be defeated and exterminated.
Liu Xin's two sons, Guxiang Hou Zhang and Deguang Hou Tuna, have been arrested and executed. Zhai Yi's mother Lian, brother Zhai Xuan, and 24 relatives have also laid out their corpses in the streets of Chang'an.
When they were killed, there were many people watching and the weather was clear, which can be said to be in accordance with God's will.
The generals dispatched by destiny respectfully exercised heaven's punishment and attacked the enemies of the country. The results were very obvious and I am very satisfied.
Didn't "Sima Law" say it? Rewards should not be given beyond their due time.
This is to let everyone see the benefits of being kind as early as possible.
Now, fifty-five people including Sun Xian, the captain of chariots and cavalry, are enfeoffed as marquises, and the number of households and towns to be enfeoffed will be announced later.
Send envoys with gold seals, red ribbons, and red chariots to the army to confer duties.
Therefore, the world is amnesty.
At this time, the elite soldiers attacked and surrounded Zhai Yi in Yucheng and broke through the city. Zhai Yi and Liu Xin abandoned the army and escaped.
When they arrived at the border of Gushi, Wang Mang's army captured Zhai Yi and wrapped his body in the city for public display.
But Liu Xin was not caught in the end.
At first, Sanfu heard that Zhai Yi had raised an army, and thieves from twenty-three counties from the west of Maoling to Fen also rebelled. Ming, Huo Hong and others claimed to be generals, attacked and burned down the government, killed the captain of Youfu and the county magistrate of Ya, and looted and looted the officials and people, numbering more than 100,000. The fire burned all the way to the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
Wang Mang held the baby in his arms and prayed in the ancestral temple from morning to night.
Later, Wang Mang was appointed as a guard at the king level and was appointed General Huben. Yan Qian, Marquis of Dahonglu Wangxiang, was appointed General Zhechong. Together with Zhen Han and Wang Yan, he went west to attack Zhao Ming and others.
In the first month of the first month, Huya General Wang Yi and others returned from Guandong and led the army to conquer the west.
Wang Jun, the strong crossbow general, was dismissed from his post because he had not performed meritorious service, and Liu Xin, the Yangwu general, was restored to his old post.
Wang Mang also appointed Wang Yi's younger brother, Shizhong Wang Qi, as General Yangwu, General Chengmen Tso Hui as General Qiannu, and General Li Qin as General Weaning, and led the army to the west again.
In February, Tong Ming and others were wiped out, and all counties were pacified. Wang Mang's army returned to the court in victory.
Wang Mang then held a banquet in the White Tiger Palace, rewarded the general, and awarded him many titles.
Previously, the barbarians in Yizhou and the Qiang people outside the Jincheng Wall rebelled, and the army of the prefecture and county defeated them.
Wang Mang then recorded them all together. According to the merits, a total of 395 Hou Bozi men were enfeoffed. It was said that they were all enfeoffed because they were all out of anger. They conquered the west, Qiang bandits, and rebels against the enemy. In a moment, they were eliminated in time, and everyone in the world was convinced by their merits.
Wang Mang therefore believed that he had received great help from heaven and gods, and in December of that year, he usurped the throne and proclaimed himself emperor.
At first, Liu Li, the county magistrate of Wan who was arrested by Zhai Yi, heard that Zhai Yi had launched a mutiny, so he wrote a letter saying that he was willing to serve as a military official to fight against the rebellious ministers for the country. In fact, he wanted to avenge his personal grievances.
Wang Mang promoted Liu Li to be the prefect of Chenliu and granted him the title of Marquis of Mingde.
At first, Zhai Yi's elder brother Zhai Xuan lived in Chang'an. Before Zhai Yi started his army, strange phenomena often occurred in Zhai Xuan's house. He heard people crying at night, but if he listened carefully, he could not figure out where the sound came from.
Zhai Xuan was teaching a class of students in a room. A dog came in from outside and bit a dozen geese wrapped in Zhai Xuan's yard. When Zhai Xuan woke up and went to save them, they had all been bitten off by the dog.
The dog ran out of the door and looked for it everywhere but didn't know where it was.
Zhai Xuan was very unhappy and said to his stepmother: Wen Zhong, the governor of Cambodia, has always done things recklessly without considering the consequences. Now he often does weird and evil things. I am afraid that he has done something rash and a disaster is about to happen.
You can go back to your natal family and seclude yourself from Zhai Xuan's family to escape the disaster.
The stepmother refused to leave, and a few months later she was in trouble.
Wang Mang destroyed all Zhai Yi's houses and made them into ponds to store water.
They dug up the graves of Zhai Yi's father Zhai Fangjin and his ancestors in Runan, burned their coffins, killed all the relatives of Zhai Yi's three clans, including the descendants of clan Xiang, put them all into a pit, planted five poisonous grasses and buried them together.
Wang Mang went down to Shao again and said: It is said that in ancient times, when fighting against disrespectful people, those who were especially vicious were killed and piled up to commend military merits.
Not long ago, the rebels Liu Xin and Zhai Yi rebelled in Shubu, while Zhao Ming and Huo Hong, the Mangzhu bandits, rebelled in the west. I sent military generals to attack them, and they were all acquitted.
Liu Xin, Zhai Yi and others began to send troops from Puyang, formed a traitorous alliance in Wuyan, and were finally killed in Yu.
Zhao Ming relied on the winding earth embankment in Huaili, and Huo Hong relied on the whole centimeter of bamboo. They were both defeated and could not escape.
Now the corpses of the leaders of the rebel officials were selected and gathered on one side of the road. In five places, Puyang, Wuyan, Yu, Huaili, and Lanli, they built earthen ramparts five feet square and six feet high, and enclosed them with a large number of corpses and added thorns from trees.
The wood used to mark the rise of the tree was six feet high.
It says "anti-capture killer whale squid". The chief official of Gaoqiu location should often inspect it in autumn to prevent it from being damaged or dilapidated, so as to warn evil people.
Previously, there used to be a large Hongchi pond in Runan, and the counties and counties were prosperous because of it. When he became emperor, there were many floods in Guandong, and the Hongchi water rose and caused damage.
When Fang Jin was the prime minister, he and the imperial censor Kong Guang sent a military officer to inspect the land. They thought that after the water was released from Hongxi, the land would be very fertile, saving the cost of building embankments and eliminating the risk of floods, so he proposed to abolish the embankment construction.
After the Zhai family was exterminated, the people in the village blamed Fang Jin, saying that he had asked not to build a dike in Hongxi because he had requested to be given the fertile land in Hongxi but was not allowed.
When Wang Mang was in power, there were frequent droughts in the region, and the people in the county complained about Fang Jin. The nursery rhyme said: Who is destroying the gap?
Of course it's Zhai Ziwei.
What to cook with, I only have potatoes to eat, what to use to make soup?
I only have taro roots to eat.
Things in the world are erratic, and gaps will always arise again. Who said this? Two yellow swans tell you.
Situ Peng Ban Biao said: Prime Minister Fang Jin took his mother to live in the capital when he was a child. As a master of Confucian scholars, he eventually became prime minister and became very prominent.
When Wang Mang raised his troops. Probably through the power of heaven, even with the bravery of Meng Ben and Xia Yu, what help would it be to fight against the enemy?
Zhai Yi overestimated his capabilities and started an uprising out of loyalty, but ended up destroying the entire family. How sad!
