Chen Qingzhi, whose courtesy name is Ziyun, is from Yixingguoshan. He followed Gaozu since he was young.
Emperor Gaozu loved to play chess. Every time he played chess, he would play chess all the time without stopping. All his peers were tired and went to bed. Only Qingzhi did not sleep, and he would come as soon as he was called. He was highly appreciated by his close followers.
Following Emperor Gaozu, he put down Jianye and later served as chief secretary. He dispersed money to recruit soldiers, and Chang Si played a role.
Granted the imperial invitation.
In the ordinary years, Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in Wei Dynasty, requested to be attached to Pengcheng. He was appointed as a powerful general in order to celebrate him, and he, together with Hu Longya and Cheng Jingjun, led other armies to pick him up.
After returning to the army, he was appointed General Xuanmeng and Commander Wende. He still led an army of two thousand and sent Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, to guard Xuzhou.
Wei sent Prince Yanming of Anfeng and Prince Yuan of Linhuai with 20,000 troops to resist and garrisoned at Zhikou.
Yanming first sent another general, Qiu Dagan, to build a fort in Xunliang and show his strength at the border.
Qingzhi advanced on his earthen fortress and was defeated in a single battle.
Later, King Yuzhang abandoned his army and fled to Wei. Everyone was routed and the generals could not stop him, so Qingzhi cut off the bolts and breached the city. He retreated at night and the sergeants were saved.
In the seventh year of the Ordinary Year, General Yuan Shu of Anxi went to Shouchun to confer the holiday of celebration and general military affairs.
Li Xian, the governor of Yuzhou in Wei, sent his son Chang Gou to build two more forts to resist him. Qingzhi attacked him, but Li Xian was exhausted and surrendered, and Qingzhi entered and occupied the city.
He was transferred to Donggong Zhihe and given the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the first year of Datong, the subordinate leader Xuan lived in the fortress and conquered Yan.
Gong sent General Changshan Wang Yuanzhao and others to come to the rescue with 150,000 cavalry and infantry. The front army reached Tuojian, forty miles away from Guoyang.
Qingzhi wanted to fight, but Tong Zhen believed that the thieves' vanguard must be light and agile. If we win the battle, it will not be enough. If the battle is unfavorable, our military strength will be destroyed. The art of war says that we should wait for the work in leisure, rather than not attacking.
Qingzhi said: The Wei people came from afar and are already tired. Since they are far away from our army, they will not be suspected. Before they gather, we must frustrate their energy and take them by surprise. There must be no reason to be invincible.
I also heard that the enemy's camp was heavily wooded and they would not go out at night.
If you have any doubts, please Qingzhi and attack him alone.
So Yu's 200 cavalrymen rushed towards the Wei army and defeated their front army. The Wei people were horrified.
Qingzhi then returned the army and the generals to attack together, occupy Woyang City, and confront the Wei army.
From spring to winter, hundreds of battles were fought. The army was exhausted and morale gradually declined. Wei's reinforcements wanted to build forts behind Qing's army. Zhongzong and others were afraid of being attacked from both sides, so they planned to retreat.
Qingzhi held a banner in front of the army gate and said: "We have been here for a year and have wasted a lot of food and weapons. The armies have no fighting spirit and are planning to retreat. They are not trying to gain fame. They are simply joining the camp for robbery."
I heard that if a soldier is put to death, he can be left to fight for his life. The enemy must gather in a large gathering and then fight with him.
If you really want to be a teacher, you will have a secret order to celebrate. If you violate it now, you will act according to Ming Shao.
Zhongzong admired his strategy and obeyed him.
In order to contain the troops, the Wei people built thirteen fortifications. Qingzhi held the coins horizontally in his mouth. He went out of the city at night and captured four of the enemy's fortifications. Wang Wei, the lord of Woyang City, begged to surrender.
The remaining nine city forts, whose military strength was still strong, displayed the left ears of the captured and slain enemies, beat drums and shouted to attack the enemies. The enemy then collapsed, captured a small amount of them, the vortex was filled, and more than 30,000 men and women in the city were captured.
Shao established West Xuzhou on the land of Guoyang.
Taking advantage of the victory, all the troops moved forward and stationed themselves in Chengfu.
Emperor Gaozu praised him and gave Qingzhi a Shao Shu written by him, saying: He is not a descendant of a general, nor is he a member of a wealthy family. He is dissatisfied with the current situation, which leads to this.
You can think deeply about the strategy and start well and end well.
Isn't it a true man to open the royal door to receive guests and spread the word of fame in books?
In the early years of Datong, Wang Yuanhao of Wei Beihai took the initiative to get out of trouble and surrendered because of the chaos in his dynasty, and asked to make him the lord of Wei.
Emperor Gaozu accepted him, appointed him Qingzhi Jiejie and Biaoyong General, and sent Yuan Hao back to the north.
Yuan Hao took the title of Emperor of Wei at Huanshui. He was awarded the title of Chijie, the envoy of Qing, general of Zhenbei, guard of the army, and commander of the front army. He set out from Liao County, advanced to Rongcheng, and then arrived in Suiyang.
Wei general Qiu Dagan had 70,000 troops and built nine forts to resist.
Qingzhi attacked him, and from dawn to afternoon, three city fortresses were captured, and Daqian surrendered.
At that time, General Wei Zhengshu, Jiyin Wang Yuanhuiye, led the Royal Guards and 20,000 noble servicemen to rescue Zhe and Si, and stationed in Huaqiu. The city was surrounded by water and was tightly guarded.
Qing ordered him to build a fortress on the water, capture the city, capture Zhuang Tomb alive, and seize 7,800 vehicles for transporting taxes.
Then they headed straight towards Dafun. The enemy looked at the flag and surrendered.
The five titles include the general of the guard of Shengqing, the governor of Lansu, and the arrest of Duke He.
So he led the people to the west.
Wei Zuopu shot Yang Yu, Xi'a Wang Yuanqing, and Fujun general Yuan Xianggong led the emperor's guard, royal family members, and nobles with a total of 70,000 soldiers, and occupied Rongyang to resist Yuan Hao.
The soldiers were strong and the city was dangerous, but Qingzhu failed to capture the city.
Wei general Yuan Tianmu's army was approaching again. He first sent his hussar general Erzhu Tumel to lead 5,000 Hu cavalry, and cavalry general Lu An to lead 9,000 Xiazhou infantry to assist Yang Dan. He also sent his right servant She'er Zhu Shilong and West Jingzhou governor Wang Zhuan's 10,000 cavalry to guard Hulao.
Tianmu and Tumeier arrived one after another, facing each other.
At that time, the stem salt had not been pulled out, and the soldiers were all frightened. Qingzhi took off his saddle and fed the war horses, and announced to everyone: Since I arrived here, I have broken down the city, killed people, and invaded a lot of land. You have killed fathers and brothers, and plundered people's children, which is incalculable.
Everyone in Tianmu is an enemy.
We only have 7,000 people and more than 300,000 captives. What happened today is that we are not seeking survival.
I and the captives cannot compete with each other in strength on the plains. Before he arrives, his fortress must be pacified. Don't be suspicious, sir. This will cause delays in having others slaughtered and cut into pieces.
So they all climbed up the city in one go. The strong men Shuyang Rensaixingti and Zhanzhao Mermaid Tianmin jumped over the low wall of the city and entered, thus conquering the city fortress.
In an instant, the tomb army gathered outside the city. Qingzhi led three thousand cavalry back to the city to fight and defeated the Wei army. Luan begged for surrender in his position. Yuan Yukui and Ji Zhu Tumel were able to escape.
Collecting Rongyang to store physical goods, cattle, horses, grain and silk are countless.
Entering Hulao, Zhu Shichen abandoned the city and fled.
The owner of the tomb, Yuan Ziyou, was very frightened and ran away.
When the silk was prosperous and prosperous, Wu Yanlong led hundreds of officials, closed the place where property and armor were stored, prepared the emperor's carriages and horses, welcomed Wu Ti into the Luoyang Palace, ascended the throne in the front hall, changed the title of the year, and granted amnesty to criminals.
In the Yuan Dynasty, Qingzhi was appointed as a servant, a general of chariots and cavalry, and a doctor of Zuo Guanglu, and the number of households in the city increased by 10,000.
The generals of Wei, Shangdang Wang Yuantianmu, Wang Laosheng, and Kui Huren, led another 40,000 troops to capture Daliang. They assigned 20,000 soldiers from Laosheng and Dengmu to defend the void.
More than ten cavalrymen from Tianmuyu crossed Donghui northward.
Shandan also gave him a Shao calligraphy written by himself, calling it Meiqing.
Qing's subordinates all wore white robes and were invincible.
First, there is a nursery rhyme in Luoyang that says: Famous masters and generals should not think that they are strong. Thousands of troops should avoid white robes.
From Zhixian to Luoyang, it took a total of 140 days to level 32 city fortresses and engage in 47 battles. No one could stop him wherever he went.
At the beginning, Yuan Ziyou was defeated alone, and the usual system of guards, concubines, and poets in the palace remained unchanged. After Yuan Hao succeeded, he indulged in wine and sex, feasted day and night, and no longer took office. Together with King Anfeng and King Linhuai, he planned to betray the favor of the court and refused to pay tribute to the emperor's etiquette. However, because the current situation was not stable, and he had to rely on Qingzhi's ability and role, he was the same on the outside but different on the inside, and his words were jealous and harsh.
Qingzhi knew this and planned it secretly.
Then he said to Yuan Hao: "There are still many people who have not surrendered since they came to this place from afar." If these people know our true and false position, they will increase their numbers and be prepared for danger in times of peace. They need to prepare countermeasures in advance.
We should report to the emperor and ask for elite troops to be sent. We should also force all the states to escort all the people from the south who have invaded this area.
Yuan Hao wanted to obey, but Yuan Yanming said to Yuan Hao: It's difficult for you to control Chen Qingzhi's troops if he doesn't have enough troops. Now that he has increased his number, how can he be willing to use it for you anymore?
Losing authority and obeying others, the ancestral temple and the state of Wei were destroyed.
Yuan Hao became suspicious and gradually alienated and turned away from Qingzhi.
He was also worried about Qingzhi's secret report to the emperor, so he first reported to Emperor Gaozu: Hebei and Henan have been pacified for a while, but only Ji Zhurong dares to be domineering, and I and Qingzhi can capture him.
Now the prefecture and county have just surrendered and are in need of appeasement. It is not appropriate to send more troops to work for the people.
Emperor Gaozu then went down to Shao and stationed all his troops at the front edge of the border.
There are less than 10,000 Nan people in Luoxia, and the number of Qiang and barbarians is ten times that of them. The deputy commander of the army, Ma Fo Nian, said to Qingzhi: If there is no reward for great achievements, it will be dangerous for the monarch to be afraid. These two things have already happened. Is the general unconcerned?
Since ancient times, the emperor has been dethroned and the wise king has been established to help the crisis and resolve the difficulties. Very few people have a good death.
Today, the general's power has shaken the Central Plains and moved the rivers. It is a rare opportunity to kill Yuan Hao and defend Luoyang.
Qingzhi didn't listen.
Yuan Hao had appointed Ren Qingzhi as the governor of Xuzhou, so Qingzhi insisted on guarding it.
Yuan Hao was afraid of him, so he didn't send him.
Then he said: Your Majesty has entrusted the whole land of Luoyang to you. Suddenly I heard the decision to leave the imperial court. I want to go to Pengcheng. I will say that you will soon become rich and noble, and you will no longer plan for the country. The edicts are coming one after another. I am afraid it will become my responsibility to keep you.
Qingzhi did not dare to say anything more.
Wei Tianzhu's general Ji Zhufu, his right servant Sheqi Sai Shilong, the chief governor Wu Yulong, the hussar general Ji Zhu Tumu'er, Ji Zhurong's chief ministers Gao Huan, Xianbei and Ruirui, all claiming to have millions, took the Wei lord Yuan Ziyou and attacked Yuan Hao. Yuan Hao held Luoyang for sixty-five days, and all the fortresses he gained rebelled against him.
Qingzhi crossed the Yellow River to defend Beizhonglang City, and fought eleven times in three days, injuring and killing many people.
Ji Zhurong was about to retreat. Liu Ling came to help, and he knew astronomy, so he said to Er Zhurong: "In less than ten days, Hemu will be settled."
Sansai Tomb then tied the wood into a raft, crossed Tongtou from Duidu to each other, and fought with Wuti at Jiongzhong. Genti was defeated and fled to Duoyuan. He was captured by thieves and Luoyang fell.
Qingzhi had thousands of horsemen and infantry, formed a formation and returned eastward. Er Zhurong came to chase him personally. It happened that the Songgao Mountain was flooded and the soldiers died and dispersed.
Qingzhi cut off his hair and shaved his head and became a monk. He traveled to Yuzhou on a small road. Cheng Daoyong from Yuzhou and others secretly sent him out of Ruyin.
When he arrived at the capital, he was awarded the title of General Youwei for his merits and was granted the title of Yongxing County Fortress, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
Later he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Yuanhuai's military affairs, General Fenwu, and Governor of Northern Yanzhou.
At this time, there was a demon thief monk named Tan Qiang who claimed to be the emperor. The local tycoon's tombs raised soldiers to fight against him. The monk Qiang knew the magic of illusion and even more instigated people's hearts. With 30,000 followers, he captured North Xuzhou. Yang Qiwen, the prefect of Jiyin, abandoned the city and fled. Shan Xishi, the prefect of Zhongzheng, was killed, so he sent Qingzhi to attack him.
The emperor came to Baixia in person to hold a banquet to see him off, and said to Qingzhi: "Jiang's army is strong, and it is difficult to withstand his attack. You can use tactics to subdue him, but it is not appropriate to fight decisively."
Qingzhi followed the order.
In less than twelve days, Bolong and Sengqiang were killed and their heads were displayed to the public.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was granted the title of military governor of the four states of Nansi, Beisi, Xiyu and Henan, and governor of the two states of Nansi and Beisi. The other positions remained as before.
When Qingzhi arrived in the town, he surrounded Jianqu.
In Tu Cheng, he defeated Lou Qi, the governor of Tiye Prefecture, and Xingyunshi, the governor of Tiye. In Chuyue, he defeated Xingtai Huanjiang, Dadu Bajin, Yao Xiong, the governor of Liaozhou, and Sima Gong, the governor of Luan Maggot.
The troops in Shabao Town were removed, water and land transportation were stopped, and the Jianghu states were able to rest and recuperate.
Six thousand hectares of land were opened, and two years later, the warehouses were full.
Zhidan often praised and comforted him.
In addition, Nansi Prefecture was abolished, Anlu County was restored, and Shangming County was established.
In the second year of Datong, Wei sent General Hou Jing and 70,000 troops to invade Chuzhou, and the governor Huanhe was captured. Hou Jing then marched forward and sent a letter to Qingzhi asking him to surrender.
He ordered Xiangtan Hou Tui, right guard Xia Houkui and others to go to reinforcements. When the army reached Lijing, Qingzhi had defeated Hou Jing.
It was cold and snowy at that time, so Hou Jing abandoned the military supplies and fled, but Qingzhi collected them and returned.
The promotion number is General Renwei.
In the year of dispatch, there was a famine in Yuzhou. Qingzhi opened warehouses to provide relief, and many of them had Quanji.
Li Sheng, a state citizen, and 800 other people came forward to pray for the tree to be commemorated, and Xia Shao agreed.
He died in October of the fifth year at the age of fifty-six.
Posthumous gifts to the regular attendants of Sanqi and the general Zuowei were given to the Ministry of Advocacy.
Mi Hao Wu.
An edict was issued to Yixing County to send five hundred people to attend the funeral ceremony.
Qing is cautious by nature, does not wear silk clothes, does not like music, does not wear decorated hearth armor when participating in shooting ceremonies, and the horse he rides is not agile, but he is good at comforting the soldiers, so they can all do their best.
The eldest son, Chen Zhao, was the heir.
The fifth son, Chen Ting, was given the courtesy name Junzhang.
He can ride and shoot at the age of seven.
At the age of twelve, he followed his father to Luoyang. He fell ill on the road and returned to the capital.
Visiting Hongshan Qing Zhu Yi, Zhu Yi asked about the situation in the north. Chen Xin gathered soil on the ground and drew pictures to show the differences. Zhu Yi was surprised.
In the fourth year of Datong, he was appointed as the Changshi of Shaoling King, the coach of Wende, and the leader of the right guard. He was ordered to send him to Yiyang to assist in the defense.
Yao Xiong, the governor of Yuzhou in Wei. He is a fierce general from the north, brother Baole, who is particularly brave.
Qingzhi surrounded Mo Pad and painted Sheng to rescue the enemy. Xuan Le asked to ride alone to fight. He quickly listened to the prancing horse and went straight to Shi Le. Yao Xiong's army immediately collapsed and captured Qin Tan.
In the sixth year, he was awarded the title of General Weiyuan and Lord of Xiaoxian City, and was dismissed due to official business.
In the tenth year, the demon thief Wang Qinzong raised an army in Bashan County, appointed Chen Xin as General Xuanmeng, and went to conquer during the holidays.
Qinzong was pacified, and Chen Tingyin was appointed as the garrison commander and the prefect of Liizhan, but he did not take office due to illness.
He was also awarded the title of hussar foreign soldier, and soon he was appointed as the prefect of Linchuan.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing surrounded Liyang and ordered Chen Ting to return. Chen Ting said in a memorial: "The quarrying is urgent and requires heavy troops to guard it. Wang Zhi's naval force is weak, so worries and worries are of no use."
So Chen Ting was appointed as General Yunqi to replace Wang Zhi. Before Chen Ting could reach the waterside, Hou Jing had already crossed the river, so he sent his generals to guard outside the city and not to enter.
He wanted to escape to Jingkou, but was captured by Hou Jing.
Hou Jing saw that Chen Ting was diligent, so he left him to drink as much as he wanted, saying: "I've got you here." No one else can.
Chen Xin was ordered to gather troops and was about to be used, but Suza refused to obey.
The order ordered his Yi Tong Jie Mansui to strictly prohibit fast selling, so Chen Xin persuaded Taobang Ling to lead his troops to surrender, and used the attack and killing of Wang Wei and Song Zixian as a signal.
Taobang agreed, so he formed an alliance, shot the letter into the city, and sent Chen Ting to enter the city with a rope at night.
Emperor Gaozu was overjoyed and ordered to surrender immediately, but Emperor Taizong hesitated a lot. The secret was leaked outside, but Chen Ting didn't know it, so he still went out of the city as scheduled.
Hou Jing intercepted Chen Ting and forced Chen Xin to let him shoot the book into the city again, saying that Taobang would lead dozens of people into the city first.
Hou Jing wanted to follow him into the city with weapons.
Since Chen Xin refused to write a book, he expected to die, so he was killed by Hou Jing at the age of thirty-three.
Lanqin, whose courtesy name was Xiu Ming, was from Zhongchang Wei.
His father, Lan Yun, during the Tianjian period, was a military officer who rose to the rank of General Yunhui and served as the governor of Jizhou.
Lanqin was young, decisive, strong and agile. He followed his father in the northern expedition and was awarded the title of Zhihe of the East Palace.
In the first year of Datong, he attacked Wei Xiao City and captured the city fortress.
Then he defeated Pengcheng's general Jiao Zhong, attacked Xiang Shanhan, and defeated the 200,000 subordinates of Liu, the commander-in-chief.
Attacked the cage city and captured more than a thousand horses.
He also defeated his general Chai Ji, Gao Xuan, the governor of Xiangcheng, and other generals Fan Sinian, Zheng Chengzong and others.
So they attacked Juegu, Zhanglong, and Zicheng, but failed to capture them. Yang Mu, the defender of Wei Pengcheng, sent Zi Cuiyong and his lightly-armed soldiers to come to his aid. Lanqin attacked and drove him away.
He also defeated Liu Haiyou, the governor of Qiaozhou, and came to capture Juegu and arrest his family.
Yang Mu also sent the governor Fan Si Nian and his general Cao Long Ya to help him. They organized the battle of Fu Yu and killed Long Ya in the battle formation and passed the head to the capital.
On the occasion of the Lanqin Festival, the commander-in-chief of the three counties of Hengzhou attacked the barbarians in Guiyang and Yangshan, and Shixing rebellious barbarians were immediately put down.
He was granted the title of male in Anhuai County and was granted the title of 500 households in the city.
He also defeated Duiqi Manshuai and got it later.
At that time, Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Hengzhou, was surrounded by Yan Rong from Guiyang. He sent an envoy to ask for help. Daozhen went to support him and defeated Yongxun in Moxuan, so all the Kuangluan caves were temporarily destroyed.
He also secretly ordered Lan Qin to go to Wei Xing and pass through Nan Yin. When the general Jue Bisheng of Jiu Qiang invaded Sai Ying, he ordered Yan Fu to come to the rescue.
He was granted the title of Lan Qinzhijie, governor of the military affairs of the four states of Nanliang, Southern Qin, Northern Qin, and Sha, general Guanglie, captain of Pingxi, and governor of Liang and Southern Qin.
Later, they captured Tongsheng and captured Xingtai Yuanzili, generals Qu'an and Zhang Bodhisattva. The tomb chisel Cong governor Wumo surrendered, and Luan and Yi were pacified.
He was promoted to General Zhiwu and granted two thousand additional households.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Chijie, the governor of Heng, the military affairs of Gui Erzhou, and the governor of Hengzhou. Before he could take office, Wei sent the governors Dong Shao and Zhang Xian to attack Zhichi. The governor of Liangzhou, Sibao Mo, asked for rescue and led his troops to rescue them. They defeated Dong Shao and Zhang Xian in Gaoqiao City and beheaded more than three cadres.
Xi Yun Xiang Yu Wen Heitai sent 2,000 horses, please become friendly neighbors.
The imperial edict ordered Jialanqin to serve as a regular attendant, to be promoted to the title of General Renwei, and to increase the title of 500 households, but he was still allowed to serve.
He governed Guangzhou, so he defeated the brothers Chen Wenche, the Li commander, and captured them.
When he arrived in Hengzhou, he was promoted to General Zinan, and was granted the title of Duke of Qujiang County, adding 500 households to the city.
In the state's governance, officials and people went to the palace to request that a monument be erected to praise his virtues, and Xia Shao agreed.
He was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of Zuowei, and soon he was awarded the title of a regular servant of Sanqi, General Annan and the governor of Guangzhou.
When he arrived at his post, the former governor of Nan'an secretly sent a cook to put poison into the food. Lan Qin was poisoned and died at the age of forty-two.
An imperial edict was issued to give posthumous gifts to Shizhong and Zhongwei General to encourage the Ministry.
When Zi Xia Li and Hou Jing arrived at Liyang, he led his men to attack Hou Jing and was defeated and died.
Shi Chen said: Chen Qingzhi and Lanqin both used military strategies to defeat and capture, and rivaled Gaipo, Mu, Wei, and Huo.
Qingzhi is smart and smart, and has been serving Zhidan for a long time. Not only has he expected old favors, but also he is cautious and respectful. He wears a cicada crown and a jade pendant in his clothes, which is also a lifetime honor.
