Sima Ranju is a descendant of Tian Wan.
During the period of Qi Jinggong, the Jin State sent troops to attack Qi State's Dong'a and Zhencheng, and the Yan State invaded Qi State's territory on the south bank of the Yellow River.
Qi's army was defeated.
Qi Jinggong was very worried about this. So Yan Ying recommended Tian Rangju to Qi Jinggong, saying: Although Rangju is the bastard of the Tian family, his literary talent can make everyone join him; his military strategy can make the enemy fear him. I hope the king can give him a try.
So Qi Jinggong summoned Rangju and discussed military and state affairs with him. After discussing with him, Qi Jinggong was very happy and immediately appointed him as a general and ordered him to lead troops to resist the armies of Yan and Jin.
Rangju said: "I am of a humble status. The king promoted me from the common people and placed me above the officials. The soldiers will not obey and the people will not trust me. If a person has little qualifications, authority cannot be established. I hope the king can send a minister who is favored by the king and respected by the people to supervise the army. That will be enough."
So Qi Jinggong agreed to his request and sent Zhuang Jia to supervise the army.
After Rang Ju bid farewell to Jinggong, she made an agreement with Zhuang Jia: "We will meet at the camp gate at noon tomorrow."
The next day, Rang Ju rushed to the military gate first and set up a wooden watch and a clepsydra to wait for Zhuang Jia.
However, Zhuang Jia has always been arrogant and dignified. He thinks that he is leading his own army and he is the supervisor of the army, so he is not particularly anxious. His relatives and friends bid farewell to him and invited him to drink wine.
It was already noon, but Zhuang Jia had not yet arrived.
Rangju knocked down the wooden watch, broke the clepsydra, entered the military camp, inspected the camp, organized the army, and issued various rules and orders.
By the time he finished his deployment, it was already dusk when Zhuang Jia arrived.
Rangju said: Why are you late even if you agree on the time?
Zhuang Jia apologized and explained: My friends and relatives sent me off, so I was delayed.
Rangju said: As a general, you should forget about your family from the moment you receive an order. When you come to the army and issue the prescribed orders, you should forget about personal friendships. When you beat the drum and march, you should forget about your own life when the battle is urgent.
Now that the enemy's invasion has penetrated deep into the country, there is unrest in the country, the soldiers have been exposed on the frontline battlefield, and there is no place to hide, the monarch has trouble sleeping and eating sweetly, and the lives of the people in the country are hanging on you, so why talk about farewell!
So he called the military judge and asked: According to military law, what is said about people who are late for the agreed time? The answer was: He should be beheaded.
Zhuang Jia was very frightened and sent Pegasus to report to Qi Jinggong and ask him to rescue him.
Not long after the messenger left, but before he could return, Zhuang Jia was beheaded and paraded in front of the three armies. The entire army was shocked and frightened.
After a long time, the envoy sent by Qi Jinggong came to pardon Zhuang Jia with the festival talisman. The carriages and horses galloped straight into the military camp.
Rangju said: "Generals are in the army, and they do not have to accept some of the king's orders."
He also asked the military judge: "What is the military law stipulating that driving a chariot and horse galloping in the military camp?" The military judge said: He should be beheaded.
The messenger was extremely frightened.
Rangju said: The king's envoy cannot be beheaded.
So he beheaded the servants of the messenger, cut off the wooden carriage on the left side, killed the horses driving the carriage on the left side, and paraded in front of the three armies.
He asked the envoy to go back and report to Qi Jinggong, and then set off.
The native soldiers set up camp, dug wells and set up stoves, drank water and ate food, inquired about diseases, and arranged medicine. Tian Rangju personally checked and cared for them.
He also used all the supplies and food he had as a general to entertain the soldiers. He and the soldiers shared the food equally.
Count up the weak and sick. Three days later, the army was reorganized and prepared for battle.
The sick and weak soldiers also asked to go to the battlefield together and competed to fight for him bravely.
When the Jin army learned of this situation, they withdrew their troops.
The Yan army knew about this situation and was dispersed as it retreated northward across the Yellow River. The Qi army took advantage of the situation to pursue them, regained all the fallen territory, and then led its troops in triumph.
Before reaching the capital, war preparations were lifted and wartime regulations and orders were cancelled. After swearing an alliance, they entered the capital.
Duke Jinggong of Qi led all the civil and military officials to greet him outside the city. After comforting the soldiers according to etiquette, he returned to the palace.
Duke Jinggong of Qi met Tian Ranju and appointed him as Grand Sima with great respect and admiration.
From then on, Tian's status in Qi State became more and more prominent day by day.
Later, the officials Bao, Gao and Guo were jealous of him and slandered and framed him in front of Qi Jinggong.
Qi Jinggong dismissed him from his official position, and Rangju died of illness soon after.
Tian Qi, Tian Bao and others therefore resented the people of the Gao and Guo families.
After that, when Tian Chang killed Duke Jian of Qi, he killed all the Gao and Guo families.
When Tian Chang's great-grandson Tian He arrived, he established himself as king and was named King Qi Wei. When he led his troops in battles and exercised his authority, he widely imitated Rang Ju's methods, and princes from all over the world came to Qi to pay homage.
King Wei of Qi sent officials to study and discuss the ancient "Sima's Art of War", and also included the great Sima Tian Ranju's art of war in it, so it was named "Sima Ranju's Art of War".
Tai Shigong said: When I read "The Art of War of Sima", I felt that it was grand, broad and far-reaching. Even the wars of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties failed to fully develop its connotations. It would be too much to recommend it if the text of "Sima Ranju's Art of War" is attached to it now.
As for Tian Ranju, he was just leading troops to fight for a small vassal state. How could it be compared with "Sima's Art of War"?
Since there are many "The Art of War of Sima" left in the world, I will not comment on them anymore and only write this "Biography of Sima Ranju".
