Since the death of Confucius, the subtle words have been discontinued. After the death of the Seventy Disciples, differences emerged in the interpretation of the essentials of the classics.
Therefore, the interpretation of "Spring and Autumn" is divided into five schools: "Zuo Shi Zhuan", "Gong Yang Zhuan", "Gu Liang Zhuan", "Zou Shi Zhuan" and "Jia Shi Zhuan".
During the Warring States Period, when the vertical and horizontal alliances were formed, there were endless debates about authenticity, and various schools of thought? Kun is confused.
When Qin Shihuang became afraid of this situation, they burned articles to fool the people.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the shortcomings of the Qin Dynasty were eliminated, books and articles were collected on a large scale, and channels for donating books were opened up.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowu, the writing was incomplete, the bamboo slips fell off, the etiquette was destroyed, and the music and rituals were destroyed. The emperor sighed and said: I feel very sad about these things!
So a collection of books was established, officials were appointed to copy the books, and all the legends of the scholars were enriched in the secret palace.
When he became emperor, the loss of books was so severe that he sent an emissary to collect scattered books from all over the world.
Liu Xiang, the official of Guanglu, was ordered to pass down the classics and poems of various scholars, the infantry captain Ren Hong was ordered to study military books, Taishi was ordered to compile books on astronomy and calendars, and Li Zhu, the medical attendant, was ordered to study medicine.
Every time he finished proofreading a book, Liu Xiang cataloged it, summarized its main idea, recorded it and presented it to the emperor.
When Liu Xiang died, Emperor Ai sent Liu Xiang's son Liu Xin, the captain of the chariot service, to complete his father's work. Liu Xin then summarized all the books and presented "Seven Strategies" to the emperor.
Therefore, there is "Ji Lue", "Six Arts Lue", "Zhuzi Lue", "Poems and Fu Lue", "Military Strategy", "Shu Shu Lue", and "Fang Ji Lue". Now delete the redundant parts and keep only the essential ones.
In order to make the collected books more complete. There are twelve chapters in the "Book of Changes", including Shi, Meng and Luanqiu.
"Zhou Yi Zhuan" is a series of chapters. Zhou's surname is Wangsun.
Two chapters of "Fu Shi Yi Zhuan".
Two chapters of "Yang's Yi Zhuan".
Yang's name is Shuyuan, and he is from Miaochuan.
Two chapters of "The Biography of Cai Gongyi".
Duke Cai was a native of Wei and served King Jue of Zhou.
Two chapters of "Han's Yi Zhuan".
Han's famous baby.
Two chapters of "Wang's Yi Zhuan".
Wang's name is the same.
Eight chapters of "Yi Zhuan of Ding Family".
Chang's family name is Kuan, whose courtesy name is Zixiang. He is a native of Liang.
Eighteen chapters of "Yizhuan of the Ancient Five Sons".
From Jiazi to Renzi, discuss the yin and yang of "Yi".
Two chapters of "Huainan Taoism".
King Liu An of Huainan hired nine people who understood "Yi", known as the Nine Masters Theory.
Eighty chapters of "Ancient Miscellaneous", thirty-five chapters of "Miscellaneous Miscellaneous Disasters", five chapters of "Shenshu", and one picture.
Eleven chapters of "Meng's Jingfang", sixty-six chapters of "Disastrous Meng's Jingfang", three chapters of "Brief Introduction" of Wulu Chongzong, and twelve chapters of "Jingshi Duanjia".
"Book of Changes" contains two chapters each by Shi, Meng and Liangqiu.
There are a total of thirteen schools of interpretation of "The Book of Changes", with 294 chapters.
"Yi" says: Fuxi looked up at the sky, looked down at the geography, observed the patterns and colors of birds and animals, and the adaptability of the land. He took the near ones from his own body, and the far ones from all things, and then created them; in order to understand the virtues of the gods and imitate the temperament of all things.
During the Yin and Zhou Dynasties, King Zhou was on the throne and violated the will of heaven and destroyed all things. King Wen, as a prince, obeyed the destiny of heaven and followed the way of heaven. The predictions of heaven and man could be obtained and manifested, so he overlapped the six lines of "Yi" and wrote the first and second chapters of Ding.
Confucius wrote a total of ten chapters such as "彖", "Xiang", "Xici", "Wenyan", and "Xugua".
Therefore, the principles of "Yi" are very profound. It has experienced three generations of saints: Fuxi, King Wen, and Confucius, and has experienced three ancient eras: upper, middle, and lower.
When Qin Shihuang burned books. Because the Book of Changes talks about divination, there are many people who teach it.
After the establishment of Qin Shihuang, Tian He taught "Yi".
By the time of Emperor Xuan and Emperor Yuan, those who taught "Yi" by Shi, Meng, Liangqiu and Jing were included in the government-taught studies, while among the people there were two schools of thought, Jiezhi and Gaoxiang. Liu Xiang used the ancient "Book of Changes" in his palace to compile the Shi, Mencius and Liangqiu scriptures. Some places were omitted, such as "no blame" and "regret for death". Only Fei's scripture was the same as the ancient scriptures.
Forty-six volumes of "Shangshu Ancient Classics".
Fifty-seven articles.
Twenty-nine volumes of the Sutra.
There are two families, Da Xiahou and Xiao Xiahou.
"Ouyang Jing" has thirty-two volumes.
"Biography" forty-one.
Volume 31 of "Ouyang Zhangju".
There are twenty-nine volumes of "Zhangju" of the big and small Xiahou each.
There are twenty-nine chapters in "Jiegu" written by the great and small Xiahou. Two chapters of "Ouyang's Theory of Meaning".
Liu Xiang's "Five Elements Biography" in eleven volumes.
An article from Xu Shang's "Five Elements Biography".
"Book of Zhou" Chapter 71.
Recorded by Zhou Dynasty historians.
"Discussion" forty-two chapters.
It was a discussion in Shiqu during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
There are nine kinds of works on "Shangshu", totaling 412 articles.
Added the "Ji Sui" article about blood types.
"Yi" says: The dragon and horse from the Yellow River came out carrying the river diagram, the divine turtle from the Luo River came out carrying the red text Yuan characters on its back, Fuxi and Dayu drew the Bagua diagrams according to the pictures and texts.
Therefore, the origin of "Shangshu" is very old. It was compiled and revised by Confucius, starting from Yao and ending with Qin. There are a hundred chapters in total. He also wrote a preface to it to explain his intention in writing.
Qin Shihuang burned books and banned learning, and Fu Sheng of Jinan hid them in the wall alone.
By the time the Han Dynasty was established, most of them were lost, and only twenty-nine chapters were found, which were used to preach among the Cha and the fortresses.
By the time of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, there were "Ouyang" and "Xiahou Clan", which were established in the official academy.
"Guwen Shangshu" was found in the wall of King Kong's house.
In the last years of Emperor Wu, the King of the Communist Party of Lu demolished Confucius's residence and planned to expand his palace. However, he obtained dozens of articles from the "Old Classics", "Book of Rites", "Lunyu", and "Book of Filial Piety", all of which were written in the pre-Qin era.
The King of Chong entered Confucius's house and heard the sound of playing harps, bells and chimes. He was frightened and stopped demolishing the house.
Kong Anguo was a descendant of Confucius and received these books, sixteen more than the original twenty-nine.
Kong Anguo dedicated it to the emperor.
At this time, the matter of encountering witchcraft was not included in the school.
Liu Xiang used the ancient literature in the palace to correct the three scriptures of Ouyang and Xiaoxiahou. Among them, one slip of "Jiu Gao" was missing and two slips of "Zhao Gao" were missing.
Roughly speaking, a bamboo slip has twenty-five characters, and the ones that have fallen off are also twenty-five. The bamboo slips have twenty-two characters, and the ones that have fallen off are also twenty-two. There are more than 700 characters with different characters, and there are dozens of characters that have fallen off.
"Shangshu" is the order of the ancient emperor. If the order is not clearly understood by everyone, it will make the listeners and those who do it unclear.
What the ancient texts preach should be close to elegance and integrity, so if you understand the ancient and modern languages, you can know the meaning of "Shang Shu".
The Book of Songs has twenty-eight volumes, including Lu, Qi and Han.
Twenty-five volumes of "Lu Gu".
Twenty-eight volumes of "Lu Shuo".
Twenty volumes of "The Story of the Empress of Qi".
Twenty-seven volumes of "The Story of the Qi Sun Family".
Thirty-nine volumes of "The Biography of Empress Qi".
Twenty-eight volumes of "The Biography of the Qi Sun Family".
"Qi Za Ji" eighteen volumes.
"Han Gu" thirty-six volumes.
"Inner Biography of Korean Poetry" in four volumes.
"Han Shi Wai Zhuan" six volumes.
Volume 41 of "Han Shuo".
Twenty-nine volumes of "Mao Shi".
Thirty volumes of "The Biography of Mao's Poems".
There are six works on the Book of Songs, with 416 volumes.
"Book" says: Poetry expresses aspirations, and songs express words.
Therefore, if there is a feeling of sorrow and joy in the heart, there will be a voice of singing.
If it is expressed in language, it is called a horse poem, and if it is expressed in singing, it is called a song.
Therefore, in ancient times, there were officials who collected poems, and kings used them to observe customs and understand political gains and losses, and then reviewed and corrected them themselves.
Confucius selected Zhou poems, from the Yin Dynasty to the Lu Kingdom, a total of 305 poems. Although it has experienced the burning of books by Qin Shihuang, it can still be preserved because it is a satirical poem and can be recited, and it is not spread by words alone.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Duke Shen of Lu provided explanations for the "Poetry". Yuan Gu of Qi State and Han Sheng of Yan State both provided explanations for "Poetry".
Some of them are taken from "Spring and Autumn" and adopted from the miscellany of others, but they are not the original meaning of "Poetry".
If you have to use "Shi" as a last resort, only Lu's "Shi" is closest to the original meaning of "Shi".
All three are listed as schools.
There was also Mao Gong’s teachings, which he claimed to have been taught by Zixia, but King Xian of Hewen liked it.
It was not listed in the school. The Ancient Book of Rites has fifty-six volumes and the Classic has seventeen chapters.
There are Hou's and Taiwu schools.
"Records" 131.
It was recorded by the descendants of Confucius's seventy disciples.
Thirty-three chapters of "Mingtang Yin and Yang".
It is something inherited from ancient Mingtang.
"Wang Shishi" twenty-one chapters.
Wang Shi is the descendant of the Seventy Disciples. Nine chapters of "Qutaihoucang".
Two articles on "The Doctrine of the Mean".
Five chapters of "The Theory of Yin and Yang in Mingtang".
Six chapters of "Zhou Guan Jing".
During the reign of Wang Mang, Liu Xin established a doctorate.
Four chapters of "Zhou Guan Biography".
Chapter 155 of "Military Etiquette and Sima Law".
Twenty-two chapters of "Gu Feng Pan Group Sacrifice".
Nineteen chapters of "Feng Chan Discussion".
Remember what happened during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Thirty-six chapters of "Han Feng Pan Group Sacrifice".
Thirty-eight chapters of "Discussions".
It's Shiqu's discussion.
"Li" has a total of thirteen schools and 555 chapters.
Selected into the "Sima Fa" family, there are 155 articles.
"Book of Changes" says: There are certain etiquette and righteousness provisions regarding the distinction between husband and wife, father and son, and superior and inferior officials.
However, the simplicity and literary talent of the emperors increased and decreased from generation to generation. By the Zhou Dynasty, the regulations were extremely detailed and everything had to be systematic. Therefore, it is said that there are three hundred items in the Book of Rites and three thousand details in etiquette.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the princes went beyond the restrictions of etiquette and laws, disliked etiquette and laws as being detrimental to themselves, and abandoned them and destroyed them. By the time of Confucius, it was not complete, and by the time of Qin, it was even more damaged.
In the Han Dynasty, Gaotangsheng of Lu State taught seventeen chapters of "Shili".
By the time of Emperor Xiaoxuan, Houcang was the clearest.
Dade, Dai Sheng, and Qingpu were all his students, and all three were listed in the school.
"The Ancient Book of Rites" appeared in the Yanzhong and Kong family of Lu State. It is similar to the seventeen articles, but has thirty-nine more articles.
As for what we can see in "Mingtang Yin Yang" and "Wang Shishi Ji", most of them are the system of the emperor's princes, ministers and officials. Although it cannot be detailed, it still has more theories than Houcang and others deduced from "Shili" and presented to the emperor.
Twenty-three chapters of "Le Ji".
Twenty-four chapters of "The Records of Wang Yu".
Four Psalms of Song of Songs.
Seven chapters of "Yaqin Zhaoshi".
The name Zhao was from Bohai, and was given by Wei Xiang, the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Eight chapters of "Yaqin Shishi".
Shi's name is from Shuhai, and it is said that he is a descendant of Shi Kuang.
Ninety-nine chapters of "Yaqin Longshi".
Long's name is De, and he is a native of Liang.
"Le" has six families and one hundred and sixty-five articles.
Seven "Ode to the Qin" by Huainan Sudi and others were extracted.
"Yi" says: The previous emperors made music to uphold morality and solemnly offered sacrifices to heaven to worship their ancestors.
Therefore, from the time of the Yellow Emperor to the third generation, music had its own name.
Confucius said: To stabilize a country and govern the people, there is nothing better than propriety; to change customs, there is nothing better than music.
Ritual and music complement each other.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, both etiquette and music were destroyed. The principles of music are particularly exquisite, because its rhythm is based on the temperament, and it was disturbed by the sounds of Zheng and Wei, so there are no inherited rules.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the Zhi family believed that elegant music rhythms had been played by music officials for generations, and they could quite remember some of the sonorous and inspiring syllables of music, but they could not tell its meaning.
Among the monarchs of the Six Kingdoms, Wei Wenhou admired ancient music the most. When Emperor Xiaowen was emperor, he got his musician Dou Gong and presented his book, which is "Zhou Guan." Chapter "Da Si Yue" in "Da Zong Bo".
During the reign of Emperor Wu, King Xian of Hejian was fond of Confucianism. Together with Mao Sheng and others, he collected the music-discussing parts of "Zhou Guan" and the theories of various scholars, and wrote "Yue Ji", which presented the Eight-Yen Dance, which was not far from the same as Zhi's.
Wang Ding, the Prime Minister of Internal History, taught "Yue Ji" and gave it to Wang Yu of Changshan.
When Wang Yu became emperor, he served as a visitor officer. He discussed its significance several times and presented twenty-four volumes of records.
Liu Xiangxu received twenty-three chapters of "Le Ji", which was different from Wang Yu's. This aspect of knowledge was increasingly declining.
"Spring and Autumn Classic" twelve chapters, "Jing" eleven volumes.
There are two families, Gongyang and Haosui.
Thirty volumes of "The Biography of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period".
Zuo Qiuming was the Taishi of the State of Lu.
"Spring and Autumn Gongyang Zhuan" eleven volumes.
Gong Yangzi is from Qi State.
"Spring and Autumn Period Gu Liang Biography" eleven volumes.
Gu Liangzi was a native of Lu.
"The Spring and Autumn Annals of the Zou Family" in eleven volumes.
Eleven volumes of "The Biography of the Jia Family in the Spring and Autumn Period".
There is a catalog but no book.
Two chapters of "Chun Qiu Zuo Shi Wei".
Three chapters of "Chun Qiu Duo Shi Wei".
Duo Shi is Duojiao, the Taifu of Chu State.
Ten chapters of "Chun Qiu Zhang Shi Wei".
Two chapters of "Microbiography of the Yu Family in the Spring and Autumn Period".
The Yu family is the Prime Minister of the State of Zhao, Yu Qing.
Fifty chapters of "Spring and Autumn Gongyang Gaiden".
Twenty chapters of "Spring and Autumn Guliang Gaiden".
Thirty-eight chapters of "Spring and Autumn Gongyang Chapters".
Thirty-three chapters of "Spring and Autumn Valley Liang Chapters".
Eighty-three chapters of "Spring and Autumn Gong Yang Za Ji".
"Spring and Autumn Gongyang Yanshi Ji" Chapter 11.
Chapter 16 of "Spring and Autumn Gongyang Dong Zhongshu's Prison Control".
Thirty-nine chapters of "Spring and Autumn Annals".
It was Shiquban's discussion.
"Guoyu" twenty-one.
Zuo Qiu Ming.
Fifty-four articles in "New Mandarin".
"Guoyu" written by Liu Xiang.
Fifteen chapters of "Shiben".
Ancient historians recorded the princes and officials from the time of the Yellow Emperor to the Spring and Autumn Period.
Thirty-three chapters of "Warring States Policy".
Remember what happened after the Spring and Autumn Period.
Twenty chapters of "Comments".
When the ministers of the Qin Dynasty came to report, they would carve words on the rocks of the stone mountain.
Nine chapters of "Chu Han Chun Qiu".
Recorded by Lu Jia.
Chapter 130 of "Tai Shi Gong Shu".
Ten articles have catalogs but no books.
There are seven chapters in "Tai Shi Gong" continued by Feng Shang.
Two chapters of "Ages from Ancient Times".
One hundred and ninety volumes of "Books of the Han Dynasty".
Five chapters of "The Great Year of the Han Dynasty".
There are twenty-three authors in the "Spring and Autumn Period" category, with 948 articles.
Omit four chapters from "Tai Shi Gong".
Ancient emperors had historians from generation to generation, and the king's actions must be recorded. The purpose was to make the king cautious in his words and deeds, and his words and deeds could serve as rules for the people.
The historian on the left records his words, and the historian on the right records his deeds. The records of actions are recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals, and the records of words are recorded in the Book of Documents. All emperors are the same.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the books were damaged and damaged. Zhongni wanted to preserve the achievements of the previous sages, so he said: I can tell you about Xia Li, but I can't fully verify the Qi Dynasty; I can talk about Yin Li, but I can't fully verify the Song Dynasty.
This is because there are not enough documents. If there are enough documents, I can verify it.
Because the state of Lu was a feudal state of Zhou Gong, with complete etiquette and literature, and the historians had laws, Zuo Qiu Ming was allowed to read their historical records. According to what they did and in accordance with humanity, achievements were used to establish rewards, failures were punished, the sun and the moon were used to determine the time of solar terms, and the princes met with the emperor to correct rituals and music.
There are hidden and derogatory things that cannot be seen in books, so they are taught to the disciples orally. When the disciples go back, what they say will be different from each other.
Zuo Qiuming was afraid that his disciples would each follow their own opinions and lose the true meaning, so he studied the original facts and explained them. Changming Confucius did not use empty words to explain the scriptures.
The contemporary monarchs and ministers derogated by "Spring and Autumn" had authority and power, and their affairs were written into the explanation. Therefore, the book was hidden and not publicized to avoid the disaster at that time.
When people's oral traditions became popular in the last days, there were legends of "Gongyang", "Guliang", "Zou" and "Jia".
Among these four, "Gongyang Zhuan" and "Gu Liang Zhuan" were listed in the royal school for explanation. The Zou family had no teachers, and the Jia family had no books.
Twenty-one ancient articles in "The Analects of Confucius".
From the wall of Confucius' family, there are two chapters of "Zi Zhang".
Twenty-two chapters of "The Analects of Qi".
There are many chapters on "Ask the King" and "Know".
Twenty chapters of "The Analects of Lu" and nineteen chapters of "Biography".
Twenty-nine chapters of "The Analects of Confucius Qi Shuo".
Twenty-one chapters of "The Theory of Marquis of Lu Xia".
Twenty-one chapters of "The Story of Marquis Chang of Lu'an".
Twenty chapters of "Shuo of Lu Wangjun".
Three volumes of "The Legend of Yan".
Eighteen chapters of "Discussions".
It was Shiqu Pavilion's discussion.
Twenty-seven volumes of "Confucius' Family Sayings".
Seven chapters of "Three Dynasties of Confucius".
Volume 2 of "Confucius' Disciple Shortlisting Method".
There are twelve authors in the Analects of Confucius category, with 229 articles.
The Analects of Confucius is a book that records Confucius' answers to his disciples' questions from time to time, as well as his disciples' questions and answers to each other.
At that time, the disciples each recorded Confucius's words and deeds.
After Zizi died, his disciples collected and wrote down each other, so it was called "The Analects of Confucius".
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there were two books: The Analects of Qi and The Analects of Lu.
Among those who taught "The Analects of Qi" were Changyi Lieutenant Wang Ji, Shaofu Song Ji, Yushi Dafu Genyu, Shangshu Ling Wulu Chongzong, Miaojie Yongsheng, etc., only Wang Bao was a famous scholar.
Those who taught "The Analects of Lu" include Baoshan Captain Gong Fen, Danzhi Shaofu Xia Baocheng, Prime Minister Tong Xian, Long Dieqing, former general Xiao Wangzhi, and Anchang Hou Zhang Yu, all of whom were famous.
Zhang Dan is at the end, so he is popular in the world.
An article from "The Classic of Filial Piety".
There are twenty-two chapters.
An article from "The Classic of Filial Piety".
There are eighteen chapters.
It is divided into four families: Changsun family, Jiang family, Houdi family and Chenghui family.
Two chapters of "The Book of Filial Piety, Changsun's Theory".
An article from "Jiang's Theory of Xiaojing".
An article from "The Theory of Filial Piety by Yishi".
An article from "The Theory of Filial Piety by Hou Shi".
"Miscellaneous Biography" four articles.
An article from "Anchang Hou Shuo".
Eighteen chapters of "Miscellaneous Comments on the Five Classics".
It was Shi Quwen's discussion.
"Erya" has three volumes and twenty chapters.
One chapter of "Xiao Er Ya" and one volume of "Ancient and Modern Characters".
An article titled "Discipleship".
"Shuo" three chapters.
There are eleven books and fifty-nine articles in the "Book of Filial Piety" category.
"The Classic of Filial Piety" is a work by Confucius explaining filial piety to Zengzi.
Filial piety is a matter of course and something that everyone should do.
From a large perspective, it is called "The Classic of Filial Piety".
In the Han Dynasty, there were Changsun family, Dr. Jiang Weng, Shaofu Houcang, Jian Dafu Yifeng, and Anchang Hou Zhang Yu who taught the "Book of Filial Piety", each of which formed its own family.
The scriptures of each school are the same, only the ancient texts in Kong's wall are different. Born to parents, there is no way to continue, so the two sentences are not suitable for each family, and the words and sentences in ancient Chinese are different.
Fifteen chapters of "Shi Zhou".
The child laborer Taishi wrote fifteen large seal scripts. Six articles were lost during the Jianwu period.
"Eight Body and Six Skills".
An article from "Cangjie".
The first seven chapters were written by Li Si, the prime minister of Qin; the sixth chapter of "Yuanli" was written by Zhao Gao, the order of Qin Chefu; the seventh chapter of "Bo Xue" was written by Hu Mujing, the order of Taishi.
An article titled "Every General".
Made by Sima Xiangru.
"Emergency" article.
It was written by Shi You of the Huangmen Order during the reign of Emperor Yuan.
An article from "Yuan Shang".
When he became emperor, it was made by Li Chang, a great craftsman.
An article in "Training and Compilation".
Written by Yang Xiong.
Thirteen chapters of "Biuzi".
An article from "The Biography of Cangjie".
An article from Yang Xiong's "Cang Jie Xun Compilation".
An article from Du Lin's "Compilation of Cangjie Training".
Du Lin's "The Story of Cangjie".
There are ten schools of philology with forty-five articles.
Added two chapters by Yang Xiong and Du Lin.
"Book of Changes" says: In ancient times, knotted ropes were used to record events. Later generations of saints used words to record events. Officials used them to manage affairs, and all the people used them to distinguish things. This is all based on the "Yang" hexagram among the sixty-four hexagrams in the "Book of Changes".
Central is used to decide things in the royal court, which means that it can be promoted in the king's court and is of greatest use.
In ancient times, people entered primary school at the age of eight, so Bao Shi in "Zhou Guan" was in charge of educating the sons of the monarch and taught them six books, namely, pictogram, pictogram, pictogram, onomatopoeia, Zhuanzhu, and pretense, which are the basis of character creation.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Xiao He created the laws and regulations, and also wrote this article, saying: Only those who can recite a book of more than 9,000 words among the students in the Taishi Examination can become historians.
Then the six-body examination is used, and the one with the best score is appointed as the Minister of the Censor, the Censor, and the Secretary of the Order.
Officials and citizens should report any irregularities in their writings.
The six types, namely ancient Chinese, odd characters, seal script, official script, Miao seal script, and insect script, are all used to understand ancient and modern characters, imitate seals, and write flags as tokens.
According to the ancient system, books must be written with the same characters. Those who don't know are temporarily left blank, and then they come to ask the elders for advice. In the era of decline, there are no correct answers to right and wrong, and people make up characters according to their own ideas.
So Confucius said: I have also caught up with the places where doubts are not written in the history books, and now there are no places where doubts are not written!
Probably feeling sad that the words are gradually becoming incorrect. "Shi Zhou Pian" was a book used by historians in the Zhou Dynasty to teach children. The characters are different from the ancient characters in Kong's wall.
The seven chapters of "Cangjie" were written by Li Si, the prime minister of the Qin Dynasty; the six chapters of "Yuanli" were written by Zhao Gao, the magistrate of Chefu; the seven chapters of "Boxue" were written by Hu Mujing, the magistrate of Taishi; most of the text was taken from "Shi Zhou Pian", but the seal styles are very different, creating the so-called Qin seal script.
At this time, the creation of official script had begun, which originated from the fact that there were many lawsuits in the government. In order to save time and convenience, this simple script was first used for official documents dealing with official affairs.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, teachers in the countryside compiled the three chapters of "Cangjie", "Yuanli" and "Boxue", and divided the sixty-six chapters into one chapter, with a total of fifty-five chapters, and merged them into the "Cangjie Pian".
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Sima Xiangru wrote "Fan Jiang Pian" without any heavy characters.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, Huangmenling Shi You wrote "Jijiu Pian", and during the reign of Emperor Cheng, Li Chang, a general and great craftsman, wrote "Yuan Shang Pian", both of which are the orthographic characters in "Cangjie".
"Fan Jiang Pian" is very different.
By the middle of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, hundreds of people in the world who knew how to write were recruited and ordered to memorize words in the court.
Yang Xiong selected the useful ones to write the "Training and Compilation Chapter", followed the connection to the "Cangjie Chapter", and replaced the repeated words in the "Cangjie Chapter", forming a total of eighty-nine chapters.
Chen continued Yang Xiong's work and wrote thirteen chapters, making a total of one hundred and two chapters. There are no repeated words, and the words recorded in the Six Arts and various books are generally complete.
There are many ancient characters in "Cangjie Pian", and mediocre teachers made mistakes in its sentence fragmentation. During the reign of Emperor Xuan, people from Qi State who could correct sentence fragmentation were recruited. Zhang Chang went to receive the teaching. When it was passed to his grandson's son Du Lin, he gave an explanation, which was parallel to "Cangjie Pian".
There are a total of 103 schools of the Six Arts and 3123 articles.
Compared with "Seven Strategies", there are three more books, and there are 159 articles; eleven duplicate articles have been subtracted.
"Spring and Autumn" is used to judge and deal with problems, and is a sign of credibility.
This book embodies benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith, which complement each other and are indispensable, and the "Yi" is its origin.
Therefore, if the meaning of "Yi" is not known, then the universe will almost come to an end. This means that the same heaven and earth share the same end.
As for the five learnings, they change from generation to generation, just like the five elements act alternately.
Ancient scholars cultivated while cultivating, and mastered a skill in three years, retaining its general content and studying the scriptures. Therefore, they spent less time and accumulated more virtues. Menstruation will be cleared at the age of thirty-five.
The scriptures and biographies of later generations have been contradictory to each other, and the learned people do not think about the meaning of listening and being suspicious, but pursue to use fragmented and eccentric meanings to avoid the questioning of others, far-fetched and clever explanations, destroying the shape of the text; explanatory articles of five characters can reach 20,000 to 30,000 words.
Later people competed with each other, so young children clung to one art and could not talk about it until their hair turned gray. By settling for what he has learned and denigrating what he has not seen, he ultimately deceives himself.
This is a serious problem for scholars.
In summary, the six arts are divided into nine types.
"Yan Zi" eight chapters.
Yanzi's name was Ying, Mi Pingzhong, and he was the prime minister of Qi Jinggong. King Kong praised him for being good at interacting with people. His "Biographies" are included in "Historical Records".
"Yu Si" twenty-three chapters.
Zisi, whose name was Ji, was the grandson of Confucius and the teacher of Duke Mu of Lu.
Eighteen chapters of Zengzi.
Zengzi, named Shen, was a student of Confucius.
Thirteen chapters of "Qi Diao Zi".
Descendants of Qi Diaoqi, a student of Confucius.
"Mi Zi" sixteen chapters.
Mi Zi, whose name is not quite right and whose courtesy name is Zi Jian, is a student of Confucius.
Three chapters of "Jingzi".
What he said were the words of Mi Zi, like his students. Twenty-one chapters of "The Prince".
The prince, Mingshuo, was from the state of Chen and a student of Seventy Disciples.
"Marquis Wei Wen" six chapters.
"Li Ke" seven chapters.
Li Ke was a student of Zixia and the prime minister of Wei Wenhou.
"Gongsun Nizi" twenty-eight chapters.
Gongsun Nizi was a student of Seventy Disciples. "Mencius" eleven chapters.
Mencius, whose name was Ke, was a native of Zou and a student of Zisi. His "Biographies" are included in "Historical Records".
"Sun Qingzi" thirty-three chapters.
Sun Qingzi's name was Kuang, a native of the State of Zhao. He was the sacrificial wine of Jixia of the State of Qi. There is "Biography".
Eighteen chapters of "Mizi".
Mizi, named Ying, was a native of Qi and a descendant of the Seventy Disciples.
Fifteen chapters of "Internal Industry".
I don’t know the name of the person who wrote the book.
Six chapters of "Six Secrets of Zhou History".
It was written between King Hui of Zhou and King Xiang of Zhou. Some say that the author was from the time of King Xian, and some say that Confucius once asked him for advice. "Zhou Zheng" six chapters.
It was the legal system of politics and religion in the Zhou Dynasty.
Nine chapters of "Zhou Fa".
Follow the example of heaven and earth and set up hundreds of officials.
Eighteen chapters of "Hejian Zhou Zhi".
It seems to be what King Xian of Hejian said. Spend.
Ten chapters of "Lan Yan".
I don't know the author, but the article discussed is the four chapters of "Gong Yi" on the king's law.
I don’t know the author, but it discusses meritorious matters.
An article from "Ningyue".
Ning Yue was from Zhongmu and was the teacher of King Wei of Zhou.
An article from "The King's Grandson".
Also known as "Qiao Xin".
An article from "Gongsun Gu".
There are eighteen chapters. After King Min of Qi lost his country, he asked Gongsun Gu for advice. Gongsun Gu therefore explained to him the successes and failures of ancient and modern times.
Two chapters of "Li's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Four chapters of "Sheep".
One hundred chapters.
The author is Dr. Qin Chao.
An article from "Dong Zi".
Dong Zi was named Wu Xin, and he once had a problem with Mo Zi.
An article from "Qi Zi".
"Xu Zi" forty-two chapters.
Yellow people outside the Song Dynasty.
Fourteen chapters of "Lu Zhonglianzi".
There is "Biography" in "Historical Records".
"Pingyuanjun" seven chapters.
Zhu Jianzuo.
Fifteen chapters of "Yushi Chunqiu".
The Yu family is Yu Qing. Thirteen chapters of "The Biography of Emperor Gaozu".
It records the remarks of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty and his ministers discussing ancient affairs and their edicts and policies.
Twenty-three chapters of "Lu Jia".
Three chapters of "Liu Jing".
Chapter 11 of "The Biography of Xiaowen".
It records Emperor Wen's remarks and Shao's policies.
Eight chapters of "Jiashan".
Ten chapters of "Taichang Liaohou Kong Zang".
His father, Kong Ju, was granted the title of marquis during the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty because he was a meritorious official, and Ren also inherited the title.
Fifty-eight chapters of "Jia Yi".
King Xian of Hejian has three chapters in his "Towards the Three Yong Palaces of Shang and Xia".
"Dong Zhongshu" Chapter 123.
Nine chapters of "Xiao Kuan".
Ten chapters of "Gongsun Hong".
Eight chapters of "The Final Army".
Six chapters of "Wu Qiu Shou Wang".
An article from "Yu Qiu Shuo".
Question Sun Qing.
Four chapters of "Zhuangzhu".
Four chapters of "Chen Peng".
Eight chapters of "Gou Dun Rong Cong Li Buchang".
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, the author wrote several times to express his opinions.
Eighteen chapters of "Confucian Statements".
Don't know the author.
Huan Kuan's Sixty Chapters on Salt and Iron.
Sixty-seven chapters prefaced by Liu Xiang.
These include "New Preface", "Shuo Yuan", "Shi Shuo" and "Ode to Women".
Thirty-eight chapters prefaced by Yang Xiong.
These include nineteen chapters of "Tai Xuan", thirteen chapters of "Dharma Statement", four chapters of "Le", and two chapters of "Proverbs".
There are 53 Confucian schools mentioned above, with 836 chapters.
Thirty-eight articles on Yang Xiong’s family have been added.
The Confucian school originated from Situ, who was in charge of enlightenment. Its purpose was to assist the monarch to comply with Yin and Yang and promote enlightenment.
It studies the Six Classics, concentrates on benevolence and righteousness, follows the way of Yao and Shun, imitates civil and military affairs, and uses Confucius as its master to show the weight of their words. Its way is the most profound.
Confucius said: If you want to praise a person, you must examine him.
The prosperity of Tang and Yu, the prosperity of Yin and Zhou, and Zhongni's career have proven to be effective.
But those who are not very wise have lost the subtlety of Confucianism, while those who are deviant have advanced and retreated with the times, violating the fundamentals of deviation, just to win the respect of everyone.
Later people followed their example, so the Five Classics violated its original meaning, its meaning was fragmented, and Confucianism gradually declined. This was the shortcoming of the ignorant Confucian students. "Yi Yin" fifty-one.
Yi Yin is the Prime Minister of Shang Tang.
Chapter 237 of "Tai Gong".
Lu Wang was the master of the Zhou Dynasty, and he was originally a righteous man.
Some people think that this book was added by later generations of scholars who studied Taigong. These include eighty-one chapters of "Conspiracy", seventy-one chapters of "Words", and eighty-five chapters of "Soldiers".
Twenty-nine chapters of "Xinjia".
Xin Jia was a minister of King Zhou. After admonishing him seventy-five times, he left and was enfeoffed.
Twenty-two chapters of "Venzi".
Huanzi, named Xiong, was a teacher of the Zhou Dynasty. Everyone from King Wen on down came to him for advice, and the Zhou Dynasty named him the Patriarch of Chu.
"Guanzi" eighty-six chapters.
Guanzi's name was Yiwu, and he was the prime minister of Duke Huan of Qi. He could unite the princes nine times without using military force. There is a "Biography" in "Historical Records".
Four chapters of "Laozi Linshi Jing Zhuan".
Lao Tzu's surname is Li and his given name is Er, and his teachings were taught by his neighbor.
Thirty-seven chapters of "Laozi and Fu's Classics".
Tell about Laozi’s teachings.
"Laozi Xu Shi Jing Shuo" six chapters.
Xu, whose courtesy name was Shaoji, was from Linhuai and taught Laozi.
Liu Xiang's "Speaking of Laozi" in four chapters.
Nine chapters of "Wenzi".
Wen Yu was a student of Laozi and lived in the same era as Laozi, but he said that King Ping of Zhou asked him for advice, as if relying on his name.
Thirteen chapters of "蜎子".
Wo Zi was named Yuan, a native of Chu, and a disciple of Lao Tzu.
Nine chapters of "Guan Yinzi".
Guan Yinzi's name was happy, and he was a Guan official. When I passed the pass, Guan happy went with me.
Fifty-two chapters of "Zhuangzi".
Zhuangzi's name was Zhou, and he was a native of the Song Dynasty.
Eight chapters of "The Scoundrel".
Liezi was named Yukou and was older than Zhuangzi. Zhuangzi praised him very much.
Eighteen chapters of "Lao Chengzi".
Nine chapters of "Chang Luzi".
Changluzi was from the Chu state.
An article from "Wang Dizi".
Four chapters of "Gongzi Mou".
Prince Mou was a prince of the state of Wei, who preceded Zhuangzi, and Zhuangzi praised him very much.
Twenty-five chapters of "Tian Zi".
Tianzi's name is Pian, a native of Qi State. He traveled to Hong, known as Yudanbi.
Sixteen chapters of "Lao Laizi".
A native of Chu, at the same time as Confucius.
Four chapters of "Qian Louzi".
Qian Louzi was a hermit of Qi State. He stayed true to the law and refused to give in. King Wei of Qi treated him with courtesy.
Two chapters of "The Grandson of the Palace".
An article from "He Guanzi".
The author is from Chu State and lives in the mountains. Crowned with gull feathers.
Fourteen chapters of "Zhou Xun".
Four chapters of the "Four Classics of the Yellow Emperor".
Six chapters of "Huang Di Ming".
Ten chapters of "The Yellow Emperor's Rulers and Ministers".
It originated from the Six Kingdoms period and is similar to "Laozi".
Fifty-eight chapters of "Zahuangdi".
Made by the wise men of the Six Kingdoms period.
Twenty-two chapters of "Li Mu".
It was made by people from the Six Kingdoms and was named Lisi.
Lisi is the appearance of a child. "Sun Tzu" sixteen chapters.
Written during the Six Kingdoms period.
"Jiezi" two chapters.
Jiezi was a native of Qi State, and his remarks were made during the reign of Emperor Wu.
"Cao Yu" two chapters.
Feng Yu was a native of the Chu State, and was the king of Qi who came to the throne during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Twelve chapters of "Lang Zhong Ying Qi".
Written during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Two chapters of "Chen Junzi".
I am a native of Shu County.
An article from "Elder Zheng".
It was written during the Six Kingdoms Period.
Earlier than Han Zi, King Han Ji had praised him.
Three chapters of Chuzi.
Two chapters of "Taoist Statements".
From modern times, author unknown.
There are thirty-seven Taoist works mentioned above, totaling nine hundred and ninety-three articles.
The Taoist school should have evolved from historians. Taoist writings record the success, failure, survival, misfortune and blessings of the past dynasties. However, being able to adhere to the essentials, purify nothingness to maintain self-morality, and be humble and weak to protect oneself is the art of kingly rule.
It is consistent with Yao's self-restraint and humility and the hatred and forbearance of "Yi". They can gain benefits from heaven, earth, gods and people with a single act of humility. This is their strength.
When those who abuse it come to practice Taoism, they want to abandon all etiquette and abandon benevolence and righteousness, saying that as long as they are pure and void, they can be peaceful.
Three chapters of "Song Si Xing Ziwei".
He is Jinggong's historian.
Fourteen chapters of "The End and Beginning of Gongzhen's Life".
Taught Zou Shi's book "Always".
Twenty-two chapters of "Gongsun Fa".
Gongsunfa was from the Six Kingdoms period.
"Zou Zi" forty-nine chapters.
Zou Zi was named Yan. He was a native of Qi State and was the tutor of King Yan Zuo. He lived in Jingong and was named Tantianyan.
Fifty-six chapters of "The End and Beginning of Zou Zi".
Five chapters of Chengqiuzi.
Chengqiuzi was a native of the Six Kingdoms period.
Five chapters of "Du Wengong".
He was from the Six Kingdoms period.
Twenty chapters of "Huangdi Taisu".
Written by various princes in Korea during the Six Kingdoms period.
"Nangong" thirty-one.
Nangong was from the Six Kingdoms period.
Fourteen chapters of "Rong Chengzi".
"Zhang Cang" sixteen chapters.
Zhang Cang once served as prime minister of the Han Dynasty and was granted the title of Marquis of Beiping.
"Zou Shizi" twelve chapters.
Zou Shizi was a native of Qi State and was known as the Dragon-Diao Official.
Thirteen chapters of "Lu Qiuzi".
Named pad, a trapped person, before the time of Lu Gong.
Thirteen chapters of "Feng Cu".
He is from the state of Zheng.
Five chapters of "Jiang Juzi".
Jiang Juzi was from the Six Kingdoms period.
He lived earlier than Nangong, and Nangong admired him very much.
Five chapters of "Five Cao Official System".
The description is of Han system and seems to have been made by Mai Yi.
"Zhou Bo" eleven chapters.
Author: Itachi is a fish man from the wall fish era. Twelve chapters of "Marquis of Wei".
Modern work, author unknown.
Wang Zhou's "Loyal Ministers of the World" contains nine chapters.
Wang Zhou was a native of Wangkang, and wrote fifteen chapters of "Gongsun Hunxie" in modern times.
Gongsun Hunxie is on patrol.
Thirty-eight chapters of "Miscellaneous Yin and Yang".
Author unknown.
There are twenty-one types of Yin-Yang family mentioned above, and three hundred and sixty-nine articles.
The Yin-Yang school is an official of astronomy and calendar. They respect heaven, observe and calculate the movement of the sun, moon and stars, and carefully tell the people the time for farming. This is their strength.
When strict people practice it, they will be constrained by taboos, stick to small skills, give up human affairs, and engage in superstitious ghosts and gods.
"Plum" thirty-two chapters.
Li Zi, named Kui, was the prime minister of Marquis Wen of Wei, and advocated the theory of making the country rich and its military strong.
Twenty-nine chapters of "Shang Jun".
Shang Jun's name was Yang Yang and his surname was Ji. He was a descendant of Wei State and the prime minister of Duke Xiao of Qin. There is a "Biography" in "Historical Records".
"Shenzi" six chapters.
Shen Zi's name is not harmful. He was from Jingdi and was the prime minister of Han Zhaohou. During his lifetime, the princes did not dare to invade Zhou Lei.
"Virgin" nine chapters.
"Shenzi" forty-two chapters.
Shenzi became famous before Shen Buhai and Han Fei, and was praised by Shen Buhai and Han Fei.
Fifty-five chapters of "Han Zi".
Han Ziming Fei, a young master from South Korea, went on a mission to Qin. Li Si was jealous of him and killed him.
An article from "You Dizi".
"Chao Cuo" thirty-one.
Ten chapters of "Ten Things about Yan".
Author unknown. Two chapters of "Legal Statements".
Author unknown.
The above ten types of legalist works, totaling 217 articles.
The Legalist school, which originated from judges, advocates that those who have meritorious services must be rewarded and those who are guilty must be punished, and it uses criminal law to assist the etiquette system.
"Book of Changes" says that the previous kings used strict punishments to rectify the legal system. This was their strength.
When a mean person comes to enforce it, don't teach, give up benevolence, and only enforce punishment in the hope of achieving peace, even to the point of harming your loved ones and repaying kindness with hatred.
Two chapters of "Deng Analysis".
A native of Zheng, at the same time as Zichan.
An article from "Yi Wenzi".
Lobbyed King Xuan of Qi.
Compared with Gongsun Long's era
Fourteen chapters of "Gongsun Longzi".
Gongsun Longzi was a native of Shaguo.
Five chapters of "Cheng Gongsheng".
The same era as Dong Gong and others.
"Huizi" an article.
The name of the cutting is Shi, which is the same as the king of stems.
Four chapters of "Huang Gong".
Huang Gongmingzhi was a doctor in the Qin Dynasty. He composed songs and poems, and his works are among the songs and poems at the time of painting.
Nine chapters of "Mao Gong".
Mao Gong was a native of Tongguo, and he went to Luojiudiejiji's home with Gongsun Long and others at the same time.
There are seven kinds of works by the above famous writers, thirty-six articles.
The famous school originated from the Li Palace.
In ancient times, different statuses led to different etiquette.
Confucius said: We must correct our status!
If the name is not correct, then the words will not make sense, and if the words do not make sense, the things will not work.
This is their strength.
When those who specialize in revealing other people's secrets come to engage in celebrity activities, it will only add to the chaos. Two chapters of "Yin Yi".
The author was a minister of the Zhou Dynasty, a native of King Cheng and Kang Gongshi.
Three chapters of "Tian Qiu Zi".
Earlier than Han Fei. The article "My Son".
Six chapters of "Sui Chao Zi".
Sui Chaozi is Mo Zhai's student. Three chapters of "Hu Feizi".
Hu Feizi was a student of Mo Zhai. "Mozi" seventy-one chapters.
Mozi's name was Zhai, and he was a great official in the Song Dynasty, after the time of Confucius.
The above six kinds of Mohist works, totaling eighty-six articles.
Mohist theory originated from the officials who guarded the ancestral temple.
This kind of people live in thatched houses with oak wood rafters, so they advocate frugality; they support three elders and five watchers, so they are philanthropic; they select scholars to perform archery ceremonies, so they respect the virtuous; they offer sacrifices to their ancestors and respect their fathers, so they are superstitious about ghosts and gods; they follow the four seasons, so they do not believe in fate; they use filial piety to show the world, so they seek the same from others. This is their strength.
But in this regard, a fool will oppose etiquette for the sake of frugality, and promote fraternity, but do not know how to distinguish between closeness and distance.
"Su Zi" thirty-one.
Su Zi's name is Qin, and there is "Biography" in "Historical Records".
Ten chapters of "Zhang Zi".
Zhang Zi's name is Yi, and there is "Biography" in "Historical Records".
Two chapters of "Pang Nuan".
Pang Nuan is a general of Yan State.
An article from "Que Zi".
Seventeen chapters of "Guozhenzi".
An article from "Lingling Lingxin" of Taizhou Zhou Dynasty.
Prime Minister Kuiqian questioned Tongyu. Five chapters of Kuai Zi.
Kuaizi Mingtong.
"Zou Yang" seven chapters.
Twenty-eight chapters of "Zhufuyan".
An article from "Xu Le".
An article from "Zhuang An".
Three chapters of "Wai Shao Jin Ma Liao Cang Cang".
Liao Cang is a native of Tong country, who lived during the reign of Emperor Wu.
The above 12 strategists have written 107 articles.
The school of political strategists should come from officials who receive distinguished guests.
Confucius said: If you have recited three hundred poems and sent envoys to various places, you cannot respond randomly. No matter how many poems you recite, what is the use?
And he said: Messenger, messenger!
It means that messengers should weigh things, act according to circumstances, and accept missions but not words. This is their strength.
When evil people come to do it, they will focus on deception and abandon integrity.
Kong Jia's "Pan Yu" contains twenty-six chapters.
Kong Jia was the historian of the Yellow Emperor. Some say it was Kong Jia, the emperor of Xia, but neither seems sure.
Thirty-seven chapters of "Yu".
According to legend, it was written by Dayu, and his writing seems to be the language of later generations.
Eight chapters of "Wu Zixu".
Wu Zixu, a famous member, was a general of Wu State in the Spring and Autumn Period. He was loyal and upright, but he died of slander and persecution.
Thirty-five chapters of "Ziwanzi".
Ziwanzi was a native of Qi State and liked to discuss the art of war, which is similar to "Sima Fa".
Three chapters of "Youyu".
Youyu was from Rongdi, and he was appointed as a senior official by Duke Mu of Qin.
Twenty-nine chapters of "Wei Liao".
From the Warring States Period.
Twenty chapters of "Corpse".
The corpse's name was Jiao, a native of Lu. Shang Yang, the prime minister of Qin, studied under him.
After Shang Yang died, Shi Jiao fled to Shu.
Twenty-six chapters of "Lu's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Lu Buwei, the Prime Minister of the State of Qin, summoned wise men and made it.
Twenty-one chapters of "Huainanzi Neipian".
That is Liu An, King of Huainan.
Chapter 33 of "Huainan Ziwai Chapter".
Twenty chapters of "Dongfang Shuo".
An article from "Mr. Bo Xiang".
Five chapters of "Lun on Jing Ke".
Jing Ke assassinated the King of Qin for the State of Yan, but failed and died. Sima Xiangru and others discussed this matter.
An article from "Wu Zi".
An article from "Gongsun Ni".
An article called "Dialogue between Doctors and Ministers".
Works from the Han Dynasty, questioning Han Fei and Zhi Zhou.
Three chapters of "Chen Shuo".
Fu written during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Thirty-five chapters of "Jie Zi Bu Shu".
"Tui Za Shu" eighty-seven chapters.
An article from "Miscellaneous Family Words".
Discussing kingship and tyranny, author unknown.
There are 20 kinds of miscellaneous works mentioned above, totaling 403 articles.
Added Art of War.
The miscellaneous schools of thought should be officials who discuss affairs.
They have both Confucianism and Mohism, integrate names and laws, understand these schools and schools in the national system, and foresee that there is no incomprehension in governing the country. This is their strength.
When indulgent people come to participate, they will be boundless and have nothing to rely on. Twenty chapters of "Shen Nong".
In the era of ruined countries, scholars hated the slackness of agriculture in the world, so they relied on locusts to guide farming and agriculture. Seventeen chapters of "Ye Lao".
Works from the era of national destruction, between Cha and Chu.
"Zaishi" seventeen chapters.
I don’t know what era Zai Shi was from.
"Dong Anguo" sixteen chapters.
The internal historian of the Han Dynasty was from the reign of an unknown emperor.
Fourteen chapters of "Captain Yin".
I don’t know which generation they are from.
Five chapters of "Tangshi".
I don’t know what era he is from.
Eighteen chapters of "Si Sheng Zhi".
When he became emperor, he was Yilang.
"Wang's" six chapters.
I don’t know what era he is from. An article from "Cai Gui".
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, it was because of stating interests. Official to Honglu Prefecture.
There are nine kinds of agricultural works mentioned above, totaling 114 articles.
The peasant school should have originated from officials in charge of agriculture.
Sowing hundreds of grains, devoted to farming and sericulture, in order to enrich clothing and food, so the first of the eight policies is food, and the second is goods.
Confucius said that what matters most is the food of the people, and this is their strength.
When despicable people came to take charge of this matter, they thought that there was no need to serve the holy king and wanted the king and his ministers to work together, thus disrupting the order of the upper and lower levels.
Twenty-seven chapters of "Yi Yin Shuo".
The language is shallow, like support.
Chapter 19 of "Wan Zi Shuo".
added by future generations.
"Zhou Kao" seventy-six chapters.
Investigate events in the Zhou Dynasty.
Fifty-seven chapters of "Qing Shizi".
It is the record of ancient historians.
Six chapters of "Shi Kuang".
Shi Kuang appears in the Spring and Autumn Annals, and its language is shallow. It is originally the same as the Spring and Autumn Annals, but it seems to be based on it.
Chapter 11 of "Wuchengzi".
It is said to be the question of Emperor Yao, which is not in ancient language.
Eighteen chapters of "Songzi".
Sun Qing taught Song Zi, and what he said was Huang Lao's theory.
Three chapters of "Tianyi".
Tianyi is Shangtang, and the language is not from Yin Dynasty, it is all based on it.
"Huangdi Shuo" forty chapters.
Absurd support.
Eighteen chapters of "Feng Chan Fang Shuo".
It was written during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Chapter 25 of "Waiting for Shao Chen's Rao Xin Shu".
It was written during the reign of Emperor Wu.
An article titled "Waiting for the Emperor's Ancheng Weiyang Shu".
Seven chapters of "Chen Shou Zhou Ji".
It was a work by a native of Xiangguoyu during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Chapter 943 of "Yu Chu Zhou Shuo".
He was a man who was called Dong Huangyuan when he was young.
One hundred and thirty-nine volumes of "Hundred Schools".
There are fifteen kinds of works by the above novelists, totaling 1,380 articles.
The school of novelists should originate from petty officials who collect folklore.
It is made by people who talk in the streets and hearsay.
Confucius said: Even if it is a small path, it must have considerable potential. If it develops into a far-reaching area, it may become rigid, so a gentleman will not do it.
But it's not eliminated either.
People with a little wisdom among the people spread it, so that it will not be forgotten.
If there is a saying that can be used sometimes, it is also the discussion of the crazy man in the grass.
There are a total of one hundred and eighty-nine kinds of works by various scholars, consisting of four thousand three hundred and twenty-four articles.
Minus the Cuju family, there are twenty-five articles in total.
There are ten schools of thought, of which only nine are significant.
They all arose when kings were in decline and princes were presiding over politics. The monarchs of the time had very different likes and dislikes. Therefore, these nine schools of thought stood side by side, each adhering to their own doctrines and advocating their good sides, so as to lobby the monarchs of various countries, hoping to gain the support of princes and kings.
Although there are differences between these theories, just like water and fire, they can destroy each other but can also create each other.
Benevolence, justice, respect and harmony, on the contrary, can also complement and promote each other.
"Yi" says: The destination of the world is the same but the paths are different; the thoughts are the same but the thinking is different.
Nowadays, different schools of thought each promote their own strengths and delve into the beginning and end of things in order to understand its gist. Even if there are shortcomings, integrating their gist is the relationship between branches and streams of the Six Classics.
If this person meets the Lord Mingwang and is treated fairly by him, he can become a minister who can assist the king.
Zhongni once said: If etiquette is lost, seek it from the people.
Now that we are far away from the Holy King, we lack morals and have no place to look for it. Aren't these nine schools beyond the folk theories?
If you can study the Six Arts and study the opinions of these nine schools, and use your strengths and avoid weaknesses, you will be able to understand the strategies of all parties.
Twenty-five poems by Qu Yuan.
Xingli was a doctor, and there is a "Biography" in "Historical Records".
Four poems by Tang Le.
Tang Le is from Chu State.
Song Yu composed a total of sixteen poems.
A native of Chu, in the same era as Tang Le, after Qu Yuan.
A poem by Zhao Yougong.
Twenty-four poems by Master Zhuang.
Mr. Zhuang's name was Ji, and he was from the state of Wu.
There are seven poems about Mai Yi.
Nine chapters of Meicheng Fu.
Twenty-nine poems by Sima Xiangru.
Eighty-two chapters of the Huainan Wang Fu.
Forty-four poems by the officials of the King of Huainan.
Twenty poems by Confucius and Zang, the Marquis of Liao of Taichang.
Nineteen poems by Liu Jun, Marquis of Yangqiu.
Fifteen poems by King Wuqiu Shou.
An article written by Cai Jia.
Two poems composed by Emperor Wu himself.
There are two Fu Kuan poems.
Three poems by Zhang Ziqiao, the official of Guanglu.
Contemporaneous with Wang Guo.
There are nine poems written by Liu De, Marquis of Yangcheng.
Liu Xiang's thirty-three poems.
Sixteen of Wang Bao's poems.
There are twenty kinds of works on Ci and Fu mentioned above, totaling 361 articles.
Lu Jia wrote three poems.
There are one hundred and twenty Fu in Meigao.
Two poems by Zhu Jian.
There are eleven poems written by Chang Shilang Zhuang Huqi.
Contemporaneous with Pan.
Thirty-five poems by Yan Zhu.
Zhu Maichen wrote three poems.
Song Zheng and Liu Piqiang wrote eight poems.
Sima Qian wrote eight poems.
Lang Zhongchen Ying Qi Fu has ten chapters.
Chen Shuo Fu has nine chapters.
Eighteen chapters of Chenwu's poems.
A poem by Su Ji, the governor of Liaodong.
Four poems by Xiao Wang.
Two poems by Xu Ming, the governor of Hanoi.
Xu Ming, nicknamed Changjun, was a native of Cambodia. He served as the governor of five counties during the reigns of Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng, and he had a reputation for being capable.
Nine poems were written to Li Xi, the minister of Huangmen.
Two chapters of Huaiyang Xianwang Fu.
Twelve poems by Yang Xiong.
Waiting for the imperial edict, Feng Shang wrote nine poems.
Du Shen, a disciple of the doctor, wrote two poems.
There are three poems written by Zhang Feng, the Che Lang.
Zhang Feng is the son of Zhang Ziqiao.
There are three poems written by Zhu Yu, the hussar general.
There are twenty-one kinds of Ci Fu works mentioned above, totaling 274 articles.
Eight articles by Yang Xiong have been added.
Sun Qing wrote ten poems.
Nine miscellaneous poems from the Qin Dynasty.
Fifteen chapters of "Ode to Emperor Xiaojing" by Li Si.
There are five poems written by King Hui of Guangchuan and Yue.
Three poems by the officials of the king of Changsha.
Two chapters of Wei Nei Shi Fu.
Dongxun ordered Yannian Fu in seven chapters.
The guards ordered Li Zhong to write two poems.
Two poems by Zhang Yan.
Jia Chong wrote four poems.
Zhang Ren's six poems.
There are two poems written by Qin Chong.
Two poems by Li Buchang.
Xie Duofu, the minister, has ten poems.
Two poems by Princess Pingyang and Zhou Changru.
There are nine poems written by Luoyang Qihua.
A poem by Sui Hong.
Bie Xuyang's five poems.
Six chapters of Chenchang City Fu.
Two chapters of Chen Yifu.
Huangmenshu wrote thirteen chapters of Wang Shang's fictitious history.
There are four poems written by the attendant Xu Bo.
Huangmen calligrapher Wang Guang and Lu Jia wrote five poems.
Two poems by Hualong, the commander-in-chief of Hanzhong.
Zuo Fengyi wrote eight poems by Lu Gong.
There are twenty-five kinds of poems, one hundred and thirty-six chapters.
Eighteen chapters of "Ode to Guests and Hosts".
Twenty-four chapters of "Za Xing Chu and Song De Fu".
Twenty chapters of "Miscellaneous Barbarians and Soldiers' Fu".
Twelve chapters of "The Frustrated Odes of Miscellaneous Sages".
Sixteen chapters of "Ode to Miscellaneous Thoughts and Sorrows about Death".
Thirteen chapters of "Fu on Miscellaneous Drums, Qin, Sword and Play".
Sixteen chapters of "Ode to Miscellaneous Mountains and Tombs, Water Bubbles, Clouds, Air, Rain and Drought".
Eighteen chapters of "Ode to Miscellaneous Animals, Six Animals and Insects".
Thirty-three chapters of "Ode to Miscellaneous Instruments, Plants and Trees".
Thirty-four chapters of "Da Za Fu".
Eleven chapters of "Chengxiang Zaci".
Eighteen chapters of "The Hidden Book".
There are twelve kinds of miscellaneous poems, totaling 233 chapters.
Two chapters of "The Songs and Poems of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty".
Fourteen chapters of "Taiyi Za Ganquan Shougong Poems".
Five chapters of "Ancestral Temple Songs and Poems".
Fourteen chapters of "Poems on the Counterattacks Since the Rebellion of the Han Dynasty".
Ten chapters of "Poems on Hunting and Traveling Songs".
Four chapters of "The Songs and Poems of King Linjiang and the Sorrowful Scholars".
Three chapters of "Poems of Mrs. Li and the Honorable Lady".
"The imperial edict bestowed upon Prince Jing of Zhongshan what and his concubine Bing Weiyang's talented people's poems" are four chapters.
Fifteen chapters of "Poems of Wu Chu and Runan".
Nine chapters of "Yan Dynasty's Poems about Yanmen Yunzhong and Longxi".
Four chapters of "Poems on the River in Handan".
Four chapters of "Qi Zheng's Poems".
Four chapters of "Huainan Songs and Poems".
Three chapters of "Zuo Feng Yi Qin's Poems".
Five chapters of "Jingzhao Yin Qin Ge Poems".
An article from "Hedong Pu Fange Poetry".
Fifteen chapters of "Poems of Huangmen Advocating Che Zhong and Others".
Ten chapters of "Zage Youzhu's Famous Songs and Poems".
Nine "Miscellaneous Poems".
Four chapters of "Luoyang Poems".
Seven chapters of "Henan Zhou Ge Poems".
Seven chapters of "Henan Zhou Songs with twists and turns".
Seventy-five chapters of "Zhou Yao Shi".
Seventy-five chapters of "The Songs and Songs of the Zhou Dynasty have twists and turns".
Three "Poems of the Gods".
Three pieces of "Ode to Farewell and Welcoming Spirits".
Two chapters of "Zhou Ge Shi".
Five chapters of "Nanjun Songs and Poems".
There are twenty-eight kinds of songs and poems mentioned above, and three hundred and fourteen poems.
In total, there are 106 kinds of poems and poems, totaling 1,318 articles.
Eight articles by Yang Xiong have been added.
Ancient books say: If you can't sing but just recite, it's called Fu. If you can climb high and be able to compose Fu, you can become a doctor.
It is said that those who can touch the scene and be moved by words will be called a doctor, and those who have outstanding intelligence and can discuss important matters with them will be called a doctor.
In ancient times, princes, ministers and officials negotiated with neighboring countries and used subtle language to talk to each other. In diplomatic situations where guests and hosts met, they must quote "Poetry" to express their aspirations. This was nothing more than using it to distinguish the virtuous and unworthy and to observe the rise and fall of the other party.
Therefore, Confucius said that if you don't study "Poetry", you will have nothing to say.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, the kingship of the Zhou Dynasty was gradually destroyed. When the feudal princes communicated with each other, singing no longer appeared in various countries. Those who studied "Poetry" lived in seclusion among the people, and those who were talented and lost their ambitions began to compose poems.
The great scholar Sun Qing and the Chu minister Qu Yuan were slandered and worried about their country, so they wrote poems to satirize and remonstrate, both of which have the sad meaning of ancient poems.
After that, there were Song Yu and Tang Le, Mei Cheng and Sima Xiangru emerged in the Han Dynasty, and all the way to Yangzi Yun, they competed to write gorgeous and complicated words, drowning the meaning of satire.
Therefore, Yang Ziyun regretted this and said: The poet's poetry is gorgeous and principled, while the poet's poetry is gorgeous and unrestrained.
Just like Kong's disciples used Fu, Jia Yi came to the palace and Xiangru entered the house. So what if they didn't use Fu!
After Emperor Xiaowu established the Yuefu and collected ballads, there were songs of Daiguo and Tangguo. The styles of Qin and Chu were all composed with a sense of sadness and joy for things, and they were composed according to the events. They could be used to observe customs and know the gains and losses of politics.
The order of arranging poems is divided into five types.
Eighty-two chapters of "Wu Sun Tzu's Art of War".
There are nine volumes of pictures.
"Qi Sunzi" eighty-nine chapters.
There are four volumes of pictures.
"Gongsun Yang" twenty-seven chapters.
Forty-eight chapters of "Wu Qi".
Is there any "Biography" in "Historical Records"?
"Fan Li" two chapters.
Fan Li was a minister of King Goujian of Yue. Two chapters of "Da Fu Zhong".
Together with Fan Li, he served Gou Jian.
Ten chapters of "Plum".
"娷". articles.
An article from "Bing Chunqiu".
Three chapters of "Pang Nuan". An article from "Xiao Liang". An article from "Guangwujun".
Lord Guangwu is Li Zuoche.
Three chapters of "Han Xin".
There are thirteen kinds of works by the above-mentioned military planners, totaling 259 articles.
After subtracting 259 types of Yi Yin, Tai Gong, "Guan Zi", "Sun Qing Zi", "Ouguan Zi", "Su Zi", Kuai Tong, Lu Jia, and King Huainan, the "Sima Fa" was taken out and placed in the ritual category.
The Machiavellian school uses regular methods to defend the country, and advocates surprise and victory when fighting the enemy. It plans first and then fights. It has the vigorous and vigorous momentum of the situationists and the mystery of the Yin Yang family. It is a school that focuses on the use of mental strategies. Seven chapters of "The Art of War of Chu".
There are four volumes of pictures.
"Chiyou" two chapters.
See "Lu Xing".
Five chapters of "Sun Zhen".
There are two volumes of pictures.
Two chapters of "Yu Xu".
Chapter 16 of "Kings and Suns".
There are five circular volumes.
Thirty-one chapters of "Wei Liao".
"Wei Gongzi" twenty-one.
There are ten volumes of garden.
Wei Gongzi's name is Wuji, and his "Biography" is included in "Historical Records".
Thirteen chapters of "Jingzi".
Three chapters of "Li Liang".
An article from "Ding Zi".
An article from "King Xiang".
The name of King Xiang.
There are eleven kinds of works by the above-mentioned military situationists, consisting of ninety-two chapters and eighteen volumes of pictures.
A master of military situation, his idea of ​​using troops is like thunder and wind, fierce offensive, quick action, late strike and first arrival, advancing and retreating, gathering and dispersing, changing constantly, and using lightness to subdue the enemy.
An article from "Taiyi's Art of War".
Thirty-five chapters of "Tianyi's Art of War".
An article from "Shennong's Art of War".
"Yellow Emperor" sixteen chapters.
Round three volumes.
"Feng Hu" five chapters.
He was a minister of the Yellow Emperor, and this book is based on.
Thirteen chapters of "Queen of the Wind".
There are two volumes of pictures.
Queen Huang was Dong Tong's minister, and this book is based on it. Fifteen chapters of "Li Mu".
Limu was a minister of the Yellow Emperor, and this book is based on ancient works.
An article from "Lai Yezi".
There is a volume with pictures.
Three chapters of "Ghost Zone".
There is a volume with pictures.
Xing Cha Dou was Dong Tong's minister, and the book he sent was based on the work of the ancients.
Six chapters of "Di Canon".
An article from "Mencius".
"East Father" thirty-one.
Eight chapters of "Shi Kuang".
Shi Kuang was a minister of Jin Ping Gong.
Fifteen chapters of "Chang Hong".
Xun Hong was a historian of the Zhou Dynasty.
Six chapters of "Farewell to Chengzi and Wang Junqi".
There are three volumes of pictures.
Seventy chapters of "Building a Powerful Victory".
The above-mentioned works of the Yin-Yang School include sixteen kinds, two hundred and forty-nine chapters, and ten volumes.
The yin-yang family of soldiers advocated using troops in accordance with the weather, speculating on punishment and virtue, observing the movements of the stars to know good and bad luck, relying on the mutual generation and restraint of the five elements, and using ghosts and gods to use troops. Ten chapters of "Bao Zi's Art of War".
There is a volume with pictures.
Ten chapters of "Wu Zixu".
There is a volume with pictures.
Five chapters of "Gongshengzi".
Five chapters of "Seedlings".
There is a round roll.
Two chapters of "The Art of Shooting at Every Door".
Chapter 11 of "Yin Tong Cheng She Fa".
Three articles on "General Li's Shooting Techniques".
Six chapters of "Wei's Shooting Method".
Five volumes of "The Encirclement and Shooting Techniques of Strong Crossbow Generals and Kings".
Fifteen chapters of "Far-reaching Crossbow Shooting Tools".
Five chapters of "The Book of Shooting by Wang He, the Archer of the Guards".
Four chapters of "Puzhu Zi Yi Fa".
Thirty-eight chapters of "The Way of the Sword".
Six chapters of "Hand Fight".
Fifty-seven chapters of "Miscellaneous Art of War".
Twenty-five chapters of "Cuju".
There are thirteen kinds of works written by military masters, totaling one hundred and ninety-nine articles.
Subtracting the repeated article from "Mozi" and adding "Cuju".
A skilled soldier advocates practicing the dexterity of the hands and feet, making the use of instruments skillful, and being familiar with the bow and crossbow in order to win offensive and defensive victories.
In total, there are fifty-three military books, seven hundred and ninety articles, and forty-three volumes of pictures.
After subtracting the 271 duplicates from the ten families, 25 chapters from the "Cuju" family were added, and the 155 chapters from the "Sima Fa" were added to the ceremony.
The military strategist school originated from the ancient Sima officials and was the armament of the royal officials.
Among the eight political affairs in "Hong Fan", the eighth is military affairs.
Confucius said that those who govern the country must have abundant food and sufficient troops, because if they do not educate the people to know how to fight, it is equivalent to abandoning them. This shows the importance of the army.
"Book of Changes" says that ancient people made bows out of string wood and cut the wood into arrows. The sharpness of the bows and arrows could dominate the world and they were of great use.
Later generations sold gold to make knives and cut leather to make bells and armors. The equipment was very complete.
When Tang and Wu accepted the mandate of heaven, used the army to defeat the turmoil and helped the people, moved them with benevolence and righteousness, and acted with courtesy, the "Sima Law" was what they left behind.
From the Spring and Autumn Period to the Warring States Period, surprise ambushes were recruited, and wars with cunning changes often occurred.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Liang compiled a total of 182 art of war. He deleted the useless ones and selected the important and usable ones, and identified 35.
Lu stole it after taking power.
When Wu Tong was a child, the military and political affairs harassed the fort to pick up dispatches and scattered books, recorded them and submitted them to the emperor, but they were still not comprehensive.
At the time of Langtong and Shengtong, he was ordered to make four types of military books.
"Tai Yi Zaizixing" twenty-eight volumes.
Twenty-one volumes of "Five Residual Variable Stars".
Chapter 33 of "Huangdi Zaziqi".
Twenty-one volumes of "Always Follow the Qi of the Sun, Moon and Stars".
Twenty-two volumes of "Emperor's Miscellaneous Stars".
Nineteen volumes of "Huainan Miscellaneous Stars".
Thirty-four volumes of "Taiyi Zazi Yunyu".
Thirty-four volumes of "Guozhang Guanni Yunyu".
One volume of "Six Talismans of Taijie".
Eight chapters of "Jin Du Yu Heng Mo Five Star Passengers Flow in and Out".
Eight volumes of "Han Five Stars Comet's Behavior Divination".
Three volumes of "Han and Japan's side-effects and fortune-telling".
Eight volumes of "Han Dynasty Meteoric Astrology Divination".
Thirteen volumes of "Han Ripan Qi Xing Zhen Yu".
Thirteen volumes of "Han Dynasty Chinese Solar Eclipse and Moon Halo Miscellaneous Changes and Behavior Divination".
"Star Divination in the Sea" twelve volumes.
Twenty-two volumes of "Miscellaneous Matters of the Five Stars in the Sea".
Twenty-eight volumes of "Five Stars in the Sea, Order and Reverse".
Twenty-eight volumes of "Twenty-Eight Hosts in the Sea".
Twenty-eight volumes of "Twenty-eight Suchen Fen in the Sea".
Eighteen volumes of "Miscellaneous Accounts of the Sun, Moon, Comet, and Rainbow in the Sea".
Seventeen chapters of "Book Secrets".
There are twenty-one astronomical works mentioned above, totaling 445 volumes.
Astronomers arranged the order of the twenty-eight constellations and calculated the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire, earth, and the sun and moon. They were used to record signs of good and bad luck, and the sage kings used them as political references.
"Yi" says: Observe the distribution and movement of the sun, moon and stars in the universe to examine the changes in the world.
However, the stars are dangerous and dangerous, and those who are not careful cannot use them.
Observing the scene to question the body, a king who is not a wise king cannot obey orders.
Using ministers who cannot use the stars to persuade the king who cannot accept it is the reason why both sides are harmed.
Twenty-three volumes of "The Calendar of the Five Families of the Yellow Emperor".
"Zhuanxu Calendar" twenty-one volumes.
Fourteen volumes of "Zhuanxu's Five Star Calendar".
Thirteen volumes of "Sun, Moon and Calendar".
Fourteen volumes of "Xia, Yin, Zhou and Lu Li".
Eighteen volumes of "Dali".
Seventeen volumes of "Espionage Calendar of Han, Yuan, Yin and Zhou Dynasties".
Two hundred and thirty-two volumes of "Geng Chang's Silk Movement on the Moon".
Two volumes of "Geng Chang Yue Xing Du".
Thirty-nine volumes of "Zhuan Wu Xing Xing Du".
Three volumes of "Lü Li Shu Fa".
Thirty volumes of "Five Stars from Ancient Times".
Twenty-nine volumes of "Tai Sui seeks the sundial".
"Genealogy of Emperors and Princes" in twenty volumes.
"Annals of Ancient Emperors" in five volumes.
"Sundial Book" thirty-four volumes.
"Xu Shang Arithmetic" twenty-six volumes.
"Duzhong Arithmetic" sixteen volumes.
There are eighteen kinds of chronicle-type works mentioned above, totaling 606 volumes.
Calendar is a method of arranging the daily movements of the four seasons, determining the solar terms of spring and autumn, autumnal equinox, summer solstice and winter solstice, and combining the time of the moon and the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire and earth to examine the actual situation of killing animals in cold and heat.
Therefore, the sage king must correctly calculate the degrees of the solar terms to determine the system of the three unifications, and also to explore the time when the five stars, sun and moon meet.
Dangerous sorrows, auspicious joys, their magic are all produced from this bundle.
This is the way for a saint to know his destiny. Who else but the most talented person in the world can participate in this matter!
After moral corruption, there is a worry that the chronicles are produced by villains and those who want to know the way of heaven. They destroy the big ones and use them as small ones, and cut off the far ones and use them as near ones. Therefore, the laws and methods are destroyed and it is difficult to know.
"Tai Yi Yin Yang" twenty-three volumes.
"Yellow Emperor Yin and Yang" twenty-five volumes.
Twenty-five volumes of "The Yellow Emperor's Discussing Yin and Yang".
Twenty-five volumes of "Princes on Yin and Yang".
"Taiyuan Yin and Yang" twenty-six volumes.
Twenty-seven volumes of "Three Classics on Yin and Yang".
Twenty-seven volumes of "The Five Elements of Shennong Dayou".
Twenty-six volumes of "Four Seasons and Five Elements Sutra".
Twenty-five volumes of "Mengzi Lu Zhao".
Nineteen volumes of "Yin Yang and Five Elements Season".
"Kanyu Golden Chamber" has fourteen volumes.
Fourteen volumes of "Wuchengzi Disaster Response".
Twelve volumes of "Twelve Classic Disasters and Responses".
Twenty-six volumes of "Zhonglu Disaster".
Twenty-three volumes of "Zhonglu Congchen Riyuan".
Twenty-nine volumes of "Zhonglu News".
"Huang Zhong" seven volumes.
"Tianyi" six volumes.
"Tai Yi" twenty-nine volumes.
"Xingde" seven volumes.
"Fenggu Liujia" twenty-four volumes.
Twenty volumes of "Fenghou Guxu".
Twenty-five volumes of "Liuhe Suidian".
"Transposition of Twelve Gods" twenty-five volumes.
Twenty volumes of "Xianmen Shifa".
"Xianmen Style" twenty volumes.
"Wen Jie Liu Jia" has eighteen volumes.
Twenty-eight volumes of "Wen Jie Erba Su".
Twenty-three volumes of "Wu Yin Qi Xin Usage".
Twenty-one volumes of "Wu Yin Qi Xing De".
Fifteen volumes of "Five Tones for Naming".
There are thirty-one works on the above Five Elements category, totaling six hundred and fifty-two volumes.
The five elements of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth are the external shapes of the five constant elements of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith.
"Shangshu" says that the first day of the lunar month is called the Five Elements, and the second day of the lunar month is called Shame and Use the Five Things, which means that the five things should be used to conform to the five elements.
If the center of appearance, speech, sight, hearing, and thinking is lost, the order of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth will be confused, and the changes of the five stars will begin. These are all divided into parts due to the numbers of the law and calendar.
Its method also originates from the beginning and end of the Five Virtues. If you push it to the extreme, there will be no place that cannot be reached.
Therefore, the Xiaoshu family used it as a symbol of good and bad luck, became popular in the world, and gradually became chaotic.
"Turtle Book" fifty-two volumes.
"Xia Gui" twenty-six volumes.
"Nangui Shu" has twenty-eight volumes.
Thirty-six volumes of "Giant Turtle".
"Miscellaneous Turtle" sixteen volumes.
"Yu Shu" has twenty-eight volumes.
Thirty-eight volumes of "Book of Changes".
Twenty-six volumes of "Zhou Yi Ming Tang".
Fifty volumes of "Zhouyi Suiqu Sheni".
Twenty-eight volumes of "Da Zhen Yan Yi".
Thirty volumes of "Daci Zayi".
Twenty-five volumes of "Rat Preface and Bullying Huang".
Twenty-three volumes of "Yulingqin's Changes of Good and Bad".
"Ren Liang Yi Qi" seventy-one volumes.
"Eight Instruments of Yi Gua".
There are fifteen kinds of works on the above-mentioned yarrow and turtle species, totaling 401 volumes.
The turtle was used by saints to predict good and bad luck.
"Shangshu" says: If you have any big doubts, use divination to decide.
"The Book of Changes" says: There is nothing better than the turtle to determine the good or bad fortune of the world and promote the prosperity of the world.
Because a gentleman is going to do something and take action, he will use his words to ask "Yi", and "Yi" will soon tell him good or bad, no matter how far or deep, he will know what is going to happen.
Besides the most sincere person in the world, who else can be like this!
In the era of decline, fasting became slack, and divination was used frequently, and the gods no longer appeared.
Therefore, if you are disrespectful during divination, the gods will not warn you. "Yi" lists creation as a taboo; the turtle god will not appear when it gets bored, and "Poetry" takes this as a warning.
Eleven volumes of "Huang Di Chang Liu Zhan Meng".
Twenty volumes of "Gande Changliu Zhanmeng".
Fourteen volumes of "Wu Jinxiang Clothing and Equipment".
Sixteen volumes of Miscellaneous Accounts of Sneezing and Tinnitus.
Volume 21 of "Zhen Xiang Becomes a Monster".
Volume 21 of "Humans, Ghosts, Spirits, and Animals Transformed into Monsters".
Thirteen volumes of "Bianguai Gaojiu".
Eight volumes of "Catching Ominous Things and Impeaching Ghostly Things".
Nineteen volumes of "Inviting Officials to Remove Jue Xiang".
Eighteen volumes of "Luo Si Tian Wen".
Nineteen volumes of "Pray for Blessings".
Twenty-six volumes of "Please Rain and Stop the Rain".
The twenty-two volumes of "Taiyi Zazi Waiting for Sui Sui".
Twenty-six volumes of "Zi Gan Za Zi Waiting for Sui Sui".
Twenty-three volumes of "Five Dharmas Accumulating Treasures".
Fourteen volumes of "Shen Nong's Teaching of Field and Soil Cultivation".
Eight volumes of "Zhao Mingzi fishing for raw fish and turtles".
Thirteen volumes of "Planting Trees and Fruits and Silkworms".
The above-mentioned miscellaneous works include eighteen kinds and three hundred and thirteen volumes.
Zazhan is used to record the appearance of various things and observe good and bad signs.
"Book of Changes" says: Divination can tell the future.
Everyone's predictions were inconsistent, so dreams were used as the standard. Therefore, the Zhou Dynasty had this divination official.
The dream recorded in the Book of Songs in which a bear shines on an adder, a snake, and a crowd of fishes gives a flag indicates that it is a divination for adults, used to check good or bad luck, and is roughly based on the divination divination.
"Spring and Autumn" explains the theory of demons: Things that people are taboo about will bring disasters due to their arrogance. Demons arise from people.
When people lose their normal state, monsters will arise. There is no gap for people to exploit, and monsters will not arise on their own.
Therefore, it is said that if morality is too strong, it will be unlucky, and if benevolence and righteousness are too complicated, it will be unlucky.
Mulberries and grains grew together, and Dawu prospered; robins and pheasants jumped onto the tripod, and Wu Ding became the leader of the clan.
But confused people do not examine themselves and avoid the appearance of monsters. Therefore, the "Poetry" sarcastically says that the old people who summoned them asked about the good or bad luck of their dreams and felt sad that they could not overcome the disaster despite their own worries.
Thirteen chapters of "The Classic of Mountains and Seas".
"Guo Chao" seven volumes.
Twenty volumes of "Topography of Palaces and Houses".
"Xianren" twenty-four volumes.
Twenty volumes of "Xiang Bao Sword".
Thirty-eight volumes of "Xiang Liu Animals".
There are six types of works on the above-mentioned forms and methods, totaling 122 volumes.
Physiologists study the art of identifying land, houses, and people. The most powerful ones can identify the terrain of nine states to build cities and houses. They can also identify the bones of people and animals, and the shape of objects to determine their good or bad fortune.
Just like the length of the musical instrument, each of which makes its own sound. This is not a ghost, but a natural manifestation of numbers.
However, form and qi are connected from beginning to end, and there are also things that have form but no qi, and some that have qi but no form. This is the subtle and unique feature.
There are a total of 190 kinds of mathematical works in 2528 volumes.
Mathematicians include astronomy, calendar, five elements, divination and other spells. They are officials responsible for worshiping heaven and earth, recording historical events in ancestral temples and divination.
The historian has been deposed for a long time, and the books on numerology are very incomplete. Even if there are books, there is no one who can understand them.
"Book of Changes" says: Without its people, Tao will not run in vain.
In the Spring and Autumn Period, the state of Lu had Zishen, the state of Zheng had Bizao, the state of Jin had Yan, and the state of Song had Ziwei.
During the Six Kingdoms period, there was Duke Gan in the Chu State and Shi Shenfu in the Wei State.
The Han Dynasty had the capital of Tang Dynasty, about which we can roughly understand.
Probably because it is easier if there is a reason, but it is more difficult if there is no reason, so the number skills are organized into six types according to the old books.
"Huangdi Neijing" eighteen volumes.
Thirty-seven volumes of "Huangdi Waijing".
"Bian Que Nei Jing" nine volumes.
Twelve volumes of "Bian Que Wai Jing",
Thirty-eight volumes of "Bai's Internal Classic".
Thirty-six volumes of "Bai's Foreign Canon".
"Bai's Side Chapter" is in twenty-five volumes.
The above medical works are in two hundred and sixteen volumes.
Medical works explore the blood, meridians, bone marrow, yin and yang, and surface of human beings to find out the root causes of all diseases and the boundaries between life and death. When using them, they measure the effects of stone needles, cooked soups, and fire, and then adjust the appropriate combination of hundreds of medicines.
When it reaches a state of harmony, it is like a magnet taking iron, using one thing to serve another.
Clumsy people have lost their sense of proportion and treat those who have recovered as seriously ill, and those who want to live as if they are dying.
Thirty volumes of Prescriptions for Twelve Diseases of Wu Zang and Liu Fu Bi.
"Five Stores and Six Prefectures' Hernia and Sixteen Prescriptions" forty volumes.
Forty volumes of "Prescriptions for Twelve Diseases of Wu Zang and Liu Fu Bi".
Twenty-six volumes of Prescriptions for Sixteen Diseases of Wind, Cold and Heat.
"Tai Shi Huang Di Bian Que Yu Kao Fang" twenty-three volumes.
Volume 31 of "Eleven Prescriptions for Wuzang Injuries".
Seventeen volumes of Prescriptions for Keji Wuzang Kuangdian Disease.
Thirty volumes of "Jin Chuang Zhen Fang".
Nineteen volumes of "Prescriptions for Women and Infants".
Thirty-two volumes of "Soup Classic".
Seven volumes of "Shen Nong and Huang Di's Food Forbidden Works".
The above are eleven types of classic works, totaling 274 volumes.
The prescriptions of ancient medicine are based on the cold-warming properties of grass and stones, measuring the depth of the disease, using the function of the medicinal taste, adapting to the appropriate qi sensation, distinguishing the five bitter and six pungent, achieving the blending of water and fire, so as to communicate with the obstruction, relieve the crux, and restore it to balance.
When some prescriptions are not suitable for the condition, using hot drugs to make people hotter, and using cold drugs to make people colder, causing damage to people's essence, energy and spirit, so that it does not appear outside the body, this is entirely a mistake caused by improper medication.
Therefore, the proverb says: If you are sick, if you don’t seek medical treatment, you will always be in line with medical principles.
Twenty-six volumes of "Rong Cheng Vagina".
Thirty-six volumes of "Wuchengzi Vagina".
Twenty-three volumes of "The Vagina of Yao and Shun".
Twenty volumes of "Soup Plate Geng Vagina".
Twenty-five volumes of "Tianlao Zazi's Vagina".
Twenty-four volumes of "Tian Yi Vagina".
Twenty volumes of "Yellow Emperor's Three Kings Yang Yang Prescriptions".
There are seventeen volumes of "Three Households Have Their Sons".
The above are eight kinds of works on Fangzhongshu, one hundred and eighty-six volumes.
The affairs between men and women are the extreme of sexual nature and reach the extreme of Tao. Therefore, the Holy King advocated the use of music to restrain sexual desire, so it is called temperance and decoration.
Legend: The late king composed music to control Pepsi.
If you are joyful and moderate, you will have peace of mind and a long life.
When confused people have no scruples, they will develop diseases and lose their lives.
Twenty chapters of "Mixi Zazi Dao".
Twenty-six volumes of "Shangsheng Zazi Dao".
Eighteen volumes of "Daoyao Zazi".
"Huangdi Zazi Bu Yin" twelve volumes.
Ten volumes of "Huangdi Qibo Massage".
Eighteen volumes of "Huangdi Zazi Zhijun".
Volume 21 of "Nineteen Prescriptions of Huangdi Zazi".
Twenty-two volumes of "Fifteen Prescriptions of Taiyi Zazi".
Twenty-three volumes of "Shen Nong's Miscellaneous Techniques".
Volume 31 of "Taiyi Zazi Huang Ye".
The above are ten kinds of immortal works, totaling 205 volumes.
The so-called magic of immortality pursues people's immortality and transcends the mortal world.
For the time being, it is used to purify and stabilize the mind, so that there is no distinction between life and death, and there is no fear in the chest.
However, if some people specialize in these things, the number of absurd, untrue, weird and arrogant articles will increase day by day, which is not something that the Holy King can use for enlightenment.
Confucius said: Seeking the hidden principles of things and behaving eccentrically will be recorded by future generations. I will not do such things.
There are thirty-six kinds of works on prescription techniques, totaling 868 volumes.
Fang skills are tools for being content with life and nature, and are a presiding officer of the emperor.
In ancient times, there were Qi Bo and Yu Huo, and in the Middle Ages, there were Bian Que and Qin He. They all discussed pathologies and related to the governance of the country, and explored the symptoms to understand political affairs.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there was Cang Gong.
Nowadays, his techniques and methods are unclear, so his books are divided into four types.
In total, there are thirty-eight kinds of six strategies, five hundred and ninety-six kinds, and thirteen thousand two hundred and sixty-nine volumes.
Compared with "Dagger Strategy", there are three more types and a chapter on divination, but ten types of military strategists have been reduced.
