◆Zhang Shengzhuan, named Yanzhen, was born in the Chenliuwei clan and was the grandson of Zhang Fang, Marquis of Fuping.
Zhang Sheng read a lot of books when he was young, acted willfully and could not be restrained.
If his opinions are in line with his, he will make friends wholeheartedly, regardless of high or low; if his ambition is not in line with his, even the princes and nobles will not associate with him.
He once sighed and said: Life and death are determined by destiny, wealth and honor are in heaven.
Those who really know me, even if they are Hu and Yue, can still be friends. If we don't know each other, what's the point of communicating with each other?
When he was appointed as an official in the county, he acted for Huang Ling because of his talents.
Any official who accepts a bribe will be immediately sentenced to death.
Some people have ridiculed Zhang Sheng's agent not long ago, why are they so hasty and violent?
Zhang Sheng replied: "In the past, Zhongni temporarily served as the prime minister of Lu. He killed the dwarfs of Qi and separated his hands and feet. Therefore, he was able to intimidate Qi and return the invaded lands of Lu."
A gentleman's official career is not for himself. He should be loyal. Can he change his conduct over time?
When he met the party, he went to speak, but was later killed. Year forty-nine.
He wrote fuss, poems, odes, steles and books, a total of sixty articles.
◆Zhao Yichuan, Zhao Yizi Yuan Shu, was from Xixian County, Hanyang.
He has a strong body, nine feet in length, thick beard and thick eyebrows, and is tall and tall.
However, he relied on his talent, arrogance and domineering attitude, and was rejected by the township party, so he wrote "Explanation".
Later, he committed many crimes and was almost executed. However, his friends rescued him and he survived.
Zhao Yi wrote a letter to express his gratitude: To make the dry skin contain blood again, and the withered bones become flesh again. It is truly a kindness encounter with God. You should be publicized and praised. I was afraid of violating the prohibition, so I didn't dare to say it openly and write "Ode to a Poor Bird".
He also wrote "Ode to the Diseases of the World" to express his resentment. In the first year of Guanghe, he went to the capital with a plan from the county.
At this time, Situ Yuan Feng was tricked. Hundreds of the planners bowed down in the road and did not dare to raise their heads. Zhao Yi only bowed his head. Yuan Feng saw it and was very surprised. He ordered the people around to question him and said: "The planners of the lower county bowed to the three princes of the court. Why?"
Zhao Yi replied: In the past, Li Shiqi always bowed to the King of Han, but now he bows to the Three Dukes. Why is it so strange?
Yuan Feng finished dressing and went down to the hall, held Zhao Yi's hand, extended it to the seat of honor, and asked about things in the west. He was very happy, and looking back at the person sitting there, he said: This person is Uncle Zhao Yuan of Hanyang.
There is no official in the imperial court who is more talented and learned than him. I would like to ask you to sit down separately.
Everyone sitting looked at him.
After leaving the court, Zhao Yi visited Yin Yangzhi in Henan Province, but could not see him.
Zhao Yi thought that it was not enough for the minister to be without Yang Zhi, so he knocked on the door every day, but Yang Zhi reluctantly let him in. But before he got up, Zhao Yi walked straight into the upper hall, walked to the bed, and said: "I admire Xizhou and have been looking forward to the high wind for a long time. I am lucky enough to meet you today. He died suddenly. Oh my life!"
Because he cried loudly, the people at the door were shocked. Not knowing what had happened, they all rushed in and crowded into the whole house.
Yangzhi knew that Zhao Yi was an extraordinary person, so he got up, talked with him, and praised him greatly.
Say to him: You can go out for now!
Early the next morning, Yang Zhi came to visit Zhao Yi from his chariot.
At that time, most of the chariots and horses of the planners were extremely ornately decorated. Zhao Yi was sleeping in the open air next to the chariot and thatched shed, leading the sheep to get out of the chariot in front of him. Everyone on the left and right sighed in surprise.
Yang Zhi talked with Zhao Yi until they talked about the sunset and left happily. He held Zhao Yi's hand and said: If a good person is not cut off, there will be people who will weep blood to publicize it.
Yang Zhi and Yuan Feng jointly recommended Zhao Yi, and his reputation shocked the capital, and the scholar-bureaucrats all wanted to take a look at his charisma.
When returning to the west, Dao Jing Hongnong went to visit the prefect Huangfu Gui. The gatekeeper did not inform him, so Zhao Yi ran away without looking back.
The doorman was afraid and told Huangfu Gui. Gui was shocked when he heard that it was Zhao Yi. He wrote a letter to apologize and said: "It has been many days since we were not allowed to meet each other because of some strange combination of circumstances. We hope to be virtuous and treat each other with an open mind!"
I heard that you are not humble, and I want to get your teachings to relieve my fear.
This morning, there was a report outside that a captain and two officials unexpectedly came to the door. When I asked again, I found out that they had left.
If the seal and ribbon can be thrown away, I will not wait until dawn to drive you back.
I hope you will be generous enough to forgive me.
How can you treat your husband with such arrogance?
The matter is really confusing and not worthy of responsibility.
If it can be forgiven and restored, what blessing can be compared with it?
I would like to send the chief registrar to go with the letter.
I feel so angry when I write that I sweat all the way down to my toes.
Zhao Yi wrote back and said: You have studied as a normal school, and the scholar-bureaucrats admire you. You stand high on the mountain, and the number of people is increasing year by year.
I came back from the west and walked along the road. I really wanted to talk to you, so I got up very early and went to your place before dawn. I really wanted to see you and express my admiration for you. Treat the noble with the humble, hold hands with each other by the hair. When discussing the great road, I can play with the three tombs and five classics to invent the meaning of the saint. When I discuss the economy, I can fight against the affairs of the world and eliminate the disasters.
How can I imagine that you have become lazy, lost the virtue of being good at teaching, and have the arrogance and laziness of subjugating your country!
You probably act when the opportunity arises, and you can't wait even a day, so you retreat quickly, lest it make you tired.
The ancients said that some monarchs had no close friends, and some monarchs wanted to have wise men but could not get them. They all attributed it to destiny and did not blame things.
Now I, Zhao Yi, can only condemn myself, how dare I have any ideas!
A benevolent gentleman neglects an ordinary person, which cannot be said to be detrimental to his virtue. However, he wrote a letter from afar and chased after others. This really makes me feel ashamed.
Zhao Yi only has this heart, and he comes to your door without considering his own ability. You can go if you sigh, and you can eat if you thank me. Although I am stubborn, I understand this truth.
But my joints are sore and my knees are sore and ulcerated, and I really can't do anything. Please wait for another day, or you can ask me to read handwriting often and masturbate forever.
Leave it alone.
The prefectures and counties competed for orders, and the government summoned him ten times, but he failed and died at home.
At first, Yuan Feng sent Zhao Yi, the prime minister of Shanxi, who said: "The official is no better than a county official." Finally it was as the observer said.
He wrote sixteen poems, odes, proverbs, poems, books, treatises and essays.
◆The biography of Liu Liang, named Manshan, was born in Ningyang, Dongping.
Liang is a descendant of the Liu clan. He lost his father when he was young and became poor. He sold books to make ends meet.
I often resented the snobbish friends in society who formed partisans because of their treacherous and misguided behavior, so I wrote an article "On Breaking the Group". I read it at the time and thought: Zhongni wrote "Spring and Autumn", and the rebellious ministers knew that they were afraid. Now that this "On Group" is written, shouldn't secular people be ashamed?
This article is unfortunately lost. He also wrote "The Theory of Debian and Tongzhi". During the reign of Emperor Huan, he promoted Xiaolian and was awarded the title of Chief of Beixin City.
Tell the people in the county: Once upon a time, Wen Weng was in Shu. His moral education made the famous Bahan and Geng Sangchu a small servant, which changed the custom of being afraid of stones and tired of stones.
Although I am a small county magistrate, I still have the ideal of the country. I just go to meetings and organize documents. Is this my original intention?
So he gave lectures and gathered hundreds of disciples. They went there in person morning and night to exhort them, holding scriptures in hand, and examined their merits. Confucian teachings became popular.
The county later praised him. He was specially summoned to the court, given the title of Shangshu Lang, and was promoted many times.
Later, he served as the Ye Wang Ling, but he did not leave. In light and harmony, one will die of illness.
His grandson Liu Zhen was also famous for his literary talent.
◆Bian Yi Chuan, while Yi Zi Wenli, Chen Liujun Yiren.
When he was young, he was knowledgeable, good at debating, and good at writing.
Although there are many gorgeous words in "Zhang Hua Fu", it is ultimately correct. Like Sima Xiangru's "Shang Lin Fu", it also has the thought of satire.
General He Jin knew that Bian Rang was talented and wanted to recruit him. He was afraid that he would not go, so he pretended to be a military recruiter.
After arriving, the agent ordered Shi and He Jin to meet him politely.
Bian Rang was good at fortune-telling and answered questions fluently. The hall was full of guests, and everyone envied him for his charisma.
Kong Rong and Wang Lang both came to visit him.
Yilang Cai Yong respected him the most and believed that Bian Rang should hold an important position and be in a high position, so he recommended him to He Jin: I think when the shogunate was first opened, the elites were widely selected, and they were all top-notch talents with old virtues.
Even if Zhenlu gathers Western Yongji to help toasts in Zhou Ting, it can't be better.
When Shi Chen was asked to stay aside, God would give him unparalleled talents, intelligence and sages.
He was alone since he was a child and had no family training.
Once you go to school, you will receive a great ceremony.
He began to accept the scriptures and understood the original meaning. The teacher could not answer the questions he asked, and the chapters and sentences could not satisfy his meaning.
The mind is open-minded and the oral argument is long.
Don't move if it's indecent, don't say anything illegal.
If he encounters doubtful remarks and makes judgments about right and wrong, scriptures and scriptures will be introduced and summarized and synthesized, and everyone will be silent, but no one will be able to convince him.
If Bian Rang was born in the Tang and Yu times, he would be of the first rank of Yuan and Kai, and his fortune would be Zhongni. He would be the same generation as Yan Hui and Ran You. Could he be a worldly mortal?
Class status should also be promoted.
If you continue to follow the generations, it will not be enough to show the high value of greatness and the Ming Dynasty that knows people.
Legend says: Hanniu's tripod is used to cook chicken. If it is juicy, it will be bland and inedible. If it is less juicy, it will be undercooked.
This means that it is inappropriate to use a small tool to make a big use of it. I am worried that this tripod has not been exposed to the soup of cattle and has been tortured and cut for a long time. I hope the general will consider it, adopt my suggestion, use the secrets of the side concessions, and give full play to his talents.
If the age is not considered appropriate, then Yan Hui will not be the first in virtue and Zi Qi will not be able to achieve the merits of Li A.
If you are qualified, age is crucial, both in ancient and modern times.
Later, Bian Rang was promoted for his talents and was promoted many times. He was appointed as the prefect of Jiujiang, but he did not show his talents.
During Chuping, the royal family was in chaos, and Bian Rang resigned and returned home.
Relying on his talent, he refused to be subdued by Cao Cao and said a lot of contemptuous and insulting words.
During the Jian'an period, someone from his hometown tried to persuade Cao Cao to surrender. Cao Cao told the county to kill him.
Wenduo is lost.
◆In the biography of Li Yan, Li Yan was named Wen Sheng, a native of Fanyang, and a descendant of Li Shiqi.
Li Yan was talented in literature, knew music, and spoke quickly. People admired his talents.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, he was summoned and appointed by the prefectures and counties, but he was not satisfied. He was ambitious and wrote two poems.
Li Yan later suffered from madness and became insane.
He was the most filial by nature, but his mother died and he became seriously ill.
His wife had just given birth to a child and was frightened to death by him. His wife's family filed a lawsuit with the government and was arrested and imprisoned.
Li Yan was ill and could not appeal. He died in prison in the sixth year of Xiping. When he was twenty-eight years old, Shangshu Lu Zhi wrote a poem for him to show his virtue.
◆Biography of Hou Jin, Hou Jin's courtesy name is Ziyu, a native of Dunhuang.
The young man lost his father, was lonely and poor, and lived with his tribe.
He loves to study and often works as a hired worker. He returns home at night and burns firewood to study.
Always restrain yourself with etiquette and live alone in a house, as if you are not casual in front of respected guests.
He was summoned many times by the state and county, and he was summoned by public transport, but he was unable to take care of his illness.
He wrote "On Correcting the World" to ridicule the current world. Moved into the mountains and wrote quietly.
Because it is not known to the world, I wrote "Ying Guest Difficulty" to convey my own meaning.
He also wrote thirty chapters of "Huang De Biography" based on "Han Ji" about what happened after ZTE, which has been published in the world.
There are dozens of other essays written, most of which have been lost.
People in Hexi respected his talent and did not dare to call him by his name. They all called him "Hou Jun".
◆The biography of Gao Biao, whose courtesy name is Yifang, was from Wuxi, Wu County.
His family background was extremely poor, so he became a student at Gaobiao and traveled to Taixue.
Gao Biao is talented, but he stutters and is not good at words.
I once wanted to ask Ma Rong about my righteousness, but Ma Rong was ill and I didn't see him, so I wrote to Ma Rong: I have admired your name for several years, so I don't need any artificial introduction. I just go to the gentleman's door, hoping to see the glory and talk to my heart. Unexpectedly, you are ill and disappear behind closed doors.
In the past, Zhou Gongdan's father was King Wen, and his elder brother was King Wu. He was appointed as the uncle with nine lives to govern China. He also had a meal, a meal, a shower, a shower, and a haircut.
It's natural that you are recovering from illness.
Ma Rong was deeply ashamed after reading Gao Biao's letter. He chased him to plead guilty and begged him to return it, but Gao Biao ignored him and left.
Later, the county promoted him as a filial and honest man, and he ranked first in the Confucian classics test.
He was taught as a doctor, and he was a schoolmaster at Dongguan. He wrote poems, odes, and extraordinary essays many times, and made satirical remarks based on events, which won the praise of Emperor Ling.
At this time, the fifth Yong of Jingzhao was the censor of the army and envoy to Youzhou. A meeting of all officials was held and a farewell banquet was held in Changguang.
Yilang Cai Yong and others all wrote poems, and Gao Biao alone wrote a proverb: "When civil and military generals fall, they make wise ministers."
It is not pious to rectify my imperial outline.
The gentleman of ancient times forgot his body in battle.
Understand its fruit and perseverance, and respect its Huanhuan.
Lu Shang was seventy years old. He was the leader of the three armies. He was a poet who composed songs like an eagle or a bird.
There is Taiyi in the sky, five generals and three gates; there are nine changes in the earth, hills, mountains and rivers; people have strategies, six oddities and five rooms.
Here are three things to do, please consult me ​​if you have any plans.
If you don’t say you are capable, you must seek talents. The courage of Huaiyin is respected in Guangye.
The great sage Zhou Gong was a pure minister in the past. He defeated love with power and destroyed relatives with righteousness.
Don't say that the times are dangerous and you don't correct yourself.
Don't say that there is no one, don't know your true self.
Forgetting wealth and leaving honor behind, blessings and wealth are still there. In vain, there is nothing to see.
The more honorable my ancestors are, the more likely they will be able to abide by them forever. Wearing the Tibetan Precepts will keep them for the rest of our lives.
Cai Yong and others praised this article and thought they could not make it.
Later, when he was promoted to Huangling, Emperor Ling ordered his colleagues to bid farewell, set up a banquet at the upper east gate, and ordered Dongguan to paint a statue of Gao Biao to encourage scholars. When Gao Biao took office, he had good governance and wrote a letter recommending county residents Shen Tupan and others. He died of illness while in office, and most of his articles were lost.
Gao Biao's son Gao Dai is also famous.
◆Zhang Chao's biography, Zhang Chao's courtesy name is Zibing, a native of Mohuang County, Hejian County, and a descendant of Liuhou Zhang Liang.
There is literary talent.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, he conquered the Yellow Turbans from the Chariot and Cavalry General Zhu Chi and was appointed Sima of another department.
He wrote poems, odes, inscriptions, recommendations, epilogues, epigraphs, letters, greetings, and ridicules, a total of nineteen articles.
Zhang Chao was also good at writing cursive script, and his writing was so wonderful that it was widely circulated in the society.
◆Biography of Ni Heng, whose courtesy name is Zhengping, a native of Ban County, Pingyuan County.
When he was young, he was good at debating, upright, upright, unwilling to subordinate others, and liked to go against the times and be arrogant.
In Xingpingzhong, he took refuge in Jingzhou.
In the early days of Jian'an, he visited Xuchang and arrived in Yingchuan for the first time. He secretly had a business card in mind and was ready to meet the people he wanted to see.
In the end, no one could see it, and the words on the business card were also erased. At this time, Xuchang was newly built, and wise officials came from all directions.
Someone asked Mi Heng: Why not go and see Chen Changwen and Sima Boda?
Mi Heng replied: Where can I go to Tuguer?
He also asked: How are Xun Wenruo and Zhao Zhichang?
Mi Heng said: If Wen is good-looking, he can be used to pay condolences; if he is young and has a big belly, and he can eat meat, he can be treated by the chef.
They only thought that Kong Rong of Lu and Yang Xiu of Hongnong were talents.
It is often said: The elder Kong Wenju, the younger Yang Dezu.
Yu Zi is mediocre and has no talent, which is nothing. Kong Rong also cherished Ni Heng's talent very much. Ni Heng was only twenty years old, and Kong Rong was forty years old, so he became friends with him. The letter recommends Ni Hengdao: Mi Heng, a scholar in Pingyuan City, is twenty-four years old. He is named Zhengping. He is loyal by nature and outstanding in talent.
When you first get involved in art and literature, you will be able to recite everything you see with your eyes, and remember it in your heart as soon as you hear it.
His nature is in line with the Dao, his thoughts seem to be spiritual, and he is very agile.
It's not surprising that Sang Hongyang's scheming and Zhang Anshi's memorization are compared with Ni Heng's.
Zhongguo is upright and open-minded. When he sees good deeds, he is ecstatically surprised. When he sees evil deeds, he hates them as much as hatred.
No one can resist the emperor, and he can't be more rigorous than him.
Hundreds of birds of prey are not as good as one osprey.
If Mi Heng is allowed to work in the court, he will definitely make a great career.
Arguing and eloquent words, overflowing with energy, clearing up doubts and doubts, and being able to defeat the enemy.
In the past, when Jia Yi wanted to test his vassal status, he said that he would tie the chanyu's neck to control his heart. In the end, the army wanted to use a long tassel to capture the king of Nanyue and sent him to the palace. His weak crown was generous and generous, and previous generations thought it was a good thing.
Recently, Lu Cui and Yan Xiang were promoted to Tailang because of their outstanding talents. You Heng should be like them.
If you can be like a dragon leaping over the sky, fluttering its wings and flying high, raising its purple voice and shining its rainbow light, you can definitely mark the toast, four gates and mu of the emperor's office near you.
Juntian Guangle must have wonderful and wonderful sounds, and the imperial palace must have extraordinary treasures.
People like You Heng are really rare.
"Ji Chu" and "Yang A" are the most wonderful sounds that Taiwanese shepherds want. Flying rabbits and horses want the vastness, and their feet are unrestrained. They are what Wang Liang and Bole urgently need. How dare we not play to the Ming Emperor with only trivial intentions.
Kong Rong admired Mi Heng's talent and told Cao Cao many times how good Mi Heng was.
Cao Cao therefore wanted to see Ni Heng. But Ni Heng usually looked down on and disliked Cao Cao. He claimed to be mad and refused to go, and he told lies.
Cao Cao held a grudge and did not want to kill Ni Heng because of his talent and reputation.
I heard that Mi Heng was good at playing drums, so he called him to be the history of drums. He gathered the guests and reviewed the syllables.
When all the drum officials passed by Cao Cao, they all ordered them to take off their original clothes, change their clothes, and hang up Xiao Qian's army.
It was Mi Heng's turn. Heng was playing "Yuyang" Shen Lao, moving forward slowly, with an unusual attitude, and a solemn and solemn tone. Everyone who listened to it was enthusiastic and generous.
Mi Heng came to a stop in front of Cao Cao, and the official scolded him: "Why didn't Drum Master remodel it?" Do you dare to come in casually like this? Mi Heng said: Yes.
So he first unbuttoned his underwear, then the rest of his clothes, stood naked, then slowly took out the ash grass and a single twist and put it on. After putting it on, he went out without any shame.
Cao Cao laughed and said, "I wanted to insult you, but I didn't expect to be humiliated by him."
Kong Rong came out to rebuke Ni Heng and said, "Zhengping is an elegant gentleman. Shouldn't he be like this?"
Just say that Cao Cao treats him well.
Mi Heng agreed to visit Cao Cao.
Kong Rong went to see Cao Cao again and said that Ni Heng was mentally ill. Now please go to see Cao Cao to apologize. Cao Cao was happy and ordered the gatekeeper to notify him if any guests came.
After waiting for a long time, Mi Heng sat at the gate of the camp, wearing single clothes and a sparse towel, holding a three-foot wooden stick, hitting the ground with the stick and cursing.
The official told Cao Cao that there was a madman sitting outside the camp gate and his words were reactionary. Please arrest him and punish him.
Cao Cao became angry and said to Kong Rong: "You Heng, if I kill him, it's just like killing a sparrow and a mouse."
But this man is usually a bit vain. Kill him and say I can't tolerate others. Now give it to Liu Biao. What do you think?
So he sent someone to escort you Heng.
Before leaving, everyone saw him off and set up a banquet in the south of the city. They agreed to each other: Mi Heng is rude and rude. Now because of his lateness, everyone should not get up to convince him.
When Mi Heng arrived, no one stood up. Mi Heng sat down and cried loudly.
Everyone asked him why? Mi Heng said: What is sitting is a tomb, and what is lying is a corpse. Can one not feel sad among the corpse and the tomb?
Liu Biao and the scholar-bureaucrats in Jingzhou both admired Mi Heng's talent and reputation at first, and were very polite to him. No one could finalize his articles and comments, not Mi Heng.
Liu Biao once drafted the chapter memorial together with other literati, using everyone's talents. At this time, Mi Heng went out and came back to read it. Before he finished reading it, he tore it up and threw it on the ground.
Liu Biao was greatly surprised.
Mi Heng asked Liu Biao for pen and ink, and he wrote it in a short time. The words and meanings are very good.
Liu Biao was very happy and valued him even more.
Later, he insulted Liu Biao, which Liu Biao thought was shameful and could not tolerate it. He thought Huang Zu, the governor of Jiangxia, was impatient, so he treated him well because he sent Ni Heng to him.
You Heng served as his secretary, and the severity and density were appropriate.
Huang Zu held Mi Heng's hand and said, "Virgin scholar, this is exactly what I want. It seems to be what I am thinking."
Huang Zu's eldest son, Huang She, served as the prefect of Zhangling and became close to Ni Heng.
He once went on a trip with Mi Heng and read the inscriptions written by Cai Yong together. Huang She liked the inscriptions, but it was a pity that he did not write them down.
Mi Heng said: Although I only read it once, I can still remember it. It’s just that there are two words missing on the stele and I don’t know it.
Just write it down. Huang She sent someone to copy the inscription and come back to proofread it. It was exactly as Mi Heng had written. Everyone was impressed.
Huang She was gathering guests at this time. Someone offered a parrot to Huang She. She raised his glass and said to Ni Heng, "Please sir, write a poem to entertain the guests."
Ni Heng wrote it with no deletion and gorgeous diction.
Later, when Huang Zu was on Mengchong's ship, Mi Heng made some disrespectful remarks to the guests. Huang Zu felt ashamed, so he scolded him. Mi Heng glared at him and said, "Damn it, why didn't you tell me earlier?"
Huang Zu was so angry that he was dragged out and wanted to be beaten. He was still cursing. Huang Zu was so angry that he ordered him to be killed.
Huang Zu's chief secretary was usually jealous of Mi Heng, so he quickly killed him.
Huang She came to the rescue on foot, but it was already too late.
Huang Zu also regretted that he should not have killed him, so he buried him in a thick coffin.
Mi Heng was twenty-six years old at this time, and most of his articles were lost.
