Preface to the Biography of Dang Guo, Confucius said: Their natures are similar, but their habits are far apart.
This means that people's likes and dislikes are the same in nature, but their education and environment make people's temperament and conduct very different.
Therefore, a virtuous person teaches others to cultivate their character, overcome dissolute behavior, be cautious in making friends, control bias, and be fair in dealing with situations.
Although people's emotions are vastly different, and their culture and quality are also different, as for cultivating talents and revitalizing customs, the principles are the same. In the chaos of the weekend, customs are superficial and hypocritical, the country is out of order, and disciplines are lax. There are also people who use the name of benevolence to achieve their own goals and rely on loyalty to make their careers successful.
If the behavior is in line with the law, even the cruel and brutal people will have to submit; if the words are irrational, the base and ignorant people can also feel it.
The things left by the wise people of the past are worth learning.
As tyranny declines, fraud occurs.
The strong prevail through decisive victory, while the weak suffer due to deceit.
Some even received tens of thousands of gold for half an idea, and some received treasures for one word.
Some people were born as common people and became high officials, and were promoted to ministers. People who are eloquent and resourceful, who show off their talents in order to gain fame and wealth, come unexpectedly.
Since then, lovers have been fighting each other. As time goes by, this trend is irreversible and the evils cannot be reversed.
By the time Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty rose to power with his sword, people who advocated force had sprung up. The laws were relaxed and the etiquette was simple and unobtrusive. They inherited the style of the four monarchs of Xinling, Pingyuan, Chunshen, and Mengchang. Everyone cherished the mentality of aggression and condescension, despised life and death, valued loyalty, and repaid each other if they had grievances and virtues. Orders were given to private individuals, and power was in the hands of ordinary men. It became a social custom to let the knights be the best.
Since Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Confucianism has been promoted, and scholars of Confucianism and Confucianism can be found everywhere. There was even a debate about the Six Arts in Shiqu Pavilion, and those who agreed with me became friends; those who disagreed attacked me. People who value literature are at their peak at this time.
When Wang Mang took power and deceived himself, he finally usurped the throne of the Han Dynasty. Those who are loyal to the Han Dynasty and have a righteous mind are ashamed to serve as an official for Wang Mang, those who regard seclusion as an honor and are willing to be poor.
Although Guangwu was revived and Han Dynasty was re-established, his wiseness to protect himself and his uprightness and self-restraint still made everyone envious of him. The important issue of being an official and not being an official is of great importance in current affairs!
In the era of Emperor Huan and Emperor Ling, the monarchy was in chaos and politics was corrupt. The lifeline of the country was in the hands of the eunuchs. Scholars thought it was shameful to be with them. Therefore, the common people were indignant, and the virgins discussed freely, flaunted their honor, praised each other, evaluated the ministers, and discussed the gains and losses of governing. The upright atmosphere became widespread.
What the top likes, the bottom likes more. To correct the crookedness, it must be straightened. This is the truth!
Isn't it true that Fan Pang, Zhang Jian, etc., suffered from bad governance during the Qing Dynasty, and finally fell into the disaster of the Party's control?
In the past, Emperor Huan was the Marquis of Liwu. He learned from Zhou Fu in Ganling and became the emperor. He promoted Zhou Fu to be the minister.
At that time, Yin Fangzhi of Henan, who was in the same county as Zhou Fu, was very famous in the court. The people in the village made two songs: Fang Bowu is the rule in the world, and Zhou Zhongjin was awarded the seal because of his division.
The guests from the two families ridiculed each other, so they each made friends, which gradually became enemies. As a result, Ganling was divided into northern and southern parts, and the name of the party members began to exist.
Later, the prefect of Runan, Zongzi, appointed Cao Fanpang, and the prefect of Nanyang, Cheng Jin, also appointed the meritorious Cao Cenri. The two counties also composed a ballad saying: Fan Mengbo, the prefect of Runan, is the master of Nanyang Zongzi.
Nanyang Prefect Cen Gongxiao, Hongnong Cheng Jindan sat and whistled.
Therefore, rumors spread to the Imperial College, and there were more than 30,000 students there. Guo Linzong and Jia Weijie were the leaders, and they all respected each other with Li Ying, Chen Fan, and Wang Chang.
There is a rumor in the school: Li Yuanli is a model in the world, Chen Zhongju is not afraid of force, and Wang Shumao is a handsome man in the world.
In addition, the Bohai clan has advanced, and Fufeng and Wei Qiqing all dare to speak out and are not afraid of the powerful.
From the ministers down, everyone who was not afraid of their accusations came to accept them one after another.
At that time, Zhang Cheng in Hanoi was good at fortune telling. He used the wind in all directions to predict good and bad luck. He speculated that the court would grant amnesty, so he taught his son to kill people.
Li Ying was the Yin of Henan and urged the arrest of Zhang Cheng. Soon, when the imperial court pardoned him and exempted him from arrest, Li Ying became even more angry and arrested and executed him.
At first, Zhang Cheng used astrology to make friends with eunuchs, and the emperor once asked Zhang Cheng about his divination.
Therefore, Zhang Cheng's disciple Lao wrote a letter and falsely accused Li Ying and others of adopting Taixue travellers, making friends with students in various counties, causing trouble, forming cliques, slandering the court, and disrupting customs.
So the emperor became angry, promulgated the prefectures, arrested party members, and announced to the whole world that they shared the same hatred with the enemy. So Li Ying and others were arrested.
There were more than 200 Chen Chen's followers mentioned in the confession. Some of them escaped but were not caught, and rewards were offered for their capture.
People were sent out to search and hunt, and there was an endless stream of people on the road.
The next year, Shangshu Huo, Chengmen Colonel Dou Wu and others all petitioned the emperor to reconsider, and the emperor's anger was somewhat relieved.
So those arrested were sent back to the countryside without charge and were banned from employment for life. The names of party members are written in the palace.
Since then, the upright people have been abandoned, and the bad people have similar odors and collude together.
People in the country who pursue high integrity and integrity praise each other, refer to celebrities in the world, and set a label. The first one is called Sanjun, the second is called Bajun, the third is called Bagu, the fourth is called Baji, and the fifth is called Bachu, which is similar to the ancient Ba Yuan and Ba Kai.
Dou Wu, Liu Shu and Chen Fan were called the "Three Monarchs".
Jun means to be the sect of one generation.
Li Ying, Xun Yi, Du Mi, Wang Chang, Liu You, Wei Lang, Zhao Dian, and Zhu were called the eight heroes.
Jun means a hero among people.
Guo Linzong, Zongci, Basu, Xia Fu, Fan Pang, Yin Xun, Cai Yan and Yangzhi are called Bagu.
Gu means being able to use one's own moral character to support others. Zhang Jian, Cen Rizhi, Liu Biao, Chen Xiang, Kong Yu, Yuan Kang, Tanfu and Zhai Chao are called eight and eight.
And, it means being able to guide others to follow the religion.
Du Shang, Zhang Miao, Wang Kao, Liu Ru, Hu Muban, Qin Zhou, Fan Xiang, and Wang Zhang were called the "Eight Chefs", which meant that they could save people with money.
In addition, Zhu Bing, a native of Zhang Jian's hometown, wrote a letter to Zhang Jian and twenty-four people from his hometown to act as cronies and to harm the country.
Zhang Jian, Tan Bin, Chu Feng, Zhang Su, Xue Lan, Feng Xi, Wei Xuan and Xu Qian were the eight heroes; Tian Lin, Zhang Yin, Liu Biao, Xue Yu, Wang Fang, Liu Zhi, Xuan Jing and Gongxugong were the eight heroes; Zhu Kai, Tian, ​​Shudan, Xue Dun, Song Bu, Tang Long, Ying Zi and Xuan Bao were the eight heroes. The carved stones were erected in the suburbs. We are all friends, Zhang Jian is too handsome.
Emperor Ling issued an edict to arrest Zhang Jian and others, but Zhu Bing's name was not included in the edict.
To maintain confidentiality. Therefore, Cao Jie in the Great Changqiu period signaled the relevant officials to report the arrest of the former party members Xian Sikong Yufang, Taipu Du Mi, Changle Shaofu Li Ying, Sili Colonel Zhu E, Yingchuan Prefect Basu, Pei Prime Minister Xun Yi, Hanoi Prefect Wei Lang, Shanyin Prefect Zhai Chao, Rencheng Prime Minister Liu Ru, and Taiwei Fan Pang. More than 100 people died in prison.
Some of the others died before being captured, and some escaped without being captured.
From then on, anyone who had resentments, framed each other, or even had a slight personal grudge would be classified as a clique.
Youzhou and counties followed the orders from above, and some of them had no contact with them at all, and were also implicated.
Six to seven hundred people were killed, exiled, and banned.
In the fifth year of Xiping's reign, Cao Luan, the prefect of Yongchang, wrote a letter loudly calling for justice for the party members. His words were legitimate and consistent with the facts.
The emperor was furious after reading the memorial and immediately issued an edict to the officials. Yizhou arrested Cao Luan in a carriage and sent him to Huaili prison to be beaten to death.
So he issued an order to the prefectures and counties to examine party disciples, old subordinates, fathers, sons and brothers. Those who were in office were removed from their posts and banned from serving as officials, which involved five generations.
In the second year of Guanghe's reign, Shanglu Changhe Haishu wrote: Li, the brothers of Congzu separated and their property was also divided. The kindness has been neglected, and mourning is also the end of alienation. Now the party members have imprisoned the five clans, which is no longer in line with the laws and regulations. Father, son, brother, are not implicated in the crime; it also violates the regular laws.
After seeing this, the emperor came to his senses, and all the prison terms imposed by the party since his ancestors were lifted.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban bandits arose. Lu Qiang, the official of the Central Committee, said to the emperor: The party has been imprisoned for such a long time, and many people are dissatisfied.
If the sin is not forgiven for a long time, it is easy to conspire with Zhang Jiao, causing great chaos and regret. The emperor was frightened by what he said, so he pardoned the party members and the family members who had been executed and moved back to their original counties. Later, the Yellow Turban Rebellion, the government fell apart, and the country's principles and regulations disappeared.
In total, the crony incidents began in Ganling and Runan and ended with Li Ying and Zhang Jian. Within the four seas, people were in dire straits and displaced. For more than 20 years, all those affected were good people in the world.
◆The biography of Liu Shu, courtesy name Zhongcheng, was from Lecheng County, Hejian County.
His grandfather, Liu Cheng, was the school captain of Sili School.
After Liu Shu learned the Five Classics when she was young, she lived in seclusion and set up a monastery to teach, often to hundreds of students.
The prefectures and counties invited each other with courtesy, and even the five prefectures refused to go.
In the second year of Yongxing, Situ Zhongfan recommended Liu Shuxian as a good and upright person, but he declined due to illness.
When Emperor Huan heard that Liu Shu was famous, he scolded the prefectures and counties and carried the sick Liu Shu to the capital in a sedan chair.
Liu Shu had no choice but to go to Luoyang. She was the best in the world in answering the emperor's questions and was awarded the title of Yilang.
Liu Shu also stated that the gains and losses in current affairs and the reasons why disasters occurred were all valid.
If you are promoted to minister again, you will be able to adopt loyal advice and make suggestions to the emperor, which will be of great benefit.
He was promoted to Shizhong and Hubenzhonglangjiang.
He expressed his urgent opinion to the emperor that the eunuch should be dismissed, but although the emperor did not adopt it, he did not accuse him.
Because Liu Shu was a sage in the clan, she respected him especially. When she encountered doubts and difficult decisions, she often asked him secretly.
After Emperor Ling ascended the throne, the eunuchs falsely accused Liu Shu of conspiring with Dou Wu and others and threw him into prison. Liu Shu committed suicide.
◆The biography of Li Ying, whose courtesy name is Yuanli, was born in Xiangcheng County, Yingchuan County.
His grandfather was named Taiwei at the time of Emperor An.
His father was named Yi and served as the Prime Minister of Zhao.
Li Ying was aloof and unsociable. He only regarded Xun Shu and Chen Chen from the same county as his mentors and friends.
At first, Li Ying was recommended as Xiaolian, and was recruited by Situ Hu Guang and promoted to Gaodi. He was promoted to governor of Qingzhou.
The county guards and magistrates were afraid of Li Ying's majesty and insight, so most of them abandoned their official posts and left after hearing the news that Li Ying had come to Qingzhou.
Li Ying was recruited again and transferred to the post of Yuyang Prefect.
Soon he was transferred to the post of governor of Shu County, but his mother requested not to take up the post because of her old age.
He was transferred to the rank of Colonel Hu Wuhuan.
Xianbei invaded the border many times, and Li Ying often took the risk to defeat them and drive them away every time.
The enemy is very afraid. He was dismissed from office due to official duties and returned to his hometown, Lunshi County, where he often taught thousands of students.
Fan Ling from Nanyang asked to be his disciple, but Li Ying declined him and refused to accept.
Fan Ling later relied on flattery to cling to the eunuchs and obtained the high position of Taiwei. He was humiliated by people with integrity.
Xun Shuang once went to visit Li Ying and drove a carriage for Li Ying. When he came back, he happily said: Today I drove a carriage for Li Jun.
Li Ying was admired to this extent.
In the second year of Emperor Huan's Yongshou reign, Xianbei invaded Yunzhong. Emperor Huan heard that Li Ying was talented, so he recruited him as a general to conquer Liao.
Previously, the Qiang people took captives to Shule and Qiuci, and invaded and plundered Zhangye, Jiuquan, and Yunzhong counties many times. The people suffered many disasters from them.
Since Li Ying arrived at the border, he was afraid and surrendered when he heard the news. All the men and women previously captured were returned to the border.
From then on, Li Ying's reputation spread to far away places.
In the second year of Yanxi reign of Emperor Huan, he was recruited and promoted to Yin of Henan.
At this time, Yang Yuanqun, a man with the surname Wanling, was dismissed from Beihai County. He committed many corruption crimes and found all kinds of strange things. He even used a cart to take the strange things in the toilet of the county house home.
Li Ying went to court to examine his crime. Yang Yuanqun bribed the eunuch, but Li Ying was found guilty of false accusation and was sent to Zuo School Labor.
At first, Li Ying, Tingwei Feng Cui, Grand Secretary Nong Liu You and others were of the same mind, reporting and punishing those who were treacherous and favored. At this time, Feng Cui and Liu You also committed crimes and were sent to the left school to work.
The captain of Sili School should write to the emperor to appeal for Li Ying and others.
Said: Once upon a time, Qin viewed the treasures of Chu, and Zhao Xixie sent all the virtuous ministers to the altar to invite Qin's envoys to see them. The Qin envoys saw them, and returned to Qin and said: Chu has many virtuous ministers and cannot be invaded. King Hui of Liang regarded the pearl as a treasure, and King Wei of Qi replied that the four virtuous ministers were his treasures.
He left feeling ashamed and unhappy. Those loyal and virtuous generals are the confidants of the country.
Selfishly, I think that the prisoners of the Zuo School, former Tingwei Feng Cui, Da Sinong Liu You, and Henan Yin Li Ying, enforced the law strictly, exposed the bad guys, and dealt with them according to the law. The people thought they were good. In the past, Ji Sunxing's father violated the emperor's order and drove away Ju servants, which was only one-twentieth of Shun's merits.
Now Li Ying and others are guarding the border, working hard and trying their best to be punished, but the emperor does not listen at all, so that they are framed by the bad guys, and the loyal ministers are guilty of the same crime.
From spring to winter, people far and near sigh because of the absence of Yuan Shu.
The first thing in establishing a government is to remember merits and forget mistakes, so Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty did not regard Anguo as a criminal and appointed him as a two thousand stone. Emperor Xuan recruited the fugitive Zhang Chang as the governor of Jizhou.
Feng Nu once conquered the wild Jings, and his achievements were equal to those of Ji Fu.
Liu You visited the governor many times to impeach Liang Ji's younger brother Liang.
Li Ying was powerful in You and Bing, and Yiai traveled far beyond the Liaohai Sea.
Now there is no peace on the three sides, and Master Wang has not moved.
"Book of Changes" says that thunder and rain provide relief, and a gentleman forgives his sins.
Please forgive the sins of Li Ying and others, and guard against unexpected disasters.
According to the memorial, they were all exempted from punishment.
Li Ying was promoted again and was appointed as Sili Xiaowei.
At this time, Zhang Rang's younger brother Zhang Shuo was the magistrate of Yewang County. He was greedy, cruel and lawless, and even killed pregnant women. He heard that Li Ying was very majestic and fled back to the capital in fear of crime. He hid in his brother Zhang Rang's house, hiding among the pillars.
Li Ying learned of this situation and led his officers to break down the pillars, capture Zhang Shuo, and deliver him to Luoyang Prison.
After recording the confession, kill him.
Zhang Rang complained to the emperor and summoned Li Ying into the palace. The emperor personally came to the corridor and asked Li Ying why he carried out the death penalty without asking for permission first.
Li Ying replied: Once upon a time, Duke Wen of Jin captured Duke Cheng of Wei and returned to the capital. The Spring and Autumn Annals affirmed that he was right.
"Book of Rites" says: When an official's son commits a crime, even if the king offers to pardon him, the officials will strictly abide by the law and will not obey.
In the past, Confucius killed Shaozhengmao after seven days as the commander of the Lu Kingdom.
It has been ten days since I started working. I was selfishly afraid of making mistakes due to delays in handling things. Unexpectedly, I was accused of handling cases too quickly.
I do know my guilt and that my death is coming. Please allow me five days of leniency so that I can eliminate the great evil within the time limit and come back to be boiled. This is my original wish in life!
The emperor didn't say anything more. He turned back to Zhang Rang and said, "This is your brother's fault. What's Sili's fault?"
Then he sent Li Ying out.
From then on, all the Huangmen and regular servants bowed down and did not dare to speak out, and they did not dare to leave the palace again on vacation.
The emperor asked in surprise what the reason was, and they all kowtowed and said in tears: "I'm afraid of Captain Li."
At this time, the court was becoming more chaotic and disciplined day by day. Li Ying maintained his style alone and relied on his reputation to keep himself high.
Scholars who were received by him were called Denglongmen.
When a party disaster occurred, Li Ying and others' crimes should be investigated and verified. After the case was examined by Taiwei, Situ, and Sikong, Taiwei Chen Fan refused to accept the case.
Said: Nowadays, those who are tested and corrected are all loyal and selfless ministers who are praised by people at home and are worried about state affairs.
Even if such people are passed down to ten lives, they should still be forgiven. Is it possible to arrest and torture them without knowing the crime?
Refuse to sign the case file.
The emperor became even more angry and sent Li Ying and others to the Huangmen North Temple Prison.
The case of Li Ying and others involved some eunuchs' children. Most of the eunuchs were afraid and asked the emperor to pardon them according to the time of day. So he was granted amnesty, and Li Ying was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown, where he lived in Yangcheng Mountain.
Scholar-officials all over the world believed that Li Ying's moral character was noble and that the court was filthy. When Chen Fan dismissed Taiwei, the court and the general scholar-bureaucrats wanted Li Ying to be appointed Taiwei.
Xun Shuang was worried that Li Ying would get into trouble due to his high reputation, and wanted him to tolerate and save his life in troubled times. He wrote to him: It has been a long time since I heard your teachings of persuasion. I look at you every day like a year. I know that you are not able to live in this world because of your straight way. You take pleasure in mountains and rivers, and your home is in Yangcheng.
The distance was not far, and the road was flat. I should have gone to visit him right away, but was unable to make the trip due to illness.
Recently I heard that the emperor was angry and demoted and dismissed the minister Chen Fan. People and ghosts conspired together. They thought that the emperor should be on the 25th day of Zhenguan to benefit the adults. He didn't want the Yi Gua sun to come out at the beginning of the day. The sun was not clear and the rainbow was shining. He abandoned the gentleman and became the villain.
When the earth's Qi is closed today, the sage hides, and the wise man sees danger and throws himself into distant harm.
Although it is less famous, it is in line with my private wishes. I am very happy to miss you, but I don’t feel hateful about it.
I hope you will have nothing to do and rest in peace, live in seclusion in Hengmen, let things rise and fall, and change with the times.
Soon after the death of Emperor Huan, Chen Fan became the Taifu and presided over the government together with the general Dou Wu. They conspired to kill various eunuchs, recommended and appointed celebrities from all over the world, and appointed Li Ying as the Shaofu of Changle.
When Chen Fan and Dou Wu failed, Li Ying and others were dismissed from office.
Later, the Zhang Jian incident occurred and the party members involved were arrested. The people from the same town said to Li Ying, "You can go."
Li Ying replied: If you are a king, you will not avoid disaster, and if you are guilty, you will not escape punishment. This is my moral integrity.
I am already sixty years old. Death and life are determined by fate. Where can I go?
He took the initiative to go to the prison designated by the emperor's edict and was tortured to death. His wife and children were exiled to the border. Students, former subordinate officials and their fathers and brothers were all banned from serving as officials.
At this time, Jing Gu, the son of Jing Yi from Shu County who was serving as the imperial censor, was Li Ying's disciple, but he was not included in the party list, so he was not punished.
Jing Yi said with emotion and pride: "I originally thought that Li Ying was virtuous and sent his son to be his teacher. How could I just settle for nothing just because I left him out of the list?"
So he petitioned to be dismissed and go home.
At that time, people believed that he had a righteous sentiment. ◆The biography of Du Mi, named Zhou Fu, was a native of Yangcheng County, Yingchuan County.
He is a deep and simple man, and he had ambitions and customs when he was young.
He was promoted by Situ Hu Guang, and was promoted slightly to the prefect of Daijun. He was recruited by the imperial court, and was promoted to the prefect of Taishan and the prime minister of Beihai three times.
If any of the eunuchs' sons committed evil acts, they would be arrested and interrogated.
Once, Du Mi went to Gaomi to inspect spring plowing production and provide relief to the poor. He found that Zheng Xuan was a talented person as a township assistant, so he called him to act as a county official and sent him to study.
Later, Du Mi left his official position and returned home. Every time he visited the governor, he stated his opinions and asked for many things. Liu Sheng from the same county also returned to his hometown from Shu County, but he stayed behind closed doors and made no requests.
Wang Yu, the prefect, said to Du Mi: Liu Jiling is really a noble man, and many of the officials recommend him.
Du Mi knew that Wang Yu was irritating him, so he replied: Liu Sheng was a doctor, and the prefect treated him with the courtesy of a guest, but he knew the good and did not recommend it, and did not say anything after hearing bad news. He hid the true feelings for himself, like a cicada. This is a guilty person.
Now I will go up to the wise men who are committed to justice, and I will correct the bad men who violate the law, so that the prefect can win rewards and punishments, and the good reputation can be promoted. Isn't this a ten thousandth help to you?
Wang Yu was ashamed and admired him, and respected him even more.
Later, Emperor Huan conquered and worshiped him as Shangshu Ling, promoted to Henan Yin, and transferred to the Imperial Servant.
After the party broke out, he was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown. He and Li Ying were both convicted. Their reputation and behavior were comparable, so people at that time also called them Li Du.
Later, Chen Fan, the Taifu, assisted the government, and then became the Taifu.
The next year, he was summoned for party affairs and committed suicide.
◆The biography of Liu You, the uncle named Liu You, was from Anguo County, Zhongshan County.
Anguo County later belonged to Boling.
Liu You began to promote filial piety and integrity, and supplemented the minister's position. He is familiar with historical events and is particularly good at writing. He usually provides advice to the emperor and responds quickly, which is appreciated by his colleagues.
When he was appointed as the city magistrate, Yanzhou praised him as an outstanding talent. He was promoted to the governor of Yangzhou.
At this time, Liang, the prefect of Kuaiji, was the disciple of General Liang Ji.
Liu You exposed his crime, and Liang Min was scolded for this.
Liu You was also promoted to the governor of Hedong.
At that time, most of the county magistrates and chiefs were the sons of eunuchs, who were harmful to the people.
When Liu You took office, he removed those powerful and violent people who should be removed from their posts, sentenced those who should be sentenced, vindicated unjust and false cases, and set a model for politics in Hedong, Hanoi, and Sanhe in Henan.
He was promoted again, and in the fourth year of Yanxi's reign, he was appointed Shangshu Ling. He was also promoted to Henan Yin and was transferred to the Si Li Xiaowei.
At that time, the powerful and wealthy children who returned to the capital from the prefectures and counties would change their clothes and hide their treasures as soon as they reached the border.
Liu Youwei visited the court.
Ren Zongzheng, the chief agricultural officer of Santiao.
At that time, the ministers Su Kang and Guan Ba ​​were in power in the imperial court, occupying the country's fertile lands and beautiful industries, mountains, forests and lakes. The people were poor and the states and counties dared not say a word.
Liu You moved the documents to the area they occupied and confiscated them according to law.
Emperor Huan was furious and sentenced Liu You to Zuo School for forced labor.
Later, when he was pardoned and visited the three ministers again, he often excused himself because of illness and asked to return to the fields.
The imperial edict was issued to the officials, so Dumen disappeared.
When the three princes were vacant, the emperor all preferred Liu You, who was slandered and ignored.
Yan Du wrote to Liu You and said: In the past, the Taibo made three concessions, and the people missed him. The youngest son of Yanling bowed, and the Chinese praised his noble style.
You have the virtue of Zang Boyu who said, "If a country has no way, it can be rolled up and cherished". You understand Ning Wuzi's spirit of "if a country has no way, it can be foolish."
Pure sincerity and self-improvement are extremely valuable. At the beginning of Emperor Ling's reign, Chen Fan assisted the government and appointed Liu You as the Yin of Henan.
After Chen Fan failed, Liu You was deposed and returned to his hometown, where he died at home.
The next year, party members were massacred, but Liu You was lucky to be spared.
◆Biography of Wei Lang. Wei Lang was named Shaoying and was a native of Shangyu County, Kuaiji County.
He became a county official when he was young.
His brother was killed by a villager, and Wei Lang took revenge in the county with a knife during the day. So he fled to the state of Chen.
He studied "Spring and Autumn Pictures" with Dr. Gu Zhongxin, and then went to Taixue to study "Five Classics". Li Ying, the elder of the capital, and others all competed to associate with him.
He was promoted to Situ Mansion and promoted to Pengcheng Order.
At that time, the eunuch's son was serving as the prime minister of the country and his actions were illegal. Wei Lang reported to the court many times. The emperor's favored ministers were very angry and wanted to slander him.
When they met the Jiuzhen thieves, they jointly recommended Wei Lang to be appointed the Jiuzhen Captain.
After taking office, Wei Lang rewarded his officers and soldiers, defeated the county thieves, and beheaded 2,000 people.
Emperor Huan commended him for his contribution and appointed him as Yilang.
Soon, he was promoted to Sima.
He stated his political opinions many times and made contributions to the court.
He became the prefect of Hanoi, and his politics was a model for Hedong, Hanoi and Sanhe in Henan.
The minister ordered Chen Fan to recommend Wei Langgong to be Zhongzhiliang, who could be appointed to a confidential position, and then be recruited as minister.
In case of party disaster, he was dismissed from office and returned home.
Wei Lang was reserved and serious by nature, and kept the rules behind closed doors. No one in his family saw any signs of laziness in him.
Later, Dou Wu and others were killed, and Wei Lang was summoned urgently due to party troubles. He walked to Niuzhu and committed suicide.
He wrote several books called "Wei Zi".
◆The biography of Xia Fu, whose courtesy name is Zizhi, was from Yuxian County, Chenliu County.
When he was young, he was a scholar with upright words and deeds.
The Gao family and the Cai family in the same county were both wealthy, and the people in the county were afraid of him and served him carefully. Only Xia Fu, although he lived in the same family as Gao and Cai, did not associate with them, so he was hated by the wealthy people.
At the beginning of Emperor Huan's reign, he spoke out and said no.
Although Xia Fu did not associate with the eunuchs, he was feared by the eunuchs because of his reputation. He, Fan Pang, Zhang Jian and others were all framed by the eunuchs. The imperial court issued an edict to go to the prefectures and counties to arrest him as the leader of the party.
Zhang Jian and others fled for their lives. In the places they went through, everyone who came into contact with them was arrested and interrogated. People involved in interrogation were all over the world.
Xia Fu paused and sighed and said: "The sin is your own fault. It hurts good people in vain. One person escapes to die, and the disaster affects thousands of families. What are you doing alive!"
So he cut off his beard, changed his appearance, ran to Linlu Mountain, concealed his name, and became a servant of the smelting family.
After working with chimney soot, his appearance was ruined and exhausted. After two or three years, no one knew it was him.
Later, Xia Fu's younger brother Xia Jing took a car and pursued the silk to Niyang City.
When he touched Xia Fu, he couldn't recognize him. When he heard Xia Fu's voice, he discovered Xia Fu and knelt down to Xia Fu.
Xia Fu tried to avoid talking to him, so Xia Jing chased him to the hotel and slept with Xia Fu.
At night Xia Fu quietly called Xia Jing: "I was framed by the powerful eunuch because I kept the right path and hated evil."
If you want to stay safe and save your life, why did you come to me with your things? You are bringing trouble upon me!
We left at dawn.
He died before the party ban was lifted.
◆Zong Ci's biography, Zong Ci's courtesy name was Xiaochu, and he was a native of Anzhong County, Nanyang County.
In order to promote filial piety and honesty, the government summoned him nine times to conquer him with virtue, but he refused.
Later he served as a military commander.
At this time, the prefect came from a powerful and wealthy family, and corruption and bribery were very serious, so Zong Ci abandoned the county magistrate and left.
The imperial court summoned Yilang, but he did not arrive and died on the road.
The scholar-bureaucrats in Nanyang all respected his righteous deeds.
◆Basu biography, Basu courtesy name Gongzu, a native of Gaocheng County, Bohai County.
He was first promoted as Xiaolian, and successively served as the magistrate of Shen County and the magistrate of Beiqiu County. However, he resigned due to illness because the county governor was unpopular.
When he was appointed to the Duke's Mansion, he was promoted to Yilang.
He conspired with Dou Wu, Chen Fan and others to kill the eunuchs. Dou Wu and others were killed, and Basu was also banned from serving as an official because of the party's disaster.
Later, Cao Jie, the minister of the Central Committee, heard that Ba Su had participated in the plot to kill the eunuch and arrested him.
Basu took a bus to the county by himself.
The county magistrate saw Basu and went into the cabinet to untie the seal ribbon and wanted to go with him.
Basu said: As a minister, I dare not conceal my plans, and I will not escape punishment if I am guilty.
I have not concealed my involvement in the murder of the eunuch, how dare I escape punishment?
Because he was killed, the governor Jia Cong carved a stone inscription to record his deeds.
◆Biography of Fan Pang, named Meng Bo, who conquered the Qiang people in Runan.
When he was young, he honed his integrity and was highly praised by the state. He praised the four elements of filial piety, integrity and honor: honesty, simplicity, humility and frugality.
At this time, there was a famine in Jizhou and thieves were on the rise, so Fan Pang was appointed as an envoy to the Qing Dynasty to investigate the situation of thieves.
Fan Pang boarded the chariot and took the bridle with a high spirit and ambition to clarify the world.
When he arrived at the prefecture and county, the governor knew that he was corrupt and violated the law. When he heard the news, he abandoned his official position and left.
What Fan Pang exposed was what public opinion demanded to be dealt with, and Sheng Guang Luxun was in charge.
At this time, Chen Fan was appointed Guang Luxun, and Fan Pang met Chen Fan on official occasions. Chen Fan did not stay with him, but Fan Pang held a grudge and abandoned his official post.
When Guo Linzong heard that Chen Fan was being reprimanded, he said: "Can a person like Fan Mengbo be treated according to public etiquette?"
Now that he is gone, it will make him famous. Isn't that a bad thing for himself?
Chen Fan then apologized to Fan Pang.
He was also recruited by Taiwei Huang Qiong.
Later, the emperor ordered the three government officials to listen to the history of the good and bad, the people's suffering, and report to the court. Fan Pang reported to the governor and more than twenty people from the powerful party of two thousand stones.
The minister blamed Fan Pang for too many impeachments and suspected that he was seeking personal revenge.
Fan Pang replied: If what I am impeaching is not corruption and violence, which has caused great harm to the people, is it for the purpose of dirtying Jianzha?
Because there is not enough time, those who need to be impeached first will be impeached first, and those that have not been thoroughly reviewed should be implemented later.
I heard that if farmers weed the grass, good grains will flourish; if loyal ministers remove the traitors, the country's politics will be clear.
If what I say is untrue, I am willing to be severely punished.
Officials cannot question him.
Fan Pang saw that the country was in a difficult time and knew that his ideals could not be realized, so he committed a crime and left.
The prefect Zongzi had heard about Fan Pang before and asked him to act as a meritorious official and make political appointments.
Fan Pang was in office and strictly enforced the rule. He hated bad people and bad deeds with deep hatred.
Anyone who is unfilial or unfaithful, or behaves unbenevolently and righteously, will be expelled and will not work with them, and even their footprints will be wiped clean.
Deliberately recommend those who are upright and upright, and promote those who have been buried.
Fan Pang's nephew Li Song of Xiping, a descendant of the public family, was abandoned by the village. Tang Heng, the official of the Central Committee, introduced Li Song to Zongzi, who appointed Li Song as an official.
Fan Pang thought Li Song was not suitable and suppressed it.
Zongzi was so angry that he vented his anger on Shu Zuo Zhu Ling and whipped him.
Zhu Ling raised his head and said: "Fan Pang's ruling is like cutting off decay with a sharp knife. Today I would rather kill him. Fan Pang cannot be disobeyed."
Zong Zicai stopped beating Zhu Ling.
Everyone in the county and below did not resent Fan Pang. So the people Fan Pang used were called Fan Dang.
Later, he was framed against a party member, and Fan Pang was imprisoned in Huangmen Temple for his crime.
The jailer said to Fan Pang: "Everyone who belongs to the prison department will sacrifice to Gaotao."
Fan Pang said: Gaotao is a sage, a loyal and upright minister in ancient times. Knowing that Fan Pang is not guilty, he will appeal to God on my behalf.
If I am really guilty, what good is the sacrifice to him? Those who were imprisoned also stopped offering sacrifices to Gaotao.
The jailer was about to torture the prisoner. Fan Pang asked to be beaten first because many of his fellow prisoners were sick, and he fought with Yuan Zhong from the same county to receive the severe beating.
Wang Fu, a regular attendant of Emperor Huan's faction, interrogated each of them. Fan Pang and others' hands, feet, and necks were all tied up with wooden frames, and their heads were covered with cloth, leaving them exposed at the foot of the steps. The rest of the people were in front, some answered and some did not. Fan Pang and Yuan Zhong walked from the back to the front.
Wang Fu asked: "You are a minister, and you don't want to be loyal to the country. You actually form a party together, flaunt yourself, comment on the court, fabricate facts, and make all kinds of conspiracies. All you want to do is to recruit honestly. You must not hide any pretense."
Fan Pang replied: I heard that Zhongni said: When you see a good deed, you should do it as quickly as you are afraid you will miss it; when you see an evil deed, you should avoid it as quickly as you would touch boiling water.
He wanted to make the good and the good the same pure and the evil the evil the same as the filthy, thinking that this was what the royal government was willing to hear, but unexpectedly, he thought it was a clique.
Wang Fu said: You promote each other, rely on each other, and reject those who don't like you. What does this mean?
Fan Pang then looked up to the sky with enthusiasm and said: In ancient times, doing good deeds was to seek blessings; now doing good deeds is a capital crime.
On the day of execution, please bury Fan Pang on the side of Shouyang Mountain so that he will live up to the emperor and Bo Yi and Shu Qi.
Wang Fu took pity on him and his color changed.
So all the shackles were lifted.
Fan Pang was later released and returned south.
Starting from the capital, the scholar-bureaucrats in Runan and Nanyang welcomed him with thousands of cars.
Yin Tao and Huang Mu, fellow countrymen who were imprisoned, were also released from prison and returned together. They both recruited Fan Pang to help defend him and receive guests.
Fan Pang said to Yin Tao and others: If you follow me now, you will make me more guilty!
They fled back to their hometown.
At first, Fan Pang and others were imprisoned, and Shangshu Huo interrogated him.
When Fan Pang was absolved and went to the capital, he visited Huo but did not thank him.
Someone blamed Fan Pang, and he replied: "My uncle Xiang committed a crime in the past, and Qi Xi rescued him. I have never heard of sheep tongue saying thank you, and Qi Lao seems to be taking credit."
No words of thanks were said in the end.
In the second year of Jianning, a large number of party members were executed, and an order was issued to urgently arrest Fan Pang and others.
Supervisor Wu Dao went to the county, hugged the imperial edict, closed the post, and cried on his bed. After hearing this, Fan Pang said: "It must be for me!"
Go to jail yourself immediately.
The county magistrate Guo Yi was shocked. He came out to remove the seal and wanted to escape with Fan Pang.
Said: The world is so big! Why are you here?
Fan Pang said: "If Pang dies, the disaster will be over. How dare I implicate you with my crime and make my mother homeless?"
Fan Pang's mother said goodbye to Fan Pang immediately.
Fan Pang said to his mother: "Zhongbo's filial piety is enough to support your old man. Pang will return to Huangquan from Longshujun. The living and the dead will each have their own place. I hope you will cut off your unbearable kindness and don't be sad."
Mother said: Now you can be as famous as Li Ying and Du Mi, and you will die with no regrets!
I already have a good reputation, and if I seek longevity exams, is it possible to have both?
He knelt down to receive instruction, then bowed and resigned.
He turned back to his son and said: I want you to do evil, but you can't do evil; I want you to do good, but I don't want to do evil, and this is the result!
Everyone on the road shed tears when he heard this. He was thirty-three years old at the time.
Officials commented: Li Ying stood up in a filthy and dangerous situation, and had a righteous heart. He used it to encourage popular customs, encourage high moral conduct to humiliate authority, and establish a clean and honest atmosphere to destroy the power of nobles. Even though he was in prison and his family was ruined, he never looked back. As for the son's death, the mother was happy for her son's sacrifice. How heroic!
Confucius said: Has the Tao been abandoned?
Or is it destiny?
◆The biography of Yin Xun, whose courtesy name is Boyuan, was born in Gongxian County, Henan Province.
It has been the home of officials for generations.
His uncle Yin Mu is a Situ, his brother Yin Song is a Taiwei, and many of the Yin family occupies important positions. Yin Xun only adheres to the integrity and integrity and does not use status and power to overwhelm others.
The prefectures and counties were conquered many times, promoted filial piety and integrity, and moved to Handan three times, with extraordinary political achievements.
Later, he was promoted to high rank and moved to the ministerial order in the fifth year.
Emperor Huan killed the general Liang Ji, and Yin Xun participated in the plan and was granted the title of Marquis of the capital.
Moved to runan prefecture.
The letter was written to explain to Fan Pang that Yuan Zhong and others suggested that he be imprisoned and not allowed to be an official because of the party disaster.
Soon, he recruited generals to be chief craftsmen and transferred them to agricultural departments.
Because of Dou Wu and other incidents, he was thrown into prison and committed suicide.
◆Cai Yan's biography, Cai Yan's courtesy name is Meng happy, a native of Xiang County, Runan County.
When he was young, he was proficient in Confucian classics, taught his disciples, and educated the villagers with courtesy.
When there were disputes in the village, they often went to Cai Yan's house to ask for settlement. After Cai Yan mediated, everyone said they had no objection.
He was promoted to the title of Xiaolian and the governor of Jizhou.
Ju Yuan, the official in charge of the imperial office, asked Cai Yan to nominate his younger brother as a maocai, but Cai Yan refused and ordered him to be arrested and asked to deliver letters.
He also impeached Cao Ding, the Prime Minister of Hejian, for embezzling millions of dollars in stolen goods.
Cao Ding is the younger brother of Zhongchang Shi Cao Teng.
Cao Teng sent General Liang Ji to write a letter to Cai Yan asking him to intercede, but Cai Yan ignored him. Cao Ding was therefore convicted and sent to Zuo School for labor reform.
The imperial court recruited Cai Yan to serve as Yi Lang and Fu Jie Ling.
Liang Ji heard that Cai Yan was talented and asked him to meet him. Cai Yan was ill and refused to go, so Liang Ji hated him.
At this time, Nanyang Governor Cheng Wang Jin and others were interrogated by the court captain for taking in the eunuchs. Cai Yan and Yilang Liu Yu came to rescue them.
Emperor Ling ascended the throne and was appointed Yilang again. He died of illness.
◆The biography of Yangzhi, the descendant of Yangzhi, was a native of Liangfu County, Taishan.
Generations are the family of officials.
When Yang Zhi was young, he was upright and knowledgeable. He was promoted as Xiaolian and conscripted into Taiwei Li Gu's mansion. Because of his excellent performance, he was promoted to a high rank and was appointed as Shi Yushi.
When Li Gu was executed, Yang Zhi was banned from being an official for many years because he was Li Gu's old official.
Because of his outstanding performance, he was promoted to the provincial governor of Jizhou.
Report cases of corruption and corruption, and wherever they go, corruption and perversion of the law will disappear.
He was promoted to Huben Zhonglang General, Chengmen Xiaowei, and Shangshu Ling three times.
At this time, Taiwei Zhang Hao, Situ Fanling, Da Honglu Guo Fang, Tai servant Cao Ling, and Da Sinong Feng Fang all had marriages with eunuchs, got together, and openly bribed eunuchs. Yang Zhi petitioned them one by one to remove them and expel them, but the emperor did not accept it.
Former Taiwei Liu Chong, Sili Colonel Xu Bing, Youzhou Governor Yang Xi, Liangzhou Governor Liu Gong, and Yizhou Governor Pang Ai were honest and upright in public affairs. Yang Zhi recommended them and promoted them. The emperor commended him and appointed him as Henan Yin.
He received salary on a daily basis, often ate dry rice and vegetables, and suppressed powerful people. All the officials in the capital were afraid of him. When troubles with the party occurred, he was removed from office, and he was imprisoned as an official. He died at home.
◆Zhang Jianzhuan, Zhang Jianzi Yuanjie, a native of Gaoping, Shanyang, a descendant of Zhao Wang Zhang Er.
His father, Zhang Cheng, was the governor of Jiangxia. Zhang Jian was initially recommended as a talented person by the villagers. He thought that the governor was not suitable for him, so he refused to go because of illness.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, the governor Zhai Chao asked him to be the postal supervisor in the east.
At this time, Zhongchang Shihou Lan's family was in Fangdong, and he was cruel to the people and lawless.
Zhang Jian exposed the crimes of Hou Lan and his mother and asked the court to execute them.
Hou Lan withheld Zhang Jian's seal, but the emperor did not see it, so he and Hou Lan became enmity.
Zhu Bing, a native of the country, was flattering, despicable and nasty by nature. Zhang Jian looked down upon him and hated him. He wrote a letter to accuse Zhang Jian and twenty-four people in the same county of being friends. The court then ordered Zhang Jian to be arrested and Zhu Bing's name to be cut off to show that he was keeping it secret.
Zhang Jian ran for his life and ran away in embarrassment. Wherever he ran, when it got dark, he would stay in any house. No one disrespected his reputation and character. Even though his family was ruined, they were still willing to take him in.
Later he went into exile in Donglai and stayed at Li Du's home.
Waihuang ordered Mao Qin to lead troops to his home. Li Du called Mao Qin and said: "Zhang Jian is famous all over the world. It is not his fault to escape."
Even if you see Zhang Jian, can you bear to capture him?
Mao Qin stood up and caressed Li Du and said: "It is shameful for Zang Boyu to think that he is a gentleman alone. Why do you only focus on benevolence and righteousness?"
Li Du said: Although I, Li Du, say I love righteousness, you have gained half of it today!
Mao Qin sighed and left.
Li Du was able to send Zhang Jian out of the fortress, and Zhang Jian was finally saved from death.
Dozens of people were executed in every house where Zhang Jian passed by, and all their clan relatives were killed, leaving the county in ruins.
In the first year of Zhongping, the party's imprisonment was lifted, and Zhang Jian returned to his hometown.
The generals and three princes all recruited him and recommended him with sincerity. He had the characteristics of the official carriage of the imperial court and was appointed to pay homage to the Shaofu, but he was not accepted.
In the early years of Emperor Xian's reign, the people were in famine, and Zhang Jian's family was relatively wealthy, so he shared his property with his fellow villagers. There are hundreds of people who survive on these properties.
In the early years of Jian'an, the imperial court recruited him as a guard, but he accepted it as a last resort.
Zhang Jian saw that Cao Cao had usurpation ambitions, so he closed his door and hung up his car.
More than a year later, he died in Xuzhou at the age of eighty-four.
The historian commented: In the past, Wei Qi avoided death, Yu Qing resigned and fled with him, Ji Bu fled for his life, and the Zhu family was willing to hide him and save him.
Zhang Jian offended the emperor and fled everywhere for his life. When people in the world heard about his integrity, they all liked his ambition and competed to be the host to take him in.
There are probably dozens of cases where he abandoned his city, lost his official position, and destroyed his body and clan. Isn't Zhang Jian still a virtuous person?
However, Zhang Jian tried to block the river with just one palm of his hand, and finally caused trouble because of his hatred for unkind people. This shows how overestimating his ability is!
◆Cen Hao's biography, Cen Hao's courtesy name was Gongxiao, and he was a native of Jiyang County, Nanyang County.
His father, Cen Yu, served as the governor of Nanjun and was killed for corruption.
When Cen Hao was young and not well-known, he went to see Zong Ci of the same county. Zong Ci was recruited for being a good man. The house was full of guests. They thought Cen Hao was not a good family son and were unwilling to meet him.
Cen Hao stayed outside the door for many days before being brought in.
Zong Ci talked to him and praised him greatly, so he took him to Luoyang to study at Taixue.
Cen Hao had superb talents, and Guo Linzong, Li Gongshu, etc. all became friends with him. Li Ying and Wang Chang said that he had the ability to govern the country. Although he was in the countryside, he was high-spirited and had the ambition to govern the world.
When the prefect, Hongnongcheng, came to the Jin Dynasty, he wanted to establish his authority. After hearing Cen Hao's name, he asked him to serve as a meritorious officer, and also appointed Zhang Mu as a thief officer.
King Cheng Jin trusted Cen Hao and Zhang Mu, rewarded good deeds and corrected mistakes, and purged the palace.
There was a wealthy businessman named Zhang Xun in Wan County, who was a relative of Emperor Huan's beauty. He could carve some ingenious and interesting things, and often gave them to eunuchs with bribes. As a result, he also obtained a prominent official position. With his skills, he could do whatever he wanted.
Cen Hao and Zhang Mu persuaded Wang Jin to arrest Zhang Xun and others. Later, when they were pardoned, Cen Hao still killed them and arrested their clan guests. He killed more than 200 people before reporting to the court.
So the wife of Zhang Xun, the official in charge of Zhang Xun, sent a letter to complain.
Emperor Huan was furious and conscripted King Jin into prison and died in prison.
Cen Hao and Zhang Mu were hiding between Qi and Lu.
Meet pardon and come out.
Later, he was elected by the state and county, and he was not accepted by the three governments.
After Li Gu and Du Mi were killed, he fled again and was heard to have died in the Jiangxia Mountains.
◆Chen Xiang's biography, Chen Xiang's courtesy name is Zilin, a native of Shaoling County, Runan County.
Grandfather Chen Zhen, Sili Xiaowei.
Chen Xiang was famous for his social skills when he was young.
He was promoted to Xiaolian, and Taiwei Zhou Jing promoted him with a high rank and appointed him as Shi Yushi.
At this time, on the first day of the first lunar month of the lunar calendar, Liang Ji, the general, showed his unkempt appearance and unkempt appearance. Chen Xiang reported to the emperor that Liang Ji was disrespectful to the emperor because of his good fortune, so he should be arrested and punished. People at the time thought he was a strange person.
He was promoted to prefect of Dingxiang, conscripted as Yilang, and promoted to governor of Yangzhou.
The emperor reported that Wang Yong, the prefect of Yuzhang, was a senior official, and Xu Shen, the prefect of Wu County, had committed corruption in office, and both were expelled from the imperial court.
Xu Shen is the younger brother of Xu Huang, the imperial minister.
As a result, his reputation grew.
He was also appointed as Yilang to supplement the imperial censor Zhongcheng.
He was interrogated by the Huangmen Beisi Prison due to party misfortune, but was exonerated because there was no evidence, and died at home.
◆The biography of Kong Yu, whose courtesy name was Yuan Dynasty, was from Lu County, Lu State.
Kong Ba, the seventh generation ancestor, served successively as Jiuqing when he became emperor, and was granted the title of Marquis.
From Kong Ba to Kong Yu, the title of nobility continued, and there were fifty-three ministers and ministers, including seven princes.
When Kong Yu was a child, he studied "Shang Shu" and was summoned by the general Liang Ji, but he did not respond.
Taiwei Ju Fangzheng disagreed with the emperor's questions, so he resigned due to illness.
Later, he was banned from serving as an official due to party disaster.
When Emperor Ling came to the throne, he conscripted Yilang in a public car to supplement the Luoyang order. Because of the death of his teacher, he abandoned his official position and died at home.
◆The biography of Yuan Kang, whose courtesy name is Zhongzhen, was born in Chonghe County, Bohai County.
When he was young, he studied in Taixue and was very close to Guo Linzong.
Raise filial piety and integrity, and then move to Yingyin Order. Known for his ability.
He was promoted to Taishou of Taishan.
Many surnames in the county were engaged in illegal activities. When Yuan Kang took office, he acted aggressively, got angry, and promulgated strict laws. No one dared to break the law.
Those who had invaded other people's fields and houses in the past were quickly returned to their original owners.
At this time, Zhang Jian of Shanyang killed Hou Lan's mother, who was often serving as a servant. Yuan Kang investigated her clan guests, some of whom were hidden in Taishan. He always hated eunuchs, so he arrested them all without missing or running away.
Hou Lan hated Yuan Kang to the extreme. He falsely accused Yuan Kang, Yanzhou Governor No. 5 and Duwei Hujia of surrendering, and summoned Yuan Kang to Tingwei Prison. He was commuted to the death penalty and demoted to Rinan.
Yingyin and Taiyangzhi waited until the court appealed for Yuankang and were pardoned. They were sent back to their own county and died at home.
◆Tanfu Zhuan, Tanfu Ziwenyou, a native of Xiaqiu, Shanyin County.
When I was young, I was Zhusheng. Although my family was poor, I had high ambitions and did not accept benefits from the wealthy people in the village.
In order to promote filial piety and honesty, the government called for him many times, but he still failed.
Jingshe teaches students, and hundreds of people often come to study from far away.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he was recruited with a doctorate degree, but he was not successful.
When Emperor Ling came to the throne, Taiwei Huang Qiong promoted him to be Fangzheng. He answered the emperor's questions and met the requirements of the administration at that time. He was promoted to Yilang and supplemented the county magistrate of Meng.
Because the county guard was unpopular, he abandoned his official position and returned home.
The family has no property, but they live in the same clothes as their children and grandchildren, and eat by the sun.
He died at home at the age of eighty.
◆The biography of Liu Ru, whose courtesy name is Shulin, was from Yangping County, Dongjun.
Guo Linzong once said that although Liu Ru stuttered in speech, he was very smart and had an essence as white as jade.
He was promoted to be filial and honest, and he was promoted to a high rank due to his outstanding performance.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, disasters often occurred, and he issued edicts to ask for outspoken opinions. Liu Ru secretly wrote ten articles, expressing the gains and losses of the court with great loyalty and sincerity.
Emperor Huan could not accept it and appointed him as the Prime Minister of the city.
Soon, he was appointed Yilang.
After encountering Dou Wushi, he was imprisoned and committed suicide.
Jia Biao's biography, Jia Biao's courtesy name is Weijie, a native of Dingling County, Yingchuan County.
When he was young, he traveled to the capital. He had extraordinary integrity and impassioned generosity, and was as famous as Xun Shuang, a native of the same county.
He began to serve as an official in the state and county, promoted filial piety and integrity, and served as the county magistrate of Xinxi.
The people were poor and did not raise their children. Jia Biao established a strict legal system. Those who did not raise their children were as guilty as murdering people.
There were robbers and murderers in the south of the city, and women and children in the north. Jia Biao went to the scene of the crime to deal with it, and Shi Shi wanted to take Jia Biao to the south of the city.
Jia Biao got angry and said: "It is common sense for thieves and bandits to harm others; it is contrary to nature and human nature for a mother and her son to kill each other."
So he drove to the north of the city and punished the woman.
When the thieves in the south of the city heard about it, they also tied themselves up and went to the county to surrender.
Within a few years, thousands of people were raising children and they were all called "Jia Gongzhang". Those who gave birth to boys were named "Jia Zi" and those who gave birth to girls were named "Jia Nu".
In the ninth year of Yanxi's reign, a party disaster broke out. Taiwei Chen Fan opposed it but failed. All officials in the court felt chilled by it and did not dare to say anything more.
Jia Biao said to his colleagues: If I don't go westward, the disaster will not be relieved.
So he went to Luoyang and told the city gate captain Dou Wu, Shangshu Huo, Dou Wu and others to appeal to the emperor, and Emperor Huan therefore pardoned the party members.
Li Ying came out and said: I was able to avoid the party disaster because of Jia Sheng's strength!
At one time, Cen Hao was on the run due to party troubles, and his relatives and friends hid him. Jia Biao stayed behind closed doors and refused to accept him. People at that time hated him.
Jia Biao said: "The Biography" says: Act according to time and do not harm future generations.
Gongxiao brought the blame on himself for threatening the emperor to commit crime. Just because I cannot treat each other with hostility and hate him, how can I shelter him and hide him?
Due to party troubles, he was prohibited from becoming an official and died at home.
At first, the three Jia Biao brothers were all famous, and Jia Biao was the best. Therefore, there is a legend in the world: Among the three tigers of the Jia family, Wei Jie is the most angry. ◆The biography of He Yong, named Boqiu, was a native of Xiangxiang County, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he traveled to the capital to study.
Although He Yong is a junior, Guo Linzong, Jia Weijie and others are very close to him. Famous Imperial Academy.
His friend Yu Weigao had not avenged his father and was seriously ill and was about to die. He Yong went to see him. Yu Weigao cried to him. He Yong was moved by his righteousness and avenged him. He sacrificed the head of his enemy to the grave of Yu Weigao's father.
After Chen Fan and Li Ying failed, He Yong was framed by the eunuchs because of his friendship with Chen Fan and Li Ying. He then changed his name and fled to Runan County.
Wherever he went, he gathered heroes and became famous in Jingzhou and Yuzhou.
Yuan Shao admired his character, secretly interacted with him, and became his sworn friend.
At this time, the party was in trouble and many people in the world suffered. He Yong often went to Luoyang privately to discuss with Yuan Shao.
For some poor and helpless people, help them survive the disaster.
For some people who were being hunted, he made great suggestions, allowing them to escape or hide, and saved many people from party disasters.
After the party disaster was resolved, He Yong was recruited by Sikong Mansion.
In every meeting of the three governments, He Yong was always recommended as the leader.
Promoted several times.
Dong Zhuo was in power and forced He Yong to become a long history officer. He refused to accept it on the pretext of illness, and conspired with Sikong Xunshuang, Situ Wang Yun and others to kill Dong Zhuo.
Xun Shuang died, and He Yong was arrested by Dong Zhuo for other matters, and he died of sorrow and anger.
At first, when He Yong saw Cao Cao, he sighed and said: The Han family is about to perish, and this man must be the one who will bring peace to the world.
Cao Cao was very happy.
He once praised Yingchuan Xun as the weapon of Wang Zuo.
Xun Ren served as the Minister of Secretariat and sent people to the west to meet his uncle Xun Shuang. He Yong's body was collected and buried next to Xun Shuang's tomb.
