The ancestor of King Gou Jian of Yue was a descendant of Xia Yu and the son of a concubine of Emperor Shaokang of the Xia Dynasty.
Emperor Shaokang's son was sealed in Kuaiji, where he respectfully worshiped and inherited Xia Yu's sacrifices.
They tattooed their bodies with patterns, cut their hair short, opened up barren land, and built cities.
After more than twenty generations of reproduction, it was passed down to Yunchang.
When Yunchang was in power, he and King Wu Helu had resentment and attacked each other.
After Yunchang's death, his son Gou Jian came to the throne and became the king of Yue.
In the first year of King Goujian of Yue, King Helu of Wu heard that Yunchang had passed away, so he raised troops to attack Yue.
King Gou Jian of Yue sent warriors who dared to die to challenge the Wu army. The warriors lined up in three lines and rushed into the Wu army's position, shouting that they would kill themselves.
The Wu soldiers were stunned. The Vietnamese army took the opportunity to attack the Wu army. They defeated the Wu army at Jianli and shot and wounded the king of Wu in his house.
When Helu was dying, he warned his son Fucha: Never forget the country of Yue.
Three years ago, Gou Jian heard that King Wu Fu Chai was training his soldiers day and night to avenge Yue, so he planned to strike first and attack Wu before Wu sent troops.
Fan Li remonstrated and said: "No, I heard that weapons are dangerous weapons, attacking is immoral, and taking things by force is the lowest behavior in dealing with things."
Those who conspire to do immoral things, like to use weapons, and personally participate in low-level things will definitely be opposed by the Emperor of Heaven, and this will not bring good results.
The King of Yue said: I have made a decision.
So he raised his troops and marched into the state of Wu.
After King Wu heard the news, he mobilized the country's elite troops to attack the Vietnamese army, and defeated the Vietnamese army in Fujiao.
The King of Yue only gathered 5,000 remaining soldiers and the defeated generals retreated to Kuaiji.
King Wu took advantage of the victory to pursue and surrounded Kuaiji.
The King of Yue said to Fan Li: I ended up in this situation because I didn't listen to your advice. What should I do?
Fan Li replied: Those who can protect themselves must imitate the way of heaven, which is full but not overflowing; those who can calm down crises and overturns must understand that humanity advocates humility; those who can control things will follow the way and adapt to local conditions.
Now, you must be humble and courteous to the King of Wu, and send people to give generous gifts to the King of Wu. If he does not agree, go and serve him personally, and pledge yourself to the King of Wu. Gou Jian said: OK!
So he sent the official Zhong to ask for peace from Wu. Zhong knelt on the ground and kowtowed as he walked forward and said: Gou Jian, the king's subjugated subject, asked me to boldly tell your subordinates: Gou Jian asks you to allow him to be your slave and his wife to be your concubine.
King Wu will agree to plant it.
Zixu said to the King of Wu: God has given the Kingdom of Yue to the Kingdom of Wu, so don’t agree to it.
Zane returned to Echigo and told Gou Jian about the situation.
Gou Jian wanted to kill his wife and children, burn his treasures, and go to the battlefield to fight to the death.
Zhong stopped Gou Jian and said, "Pu, the chief minister of Wu State, is very greedy. We can seduce him with a lot of money. Please allow me to contact him secretly to negotiate peace."
So Gou Jian asked Zhong to present beautiful women, jewelry and jades to Dazai Pei. Pi readily accepted the offer and introduced Dr. Zhong to King Wu.
Zhong kowtowed and said: I hope the king can forgive Gou Jian's sins, and our country, Yue, will give you all the treasures passed down from generation to generation.
If you are not pardoned by luck, Gou Jian will kill all his wife and children, burn his treasures, and lead his five thousand soldiers to fight to the death with you. You will also pay a considerable price.
Dazai Pi took the opportunity to persuade the King of Wu: The King of Yue has become an obedient minister. If he is pardoned, it will be beneficial to our country.
King Wu agreed to plant it again.
Zixu remonstrated again and said: If we don't destroy Yue now, we will definitely regret it in the future.
Gou Jian is a wise monarch, and the officials Zhong and Fan Li are both wise ministers. If Gou Jian can return to Yue, he will definitely cause chaos.
The King of Wu did not listen to Zixu's advice and finally pardoned the King of Yue and withdrew his troops back to the country.
When Gou Jian was trapped in Kuaiji, he once sighed and said: Am I going to end my life here?
Zhong said: Tang of Shang was imprisoned in Xiatai, King Wen of Zhou was besieged in Youli, Chong'er of Jin fled to Zhai, and Xiaobai of Qi fled to Ju. They all finally became kings and dominated the world.
From this point of view, is it possible that our situation today cannot be a blessing?
The King of Wu pardoned the King of Yue. After Gou Jian returned home, he thought deeply and worked hard to hang gall on the seat. He could look up and taste the gall while sitting or lying down, and he could also taste the gall while eating. Said: Have you forgotten the humiliation Kuaiji suffered?
He farmed by himself, his wife weaved by herself, and he never had meat dishes in his meals. Never wear two layers of gorgeous clothes, be courteous to wise men, be able to accept humiliation, entertain guests with enthusiasm and sincerity, be able to help the poor, mourn the dead, and work together with the people.
The King of Yue wanted Fan Li to manage the government affairs of the country. Fan Li replied: "I am not as good as a soldier in fighting a war. I am not as good as a farmer in calming down and appeasing the country and getting the people to come close to me."
So he entrusted the government affairs to the official Zhong, and asked Fan Li and the official Zheji to seek peace and serve as hostages in the state of Wu.
Two years later, the state of Wu allowed Fan Li to return to the country.
Seven years after Gou Jian returned from Kuaiji, he always comforted his soldiers and people, hoping to take revenge on Wu.
The doctor came together and admonished us: "The country has just endured the exile, and today it is rich and prosperous again. If we rectify our armaments, Wu will be afraid. If it is afraid, disaster will follow."
Besides, when a ferocious big bird attacks a target, it must hide first.
Now, the Wu army is attacking Qi and Jin, and has a deep hatred with Chu and Yue. Although it is famous in the world, it has actually jeopardized the prestige of the Zhou royal family. Wu lacks morality but has many military exploits, so he must be arrogant and arrogant.
If you really care about the Yue State, it is better for the Yue State to make friends with the Qi State, get closer to the Chu State, submit to the Jin State, and treat Wu favorably.
The state of Wu has lofty ambitions and must treat war with contempt. In this way, our country can contact the forces of the three countries and let the three countries attack the state of Wu, and the state of Yue can take advantage of its fatigue to conquer it. Gou Jian said: OK.
Two years later, King Wu was about to attack Qi.
Zixu remonstrated and said: No.
I heard that Gou Jian never cooked two kinds of delicious dishes and shared the joys and sorrows with the people.
If this person doesn't die, he will definitely become a worry for our country.
The state of Wu had the state of Yue, which was a serious problem, but Qi was just like a scabies to Wu.
I hope the king will give up attacking Qi and attack Yue first.
The King of Wu refused to listen, so he sent troops to attack Qi, defeated the Qi army in Ailing, and captured Qi's Gao and Guo clans and returned to Wu.
King Wu scolded Zixu, and Zixu said: "Don't be too happy!"
The King of Wu was very angry and Zixu wanted to commit suicide. The King of Wu heard about it and stopped him.
Zhong, the official of the Yue State, said: I have observed that King Wu is too arrogant in power. Please allow me to test it out and borrow food from him to gauge King Wu's attitude towards the State of Yue.
Zhong asked King Wu to borrow grain. The King of Wu wanted to lend it to him, but Zixu suggested not to lend it. The King of Wu lent it to Yue anyway, and the King of Yue was secretly very happy.
Zixu said: If the king does not listen to my advice, the country of Wu will be in ruins in three years!
After Dazai Pi heard this, he argued with Zixu many times about the strategy to deal with the Yue Kingdom. He took the opportunity to slander Zixu and said: "Wu Yuan is loyal on the surface, but in fact he is cruel. He doesn't even care about his father and brother. How can he care about the king?"
The king wanted to attack Qi State last time, and his soldiers strongly remonstrated with him. Later, you fought successfully, but he resented you for it.
If you don't guard against him, he will definitely cause trouble.
Pi also conspired with Feng to slander Zixu again and again in front of the king.
The king did not listen to the slander at first, so he sent Zixu as an envoy to Qi. When he heard that Zixu had entrusted his son to the Bao family, the king was furious and said: "Wu Yuan really deceived me!"
After Zixu returned from his mission to Qi, the King of Wu sent someone to give Zixu a carved sword and asked him to commit suicide.
Zixu laughed and said: I assisted your father to dominate and made you king. At first you wanted to divide the country of Wu equally with me, but I didn't accept it. Not long after that, today you killed me for slander.
Alas, alas, you can never build a country by yourself!
Zixu told the envoy: I must take out my eyes and hang them on the east gate of the capital of Wu, so that I can see the Vietnamese army entering the capital with my own eyes. So the king of Wu reused Pei to take charge of the state affairs.
Three years later, Gou Jian summoned Fan Li and said, "The king of Wu has killed Xu, and there are many flatterers. Can we attack Wu?"
Fan Li replied: No.
In the spring of the next year, King Wu went to Huangchi in the north to join the princes. All the elite troops of Wu State followed King Wu to the meeting. Only the old, weak and remnant soldiers and the prince stayed in Wudu.
Gou Jian asked Fan Li if he could attack Wu.
Fan Li said: That's all. So he sent 2,000 soldiers who were familiar with water warfare, 40,000 well-trained soldiers, 6,000 well-educated and high-status guards, and 1,000 management and technical officers of various types to attack Wu.
The Wu army was defeated, and the Vietnamese army also killed the prince of Wu.
The envoy from the State of Wu quickly reported the situation to the King of Wu. The King of Wu was meeting the princes in Huangchi. He was afraid that the people of the world would hear the news of this tragic defeat, so he insisted on keeping it a secret.
King Wu had already made an alliance with the princes in Huangchi, so he sent people with generous gifts to ask for peace with Yue.
The King of Yue estimated that he could not destroy the State of Wu, so he made peace with the State of Wu.
Four years later, Yue attacked Wu again.
The army and people of Wu were exhausted, and all their elite soldiers died in the battles with Qi and Jin.
Therefore, the State of Yue defeated the Wu army and besieged Wu's capital for three years. When the Wu army was defeated, the State of Yue besieged the King of Wu on Mount Gusu.
The King of Wu sent Gong Sunxiong to take off his shirt, expose his arms, kneel forward, and ask for peace with the King of Yue. He said: The helpless minister Fu Cha took the liberty to express his wish. I have offended you in Kuaiji in the past. I dare not disobey your order. If I can make peace with you, I will withdraw my troops and return home.
Today you come here to punish me, and I will obey your orders, but my private intention is to forgive my husband Chai's sins just like Kuaiji Mountain did to you!
Gou Jian couldn't bear it and wanted to agree to King Wu.
Fan Li said: What happened in Kuaiji was that God gave the State of Yue to the State of Wu, but the State of Wu did not take it away.
Now that God has given the Kingdom of Wu to the Kingdom of Yue, can the Kingdom of Yue violate the destiny of heaven?
Besides, isn’t it just for the sake of the Kingdom of Wu that the king goes to court in the morning and leaves the court in the evening?
I have been planning to conquer Wu for twenty-two years. Once I give up, can I do this?
If you don't take what God has given you, you will be punished. Use an ax to chop wood to make an ax handle. The pattern of the ax handle is always around.
Has the king forgotten the suffering of Kuaiji?
Gou Jian said: I want to follow your advice, but I cannot bear to treat his envoys like this.
Fan Li then beat the drum and marched, saying: "The king has entrusted me with the government affairs. The envoy from the State of Wu must leave as soon as possible, otherwise he will be punished."
The envoy from Wu State cried sadly and left.
Gou Jian took pity on him and sent someone to tell King Wu: "I will arrange for you to go to Yongdong!" Rule a hundred families.
King Wu declined and said: I am already old and can no longer serve you!
After saying this, he committed suicide. When he committed suicide, he covered his face and said: I have no shame to see Zixu!
The king of Yue buried the king of Wu and killed Dazai Pei.
After Gou Jian pacified the state of Wu, he sent troops north to cross the Huaihe River, met with the princes of Qi and Jin in Xuzhou, and paid tribute to the Zhou royal family.
King Zhou Yuan sent people to reward Gou Jian with sacrificial meat and called him Uncle.
Gou Jian left Xuzhou, crossed the Huaihe River and went south. He donated the land in the Huaihe River Basin to the Chu State and returned the land that Wu had invaded from the Song State to the Song State. He donated a hundred miles of land east of Surabaya to the State of Lu.
At that time, the Yue army marched unimpeded east of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River. The princes came to celebrate, and the Yue King was called the Overlord.
Fan Li then left the King of Yue and sent a letter to Dr. Zhong from Qi. The letter said: When the birds are gone, the good bow is hidden; when the cunning rabbit dies, the running dogs are cooked.
The King of Yue is a long-necked bird with a beak. You can only share adversity with him, but you cannot share happiness with him. Why don't you leave?
After reading the letter, Zhong claimed that he was ill and would no longer go to court.
Someone slandered Zhong and was about to cause rebellion. The King of Yue rewarded Zhong with a sword and said: You taught me seven strategies to attack Wu. I only used three of them to defeat Wu. The four are still with you. Go to the late king for me and try those four!
Zhong then committed suicide.
Gou Jian died, and his son Wang Yaoyu ascended the throne.
Wang Junyu died, and his son Wang Bushou came to the throne.
Wang Bushou died and his son Wang Weng came to the throne.
Wang Weng died and his son Wang Yi came to the throne.
When Wang Yi died, his son Wang Zhihou came to the throne. When Wang Zhihou died, his son Wang Wuqiang came to the throne.
When King Wuqiang of Yue was on the throne, Yue sent troops to attack Qi to the north and Chu to the west, competing with other countries in the Central Plains for victory.
During the reign of King Wei of Chu, the State of Yue attacked the State of Qi. King Qi Wei sent people to persuade the King of Yue, saying: If the State of Yue does not attack the State of Chu, it will not be able to become king in a big way, and it will not be hegemonic in a small way.
It is estimated that the reason why Yue did not attack Chu was because it could not get the support of Han and Wei. Han and Wei did not attack Chu in the first place.
If South Korea attacks Chu, its army will be destroyed, its generals will be killed, and Ye and Yangzhai will be in danger; if Wei attacks Chu, its army will be destroyed, its generals will be killed, and Chen and Shangcai will not be stable.
Therefore, if Han and Wei serve Yue, their army will not be destroyed, their generals will not be killed, and their hard work will not be revealed. Why do you value the support of Han and Wei?
The King of Yue said: What I ask of Han and Wei is not to engage in a life-and-death fight with the Chu army, let alone to allow them to attack the city and besiege the city.
I hope that the Wei army will gather under Daliang City, and the Qi army will train in Nanyang and Ju, and gather at the border of Chang and Tan. Then the Chu army outside Fangcheng will no longer go south, and the Chu army between Huai and Si will no longer go east.
Then, the four kingdoms of Qi, Qin, Han, and Wei can realize their wishes in Chu. In this way, Han and Wei can expand their territory without fighting, and can harvest without cultivating.
Now, Han and Wei do not do this, but they attack each other between the Yellow River and Huashan, and are used by Qi and Qin. The expected Han and Wei were so misguided, how could they rely on them to become kings!
The envoy of Qi State said: It's a lucky thing that Yue State did not perish!
I don't value their use of wisdom, because that wisdom is like eyes. Although they can see the hairs, they cannot see their own eyelashes.
Today the king knows that Han and Wei made a mistake, but does not know his own fault. This is the metaphor of eyes that can see the hair but cannot see their own eyelashes.
What the king expected from Han and Wei was not to gain their contribution, nor to unite with the Han and Wei coalition forces, but to disperse the strength of the Chu army.
Now that the Chu army has dispersed, why should it ask for help from Han and Wei?
The king of Yue said: What should I do?
The envoy said: The three great officers of the Chu State have divided all their troops and surrounded Quwo and Yuzhong to the north until Wuxiaguan. The total length of the battle line is 3,700 miles. Jingcui's army has gathered in the north of Lu, Qi, and Nanyang. Is there any force that can exceed this dispersion?
Moreover, what the king wants is to make Jin and Chu fight. If Jin and Chu do not fight, and Yue does not send troops, then he only knows two fives but does not know ten.
At this time, I did not attack the Chu State. Therefore, I judged that the King of Yue did not want to be king in a big way, but he did not want to be hegemony in a small way.
Besides, Jiu, Pang, and Changsha are areas rich in grain in Chu State, and Jingzeling is an area rich in timber in Chu State.
If the State of Yue sends troops to clear the Wuxian Pass, these four places will no longer be able to contribute food and materials to the capital of Ying.
I've heard that people who plan to be king can't be king, but they can still be king.
However, those who cannot dominate will lose their royal power completely.
Therefore, I sincerely hope that you will attack Chu instead.
So Yue gave up Qi and attacked Chu.
King Chu Wei sent troops to attack the Yue army, defeated the Yue army, killed the Yue King Wuqiang, captured all the land from Wu to Zhejiang, and defeated the Qi army in Xuzhou in the north.
From then on, the Yue Kingdom fell apart, and the children of various ethnic groups competed for power. Some claimed the title of king, and some claimed the title of emperor. They lived on the coast south of the Yangtze River and paid tribute to the Chu Kingdom obediently.
Seven generations later, the throne passed to Fujian Junyao, who assisted the princes to overthrow the Qin Dynasty.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty resumed his role as the king of Yue and continued the worship of the country of Yue.
Dongyue and Minjun are both descendants of Yue.
Fan Li served King Gou Jian of Yue, worked hard physically and mentally, and tried his best to plan with Gou Jian for more than 20 years. Finally, he destroyed the state of Wu and wiped out the shame of Kuaiji. The Vietnamese army marched north to the Huaihe River and approached the borders of Qi and Shanxi. They ordered all the countries in the Central Plains to respect the Zhou Dynasty and make Gou Jian the hegemon. Fan Li became the general.
After returning home, Fan Li thought that it would be difficult to live long under such a great reputation. Moreover, Gou Jian was a man who could share hardships with him but not happiness with him. He wrote a farewell letter to Gou Jian and said: I heard that when the king is worried, his ministers will work hard, and when the king is insulted, his ministers will die.
You were humiliated in Kuaiji in the past, and the reason why I didn't die was to avenge you.
Now that I have avenged my humiliation, I beg you to grant me the death penalty for the humiliation my lord suffered in Kuaiji.
Gou Jian said: I will divide the country of Yue equally with you. Otherwise, you will be blamed.
Fan Li said: The monarch can carry out your orders, but the ministers still follow their own wishes.
So he packed up the fine jewelry and left by boat with his entourage, never returning to Yue. In recognition of Fan Li, Gou Jian made Kuaiji Mountain his fief.
Fan Li took a boat and drifted across the sea to the state of Qi. He changed his name and surname and called himself "Gui Yi Zipi". He farmed on the seaside, endured hardships and worked hard to produce, and his father and son worked together to manage the industry.
After living there for a short time, he accumulated hundreds of thousands of property.
The people of Qi heard that he was a virtuous man and made him prime minister.
Fan Li sighed and said: If you live at home, you can accumulate thousands of gold and property, and if you become an official, you can reach the high position of minister. This is the highest status that ordinary people can achieve.
It is unlucky to enjoy a distinguished name for a long time.
So he returned the seal and distributed all his property to his close friends, fellow villagers and neighbors. He took the valuables with him and left secretly to live in Taodi.
He believed that this was the center of the world, with smooth roads for transactions and that one could make a fortune by doing business.
So he called himself Tao Zhu Gong.
It was also agreed that both father and son would farm and raise livestock, and wait for the opportunity when buying and selling, so as to obtain one-tenth of the profit.
Soon after, the family assets accumulated to tens of millions.
Everyone in the world praises Tao Zhugong.
Zhu Gong lived in Taodi and gave birth to a young son.
When the younger son became an adult, Zhu Gong's second son killed someone and was arrested by the state of Chu.
Zhu Gong said: It is common sense that those who kill will be punished by death.
But I heard that children with rich families will not be killed in the busy city.
So he asked his youngest son to visit Chu State.
So he took out a thousand yi of gold, put them in brown utensils, and carried them on an ox cart.
When he was about to send his younger son to go on an errand, Zhu Gong's eldest son firmly requested to go, but Zhu Gong did not agree.
The eldest son said: The eldest son in the family is called the family governor. Now that the younger brother has committed a crime, the father does not send the eldest son, but the younger brother. This shows that I am an unworthy son.
The eldest son said that he wanted to commit suicide.
His mother then said for him: If you send your younger son now, you may not be able to save your second son's life, but you will lose your eldest son first. How can that be okay?
Zhu Gong had no choice but to send his eldest son and wrote a letter to his old friend Zhuang Sheng. He also said to the eldest son: After arriving in Chu, I will send the daughter to Zhuang Sheng's house. Listen to him and do not have any disputes with him.
When the eldest son left, he also took several hundred yi of gold with him privately.
The eldest son arrived in Chu State and saw Zhuang Sheng's house close to the outer city of Chu Capital. He had to push back the weeds to reach Zhuang Sheng's house. Zhuang Sheng's living conditions were very poor.
But the eldest son still opened the letter and donated a thousand pieces of gold to Zhuang Sheng, exactly as his father asked.
Zhuang Sheng said: You can leave as soon as possible, but don't stay here!
When your brother is released, don’t ask why.
The eldest son left Zhuang Sheng's house and no longer visited Zhuang Sheng. However, he stayed in Chu State privately and gave the gold he carried to the dignitaries in charge of Chu State.
Although Zhuang Sheng lived in a poor alley, he was well-known in Chu State for his integrity and integrity, and everyone from the King of Chu on down respected him as their teacher.
Zhu Gong offered the gold, but he did not accept it intentionally. He just wanted to return it to Zhu Gong after the work was completed to show his trustworthiness.
So after the gold was delivered, he said to his wife: This is Zhu Gong's money. I will return it to Zhu Gong in full in the future, but I don't know when I will return it. This is just like I can't tell others in advance when I get sick. Don't use it. But Zhu Gong's eldest son didn't know what Zhuang Sheng meant, and thought that giving the property to Zhuang Sheng would not have any effect.
Zhuang Sheng took the opportunity to go to the palace to meet the King of Chu and said: "A certain star has moved to a certain place, which will be harmful to the Chu State."
The King of Chu usually trusted Zhuang Sheng very much, so he asked: What should we do now?
Zhuang Sheng said: Only by practicing benevolence and righteousness can disaster be avoided.
The King of Chu said: "You don't need to say more, I will do it."
The king of Chu sent an envoy to seal the warehouse where three coins were stored.
The dignitaries of Chu State were surprised and told Duke Zhu's eldest son: The King of Chu will implement a general amnesty.
The eldest son asked: How can you see it?
The noble man said: Whenever the King of Chu grants amnesty, he often seals up the warehouse where three coins are stored.
The King of Chu sent an envoy to seal it last night.
The eldest son of Zhu Gong thought that since the amnesty was granted, his younger brother could naturally be released. One thousand yi gold was equivalent to wasting Zhuang Sheng and had no effect, so he went to see Zhuang Sheng again.
Zhuang Sheng asked in surprise: "Didn't you leave?"
The eldest son said: He never left.
I came here because of my younger brother. Today, the State of Chu is discussing amnesty, and my younger brother will naturally be released, so I came here specifically to say goodbye to you.
Zhuang Sheng knew that he wanted to get the gold back, so he said, "Go to the room and get the gold yourself."
The eldest son broke into the house, took away the gold and left Zhuang Sheng, secretly rejoicing that the gold was recovered.
Zhuang Sheng felt deeply ashamed that he had been betrayed by his younger generation, so he went to the palace again to meet with the King of Chu and said: "What I told you about a certain star last time, you said you wanted to repay it by doing good deeds."
Now, I heard from passers-by outside that the son of the rich Taoist Zhu Gong was imprisoned by Chu after killing someone. His family sent people to bribe the people around the king of Chu with a lot of money. Therefore, the king did not implement the amnesty out of sympathy for the people of Chu, but he gave the amnesty because of Zhu Gong's son.
The King of Chu was furious and said: Although I am not virtuous, how could I give favors to Duke Zhu's son?
He ordered Zhu Gong's son to be killed first, and then issued an edict of pardon the next day.
The eldest son of Lord Zhu had no choice but to carry his younger brother's body home.
After returning home, my mother and neighbors were all very sad. Only Mr. Zhu laughed and said: I knew that the eldest son would not be able to save his younger brother!
It's not that he doesn't love his brother, he just has something he can't bear to give up.
He has lived with me since he was young, has experienced all kinds of hardships, and knows how difficult it is to make a living, so he values ​​money very seriously and does not dare to spend money easily.
As for my little brother, he has only seen me being extremely wealthy since he was born. He rides in fine cars, drives thousands of miles of horses, and goes hunting in the countryside. He doesn’t know where the money comes from, so he takes money very lightly and throws it away without mercy.
It turned out that I planned to let the younger son go because he was willing to give up money, but the eldest son couldn't give up money, and ended up killing his younger brother. This is reasonable and not worthy of grief.
What I was looking forward to day and night was for my second son’s body to be returned.
Fan Li moved three times and became famous all over the world. He didn't just leave somewhere randomly. He became famous wherever he lived.
In the end, he died of old age in Taodi, so people in the world called him Tao Zhugong.
Tai Shigong said: Xia Yu's contribution was great. He channeled the nine great rivers and stabilized the land of Kyushu. To this day, the whole of Kyushu is safe and sound.
When his descendant Gou Jian arrived, he worked hard and thought far, and finally destroyed the powerful Wu State, marched north to the Central Plains, worshiped the Zhou Dynasty, and became the overlord.
Can you say that you are not virtuous?
This is probably the legacy of Xia Yu.
Fan Li moved three times and left a glorious reputation that will last forever.
Is it possible for a minister and a monarch to do this without becoming famous?
