Bai Qi is from Yidi.
He was good at using troops and served King Zhao of Qin.
In the thirteenth year of King Zhao's reign, Bai Qi was granted the title of Zuo Shu Zhang and led troops to attack Xincheng in South Korea.
In this year, Ranghou served as the prime minister of Qin. He appointed Ren Bi as the governor of Hanzhong County.
The next year, Bai Qi was granted the title Zuogeng, attacked the allied forces of Han and Wei, fought in Yique, killed 240,000 enemies, captured their general Gongsun happy, and captured five cities.
Bai Qi was promoted to captain of the country.
He led his troops across the Yellow River and captured a large area of ​​land east of Anyi in South Korea up to Wadi River.
In the third year, Bai Qi was granted the title of Daliangzao again.
Defeated the Wei army and captured sixty-one cities, large and small.
In the fourth year, Bai Qi and Ke Qing attacked Yuan City by mistake and captured it immediately.
In the fifth year after that, Bai Qi attacked Zhao and captured Guanglang City.
In the seventh year after this, Bai Qi attacked Chu and occupied five cities including Yan and Deng.
The next year, he attacked Chu again, captured Ying, the capital of Chu, burned the tombs of the Chu kings, and headed east to Jingling.
The king of Chu fled the capital of Ying and fled eastward, moving his capital to Chen.
The Qin State established Yingdi as Nanjun.
Bai Qi was named Lord Wu'an. He took advantage of the situation to attack Chu and pacified Wu and Qianzhong counties.
In the thirty-fourth year of King Zhao, Bai Qi attacked Wei and captured Huayang, causing Mangmao to flee. He also captured the generals of Zhao and Wei and killed 130,000 enemies.
At that time, Bai Qi fought with Zhao's general Jia Yan and sank 20,000 Zhao soldiers into the Yellow River.
In the forty-third year of King Zhao, Bai Qi attacked Xingcheng in South Korea, captured five cities, and killed 50,000 enemies.
In the forty-fourth year, Bai Qi attacked Nanyang Taihang Road in South Korea and blocked this passage.
In the forty-fifth year of King Zhao, Bai Qi sent troops to attack the Yewang City in South Korea. The Yewang surrendered, cutting off the connection between Shangdang County in South Korea and South Korea.
Feng Ting, the governor of Shangdang County, planned with the people and said: The road to the capital Zheng is cut off, and South Korea will definitely not be able to control us.
The Qin army is advancing day by day, and South Korea cannot rescue it, so it is better to surrender Shangdang to Zhao.
If Zhao State accepts us, Qin State will be angry and will definitely attack Zhao State.
Zhao State was attacked by force and must be close to South Korea.
If Han and Zhao unite, they can resist Qin.
So he sent someone to inform Zhao State.
King Zhao Xiaocheng studied this matter with Pingyang Jun and Pingyuan Jun. Pingyang Jun said: It is better not to accept it.
The consequences of accepting it will be far greater than the benefits.
Lord Pingyuan expressed his dissent and said: "I got a county for nothing, it would be beneficial to accept it."
As a result, King Zhao accepted Shangdang and named Feng Ting Lord of Huayang.
In the forty-sixth year of King Zhao, the Qin State captured Goushi and Linyi in South Korea.
In the forty-seventh year of King Zhao, the State of Qin sent Wang Lu, the chief of the left concubine, to attack South Korea and capture Shangdang.
The people of Shangdang fled to Zhao State one after another.
The State of Zhao stationed troops in Changping to support the people of Shangdang.
In April, Wang Lu used this opportunity to attack Zhao.
The State of Zhao sent Lian Po to lead the army.
Soldiers of the Qin and Zhao armies fought against each other from time to time. The Zhao army's soldiers attacked the Qin army's scouts, and the Qin army's scouts killed the Zhao army's deputy general named Qie. The war gradually expanded.
In June, the Qin army broke through the Zhao army's position, captured two castles, and captured four lieutenants.
In the seventh month, Zhao Jun built a high wall and could not get out.
The Qin army carried out an attack, captured two lieutenants, broke through the Zhao army's position, and captured the western camp.
Lian Po held on to the fortress and adopted a defensive posture to confront the Qin army. The Qin army challenged him many times, but the Zhao soldiers could not hold on.
King Zhao repeatedly accused Lian Po of not fighting the Qin army.
The prime minister of Qin, Yinghou, sent people to Zhao to spend thousands of gold to carry out counterintuitive tactics, and loudly announced: The most troublesome thing for Qin is just that it is afraid that Zhao Kuo, the son of Ma Fujun, will become a general. Lian Po is easy to deal with, so he will surrender.
King Zhao was already angry that Lian Po's army suffered heavy casualties and suffered repeated defeats, but instead stood firm and did not dare to fight. In addition, he heard many counter-insurgent rumors and believed them to be true, so he sent Zhao Kuo to replace Lian Po and lead his troops to attack the Qin army.
As soon as Zhao Kuo took office, he sent troops to attack the Qin army.
The Qin army pretended to be defeated and fled, and at the same time deployed two surprise troops to force the Zhao army.
The Zhao army took advantage of the victory and pursued it until they reached the Qin army's camp.
However, the Qin Army's camp was very strong and could not be invaded. A Qin Army's 25,000-strong assault force had already cut off the Zhao Army's retreat, and another 5,000-strong cavalry force wedged itself between the Zhao Army's camps, cutting off their connection, dividing the Zhao Army into two isolated parts, and blocking the food transportation channel.
At this time, the Qin army sent out lightly-armed elite troops to attack. The Zhao army failed in the battle, so they built barriers and held on tenaciously, waiting for the arrival of reinforcements.
The King of Qin learned that Zhao's food transportation channel had been cut off. He personally went to Hanoi and granted the common people one level of nobility. He recruited all young men over fifteen years old and concentrated them on the Changping battlefield to intercept Zhao's reinforcements and cut off their food supply.
By September, Zhao soldiers had been without food rations for forty-six days. The soldiers in the army secretly killed and ate human flesh to satisfy their hunger.
The Zhao army, which was in dire straits, rushed towards the Qin army's camp, launched an attack, and planned to break out and escape.
They formed four teams and took turns attacking four or five times, but still couldn't get out.
Their general Zhao Kuo sent out elite soldiers and personally went into battle to lead these men to fight with the Qin army. As a result, the Qin army shot Zhao Kuo to death.
Zhao Kuo's army was defeated and 400,000 soldiers surrendered to Lord Wu An.
Lord Wu An planned and said: When the Qin army captured Shangdang, the people of Shangdang were unwilling to be Qin's subjects and surrendered to Zhao.
The soldiers of Zhao State are fickle, and if they are not killed all, there may be trouble.
So they used deception to bury all the Zhao soldiers alive. Only 240 young soldiers were left and returned to Zhao.
Before and after this battle, 450,000 Zhao soldiers were beheaded and captured, and the whole Zhao country was shocked.
In October of the forty-eighth year of King Zhao, the Qin army once again pacified Shangdang County.
After that, the Qin army divided into two groups: Wang Hao captured Pi Lao, and Sima Geng pacified Taiyuan.
Han and Zhao were very frightened, so they sent Su Dai to Qin to offer generous gifts to persuade the Prime Minister Yinghou: Has Lord Wu An captured and killed Zhao Kuo?
Ying Hou replied: Yes.
Su Dai asked again: Are we going to besiege Handan?
Ying Hou replied: Yes.
So Su Dai said: If Zhao is destroyed, King Qin will rule the world, and Lord Wu'an should be named the Three Dukes.
Lord Wu'an captured more than 70 cities for Qin. In the south, he pacified Chu's Yan, Ying and Hanzhong areas, and in the north, he captured Zhao Kuo's 400,000 troops. Even the famous Dukes of Zhou, Duke of Zhao and Lu Wang in history could not surpass these achievements.
If the State of Zhao is destroyed and the King of Qin takes over the world, then it is certain that Lord Wu An will be the third Duke. Can you succumb to him?
Even if you are not willing to succumb to the lower position, you have to submit to the fact.
The Qin army once attacked South Korea, besieged Xingqiu, and trapped Shangdang to death. The people of Shangdang all turned to Zhao. It has been a long time since the people of the world were unwilling to be Qin's subjects.
If the Zhao State is destroyed, its northern land will fall to the Yan State, its eastern land will be merged with the Qi State, and its southern land will be merged with the Han and Wei States, then you will not get many people.
Therefore, it is better to take advantage of the panic of South Korea and Zhao to let them cede their land and stop letting Lord Wu An establish his merits.
After hearing Su Dai's words, Ying Hou proposed to the King of Qin and said: Qin's soldiers are too tired. Please agree to allow South Korea and Zhao to cede territory to make peace, and let the soldiers rest for the time being.
The King of Qin listened to the advice of Marquis Ying and made peace with Yuanyong of South Korea and six cities of Zhao.
In the first month of the year, the two sides stopped fighting.
When Wu An heard the news of the truce, he had his own ideas, and he and Ying Hou had a bad feeling about each other.
In September of this year, the State of Qin once again sent troops and ordered the five officials Wang Ling to attack Handan of the State of Zhao.
At that time, Lord Wu'an was ill and could not go to war.
In the first month of the forty-ninth year of King Zhao, Wang Ling attacked Handan, but with little success and little progress, Qin sent additional troops to help Wang Ling continue the attack.
As a result, Wang Ling's troops lost five military camps.
Lord Wu An recovered from his illness, and the King of Qin planned to send Lord Wu An to lead the troops instead of Wang Ling.
Wu'an Jun further said: Handan is really not easy to capture.
Moreover, reinforcements from the princely states arrived every day, and their resentment against Qin had been accumulated for a long time.
Although the Qin State has now wiped out the Zhao army in Changping, more than half of the Qin army's soldiers have died, leaving the country empty of troops.
Traveling thousands of miles across rivers and mountains to compete for other people's capitals, the Zhao army will fight in the city, and the princes' armies will attack outside the city. They will cooperate with each other inside and outside, and attack from both inside and outside. The defeat of the Qin army is certain.
This battle cannot be fought.
The King of Qin personally gave the order, but Wu Anjun refused to go to his post. So he sent Marquis Ying to invite him, but Wu An Jun refused to go to his post, and since then he said he was ill and could not afford it.
The King of Qin had no choice but to send Wang Lu to lead the troops instead of Wang Ling. In August and September, he besieged Handan but failed to capture it.
Chu State sent Chunshen Jun and Wei Gongzi Xinling Jun to lead hundreds of thousands of soldiers to attack the Qin army. The Qin army suffered many losses and casualties.
Lord Wu An had something to say: Qin did not listen to my opinion, what will happen now?
When King Qin heard about it, he was furious and ordered Wu Anjun to take office. Wuan Jun said that his condition was serious.
Ying Hou invited him again, but he still refused to take up his post.
So he removed Lord Wu'an from his rank and reduced him to a soldier, and asked him to leave Xianyang and move to Yinmi.
But Lord Wu An was ill and could not make the trip.
Three months later, it became more urgent for the allied forces of the princes to attack the Qin army. The Qin army retreated many times, and messengers reporting the defeat came every day.
The King of Qin sent people to expel Bai Qi and could not let him stay in Xianyang City.
Wu Anjun was already on his way, walking ten miles from the west gate of Xianyang, to Duyou.
King Zhao of Qin discussed with Marquis Ying and other officials: Bai Qi was ordered to move out of Xianyang, but he showed that he was not satisfied, unconvinced, and complained.
The King of Qin sent an envoy to give him a sword and ordered him to commit suicide.
Wu Anjun took the sword and was about to kill himself. He looked up to the sky and sighed: What sin have I committed against God to end up like this?
After a while, he said: I was meant to die.
In the Battle of Changping, hundreds of thousands of Zhao soldiers surrendered. I used deception to bury them all alive. This was a death penalty.
Then committed suicide.
Lord Wu An died in the eleventh month of the fiftieth year of King Zhao of Qin.
Lord Wu'an died innocently, and the people of Qin sympathized with him, so they worshiped him in both urban and rural areas.
Wang Jian was from Dongxiang, Pinyang.
He was fond of military affairs when he was young, and later served Qin Shihuang.
In the eleventh year of the First Emperor's reign, Wang Jian led troops to attack Yanyu of Zhao State. Not only did he capture it, but he also captured nine cities in a row. In the eighteenth year of the First Emperor's reign, Wang Jian led troops to attack Zhao.
In just over a year, the State of Zhao was captured, King Zhao surrendered, and all parts of the State of Zhao were pacified and set up as counties.
The next year, the State of Yan sent Jing Ke to the State of Qin to murder the King of Qin, and the King of Qin sent Wang Jian to attack the State of Yan.
King Yan fled to Liaodong, and Wang Jian finally pacified Ji, the capital of Yan State, and returned victorious.
The King of Qin sent Wang Jian's son Wang Ben to attack Chu, but the Chu army was defeated.
He turned around and attacked Wei again. The king of Wei surrendered, and finally all parts of Wei were pacified.
Qin Shihuang destroyed the three kingdoms of Han, Zhao, and Wei, drove away King Xi of Yan, and defeated the Chu army many times.
Qin general Li Xin was young, energetic, brave and mighty. He once led thousands of soldiers to pursue Prince Dan of Yan to Yanshui, and finally defeated the Yan army and captured Prince Dan. Qin Shihuang believed that Li Xinxian was brave.
One day, Qin Shihuang asked Li Xin: I plan to attack Chu State. How many people do you think the general can mobilize?
Li Xin replied: No more than 200,000 people.
Qin Shihuang asked Wang Jian again, and Wang Jian replied: "We must have 600,000 people."
Qin Shihuang said: General Wang, how cowardly you are!
General Lee was really decisive and brave, and what he said was right.
So he sent Li Xin and Meng Tian to march south with 200,000 troops to attack Chu.
Wang Jian's words were not accepted, so he excused himself from illness and returned to his hometown in Pinyang for retirement.
Li Xin attacked Pingyu, and Meng Tian attacked Xinyi, defeating the Chu army.
Li Xin then attacked Yanying and captured it again, so he led his troops to move west to meet Meng Tian at Chengfu.
In fact, the Chu army was tracking and pursuing them for three days and three nights. As a result, they defeated Li Xin's troops, invaded two military camps, and killed seven captains. The Qin army was defeated and fled.
When Qin Shihuang heard the news, he was furious and rushed to Pinyang by express train. When he saw Wang Jian, he apologized and said: Because I did not adopt your strategy, Li Xin really brought shame to the Qin army.
Now I heard that the Chu army is advancing westward every day. Although the general is sick, can he have the heart to abandon me?
Wang Jian declined and said: "The old minister is sick, tired, faint and incompetent. I hope the king will choose another good general."
Qin Shihuang apologized again and said, "Okay, general, don't say anything more!"
Wang Jian said: Your Majesty must appoint me, and you must have 600,000 people.
Qin Shihuang said: Just follow the general's advice.
So Wang Jian set off with an army of 600,000 men, and Qin Shihuang personally went to Bashang to see him off.
When Wang Jian set out, he asked for many fertile fields, beautiful houses, gardens, ponds, etc.
Qin Shihuang said: Although the general is on the road, why should he worry about the hard life at home?
Wang Jian said: Even if you lead the army for your Majesty, you will never be able to get a title or title, so while your Majesty pays special attention to me, I must promptly request your Majesty to grant you gardens and ponds to buy property for future generations.
Qin Shihuang laughed loudly after hearing this.
After Wang Jian set out, he arrived at Hangu Pass and sent envoys back to the court five times to request for fertile land. Some people say: It is too much for the general to ask for a family fortune.
Wang Jian said: That's not right.
King Qin was rough and suspicious of others.
Now that your Majesty has transferred all the elite armed forces in the country to my command, I don't need to ask for land and houses to buy property for my descendants to show my firm will to go to war. Do I have to make the King of Qin doubt me?
Wang Jian finally replaced Li Xin and attacked Chu.
When the King of Chu learned that Wang Jian had sent more troops, he used all his troops to resist the Qin soldiers.
Wang Jian arrived at the battlefield, built a strong fortress and took a defensive position, refusing to send troops to fight.
The Chu army challenged him many times, but the Qin army could not hold on.
Wang Jian asked the soldiers to rest and bathe every day, provided them with high-quality meals to comfort them, and personally drank and ate with the soldiers.
After a while, Wang Jian sent someone to ask what games were played among the soldiers.
He came back and reported: There is a stone-throwing competition to see who can throw the farthest stone.
So Wang Jian said: The soldiers can be dispatched.
The Chu army challenged him many times, but the Qin army refused to accept the challenge, so he led his troops eastward.
Wang Jian took the opportunity to send troops to pursue them. He sent strong and powerful soldiers to attack Chu and defeated the Chu army.
They chased them to Qinan and killed their general Xiang Yan. The Chu army was finally defeated and fled.
The Qin army took advantage of the victory to pursue and captured the cities of Chu.
One day later, he captured King Chu of Chu, and finally pacified all parts of Chu and established them as counties.
He also took advantage of the situation and went south to attack the King of Baiyue.
At the same time, Wang Jian's son Wang Ben and Li Xin conquered and pacified Yan and Qi.
In the twenty-sixth year of Qin Shihuang's reign, he annexed all the vassal states and unified the world. General Wang and General Meng made the most contributions, and their reputations were passed down to later generations.
During the reign of Qin II, both Wang Jian and his son Wang Ben had passed away, and Meng Tian was also framed and executed.
When Chen Sheng rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, he sent Wang Jian's grandson Wang Li to attack the State of Zhao and besieged Zhao Xie and Zhang Er in Julu City.
At that time, someone said: Wang Li was a famous general in the Qin Dynasty.
Now he leads the powerful Qin army to attack the newly established Zhao State, and defeating it is inevitable. A passer-by said: That's not the case.
It is said that a family that is a general will definitely fail by the third generation.
What is the reason why he must fail?
His family must have killed too many people, and the descendants of his family will have to bear the punishment for their evil deeds.
Now Wang Li is the third generation general.
Soon after, Xiang Yu rescued Zhao and attacked the Qin army. As expected, Wang Li was captured, and Wang Li's army surrendered to the princes' army.
Tai Shigong said: As the saying goes, sometimes a ruler is short and an inch is sometimes long.
Bai Qi's scheming against his enemies was famous for his ability to adapt to changing circumstances, endless tricks, wonderful changes, and fame throughout the world. However, he was unable to deal with the disasters Yinghou created for him.
As a general of the Qin State, Wang Jian had outstanding achievements in pacifying the six kingdoms. He was worthy of being a veteran general at the time, and Qin Shihuang respected him as his teacher. However, he could not assist Qin Shihuang in establishing a moral government to consolidate the foundation of the country, but he only catered to and pleased his master until his death.
When his grandson Wang Li was captured by Xiang Yu, wasn't it natural?
They each have their own shortcomings.
