In the past, the Quan Rong invaded during the reign of Gao Xin. The emperor was worried because of the cruelty of the Quan Rong, but he could not win against the Quan Rong. So he searched and recruited people all over the world. Anyone who could get the head of General Wu, the general of Quanrong, would be rewarded with a thousand yi of gold, a fief of 10,000 households, and his youngest daughter would be married to him.
At that time, the emperor had a dog with five-colored hair named Jiahu.
After the emperor gave the order, Panhu carried the head to the palace gate. The officials were surprised. When they looked at it, they found it was General Wu's head.
The emperor was very happy, but he considered that he could not marry his daughter to Panhu, and there was no reason to give an official title to a dog. He wanted to repay the dog but did not know how to do it.
When the daughter found out, she thought that the emperor had given an order and she could not violate her faith, so she asked to marry Panhu.
The emperor had no choice but to marry his daughter to Panhu.
After Panhu got the emperor's daughter, he carried her to Nanshan and lived in Shidongbao.
The place where Panhu is located is dangerous, isolated and inaccessible to humans.
So the emperor's daughter took off her clothes, combed her hair into a bun like a servant, and put on independent clothes.
The emperor missed his daughter and was very sad. He sent envoys to look for her, but they were always met with wind, rain, thunder and darkness, and the envoys could not move forward.
After three years, she gave birth to twelve children, six boys and six girls.
After Panhu died, the children married each other.
They weave clothes from tree bark and dye their clothes with fruits and vegetables. They like to wear colorful clothes, and the clothes are all shaped like tails.
Their mother later came back and informed the emperor of the situation, so the emperor sent envoys to fetch the children.
The colors of their clothes are mixed and bright, and their voices are difficult to distinguish. They like to hide in high mountains and deep valleys, and do not like to live in open areas.
The emperor complied with their wishes and gave them famous mountains and swamps.
From then on, their race multiplied and became known as barbarians.
They are dull on the outside but smart on the inside. They live in their own country and value old customs.
Because their father had meritorious service and their mother was the daughter of the emperor, they farmed and did business. They could enter and leave the Guanmen Bridge without a letter, and they did not need to pay taxes.
All the leaders of the city were given seals and ribbons by the imperial court, and their crowns were made of otter skin.
They call the big leader "Jingfu" and call each other "Quitu".
The current Changsha Wulingman are their descendants.
In the era of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, they established alliances with the barbarians, so they called the barbarians to be subdued.
During the Xia and Shang dynasties, barbarians gradually became a scourge on the border.
By the Zhou Dynasty, the barbarian race gradually became stronger.
King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty was resurrected, so he ordered Uncle Fang to go south to conquer the barbarian areas, which the poet called "the barbarians came in fear of submission".
He also said: The stupid and arrogant barbarians actually became enemies of the great country.
This shows that the barbarian race is prosperous, so it competes with the Chinese enemies.
King Ping of Zhou moved away from home, and the barbarians invaded and ravaged the Central Plains.
Marquis Wen of Jin assisted the government and led Marquis Cai Gong to defeat the barbarians.
When King Wu of Chu arrived, the barbarians and Luo Zi defeated the Chu army and killed the Chu army general Qu Xia.
King Chuzhuang had just succeeded to the throne, the people were hungry, the army was weak, and he was invaded by barbarians again.
After the Chu army became stronger, the barbarians obeyed, and from then on the barbarians belonged to the Chu state.
After the battle at Yanling, the Luan people and King Chu Jie jointly attacked Zili.
He went to Yuqi to assist King Chu Miao, and annexed Manyue to the south, thus occupying Dongting and Cangwu.
King Zhao of Qin sent Bai Qi to attack Chu, captured the barbarians, and began to establish Qianzhong County.
After the prosperity of the Han Dynasty, Qianzhong County was changed to Wuling County.
Every year, barbarian adults are required to pay a piece of cloth, and children are required to pay two feet of cloth. This is called Yuan cloth.
Although barbarians invaded from time to time, they were not enough to cause disaster to the county.
After the resurgence of Rentiao, Manlou in Gendi became particularly powerful.
In the 23rd year of Jianjian's reign, Jingfu Xiang Shancheng and others took advantage of the barbarian terrain to launch a massive attack on counties.
Guangwu sent Wuwei General Liu Shang to mobilize more than 10,000 troops from Nanjun, Changsha and Jianlu. They took boats upstream from Yuancheng to Wuxi to attack Xiang Xiang.
Liu Shang underestimated the enemy and entered a dangerous area. The mountains were deep and the water was fast, making it impossible for the ship to move forward.
The barbarians knew that Liu Shang did not have enough food, the road was far away, and they did not know the route, so they gathered troops to guard the dangerous terrain.
After Liu Shang ran out of food, he withdrew his troops. The barbarians intercepted them along the way. Liu Shang's army was defeated and the entire army was wiped out.
In the twenty-fourth year, Xiang Shancheng and others went downstream to attack Linyuan. The imperial court sent Li Song, the emissary, and Ma Cheng, the prefect of Zhongshan, to attack Xiang Shancheng, but they could not win.
In the spring of the next year, the imperial court sent Fubo General Ma Yuan, Zhonglang General Liu Kuang, Ma Wu, Sun Yong and others to lead their troops to Linyuan and defeated Xiang Shancheng.
Xiang Shancheng and others were hungry and impoverished, and asked for surrender. Ma Yuan happened to die of illness, and Yezhe Zongjun accepted the surrender of all their troops.
The imperial court established government officials among the barbarians, and the barbarians were pacified.
In the first year of Emperor Suzong's founding, Chen Cong and others from Wuling and Lizhong rebelled and entered the realm of Lingyang Barbarians.
In the winter of this year, Lingyang Man Wuli Jingfu defeated Chen Cong for the county, and Chen Cong and others all surrendered.
In the winter of the third year, Qin Erjian and others from Mizhong rebelled again and attacked and burned the boundaries of Linyang, Zuotang and Xiaoling.
In the spring of the next year, the imperial court recruited seven counties in Jingzhou and Runan and Ying! There were more than 5,000 prisoners, officials and soldiers who had been released from the shackles. They resisted the defense in Lingyang. They recruited 4,000 Wuli barbarians and barbarians who had not rebelled to attack the bandits in Lizhong.
In the spring of the fifth year, Qin Erjian and others requested surrender, but were not granted.
The county guard took this opportunity to march in and fight with Tan Erjian at Hongxia. He defeated Tan Erjian and beheaded him. The rest of the people abandoned the barracks and fled back to Qizhong. They sent people to ask for surrender, and then they accepted their surrender.
So he withdrew the garrison in Wuling and gave various rewards to the officers and soldiers. In the winter of the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan, the Qizhong Man, Lizhong Man Tan Rong and others rebelled, burning down the posthouse, killing and plundering officials and people. The county troops defeated Tan Rong. Force him to surrender. In the second year of Emperor An's reign, the Lizhong barbarians were resentful because the county's corvée taxation was unfair, so they jointly charged more than 2,000 barbarians from various tribes, attacked the city, and killed state and county officials.
The prefectures and counties recruited troops from Wuli Man and Liuting to pursue them and defeated the Lizhong Man and others. They all broke up and surrendered.
The imperial court rewarded the leaders of Wuliman and Liuting with different amounts of gold and silk.
In the autumn of the second year, four thousand people from Zhongzhong and Lizhong became bandits together.
There were also more than a thousand people, including Lingling Man Yangsun and Chen Tang, who wore red scarves and claimed to be generals. They burned down the government offices and looted the people.
The states and counties recruited obedient barbarians to attack and pacify the rebellious barbarians.
In the first year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Shun, the prefect of Wuling wrote a letter, believing that since the barbarians surrendered, their taxes could be increased like those of the Han people.
Everyone who participated in the deliberations agreed that it was feasible.
Only Shangshu Ling Yu Xie Jin said: Since ancient times, the wise emperor has not allowed people with different customs to have the same requirements. It is not that morality cannot affect them and force cannot be used against them, but because they know that their hearts are as greedy as wild beasts and it is difficult to guide them with etiquette and justice.
You can win over and appease them. If they surrender, they will accept it but not welcome it. If they rebel, they will give up without pursuing it.
The old system of the late emperor, regarding the amount of tax paid, has been followed for a long time.
A sudden increase in rents and taxes will definitely lead to complaints and rebellion.
If you calculate that what you gain is not worth what you lose, you will definitely regret it in the future.
The emperor did not adopt it.
In the winter of this year, the Lizhong and Qizhong barbarians found out that the tribute of cloth and silk was not what they had agreed upon before, so they killed the officials in the township and the whole tribe rebelled.
In the spring of the next year, 20,000 barbarians surrounded Chongcheng, and 8,000 barbarians invaded the barbarians.
The imperial court sent Li Jin, the prefect of Wuling, to conquer the area and defeated the barbarians, killing hundreds of them and the rest surrendered.
Li Jin then selected honest and capable officials to please the barbarian people.
During Li Jin's ninth year in Wuling, the Empress Dowager Liang exercised her power as emperor and issued an edict to increase Li Jin's salary to two thousand dan and reward him with two hundred thousand yuan.
In the autumn of the first year of Yuanjia under Emperor Huan, more than 4,000 people including Wuling Man Zhanshan rebelled, imprisoned the county magistrate, and gathered troops in the mountains.
In the first year of Yongxing, the prefect should be enticed to surrender with kindness and integrity, and all these barbarians surrendered and dispersed.
In November of the third year of Yongshou, the barbarians in Changsha rebelled and stationed troops in Yiyang.
In the autumn of the third year of Yanxi, the Changsha barbarians looted and looted the county, with more than 10,000 people. They killed and wounded county officials.
Lingling barbarians invaded Changsha again.
In winter, more than 6,000 Wuling barbarians invaded Jiangling. Jingzhou assassin Liu Du, visitor Ma Mu, and Nanjun prefect Li Su all escaped.
Li Su's chief secretary Hu Shuang stopped Ma Gui and said: "The barbarians saw that the county was unprepared, so they dared to take advantage of it."
You are the minister of the country, and the cities are connected for thousands of miles. If you raise the war flag and beat the war drum, there will be a hundred thousand troops who respond. Why do you give up the important responsibility of the governor and become a runaway instead?
Li Su pulled out his knife and pointed it at Hu Shuang and said: Get out of the way!
I'm in such a critical situation now that I don't have time to think about these things.
Hu Shuang hugged Ma and tried to dissuade him, but Li Su actually killed Hu Shuang and escaped.
When the emperor found out, he summoned Li Su and executed him. His body was laid out on the street. Liu Du and Ma Mu were sentenced to a reduced death penalty, and Hu Shuang and Yiliang were exempted from the corvee tax and made one of his family members a man.
So he appointed Du Shang, the right school commander, as the governor of Jingzhou, to conquer the Changsha bandits and pacify the barbarians.
He also sent the chariot and cavalry general Feng Yu to attack the Wuling barbarians, causing them all to surrender and disperse.
After the army was reorganized, the bandits invaded Guiyang again, and the prefect Liao Xi fled.
The Wuling barbarians also attacked Wuling County again. The prefect Chen Feng led the officials and people to defeat the barbarians, killing more than 3,000 people and surrendering more than 2,000 people.
In the third year of Emperor Ling's reign, the Wuling barbarians rebelled again and invaded the county boundaries. The prefectures and counties defeated the Wuling barbarians.
"Book of Rites" says that the south is called barbarian, and the people who wear it have patterns carved on their foreheads, and men and women have mixed sex.
The custom in Nahuo is that men and women bathe in the river, so it is called cross-shame.
In the country of Kanren to the west of Jiao:, the first child is always dismembered and eaten, saying that it will be good for subsequent children.
If the food tastes sweet, he brings it to the king. The king is pleased and rewards the father of the child.
He married a beautiful wife and gave it to his brother.
Today's Wuyou people are their descendants.
There is Yueshang Kingdom to the south of Jiaotu.
In the sixth year of Zhou Gong's regency, etiquette was established, music was made, and the world was at peace. An envoy from the Yueshang Kingdom rode three elephants and came to offer white wild ducks through the interpreters, saying: The road is far away, the mountains and rivers are blocked, and the messengers are blocked, so the interpreters came to see him.
King Cheng of Zhou gave the white wild bird to Duke Zhou.
Duke Zhou said: If you do not show kindness to others, then the virtuous people will not enjoy the gifts of others; if the government decree is not implemented in that area, the virtuous person will not treat those people as subjects.
Why do I get such a reward!
The envoy from the Yueshang Kingdom asked: I accept the order from the elders of our country. They said: There have been no storms and thunderstorms in the sky for a long time. Is it possible that a saint has appeared in the Central Plains?
If there is a saint in the Central Plains, why not go to see him?
Duke Zhou gave the white pheasant to the emperor, praising the late king for his divine inspiration, and offered the white pheasant to the ancestral temple.
After the moral fortunes of the Zhou Dynasty weakened, the Yueshang Kingdom gradually cut off contact with them.
When the Chu State became hegemonic, it made Baiyue worship and pay tribute.
The Qin Dynasty annexed the world and used force to make the barbarians submit. Then they opened up the land outside the mountains and established Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiangjun.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Wei Tuo established himself as the King of Nanyue, which was passed down for five generations.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign, Nanyue was finally wiped out and nine counties were established separately, under the jurisdiction of Jiaoxi Governor.
Among them, Zhuya and Dan'er counties are on the island, one thousand miles long from east to west and five hundred miles long from north to south.
The barbarian chiefs in Nabu regarded long ears as noble, so they all pierced their ears and hung things on them, making their ears hang down to their shoulders, up to three inches long.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, Sun Xing from Kuaiji, the prefect of Zhuya, collected broad sheets of cloth and presented them to the court. Unable to bear the labor, the barbarians attacked the county and killed Sun Xing.
Sun Xing's son Sun Bao united with the good people and defeated the barbarians. He took charge of the county's political affairs and conquered the remaining rebel parties. It took several years to pacify Zhuya.
Sun Bao sent an envoy to seal the seal and return it to the court, and wrote a letter explaining the situation. The emperor immediately appointed Sun Bao as the prefect of Zhuya after sending a letter to Shaoshu.
Prominent decrees were generally implemented, and tributes and envoys were received every year.
The Central Plains were greedy for their treasures and property and gradually bullied them, so Zhuya rebelled every few years.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Yuan finally abolished Zhuya County.
Zhuya was established as a county for a total of sixty-five years.
When Wang Mang assisted the government, in the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Huang Zhiguo from the south of Rinan County came to donate rhinos.
Although there are counties and counties in the areas under the jurisdiction of Jiaoshi, the languages ​​​​are different and require translation before communication can occur.
The people wrapped there are like animals, there is no distinction between old and young.
They put their hair in a bun at the neck, bare their feet, and covered their bodies with a cloth from head to bottom.
Later, many criminals from the Central Plains were moved there, allowing them to live mixed with the locals. Only then did they gradually understand their language, and they were gradually civilized and learned etiquette.
Guangwu Zhongxing, Xiguang served as the prefect of Jiaoxi, and Ren Yan served as the prefect of Jiuzhen. They taught the local people to cultivate fields and crops, made crowns and shoes for them, and began to establish the etiquette of matchmaking and betrothal. Only then did they know about marriage. They also built schools for them to guide them with etiquette and justice.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu, Zhang You, a manli outside the Jiuzhen border, led his fellow tribesmen to admire Jiaohua and submit to the Central Plains, and was named the Lord of Guihanli.
The next year, barbarians outside the border of South Vietnam presented white wild harlequins and white rabbits.
In the 16th year of his reign, Zheng Tie, the daughter-in-law, and her younger sister Zheng Er rebelled against Jiao Sha.
Zheng Bian was the daughter of General Luo of Luling County.
Married to Zhu Zairen Shisuo as his wife, she was very brave.
Su Ding, the prefect of Jiaoshi, brought him to justice. Zheng was angry and rebelled.
In this way, the barbarians of Jiuzhen, Nan, and Hepu all responded to Zheng Bian. They captured a total of sixty-five cities, and Zheng Bian established himself as king.
The governor of Jiaosha and the governors of various counties could only defend themselves.
Guangwu then issued an edict asking Changsha, Hepu, and Jiaoshi to prepare vehicles and ships, build roads and bridges, open up road obstacles and valleys, and reserve grain.
In the eighteenth year, General Fubo Ma Yuan and Louchuan General Duan Zhi were sent to mobilize more than 10,000 troops from Changsha, Guiyang, Lingling, and Cangwu to conquer the side.
In April of the next summer, Ma Yuan captured Jiaoxi and killed Zheng Zhi, Zheng Er and others. The rest surrendered and dispersed.
Ma Yuan advanced to attack Jiuzhen bandit Kou Duyang and others, defeated Duyang and made Duyang surrender.
Ma Yuan moved more than 300 leaders of the bandits to live in Lingling.
In this way, everything outside the ridge was pacified.
In the first year of the Yuanhe period of Emperor Suzong, the chiefs of the barbarian tribes outside the southern border of Japan presented live rhinos and white pheasants.
In the summer and April of the twelfth year of Emperor Yongyuan, more than 2,000 barbarians from Rinan and Xianglin invaded, looted the people, and burned down the government offices. The prefectures and counties sent troops to attack and killed their leaders, and the remaining troops surrendered.
So the imperial court established a history of generals and soldiers in Xianglin to prevent the barbarians from harming them.
In the first year of Emperor An's Yongchu reign, the Yelang barbarians outside the Jiuzhen border surrendered all their territory, allowing the Han Dynasty to expand its territory by 1,840 miles.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the barbarians in Cangwu rebelled. The next year, they summoned and lured thousands of barbarians and Han people from Yulin and Hepu to attack Cangwu County.
Empress Dowager Deng sent Ren Lian, the imperial censor, to issue an edict to pardon the rebels, and all the bandits surrendered and dispersed.
In the first year of Yanguang, the barbarians outside the Jiuzhen border paid tribute and submitted.
Three years later, barbarians from outside Japan's southern border came to submit again.
In the sixth year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, King Ye Tiao from outside the southern border of Japan sent an envoy to pay tribute, and the emperor gave King Ye Tiao a gold seal and purple ribbon.
In the second year of Yonghe, thousands of people including Lian Lian, a barbarian outside the border of Yunnan and Xianglin, attacked Xianglin County, burned down the city government offices, and killed county and county officials.
Fan Yan, the governor of Jiaosha, mobilized more than 10,000 troops from Jiaodu and Jiuzhen counties to rescue Xianglin.
The soldiers were afraid of the long distance to fight, so they rebelled and attacked the county government.
Although the two counties defeated the rebels, the bandits became more powerful.
It happened that Jia Chang, the imperial censor, was on an envoy in Danzhi. He immediately joined forces with the prefectures and counties to conquer the bandits. The battle went unfavorably, and he was attacked by barbarians.
They had been surrounded for more than a year and the emperor was worried about the lack of food for their troops.
The next year, he summoned the ministers and ministers of the four prefectures and asked them about their strategy. The ministers all said that they would send generals to recruit 40,000 troops from Jingzhou, Yangzhou, Yanmago, and Yuye to rush there.
Li Li, the general's lieutenant, retorted: If nothing happens to Qu Cong and Dang Ye, it is okay to recruit troops.
Now the thieves in these two states are entrenched. Gen Tong and Lu Deng's gangs cannot be reconciled. Danye and Guaji have been mobilized many times. If they are harassed and used again, there will definitely be chaos again.
This is the first reason why troops should not be deployed.
In addition, the people of Yanzhou and Yuzhou were suddenly fine-tuned and sent thousands of miles away with no return date. The urgency of the edicts will definitely lead to rebellion and flight.
This is the second reason why troops should not be deployed.
The hot and humid soil and water in the southern states, coupled with miasma, will definitely lead to the death of four to five tenths of the people.
This is the third reason why troops should not be deployed.
After traveling thousands of miles, the soldiers were exhausted and worked hard. When they arrived in Lingnan, they were no longer able to bear the war.
This is the fourth reason why troops should not be deployed.
The army walked thirty miles as one journey, but it was more than nine thousand miles away from Rinan and took three hundred days to arrive. Calculated at five liters of food per person, it would require 600,000 hu of food, not counting the food eaten by the donkeys and horses ridden by the generals and officials. It would cost just like this to get there by yourself with a bell on your back.
This is the fifth reason why troops should not be deployed.
If the army arrives there, many people will die, although it will not be enough to defend against the enemy. Then men and horses will be recruited again, which means cutting off the heart to replace the limbs.
This is the sixth reason why troops should not be deployed.
Jiuzhen and Rinan are a thousand miles apart. They can't bear to recruit the officials and people there, let alone make the soldiers from four states have to work hard and go to the dangers thousands of miles away!
This is the seventh reason why troops should not be deployed.
In the past, Zhonglang general Yin Ji conquered the rebellious Qiang people in Yizhou. A proverb in Yizhou said: The enemy came and I could bear it, but when Yin came I was killed.
Later, Yin was requisitioned and handed over the army to the governor Zhang Qiao.
Zhang Qiao followed Yin Jiu's generals and officials and wiped out the enemy invaders within a month.
This is clear evidence that there is no benefit in dispatching generals and that state and county officials can be appointed.
We should select brave, resourceful and benevolent people as generals, appoint them as governors and governors, and let them live together in Jiaoshai.
Now Nichinan's troops are weak, they have no food, their defense is no longer sufficient, and they are incapable of fighting.
You can move all the officials and people in the south to the north to communicate with each other, and then let them return to their original places after the situation is settled.
Go back and recruit the barbarians, let them attack each other, and transport them gold, silver, cloth and silk as their support.
Whoever can alienate the enemy and obtain the enemy's leader is promised to be made a prince and rewarded with land.
Zhu Liang, the former governor of Bingzhou, who was from Changsha, was very brave and decisive by nature, and Zhang Qiao, who was from Nanyang, had a record of defeating enemies in Yizhou before, so he could be appointed.
In the past, Emperor Taizong restored Wei Shang's position as the prefect of Yunzhong, and Emperor Ai sent someone to Gong She's house to worship him as the prefect of Taishan.
Zhu Liang and others should be given positions immediately and let them take up their posts through shortcuts.
The four palaces all agreed with Li Gu's opinion, and the imperial court immediately appointed Zhu Liang as the governor of Jiuzhen, and Zhang Qiao as the governor of Jiaotu.
As soon as Zhang Qiao arrived, he made a public announcement and used methods of appeasement and inducement to make all the enemy invaders surrender and disperse.
Zhu Liang arrived at Jiuzhen, and came to the enemy with light chariots and slippers. He used strategies, force and integrity to attract the barbarians. Tens of thousands of people surrendered, and all of them built government offices for Zhu Liang.
Since then, the area outside the ridge has been peaceful again.
In the first year of Jiankang, more than a thousand barbarians from Rinan attacked and burned the county again, and then incited the barbarians from Jiuzhen to join forces with them.
Xia Fang, a native of Jiujiang who was the shameful governor, showed his kindness and lured the barbarians, and all the bandits surrendered.
The Empress Dowager Liang was in charge of the government at that time. She praised Xia Fang's achievements and transferred him to the position of prefect of Guiyang.
In the third year of Emperor Huan's longevity, the Jufeng Order was greedy and cruel without restraint. Zhu Da and others from Jufeng County gathered with the barbarians and attacked and killed the county magistrate. Their tribe numbered four to five thousand people. They attacked Jiuzhen, and Ershi, the governor of Jiuzhen, died in the battle.
The edict granted Ershi's family 600,000 yuan and conferred the title of Lang on his two sons.
The imperial court sent Jiuzhen Captain Wei Lang to defeat Zhu Da and kill 2,000 people, but the leader of the bandits still occupied Rinan, and his tribe became more powerful.
In the third year of Yanxi's reign, the imperial edict again appointed Xia Fang as the history of Jiao Sha La Shi.
Xia Fang has always been famous for his prestige and benevolence. When Rinan's old thieves found out, more than 20,000 people led each other to surrender to Xia Fang.
In the third year of Emperor Ling's reign, Gu Yong, the governor of Yulin, used his kindness and faith to recruit more than 100,000 Wuyou people to surrender. They all accepted the crown and leather belt, thus opening up seven additional counties.
In the winter of the second year of Xiping, in December, translators from countries outside the Japan-Southern border came to pay tribute.
In the first year of Guanghe, the Wuyou barbarians from Jiaotou and Hepu rebelled, and they attracted the barbarians from Jiuzhen and Rinan, who together numbered tens of thousands, and captured the counties.
In four years, the governor Zhu Jun defeated the barbarians.
Six years later, countries outside Japan's southern borders came to pay tribute again.
Bajunnanjunman originally had five surnames: Ba, Fan, Hui, Xiang, and Zheng.
They all originated from Wuluo Zhongli Mountain.
There is a red cave and a black cave in Zhongli Mountain. The children of Ba family were born in the red cave, and the children of the other four surnames were all born in the black cave.
They had no leader and all served ghosts and gods, so they threw swords into a stone cave together and agreed that whoever could hit the target would be crowned king.
Only Ba's son, Wu Xiang, was in tune with each other, and everyone was amazed.
They also asked each person to ride on a boat made of clay, and agreed that whoever could float on the water would be the king of the country.
The boats of the children with other surnames all sank, but the boat of the Prime Minister floated on the water.
So everyone jointly made him the king of the country, that is, the king of Lin.
Lin Jun then took a boat made of clay from Yishui to Yanyang.
There was a goddess in Yanyan who said to Mr. Lin: This place is vast and produces fish and salt. I hope you will stay and live together.
Lin Jun refused.
The God of Salt always came to stay with him at night, and at dawn he turned into a bug and flew with many bugs, blocking the sun and making the world dark.
After more than ten days, Lin Jun saw an opportunity and shot the Salt God with an arrow, and the sky became bright.
Lin Jun then became the king of Yicheng, and the other four surnames surrendered to him.
After Lin Jun died, his soul became a white tiger for generations.
Because tigers drank human blood, Ba Shi sacrificed living people to Lord Lin.
When King Hui of Qin annexed Bazhong, he took the Bashi as the leader of the barbarians and married Qin women for generations. The barbarian people's titles were equivalent to no replacement. If they committed crimes, they could be offset by their titles.
The barbarian leader pays an annual rental tax of 2,016 yuan, and pays a compulsory rental tax of 1,800 yuan every three years.
The people of Ba's family gave out a frightened cloth of eight feet and two feet, and a piece of hair worth thirty silver.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Jin Qiang, the governor of Nanjun, requested that all the old practices of the Qin Dynasty be followed.
In the 23rd year of Jianwu, Lei Qian and others from Lushan Mountain in Nanjun began to rebel and invade and plunder the people. The imperial court sent Wuwei General Liu Shang to lead more than 10,000 people to defeat Lei Qian, and moved more than 7000 Meishan barbarians to Jiangxia County, which is now the Mianzhong Barbarians.
In the thirteenth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Wuman Xu Sheng and others believed that the county governor's tax collection was uneven, and they were resentful, so they gathered to rebel.
In the summer of the next year, the imperial court sent envoys to inspect the troops of more than 10,000 counties in Jingzhou to attack Xu Sheng.
Because Xu Sheng and others relied on the dangerous terrain, they could not capture it for a long time.
So the troops from various groups advanced in different directions, and some attacked from Bajun and Yufu. The barbarians dispersed and fled. The Han army killed the barbarian leader, took advantage of the victory and pursued them, and defeated Xu Sheng and others.
Xu Sheng and others begged to surrender, so they were all relocated to Jiangxia again.
In the second year of Emperor Ling's reign, the Jiangxia barbarians rebelled and were conquered and put down by the prefectures and counties.
In the third year of Guanghe's reign, the Jiangxia barbarians rebelled again and joined forces with the Lujiang bandit Huang Chang. They had more than 100,000 people and captured four counties. The invasion lasted for several years.
Lu Kang, the governor of Lujiang, conquered and defeated Jiangxia Man and Huang Zhang, and the others surrendered and collapsed.
Banmei barbarians, during the reign of King Zhaoxiang of Qin, there was a white tiger that often followed other tigers to the Qin, Shu, Ba, and Han territories many times and injured more than a thousand people.
King Zhao then recruited anyone in the country who could kill the tiger with a heavy reward, and was given a fiefdom of 10,000 households and one hundred yi gold.
At that time, there was a Yi man from Yanzhong in Bajun who could make a strong bow from white bamboo. He climbed up a high building and shot the white tiger to death with an arrow.
King Zhao commended him, but because he was a barbarian, he did not want to seal him, so he carved a stone covenant and treated the barbarians preferentially. He was sealed off to a hectare of land without renting tax, and even if he had ten wives, he would not pay the settlement fee.
The two sides made an agreement: If the Qin invades the Yi people, give the Yi people a pair of brass dragons; if the Yi people invade the Qin country, give them a cup of pure wine.
The Yi people kept their covenant safely.
When Emperor Gaozu became the king of Han, he mobilized the Yi people to attack the Three Qin Dynasties.
The Sanqin area had been pacified, so the Yi people were sent back to Bazhong, and their leaders, Luo, Pu, Du, E, Du, Xi, and Gong, were exempted from rent and taxes. Other households paid 40 qian per year.
They have been called Banmei barbarians for generations.
There is a Yu River in the middle of the village, and most of the people there live on both sides of the Yu River. They are brave and powerful by nature. At first, they served as the vanguard of the Han army and rushed into the enemy's formation many times.
Their custom is to sing and dance. After watching it, Emperor Gaozu said: This is the song that King Wu of Zhou sung when he defeated Zhou.
So artists who were good at singing and dancing were asked to learn from it, and "Bayu Dance" was created.
Since then, they have surrendered for generations.
When Guangwu Zhongxing came, the county guards often led Banchu barbarians to fight.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, the Banmei barbarians rebelled many times. The governor of Shu County, Twa Wen, used his kindness and faith to convince them to surrender.
In the second year of Guanghe reign of Emperor Ling, the Banmei barbarians in Bajun rebelled again and invaded and plundered various counties in Sanshu and Hanzhong.
Emperor Ling sent Xiao Yuan, the censor Zhongcheng, to supervise Yizhou's troops to conquer the Banxun barbarians, but they could not conquer them for several years.
The emperor wanted to send troops on a large scale, so he asked Yizhou planners to study the strategy of conquest.
The taxi driver from Hanzhong replied: The seven surnames of Banzhi have made meritorious service by shooting the white tiger to death, and their ancestors have been loyal people for generations.
They are brave and good at fighting.
During the Yongchu period of the past, the Qiang people entered Hanchuan and destroyed the counties and counties. With Banmei's rescue, the Qiang people were destroyed and almost extinct, so they were called the magic soldiers.
The Qiang people were frightened and sent a message to their tribes, asking them not to go south.
In the second year of Jianhe, the Qiang people invaded again. They relied on Banxun to continuously destroy and defeat the Qiang people.
The former cavalry general Feng Qinan conquered Wuling. Although he accepted Ya Danyang's elite troops, he also relied on Banchu to achieve success.
Recently, there have been wars in various counties in Yizhou, and the prefect Li Ji also relied on Banqi to quell the war.
Ban Zhi is so loyal and meritorious, and has no intention of doing evil.
County officials and small officials in the townships paid heavy taxes in lieu of military service. They whipped the barbarians in Banmei more than they treated slaves and enemy prisoners. Some barbarians sold their wives and children to others, and some even went so far as to commit suicide.
Although they reported their grievances to the prefecture and prefecture, the governor of the prefecture, mu and prefecture did not go to the court for them and do the gardening.
The emperor was far away and they could not report their situation to Xizi.
They were filled with resentment, shouting to heaven and earth, and really beating their hearts in the remote valley.
Not only were they worried about the tax corvee, but they were also forced to suffer torture.
So the barbarians in the cities and villages gathered together, which led to rebellion.
It's not that they have a mastermind who wants to usurp the title of emperor and do something illegal.
Now as long as the wise and talented governors of the state, animal husbandry and county are relocated, they will naturally be stable and there will be no need for conquest.
The emperor adopted Cheng Bao's advice and sent the prefect Cao Qian to issue an edict pardoning the Banchu barbarians. The rebels immediately surrendered.
In the fifth year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban bandits in Bajun rose up, so the Banmei barbarians rebelled again and invaded and plundered the city. The imperial court sent Sima Tsangjin, a separate unit of the Xiyuan Army, to conquer and pacify the Banmei barbarians.
Yougesu is outside the boundary of Xingjun.
There is a man named Qiu Nei, bordering Bianzhi to the east, Susu to the west, and Qiongdu to the north. Each of them has its leader.
The people in that bundle all have their hair combed into vertebrae and their clothes are turned to the left. They live together in villages and can cultivate fields.
Outside these countries, there are various tribes in Lun and Kunming, extending from Tongshi in the west to Yeyu in the northeast, covering an area of ​​several thousand miles.
Tribes such as Lun and Kunming have no leaders. People wear their hair in braids and move with their livestock. They have no fixed residence.
To the northeast of Ling was the state of Jedu, and to the northeast of Zhadu was the state of Ranlong. Some of them settled in one place, and some moved with their livestock.
In the northeast of Ranli Kingdom there is Baima Kingdom, which is a tribe of Di people.
These three countries also have leaders.
In the Yelang Kingdom, there was a woman who was washing by the river. A three-section bamboo fell between her feet. She heard the sound of crying wrapped in the bamboo. The woman cut open the bamboo and saw that it was a baby boy, so she took him home to raise him.
When he grew up, he was capable of literature and martial arts. He established himself as Yelanghou and took bamboo as his surname.
In the sixth year of Emperor Wu's Yuanding reign, Nanyi was pacified and Yangke County was established. Marquis Yelang welcomed his surrender, and the emperor gave him the seal and ribbon of the king.
Later, he finally killed Yelanghou.
The barbarians all felt that the Bamboo King was not born of human blood, so they valued him very much and asked to establish his descendants.
Wu Ba, the prefect of Yangke, reported the situation to the court, and the emperor made the three sons of King Zhu as marquises.
After sons died, they were sacrificed together with their fathers.
Now the Bamboo King Sanlang God in Yelang County is the legend of the three sons of the Bamboo King.
At first, during the reign of King Qingxiang of Chu, he sent general Zhuang Hao to attack Yelang from Yuan River. When the army arrived at Qielan, they tied the boat to the shore with wooden stakes and then fought on foot.
After destroying Yelang, he left King Yelang in Dianchi Lake.
Since there was a place to tie ships in Qielan, the place name was changed to Pangke.
There is a lot of rain in Qunke, and customs like witchcraft, gods, ghosts, and taboos. They rarely raise livestock and do not raise silkworms or mulberries, so this county is the poorest.
There is a kind of sugar palm tree in Juding County, which can be used to make flour, and people rely on it to make a living.
At the time of Gongsun Shu, the great clans of Long, Fu, Yin, and Dong, and the meritorious Cao Xie Siam of the same county, guarded the border for Mo, and sent people from the Panyu River to pay tribute.
Guangwu appreciated them very much and praised and rewarded them all.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, Yin Zhen from the county believed that he was born in a remote and remote place and did not understand etiquette and justice, so he followed Xu Shen and Ying Feng from Runan to study classics and prophecies. After completing their studies, he returned to his hometown to teach. This is how learning began to appear in the southern region.
Yin Zhenguan became the governor of Jingzhou.
The King of Dian is a descendant of Zhuang Qi.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, Emperor Wu pacified the Dian Kingdom, changed the Dian Kingdom to Yizhou County, and divided several counties from Pangke and Yuemao to Yizhou County.
A few years later, the area of ​​Kunming was annexed and placed under the jurisdiction of Yizhou County.
There is a pond that goes around for more than 200 miles. The source of the pond is deep and wide, while the tail of the pond is shallow and narrow, as if it is flowing in reverse, so it is called Dianchi Lake.
The land along the Nahuo River is flat and open, with many parrots and peacocks. It has salt ponds, mulberry farming and fishery, and has a lot of gold, silver and livestock products.
The people and customs there are very luxurious.
Officials are wealthy, with enough to last for several generations.
When Wang Mang's government was in chaos, Dongcan, Ruodou and others from Yizhou County raised troops and killed the county guard. Damou, a Gufu Yi people who crossed the anchor, also rebelled, killing and plundering officials and people.
Wang Mang sent General Lian Dan of Ningshi to mobilize more than 100,000 officials and civilians from Bashu and soldiers transporting grain to attack the Yi people.
The officers and soldiers were hungry and sick, and they could not conquer it over the years, so they withdrew.
Wang Mang appointed Wen Qi, a native of Guanghan, as the prefect. Wen Qi built ponds, dredged irrigation, and reclaimed more than two thousand hectares of land.
He led troops and horses to drill, built castles at strategic locations on the frontier, recruited and gathered barbarians, and was able to make the people docile.
When Gongsun Shu occupied Yizhou territory, Wen Qi stood firm and relied on the dangerous terrain to resist Gongsun Shu. Gongsun Shu imprisoned his wife and children and promised to make him a marquis, but Wen Qi never surrendered.
When he heard that Guangwu had ascended the throne, he sent an envoy to inform Guangwu from Xiaodao.
After the Shu was pacified, Guangwu recruited him as General Zhenyuan and granted him the title of Marquis of Chengyi.
Wen Qi died on the road. The emperor issued an edict to build an ancestral hall for him, and the people in the county built a temple to worship him.
In the 18th year of Jianwu's reign, the leader of the Yi people, Dongcan, rebelled against the Gufu, Keyu, Qiaodong, Lianran, Dianchi, Jianling, and Kunming tribes and killed county and county officials.
Fansheng, the prefect of Yizhou, failed in the battle with the Yi people and retreated to Zhuti.
In the 19th year, the imperial court sent General Liu Shang and others to mobilize people from Guanghan, Jianwei, Shu counties and Zhu Tiyi, with a total of 13,000 people to attack the Yi people.
Liu Shang's army crossed the Lu River and entered Yizhou.
When the barbarians from all tribes heard that the army was coming, they all abandoned their fortresses and fled. Liu Shang captured the old and weak barbarians and obtained grain and livestock.
In the past twenty years, Liu Shang Jinbing fought with Dong Can and others for several months and defeated them all.
In the first month of the second year, Liu Shang pursued Buwei County and killed the leader of Dongcan. He killed more than 7,000 Yi people and gained 5,700 men, 3,000 horses, and more than 30,000 cattle and sheep. All the Yi tribes were pacified.
During the Yuanhe period of Emperor Suzong, Wang Zhui, a native of Shu County, served as the prefect, and his political achievements and education were particularly outstanding. Four magical horses appeared from the water of Dianchi Lake, nectar fell from the sky, and white crows appeared. Wang Zhui began to set up schools and gradually changed the customs of Nahuo.
In the fifth year of Xiping reign of Emperor Ling, various Yi tribes rebelled and captured the prefect Yongzhi.
朝廷派御史中丞朱龟征讨，不能取胜。

The imperial court considered that Yizhou County was outside the border, and the barbarians were accustomed to rebellion. It was better to abandon Yizhou than to let the army tire out and fight in distant places.
Taiwei Li Yi, a native of Yuba County, decided to conquer, so he appointed Li Yi as the governor of Yizhou. He and Yizhou Assassin Pangzhi mobilized the Banmei barbarians, defeated and pacified the barbarians, and recaptured Yongzhi.
After Li Yi's death, the Yi people rebelled again. The imperial court appointed Jing Yi, a native of Guanghan, as the governor of Yizhou County. He conquered and pacified the Yi people.
When Jing Yi first arrived in Yizhou, a handful of rice sold for 10,000 yuan. Jing Yi gradually guided him with benevolence and kindness. Within a few years, a handful of rice sold for several dozen yuan.
The ancestor of Ailaoyi was a woman named Sha Yi who lived in Laoshan.
She was once fishing in the water, and when she touched a tree submerged in the water, she seemed to have a feeling. As a result, she became pregnant. Ten months later, she gave birth to ten sons.
Later, the trees submerged in the water turned into dragons and appeared on the water.
Sha Yi suddenly heard Long say to her: You gave birth to a son for me, where are they now?
When the nine sons saw the dragon, they all panicked and ran away, but the youngest son could not leave. He sat with his back to the dragon, and the dragon licked him.
The child's mother spoke with a voice like a crow, called the back as Jiu, and the sitting position as Long, so she named her son Jiulong.
When Jiulong grew up, his brothers thought that Jiulong had been licked by his father and was smart, so they elected him as king.
Later, a couple lived at the foot of Lao Mountain and gave birth to ten more girls. The Jiulong brothers all married them. Later, their number gradually increased.
The people in the tribe all have tattoos with designs like dragon patterns and a tail on their clothes.
After Jiulong's death, it was passed down from generation to generation.
So they established Xiaohouwang respectively. They often live together, and their cities are located in streams and valleys.
The place where they live is extremely remote, beyond the eight wastelands, separated by deep mountains and rivers. They have never had any contact with the Central Plains since some people were born.
In the 23rd year of Jianwu's reign, King Xianli of Ailao sent troops on bamboo rafts to go south to the Yangtze River and Han River to attack the Yi people Lu Dad near the border. The Luxiang people were weak and were captured by the Ailao people.
At this time, thunder shook, heavy rain fell from the sky, south wind blew, the river flowed backwards, huge waves surged on the river more than 200 miles long, bamboo rafts sank into the water, and thousands of people in Ailao drowned.
Xianli then sent six princes and ten thousand men to attack Lu Dad. King Lu Xiang fought with Ailao and killed six princes.
The old people of Ailao buried six princes together. At night, the tiger dug out the bodies of the six princes and ate them. The remaining people in Ailao retreated in fear.
Xian Li was very frightened and said to the old people in the country: We have entered the border fortress since ancient times. Now if we attack Lu Dad, we will always be punished by God. Is there a sage emperor in the Central Plains?
God bless and help the Central Plains, how come it is so obvious!
In the twenty-seventh year, Xianli and others led 2,770 households and 17,659 people to surrender to Zheng Hong, the prefect of Yuejun, demanding submission. Guangwu made Xianli and others their leaders.
Since then, Ailao has come to pay tribute every year.
In the twelfth year of Yong's reign, Ailao King Liu Maung sent his sons to lead the tribe to submit. They were called kings of the city, with 77 people, 51,890 households, and a population of 553,711.
Ailao is located in the southwest, seven thousand miles away from Luoyang. Emperor Xianzong established Ailao and Bonan counties there, and divided the six counties under the jurisdiction of the western captain of Yizhou County into Yongchang County.
At that time, Bonan Mountain had just been opened to cross the Lancang River, and the journey was difficult.
The ballad says: Han's kindness is broad and he can conquer places where there is no surrender.
Climb Bonan Mountain and cross Lancangjin.
After crossing the Lancang River, I became a stranger in a foreign land.
The people of Ailao all have pierced nostrils and droopy ears. Among the leaders, the ears of those who call themselves kings reach three inches below the shoulders, while the ears of the common people only reach the shoulders.
The land in Ailao is fertile and suitable for growing grains, mulberry and silkworms.
They know how to dye cloth into colors, embroider clothes and silk fabrics, know how to weave felt and weave cotton yarn, and how to weave orchids and fine soft fabrics. The patterns they weave are like thin and delicate silk fabrics.
There is a kind of silk from the local sycamore tree, which can be woven into cloth with a width of five feet. It is white and will not pollute.
First, the dead person is covered with it, and then made into clothes to wear.
The wrapped bamboo has knots one foot apart and is called Pu Bamboo.
That bundle produces copper, iron, lead, tin, gold, silver, pearls of light, amber, crystal, glass, sea shells, pearls, peacocks, emeralds, rhinos, elephants, orangutans, and wild beasts.
There are two sacred deer in Yunnan County, which can eat poisonous grass.
Before that, Zheng Chun, a native of Guanghan, the western captain, was an honest and upright official, and his teachings were carried out among the Yi people. The leaders of the Yi people were moved and admired Zheng Chun, and they all came to contribute local products and treasures and praise his virtues.
The emperor praised Zheng Chun and immediately appointed him as the governor of Yongchang.
Zheng Chun made an agreement with the Ailao Yi people that the tribal chief would give him two pieces of clothing and a handful of salt every year, which would be used as normal taxes, so that the Yi people would feel at ease.
Zheng Chun served as captain and governor for ten years and died in office.
In the first year of Jianchu, King Leilao of Ailao had an angry quarrel with the county magistrate, so he killed the magistrate and rebelled, attacking Juntang City.
The prefect Wang Xun fled to Meiyu.
More than 3,000 Ailao people attacked Bonan and burned down people's houses.
Suzong recruited and dispatched 9,000 Yi and Han people from Yuejun, Yizhou, and Yongchang to conquer Leilao.
In the spring of the next year, Kunming Yilicheng and others from Xielong County responded to the recruitment and led people from the same tribe to attack Lei Lao in Bonan with the troops guarding the county. They defeated and killed Lei Lao.
The head of Lei Lao was sent to Luoyang. The emperor rewarded Lu Cheng with 10,000 pieces of cloth and named him Marquis of Polu Pangyi.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, King Mo Yan of Dunren Yi outside the border of Yongchang County admired Deyi and sent an interpreter to present rhinos and elephants.
In the ninth year, Yongyou, the king of the barbarians and Shan outside the border, sent people to send domestic treasures through various translators. Emperor He gave them gold seals and purple ribbons, and the small chiefs also gave them seals, ribbons and money.
In the first year of Yongchu, more than 3,000 people from outside the border, including Yi Lulei and others, submitted their entire tribe and presented ivory, buffalo, and cows.
In the first year of Yongning, King Yongyou Diao of Shan sent envoys to the court to pay homage and celebrate, presenting music and performers of illusions. They could change their bodies, breathe fire from their mouths, dismember themselves, and swap the heads of cows and horses.
They are also good at throwing and catching several balls quickly with both hands, and can throw and catch thousands of times.
They call themselves Haixi people.
Haixi is Da Qin, and the southwest of Shan State leads to Da Qin.
On the New Year's Day of the next year, Emperor An met with his ministers and asked him to perform music in the palace. He appointed Yong Youtiao as the Han Dynasty Commander-in-Chief, and gave him seals and ribbons as well as various amounts of gold, silver and colored silk.
Qiongdu Yi was developed by Emperor Wu, who designated it as Qiongdu County.
After a while, the ground sank and turned into a slop, so it was called Qiongchi, and people in the south called it Qionghe River.
Later, the Qiongdu Yi rebelled again.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Han soldiers crossed the Jun River to conquer the Qiongdu Yi and made it Yue Mao County.
The land in Boguo is flat and there are rice fields.
On Yutong Mountain in Qingxie County, there are the Golden Horse Society and the Bade God, where light and shadow often appear.
The custom in Nahuo is that most people have fun and debauchery, but they also like to sing, which is roughly similar to the people of Pangke.
The Qiongdu Yi chieftains were very indulgent and it was difficult to control them.
During the reign of Wang Mang, the governor of the county, Mei Gen, recruited a noble from Qiondu and appointed him as a military marquis.
In the second year of Gengshi, Changgui led his tribe to attack and killed Meigen, and established himself as King of Qiong Valley, exercising the power of prefect.
Later he surrendered to Gongsun Shu.
After Gongsun Shu failed, Guangwu granted Changgui the title of King of Qiong Valley.
In the fourteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Changgui sent an envoy to present three years' accounting records to the court. Guangwu immediately awarded Changgui the seal and ribbon of the Yuelun Prefect.
In the 19th year, General Liu Shang of Wuwei attacked Yizhou Yi and passed through Yuelun.
After Changgui learned about it, he suspected that once Liu Shang pacified the south, authoritarian laws would be implemented, and he could not indulge at will. So he gathered people to build a fortress, called the leaders of various ministries, and brewed a large amount of poisonous wine. He wanted to use the poisonous wine to comfort the army first, and then took the opportunity to attack Liu Shang.
Liu Shang knew Chang Gui's plan, and immediately dispatched troops to occupy Qiongdu, then suddenly attacked Chang Gui, killed him, and moved his family to Chengdu.
In the first year of Yongping, Gu Fuyi rebelled again. The governor of Yizhou sent troops to conquer, defeated Gu Fuyi, killed Ding and their leader, and sent their heads to the capital.
Later, Zhang Xi, a native of Bajun, was the prefect. His political affairs and education were clean and fair, and he made the barbarians harmonious.
Zhang Xi had been the governor for seventeen years. When he died, the Yi people loved and admired him as if they had lost their parents.
More than 200 elderly people from Suqi County brought cattle and sheep to mourn Zhang Xi's birthplace, Anhan County, to build a tomb to worship him.
The emperor issued an edict to praise Zhang Xi and built an ancestral hall for him.
In the third year of Emperor An's reign, eight tribes including Dayang and other Yi people outside the Yue Mao border, with a total of 31,000 households and 167,620 people, admired virtue and righteousness and submitted.
At that time, there were many taxes in counties and counties. In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Zhuanyi Danniu Zhong Fengli and others rebelled and killed Sui Jiuling.
The next year, the Yi people in Yongchang, Yizhou and Shu counties all rebelled and responded to the siege. Their tribesmen numbered more than 100,000. They destroyed more than 20 counties, killed county officials, burned cities and towns, plundered the people, piled up corpses, and left no trace of human beings within a thousand miles.
The emperor sent a letter to Zhang Qiao, the governor of Yizhou, to select competent people to conquer the barbarians.
Zhang Qiao then sent his servant Yang Song to lead troops to Keyu to attack the bandits. However, the bandits were strong and Yang Song did not dare to advance. He first informed the three counties of Shao and secretly recruited warriors with heavy rewards.
Then he advanced to fight with Feng Li and others, and defeated Feng Li. He killed more than 30,000 people, captured 1,500 people alive, and gained more than 40 million in money, all of which was used to reward the soldiers.
Feng Li and others were frightened, killed the leader of the conspirators, and went to Yang Song to beg for surrender. Yang Song gave them special comfort and acceptance.
The other thirty-six tribes came to surrender.
Therefore, Yang Song reported that ninety people among the officials who were cunning and had invaded the barbarians were reduced to death.
Before the merit evaluation in the state could be reported to the court, Yang Song happened to be injured and died. Zhang Qiao was very sad and regretful, so he carved a stone to record his merit and painted a portrait of Yang Song.
Because Zhang Xi had left a benevolent impression among the barbarians, the emperor appointed his son Zhang Tuan as the prefect.
The Yi people were very happy and greeted him on the road, saying: "You look very much like our governor."
Later, Zhang Tuan lost the support of the people, and some Yi people wanted to rebel. An old man among the Yi people told them: Just for the sake of the former governor.
This is how you find peace.
Later, during the reigns of Emperor Shun and Emperor Huan, Feng Hao from Guanghan served as the prefect, with particularly outstanding achievements in political performance and education.
The capital of Yi was developed by Emperor Wu, who made it Feidu County.
The people in that package all have their hair down, their clothes open to the left, they like to use metaphors when talking, and their living environment is roughly the same as that of Wenshan Yi.
There grows a magic medicine that can prolong life, and it is where the Immortal Mountain Tu lives.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Shenli County was established in Boguo.
In the fourth year of Tianmo, it was merged into Shu County as the western part. There were two captains. One lived in Yanniu and had jurisdiction over the Yi people outside the border. The other lived in Qingyi and had jurisdiction over the Han people.
During the Yongping period, Zhu Fu, a native of Liang State in Yibishi, liked to build a reputation. He was generous and very strategic.
During his several years in Yizhou, he proclaimed the benevolence of the Han Dynasty, and his prestige influenced the Yi people in distant places.
From Wenshan to the west, no one in previous generations has been there, and the Central Plains calendar has never been implemented there.
There are more than 100 countries such as Bailang, Panmu and Tanghu, with more than 1.3 million households and a population of more than 6 million. They pay tribute to the imperial court as a whole and call themselves ministers.
Zhu Fu's memorial said: I heard that the "Poetry" said: Those people defected to Zhou Qi because Zhou Qi had clear politics. It is said that although the road to Zhou Qi is remote, people do not think it is far.
The poet's chant can be used as verification.
Now White Wolf King, Tang Mao and others admire the enlightenment, surrender to Deyi, and write three poems.
The road passed through Qionglai Mountain and Linggao Ban, which was steep and steep, a hundred times more difficult than the road to Zhouqi.
They carry babies on their backs in swaddling clothes and support old people, just like children returning to their loving mothers.
In the language of distant barbarians, it is difficult to get the meaning right.
Grass and trees are not of the same species, and animals are not of the same type.
There was an official named Tian Gong in Qianwei County who was very familiar with them and understood many of their languages. The minister often asked him to understand the customs and translate their languages.
Now the officials Li Ling and Tian Gong were sent to escort them to the court and present their music and poetry.
In the past, during the reign of the Ming Dynasty, the music and dances of the barbarians from all over the world were performed; what I present now, I hope, can be counted among them.
The emperor appreciated it very much and handed the matter over to the historians to record their songs and poems.
"Yuan Yi Le De Ge Shi" says: The Han Dynasty governs peace and harmony with the will of heaven.
Official translators are fair and correct, and do not disturb at will.
What you hear and know is that the customs aspire to be virtuous, and what you see is surprising.
Give us lots of cloth and sweet food and wine.
The exuberant music and the dancers' flying bodies can flex and stretch freely in various dance postures.
The barbarians were poor and could not give anything decent in return.
May the emperor live long and have many descendants.
"The Song of Mude from the Far Barbarians" says: The place where the barbarians live is where the sun sets.
Admire morality and righteousness, turn to Shunde, and seek refuge with the Lord of the place where the sun rises.
The benevolent saint has deep kindness and kindness, and gives richly and generously to others. There is lots of frost and snow in winter, and lots of rain in summer.
The cold and heat are in season, and the tribesmen can prosper. After a long journey through hardships and dangers, they came to the Central Plains.
Changing customs and becoming virtuous will feel like returning to a loving mother.
"Yuan Yi Huaide Song" says: Outside the wilderness, the land is very barren.
Eat the meat of wild beasts and wear the skins of wild beasts, but you won’t see the salt or grains.
Officials translated and spread the culture, and the Han Dynasty was peaceful and happy.
Send a message to inform the people of the same tribe that they are willing to be the servants of the Han Dynasty for a long time.
In the early years of Emperor Suzong's reign, Zhu Fu was dismissed from office due to a crime.
At that time, the official offices of county officials were all decorated with paintings of mountain gods, sea monsters, and strange birds and animals, in order to show off to the barbarians, who became even more afraid.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Bailang and Loubo barbarian king Tang Zhen and others outside the border of Yanniu led a tribe of 170,000 people to submit to virtue and justice.
The imperial edict granted Tang Zhan a golden seal and purple ribbon, and the minor leaders gave him various amounts of money and silk.
In the first year of Yongchu reign of Emperor An, more than 3,000 soldiers from Sanxiang Zhongyi in Shu County and the Guoyan tribe outside the border rebelled, attacked Canling City, and killed officials.
In the second year, Lu Lingtian of Qingyi Daoyi, together with the Yi people of the three tribes outside the border, totaling 310,000 people, brought gold and ox hair ornaments with them, and assigned the entire territory to the Central Plains.
Emperor An increased the title of Lingtian to Lord Fengtongyi.
In the spring of the second year of Yanguang, the Yanniu barbarians rebelled, attacked Lingguan, and killed officials. Zhang Qiao, the governor of Yizhou, and the western captain defeated the Yanniu barbarians.
So the Shu Commandery was divided into the vassal states of Shu, with jurisdiction over the four counties, and their powers were the same as those of the prefects.
In the second year of Emperor Huan Yongshou's reign, the barbarians from Shu commanderies rebelled, killing and plundering officials and people.
In the second year of Yanxi, three Xiangyi people from Shu County invaded Canling and killed the county officials.
In the fourth year, barbarians from the Jianwei Kingdom invaded the county. Shan Yu, the governor of Yizhou, defeated them and killed 1,400 people. The rest were disintegrated and disintegrated.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, the vassal state of Shu County was changed to Hanjia County.
Ran Chiyi was developed by Emperor Wu. In the sixth year of Yuanding, this area was designated as Wenshan County.
In the third year of Dijie, the Yi people felt that the taxes in this county were too heavy, so Emperor Xuan eliminated Wenshan County and merged it with Shu County as the northern governor.
In the mountainous area of ​​Nahuo there are six tribes of Yi people, seven tribes of Qiang people, and nine tribes of Di people, each with its own tribe.
Their princes knew a lot of writing, but the laws were strict.
They respect women and are matriarchal.
After death, the body is burned.
The climate there is mostly cold, and the ice that forms in midsummer still does not melt. Therefore, in order to avoid the cold in winter, the Yi people go to Shu County to work as servants, and in summer they escape the heat and return to their own villages.
They all live close to the mountains and build houses with stones. The houses are more than ten feet high and are called "Qiong Cong".
The land there is hard and salty, and does not produce grain, millet, hemp, or beans. They only rely on wheat to survive, but it is suitable for raising livestock and grazing.
There is a kind of hornless cow, also called a child cow, which weighs up to a thousand kilograms and its hair can be made into ornaments.
That bundle produces famous horses.
There are antelopes, which can cure poisoning.
There is another kind of deer that eats medicine. The feces in the intestines of pregnant young deer can also treat poisoning.
There are also five-horned sheep, musk deer, felt ducks with light feathers, and livestock.
People there can make woolen fabrics such as felt, banchu, qington, soap felt, and woolen fabrics.
There are a wide variety of medicinal materials in that package.
The ground is covered with salty soil, which can be boiled to make salt. The dogs, sheep, cows, and horses all grow very fat.
To the west of Yisu there are Sanyihui and Biwanglu, and to the north are Tongshi, Beidi and Lushuihu. Outside of this is the border.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, the northern part of Shu County was divided to establish Wenshan County.
Zhiwuya was developed by Genyou in the sixth year of Yuan Gu. It was divided into the western part of Lulian County and combined to form Wudu County.
The terrain is dangerous and isolated, and there are hemp fields, which produce famous horses, cattle, sheep, lacquer, and honey.
Di people are brave, stupid, and have no scruples. They are greedy for money and die for gain.
They live in Hechi, also called Qiuchi, which has a radius of one hundred hectares and is steep and dangerous on all sides.
The Di people invaded the border many times, and counties and counties conquered them, so they relied on the difficult terrain to guard it.
In the third year of Yuanfeng, the Di people rebelled. The imperial court sent troops to defeat the Di people and moved them to Jiuquan County.
In the first year of Emperor Zhao Yuanfeng's reign, the Di people rebelled again. The imperial court sent Jinwu Ma Shijian, Longluo Hou Han Zeng, and Dahong Lu Tian Guangming to lead the criminals under the control of Sanfu and Taichang to defeat the Di people.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne and started rebellion, his people also rebelled.
In the early years of Jianwu, all the Di people returned to Long and Shu. After Wei Xiao was destroyed, the leader of the Di people betrayed Gongsun Shu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. Ma Yuan, the governor of Longxi, wrote a letter to restore the princes and leaders of the Di people, and the court gave them seals and ribbons.
Later, Kai Mao, a kinsman of Kai Xiao's, rebelled and killed the governor of Wudu.
Qi Zhongliu, the great leader of the Di people, was respected and trusted by the people in the tribe. His prestige convinced many leaders. He and the county prime minister Kong Fen attacked Wei Mao, defeated and killed him.
Later, the Di people also invaded from time to time and were conquered and defeated by the counties.
The argument goes: Liu Mo's expedition against Rong and Di and his use of troops in remote areas generally began and ended with the emperor's achievements.
Sometimes the border was lost, the army was destroyed, and the generals were defeated. But within a year, they were finally able to open up the lands of the barbarians from all directions and make the races with different customs submit.
As for the places moistened by documents and covenants, and affected by weathering and prestige, it almost extends to all areas where the sun rises and sets.
Classics, starting from Shan Jing and Shui Zhi, also briefly mention this aspect.
Although the Yi people from all over the world surrendered and rebelled erratically, and the prestige and favor of the imperial court were often interrupted, as long as the education was implemented, whether it was a tribe with lop-eared eagle feet or a tribe that lived like wild beasts and spoke like a raven, they all submitted to the Central Plains as an entire tribe.
Therefore, their names are recorded in the official offices of Zhonglang General and Xiaowei, and their numbers are included in the official lists of meritorious officials under the Duhufu, Buduwei, and Prefectures. The population is often calculated in millions.
As for the divine objects hidden deep in the mountains, hidden under the sea, and the treasures buried in sand and stone and inhabiting the land, they all showed strange and gorgeous features and were decorated in the palace curtains.
Tributes such as warnings, fire orders, domesticated birds and tall beasts were gathered in the imperial treasury; arts with completely different sound and rhythm, such as Yi people's songs and Bayu dances, were displayed outside the palace gate.
Is the way of submission complete at this point?
However, it can also be said that it has attracted the submission of races from far away.
Although the barbarians lived on the mountains, rocks and valleys, most of them lived in certain areas, connected to Jingzhou and Jiaozhou areas, and were distributed and guarded outside Bajun and Yong. It is impossible to calculate their number.
However, the barbarians were ferocious and cunning and slightly weaker than the Qiang and Di, so the harm caused by their plundering and cruelty could not go far.
The barbarians outside the southwest border are especially weak.
Therefore, setting up a garrison in Yongchang was initially to guard against the barbarians from far away. Later, it opened up the land and made the people self-reliant. Now it has become a city.
Zan said: The area inhabited by various barbarians is very small, but it is spread all over the four borders.
Sculpted bodies, wearing straw clothes, relying on the deep and rugged mountain life.
There are also some Yi people living in the border areas of Shu County.
The scattered tribal villages have turned to Zhou Qi's path of morality and justice.
Once they gained trust by going to teach, the barbarians changed their clothes and brought treasures, which led the imperial court to establish Yongchang County and include the barbarians in household registers along with hundreds of millions of people in the mainland.
