Lu Buwei was a big businessman in Yangzhai. He traveled around, buying at low prices and selling at high prices, so he accumulated a fortune worth thousands of gold.
In the fortieth year of King Zhao of Qin, the prince passed away.
In the 42nd year of King Zhao, King Zhao established his second son An Guojun as the prince.
Lord An Guo had more than twenty sons.
Lord An Guo had a concubine whom he loved very much. He made her his wife and called her Mrs. Huayang.
Mrs. Huayang has no son.
An Guojun had a middle-ranking son named Zichu. Zichu's mother was named Xia Ji, who was not favored.
Zi Chu was sent to Zhao as a hostage as the son of Qin.
Qin State attacked Zhao State many times, and Zhao State did not treat Zi Chu politely.
Zichu was the grandson of the concubine of the King of Qin and was a hostage in the State of Zhao. He was not rich in carriages, horses and daily necessities, and his life was difficult and very unhappy.
Lu Buwei went to Handan to do business. After seeing Zi Chu, he felt very fond of him and said: Zi Chu is like a rare commodity that can be hoarded.
So he went to visit Zi Chu and persuaded him: I can expand your family.
Zi Chu smiled and said: "For now, let's expand your own family first, and then come and expand mine!"
Lu Buwei said: "You don't understand. My family has to wait for your family to grow before it can grow."
Zi Chu knew what Lu Buwei meant, so he sat him down together and had an in-depth conversation.
Lu Buwei said: The King of Qin is old, and Lord An Guo was made the crown prince.
I heard privately that Lord An Guo dotes on Mrs. Huayang very much. Mrs. Huayang has no son, so only Mrs. Huayang can choose the prince.
Now you have more than twenty brothers, and you are ranked in the middle. You are not favored by the King of Qin and have been left as a hostage in the vassal states for a long time. Even if the King of Qin dies and An Guojun succeeds to the throne, you should not expect to compete with your eldest brother and other brothers who are by the King of Qin's side sooner or later.
Zichu said: That's true, but what should we do?
Lu Buwei said: "You are very poor and embarrassed, and you are living here as a guest. You can't give anything to your relatives and make friends with the guests."
Although I, Lu Buwei, am not rich, I am willing to spend thousands of dollars to lobby for you to the west, serve Lord An Guo and Mrs. Huayang, and ask them to make you the crown prince.
Zichu then kowtowed and thanked him and said: If your plan comes true, I am willing to entrust the land of Qin to share it with you.
Lu Buwei then gave 500 gold to Zichu for daily life and making friends with guests. He also took 500 gold to buy rare things. He took these things with him and went west to the Qin State to lobby. He first paid a visit to Mrs. Huayang's sister and dedicated all the things he brought to Mrs. Huayang.
By the way, I mentioned that Zi Chu was smart and virtuous, and he made friends with princes and guests all over the world. He often said, "I, Zi Chu, regard my wife as the same as the sky. I cry day and night and miss the prince and his wife."
Madame was very happy.
Lu Buwei took the opportunity and asked Mrs. Huayang's sister to persuade Mrs. Huayang: "I heard that if you use your beauty to serve others, once your beauty fades, your favor will also decrease."
Now, madam, you are serving the prince, and you are very favored, but you have no son. If you don't take advantage of this opportunity to make a capable and filial person among the prince's sons, make him his heir and treat him like your own son, then your husband will be respected when he is alive, and after his death, your son will succeed to the throne and he will not lose power in the end. This is what people say, and it will be beneficial for all generations.
Instead of laying the foundation when the appearance is beautiful, if you wait until the appearance fades and the favor is lost, even if you want to have a word with the prince, is it still possible?
Now that Zi Chu is capable, and he knows that he is in the middle, he cannot be appointed as heir according to the order, and his biological mother is not favored, so he will take the initiative to attach himself to Madam. If Madam can really promote him as heir at this time, Madam, you will be respected and favored in Qin all your life.
After hearing this, Mrs. Huayang thought it was so. While flattering the prince, she tactfully said that Zichu, who was a hostage in Zhao State, was very talented and everyone who came and went praised him.
Then he cried and said: I am lucky enough to be in the harem, but it is a pity that I have no son. I hope to make Zichu my heir so that I can have someone to rely on in the future.
An Guojun agreed, and he and his wife carved jade talismans and decided to make Zi Chu his heir. Both An Guojun and Mrs. Huayang gave many things to Zi Chu, and asked Lu Buwei to be his teacher. Therefore, Zi Chu's reputation among the princes grew.
Lu Buwei married the most beautiful woman from Handan who was good at singing and dancing. He lived with her and found out that she was pregnant.
Zi Chu once drank with Lu Buwei. After seeing the girl, he liked the girl very much, so he stood up and toasted to Lu Buwei, asking for the girl to be given to him.
Lu Buwei was very angry, but then he thought about it and realized that he had spent a lot of money on Zi Chu in order to catch rare goods, so he sacrificed this woman.
Zhao Ji concealed her pregnancy and gave birth to her son Mingzheng twelve months later.
Zi Chu made this concubine his wife.
In the fiftieth year of King Zhao of Qin, he sent Wang Jue to besiege Handan. The situation was very urgent and Zhao wanted to kill Zi Chu.
Zi Chu conspired with Lu Buwei and gave six hundred kilograms of gold to the officials guarding the city. They were able to escape and fled to the Qin army's camp before successfully returning to Qin.
The State of Zhao also wanted to kill Zi Chu's wife and son. Because Chu's wife was the daughter of a wealthy family in the State of Zhao, he was able to hide it, so the mother and son survived.
King Zhao of Qin passed away in the fifty-sixth year. Prince An Guojun succeeded to the throne as king, Mrs. Huayang became queen, and Zi Chu became prince.
The State of Zhao also escorted Zi Chu's wife and son Ying Zheng back to the State of Qin.
King Qin died a year after he succeeded to the throne, and his posthumous title was King Xiaowen.
Prince Chu succeeded to the throne, and he became King Zhuang Xiang.
King Zhuang Xiang honored his mother, Queen Huayang, as the Queen Mother of Huayang, and his biological mother Xia Ji was honored as the Queen Mother of Xia.
In the first year of King Zhuang Xiang's reign, Lu Buwei was appointed prime minister, granted the title of Marquis Wenxin, and made 100,000 households in Luoyang, Henan, his food town.
King Zhuang Xiang died three years after he ascended the throne. Prince Ying Zheng succeeded him as king, respected Lu Buwei as the prime minister, and called him "Zhongfu".
The King of Qin was still young, so the Queen Mother often had an affair with Lu Buwei. Lu Buwei's family has ten thousand servants.
At that time, there was Lord Xinling in Wei, Lord Chunshen in Chu, Lord Pingyuan in Zhao, and Lord Mengchang in Qi. They all treated virtuous officials and made friends with guests.
And we have to compete in this regard. Lu Buwei thought that the Qin State was so powerful that it was a shame to be inferior to them, so he also recruited literati and bachelors and gave them generous treatment. There were as many as 3,000 diners under his disciples.
At that time, there were many talented debaters in various princely states, like Xunqing, who wrote books and established theories that were popular in the world.
Lu Buwei ordered his diners to write down what they saw and heard, and combined them into eight readings, six treatises, and twelve disciplines, totaling more than 200,000 words.
I think it includes the history of heaven and earth and all things from ancient times to the present, so it is called "Lu's Spring and Autumn Annals".
He published it at the city gate of Xianyang, with a reward of one thousand gold hanging on it, and invited tourists and guests from all over the world. If anyone could add or delete a word, he would be rewarded with one thousand gold.
Qin Shihuang gradually grew up, but the Queen Mother continued to be promiscuous.
Lu Buwei was afraid that the matter would be exposed and disaster would befall him, so he secretly sought out a man with a large penis, Lao Ai, as a guest. He often indulged in sexual pleasures and asked Lao Ai to run his penis through a small wheel made of Paulownia wood to walk. He also tried to let the Queen Mother know about this and use it to seduce her.
After the Queen Mother heard about it, she really wanted to possess him secretly.
Lu Buwei offered him Lao Ai, pretending to have someone accuse him of committing a crime worthy of castration.
Lu Buwei secretly said to the Queen Mother: You can let Lao Ai pretend to be castrated, and you can get him among the people working in the palace.
The Queen Mother secretly gave many things to the officials who presided over the palace punishment, and pretended to punish Lao Ai. She plucked out his beard and pretended to be a eunuch, so that he could serve the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother secretly committed adultery with him and was especially fond of him.
Later, the Queen Mother was pregnant. She was worried that others would know about it and pretended to have bad fortune. She needed a change of environment to avoid it, so she moved to the palace in Yongdi.
Lao Ai always followed him around, and received very generous rewards. Lao Ai decided everything.
Lao Ai's family has thousands of servants. There were more than a thousand people who came to Lao Ai's family in order to obtain official positions.
In the seventh year of Qin Shi Huang's reign, King Zhuang Xiang's biological mother, the Queen Mother Xia, passed away.
Queen Xiaowen was called Queen Mother Huayang and was buried in Shouling together with King Xiaowen.
The Empress Dowager Xia's son, King Zhuang Xiang, was buried in Zhiyang, so the Empress Dowager Xia was buried separately to the east of Duyuan. She once said during her lifetime: You can see my son to the east, and my husband to the west.
In a hundred years, there will definitely be a city with ten thousand households nearby.
In the ninth year of Emperor Qin Shihuang's reign, someone reported that Lao Ai was not actually a eunuch. He often had fornications with the Queen Mother and gave birth to two sons. They hid them. He also conspired with the Queen Mother that if the King of Qin died, we would support our son to succeed him.
So Qin Shihuang ordered relevant officials to investigate the matter strictly and find out all the truth. The matter implicated Prime Minister Lu Buwei.
In September of that year, he killed all the three tribes of the Lao Ai family, killed the two sons born to the Queen Mother, and moved the Queen Mother to live in Yongdi.
The diners of Lao Ai's family had their property confiscated and moved to Shu.
The King of Qin wanted to kill the Prime Minister Lu Buwei, but because of his great service to the late king and the many guests and debaters who interceded and put in good words for him, the King of Qin could not bear to bring him to justice.
In October of the 10th year of Qin Shihuang's reign, Lu Buwei was dismissed from the post of prime minister.
When Mao Jiao, a native of Qi, persuaded the King of Qin, the King of Qin went to Yongdi to welcome the Queen Mother and made her return to Xianyang, but sent Lu Buwei out of the capital to the fiefdom in Henan.
More than a year later, guests and envoys from various vassal states came in an endless stream to visit Lu Buwei.
The King of Qin was afraid that he would launch a rebellion, so he wrote to Lu Buwei: "What contribution have you made to Qin?"
The State of Qin granted you a grant in Henan, with a settlement of 100,000 households.
What is your relationship with King Qin?
He is actually called Zhongfu.
You and your family will all move to Shu!
When Lu Buwei thought that he was gradually being persecuted and feared that he would be killed in the future, he drank poisonous wine and committed suicide.
Lu Buwei and Lao Ai, whom the King of Qin hated, were both dead, so he ordered all Lao Ai's followers who had migrated to Shu to move back to Kyoto.
In the 19th year of Qin Shihuang's reign, the Queen Mother passed away and was given the posthumous title of Emperor Queen Mother. He was buried in Zhiyang together with King Zhuang Xiang.
Tai Shigong said: Lu Buwei brought along with Lao Ai Guixian, and Lu Buwei was given the title of Marquis Wenxin.
Someone reported on Lao Ai, and Lao Ai heard about it.
Qin Shihuang inquired about it, but the matter was not revealed yet.
When the King of Qin went to Yongdi to offer sacrifices to heaven, Lao Ai was afraid of the imminent disaster, so she conspired with her close associates to steal the Queen Mother's seal and mobilize soldiers to rebel in Qinian Palace.
The King of Qin mobilized officers and soldiers to attack Lao Ai, but Lao Ai failed and escaped. He chased him to Hao'an and beheaded him, and then beheaded his entire family.
And Lu Buwei was reprimanded as a result.
The "hearing" that Confucius mentioned refers to people like Lu Buwei!
