Li Tong, whose courtesy name was Ciyuan, was from Wan County, Nanyang County.
He has been famous for doing business for generations.
His father, Li Shou, was nine feet tall and his appearance was very different from ordinary people. He was serious and resolute, and his home was as if he were in a court.
At first, he worked with Liu Xin. He was fond of astronomical calculations and prophecies for predicting bad luck. He became Wang Mang's disciple.
Li Tong also worked for General Wuwei, and later became the magistrate of Wu County, with a reputation for being capable.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, the people were worried and resentful. Li Tong once heard his father's prophecy about the revival of the Liu family and the Li family as an assistant, and he often thought about it.
Because his family was very wealthy and ranked first in the township, he did not want to be an official, so he voluntarily resigned and returned home.
Later, Wang Chang's Xiajiang soldiers and Wang Kuang's Xinshi soldiers rose up, causing turmoil in Nanyang. Li Tong's cousin Li Yi, who had always been a good person, discussed together and said: Now that there is chaos from all directions, Wang Mang's regime is about to collapse, and the Han Dynasty should rise.
Among the Liu clan in Nanyang, only the Liu Boxheng brothers could love and accommodate the masses, and could conspire with them to destroy Wang Mang and revitalize the Han Dynasty. Li Tong smiled and said: My opinion is the same. When Guangwu took refuge in Wan, Li Tong heard about it and sent Li Yi to greet Guangwu.
Guang Wuchu admired Li Tong because he was a gentleman, so he went to thank him.
When they met, the two talked for a long time and shook hands happily.
Li Tong told all the prophecies, and Guangwu started to have a big surprise, saying that he didn't dare to take it seriously.
At this time, Li Shou was in Chang'an. Guangwu looked at Li Tong secretly and said, "In this case, what should your father do?" Li Tong said: I already have a solution. So he stated his plan in detail to Guangwu.
Since Guangwu was well aware of Li Tong's intentions, he made an agreement with Li Tong and made a plan to take advantage of the capital's knight test on the first day of autumn to kidnap Zhen Fu, a senior official in the front team, and Qiuci, a subordinate of Zhengliang, so he ordered the public to declare an uprising.
He sent Guangwu and Li Yi back to Chongling and raised their troops accordingly.
He sent his cousin's son Li Ji to Chang'an to tell Li Shou the plan.
Li Ji died of illness on the road. Li Shou knew the secret and wanted to flee back.
Li Shousu was friendly with Huang Xian, a fellow villager. Huang Xian was then the Zhonglang General. When he heard the news, he said to Li Shou: "The gates are now tightly guarded. Your appearance is special. Where will you go?"
It is better to go to the court and ask for your return.
Things haven't happened yet, as long as we can get away, we can avoid disaster. After Li Shou heard what he said, he wrote a letter asking for death. The memorial was not submitted in time, so he stayed in the palace.
At this time, the matter was discovered and Li Tong was able to escape. When Wang Mang found out, he arrested Li Shou and imprisoned him.
Huang Xian interceded for Li Shou and said: Li Shou heard that his son had committed a serious crime and did not dare to flee back. He obeyed his righteousness and returned to you.
I, Huang Xian, would rather take Li Shou to the east and inform his son.
If his son really wants to rebel, I will order Li Shou to commit suicide to the north to thank him for his great kindness. Wang Mang agreed.
At this time, Zhen Fu from the front team wrote another letter stating the situation of Li Tong's army. Wang Mang was angry and prepared to kill Li Shou. Huang Xian argued for him, so Li Shou and Huang Xian were killed together, along with all Li Shou's family members in Chang'an.
Nanyang also killed Li Tong's brothers and sixty-four members of his clan, and burned their bodies in Wan City.
At this time, Han soldiers had also gathered in large numbers.
Li Tong met Guangwu and Li Yi in Jiyang, so they attacked the front line together and killed Zhen Fu and Liang Qiuci.
Gengshi was established, and Li Tong was appointed as the general of Zhuguo and the auxiliary of the Han Dynasty.
From Gengshi to Chang'an, he was promoted to general and granted the title of King of Xiping; Li Yi was appointed as King of Wuyin; and Li Tong's cousin Li Song was appointed as Prime Minister.
Gengshi sent Li Tong back to Jingzhou to guard Jingzhou, so Li Tong married Guangwu's sister Boji, who was Princess Ningping.
Guangwu ascended the throne and recruited Li Tong as a guard.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Shihou and worshiped the great minister of agriculture.
Whenever Emperor Guangwu went on an expedition to conquer all directions, he often ordered Li Tong to stay in the capital, calm the people, repair palaces, and build schools.
In the spring of the fifth year, Wang Liang was appointed as the former general.
In the summer of the sixth year, he led ten battalions including Hou Jin, the traitor general, and Wang Ba, the captor general, to attack the Hanzhong thieves.
Gongsun Shu sent troops to rescue them, and Li Tong and others fought with them in Xicheng, defeated the rebels, and returned to camp in Shunyang.
At this time, the world was generally peaceful. Li Tong wanted to avoid honor and favor, so he submitted a letter requesting to resign and go home on the grounds of illness.
Guangwu issued an edict and ordered the officials and ministers to discuss it. The great Situ Houba and others said: Wang Mang has usurped the Han Dynasty and brought chaos to the world.
Li Tongshen took the strategies of Yi Yin, Lu Shang, Xiao He, and Cao Shen into account, established grand plans, supported the gods, and assisted in achieving sainthood.
To sacrifice one's family for the sake of the country, to forget oneself and serve the Lord, is to help people in danger to survive.
It has the highest merit and is known throughout the world.
Li Tong pacified the world and resigned humbly.
An Ding cannot forget the danger and should order Li Tong to take care of his illness.
If you want to return to the vassal state, don't listen. So he ordered Li Tong to treat his illness and work on time.
In the summer of this year, Li Tong was appointed as Grand Sikong.
Li Tong initiated the uprising with common people and helped to achieve the imperial cause, and because of Princess Ningping, he was especially respected.
However, Li Tong was humble by nature and often wanted to avoid power.
He was known to suffer from diabetes mellitus. Ever since he became prime minister, he had taken sick leave and ignored political affairs. He reported illness and returned to his hometown year after year. Emperor Guangwu always treated him favorably and doted on him.
He was ordered to go home to recuperate in his official position, but Li Tong refused again.
After two years, he presented the seal ribbon of Da Sikong to him and granted him a special promotion to participate in the court meeting.
Relevant departments petitioned the princes to be granted the title. Emperor Guangwu was grateful to Li Tong for initiating the great plan, and immediately granted Li Tong's youngest son Li Xiong the title of Marquis of Zhaoling.
Whenever Emperor Guangwu came to Nanyang, he often sent envoys to pay homage to Li Shou's tomb with Tailao etiquette.
Li Tong died in the 18th year of Jianwu's reign. His posthumous title is Gonghou.
The emperor and the empress came in person to pay their respects and pay their respects to the funeral.
After Li Tong died, Ziyin succeeded to the throne, after Li Yin died, Li Ding succeeded, after Li Ding died, his son Li Huang succeeded, and after Li Huang died, his son Li Shou succeeded.
Li Yi was later killed by Zhu Tuna.
When Gengshi was defeated, Li Song also died in battle. Only Li Tong lived his life with fame.
In Yongping, Xianzong came to Wan, and the descendants of Zhaoli met with Anzhong and the Liu clan, and received rewards and favors together.
史官评论道：孔子说过： 富与贵是人们所想得到的，但如果不是以正当的方法得来的，就不要这种富贵。 李通难道是知道那些所欲而不识以道的人吗？

It is difficult for a saint to explain such things as the law of heaven and life, let alone speculative prophecies and arrogant and unfounded welfare, which causes relatives to be killed in the hope of gaining temporary success!
In the past, Meng Gu fled to Yunmeng with a letter and did not die in Chu, but later he dedicated the canon to King Zhao and achieved great merit; King Zhao of Yan attacked Qi, leaving only Ju and Jimo in Qi, but later Tian Dan started from Jimo and defeated the Yan army, finally avenging Qi's shame.
These are all plans for long-term development regardless of short-term success. The trends and choices they make are probably different from Li Tong, right?
Wang Chang, courtesy name Yanqing, was from Wuyang, Yingchuan County.
In his last years, Wang Mang avenged his brother, concealed his name and fled to Jiangxia.
Later, he, Wang Feng, Wang Kuang and others launched an army in the green forest of Yundu, gathering tens of thousands of people, with Wang Chang as a supporting general, to attack neighboring counties.
Later, together with Cheng Dan and Zhang, they gathered at Lankou, Nanjun, and were known as the soldiers under the river.
Wang Mang sent Yan You and Chen Mao to defeat them.
Wang Chang, Cheng Dan and Zhang gathered scattered soldiers into the Ruoxi Valley and plundered the area around Shilong Mountain in Anzhou and Sanzhong Mountain in Suizhou, and the tribe was revived.
He led the army to fight with Jingzhou Mu in Shangtang Township, and defeated Jingzhou Mu, and then reached Yiqiuju in Nanyang in the north.
At this time, the Han soldiers and the troops from Xinshi and Pinglin were all defeated in Xiaochang'an, and all the ministries wanted to disband and leave.
When Bo Sheng heard that soldiers from Xiajiang were in Yiqiu, he went to Wang Chang's camp with Guangwu and Li Tong and said, "I would like to meet a wise general from Xiajiang to discuss important matters." Cheng Dan and Zhang jointly recommended Wang Chang to be dispatched.
Bo Sheng met Wang Chang and explained the benefits of alliance.
Wang Chang was enlightened and said: Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty and killed the king. He was cruel and violent and tyrannized the world. The people missed the Han Dynasty, so heroes and heroes rose up together.
Now Liu's revival is God.
I really want to dedicate myself to help achieve great success. Bo Sheng said: If it comes to pass, how dare I enjoy the victory alone? So he got acquainted with Wang Chang and left.
Wang Chang came back and informed Cheng Dan and Zhang of the situation.
Cheng Dan and Zhang, because of their large numbers of soldiers, both said: Once a man rises up, he should take charge of his own affairs. Why should he be restricted by others? Wang Chang's heart only surrendered to the Han Dynasty, so he slowly told his generals: In the past, Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai declined and had no heirs, so Wang Mang took the opportunity to usurp the throne.
Now that the world has been established, the government's laws are harsh and cruel, and over time it loses the hearts of the people.
The common people have been chanting and thinking about the Han Dynasty for more than a day, and this is what makes us get up.
Whatever the common people resent, God will remove it; whatever the common people miss, God will give it to them.
If you are undertaking a major undertaking, you must comply with the people's will and God's will at the moment, in order to be successful.
If you rely on strength and courage and indulge in lust, even if you win the world, you will definitely lose it.
With the power of Emperor Qin and Xiang Yu, they would be overthrown and destroyed, let alone the common people gathering in the grass today?
If this continues, it is tantamount to self-destruction.
Now the Liu clan in Nanyang has raised an army. Those who come to discuss matters have deep plans and great plans. They are the talents of the princes. If we merge with them, we will achieve great success. This is God protecting us! Although the generals in Xiajiang were stubborn and lacked knowledge, they always respected Wang Chang, so they all thanked him and said: Without General Wang, our group almost fell into injustice.
I would like to be taught respectfully. He then led his troops to join the Han army, Xinshi and Pinglin troops.
So all the tribes worked together and became stronger, so they marched together to defeat Zhenfu and Liangqiuci and kill them.
When the generals discussed the establishment of the clan, only Wang Chang and the Nanyang scholar-bureaucrats agreed to support Bosheng, but Zhu Kun, Zhang and others did not listen.
When Gengshi came to the throne, Wang Chang was appointed as a court lieutenant and a general, and he was granted the title of Zhi Minghou.
He also captured Runan and Peijun, and then returned to Kunyang, and together with Guangwu defeated Wangxun and Wangyi.
In Chang'an, the western capital of Gengshi, the king often went to Nanyang to serve as the prefect, and he was ordered to punish and reward him. He was named King Deng, occupied eight counties, and was given the surname Liu.
Wang Changxing was respectful, frugal, and abided by the laws, and people in the south praised him.
The reform failed. In the summer of the second year of Jianwu, Wang Chang took his wife to Luoyang and went topless to apologize to Guangwu.
Guangwu was very happy to see Wang Chang and comforted him by saying: "Wang Tingwei is working hard."
Every time I think about the past and the hardships we experienced together, how can I ever forget them.
You have been away for a long time and have not come back. Do you want to violate your past words? The king often kowtows his head to the ground to apologize and says: I have been appointed by heaven to hold the whip and support your majesty.
They first met in Yiqiu, and later in Kunyang. Fortunately, thanks to the Shen Shen Wu Hui, they became close friends.
Gengshi did not abandon his foolish ministers and appointed Tingwei as the acting governor of Nanyang.
The red eyebrow breaks the new chapter, which makes people sad and disappointed, thinking that the order of the world has been broken again.
I heard that His Majesty ascended the throne in Hebei, and I am very clear-sighted. Now that I can see you in the imperial court, I will never regret it until I die. The emperor smiled and said: "I was just joking with Tingwei."
I saw Wei Ting and no longer worried about the south. So he convened a meeting of the generals and ministers, and specially introduced it to the ministers: Wang Chang and others raised righteous soldiers, and he knew the destiny of heaven, so he was granted the title of Marquis of Zhiming.
When we met in the army, we were particularly affectionate and friendly. He was specially rewarded, worshiped as Zuocao, and granted the title of Shansang Hou.
Later, the emperor pointed to Wang Chang in the meeting and said to the officials: This family leads the generals from the lower reaches of the Yangtze River to support the Han Dynasty, and their hearts are like gold and stone. They are really loyal ministers! On this day, King Tianqian Chang was a loyal general of the Han Dynasty. He sent him south to attack Deng Feng and Dong Yijin, and ordered all the generals to belong to him.
He also ordered the king to attack Hejian and Yuyang from the north to pacify the settlements.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Jianwu, he captured Huling and met with the emperor in Rencheng, thus defeating Sumao and Pang Meng from the emperor.
During the attack on Xiapi, Wang Chang's troops fought at the city gate. On the first day, the thieves fled into the city. Wang Chang pursued and forced them. Arrows rained down on the city. The emperor watched from a high place in the south of the city with more than a hundred riders. Wang Chang fought bravely and sent Zhonghuangmenchi to issue an edict to lure the thieves back. The thieves surrendered.
He also led the cavalry captain Wang Ba to defeat the Peijun thieves.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, he returned to Luoyang and ordered his wife to welcome Wang Chang in Wuyang, return home and go to the tomb.
Xitun troops were stationed in Chang'an and rejected Wei Xiao.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent an envoy with a seal to worship Wang Chang as the General of Hengye, and his rank was distinguished from that of other generals.
Wang Changbie defeated Wei Xiao and general Gao Jun was in Chaona.
Kaixiao sent his generals to pass through Wushi County, and Wang Chang invited him to attack and defeat Kaixiao's tribe.
He also surrendered the walls of the Qiang camps and pacified them all.
In the ninth year of Jianwu's reign, he attacked the yellow thieves and defeated them.
Later, he went to Gu'an in Beitun and refused Lu Fang.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, he died in the garrison and was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
His son Wang Guang succeeded to the throne.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Shicheng.
In the 14th year of Yongping, the fiefdom was abolished due to his involvement in the rebellion of King Chu.
Deng Chen, whose courtesy name was Weiqing, was from Xinye County, Nanyang County.
Both his great-grandfather and grandfather served as governors and had an estate of 2,000 shi.
His father, Deng Hong, was the captain of Yuzhang.
Deng Chen initially married Guangwu's sister Liu Yuan.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, Guangwu, his brothers Bosheng and Deng Chendu went to Wancheng and talked with Cai Shaogong, a Rang man.
The young master learned from the prophecies and said that Liu Xiu should be the emperor.
Some people said: Is it the Grand Master Liu Xiu? Guangwuxi replied: How do you know it's not me? Everyone sitting there laughed, and Deng Chen felt happy.
When Guangwu and his family took refuge in Xinye, they lived in Deng Chen's home and became very dear to each other.
Deng Chen therefore said to Guangwu: "Wang Mang is rebellious and violent, killing people in midsummer. This is the time for the death of Wang Mang."
Is it true that I met in Wancheng before? Guangwu smiled but didn't answer.
When the Han soldiers rose up, Deng Chen led his guests to meet in Jiyang.
The Han army was defeated in Xiaochang'an, and many generals lost their families. Guangwu fled alone, met his sister Boji, and rode with her.
Go ahead and see your sister Liu Yuan again and tell her to get on the horse quickly.
Liu Yuan pointed his finger and said: "Go away quickly, you can't save me, don't die with me." Just as the pursuers arrived, Liu Yuan and her three daughters were killed.
The Han soldiers retreated to Jiyang, but the Xinye County magistrate defiled Deng Chen's house and burned the tombs of Deng Chen's ancestors.
The Deng clan was all angry and said, "The family is already rich, why do they follow the woman's family into the soup pot?" Deng Chen finally showed no regrets.
After Gengshi ascended the throne, he made Deng Chen the partial general.
Together with Guangwu Luo Yingchuan, they went out to Kunyang City at night and defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi.
They also attacked east of Yangzhai, and captured all of them as far as Jingxian and Mixian.
Gengshi's northern capital was Luoyang, with Deng Chen as the governor of Changshan.
When Wang Lang rebelled, Guangwu went from Ji to Xindu. Deng Chen also took a small path to meet at the foot of Julu. Deng Chen asked himself to attack Handan.
Guangwu said: "It is better for you to follow me with your whole body than to be my master of the North Road with one county." So he sent Deng Chen back to the county.
When Guangwu chased Bronze Horse and Gaohu bandits in Jizhou, Deng Chen sent out thousands of archers and transportation teams to continuously transport food for the army.
Guangwu ascended the throne and made Deng Chen the Marquis of Fangfang.
The emperor also mourned the death of his sister Liu Yuan in the rebellion. He posthumously named Liu Yuan the eldest princess of Xinye Festival and built a temple in the west of the county.
Deng Xun, the eldest son of Deng Chen, was granted the title of Marquis of Wu Fang in order to offer sacrifices to the princess.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Deng Chen was called back to Beijing and had many banquets, where he enjoyed talking about old times and his life.
Deng Chen calmly said to the emperor: I was right. The emperor laughed.
From the emperor to Zhangling, he was worshiped as Doctor Guanglu and sent him to supervise Zhijinwu Jiafu and others to attack and pacify the Shaoling and Xinxi bandits.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, from Guangwu to Shouchun, he stayed in Jiujiang.
Deng Chen enjoyed his duties as county governor, so he appointed him as the governor of Zhongshan County. Officials and people praised him. It is often ranked first among the counties in Jizhou.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Nanhou.
After entering the imperial court, he became the prefect of Runan.
In the eighteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu went to Zhangling and summoned Deng Chen to serve as a court captain.
From the emperor to Xinye, he had a banquet with wine and hundreds of millions in rewards, and then sent him back to the county.
Deng Chen built thousands of hectares of Honggu and Pi fields, which made Runan rich. The abundance of fish and rice inspired other counties.
In the second year, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xihua. Then he was summoned back to the capital to be invited by the court.
When Jianwu died in the 25th year of his life, the imperial edict sent him to adopt the etiquette of a princess official, to welcome the soul of the new wild master, and to be buried together with Deng Chen in Beimang.
The emperor and empress attended the funeral in person.
Deng Chen was posthumously named Marquis Hui.
Xiaozi Tangsi, later moved to Wudang.
Tang died, and his son became an heir.
After solid death, heir to the country.
If the country dies, the son will be blessed with heirs. If he dies in the first year of Yongjian's reign and has no children, the country will be eliminated.
Uncle Lai Shezi is from Xinye County, Nanyang.
My father came to Zhong. He was an admonishing official during the reign of Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty. He married Guangwu's aunt, and she was born. Lai She's sister was the wife of Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong. Liu Jia sent people to greet Lai She, so he came south to Hanzhong.
After Emperor Gengshi failed, Lai She persuaded Liu Jia to join Emperor Guangwu, so he and Liu Jia went east to Luoyang.
After the rise of the Han army, Wang Mang imprisoned She since she was a relative of the Liu family, and the guests jointly used force to seize it, so they were spared.
After Gengshi came to the throne, Yishe became an official and followed him into the pass.
Several suggestions were not adopted and he left due to illness.
Lai She's sister was the wife of Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong. Liu Jia sent people to welcome Lai She, so she went south to Hanzhong.
When Gengshi was defeated, Lai She persuaded Liu Jia to surrender to Guangwu, so he and Liu Jiadong went to Luoyang.
Emperor Guangwu was very happy to see Lai She. He immediately took off his own clothes and put them on Lai She, and appointed him as Taizhong doctor.
At this time, Emperor Wu was worried about Long and Shu, so Lai She took the initiative to ask for help and said: I once met Wei Xiao in Chang'an.
When that man first started his army, he was in the name of reviving the Han Dynasty. Now His Majesty's holy virtue is majestic. I hope that I can follow your orders and enlighten him with unchanging integrity. Wei Xiao will definitely surrender without restraint. Then Gongsun Shu will be destroyed, so there is no need to worry.
Emperor Guangwu thought he was right.
Emperor Guangwu thought he was right. In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Lai She was sent as an envoy to Kaixiao.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Kai Xiao sent his son Kai Xun to follow Lai She and enter the court as a hostage.
At that time, Shandong was generally pacified. Emperor Guangwu planned to collect Wei Xiao's troops from the west and wanted to attack Shu with them. He also sent Lai She to inform Wei Xiao of his will.
Wei Xiao's subordinates persuaded him and raised many questions, which made him hesitate for a long time. Lai She had always been resolute, so he angrily questioned and blamed Kui Xiao, saying: The emperor thought that you knew good and evil, and the principles of rise and fall, so he wrote to you personally to express his feelings. You expressed your sincerity and sent your son Bochun as a hostage. This is the mutual trust between the emperor and his ministers.
Now, instead of listening to the words of a treacherous villain, making a plan to exterminate the family, betraying the monarch, and implicating his son, is this a violation of loyalty and integrity? The choice that determines good or bad luck is today.
Lai She wanted to step forward and assassinate Kai Xiao, but Wei Xiao got up and entered the inner room, deployed his soldiers, and wanted to kill Lai She. Lai She calmly walked to the car with the talisman, got in, and left.
Wei Xiao became even more angry, and Wang Yuan advised him to kill Lai She. Lai She was loyal and consistent in his words and deeds, which could be verified even when lobbying back and forth. The scholar-bureaucrats in Xizhou trusted and respected him, and many people interceded on his behalf, so Lai She was able to escape and return to the East to the Han Dynasty.
In the spring of the eighth year of Jianwu, Lai She and Zhenglu General Ji Zun attacked Lueyang. Ji Zun fell ill on the road and returned. Ji Zun sent elite troops to follow Lai She. More than two thousand people in total split the mountains and opened a road from Fanxu and Huizhong to Lueyang. They killed Jin Liang, the guard of Wei Xiao, and then defended Lueyang City.
Wei Xiao was very surprised, so he led tens of thousands of soldiers to besiege Lueyang, dug mountains and built embankments, and stored water to flood the city.
Lai She and his soldiers held on desperately, but when they ran out of arrows, they demolished the house and cut down trees to use as weapons.
Wei Xiao used all his elite troops to attack the city. From spring to autumn, his soldiers were very tired. Emperor Guangwu then massively mobilized the Kwantung troops and personally led the troops to Longdi. Kuaixiao's tribe was defeated and fled, relieving the siege.
So a grand celebration cocktail party was held to express Lai She's condolences, and he was given a seat by himself at the right side of the generals. Lai She's wife was given a thousand pieces of silk.
The imperial edict came to Sheliu to garrison Chang'an to monitor the generals.
Lai She then wrote to him and said: Gongsun Shu used Longxi and Tianshui as barriers to shield him, so he was able to postpone his leave.
Now that the two counties have been calmed down, Gongsun Shu's wisdom and tactics have been exhausted.
We should select more troops and horses and accumulate supplies.
In the past, most of Zhao's generals were merchants, and Emperor Gao offered large rewards.
Nowadays, Xizhou has been newly conquered. The soldiers are exhausted and the people are hungry. If they can be recruited with money and grain, they can be mobilized.
I know that the state has a lot of expenditures and insufficient funds, but this is a last resort. Emperor Guangwu agreed.
So a large-scale grain accumulation and transshipment was implemented, and Lai She was ordered to lead General Feng Yi, General Jianwei, Geng Yan, Huya General Gai Yan, Yangwu General Ma Cheng, and Wuwei General Liu Shang into Tianshui and defeat Gongsun Shu's generals Tian Yan and Zhao Kuang.
The next year, when the attack was over, Kaixiao's allies Zhou Zong, Zhao Hui and all the counties in Tianshui County surrendered.
At first, during Wang Mang's reign, many Qiang captives rebelled, but Kui Xiao recruited his chiefs and heroes, so he used them.
After the defeat of Weixiao, Wuxi Valley, Xianling and other tribes invaded and plundered several times. They all built camps and dug trenches to defend themselves, and the states and counties were unable to attack them.
When he came to She, he overhauled his combat equipment and led Gai Yan, Liu Shang and Taizhong doctor Ma Yuan to attack the Qiang in Jincheng. They defeated the Qiang captives, beheaded thousands of people, captured more than 10,000 cattle and sheep, and hundreds of thousands of dendrobium grains.
He also defeated the Xiangwu thieves Fu Liqing and others.
Although Longxi was pacified, there was little food and people were hungry, so the people had to live without food.
Lai She transferred all the grain in the warehouses to various counties for relief and support. As a result, Longxi was stabilized and circulated with Liangzhou.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, Lai She, Gai Yan, and Ma Cheng attacked Gongsun Shu's general Wang Yuan, Huan'an Yu Hechi, and Xia Bian, and captured them. Take advantage of the victory and move forward.
The Shu people were greatly frightened and sent assassins to kill Lai She. Before he died, they summoned Gai Yan.
When Gai Yan saw Lai She, he fell down in sorrow and could not look up.
Laishe scolded Gai Yan and said: How dare General Huya do this!
Now that I have been assassinated by an assassin, I can no longer serve the country, so I called you here to ask for military orders. Instead, you followed the example of your children and cried bitterly!
Although I have a stabbing blade in my body, can't I kill you with my sword? Gai Yan held back his tears and stood up forcefully to accept Lai She's warning.
Lai She wrote a note saying: I was stabbed in the vital part by someone unknown in the dead of night.
The minister did not dare to cherish his own life. He only regretted that he had not completed his duties and felt that the court was ashamed.
Governing the country is based on the acquisition of worthy persons. Duan Xiang, the Taizhong doctor, can be appointed with integrity. May your Majesty rule and review.
Also, my brother is not wise and may end up committing a crime. Please show mercy to your majesty and give more advice to the inspector.
After he finished writing, he dropped the pen, took out the knife stuck in his body, and died. Guangwu was shocked when he heard the news. He looked at his watch and wiped away his tears, and then gave a policy letter saying: Zhonglang will come to She, and he has been fighting for years, pacifying Qiang and Long. He is worried about his country and forgets his family. He has outstanding loyalty and filial piety. He is assassinated. How sad!
He sent the Taizhong doctor to present the seals and ribbons of General Shezhong and the Marquis of Qiang, and gave him the posthumous title of Marquis of Jie. He also sent visitors to take care of the funeral. The coffin returned to Luoyang, and the emperor was buried in white mourning clothes.
Since then, She has made great achievements in pacifying the Qiang and Long, so Dangxiang County in Runan County was changed to conquer the Qiang Kingdom.
The son comes to praise the successor.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor commended Lai She's Zhongjie Festival and granted Lai She's younger brother the title of Marquis of Yixi.
Lai Baozi Lai Xun married the eminent daughter Princess Wu'an.
Lai Xun died early, and after Lai Bao died, Lai Xun son came to the throne.
The historian commented: The world calls Uncle Laijun a believer in the world.
As a special envoy between the two countries, is he still tired of deception?
And he is famous for his integrity in the world because his sincerity is to make both parties feel comfortable, but he himself is not selfish and seeking merit!
