Wang Sengbian, also known as Juncai, was the son of Youwei General Wang Shennian.
During the Tianjian period, Wang Sengbian came to join his father.
He was recruited from his family and served as the Zuo Changshi of the Xiangdong Kingdom.
King Xiangshu was appointed Danyang Yin, and Wang Sengbian was transferred to Fu Xing to join the army.
King Shu of Hunan was appointed as the prefect of Kuaiji, and Wang Sengbian also served as a soldier in the military.
King Xiangshu was appointed governor of Jingzhou, and Wang Sengbian was still appointed as a soldier in the army and held a confidential position.
At that time, Wuning County was in rebellion, and King Xiangdong ordered Wang Sengbian to attack and quell the rebellion.
Wang Sengbian was moved to the post of General Zhenwei and Prefect of Wuning.
Soon he was moved to the post of General Zhenyuan and Grand Administrator of Guangping.
After his term of office expired, Wang Sengbian returned to the Prince of Xiangshu and served as a recorder of affairs in the palace, and his position in the army remained unchanged.
The king of eastern Hunan was conscripted into the capital to serve as a military guard, and Wang Sengbian also served as the Sima of the palace.
The king of eastern Hunan was appointed governor of Jiangzhou, and Wang Sengbian was subsequently appointed as General Yunqi, Sima, and governor of Huancheng.
Soon he moved to oversee Anlu County, and returned to the palace not long after.
Soon he was appointed governor of Xincai, still holding the post of Sima, and his title of general remained unchanged.
King Shu of Xiang was appointed as the prefect of Jingzhou. Wang Sengbian consulted for General Zhenyi's office and joined the military. He was given food for a thousand people. He replaced Liu Zhongli as the prefect of Jingling and changed his title to General Xiongxin.
When Hou Jing rebelled, the king of eastern Hunan ordered Wang Sengbian to go on holiday. The governor sent 10,000 naval troops to aid the capital with food supplies.
When Monk Wang arrived at the capital, the palace was captured and the emperor was humiliated.
Wang Sengbian, Liu Zhongli brothers, Tang Bochao and others first surrendered to Hou Jing, and then entered the palace to see the emperor. Hou Jing confiscated all their weapons and food, and deeply comforted them.
Not long after, Hou Jing sent Wang Sengbian back to Jingling. Wang Sengbian then doubled his travels, traveling day and night, and went west to join Shizu.
Shizu followed the emperor's will and appointed Wang Sengbian as the leading general.
There was a rift between the governor of Jingzhou, King Xiangdong, and the governor of Xiangzhou, King Hedong. They were suspicious of each other, and the army could not be commanded in a unified manner. The emperor ordered Wang Sengbian and Bao Quan to lead the army to attack them, allocate enough military rations, and set a date for departure.
At that time, Wang Sengbian planned to wait for all of Jingling's men to gather before moving forward together because not all of Jingling's men had arrived.
Wang Sengbian said to Bao Quan: You and I accepted the order to march southward, but the army formation is so uneven. What are your plans?
Bao Quan said: Since we have accepted the imperial court's war plan and led our brave soldiers to kill the enemy, the situation is like pouring hot water on snow, so why should we worry more?
Monk Wang argued: What you said is wrong.
What you are saying is nothing more than a truism from scribes.
The King of Hedong had military talent when he was young, and his weapons and equipment were very strong. He had just defeated our army and was now recharging his strength, waiting for us to attack. Without ten thousand elite soldiers, it would not be enough to defeat them.
The Jingling soldiers under my leadership have experienced many battles. I have sent people to summon them and will arrive soon.
Although the confirmed date has arrived, the departure time can still be postponed. I want to go to the court with you to report this matter to the prince. I hope you can help me speak.
Bao Quan said: The success or failure of the matter all depends on whether the troops are sent out this time. Whether it is late or early, we should ultimately obey the prince's order.
Shidan was strict and suspicious by nature. He had secretly learned about their conversation, so he thought that they were delaying the trip and refused to set off, and he was getting angry.
When Wang Sengbian was about to enter the court, he said to Bao Xing: I will start talking first, and you can follow me.
Bao Quan agreed to him again.
They went to see Shizu, who greeted them and asked: Are you ready?
On what day will you depart?
Wang Sengbian told Shizu all what he had said before.
Shizu was very angry. He touched his sword and said sharply: "Are you afraid of sending troops?"
After saying that, he got up and entered the inner hall.
Bao Xing was so shocked and frightened that he did not dare to speak.
After a while, Shidan sent out ten followers to arrest Wang Sengfeng.
After Shidan came out on his own, he argued with Wang Seng: "You resisted the order and refused to set off, which means you want to be with the rebels. Now there is only one way to die."
Wang Sengbian replied: "Sengbian is well-paid by the imperial court and has a really heavy responsibility. He was killed today. How dare he feel any resentment. I just regret not seeing his mother."
Shizu then slashed Wang Sengbian with his sword and hit Wang Sengbian's left thigh, causing blood to flow to the ground.
Wang Sengbian fainted and did not wake up until a long time later.
Shizu then handed him over to the Tingwei. At the same time, he also arrested Wang Sengbian's nephew and imprisoned them all.
When the army of King Yueyang attacked Liao Dynasty, people were in a state of unrest and did not know how to defend themselves. Emperor Shizu sent his attendants to the prison to ask Wang Guanhuan about the method of defense. Wang Sengluan fully stated the strategy of defending against the enemy. Wang Sengnian was pardoned at that time and appointed as the governor of the city.
Soon King Yueyang was defeated, and Bao Quan besieged Changsha. He tried his best to attack Changsha but could not conquer it. The emperor ordered Wang Sengbian to replace Bao Quan.
Listing Bao Quan's ten crimes, he sent Luo Chonghuan, a member of the army, to lead 300 elite members of the Forbidden Army and set off with Wang Sengbian.
After they arrived at Bao Xing's place, they first sent someone to inform Bao Quan: "The Luoshe people have been ordered by the prince to send Wang Jingling."
Bao Quan was very surprised and said to his attendants: "With Wang Jingling's help in planning the war, the rebels will be vulnerable."
After a while, Luo Chonghuan entered Bao Xing's camp with Shizu's order, and Wang Tanluan led the imperial army after him. Bao Quan wiped the seats to greet them, and then sat down to wait for them to speak.
After Wang Sengbian entered, he sat down with his back to Bao Quan and said, "Bao Li, you are guilty. The prince ordered me to arrest you. Don't treat me with the same attitude as before."
He told Luo Chonghuan to bring out the prince's order, Bao Xing got down from the couch, and the imperial army tied up Bao Xing beside the couch.
Wang Sengbian then deployed his troops, deployed generals, and the entire army attacked the city together, thus pacifying Xiangzhou.
After returning, Wang Sengbian was appointed as the leading general.
Hou Jing led his army to invade west along the Liao Dynasty by boat, and the army was stationed in Xia Shou.
Wang Sengbian was appointed as the governor, and led Chun Yuliang, the governor of Bazhou, Du Gong, the governor of Dingzhou, Wang Lin, the governor of Yizhou, Pei Zhiheng, the governor of Chenzhou and others to rush to Xiyang, and the army was stationed in Baling.
Hearing that Yingzhou had been captured, Sengbian defended Baling City.
Shizu then ordered Xu Sihui, the governor of Luozhou, and Du Dian, the governor of Wuzhou, to join Sengbian in Baling.
After Hou Jing also captured Jiangxi, the number of soldiers increased and their morale was very strong, and they were about to attack Xingye.
So he sent Iuguan Yi and Ding He to lead 5,000 soldiers to guard the Red Star. General Song Zixian led 10,000 horses as the vanguard to go straight to Baling. Jiangxi Liang led all the rebels to follow the vanguard by land and water.
So the soldiers garrisoned along Liao asked to surrender when they heard the news. The rebels extended the patrol soldiers as far as Yinji.
Wang Sengbian transported all the rice and grain from Liaozhu ashore and sank all public and private ships into the water.
When the rebel forwards stationed at the mouth of the river, Wang Sengbian issued an order to the troops, asking them to climb up the city wall and hold on, and to stop their flags and drums, making them as quiet as if there was no one around.
The next day, the rebels crossed the river. Qingqi rode to the bottom of the city and asked the defenders: Who is commanding the army in the city?
The defender replied: "It's Wang Yuan's army."
The rebels said: Tell the king to lead the army, the situation has developed like this, why didn't you surrender earlier?
Wang Jiuluan sent someone to reply: Even if your army goes straight to Jingzhou, sending a city will naturally not be an obstacle to you.
I, Wang Sengbian, have more than a hundred members under the control of others. How can I surrender at will?
After the rebel cavalry left, they came back soon and said: Our prince is already here. Why doesn't the king lead the army out to meet the prince?
Wang Sengbian did not answer.
After a while, the rebels arrived at the city with Wang Xi and others who were imprisoned by them. Wang Xi wrote a letter to persuade the defenders in the city to surrender.
Hou Jing led all the ships to gather at the North Temple, and then sailed into the river branch separately. The sergeants went ashore to clear the roads, set up many felt tents, and showed off their military power on the city Shulong. They shoveled weeds and opened eight roads directly to Baling City. He also sent 5,000 death squads to attack the city wall in hand-to-hand combat.
The defenders in the city beat drums and shouted at the same time, arrows and stones rained down, killing many rebels, and then the rebels retreated. Shizu ordered Pingbei General Qu Sengku to lead his troops down the river to reinforce Wang Sengbian.
On this day, the rebels attacked Baling again. The sailors and infantry attacked from ten places, beating drums, blowing whistles, fighting hand-to-hand, and marching to the city while cutting.
Rolling logs were thrown on the city, and fire and radium stones were thrown, killing many rebels.
In the afternoon, the rebels retreated, so they built another long fence around Baling City, deployed warships on a large scale, and attacked the southwest corner of the water city with tower boats. They also sent people to cross the river and go ashore. They used mooring stakes and pushed a toad cart to fill the moat. They pushed a barrier cart that could block the arrows and stones until they reached the city. The attack lasted two days before stopping.
The rebels also erected wooden tangerines on the ship, piled thatch and set fire to it to burn the defenders' water booms. However, because the wind direction was not favorable to the rebels, they burned their own ship instead and were forced to retreat.
The rebels repeatedly attacked and were defeated. The rebel leader Yu Dian was captured by Lu Yunsu again. He burned down the camp and escaped at night, leading his army back to Xia Shou.
The ancestors discussed meritorious deeds and rewarded him, and ordered Wang Sengbian to be the general of the East Conquest, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, the governor of Jiangzhou, and the title of Duke of Changning County.
So Shizu ordered Wang Sengbian to immediately lead all the troops in Baling and go down the river to conquer Hou Jingliang.
The army was stationed in Yingcheng and sent infantry to attack Lushan.
Zhi Huaren, the chief defender of Lushan City, was a cavalry officer under Hou Jing. He led his followers to fight with all their strength, but was still severely defeated by Wang Sengbian's army, so Zhi Huaren surrendered.
Wang Sengbian then led various troops to cross the river to attack Ying, and immediately entered Ying's outer city.
Song Zixian gathered all his men and horses to defend the inner city, but Wang Sengbian attacked the city but failed to capture it.
Song Zixian sent his subordinate Tong Xihu to lead 3,000 troops to open the city gate and go out to fight. Wang Sengbian defeated the rebels who left the city, captured Di Xihu alive, and killed more than a thousand people.
Sai Zixian led his army to retreat and defend, relying on the natural dangers to defend around Liao. Wang Mengbiao led his troops to attack repeatedly but failed to conquer it.
Hou Jing heard the news that Lushan had been captured and that the outer city of Ying, an important town, had been lost, so he led the remaining troops to return to Jianye day and night.
Song Zixian and others were in a difficult situation and had nothing to do, so they asked Wang Sengbian to hand over Yingcheng and let him lead his troops back to Hou Jing.
Wang Sengbian pretended to agree to them and ordered more than a hundred ships to be provided to the rebels, thereby paralyzing the rebels.
Song Zixian thought that Wang Sengbian was sincere in letting them go, and when the boat was about to set off, Wang Sengbian ordered Du Chong to lead a thousand capable warriors, climb the city wall, beat drums and shout at the same time, and suddenly attack the warehouse gate.
He ordered Song Yao, the leader of the naval force, to lead a large ship and secretly surrounded Song Zixian's fleet on the river from all sides. Song Zixian fled while fighting. When they arrived at Baiyangpu, Wang Sengbian's army defeated Song Zixian's rebels, captured Song Zixian alive, and sent him to Jiangling.
Wang Sengbian immediately led various armies to march into Jiushui.
The rebels and puppet officials, Fan Xirong and Lu Huilue, still occupied Huancheng. When Wang Sengbian and his troops arrived, Fan Xirong and others took Jiangzhou Governor Lincheng Gong hostage and fled the city.
Shizu gave Wang Sengbian additional official positions such as Shizhong, Shangshu Ling, and General of the Eastern Conquest, and also gave him the Department of Advocacy.
Then he ordered Wang Sengbian to temporarily garrison Jiangzhou until all the troops were concentrated and he got the opportunity before attacking.
Soon, Shizu ordered people from all walks of life in Jiangzhou to launch a massive attack. Wang Sengbian then announced the bad news of the emperor's death and reported the bad news to Shizu in Jiangling.
So he led more than a hundred generals to jointly write a letter to Shizu, urging Shizu to take the throne as emperor. When he was about to march against Hou Jing, he wrote again to persuade him to advance.
Although Shizu did not listen, he received a graceful reply from Shizu.
The incident was recorded in the "Benji" of Emperor Shizu Xiaoyuan.
Wang Sengbian then set out from Jiangzhou and aimed directly at Jianye. He first ordered Hou Tian, ​​the governor of Nanyanzhou, to lead his elite soldiers in a light fast boat to attack Nanling, Quetou and other garrison posts. Wherever they went, they immediately captured them.
Prior to this, Chen Baxian led 50,000 men and set out from Nanjiang, sending 5,000 men as the vanguard and had already arrived at Fankou.
Chen Baxian had outstanding talents and was good at strategy. His reputation surpassed that of Wang Sengbian, and Wang Sengbian respected him.
After Chen Baxian arrived at Fankou, he met Wang Sengbian at Baimaozhou. The two went to the altar and swore an oath of alliance. Chen Baxian wrote an alliance article saying:
The thief Hou Jing was originally a cruel Jie man. He violated the laws of heaven and was not virtuous. He did all kinds of evil things. He betrayed the kindness of our court, invaded and plundered our country, killed our people, and destroyed our Sheji ancestral temple.
Our great ancestor, Emperor Wu, was endowed with the aura of the gods of heaven and earth. He was wise and wise, and had a wide influence in the world. Just like our parents, he worked hard day and night to raise hundreds of millions of people for more than fifty years.
The emperor pitied Hou Jing for coming to our court in embarrassment, saved Hou Jing's life that should have been executed, placed Hou Jing in a crucial position, and gave Hou Jing extraordinary and special honor.
Why did my great ancestor, Emperor Gaozu, ever treat Hou Jing poorly?
What hatred do we people have against Hou Jing?
But Hou Jing relied on his halberd and powerful crossbow to humiliate and force the imperial court. He used saw-like teeth to eat away at the land in my suburbs and mutilated my people. Digging out their livers and cutting off their toes was not enough to satisfy his desire to do harm. Discarding the corpses in the wild or even burning them was not the most cruel method.
Emperor Gaozu was ninety years old, but he was forced to live in a humble house and eat meager and poor food. His ambition was suppressed and his imperial power was devalued. He eventually died in the hands of traitors with hatred.
Emperor Daxing was gentle and dignified, kept silent and maintained his reputation as a saint. However, if he had any grudge against Hou Jing, he resorted to all kinds of cruel methods against him.
They tried their best to kill and kill the royal concubines in their infancy, the royal relatives within the fifth robe, and the gills and great powers.
We live within the borders of the country. As subjects of the imperial court, we eat the imperial salary and bathe in the emperor's nectar. How can we not feel sad and mournful when we hear such tragic facts?
What's more, I, the king Ji Luan, I Su Lingxuan and others, have received great trust from the country's vassals and weeping blood, and have done us a great favor that we can hardly repay. We have also received the kindness of the previous dynasty from generation to generation, and since As a general, if you cannot work with all your heart and soul to kill traitors and traitors, clear up the grievances of the royal family, and avenge your king and father, you cannot be regarded as a person who is endowed with the aura of heaven and earth and lives between heaven and earth.
Today the prime minister’s filial piety moved heaven. The brave and superhuman army had just set off, and had already defeated the rebel army and captured the rebel marshal, leaving only Hou Jing alone in the capital.
Chen Baxian, the minister, the king, the monk, and the minister, united the generals and worked together to kill the ferocious traitors, respect the prime minister, let him inherit the great cause of the country, and preside over the rituals of worshiping heaven and ancestors.
In the future, if there is a meritorious service and a reward, and if the ministers, kings, monks, and others cannot set an example and recommend themselves to others, then the gods of the heaven and earth, the ancestral temples, and the various gods will all be punished together.
The ministers, kings, monks, and ministers work together and do not deceive each other. If we violate our oath, let the gods of heaven and earth punish us.
So they went up to the earth altar to make an alliance in blood, and read the alliance article aloud together. When they flattered the alliance article, they shed tears like rain, which wetted their clothes, and their words and expressions were passionate and generous.
When the imperial troops who were attacking Hou Jing were stationed in Nanzhou, the rebel leader Hou Zijian and others led more than 10,000 infantry and cavalry to challenge on the shore. They also used a thousand long and long lantern boats filled with soldiers. There were 80 oars on both sides of the boats. The sailors were all Vietnamese. The boats came and went quickly and attacked suddenly, faster than the wind and lightning.
Wang Sengbian then commanded the small boats and ordered them all to retreat, and also ordered the large ships to anchor on both sides of the river.
The rebels thought that Wang Sengbian's navy wanted to retreat, so they all rushed out to attack. Wang Sengbian's navy then rowed a large ship to cut off the return route of the rebel boats. They beat drums and shouted loudly, and fought with the rebel boats in the middle of the river. The rebels all jumped into the water to escape.
Wang Sengbian immediately led various armies down the river and advanced to the Battle of Stones, where he built a company camp to intimidate the rebels.
The rebels then built five cities on the Henglie Ridge to resist the defence. Hou Jing personally went out to fight with the imperial army in the north of Stone City.
Chen Baxian said to Wang Sengluan: The rebels are like wandering ghosts, full of evil. Now if they want to escape the fate of annihilation and fight to the death, our army is large and the rebels are small. We should disperse their forces and defeat them one by one.
They sent soldiers with 2,000 strong crossbows to attack the two cities to the west of the rebels, and then ordered some sergeants to form a formation to fight the rebels. Wang Jianya commanded the army to attack from behind, and defeated the rebels.
When Lu Huilue heard that Hou Jing was defeated, he led Shitou City to surrender. Wang Sengbian led the army to occupy Shitou City.
Hou Jing retreated and fled north toward Zhu Fang. At that time, Hua Liang's fleeing soldiers ran to report the news to Wang Sengbian, who ordered his generals to occupy the platform.
That night, the sergeant caused a fire while cooking the wild grains he had picked up, and burned down the main hammer, the east and west halls, and other places.
At that time, soldiers were plundering and plundering the people in the capital. Those captured by them had their underwear stripped off.
They also forced the people to redeem them with money. From Shitou to Dongqiu, the sound of Jin Cheng's howl shook the capital, and the people were disappointed with the imperial army.
Wang Sengbian ordered Hou Suo and Pei Zhiheng to lead five thousand elite troops to attack Hou Jing.
Wang Sengbian captured more than 20 rebel party members Wang Wei and others and escorted them to Jiangling.
Hou Jing's pseudo-officer Tong Bochao surrendered to Baotian in Wusongjiang. Hou Tian immediately escorted Tong Bochao to Wang Sengbian. Wang Sengbian said to Tong Bochao: Mr. Zhao, you have received great favor from the country, but you have joined the traitors.
What are you going to do in this situation today?
Wang Sengbian ordered people to escort Zhao Bochao.
After Zhu Xunchao left, Wang Tan looked around at the guests present and said: In the past, the imperial court only knew about Zhao Bochao, but it didn't know about Wang Sengbian.
The country has been overthrown, and now I have revived it. There is no lasting change in the rise and fall of people.
All the guests present came forward to praise Wang Sengbian's merits.
Wang Sengbian was secretly surprised, so he falsely replied: This is because the Holy One has great power and the generals act according to orders.
I am just playing tricks, even though I am in the position of the head coach, what credit do I get?
At this time, all the rebels were pacified and eliminated, the capital was captured, and the situation stabilized.
When the emperor ascended the throne, because of Wang Sengbian's contribution to suppressing the rebellion, he was awarded the title of General of the Town Guard and Situ, with twenty swordsmen working overtime, and was changed to the title of Yongning County Duke, with a settlement of 5,000 households.
After that, Xiangzhou thief Lu Na and others attacked Lukou and defeated Hengzhou governor Ding Daogui and confiscated all his weapons and equipment. Li Hongya led his army from Lingling to Konglingtan, claiming to help the court conquer Lu Na.
The imperial court did not understand his true intentions and was deeply worried about this matter, so he sent Luo Chonghuan, a member of Zhongshushe, to recruit Wang Sengbian to go up the river to the Hussars General Yifeng Hou Xiao Xun and lead his army to the south.
Wang Sengbian supervised Du Xun and other people from all walks of life, starting from Jianye.
The army was stationed in Baling. The emperor went down to Shao and ordered Wang Sengbian to be the commander-in-chief of Shushang's military affairs, and Chen Baxian to be the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in the west.
Before the dispatch, Chen Baxian had offered the position of governor to Wang Sengbian, but Wang Sengbian did not accept it, so Shizu appointed two people as governors of the east and west respectively, and at the same time led his army to conquer the south.
At that time, Lu Na and others advanced downstream, occupied the wheel, and built a city on both sides. The water level in front was very different and the situation was dangerous. The soldiers were all brave and experienced in hundreds of battles. Wang Sengbian was afraid of them and did not dare to attack rashly. So he gradually built the city and connected the cities together, using this method to surround Lu Na's rebel army.
When the rebels saw that the imperial army did not dare to fight, they all became lazy.
Wang Sengbian took advantage of their unpreparedness and ordered all troops to attack from both land and water. Wang Sengbian personally held flags and drums to direct the entire army's advance and retreat.
So people from all walks of life rushed out to attack, and they fought with Lu Na's rebel army in a wheel battle. Wang Sengbian and the hussar general Xiao Xun worked together to attack and captured two cities of the rebel army.
The rebel army was defeated and fled overland to defend Changsha. They drove all the residents into the city and held it firmly.
Wang Sengbian followed and pursued them until they reached Changsha, whereupon he ordered his sergeants to build a fortification to surround Changsha. He also ordered all armies to build long fences to surround the rebels. Wang Sengbian came out of the formation and sat on a mound to personally supervise the inspection.
The rebel army saw Wang Sengbian from a distance and knew that the imperial army had no preset defense, so the rebel army Wu Zang, Li Xianming and others led a thousand elite soldiers, opened the city gate, suddenly rushed out, held up their shields and charged straight towards Wang Sengbian.
At that time, both Du Ze and Du Yu were accompanying Wang Sengbian. There were only more than a hundred armed guards, so they went down to the mound to send people to fight with the rebels.
Li Xianming rode a horse wearing armor and led ten cavalry, shouting loudly to charge left and right. Wang Sengbian still sat on the couch and was not disturbed by the fierce flames of the rebel army. At this time, he still commanded calmly and with extraordinary courage. He finally captured Li Xianming and beheaded him immediately.
The bandit army then retreated into the city.
When Lu Na relied on the army to stage a rebellion, he used Wang Lin as an excuse, saying that if the court released Wang Lin, Lu Na and others would naturally surrender.
At that time, various armies were attacking at the same time, so they did not agree to Lu Na's conditions.
However, King Wuling led the army to occupy the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, and everyone inside and outside the court was frightened. The emperor then released Wang Lin and quelled Lu Na's rebellion.
By this time, Xiangzhou was pacified.
Wang Sengbian led the army back from Jiangling, and then accepted the order to gather all the people and horses to march westward for the expedition, and commanded 20,000 naval troops. The emperor personally went to Tianju Temple to bid farewell to the soldiers who went on the expedition.
Soon after King Wuling was defeated, Wang Sengbian returned to Jiangling from Zhijiang, and soon returned to guard Jianye.
This month, Wang Sengbian stayed in Jianye for a short time before returning to Jiangling.
Gaoyang, the leader of Qi, sent Guo Yuanjian to lead 20,000 troops and gathered many ships in Hefei to attack Jianye. He also sent his generals Xing Jingyuan, Bu Dahansa, Dongfang Lao and others to lead the army to succeed Guo Yuanjian.
At that time, Chen Baxian was guarding Jiankang. After hearing the news of the dispatch, he immediately sent people on horseback to report to Jiangling. Emperor Shizu immediately ordered Wang Sengbian to garrison Gushu, and he immediately stayed there to guard.
First, he ordered Hou Ti, the governor of Yuzhou, to lead 3,000 elite troops to build a fortress at Dongguan to resist the invasion of northern enemies. He also mobilized Zhang Biao, the governor of Wu County, and Pei Zhihengyu, the governor of Wuxing, and Hou Suo to gather in Dongguan. They fought with the Qi army there and defeated the Qi army. Wang Sengbian led the entire army to Jianye.
On the day of Jiachen in the third month of the third year of Chengsheng, the emperor went down to Shao and said: Recommending talented and virtuous people has been recorded in the Qin Code; those who are above and the people who are below can be understood in the desert system.
This is a way to harmonize the ministers of the imperial court, assist the emperor, and achieve great goals.
The envoys Chijie, Shizhong, Situ, Shangshuling, governors of Yangnan, Xudong, and Yangzhou's three states, generals of town guards, governors of Yangzhou, and the founding prince of Yongning County, Sengbian, have a far-sighted mind, a calm and high-speed demeanor, and their actions have become a model for scholars.
In recent years, he has led troops to conquer from the west to Shu. The army is not tired and the people have no complaints. The king's career is difficult, and it is both smooth and dangerous. He should be placed in the middle to assume the task of coordinating the ministers of the DPRK and China, assume the responsibility of a general, entrust him with the important task of managing state affairs, and help plan the strategy of the court.
Wang Sengbian was granted the title of Taiwei and General of Chariots and Cavalry, and all other positions remained unchanged.
Not long after, Wang Sengbian encountered the funeral of his mother, the wife of the wife. Shizu sent his attendants to supervise the funeral, and gave Mi the title of Mrs. Zhenjing in a policy letter.
Mrs. Tai's surname is Wei.
In the early years of Tianjian, Wang Shennian led his soldiers to occupy Dongguan and retreated to the west of Hefei Zhuhu Lake. At that time, he married the Tai Fu and gave birth to Wang Sengbian.
The Dowager had a stable and gentle nature, and was good at soothing and socializing. Everyone in the family missed her.
When Wang Sengbian was arrested and imprisoned, Mrs. Tai walked to Shizu's government office in tears. She was about to go in to ask for forgiveness from Shizu, but Shizu refused to see her.
At that time, Crown Prince Jeonghye was favored by the emperor, and Crown Prince Jeonghye participated in and took charge of many major military and state affairs.
When Mrs. Tai went to Prince Zhenhui's pavilion, she complained about her lack of tutoring. She burst into tears and sobbed while she was talking. Everyone sympathized with her.
When Wang Sengbian was pardoned and released from prison, the wife scolded him severely and encouraged him deeply, her words and expressions were very stern. The lady said: People who serve the king must be loyal and upright. This will not only protect their own generation, but also spread their fortune to future generations.
When Wang Sengbian conquered the capital and achieved great success in the world, Mrs. Tai often gave in humbly and did not treat others based on her wealth. People in the government and the public alike praised her and called her a wise woman.
After the death of Mrs. Tai, many people mourned her.
Moreover, because Wang Sengbian had great merit and high official rank, the funeral ceremony for the wife was more than a normal ceremony.
When the coffin was about to be transported back to Jiankang, the emperor sent his visitors to pay homage to the river bank next to the ship carrying the coffin. He ordered Minister Zuopushe and Wang Ai to write a memorial text saying:
Your family lineage is based on Wang Wuzi, and your family is prosperous in Wei Yangyuan. Your quality can shine with gold, and your virtue can be as gentle as jade.
It is not only in line with women's ethics, but also follows women's words.
You are proficient in writing and drawing pictures, reading classics, composing poems and compositions, and discussing the meaning of scriptures.
You use Confucian etiquette to educate your descendants, just like Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty's grandmother Pingyuan Jun did.
The children you train will have the ability of Chu Fa to lead troops and the virtues of Meng Ke. They will respect the king like their father and be loyal to them. They will start from home and extend to serving the country.
You are a model of integrity and a role model for the people.
Your children will command the imperial army, organize the country's defense, fill the posts of the three princes, and occupy the land of Gui and Meng.
Mother is noble because her son is noble. Your status increases day by day. Orders of praise from the court come time and time again, and the ceremonial gowns you award are even more noble.
But if you are in a high position, you can demean yourself, and if you are in a distinguished position, you will be humble and indifferent. The happiness of the family is obtained from a good beginning, and the glory can last a lifetime until a good end.
Although time has come to dusk, the mother model that makes people miss her has withered prematurely. The galloping horses can't turn back, and the rushing waves can't stop it.
I turned my back to Longmen and looked west. The coffin had just passed the summer season and turned eastward. I crossed the Three Palaces and looked towards the mountains. My longing floated with the water of the Three Rivers.
Layers of mountains and heavy clouds blocked my sight. I only felt that the passing people were like the endless rivers and desert water, never to return.
Your glorious deeds will be written on the inscription, and a monument will be built for you in the world to replace the ancient monument.
I set up a wine ceremony in front of the empty ship. I hope the wandering soul in the distance can understand my thoughts.
Alas!
In October of that year, Yuwen Heitai, the prime minister of the Western Wei Dynasty, sent troops to join King Yueyang's army, totaling 50,000 people, to attack Jiangling. Shizu sent his secretary Li Ying to Jianye to recruit Wang Sengbian and appointed him as the governor and governor of Jingzhou.
Shizu issued another order to warn Wang Sengbian: Yuwen Heitai betrayed the covenant and suddenly came to attack with swords and axes.
Most of the country's strong generals are found in the lower reaches of the Yangtze River, and the troops in Jing and Shanxi are not elite troops.
You should lead an elite force as brave as a tiger, set out at starry night, and travel day and night to Jiangling to rescue the hanging crisis.
Wang Sengbian ordered the governor of Yuzhou, Hou Tian, ​​and others to be the vanguard force, and the governor of Yanzhou, Du Sengming, and others to be the follow-up force.
After the arrangement was completed, Wang Sengbian said to Li Ying: Yuwen Heitai's soldiers are brave and fierce. It is difficult for us to compete with them. If the troops from all walks of life gather together, I will lead the army directly towards Mojiang and cut off their retreat.
Whenever we fight and transport food from thousands of miles away, the soldiers will look hungry because they don't have enough to eat. How much more will the rebel army cross thousands of miles to attack us?
Now is the same time as Sun Bin defeated Pang Juan.
Soon the capital was captured and the emperor died.
When Emperor Yi succeeded to the throne, Wang Sengbian had meritorious service for his participation in the establishment of the new emperor. Emperor Jing, who had not yet held the enthronement ceremony, ordered Wang Sengbianjin to be the General of Hussar, Supervisor of Zhongshu, Commander-in-Chief of Chinese and Foreign Military Affairs, and Minister of Records, and discussed the crusade with Chen Baxian.
At that time, the monarch of Qi State, Gao Yang, wanted Liang State to accept Xiao Yuanming, Marquis of Zhenyang, as the successor monarch of Liang State, so he wrote to Wang Seng to argue: Liang State is unfortunate and disasters occur frequently. Hou Jing made Jianye fall, and King Wuling raised troops in Ba and Han.
Your ambition moved heaven, your sincerity moved the day, and you worked together to suppress the rebellion and eliminate the traitors.
There is no one with emotions who would not praise and praise this; not to mention our neighboring countries, we hope that the situation will be harmonious and stable in advance.
The Western Wei bandits took the opportunity to attack suddenly. The Liang Lord could not hold on to Jiangling and died for the ancestral temple. The imperial army failed and surrendered before the troops arrived. The scholars and people, young and old, all became prisoners of the Western Wei Dynasty.
Seeing this scene in Xiangnan, we are full of sighs and injustice; as you are a minister and a son, your feelings are deeper. Thinking of this will cause your heart to break and your bones to break.
Now I heard that you made the son of the royal family the emperor and commanded the whole country in Jiangyin. He is just over ten years old and is extremely young. The disaster in Liang Kingdom has not yet ended. It is really difficult for him to shoulder the important responsibilities of the country.
Sacrifices in the ancestral temple were performed by Lord Wei, while national affairs were controlled by the Ning family. Weiguo's situation of weak trunk and strong branches has been tabooed by people since ancient times.
I regard the world as my home, and I use the great road to help all people.
Because of the fall of the Liang Kingdom, I missed the friendly feelings in the past and saved the country in danger. This kind of righteous act can be done today; supporting the declining dynasty and setting up the successor monarch are not to be a human ruler, but to uphold morality.
Marquis Zhenyang is the nephew of Emperor Wu of Liang and a descendant of the King of Changsha. With his seniority and prestige, he can keep Jinling, so he can be made the Lord of Liang. Now let you accept him.
I have ordered Gao Huan, the king of Shangdang, to lead all the generals to support Marquis Zhenyang and send him to the south of the Yangtze River. The army is as powerful as thunder and as fast as the wind to help you clear away the rebellion.
Gao Yue, King of Qinghe, once went to rescue Jingcheng. The army had already passed Anlu, but before they arrived, Jingcheng had been captured. We felt deeply regretful and regretful.
I am afraid that the bandits from the Western Wei Dynasty went down the river again and followed us to Jiangzuo. Now they turn to Hankou to meet the lay people in Lu.
You should help me complete this good plan, inspire your generals to fight, mobilize ships, and welcome Marquis Zhenyang to be the king. Gather and deploy your best soldiers and work together.
The Xiqiang were just a mob and were not a strong enemy in the first place. It was only the timidity and cowardice of King Xiangshu that led to the fall of the country.
There is no fortress that cannot be conquered by the troops we have sent out now! I hope you will make sure your plans are in line with my hopes.
Marquis Zhenyang was escorted by troops sent by Qi and was about to arrive in Shouyang.
Marquis Zhenyang wrote to Wang Sengbian several times before and after his departure, talking about his intention to return to his country and inherit the throne, but Wang Sengbian refused to accept it.
When Marquis Zhenyang and Gao Huan arrived at Shuguan, Pei Zhiheng, a regular servant of Sanqi, led his army to resist. After a battle, they were defeated. Wang Sengbian then planned to accept Marquis Zhenyang, thus confirming the relationship between monarch and minister.
Wang Sengbian wrote in a memorial letter: When the Qin bandits invaded Shaanxi, I planned to lead the army to rescue. As soon as I boarded the ship and set off, Jingcheng was captured. I immediately sent Liu Zhou to the Qi State. The above letter showed my sincerity. At that time, the heroes around me all worked together and were willing to be loyal.
Liu Zhou did not come back for a long time, and people were confused and estranged. When the imperial edict was sent to the imperial court, I sent people to various places for consultation and discussion, but people's opinions were different and it was difficult to make an immediate decision.
I just saw the envoy sent by Hou Can and showed me a letter from the enemy enemy in the west Quan Jingxuan. Now I want someone to submit the original letter.
Look at the generals who have been dispatched, they are all willing to share peace and tranquility with Da Qi. If we go against Da Qi's wishes, I will not hesitate even if it is burned to ashes and crushed into powder. I will also be sad that Liang's empire will never have the opportunity to revive.
I hope that your majesty will take advantage of the opportunity to cross the river, borrow the prestige of Daqi, and rely on your majesty's most sage strategy to establish an adult king. Revenge will be just around the corner, and the country will be revitalized. Even if I die, I will not regret it.
Now please escort Cao Chong to the capital of the barbarian country, present the seal, and tell the story to your majesty. In a hurry, I bowed my head and saw him off.
Marquis Zhenyang replied: "Jiang Song is here. Please confess your loyalty to me."
The family and the country have been in trouble for many years now.
The three kings suffered humiliation, and the people everywhere suffered from fire and water.
The emperor ordered you, as an important minister of the country, to revitalize and assist our imperial court, vigorously rescue the difficult situation of the imperial court, and rebuild the imperial ancestral temple.
As for the people who are engaged in slab construction in the countryside, they also hope that the country will have the auspiciousness of "Phoenix Lai Ri". How come those ministers, ministers, and relatives of the royal family don't wait empty seats?
When they heard the news that I was returning to the capital, they would naturally welcome me with noble feelings. However, the two envoys sent out recently did not widely announce the news of my return to the capital.
Since you have discussed with the ministers and ministers of the vassal state, traveling upstream and downstream, it should take ten and a half days, and the envoy's stay at your place is in line with my wishes.
This is the great feat of re-establishing our Xiao family ancestral temple and revitalizing our Liang Kingdom.
Hundreds of millions of people have all received this blessing, and we will no longer be ashamed of the Sheji Ancestral Temple.
Recently, the army was stationed in Dongguan, and I frequently sent envoys to Pei Zhiheng to tell him the matter and let him make a decision.
Pei Zhiheng replied that he was arrogant and violent, which was surprising to see and hear.
The King of Shangdang sent troops to protect me. I wanted to talk to him about the security of the country. Some unsighted guys suddenly came up to fight. Before the flag of the vanguard was raised, they were defeated. Their shock and sorrow made me feel pity.
The King of Shangdang also felt deep pity for him and sighed for him. Instead of sending Pei Zhiheng's head to the capital, he treated him with courtesy, filled his coffin, provided a rich funeral, piled graves and planted trees, and provided generous funeral ceremonies. The great virtue of Qi Dynasty really moved the gods and people.
We will rely on the divine power of the previous Holy Emperor and the assistance of the court ministers to defeat the traitors in Xianyang, kill the traitors in Yunmeng, and work together to stabilize the country.
After seeing the letter from Quan Jingxuan that you showed me, the generals guarding the upper reaches of the Yangtze River were originally loyal and had strategies. Now they have abandoned their relatives and turned to the enemy. Perhaps they were forced by the situation and had no choice but to do this. Stopping the conspiracy and quelling the chaos ultimately depends on you, the prince.
Now I will stay in Dongguan for the time being, and wait for you to send an envoy to tell me where to meet me by land and water.
Establishing a country, erecting a monarch, going to the city to make alliances, sending hostages in and out, and the affairs of Japan have been recorded in ancient books for a long time.
If you are loyal and loyal, move the heavens, and all the generals work together to conspire and have no second thoughts, then the Qi army will return to the country and abide by morality and never cross the river; if you violate the preamble, I swear that I will not be able to roll up the flag and return to the army. I will not go back for the time being. I will wait for the sage on the side. Cao Chong, who goes to the capital of Qi as a pedestrian to pay homage to the watch, will be the target of being escorted.
I will wait for your explanation under the Wei Bridge in Chang'an; north of the Si River, there will be howls and cries.
Wang Sengbian went to the table again and said: "Jiang Song, the official's constant attendant, has returned and accepted the order to ask us to state the specific action arrangements."
Daqi's emphasis on benevolence and righteousness has greatly benefited neighboring countries. Now they sympathize with our disasters, help us in distress, and implement such a big plan. No one in the royal family's tribe and relatives is not unfavored, and the official family has also been relied on.
Now we have made an alliance with blood and do not forget integrity. Integrity does come from the heart. I would like to send my seventh son Wang Xian, Wang Hao's biological mother Liu and my brother's son Wang Shizhen to serve as hostages there. I also send Zuo Min Shangshu Zhou Hongzheng to Liyang to welcome him.
The stern of the boat was moored on the river, waiting for a dragon to cross south; the palace rooms and steps were cleaned, waiting for the prince's six-carriage to enter the palace.
The people all over the world admired His Majesty's return and were proud of it, just like the people of Jin admired the return of Duke Wen of Jin. The three virtues of ministers serving the emperor, sons serving the father, and children serving the elders could be promoted, and Song Chang's advice to Emperor Wen to come to Beijing to become the emperor from acting kings spread.
If the country's fortunes are prosperous and there are people in the country to offer sacrifices, then the ministers will try their best to be loyal, repay Zha Gu's kindness, work together to display their talents, and contribute their sincerity to His Majesty.
Now Wang Tong, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, is sent to start the memorial with a seal.
Wang Jianluan then requested that Plasticong be made the crown prince.
Zhenjiang Fort replied: Wang Shangshutong is here, and you have informed me that you want to send your good brother Wang Shizhen as a pledge to show your sincerity, and everyone knows about your concern for the country.
He also takes his virtuous brother, who is as beautiful as a jade tree in the garden, and his son who is the apple of his eye, as a pledge. He does not feel a burden in his heart, but only focuses on supporting the court and rescuing the crisis. Isn't this serving our country and our country day and night?
I lamented this and felt guilty, and couldn't sleep because of it.
King Jin'an is the grandson of Emperor Wu of Shujing, with a distinguished status, and he is the successor of Emperor Yuan of the Western Capital. Isn't it the people's wish that he inherit the throne and keep the world?
But when there is trouble in the world, an adult monarch should be established, because he will suffer disaster and find it difficult to inherit the imperial legacy.
Emperor Mo Cheng and Emperor Zhao of Han succeeded to the throne at a young age and achieved great political achievements, which are unparalleled since ancient times; Emperor Chong and Emperor Han Chong became emperors at a young age but were killed and died young. Which dynasty does not have this kind of danger?
When I encounter bad luck, I have no desire to survive.
Suddenly I received a rare favor in the world, so I took the extraordinary action of sending me back to my country to become emperor.
Thinking that I am superficial and have no foundation, I feel deeply frightened and wary.
If a crown prince is to be established, the crown prince's position should originally belong to the emperor's son. I swear in my heart and verbally that this position will only be given to King Jin'an.
If I just told lies, let the gods punish me.
After reading the stamp you sent me now, it is completely consistent with my original idea.
The feeling of relief and peace cannot be expressed in words.
It’s just that, prince, you have worked hard for the country and shouldered heavy responsibilities, so you have repaid the kindness of Qi State; your loyal and sincere feelings have also been extended to the succeeding monarch of Liang State.
Wouldn’t the Chinese and Yi people in the world be obedient and surrender?
Ancestral temple gods, aren’t you grateful?
Turn around the army that was preparing to return to the division and continue to advance towards Liyang.
The people who were originally agreed to be hostages also wanted to come to that place.
The Qi army will not cross the river, which is clearly stated in the alliance letter.
This is exactly the arrangement made by the Shengming Emperor of Dacha who is particularly tolerant to us. King Shangdang, who is extremely virtuous and talented, has promised not to lose his credibility in order to obtain the original. If Duke Wen of Jin does not do such a stupid thing, Qi will not do it in the end.
I'm just waiting to see you again, not far away.
My hometown is very close, and the scene evokes emotions, which makes people even more sad.
Wang Sengbian sent an envoy to send the hostages to Ye.
When the Marquis of Zhenyang crossed the Liao Dynasty, he asked for 3,000 guards to be brought with him. Wang Sengbian was worried that they might instigate a rebellion, so he was only willing to accept 1,000 stragglers. He also sent a dragon boat with the emperor's luan chariot to meet him.
On the day when Marquis Zhenyang crossed the river, Wang only took a boat and stopped in the center of Liao Dynasty, not daring to dock. Later he met Marquis Zhenyang at Jiangningpu.
Marquis Zhenyang ascended the throne of the pseudo-emperor, so he appointed Wang Sengbian as the Grand Sima, leading the Crown Prince, Tutor, and Yangzhou Mu. The other titles remained unchanged.
Su Xixian was then the governor of Sikong and South Xuzhou. He hated Wang Shifeng's capriciousness, so he discussed with the generals to send 100,000 troops from Jingkou to attack Jiankang by land and water.
So the navy arrived first. Wang Sengbian often lived in Stone City. One day when he was dealing with political affairs, soldiers had climbed over the wall in the north of the city to attack. Someone came on horseback from the south gate to report that an army was coming to attack.
Wang Sengbian and his son Wang Fu hurriedly ran out of the government office, followed by dozens of close friends.
All the troops sent by Chen Baxian had arrived, and Wang Sengbian had no choice but to defend the south gate tower and beg Ling Baxian for mercy.
Chen Baxian ordered the South Gate Tower to be set on fire. Wang Sengbiancai and Wang Zhi went downstairs and were captured.
Su Ling first said: What crime do I have? Do you want to join Qi Jun to attack me?
He also said: Why are you so defenseless?
Monk Wang argued: If I hand over the north gate to you, how can I be considered unprepared?
That night Chen Baxian killed Wang Sengbian.
Wang Sengbian's eldest son, Wang Chan, was promoted to the rank of Attendant at the beginning of his reign.
At first, after Wang Sengbian pacified Jianye, he sent Chen Baxian to guard Jingkou, but he did not take any precautions against him. Wang Jie repeatedly made suggestions on the affairs, but Wang Sengbian did not listen, and eventually fell into trouble.
When the Western Wei Dynasty invaded Jiangling, Shizu sent Wang Jie to supervise all military affairs in the city.
After Jingcheng was captured, Wang Jie followed Wang Lin to Qi State and served as the governor of Jingling County.
Qi sent Wang Lin to guard Shouchun and planned to invade Jiangzuo. After Chen pacified Huainan, he captured Wang Lin and killed him.
Wang Hao heard the news of Wang Lin's death, so he went to the south of the county city, climbed to the top of a mountain and cried bitterly, and died of extreme sorrow.
Wang Hao's younger brother, Wang Ban, had ambition and integrity since he was a child, and often followed Shizu. When Jingcheng was captured, Wang Ban was captured by the Western Wei Dynasty.
Shi Chen said: When Hou Jing rebelled, Shizu occupied the upper reaches of the Yangtze River. He appointed Wang Sengbian as the commander-in-chief and handed over all the soldiers of Chu to Wang Sengbi. After the chaos was quelled, Wang Sengbian's contribution was already obvious to the world. His meritorious service was recorded in the imperial policy secretary, and he was rewarded by the third prince, Prime Minister.
By virtue of his noble status as the grandson of the great ancestor and the heir apparent to the emperor, Emperor Jing should have inherited the throne after Jiangling was captured.
Wang Sengbian was a general and should have the loyalty of Yi Yin and Huo Guang to assist his young master. However, he was coerced by the Qi army and appointed a concubine from the royal family as emperor.
If you want to fulfill your loyalty, why do you stray away from it?
The morality of founding a country and establishing a monarch is already lacking, and planning for one's own safety is not well thought out, leading to one's own destruction, how sad!
