Ranghou Wei Ran was the younger brother of the Queen Mother Xuan, the mother of King Zhao of Qin.
His ancestor was from the Chu state and his surname was Mi.
After the death of King Qin Wu, he had no sons, so he made his younger brother the king of the country, namely King Zhao.
King Zhao's mother was originally a female official in the palace and was called Mi Bazi. When King Zhao came to the throne, Mi Bazi was revered as Queen Mother Xuan.
Queen Mother Xuan was not King Wu’s biological mother.
King Wu's mother was Queen Huiwen, who died before King Wu died.
Empress Dowager Xuan has two younger brothers: her eldest half-brother is named Ranghou, whose surname is Wei and given name is Ran; her half-brother is named Mirong, who is Huayang Jun.
King Zhao also has two younger brothers with the same mother: one is called Gaolingjun and the other is named Jingyangjun.
Among many people, Wei Ran was the most virtuous. He had been in power since the time of King Hui and King Wu.
After King Wu died, his younger brothers competed to inherit the throne. Only Wei Ran was capable and supported King Zhao.
After King Zhao ascended the throne, he appointed Wei Ran as general to guard Xianyang.
He once put down the rebellion of Ji Jun Gongzi Zhuang and some ministers, and expelled Queen Wu to the state of Wei. All the brothers of King Zhao who had evil intentions were killed. Wei Ran's prestige shocked the state of Qin for a while.
At that time, King Zhao was still young, so Empress Dowager Xuan personally presided over the affairs of the court, leaving Wei Ran in charge.
In the seventh year of King Zhao, Chuilizi died, and the State of Qin sent Lord Jingyang to Qi State as a hostage.
Zhao Guoren Lou slowly came to Qin State to serve as prime minister, which was obviously not good for Zhao State, so Zhao State sent Qiu Lie to Qin State to lobby, requesting that Wei Ran be allowed to serve as Qin State's prime minister.
Qiu Ye was about to leave, and his retainer Song Gong said to Qiu Ye: If the King of Qin does not listen to your persuasion, Lou Huan will definitely resent you.
Why don't you tell Lou Huan, please plan for you, I will have some reservations in persuading the King of Qin to appoint Wei Ran as prime minister.
The King of Qin must be surprised to see that the envoy from Zhao is not eager to appoint Wei Ran, and will not listen to your suggestion.
You said this, if things don't work out, the King of Qin will appoint Lou Huan as his prime minister, and you will gain Lou Huan's favor; if things succeed, and the King of Qin will appoint Wei Ran as his prime minister, then Wei Ran will be grateful to you.
So Qiu Ye listened to Song Gong's advice.
As expected, the State of Qin deposed Lou Huan and made Wei Ran the prime minister.
King Zhao of Qin wanted to kill Lu Li, so Lu Li fled to Qi.
In the fourteenth year of King Zhao, Wei Ranju appointed Bai Qi as general and sent him to lead the army to attack Han and Wei instead of Xiang Shou. He defeated them at Yique, killed 240,000 enemies, and captured Wei general Gongsun happy.
The next year, he captured the two cities of Wan and Ye in Chu State.
After that, Wei Ran was dismissed due to illness, and the King of Qin appointed his guest Qing Shouzhu as the prime minister.
The next year, Shouzhu was dismissed and Wei Ran was appointed as prime minister. Wei Ran was granted the title of Rangdi, and later he was granted the title of Taoyi and was called Ranghou.
Four years after Ranghou was granted the title, he served as the general of Qin and led troops to attack Wei.
Wei was forced to surrender four hundred miles of land east of the river.
Later, he occupied the Hanoi area of ​​Wei State and captured more than 60 cities, large and small.
In the 19th year of King Zhao, Wei Ran was in charge. King Zhao of Qin claimed to be the West Emperor, and King Qi Min was the East Emperor.
More than a month later, Lu Li came to Qin again. The kings of Qi and Qin canceled their imperial titles and still claimed the title of king.
Wei Ran once again served as the prime minister of Qin, but was dismissed six years later.
Two years after he was dismissed, he became prime minister of Qin for the third time.
Four years later, Wei Ran sent Bai Qi to capture Chu's Ying capital, and Qin established Nanjun.
So he granted Bai Qi the title of Lord Wu'an.
Bai Qi is the general recommended by Marquis Rang, and they have a good relationship.
At that time, Marquis Rang's wealth even exceeded that of the monarch's family.
In the thirty-second year of King Zhao of Qin, Marquis Rang was appointed prime minister and led troops to attack Wei. Wei general Mangmao was defeated and fled, entered Beizhai, and then surrounded Daliang, the capital of Wei.
Xu Jia, a senior official in the Wei State, persuaded Marquis Rang: I heard an official from the Wei State say to the King of Wei: Once upon a time, King Hui of Liang attacked the State of Zhao, captured the Three Liangs, and captured Handan. However, King Zhao refused to cede the land even though he was defeated. Later, Handan was finally recovered.
The people of Qi attacked Wei, captured Chuqiu, the capital, and killed Ziliang; but the Wei people would never cede territory even if they were humiliated, and the capital they lost later still belonged to the Wei people.
The reason why Wei and Zhao have complete countries, strong armies, and their lands are not annexed by princes is because they can endure hardships and cherish every inch of their land.
Song and Zhongshan were invaded and ceded territory repeatedly, resulting in the country's immediate demise.
I think the practices of Wei and Zhao are worth emulating, while the practices of Song and Zhongshan should be taken as a warning.
Qin is a greedy, vicious and violent country. Don't get too close to it.
It encroached on the Wei State and swallowed up all the land that originally belonged to the Jin State. After defeating the Korean general Baoyuan, it took as many as eight counties. There was no time to incorporate all the land, so the army was dispatched again.
How can Qin be satisfied?
Now Mangmao was defeated and entered Beizhai. This was not because they wanted to attack the capital of Wei, but to threaten the king and ask for more land to be ceded.
Your Majesty, do not accept its request.
Now if the king abandons Chu and Zhao and makes peace with Qin, Chu and Zhao will definitely be resentful and betray the king, and compete with the king to serve Qin, and Qin will definitely accept it.
If Qin hijacks the armies of Chu and Zhao and then attacks Wei's capital, it will be impossible for Wei to survive.
I hope the king will not make peace.
If the king intends to make peace, he must cede less land and have hostages as guarantee; otherwise, he will definitely be deceived.
This is what I heard in Wei State. I hope you will consider besieging Daliang based on this. "Book of Zhou" says to remember that God's will is not fixed.
This means that God-given luck cannot be obtained multiple times. Qin's victory over Bao Yuan and the capture of eight counties was not due to superior military strength or clever strategies, but mainly to luck.
Now Qin defeated Mangmao again, marched into Beizhai, and then besieged Daliang. It seems that he took the good fortune of being in heaven as the norm. Wise people are not like this.
As far as I know, the Wei State has mobilized all the best soldiers and generals from hundreds of counties to defend Daliang, with a strength of no less than 300,000.
With an army of 300,000 men guarding the seven-foot-high city wall, I think it would be difficult to capture it even if King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou came back from the dead.
To easily carry the armies of Chu and Zhao on their backs, to climb a seven-foot-high city wall, to confront an army of 300,000 men, and to be determined to win, I think this has never happened since the beginning of the world until today.
If they attack but cannot defeat it, the Qin army will be exhausted. If the beam cannot be captured but Taoyi will be lost, all the previous efforts will be wasted.
Now that the Wei State is hesitant, it can stabilize it by cutting less land.
I hope you can seize the opportunity before Chu and Zhao's reinforcements reach Daliang, and quickly conquer Wei with less land.
When the Wei State is hesitant, they will regard it as a favorable strategy to get less land in exchange for Daliang to relieve the siege. Only in this way can you get what you want.
Chu and Zhao were very angry that Wei was rushing to join forces with Qin, and they would definitely try to please Qin. As a result, the alliance would collapse, and then you would look for opportunities to break through them one by one.
Besides, you don’t have to use military means to obtain land!
After ceding the original land of the Jin State, the Qin army did not need to launch an attack, and the Wei State would obediently surrender the two cities of Jiang and Anyi.
This will open up two channels to the west and east of the river for you. All the land of the original Song State will be owned by the Qin State, and then the Wei State will sacrifice its single father.
The Qin army doesn't move a single soldier, but you can control the overall situation. There is nothing you can ask for, and nothing you can't succeed in!
I hope you will carefully consider besieging the beam and not take any chances. Ranghou said: OK.
So he stopped attacking Liang and left to relieve the siege.
In the second year, the State of Wei turned its back on the State of Qin and became friendly with the State of Qi.
The King of Qin sent Marquis Rang to attack Wei and killed 40,000 enemies. Wei general Bao Yuan was defeated and fled, taking three counties of Wei.
Marquis Rang added more fiefs.
In the third year, Ranghou, Bai Qi, and guest Qing Hu Yang attacked Zhao, Han, and Wei again. They defeated Mangmao's army under Huayang City, killed 100,000 enemies, and captured Wei's Juan, Caiyang, and Changshe, and Zhao's Guanjin.
Then he returned Guanjin to the State of Zhao, and sent troops to reinforce the State of Zhao and let it attack Qi State.
King Xiang of Qi was afraid of being beaten, so he asked Su to secretly send a letter to Marquis Rang on behalf of Qi, saying: I heard from people traveling between the two countries that Qin is going to reinforce Zhao with 40,000 soldiers to attack Qi. I will tell our monarch in private that King Qin is smart and well versed in strategy, and Marquis Rang is smart and proficient in military affairs. He will definitely not do this. Why do you say that?
The three countries of Korea, Zhao, and Wei formed a friendly alliance, which Qin hated and despised.
The relationship between the three countries is extraordinary. Although there have been hundreds of betrayals and hundreds of deceptions, they are not considered betrayals. Once they are exposed to the outside world, they trust each other.
Now defeating the Qi State will make Zhao Guo strong and prosperous.
Zhao is Qin's most hated enemy and is obviously not good for Qin. This is the first point.
The counselors and strategists of Qin State will definitely say that to defeat Qi State, first weaken the power of the Three Jin and Chu States, and then win the war.
In fact, the Qi State is a weak and exhausted country. To mobilize the troops of the princes of the world to attack the Qi State is like using a thousand strong bows to break away a festering carbuncle. The Qi State will undoubtedly perish. How can we weaken the Three Jin and Chu States?
This is the second point.
If Qin sends few troops, the Three Jins and Chu will not trust Qin; if it sends more troops, the Three Jins and Chu will worry about being controlled by Qin.
Qi was afraid of being attacked and would not seek refuge with Qin, but would definitely seek refuge with the Three Jins and Chu.
This is the third point.
Qin tried to carve up Qi to lure the Three Jins and Chu, but the Three Jins and Chu sent troops to guard it, so Qin would be attacked from both sides.
This is the fourth point.
This approach is to let the Three Jin and Chu use Qin's power to conquer Qi, and use Qi's land to deal with Qin. Why are the Three Jin and Chu so smart but Qin and Qi so stupid?
This is point five.
Therefore, if you take Anyi and govern it well, there will be no trouble.
If Qin occupied Anyi, South Korea would definitely be unable to control Shangdang.
Which one is more advantageous than seizing the center of the world or sending troops and worrying that they will not be able to return?
These truths are obvious, so I say that Qin is smart and well versed in strategy, and Marquis Rang is witty and proficient in military affairs. He will definitely not give Zhao 40,000 soldiers to attack Qi.
So Marquis Rang stopped marching and led his troops back home.
In the thirty-sixth year of King Zhao, the Prime Minister Ranghou and Keqing Zao discussed to attack Qi and seize the two cities of Gang and Shou, so as to expand their fiefdom in Taoyi.
At this time, a Wei man named Fan Sui called himself Mr. Zhang Lu. He laughed at Ranghou for crossing Han, Wei and other countries to attack Qi. He took this opportunity to ask for persuasion to King Qin Zhao.
King Zhao then appointed Fan Sui.
Fan Sui explained to King Zhao that the Queen Mother Xuan was autocratic in the court, Marquis Rang had monopoly power in foreign affairs, and Lord Jingyang, Lord Gaoling and others were so extravagant that they were richer than the monarch's family.
This awakened King Zhao of Qin, so he removed Marquis Rang from the post of prime minister and ordered Lord Jingyang and others to move out of the capital and to their own fiefdoms.
When Marquis Rang left Hangu Pass, there were more than a thousand vehicles carrying goods and people.
Marquis Rang died in Taoyi and was buried there.
The State of Qin took back Taoyi and established it as a county.
Tai Shigong said: Ranghou is the uncle of King Zhao of Qin.
The reason why the Qin State was able to expand its territory eastward and weaken the princes, and once proclaimed itself the emperor of the world, and all the princes bowed their heads and professed their vassalship, must be the credit of Ranghou.
When someone becomes extremely rich and powerful, if one person speaks out, he will be reduced to a lower position, his power will be taken away, and he will die of sorrow, not to mention those ministers who live in foreign countries!
