Emperor Xiaohuai, whose name was Chi and whose courtesy name was Fengdu, was the twenty-fifth son of Emperor Wu.
In the first year of Taixi's reign, he was granted the title of Prince of Yuzhang County.
When Emperor Hui was on the throne, members of the royal family were in chaos. The emperor was peaceful and self-restrained, thanked guests behind closed doors, paid no attention to worldly affairs, and concentrated on studying historical classics. He was very prestigious at that time.
At first he served as a regular servant of Sanqi, but when King Zhao Sima Jian usurped the throne, he was imprisoned.
After Sima Lun failed, he served as the captain of Shesheng.
Gradually he was promoted to general of chariots and cavalry, and commander of all military forces in Qingzhou, but he did not go to the town.
In the first year of Chenglei's reign, he was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yecheng garrison.
In December Dinghai, he was established as the emperor's younger brother.
The emperor believed that Sima Tan, the king of Qinghe, was the prince, so he was afraid and did not dare to take the responsibility.
Kaisheng, a doctor in Lu, said: The two prime ministers manage royal affairs with the aim of stabilizing the country. The crown prince has an important position and should be carried out by someone who is favored by the public. To recommend worthy people, who else but the king can do it?
King Qinghe was young and weak, and was not popular with everyone, so he entered the East Palace and returned to the feudal kingdom as King Qinghe.
Nowadays, the emperor is homeless, and the second palace has been empty for a long time. He is often worried that the Di and Qiang people will attack him, and the enemies like ants will come to the shore of the river to show off their power.
He should take advantage of the auspicious time and ascend to the position of crown prince in time, so that he can assist the emperor and pacify the house of Sesai as soon as possible, and satisfy the people's sincere and urgent wishes. Emperor Huai said: You are really my Song Ken.
So he followed Xiu Su's advice.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Guangya, Chu Zhao passed away.
Queen Jian thought that she was just a sister-in-law to the crown prince and could not be the queen mother, so she urged Qinghe King Sima Tan to enter the palace. She had already arrived at Shangshuhe, and Shi Zhonghuahun and others hurriedly summoned the crown prince.
Guiyou, that is, the emperor, granted amnesty to the world, honored Queen Yang as Queen Hui, and allowed her to live in Hongxun Palace. After honoring her biological mother, Princess Wang, as the Empress Dowager, she established the concubine as the Queen.
On the first day of Renwu, there will be a solar eclipse.
In Jihai, Sima Rong, the son of Dan Zhouchui, the king of Yue, was granted the title of King of Lecheng County.
Sima Mo, who pressed his eyes directly, killed Sima Yi, the king of Hejian, in Yongzhao.
Xin Chou appointed Zhongshu Jian as Situ, and Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Qu as Sikong.
Jiyou buried Emperor Xiaohui in Zhukenqiu.
Kui Bao's general Kui Zheng invaded Luan Ye.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongjia, on the first day of the first lunar month, Guichou Shuo, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, the reign name was changed, and the punishment of the three clans of Lian was abolished.
He asked Taifu and Shuhai King Sima Yue to assist the government and killed Zhuge Mei, the censor Zhongcheng.
In the second month of Xinsi, Wang Mi from Donglai rebelled and invaded Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Song Ba, the governor of Changguang, and Pang and his wife, the governor of Dongmou, were both killed.
On the first day of the third month, Pingshu General Zhou Fu beheaded Chen Min and sent him to him.
Ding Mao reburied Empress Wu and Yang.
In Gengwu, Sima Quan, the king of Yuzhang, was made the crown prince.
Xin Wei, grant amnesty to the world.
In Gengchen, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, came out of the capital to guard Xuchang.
Sima Jian, the general of Zhengdong and King of Gaomi, was appointed as the general of Zhengnan, the governor of Jingzhou's military forces, and guarded Xiangyang; the general of Anbei and Sima Teng, king of Shuyan, was appointed as the new king of Cai, the governor of Jizhou military, and guarded Ye; the general of Zhengnan and Nanyang King Sima Mo was appointed as the general of Zhengxi, the governor of Qin Yongliang, and the military of Yizhou, guarding Chang'an.
All the counties in Bingzhou were captured by Liu Yuanhai, and only Jinyang was defended by the governor Liu Kun.
In the fifth month of summer, Marshal Ma Mu Ji Sang gathered a crowd to rebel and defeated Feng Song, the prefect of Wei County. He then captured Yecheng and killed Sima Teng, the king of Xincai.
The Ye Palace was burned down and the fire continued for ten days.
He also killed Shi Shi, the former governor of Youzhou, in Leling, and went into the plains to plunder. Liu Qiu, the Duke of Shanyang, was killed.
The ground in Buguangli, Luoyang, sank, and two geese emerged. The pale one soared into the sky, while the white one could not fly.
The Yi people from Jianning County captured Ningzhou City and killed more than 3,000 people.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, stationed in Guandu, preparing to attack Jisang.
Before long, he appointed General Pingdong and King Sima Rui of Langxie as General Andong and Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Yangzhou and Jiangnan. He was temporarily in charge of the festival and guarded Jianye.
On the first day of the eighth lunar month, Gou Xi, the general of the Fu army, defeated Ji Sang in Ye.
In Jiachen, six states including You, Bing, Si, Ji, Yan, and Liao were granted amnesty.
The eight counties in Jingzhou and Jiangzhou were divided into Xiangzhou.
In the ninth month of Wushen, Gou Xi defeated Ji Sang again and captured nine of his fortresses.
In Xinhai, there were big stars like the sun and small stars like buckets, flowing from the west to the northeast. The sky turned red, and soon there was a sound like thunder.
Construction of Wangjin Fort began in Jiangdan to facilitate transportation.
There is a solar eclipse on the first day of Wushen lunar month in the eleventh month of winter.
In Jiayin, Shangshu Youpushe and Yu were appointed as generals in the northern expedition to guard Ye.
On the 12th day of the twelfth month of the lunar month, Tian Lan and Bo Sheng from the state were sent to kill Ji Sang in Leling.
In the Jiawu period, Liu Shi, the former Taifu, was appointed as Taiwei.
Gengzi appointed Dr. Guanglu and Duke Yanling Zhili as ministers.
Moyue of Sejulong falsely told Shaoshu that Sima Tan, king of Zhahe, was imprisoned in Jinyong City.
Guimao, Si District Yue proclaimed himself prime minister.
General Gou Xi of the Fu Army was appointed as the General of the Conquest of the East.
There was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the second year. Ding Wei, grant amnesty to the world.
In the second month of Xinmao, Sima Qin, king of Qinghe, was killed by Sima Yue, king of Donghai. Gengzi, Huqin invaded Xiaodan, and Anbei general Tu attacked and defeated him.
In March, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, guarded Juancheng. Sleep invades the feet and occupies the area of ​​pulling and chattering. The title infringes on the four states of Yi, Tu, Yan and Tu.
In the fourth month of summer, Dinghai entered Xu Dan, and all the generals stationed in the counties fled.
In the fifth month of Jiazi, Wang Jiang then invaded Haoshi. Situ Gongqian led his troops to resist, and Wang You withdrew his troops.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Liu Wuji invaded Naodang, and the prefect Secuo fled to the capital. The prefect Mi Dengshu fought hard and died in the battle.
In the eighth month of Dinghai, Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, moved from Jianqiu to Yimeng. In September, Huqin invaded Longzhu, and Renthi, the general who conquered the north, fled from Ye to Qiquang. In the winter of October, during the Jiaxu period, Xingwutu assumed the title of emperor in the guard area and was still called Xuan.
In November Yisi, Shangshu Ling Gao Guang died; in Jiyou, Shi Le invaded Ye; Wang Zheng, the prefect of Yun and Deng, was defeated and died in the battle.
Ding Mao appointed Prince Shaofu Jipeng as Shangshu Ling. On the first day of the Xinwei lunar month in December, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.
Sima Shuo, the son of Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, was made Kenlanwa, and Sima Shi was the king of Linhuai.
In the spring of the first month of the third year of Jiawu, Sima Shi, the king of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the third month of Wushen, Sima Jian, the general who conquered the south and the king of Gaomi, passed away.
He appointed Shangshu Zuopushe Shan Jian as the general of the southern expedition and the governor of the military in the four states of Jing, Xiang, Kui, and Lu. He also appointed Liu Tun, the captain of Sili school, as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Ding Si, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, returned to the capital.
Yi Chou. He led troops into the palace, captured close ministers Zhongshu Ling Longzhong, the emperor's uncle Gong Yan and more than ten people from the emperor's side, and killed them all.
Bingyin, amnesty and return to Yixing.
On Ding Mao, Taiwei Liu Shi requested to retire and appointed Situ Wang Yan as Taiwei.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, also served as Situ.
Liu Yuanhai invaded Liyang and sent chariot general Wang Kan to attack him. Wang Kan's troops were defeated in Yanjin, and more than 30,000 people died.
There is a severe drought, and the Yangtze River, Han River, Yellow River, and Luoshui River have little water and can be waded across.
In April of summer, Zuo Jinu General Zhu Dan defected to Liu Yuanhai.
Shi Le captured more than a hundred fortresses in various counties in Jizhou.
On the Wuchen day of the seventh month in autumn, the ground in Dangyang area cracked in three places, each three feet wide and more than three hundred steps long.
In Xinwei, Liu Mangdang, a native of Pingyang, claimed to be a descendant of the Han royal family, deceived the Qiang Rong tribe, and claimed the title of emperor in Malan Mountain.
Wudaosou and Hao Suo, who supported the Hu, gathered thousands of people to rebel, stationed in Xinfeng, and formed a party with Mangdang.
Liu Yuanhai sent his sons Liu Cong and Wang Mi to invade Shangdang and besieged Huguan.
Liu Kun, the governor of Bingzhou, sent troops to rescue, but was defeated by Liu Cong.
Huainan internal history Wang Kuang, general Shi Rong, Cao Chao and Liu Cong fought and were defeated again. Cao Chao and Shi Rong died in the battle.
Pang Chun, the governor of Shangdang, surrendered the county and the city to rebel against the traitors.
In September Bingyin, Liu Cong besieged Junyi and sent Pingbei General Cao Wu to attack Liu Cong.
Ding Chou, the army was defeated.
Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, came to defend the capital.
Liu Cong attacked Ximing Gate, but Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, resisted and fought outside Xuanyang Gate, defeating Liu Cong.
Shi Le invaded Changshan. Anbei general Wang Jun asked the Xianbei cavalry to rescue him and defeated Shi Le at Feilong Mountain.
Sima Mo, the general who conquered the west and king of Nanyang, sent his general Chun Yuding to defeat Liu Mangdang and Wu Dousou and kill them all.
He sent chariot general Wang Kan and Pingbei general Cao Wu to attack Liu Cong. The officers and soldiers were defeated, and Wang Kan fled back to the capital.
Li Xiong's deputy commander Luo Xian came to submit to Zitong.
Liu Cong attacked Ximing Gate in Luoyang but failed.
A landslide occurred in Yidao, Yidu, and there were earthquakes in Jing and Xiang prefectures.
In November of winter, Shile captured Changle, Anbei general Wang Bin was killed, and massacred in Liyang.
Refugee leaders Li Pang, Bo Sheng and others led everyone to rescue the capital, but Liu Cong retreated and fled.
Li Pang and others defeated Wang Mi again in Xinji.
In Yihai, December, at night there is white air like a belt, rising from the ground to the sky, two feet in length in the north and south.
On the first day of the first month of the fourth year of spring, Yi Chou, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In February, Shi Le attacked Juancheng. Yuan Fu, the governor of Yanzhou, was defeated and killed by his men.
Shi Le attacked Baima again, and Wang Kan, the chariot and cavalry general, was killed in battle.
Li Xiong's general Wenshuo killed Li Xiong's general Li Guo and submitted to Brazil.
In Wuwu, Qian Fen, a native of Wuxing, rebelled and called himself General Pingxi.
In March, Prime Minister Cang Cao, who was subordinate to Zhou Quan, led his countrymen to attack Qian Wei and killed him.
In April of summer, there are floods.
General Qi Hong defeated Liu Yuanhai's general Liu Lingyao at Guangzong. Li Xiong captured Zitong.
An earthquake occurred in Yanzhou.
In May, Shi Le invaded Ji County and captured Hu Chong, the prefect. He then crossed the Yellow River southward, while Pei Chun, the prefect of Rongyang, fled to Jianye.
Strong winds broke trees.
earthquake.
Locusts infested the six prefectures of You, Bing, Si, Ji, Qin, and Yong, eating up all the grass, trees, cattle, and horses.
In June, Liu Yuanhai died and his son Liu He took over the throne of the pseudo-emperor. Liu He's younger brother Liu Cong murdered Liu He and proclaimed himself the pseudo-emperor.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Cong's younger brother Liu Yao and his general Shi Le besieged Huai. Xia Shao asked the conquest general Song Tuo to rescue them, but they were defeated by Liu Yao and Song Tuo died in the battle.
In September, the Hanoi people rebelled against the capture of the prefect Pei Zheng and surrendered to Shi Le.
Wang Long, the supervisor of the Xuzhou army, abandoned his army from Xiapi and fled to Zhou Fu.
Wang Ru, a native of Yongzhou, first raised troops to rebel in Wan, killed the local governor, called himself a general and the pastor of Siyong Erzhou, and looted the Hanmio area. Ponce of Xinping, Yan Yi of Feng Yi, and Hou Tuo of Jingzhao each raised their own troops to respond to him.
Shan Jian, the general who conquered the south, Wang Cheng, the governor of Jingzhou, and Du Rui, the general of Nanzhonglang, all sent troops to rescue the capital. They fought with Wang Ru in Wan and all their armies were defeated. Only Wang Cheng led his troops to Luokou and returned because his troops were defeated.
In the tenth month of winter, the days are dark and dark, lasting for ten days until Gengzi Day.
There is a big star falling to the southwest and there is a sound.
In Renyin, Shi Le besieged Cangyuan. Wang Zan, Chen Liu's internal history officer, defeated him and Shi Le fled to the north of the Yellow River.
Renzi appointed Hussar General Wang Jun as Sikong and Pingbei General Liu Kun as Pingbei General.
Famine in the capital.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, issued a letter with feathers to urgently recruit the troops from all over the world. The emperor said to the envoys: Tell the generals for me that if you send troops immediately, you can still save us. If you delay, it will be too late.
No general came to rescue him at that time.
Shi Le captured Xiangcheng and the prefect Cui Kuang was killed. Then he attacked Wan.
Wang Jun sent Xianbei Wenyang to lead the cavalry to rescue Nahuo, but Shi Le retreated.
Wang Jun also sent his general Wang Shenshi to attack Shile in Wenshijin and defeated Shile.
In November of Jiaxu, King Sima Yue of Shuhai led his troops to leave Xuchang and asked Xingtai to follow him.
The palace offices no longer have guards, famine and famine are becoming more and more serious day by day, the palaces and palaces are littered with dead people, the government offices, temples, barracks, etc. all dig trenches to defend themselves, thieves and robbers are openly operating, and the sound of alarm drums is endless.
Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, stationed his troops in Xiang. He concurrently served as the shepherd of Yuzhou, and asked Wang Yan, the Taiwei, to serve as military commander.
Ding Chou, the wandering Di people Kai Bo and others attacked Yidu, and the prefect Ji Xi fled to Jianye.
Wang Shenshi attacked Liu Yao and Wang Mi at the bottle base and defeated them.
General Zhenshu Zhou Fu came to welcome the emperor to move the capital to Shouyang. King Sima Yue of Donghai sent Pei Shuo to attack Zhou Fu, but was defeated by Zhou Fu. He fled to Dongcheng to defend and asked Sima Rui, King of Langxie, for help.
A great plague broke out in Xiangyang, and more than 3,000 people died.
Zhang Gui, the governor of Jialiang Prefecture, was appointed General Anxi.
In December, General Gou Xi attacked Wang Mi's deputy general Cao Yi and defeated him.
In Yiyou, Li Hong from Pingyang led the refugees into Dingling to cause trouble.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, the emperor secretly issued an edict to Gou Xi to attack Shuhai King Sima Yue.
Renshen and Gou Xi were defeated by Cao Yi.
At the end of the day, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, sent Yang Hao, a general of Zhonglang, and Pei Dun, the governor of Xuzhou, to jointly attack Gou Xi.
In Guiyou, Shi Le invaded Jiangxia, and the prefect Yang Min fled to Wuchang.
In Yihai, Li Xiong captured Fucheng and Qiao Deng, the prefect of Zitong, was killed.
Du Sou, a refugee from Xiangzhou, occupied Changsha and rebelled.
Wuyin, General Anshu and King Sima Rui of Langxie asked General Ganzhuo to attack General Zhou Fu in Shouchun, and Zhou Fu's men collapsed.
In Gengchen, Sima Qian, the Taibao and the original king, passed away.
In February, Shi Le invaded Runan, and Sima Ku, the king of Runan, fled to Jianye.
On Wuwu in the third month, Xia Shao announced the crimes of Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, and asked the generals from various places to attack him.
Appointed Gou Xi, the general who conquered Cambodia, as the general.
In Bingzi, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, passed away.
On Wuzi in April, Shi Le chased the coffin of Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, and caught up with him in Dongjun. General Ji Duan died in battle, and the army collapsed. Taiwei Wang Yan, Shangshu Liu Wang, Tingwei Zhuge Quan, Shangshu Zheng Yu, and Wuling King Sima Dan were all killed. More than 100,000 people died from the prince level down.
Sima Pi, the eldest son of King Shuhai, and the forty-eight kings of the clan were soon killed by Shi Le.
The bandits Wang Sang and Leng Dao captured Xuzhou and the governor Pei Dun was killed. Wang Sang then crossed the Huaihe River and arrived at Liyang.
In May, Yizhou refugees Ruban and Liangzhou refugees Jianfu rebelled in Xiangzhou and captured Gou Tiao, the governor. They went south to attack the counties of Ling and Gui, and to the east they plundered Wuchang. Guo Cha, the governor of Ancheng, Zheng Rong, the governor of Shaoling, and Teng Yu, the internal historian of Hengyang, were all killed.
Wang Jun, Sikong, was promoted to Grand Sima, General Zhengxi and King Sima Mo of Nanyang were promoted to Taiwei, Prince Fu Zhi was promoted to Situ, Shangshu Ling Goufan was promoted to Sikong, General Andong and Sima Rui, King of Langxie, were promoted to General Zhendong.
When Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, left the capital, he asked Yin Pantao of Henan to stay behind.
General Gou Xi petitioned to move the capital to Cangyuan, and the emperor was prepared to listen to his advice. The ministers were afraid of Pan Tao and did not dare to follow Shao's orders. Moreover, the palace officials and eunuchs were greedy for money and did not want to leave the capital.
When they were sent, they were extremely hungry, and people were eating people. Nine out of ten people in the palace were exiled.
The emperor convened the ministers to discuss and prepared to travel, but there were no guards.
The emperor rubbed his hands and sighed: "Why are there no vehicles?"
He asked Situ Fu Zhi to go out of the city to Heyin to repair the boats and prepare for the waterway.
Dozens of officials from the DPRK and China accompanied him.
The emperor walked out of Xiyemen and went to Tongchi Street. He was robbed by robbers and could not move forward and returned to the palace.
In Guiwei, Liu Yao, Wang Mi, and Shi Le invaded Luochuan. The imperial army was frequently defeated by the rebels, and many people died.
In the sixth month of Gengyin, Sikong Xunfan and Guanglu doctor Xun group fled to Yuanyuan. Prince Zuo led Wen Ji to open Guangmo gate at night and fled to Xiaopingjin.
Ding You, Liu Yao and Wang Mi entered the capital.
The emperor opened the gate of Hualin Garden and passed by Heyin Lotus Pond. He wanted to go to Chang'an, but Liu Yao and others caught up with him.
Liu Yao burned the palaces and temples, forced and insulted the concubines and queens. King Sima Yan of Wu, King Sima Suan of Jingling, Shangshu Zuopushe Heyu, Youpushe Caofu, Shangshu Luqiuchong, Yuan Can, Wang Nui, Henan Yin Liumo and others were all killed. More than 30,000 officials, officials and common people died.
The emperor was captured in Pingyang, and Liu Cong made the emperor the Duke of Kuaiji.
Xun Fan sent a message to the military towns in various states, with King Langxie as the leader of the alliance.
Sima Duan, the king of Yuzhang, fled east to Gou Xi, who made him the crown prince. He also served as Shangshu Ling and set up various government agencies to garrison Meng County in Liang State.
The people were hungry and the harvest was bad. The price of rice was more than ten thousand yuan per bushel.
In the seventh month of autumn, Grand Sima Wang Jun followed the emperor's will and temporarily established the crown prince, appointed hundreds of officials, and arranged various military towns.
Shi Le invaded Guyang, and King Sima Zi of Pei was defeated and killed.
In August, Liu Cong sent his son Liu Can to capture Chang'an. Taiwei, General Zhengxi, and Nanyang King Sima Mo were killed. More than 4,000 people from Chang'an fled to Hanzhong.
In the ninth month of Guihai, Shi Le attacked Yangxia and reached Meng County. General Gou Xi and King Sima Duan of Yuzhang were both killed by the rebels.
In the tenth month of winter, Shi Le invaded all counties in Yuzhou and did not return until he reached the Yangtze River.
In November, Yilu invaded Taiyuan, and Pingbei General Liu Kun could not control it. He moved the people of five counties to Xinxing and let them live there.
In the first month of the spring of the sixth year, the emperor was in Pingyang.
Liu Cong invaded Taiyuan.
Hu Kang, the general of Yamen in the former Zhennan Prefecture, gathered a crowd to invade the Jingzhou area and named himself Duke of Chu.
In the second month of Renzi, there is a solar eclipse.
In Guichou, Sima Rui, the general of Zhendong and king of Langxie, wrote to the minister, advocating issuing a proclamation to recruit soldiers and horses from all over the country to attack Shile.
Wang Jun, the Grand Sima, forwarded a message to the world, claiming that he had accepted the palace edict, upheld the emperor's will, and appointed Xun Fan as Taiwei.
Sima Xi, king of Ruyang, was killed by Shi Le.
In the fourth month of Xia Bingyin, General Shan Jian passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, Suixing, Yinghuo, and Taibai gather between the Ox and Diu constellations.
Shi Le invaded Jizhou.
Liu Can invaded Jinyang. Pingbei general Liu Kun sent his general Hao Yue to lead an army to resist Liu Can. Hao Yue was defeated and died in battle. Gao Qiao, the prefect of Taiyuan, surrendered Jinyang to Liu Can.
In August Gengxu, Liu Kun fled to Changshan.
In Jihai, Yinping Captain Dong Chong drove away the prefect Wang Jian, led the county to rebel and surrendered to Li Xiong.
In the year of 1911, Liu Kun asked Yi Lu for reinforcements and recommended Yi Lu as the acting duke.
On Ji Mao in the ninth month, Yilu sent his son Lisun to Liu Kun, but he could not reach it.
Xin Si, the former governor of Yongzhou, Maizhen, attacked Liu Can in Sanfu and defeated him. Guanzhong became a little more stable, so he, General Liang Fen of the Wei, and Liang Zong, the prefect of Jingzhao, jointly honored the King of Qin, Sima Ye, as the crown prince in Chang'an.
In the tenth month of winter, Yilu himself led 60,000 cavalry and garrisoned Yucheng.
During the Sino-Japanese War in November, Liu Can quietly withdrew his troops and fled, while Liu Kun gathered his remaining troops and guarded Yangqu.
In the same year, a great plague prevailed.
In the first month of the spring of the seventh year, Liu Cong convened a banquet with ministers and asked the emperor to wear Tsing Yi and go back and forth to drink.
The servant Yu Min howled and cried, and Liu Cong hated him.
Ding Wei, the emperor was killed and died in Pingyang at the age of thirty.
When the emperor was born, auspicious seedlings grew in Nanchang, Yuzhang County.
Before that, the alchemist who observed the weather said that Yuzhang County had heaven and earth. Later, he became the crown prince as the king of Yuzhang.
When he was in Shugong, he was respectful, cautious, humble and self-disciplined, socialized with court officials, and discussed history books.
When he came to the throne, he began to follow the old system and went to Taiji Hall to have Shangshu Lang read out the political decrees formulated according to the seasons, and listened to politics in the East Hall.
At every banquet, he always discussed various affairs with the ministers and studied the classics.
Huangmen Shilang Fu Xuan exclaimed: Now we have seen the era of Emperor Wu again!
Xun Song, the secretary supervisor, often told people: Emperor Huai's natural talents were elegant and beautiful, and he had outstanding talents since he was a child. If he encounters a peaceful era, he can definitely become a good monarch who abides by the old system.
However, after Emperor Hui's disturbance and the dictatorship of King Shuhai, there was no disaster like King You and King Li of Zhou, but there was the disaster of exile.
Emperor Xiaomin's name was Sima Ye, whose courtesy name was Chan'ao. He was the grandson of Genzao and the son of King Xiao of Wu, Sima Yan.
He was adopted by his uncle Luwang Sima Dong, who later inherited the title of King of Painting.
In the second year of Cheng Sai's reign, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of Fujun.
When Luoyang fell, he took refuge in Mi County, Rongyang, where he met his uncles Xun Fan and Xun Zu, and together they headed south from Mi County to Xuchang and Yingchuan.
The governor of Yuzhou, Jian Ding, together with former Fu army chief Shi Wangbi, Situ chief Shi Liu Chou, Zhongshu Lang Li Xin, Xun Fan, Xun Zu and others jointly planned to serve the emperor and settle down in Chang'an. However, Liu Chou and others rebelled midway, and Yan Ding chased and killed them. Xun Fan and Xun Zu were lucky enough to escape death.
Yan Ding took the emperor hostage and rode in an ox cart from Wan to Wuguan. He encountered bandits on the mountains many times, and the soldiers escaped dead and wounded, and temporarily settled in Lantian.
Qin Ding informed the governor of Yongzhou, Jia Zong, and Jia Zong hurriedly sent troops from the state to meet the guards. Finally they arrived in Chang'an and asked General Liang Zong to assist in the guard.
At that time, a jade turtle appeared in Bashui and a divine horse neighed in the south of the city. In the ninth month of the sixth year of Xinsi, King Qin was honored as the crown prince, went to the altar to offer sacrifices to heaven and the five emperors, established an ancestral temple and a shrine, and granted amnesty to the world.
He also conferred the title of Great General to Conquer the West, and appointed Sima Bao, the governor of Qinzhou and King of Nanyang, as the Great Sima.
Buying Zhuan attacked the traitor Zhang Lian and was killed. Everyone recommended Qu Yun, the prefect of Shihu, to concurrently serve as the governor of Yongzhou and the leader of the alliance. He would select people and appoint officials in accordance with the emperor's will.
On Bingwu in the summer of April of the first year of Jianxing, I learned of the death of Emperor Huai, and held a mourning ceremony according to etiquette.
Renshen ascended the throne as emperor, granted amnesty to the world, and changed his reign title.
General Liang Fen of the Wei was appointed as Situ, Qu Yun, the governor of Yongzhou, was appointed as envoy Chijie, leading general and secretary of the Shangshu Shi, and Suo Sui, the prefect of Jingzhao, was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
Shi Le attacked Longxiang General Li Tan in Shangbai, but Li Tan was defeated and died in battle.
On Renchen in the fifth month, Sima Rui, the general of Zhendong and the king of Langxie, was appointed as the minister, prime minister of the left, and the chief military officer of Shaanxi Shu.
He also issued an edict to these two kings: Speaking of disasters and bad luck, even in the heyday of the dynasty, we still sometimes encounter them.
I am still young and inherit the throne. I hope that with the protection of my ancestors and gods and the help of my ministers and loyal people, I can wipe out the vicious bandits and save and support the distressed royal family. My hope has not yet been realized, and my heart is broken.
In the past, the Dukes of Zhou and Shao ruled Shaanxi separately, and the Ji family prospered because of it. King Ping Shu of Zhou moved to Luoyi, and Jin and Zheng became his assistants.
Nowadays, the virtues of the prime ministers on the left and right can be compared with those of the ancient saints. They are the closest people to the country. Naturally, they must rely on them to eliminate the evildoers, welcome back the coffin of the late emperor, and restore Zhongxing.
Order You and Bing two states to raise 300,000 troops and fight all the way to Pingyang.
Prime Minister You should lead the Qin, Liang, Liang, and Yong armies with 300,000 troops, and march directly to Chang'an.
Prime Minister Zuo led his 200,000 elite troops to attack Luoyang.
Send forward troops respectively as backup for You and Ping's armies.
Let’s go to the decisive battle together and accomplish great achievements.
He also issued an edict to King Langye, saying: When I was young and ignorant, I inherited the throne, but I was not able to kill and eliminate the traitors and rebels. I respectfully welcomed back the coffin of the late emperor. The war continued, and my heart was depressed and my liver was broken.
Not long ago, I received a letter from Wei Jun. I knew that the three armies led by the Duke had already established themselves in Shouchun and issued a message to the princes. They worked together to form a mighty military force. It is expected that they will gradually advance and have arrived in Luoyang.
Zhang Gui, the governor of Liangzhou, was loyal to the imperial court and led his troops from far away and had already reached Yi and Long; Zhang Guang, the governor of Liangzhou, also sent troops from Ba and Han to garrison in Luo Valley; the generals and warriors of Qinchuan gathered together one after another.
Recently, an envoy was sent to Pingyang, and they have returned. They know the real news about Pingyang, saying that You and Bing are prosperous, and the remaining Hu people are in decline and ruin, but they still rely on the danger to resist and must attack in a large scale.
Because they still didn't know where Gong was now, they temporarily stopped their troops to rest and did not attack immediately.
Now that you have arrived somewhere, you should come and let me know. I will ride out in my car and go out in person to join forces to wipe out the enemies in the Central Plains.
The Duke should consider using his talents and work hard to complete the ambitious plan so that the late emperor's coffin can be returned and people all over the world can rely on it.
To this end, I dispatched the imperial commanders Liu Shu and Su Ma to declare my intention in detail.
He has outstanding public morals and is a close member of the clan. Who else can revitalize China and unify the Central Plains?
However, the mausoleums and ancestral temples in Luodu cannot be left empty and deserted. They should be guarded and protected in order to stabilize Shandong.
Prime Minister You should enter the court to assist in government affairs and imitate the ancient Duke of Zhou, Shao Gong, to complete the great cause of ZTE.
In June, Shi Le killed Tian Hui, the governor of Yanzhou.
At this time, the counties and cities in Shandong were captured by Shi Le one after another.
In the autumn and August of Guihai, Liu Shu and others arrived in Yangzhou.
Jianye was renamed Jiancheng, and Ye was renamed Linzhang.
Du Chen invaded Wuchang and set fire to the houses in the city.
Du Sou's general Wang Zhen attacked Mianyang, and Jingzhou governor Zhou Hao fled to Jiankang.
In September, Sikong Goufan died in Rongyang.
Liu Cong invaded Henan, and Yin Zhangmao of Henan died in battle.
In the winter of October, Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Du Zeng, a member of Du Qiang's party, but was defeated by Du Zeng in Shicheng.
Ji Si, heavy hail fell.
Gengwu, it snowed heavily.
In November, the refugee Yang Wu captured Liangzhou.
In December, an earthquake occurred in Hedong and it rained meat.
In the spring of the second year, on the first day of the first lunar month, there was a black fog, which stuck to people's bodies like ink stains. It was difficult to distinguish between day and night, and it took five consecutive days to dissipate.
Xinwei, the sun sets at midnight in the morning.
There are three more suns connected, coming out from the west and going east.
Ding Chou, grant amnesty to the world.
Yang Wu looted the Hanzhong area and then defected to Li Xiong.
In the second month of Renyin, Wang Jun of Sikong was appointed as Grand Sima, General Xun Zu of Wei was appointed as Sikong, Zhang Gui, the governor of Liangzhou, was made Taiwei, Zhang Gui was made the Duke of Xiping County, and Liu Kun, the governor of Bingzhou, was appointed as the general.
In the third month of Guiyou, Shi Le captured Youzhou and killed Shi Zhong, Da Sima, Youzhou Mu, and Prince Boling. He set fire to the houses in the city and killed more than 10,000 people.
Du Sou's deputy commander Wang Zhen attacked Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, in Lin Zhang, and Tao Kan fled to Tianzhong.
On the first day of April in summer, there was an earthquake.
In the fifth month of Renchen, Zhang Gui, the Taiwei, the captain who led the Qiang army, the governor of Liangzhou, and the Duke of Xiping died.
In June, Liu Yao and Tran Ran invaded Xinfeng counties, and Anton general Suo Sui attacked and defeated them.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Yao, Zhao Ran and others invaded Kyoto again. The leading general Qu Yun attacked and defeated them. Zhao Ran was killed by an arrow.
In September, Beizhonglang general Liu Yan captured Dunqiu and beheaded Bingxu, Shao Pan, the prefect appointed by Shi Le. Qilin appeared in Xiangping.
Shanyu sent an envoy to offer horses on behalf of Duke Yilu.
Puzi's horse gave birth to a human being.
In the first month of spring of the third year, thieves killed Zhao Pei, the prefect of Jinchang.
Xu Fu, a native of Wuxing, killed the prefect Yuan You.
Song Zhe, the servant in charge, was appointed as General Pingdong and stationed in Huayin.
On the second day of the second month, Sima Rui, the prime minister of the left and the king of Langxie, was promoted to the general governor, supervising all the Chinese and foreign military affairs. The prime minister on the right and the king of Nanyang, Sima Bao, was promoted to the prime minister.
Jin made Dai Gong Yilu the acting king.
Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, defeated Wang Zhen in Baling.
Du Hong and Zhang Yan, Du Sou's generals, fought with Linchuan Nei Shi Xie in Haihun. Xie Zie failed and died in the battle.
In March, Zhou Fang, the internal historian of Yuzhang, attacked Du Hong, drove him away, and beheaded Zhang Yan in the battle.
In the fourth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
In May Liu Cong invaded Bingzhou.
In June, thieves excavated the two mausoleums of Ba and Du in Modai, as well as the mausoleum of Queen Mother Bo. The Queen Mother's face looked just like when she was alive, and they got countless gold, jade, color and silk.
At that time, because the imperial court was new and there were not enough official costumes, the emperor ordered that the remaining tomb robbers be confiscated and put into the royal warehouse.
Ding Mao, Chang'an earthquake.
Xin Si, grant amnesty to the world.
Yongzhou was ordered to bury the dead bones and carrion, repair the tombs, and execute the three clans who broke the law in tomb robbery.
In the seventh month of autumn, Shi Le captured Puyang and killed the prefect Han Hong.
Liu Cong invaded Shangdang, and Liu Kun sent generals to rescue him.
In August Guihai, they fought at Xiangyuan and Wang's army was defeated.
Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Du Fu, but Du Sou was defeated and fled, dying on the way. Xiangzhou was pacified.
In September, Liu Yao invaded the north and ordered the leading general Qu Yun to attack him.
In the tenth month of winter, Qu Yun marched to attack Qingbaicheng.
Appoint Yuzhou Mu and Zhengshu General Suo Sui as Shangshu Pushe and Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Gongcheng.
Liu Cong captured Feng Yi, and the prefect Liang Su fled for thousands of years.
In December, Zhang Xuan, the governor of Liangzhou, sent the emperor's official seal.
The robbers killed Zhao Ban, the governor of Anding.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, Dai Wang Yilu died, and his subordinates belonged to Liu Kun.
In the fourth month of Xia, Ding Chou, Liu Yao invaded Shangjun, and the prefect Ji Wei led his men to flee to Nanzheng.
Zhang Shi, the governor of Liangzhou, sent a total of 5,000 infantry and cavalry to Kyoto.
Shi Le captured Linqiu, and Bei Zhonglang's general Liu Xiang fled.
In May, Lei Zhao, the prefect of Pingyi, killed Meng Huan, the prefect of Nanguang, and led three families in two counties to rebel and surrender to Li Xiong.
On the first day of June, Dingsi, there was a solar eclipse and locusts were infested.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Yao attacked the north, and Qu Yun led a total of 30,000 infantry and cavalry to rescue him.
The king's army collapsed without a fight, and Qu Chang, the governor of the north, fled to the capital.
When Liu Yao entered Jingyang, all the cities north of the Wei River were lost. Jianwei General Lu Chong, Sanqi Changshi Liang Wei, Shaofu Huangfu Yang and others were all killed in the battle.
In August, Liu Yao advanced towards the capital, cutting off all traffic within and outside the city. General Jiao Song of Zhenxi, General Song Zhe of Pingshu, Zhu Hui, the prefect of Shiping, and others all went to the national disaster. Qu Yun and his ministers defended the small town of Chang'an in self-defense. Hua Ji, the regular servant of Sanqi, supervised the troops of Jingzhao, Fengyi, Hongnong and Shangluo counties stationed at Bashang of the city. The town army general Hu Song led the soldiers and horses of the counties in the west of the city to station at Zemaqiao, but they did not dare to advance.
In the tenth month of winter, there was a serious famine in the capital. A bushel of rice was worth two taels of gold. People were cannibalizing and most of the people died.
There were dozens of wine cakes left in Taicang, and Qu Yun crushed them into crumbs and cooked them into porridge for the emperor to eat. By this time, they were all eaten.
The emperor cried and said to Qu Yun: Now that we are in such distress and there is no one outside to rescue us, it is my business to die for the country.
Unfortunately, the officers and soldiers of Gu Nian fell into such a cruel situation. Now I want to do something humiliating before the city is captured, hoping to save the people of Li from the suffering of massacre.
Go ahead and send me a letter of surrender. I have made up my mind.
At the end of November, Song Chang, the attendant, was sent to deliver a letter to Liu Yao. The emperor rode a sheep cart, with his upper body exposed and a jade in his mouth, and carried the coffin out of the city to surrender.
The ministers cried and clung to the car, holding the emperor's hand tightly. The emperor could not help himself in grief.
Yushi Zhongcheng Jilang committed suicide.
Liu Yao burned the coffin, accepted the jade, and asked Song Chang to serve the emperor and return to the palace.
At the beginning, there was a nursery rhyme that said: Why is the emperor wrapped in a bean field?
At that time, Wang Jun was in Youzhou. He thought that the bean leaf was called Huo, so he killed the hermit Huo Yuan to make the nursery rhyme come true.
When the emperor went to Liu Yao's military camp, the military camp was on the wall of the bean field near the city.
Xin Chou, the emperor was taken to Pingyang and imprisoned, and Qu Yun and other officials accompanied him.
Liu Cong asked the emperor to temporarily serve as Doctor Guanglu and Marquis Huai'an.
In Renyin, Liu Cong went to the palace, and the emperor kowtowed in front of him. Qu Yun fell on the ground and cried bitterly, and then committed suicide.
Shangshu Liang Yun, Shizhong Liang Jun, Sanqi Changshi Yan Dun, Zuo Cheng Zang Zhen, Huangmen Shilang Ren Bo, Zhang Wei, Du Man and the prefects of various counties were all killed by Liu Yao, and Hua Ji fled to Nanshan.
Shi Le besieged Leping, and Sikong Liu Kun sent troops to rescue him. Shi Le was defeated, and Han Ju, the governor of Leping, fled.
Sikong Chief Shi Li Hong betrayed Bingzhou and surrendered to Shi Le.
There is a solar eclipse on the first day of December, Yi Mao.
Before long, Liu Kun fled to Ji and attached himself to Duan Pichen.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, the emperor was in Pingyang.
Gengzi, the sky is full of rainbows, and three suns are shining at the same time.
Pingdong General Song Zhe fled to Jiangzuo.
Li Xiong sent his generals Li Gong and Luo Yin to invade Ba Shu.
In February, Liu Cong sent his general Liu Chang to attack Rongyang, and the prefect Li Ju defeated him.
In March, Langye King Sima Rui followed the emperor's will and changed his reign title, calling himself King Jin in Jiankang.
In the fifth month of summer, there is a solar eclipse.
In autumn and July, there is a severe drought, and there are locusts in Si, Ji, Qing, and Yong prefectures.
Shi Le also rushed to collect the crops of the people. At that time, people called them "Hu locusts".
In August, Liu Cong sent Zhao Gu to attack General Hua Lei in Linying and killed him.
In the tenth month of winter, there is a solar eclipse.
Liu Cong went out hunting and ordered the emperor to act as a general of chariots and cavalry, wearing a military uniform and holding a halberd as a leader. The people gathered to watch him. Some of the old ministers cried and shed tears. Liu Cong was disgusted after hearing this.
Later, at the banquet, Liu Cong asked the emperor to drink wine and rinse the wine master. When he went to the toilet, he asked the emperor to hold the toilet lid. Many of the old officials of the Jin Dynasty present here burst into tears. Shangshulang Xinbin held the emperor in his arms and cried bitterly, and was killed by Liu Cong.
In December of 1898, the emperor was killed and Zai Huyang passed away at the age of eighteen.
When the emperor inherited the throne, the Yongjia Rebellion was happening, and the world was falling apart. There were less than a hundred households in the city of Chang'an, the walls and palaces were in ruins, and forests of wormwood and thorns had grown.
The imperial court had no vehicles, horses, or clothing, but only used mulberry boards to write names on them.
There is only one brigade of soldiers, and there are four public and private vehicles. Many equipments are lacking, and food is not received.
The traitor was so cunning and arrogant, the situation in the capital was very critical, the princes did not have the courage to give up their titles, and the generals lacked the courage to do their best for the emperor. Therefore, the monarch and his ministers were embarrassed and forced, and were finally killed and humiliated.
Shi Chen said: The dynasty is like the glorious sun. At dusk, most of the heroes who save the country come from the royal family; the destiny of the country is like gold and jade that has lost its luster. The wandering emperors all think that they should pay tribute to Emperor Huai and Emperor Min.
Yangfan is quiet and deserted, and no military chariots came to the gathering. Could it be that he is not strong enough but loyal enough?
The people who survived the disaster struggled to keep the monarch alive, just like the ancient poets cherished the Tangdi tree.
Extraordinary events have occurred, but no one has established extraordinary achievements. Carefully examining the situation of prosperity is not inspired by heaven. Therefore, it is possible to carry a coffin in a car and to surrender with a sword between teeth.
As a result, the mountains and rivers including Wuyue and Santu all fell into the hands of the enemy. Places like Longzhou and Niushou were used as the base of the monarch.
The ministers of Gu and Gong were not capable of defeating the enemy, but Liu and Shi were extremely powerful. As a result, they had no food to satisfy their hunger and no troops to rescue them. The two capitals were captured by the Di people, and the two emperors were escorted to the Rong camp.
King You of Zhou lost his head in Mount Li, and Duke Wu of Wei was heartbroken by the Qishui River. He wanted to get a county, but how could he do it?
Gan Bao commented: In the past, Emperor Xuan, the great ancestor, took up official positions in response to the current situation due to his talent and strategy. Just when Wei Taizu began to establish his foundation, he planned military and national affairs. His clever plans were often successful, so he shouldered heavy responsibilities and fought hard for three dynasties.
He has a deep and dignified character, is able to be magnanimous and accommodates everyone; he can control things by letting things happen naturally, and he knows how to handle people well.
Therefore, no matter wise or foolish, everyone respects him and does his best in all matters big and small.
In this way, Deng Ai, a small official in charge of farming, was promoted, and Zhou Tai, who had a humble position in the army, was promoted to them. They were assigned civil and military positions, and they were all qualified.
Therefore, he was able to conquer Meng Da in the western expedition, defeat Gongsun Wenyi in the eastern expedition, pacify Cao Shuang internally, and surprise Wang Leng externally.
His strategies are miraculous and his decisions are unique. He conquers all directions in battles, protects the emperor and princes, and has great power.
Under such circumstances, people get close to talented people, and a general trend begins to take shape.
Shizong and Taizu established their foundations, Xiahou Xuan and Li Feng rebelled in the court, and Wen Qin and Zhuge Dan raised troops as bandits abroad. Although the conspiracy was carried out secretly, it would be exposed at a critical moment; the banks of the Huai River were harassed repeatedly, but the Xu and Luo areas were not shaken: all the rebellion plots were stopped.
The merits of our predecessors have thus been carried forward. Then Zhong Hui and Deng Ai were reused, and they marched into Yong and Shu. The three passes were wiped out like lightning. Liu Chan came to surrender and became a vassal. The auspicious symbols and human conspiracies from the sky all became facts by this time.
Receive extraordinary courtesy at the beginning and receive the highest reward that is unparalleled.
When he arrived at Shizu, he finally became the emperor.
Benevolence makes the subjects rich, frugality makes the use sufficient, peace does not relax the laws and disciplines, generosity makes the government decisive, so the people praise the innovation, and the whole world happily accepts the decree.
Carry forward the aspirations of our ancestors and calm the pain of war.
The intimate ministers had different ideas, and the ministers had different opinions, but they only adopted Yang Ku's strategy and relied on Wang Jun and Du Yu's decisions. In less than two quarters, the Jiang and Hunan areas were unified.
It governed the old areas of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, and the new calendar reached far-flung places in all directions. People all over the world used the same writing script, and the carriage and horse roads used the same specifications. Cattle and horses were everywhere in the mountains and fields, and surplus grain was piled up in the fields. Therefore, there was a proverb at that time that there are endless people in the world.
Although peace has not yet completely settled, it is enough to show that the officials obey the law and the people live and work in peace and contentment.
After the death of Gen Locust, before the soil in the mountains was dry, Yang Jun was executed and his mother was deposed.
Soon after, because he killed the Taizai and the Taibao and killed the King of Chu, the eldest son no longer had a helper to protect him, and the leader of the officials did not have a dignified status respected by everyone. As a result, the emperor was changed to the Supreme Emperor, and there were rumors that he was dismissed from office.
The people see no virtue and only hear about rebellion. In the morning they are virtuous people like Duke Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, but in the evening they become evil people like Xia Ji and thieves. Good and evil are determined by success or failure, reputation and reputation are controlled by worldly interests, internal and external are confused, common people and officials are not determined by their status, names and reality are inconsistent, and the laws and regulations of the heaven are omitted and incomplete.
The political affairs of the country were successively taken over by those who caused trouble. The army of the imperial guards fled in all directions.
Li Chen and Shi Bing rebelled in Jing and Yang, Liu Wutu and Wang You rebelled in Zhi and Ji, Rong and Dan became emperors, and the two emperors, Dei and Jian, lost their dignity and became prisoners. Why? The people who were given important positions lost their power, the people who were promoted had no talents, the laws and disciplines of the country could not be upheld, and too many political affairs were perfunctory.
Laws and regulations are made to control chaos, but if there are shortcomings, they will lead to chaos; laws and regulations are made without common sense, who can save him? Liu Yuanhai is the captain of the army in Lishi; Wang Mi is the casual official in Qingzhou.
They are all people who lead bows and horses, and are driven by others, and they do not have the talents of Wu Xianzhu and Zhuge Kongming; the newly emerged bandits and rabble cannot be compared with Wu and Shu; they put down their farm tools and became soldiers, and tore their clothes to make flags, which was not a weapon to conquer the country; they rebelled against the imperial court from below, and they were not the same force as neighboring countries.
However, disrupting the world is like driving a flock of sheep, and capturing the two capitals is like picking up fallen mustard grass. The generals, ministers, princes, and princes were killed one after another, and the queens, concubines, and princesses were captured and insulted by the soldiers. How sad that the world is the foundation of the throne; the people are the most precious wealth.
It is common for people to attack each other because of likes or dislikes, and to compete with each other because of interests.
Just like the accumulated water in the dam and the lit fire in the grassland, there is never a moment of stillness.
If the country is too big, it cannot be governed by ordinary methods; if the power is too big, it cannot be obtained by fighting for it.
Wise emperors in ancient times understood this truth, so they were prepared for major disasters and resisted major disasters.
The common people knew that it was the emperor's benevolence that enabled them to survive, and did not think that they survived by squeezing themselves. Therefore, they were grateful and obeyed him, and they were satisfied and attached to him, just like the morning breeze blowing into the lush forest, or the dragon fish swimming into the swamp lake.
Then set up etiquette and education to govern them, determine punishments and punishments to deter them, carefully distinguish the good and the ugly for them to see, clearly distinguish the causes of misfortunes and blessings to teach them, strive to manage them with discernment, and win over them with respect and advocating love.
Therefore, the people know what to pursue, are happy for his existence, sad for his death, feel happy and at ease with his teachings and accept his moral standards; the gentleman diligently practices etiquette and justice, the villain works hard, integrity is promoted in the alleys of the family, and evil thoughts are eliminated at the beginning of their minds.
Therefore, when the people see danger and can stand up, and do not compromise morality in order to survive, how can they be shouted out and gather to cause chaos? If the foundation is broad, it will be difficult to topple, if the roots are deep, it will be difficult to pull out, if the texture is regular, it will not be disordered, and if it is glued together, it will not move. Therefore, those who once occupied the world can last for a long time.
How could there not be a few monarchs who made mistakes? They all relied on morality and the legal system to maintain their existence.
In the past, the rise of the Zhou Dynasty, when Jiang Xuan gave birth to Hou Ji, God's will was clearly revealed. The achievements of King Wen and King Wu began from Hou Ji's side.
When Gong Liu arrived, he encountered war in the Xia Dynasty, so he left Tai and moved to Bin to engage in hard work himself.
When he arrived at Taiwang, he was threatened by Rong and Zhai, but he couldn't bear to hurt the people, so Zhang Ce ran away and left Bin.
Therefore, the people followed him just like going to the market. They formed a town in one year and a capital in two years. After three years, the scale was five times that of the original.
When it comes to King Ji, it can eliminate rumors of right and wrong, and people's hearts are stable; when it comes to King Wen, it can renew Zhou's destiny.
From this point of view, the Zhou family has been loyal and kind for generations, making the nine clans prosperous internally, and respecting and serving the elders externally, which is why they have such good fortune.
Moreover, their concubines personally practiced the four virtues of women, respected their masters, wore washed clothes, and engaged in menial and menial household chores, thus influencing the people of the world and forming the virtue of women.
Therefore, a woman, like a wandering girl by the Han River, can protect her chastity and innocence, and a reclusive person has a pure and firm character, which begins with care and diligence and ends with ease and happiness.
With the wisdom of the three saints, the crusade against an independent man like Zhou must have a legitimate name. It is called conquering the world by force and governing the world by cultivating culture and education.
When Zhou Gong encountered an incident, he recounted the history of Houji's ancestors educating the people and the difficulties of the ancestors' starting a business. The contents were all related to the food and clothing of farmers and women workers.
Therefore, since Hou Ji began to establish foundations to appease the people, after fifteen generations, King Wen pacified the world, after sixteen generations, King Wu took possession of the world, and after eighteen kings, King Kang finally stabilized the world.
They accumulate foundations, cultivate fundamentals, promote etiquette and customs, adjust human relations and appease civil society, they are so meticulous and long-lasting.
Now that the Jin Dynasty has risen, its achievements are more prominent than those of previous emperors, and its career is more successful than that of the three generations.
When Emperor Xuan and Emperor Jing encountered many disasters, they killed the evildoers to solve the problem, and did not bother to implement the benevolent government like Gong Liu and King Tai.
Accepting orders to assist in government affairs, he encountered the deposing of the emperor many times. Therefore, the king of Qi did not know the political etiquette and was unable to regain control of the government. Gaoguixianggong was young and ignorant, and did not restore his status as emperor.
When the two ancestors forced the Zen throne to be established, they had no time to wait for the princes from all walks of life to come together to recommend them.
Dispatching was what made them different from previous generations when they created the foundation and established the country.
In addition, there are few people with pure moral character in the court, there is a lack of loyal elders in the countryside, and the customs are unhealthy. They have lost their sense of shame and the goals they should uphold. Scholars regard Lao and Zhuang’s thoughts as authentic and do not study the Six Classics, and talkers regard them as empty. Honor and morality are regarded as goals and looked down upon. People who act in an ordinary way regard laissez-faire behavior as understanding and lack integrity and integrity. Officials value greed and despise integrity. Those in power regard indifference to government affairs as wisdom and ridicule diligence.
Therefore, Liu Song often talked about the methods of governance, and Fu Xian often corrected the good and the evil, and they were both called lay officials. Those who respected emptiness and relied on inaction were well-known in the world.
As for people like King Wen of Zhou who had no time to eat when the sun was in the west, and people like Zhong Shanfu who dared not slack off from morning to night, they were laughed at by everyone and regarded as dust.
As a result, criticism and praise of good and evil become confused, and true feelings and good and falsehood lose their boundaries on the road of bribery and selfish desires.
Those who select talents select officials based on human sentiments, and those who hold official positions decide their own interests and trade-offs. The people in power who hold the most important positions hold dozens or even dozens of official positions at the same time.
The older one reaches the limit of respect and favor, while the younger one also holds an important position. As for the children of noble family members, they are superior to others, regardless of their seniority or rank.
In the long and dusty world, people are all competing for fame and fortune. There are hundreds of redundant officials in every position, and there is no move to give way to the worthy.
Liu Zizhen wrote "Chong Rang Lun" but no one paid attention to it. Liu Ziya formulated the system of nine classes but could not implement it.
At that time, women relied on maids to wash, dress, weave and tailor clothes. They never knew anything about female workers, nor did they know anything about cooking, wine and food.
They get married before the time comes and let their emotions lead them. Therefore, they do not consider lasciviousness and indulgence to be shameful, and they do not restrain themselves from evil behaviors such as jealousy. Their fathers and brothers do not blame them for their sins, and no one in the world criticizes them for their faults. Why should we ask them to learn the four virtues of women in ancient times and cultivate the character of chastity and test time now to assist gentlemen!
Etiquette, law, punishment, and government were completely destroyed in Japan, just as water accumulates and bursts the embankment, and fire accumulates and burns the pyre.
If a country is going to perish, its foundation must first be overthrown. This is the situation!
Therefore, by observing Ruan Ji's behavior, we can discover the reasons for the weakening of ethics and education.
Observing the conflicts between Yu Chun and Jia Chong, we can see that Minister Shi Yin has many unrighteous things; studying the military achievements of pacifying Wu, we can know that the generals were not modest; looking back at Guo Qin's strategy, we can realize that Rong Di will provoke war; listening to the remarks of Fu Xuan and Liu Yi, we can know the likes and evils of the officials; verifying Fu Xian's memorial and the discussion in "Qian Shen", we can see the behavior of favor bribery.
When the people's customs and national situation have reached this point, even if a monarch with mediocre talents and virtues who can abide by the established laws is allowed to govern, Xin You will definitely find something from the sacrifices, Jizha will definitely get inspiration from the vocal music, Fan Xie will definitely ask for death for such a situation, Jia Yi will definitely cry for such a situation, not to mention Emperor Hui's debauched virtues to rule the people and the world!
Emperor Huai succeeded to the throne in troubled times and was controlled by strong ministers; Emperor Min ruled in exile in vain; the political situation of the world was over, and if he were not an unparalleled talent, it would be impossible to conquer the world!
The great and glorious achievements of our ancestors have not been completely lost, so the power and mission given by God were added to Emperor Zhongzong Yuan.
Praise says: Emperor Huai is wearing a jade seal, and Emperor Min is sitting under the cover of a yellow carriage.
The turtle made three mountains fall, and the whale swallowed up all the places. Maowan broke into Jinshangmen, and the dome house was built in Weiyang Palace.
The common people fell, the people suffered, and the officials, with disheveled hair, followed the captured emperor to move to Pingyang.
The Lord is worried and his subjects are crying. Why is it so unfortunate!
