Wang Zhan, courtesy name Sifan, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was the grandson of Wang Hong, the Taibao of the Song Dynasty.
His grandfather, Wang Liu, served as the official of Guanglu and the Marquis of Dongting.
His father, Wang You, served as Tingweiqing.
When Wang Zhan was a few years old, he studied with a teacher. At that time, an artist passed by the door, and his classmates all went out to watch, but Wang Zhan did not watch, and continued to review and recite as before.
After hearing about this, his uncle, Pushe Sengda, the Minister of Public Affairs, looked at Wang Zhan in a different light and said to Wang Zhan's father: Our family's hope for survival rests on this child.
Wang Zhan was twelve years old and was in mourning for his father. He was famous for his filial piety.
When the mourning period expires, he will inherit the title of Marquis of Shuting.
When Wang Zhan was young, he was frivolous and mean, and liked to indulge in fun activities, which was hated by the villagers.
When he reaches adulthood, he will exercise self-restraint and have the ethics of a scholar. He will read a lot of books and be particularly good at chess and archery.
He became an official as Zuo Lang, and was repeatedly promoted to Prince Sheren, Taiwei Chief Secretary, and Prince Xima.
Soon after, he went out to serve as the internal history of Poyang. When his term of office expired, he was appointed Prince Zhongsheren.
He was also appointed as the friend of the king of Qin Nanhai, and soon he was appointed as the king of Situ Jingling to serve as a lieutenant. King Jingling respected him very much.
The King of Nanhai served as the general protecting the army, and Wang Zhan served as the chief history officer.
He also went out to serve as Xuzhou Biejia to engage in history, and was transferred to the hussar general Wang Yan's long history.
Wang Yan was killed, and Wang Zhan was appointed as the prefect of Jinling.
Wang Zhan's administration was honest, and his wife and children were not exempt from hunger and cold.
At that time, the Grand Sima Wang Jingze raised an army to cause rebellion. When passing through Jinling, many people in the county relied on Jingze. Later, the army failed and the imperial army wanted to attack the bandits. Wang Zhan reported to the imperial court and said: Stupid people are prone to riots and are not worthy of tracing the source and punishing them.
Emperor Ming agreed with his opinion and saved tens of thousands of people.
Wang Zhan was recruited and appointed as the Minister of Huangmen, Fujun Jian'an Wang Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng.
The vassal prince's palace was established, and Wang Zhan was appointed as the Grand Sima Xiangguo to consult and join the army, and also to record affairs and join the army.
In the Liang Dynasty, Tai Pavilion was established, and Wang Zhan was appointed as Shizhong. He was transferred to Zuo Min Shangshu, and soon he was changed to Libu Shangshu.
Wang Tuo has a straightforward personality, and he is in the department where officials are appointed and dismissed. Most of his recommendations are based on his own wishes.
I like to drink very much, and I often drink all day long, and my energy becomes more cheerful and full, and I don't delay paperwork.
Emperor Gaozu often said that Wang Dui had three skills, namely shooting, playing chess, and drinking.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of General of the Zuo Army. However, he did not take up the post due to illness. He continued to serve as a servant and also as a general of cavalry. However, he did not take office and died at the age of forty-nine.
Mi is called Dust Castle.
His son was born in the same family and served as Zuo Lang. He died early.
Wang Jin's courtesy name is silver carp, and his style is like a human being.
His grandfather, Tanzhi, was the official Guanglu of Sezuo and Wenhou of Yuning; his father was Lu, and he was Cha Sikong and Jian Mugong, both of whom were famous.
When Wang Jin was nine years old, he was in mourning for his biological mother. His face was sad and his body was thin, which astonished his brothers and sisters.
After becoming an adult, he was selected to marry Princess Angu, the daughter of Emperor Xiaowu of the Song Dynasty, and was appointed Prince Consort and Secretary Lang.
After being promoted many times, he was appointed as Taiwei to join the army, the prince sacrificed his life, and the martial arts doctor Wang Wenxue.
He served as Situ and appointed Wang Zhi as chief clerk.
Chu Zhao said to Denghulu: The court's grace is special and worthy of honor, but it has wronged the virtuous young master.
Wang Zhi was promoted many times and served as the two prince friends of Zhenbeitong, Cao Shi, Chubi and Zhijun.
He went to Beijing and served as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu.
Soon he was appointed as the internal history of Xuanyue. He was honest, cautious and kind.
The people of the county, Zhang Tan and Yu Qing, fought for land, but could not reach a verdict for many years.
After Wang Ji took office, the fathers and elders said to each other: Wang Fujun implements virtuous government, but there is such competition in our village.
Zhang Ni and Wu Qing then went together to plead guilty, and the land in dispute became wasteland.
The conscript Wang Jin was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen, and soon he was transferred to the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
When he went out, he served as general Ningshuo and prefect of Saichui.
There were more than ten serious criminals in the county jail. They were all released on the day of the winter solstice and returned after the festival. Only one of them was delayed. Prison officials reported this incident.
Wang Jin said: "This is naturally the responsibility of the prefect. The officials in charge should not worry."
The next morning, the man went to the prison by himself and said that it was because his wife was pregnant. The officials and the people admired Wang Jin even more.
After serving for three years and Man Chengpeng's second year, he entered the capital as a minister. Before taking office, he was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. He was praised for his peace and reasonableness in the selection of officials.
After Cui Chazhanji was pacified, Wang Jin was awarded the title of General of the Right Army in accordance with the regulations and sealed the fortress. Wang Cha firmly refused and refused to accept it, and was promoted to General of the Right Guard.
When the rebel army arrived, the people in the city killed Donghunhou, and hundreds of officials signed and presented Donghunhou's head.
When Wang Zhi heard about it, he sighed and said: Although the hat is broken, can it be worn on the feet?
So he rubbed leaves from the garden and swallowed them, pretending to be short of breath and not signing his name.
When Emperor Gaozu read the document and saw that there was no signature from Wang Zhi, he praised him in his heart and did not criticize him.
The vassal prince's palace was established, and Wang Zhi was appointed as the general of the right army and the general of the hussars.
In the Liang Dynasty, Tai Pavilion was established, and Wang Zhi was transferred to Sanqi Changshi and Zhongshu Ling.
In the first year of Tianjian, he concurrently served as general of the former army with his original official position.
This year, he was transferred to the title of champion general, Danyang Yin.
The administration should be simple and simple, and should be governed by inaction, without cumbersome and harsh government decrees.
There was a widow in the capital who had no son. After her mother-in-law died, she borrowed money to pay for her burial. After the burial, she was unable to repay the money. Wang Zhi sympathized with her morality and used his salary to repay her.
There was a famine that year, and porridge was placed in front of the county government office every morning to give alms to the people. The people praised Wang Zhi endlessly.
For three years, he served as a regular attendant of Sanqi, Zhongshu Ling, and guerrilla general.
Wang Zhi served as Zhongshu Ling and served as the governor of the capital, so he felt satisfied.
I often say to my nephews: When Xie Zhuang was Emperor Xiaowu of the Song Dynasty, his status was only Zhongshu Ling, and I thought I could not surpass him.
So he complained of illness many times and rarely interacted with guests.
Transferred to former general and Taichang Qing.
In the sixth year, he went out to serve as General Yunhui, Changshi of the Shixing King of Anxi, and Grand Administrator of Nanjun.
The following year, he was transferred to the post of Military Advisor General, Pingxi Poyang County Prince Changshi, and Jiangxia Prefecture, all of whom were awarded the rank of two thousand stones.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to Sanqi Changshi and Jin Ziguanglu, doctor.
Twelve years later, he died at the age of fifty-four.
Wang Zhi was good at cursive official script and served as a model at the time.
Xu Xixiu, a guerrilla general of the Qi Dynasty, also claimed to be able to write and often called Wang Zhi the "Sage of Calligraphy".
Wang Zhi's family has lived in Mayan Lane, Jinzhongli, Jiankang for generations. Since his father, Sengqian, the family tradition has been tolerant, and Wang Zhi is especially honest and kind.
In all the positions he has held, he has never impeached others for their crimes.
A guest once stole the curtains from Wang Zhi's vehicle and sold them. After Wang Zhi found out, he didn't pursue the matter and treated the person as he did then.
When guests visited his home, he would cover up their faults and praise their good deeds.
The brothers, nephews, and nephews were all honest, humble, and obedient. At that time, people said that the Ma Fan and Wang families had the demeanor of elders.
Four years later, Wang Zhi was reburied. Emperor Gaozu generously presented him with rewards and added the title Mi to An.
Wang Zhi had five sons, named Wang Ji, Wang Xiu, Wang Chui, Wang Cao and Wang Sai, all of whom were famous.
The stems of some of Wang's characters are far away, and the king is trapped and falls into witchcraft.
My great-grandfather, Jing Cong, was famous in Sequ, and his official position was as high as Dr. Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yitong.
Grandfather Zanzhi's official position reached the rank of Jin Zi Guang Lu.
His father showed him off, and his official position was as high as the prefect of Wuxing.
When the king was young, he was graceful and well behaved.
He started his official career as Zuo Lang, but did not take up the post. He was promoted many times and became the king of Luling in the Chinese army.
The master of the palace, Wang Ken, the king of Jingling, appreciated him very much and treated him favorably.
He was promoted to Chief Situ, but resigned due to his father's death.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed the prince to wash horses and the king of Jian'an.
When he went out, he served as general Ningyuan and internal history of Guiyang.
When the rebels rose, many counties upstream were in panic and commotion. Wang Jun closed the door and sat in meditation. The county was stable and the people relied on him.
In the early years of Jade Prison, he returned to Beijing and was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu.
Emperor Gaozu liked his demeanor very much, and he was appreciated and promoted together with Sudeng Renping.
Soon he was transferred to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but he was incompetent and was appointed as Changshi, King of Zhenglu Ancheng. He also served as the crown prince's concubine and a guerrilla general.
When he went out to serve as the prefect of Xuancheng, the administration was clean and peaceful, and the officials and the people were stable.
After serving for three years, he was conscripted to Beijing and appointed as a minister, and was transferred to Duzhi Shangshu.
He also used his original official position to concurrently serve as Minister of the Ministry of Finance and supervised the construction of Tai Chi Hall.
After the incident was over, he went out to serve as general of Zhengyuan, chief historian of Pingxi, and prefect of Nanjun.
Soon he served as general Zhiwu, chief historian of Zhenxi, and prefect of Shu County.
He returned to Beijing and served as Zuo Min Shangshu and infantry captain.
He was transferred to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and was highly praised for his role in selecting officials.
Honey has a calm and elegant temperament, and has no desire to compete.
I once made an agreement with Xie Yu that when I reach the official position of servant, I will no longer seek promotion.
Xie Zuo was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing County after serving as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. He was fair-minded and not afraid of the powerful, which was also due to his indifferent mood in dealing with the world.
After Wang Xie became a servant, although he did not retire, his conduct was indifferent and he did not engage in any illegal activities.
A long time later, due to illness, he petitioned to be relieved of his post and transferred to Dr. Jin Ziguanglu, but he did not take up the post.
In the second year of Xuan Tong, he died at the age of fifty-six, and his name was Hui Zi.
The son's signature.
Wang Sha was a student member of the Imperial College and married the daughter of King Shixing, the daughter of King Fanchang, the head of Fanchang County. He was ridiculed by the students because he was not smart, so they divorced.
Wang Zie apologized to Pan Strike, and Wang said: "This is the emperor's intention, and I don't want to do this."
Wang Jun said: Your Majesty's Taizu is the grandson of Xie Rensu, and he does not rely on your highness's marriage to establish a family.
Wang Chen, whose courtesy name is Sihui, was born in Linyi, Langxie.
His father, Wang Jian, was a Taiwei of the Qi Dynasty and Duke Wenxian of Nanchang.
When Wang Chen was just a few years old, he had outstanding demeanor and an adult sense of humor.
At that time, Duke Wen Xian was the prime minister, and the house was full of guests. After seeing Wang Chen, they said to each other: The talent and fame of the three Dukes are reproduced here.
After he came of age, he was selected to marry the eldest princess of Huainan, appointed Prince Consort, and appointed Yuanwai Sanqi Shilang. However, he was not appointed as the Prince of Jin'an in Literature, and was transferred to Lu Yi Wang You and Secretary Cheng.
Once Mi Xia Shao visited outstanding talents, King Pangui Yaoguang wrote a memorial to recommend Wang Chen and Wang Sengru from Donghai, saying: I heard that visiting and seeking wise people is hard work for a while, but you can hang your clothes and hand over the rule to achieve permanent peace and tranquility. Compared with dredging the soil, it is also similar to dredging a river.
Your majesty's morality is hidden in your mind, your faith is displayed in your talismans, the valley is empty of capable people, and the sages with pure conduct are already in the court; I am afraid that there are still capable people who hide their talents among fortune-tellers, hide their wisdom among butchers and servants, visit Hangu Pass, and appoint people by the Yellow River.
The fur coats were not made from a fox, but rather sought out in a variety of colors.
The five sounds are tiring, so ask the nine workers; put aside the discussions in the court and listen to the words of the servants.
The ministers have high status and heavy responsibilities, and they must protect the country according to morality. If they really want to maintain their reputation and practical ability, the road to becoming an official by chance is cut off.
The rank of a powerful family should also be measured by public opinion; lower-level officials with outstanding talents should not be restricted by status and description.
I met the secretary privately, the crocodile-shaped Sai, who was twenty-one years old and had seven generations of family members in the country. He was refreshed and could be used to enlighten Zhongzheng and peace.
Wei Shubao's discussion of metaphysics and Le Yanfu's words about the joy of famous teachings have already inspired the ancestors and guided the descendants.
There is no dust and debris in the residence, and there are books on the board at home; the poems and poems are fresh and fresh, and the words are mysterious and fast; the house is close but the people are empty, the worldly things are sparse but the morals are close.
Cultivating a sense of seclusion in Qiuxu, the seats on the steps are empty; in the school and court, thousands of people are waiting eagerly.
Not only could Xun Ling hope that Duke Li would not die!
He is really the secret treasure of the school and an outstanding talent who governs the country.
Wang Wei was appointed as a hussar and a lieutenant.
The vassal prince's palace was established, and Wang Wei was appointed as Hu Cao's vassal, and was promoted to Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine, and also as a general of heroic cavalry, and was appointed as a servant in the palace.
When he went out, he served as General Ningshuo and Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese Army.
He also served as the Shizhong and the Shesheng Xiaowei. He was transferred to the rank of Minister of the Five Soldiers and was granted the title of Shizhong. He went out to serve as the prefect of Jinling.
He was recruited to serve as Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and soon he also served as the prince of the country to offer wine.
Wang Chen was the son of a famous official. He had a good reputation when he was young. When he was in the department of selecting officials, his responsibilities and affairs were well organized. However, he had been distinguished and distinguished for generations, and he was often separated from others. He could not pay attention to people of low origin. Everyone thought that he was cold and ruthless.
He was promoted to the right servant of Shangshu, and soon he was awarded the title of Attendant.
He was promoted to Zuopushe and resigned due to the death of his mother.
After his comeback, he served as General Yunhui and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
Returning to the capital, he served as a minister, minister Zuopushe, and concurrently as the son of the state offering wine.
In the winter of the fourth year of his reign, he died of a sudden illness at the age of forty-seven.
Shaoling gave posthumous gifts to Shizhong, Zhongshu Ling, and the general of the Chinese army, including a coffin, a set of formal attire, a set of clothes, one hundred thousand money, and one hundred pieces of cloth.
The name of Mi is Jing.
He has four sons, named Wang Xun, Wang Cheng, Wang Li, and Wang Gan, all of whom have successful and prominent official careers.
Jade was named Huai Zheng, and he was smart, alert, insightful and thoughtful when he was young. The hermit Tanhuang saw him and thought he was strange.
When he was thirteen years old, Wang Chen died and he became so sad and emaciated that his family could not recognize him.
At the age of sixteen, he was summoned in Selonggai, and he responded cheerfully and thoroughly.
The emperor watched him go out for a long time, then turned back and said to Zhu Yi: It can be said that there is a prime minister in the prime minister's house.
He was added as a student of the country, passed the examination as a top grade, was appointed Secretary Lang, and was transferred to Prince Sheren and Secretary Cheng.
He was appointed as the concubine of Xuancheng Wang Wenxue, You and the Crown Prince, and was in charge of records.
Soon he was promoted to the rank of servant. After being appointed, he went to the palace to see him. He asked Bao Yizuo calmly, "How old will Chu Yan be when he becomes prime minister?"
Jianchui replied: I just met thirty years old.
The emperor said: The current Wang Xun is no worse than Yan Hui.
He has beautiful appearance and grace, is good at advancing and retreating, writes well, and is a leader among the younger generations.
He was especially favored and honored in the palace of the Crown Prince.
He died of illness while serving as a servant at the age of twenty-six.
Posthumously give him his official position.
Mi's nickname is Wenzi.
Yutai, whose courtesy name is Zhubi, is the son of Wang Jin's eldest brother Yuci.
Wang Jie served successively as a minister and prefect of the county during the Yiqiao period, and his reputation was higher than that of Wang Zhi.
Wang Tai was smart and savvy when he was young. When he was a few years old, his grandmother gathered all her grandchildren and nephews and scattered dates and chestnuts on the bed. The children all rushed to get them, except the jade pot.
Asked the reason, he replied: If you don't take it, you will naturally be rewarded.
Therefore, his brothers and sisters in the same server looked at him differently.
As an adult, he becomes peaceful, gentle and elegant. People can't see his happy and angry expression.
He became an official as a writer, but he was not appointed as a secretary. He was transferred to the former general Facao Xing to join the army, Situ Shuhe, the winemaker, and the chariot and cavalry chief.
Gaozu's vassal palace was established, and Wang Tai was appointed as the hussar and cavalry officer.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was transferred to Secretary Cheng.
In the last years of Qi Yongyuan, a fire broke out in the harem, which spread and burned the books in the palace. Almost all the books were scattered and scattered.
Wang Tai was appointed secretary-general, and he submitted a memorial requesting that it be revised and written. Emperor Gaozu followed his advice.
Soon, he was transferred to the position of Minister of Zhongshu.
When he went out to serve as his mother in Xuzhou, Biejia was engaged in history and had a reputation for being capable in his post.
He was also recruited as the minister of Zhongshu and ordered to take charge of the affairs of the official department.
He was repeatedly promoted and appointed as the Minister of Huangmen, and the regular servant of Sanqi outside the Yuanwai. He was still in charge of the affairs of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and soon he officially took up the post.
Since crossing the Yangtze River, Libulang is no longer in charge of the selection of high-ranking officials. In the history of the order, villains have been vying for one after another, and few people have been qualified.
After taking charge of the throne, he did not make any connections or ask for favors. The officials who came first were appointed. He did not change his opinion because of anyone's request for intercession. The whole world praised him for his fairness.
He was promoted to Tingwei many times and became Situ Zuo's chief historian.
He served as general Mingwei and prefect of Saitong when he was abroad, and his peaceful administration in the county won the hearts of the people.
He was recruited as General Ningyuan, An Youzhangshi, and was soon promoted to Shizhong.
Subsequently, he served as the prince's concubine, concurrently as an infantry captain, and as a lieutenant.
Soon he was transferred to Renwei Changshi and Nanlanling Prefecture to act as agent for the Nankang palace, state and feudal affairs.
King Taikang was transferred to another position, and Wang Tai served as Beizhong Lang Changshi, acting as the agent for Yuzhang's palace, state, and feudal affairs. The position of prefect remained as before.
He entered Beijing and served as the official minister of the capital.
Wang Tai was able to accept people. Scholars often missed Wang Tai and often hoped that he would be in the position of selecting officials.
Soon, Wang Tai was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and high-ranking families placed their hopes on him. Before he could appoint officials, Wang Tai fell ill and was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of Zuo Xiaoqi. He died before taking office at the age of forty-five.
Mi's nickname is Yizi. At first Wangtai had no sons, but his adopted brother's son Wang Qi gave birth to his son Wang Kuo a long time later. Yanzifu is a Qu person.
Grandfather Chi is the Duke of Yi and Cheng of Kaifu in Sai. His father, Wang Kong, was the minister of Huangmen.
Xingshu lost his parents at the age of fourteen and became a charioteer.
When he went out, he served as General Ningyuan and Tongtong Neishi.
Jinsai was killed, and no relatives or friends dared to see him. Wang Jian went alone to express his condolences, and he became famous for this.
He was transferred to the position of Prince Zhongsheren and Taiwei's vassal.
When you go out, you will leave the history inside.
He was promoted several times to the post of Assistant Minister of Zhongshu, and then to the post of Chief Secretary of Agriculture.
Wang Fen's brother Wang Huan was killed in Yongzhou, and Wang Huan's son Wang Su fled to Wei. Wang Fen imprisoned himself and asked for punishment. Qi Shizu knew his sincerity, enlightened him and let him go.
When Wang Su led Wei troops to invade the border one after another, he took advantage of Wang Feng's company and calmly asked Wang Feng: "Is there any news from the north recently?"
Wang Feng replied solemnly: "Since Wang Su has forgotten his family recently, how can he remember his subordinates?"
The emperor also trusted the king's identity.
Soon he was appointed General Ningshuo and Internal History of Lingling.
He was recruited to serve as Huangmen Shilang. Because his father died in this position, he resolutely refused to take up the post and was transferred to Secretary Supervisor.
In the early years of Tianjian's reign, he was appointed as a regular servant of the cavalry, a captain of the infantry, and a minister of the ministry.
Emperor Gaozu once asked the officials at a banquet: Am I doing something or inaction?
Wang Feng replied: Your Majesty, the way to comply with all things is action, and to realize the highest state is inaction.
Gaozu praised the answer well.
When he went out to serve as the prefect of Xuancheng, he was changed to the prefect of Wu County. He was transferred to General Ningshuo, Beizhong Lang, Wang Changshi of Yuzhang, and the prefect of Lanling to act as agent for the affairs of Kongxu Prefecture.
He was transferred to Taichang Qing, Prince Youli, and Sanqi Changshi to serve in Shu Palace, and was appointed Jin Ziguanglu doctor.
He also served as General Zhiwu and Changshi of Nankang King, with a rank of Zhong 2,000 stones.
Then he went to Beijing and served as a regular servant of Sanqi, a doctor of Jin Ziguanglu, and a great Zhongzheng of Nanxuzhou. He was awarded to twenty close followers.
He was promoted to Shangshu Zuopushe, and soon he was given the title of Attendant.
At that time, the altars in the northern and southern suburbs were built. Wang Feng concurrently served as the chief craftsman in his own position. He was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi and doctor Youguanglu, and he was awarded close associates, a total of forty people.
He was promoted to Shizhong, Tejin, and Zuo Guanglu doctors, and also served as Danyang Yin with his own position.
He died in March of the fifth year of his life at the age of seventy-nine.
The imperial edict ordered him to posthumously grant his original position, 400,000 yuan in money, 400 bolts of cloth, 400 pounds of wax, a coffin, a set of formal attire, and a set of clothes.
Mi's nickname is Beard.
The eldest son, Wang Bi, whose courtesy name was Chudui, was elected as a scholar in the Zhitu industry. He served as an official to conquer the captives and build the fortress, King Facao, joined the army, Situ Shuhe offered wine, and the king of Chenli wrote literature.
Married Princess Yixing and was appointed Prince Consort Captain.
He was repeatedly promoted to the position of Minister of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.
When he went out, he served as General Mingwei and Prefect of Saiyan, and he was recruited as Situ Zuo Changshi.
Wang Xi, whose courtesy name is Gonggu, is Wang Lin's second son.
When he was young, he was alert and savvy. He studied with his brothers, but when it was time to take a break, he was often left alone without getting up.
When he was seven or eight years old, he followed the princess into the palace. Emperor Gaozu praised him for his intelligence and agility, and often talked about him to officials in the court.
Wang Xi used all his energy to study regardless of his fatigue, which resulted in damage to his right eye.
The princess often restricted his studies and decorated his house for him.
Although he was a child, he had no other hobbies.
At the age of twelve, he became a son of the country.
At the age of fourteen, he was elected as a scholar and appointed Secretary Lang. He was as famous as Zhang Boxu, a native of Fanyang, and both served as the crown prince's minister.
When your father dies, mourn with all etiquette.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed the prince to wash horses.
At that time, Prince Zhaoming was still young and did not interact with his subordinates.
Emperor Gaozu ordered: Prince Xima Wang Xi and secretary Lang Zhang Lan are elites among relatives and talented people in the court. They can be respected as teachers and friends.
Because he was a relative, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yong'an and was appointed King of Jin'an. However, he refused to go to the post because he was ill, so he was ordered to accept Shao's order and stay in the capital.
When King Jin'an held the coronation ceremony, Wang Xi took charge of affairs as a member of the palace.
In the early years of the Pong Dynasty, the Wei State began to contact and sue for peace, and sent Liu Shanming to inquire about the reconciliation. Emperor Gaozu ordered Zhu Yi, a scholar from Zhongshushe, to receive him. All those who participated in the banquet were northerners who had surrendered.
Shanming relied on his talent and said to Zhu Yi after drinking to his heart's content: How many people in the southern countries are as eloquent and knowledgeable as you are from Zhongshushe?
Zhu Yi replied: The reason why I am able to receive guests is to fulfill my duties.
In the peaceful exchanges between the two countries, what is valued is closeness and friendship; if one is to be praised based on talent and debate, I should not be appointed.
Shanming then said: Wang Wang and Tuitang have been heard in the north. How can we see them?
Sai Yu started the memorial in detail, and Shandan ordered a banquet to be held immediately in Luyuan. There were only four people, Wang Xi, Zhang Zuan and Zhu Yi.
When Shanming came to the table, he discussed the classics and history books, and at the same time ridiculed and teased him. Wang Xi and Zhang Lan responded according to his discussion, without stopping to ask questions or asking each other about anything. Shanming admired each other very much.
Another day he said to Zhu Yi: "I met two wise men in one day, which really satisfied my expectations. How can a country become a country without gentlemen!"
He was renamed Zhongshu Lang and transferred to Shihuangmen Shilang and Shangshu Libu Langzhong. He was twenty-four years old this year.
Wang Xi said to his relatives and friends: Because I am a relative, I have been favored by the current emperor and received a title. This is not my ambition. In addition, I have been weak and sick recently, and all kinds of affairs are unbearable. How can I give up my hobbies and do things that I cannot do?
So he claimed to be ill and refused to take office.
Then he sent the servants back, declined the guests, closed the door and thought deeply, leaving the room lonely.
He died in the first month of the sixth year of Zhongdatong at the age of thirty-six.
As a posthumous gift to the attendants, he was given a coffin, a set of formal attire, and a set of clothes.
Mi was given the posthumous nickname Sadako.
He has sons Wang Fan and Wang Bao.
Wang Yu, named Guild, is Wang Xi's fifth younger brother.
When I was eight years old, my father died. I was so sad and thin that I became more and more emaciated.
When the mourning period expired, he was recruited to serve as the son of the country. Yuan Ang offered wine and praised him for his understanding of affairs.
He ranked high in the examination and was awarded the title of Chief and Secretary Langzhong. He successively served as Zhonglang of Shangshu Palace, Prince Zhongsheren, and Lu Xiang, a native of Wujun, took turns in charge of Shugong's official documents.
He went out to serve as the prefect of Jian'an.
The leaders of the mountain people, Fang Shan and Xie Xi, gathered their tribesmen to rely on dangerous positions. They repeatedly robbed and became a scourge for the people. Wang Lun secretly devised a plan and led the army to pacify them. Shao Ling praised the king even more and promulgated it to the prefectures and counties.
He was appointed General of Wuwei and Shixing Internal History, but when his biological mother died, he resolutely refused to take up the post.
He was also appointed General Ningyuan and Internal Secretary of Nankang. When Xunxu caused chaos, he appointed Wang Yu as Internal Secretary of Ancheng to calm them down.
He returned and was appointed Huangmen Shilang, and soon served as the chief historian of Wuling King in Anxi and the prefect of Shu County.
Wang Cang was afraid of the danger and resolutely refused because of his illness. The court dismissed him because of this.
Much later, he was appointed General Rongzhao and Minister Zuocheng, and was appointed Minister of Huangmen. He was transferred to the crown prince's concubine and was in charge of the documents of the East Palace.
He died in December of the second year of Taiqian's reign at the age of forty-five.
As a posthumous gift to the attendants, he was given a coffin, a set of formal attire, and a set of clothes.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, Shizu issued an additional edict: "A wise man without boasting is called Gong. King Yu Mi is named Gongzi."
The character of Tuili is Genwa, a native of Yudeng.
His father, Zhang Zhong, was a Mansu Tejin and Jin Ziguanglu doctor who was famous in the previous dynasty.
When Zhang Chong was young, he did not uphold moral integrity and liked to have fun and relax.
Zhang Xu once asked for leave and returned to Yusu. As soon as he entered Xicheng, he met Zhang Chong who was out hunting. He was holding an eagle in his left hand and leading a dog in his right hand. When Zhang Zhong's boat arrived, Zhang Chong put down the rope, untied his sleeves, and knelt down by the water.
Zhang Xu said: Isn’t it too tiring for one person to do two things?
Zhang Chong knelt down and replied: "I heard that you can be independent at the age of thirty. Now I am twenty-nine. Please wait until next year before respectfully changing."
Zhang Xu said: The Yan family has this virtue of being able to correct mistakes.
By the next year, he would cultivate himself and change his moral integrity.
He studied for less than a year and read a variety of books, especially "Laozi" and "Book of Changes". He could talk about philosophy elegantly and had a good reputation with his uncle Zhang Ji.
He served as an official in Fujun and joined the army. He was transferred to the position of Prince Sheren, Minister of the Palace of Secretaries, and Prince Wuling of Wuling.
At that time, Wang Jian was appointed as the official director of the imperial court, and all matters of Emperor Wu depended on his opinion.
Emperor Wu once wanted to appoint Zhang Chong's father, Zhang Xu, as a minister, and asked Wang Jian for his opinion. Wang Jian replied: Zhang Xu had a high reputation when he was young, so he is indeed a good candidate. However, the scholars in the East have not adhered to ethics recently, and Zhang Xu's sons often behaved frivolously. The ministers thought that the affairs should be carefully selected.
The emperor then gave up.
Before being sent away, Zhang Chong's brothers were both frivolous and arrogant. When Zhang Chong was young, he didn't care about trivial matters, so Wang Jian said that.
Zhang Chong was angry when he heard about it, so he wrote to Wang Jian: Zhang Chong, a citizen of the state of Wu, wrote to the king of Langxie: The journey has been long recently, the rain has been dark for a long time, and the heat and coolness are uneven. I think there will be no loss of food and supplies.
I am fortunate enough to enjoy the leisure time of fishing and farming. From time to time, I amuse myself with books and speculate on the history of previous generations.
Across ancient times, there were many roads to movement and silence; in a hundred years of turmoil, there were different ways of ascending and descending.
Therefore, the circle is better for rolling and the square is better for resting, which is the difference in the purpose of the utensil; the strength of vajra and the softness of water are the difference in character.
Those who are good at controlling their character will not violate the essence of gold and water; those who are good at making utensils will not change the uses of squares and circles.
Therefore, people from Beihai wear high hairpins and people from Henan issue noble seals.
I have had few interactions in my life and have not cared about profit and desire. For thirty-six years, I have been able to be somewhat frugal and self-sufficient.
Single-minded ambitions stand like cliffs on frosty cliffs; unchanging feelings are like mountain peaks lining the coast.
Floating the tassel in the sky pavilion means rejecting the glory of the imperial court; decorating the ribbon in the cloud platform finally feels ashamed of the talents of the rich family.
The reason why he ended up by the river and pretended to be crazy in the fields was because he had a lazy and dull temperament and a reserved and isolated temperament.
Acting based on one's own will and not receiving the approval of worldly people; excelling in the spiritual realm and often struggling with worldly life.
Therefore, Junshan ascended to the nine heavens, but was suppressed at that time; Shuyang ascended, but failed a thousand years ago.
Therefore, I have been friends with Yuwu for a long time, and I kept my photos in the pine forest.
Half an acre of land is enough to pay taxes and rent; a five-acre residence can be planted with mulberry and hemp.
Play and sing among the ponds, read and taste on the Mianchi, go boating where the fisherman swims, and rest under the room.
That's all, I have nothing to apologize for.
The tall rocks cover the sun, and the vast ocean blocks the sky; the towering rocks are cracking section by section, and the tall cliffs are falling section by section.
The laurels and orchids are gorgeous and cluttered in the deep valleys; the pine and cypress trees are gloomy and surround each other in the meandering mountain streams.
Yuan Qing did not return home, and Bo Xiu left for a long time.
Fishing by the water with a fishing rod, washing feet on the island in Canglang; wandering alone in the clouds, lying down in the clear breeze and bright moon.
The distant music, wine and food, no one comes from the distant mountain road; the bright articles and conversations are in vain to exhaust the heart.
Unconsciously, we are thousands of miles apart, and the road is full of rivers.
Whenever the west wind blows, why don't you care about me?
Let's take advantage of the opportunity of illness to express our feelings a little; with a few words, I casually offended the hearing of the experts.
My dear husband, you are young, you are an official with excellent academic performance, you are a moral person who helps the people, and your merits are displayed as if you are facing each other across the sea.
When he entered the court, he would be consistent with Chang Qian's loyalty, and when he was out of court, he would have Zhongzi's integrity.
It can be said that a great virtue maintains current affairs, and he is as outstanding as a lonely pine and cypress.
And my experience has not been known in detail, and these experiences are still very few.
The talents in Maoling looked at the carriages and their clothes and thought about them for a long time; the common people in Bashan stopped their carriages and shrugged their shoulders and sighed.
Is it not a pity?
As for controlling swans and riding yellow cranes in the sky, the riverbanks will remain dry and the mountains and fields will be nourished.
Some exotic birds came to greet them on the edge of the rocks; a slight smoke suddenly appeared in the forest and steamed up.
Even if a bundle is not worth cherishing, how can Nanshan be considered valuable?
I am a commoner from the west of Kunshan, a commoner outside Daishan.
Raising silkworms for clothing, cultivating for food, not serving princes, looking for confidants, visiting contemporary officials, running fast and lobbying, walking around among butchers and gamblers with disheveled hair, and being extremely happy.
Man, you met Chenghua earlier and then Chongli.
Your unparalleled respect made you famous in your early years; the remarks of country people were made in haste and fallacy.
However, people all my life say that I am crazy, so how can I discuss it with you gentlemen?
Therefore, I disclose my knowledge, open my mind, narrate my life, talk about my source, communicate my dreams and souls, and express my sincerity, just because of you.
The mountain road at Guankou is blocked, so I can't deliver it after I finish writing it. If I meet someone collecting firewood, I hope to deliver it to the person in charge.
Wang Jian reported to the emperor, removed him from the vertical official position, and was deposed for a long time.
Later, he served as Situ's advisor and joined the army. Wang Modou, a native of Langxie, and Lu Huixiao, a native of the same county, were all guests of Situ Zhidou.
He entered Beijing and served as the Minister of Zhongshu, and soon he was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen.
Emperor Ming became prime minister and appointed Zhang Chong as the commander of the town army.
When he went out to serve as the prefect of Xianxing, his administration was clear and clear, and he followed the rule of inaction, which made it convenient for the people and officials.
Soon after his mother passed away, he left his post. After the mourning period expired, he was appointed the crown prince's concubine and promoted to the imperial court.
When the rebel army was stationed near the capital, Marquis Shuhun summoned hundreds of officials to enter the palace province. The court officials were worried about the disaster, and some came and went to drink and feast. Ji Tong lived alone in Shizhong Province and did not leave the gate.
Hou Shuhun was killed in the city, and all the officials gathered under the west bell to summon Zhang Chong but he did not show up.
The direct vassal prince's palace was established, and Zhang Chong was appointed as Grand Sima to consult and join the army. He was transferred to Yanguo Langzhongling, Ancestral Department Shangshu, and Tunqi Xiaowei, and was changed to Champion General and Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was appointed Taichang Qing.
Soon he was transferred to the Ministry of Personnel, and he was given a fair reputation in the department of selecting officials.
Soon he served as the regular attendant of Sanqi and the general of Yunqi.
Then he was appointed as the prefect of Zhiluo, with a rank of two thousand stones.
He was recruited to serve as a regular attendant of Sanqi and a prince of the state to offer wine.
Zhang Chong was good at righteousness and lectured in lectures, and everyone from the crown prince on down came.
At that time, many princes were in the school, holding scriptures in their hands and prostrating. Zhang Chong stood in official uniform and did not dare to accept it.
He was appointed as General Zuowei, and the wine ceremony continued as before.
He was summoned to serve as Minister of Public Affairs, and soon he was appointed General Yunhui and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
When he took office, he would provide support to the poor and elderly people, and all his old friends would be happy.
Due to illness, he stated his request and was recruited as a regular attendant of Sanqi. Doctor Jin Ziguanglu did not have time to return to the court. He died in Wu County in the thirteenth year of Tianjian at the age of sixty-six.
The imperial edict issued a posthumous gift to the ministers and generals protecting the army.
Mi's nickname is Mu Zi.
His son Zhang Zui is the heir.
The main character of Guiyu is locust, and he is from Lixun. When he was young, he had ambition and integrity, loved learning, and was good at writing documents.
Living next to the people of Jianjun County, he was deeply friendly to him.
At the beginning, there were Ji Yuanrong and Gui Gai in the world, both of whom were good at playing the piano. They said they inherited the teachings of Dai Andao. He Xiu learned from them since he was a child, and he enjoyed playing the piano to the fullest.
After hearing about it, King Manjingling summoned him and appointed him as Fa Caoxing to join the army. Quanyu was highly appreciated and close to him.
King Jingling once held a banquet in the back garden. He placed a qin played by Xie Gui, the prime minister of the court, next to it and presented it to Liu Tan. Liu Tan played elegant tunes.
Ziliang said: Your exquisiteness surpasses Ji Yuanrong's heart, your mystery reaches the French style of Yang Gai, your excellent texture and wonderful techniques are indeed all present today.
It's not just contemporary that it can be called strange, it's enough to track ancient celebrities.
After being promoted to Prince Xi Ma many times, he resigned due to his father's death.
After the mourning period was over, he was tried to be appointed as the prime minister of Poyang. He allowed the officials to serve the three years of mourning and take charge of local cultural and educational matters, which was praised by the people.
After returning to Beijing, he was appointed as a hussar and a lieutenant.
When Emperor Gaozu arrived in the capital, Liu Pang went to Stone City to greet him and was appointed champion general and Sima of Zhengdong Prefecture.
At that time, Donghun Hou had not yet been pacified, and the soldiers were still fighting hard. Liu Pang wrote a letter stating what should be done, asking for books and documents to be collected before the city was pacified, and to follow Mo Gaozu's principles of magnanimity and caring for the people. Gaozu followed his advice.
When Xiao Yingzhou died in Jiangling, Liu Jin was sent west to greet Emperor He. He was then appointed as the Minister of Huangmen and the captain of the infantry school, and was transferred to the right Sima of the Prime Minister.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the chief minister and the minister, and he worked with Pushe Shen Yue and others to formulate new laws.
Liu Pang was chaste and simple in character. He had a good reputation among the sons of your noble lord for a long time. He was devoted to poetry and poetry when he was young.
He began to write a poem and said: Under the leaves of trees in rivers, lakes and swamps, autumn clouds fly at the head of Longshan Mountain.
When Wang Yuanchang from Langxie saw it, he sighed and admired it, so he wrote it on the wall of the study.
Now that he participates in music banquets, Liu Pang will be ordered to compose poems.
The middle chapter of "Deng Jingyang Tower" written by Emperor Gaozu once was ordered to say: The waves are rising from the vast liquid, and the tall poplars and tall trees have already seen autumn.
The emperor's ceremonial guard inherited from the Han Dynasty, and the carved vehicles traveled with the wind.
Deeply praised by Emperor Gaozu.
At that time, they all praised and spread the word together.
Liu Pang was good at playing chess, and the emperor often ordered him to accompany him, and also ordered him to confirm the chess records and evaluate the competition.
In the second year, he went out to serve as the prefect of Wuxing.
In the sixth year, he was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi and transferred to Zuo Min Shangshu.
In the eighth year, he was appointed Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Guangzhou and the military affairs of the four states of Guangzhou and Yue, General Renwu, General Pingyue Zhonglang, and Governor of Guangzhou. He was recruited as Secretary Supervisor and General of the Left Army.
He also served as the prefect of Wuxing for six years. His administration was clear and he followed rule by inaction. The people and officials missed him.
When he fell ill in the county, he requested to be relieved of his post. More than a thousand elders petitioned him to stay in office, but the matter was not implemented.
In the sixteenth year of Tianjian, he died at the age of fifty-three.
As a posthumous gift, he served as a servant and guard the army.
Qian Pan was already good at playing the piano. He used the tones of his time and abandoned the ancient French style, so he wrote "Qing Tiao Lun", which listed the regulations.
The youngest son Liu Yan, named Yanyou.
Summoned at the age of twelve.
The emperor asked him what book he read, and he replied that it was Shangshu.
Asked him again: What are some good sentences?
He replied: Virtue is only for good politics, and politics is about raising the people.
Everyone was amazed at him.
He was ordered to marry the Princess of the Great Wall, and appointed as Prince Consort, Dutinghou, Prince Sheren, Xima, Luling and Poyang Internal History.
In the first year of Dabao, he passed away.
Cai Lu, whose courtesy name was Jingjie, was born in Kaocheng, Jiyang.
His father, Xingzong, was a doctor from Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yitong of the Song Dynasty. He was famous in the previous generation.
When Cai Xun was young, he was upright, elegant, modest and calm, and was famous for his brother Cai Yin.
He was selected as a supplementary student and passed the examination at the top level. He served as Situ Fa and Cao Xing and joined the army.
Wang Jian, the general of the left guard of Qi, strictly selected his staff and appointed Cai Lu as the chief secretary.
After being promoted many times, he served as King Wenxue of Jian'an, Chief Secretary of Situ, and subordinate of Zuo west.
When Emperor Ming served as the general of the Zhenjun Army, he was appointed as Zhonglang, and was transferred to Zhongshu Shilang, Zhongjun Chief Shi, and Shihuangmen Shilang.
When his mother died, he built a shed next to the tomb to live in mourning.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, there were many disasters. When the period of mourning was over, they lived in the cemetery.
The concubine among the crown princes and the commander-in-chief of the imperial lieutenant were appointed, but they did not take office.
When the Tai Pavilion was established in the Liang Dynasty, Cai Xuan served as the minister and was transferred to the prefect of Linhai. He was demoted to the concubine of the prince because of official crimes.
He also served as a servant and the prefect of Wuxing.
In the ninth year of Yujian, Xuancheng County official Wu Chengbo relied on the evil way to gather his disciples to attack Xuancheng and killed the prefect Zhu Sengyong. Then he massacred the surrounding counties, crossed the mountains and invaded Wuxing, destroying everything he passed. The army numbered 20,000, and attacked the county town.
People in the East were not familiar with war, and the officials and the people were afraid of the disturbance and fled in all directions. They all asked Cai Lu to take shelter.
Cai Lu resolutely defended the city and recruited brave people to strengthen the county.
Cheng Bo used all his elite soldiers to attack Cai Lu. Cai Lu ordered his troops to go out of the city to resist, and fought at the city gate. He defeated Cheng Bo in the first confrontation, beheaded Cheng Bo in the military formation, and pacified all the remaining party members.
He was awarded the title of General Wu.
Recruited Ren Duzhi Shangshu and transferred him to Zhongshu Ling.
He also served as General Xinwu and Governor of Jinling.
Returning to the imperial court, he was appointed as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi and a minister of state.
He was transferred to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and served in the department of selecting officials. He was famous for his magnanimity and simplicity.
He also served as a servant and secretary-supervisor. He was changed to Zhongshuling, and the servant remained the same.
In the second year of ordinary life, he went out to serve as general Xuan Yi and prefect of Wu County.
Four years later, he died at the age of fifty-seven.
Posthumous gifts include Shizhong, Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and General Xuan Hui.
Mi's nickname is King of Dust.
His son Yanxi successively served as Zhongshu Lang and announced the city's internal history.
Jiang Bei, courtesy name Yanbiao, was born in Kaocheng, Jiyang.
His great-grandfather Jiang Zhan was a doctor of Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yitong in the Song Dynasty; his father Jiang Wei was Taichang Qing of the Qi Dynasty: all of them had great reputations in previous generations.
Jiang Bei was smart and alert when she was young. She could recite a book after reading it once.
He was selected as a student of the Imperial College. He was proficient in Shangshu and passed the examination at the top level.
He became an official as Secretary Lang, and was promoted many times to Situ Donghe Jijiu and the Chief Registrar of the King of Luling.
He was known for his filial piety when he mourned his father and built a shed next to the tomb to live in. Emperor Ming ordered twenty warriors to be sent to guard the tomb.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed Prince Xi Ma. He was repeatedly promoted to Situ Zuoxi, Prince Zhongsheren, and Secretary Cheng.
He went out to serve as the internal history of Jian'an and served for one year. The rebel army was stationed in Jiangzhou and Ningshuo general Liu Canzhi was sent as the county guard. Jiang Bei led the officials and people to occupy the county and resist him.
When Jiankang City was pacified, Jiang Bei was convicted and could not hold an official position. He was soon pardoned and appointed as a foreign soldier to the rear army of Linchuan King.
He was repeatedly promoted to Prince You of Linchuan, Minister of Zhongshu, Prince's family minister, Minister of Huangmen, and Dazhongzheng of Nanyanzhou.
He was transferred to the position of concubine among the princes, and the Zhongzheng remained the same.
He was changed to Zhongquan Shixing Wang Changshi.
When he went out, he served as General Fubo and Internal History of Jin'an.
During his tenure, he was honest and frugal, dedicated to being generous and generous, making it convenient for his subordinate officials and the people.
Shao Ling recruited him as General Ningshuo and King Changshi of Nankang to act as agent for the affairs of the government, state and feudal country.
Soon after, he was transferred to Taiwei, Prince Changshi of Linchuan, and was appointed Shangshu Libulang, General on the Right.
Jiang Bei is upright, elegant and has character.
Pushe Xu Mian was proud of his power, and everyone in power respected him as a senior. Only Jiang Bei and Wang Gui treated him with equal courtesy and did not condescend to him.
Xu Mian asked for the marriage of his seventh son Xu Yao to Jiang Hao's daughter through Zhai Jing, Jiang He's retainer. Jiang Hao refused. Zhai Jing mentioned the matter for the second time, so Jiang Bei beat Zhai Jing with forty sticks, thus causing a conflict with Xu Mian.
He was appointed as a regular attendant on casual riding, but he did not take up the post.
At this time, Xu Mian asked for his son to marry Jiang Rong's daughter, Jiang Su's younger brother, and Wang Tai's daughter, but both of them rejected him.
Jiang Fei served as a minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and was dismissed from his post for beating a servant in the government office. Wang Tai asked for leave to go home due to illness, so he was transferred to a regular attendant on the cavalry. It was Xu Mian's intention.
At the beginning, in the sixth year of Tianjian, an imperial edict was issued to appoint Shizhong and Changshi to serve in the palace. They were divided into two bureaus and went to the Secretary's Supervisor. Their official grades were comparable to those of Shizhong. However, this was not pleasing to the wealthy people, so Xu Mian was demoted to Wang Tai to take up the post.
Jiang Bei was soon transferred to Situ Zuo as Changshi.
At first, when Wang Tai came to the cabinet, Gaozu said to Xu Mian: Jiang Bei has high qualifications and should be in the department of selecting officials.
Xu Mian replied: Zhao has an eye problem and is not familiar with people.
The burden of childbirth was then given up.
He was transferred to Dr. Guanglu.
In the first year of Zhutong's reign, he died at the age of fifty-three.
The imperial edict issued a posthumous award of his original official position.
Mi was named King Su.
Jiang Bei loved learning and was especially familiar with the old rules of court etiquette. He wrote thirty volumes of "Jiang Zuo Qian Dian", but he died unfinished.
There are fifteen volumes of collected works.
Son, compiled in "The Biography of Filial Piety".
Shi Chen said: From the Zhou Dynasty to Qin and Mo, there were successively outstanding figures in the Wang family.
During the Shu Jin Dynasty, Wang Maohong was in charge of Jiangzuo. People at that time compared him to Da Zhong.
After that, Diao Chan's crowns complemented each other, and the three princes and ministers followed each other's footsteps. Their names were engraved on the emperor's books, and the auspiciousness was passed down to the descendants. This is a grand family.
Wang Zhan and others inherit this foundation and are valuable national elites. Their descendants are worthy of praise for their ability and conduct.
Chuitong was not upholding ethics when he was young, but later became self-restrained. In the selection of supervisors, he was known as honest and fair.
Liu Fan was famous for his versatility, Cai Huan was famous for his integrity and elegance, and Jiang Bei was famous for his integrity. They were all celebrities in the Liang family.
