Said method: eighty-one; the original Huang Zhong Chujiu multiplied by itself, which is a number, and it is called the method number.
Leap method: nineteen; use it as the number of years in a chapter, add up the ending numbers of heaven and earth, and get the leap method number.
Tongfa: one thousand five hundred and thirty-nine; multiply the leap number by the daily number to get the unified number.
Yuanfa: four thousand six hundred and seventeen; multiply the number of unified methods by three, and get the number of yuanfa.
Able to count: forty-seven; multiply the number nine by three in the sky, multiply the tens in the earth by two, and add them up to get the number you can count.
Zhang month: two hundred and thirty-five; multiply the number by five digits to get the number of Zhang month.
Moon Dharma: Two Thousand Three Hundred and Ninety-Two; deducing the Great Evolutionary Signs, we can get the number of the Moon Dharma.
Tongfa: five hundred and ninety-eight; divide the moon method by four to get the number of Tongfa.
Zhongfa: One hundred and four hundred and five hundred and thirty; multiply the number of Zhang Yue by the general method to get the Zhongfa number.
Weekly days: five hundred and sixty-two thousand one hundred and twenty; multiply the number of chapters and months by the number of months to get the number of days of the week.
The middle of the year: twelve; multiply the three numbers by the four hours to get the middle of the year.
Week of the month: two hundred and fifty-four; use the number of the month plus the leap method to get the number of the week of the month.
The number of the synodic meeting: one hundred and thirty-five; multiply three times the number of days and twenty-five, multiply two times the number of two places and count thirty, and add the products together to get the number of the synodic meeting.
Meeting month: six thousand three hundred and forty-five; multiply the meeting number by the synodic meeting number to get the number of meeting months.
Tongyue: Nineteen thousand and thirty-five; count to get the number of Tongyue.
The first month: fifty-seven thousand one hundred and five; count to get the number of the first month.
Multiply the Hui month by three and the Tong month chapter by three: two hundred and twenty-eight; multiply the year number by the leap number to get the chapter number.
Tongzhong: eighteen thousand four hundred and sixty-eight; multiply the number in the chapter by the number in the law to get the number in the system.
Yuanzhong: fifty-five thousand four hundred and four; multiply the number of the united number by three to get the number of the yuanzhong.
Ce Yu: eight thousand and eighty; multiply the number by ten yuan, subtract the number of weeks from the product, and get the Ce remainder.
Zhou Zhi: fifty-seven; multiply the leap method by three to get the number of Zhou Zhi.
The numbers of wood and metal are multiplied together to get twelve, which is the number of the minor week of the year star.
Multiply the small week number by the "" policy number, and you get one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-eight, which is the number of years of the Sui star.
See the winning score: twenty thousand, seven hundred and thirty-six.
The middle number of the product is thirteen; the middle number is one hundred and fifty-seven.
See the correct number: one thousand five hundred and eighty-three.
It's a number.
See leap fraction: twelve thousand and ninety-six.
Number of accumulated months: thirteen; remaining months: fifteen thousand and seventy-nine.
Seeing the Moon: Thirty thousand and seventy-seven.
See the method: seven hundred and thirty-eight thousand, seven hundred and eleven.
See the moon and say Dharma: two hundred, four hundred and thirty-six thousand two hundred and thirty-seven.
Multiply the numbers of metal and fire to eight, and multiply the number of fire by eight to get the sum of sixteen and the small plural number.
Multiply the number of "Qian" by the small plural number, and you get 3456, which is the number of years of Taibai Star.
See the middle score: forty-one thousand four hundred and seventy-two.
Accumulation: nineteen; remainder: four hundred and thirteen.
See Zhongfa: Two thousand one hundred and sixty-one.
is plural.
See leap points: twenty-four thousand one thousand and ninety-two.
Accumulated months: nineteen; remaining months: thirty-two thousand and thirty-nine.
See the moon method: forty-one thousand and fifty-nine.
Mid-morning minute: twenty-three thousand three hundred and twenty-eight.
Out of the total: ten; out of the total: one thousand, seven hundred and eighteen.
Midnight equinox: eighteen thousand one hundred and forty-four.
Accumulation: eight; remainder: eight hundred and fifty-six.
Morning leap points: thirteen thousand six hundred and eight.
Accumulated month: eleven; remaining month: five thousand one hundred and ninety-one.
Leap points: 10,584.
Accumulated months: eight; remaining months: twenty-six thousand eight hundred and forty-eight.
See Zhongfa: nine hundred nine hundred and seventy-seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven.
See the moon and say Dharma: three hundred and twenty-five thousand seven hundred and seventy-nine.
Multiplying the numbers of earth and wood plus the number of longitude and latitude is thirty, which is the number of small weeks of Zhenxing.
The number of Xiao Zhou multiplied by the number of "" is four thousand three hundred and twenty, which is the number of years of Zhenxing.
See the middle score: fifty-one thousand eight hundred and forty.
Out of total: twelve; out of total: one thousand, seven hundred and forty.
five. See Zhongfa: four thousand one hundred and seventy-five.
This is a number.
See leap points: thirty thousand two hundred and forty.
Accumulated months: twelve; remaining months: sixty-three thousand three hundred.
Seeing the moon method: seventy-nine thousand three hundred and twenty-five.
See the method in the middle: one thousand nine hundred and two hundred and seventy-five thousand nine hundred and seventy. See the method in the moon: six hundred and four hundred and twenty-five thousand three hundred and twenty-five.
The formation of the law of fire is very special. After two years, it will pass the starting point. If it exceeds the starting point thirty-two times, it will be sixty-four years, and there will be Xiao Zhou.
Multiply the number of small weeks by the number of "Qian", then the sun is the number of big weeks, which is 13,824 years, which is the number of years of Yinghuo.
See the middle score: one hundred and sixty-five thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight.
Four. Accumulation: twenty-five; remainder: four thousand one hundred and sixty-three.
See Zhongfa: six stems and four hundred and sixty-nine.
This is a number.
See leap points: ninety-six thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight.
The accumulated month: twenty-six; the remaining month: fifty-two thousand nine hundred and fifty. The method of seeing the moon: one hundred and twenty-two thousand nine hundred and eleven.
See the middle and say Dharma: two thousand nine hundred and sixty-seven thousand three hundred and seventy. See the moon and say Dharma: nine hundred and ninety-five-five thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
The pattern of water is formed in a special way, so it will start after one year, and there will be a small recovery after sixty-four times.
Using the calculation method of "Xiao Fuyang", it is the Taiyin Great Zhou, which has nine thousand two hundred and sixteen years, which is the number of years of the stars.
See the middle score: one hundred and one hundred, five hundred and ninety-two.
Accumulation: three; remainder: thirty-two thousand four hundred and sixty-nine.
See Zhongfa: twenty-nine thousand and forty-one.
This is the plural.
See leap points: sixty-four thousand five hundred and twelve.
Accumulated months: three; remaining months: 510,423.
See the moon method: five hundred and fifty-one thousand seven hundred and seventy-nine.
Mid-morning minute: sixty-two thousand two hundred and eight.
Accumulation: two; remainder: four thousand one hundred and twenty-six.
Midnight equinox: forty-eight thousand three hundred and eighty-four.
The middle of the total is one; the remainder is nineteen thousand three hundred and forty-three.
Morning leap points: thirty-six thousand two hundred and eighty-eight.
Accumulated months: two; remaining months: one hundred and four thousand six hundred and eighty-two.
Leap points: twenty-eight thousand two hundred and twenty-four.
Accumulated months: one; number of months left: three hundred and ninety-five thousand, seven hundred and forty
See the Dharma: one hundred and thirty-four million, eighty-two thousand two hundred and ninety-seven.
The method of seeing the moon and sun: four thousand four hundred and sixty-nine thousand and ninety-nine.
Add the years of the lunar and sun and divide by two, each is eleven thousand five hundred and twenty.
Yang energy is released, and yin energy makes all things grow.
Subtract the number of years from the number of stars and planets, and what is left is the number of sight.
The number of years is multiplied by seven to the west. Nine and seven are added to form a legal number, and one is obtained, which is the number of years for gold and water in the morning and evening.
Multiply the number of years by the number of years in the year to get the number in the star view.
The number of stars is the number of dharma.
Multiply the number of years by the leap number to get the leap fraction.
Multiplying the number of years by the number is the number of the moon.
Multiplying the elemental number with the visible number is called the visible number.
Multiply the unified method number by the visible number, which is called the visible number.
Jupiter: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
Direct motion, moving eleven minutes and two degrees every day, passing through one hundred and twenty-one days.
It stopped running at first, then came back twenty-five days later.
In retrograde motion, it travels seven-sevenths of a degree every day for eighty-four days.
It stayed for another twenty-four days and three minutes before turning back.
It moves forward again, moving eleven minutes and two degrees every day, and then subsides after one hundred and eleven days and one million eight hundred and twenty-eight thousand three hundred and sixty-two minutes.
There are a total of 365 days and 1,828,365 minutes. Excluding the number of retrogrades, the fixed planet is 30 degrees and 1,661,1286 minutes.
Whenever it appears for a year, it will fall back after doing it once.
It runs less than eleven minutes a day.
The thirty-three days of the volt are 3,334,737 minutes, and the third degree of the planet is 1,673,451 minutes.
Appearing once, there are 398 days and 5,163,102 minutes, and the planet has 33 degrees and 3,334,737 minutes.
It is its usual ratio, so a day travels one thousand seven hundred and twenty-eight and one hundred and forty-fifth of a degree.
Venus: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
In retrograde motion, it travels half a degree a day and lasts for six days. I came back eight days after my initial stay.
It begins to move forward, moving forty-six minutes and thirty-three degrees a day, and passes through forty-six days.
If it goes straight, it will move quickly. It will move one degree, ninety-two minutes and fifteen degrees in one day, and it will fall after one hundred and eighty-four days.
It appears for a total of 244 days, excluding the number of retrogrades, and the fixed planets have 244 degrees.
Voltage, it runs more than one degree, ninety-two minutes and thirty-three degrees a day.
On the eighty-third day of the lunar month, the planets are at 113 degrees and 4,365,220 minutes.
There are three hundred and twenty-seven days of morning appearance and twilight, and the planets have 357 degrees and 4,365,220 minutes.
It starts to appear at night, taking away half of the day.
Direct motion, one day moves one degree and ninety-two minutes and fifteen degrees, one hundred and eighty-one days and one hundred and seven minutes and forty-five degrees.
Direct motion, slow motion, one day moves forty-six minutes and thirty-three degrees, forty-six days.
It started to stay, and then turned back at seven days, one hundred and seven minutes and sixty-two minutes.
In retrograde motion, it moves twice a degree in one day and falls in six days.
There are a total of 241 occurrences, excluding retrogrades, and 241 fixed planets.
Fu, retrograde, moves more than eight minutes and seven degrees in one day.
The sixteenth day of the volt is 1,295,352 minutes, and the fourteenth degree of the planet is 3,069,868 minutes.
The number of volts that appear in Yifan at night is 257,129,5352 minutes, and the number of planets is 226 degrees and 6,907,469 minutes.
Repeated once, it is five hundred and eighty-four days and one thousand two hundred and ninety-five thousand three hundred and fifty-two minutes.
The same is true for the planets, so they move once a day.
Saturn: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
In direct motion, it travels fifteen minutes per day, stops after eighty-seven days, and turns around after thirty-four days.
Retrograde, traveling eighty-one minutes and five degrees in one day, stopping again after one hundred and one days, and turning back after thirty-three days and eight hundred and sixty-two thousand four hundred and fifty-five degrees.
It goes direct again, moving fifteen minutes to one degree a day, and then subsides after eighty-five days.
There are a total of 340 days and 862,455 days. Excluding retrograde numbers, the fifth degree of fixed planets is 4,473,930 days.
When it is volts, it moves less than fifteen minutes and three degrees a day.
Thirty-seven days are one thousand seven hundred and seventy thousand one hundred and seventy, and the seventh degree of the planet is eight hundred seven hundred and thirty-six thousand five hundred and seventy.
Appearing once is one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two thousand six hundred and twenty-five minutes in three hundred and seventy-seven days, and the twelve degrees of the planet are one thousand three hundred and twenty-one thousand five hundred minutes.
is its usual proportion, so that a day runs 4320/145 degrees.
Mars: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day. In direct motion, it travels ninety-two minutes and fifty-three degrees a day, stops after two hundred and seventy-six days, and turns around after ten days.
Retrograde, moving sixty-two minutes and seventeen degrees a day, passing through sixty-two days.
Stay for ten more times and then turn around.
It goes direct again, traveling ninety-two minutes and fifty-three degrees a day, and after 276 days it goes backward: a total of six hundred and thirty-four days, excluding retrograde, the fixed planet is 301 degrees.
When it is volts, a day moves less than ninety-two minutes and seventy-three degrees. When it is volts, it moves less than 92 minutes and 73 degrees in a day. When it is volts, it moves less than 15,689,700 minutes in a day. The planets move in 114 degrees and 8,218,050 degrees.
Appearing once, it is 15,689,000% of 780 days, with a total of 415 degrees of planets, 8,218,050%.
is its usual ratio, so a day runs 13824/7355/1 degree.
Mercury: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
Retrograde, traveling twice a day, traveling one day.
It stayed for two days and then turned around.
Direct motion, it moves seven minutes and six degrees a day, and it moves seven days.
Direct motion, fast, moving one-third of a degree a day, falling after eighteen days.
There are twenty-eight days in total, excluding the number of retrogrades, and the fixed planets are twenty-eight degrees.
Fu Shi moves more than one degree, nine minutes and seven degrees in one day. After thirty-seven days, 122,029,605 degrees, the planet reaches 68 degrees and 46,610,128 minutes.
Appearing in the morning, the total number of days is 122,029,605, and the planet is 96 degrees and 46,610,128 minutes.
It starts to appear at night, taking away half of the day.
Direct motion, fast, running one-third of a degree in one day and two-thirds of a degree in sixteen days.
Direct motion, slow motion, running seven minutes and six degrees a day, running seven days.
Stay for half a day and then turn around.
Retrograde, moving twice a day, then falling after one day.
It appears for a total of twenty-six days, excluding the retrograde number, and the fixed planets have twenty-six degrees.
When the volts are retrograde, they move more than four degrees in a day for fifteen minutes. After twenty-four days, the planet has six degrees of 58,662,820 minutes.
Whenever the hour appears at night, after fifty days, the planet will have nineteen degrees and seven thousand five hundred and four hundred and nineteen thousand four hundred and seventy-seven minutes.
It will take 115 days and 122,029,605 days to appear again.
The same is true for the planets, so they move once a day.
Deducing the Sun-Moon Yuan Tong: Since the original Shangyuan, regardless of the required years, the Man-Yuan method will remove it, and the remainder that is not unified is the number of years since Tiantong Jiazi.
Once the unified system is full, it will be removed, and what remains will be the number of years since the Jiachen period of the unified system.
Once the unified system is complete, it will be removed. What remains is the number of years since joining the unified system of Jiashen.
Each takes the day of its leader as a record.
To deduce Tianzheng: Multiply the number of months in a chapter into the number of years in the unified system. If the year is full, then one will be named Ji Yue, and if it is less than the age of a chapter, it will be named leap year.
There are more than twelve leap years, and there is a leap year.
To seek righteousness from the earth: add one accumulated month; to seek righteousness from others: add two accumulated months.
Deduced on the first day of the first lunar month: Use the moon method to multiply the product of the month. If it is full, you will get one, which is named Ji. If it is not full, it will be named Xiaoyu.
Xiaoyu is over thirty-eight, and his moon is the big moon.
If the accumulation is over sixty, it will be removed. If it is less than sixty, it will be named Dayu.
The calculation starts from the first day of the system, and what is removed from the calculation is the new day.
Find its second month: add Dayu twenty-nine and Xiaoyu forty-three.
If the small remainder is one, it is merged into the large remainder. If the large remainder is sixty, it is removed in the same way as the previous method.
To find the string: just add the big remainder seven and the small remainder thirty-one.
Ask: Multiply the string by two.
To deduce the location of the leap remainder: multiply the leap remainder by twelve and add seven to get one.
In the full chapter, the calculated results, starting from the winter solstice, and not counting, are the leap full from the mid-qi to the end point.
If the period of the first day of the lunar month is two days, then the previous month will be a leap year.
Deducing the winter solstice: Multiply Ce Yu into Tong years. If the Tong method is full, it will be named Dayu. If the Tong method is not enough, it will be named Xiao Yu.
The divisor is the same as before, which is the desired winter solstice day.
Find eight verses: Just add the big remainder forty-five and the small remainder one thousand and ten.
To find the twenty-four hour qi: just multiply three times the small remainder, add the larger remainder of fifteen, and the smaller remainder is one thousand and ten.
To calculate the twenty-four qi in the central part: Yuan is used as the method number.
Calculate the five elements: four of them have seventy-three days each, which is the seventy-seventh of the unified method.
There are eighteen days in each center, which is 404/4 of the unified law.
After the winter solstice, there are twenty-seven days and six hundred and six minutes in the center.
Calculate the stars for all mornings: multiply the product by the unified method, multiply the nineteen by the small remainder and add the accumulated day.
If it is full of Zhou Tian, ​​then get rid of it; if it is not full of Zhou Tian, ​​let Mantong Dharma gain one degree.
The calculation starts from the morning glory, and what is removed from the calculation is the number of stars entered throughout the morning.
To calculate the star position at midnight of day and night: multiply Zhang Sui by the small remainder of the moon, and then subtract the combined morning degree.
If the small excess is insufficient, the full degree will be broken.
To calculate the star where the moon is at midnight: multiply the moon's week by the moon's small remainder, and then subtract the combined morning degree to get one degree.
Calculate the added hours: multiply the remainder by twelve to be a real number, and the perfect denominator to be a normal number. Start counting from the child, and calculate and remove what is added.
Calculate the lunar eclipse: Multiply the remaining years and months by twenty-three, and when it reaches one hundred and thirty-five, remove it.
If it is less than one hundred and thirty-five, then thirteen is counted as one month. If it is more than one hundred and thirty-five, the calculated result is calculated starting from the right and removing the eclipse moon.
In extra time, we are looking forward to the sun and the sun.
Calculate the five-star manifestation complex number: Multiply the Datong manifestation complex number from the original Shangyuan and all the required years. The full number of years is one, which is the definite manifestation complex number.
Those who are less than one year old are called Xianfuyu.
The present plural is full of its present plural. If it is more than one, it will appear in the previous year. If it is more than double, it will appear in the year before that. If it is less than one year old, it will appear in this year.
Calculate the middle number of the star's appearance: multiply the present complex number by the divided part of the present middle number. If the full present middle number is obtained, one is obtained, which is the product middle number.
Those who are dissatisfied with the present Zhongfa are called Zhongyu.
Divide product Zhong by Yuan Zhong, and the remainder is Zhong Yuan remainder.
Use the zhongzhong to divide the middle yuan, and the remainder will be included in the zhongzhong.
Divide the number of chapters by twelve, and the remainder is the number of star appearances.
The middle number starts from the winter solstice, and the number starts from the star era. If not counted, it is the middle number of the star.
Calculate the star and the moon: Multiply the definite present complex number by the leap factor, multiply the remainder by the chapter year, add the two products, the full moon method is one, add the product, it is the accumulated month.
Those who are dissatisfied with the appearance of the moon are called Yue Yu.
Dividing the accumulated monthly surplus by the first month is called Yueyuanyu.
If the remainder of the month is divided by the zhang month, it is incorporated into the number of the zhang month.
Divide the month number of the chapter by twelve, and in a leap year, divide it by thirteen and merge it into the chapter.
There is one leap in every three years, two leaps in six years, three leaps in nine years, four leaps in eleven years, five leaps in fourteen years, six leaps in seventeen years, and seven leaps in nineteen years.
Those who are dissatisfied with the method of manifesting the moon will start counting from Tianzheng. If not calculated, the moon will be manifested by the stars.
The calculation is as follows: Multiply the middle Yuan by the Zhong method. If the Yuan method is full, you will get one, which is called accumulation. If it is less than the Yuan method, it will be called Xiaoyu.
Xiaoyu is over two thousand five hundred and ninety-seven, and is a middle school student.
According to the rules, divide the product and calculate, it is the winter solstice.
Calculate the new moon day: Use the moon method to multiply the moon Yuan Yu, and the full Yue method is used to get one, which is called Ji Yue, and the rest is called Xiao Yu.
Xiaoyu is over thirty-eight and one month old.
According to the rules, if you divide the accumulated days and count them, it means that the stars will appear on the first day of the new moon.
Calculate the degree of the next day after entering the center: Multiply the middle remainder by the center method, multiply the small remainder by the present center method, add the two products, and when the present center method is full, we get one, which is the degree of the enter day.
The middle number is the number of the day, the second number is the initial number, and the outer number is the degree where the star appears and is.
Asking for the evening, it will be fifteen degrees later.
To calculate the number of days in the moon: Multiply the remainder of the month by the moon method, multiply its small remainder by the method of the apparent moon, and add their products. When the full moon is full, the number of days in the moon is one, which is the number of the days of the entered moon.
Add the remainder and divide according to the rules, which is the present day.
Calculate the posterior and present middle: add the middle remainder of the product to the middle remainder, add the posterior middle remainder to the middle remainder, and get one when it is full, add the middle remainder, and divide according to the rules, which is the posterior manifestation middle.
Calculate the post manifest month: Add the accumulated month to the month's remainder, add the post month's remainder to the month's remainder, until it is full, you get one, add the month's remainder, and divide according to the rules to get the post manifest month.
Calculate the solstice and the middle degree: the same method as before.
Calculate the new day and the beginning of the month: the same as the previous method.
Calculating morning appearance plus evening time: adding evening time to morning time is the same as the previous method.
Five steps of calculation: use the number of days since it first appeared, and multiply them by the number of degrees it travels to the desired day.
If the star has a divisor, multiply the numerator by the whole number as the divisor and the denominator as the dividend.
Among them, if two stars have points, multiply the whole by the denominator and the numerator, so that the multiplication becomes the divisor, and the denominator multiplication becomes the dividend. If the dividend is the same as the divisor, we get one, which is called the integral.
The calculation starts from the nakshatra degree where the star first appears. If not calculated, it is the nakshatra degree where the star is.
Calculating the age: Since the Yuan Dynasty, regardless of the year required, if the number of years is found, just remove it. If it is less than the number of years, multiply it by one hundred and forty-five, and use one hundred and forty-four as the divisor. If it is equal to the divisor, it will be one, which is called the accumulation times. If it is less than the number of years, it is called the remainder.
If the accumulated number reaches twelve, it is removed. If it is less than twelve, it is called fixed number.
Start counting from the star era, and anything beyond the end of the calculation is the current time.
If you want to know Tai Sui, divide the accumulated times by sixty, and the remainder is less than twelve. Count from Bing Zi. After counting, the rest is Tai Sui.
Sui Xing profits and losses.
Legend: The Sui star lost its position and mistakenly moved to the next year's position, damaging the Zhen star and causing disaster to both Zhou and Chu.
Five Star’s profit and loss is not a fault.
If you miss the position for a year, the disaster will be great; if you miss it for one night, the disaster will be small; if you don't miss it, there will be no disaster.
This is the standard for location.
The six things refer to the year, hour, day, moon, stars, and chen.
Chen is where the handle of the bucket points when the sun and moon meet. In the Xingji, first of all, it was Dou Twelve Degrees and heavy snow.
It’s the first time to have morning glory again, at the winter solstice.
In the Xia Dynasty, it was November, in the Shang Dynasty, it was December, and in the Zhou Dynasty, it was the first month.
Finally, in the seventh degree of Wu Nu.
Xuanzhen starts from Wunu's octave, Xiaohan.
In the middle of the crisis, there was a severe cold.
It was December in the Xia Dynasty, the first month in the Shang Dynasty, and February in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ended at critical fifteen degrees.
Suzi begins at the sixteenth degree of danger, the beginning of spring.
In the middle of the fourteenth degree in the camp, I was awakened by the sting of insects.
Now it is called rain. It was the first month in the Xia Dynasty, February in the Shang Dynasty, and March in the Zhou Dynasty.
It ends at Kui Sidu.
Falling to Lou begins with the fifth degree of Kui and rain.
Now it’s called Jingzhe.
In the middle, it reaches the fourth degree of Lou, the spring equinox.
It was February in the Xia Dynasty, March in the Shang Dynasty, and April in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ends at six degrees of stomach.
Daliang, starting from the seventh degree of the stomach, Grain Rain.
It is now called Qingming Festival.
In the middle, it reaches the Pleiades octave, Qingming.
Now it’s called Guyu. It was March in the Xia Dynasty, April in the Shang Dynasty, and May in the Zhou Dynasty.
It ends at the eleventh hour.
Real sinking begins at the twelfth degree of Bi, the beginning of summer.
In the middle, I went to the well for the first time, Xiaoman.
It was April in the Xia Dynasty, May in the Shang Dynasty, and June in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ending at Well Fifteen Degrees.
The head of the quail begins at the sixteenth degree of the well, with the seeds of awn.
Thirty-one degrees from the middle to the well, the summer solstice.
It was May in the Xia Dynasty, June in the Shang Dynasty, and July in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ended with Liu Badu.
Quail fire starts in Liu Jiudu and Xiaoshu.
In the middle of Zhang Sandu, there was a severe summer heat.
It was June in the Xia Dynasty, July in the Shang Dynasty, and August in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ended with Zhang Shiqidu.
Quail tail begins at the 18th degree of Zhang, the beginning of autumn.
Fifteen degrees from the middle to the wings, the end of the heat.
It was July in the Xia Dynasty, August in the Shang Dynasty, and September in the Zhou Dynasty.
It ends at Zhen eleven degrees.
The longevity star begins at the twelfth degree of Zhen, with white dew.
Ten degrees from the middle to the angle, the autumnal equinox.
In the Xia Dynasty, it was August, in the Shang Dynasty, it was September, and in the Zhou Dynasty, it was October.
It ends at Di 4 degrees.
The fire started at the fifth degree of Celsius, with cold dew.
In the middle of the day, the temperature reaches five degrees and frost falls.
It was September in the Xia Dynasty, October in the Shang Dynasty, and November in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ends at the last ninth degree.
Wood splitting begins at the last ten degrees, the beginning of winter.
In the middle, it reaches the seventh degree of Ji, with light snow.
In the Xia Dynasty, it was October, in the Shang Dynasty, it was November, and in the Zhou Dynasty, it was December.
It ends at Dou Shidu.
Five empty rooms, ten hearts, five tails, eighteen baskets, eleven dangers, seventeen barracks, sixteen walls, nine poles, eleven bis, sixteen gongs, two ginsengs, nine stars, seven sheets, eighteen wings, eighteen wings, seventeen
Jiuzhangsui is one hundred and seventy-one years, and nine small endings appear.
The Ninth End will end one thousand five hundred and thirty-nine years later.
The third end is the same as the end of Yuan.
Advance and retreat between four degrees and five minutes before the cow.
There were nine rendezvous.
Yang ends with nine, so it is said that there are nine paths.
Yin is made up of both Yang Nine and Yue Nine Paths, so the Moon has nineteen Paths.
Yang means success, so nine intersections are over.
It is easier to wrap it up four times, so there is only one left in the four years, and there is only one left in the four chapters. As the beginning of the chapter, the eighty-one chapters have completed the unification.
One, the head of state of Jiazi.
The first year of Taichu in the Han Dynasty.
Ten, Xinyou.
Nineteen, Ji Wei.
Twenty-eight, Ding Si.
Thirty-seven, Yimao.
Forty-six, Renzi.
Fifty-five, Gengxu.
Sixty-four, Wushen.
Seventy-three, Bingwu, middle.
Jiachen Ertong.
Xin Chou.
Jihai.
Dingyou.
Yiwei.
Renchen.
Gengyin.
Wuzi.
Bingxu, Ji.
Jiashen Santong.
Xin Si.
Ji Mao.
Ding Chou.
The 42nd year of King Wen: Yihai.
Jinyu twenty-six years. Renshen.
Geng Wu.
Wuchen.
Bingyin, Meng.
In the second year of King Min's second divination.
Two, Guimao.
Eleven, Xin Chou.
Twenty, Jihai.
Twenty-nine, Dingyou.
Thirty-eight, Jiawu.
Forty-seven, Renchen.
Fifty-six, Gengyin.
Sixty-five, Wuzi.
Seventy-four, Yiyou, middle.
Guiwei.
Xin Si.
Ji Mao.
Ding Chou.
Jiaxu.
Renshen.
Geng Wu.
Wuchen.
Yi Chou, Ji.
Guihai.
Xin You.
Ji Wei.
Ding Si.
The stone year of Zhou Gong: Jiayin.
Renzi.
Gengxu.
Wushen Yuan four years.
Yisi, Meng.
Three, Guiwei.
Twelve, Xin Si.
Twenty-one, Ji Mao.
Thirty, Bingzi.
Thirty-nine, Jiaxu.
Forty-eight, Renshen.
Fifty-seven, Gengzi.
Sixty-six, Ding Mao.
Seventy-five, Yi Chou, middle.
Guihai.
Xin You.
Ji Wei.
Bingchen.
Jiayin.
Renzi.
Gengxu.
Ding Wei.
Yisi, Ji.
Guimao.
Xin Chou.
Jihai.
Bingshen.
Jiawu.
Renchen.
Gengyin.
Twelve years since he became king.
Dinghai.
Yiyou, Meng.
Four, Guihai.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty. Thirteen, Xinyou.
Twenty-two, Wu Wu.
Thirty-one, Bingchen.
Forty, Jiayin.
Forty-nine, Renzi.
Fifty-eight, Jiyou.
Sixty-seven, Ding Wei.
Seventy-six, Yisi, middle.
Guimao.
Xin Chou.
Wuxu.
Bingshen.
Jiawu.
Renchen.
Oneself are ugly.
Dinghai.
Yiyou, season.
Guiwei.
Xin Si.
Wuyin.
Bingzi.
Jiaxu.
Renshen.
King Ji thirty-eight years. Jisi.
Ding Mao.
Yi Chou, Meng.
Five, Guimao.
The first year of Heping.
Fourteen, Gengzi.
Twenty-three, Wuxu.
Thirty-two, Bingshen.
Forty-one, Jiawu.
Fifty, Xin Mao.
Fifty-nine, oneself are ugly.
Sixty-eight, Dinghai.
Seventy-seven, Yiyou, middle.
Guiwei.
Gengchen.
Wuyin.
Bingzi.
Jiaxu.
Xin Wei.
Jisi.
Ding Mao.
Yi Chou, Ji.
The first year of Taili in the Shang Dynasty. Guihai.
Gengshen.
Wuwu.
Bingchen.
Jiayin.
Xian Wang fifteen years.
Xinhai. Jiyou. Ding Wei.
Yisi, Meng. In the third year of Chu Yuan Dynasty.
Six, Renwu.
Fifteen, Gengchen.
Twenty-four, Wuyin.
Thirty-three, Bingzi.
Forty-two, Guiyou.
Fifty-one, Xin Wei.
Sixty, Jisi.
Sixty-nine, Ding Mao.
Seventy-eight, Jiazi, middle.
Renxu.
Gengshen.
Wuwu.
Bingchen.
Guichou.
Xinhai.
Jiyou.
Ding Wei.
Jiachen, Ji.
Renyin.
Gengzi.
Wuxu.
Bingshen.
In the twenty-fourth year of Yanggong's reign.
Guisi.
Xin Mao.
Oneself are ugly.
Dinghai.
The fourth year of King Xu's reign.
Jiashen, Meng.
Seven, Renxu.
Three years after the founding of the People's Republic of China.
Sixteen, Gengshen.
Twenty-five, Wuwu.
Thirty-four, Yimao.
Forty-three, Guichou.
Fifty-two, Xinhai.
Sixty-one, Jiyou.
Seventy, Bingwu.
Seventy-nine, Jiachen, middle.
Renyin.
Gengzi.
Wuxu.
Yiwei.
Guisi.
Xin Mao.
Oneself are ugly.
Bingxu.
Jiashen, Ji.
Renwu.
Gengchen.
Wuyin.
Yihai.
Guiyou.
Xin Wei.
Jisi.
Ding Gong seven years.
Bingyin.
Jiazi, Meng.
Eight, Renyin.
Seventeen, Gengzi.
Twenty-six, Dingyou.
Thirty-five, Yiwei.
Forty-four, Guisi.
Fifty-three, Xin Mao.
Six divination two, Wuzi.
Seventy-one, Bingxu.
Eighty, Jiashen, middle.
Renwu.
Gengchen.
Ding Chou.
Yihai.
Guiyou.
Xin Wei.
Wuchen.
Bingyin.
Jiazi, season.
Renxu.
Gengshen.
Ding Si.
Yimao.
Guichou.
Xinhai.
The fifth year of Duke Xi's reign.
Wu Shen.
Bingwu.
Jiachen, Meng.
Nine, Renwu.
Eighteen, Ji Mao.
Twenty-seven, Ding Chou.
Thirty-six, Yi Hai.
Forty-five, Guiyou.
Fifty-four, Gengwu.
Sixty-three, Wuchen.
Seventy-two, Bingyin.
Eighty-one, Jiazi, middle.
Renxu.
Ji Wei.
Ding Si.
Yimao.
Guichou.
Gengxu.
Wu Shen.
Bingwu.
Jiachen, Ji.
Renyin.
Jihai.
Dingyou.
Yiwei.
Guisi.
In the ninth year of Duke Yigong's reign.
Gengyin.
Wuzi.
Bingxu.
Jiashen, Meng.
Wings for six years.
Calculate the day of the winter solstice on the first day of the chapter: use Dayu thirty-nine and Xiaoyu sixty-one. Divide according to the rules, and each starts from his own head.
If we ask for its final chapters, we should add Dayu thirty-nine and Xiao Yu sixty-one, each completing his own eighty-one chapters.
Calculating the beginning of the chapter, Dayu is still thirty-nine, and Xiaoyu adds one.
Seeking Zhou Zhi, plus fifty-nine for the big one and twenty-one for the small one.
"Spring and Autumn" records in the 17th year of Duke Zhao that Tanzi came to see him. It is said that Zhaozi asked Shao Wu what the reason for his black name was. Shao Wu replied: "The black name comes from my ancestors. I know this."
In the past, the Huangdi tribe used clouds to remember things, so all the teachers of Baigong were named after cloud; the Yandi tribe used fire to remember things, so all the teachers of Baiguan were named after fire; the Gonggong tribe used water to remember things, so all the teachers of Baiguan were named after water; the Taiwu tribe used dragon to remember things, so all the teachers of Baiguan were named after dragon.
When my great ancestor Wu Zhi first founded the country, the phoenix bird happened to fly over, so he used the bird to record events, and all the officials and teachers were named after the bird.
It means that Tanzi accepted the throne from Huangdi according to Shaowu, Huangdi accepted the throne from Yandi, Yandi accepted the throne from Gonggong, and Gonggong accepted the throne from Taiwu, so we talk about Huangdi first and go all the way to Taiwu.
By studying the "Yi", we can know the era when Paoxi, Shennong and Huangdi succeeded each other.
Emperor Taiwu, "Yi" said: The Paoxi clan rules the world.
It means that Paoxi inherited the destiny and became king. As the leader of a hundred kings, the prosperity of the first four seasons began with wood, so he was called Emperor Taiwu.
He made nets for hunting and fishing, and selected pure-colored livestock for sacrifices, so the world called him Paoxi. "The Ceremony" says: The Gonggong clan dominated Kyushu.
It means that even if there is water virtue, it is not his place between fire and wood.
He becomes powerful through strategy and execution, so he is said to be a hegemon rather than a king.
Qin's water virtue was between the wood and fire of the Zhou and Han dynasties.
The Zhou people changed the order of their actions, so there is no record in the "Yi".
Emperor Yan, "Yi" says: After the death of the Paoxi clan, the Shennong clan began to rise.
It means that if Gonggong dominates the queen but not the king, even if he has the virtue of water, it is not his position.
Fire succeeds wood, so he is the Emperor Yan.
He taught the people to farm, so the world called him Shennong.
Huangdi, "Yi" says: After the death of Shennong, the Huangdi clan rose.
Fire generates earth, so it is the highest virtue.
He fought with the descendants of Emperor Yan at Banquan and ruled the world.
At the beginning, he ruled without doing anything, with Xuan chariots and crown uniforms, so the world called him Xuanyuan clan.
Emperor Shaowu, "Kaode" said that Shaohao was called Qing.
Qing was Qingyang, the son of Huangdi, and it was his descendants named Zhi who ascended the throne.
Gold is born in the soil, so it is the virtue of gold, and the world is called the Jintian clan.
The Zhou Dynasty changed his music, so it was not recorded in the "Yi", only recorded in action.
Emperor Zhuan Xu, "Chun Qiu Wai Zhuan" said that after Shao Wu grew old and Jiu Li deviated from his virtue, Zhuan Xu accepted the throne and appointed Chong He Li.
They are the sons of Cang Lin Changyi.
Metal generates water, so it has the virtue of water.
The world is called Gaoyang clan.
The Zhou Dynasty changed his music, so it was not recorded in the "Yi", only recorded in action.
Emperor Xue, "Chun Qiu Wai Zhuan" said that what Zhuan Xiang established was accepted by Emperor Yu.
The emperor is the grandson of Qingyang Xuanxiao.
Water produces wood, so it is wood virtue.
The world is called Gaoxin clan.
Emperor Zhi succeeded him to the throne for an unknown number of years.
The Zhou Dynasty changed his music.
Therefore, there is no record in "Yi". People in Zhou Dynasty offered sacrifices to him.
Emperor Tang, "Emperor Lineage" says that Emperor Ying had four concubines. Chen Feng gave birth to Emperor Yao, who was granted a title in the Tang Dynasty.
When the Gao Xin family weakened, the world surrendered to Emperor Yao.
Wood generates fire, so it has the virtue of fire, and the world is called Tao Tang.
Later, he ceded the world to Yu and made his son Zhu Danyuan a prince.
Emperor Tang reigned for seventy years.
Emperor Yu, "Emperor Lineage" says, Zhuanxu begat Qiongcicada, and after five generations Gusou begat Gusou. Gusou gave birth to Emperor Shun, and placed Yu in the place where Yanshui bends, and Yao surrendered the world.
Fire generates earth, so it is earth virtue, and the world is called Youyu.
He ceded the world to Ding Yu and made his son Shangjun a prince.
Emperor Yu reigned for fifty years.
Boyu, "Emperor Lineage" says that Zhuanxu's fifth-generation grandson gave birth to Gun, who in turn gave birth to Yu, and Yu and Shun gave way to the world.
Gold is born in the soil, so it is gold virtue.
The whole world is called Xiahou clan.
He was succeeded by ten kings for a total of four hundred and thirty-two years.
Make soup. "Book of Books." "Tang Shi" records that Shang Tang attacked Xia Jie.
Metal generates water, so it has the virtue of water.
The world was called Shang, and later Yin:
"Santong Calendar" says that the year when Shangyuan came to conquer Jie was 141,480 years. The year of Jie was at the fifth degree of Da Mars and Fang Xing. Therefore, it is said that Da Mars is Ban Bo's star and is actually used to remember merchants.
Later, it was Chengtang. When he died, he had been worshiping him with the etiquette of the emperor for thirteen years.
In the twelfth month of the Shang Dynasty, the winter solstice occurred on the day of Yi Chou and Shuo, so the "Preface to the Book" says: After Cheng Tang died, in the first year of Taijia, Yi Yin was ordered to write "Yi Xun".
"Yi Xun" says: In the twelfth month of the first year of Taijia, Yi Chou Shuo, Yi Yin offered sacrifices to the late king, and the birth capital was Mu Fangming.
That is to say, even if there are the duties of Chengtang, Taiding, and Waibing, because during the winter solstice, they have to cross the bamboo mat that covers the car to sacrifice the ancestors in front of the statues of the gods to offer sacrifices to heaven. This is the year of the winter solstice on the first day of the lunar month.
Ninety-five years later, on the winter solstice of Jiashen and Shuodan in December of Shang Dynasty, there was nothing left, so Meng Tong was born.
Six hundred and twenty-nine years passed from Cheng Tang's crusade against Jie to King Wu's crusade against Zhou, so it is said that the Yin Dynasty recorded six hundred days of sacrifices.
"Yin Li" says that after the death of Tang Dynasty, sacrifices were made for thirteen years, beginning with the winter solstice on the first day of the eleventh month and ending on the first day of the sixth lunar month.
By the fifth year of Zhou Gong's reign, it had been 458 years since the expedition against Jie, which was 171 years short, less than 629 years.
According to the time of summer, Yichou is Jiazi, and its age is calculated as the fifth chapter after Meng Tong, the winter solstice on the first day of Guihai.
It is neither the first nor the last word of the year.
The Yin Dynasty succeeded indeed to thirty-one kings, totaling six hundred and twenty-nine years.
"Four Points Calendar" says that there were 132,113 years between the Shangyuan Dynasty and the crusade against Ji. Among them, the 88th century, Jiazi's first year, was included in the 127 years after the crusade against Jie.
"Spring and Autumn Calendar" says that in December of the 42nd year of King Wen of Zhou Dynasty, Ding Chou Shuo was the winter solstice, and he was the head of Meng Tong's second meeting.
Eight years later, King Wu defeated Zhou. King Wu, Book of Books.
"Mu Shi" King Wu attacked Shang Zhou.
Water produces wood, so it is wood virtue.
The world is called Zhou Shi.
"Santong Calendar" says that from the year of the Yuan Dynasty to the crusade against Zhou, there were 142,109 years, and this year was at the thirteenth degree of Quail Mars and Zhang Su.
King Wen died nine years after being ordered to do so, and after two years of fighting, he gathered troops to attack Zhou on the day of great auspiciousness. Therefore, the "Preface to the Book" says: In the eleventh year, King Wu attacked Zhou and wrote "Tai Shi".
Eight hundred princes gathered together.
Two years after he came back, he defeated Zhou and conquered Yin, and returned with Jizi, which took thirteen years.
Therefore, the "Preface to the Book" says: King Wu defeated Yin, returned with Jizi, and wrote "Hong Fan".
"Hong Fan" chapter says: In the thirteenth year, King Wu consulted Jizi on state affairs.
Thirteen years have passed since King Wen was ordered to do so by heaven, and this year is also in the Quail Fire. Therefore, it is said that the year of the year is in the Quail Fire, which is the division of the Zhou Dynasty.
The army began to set off, because in the eleventh month of the Yin Dynasty, the sun was at the seventh degree of Ximuji, so it is said that the sun was at Ximu.
This night, the moon was in the house at five degrees.
The accommodation is the Si star in the sky, so it is said that the moon is in the Si star in the sky.
Three days later, on Xin Maoshuo, the first month of the Zhou Dynasty, the place where the moon met was one degree in front of the bucket, which is the handle of the bucket. Therefore, it is said that the sun and the moon met at the handle of the bucket.
On the second day of Renchen, the morning star began to appear.
King Guisiwu began to send troops, Bingwu's army came back, and Wuwu crossed the river at Mengjin.
Mengjin is nine hundred miles away from Zhou, and the army marches thirty miles every day, so it will take thirty-one days to cross the river.
The next day, before the winter solstice, the Morning Star and Wu Nu were crouching, passing by Jianxing and Altair, until they reached the head of Wu Nu and Tian Ni. Therefore, it is said that the star is in Tian Ni.
"Book of Zhou." "Wucheng" chapter says: Renchen, the second day of the first lunar month. On the next day, Guisi day, King Wu set out from Haojing in the morning to conquer the merchants.
The preface says: On Wuwu day of the first month, the army crossed the river in Mengjin.
It was the first day of February when we arrived at Gengshen.
Siguihai arrived at Muye and set up military formations at night. At dawn, the military formations were ready.
Therefore, "Wai Zhuan" says: The king set up his military formation on the night of Guihai in the second month.
"Wucheng" chapter says: In March, on the fifth day of Jiazi, King Zhou of Shang was killed.
One year was created, and there were still eighteen leaps left, which happened to be the middle period of the Great Cold. It was ugly in the second month of the Zhou Dynasty.
The next day is the leap month Gengyin Shuo day.
March 2nd is Gengshen’s Waking of Insects.
In April, Ji Chou and Shuo will die.
The dead tyrant is Shuo Ri.
To be born a hegemon is to look at the sun.
In this month, Jiachen is Wangri, and Yisi is the sixteenth day.
Therefore, the "Wucheng" chapter says: On the seventeenth day of the fourth month, on the sixth day of Gengxu, King Wu burned firewood and offered sacrifices to Zhou Temple.
On the second day of Xinhai, worship the throne of heaven.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, he led all the countries to offer sacrifices in Zhou Temple. King Wen gave birth to King Wu when he was fifteen years old, and he died in the ninth year after his death. Four years after the collapse, King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty.
King Wu was eighty-six years old when he defeated the Yin Dynasty, and died seven years later.
So "Book of Rites." "The Prince of King Wen" says: King Wen lived for ninety-seven years, and King Wu lived for ninety-three years.
King Wu reigned for a total of eleven years, and Duke Zhou ruled for five years. On the first day of the first lunar month, Dingsi and the winter solstice, the "Yin Li" considered it to be Wuwu in the sixth year, seventy-six years after Yanggong, and the beginning of the twenty-nine chapters of Meng Tong.
Two years later, it was the seventh year of Zhou Gong, the year of Fu Zi Ming.
In February of this year, Yihai is Shuo, Gengyin is Wang, and six days later, Yiwei is.
Therefore, "Zhao Gao" says: February 16th, six days later is Yiwei.
In addition, in March this year, Jiachen fell on the new moon, and on the third day, Bingwu.
"Zhao Gao" says: In the third month of the third month, Bingwu is the first day of the lunar month.
The ancient text "Yue Cai" says: Three days is called Chu.
At the end of Wuchen in December of this year, Duke Zhou returned the government to King Cheng.
Therefore, the "Luo Gao" chapter says: In Wuchen, the king was in Xinyi, offering sacrifices to Sui and making plans. The Duke of Zhou assisted King Wen and King Wu to receive the destiny for seven years.
On the first day of the first month of the first year of King Cheng's reign, Bo Qin was appointed as a prince of Lu.
Thirty years later, Gengxu in April was the new day, and the moon began to shine on the 15th.
Therefore, "Gu Ming" says that on April 15th, King Cheng fell ill and did not participate in the activities. After Jiazi, King Cheng took a bath and wrote "Gu Ming".
The next day Yichou, King Cheng died.
Wuchen in June of the twelfth year of King Kang was a new day, and Gengwu was on the third day, so "Bi Ming Feng Xing" said: The moon appeared at Geng Wu in June of the twelfth year, and King Kang ordered people to write "Feng Xing".
Both "Spring and Autumn" and "Yin Li" are based on the Yin Dynasty. There are no years in Lu since King Zhou Zhao, so the years are calculated according to Zhou Gong and Bo Qin.
Uncle Qin, Duke of Lu, inferred that he reigned for forty-six years until King Kang's death in the sixteenth year.
Therefore, it is said that Xiefu and Qinfu served King Kang together. This means that Xie, the Marquis of Jin, and Boqin, Duke of Lu, both served King Kang.
Boqin's son Kaogong ascended the throne, and Kaogong became the chief.
Kaogong, "Shijia" says that he reigned for four years until Yang Gongxi came to the throne.
The winter solstice occurred on Bingshen and Shuodan in the first month of the 24th year of Baogong. According to the "Yin Li", it was Dingyou, which was seventy-six years after Yaogong.
According to "Shijia", Duke Yang reigned for sixty years and his son You Gongzai came to the throne.
Duke You, according to "Shijia", reigned for fourteen years, and he came to the throne at Weigongfu, who was called Cao.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first lunar month of the 26th year of Wei Gong. According to the "Yin Li", it was in Bingzi, 76 years after Xiangong.
"The Family" says that after Wei Gong reigned for fifty years, his son Li Gongzhai came to the throne, and Li Gongzhai was the one who promoted him.
Li Gong, "Shijia" says that he reigned for thirty-seven years and came to the throne with Xian Gonggui.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first month of the fifteenth year of Xiangong, Jiayin and Shuodan. The "Yin Li" believed that it was at Yimao, which was seventy-six years away from Yigong.
"Shijia" says that after Duke Xian reigned for fifty years, his son Shen Gongzhi came to the throne. Shen Gongzhi was Xiu.
Duke Shen, according to "Shijia", he reigned for thirty years and ascended the throne to Duke Ao of Wu.
Wu Gong, "The Family" says that he reigned for two years, and his son Yigong came to the throne. Yigong's death was a drama.
The winter solstice occurred on the morning of the first day of the first month of the ninth year of Duke Yigong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in the Jiawu period, seventy-six years after Duke Hui.
"Shijia" says that in the ninth year of Duke Yi's reign, his brother's son Bai Yu came to the throne.
Bai Yu, "Shijia" says that he reigned for eleven years, and his uncle Xiao Gong came to the throne.
Xiaogong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for twenty-seven years, and his son Hui Gong came to the throne.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first month of the first month of the thirty-eighth year of Hui Gong, Renshen Chu. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Guiyou, seventy-six years after Xi Gong.
"Shijia" says that during the forty-sixth year of Duke Hui's reign, his son Yin Gongxi came to the throne.
From Boqin to the Spring and Autumn Period, there were three hundred and eighty-six years.
Chun Qiu Yin Gong, "Spring and Autumn" says that he reigned for eleven years until Huan Gong Gui came to the throne.
In the first year of Yin AD, it was four hundred years before the expedition against Zhou.
Duke Huan, "Spring and Autumn" says that he reigned for eighteen years, and his son Zhuang Gong came to the throne.
Zhuang Gong, "Spring and Autumn" says that in the thirty-second year of his reign, his son Min Gong Qifang came to the throne.
Duke Min, "Spring and Autumn" says that he reigned for two years until Duke Xi ascended the throne.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of Xinhai in the first month of the fifth year of Xi Gong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was at Renzi, which was seventy-six years after Cheng Gong.
This year has been 142,577 years since the Yuan Dynasty, and it is the beginning of the fifty-three chapters of Meng Tong.
Therefore, it is said that Xinhai, the first month of the fifth year of Spring, is the new day, and the sun reaches the south.
In August, the Marquis of Jin surrounded Shangyang.
The nursery rhyme says: On the morning of Bingzi, the dragon's tail is lying in the morning, the army is uniformly dressed, and they capture the territory of Guo Kingdom.
The quails are scorched by the sparks, the heavenly policy is blanched, and the army is formed in the fire. The Duke fled.
Bu Yan said: Can I pay it in September and October?
Bingzi is dawn, the sun is at the end, the moon is at the beginning, and the quail fire is in the middle. It must be this time.
In the twelfth month of winter, Bingzi destroyed the Guo Kingdom.
People who use the calendar use the time of summer, so it is December in Zhou and October in summer.
This year, Suixing is on fire.
Therefore, it is said that the Marquis of Jin sent his servant Pi to attack Pu, and Chong'er fled to Di.
Dong Yin said: When you are traveling, the star of the year is on fire.
Twelve years later, it was the 16th year of Duke Xi, and the birthday star was on the birthday star.
Therefore, it is said that Chong'er left Di after staying in Di for twelve years. He passed by Wei Wulu and begged a farmer for food, and the farmer handed him a clod of soil.
Zifu said: This is a gift from God. In twelve years, he must obtain this land.
When the Sui star comes to the birthday star again, it will definitely capture the princes.
Eight years later, in the 24th year of Duke Xi, the star of the year was sinking, and Uncle Qin took him in.
Therefore, it is said that Dong Yin said: If you leave at Chen time and enter at Shen time, you will definitely capture the princes.
"Spring and Autumn" says that thirty-three years after Duke Xi reigned, his son Wen Gongxing came to the throne.
In the first year of Wen Dynasty, it was twenty-nine years before the winter solstice on the first day of Xinhai.
This year, there is a leap year on the 13th, which happens to be light snow. The leap year should be after November, but it is in March, so it is said that it is not in line with etiquette.
Five years later, there will be more than ten leap years. This year there is no leap year, but there is a leap year.
Leap is used to correct the new moon.
There is no leap month, but there is a leap month, and the new moon is not announced. Therefore, the scriptures say that there is no new moon in the leap month, which means that there is no such month.
Legend: It is against etiquette not to promulgate the new moon day.
"Spring and Autumn" says that after eighteen years of Duke Wen's reign, his son Xuangong came to the throne.
Xuangong, "Spring and Autumn" says that after eighteen years of his reign, his son Chenggong Heigong came to the throne.
The first day of the first month of the twelfth year of Chenggong was the winter solstice at Geng Yinshuo. The "Yin Li" believed that it was Xin Mao, seventy-six years from the seventh year of Dinggong.
"Spring and Autumn" says that eighteen years after Chenggong reigned, his son Xianggongwu came to the throne.
In the twenty-seventh year of Duke Xiang, it was one hundred and nine years away from Xinhai.
Yihai in September is the first day of the new moon, which is the month of Jianshen.
The history books of the State of Lu record: Yihai is the first day of the twelfth lunar month, and there is a solar eclipse.
Legend: Yihai in the eleventh month of winter is the new day, and there is an eclipse, so the morning is in the sun. This is the fault of the person in charge of the calendar, and the leap is missed again.
It means that I actually believed that the time was already in November, and I did not observe what Dou Jian was referring to, nor did I examine the celestial phenomena.
The twenty-eighth year of Duke Xiang was one hundred and ten years away from Xinhai, and the stars were in the star year, so the scriptures say: There is no ice in spring.
Legend: The Sui star was in Xingji, but appeared in Xuanzhen by mistake.
In the thirtieth year of Duke Xiang's reign, the star was in Kunzi.
Thirty-one years old, the star is falling in Jianglou.
This year is one hundred and thirteen years from Xinhai, February Guiwei, and from the eleventh year of Duke Wen's meeting in Chengkuang. This year, Jiazishuo, the first month of summer, totals 445 Jiazi and twenty days, which is twenty-six thousand six hundred and sixty days.
Therefore, it is said that an old man in Jiangxian County said: In the year when I was born, Jiazi in the first lunar month was the new moon, which was four hundred and forty-five Jiazi.
The end of it is one-third of sixty.
Shi Kuang said: It was seventy-three years since He Chengzi formed an alliance with Chengkuang.
Shi Zhao said: Hai has two heads and six bodies. Take the two pictures above the character Hai and put them next to it, which is its number of days.
Shi Wenbo said: Then there are twenty-six thousand six hundred and sixty days.
"Spring and Autumn" says that thirty-one years after Duke Xiang reigned, his son Zhao Gongchou ascended the throne.
The star in the eighth year of Zhaogong was in Ximu, and the star in Zhuanxu's tenth year was Xuanzhu.
In the eighteenth year of Zhaogong, which was one hundred and thirty-one years away from Xinhai, there were Bingzi, Wuyin, and Renwu in the fifth month. Mars began to appear randomly, and there were fires in Song, Wei, Chen, and Zheng.
In the first month of Spring in the twentieth year of Duke Zhao, it was one hundred and thirty-three years before Xinhai. This year was the first of the eight chapters after Xinhai.
The first month of the first lunar month has Ji Chou and the first day of the lunar month, the winter solstice, and there are no leaps.
Therefore, it is said that Ji Chou arrived in the south in February.
In the 32nd year of Zhao Gong, the year of the year was in the Xing Ji, and it was one hundred and forty-five years since Xinhai.
Therefore, it is said that there is a star in the Yue Kingdom. If the Wu Kingdom attacks it, it will definitely be punished.
"Spring and Autumn" says that Duke Xiang reigned for thirty-two years until Duke Dinggong came to the throne in the Song Dynasty.
In the seventh year of Dinggong, the winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first lunar month. According to the "Yin Li", it was Gengwu, seventy-six years after the fifth Duke.
"Spring and Autumn" says that fifteen years after Duke Ding reigned, his son Aigong Jiang came to the throne.
In the winter and twelfth month of the twelfth year of Ai Gong, Mars gradually set in the west, which was not the month of Jianxu.
There are locusts in abundance this month, so it is said that the insect hidden treasure has been completed after Mars disappeared. Now Mars is still setting in the west. This is the mistake of the person in charge of the calendar. "Poetry" says: In July, Mars falls in the west.
"Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Ai reigned for twenty-seven years.
From the Spring and Autumn Period to the end of the 14th year of Duke Ai, there were a total of 242 years.
In the Six Kingdoms, "Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Ai abdicated the throne in Zhu thirteen years later, and his son Du Gongman came to the throne. Du Gongman was Ning.
Mourning the Duke, "Shijia" records that thirty-seven years after his reign, his son Yuan Gongjia ascended the throne.
The winter solstice was bright on Wushenshuo day in the first month of the fourth year of Yuan Gong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Jiyou, seventy-six years before Kang Gong.
Yuan Gong, "Shijia" said that after his reign for 21 years, his son Mu Gongyan came to the throne, and Mu Gongyan became the emperor.
Mu Gong, "The Family" says that thirty-three years after his reign, his son Gong Gongfen came to the throne.
Gong Gong, "The Family" says that after 22 years of his reign, his son Kang Gongmao came to the throne.
The winter solstice dawned on the first day of the first month of the fourth year of Kanggong's reign, and the winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first month of the fourth year of Kanggong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Wuzi, seventy-six years after Min Gong.
Kanggong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for nine years, and his son Jinggong Yan came to the throne.
Jinggong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for twenty-nine years and was succeeded by his son Pinggong Lu.
Hu Gong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for twenty years, and his son Min Gong bought the throne.
The winter solstice was bright on Bingyinshuo day in the first month of the 22nd year of Min Gong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Dingmao, seventy-six years away from the Chu Yuan Dynasty.
Min Gong, "The Family" says that he reigned for twenty-three years and was succeeded by his son Qinggong Ru.
Qinggong, in the eighteenth year of the "Biao", which was the fifty-first year of King Zhao of Qin, Qin destroyed Zhou.
There were thirty-six kings in the Zhou Dynasty, which lasted for eight hundred and sixty-seven years.
King Zhao, the overlord of Qin, "Historical Records." There is no emperor for five years in "This Chronicle".
King Xiaowen, "Benji" says that he reigned for one year.
In the first year of King Xiaowen, King Kaolie of Chu destroyed Duke Qing of Lu and made him his servant. This was six years after the fall of Zhou.
King Zhuang Xiang, "Ben Ji" says that he reigned for three years.
Qin Shihuang, "Benji" says that he reigned for thirty-seven years.
Qin II, "Ben Ji" says that he reigned for three years.
Qin ruled for five generations and lasted forty-nine years.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was recorded in the "Chronicles". He attacked Qin and succeeded the Zhou Dynasty.
Wood creates fire, so it is the virtue of fire.
The world is called Han.
It was one hundred and forty-three thousand and twenty-five years from the first year of the previous year. The Sui star was at the 22nd degree of the East Well of Dadi and the 6th degree of the Quail Head.
Therefore, "Han Zhi" says that the Sui star is in Dadi, called Dunyang, and Tai Sui is in Wu.
In November of the eighth year of the lunar month, the winter solstice dawned, and it was the fifth year of Chu.
Therefore, "Yin Li" believes that it was Bingwu, seventy-six years after Yuan Shuo.
"Benji" records that Zhihu reigned for twelve years.
Emperor Hui, "Ji" records that he reigned for seven years.
After Gao, "Ji" records that he reigned for eight years.
Emperor Wen reigned for sixteen years before and seven years after that. "Ben Ji" records that he reigned for twenty-three years.
Emperor Jing reigned for seven years in the first seven years, six years in the middle, and three years in the last three years. "Ben Ji" records that he reigned for sixteen years.
Emperor Wu had six years each in Jianyuan, Yuanguang, and Yuanshuo.
In November of the sixth year of the Yuan Shuo period, the winter solstice falls on Jiashen Shuo day. The "Yin Li" believes that it is in Yiyou, seventy-six years after the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty.
Yuanshou, Yuanding and Yuanfeng each had six years.
The first year of the Taichu period of the Han calendar was 143,127 years ago.
In the first eleven months, Jiazishuo day dawned during the winter solstice, and the Sui star was in the sixth degree of Wunu. Therefore, "Mozhi" said that the Sui star was called Kundun, and the Sui star in the first month was in Wunu.
Taichu, Tianhan, Taishi, Zhenghe were four years each, and in the latter two years, "Ji" recorded fifty-four years in office.
Emperor Zhao was in the first year of Yuan and Yuan Feng for six years each, and Yuanping was one year. "Ji" records that he reigned for thirteen years.
Xuancha Kuipan, Dige, Wuchen, Yujian, Huhuang, and Julu were each four years old, Huanglong was one year old, and the "Ji" records that he reigned for twenty-five years.
In November of the 52nd year of Wu Tong Chi, the winter solstice occurred at the dawn of Guihai and Shuo. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Jiazi, which was the beginning of Jiazi.
This year, the October solar eclipse is not a conjunction of Chen and Chen, and cannot be used as the beginning of the year.
Seventy-six years since I was born.
Ni Wu, Cheng Guang, and Jian Tui each had five years, Tong Ning had one year, and "Ji" records sixteen years of reign.
Emperor Cheng was in the fourth year of Jianshi, Heping, Yangshuo, Hongjia, Yongshi, and Yuanyan each, and in the second year of Suihe. "Ji" records that he reigned for twenty-six years.
It was the fourth year of Saihu's founding and the second year of Genchi's reign. "Ji" records that he reigned for six years.
Mangtong, "Ji" records that in the fifth year of his reign, he took Xuanhu's great-great-grandson plastic pendant as his heir and called him Bieyuan.
King Qiang, "Ji" records that for three years, Wang Ling devoured Wang Ling's castle in the morning. Wang Ling temporarily took the position of emperor and handled government affairs. He also stole the throne and privately named him the new royal family.
Five years after the founding of the country, six years after the founding of Tianfeng, and three years after Emperor Dihuang's death, "Ji" records that he stole the throne for fourteen years.
Gengshi Emperor, "Ji" records that he destroyed Wang Mang as a clan member of the Han Dynasty and reigned for two years.
The Red Eyebrow Army established the clan Liu Penzi and eliminated Emperor Gengshi.
From the first year of the Han Dynasty to the second year of Gengshi, there were a total of two hundred and thirty years.
Emperor Guangwu, "Chronicles" records that he revived the Han Dynasty as the descendant of Emperor Jing, the ninth grandson of Gaozu, by fate, and changed the Yuan Dynasty to Jianwu.
In the thirty-first year of Jianwu, the second year of Zhongyuan, he reigned for thirty-three years.
