In the last years of Jianwu, Feng Yan Shangshu said to himself: I think of Gaozu's talents and strategies and Chen Ping's wisdom. If I listen to slander, Chen Ping will be alienated. If I listen to praise, Chen Ping will be close to Gaozu.
With Emperor Wen's wisdom and Wei Shang's loyalty, those who are brought to justice will become criminals, and those who are treated with virtue will become heroes.
In his later life, Dong Zhongshu emphasized morality and was jealous of Gongsun Hong; Li Guang fought hard to fight against the Huns, but was rejected by Wei Qing. These are all tragedies for which loyal officials often cried bitterly.
I, Feng Yan, think to myself that I am just a humble minister. I don’t have the recommendation of Wei Wuwu above, the persuasion of Feng Tang below, the talent and learning of Dong Zhongshu, and the momentum of Li Guang. Isn’t it difficult to avoid slander and avoid resentment?
Feng Shen, the ancestor of Chen Feng Yan, was so loyal and unyielding that he actually caused trouble in his private family.
And when the minister Feng Yan encountered disturbances and revolutions, he did not dare to seek the benefits of the times. His servants had no evil plans, and the generals had no plans to plunder.
Wei Wei is Yinxing, respectful and careful, can cultivate himself internally, and avoid suspicion externally, so I dare to associate with him.
Yin Xing knew that I was poor and wanted to leave money to establish my basic livelihood several times.
I think to myself that my talent is of no use to the three friends, and I dare not be in a position where it will harm the three friends, and I resolutely refuse to accept it. In the past, during the Gengshi period, the troops stationed in Taiyuan held the power of goods and property, living in a hurry, and held the position for more than 20 years. However, the property was decreasing year by year, and the days were becoming poorer day by day. There was no savings of cloth and silk at home, and there was no decoration for horses when going out.
Now we are facing the period of Qingming, a time when we are reorganizing ourselves and striving to do good deeds, but resentments are rising and ridicule is flowing across the world.
It is true that it is easy to do good things if you are rich, but it is difficult to do good things if you are poor or lowly.
I am a minister who is alienated from my mother-in-law and has no hope of serving in the imperial court. I am just afraid to confess my sins in order to save myself from my sins.
After the book was submitted, it was still not used due to previous mistakes.
Feng Yan was dissatisfied and retired to write poems. He commented to himself: Feng Zi believed that a person's virtue is neither like the mediocre appearance of jade nor the falling shape of stone.
Storms and clouds arise, dragons and snakes soar together with the Tao, and change with the times. How can they stick to one law?
If you use it, it will become popular; if you abandon it, you will avoid it. There will be no master in advancing or retreating, and it will be impermanent.
Therefore, it is said: The laws and regulations, right and wrong, all follow the customs. Where things go, the laws follow; when things go, the laws violate them.
Always pursue the truth of morality instead of pursuing fame in the world, get rid of small etiquette, and indulge in human affairs.
Cultivate yourself and follow the right path, be at ease and indulge yourself as much as you want.
I used to like excellent strategies, but in this era, strategies cannot be used. I sighed and lamented that I didn't meet them.
For a long time, he has lived behind a small official and cannot show his arms.
Suppress one's mood and submit to others, one's mood is desolate and the mood is sad.
The families of high-ranking officials and well-paid people do not seek small profits; the ministers of accumulation do not care about the interests of merchants.
What's more, he has been in office for more than 20 years, but his property has become less and less, and his life has become increasingly poor.
This is when a gentleman is in power and follows his own path.
Those who plan current affairs cannot flourish their virtues, and those who seek personal gain cannot achieve their merits. After leaving and returning home, he wandered and sojourned in prefectures and counties. He became more dependent on his work and his family became even poorer. As a result, he suffered from hunger and cold, and even lost his eldest son.
The former general Feng Fengshi was buried in Weiling. After the death of Emperor Ai, he was included in the tomb of Emperor Ai.
So to the east of Xinfeng, above Hongmen, in the middle of Shouan, the terrain is high and spacious, connected to the vastness on all sides, looking to the south of Mount Li, to the north of Jingwei, to the east of Hehua, to the south of Longmen, the road to the Three Jin Dynasties, to the west of Fenggao'an, the earth mountains of the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, the ruins of palaces and temples, with a broad field of vision, and the old capital can be seen, so it was designated as a cemetery.
Retreat and live in seclusion.
Loyal ministers will lament when passing by the old ruins, and filial sons will sigh with sadness when entering the old chamber.
Every time I remember my ancestors, I established great virtues in front of me and passed down my great achievements to future generations. However, I suffer from the disasters of the current situation, the tombs are dirty, the spring and Autumn sacrifices are arranged in disorder, and the arrangement of father south and son north is disordered. At the end of the year, mourning the failure of their achievements, they will go to the fertile and fertile fields to the west to graze, breed and produce, repair filial piety, run the ancestral temple, and conduct sacrifices.
Then close the door to lecture on morality, watch the remarks of Confucius and Laozi, and maybe enjoy the blessings of red pine nuts and Wang Ziqiao. Climb to Longban, climb to Gaogang, wander around the universe, and see beyond the world.
Take a closer look at the landscape of Jiuzhou's mountains and rivers, and trace the ethos of gain and loss in ancient times.
Anyone who sees its end must examine its origin, so we should preserve its people and chant their ways.
Situated in the wilderness of Kyushu, and connected to the Five Mountains, there is a vague artistic conception that transcends the clouds. So I wrote a poem to express my self-reliance, and named its chapter "Xian Zhi". Xian Zhi means to express the bright and weathered feelings and reveal the mysterious thoughts. After Xianzong ascended the throne, many people said that Feng Yanwen was exaggerating, so he was abandoned at home.
Feng Yan married a daughter of Ren's family in the North. He was jealous and did not allow Feng Yan to raise a young wife. His children often fetched water and pounded rice to take care of the housework. When they got old, they expelled her, so she was miserable and impoverished for a while.
However, if you have great ambitions, you will not worry about poverty.
At home, he once generously sighed: Feng Yan has been taught by wise men since he was a child. He has experienced prominent positions, holds seals and ribbons, holds high talismans and serves envoys, does not ask for anything, and always has the ambition to fly across the sky.
I don't care to get the high status of the three princes or the huge wealth of thousands of gold, which is not in line with my wishes.
Be poor but not weak, be humble but not hateful. Although you are weak and tired with age, you must still maintain the style of being famous and virtuous.
Cultivation of morality before death, in order to complete one's own reputation and be followed by future generations.
He was poor and old and died at home.
He wrote fifty articles including "Fu", "Elegance", "Inscription", "Shuo", "Wen Jiao", "De Gao", "Shen Qing", "Secretary's Statement", "Automatic Preface", "Guan Lu Shuo" and "Ce". Suzong attached great importance to these articles.
Son Feng Bao.
