◆Cui Xiang's biography, Cui Xiang's courtesy name was Tingbo, and he was a native of Anping, Zhuo County.
My great-great-grandfather, Cui Chao, worked for Youzhou during the reign of Emperor Zhao, and he advised the governor not to associate with King Yan Ci.
Later, he failed to assassinate the king and was promoted to Shi Yushi.
He gave birth to a son named Cui Shu, who successively served as the governor of four counties. He was known as capable wherever he went.
Cui Shu's youngest son was named Cui Xiang. When Wang Mang was a county scholar, he was summoned to the bus by Ming Jing.
Zhen Feng, the Taibao, appointed him as an infantry captain. Cui Xiang said: I heard that when conquering a country, one does not ask for benevolent people, and when fighting, one does not visit Confucian scholars.
How can I find this move?
So he confessed his fault and went home.
Wang Mang hated those who did not agree with him and often used methods to slander them.
At that time, Cui Fa, Cui Peng's brother, was favored by Wang Mang because of his cleverness, and his official position reached the rank of Da Sikong.
The mother was a master of Confucian classics and the language of hundreds of schools of thought. Wang Mang favored her with special gifts and gave her the title of Mrs. Yicheng, with a gold seal and purple ribbon, and a Wenxuan Danbo, which became apparent in the new Mang generation.
Later, Cui Xiang was appointed as the Grand Yin of Jianxin. Cui Xiang had no choice but to sigh and said: I was born in the age of Wuwang, and met such kings as Chu and Yi. I have an old mother above me and brothers below me. How can I put my body in danger by myself?
He went to the government office on his bicycle, claiming that he was ill and had nothing to do. He did not go to the county for three years to encourage farmers to grow mulberry trees.
Ni Chang, an official under his command, persuaded him, and Cui Cheng reluctantly stood up and issued the Spring Order.
In the counties I visited, the prisons, large and small, were full of people.
Cui Xiang cried and said: Oh!
If the punishment fails, the person is trapped in a trap.
What crime do these people have to be locked up here!
After a fair trial, more than 2,000 people were released.
The official kowtowed and advised: In the early days of the imperial government, the state pastoralists were in serious trouble.
Forgiving the criminal is indeed the heart of a benevolent person; however, if you are the only one who does this, will you regret it?
Cui Heng said: Duke Wen of Zhu would not change his life just because of one person, and a gentleman would say that he knew his fate.
For example, killing a large Yin to redeem two thousand people is what I want.
So he was sick and left.
In the early years of Jianwu, the imperial court recommended many people, and the governor of Youzhou also recommended Cui Heng as a virtuous person.
Cui Xiang felt ashamed that his clan was favored by Wang Mang, so he resigned and refused to serve as an official. Living in Xingyang, he reflected behind closed doors and wrote sixty-four chapters of "Book of Changes", which were used to judge good and bad fortunes, and many of them were used for predictions. Before his death, he wrote a poem to express his condolences, called "Comfort". Cui Heng gave birth to Cui Yi, who became invisible due to illness.
Cui Yi gave birth to Cui Xiang. At the age of thirteen, he was proficient in the Book of Songs, the Book of Changes, and the Spring and Autumn Annals. He was erudite and talented. He understood the exegesis of hundreds of schools of thought, both ancient and modern, and could write articles.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue and became as famous as Ban Gu and Fu Yi.
He often makes his career by studying classics, not to mention being an official.
At that time, some people ridiculed him for being too mysterious and quiet, and he would lose his reputation in the future. Cui Xiang imitated Yang Xiong's "Jie Mo" and wrote "Da Zhi" to reply to them. During the Yuanhe period, Emperor Suzong practiced ancient rituals and visited Fang Yue.
Cui Xiang wrote "Ode to the Four Patrols" to praise the Han Dynasty. The diction is very elegant, but there are too many words so I won't record it here.
The emperor is always good at writing, and after reading Cui Xiang's ode, he often sighed. Said to the attendant Dou Xian: Do you know Cui Xiang?
Answer: Ban Gu told me about him many times, but I didn’t see him.
The emperor said: "You like Ban Gu but ignore Cui Xiang. This is because Ye Gong is a good dragon."
Please see him.
Cui Xiang greeted Dou Xian.
Dou Xian hurriedly put on his shoes and greeted Ma Yin at the door. He smiled and said to Ma Yin: "Ting Bo, I made friends with you on the emperor's order. You won't treat me poorly, right?"
So I bowed down and became a guest.
Not long after staying, the emperor came to Dou Xian's house. Cui Xiang was at Xian's house at that time. The emperor heard about it and wanted to summon him.
Dou Xian dissuaded him, thinking that he should not meet the man in white.
The emperor understood and said: I can make Cui Xiang be by my side day and night, why bother here!
Just as he was about to ask him to be an official, the emperor passed away.
When Empress Dowager Dou came to court, Dou Xian used his relatives as cashiers to receive orders.
Cui Xian wrote a letter warning: "Ma Yin heard that friendship is shallow and words are deep, it is stupid, it is foolish to expect a noble person from a low position, it is slander to accept good advice without believing it."
None of the three items are suitable, but if you want to give it a try, you just want to imitate me, and you are angry and can't stop yourself.
I have seen privately that he has a pure and graceful posture, a masterful attitude, a beautiful mind and a powerful spirit, and has the demeanor of a virtuous person.
Ma was lucky enough to be admitted to the pavilion and ranked in the back row, so he tried his best to dare to say a word.
The ancients said: Those who are born rich are proud, and those who are born noble are proud.
There is no one who can be born into wealth and not be proud.
Now that the favor is rising and the officials are watching, when Yao and Shun were in their heyday and at the peak of their splendor, how could they not be concubine for a few days so as to make people's reputation last longer, promote the reputation of Shen Bo, and achieve the achievements of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong?
An old saying goes: If you don't have trouble, you won't be in position; if you have trouble, you will be established.
In the past, the relatives of King Feng Ye held high positions and were called virtuous ministers; recently, the Yin Weiwei restrained himself and returned to ritual, and finally gained great blessings.
The ancestors of the Tan family are not disrespectful, and the Yangping clan is not prosperous.
The heavy marquis had many generals, built the Tianshu, and held the handle of the fighting. The reason why he was ridiculed at that time, especially in later generations, was why?
Just because he is full but not full, he has more than enough position but not enough benevolence and righteousness.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, during the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there were only four members of the ancestral family of twenty, and the entire Bao clan.
"Shu Jing" says: In view of the Yin Dynasty.
Isn't it prudent? The rise of the Dou family began with Emperor Xiaowen.
The eldest lord and the younger lord were honest and upright, and became famous the day before yesterday; Anfenghou Dou Rong was virtuous by supporting orders, and showed his self-resurgence.
Internally he was loyal to himself, and externally he used laws to guard himself. Finally, he enjoyed the national honor and has been blessed to this day.
The light of modesty is praised in the Book of Changes; the position of overflowing is warned by Taoism.
Therefore, when a gentleman is prosperous, he will be more cautious; when he is prosperous, he will be more respectful.
There are rules to follow when looking at distance and pitch, which are engraved on several sticks and between the pans.
Work diligently and never dare to be idle.
In this way, a hundred blessings will come, and the flow of celebration will be endless.
When Dou Xian became a general of chariots and cavalry, he summoned Cui Xiang to be a courier.
The Xian Mansion was noble and had thirty people, all of whom were former governors and had two thousand stones. Only Cui Heng, who was a young scholar, was promoted among them.
Dou Xian was arrogant and unbridled in his power, but Cui Cheng tried to dissuade him many times. When the Xiongnu attacked, there were more illegal things on the road. Cui Xiang took charge of the book and recorded it dozens of times, pointing out the pros and cons.
Dou Xian couldn't tolerate it and alienated him slightly. Because Cui Xiang was born in Gaodi, he asked him to be the magistrate of Changling County.
Cui Xiang thought that he was not satisfied with his departure, so he returned home without receiving his official position.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan's reign, he died at home.
He has written a total of twenty-one poems, poems, poems, inscriptions, odes, books, notes, tables, "Seven Yis", "Wedding Conclusion", "Declaration of Purpose" and "Drinking Police".
Cui Yuan, the middle son.
◆Cui Yuan's biography, Cui Yuan's courtesy name is Ziyu. He lost his father in his early years. He was eager to learn and try his best to inherit his father's business.
At the age of eighteen, he went to the capital, where he served Jia Kui, a servant, who treated him well. Cui Yuan then had the opportunity to study abroad, and then Mingguan, Lishu, "Jingfang Yi Zhuan", six days and seven minutes.
All Confucian scholars regard him as their sect.
He was particularly friendly with Fufeng Ma Rong and Nanyang Zhang Heng.
At first, Cui Yuan's brother Cui Zhang was killed by the people of the state. Cui Yuan took revenge with a bare blade and ran away for his life.
I met Amnesty and returned home.
The family is poor, the brothers have lived together for decades, and the town has been influenced by them.
Cui Yuan was in his forties before he became a county official.
He was imprisoned in Faqian County, Dong County due to the incident.
During the prison meeting, Cui Yuan often read "Book of Rites" after conducting examinations.
He was attentive and eager to learn, even in bad times.
Later, when the matter was clarified, he was released home and was summoned by Deng Zun, the general of Liao Dynasty.
Soon, Deng Zun was killed and Cui Yuan was dismissed from his post and returned.
Later he was summoned to the palace of Yan Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry.
At that time, the Queen Mother Yan took the title of regent and acted on behalf of the emperor. Yan Xian entered the court to participate in political affairs.
First, Emperor An deposed the prince as King of Jiyin and made Beixiang Marquis his heir.
Cui Yuan believed that setting up a marquis was not correct. Knowing that Yan Xian would fail, he wanted to abolish the order, but Yan Xian was too drunk to see him.
So he told Chen Chan, the chief minister: "Zhongchang served Jiang Jing, Chen Da, etc., and bewitched the late emperor because of his favor, so he deposed the orthodox ones and supported the evil ones."
When the young emperor ascended the throne, he became ill in the temple, and Zhou Bo's autocratic power reappeared here.
Now I would like to seek an audience with Chang Shijun, and persuade the general to ask the Queen Mother to arrest Jiang Jing and others, depose the young emperor, and install King Jiyin. This will surely harmonize the hearts of heaven and the hopes of people.
Yi and Huo's meritorious deeds did not leave the table, and the generals and brothers would pass on their achievements to infinity.
If you refuse to disobey God's will and remain empty of the throne for a long time, your innocence will turn into a great evil.
This is the opportunity for misfortune and fortune, the time for division of merit.
Chen Chan hesitated and did not dare to obey.
When the Marquis of Beixiang died, Sun Cheng established himself as King Jiyin. This was Emperor Shun.
The Yan Xian brothers were all killed, and Cui Yuan was also ostracized.
Disciple Su Yuanshi knew all about Cui Yuan's intentions and wanted to write a letter to explain the situation clearly, but Cui Yuan stopped him immediately after hearing it.
At that time, Chen Chan became the captain of the Sili school and summoned Cui Yuan. He said to Yuan: "But after listening to Su Yu's letter, please let me bear witness for you."
Cui Yuan said: This is just like a son and a young wife talking privately. I hope you won't say it out loud.
So he resigned and returned home, no longer answering the orders of the state and county.
After a long time, General Liang Shangchu opened his mansion and summoned Cui Yuan.
Officials who thought they were noble relatives might be reprimanded again, so they resigned because of their illness.
In the middle of the year, he was promoted to Maocai and appointed county magistrate.
While in office, he talked about current affairs several times and cultivated hundreds of hectares of rice fields for the people.
After seven years in office, the people sang his praises.
In the early years of Han'an, Hu Guang, the chief minister, and Dou Zhang, the chief minister, jointly recommended Cui Yuan as a great scholar of virtue. He had made great achievements in politics and should not be in the lower position for a long time, so he was promoted to the prime minister of Jibei.
At this time, Li Gu was the governor of Taishan. He praised Cui Yuan for his elegance and presented him with a letter to express his hospitality.
For more than a year, Guanglu doctor Du Qiao served as eight envoys and traveled around the country. Cui Yuan was accused of embezzlement and summoned to Tingwei.
Cui Yuan filed a petition to sue himself and found out the facts of the case and released him.
Soon he died of illness at the age of sixty-six.
When he was dying, Cui Chen, Gu Ming's son, said: People live by the energy of heaven and earth. When they die, their essence returns to heaven and their bones return to earth.
Do not bury your body anywhere, and do not return to your hometown.
Those gifts that are offered as sacrifices to sheep and pigs are not allowed to be accepted.
Cui Chen followed his will and was buried in Luoyang.
Cui Yuan has a high level of literary skills, and is especially good at composing books, records, proverbs, and inscriptions. He has written fuss, stele, inscriptions, proverbs, odes, "Qi Su", "Nanyang Literary Official Chronicles", "Sighs", "Yishe Wen", "Repentance Prayer", "Cursive Calligraphy Art", and a total of fifty-seven articles in seven characters.
His "Nanyang Literary Official Chronicle" was known in later generations, and those who could write thought they could not catch up.
Cui Yuan loves scholars, welcomes guests, prepares dishes and meals, and uses all the delicacies, regardless of how much is left.
My daily diet is just vegetables and vegetable soup.
The family did not have much savings and was considered very honest in the world.
◆The biography of Cui Chen, Cui Chen, Yu Zizhen, also known as Tai, with the courtesy name Yuanshi.
When I was young, I was very quiet and loved reading.
After his father died, he stayed at the tomb to mourn.
When the mourning period was over, the three princes invited him to serve as an official, but he refused to go.
In the early years of Emperor Huan's reign, the emperor issued an edict to the governors and counties to recommend people with extremely filial piety and good moral character.
Cui Chen was unable to attend the interview due to illness and became a man. Cui Chen was very shrewd about political systems and had strong official abilities. He wrote dozens of opinions commenting on contemporary political affairs, titled "Political Commentary".
Aiming at the key points at the time, the discussion was very correct and won praise from contemporary people.
Zhong Changtong said: All kings should copy it as a motto.
The article says: Since Emperors Yao, Shun, Tang, and Wu, they have relied on wise ministers to assist them, and learned men as advisers.
So Gao Tao wrote "Mo" and Tang Yu prospered; Yi Yin and Ji Zi wrote "Xun" and Shang and Zhou Dynasties also prospered.
When future generations of monarchs want to make great achievements, why not rely on sage ministers to advise them?
When the world is not governed well, it is often because the monarch has been in peace for too long, customs have gradually declined without realizing it, politics has gradually become corrupt without repentance, and he has turned a blind eye to the dangerous and chaotic environment.
Some people are intoxicated in selfish desires and ignore national affairs; some people cannot listen to good words and confuse right and wrong; some people are wandering at the crossroads, not knowing where to go; some people have credible assistants around them, but they are not allowed to speak; some people see alienated ministers and cannot listen because of their low status. Therefore, Wang Gang is idle at the top, and the wise men are melancholy at the bottom. How sad and lamentable! It has been more than three hundred and fifty years since the rise of the Han Dynasty.
The government orders are covered with dust, the superiors and subordinates are lazy, the customs are decayed, there are many people who are cunning and hypocritical, and the people are talking about it, all hoping that it will be saved if they rise to power.
Besides, the method of saving the world must be governed by the methods of Yao and Shun.
As long as we can make up for the shortcomings, add pillars to support the building, prescribe the right medicine according to the actual situation and tailor the situation, in short, we must put the country in a peaceful state.
Therefore, the sage is responsible for weighing and formulating countermeasures according to the actual situation. The steps are different and each has its own clever arrangement.
It is not advisable to force people to do things they cannot do, and to pursue what they hear is contrary to the urgent needs of the time.
In the past, Confucius' answers to the monarch's questions varied based on people and circumstances. His answer to Duke Ye's question about government was to ask those who are near to be pleased and those who are far away to come; his answer to Duke Ai of Lu was that "policy depends on selecting talents"; his answer to Duke Jin of Qi was that "government depends on saving money". It is not that the way of government is different, but that the priorities are different.
Therefore, those who have just accepted the destiny to be king often have some unique regulations, and the king of Zhongxing also has to correct the mistakes made at that time.
In ancient times, Pan Geng wanted to revive the Shang Dynasty and moved the capital from Geng to Bo; King Mu of Zhou made mistakes and asked Fuhou to amend the criminal law.
However, there are some common people who stick to ancient written records, do not know how to make changes, listen to strange news, and ignore the reality before them. How can we discuss national affairs with them!
Therefore, although talking about political affairs sounds like it is in line with holiness, it actually does not work.
Why?
Those stubborn people had no understanding of the situation at that time and were accustomed to following the same old path. I don’t know how to enjoy the success, how can I think about creating a new situation, just follow the old rules.
Some of those knowledgeable people boast about themselves, are jealous of others, are unwilling to cooperate with those who have different political views, and write eloquent articles to express their meaning. However, the minority is outnumbered after all, and is eventually abandoned.
Even if wise ministers like Ji and Qi are still there, it will still be difficult.
This is the reason why Jia Yi was ostracized by Jiang and Guan, and why Qu Yuan wrote "Li Sao" to vent his anger.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was so wise, Jia Sheng was so talented, and Jiang and Guan were so loyal. If there was such a result, what about the rest of the people? Virtue is measured by strength, this is mentioned in "Spring and Autumn".
Now we cannot completely follow the methods of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors. We should participate in some hegemony, govern the country with heavy rewards and deep punishments, and clearly formulate laws to check all work.
If you do not possess superior moral character, you will be able to govern strictly if you are strict, but you will be disordered if you are loose.
How do you know this is the case? In modern times, Emperor Xiaoxuan understood the way of being a king and studied the principles of government, so he adopted severe punishments to scare the bad guys out of fear, and the domestic political discipline was strict and the world was peaceful.
His merits were reported to the ancestral temple and he was given the posthumous title of Zhongzong.
His plans and effects surpassed that of Emperor Xiaowen.
Later, when Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he mostly used loose politics, but the result was a complete failure, and his authority was usurped, which became the source of troubles for the decline of the Han Dynasty.
The good and bad of politics can be seen clearly here.
In ancient times, Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, praising Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin for their hegemony, and commending Guan Zhong for his contributions.
Don’t you know the right way to praise King Wen and King Wu of Zhou?
It is indeed the principle of using power and change to save the decline.
Therefore, saints can adapt to changes in the situation, but laymen do not understand changes. They believe that the ancient method of knotting ropes can be used to control the chaos of the Qin Dynasty, and the dance of "Qian Qi" can relieve the siege of Pingcheng, the emperor of the Han Dynasty. Isn't this a thousand miles apart? Although imitating the movement of a bear and stretching the neck of a bird to inhale is a way to prolong life, it cannot cure typhoid fever; breathing and exhaling can increase lifespan, but it cannot connect broken bones.
The method of governing a country is a bit like treating a disease. You should pay attention to how to maintain your health and prescribe the right medicine when you are sick.
Punishment is like a prescription to cure troubled times; moral education is like meat that nourishes the body.
Using moral education to eliminate cruelty is equivalent to using meat to cure diseases. Using punishment to govern a peaceful world is equivalent to using medicinal stones for nutrition.
Now is the period of decline and decline of the Hundred Kings, the time of misfortune.
For several generations, the government has been generous and lenient, just like the driver of the carriage has lost his horse's faucet, and the horse has no bit, allowing the four stallions to run wild and almost fall over on the road.
It's time to add a dragon head chew to save it. Do you have time to listen to them ringing the bells and pressing the bridle rhythmically?
In the past, the emperor of the Han Dynasty asked Xiao He to make nine chapters of the law, which included provisions for killing three tribes, including carving on the face, cutting off the nose, cutting off the toes, cutting off the tongue, and beheading, so it was called the Five Punishments.
Although Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished corporal punishment, those who should have their noses cut off were given three hundred boards, those who had their left toes chopped off were given five hundred boards, and those who should have their right toes chopped off were decapitated.
But those who had their right toes cut off were already dead, and those who were hit with boards were often beaten to death. Even if they were given a reduced punishment, they still killed a lot of people.
At this time, people all hoped to resume corporal punishment.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, he issued an edict: "Being beaten more times is no different from a serious crime. Even if you are lucky enough to survive, you will be disabled."
So the law was revised to reduce the number of floggings.
From then on, those who were flogged were able to save their lives.
In this way, Emperor Wen of Han was still punished severely, not lightly. Peace is achieved through severe punishment, not through forgiveness.
We must make sure that our actions and words are consistent, and we should start from the fundamentals, so that people can learn from the Five Emperors and Three Kings. Break the corrupt customs of the Qin Dynasty, abide by the legacy of the previous kings, abandon measures that only seek temporary peace, repeat the old traces of ancient times, restore the five titles of duke, marquis, uncle, son, and male, and establish the well-field system of one part public land and eight parts private land.
Then he selected wise ministers like Ji and Qi as assistants, and selected Yi Yin and Lu Shang as prime ministers. When playing music, the phoenix led hundreds of birds to the court, struck stone chimes, and hundreds of beasts came to dance.
If not, then any more is just a burden.
Later, the imperial court asked Cui Chen to serve as an official in the mansion of Taiwei Yuan Tang and General Liang Ji, but Cui Chen refused to go.
Taisi Nongyang Fu and Shaofu He Bao wrote to recommend Cui Chen, saying that Cui Chen was very talented and capable and should be an official in the court.
So the emperor made Cui Yilang, promoted General Liang Ji to Sima, and wrote books and theories in Dongguan with Bian Shao, Yandu and others.
Later, Cui Chen became the governor of Wuyuan.
The soil in Wuyuan is suitable for growing hemp, but the local people do not know how to weave cloth. The people have no clothes to wear in winter, so they pile some fine grass to sleep in the grass, and when they see the officials, they come out covered with grass.
After Cui Chen took office, he asked the people to sell their stored grains, buy textiles, weave 纟第, 緺箷 and other tools for them and teach them how to use them, so that the people could avoid the suffering of cold and exhaustion.
At this time, the Xiongnu invaded Yunzhong and Shuofang successively, killing and plundering officials and people, and fled for their lives nine times in a year.
Cui Chen strengthened his troops and ordered beacon towers to conduct reconnaissance. The enemy did not dare to invade, making it the quietest place on the frontier.
When Cui Chen was ill, he was worshiped as Yilang, and he reviewed the Five Classics with famous Confucian doctors at the time.
It happened that Liang Ji was killed. Cui Chen was an old official of Liang Ji. He was implicated, dismissed from his official position, and was imprisoned for several years.
At that time, Xianbei invaded the border many times, and the emperor issued an edict to recommend powerful strategists to the three princes. Sikong Huang Qiong recommended Cui Chen, who was worshiped as the governor of Liaodong.
Halfway through the journey, his mother Liu died of illness. Cui Chen asked Shangshu to go home to attend to the funeral.
My mother, Mrs. Liu, was of very good character during her lifetime and read a lot of books.
At first, Cui Chen served as the prefect of Wuyuan, and his mother often taught him how to manage political affairs. Cui Chen's good achievements were very helpful to his mother.
After the mourning was over, the emperor made him minister again.
Cui Chen was dismissed from his post and returned home after a few months on the grounds that the current situation was in chaos and he was ill and could not work.
When Cui Chen's father died, Cui Chen sold his property, made a tomb, and erected a tombstone.
After the burial, all the family property was sold. Because of poverty, he made a living by selling wine and porridge.
At that time, many people ridiculed him for this, but he never changed.
When he does business, he just wants to make enough money, and he doesn't want to make more money.
Later, when they became officials, they were mostly in border areas, so they were even poorer.
He died during the Jianning period.
The family was very poor and had no money to bury him, so Guang Luxun Yang Ci, Imperial servant Yuan Feng, Shaofu Duan Yu and others prepared coffins and burial materials for him. Dahong Yuan Wei built a monument for him to praise his merits.
He wrote a total of fifteen inscriptions, essays, proverbs, inscriptions, answers, seven words, temples, essays, tables, notes and books.
