Jia Chong, whose courtesy name was Gonglu, was from Xiangling, Pingyang.
His father, Jia Kui, was the governor of Yuzhou in Wei and the Marquis of Yangliting.
Jia Kui gave birth to Jia Chong in his later years. He said that in the future there would be joyful celebrations filling the streets, so he named Jia Chong and Jia Chong.
Jia Chong lost his father when he was young, and he was famous for his filial piety in mourning.
The Marquis who succeeded his father.
The official paid homage to Shangshu Lang, who presided over the assignment of imperial orders and held examination classes at the same time.
Analyze the rules and regulations of the classics and chapters, and apply them in work.
After his meritorious service, he was moved to serve as Huangmen Shilang and Jijun Diannong Zhonglang.
He participated in the general's military affairs and followed Emperor Jing in the campaign against his mothers Qiu Jian and Wen Qin in Lejia.
The emperor was seriously ill and returned to Xuchang, leaving Jia Chong to supervise the military affairs. Because of his meritorious service, 350 additional households were granted fiefs.
Later he was appointed Sima, the general of Emperor Wen, and was transferred to You Changshi.
Emperor Wen had just taken over the power of the imperial court. He was afraid that there would be objections from the border towns in the four directions, so he sent his aides to Zhuge Dan to discuss preparations for the attack on Wu and secretly observe the changes.
After Jia Chonglun talked about the current situation, he took advantage of the situation and said to Zhuge Xi: "Everyone in the world hopes to take over the throne. What do you think?"
Zhuge Dan said sternly: "Aren't you the son of Jia Yuzhou? You have been favored by Wei for generations, how can you want to hand over the country to others!"
If there is trouble in Luoyang City, I will die for Wei.
Maichong remained silent.
When he returned to Beijing, he told Emperor Wen: "Zhuge Dan has been stationed in Yangzhou twice. His majesty and reputation have always been outstanding, and he can win the desperate service of others."
Observing his planning and strategy, it is certain to rebel.
If he is drafted, it will prompt him to rebel with little harm; if he is not drafted, the rebellion will be delayed but the harm will be great.
Emperor Wen then recruited Zhuge Dan to serve as Sikong, but Zhuge Dan rebelled.
Maichong followed Zhuge Dan in the expedition and offered a plan: Chu soldiers are lightly armed but sharp. If they dig deep ditches and build high forts to approach the rebel city, they can win without a fight.
Emperor Wen obeyed him.
After conquering the city, Emperor Wen ascended the fortress to comfort Jia Chong.
Emperor Wen first returned to Luoyang and sent Jia Chong to take charge of the funeral affairs. He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Xuanyang Township, and a thousand households were added to the fiefdom.
After being moved to the post of Tingwei, Jia Chong was very good at jurisprudence and had a reputation for correcting wrong cases.
After he was transferred to the Central Guards Army, when Gaogui Xianggong attacked the Prime Minister's Mansion, Jia Chong led the people to fight at Nanque.
The army was about to be defeated. Prince Sheren Chengji, the younger brother of Cavalry Governor Cheng Chou, said to Maichong: What should we do today?
Maichong said: I have raised you people just for today, so what is there to worry about?
Cheng Ji then drew his gun and attacked Gao Gui's carriage.
When the Duke of Changdao came to the throne, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang Township. He was granted an additional 1,200 households, commanded the armies outside the city, and was appointed as a regular attendant on casual cavalry.
Zhong Hui rebelled in Shu. Emperor Wen ordered Jia Chongzhijie to supervise the military affairs of Guanzhong and Longyou as his own officer, and moved westward to occupy Hanzhong. Zhong Hui died before he could reach him.
At that time, the army and the country were troubled, and Jia Chong was involved in the planning of the court's secrets.
Emperor Wen trusted and valued Jia Chong very much, and together with Pei Xiu, Wang Chen, Yang Ku, and Xun Xu, he accepted the important tasks of his confidants.
Emperor Wen also ordered Jia Chong to revise the law.
Use the gold medal to get the first high-class house.
The fifth-class title was just established and he was named Marquis of Linyi. As a person with great meritorious service in the Jin Dynasty, he was deeply favored and treated with special treatment. His salary and rewards were often better than those of other officials.
Jia Chong had the talent of writing and writing, and could observe the will from above.
At the beginning, Emperor Wen used Emperor Jing Hongda to assist the king and was about to pass the throne to Wuyang Hou Sima You.
Maichong praised Emperor Wu for being generous and kind, and as the eldest son, he had the virtues to be a king and should inherit the throne.
When Emperor Wen was ill and lying in bed, Emperor Wu asked about his funeral.
Emperor Wen said: It is Jia Gonglu who understands you.
Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne and worshiped Jia Chong as General of the Guards of the Jin Dynasty, the Third Division of Yitong, and the title of Marquis of Linying.
After accepting the transfer, Jia Chong was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry, Regular Attendant of Disciplined Cavalry, and Minister of Public Affairs because of his participation in establishing the destiny of a prosperous country.
After the promulgation of the new law on buying and selling, people felt convenient.
The edict said: Since the Han Dynasty, the laws have been strict.
Therefore, from the time of Emperor Moyuan and Emperor Cheng of Han Dynasty to Jian'an and Jiaping, everyone wanted to analyze the old laws and regulations, delete and reform the criminal law.
Due to the grand scale of the work, it took many years without success.
The late emperor took pity on the kind-hearted people trapped in the fine legal net, and personally spoke out the voice of benevolence and corrected the name and reality.
The generals of chariots and cavalry buy and charge, assist in spreading the holy will, and consult the good way.
Taifu Zheng Chong, together with Sikong Xunhao, Zhongshu Supervisor Xunxu, Central Army General Yang Ku, Central Guardsman Wang Ye, Tingwei Du You, Henan Guard Yin Duyu, Sanqi Minister Pei Kai, Ying! Prefect Zhou Xiong, Qi Prime Minister Guo Qi, Cavalry Commander Chenggong Sui Xunhui, Shangshu Lang Liugui, etc. presided over this matter.
Every time I see their hard work, I always praise them with emotion.
Now that the law has been completed and has begun to be promulgated throughout the world, the penalties are relaxed and the prohibitions are simplified, which is enough to comply with the original decree.
In the past, Xiao He was granted a title for revising laws, and Shusun Tong was appointed as a regular official for formulating etiquette. He was given five hundred catties of gold, and his disciples were all Langguan.
Establishing meritorious deeds and completing careers was valued in ancient times.
Taifu Bai, Chaqiu and below are all rewarded with salary and salary, and the detailed procedures are in accordance with the old regulations.
So one of Jia Chong's children was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and five hundred pieces of silk.
Jia Chong firmly refused, but the emperor refused.
Later, he replaced Pei Xiu as Shangshu Ling, and his positions as regular attendant and general of chariots and cavalry remained.
Soon he was changed from regular servant to servant, and was given 700 pieces of silk.
He left his job due to his mother's death, and Shaoshu sent Huangmen Shilang to express his condolences.
Because there was something going on in the southeast, he sent General Yang Xiao of the Dian Army to read out the decree and asked Maichong to return to the court after sixty days.
He was fully in power, devoted himself to saving money in agriculture, merged officials and reduced provincial positions, and the emperor praised him. And because civil and military forces have their own specialties, he requested that the soldiers under his command be dismissed.
When Yang Hu and others went out to guard the area, the imperial seal office came forward to perform meritorious service on the border, but the emperor did not agree.
He takes office calmly, praises and blames himself, and likes to recommend talents. Whenever he is recommended, he will make arrangements from beginning to end, so many scholars attach themselves to him.
The emperor's uncle Wang Xun had slandered Jia Chong, and Zhi Li promoted him to Wang Gu.
Sometimes there are people who play tricks on powerful people behind Maili's back, but Jia Chong treats them with sincerity on the surface.
However, Jia Chong did not have integrity and impartiality, could not correct himself and set an example for his subordinates, and relied exclusively on flattery to please others.
Ren Kai, the servant, Yu Chun, the secretary, and others were upright and upright, and they all hated him.
And because Ma Chong's daughter became Princess Qi, she may become even more powerful in the future.
When the Di and Qiang rebelled, the emperor was very worried about this, so he made a request to send Maichong to guard Guanzhong.
So he issued an edict saying: The two borders of Qin and Liang have suffered repeated defeats in successive years. The barbarians indulged in atrocities and the people suffered.
As a result, foreigners were encouraged and disasters spread to the Central Plains.
Even the invasion by Wu and Shu did not reach this extent.
It is really because the officials in office are not enough to appease the Yixia internally and suppress the rebellion externally. They use troops rashly and cannot fully exert their strength.
If we don't appoint our trusted ministers, entrust them with important responsibilities to achieve success, and completely correct the original shortcomings, I'm afraid there will be no end to the disaster.
Whenever I think of the disaster at the border, I forget to eat or sleep.
He is a servant, a guardian of the ministerial order, a general of chariots and cavalry. He has extraordinary magnanimity and far-reaching knowledge. His martial arts have the majesty of repelling the enemy. His literature has the wisdom to govern the country. His integrity can unite people's hearts. His reputation is powerful abroad.
Assign him to shoulder the important task of commanding one side and stabilizing Xixia. Then I will not have to worry about the worries of the west, and everyone near and far will be safe.
Jia Chong was appointed as envoy Chijie and commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the two states of Qin and Liang. His positions as servant and general of chariots and cavalry remained unchanged, and he was given Yu Bao, Guang Zhang, and the first prince consort.
The virtuous people in the court who wanted to be loyal, admonishing, and speaking out were all grateful for Jia Chong's transfer and looked forward to the great enlightenment.
Since Jia Chong was sent out to serve, he felt that he had neglected his duties. He deeply resented Ren Kai and had nothing to do.
When he was about to go to the border town, hundreds of officials bid farewell to him at the Sunset Pavilion, and Xun Xu had a private conversation with him.
Jia Chong told him his worries, and Xun Xu said: "My lord, he is the prime minister of the country, but he is restrained by one person. Isn't it too contemptuous of others!"
However, this time out, it was too difficult to say no. As long as you marry the prince, you can stay without any trouble.
Jia Chong said: That's right.
Who can I place my heart on?
Xun Xu replied: Please let me talk about this.
Soon Xun Xu was serving a banquet and discussing the prince's marriage. Xun Xu took the opportunity to say that Jia Chong's daughter was talented and beautiful and should be married in the crown prince's palace.
Queen Yang and Xun Zhuan also agreed.
The emperor adopted Xun Xu's opinion.
It happened that it snowed heavily in the capital, and the snow was two feet deep on the ground, so the army could not set off.
It was time for the crown prince to get married soon, so he stopped going to the west.
An edict was issued to order Jia Chongguan to take up his post.
In the past, Yang Hu made a secret report and left Jia Chong behind. At this time, the emperor told Mai Chong.
Jia Chong thanked Yanghu and said: Only now do I know that you are an elder.
At that time, Sun Xiu, the general of the State of Wu, surrendered and became a hussar general.
Because Maichong was an old minister, the emperor wanted to change the court schedule so that the position of the charioteer would be above that of the hussar.
Jia Chong firmly refused and was obeyed by the emperor.
Soon he was moved to the post of Sikong, and he remained the minister, minister, and leader of the army.
When the emperor was ill in bed, Jia Chong and Qi kings Sima You and Xun Xu participated in the medicine.
When they recover, each person will be given five hundred bolts of silk.
At first, the emperor was seriously ill and the court turned its attention to Sima You.
Marquis Yin Xia of Henan said to Jia Chong: Your two sons-in-law are equally close, and they should be virtuous.
Jia Chong didn't answer.
When the emperor recovered from his illness, he heard about this and transferred Xiahou and Ren Guangluxun to deprive Jia Chong of his military power, but his official status and treatment did not change.
Soon he was transferred to the post of Taiwei, acting as the Taibao of the Crown Prince, and recording the affairs of the Shangshu.
In the third year of Xianning, there was an eclipse on New Year's Day. Jia Chong asked to give up his throne, but was not allowed.
In addition, he used Gongqiu of Pei State to expand Jia Chong's fiefdom, which made him even more favored. The ministers in the court were jealous of him.
Xun Jin, King of Yin in Henan, said: The tablet of Empress Dowager Hongxun entered the ancestral temple, worthy of Emperor Jing, and King Sima You of Qi could not perform the etiquette of a son.
Jia Chong argued that: According to etiquette, princes cannot sacrifice the emperor according to the etiquette for their ancestors, and the prince cannot worship the ancestors according to the etiquette for his father. They all say that they are flattering the emperor and worshiping their ancestors, but they do not mean that the relationship between father and ancestor cannot be restored.
Sima You should serve in mourning for three years, naturally in accordance with the etiquette of being a minister.
Relevant officials reported: If Jia Chong's discussion is followed, the etiquette of wearing one's son's mourning clothes and acting as a minister did not exist before.
Wang Xun's appearance should be followed, and Sima You's mourning clothes should be in accordance with the customs of the princes.
The emperor complied with Mai Chong's proposal.
In the campaign of conquering Wu, the imperial edict appointed Mai Chong as envoy Chijie, fake Huangtie, Dadu Governor, and President of the Sixth Army. He gave Yu Bao, Gu Chuang, Ti Zhuang, 10,000 soldiers, and 2,000 cavalry. He appointed the left and right chiefs, Sima, and Zhonglang, and added ten more soldiers and cavalry Sima, twenty Sima under the account, and thirty people each for carts and official cavalry.
Jia Chong was worried that he would not be able to achieve great achievements. He stated in the table above: There are disasters from Kunyi in the west and wars in the north. The world is in trouble and chaos, and the food harvest is not good. I am afraid it is not the right time to launch an army to attack.
Besides, I am too old to bear this important responsibility. The edict said: If you don't go, I will go myself.
Jia Chong had no choice but to accept Jitie, commanded the central army, and controlled and dispatched the armies. With the champion general Yang Ji as his deputy, he went south to station in Xiangyang.
Several prefects in Jiangling of Wu State surrendered, so Jia Chong changed his camp to Xiang.
When Wang Jun conquered Wuchang, Maichong sent an envoy to say: The Kingdom of Wu cannot be completely pacified. It is summer now, the Jianghuai River is low and humid, and diseases and plagues are bound to be prevalent. The troops should be recalled to prepare for the future attack on Wu.
Even if Zhang Hua was cut in half, it would not be enough to apologize to the world.
Zhang Hua participated in the plan to pacify the state of Wu, so he said so.
Xun Xu, the Superintendent of the Zhongshu, reported that things should be done according to Jia Chong's rules.
The emperor didn't listen.
When Du Yu heard about Jia Chong's memorial, he hurriedly went to court to argue that Wu would be pacified in the next two days.
When the envoy arrived at Xianyuan, Sun Hao had already surrendered.
The state of Wu was pacified and the troops were withdrawn.
The emperor sent his attendant Cheng Xian to reward him with 8,000 bolts of silk and 8,000 additional households in the fiefdom; his nephew Jia Chang was granted the title of Marquis of Xincheng Ting, Jia Gai was the Marquis of Anyang Ting; his younger brother Jia Hun, the Marquis of Yangli Ting, and his grandnephew Guannei Marquis Maizhong were granted additional fiefs.
Jia Chong originally had no strategy for the southern expedition, so he tried his best to persuade him but was not adopted.
When the army went out to conquer Wu, he was very ashamed and frightened, and decided to plead guilty.
When the emperor heard that Jia Chong was going to the palace, he went to Shutang to wait for him.
Without his cymbals and assistants, he still pretends to be an advocate and a leader.
Maichong and the officials presented a gift to report the success and asked the relevant officials to prepare for the matter.
The emperor was too humble to allow it.
When he was seriously ill, he handed over his seal and ribbon to give up his throne.
The emperor sent his ministers to inquire about the patient's condition, and the imperial doctor in the palace sent decoctions and medicines, as well as money and silk for bed tents. Members of the royal family, including the crown prince, went to greet him in person.
He died in April of the third year of Taikang at the age of sixty-six.
The emperor grieved for him and sent envoys Chijie and Taichang to posthumously make him Dazai. He was also given the crown's attire, a green ribbon, a sword, a coffin, a set of court clothes, and a set of clothes.
The funeral followed the precedents of Huo Guang and Anping King Xian, and an area of ​​​​area was given to the cemetery.
He, Shi Bao and others were enshrined in the royal ancestral temple for their meritorious service in assisting the emperor. Their nickname was Wu.
He gave a posthumous gift to Maichong's son Li Min, who was named Duke Shang of Lu.
Jia Chong's wife, Guo Huai, the king of Guangcheng, was jealous by nature.
Back then, when Li Min was three years old, his wet nurse was holding him in front of the door.
When Li Min saw Maichong coming in, he smiled happily, and Jia Chong went over to caress him.
Guo Huai saw it and said that the wet nurse who bought Chongyu was having an affair, so he whipped the wet nurse to death.
The people missed their wet nurse and she fell ill and died.
Later, Guo Huai gave birth to another boy. When he was over one year old, he was held by the wet nurse again, and she touched the child's head with her hands.
Guo suspected the wet nurse and killed her again. Her son also died because he missed her.
Maichong therefore had no descendants.
After Jia Chong's death, Guo Huai made his grandson Han Mi the son of a commoner and continued to buy and charge.
The doctor ordered Han Xian and the lieutenant Cao Zhen to advise Guo Sou: According to the etiquette system, the authentic sect has no descendants, and the sons of the branches of the side sects are used as descendants. There is no provision for allowing descendants with different surnames.
Don't let the virtues of our late grandfather go underground, but let good historians record his faults. Wouldn't it be sad?
Guo Huai refused to obey.
Han Xian and others wrote a letter requesting a new heir, but the matter was suppressed and not reported.
Qianlu then stated in the table that it was Yishi's last wish to erect a fallen chariot.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: Dazai and Lu Gong Jia Chong, who upheld great virtues and established meritorious deeds, worked diligently to assist the destiny, passed away, and I always mourn them.
Besides, the heir died early and the descendants have not yet been established.
In ancient times, countries had no heirs and were succeeded by the branch of the person who initiated the title. However, in modern times, the feudal country was abolished.
As for Gong Dan in the Zhou Dynasty and Xiao He in the Han Dynasty, they either predetermined the eldest son or conferred a title on the Yuan concubine, which was a sign of respect for their merits, which was different from the norm.
Dazai always chose his grandson Han Mi as the descendant of his eldest son Li Min.
I have been thinking about it privately. My grandson is very close to me by flesh and blood, and it is in line with people's hearts to think about kindness.
Let Han Mi be the grandson of Lu Gong and inherit his feudal kingdom.
If the meritorious service is not the same as that of Dazai, and Shifeng has no descendants who are the same as Dazai, the descendants he chooses must be chosen by his own will, and may not be as good as Dazai. This example cannot be compared.
When the ceremonial officials agreed on Jia Chong's chanting, Dr. Qin Xiu suggested that Jia Chong be called Huang, but the emperor did not accept it.
Dr. Duan Chang catered to the emperor's wishes and suggested that Mi Haowao should be called Wu, and the emperor agreed.
From the time of Jia Chong's death to his burial, the funeral reward amounted to 20 million.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne, bought the throne and took exclusive power. He also gave Jia Chong the ancestral temple to have a band of six hundred people, and his mother Guo was the king of Yicheng.
After Guo's death, Mi's name was changed to Xuan, and special etiquette was specially added.
At that time, people ridiculed this matter, but no one dared to speak out.
At the beginning, Jia Chong's ex-wife Li Shi was virtuous, beautiful and of good character. She gave birth to two daughters, Jia Bao and Maiyu. Maibao was also named Quan and Yu was also named Jun.
Li's father Li Feng was executed, and Li was convicted and exiled.
Jia Chong later married the daughter of Guo Pei, the prefect of Chengyang, who was also the Lord of Guangcheng.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, and Li was able to return due to the amnesty. The emperor specially asked Maichong to appoint his left and right wives, and Maichong's mother also asked Gentong to welcome Kuidan back.
He was angry, rolled up his sleeves and laid his hands on Jia Chong, saying: "I have a share in amending the laws and regulations and completing the mission of assisting the destiny."
How can Mr. Li be compared with me?
Jia Chong then responded to the edict and used humility as an excuse, saying that he did not dare to enjoy the lavish gifts of the two ladies, but he was actually afraid of the Guo family.
And Maiquan became the concubine of Qi King Sima You, and wanted Maichong to send away the Guo family and welcome her mother back.
At that time, the mother of Liu Han of Pei State and the ex-wife of Wang Lu, the emperor's uncle, Yulin Supervisor, were both the granddaughters of Danqiu Jun.
There are so many cases like this that even if you ask the etiquette officer, you can't make a decision.
Although the step-wives are not sent away, they usually live in separate places and communicate with each other privately.
Jia Chong believed that the prime minister was the standard of conduct for the world, so he built a house for Li family in Yongnian and did not have any contact with him.
Maiquan and Maijun often cried and begged Jia Chong, but Gencha refused to go.
It happened that Jia Zhi was going to guard Heyou, and Gongqing set up a tent to worship the road god. Jia Quan and Maijun were afraid that Maichong would leave immediately, so they moved out of the tent and came to the seat, kowtowed and shed blood, and explained to Maichong and all the officials why their mother should go home.
Because Maiquan was the princess, everyone got up and ran away.
Maichong was very ashamed and shocked, and sent Huang Men to help her away.
Later, his daughter became the crown princess, and the emperor issued an edict that no one in Li's situation could return home. Later, Jia Quan died in anger.
At first, Guo Huai wanted to visit Mrs. Li, but Maichong said: "She is talented. It is better not to go."
After his daughter became a concubine, Guo Huaiqian traveled with dignity and grandeur.
After entering the door, Mr. Li came out to greet him. Guo Huai's legs became weak unconsciously, so he bowed twice.
From then on, whenever he went out for money, Guo Huai sent people to look for him, fearing that he would visit Li.
At first, Jia Chong's mother Liu saw that integrity and loyalty were valued in ancient and modern times, but she didn't know about Jia Chong and Cheng Ji. She thought Cheng Ji was unfaithful and chased and scolded him many times.
When the waiters heard this, they all laughed secretly.
When she was about to die, Maichong asked her what else she wanted to say, and Chi said: I asked you to go and greet Kui Guibian, but you still refuse, and you ask about other things!
So he didn't speak.
After Jia Chong died, Li's two daughters wanted their mother to be buried, but they refused after buying it.
After they were bought and deposed, the Li family could be buried together.
Li's "Women's Training" became popular in the world.
The character Jia Mi is long and deep.
My mother, Mai Wu, is Jia Chong’s youngest daughter.
His father, Han Shou, whose courtesy name was Dezhen, was a native of Duyang, Nanyang, and the great-grandson of Wei Situ Han Ji.
With good looks and good manners, he was appointed as Sikong Tu.
Whenever Jia Chong entertained guests and staff, his youngest daughter would peek at the palace gate and fall in love with Han Shou when she saw him.
She asked her attendants whether they knew this person, and one of the maids told Han Shou's surname and given name, saying that he was the previous master.
My daughter was very homesick and restless day and night.
The maid went to Han Shou's house and expressed her intention to buy Wu. She also said that this woman was extremely beautiful and dignified.
Han Shou was moved when he heard about it, so he asked his maid to convey his hospitality to him.
The maid passed the message to Jia Wu, who then secretly promised her her life, generous gifts and befriended her, and asked Zuo Hua to go to her residence at night.
Due to his extraordinary strength and agility, he climbed over the wall and entered. No one in the family knew about it. Only Jia Chong noticed that his little daughter was happy and happy, which was different from usual.
At that time, someone from the Western Regions paid tribute to a strange incense. Once it touched the human body, the fragrance did not fade away after the moon passed. The emperor regarded the incense as very precious and only gave it to Maichong and Grand Sima Chen Qian.
Mai Wu secretly stole it and gave it to Han Shou. Mai Chong's staff had a banquet with Han Shou. They smelled the fragrance and went to Mai Chong to praise it.
From this, Jia Chong knew in his heart that his daughter was having an affair with Han Shou. However, his family's door was tight and he didn't know where the scriptures and paintings could get in.
So he pretended to be frightened at night and took advantage of the day to see a thief, so he sent people to patrol the courtyard wall to observe changes.
The people on the left and right reported: There is nothing unusual except that there seems to be a fox walking around in the northeast corner.
Jia Chong then tortured his youngest daughter's servants, and they all told the truth.
Jia Chong concealed the matter and married his youngest daughter to Han Shou.
Han Shouguan became the regular attendant of Sanqi and Henan Yin.
When Yuan Kang died in the early years of his life, he was given posthumously to General Hussar.
Mi is eager to learn and has talented ideas.
Not only was he a descendant of Jia Chong, he inherited the lineage of important ministers, but he also had the exclusive pampering and indulgence of Empress Jia. Jia Mi's power exceeded that of the king, so much so that he imprisoned Huangmen Shilang, and this was how he dominated.
Due to pride and favor, excessive luxury was achieved. The houses were taller than etiquette, the utensils and clothes were precious and gorgeous, and the singers and dancers all chose the best at that time.
When he opened the door to entertain guests, people from all over the world gathered, including distinguished tourists, relatives of wealthy families, and people who pursued fame and fortune, all of whom did not serve him with the utmost courtesy.
Someone wrote an article praising Jia Mi and comparing him to Mai Yi.
Bohai Shi Chong Ouyang Jian, Rongyang Pan Yue, Wu Guo Luji Lu Yun, Lanling Miao Zheng, Jingzhao Du Bin Zhiyu, Langxie Zhuge Quan, Hongnong Wang Cui, Xiangcheng Du Yu, Nanyang Zou Jie, Qi Guo Zuo Si, Qinghe Cui Ji, Pei Guo Liu Quan, Runan, Yu Zhouhui, Anping Qianxiu, Yingchuan Chen Zhen, Taiyuan Guo Zhang, Gaoyang Xu Meng, Pengcheng Liu Na, Zhongshan Liu Yu and Liu Kun all attached to Mai Mi and were known as the Twenty-Four Friends, and others were not allowed to intervene.
He has successively served as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of the rear army.
Lord Guangcheng died and resigned.
Before the mourning was over, he was appointed secretary-supervisor in charge of national history.
Before this, the imperial court discussed the upper limit for compiling the history of the Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and asked the courtiers to discuss the matter.
Maimi proposed to the emperor that the upper limit should be the year of Taishi.
So the matter was handed over to the three government offices. Situ Wangrong, Sikong Zhanghua, leading general Wang Yan, Shizhong Yueguang, Huangmen Shilang Ji Shao, and Guozi doctor Xie Heng all agreed to buy Mi's memorial.
Xun Zao, the Marquis of Jibei, the Cavalry Commander, Xun Fan, the Minister in the Middle School, and Hua Hun, the Minister in charge of Huangmen, believed that the year of Zhengshi should be used as the starting point.
Doctors Xun Xi and Diao Xie believed that the year should start from Jiaqian.
Mai Mi reiterated Wang Rong and Zhang Hua's discussion, and the matter was implemented.
Soon he was transferred to the position of servant, and he still served as secretary and supervisor.
At that time, Yew Jin followed the emperor to Xuanwu Temple for hunting. He politely advised the minister to summon the buyer to accept the appointment at the gathering, and warned the left and right not to let others know about it, so everyone suspected that Jia Yu had two intentions.
Because of his noble status, Ye Rui entered Shu Palace many times and had fun and got along with Prince Minhuai without any humiliation or respect.
He often played chess and argued with the prince. Chengdu King Sima Ying was present and said seriously: The prince is the crown prince of the country, how can Jia Mi be rude!
Jia Mi was frightened and told the queen about this, so he let Sima Ying go to General Pingbei to guard Ye.
When he became a regular servant, he was giving lectures in Shu Palace. The prince seemed unhappy and Mimi felt worried.
Weird things happened frequently in his house. The wind blew his court clothes hundreds of feet into the sky and fell to the Zhongcheng Terrace. A snake ran into his quilt. A thunderstorm hit his house at night. The pillars sank into the ground and crushed the bed curtains. Jia Mi was even more frightened.
When he was transferred to the position of servant, he was responsible for the internal affairs of the palace, so he conspired with the queen to frame the prince.
When King Zhao Sima Lun deposed the queen, he summoned Mai Mi to the palace with an edict and was about to kill him.
Run to the west bell and shout: Queen, save me!
So he killed him under the clock.
Han Shou's younger brother Han Wei was talented and famous. Together with Han Shou's brother Gong Ling Han Bao, his younger brother Sanqi Shilang Han Yu, Wu Wangyou Han Jian, and Mai Mi's mother Mai Wu were all killed.
When Jia Chong attacked Wu State, he stationed troops in Xiangcheng. Suddenly, the army could not find where Mai Chong was.
Zhou Qin, the governor of Jia Chong's tent, was taking a nap during the day and dreamed that more than a hundred people arrested Jia Chong and led them into a road.
Zhou Qin was frightened and woke up. Hearing that the money was lost, he went out to look for it. Suddenly he saw the road in his dream, so he went to look for it.
Sure enough, I saw Maichong walking to a mansion with many guards.
The owner of the house sat facing south, with a very stern voice and face, and said to Jia Chong: "It must be you and Xun Xu who are going to mess up my family affairs. They will confuse my son and disturb my grandson."
During this period, Ren Kai deposed you but you did not leave, and Yu Chun scolded you but you did not repent.
Now that the state of Wu is about to be pacified, you have to go out and kill Zhang Hua again.
Your ignorance is all of this kind. If you do not repent and act prudently, you will be punished sooner or later.
Jia Chong kowtows and bleeds. The owner of the house said: The reason why you can live till now and use such a title is because of your meritorious service in guarding my house.
In the end, your heirs will die among the clocks, your eldest daughter will die from the gin and wine, and your younger daughter will be trapped under the dead wood.
The same should be true for Xun Xu, but his previous virtues were slightly stronger, so after you, after a few generations, the heirs of the feudal kingdom will also be deposed.
After finishing speaking, he ordered Gencha to leave.
Mai Yi suddenly returned to the camp, looking haggard and delirious. It took him a day to recover.
Later, Mai Mi died under a bell, Hou Hou drank gin and drank wine, and Mai Wu was tortured to death with a big stick, all just as said.
When King Sima Lun of Zhao failed, the court recalled Gentong's achievements and discussed establishing an heir for him.
He wanted Jia Chong's grandnephew Sanqi Shilang Jia Zhong to be his heir, but Jia Zhong pretended to be a crazy white rabbit.
He made Jia Zhong's son Jia Tu the descendant of Maichong and was granted the title of Duke of Lu. He died of illness again.
In the year of Yongxing, Jia Chong's great-nephew Mai Zhan was made Duke of Lu. As a descendant of Jia Chong, he died in turmoil and the feudal state was cancelled.
During the Taishi period, people wrote songs in recognition of Jia Chong and others: Jia, Pei, and Wang disturbed the discipline.
Wang, Pei and Jia made the world successful.
It is said that they ruined Wei and succeeded in Jin.
Jia Chong's younger brother, named Gong Qi, has an honest and law-abiding personality and has no special talents.
During the Taikang period, he served as Zong Zhengqing.
He successively served as general of the town army, concurrently as captain of the city gate school, and as a servant, and was named Yongpinghou.
After his death, he was given posthumously to the General of the Chinese Army and the Third Division of Yitong.
Jia Chong's nephews Jia Yi and Jia Zun both had good judgment and were appointed as Huangmenlang.
Mai Zun's younger brother Jia Mo is the most famous.
Jia Mo, whose courtesy name is Sifan, had ambitions when he was young.
He has read a lot of classics, is profound and good at planning, and is firm and unshakable.
He is very trusted by the dealer and plans with him whenever anything happens.
Jia Chong was old and seriously ill, and was always worried about his nickname and biography. Buying a model said: Right and wrong will naturally become clear over time and will not be obscured.
Accepting the call, he left home and served as the Shaoling Order, and then successively served as the Minister of the Second Palace, Libu Lang. He was dismissed from his official position due to official duties, and was appointed as the Chariot and Cavalry Sima.
He participated in the execution of Yang Jun and was granted the title of Marquis of Pingyang Township, with a thousand households in the city.
When Sima Zhang, King of Chu, falsely conveyed the imperial edict to harm Sima Liang, King of Runan, and Taibao Guan, the imperial edict sent Jia Mo to lead 200 people from Zhongliu to rescue them.
At that time, Empress Jia had already intervened in the government affairs and wanted to appoint close associates. She appointed Maimo as the regular attendant of the Sanqi and promoted him to the middle servant two days later.
Jia Mo then tried his best to correct the situation and recommended Zhang Hua and Pei Dian to assist in the government affairs.
In the past few years, there was peace and tranquility inside and outside the court, which was attributed to Jia Mo.
So he was awarded the title of Guanglu Doctor.
However, Jia Mo secretly held power, but appeared to be far away from power on the outside. Whenever there was news about Empress Jia, she would rush to ask for it when entering the palace, or pretend to be sick to avoid it.
People in the court were very afraid of people who had always had suspicions and resentments, and were often framed by them.
Coupled with corruption and false claims, the wealth can be compared with that of princes.
However, Queen Jia has a violent temperament, and Jia Mo often tries his best to tell her the good and bad news, but Queen Jia cannot listen to her. Instead, she tells her to slander herself.
As a result, the feeling of entrustment and trust becomes increasingly weak, and those who say bad things and provoke people have an opportunity to take advantage.
Buying locusts will lead to failure, worry and anger will lead to illness.
After his death, he was given posthumously the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry, and the Three Divisions of Kaifu Yitong, with the title of Mi being Sheng.
His son Genyou, also known as Tongtan, was the heir, and he successively served as the minister of the prince and the minister of Sanqi.
Guo Zhang, courtesy name Shuwu, was from Taiyuan and was his cousin after the purchase.
He and Maichong have always been friendly to each other, and Maichong's wife treats Guo Zhang as if he were born from the same mother.
He successively served as a regular servant of the Sanqi, a minister, and a general of the Wei, and was named the champion county marquis.
When Guo Zhang took over the power after buying it, he became involved in the power, people became more popular, and the house was filled with guests.
The world calls them Jia Guo, referring to Jia Mi and Guo Zhang.
Death, the nickname is Lie.
Yang Jun, whose courtesy name is Wen Chang, was born in Huayin, Hongnong.
When he was young, as a royal official, he served as Sima of Gaolu Ling, Xiaoqi and Zhenjun.
Later, as the father of the queen, he took on an unusually important position. He was promoted from general of the town army to general of chariots and cavalry, and was named Marquis of Linjin.
Knowledgeable people commented: The feudal princes are to serve as a barrier for the royal family.
The concubine is responsible for preparing sacrifices and promoting education in the palace.
The queen's father was named Marquis of Linjin from the beginning, which was a sign of unrest.
Both Chu Bi and Guo Yi, the ministers, said that Yang Jun was too weak-minded and could not shoulder the important responsibilities of the country.
Emperor Wu didn't listen.
Since Taikang, the emperor has stabilized the world and no longer pays attention to state affairs. He only indulges in wine and sex. He begins to favor the queen's relatives and ask for intercession to act openly.
And Yang Jun, Yang Jue, and Yang Ji were so powerful that they dominated the world. People at that time called them "Three Yangs".
When the emperor was seriously ill, there was no one to send him, and all the heroes who had supported the destiny were dead. The ministers in the court were frightened and confused, not knowing what to do.
Yang Jun, on the other hand, completely rejected the ministers and stayed at the emperor's side. He took the opportunity to change ministers and establish his own confidants.
Just as the emperor's illness was getting better, he saw that the person he was using was not suitable, so he said to Yang Jun seriously: "How can I send him so casually?"
So the imperial edict was written, asking Sima Liang, king of Runan, and Yang Jun to jointly assist the royal family.
Yang Jun was afraid that he would lose his power and favor, so he borrowed the imperial edict from Zhongshu and hid it after getting it.
Hua Fei, the supervisor of Zhongshu, was afraid and went to ask for Shao Shu himself, but Yang Jun still refused to give it to him.
Over the next two nights, the emperor's condition worsened, so the queen asked Yang Jun to assist the government, and the emperor nodded and agreed.
So he summoned Zhongshu to supervise Hua Lu and Zhongshu Ling He Shao, and declared that the emperor had ordered them to issue an edict, saying: In the past, Yi Yin and Jiang Wang assisted in government affairs, and their merits will be immortal. Zhou Bo and Huo Guang were appointed, and their reputations were the greatest in previous dynasties.
Yang Jun, a servant, general of chariots and cavalry, the prince's Taibao, and a former general, has virtues and talents, clear and far-reaching judgments, assistants in the palace, and obvious loyalty and respect. His position should be corrected to be the third Duke, which is the same as the prime minister.
Yang Jun was appointed as Taiwei, Prince Taifu, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign military affairs. His positions as Minister, Recorder, and former General remained unchanged.
Set up six soldiers, 3,000 infantrymen, and 1,000 cavalrymen, and move them to the former residence of the vanguard general Yang Jue.
If there are bodyguards living in the palace, send 20 Sima each from the left and right guards, and 10 Sima from the palace to Yang Jun, so that they can go in and out with troops.
The edict was written, and the queen presented it to the emperor in front of Hua Guang and He Shao. The emperor read it in person and said nothing.
The emperor passed away two days later, and Yang Jun was entrusted by the emperor to live in Tai Chi Hall.
The emperor's coffin was about to be buried, and the Sixth Palace went out to say goodbye, but Yang Jun did not leave the palace and defended himself with hundreds of warriors.
The signs of disrespect started at this point.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and promoted Yang Jun to the rank of Taifu, Grand Governor, and Fake Huangtie. He was in charge of the government affairs and all officials were under his control.
Worried about alienating him, he asked his nephews Duan Guang and Zhang Shao to serve as close attendants.
All orders issued by Shao were read by the emperor, presented to the Queen Mother, and then issued.
Yang Jun knew that Queen Jia's temperament was difficult to control and was very afraid of her.
He also extensively cultivated cronies and party members, all of whom led the forbidden troops.
So the clan complained and the whole world was indignant.
Yang Jun's younger brothers, Yang Jue and Yang Ji, both had outstanding talents. They repeatedly advised him not to do this again, but Yang Jun could not accept it, so he abandoned them at home.
Yang Jun did not understand the ancient meaning and acted in violation of the old rules.
The change of Yuan Dynasty less than a year after Emperor Wu's death was considered by those who discussed it to be contrary to the ancient meaning of the Spring and Autumn Annals that the emperor's accession to the throne should be recorded after one year.
The imperial court felt sorry for the previous mistake and asked the historian to cover up the matter, so the year name was changed again in the first month of the next year.
Yang Jun knew that he had never had a good reputation and was afraid that he would not be able to live in harmony with the people around him, so he followed the precedent set by Emperor Wei Ming when he came to the throne and granted officials and rewards in an attempt to please everyone. He is strict and trivial in his political life, stubborn and self-willed, and cannot harmonize with the public.
Sun Chuping, the prefect of Feng Yi, had a close relationship with Yang Jun and advised him: As a foreign relative, in a position as important as that of Yi Yin and Huo Guang, holding great power and assisting weak masters, he should seriously think about the ancient morality of extreme respect, extreme honesty and humility.
In the Zhou Dynasty, Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong were the prime ministers, while in the Han Dynasty, Zhu Xu and Dong Mou were the prime ministers. No one with a foreign surname had the exclusive authority to succeed in the end.
Nowadays, the clan is close to the powerful, and the vassal king is powerful, but you do not participate in state affairs with them, harbor suspicions and jealousies on the inside, and cultivate cronies and secret parties on the outside. It will not take long for disaster to come.
Yang Jun couldn't obey.
Kuai Qin, the young master of Hongxun, was the son of Yang Jun's aunt. The two had been close since they were young. He was honest and honest, and offended Yang Jun many times with his stern words. Both Yang Jue and Yang Ji were heartbroken by him.
Kuai Qin said: Although Yang Wenchang is fatuous, he still knows that people are not guilty and cannot kill indiscriminately. He will definitely alienate me.
I could be alienated and excluded, I could not die with him.
Otherwise, how long will it take for the clan to fall?
Meng Guan and Li Zhao, the lieutenants in the palace, were not treated politely by Yang Jun, so they secretly fabricated Yang Jun's plot to gain national power.
Empress Jia wanted to interfere in government affairs, but because she was afraid that Yang Jun would not be able to do so, she was unwilling to serve the empress dowager in a womanly manner.
Dong Meng of Huangmen was appointed as eunuch supervisor when the emperor was the crown prince, and served the Empress Mai in Shu Palace.
After buying it, he secretly exchanged information with Dong Meng and planned to depose the Queen Mother.
Dong Meng then colluded with Li Zhao and Meng Guan to rely on each other.
Empress Jia ordered Li Zhao to inform Da Sima and Runan King Sima Liang, asking him to gather troops to attack Yang Jun.
Sima Liang said: Yang Jun is fierce and cruel, and death is right in front of him, so there is no reason to worry.
Kui Zhao notified Sima Zhang, King of Chu, and Sima Zhang agreed to his request and asked to enter the court.
Yang Jun had always been afraid of Sima Zhang, and had wanted to summon him back to the court to prevent him from causing trouble, so he allowed him to enter the court.
When Sima Zhang arrived, Meng Guan and Li Zhao petitioned the emperor to write a Shao book all night and enforce martial law inside and outside. They sent envoys to depose Yang Jun and return home as a marquis.
Ma Yao of Shu'an Company led 400 people in the palace to follow the envoy to attack Yang Jun.
Duan Guang knelt on the ground and said to the emperor: Yang Jun was favored by the late emperor and devoted himself to assisting the government.
Besides, without a son, how can there be any reason to rebel?
May your Majesty consider it carefully.
The emperor did not answer.
At that time, Yang Jun lived in Cao Shuang's former residence, which was on the south side of the armory. He heard that there were changes in the palace and summoned all the officials to discuss it.
Taifu's chief secretary, Sai Mian, persuaded Huaoxiang and said: "Now there is a change in the palace, and its intention can be predicted. It must be the eunuchs and ministers setting up schemes for Empress Jia, which is not good for the public."
We should burn the Yunlong Gate to protest, demand the heads of those who caused the trouble, open the Wanchun Gate, attract troops from the East Palace and the outer camp, and support the prince himself to protect the crown prince and enter the palace to arrest the traitor.
The palace was shocked and frightened, so the traitor must be killed and sent away, so as to avoid disaster.
Nanbi was always cowardly and unable to make a decision, so he said: Emperor Wei Ming has built such a big project, how can he burn it?
Fu Zhi, the servant, told Nuo Hui that night and asked him to go to Yunlongmen with Genjuan to observe the situation.
Baodui took the opportunity to tell the officials that it was not suitable for anyone to be alone in the palace, and then he stood up and said goodbye, so everyone ran away.
Soon Gong Bao sent out troops, burned Yang Jun's house, and ordered archers to shoot arrows at Yang Jun's house from a high place in the attic. Yang Jun's soldiers were unable to get out.
Yang Jun fled to the stables and was killed by a halberd.
Meng Guan and others received secret orders from Empress Jia to kill Yang Jun's relatives and associates. All three tribes were annihilated, and thousands of people died.
She also ordered Li Zhao to burn Yang Jun's private collection of books. Empress Jia did not want the imperial edict sent by Emperor Wu to be known to the outside world.
After Yang Jun was killed, no one dared to collect his body. Only Taifu Sheren, Basi Yanzun, collected and buried him.
At the beginning, Yang Jun recruited Sun Deng, a scholar, and gave him a quilt as a gift.
Sun Deng cut off the quilt in front of the door and shouted: "Cut, chop, stab."
Ten days later, he claimed to be sick and pretended to be dead. When the incident happened, his words came true.
During the Yongxi period, there was a man in Wen County who was like a lunatic. He wrote a book saying: The light is long and the euphorbia is the wall.
Although poison is popular, it still hurts oneself.
When Yang Jun lived in the inner palace, he used the halberd as a defensive weapon.
In the early years of Yongning, Shao Shu said: The uncle's family has lost its moral integrity and the clan has fallen. The feelings of the nephew and uncle are very sad.
I ordered Yang Chao, the Marquis of Xinting, to serve as the imperial captain and the captain of the cavalry, in order to soothe my feelings as expressed in the poem "Polygonum".
Yang Jue, whose courtesy name was Wenju, served successively as Shangshu Ling and General Wei.
He has always been famous and was favored by Emperor Wu. At that time, his reputation was higher than that of Yang Jun.
Because his brother was in a distinguished and distinguished position, he knew that power and favor could not last long, so he begged to resign. He was sincere and sincere several times, but he never received permission.
When he first married the queen, Yang Jue said: Looking at ancient and modern dynasties, if two queens were born in a family, none of them could be saved. Instead, they suffered the disaster of overthrowing the family.
Please keep this watch in the ancestral temple. If it goes as I said, it will save me from disaster.
Complied with him.
Zhao Xiu, the governor of the right army, wrote a letter saying: There are five sons in Wang Mang's family, and they are replaced by brothers.
Nowadays, the three princes of the Yang family are all in high positions, and God has repeatedly shown changes. I am secretly worried about this matter for Your Majesty.
Therefore, Yang Yao became even more frightened and insisted on dismissing his official position. The emperor obeyed him and granted him one million dollars in money and five thousand pieces of silk.
Yang Yao was known for his humility at first, but in his later years he gathered his cliques and framed Qi King Sima You to force him to leave the capital.
Yang Jue, the commander of the Central Guard Army, and Cheng Can, the commander-in-chief of the Northern Army, plotted to kill Yang Jue with his own hands when he saw him.
After learning about it, Yang Yao claimed that he was ill and could not go out, suggesting that the relevant officials would write a letter to impeach Yang Lin and have him be transferred to the position of imperial servant.
From then on, no one in the entire court dared to resist him, and his good reputation was completely lost.
When Yang Jue was about to be executed, he cried out for injustice and said: Everything is wrapped up in the stone box. You can ask Zhang Hua.
At that time, everyone said that reasons should be stated for him to comply with the precedent of the Zhong Yu incident.
However, Gendan's relatives treated the troubler as an enemy, and the person who urged the execution killed him. Everyone at that time lamented this.
Yang Ji, whose courtesy name was Wentong, served successively as the general of Zhennan and the general of Zhengbei, and then moved to the position of crown prince and tutor.
Yang Ji was talented and skilled. He once followed Emperor Wu to hunt under Beimang. He and his attendant Wang Ji both wore cloth trousers and jackets and rode in front of the chariot with a horned bow.
The beast suddenly appeared, and Emperor Wu ordered Wang Ji to shoot it, but it fell to the ground.
After a while, another one appeared. Yang Ji accepted the order and shot it again. The Sixth Army cheered loudly.
The emperor valued military attachés and often awarded appointments to noble relatives based on their reputation. Yang Ji was known as a competent official because of his martial arts skills.
He and his brother Yang Jue were deeply worried about complacency, so they earnestly advised him with his nephew Kuixun and others.
It was Yang Ji's strategy to demote Wang Zuo and leave the capital to serve as governor and establish the crown prince.
At first, Yang Jun was worried about Sima Runan and Sima Liang, the king, and urged him to go to the vassal state.
Yang Ji and Li Bin repeatedly tried to stop him, so Yang Jun alienated Yang Ji.
Yang Ji said to Fu Xian: If my brother Zhang Zheng transferred Sima to the capital and showed humility to him, our family would be saved from disaster.
Otherwise, it will definitely bring disaster to the family.
Fu Xian said: As long as the levy commander Sima returns to Beijing and works together to promote justice, peace can be established and there is no need to evade.
Ministers cannot have exclusive power. Should it be limited to relatives?
Nowadays, the clan is estranged and relies on the closeness of its relatives for peace. If the relatives are in danger, they must rely on the dignity of the clan as backup. This is the so-called lip-to-tooth dependence, which is the best strategy.
Yang Chuan was even more frightened and asked Husai: What do people think now?
Husai said: Your brother is in power and alienates and excludes the clan. He should be in charge of the government together with the four parties.
Yang Ji said: You can mention this when you meet my brother.
Shi Chong saw Yang Jun and said this, but Yang Jun did not accept it.
Later, he and several brothers were killed.
On the night when the disaster occurred, Yang Ji was summoned by the East Palace.
Yang Ji said to Pei Kai: Where should I go to wrap my clothes?
Feihu said: As the guardian, you should go to Shugong.
Chao Fei liked giving alms and had been in charge of the army for a long time. The more than 400 people who followed him were all strong men from the Sedi. They could hit the target as long as they shot arrows, and they all wanted to save Yang Ji.
Longmu has entered the palace, and everyone sighs and regrets.
Shi Chen said: Jia Chong, with his shallow qualities of flattery and mediocre talents in writing and writing, was lucky enough to catch up with the prosperous era, but he was unable to occupy a high position.
He drew his troops to commit rebellion without even the thought of suspicion and fear; when he was given the military power to attack Wu, he actually asked to retreat despite the difficulties. This was not only Wei's rebellion, but also Jin's sinner!
However, he enjoyed great favor and glory, held important civil and military positions, shouldered the important responsibilities of prime minister while he was alive, and had the honor of having tangerine sacrificed to the royal family after his death. It can be said that he enjoyed a generous salary without virtue, and disaster was about to happen.
As for his descendants, they are like beggars, inheriting the root of bad habits and indulging in evil and evil virtues.
For inciting that scheming woman to pursue that kind of family and world situation, even if she was killed, how could she be said to be absolved of her guilt?
In the past, Wei's collapse was due to Jia Zeng's hard work, and Jin's collapse was due to his hard work. It can be said that if you start in this way, you will end in this way. This is really true!
Yang Jun was favored by virtue of his status as a relative, so he took on the important responsibility of being a pillar. He was afraid that it would be too late to be respectful, but instead he was arrogant and extravagant. Can he avoid disaster?
Tong Kuo's mother saved herself because of her wisdom, Zhong Hui's brother was pardoned because of his words, Wen Ju had the same knowledge as his ancestors, but received the same punishment as his ancestors, how sad!
Zan said: The public flatters sycophants, and the thoughts are contrary to the right way.
When a good opportunity comes, he ascends to a prominent position.
Beggars carry on the family line, causing harm to the family and disrupting politics.
A mediocre writer occupies an important position.
He occupies a high position due to incompetence and eventually perishes.
Although Yang Yao was aware of it in advance, he also suffered disaster.
