A total of thirteen sons of Emperor Xiaojing were named kings. These thirteen were born to five mothers, and those born to the same mother were clan relatives.
The sons born to Li Ji are Liu Rong, Liu De and Liu Yanyu.
The sons born to Cheng Ji are Liu Yu, Liu Fei and Liu Duan.
The sons born to Jia Fu are Liu Pengzu and Liu Sheng.
The son born to Tang Ji was Liu Fa.
Mrs. Wang's sons, Liu Yue, Liu Ji, Liu Cheng, and Liu Shun, were born to her.
Liu De, the king of Hejian, was named the king of Hejian as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He likes Confucian learning, and he dresses and behaves like a Confucian scholar.
Most of the Confucian scholars in Shandong attached themselves to him.
He died after reigning for twenty-six years and was succeeded by his son, Prince Gong Liu Buhu.
Liu Buhui died after four years on the throne, and his son Liu Ji, King Gang, succeeded him.
Liu Ji died in his 12th year on the throne, and his son Liu Shu, King of Qing, succeeded him.
Linjiang Ai Wang Liu Yan was named Linjiang King as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He died after reigning for three years. Because he had no descendants to inherit the throne, the feudal state was abolished and changed to counties.
Linjiang Min King Liu Rong was established as the crown prince in the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign. Four years later, he was deposed and was named Linjiang King as the original prince.
In the fourth year of his reign, he was convicted of occupying the open space outside the ancestral temple wall to expand the palace, and the emperor conscripted him.
Liu Rong responded to the call and set out to worship the god of travel at the north gate of Jiangling.
After getting in the car. The axle is broken and the car is useless.
The Jiangling elders thought this was an ominous sign, and cried and whispered: Our king may not be able to come back!
Liu Rong arrived in the capital and went to the Lieutenant's Mansion for interrogation.
Lieutenant Zhi questioned him and he died out of fear of committing suicide.
Buried in Lam Tin.
Tens of thousands of swallows placed earth in their mouths on his tomb, and the people pitied him.
Liu Rong was the oldest among the sons of Emperor Jing. After his death, he had no sons to inherit the throne. The feudal kingdom was abolished and the fiefdom was merged into the imperial court and became Nanjun.
The first kings of the above-mentioned Three Kingdoms were all sons of Li Ji.
Liu Yu, King of Lu Gong, was named King of Huaiyang as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
In the second year, after the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu was put down, he was renamed King of Lu in the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He likes to build palaces and gardens and raise dogs and horses.
In his later years, he loved music, but he was not good at speaking and had a stutter.
He died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Guang succeeded him as king.
Liu Guang also liked music, carriages and horses at first, but in his later years he became stingy, fearing that his property would not be enough.
Liu Fei, King of Yi of Jiangdu, was named King of Runan as a prince in the second year BC of Emperor Xiaojing.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Liu Fei was fifteen years old. He was brave and resourceful. He wrote to the emperor and volunteered to lead troops to attack Wu.
Emperor Jing gave him the seal of general and ordered him to attack the state of Wu. After the state of Wu was defeated, he was renamed King of Jiangdu the next year and governed the original fiefdom of the state of Wu. Because of his military merits, he was awarded the emperor's banner.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang reign of Emperor Xiaowu, the Huns invaded the Han territory and became bandits. Liu Fei wrote a letter volunteering to attack the Huns, but the emperor did not agree.
Liu Fei liked to use his strength, build palaces, recruit heroes and knights from all over the world, and was extremely arrogant and extravagant.
He died in his twenty-sixth year on the throne, and his son Liu Jian succeeded him as king.
Liu Jian committed suicide after seven years in office.
When Huainan and Hengshan rebelled, Liu Jian had some idea of ​​their plans.
He believed that his kingdom was close to Huainan, and he was afraid that it would be annexed by the king of Huainan if the incident happened, so he secretly made weapons, and often wore the general's seal given to his father by the emperor, and carried the emperor's banner on patrols.
King Yi died and was not yet buried. Liu Jian fell in love with King Yi's beloved beauty Nao Ji. He sent someone to fetch her at night and had an affair with her in the mourning house.
When the Huainan King's rebellion was exposed, the imperial court punished his associates and suspects, which implicated Jiangdu King Liu Jian.
Liu Jian panicked, so he sent people to hold more money and tried to quell the lawsuit through activities.
He also believed in witchcraft, sent people to offer sacrifices and pray, and made up lies.
Liu Jian also had an affair with his sister.
After the court learned of these things, the ministers of the Han Dynasty requested that Liu Jian be arrested and punished.
The emperor couldn't bear it and sent his ministers to interrogate him.
He confessed to all his crimes and committed suicide out of fear of guilt.
So the feudal state was abolished and the feudal land was merged into the imperial court and became Guangling County.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, was named the king of Jiaoxi as a prince after the Wu and Chu kingdoms rebelled and were defeated in the third year BC by Emperor Xiaojing.
Liu Duan was cruel and cruel, and suffered from impotence. Whenever he came into contact with a woman, he would be ill for several months.
He had a beloved young man whom he appointed as Lang Guan.
The young official soon had an affair with the harem, and Liu Duan executed him, as well as his son and mother.
Liu Duan repeatedly violated the emperor's laws, and the ministers of the Han Dynasty repeatedly requested that he be killed. The emperor could not bear to do so because he was his ultimate brother, so Liu Duan's behavior became even more excessive.
Relevant officials twice requested to deprive him of his territory, so most of his fiefdom was deprived.
Liu Duan had a grudge in his heart, so he no longer managed the money in the country.
All the treasuries collapsed and leaked, and the corrupted property was counted in the billions, but in the end there was no cleaning up.
He also ordered officials not to collect rent or taxes.
Liu Duan also removed all the guards and sealed the palace gates, leaving only one door, from which he wandered out of the palace.
He changed his name many times, pretended to be a commoner, and went to other counties.
If any officials who went to Jiaoxi to serve as prime ministers or two thousand stone officials followed the laws of the Han Dynasty in governing political affairs, Liu Duan would always find out their crimes and report them to the court; if they could not find their crimes, he would devise a scheme to poison them.
His methods of devising tricks are extremely varied, he is strong enough to refuse the advice of others, and clever enough to cover up his own mistakes.
If the prime ministers and officials of the two thousand-stone level followed the king's laws in governing political affairs, they would be framed and punished by the court.
Therefore, although Jiaoxi is a small country, there are many officials with the rank of 2,000 stone killed and injured.
Liu Duan died after reigning for forty-seven years. In the end, because he had no son to inherit the throne, the feudal state was abolished and the feudal land was merged into the imperial court and became Jiaoxi County.
The first kings of the above-mentioned three kingdoms were all sons of Cheng Ji.
King Liu Pengzu of Zhao was named King of Guangchuan as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
After King Zhao rebelled and was defeated, Peng Zu was named King of Guangchuan.
In the fourth year of his reign, he was renamed King Zhao.
In the fifteenth year of his reign, Emperor Xiaojing passed away.
Peng Zu was a deceitful and sycophantic man, humble and flattering. On the surface, he was humble and respectful, but he was mean and vicious in his heart.
He likes to play with the law and slander others with sophistry.
Peng Zu had many beloved concubines and descendants.
If the prime minister and officials of the 2,000-stone level want to govern political affairs according to the laws of the Han Dynasty, they will harm the interests of King Zhao.
For this reason, whenever the Prime Minister or a 2,000-stone-level official arrived, Liu Pengzu would dress in black cloth and pretend to be a slave, go out to greet him personally, clean the residence where the 2,000-stone-level official stayed, and create more confusion to attract the other party. Once the 2,000-stone-level official made inappropriate remarks and violated the court's taboos, he would write it down.
If an official with a rank of 2,000 stone wanted to follow the law, he would threaten him; if the other party did not comply, he would file a report and frame the other party for committing adultery and breaking the law for personal gain.
During the more than 50 years of Liu Pengzu's reign, none of the prime ministers or officials of the 2,000-stone level could serve for two years. They were often dismissed from office for crimes. Those who committed major crimes were executed and those who committed minor crimes were punished. Therefore, no official of the 2,000-stone level dared to govern according to the law.
Therefore, the King of Zhao was very powerful and sent envoys to the counties to conduct patent sales. The income even exceeded the normal tax income of the State of Zhao.
Therefore, King Zhao's family had a lot of money, but all the money was given to concubines and concubines and was used up.
Liu Pengzu married the beloved concubine of the late Jiangdu King Liu Fei, who was later captured by Liu Jian and had an affair with, and he doted on her very much.
Liu Pengzu did not like to build palaces, nor was he superstitious about ghosts and gods, but he liked to do what officials did.
Write a letter to the emperor, volunteering to supervise the thieves in the kingdom.
He often led his troops to patrol Handan City at night.
The envoys and travelers did not dare to stay in Handan because Liu Pengzu was treacherous and evil.
Liu Dan, the crown prince of King Pengzu of Zhao, committed adultery with his daughter and his compatriot sister. Liu Dan had a grudge against his retainers, Jiang Chong reported on Liu Dan, and Liu Dan was deposed.
The state of Zhao changed its name to a crown prince.
Liu Sheng, King Jing of Zhongshan, was named King of Zhongshan as a prince in the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
In the fourteenth year of his reign, Emperor Xiaojing passed away.
Liu Sheng was fond of drinking and seducing women. He had more than 120 descendants.
He and his brother King Zhao often criticized each other, saying: As a king of vassals, my brother specializes in managing political affairs on behalf of lower-level officials.
A person who is a king should listen to music and enjoy dancing and singing every day.
King Zhao also accused him and said: King Zhongshan only enjoys pleasure every day and does not help the emperor to comfort the people. How can he be called a vassal?
Liu Sheng died in the 42nd year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Chang, King Ai.
Liu Chang died after one year on the throne, and his son Liu Kunchi succeeded him as King of Zhongshan.
The first kings of the two countries mentioned above were all sons of Mrs. Jia.
Liu Fa, the king of Changsha, and his mother Tang Ji, turned out to be Cheng Ji's maid.
Emperor Jing summoned Cheng Ji. It happened that Cheng Ji was menstruating and did not want to serve, so he dressed up his maid Tang'er and asked her to serve the emperor at night.
The emperor was drunk and didn't know what was going on. He thought it was Cheng Ji, so he slept with her, and she became pregnant.
Only later did the emperor realize that it was not Cheng Ji.
When he gave birth to a son, he named him Liu Fa.
Liu Fa was named the King of Changsha as a prince in the second year BC of Emperor Xiaojing.
Because his mother's status was low, she was not favored by the emperor, so she was made king of a small and low-income country.
Liu Fa died on the twenty-seventh day of his reign, and his son Liu Yong, King of Kang, succeeded him.
Liu Yong died in his 28th year on the throne, and his son Liu Yuan succeeded to the throne as King of Changsha.
The first king of the above-mentioned country was the son of Tang Ji.
Liu Yue, King Hui of Guangchuan, was named King of Guangchuan as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
Liu Yue died in the 12th year of his reign, and his son Liu Qi succeeded him as king.
Liu Qi had a favored minister Sang Ju.
Later, Sang Ju committed a crime, and Liu Qi wanted to kill Sang Ju, but Sang Ju escaped, and Liu Qi captured and exterminated his clan.
Sang Ju resented Liu Qi because of this, so he wrote a letter to accuse Liu Qi of committing adultery with his compatriot sisters.
From then on, in order to protect himself, Liu Qi repeatedly wrote letters to accuse the Han Dynasty officials and favored ministers such as Suo Zhong and others for their crimes.
Liu Ji, King Kang of Jiaodong, was named King of Jiaodong as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He died after reigning for twenty-eight years.
When the King of Huainan was planning a rebellion, Liu Ji secretly heard about it, so he secretly made bows and arrows, prepared for war and defense, and waited for the King of Huainan to rebel.
Later, when the officials interrogated the King of Huainan for his rebellion, this incident was exposed in his confession.
Liu Ji had the closest relationship with the emperor. He felt guilty and grieved for participating in the rebellion. He died of an illness and did not dare to pass it on to his successor. Later, the emperor learned about this situation.
Liu Ji's eldest son was named Xian, but his mother was not favored; his younger son was named Qing, and his mother was favored. Liu Ji once wanted to appoint Liu Qing as his successor, but because it was not in line with the inheritance order and because of his own sins, he finally dared not say anything.
The emperor took pity on him and made Liu Xian King of Jiaodong and the successor of King Kang. Liu Qing was granted the title of King of Liu'an in the former fiefdom of King Hengshan.
King Liu Xian of Jiaodong died in the fourteenth year of his reign and was given the posthumous title of King Ai.
His son Liu Qing succeeded to the throne as king.
In the second year of Yuanshou, Liu Qing, the king of Liu'an, was named the king of Liu'an as the son of King Kang of Jiaodong.
Liu Cheng, the Ai King of Qinghe, was granted the title of King Qinghe as a prince in the third year of Zhongyuan Period by Emperor Xiaojing.
He died after reigning for 12 years. Because he had no sons, the feudal state was abolished and the land belonged to the imperial court and became Qinghe County.
Liu Shun, the Xianwang of Changshan, was named the King of Changshan as a prince in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
Liu Shun was the favorite youngest son of Emperor Jing. He was arrogant and lazy, engaged in many promiscuous affairs, and repeatedly violated laws and regulations. The emperor often pardoned him.
Liu Shun died in the thirty-second year of his reign, and his prince Liu Bo succeeded him as king.
It turned out that King Xian Liu Shun had a concubine who was not favored by him and gave birth to his eldest son Liu Xi.
Liu Chai was not favored by King Xian because his biological mother was not favored.
The queen concubines the prince Liu Bo.
There were many concubines in King Xian's palace, and his favored concubines gave birth to his sons Liu Ping and Liu Shang. The queen was rarely lucky.
When King Xian was seriously ill, the favored concubines often went to attend to him. The queen, out of jealousy, did not often go to see the sick and always stayed in her own room.
The doctor presented the medicine, but Prince Liu Bo did not taste the medicine himself, nor did he stay with the royal family to attend to the illness.
It was not until King Xian passed away that the queen and the prince arrived.
King Xian never regarded Liu Xi as his son. After King Xian died, he did not give him any property.
Some of the officials advised the prince and queen to share the property with the eldest son Liu Chai, but the prince and queen refused.
After the prince succeeded to the throne, he refused to accept and care for Liu Kai.
Liu Chao resented the queen and the prince.
When the envoys of the Han Dynasty came to see the funeral of King Xian, Liu Kai personally reported that when King Xian was ill, the queen and the prince did not wait at his bedside. When King Xian passed away, they only stayed for six days before leaving the mourning room, and that the prince Liu Bo secretly committed adultery, drank for fun, gambled and built for fun, rode with women in cars, traveled across the city, and entered prisons to visit prisoners.
The emperor sent an order to Zhang Qian to verify what the queen had done and to interrogate Liu Bo. He asked for the arrest of those who had committed adultery with Liu Bo as evidence, and Liu Bo managed to hide them.
Officials conducted a large-scale search and arrest, and Liu Bo was very anxious. He sent people to torture the investigators and released without authorization people who were imprisoned by the court as suspicious.
Officials requested that King Xian, Queen Xiu and Liu Bo be killed.
The emperor believed that Xiu had always had bad conduct, which led Liu Kai to report her as guilty, and Liu Bo committed the crime because he did not have the help of a good master and could not bear to kill her.
The officials also requested that Queen Xiu be deposed, Liu Bo be exiled, and his family members be moved to Fangling with him. The emperor agreed to this request.
Liu Bo was king for only a few months. He was demoted to Fangling and his country was exterminated.
More than a month later, the emperor noticed that King Xian was his favorite youngest son, so he issued an edict to the officials: King Xian of Changshan died early, the queen and her concubines were at odds with each other, and the concubines fabricated charges against each other and fought with each other. As a result, they fell into injustice and the country was destroyed. I pity him very much.
Liu Ping, the son of King Xian, has 30,000 households and is the true king; Liu Shang, the son of King Xian, has 30,000 households and is the king of Sishui.
In the fourth year of Yuanding, Liu Ping, the king of Zhending, was named the king of Zhending as the son of Prince Xian of Changshan.
Liu Shang, the Si Wang of Surabaya, was named the King of Surabaya as the son of Prince Changshan Xian in the fourth year of Yuanding.
He died after reigning for eleven years and was succeeded by his son Liu Anshi, King Ai.
King Ai died after eleven years of reigning without any sons.
The emperor took pity on the Queen of Surabaya and appointed Liu Anshi's younger brother Liu He as the King of Surabaya.
The first kings of the four kingdoms mentioned above were all the sons of Mrs. Wang Erjiao.
Later, the Han Dynasty added the title of King of Liu'an and King of Sishui to his descendants.
In total, there are six kings of Erjiao's descendants.
Tai Shigong said: When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was on the throne, all the taxes of the princes belonged to the princes and kings, and they could appoint officials below the level of internal history. The court only sent prime ministers to them and awarded them gold seals.
The vassal kings appointed censors, court officials, and doctors on their own, similar to the emperor.
Since the rebellion of Wu, Chu and other countries, during the era when the Five Sects were kings, the imperial court sent 2,000 stone-level officials to them, removed the "prime minister" and replaced them with "prime minister". The princes and kings could only enjoy the taxes within the fiefdom, and their power was deprived of their power by the court.
After that, the poor among the princes and kings could only ride on bullock carts.
