◆Deng Biao's biography, Deng Biao's courtesy name was Zhibo, a native of Nanyang, the same clan as Taifu Deng Yuzhi, his father was Deng Han. In the early days of the Zhongxing Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Monument due to his meritorious service, and his official position was the Prefect of Bohai Sea.
When Deng Biao was young, he focused on inspiration and practicing filial piety.
After his father died, he left the country to his half-brother Jing Feng. Emperor Xianzong believed that his character was noble and he issued an edict to agree to it.
Deng Biao later served as an official in prefectures and counties, was promoted to the government, and moved to Guiyang for five years.
In the 17th year of Yongping's reign, he was recruited as a servant.
A few years later, his stepmother died and she left home due to illness. The imperial edict granted him the service of Guanglu Dafu. After completing his service, he was worshiped as the Captain of Fengche and promoted to Dasi Nong.
A few months later, he replaced Bao Yu as Taiwei.
When Deng Biao was in power, he was very clean and set an example for all officials.
After serving as an official for four years, he resigned due to illness.
In the first year of Yuanhe, he was dismissed from office, given 300,000 yuan as a gift, and lived with a salary of 2,000 dan for the rest of his life.
He also ordered Taichang to send the sacrificial meat from the ancestral temple in all seasons. The Cheng Cunwen of Yinpai County in Henan often sent sheep wine and other items on the first day of the eighth month.
Emperor He ascended the throne, appointed Deng Biao as Taifu, recorded the ministerial affairs, and granted him the title of Marquis of Guannei.
In the early years of Yongyuan, the Dou family was autocratic, arrogant and indulgent, and many people in the court criticized and disputed it. However, Deng Biao only cultivated himself in office and could not make any corrections.
He also once submitted a memorial to remove the censor Zhongcheng Zhou Yu. Zhou Yu failed to do so, so some people ridiculed him for this, but people at that time respected his courtesy.
When Dou was killed, Deng Biao returned to the cardinal position due to his old age and illness, and he was given permission to raise cattle and wine.
In the spring of the fifth year, he died in office, and the emperor came to his home to pay his respects.
◆Zhang Yu's biography, Zhang Yu's courtesy name was Boda, and he was a native of Zhao Guoxiang.
Grandfather Zhang Kuang's clan sister was the wife of Emperor Zukao. She traveled to Nanton many times and met Emperor Guangwu.
Guangwu was the Grand Sima and passed through Handan. Zhang Kuang was a county official and paid an audience with Guangwu.
Guangwu said happily: Now I have found my uncle!
So we went north together to Gaoyi, and used Kuang as the Yuan family order.
He was promoted to the governor of Zhuo County.
He also became the chief of Changshan Pass.
Just as the Red Eyebrow Army was attacking Guancheng, Zhang Kuang was killed.
His father, Zhang Xin, first fled for revenge. Later he became the Prime Minister of Huaiyang and died in the post of magistrate of Ji County.
Zhang Yu was honest and thrifty.
After his father's death, the officials in Ji County offered him millions in donations, but none of them were accepted.
He also gave the land and house to his uncle and stayed there by himself.
In the eighth year of Yongping, he was promoted to Xiaolian and promoted slightly. In the early years of Jianchu, he was appointed the governor of Yangzhou.
When he crossed the river for inspection, the people in China thought that the river had the god Zixu, making it difficult to cross the river.
When Yu was about to cross the river, the officials made a firm request, but Zhang Yu refused to listen.
And he said sternly: If Zixu has a spirit and knows that my purpose is to investigate unjust, false and wrong cases, will he still harm me?
So he paddled over.
After passing through counties and cities, he went to all the remote places and personally interrogated the prisoners. Many cases were understood and dealt with.
The officials and the people rarely see the messengers, and the people are happy and complain about the good and the bad, and they all return home.
In the second year of Yuanhe, he was transferred to the governor of Yanzhou, and he also had the reputation of Qingping.
Three years later, he was promoted to Xiapi Prime Minister.
There is Puyangpo in the northern boundary of Xu County. There are many fertile fields nearby, but they are abandoned and no one is cultivating them.
Zhang Yu opened the water gate for them and directed irrigation, and hundreds of hectares of mature farmland became available.
He persuaded and led the officials, lent them seeds, and personally encouraged them to work, so that they could reap abundant harvests.
More than a thousand impoverished households from neighboring counties were relocated, and the houses were connected together, forming a market below.
Later, more than a thousand hectares were reclaimed every year, and the people were able to provide themselves with food and clothing.
Shi Dairun, a meritorious officer, was an old Taiwei official and had great power in the county.
If there was a small reproach, Zhang Yu asked him to surrender himself to Xu Prison and then punish him.
Since the beginning of history, everyone has been shocked and respected.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, he entered the imperial court and became the Grand Sima, worshiped as Taiwei, and Emperor He treated him politely.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor visited the ancestral temple in the south, and Zhang Yu stayed behind as a Taiwei and a guard.
Hearing that the chariot was about to enter Jiangling, Zhang Yu thought that he should not take the risk of traveling far, so he immediately advised him.
The imperial edict said: "The visit to the temple has been completed. We should go to the south to offer sacrifices to Dajiang. After receiving your memorial, we should go to the Han River to return home."
After returning to the court, Zhang Yu was rewarded.
In the first year of Yanping, Zhang Yu was promoted to Taifu and recorded the affairs of the minister.
Because the Emperor Shang was born, the Empress Dowager Deng wanted to have the important officials live in the forbidden area, so she issued an edict to ask Yu to live in the palace, provide curtains and beds, and make the officials eat in the morning and evening, and return home once every five days.
Every time I go to court, I give special praise and have a special dinner with the three princes.
Zhang Yu said: "When the house is fierce and quiet, it is not appropriate to do business in the garden as usual."
Open spaces such as Guangcheng and Shanglin should be temporarily allocated to the poor.
The Queen Mother obeyed.
When Emperor An came to the throne, Zhang Yu petitioned several times to resign. He sent an imperial edict to Xiaohuangmen to inquire about his illness. He was given an ox and ten dendrobiums of wine, and was advised to recuperate.
They also sent money, cloth, swords, and clothes many times.
In the first year of Yongchu, Zhang Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Anxiang due to his merits in making decisions, with a settlement of 1,200 households. He was granted the title on the same day as Taiwei Xu Fang and Sikong Yinqin.
In the autumn of this year, Xu Fang and Yin Qin were dismissed from their posts due to water and rain disasters by bandits. Zhang Yu felt uneasy and wrote a letter requesting to resign and be promoted to Taiwei.
Four years later, Queen Mother Deng's mother, Yinshi, fell ill, and the Queen Mother drove to her residence.
Zhang Yu, Situ Xiaqin, and Sikong Zhang Min all came forward and said: Mr. Xinye was uneasy and drove his car to stay at her place for several days. The ministers and others were very frightened.
I heard that when the king goes out, he must make arrangements first, and when he stays, he must be protected by the men of Drogo. He clears the road and then walks, cleans the house and then stays, and leaves the palace without staying overnight. In order to pay attention to the protection.
Your Majesty has a filial piety, and his kindness comes from the heart. When he is away for a long time, all the officials are exposed, and the deputies feel uneasy.
You should return to the palace temporarily, for the sake of the ancestral temple and the country at the top, and for the people of all nations at the bottom.
After three consecutive performances, he returned to the palace after struggling.
Later, there were successive years of famine and the government was empty. Zhang Yu asked to collect taxes for three years to help the county with food and loans.
The imperial edict allowed it.
Five years later, he was dismissed because of the disharmony between yin and yang.
Seven years later, he died at home.
The imperial court sent envoys to pay tribute.
In addition to his youngest son Zhang Yao, he was the doctor.
The eldest son Zhang Sheng was the heir.
◆Xu Fang's biography, Xu Fang's courtesy name is Ye Qing, and he is the best person in the state of Pei.
My grandfather Xu Xuan was a lecturer and taught Wang Mang the Book of Changes.
His father Xu Xian also taught Xu Xuan his career.
Xu Fang learned from his father and grandfather when he was young. During the Yongping period, he was promoted to Xiaolian and was promoted to Lang.
Xu Fang's physical appearance was reserved and serious, and his appearance was impressive. Xianzong thought it was very strange, and specially appointed him as Shangshulang.
The duty is to be in charge of secrets, to be carried out with thoroughness and prudence, to serve the two emperors without any fault.
During the reign of Emperor He, he was promoted to Sili Xiaowei and became the prefect of Wei County.
In the tenth year of Yongyuan's reign, he was promoted to Shaofu and DaSinong.
Xu Fang is diligent in political affairs and has made achievements in every position.
In the fourteenth year, he became Sikong.
Xu Fang believed that the "Five Classics" were ancient and difficult to understand the sacred meaning. Some explanations should be given to make it easier for future students to learn.
Shangshu Dao: I heard that "Poems", "Books", "Rites", and "Music" are all derived from Confucius, and the invention of chapters and sentences began with Zixia.
In the future, each analysis will give different opinions.
After the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, the classics have been abolished. Only a few chapters of this text remain, and some have no chapters or sentences.
He sorted out the missing things, established the Ming Dynasty, studied Confucianism, and established the Imperial Academy.
The sage Confucius has gone far away, and his subtle will will be lost, so ten and four schools of doctors were established, with subjects A and B to encourage scholars. The purpose is to tell people what good and evil are and how to correct them and become kind people.
When I saw the doctoral students who took the imperial examination, they all said that they did not practice family law, tolerated private affairs, and started to commit adultery.
Every time a strategy was tried, there were lawsuits, mixed discussions, and accusations of right and wrong.
Confucius said that he should state without compiling, and he also said, "I am still as good as the master of history. I hate that I don't know something about history and refuse to omit it."
Nowadays, instead of following the rules and sentences, they think that it is illegal to follow the teacher, they think it is reasonable, and they despise Taoism. This has gradually become a custom. It is indeed not the original intention of the imperial edict.
Change from thin to loyal, this is the common way of the three generations, focusing on the basics, pioneered by Confucianism.
I think that for the examination of doctors and A and B, fifty difficult questions should be set up based on famous scholars' chapters and verses to test scholars.
Those who explain more are promoted to superior, and those who cite clear quotations are regarded as high. If they do not follow the predecessors and their meanings are self-contradictory, they are all wrong.
The "Five Classics" each selects the best six people, and the "Analects" is not suitable for shooting strategies.
Even if it has been lost for a long time, some mistakes can be corrected.
When issuing edicts to ministers, they all followed Xu Fang's instructions.
In the 16th year, Xu Fang became a Situ. In the first year of Yanping, he was promoted to a Taiwei. He participated in the records of Shangshu affairs with Taifu Zhang Yu, and received several rewards and favors.
Emperor An ascended the throne and made a decision to ennoble Longxiang Marquis.
There are one thousand and one hundred households in the city.
This year, he was dismissed from office due to disasters and bandits. Return to the fief.
All the three ministers who were exempted from disasters started with Xu Fang.
After Xu Fang's death, his son Xu Heng became the heir and was granted the title to his younger brother Xu Chong.
A few years later, as a last resort, he became a knight.
◆Zhang Min's biography, Zhang Min's courtesy name was Boda, and he was a native of Molan, Hejian.
In the second year of Jianchu, he was promoted to Xiaolian, promoted four times, and became minister in five years.
During the early years of Jianchu, someone insulted someone's father, and that person's son killed him. Suzong condoned his death sentence and demoted him to a lower level. From then on, this incident was used as an example.
It was then that the decision was made and the "Insult Law" was enacted.
Zhang Min retorted: "The law of "contempt" and all the favors of the late emperor have no laws and regulations.
The judgment of life and death should be made from top to bottom, just like there are four seasons in heaven, with life and death.
If tolerance and forgiveness are established, this is deliberately setting up adultery and promoting sin.
Confucius said: The people can follow it, but they cannot know it.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that if a son does not take revenge, he is not a son.
However, the law did not reduce his sentence because the road to killing each other was not open.
Nowadays, the sentence can be reduced under the pretense of righteous indignation, and there is a distinction between random killings, so that the officials who enforce the law can devise clever deceptions.
In addition, the number of "Insults" gradually increased, and there were four or five encyclopedias. Looking at each other, there were more and more, and it was difficult to spread for thousands of years.
I heard the teacher say: It is better to save a text than to save it.
Therefore, Emperor Gao removed the complicated laws and made three chapters of the law.
If there are any edicts issued in the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China that have been revised from ancient times, you can send the Sangong and Tingwei to get rid of them.
It's just discussion without being examined.
Zhang Min went to Shudao again and said: "I have been favored and specially promoted. My foolish heart does not understand, my confusion does not understand, and I do not dare to agree with others' opinions casually."
I want to see Confucius hanging down the classics and Gao Tao making laws, and I can deduce that their original intention is to prevent the people from doing bad things.
Wonder what the "Insult" law would be used to prohibit?
It will definitely not make people not treat each other with contempt, but open the way to kill each other, and the officials who enforce the law will allow them to be treacherous.
Some commentators say: The common law should be discussed first.
I foolishly believe that in the nature of heaven and earth, only human beings are the most precious, and killing someone is punishable by death. This is the rule of the Three Generations.
Now I want to live, but instead open the way to death. If a person breaks the law and does not die, the whole world will suffer from him.
Ancient records say: One benefit can bring a hundred harms, so people go to the city walls.
Spring brings birth and autumn kills, the routine of heaven.
If something dies in spring, it is a disaster; if something blooms in autumn, it is a miracle.
The king inherits the heaven and the earth, follows the four seasons, takes the sages as the law, and takes the scriptures as the basis.
May your Majesty pay attention to the people below, consider the pros and cons, and let everyone comment on it, and the world will be very lucky.
He Di obeyed.
In the ninth year, Zhang Min was appointed as Sili Xiaowei.
Two years after taking office, he was promoted to the prefect of Runan.
Keep covenants clean and uncomplicated, use punishments fairly and upright, and be reasonable and reputable.
Later he was dismissed due to circumstances.
In the first year of Yanping, he was promoted to Yilang and then to the prefect of Yingchuan.
In the first year of Yongchu, he was recruited as Sikong, and he only served in accordance with the law.
After three years of service, he requested to retire due to illness. The emperor didn't listen.
In the spring of the sixth year, during the grand shooting ceremony, his companion suddenly fell down, and Cai Ce was dismissed.
He died at home due to serious illness.
◆Hu Guangchuan, courtesy name Boshi, was a native of Huarong, Nanjun.
Hu Gang, the sixth generation ancestor, was a man of high moral integrity and integrity.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, he was selected by the Great Situ Ma Palace.
When Wang Mang was regent, Hu Gang took off his clothes and hung up the door of the palace. Then he fled to Jiaochang and hid among the slaughterhouses.
Later, Wang Mang failed and returned to his hometown.
His father, Hu Gong, served as the commander-in-chief of Jiaozhi.
Hu Guang was lonely and poor when he was young and did housework by himself.
When he grew up, he followed his elders and joined the county as a casual official.
Fazhen, the son of the prefect Faxiong, came from home to visit his father.
The truth of the law is quite knowledgeable.
Faxiong ordered Fazhen to help him select talents when he was due to take the year-end exam.
Faxiong then held a meeting with all the officials, and Fazhen himself observed from the window, so he pointed Hu Guang to warn Faxiong and inspected his filial piety and integrity.
After arriving in the capital, he was tested by Zhang Zhi. Emperor An regarded Hu Guang as the best in the world.
In the tenth month, he was promoted to Shangshulang and was promoted to Shangshu Pushe five times.
Emperor Shun wanted to make a queen, but among the nobles there were four favored ones. He didn't know who to make, so he decided to draw lots and ask God to choose the queen.
Hu Guang, together with Shangshu Guo Qian and Shi Chang, went to the court to remonstrate: I saw the imperial edict privately and thought that establishing a queen was a major event. I was humble and refused to make my own decision. I wanted to use the method of drawing lots to ask God to resolve the doubts.
There are no ancestral allusions recorded in ancient books.
Relying on gods and witches may not necessarily find wise men, but even if you meet such people, you are not choosing people based on virtue.
Human appearance comes from nature, so there must be different appearances in heaven.
We should refer to good families and choose virtuous people. If they have the same virtues, they should look at their age. If they are equal in age, they should look at their appearance. They should consider the classics and judge from the saints.
Government orders are like sweating. Once they come out, they cannot be taken back.
Once the edict was issued, it was seen everywhere.
The minister's duty is to collect lost things, and he is deeply concerned about the responsibility, so he is anxious and ventures to state his opinions.
The emperor obeyed and appointed Liang Guiren, a woman from a good family, as his queen.
At that time, Zuo Xiong, the official secretary of the Ministry of Finance, proposed to reform the system of examination and examination. The age limit should be above forty years old. Confucian scholars should be tested for classics and literary officials should be tested for zhangzou.
Hu Guang also wrote a letter to Chang and Qian to refute: I have heard that the kings consider it a virtue to read and take photos at the same time. Is it true for the ministers to show loyalty to them?
The "Book of Books" contains accounts of correcting doubts and seeking advice from ministers; the "Book of Songs" contains examples of praising ancestors and consulting woodcutter people.
When it comes to state-owned policies, we must examine the past history and ask old people, so that we can make sure we make no mistakes and make mistakes. We see that the minister ordered Zuo Xiong to discuss the county promotion of filial piety and integrity, and the age limit was over forty. Students were tested for chapters and sentences, and civil servants were tested for pieces and memorials.
The imperial edict of the Ming Dynasty has approved it, and the ministers and other ministers have been asked to provide advice.
Thinking of the importance of the king's destiny, which is written in the canon, it should be hung in the sun and moon, solidified in gold and stone, passed down to hundreds of kings, and passed down to the ages.
"The Book of Songs" says: It is difficult for Heaven to challenge Chen Si, and it is not easy to be the king.
Aren't you cautious?
In general, when selecting talents, we cannot stick to customization. Chen Ping's Six Wonders of Strategy did not come from Confucian classics; Zheng Guozi Chan entered politics, and Yan Zi transformed Dong'a without relying on Zhang Zou.
Gan Luo was the prime minister at the age of twelve, and Zi Qi was transformed into Dong'a at the age of eighteen, both of whom were young and showed their talents; Tong Jun and Jia Yi were famous, but they were also in their weak years.
The Han Dynasty inherited the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, and also studied the Yin and Xia Dynasties. The ancestral virtues and classics were mixed with the rule of kings and hegemons. The sage masters and virtuous ministers were responsible for the world, and the tribute system did not change much.
Now, with the words of a minister, the benefits of reforming the old constitution are not obvious, and the people are not convinced.
It is the most important thing to correct the situation, not to visit the Taiwan Affairs Bureau, and not to seek help from the ministers.
If the document is issued and the discussants have different views and disagree, it will be inconvenient for the court to exercise it. If they agree, the king's words have been fulfilled.
Chen Yu thought that we could declare hundreds of officials, refer to their similarities and differences, and then decide whether they would win or not, and take a detailed look at their core parts.
If you dare to tell nonsense and violate the heavenly prohibition, I hope your majesty will accept it.
The emperor did not listen.
At that time, Chenliu County was vacant, so Shangshu Shichang and others recommended Hu Guang.
The memorial said: I have heard that virtuous people are recognized by virtue, noble titles are used to build things, and outstanding trials are recognized by merit. It is praised in "Dian Mo" and has five chapters in five chapters. It is written by Tianzhi. Therefore, I will do my best to be loyal, the king will favor him, my actions will not lose virtue, and I will forget about his death.
Privately, I saw Hu Guang, the minister of public affairs, be true to the rules, modest and elegant, well-versed in knowledge, and thoroughly studied its principles. He read everything in the Six Classics and the old constitutions.
Be gentle but not guilty of injustice, be civilized and polite, be loyal, and worry about public affairs as well as home.
Don't praise your abilities, don't undervalue your efforts, be cautious and thoughtful, and behave without mistakes.
I have worked hard morning and night, for more than ten years, without caring about anything else, and with an unswerving ambition.
The ministers believed that Hu Guang worked hard for a long time in the position of minister. Later, when his mother was old, he was taken care of by Jianzhao.
Chen Liu was close to the county, and now the prefect is in vacancy.
Hu Guang has profound talents and is able to get rid of troubles. He is willing to participate in the election to correct the decadent customs, make people practice good and encourage them.
Hu Guang stayed in power for ten years and became the prefect of Jiyin. He was dismissed for making false promises in appointing officials.
He also became the prefect of Runan and went to worship Da Sinong.
In the first year of Han'an, he was promoted to Situ.
After the death of Emperor Zhi, he took Li Gu's place as Taiwei and recorded the affairs of the minister.
Because of his decision, he established Emperor Huan and was granted the title of Marquis of Yuyang Anle Township.
Abdicated due to illness.
He paid homage to Sikong and returned home.
Soon after, he summoned Taichang to pay homage to Taichang and was promoted to Taiwei. He was dismissed due to the solar eclipse.
Return to Tai Chang and pay homage to the Taiwei.
In the second year of Yanxi, General Liang Ji was killed. Hu Guang, Situ Han Jinyin, and Sikong Sunlang committed the crime of not guarding the palace. They were all reduced to one level of death, seized the title, and were dismissed as commoners.
Later, he paid homage to Taizhong Dafu and Taichang.
In the ninth year, he worshiped Situ again.
Emperor Ling came to the throne, and together with Taifu Chen Fan, he recorded the affairs of the ministers and restored the title of his homeland.
Requested to retire due to illness.
When Chen Fan was killed, he took over as Taifu, and the general record remained the same.
At this time, he was already eighty years old, but his mental strength was strong. The stepmother is in the hall, greeting her morning and evening, and there are only a few sticks by her side, and she does not say anything about her age.
After the mother's death, she was mourned and treated with courtesy.
He has a gentle and discreet personality, and is often polite and courteous.
Master the practice of affairs and understand the rules of the court clearly.
Although there is no tendency to be upright, it often has the benefit of making up for the shortcomings.
Therefore, the proverb of the capital says: Ignore everything and ask Bo Shi, there is only Hu Gong among the mediocre people in the world.
When he and Li Feng decided to make a plan, the discussion was not complete, and he married Ding Su, the official of the Central Committee. Therefore, he was ridiculed by the people at the time.
Hu Guang had been in Gongtai for more than 30 years, serving six emperors with excellent courtesy and appointments. Each time he abdicated his position, resigned from illness, and was dismissed and returned to the fields. Within a year, he was promoted again.
He served as Sikong once, Situ twice, Lieutenant Commander three times, and Tufu again.
The people he appointed were all famous people in the world.
Together with the old officials Chen Fan and Li Xian, they became the third division.
Chen Fan and others would often avoid Hu Guang by saying he was ill during every court meeting, which was considered an honor by people at the time.
In the eighty-second year of his reign, Xiping died in the first year of his reign.
The imperial court sent Wu Guanzhonglang, a general of five senses, to present a ribbon to the Taifu and the Marquis of Anle Township, with a ribbon, to the East Garden, to pay homage to the funeral, and to give a tomb to the original mausoleum.
Therefore, hundreds of officials, including dukes, ministers, doctors, doctors, and Yilang, all occupy funeral positions, from the time of death to the funeral.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the prosperity of ministers has never been greater.
At first, Yang Xiong wrote "Twelve States and Twenty-Five Official Proverbs" based on "Yu Zhen", nine of which were lost. Later, Cui Mayin of Zhuo County and his son Cui Yuan added sixteen more chapters to Linyi Marquis Liu Mayu, and Hu Guang continued to write four more chapters. The writing is very elegant and beautiful.
So he compiled a catalog and explained it all, called "Baiguan Zhen", with a total of forty-eight chapters.
The remaining poems, poems, inscriptions, odes, proverbs, condolences and exegesis are twenty-two in total.
In the sixth year of Xiping, Emperor Ling thought about the old virtues, so he painted portraits of Hu Guang and Taiwei Huang Qiong in the province, and ordered Yilang Cai Yong to compose an ode to them.
