◆Zheng Taichuan, also named Gongye, was born in Kaifeng, Henan. The great-grandson of Sinong Zheng Zhong.
He was talented when he was young. In the last years of Emperor Ling's reign, Mrs. Zheng knew that the world would be in chaos, so she secretly made friends with heroes.
His family was very wealthy, with 400 hectares of land, but he often had no food to eat. He was very famous, and everyone in Shandong knew about him.
At the beginning, he was promoted to Xiaolian, and he was recruited from the three government offices and buses, but he was not accepted.
After the general He Jin assisted in the administration, he recruited famous people and appointed Zheng Gongye as the Minister of the Secretariat and promoted to the Censor.
He Jin was preparing to kill the eunuchs and wanted to recruit Dong Zhuo, the governor of Bingzhou, as his assistant.
Zheng Gongye said to He Jin: Dong Zhuo is violent, cruel, unloyal, and very ambitious.
If you lend him the government affairs and grant him important tasks, you will be able to fulfill your evil desires and endanger the court.
With your important position as a pro-German, you have the authority to guide the emperor and preside over state affairs. Chengyi is arbitrary and punishes the guilty, so he really shouldn't use Dong Zhuo's power as a back-up.
And things change over time, and lessons are never far away.
Why enter Chen's top priority?
He Jin couldn't use it, so he abandoned his official position and left.
He said to Xun You, a native of Yingchuan: Mr. He is not easy to help.
He Jin was soon killed, and Dong Zhuo indeed rebelled.
Zheng Gongye and others, together with his servant Wu Qiong and Dong Zhuo's chief historian He, jointly talked about Dong Zhuo and appointed Yuan Shao as the prefect of Bohai to carry out Shandong's plan.
When the rebels arose, Dong Zhuo convened a discussion with the ministers and sent out a large army to attack the rebels. All the officials did not dare to violate Dong Zhuo's will.
Zheng Gongye was worried that if Dong Zhuo had more soldiers, he would become more arrogant and vicious and difficult to control. He said: "Ruling a country depends on virtue, not on having many soldiers."
Dong Zhuo was unhappy and said: According to what you say, soldiers are useless?
Zheng Gongye became frightened, so he made up a lie and said to Dong Zhuo: "I'm not saying that soldiers are useless, I just mean that Shandong doesn't have enough soldiers."
If you don't believe it, I can give you a rough idea.
Now Shandong is colluding, the states and counties are connected, and the people are united, it cannot be said that it is not strong. However, since Guangwu, the country has been safe and sound, the people have lived a prosperous life, and have long forgotten about the war.
Confucius said: To teach the people to fight without educating them is to abandon the people.
Therefore, although there are many of them, they are not enough to cause harm. This is one thing.
You were born in Xizhou and became a general of the country at a young age. You are familiar with military affairs and have participated in many battles. You are famous in the world. Everyone is afraid of you and obeys you. These are two.
Zhang Mengzhuo is a loyal elder in Dongping, and he doesn't look around.
Kong Gongxu was a clear talker, impartial and impartial.
These people have no military talent or experience in fighting. They are not your opponents in a decisive battle. This is three.
Talents in Shandong are never brave.
We don't have the bravery of Meng Ben, the agility of Qingji, the solid defense of Liaocheng, or the strategies of Zhang Liang and Chen Ping.
This is four.
Even if there are people who can be appointed, there is no distinction between superiority and inferiority, and the title of the country is not given to them. They rely on the number of people and their strength. They will stand alone and wait to see success or failure, and are unwilling to work together to advance and retreat together.
This is five.
Most of the counties in Guanxi are familiar with military affairs. In recent years, they have fought against the Qiang many times. Women also wear halberds and spears, and carry bows and arrows. How much more brave soldiers to resist untrained people!
Victory is inevitable.
This is six. Moreover, among the powerful and brave people in the world, those who are afraid of the common people are the Bing and Liang people, as well as the Xiongnu, Tuge, Huangzhong Yicong, and Xiqiang. You have them as your minions, just like driving tigers to attack dogs and sheep, and they are invincible.
This is seven.
Moreover, your generals are all cousins ​​​​and are your confidants. They have been with you for a long time. They are kind and trustworthy, loyal and trustworthy, and your intelligence can be relied on.
With a united army, we can defeat the scattered enemy like a strong wind sweeping away dead leaves.
This is eight.
We know that there are three kinds of destruction in war: destruction by using chaos to attack reason, destruction by using evil to attack righteousness, and destruction by using counterattack and obedience.
Now you govern the country with justice, destroy the eunuchs, and your loyalty has been established.
Use these three virtues to kill the three of them, and follow the orders of the imperial court to attack the guilty ones. Who dares to resist!
This is nine.
The knowledge of Zheng Xuan in Dongzhou includes modern and ancient times, and Bingyuan in Beihai is honest and upright. They are all admired by Confucian scholars and are models for all scholars.
If their generals ask Zheng Xuan and Bing Yuan about their plans, they can know which one is stronger and which one is weaker.
In the past, Yan, Zhao, Qi, and Liang were not weak, but they were eventually destroyed by Qin; Wu and Chu were not weak, and they were finally defeated by Zhou Yafu in Xingyang.
What's more, now that the government is clearly virtuous and the virtuous are assisted, will Zheng Xuan and Bing Yuan agree with their plan to create rebellion and encourage banditry?
Definitely not.
This is ten. If what I said can be adopted at all, it is that we should not conscript troops to disturb the world and make the people who are afraid of conscription gather together to commit evil. If you don't abandon your virtue and rely on the public, you will lose your dignity.
Dong Zhuo was happy. Make Zheng Gongye the general and lead all armies to attack Guandong.
Someone said to Dong Zhuo: Zheng Gongye is very resourceful and has conspired with foreign invaders. Now giving him an army is helping his party members. I think it is terrible.
Dong Zhuo then took back the troops given to Zheng Gongye and appointed him as Yilang.
Dong Zhuo moved the capital to Chang'an, and there was famine and turmoil in the world, and many scholar-bureaucrats were unable to survive.
But Zheng Gongye's family had plenty of money, and he invited guests to have fun every day. He saved many people.
He, He and Xun You jointly planned to kill Dong Zhuo.
When the incident was leaked out and the others were arrested, Zheng Gongye escaped from Wuguan and returned east to Yuan Shu.
Yuan Shu made a memorial to appoint him as the governor of Yangzhou.
He did not take office and died on the road at the age of forty-one.
◆Biography of Kong Rong, Kong Rong was a native of Lu and the 20th grandson of Confucius.
Kong Ba, the seventh generation ancestor, was the disciple of Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty and served as an official.
His father, Kong Zhou, was the captain of Taishan.
Kong Rong had special talents when he was a child.
At the age of ten, he went to the capital with his father.
At that time, Henan Yin and Li Ying kept themselves simple and strict, and did not receive scholar-bureaucrats and guests casually. They were not allowed to inform anyone who was not a contemporary celebrity or a family with whom they had known each other for generations.
Kong Rong wanted to see what kind of person Li Ying was, so he went to Li Ying's house and knocked on the door. The person who answered the door said, "I am a descendant of Li Juntong's family."
The gatekeeper told Li Ying that Li Ying asked Kong Rong to meet him.
Question: Did Grandfather Gao Ming ever have any friendship with me? Kong Rong said: Yes.
The ancestor Confucius and your ancestor Li Laojun have the same virtues and synonyms, and they have a mentor-friend relationship. Then, I, Kong Rong, and you have been friends for generations.
Everyone sitting here was impressed by it.
Taizhong doctor Chen Wei arrived later, and those present told Chen Wei this.
Chen Wei said: Oh, people are smart when they are young, but they may not be of much use when they grow up.
Kong Rong continued what he said: According to what you said, were you quite smart when you were young? Li Ying laughed and said: You will be very promising in the future.
When Kong Rong was thirteen years old, his father died. He was so grieved that he had to be helped to stand up. The state praised his filial piety.
He has a good nature to learn and is well-read.
Shanyang Zhang Jian was hated by Hou Lan, the official of Zhongchang. Hou Lan concealed his name and sent a memorial to the prefectures and counties to arrest Zhang Jian. Zhang Jian was friends with Kong Rong's brother Kong Bao, so he fled to Kong Bao's home, but Kong Bao was not there.
Kong Rong was sixteen years old at this time. Zhang Jian thought Kong Rong was young and did not tell him. Kong Rong saw Zhang Jian's embarrassed look and said to Zhang Jian: Although my brother has not returned home, can't I be your host?
So Zhang Jian was left to live in his home.
Later, the matter was leaked out, and the Prime Minister and others were secretly arrested, and Zhang Jian was able to escape. So Kong Bao and Kong Rong were arrested and sent to prison.
I don’t know who of the two was convicted.
Kong Rong said: I was the one who sheltered and hid Zhang Jian, and I am the one who is guilty.
Kong Bao said: "It's not my brother's fault that Zhang Jian came to me. It's my fault. I'm willing to do so."
The official asked their mother, who said: "The elders are in charge of the housework, and the blame lies with me."
One sect was fighting to the death, and the county could not make a decision, so it asked the court for instructions.
The edict finally convicted Kong Bao.
Kong Rong was famous for this, and he was as famous as Pingyuan Tao Qiuhong and Chen Liubian Rang. He was appointed by the prefectures and counties according to etiquette, but he was not qualified.
Recruit Situ Yang to give his residence.
At that time, he secretly inspected the corrupt elements in the bureaucracy and prepared to demote and remove them. Kong Rong prosecuted most of them as relatives of eunuchs.
The minister was afraid of offending the emperor's favor, so he summoned his officials to question and rebuke them. Kong Rong stated their crimes without any secret.
When He Jin, Yin of Henan Province, was to be promoted to general, Yang Ci sent Kong Rong to congratulate He Jin with his business card. However, without informing him in time, Kong Rong took the invitation back to the palace and went back home, blaming himself.
The officials of Henan Yin thought they had lost face and sent private swordsmen to hunt down Kong Rong. A visitor said to He Jin: Kong Wenju has a great reputation. If the general has a grudge with him, people from all over the world will follow him and flee.
It is better to treat him with courtesy and let everyone in the world know that the general has a broad mind.
He Jin thought it was right, and after being appointed as a general, he conquered Kong Rong, promoted him to a high rank, and became the imperial censor.
Because he was at odds with Zhongcheng Zhao She, he returned home due to illness.
Later he was conscripted as Sikong Peng and awarded the title of Military Marquis.
After three days in office, he was promoted to General of Tiger and Lieutenant Commander.
When Dong Zhuo deposed the Young Emperor and established the Xian Emperor, Kong Rong often corrected his mistakes when answering questions. Therefore, he violated Dong Zhuo's wishes and was transferred to Yilang.
At that time, the Yellow Turbans invaded several states, and Beihai was the place where thieves attacked the most. Dong Zhuo then signaled the three governments to jointly appoint Kong Rong as the Prime Minister of Beihai.
Kong Rong went to the county, summoned the soldiers and people, raised troops and taught martial arts. He not only issued proclamations, but also wrote letters himself, communicating with the prefectures and counties, and planning together.
The thief Zhang Rao and other 200,000 people returned from Jizhou. Kong Rong faced him and was defeated by Zhang Rao. So he gathered scattered soldiers to defend Zhuxu County.
Then he slowly gathered more than 40,000 officials and people, men and women who had been misled by the Yellow Turban, and built cities and schools, praised Confucianism, and recommended virtuous people such as Zheng Xuan, Peng Chu, and Bing Yuan.
Zhen Ziran, a county native, was famous in Linxiaocun. He died young. Kong Rong regretted not seeing him. Ordered to distribute food to the county society.
Even if the others have only a small amount of good deeds, they will not be treated with courtesy.
County residents who had no descendants and travelers from all over the country who died were buried in coffins.
At this time, the Yellow Turbans invaded again. Kong Rong then went to Duchang County and was surrounded by the thief Guan Hai.
Kong Rong was in great danger and sent Donglai Taishi Ci to ask for help from Pingyuan Prime Minister Liu Bei.
Liu Bei said in surprise: Kong Beihai actually knew that there was another Liu Bei in the world.
Three thousand soldiers were immediately sent to rescue him, but the thief escaped because he was scattered.
At that time, Yuan Shao and Cao Cao were very powerful, and Kong Rong did not rely on anyone.
Zuo Chengzu was rich in strategy and advised Kong Rong to join forces with Cao Cao and Yuan Shao.
Kong Rong knew that Yuan Shao and Cao Cao were ultimately trying to usurp the Han Dynasty, and he didn't want to get involved with them, so he killed Zuo Chengzu in a rage.
Kong Rong himself thought that he had a noble spirit and was determined to quell the country's crisis, but he failed because of his limited talents and empty ideas.
After six years in the county, Liu Bei recommended him to concurrently serve as the governor of Qingzhou.
In the first year of Jian'an, he was attacked by Yuan Tan. From spring to summer, there were only a few hundred soldiers left. Arrows came like rain, and the city was already in close combat.
Kong Rong could read a few books and talk and laugh freely.
The city fell at night and he fled to Shandong. His wife was captured by Yuan Tan.
When Emperor Xian arrived, he made Xuchang his capital and recruited Kong Rong as a general to be a great craftsman and promoted to Shaofu.
Every time the emperor visited and summoned his ministers, Kong Rong often made decisions, and the ministers and officials were just in name. In the past, Taifu Ma Rishi was sent to Shandong as an envoy to Huainan. He was dissatisfied with Yuan Shu many times. Yuan Shu despised him, insulted him, and took away his talisman. Ma Rishidan was so worried and angry that he vomited blood and died. Ma Rishidan's funeral was returned to the capital, and the court wanted to arrange a funeral ceremony. Kong Rong said: Ma Rishidan was ordered to handle local affairs directly by relying on his noble status as a prince and the integrity of the emperor. He calmed down Dongxia and even flattered a traitor. He was instigated by him. Ma Rishidan was the first to sign and sign the articles. Relying on subordinates, deceiving the court, and serving the emperor treacherously.
In the past, the state assisted the enemy Jin army and was not convinced. Yi Liao's expression did not change in front of the shining white sword.
Can court ministers be threatened as an excuse?
Moreover, Yuan Shu became more and more rebellious, and he did not just follow Sun and Shi single-handedly over the years.
"Han Code": Anyone who has been with a sinner for more than three days should know his situation.
"Spring and Autumn": Lu Shusun Dechen died. In order not to publicize Xiang Zhong's crime and demotion, he did not write the date.
Zheng attacked Duke You and chopped down the coffins of Bozi's family because he killed the king.
The emperor feels pity for his old minister and cannot bear to pursue the crime against him. This is very lenient and it is not appropriate to add courtesy.
The court accepted his opinion.
Public opinion at the time mostly wanted to reinstate corporal punishment.
Kong Rong suggested: People in ancient times were honest and simple, did not distinguish between good and evil, officials were upright, criminal laws were clear and clear, and there were no mistakes in politics.
If the common people are guilty, they are all responsible for themselves.
In the last days, the country has declined, the moral education has become chaotic, politics has disturbed the customs, and the country's laws have harmed the people.
Therefore, if the monarch fails to behave as a monarch, the people will become disloyal and disobedient, and want to use ancient criminal laws to mutilate their limbs. This is not a way to eliminate evil and promote good.
Zhou cut off the legs of those who waded into the river in the morning. People all over the world said that Zhou was cruel and cruel.
Once upon a time, there were 1,800 kingdoms in the Zhou Dynasty, and the people of the Nine Provinces supported 1,800 kings. If each person's foot was cut off, there would be 1,800 kings below.
It is absolutely impossible to achieve pure and beautiful customs.
Moreover, people who have been punished have no desire to live and are determined to die. Most of them take desperate risks and never return to the right path.
Susha caused chaos in the Qi Dynasty, Yi's violence brought disaster to the Song Dynasty, and Zhao Gao and Yingbu caused great trouble to the world.
Not only does it not prevent people from doing bad things, it just cuts off the way for people to do good.
Although he is as loyal as Wan Quan, as trustworthy as Bian He, as wise as Sun Bin, as unjust as Xiang Bo, as talented as Shi Qian, and as daring as Zizheng, he will be laughed at even after his death.
Therefore, Taijia's thoughts are often said: Qin Mugong made Qin conquer Xirong, Nan Sui stood up, Wei Wu drank at the "Chu Banquet" and repented, Chen Tang made the right move and sent troops, killed Zhi Zhizhi and Du Lai Shui, Wei Shang guarded the border, etc., there is no need to mention them again.
The Han Dynasty widely opened the way to reform evil, and this was mostly the case.
Therefore, a wise and virtuous king will think deeply, discard shortcomings and learn from the strong points, and will not make political reforms casually.
The court thought his suggestion was good and finally did not resume corporal punishment.
At this time, Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, refused to pay tribute to the court and did many things that went beyond the law. He actually worshiped heaven and earth in the countryside, intending to refer to the emperor.
The edict declared him to the world.
Kong Rong's Shangshu said: I heard that Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, was fierce and rebellious, and did not observe etiquette. He even worshiped heaven and earth in the suburbs and prepared rituals like the emperor.
Although he exceeded the limit and exceeded the limit, his crime was extremely heinous and he deserved to die. But as far as the country is concerned, it should not be made public for the time being.
Why?
The country is supreme and the emperor is supreme. The body is the bow of the sage, and the country is the sacred weapon. The ministers are like your Majesty, your Majesty's rank is far away, and your salary and position are limited. This is just like the sky cannot be ascended by the steps, and the sun and the moon cannot be surpassed.
Occasionally, if there is a minor minister, you have to deal with it and let everyone know that this is not a way to block evil cuteness.
I thought that even though I had committed a serious sin, I must endure it.
Jia Yi said: This is what it means to throw a rat-throwing weapon.
Therefore, when Qi troops attacked Chu, they only blamed Chu for not paying tribute and the defeat of the king's army, not that they were defeated by Jin.
In the past, Yuan Shu's crimes were exposed, and now Liu Biao's story is publicized. This makes the lame ewe look at the high bank and think that natural dangers can be climbed!
He found out that Liu Biao was domineering and disobedient, killed princes, prevented imperial edicts, cut off tributes, summoned evil, defended himself, and concealed the rebellious villains in the world. Gao Ding was housed in the Ancestral Temple. There is nothing more outstanding than this!
The Sangluo disintegrates and the situation becomes clear.
Therefore, I believe that the matter of suburban sacrifice should be concealed in order to safeguard the state.
In five years, Nanyang Wang Feng and Donghai Wang Zhi died. Emperor Xian was sad that they died too early, and wanted to arrange sacrifices for them at four times. To this end, Emperor Xian asked Kong Rong.
Kong Rong replied: Your Majesty is kind and considerate of the times. He mourns the souls of the two kings and issues pity edicts, examines and reviews the previous laws and regulations, and corrects the etiquette system.
I look at history and it turns out that in the past, King Huai of Liang, King Linjiang Min, King Qi Ai, and King Huai of Linhuai all died without descendants. Their brothers, namely Emperor Jing, Emperor Wu, Emperor Zhao, and Emperor Ming, never heard that the previous dynasty performed sacrifices for them.
If it's temporary, don't include it in the legend.
I am not sensible and think that they all died at a young age. The emperor grieved and gave them posthumous titles through the coming-of-age ceremony. This should be done according to your wishes. After the sacrifice, don't do it again in the future.
As for the one-year period, it is not in line with etiquette and violates the legal system established by the late emperor. This is inappropriate.
Earlier, Cao Cao attacked Yecheng and massacred the residents of Yecheng. Many of the women and girls of Yuan Shao's family were taken captive. Cao Cao's son Cao Pi secretly married Yuan Xi's wife Zhen.
Kong Rong wrote to Cao Cao, saying: King Wu defeated Zhou and rewarded Daji to Duke Zhou.
Cao Cao didn't understand, and later asked Kong Rong where this scripture came from.
Kong Rong replied: "Based on the current situation, I think it will be certain."
Later, when Cao Cao attacked Wuhuan, Kong Rong laughed at him and said: "The general went on an expedition and was depressed overseas. In the past, Su was careful not to pay tribute to Mu Kuya, and Ding Ling stole Su Wu's cattle and sheep. We can attack him together!"
At that time, there was famine and war, and Cao Cao petitioned for a ban on alcohol. Kong Rong wrote to Cao Cao many times, arguing that he should not ban alcohol, and his words were too insulting.
Having seen Cao Cao's treacherousness and deceit gradually revealed, he couldn't bear it, so he spoke in extreme ways and often offended Cao Cao.
He also once submitted a memorial that the ancient capital system should be followed, and no feudal princes should be allowed within a thousand miles.
Cao Cao doubted what he said gradually and became even more afraid of him.
However, because Kong Rong was famous all over the world, he pretended to be tolerant on the surface, but secretly he was jealous of his correct opinions and was afraid of hindering his great cause.
Shanyin Xilu tried to figure out Cao Cao's thoughts, and dismissed Kong Rong from his official position in defiance of national law.
In order to show his resentment, Cao Cao deliberately provoked Kong Rong.
Said: I once heard that in the Tang and Yu Dynasties, there were ministers who were able to do so, so linfeng flew over and sang loudly.
Later generations have poor moral character, but there are still some who kill themselves to defend their rulers and destroy their families for the sake of their country.
When it comes to decline, a small grudge will definitely turn into revenge, and a favor must be repaid. Therefore, Chao Cuo misses the country, because he caused trouble to Yuan An, Qu Ping misses the Chu country, because Jiao Lan Jin framed him with greedy words, Peng Chong rebelled, because of Zhu Fu's slander, Deng Yu's prestige was lost, and he lost due to the power struggle between Zong Qin and Feng An.
In this way, shouldn't we be careful about the causes of joy, anger, resentment, and misfortunes?
In the past, Lian Po and Lin Xiangru, the ministers of a small country, could still give in to each other. The warriors in the troubled times of Kou and Jia were humble and respectful to each other. Guangwu did not forget the grudge of killing his brother Bo Sheng, and the Marquis of Qi did not hesitate to shoot the enemy.
Will those who set up big festivals be burdened by small stories?
I heard that although the two law enforcement officers were on good terms, they had some personal grievances and should be reconciled as before. However, your resentment gradually accumulated until it harmed each other. I was very sad to hear that and got up in the middle of the night.
In the past, when the country moved to the east, Hongyu, who was highly praised in literary examinations, lived up to his name. He was proficient in Confucian classics. He came from Zheng Xuan, and he also knew "Sima Fa". Hongyu also said that Wenju Qiyi was rumored. I am surprised that you are the opposite now.
Wen Ju and I are not old friends, nor do we have any friendship with Hongyu. However, we hope that we can get along well with each other rather than harm each other, so I sincerely hope that you will be harmonious and happy.
I also know that the two princes are separated by villains. As human ministers, they cannot be civilized in the sea when they advance, and they cannot build virtue and people when they retreat. However, I have many strategies to raise warriors, serve the country personally, and deal with those who are flamboyant and friendly.
Kong Rong's newspaper said: I was given a letter to teach you, and told me what I couldn't do.
Hongyuzhou and I are in neighboring counties, and I have known him for a long time.
Although I once said that his achievements were wonderful, I just wanted him to see more of his own shortcomings and be loyal to the country. Unexpectedly, he concealed his mistakes and his evildoings, and did not feel guilty when he was guilty.
I've been dismissed before and gladly accepted it.
In the past, Zhao Xuanzi was promoted to Han Jue's official position in the morning, and Han Jue killed Zhao Xuanzi's envoys in the evening. Zhao Xuanzi finally treated him with courtesy and happily asked others to congratulate him, saying that from now on I can be exempted from sin.
What's more, without Han Jue's merits, he dared to waste his position as an official?
Without Qu Yuan's loyalty and wrong wisdom, it would be a sin to steal the throne, and it would be a blessing to be exempted from guilt. However, some unnecessary comments were made to let you know, which makes me feel ashamed and afraid.
Zhu, Peng, Kou, and Jia were the strong men of the world. They loved and hated each other and attacked each other, which was a worry for the country.
As for being weak and weak, it is just like the bite of insects, it only harms oneself and nothing else.
The Marquis of Jin commended his ministers for their great efforts, but Shi Kuang thought it was not as good as Xin Jing Jing.
He is slow-witted by nature and does not harm others. Even though Han Xin suffered the humiliation of his crotch, and Jing Ke suffered the humiliation of Yu Ci, he did not realize the seriousness of the disparagement to himself.
Zichan said that people's hearts are different. Some value power and want to win as an honor, while others do not want Song people to receive guests from all over the world. Da Chu Lu didn’t want to make the wine sour.
As for Qu's big earthenware pot, it is hard and hollow and should be punished as useless.
Others should strictly follow the instructions and not dare to make any mistakes.
Xi Lu is an old official and I recommend him.
When Zhao Shui promoted Gu Quan, he did not underestimate the promotion of his uncle.
I know that you and I both love and care for Xi Liu, and our teachings come from the bottom of our hearts.
Although there is Yibo's jealousy, it is still not considered. How about relying on old friends and trying to rely on good officials?
Dedicated to the heart and mind, repair it as before.
Your hard words mean the most and will never be forgotten for the rest of your life.
After more than a year, he was again appointed as Taizhong doctor.
He is tolerant and non-suspicious by nature, a good scholar, and likes to induce and promote young people.
And after retiring from his idle position, the house is full of guests every day.
Chang sighed and said: If the seats are always full of guests and the wine in the wooden statue is not empty, then I will have no worries.
He was very good with Cai Yong. After Cai Yong's death, there was a tiger warrior who looked a bit like Cai Yong. Every time Kong Rong drank enough wine, he invited him to sit with him and said: Although there is no old man, I am glad that there are still typical models.
When Kong Rong heard that others had good deeds, he treated them as if they were his own, and if his words were useful, he would always respond perfunctorily, telling others their shortcomings and praising their strengths. Recommend wise men and reward enterprising people. If he knew something and didn't tell it, he thought it was his own fault, so all the handsome people in the country believed in him.
Cao Cao was full of suspicion and jealousy, and Xi worried and framed him for his crime, so he ordered the prime minister's army to plan a wine sacrifice. Lu Cui wrongfully reported to Kong Rong, saying: Kong Rong, the young master, once saw the royal family in Beihai and saw the unrest in the royal family. He gathered his disciples and plotted evil. He said: After the great sage, I was destroyed by the Song Dynasty. If there is a world, why must it be the Mao Jin Dao?
Later, he spoke to Sun Quan's envoy and slandered the court.
In addition, Kong Rong was in the position of Jiuqing. He did not abide by the etiquette of the court, did not wear a bow, and went around in the palace.
In the past, he and Mi Heng, who had not become an official, were talking carelessly and nonsense. What kind of relationship do father and son have?
In terms of its original intention, it is actually just lust.
What happened to the son and mother?
It's like putting things in a can and being separated when they come out.
Soon, Ni Heng and Ni Heng even boasted that Kong Rong was "Zhong Ni Immortal".
Kong Rong replied: Yan Hui is reborn.
Those who are treasonous and dishonest should be severely punished.
The book was written and sentenced to abandon the market.
He was fifty-six years old.
His wife and children were all killed.
First, the daughter was seven years old and the boy was nine years old. Because they were both young and weak, they had to be preserved. Send it to someone else.
When the two men were playing chess, Kong Rong was arrested and did not move.
People around him said: My father was arrested and I can’t afford it. Why?
Answer: Where is the nest that is destroyed but the eggs are not broken?
The master left some gravy, and the boy was thirsty and drank it.
The girl said: How can I survive such a disaster today and still know the taste of meat?
Brother cried and stopped drinking.
Someone told Cao Cao, so he decided to kill them all.
When the arresters arrived, the woman said to her brother: If the deceased was known and his parents could be seen, wouldn't it be our greatest wish?
So he was tortured by his neck, and his color did not change. No one could not feel sad for him.
In the past, the people of Jingzhao, Zhi Xi and Yuan Sheng, had a good relationship with Kong Rong, and had warned Kong Rong of being upright.
When he was killed, no one in Xuchang dared to collect the body. Zhi Xi went to caress the body and said: Wen Ju left me to die, and I will no longer live.
Cao Cao was furious when he heard that he was about to arrest Zhi Xi and kill him. He was later pardoned and released.
Emperor Wen of Wei loved Kong Rong's literary works most, and he often sighed and said: Yang Xiong and Ban Gu are first-rate.
Recruiting those who submit Kong Rong's articles from all over the world, they will be rewarded with gold and silk.
Kong Rong wrote a total of twenty-five poems, odes, inscriptions, discussions, six words, strategies, lists, appeals, orders, and secretaries.
Emperor Wen believed that Zhi Xi had a strong relationship with Luan Bu, so he added Zhongsan Dafu.
The historian commented: Once upon a time, Zheng Chang, an admonishing doctor, said: There are ferocious beasts in the mountains, but no one dares to pick quinoa.
Therefore, Confucius established his dynasty in an upright manner, and no one made any mistakes that would cause trouble to his lord. Yan Pingzhong was in the dynasty, and Tian Chengzi did not dare to kill the lord of Qi and steal his country.
As for Kong Wenju's noble aspirations and frank feelings, they can definitely inspire loyalty and resist the treacherous heart.
Therefore, when Cao Cao was alive, he did not dare to usurp the Han Dynasty, but it was Cao Pi who succeeded the Han Dynasty after his death.
Strict qi and righteousness are nothing more than overturning and destroying.
Is it possible to live a life of humiliation and compromise? Strict and neat, bright and white, Kong Rong's quality can be compared with that of white jade and autumn frost!
◆Xun Yu's biography, Xun Yu's courtesy name Wenruo, was born in Yingyin, Yingchuan, and was the grandson of Xun Shu, the magistrate of Langling County.
His father, Xun Nu, served as Prime Minister of Jinan.
Xun Yu was afraid of eunuchs, so he married Xun Yu's daughter to Tang Heng, the official minister of the imperial court.
Xun Yu was saved from being ridiculed because he was famous for his talent at a young age.
He Yong from Nanyang claimed to be able to understand people. When he saw Xun Yu, he thought he was extraordinary and said: "This is the talent of the emperor's assistant."
In the sixth year of Zhongping, he was recommended as Xiaolian and appointed as the magistrate of Kangfu County.
When Dong Zhuo rebelled, he abandoned his official position and returned to his hometown.
Han Rong from the same county took more than a thousand members of his clan to escape the chaos in the western mountains of Mi County.
Xun Yu said to his elders: Yingchuan is a place where war must pass.
When the world changes, it is often the place where troops are needed.
Although Mi County is somewhat safe, it is not enough to withstand a major disaster. You should leave here as soon as possible.
Most of the fellow countrymen are nostalgic for their homeland and are unwilling to leave.
When Han Fu, a fellow herdsman from Jizhou, sent cavalry to pick them up, Xun Yu led his clan to follow Han Fu. Most of the people he left behind were later killed and robbed by Dong Zhuo's general Li Jue.
By the time Xun Yu arrived in Jizhou, Yuan Shao had already usurped Han Fu's position. Yuan Shao treated Xun Yu like a distinguished guest.
Xun Yu was a well-informed person. Seeing the chaos in the Han Dynasty, he always wanted to correct things.
At that time, Cao Cao was in Dongjun. Xun Yu heard that Cao Cao was talented and strategist, but he estimated that Yuan Shao would not be able to achieve great things in the end.
In the second year of Chuping, he left Yuan Shao and went to Cao Cao.
Cao Cao was overjoyed after talking to him and said: "This is my Zhang Liang."
He was appointed Fenwu Sima when he was twenty-nine years old.
The next year, he was appointed Sima of Zhendong.
In the first year of Xingping, Cao Cao attacked Tao Qian in the east and sent Xun Yu to guard Zhen City to take charge of the affairs left behind.
He caught up with Zhang Miao and Chen Gong and took Yanzhou to rebel against Cao Cao, and secretly welcomed Lu Bu.
After Lu Bu arrived, all cities responded.
Zhang Miao sent someone to deceive Xun Yu and said: General Lu came to help Cao Shijun defeat Tao Qian, so we should quickly supply him with military supplies.
Xun Yu knew that Zhang Miao had changed, so he deployed troops to fortify Zhang Miao's plan. Therefore, Zhang Miao's plan could not succeed.
Guo Gong, the governor of Yuzhou, led tens of thousands of troops to the city and asked to see Xun Yu.
Xun Yu was about to go, but Xiahou Dun, the prefect of Dongjun, and others stopped him, saying: "How do you know that Guo Gong is not conspiring with Lu Bu and meets him rashly?"
Now that you are the head of a state, it must be dangerous to go there.
Xun Yu said: Guo Gong and Zhang Miao and others usually have no friendship. Now that they have come so quickly, they must not have reached an agreement. When he is hesitant, we should persuade him in time. Even if it is not of our use, he can still be neutral.
If you doubt him first, he will be angry and conspire with them. It is better to go there.
Guo Gong saw that Xun Yu had no intention of fear and knew that the city could not be attacked, so he led his troops and left.
Xun Yu sent Cheng Yu to persuade Fan County and Dong'a to strengthen the city defense, and finally secured the three cities to wait for Cao Cao's return.
In the second year of Xingping, Tao Qian died. Cao Cao wanted to capture Xuzhou immediately and quell Lu Bu after returning his troops.
Xun Yu advised: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu occupied Guanzhong and Emperor Guangwu occupied Hanoi, they both consolidated the foundation first to control the world.
You can attack when you advance, and you can defend when you retreat, so even though you may fail, you can eventually accomplish your great cause.
The general is based on Yanzhou, so he can pacify Shandong. This is really an important place in the world, the general's Hangu Pass and the Yellow River.
If we don't stabilize it first, where should we put the foundation?
We should immediately divide our troops to attack Chen Gong, so that the enemy cannot go west, take advantage of the opportunity to harvest the ripe wheat, diet and store grain to support military operations, then Lu Bu will not be difficult to defeat.
There may not be much benefit in leaving this place and heading east.
If you retain too many troops, the front force will not be able to defeat the enemy; if you retain too few troops, the rear will not be able to consolidate.
Lu Bu took advantage of the opportunity to invade and shocked people's hearts. Even if a few cities were saved, the rest were no longer his own, so where could the general return?
Moreover, when we conquered Xuzhou in the past, we showed off our power and imposed punishments. The children there remembered the shame of their father and brother being killed, so everyone must hold on to it. Even if they could conquer it, they would not be able to hold it.
If they unite out of fear, support each other, fortify the walls and clear the country, waiting to deal with the general, the general's attack will not be defeated, and the looting will not be harvested. In less than ten days, the 100,000-strong army will be passive before fighting.
Although there have been cases of choosing one over the other, it all depends on the situation at the time, so I hope the general will consider it.
Cao Cao then vigorously harvested the ripe wheat and fought with Lu Bu.
Lu Bu was defeated and fled, taking the opportunity to pacify each county separately, and Yanzhou was pacified.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian returned to Luoyang from Hedong. Cao Cao planned to welcome the chariot and move the capital to Xuchang.
Most people believed that Shandong was not yet stable, and that Han Xian and Yang Feng were relying on their merits and acting arrogantly, so they should not act hastily.
Xun Yu then encouraged Cao Cao and said: In the past, Duke Wen of Jin accepted King Xiang of Zhou, and the princes followed Jin like a shadow; the emperor of the Han Dynasty paid filial piety to the Righteous Emperor, and the people of the world surrendered.
Since the emperor's calamity, the general raised the first volunteer army, but because of the chaos in Shandong, he did not bother to take over. Although he was out fighting the chaos, he was always thinking about the royal family in his heart.
Now that the emperor has returned, Luoyang is desolate, the righteous people have the desire to protect the orthodoxy, and the people feel the sorrow of remembering the past.
If you can really serve the Lord at this time and comply with the wishes of all the people, this is great obedience; if you hold the greatest authority to make the world obey, this is great strategy; if you support great righteousness to attract talents, this is great virtue.
Even if someone disobeys, what can be done?
Why should Han Xian and Yang Feng be worried?
If you don't decide in time and let other heroes have this intention, even if you think about it again in the future, it will be too late.
Cao Cao listened to his advice.
When the emperor moved the capital to Xuchang, he appointed Xun Yu as his minister and acting minister.
Cao Cao often went out to fight, and discussed all major military and state affairs with Xun Yu. Xun Yu also recommended to Cao Cao his nephew Xun You who was good at strategy, as well as Zhong Yao, Guo Jia, Chen Qun, Du Xi, Sima Yi, Xi Zhicai, etc., and they all lived up to his recommendation.
Only Yan Xiang was appointed governor of Yangzhou and Wei Kang was appointed governor of Liangzhou, but they were both defeated and died.
After Yuan Shao annexed the land of Heshuo, he became arrogant.
When Cao Cao was defeated by Zhang Xiu, Yuan Shao's letter to Cao Cao was very arrogant.
Cao Cao was furious and wanted to attack Yuan Shao first, but was afraid that he would not be able to defeat him, so he discussed this with Xun Yu.
Xun Yu estimated that although Yuan Shao was strong, he would be subdued by Cao Cao sooner or later, so he advised Cao Cao to eliminate Lu Bu first and then deal with Yuan Shao. Cao Cao followed his advice.
In the third year of Jian'an, Lu Bu was finally captured and Xuzhou was pacified.
In the fifth year of Jian'an, Yuan Shao led an army to attack Xuchang, and Cao Cao had a stalemate with him.
Yuan Shao's army was large, and everyone who discussed this matter was afraid.
Kong Rong, the Shaofu, said to Xun Yu: "Yuan Shao has a vast territory and a strong army. Wise men like Tian Feng and Xu You are planning for him. He has appointed ministers who are loyal and loyal to discipline and assigned to important positions. Yan Liang and Wen Chou are the bravest among the three armies." command his army.
I'm afraid it's hard to win, right? Xun Yu said: Although Yuan Shao had many soldiers, his military law was not strict, Tian Feng was upright and committed crimes, Xu You was greedy and not upright, his officers were arbitrary but unintelligent, he was bold and self-righteous in the face of discipline, Yan Liangwen was brave and ugly, and he could capture them in one battle.
Later, everything happened as Xun Yu expected. This matter is recorded in "The Biography of Yuan Shao".
Cao Cao was guarding Guandu and fought successive battles with Yuan Shao. Although he won the victory, he was about to run out of military rations. He wrote to Xun Yu to discuss the matter and wanted to return to Xuchang to wait for Yuan Shao's army.
Xun Yu wrote back and said: Although there is little food now, it is not like when Chu and Han were in a stalemate between Xingyang and Chenggao.
At that time, Liu Bang and Xiang Yu refused to retreat first, thinking that retreating first would damage morale.
It has been half a year since you used one-tenth of the opponent's troops to defend the territory and guard the choke points to prevent him from advancing.
It can be seen that this situation is about to end, and there will be a turnaround soon. This is a time to use extraordinary measures, and you must not miss the opportunity.
Cao Cao listened to his advice and stood firm against Yuan Shao.
Finally, Yuan Shao was defeated with extraordinary troops, and Yuan Shao was defeated.
Xun Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Long Live Pavilion, and was granted the title of Marquis of Long Live Pavilion, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
In the sixth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao believed that Yuan Shao had just been defeated and was not in danger. He wanted to leave only the guard troops and conquer Liu Biao southward to question Xun Yu.
Xun Yu replied: "Yuan Shao has just been defeated and people are in panic. Now instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to pacify the situation, they are going to expedition to Jianghan. If Yuan Shao gathers the defeated tribesmen and takes advantage of the opportunity, then your big thing will be ruined."
Cao Cao then gave up.
In the ninth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao captured Yecheng and appointed himself the shepherd of Jizhou.
Some people advised Cao Cao to restore the ancient Jiuzhou system, thinking that if the territory under Jizhou's jurisdiction was larger, the world would be more likely to obey.
Cao Cao planned to accept this proposal.
Xun Yu said to him: If the ancient system is followed now, the jurisdiction of Jizhou will include Hedong, Fengyi, Fufeng, Xihe, Youzhou, Bingzhou and other places.
You massacred Yecheng before, and the world was in shock. Everyone was afraid that they would not be able to defend their territory and their own troops.
Nowadays, if one place is attacked, others will definitely think that other places will be taken over in turn. People's hearts will be turbulent. If chaos occurs, things will be difficult to manage in the world.
I hope you can pacify Hebei first, then repair and restore the old capital, march to Chu Ying, and accuse them of not paying tribute to the court.
Everyone in the world understands what you mean, and everyone feels at ease.
The world must be completely stable before we can talk about the issue of ancient systems. This is in the long-term interests of the country.
Cao Cao wrote back and said: If it weren't for this step's reminder, the loss would have been great!
So the Jiuzhou proposal was abandoned.
In the twelfth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao wrote a letter praising Xun Yu's achievements and said: In the past, Yuan Shao caused rebellion and assembled a large army in Guandu. At that time, we had few soldiers and food, and planned to retreat to Xuchang.
The minister ordered Xun Yu to state the advantages of holding on and put forward a strategic strategy from a high position, which inspired my thinking and changed my wrong plan. He strengthened the fortress and defended it tenaciously, captured the enemy's armaments, and finally defeated the powerful enemy and turned the danger into safety.
After Yuan Shao's defeat, I also ran out of military rations and planned to abandon my plan to capture Hebei and instead plot Jingnan.
Xun Yu also explained the gains and losses in detail to change the opinions of his ministers, so he was able to return to Jizhou and pacify four states and counties.
If I had retreated from Guandu, Yuan Shao would have beaten the drums and advanced. The enemy would have the upper hand and become more courageous. However, my army would be timid and demoralized. It would be a sure defeat and there would be no chance of victory.
Moreover, if Liu Biao marched southward and left Yanzhou and Yuzhou behind, and the hungry army penetrated deeper and crossed the Yangtze River and Hanshui River, not only would it be difficult to make any gains, but they would also lose support.
However, Xun Yu proposed these two strategies, which turned defeat into victory and misfortune into blessing. His strategy was extraordinary and his achievements were outstanding, which I could not compare with.
Therefore, the late emperor valued the merits of commanding and dispatching, but gave less rewards to those who achieved victory in combat. The ancients valued the merits of strategizing and underestimated the courage of attacking cities and building strongholds.
Looking back on Xun Yu's achievements, he was enough to enjoy high official status and generous salary.
However, people in the world did not understand the situation, and what he got was not commensurate with his merits. I really regretted this and asked for a re-evaluation to increase his food.
Xun Yu tried his best to refuse.
Cao Cao persuaded him and said: Once upon a time, Jie Zitui said: Those who steal other people's property are still called thieves.
What's more, my husband's extraordinary ingenuity is related to the rise and fall of the world. Can I take all the credit?
Although you admire Lu Zhonglian’s noble behavior, you should still imitate the saint and understand current affairs!
So one thousand more households were sealed, adding to the previous ones a total of two thousand households were sealed.
He also wanted to appoint him as the official minister, but Xun Yu asked Xun You to give in as hard as he could, and he gave up after more than ten times.
Cao Cao was about to attack Liu Biao and asked Xun Yu about his military strategy.
Xun Yu said: Now that the Central Plains has been pacified, the Jing and Han Dynasties know that they are about to perish, so they can declare that they will send troops from Wan and Ye and attack with light cavalry from the trail to catch them by surprise.
Cao Cao followed his advice.
At this time Liu Biao died of illness.
In the seventeenth year of Jian'an, Dong Zhao and others wanted to jointly recommend Cao Cao to the title of Duke of Jin, give him Jiuxi ceremonial utensils, and secretly consult Xun Yu for his opinions.
Xun Yu said: Duke Cao originally mobilized rebel troops to revitalize the Han Dynasty. Although he had outstanding achievements, he still maintained his loyalty.
A gentleman's love for others must be moral, and it shouldn't be like this.
The matter was put on hold.
Cao Cao couldn't calm down.
When Sun Quan was conquering the south, Cao Cao asked Xun Yu to work in Qiao County. He took the opportunity to report that Xun Yu would stay, saying: "I heard that in ancient times, generals were dispatched with supervising troops above and deputies below to help, in order to show the dignity of the country and reduce mistakes."
Now that I am about to cross the river, I will send you my message to attack the enemy. There should be noble envoys to solemnly carry out the king's orders.
The use of both civil and military forces has existed since ancient times.
The envoy Chijie Shizhong, the guardian of Shangshu Ling Long Live Pavilion Marquis Xunyu, is an important minister of the country. His virtues are spread all over China. He has already arrived at the army's garrison, so that he can march with the ministers, declare the imperial orders, and use his mighty virtue to pacify the enemy invaders.
The military leader was so quick that he had no time to ask for instructions, so he kept Xun Yu privately as an important assistant.
After submitting a written report, the emperor agreed to his request, and appointed Xun Yu as Shizhong and Guanglu Doctor to uphold integrity and advise the prime minister on military affairs.
When he arrived in Ruxu, Xun Yu stayed in Shouchun due to illness. Cao Cao presented him with food. When he opened the box, he found it was empty, so Xun Yu took poison and died.
He was fifty years old.
The emperor felt sorry for him, so no music was played on the day of sacrifice.
The posthumous title is respectful.
The next year, Cao Cao finally called himself Duke of Wei.
The argument goes: Since Dong Zhuo moved the emperor to Xijing, Shandong has been in chaos. The lives of all people in the world seem to be hanging upside down.
Jun Xun crossed the Yellow River and Jizhou, and followed the Cao family.
Looking at the measures he established and the strategies he planned, they were all based on royal principles and eager to save the country from crisis. How could it be said that he was taking advantage of the chaos and pretending to be benevolent and righteous to cater to the evil conspiracy?
I really take it as my responsibility to be benevolent and righteous, hoping to save the people during this chaotic period.
Waiting for blocking Dong Zhao's proposal and losing his life, isn't that what fate should be like!
When people comment on Xun Jun, they may pay too much attention to his prominence and difficulties.
I often think that wise men below the average level cannot seek perfection in their conduct and actions, and their plans are both fine and rough. They consider the beginning but not necessarily the end. This is the principle of not seeking perfection.
With Zigong's wisdom, his lobbying even harmed the two countries.
He didn't do this intentionally because he lacked benevolence. I'm afraid that if something is saved, something must be lost. This is the reason why it is difficult to have both sides.
Times were difficult at that time, and if you were not a heroic figure, you would not be able to save it from decline. However, since this person was so successful and powerful, the political power was naturally transferred to his hands.
This again means that this moment and the other moment cannot be compared.
It mainly depends on whether his return to the imperial court's position is in line with the righteousness of killing one's life and becoming a benevolent person.
Praise: Mrs. Deng showed her heroic spirit and her reputation spread.
Forced by the situation, he dealt with powerful traitors hypocritically and squandered money to save his friends.
Kong Rong was handsome, graceful, transcendent, easily frightened, and his lonely voice rarely responded.
Go straight ahead, where is your destination? Who will help with the lofty strategy?
Xun Yu assisted Cao Cao because he was feeling the national crisis.
The career is successful but the destiny changes. The behavior is questionable but the heart remains true to the right path.
