Wu Hanzi Ziyan was born in Wan County, Nanyang County.
His family was poor and he worked as the county pavilion chief.
In Wang Mang's last years, because his guests broke the law, he took off his name and fled to Yuyang. Due to lack of funds, he made a living by selling horses. He traveled between Yan and Ji, and made friends with heroes wherever he went.
Gengshi ascended the throne and sent envoy Han Hong to Hebei to recruit surrender.
Someone said to Han Hong, "Wu Ziyan is a wonderful man. You can discuss matters with him." Han Hong summoned Wu Han and was very happy. He appointed him as the magistrate of Anle County according to the emperor's order.
Coinciding with the rise of Wang Lang, Beizhou was disturbed and confused.
Wu Han had always heard that Guangwu was an elder, and he wanted to return to Guangwu.
He told the prefect Peng Chong: The cavalry in Yuyang and Shanggu that attack the enemy are famous all over the world.
Why don't you gather the elites from the two counties and join Liu Gong to attack Handan? This is a rare achievement. Peng Chong thought it was right, but the officials below all wanted to join Wang Lang, and Peng Chong could not take away his ambition.
Wu Han then resigned and stayed in the outer pavilion, trying to blackmail everyone, but he still couldn't figure out a way.
Seeing a man who looked like a Confucian scholar on the road, Wu Han sent people to summon him, provided him with food, and asked him what he had heard.
Therefore, Confucian scholars said that wherever Liu Gong went, all counties and counties were devoted to him; the man in Handan who arrogantly claimed the title was indeed not a member of the Liu family.
Wu Han was overjoyed, so he pretended to be a letter written by Guangwu himself, and sent it to Yuyang. He sent a Confucian scholar to Peng Chong and asked him to convince Peng Chong of what he had heard. Wu Han also followed him to Yuyang.
Peng Chong was very satisfied.
So Wu Han was sent to lead his troops and the generals from Shanggu to the south, killing General Wang Lang wherever they went.
After chasing Guangwu in Guang'a, he worshiped Wu Han as a partial general.
After conquering Handan, he was given the title of Marquis Jiance.
Wu Han was a man of loyal nature but lacked literary talent and could not express his thoughts in words in a hurry.
Deng Yu and other generals knew him well and recommended him many times. When he was summoned, Guangwu trusted him and often lived under his door.
General Guang sent troops to Youzhou and summoned Deng Yu at night to ask who could take on the task.
Deng Yu said: I have talked with Wu Han many times. He is brave and resourceful. Few generals can match him. That is to say, Wu Han was appointed as the general and ordered to carry the talisman to the north to attack the enemy's cavalry from ten counties.
Gengshi Youzhou Mu Miao once heard that he secretly mobilized troops and ordered the counties not to send troops accordingly.
Wu Han led twenty horses and galloped to the end.
Miao Zeng thought that Wu Han was unprepared and came out to meet him on the road. Wu Han immediately commanded his troops and cavalry to capture Miao Zeng and kill him, seizing his troops and horses.
Beizhou was shaken and frightened, and all the cities and towns obeyed.
So he mobilized all his troops and led them southward to join forces with Guangwu at Qingyang.
When the generals saw Wu Han coming back and his troops were very strong, they all said: "Is he willing to divide his troops with others?" When Wu Han arrived at the place where the general was conducting business, he presented the name list of the sergeants, and the generals invited everyone to accept their troops.
Guangwu said: "I'm afraid he was unwilling to accept requests from others before. Why are there so many requests now?" All the generals felt ashamed.
At first, Gengshi sent Shangshu Ling Xie Gong and six generals to attack Wanglang, but they could not capture it.
Just as Guangwu arrived, they jointly pacified Handan, but Xie Gongbi looted and looted without asking for instructions to report, which Guangwu hated deeply.
Although they are both in Handan, they live in separate cities, but they often comfort him.
Xie Gong was diligent in his duties, and Guangwu often praised him and said: "Xie Shangshu is a real official." So I don’t doubt myself.
Xie Gong then led tens of thousands of his troops and returned to Ye.
At that time, Guang Wunan attacked Qingdu and said to Xie Gong: I will chase the thieves and shoot the dogs, and I will definitely defeat the thieves.
Anyone who comes to Shanyang will definitely be frightened away.
If you use your power to attack these scattered captives, you will definitely win. Xie Gong said: OK. When Qingdu was defeated, You Lai walked north to Longlu Mountain. After thanking him, he left the general Liu Qing and the governor of Wei County Chen Kang to guard Ye, while he led the generals to attack Qingdu.
The poor bandits fought hard, but their sharpness was unstoppable. Xie Gong was defeated and thousands of people died.
Since Guangwu was out of town, he sent Wu Han and Cen Peng to attack the city.
The Wu Han Dynasty sent debaters in advance to persuade Chen Kang: I heard that a wise person does not seek luck in danger, a moderately wise person can take advantage of danger as a merit, and a foolish person lives in danger as a means of self-destruction.
The arrival of danger is caused by human beings and cannot be ignored.
Now the capital is in chaos, and there are disturbances in all directions, and you know that.
King Xiao's soldiers were strong, and Hebei was under his command. This was seen by the public.
It is known to everyone that Xie Gong betrayed King Xiao internally and lost the hearts of the people externally.
The Duke is now guarding the isolated city, waiting for the disaster of destruction. There is no loyalty and integrity, and no integrity. It is better to open the door to welcome the Han soldiers, turn disaster into blessing, avoid the defeat of foolishness, and gain the merit of wisdom. This is the best plan!
Chen Kang thought so. So Chen Kang took Liu Qing and Xie Gong's wife and opened the door to welcome the Han soldiers into the city.
When Xie Gong returned to Ye from Longlu, he didn't know that Chen Kang had rebelled, so he entered the city lightly with hundreds of cavalry.
Han ambushes captured him and killed Xie Gong with his hands. All his troops surrendered.
Xie Gong, courtesy name Zizhang, was from Nanyang County.
At first, his wife knew that Guangwu could not live in harmony with him, so she often warned Xie Gong and said: You and Liu Gong are not harmonious together, but you believe his lies and make no preparations, and you will eventually be controlled by him. Xie Gong refused to accept it, so he suffered.
When Guangwu attacked groups of thieves in the north, Wu Han often led five thousand assault cavalry as the vanguard and attacked the bandits several times.
When Hebei was pacified, Wu Han and his generals held maps and books and paid tribute to the emperor.
Guangwu ascended the throne, worshiped Wu Han as Grand Sima, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Wu Han led the general Wang Liang, the general Zhu You of Jianyi, the general Du Mao, the Jin Wu Jiafu, the Yanghua general Jian Tan, the partial general Wang Ba, the cavalry captain Liu Long, Ma Wu, and Yinshi. They attacked the Tanxiang bandits on the Zhang River in the east of Ye. They defeated the bandits and more than 100,000 people surrendered.
The emperor sent envoys to seal Wu Han as the Marquis of Guangping, with four counties in total: Guangping, Kuizhang, Quzhou and Guangnian.
Wu Han again led his generals to attack the bandits Li Boxing and others in the western mountains of Ye, and pursued them to Hanoi Wu, where they defeated all the bandits' gatherings.
Guangwu personally came to express his condolences.
Wu Han was sent back to march into Nanyang County, attack Wan, Nie, Yang, Li, Rang and Xinye cities, and captured them all.
He led his troops to the south, fought with Qin Feng on the Huangyou River, and defeated Qin Feng.
He and the partial general Feng Yi attacked Zhang Wen and others on the fifth floor of Changcheng. They also attacked Bronze Horse and Five Flags in Xin'an, and defeated them all.
In the spring of the next year, Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan and Huya General Gai Yan to attack Qingdu in the west of Zhejiang, defeating him and forcing him to surrender.
He also led the hussar general Du Mao, the strong crossbow general Chen Jun and others to surround Su Mao in Guangle.
Liu Yong recruited Zhou Jian and gathered more than 100,000 people to rescue Guangle.
Wu Han sent Qingqi to fight with him, but was unfavorable. He fell from his horse and injured his knee. When he returned to camp, Zhou Jian led his troops into the city.
The generals said to Wu Han: The enemy is in front, but the Duke is lying down due to his wounds, and everyone is afraid. Wu Hannai became angry, changed his color, wrapped up his knee wound, and rose up, killing cattle and feasting on the soldiers. He ordered the army to say: Although there are many thieves, they are just a group of robbers. When they win, they will not give in, and when they lose, they will not save each other. They are not loyal and willing to die for righteousness.
Today is a good opportunity to make meritorious deeds and become a lord, please give me more encouragement. The sergeant was enraged and his morale doubled.
Early in the morning, Zhou Jian and Su Mao sent troops to surround Wu Han.
Wu Han selected four elite soldiers, including Huangtou Wu He and others, as well as more than 3,000 Wuhuan cavalry, and advanced together with great noise.
Zhou Jianjun was defeated and ran back to the city.
Wu Han pursued them with a long drive, fought for the gate and entered with all their strength, and greatly defeated Jian and Mao's army. Su Mao and Zhou Jian broke through and left.
Wu Han left Du Mao, Chen Jun and others to guard Guangle, and led his own troops to help Gai Yan encircle Liu Yong in Suiyang.
After Liu Yong's death, both cities surrendered.
In the third year, he led Chen Jun and former general Wang Liang to defeat the bandits from the five schools in Linping, chased them to Jishan in Dongjun, and defeated the bandit army.
Then he attacked the Qinghe River and five miles north of the plain and defeated the bandits.
At that time, the five surnames in Li County jointly expelled the warden and occupied the county seat.
The generals were vying to attack, but Wu Han refused to listen and said: "Whoever caused Ge to rebel is the fault of the guard."
Anyone who dares to risk rashly and enter the army should be killed. Then he sent a notice to the county and asked them to arrest the chief guard and make people express their gratitude to the city.
The five surnames were overjoyed and led their people to surrender one after another.
The generals were convinced and said: "It is not possible for others to surrender the whole city without fighting."
In the winter, Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan, Hanzhong General Wang Chang and others to attack Fuping and capture two thieves in the plain.
In the spring of the fourth year, the thieves led more than 50,000 people to attack the Han camp at night. The army was in panic, but Wu Han stood firm. It took a while for the army to calm down.
Then he sent elite soldiers out of the camp at night to attack and defeated his tribe.
Therefore, they further attacked the remnants of the party, entered Wuyan County, and attacked Bohai, but they were all put down.
He also attacked Dong Xian and besieged Qucheng. In the spring of the fifth year, Qu City was captured. Kill Dong Xian. Dongfang was all pacified, and the troops were reorganized and returned to the capital.
Coincidentally, Wei Xiao rebelled, and Xia sent Wu Han to the west to garrison Chang'an.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, he followed Guangwu to Longlong and besieged Weixiao in Xicheng.
The emperor ordered Wu Han: "The soldiers in each county are wasting food. If they flee, they will be depressed and demoralized, so they should all be dismissed." Wu Han and others were greedy to use these people to attack Wei Xiao together, so they refused to send them away. As a result, the food supply was gradually reduced, the officials and soldiers were tired of hard work, and more people fled. When Gongsun Shu's troops arrived to rescue Wei Xiao, Wu Han was defeated.
In the spring of the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, he led the southern general Cen Peng and others to attack Gongsun Shu.
When Cen Peng broke through Jingmen and drove into Jiangguan, Wu Han stayed in Yiling, built short ships, and carried 30,000 Nanyang soldiers and recruited prisoners who had been released from shackles up the river.
When Cen Peng was killed by an assassin, Wu Han also led his army.
In the spring of the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, he fought with Gongsun Shu's generals Wei Dang and Gongsun Yong in Yufujin and defeated his army, so he besieged Wuyang.
Gongsun Shu sent his son-in-law Shi Xing to lead five thousand people to rescue him.
Wu Han attacked Shi Xing and wiped out all his troops, thus entering the territory of Qianwei.
All counties guarded the city.
Wu Han then marched to Guangdu and captured it.
Qingqi was sent to burn the Chengdu city bridge, and all the small towns east of Wuyang surrendered.
Guangwu warned Wu Han: Chengdu has more than 100,000 troops and should not be underestimated.
Just hold Guangdu firmly and don't fight with them when they come to attack.
If they dare not attack, the public camp forces them to fight, and they must wait until they are exhausted before they can attack. Taking advantage of the victory, Wu Han advanced to Chengdu with more than 20,000 troops on foot and cavalry. He was more than ten miles away from the city. He established a camp at the dangerous point in the north of the Yangtze River and built a pontoon bridge. He sent his deputy general Wuwei General Liu Shang to lead more than 10,000 men to garrison in the south of the Yangtze River. The two camps were more than 20 miles apart.
The emperor was shocked when he heard the news and blamed Wu Han: "I have always given many orders to you, why did things go wrong again?"
Not only did they underestimate the enemy's penetration, but they also built another camp with Liu Shang. If things were urgent, it would be too late.
If the thief sends troops to contain you and attacks Liu Shang with a large force, and Liu Shang is defeated, the duke will also be defeated.
Fortunately, there is nothing else to make you urgently lead your troops back to Guangdu. When the edict did not arrive, Gongsun Shuguo ordered Xie Feng and Yuan Ji to lead more than 100,000 troops, divided them into more than 20 battalions, and marched out to attack Wu Han.
He sent other generals with more than 10,000 men to rob Liu Shang, making it impossible for the two places to save each other.
Wu Han fought with Shu soldiers for a day and was defeated. They entered the military camp and were surrounded by Xie Feng.
Wu Han summoned his generals and said excitedly: "I and you all overcame dangers and fought for thousands of miles. We defeated the enemy wherever we went. So we went deep into the enemy's territory and reached the gates of his city."
Now he and Liu Shang are surrounded by two places, and the situation cannot be connected, and the consequences are incalculable.
I want to secretly send troops to join Liu Shang in Jiangnan and defend the enemy with all my strength.
If we can work together and fight for ourselves, great achievements can be made; otherwise, we will definitely fail.
The chance of success or failure lies in this one move. All the generals said: OK.
So he made the soldiers and horses well fed, closed the camp gates for three days, and set up more flags and streamers to keep the fireworks going.
Xie Feng and others did not notice. The next day, they divided their troops to resist Jiangbei and led their own troops to attack Jiangnan.
Wu Han led the entire army to fight. From morning to afternoon, he defeated the Shu soldiers, killed Xie Feng and Yuan Ji, and won more than 5,000 soldiers' heads.
So he was led back to Guangdu, leaving Liu Shang to reject Gongsun Shu, write a letter to report to Guangwu, and deeply condemn himself.
Guangwu replied: It is very appropriate for you to return to Guangdu. Gongsun Shu will not dare to ignore Liu Shang and attack you.
If he attacks Liu Shang first, and you lead all the infantry and cavalry fifty miles from Guangdu to the enemy, and you happen to encounter his danger, you will definitely defeat the Shu army. From then on, Wu Han and Gongsun Shu fought between Guangdu and Chengdu, winning eight out of eight battles, and then marched to the outer city.
Gongsun Shu himself led tens of thousands of troops out of the city to fight. Wu Han sent guards Gao Wu and Tang Han to lead tens of thousands of elite soldiers to attack.
Gongsun Shu was defeated and fled. Gao Wu quickly rushed to the enemy camp to assassinate Gongsun Shu and killed him.
The next morning, Chengdu opened its doors and surrendered. Gongsun Shu was beheaded and sent to Luoyang.
In the first month of the second year, Wu Han reorganized his army and floated down the river.
When they arrived in Wancheng, they ordered Wu Han to stay at home and go to the tomb to worship his ancestors, and he was given 20,000 dendrobium grains.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he led General Ma Cheng and Capture General Ma Wu to attack the Xiongnu in the north. More than 60,000 officials and people from Yanmen, Daijun, and Shanggu were relocated to the east of Juyongguan and Changshanguan.
In the eighteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Shi Xin, the governor of Shu County, rebelled in Chengdu. He claimed to be Grand Sima and attacked the prefect Zhang Mu. Zhang Mu fled over the city wall and fled to Guangdu. Shi Xin moved his petition to the county. Danqu Yang Wei, Qu Yue Ren Xu Rong and others each raised thousands of troops to respond to Shi Xin.
Because Shi Xin used to be Cen Peng's guard and knew and practiced military affairs, the emperor sent Wu Han to lead Liu Shang and Taizhong doctor Zang Gong to lead more than 10,000 people to crusade.
When Wu Han entered Wudu, he sent troops from Guanghan, Ba, and Shu counties to surround Chengdu. After more than a hundred days, the city was breached and Shi Xin and others were killed.
Wu Han took a raft along the river to Bajun. Yang Wei, Xu Rong and others dispersed in fear. Wu Han killed more than 200 of his generals and moved his party and hundreds of families to Nanjun and Changsha.
Wu Han's character was very strong and strong, so every time he went on an expedition, the emperor was very uneasy and worried.
Usually when the generals see the disadvantages of the battle, some of them become frightened and lose their composure.
But Wu Han was in good spirits, arranging equipment and motivating the officials.
The emperor often sent people to see what Da Sima was doing, and they reported that he was repairing war equipment. The emperor sighed: "The Duke of Wu is more satisfying, and his power is as powerful as an enemy country." Whenever I set off, I would receive orders in the morning and be on the road before sunset, without even having time to pack my gear.
Therefore, he can hold important positions permanently and spend his whole life with fame.
When he returns to the court, he carefully observes his physical appearance.
After Wu Han went to war, his wife purchased some land at home.
After Wu Han returned, he ordered his wife to say: "The military advisor is away and the officials and soldiers are not enough to provide for themselves, so why buy more land and houses?" So they distributed all the money to Kun's brothers and his mother-in-law.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, Wu Han was critically ill.
Guangwu came to visit in person and asked Wu Han if he had anything to say.
Wu Han said: "I am ignorant. I only hope that your majesty will be careful not to pardon criminals easily." After his death, an imperial edict was issued to commiserate with him and he was given the posthumous title of Zhonghou.
The five schools of the Northern Army, military vehicles, and soldiers were sent to his funeral, just like General Huo Guang's previous funeral.
Zi Aihou Wu became the heir, but was killed by his slaves.
In the 28th year of Jianwu's reign, the fiefdoms of Wu and Han were divided into three kingdoms. Wu Cheng's son Wu Dan was named Quyanghou to worship Wu and Han; Wu Dan's brother Wu Xu was named Zhuyanghou; Wu Cheng's brother Wu Guo was named Xincaihou.
When Wu Dan died, the feudal state was removed because he had no children.
In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wu Xu was granted the title of Marquis of Pingchun in order to honor the descendants of Wu and Han.
Wu Xu died, and his son Wu Sheng succeeded to the throne.
At first, Wu Wei, brother of Wu Han, was a general. He died in the expedition, and Wu Tong, Wu Wei's son, was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang.
The emperor thought that Wu Han had made great contributions and made Wu Xi, Wu Han's younger brother, a prince of praise.
Wu's family has five nobles.
At first, Yan Xuan, the captain of Yuyang, and Wu Handu met with Guangwu in Guang'a. Guangwu made Yan Xuan a partial general and a feudal lord of faith.
The historian commented: Since the founding of Wu Han Dynasty, officials have always occupied the position of superior, and they have always been relied on by Guangwu. It must be because of his loyalty, simplicity and strength.
Confucius said: Fortitude, simplicity, slowness and few words are closer to benevolence. Isn’t this a metaphor from Wu Han?
In the past, Chen Ping was suspicious because of his resourcefulness, and Zhou Bo was loyal and simple, so he was trustworthy.
If benevolence and righteousness are not enough to depend on each other, then the wise will be suspicious because of their many schemes, and the simple will be trusted because of their lack of wisdom.
Gai Yan, named Juqing, was from Yaoyang County, Yuyang County.
He is eight feet long and can draw a bow of three hundred kilograms.
Frontier customs valued prowess, and Guyan was known for his courage. He also works for counties, deputies and states, and can perform his duties wherever he goes.
Peng Chong was appointed as the prefect, and he called Gai Yan to serve as a battalion lieutenant to protect the army.
When Wang Lang rose to prominence, Gai Yan and Wu Han managed to return to Guangwu.
Gai Yan went to Guang'a, where he was worshiped as a partial general and given the title of Jiangonghou. He followed him to pacify Hebei.
Guangwu ascended the throne and appointed Gai Yan as General Huya.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
He was sent to attack Aocang in the south, then to Suanzao and Fengqiu counties, and captured them all.
In the summer of that year, the governor led the prince-in-law Ma Wu, the cavalry commander Liu Long, the guard commander Ma Cheng, and the partial general Wang Ba to attack Liu Yong in the south. He first captured Xiangyi and then Masiang County, and then surrounded Liu Yong in Suiyang.
After several months, he harvested all the wheat in the fields and entered the city by ladder at night.
Liu Yong was frightened and led his troops to escape from the east gate. Gai Yan pursued and defeated Liu Yong's army.
Liu Yong abandoned his army and fled to Qiao. Gai Yan attacked Xue County and killed his prefect of Lu County. Pengcheng, Fuyang, Zhuqiu and Xiao County all surrendered.
He also defeated the prefect of Liu Yongpei County and killed him.
Liu Yong's generals Su Mao, Jiaojiang, Zhou Jian and more than 30,000 men rescued Liu Yong and attacked Gaiyan together. Gaiyan fought with them in Peixi and defeated his army.
Liu Yong's army was in chaos, and most of them fell into the water and drowned.
Liu Yong abandoned the city and went to Huling, while Su Mao went to Guangle.
Gai Yan then pacified Pei, Chu, Linhuai and other places, built the temple of Gaozu, and appointed Shifu, Zhuzai and musicians to preside over temple worship.
In the third year of Jianwu, Suiyang rebelled again and welcomed Liu Yong back. Gai Yan again led his generals to besiege him for a hundred days to collect wheat from the fields.
Liu Yong was short of food and broke out. Gai Yan pursued him and captured all his luggage.
Liu Yong was killed by his generals, and Liu Yong's younger brother Liu Fang surrendered the city.
In the spring of the fourth year of Jianwu, Gai Yan attacked Sumao and Zhou Jian again in Qixian, and advanced to fight Dong Xian in Liuxian, both of which were defeated.
Therefore, he led Ping Di General Pang Meng to attack Xifang County and captured it.
They pursued and defeated Zhou Jian and Su Mao in Pengcheng. Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Dong Xian, and Dong Xian's general Ben Xiu surrendered in Lanling City.
When Dong Xian heard this, he surrounded Ben Xiu from Tan.
Gai Yan and Pang Meng were in Chu at that time and requested rescue.
The emperor ordered: "You can go straight to Paotan, and the siege of Lanling will be lifted." Gai Yan and others wanted to protect the city from danger, so they went first.
Dong Xian faced the enemy and pretended to be defeated. Gai Yan and others drove him back, thus breaking the siege and entering the city.
The next day, Dong Xianda sent out troops to encircle. Gai Yan's army was afraid and hurriedly left the city to break out of the encirclement and attack Tan.
The emperor reproached him and said: "It turns out that I ordered you to attack Tan first, just to surprise the enemy."
Now that they are on the run and the bandit army's plan has been laid down, how can the siege of Lanling be solved? Gai Yan waited until Tan was unable to capture it, but Dong Xian captured Lanling and killed Ben Xiu.
Gai Yan and others went back and forth to invite Dong Xian to leave between Pengcheng, Tan and Pi, or fight several battles every day, and some gains were achieved.
The emperor used cover and extension to underestimate the enemy and went deeper, and issued several edicts to admonish him.
When Pang Meng rebelled, he attacked and killed the governor of Chu, and led an army to attack and defeat Gai Yan. Gai Yan fled north and crossed the Si River, destroying the boats and dismantling the bridges, and only escaped with his own life.
The emperor led his army to the east. He recruited Gai Yan, Grand Sima Wu Han, Han loyal general Wang Chang, former general Wang Liang, captor general Ma Wu, and captive general Wang Ba to join forces in Rencheng. They attacked Pang Meng in Taoxiang, and together they conquered Dong Xian in Changli, and they all defeated and pacified Ding.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, he was sent to garrison Chang'an.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, Kuai Xiao died, and Gai Yanxi attacked the settlements in Jiequan, Lueyang and Qingshui counties and pacified them.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he and Zhonglang attacked Hechi in the future, but failed, so he was lured back due to illness. He worshiped Zuo Fengyi and led the troops as before.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, 10,000 households were added to the fiefdom.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he died of illness.
Zi Gai supports the heir.
Help him die, and he will be the next heir.
In the 13th year of Yongping, he was killed because of rebellion with his uncle Wang Ping, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Empress Dowager Deng succeeded Gai Hui, Gai Yan's great-grandson, as Marquis of Luting.
After Gai Hui died, Zi Gai succeeded to the throne.
Chen Jun, whose courtesy name was Zizhao, was from Xi'e, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he was a county official. Gengshi was established, with clan member Liu Jia as Taichang General and Chen Jun as Changshi.
Guangwu attacked Hebei, Liu Jia recommended Chen Jun in letters, and Guangwu appointed Chen Jun as his governor.
Follow Guangwu to attack the bronze horse in Qingyang, enter Puyang, and worship as General Qiannu.
During the battle with the Five Schools in Anci, Chen Jun dismounted his horse and took up short soldiers. The thieves would be defeated wherever they went. He chased for more than 20 miles, killed his commander and returned.
Guangwu looked at it and sighed: If all the generals were like him, there would be nothing to worry about! The five schools retreated into Yuyang, looting and plundering wherever they went.
Chen Jun said to Guangwu: "You should order the Qingqi to appear in front of the rebel army, so that the people can hold on to the barriers to cut off the rebel army's food, and then the enemy can be annihilated without a fight." Guangwu thought so and sent Chen Jun to lead Qingqi in front of the thieves.
When he saw that the people were guarding strong and intact fortifications, he ordered them to hold on; if they were scattered, he plundered them.
In this way, the bandits will be defeated when they have nothing to gain.
When he returned to the army, Guangwu said to Chen Jun: "These thieves are troubled."
This is the general's strategy. Guangwu ascended the throne and made Chen Jun a marquis. In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, he attacked the Kuang bandits, captured four counties, and granted the new title of Marquis.
They led an attack on Dunqiu and the three cities surrendered.
In the autumn of that year, the Grand Sima Wu Han Cheng ordered Chen Jun to be appointed as the General of Strong Crossbows. He also attacked Kinmen and the White Horse Bandits in Hanoi, and defeated them both.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he turned to attack Ruyang and Xiang, and then attacked Nanwuyang.
At this time, most of Taishan's heroes had troops and Zhang Bu's company. Wu Han said to Guangwu: No one but Chen Jun can pacify this county. So he worshiped Chen Jun as the prefect of Taishan and acted as the military general.
Zhang Bu heard about it and sent his generals to attack Chen Jun. They fought against Yingxia. Chen Jun defeated his army and chased him to Jinan. He collected more than 90 seals and ribbons, and then conquered various counties and pacified Mount Taishan.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he and Jianwei General Geng Yan defeated Zhang Bu.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Geng Yan".
At this time, Langfu was not pacified, so Chen Jun was moved to be the prefect of Langfu, and his military leadership remained the same as in the past.
Qi Di has always heard of Chen Jun's reputation. As soon as Chen Jun arrived, the thieves dispersed.
Chen Jun led his army to attack Dong Xian in Ganyu County. He marched and defeated the Qu thief Sun Yang, and Langji was pacified.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Zhang Bu rebelled and returned to Langyi. Chen Jun sent troops to pursue Zhang Bu and kill him.
The emperor praised his achievements and ordered Chen Jun to conquer Qing and Xuzhou specifically.
Chen Jun comforted the poor, commended the righteous, restrained the military officials from interfering in the affairs of counties and counties, and the people praised him.
He wrote several times to invite himself, willing to fight against Kai Xiao and Gongsun Shu.
The edict replied: Dongzhou has just been pacified, and it is thanks to the great general.
The coastal waters of Dongzhou are disturbed and are a hiding place for thieves. The imperial court is concerned about this place. Please try your best to pacify it for the time being.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the city was increased and it was named Zhu'ahou.
Next year, he will be summoned back to Beijing to serve at the court's invitation.
Jianwu died in the 23rd year of his reign.
His son Chen Fu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Qichun.
After Fu died, his son Chen Zhuanzhu succeeded him.
Zhuan Zhu died, and his son Chen Du succeeded to the throne.
Zang Gong, courtesy name Junweng, was from Jiaxian County, Yingchuan County.
When he was young, he was the head of the county pavilion and traveled around. Later, he led the guests to join the Xiajiang Army as a captain. Therefore, he followed Guangwu in the battles, and many generals praised him for his bravery.
Guangwu inspected Zang Palace, worked diligently and spoke little, and received him cordially.
When he arrived in Hebei, he took him as a partial general and followed him to defeat the bandits. He captured the enemy's positions many times and drove back the enemy.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he was appointed as Shizhong and Cavalry Commander.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of An.
The next year, he led the assault cavalry and the conquest general Ji Zun to attack Gengshi generals Zuofang and Wei Yan at Nieyang and Li. Zuo and Wei both surrendered.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he led his troops to attack Jiangxia, attacked Daixiang, Zhongwu, and Zhuli, and captured them all.
The emperor sent the Taizhong doctor to pay homage to Zang Palace with a talisman to assist General Wei.
In July, the period of mourning is changed.
Liangjun and Jiyin were both pacified.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he led his troops to Zhonglu County and stationed troops in Luoyue.
At this time, Tian Rong and Ren Man, the generals of Gongsun Shu's tribe, and Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, refused to fight in Jingzhou. Cen Peng and others were unsuccessful in several battles, and the Yue people were ready to rebel and return to Shu.
Zang Gong had few soldiers and was unable to control them.
It happened that hundreds of transfer vehicles arrived from various counties. Zang Gong sent people to saw off the city gate threshold at night and push carts in and out, making the sound of carts ringing until early morning.
The Yue scouts heard the constant sound of cars and the broken city gate threshold, and informed each other that a large group of Han soldiers had arrived.
The commander-in-chief offered cattle and wine to comfort the military camp.
At Zang Palace's army meeting, cattle were killed and wine was poured out, and people were comforted and accepted. The Yue people gradually settled down.
Zang Gong, Cen Peng and others broke through Jingmen and went to Chuique Mountain. They passed through Zigui and reached Jiangzhou.
Cen Peng captured Bajun and ordered Zang Gong to lead 50,000 surrendered soldiers to level the bend on the Fu River.
Gongsun Shu's general Yancen sent his army to Shenshui. At this time, Zang palace had more soldiers and less food, and could not transport it. The 50,000 surrendered soldiers wanted to break up and rebel. All the counties and counties just wanted to protect themselves and wait and see whether they would succeed or not.
Zang Gong wanted to lead his troops back, but he was afraid that he would be rebelled by his surrender. At this time, the emperor sent an envoy to lead his troops to Cen Peng. There were 700 horses. Zang Gong pretended to ask the emperor to get them to arm himself. He marched at night with many flags. He climbed the mountain and beat drums and shouted. On the right were infantry and on the left were cavalry. They entered with ships, and the sound of shouts shook the valley.
Yancen didn't expect the Han soldiers to arrive suddenly. He climbed up the mountain to watch, and was extremely frightened.
As a result, Zang Gong launched his troops to attack and defeated the Shu army. More than 10,000 people were beheaded and drowned, and the water turned red.
Yancen rushed back to Chengdu, where all his troops surrendered and captured all the soldiers, horses and treasures of Shu.
From then on, they took advantage of the victory and pursued it, and as many as 100,000 Shu soldiers surrendered.
Marching to Pingyang Township, Shu general Wang Yuan surrendered in large numbers.
They marched to capture Mianzhu, defeated Fucheng, killed Gongsun Shu's younger brother Gongsun Hui, and then captured Fan and Pi counties.
Five talismans were collected before and after, and one thousand eight hundred seals and ribbons were obtained.
At this time, Grand Sima Wu Han also took advantage of the victory and marched directly towards Chengdu.
Zang Gong defeated the big city, and his troops, horses, and flags were very strong, so he sent his troops into Xiaoluoguo Gate, patrolled the city of Chengdu, and went to Wuhan camp for a drinking and banquet.
Wu Han was very happy to see him and said to Zang Gong: When the general came, he passed by the enemy city. He was so powerful that he walked like the wind and shined like lightning.
However, poverty is hard to estimate. I hope you will change your ways when you return. Zang Gong didn't listen and still returned from the original route. The thieves did not dare to approach.
Marched into Xianmen, and together with Wu Han destroyed Gongsun Shu.
The emperor newly established the territory of Shu and worshiped Zang Palace as the prefect of Guanghan.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the number of towns increased, and the title of Marquis Zan was granted.
In the fifteenth year of Wu's reign, he was summoned to the capital, and at the invitation of the court, he was appointed Marquis of Langling.
In the eighteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he paid homage to Dr. Taizhong.
In the 19th year of Jianwu's reign, Shan Chen, Fu Zhen, and others, disciples of the witch Wei Si, once again gathered together with the witch's words, entered the original Wucheng, robbed officials and people, and claimed to be generals.
So Zang Gong was sent to lead the Northern Army and thousands of people from the Liyang Camp to surround Shan Chen and others.
The thieves had a lot of food, but they failed to capture it several times, and the soldiers were killed or wounded.
The emperor summoned the ministers, princes and kings to inquire about the strategy, and they all said: The reward should be increased.
Xianzong was the king of the East China Sea at that time, and he replied: "The demons and witches are in danger, and their power cannot last long. Some of them must repent and want to flee."
But the outside was tightly surrounded and there was no way to escape.
The siege should be relaxed slightly and they should be allowed to escape, so that only one pavilion commander can capture them alive. The emperor thought so and ordered Zang Gong to withdraw from the siege and slow down the thieves. The thieves fled and dispersed, so Shan Chen, Fu Zhen and others were killed.
When Zang Gong returned, he was promoted to the city gate school captain, and then to the Zuo Zhonglang general.
They attacked the bandits in Wuxi Valley and when they arrived at Jiangling, they surrendered.
Because Zang Gong was cautious, trustworthy and simple, he was often appointed.
Later, there was a famine and epidemic in the Xiongnu, and there were internal disputes among themselves. The emperor asked Zang Gong about this, and Zang Gong said: I am willing to lead five thousand cavalry to perform meritorious service. The emperor smiled and said: "It is difficult for a home that is always victorious to plan for the enemy's country. I am thinking about it myself." In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Zang Gong and Xiangxuhou Mawu wrote a letter saying: The Huns are greedy for profit and have no etiquette. When they are poor, they will bow their heads to the ground to worship their ministers. When they are stable, they invade and steal from the outside. The border has been poisoned and hurt by them. China is worried about their rudeness.
Now the Xiongnu people and livestock are dead from the epidemic, and the drought locusts have eaten all the food on the ground. The epidemic is so severe that it cannot withstand a single county in China.
Thousands of miles of dying life hang in His Majesty's hands.
Opportunities are easy to lose and blessings never come. How can we stick to virtue and abandon martial arts?
Now send a general to the north of the Great Wall, offer a heavy reward, and tell Goguryeo, Wuhuan, and Xianbei to send troops to attack its left, and send troops and horses from the four counties of Hexi to join Tianshui and Longxi Qianghu to attack its right.
In this way, the destruction of Beilu will be successful in just a few years.
I am afraid that your majesty will be unkind and your advisers will be doubtful, so that the merits of carving stone and tree monuments for eternity will not be established in the contemporary holy world. The edict replied: "Huangshi Gongji" says: Softness can control hardness, and weakness can control strength.
Tenderness is virtue, hardness is a thief, the weak are helped by benevolence, and the strong are the destination of resentment.
Therefore, it is said that a virtuous king enjoys others according to what he enjoys; an unvirtuous king enjoys himself only according to what he enjoys.
He who can please others will be happy for a long time, and he who can only enjoy himself will soon die.
Those who seek the near at the expense of the near often work in vain; those who seek the near at the expense of the distant are often comfortable and have an end.
When politics is comfortable, there will be more loyal ministers; when politics is hard, there will be more chaotic people.
Therefore, those who strive to expand their territory will become desolate, and those who strive to implement virtuous government will become strong.
Those who are satisfied with what they have will find peace, while those who are greedy for what others have will lead to destruction.
A cruel government, although successful for a while, will eventually fail.
Now the country does not have good politics, the disasters continue, the people are shocked and frightened, and the people cannot protect themselves, but do they still want to go abroad?
Confucius said: I am afraid that Ji Sun's worries are not in Zhuan Yu.
Moreover, Beidi is still very powerful, and the information obtained from rumors about the garrison guards is often one-sided and inaccurate.
Sure enough, it is not the greatest wish to be able to take half of the world and destroy the big bandits; but if it is not timely, then it is better to let people recuperate and recuperate. From then on, none of the generals dared to talk about war.
Zang Gong died in the first year of Yongping, and his posthumous title was Minhou.
Zizang believed in the throne, believed in death, and Zizang Zhen succeeded in the throne.
After Zhen died, his son Zang Song succeeded him.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, he lived with his mother separately, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the first year of Yongning, Empress Dowager Deng succeeded Zang Song's younger brother Zang You as Marquis of Langling.
The historian commented: ZTE's career was really difficult.
However, the enemy was not as powerful as Emperor Qin and Xiang Yu, and people still cherished the idea of ​​​​submitting to the Han Dynasty. Although they had official seals and official seals, they traveled across prefectures and counties under various names or false numbers, and formed thousands of groups, which was not enough to compete with dignitaries and high-ranking officials.
When Shanxi is pacified and its power reaches the world, the Rong Jie have lost their energy and courage, and the generals and generals are brave. This is really a good opportunity to be ambitious and martial, and it is a time to take advantage of the victory to practice the army.
Zang Gong and Ma Wu's disciples held their swords in their palms, and their ambitions were galloping to the north of Yiwu.
When Guangwu read "Huangshi Gongji", he was always afraid and uneasy. He closed the Jade Gate to thank the hostages in the Western Regions and responded to the Xiongnu envoys with words and coins. His defensive awareness was already very grand and far-reaching. Could it be that he was worried about being surrounded by Pingcheng like Gaozu, and he couldn't bear to be wounded in the battle when he personally attacked Yingbu like Gaozu?
