King Weiman of North Korea was originally from the state of Yan.
Initially, when the Yan Kingdom was in its heyday, it conquered Zhenfan and North Korea, made them belong to the Yan Kingdom, appointed officials for them, and built defensive castles at the border fortresses.
Later, the Qin State destroyed the Yan State, and North Korea became a border country outside Liaodong County.
After the founding of the Han Dynasty, because North Korea was far away and difficult to defend, the previous passes in Liaodong County were renovated until they were bounded by the Xishui River, which was under the jurisdiction of the State of Yan.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled and went to the Huns. Weiman also went into exile, gathered more than a thousand of his companions, wore cone-shaped buns and barbarian clothes, walked out of the Great Wall in the east, crossed the Xu River, and lived in the original empty land of Qin called Shangxiazhang.
During the time of Emperor Hui and Queen Gao of the Han Dynasty, when the world had just stabilized, the governor of Liaodong County agreed that Wei Man would be the foreign minister of the Han Dynasty to protect the barbarians outside the border fortresses and not allow them to come to the border to harass and plunder. The barbarian leaders wanted to see the emperor from the Han Dynasty and did not prohibit it.
The governor of Liaodong reported this situation to the emperor, who agreed to the condition. Therefore, Weiman was able to use his military power and wealth to invade and surrender the small countries around him. Zhenfan and Lintun both surrendered and belonged to Weiman. The area under his control was thousands of miles in radius.
Weiman passed the rule to his son, and then to his grandson Youqu. During this period, more and more refugees from the Han Dynasty were lured to North Korea, and Youqu never went to see the emperor of the Han Dynasty. Many small countries around Zhenfan wanted to submit letters requesting an audience with the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, but were blocked from letting the Emperor know about their request.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han Dynasty sent He He to blame and inform Youqu, but Youqu refused to accept the Han Dynasty's edict.
Shehe left North Korea and came to the border. Facing the Xu River, he sent a driver to assassinate the North Korean Pi Xiaowang who was escorting Shehe. Then he immediately crossed the river, galloped back, and entered the Han Dynasty border fortress. So he returned to the capital and reported to the emperor: I killed a North Korean general.
The emperor believed that he had a good reputation for killing Korean generals, so he no longer pursued his fault, but awarded him the official position of captain of eastern Liaodong.
North Korea resented Shehe and dispatched troops to make a surprise attack and killed Shehe.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty ordered the recruitment of prisoners whose crimes had been pardoned to attack North Korea.
In the autumn of the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han Dynasty sent general Yang Pu of Louzhou to cross the Bohai Sea by boat with an army of 50,000 people. General Xunshe of the left led his troops out of Liaodong County to attack Youqu.
Youqu mobilized troops to defend strategic locations to resist the Han army.
General Zuo's pawn named Duo was the first to lead the Liaodong troops to attack the enemy. As a result, the team failed and became separated. Most of them ran back and were executed for violating military law.
General Lou Chuan led 7,000 soldiers from Qi to arrive at Wangxian City first.
Youqu was guarding the city and heard the news that General Lou Chuan's army was small, so he went out to attack General Lou Chuan. General Lou Chuan's army failed and fled in all directions.
General Yang Pu lost his army and fled to the mountains to hide for more than ten days. He gradually recovered his scattered soldiers and reunited them.
General Xun Shen of the left attacked the Korean army stationed west of the Xu River, but failed to break through the enemy from the front.
Because the two generals failed to achieve military victory, the emperor sent Weishan to use his military prowess to tell Youqu clearly.
Youqu met with the Han Dynasty envoy and kowtowed to apologize: I am willing to surrender, but I am afraid that Generals Yang and Xun will kill me through deception. Now that I see the symbol of integrity, please allow us to surrender.
Youqu then sent the prince to the Han Dynasty to apologize, offering five thousand horses, and also presented military rations to the Han army in Korea.
There were more than 10,000 Korean people with weapons in their hands, and they were about to cross the Xu River. The envoy and General Zuo suspected that the Koreans had rebelled, and said that the prince had surrendered and submitted, and they should order the people not to carry weapons.
The prince also suspected that the Han envoys and General Zuo wanted to deceive and kill him, so he stopped crossing the river and led the Korean people back.
Weishan returned to the capital and reported to the emperor, who killed Weishan.
General Zuo defeated the North Korean army on the Haishui River and then advanced until he reached the foot of Wangxian City and surrounded the northwest of the city.
General Lou Chuan also went to join forces and garrisoned in the south of the city.
Youqu then held on to Wangxian City. Several months passed, but the Han army failed to capture Wangxian City.
General Zuo has always served the emperor in the palace and is favored. He led soldiers from Yan and Dai who were very fierce and took advantage of the opportunity to win the battle. Most of the soldiers in the army were very proud.
General Lou Chuan led his troops to cross the sea to fight, and there were many casualties in the battle. When they fought against Youqu, they suffered difficulties and humiliation, and suffered many casualties. The soldiers were frightened, and the generals felt ashamed in their hearts. When they surrounded You Can, General Lou Chuan often held peace talismans.
General Zuo tried his best to attack the enemy city, and the North Korean ministers secretly sought an opportunity to contact General Lou Chuan to discuss North Korea's surrender. The two sides exchanged talks, but no decision had been made.
General Zuo repeatedly agreed with General Lou Chuan on the date of simultaneous attacks. General Lou Chuan wanted to reach a reduction in the treaty with North Korea as soon as possible, so he did not send troops to join General Zuo. General Zuo also sent people to look for opportunities for North Korea to surrender. North Korea refused to surrender to General Zuo, but wanted to surrender to General Louchuan. Therefore, the two generals cannot coordinate with each other to fight the enemy together.
General Zuo thought about General Lou Chuan's fault for losing the battle in the past. Now he was secretly friendly with the North Korean minister, but North Korea refused to surrender, so he suspected that General Lou Chuan had a rebellion conspiracy, but he did not dare to take action.
The emperor said that the general was incompetent. Not long ago, I sent Weishan to tell Youqu to surrender. Youqu sent the prince to apologize, but Weishan, the messenger, could not handle the matter decisively and made mistakes in his plans with General Zuo, which finally broke the agreement of North Korea's surrender.
Now the two generals are besieging Wangxian City, but they are contradicting each other and cannot act in unison, so the problem cannot be solved for a long time.
Gongsun Sui, the governor of Jinan, was sent to correct their mistakes. If there is a convenient and favorable opportunity, he can handle the affairs on his own at any time.
After Gongsun Sui arrived in North Korea, General Zuo said: North Korea could have been captured long ago. There is a reason why it has not been captured yet.
He also told Gongsun Sui that he had agreed with General Lou Chuan on the date of march, but General Lou Chuan did not come to join forces. He also told Gongsun Sui that he had always suspected General Lou Chuan of treason, and said, "If we don't arrest him now, I'm afraid it will be a big harm. Not only will General Lou Chuan rebel, but he will also unite with North Korea to destroy our army."
Gongsun Sui also thought that this was the case, so he used the talisman to summon General Lou Chuan to General Zuo's camp to discuss the matter. He ordered General Zuo's men to capture General Lou Chuan on the spot, merge his troops under General Zuo, and then reported the incident to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
The emperor killed Gongsun Sui.
General Zuo merged the two armies and tried his best to attack North Korea.
Korean Prime Minister Lu Ren, Prime Minister Han Yin, Prime Minister Nixi, and General Wang Xi discussed with each other: At first, General Lou Chuan was wanted to surrender, but now General Lou Chuan has been arrested, and only General Zuo leads the combined army. The war is becoming more and more urgent. We may not be able to persist, and the king refuses to surrender.
Han Yin, Wang Yi, and passers-by all fled to the Han army and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Passers-by died on the road.
In the summer of the third year of Yuanfeng, Nixi Xiangcan sent people to kill the Korean king Youqu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Before Wang Xiancheng was captured, Cheng Si, the former minister of Youqu, rebelled again and attacked the Korean officials who did not rebel with him.
General Zuo sent Youqu's son Changjian and Xiangluren's son Lu Zui to tell the Korean people clearly that they would kill him. Therefore, the Han Dynasty finally pacified Korea and established four counties.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty granted Shen the title of Marquis of Qingqing, Han Yin as the Marquis of Diju, Wang Xi as the Marquis of Pingzhou, and Chang demoted them to Jihou.
Lu Zui was named Marquis of Wenyang because of his meritorious service after his father died.
General Zuo was recalled to the capital. He committed the crime of competing for merit, becoming jealous of each other, and violating the battle plan, and was publicly executed.
General Lou Chuan was also sentenced to death because he committed the crime of attacking the enemy first without authorization when his troops arrived at Lukou. He should have waited for General Zuo, resulting in many casualties. He atone for his crime with money, was exempted from the death penalty, and became a civilian.
Tai Shigong said: King Youqu of Korea relied on the rugged terrain and the country was wiped out.
She He's deception to gain credit became the beginning of sending troops to attack North Korea.
General Lou Chuan acts with a narrow mind and suffers disaster when in danger.
I regretted that I had failed in the capture of Panyu, but was suspected of rebelling.
Xun Zhen and Gong Sun Sui were both beheaded as they fought for merit.
The two armies of Yang Pu and Xun Shen who conquered Korea suffered humiliation, and the generals were not granted the title of marquis.
