Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty was the crown prince of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and his mother was Empress Lu.
When he was five years old, Han Gaozu began to be the king of Han.
In the second year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he was made the crown prince.
In April of the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Gaozu passed away.
On May 17, the prince became the emperor, and his mother, Empress Lu, became the empress dowager.
Reward subjects with first-level titles.
Zhonglang and Langzhong officials who have served for six years will be promoted to the third level, and those who have served for four years will be promoted to the second level.
A second-level wailang officer who has served for six years.
The middle man who has been in office for less than one year will be promoted to a higher level, and the outer man who has been in office for less than two years will be rewarded with a reward of 10,000 yuan.
The eunuch's salary is the same as that of a doctor. The salaries of the emperor's attendants such as the eunuchs, bearers, halberds, warriors, and cavalrymen were the same as those of the foreign ministers.
The prince's imperial concubine was rewarded with the title of fifth doctor, and those who served for five years would be given the title of second grade.
Those who organize the funeral for the great ancestor will be rewarded with a reward of 20,000 yuan for those with a salary of 2,000 shi, a reward of 10,000 for those with a salary of 600 shi or more, and a reward of 5,000 for those with a salary of less than 500 shi.
Those who build a mausoleum for the great ancestor will be rewarded 40 gold by the general, 20 gold for 2,000 shi, 6 gold for more than 600 shi, and 2 gold for less than 500 shi.
Reduce land rent and restore the system of one tax for every fifteen people.
Those who have a rank of five officials, more than six hundred shi, and those who have served the emperor and whose names are known to the emperor, and who commit crimes and should be yoke and chained, can be relaxed to house arrest instead of being thrown into prison. For those with official positions above Shangzao, grandsons inside and outside the royal family, or children and grandchildren who are no longer related by blood, etc., those who commit crimes should be punished, or if they should be sentenced to four years in prison, the sentence should be reduced to three years. People over seventy and under ten who are guilty and should be punished are exempted from corporal punishment.
The emperor also pointed out in the order: The duty of officials is to do things for the people. If they work hard to do things well, they will gain the trust of the people. The reason why they are improved is to ask them to do things better for the people.
All officials whose salary is more than 600 dan, who live with their parents and wives, and those who have worn the seal of general or captain who are no longer in office and have served in the army, or who have worn the official seal of 2,000 dan, only need to pay military tax and are exempt from all other corvee services.
The princes and princes of each county were ordered to build the ancestral temple of Gaozu.
In the winter of December of the first year of Emperor Hui, King Liu Ruyi of Zhao Yin passed away.
It is stipulated that if a subject commits a crime, he can atone for the crime of death by paying the money of the 30th level.
Reward the common people with titles, one level for each household.
In the first month of spring, the city of Chang'an was built.
In the winter of October of the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, King Hui of Qi came to pay homage and presented Chengyang County to increase Princess Lu Yuan's Tangmuyi. Respect Princess Lu Yuan as the Queen Mother.
On the fourth day of the first lunar month of spring, two dragons appeared in the well of a hundred people's houses in Lanling. On the evening of the 6th, his whereabouts were unknown.
An earthquake occurred in Longxi.
That summer, there was a drought.
Yanghou Liu Zhong passed away.
In autumn, on July 5th, Prime Minister Xiao He passed away.
In the spring of the third year of Emperor Hui's reign, 146,000 male and female migrant workers within 600 miles of Chang'an were recruited to build Chang'an City for a period of thirty days.
The daughter of the Liu family was made a princess and married to King Shanyu of the Xiongnu as his wife to establish friendship.
In the fifth month of summer, the king of Minyue was granted the title of King of East China Sea.
In June, 20,000 princes, their families, and slaves were sent to Chang'an to build a city.
In autumn and July, a fire broke out in the royal stables.
Zhao Tuo, the king of South Vietnam, declared himself a minister and paid tribute.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign, Zhang Ao's daughter was made queen.
In the first month of spring, sages with filial piety and loyalty to the fields were selected from various places to exempt them from the burden of corvee service.
On March 17, the emperor held a crown ceremony and granted amnesty to the world.
Eliminate the laws that hinder the officials and the people, and abolish the Qin laws that make it illegal to carry a document.
A fire broke out in Hongtai of Changle Palace, and blood rain occurred in Yiyang area.
On the 20th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in the ling room of Weiyang Palace; on the 21st, a fire broke out in the weaving room.
In the tenth month of winter in the fifth year of Emperor Hui's reign, thunder rumbled, peaches and plums blossomed, and jujube trees bore fruit.
In the first month of spring, 145,000 male and female migrant workers within 600 miles of Chang'an were again recruited to build the city in Chang'an for a period of thirty days.
That summer, there was a severe drought.
In the eighth month of autumn, Prime Minister Cao Shen passed away.
In September, Chang'an City was completely completed.
Reward the common people with titles, one level for each household.
In the winter and tenth month of the sixth year of Emperor Hui's reign, King Fei of Qi passed away.
The emperor ordered that people could buy and sell titles, and that women aged between fifteen and thirty who did not marry would be fined six hundred coins.
In June of summer, Fan Kuai, Marquis of Wuyang, passed away.
The west city of Chang'an was built and Aocang was built.
In the winter and tenth month of the seventh year of Emperor Hui's reign, he sent chariots and cavalry officers to Xingyang, under the command of Taiwei Guan Ying.
On the first day of the first lunar month in spring, a solar eclipse occurs.
On May 29th in the summer, there was a total solar eclipse.
On August 12 in autumn, Emperor Hui died in Weiyang Palace.
On September 5, he was buried in Anling.
Ban Gu commented: Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty was closely related to the clan at home, and was the prime minister in foreign affairs. He favored King Qi Miao and King Zhao Yin, which can be described as being kind and respectful.
He felt ashamed when he heard his uncle-sun's advice about paying attention to etiquette, and he was deeply happy when he accepted Cao Xiangguo's advice on improving the legal system. It can be said that he is benevolent and generous.
It's a pity that because of what the Queen Mother Lu did, she fell short of her saintliness. How sad!
