Zhang Huishao, courtesy name Deji, was from Yiyang.
He had military talent in his youth.
During the reign of Emperor Qi Ming of the Southern Dynasty, he was appointed as Zhihe, and later he was appointed as the garrison commander of Jingling Hengsang.
In the early years of Yongyuan, his mother passed away and he returned to his hometown for burial.
When he heard about the rise of Liang Gaozu's righteous army, he hurried to join Gaozu. He was appointed as a soldier in the army and joined the army as general Ningshuo and military leader.
The righteous army was temporarily stationed in Han Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Siyuan, the leader of the Hui Shao Yu army, to patrol the Yangtze River to block the grain transportation channel between Ying and Lu cities.
Shen Nandang, the navy chief of Yingcheng, led ten light warships to challenge Hui Shao, but was defeated by Hui Shao. Shen Nandang was beheaded and all his weapons were seized.
The righteous army stopped at Xinlin and Zhuque, and Hui Shao made many military exploits.
After Jiankang City was captured by the righteous army, Hui Shao moved to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the front army, the commander of Zhihe and Zuoxi.
After Liang Gaozu ascended the throne, he granted Huishao the title of Marquis of Shiyang County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Hui Shao was again promoted to General of Xiaoqi, and the masters of Zhihe and Xizhan remained the same.
At that time, the remnant party of Donghun Hou, consisting of hundreds of people, secretly sneaked into Nanyemen and Beiyemen, set fire to Shenhumen, and killed the guard Zhang Hongce.
Hui Shao led his men to rush to fight and beheaded them to the tenth level. Only then did the rest of the party escape.
Due to his meritorious service, Hui Shao increased his residence by 200 households, and was moved to the position of the crown prince's right guard.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Liang Jun launched a large-scale Northern Expedition. Hui Shaoyu champion Hu Xinsheng and Ningshuo general Zhang Baozi attacked Suyu, captured the city lord Ma Chenglong, and escorted him to the capital.
He asked his general Lan Huaigong to build a city on the south bank of the river, forming a cornering force.
Soon, reinforcements from the Wei army arrived in large numbers, defeated Lan Huaigong and captured the city built by Huaigong. Hui Shao could not defend the city of Yu, so he fled back to Huaiyin that night, and the Wei army regained the city.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, the Wei army attacked Zhongli. Emperor Wu of Liang ordered the left guard general Cao Jingzong to supervise the various armies as backup and marched to occupy Shaoyang. Hui Shao, Feng Daogen, Pei Sui and others attacked the Wei army's connecting bridge. The two armies fought in close combat, and the Wei army was defeated.
Hui Shao also added 300 households to the city due to his meritorious service. After returning, he served as General Zuo Xiaoqi.
Soon after, he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Northern Yanzhou, Champion General, and Governor of Northern Yanzhou.
The two cities of Suyu and Huaiyang of the Wei State were surrendered to the Liang Dynasty. Hui Shao was promoted to the title of General Zhiwu due to his meritorious service in recruiting and appeasing them, and was granted an additional 200 households.
Later he was recalled to serve as Wei Qing and moved to Zuowei General.
He also served as Chijie, governor of all military affairs in Sizhou, general Xinwei, governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as prefect of Anlu.
Huishao managed the state well during his term, and the officials and the people loved him very much.
Sai Niu was recalled to the capital to serve as the general of the left guard. He was appointed as a regular attendant on the cavalry and led an armored honor guard of 100 people to guard the palace.
In the eighteenth year of Tianjian, Ji Saichao passed away at the age of sixty-three.
The emperor's Shao Shu wrote: Zhang Huishao's ambition and talent can be used to start a business and save time, and he can stick to the right path and complete it satisfactorily.
He is a sincere and diligent person who abides by principles and has achieved outstanding results in all his official positions.
When he was serving as a guard in the palace, he devoted himself to guarding him day and night.
Passing away suddenly now makes people feel sad and sad.
Appointments with special gifts can be given posthumously in recognition of his achievements.
He can be posthumously given the title of General Guarding the Army, a piece of propaganda, one hundred bolts of cloth, and two hundred catties of wax.
Mi called Zhong.
He was succeeded by his son Zhang Cheng.
At first, he was appointed as General Zhihe. After his father's death, he was appointed as the prefect of Zhesesu. He followed the governor Zhosai in the Northern Expedition and made many military exploits. At that time, Yu Zhan Sengzhi, Hu Shaoshi, and Yu Dan were all brave generals.
Throughout his life, he served as Weiweiqing, Prince Zuoweili and other officials.
He died in office and was named Mi.
Dun Daodan, whose courtesy name is Danji, was born in Luluo.
He lost his father when he was young and his family was poor. He had been employed as a worker since he was a child to support his mother.
When he got delicious food, he didn't dare to eat it first. He had to go home quickly and donate it to his mother.
At only thirteen years old, he was famous in his hometown for his filial piety.
The county governor called him to be the chief clerk, but he refused.
When he was sixteen years old, fellow countryman Tomb Daowang served as the garrison leader of Yingdang. Daowang attacked the base where the barbarians lived, but was besieged by the barbarians. Feng Daogen went to rescue him.
He fought alone in the east and west and killed many enemies. As a result, Dao Ban was able to avoid the siege, and Feng Daogen became a famous figure.
In the last years of Lu Suman's reign, Wei Tong Tuo Bisai led troops to invade and annex five counties including Zhiwu. Zadan Tuo sent Taiwei Tuo Tikui to lead the army to regain the lost territory.
When the troops entered the ditch, Feng Daogen and the villagers greeted the army with beef and wine, and persuaded Xianda: "The water in the ditch is fast and turbulent, making it difficult to advance but easy to retreat."
If the Wei army holds the pass, you will be in a critical situation.
It would be better to leave all the ships in Fengcheng, march forward on foot as a whole, build camps one by one, and march forward beating drums.
In this way, the Wei army can be defeated quickly.
Xianda did not follow his advice, and Daogen still let his men follow the army.
When Xianda was defeated, the soldiers fled overnight, but most of them did not know the mountain roads. Every time Feng Daogen reached a dangerous place, he stopped his horse and pointed the direction to the soldiers. The team relied on his guidance to survive.
Soon, Feng Daogen served as Mizoguchi's deputy garrison commander.
During the Yongyuan period, Feng Daogen's mother passed away and he went home to attend the funeral.
When I heard that Zhidan was organizing an insurrectionary division, I told my relatives: We cannot observe etiquette during wars, and the ancients did not avoid this issue. If we can be famous for future generations, isn't it not filial piety?
This opportunity cannot be missed, I have to leave.
He led all the children in the village who could serve as soldiers to defect to Gaozu.
At that time, there was a general named Cai Daofu, and Gaozu asked Daogen to be his deputy. They were all subordinate to Wang Zhan.
When Wang Jian attacked the ground, attacked the strong ball, and conquered the twists and turns, the channel bearers were all charging ahead.
When Cai Daofu died in the army during the Han Dynasty, Chanpai ordered Tongdao Dan to command all the troops of Ji Daohuan.
The rebel army was stationed in Qianta. When they met Daolong and Wang Lu, they fought in Saique and killed many enemies.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he appointed Feng Daodan as General Xiaoqi. He was also granted the title of Male of Zengcheng County and was given the title of a resident of 200 households.
He also led Said Commander and was promoted to guerrilla general.
In this year, Chen Bozhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, rebelled. When he met Daodan and Wang Peng, he attacked him quickly and put down the rebellion.
In the second year of Yujian, Feng Daogen was appointed as General Ningshuo, Grand Administrator of Muliang County, and concurrently as her garrison commander in the imperial palace.
As soon as Yaodaozou arrived in Huanglu, he built a moat and placed sentries at a distance, as if the enemy was about to come. Everyone laughed at him.
Feng Daogen said: Be careful and defensive. Fight bravely, this is what I mean.
The trenches had not yet been built, and General Yu Shifu led 20,000 troops to attack the city. At this time, the trench fortress of Fuling City built by Daogen was not strong enough, and there were few soldiers in the city. Everyone was panicked.
Feng Daogen ordered the city gate to be opened wide. He calmly put on his battle uniform and climbed to the top of the city. He selected 200 elite soldiers and went out to fight the Wei army and defeated the Wei army.
Qiao Jun saw that Dao Dan was looking at ease, but it was not in his best position to fight with him, so he retreated.
At that time, the Wei army divided its forces and deployed them in Zuoxian, Chenmaggot, Sailuo and other places. The cities maintained contact with each other and faced each other with Fuling City in Daogen.
Wei general Gao Zuzhen led 3,000 cavalry to communicate with each other. Feng Daogen led 100 cavalry to defeat the Wei army and captured the Wei army's Gujiao Army honor guard.
As a result, the Wei army's food transportation channels were cut off, and all armies had to retreat.
Feng Daogen was promoted to general of the auxiliary country.
Wei San, the governor of Yuzhou, surrounded and captured Hefei. Feng Daogen and other armies advanced together, making contributions wherever they went.
In the sixth year, Gong's army attacked Zhongpan, and Shandan ordered Wei Ti to go to rescue him. He met Daodan and led 3,000 soldiers as Wei San's vanguard.
After arriving in Xuzhou, Feng Daogen suggested occupying Shaoyangzhou first, building fortresses, and digging trenches to attack the Wei army's fortifications.
Feng Daogen was able to measure the land on horseback, and the length of the land could be obtained by counting the number of steps taken by the horse. The moat was quickly repaired.
When the water in the Huaihe River rose, Feng Daogen took a warship and attacked the Wei army's bridge by 100 feet. The Wei army was defeated.
Feng added 300 households in the settlement and was promoted to the title of uncle.
After returning to the army, he was promoted to General Yunqi and General Zhihe. Later, he was granted the title of Bo of Yuning County, with the same number of households as before.
He was repeatedly appointed as Sima of Zhongquan, General of Right Guerrilla, General of Military Brigade, and Prefect of Liyang County.
In the eighth year, he moved to the post of General Zhenyi, Jiajie, in charge of military affairs in Yuzhou, governor of Yuzhou, and concurrently served as prefect of Ruyinxing.
Feng Daogen's administration was clean and simple, and the county was stable.
In the eleventh year, he was called to serve as the prince's right guard.
In the thirteenth year, he served as General Xinwu, Sima Xuanhui, and Governor of Xingxing Yongning County.
In the fourteenth year, he was called to serve as Yuanwai Sanqi Changshi, Right Guerrilla General, and concurrently as Zhu Yi Zhihe.
In the fifteenth year, he was appointed as the right guard general.
Feng Daogen had a cautious and generous character, and was dull and talkative. When he was a general, he was able to restrain his subordinates. The officers and soldiers did not dare to plunder the villages they passed through.
After every battle, Daogen always did not say his own credit. Other generals clamored for credit, but he just remained silent.
Some of his subordinates had complaints against him, but Daogen reasoned with him and said: The emperor is very aware of everything and will be able to identify who has done more and who has done less, so what else should we do?
Gao Dan once pointed at Dao Dan and said to Shangshu Lingxuan: This man never talks about his achievements.
Shen Yue said: This is your Majesty's General Big Tree.
Fallen: When Mandan was an official in the state and county, he was lenient and gentle in governance, and his administration was clear and without disputes. He has always been remembered by his subordinates.
When he was an official in the imperial court, even though he was in a distinguished position, he was still very frugal in nature. The house he lived in had no walls, no utensils, clothing, and no guards. Entering his room, it was very deserted, just like the house of a poor and lowly person among ordinary people.
People at that time admired his poverty and indifference, and Emperor Gaozu also valued him very much.
Daogen did not have the opportunity to study when he was young and in a low position. After his status rose, he became proficient in writing and calligraphy. He claimed that he lacked literary talent and often envied Zhou Bo for being valued for his talents.
In the 16th year, Feng Daogen was once again appointed as Jiejie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Yuzhou, General Xinwu, and governor of Yuzhou.
Before leaving, Gaozu led the court officials to hold a farewell banquet for him in Wude Hall. Gaozu called a painter to observe Daogen and then paint his image.
Daogen respectfully and uneasily thanked him and said: The only thing I can do to serve the country is to die; but now that the world is at peace, I just wish there was no place or opportunity to die.
The Yuzhou tribe regained Feng Daogen, and everyone was very happy.
Emperor Gaozu often praised him and said: Wherever Feng Daogen went, he was able to make the court no longer remember that there was still a state to be dispatched.
Feng Daogen fell ill soon after he took office in the state. He submitted a petition to the emperor, requesting to return to the capital. The emperor summoned him to serve as a regular servant of the cavalry and a general of the left army.
When Daogen returned to the capital, his condition became even more serious. The emperor sent envoys to inquire about his condition several times.
In the first month of the first year of the ordinary year, Feng Daogen passed away at the age of fifty-eight.
On the day of his death, the emperor was about to go to the Second Temple to perform a spring festival. As soon as he left the palace, relevant officials reported to him the news of Daogen's death.
Zhu Yi, a member of Emperor Gaozu's Jianzhong Shushe, said: Good luck and bad luck fall on the same day. Can I go today?
Zhu Yi replied: Once upon a time, Liuzhuang died of illness in bed, and Wei Xianggong was performing sacrifices. He asked the person who presided over the sacrifices: There is a minister named Liuzhuang. He is not my minister, but a minister of Sheji. I heard that he was dead, and I asked to see him.
He went to Liuzhuang's house without taking off his sacrificial robes, and presented Liuzhuang with clothes and quilts.
Although Feng Daogen did not become a minister of Sheji, he still made contributions to the royal family. It is in line with etiquette for Your Majesty to visit him.
Emperor Gaozu came to Daogen's house and mourned Daogen. He was very sad.
The letter issued by Shao said: Feng Daogen, the founding uncle of Yuning County, the new regular attendant of Sanqi, and the general of the left army, served the court with loyalty, had meritorious service without boasting, comforted the people with love, and guarded the border to make it difficult for the enemy to invade. Even the former Ji Zun, Feng Yi, Guo Ji, and Li Mu could not surpass him.
His sudden death left people feeling sad.
You can posthumously confer him the title of General Xinwei and General Zuowei, and give him a piece of propaganda.
Give away one hundred thousand pieces of money and one hundred pieces of cloth.
Mi Haowei.
He was succeeded by his son Feng Huai.
Chen Pingyu Zhoulong was a native of Landanbi, Huashan County.
His ancestors came from Chenjuli.
Initially, a protective guard was set up in Lianqian.
All the countries in Youqiu were in chaos, and Chen Zhuli also sent his prince as a servant to return to the Western Protectorate to wait for the emperor's order, so he stayed there and became an ordinary citizen, and their descendants took Kang as their surname.
During the Jin Dynasty, there was turmoil in Longyou, and the Kang family moved to Lantian.
Kang Xuan's great-grandfather Chenyu became the crown prince of Xianjian, Zhan Shi, and gave birth to a son named Kang Mu.
During the reign of Xiansai, he mobilized more than 3,000 families with the surname Chen in the township and entered the Xianan area of ​​​​Xiangyang. For this purpose, Saiqu established Lanyan, Huashan County, subordinate to Saitun, and appointed Chenmu as the governor of Taizhou and Zhezhou. He died before taking office.
Chen Mian's eldest uncle Chen Wuzhui and his father Qidou Mian were both elected by the immigrants and served as the prefect of Huashan County one after another.
When Chenmian was a young man, he was outstanding and ambitious. When Emperor Wen of Qi came to appoint the governor, all the officials he selected came from famous people. Kang Xuan was called to be the secretary of Xicao because of his special talent.
In the third year of Yongming Dynasty, Kangmian was awarded to the imperial court.
When Saitong was the crown prince in Shu Palace, Kang Xuan was appointed as his concubine by Emperor Wen because of his old friendship, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the title of General Zhenwei and the Grand Administrator of Huashan County.
He appeases the people and treats each other with sincerity, and people in remote areas are also convinced by him.
Later he moved to the post of general of the former army and then governor of Huashan County.
In the first year of the return year, the benevolent and righteous troops of Shandan raised troops. Kang Xuan led the entire Huashan County to respond to the direct charge. He himself led 3,000 brave men and led his 250 horses to follow Gaozu.
He was appointed as the middle soldier of King Lang Chenchen of Xizhong to join the army and became a general of the country.
The uprising troops were besieging Chengwei in Dancheng for a long time. The generals of Shuhunbao, Wang Wuyan, formed an encirclement. The army's vanguard was very powerful.
From then on, Chen Mian often led soldiers on patrols, and rushed to rescue wherever there was a crisis, killing and capturing many enemies.
In the first year of Tianjian, Chen Gou was granted the title of male in Nan'an County and was granted the title of 300 households.
He was also appointed as the general of the auxiliary state and the prefect of Jingling County.
The Wei army surrounded Liang Su, and the governor Wang Zhenguo sent someone to ask for help. Kang Xuan led Jingling and Deng's soldiers there, and the Wei army retreated.
In the seventh year, the three passes of Sizhou were besieged by the Wei army. He was directly responsible for the command of Chen Mianzhi Fujie, appointed as the general of the military brigade, and led the army to rescue.
In the ninth year, he moved to Jiejie, supervised the military affairs of Yanzhou and Huaihe River in northern Yanzhou, general Zhenyuan, and governor of northern Yanzhou.
When the desperadoes in Qushan sacrificed the entire city to surrender to Xiu Mo, Chen Guan rode on horseback and dispatched Sima Ting's three reconnaissance troops to occupy the strategic area. When the Wei army arrived here, they could not cross Dan Maggot.
The next year, Yiye governor Qiang Rao was killed by the native Tu Daoyu, and Chen Mian sent Sima Lingqu to attack and pacify Tu Daojiao.
Afterwards, Kang Xuan was summoned as Sima of the King of Qiaoqi Linchuan, and became General Zuo Xiaoqi. Soon, he was transferred to Zhu Yi Zhihe.
In the thirteenth year, he was appointed as the prince's right guard and led a hundred armored soldiers. He was on duty in the palace together with the leader Xiao Jing.
Kang Xuan is eight feet tall and has an unparalleled appearance. Even though he is a prominent official, he still practices martial arts.
Once, Emperor Gaozu went to Deyang Palace for horseback riding, and asked Kang Xuan to shoot an arrow on horseback. Kang Xuan bent the bow and hit the target, and the onlookers were very happy.
One day, the emperor asked a painter to draw a portrait of Kang Xuan, and sent an eunuch to take the painting and ask Kang Xuan: Do you know anyone from the palace?
This shows how close he is.
At that time, Wang Zu, who had surrendered from Wei, came up with a plan and asked for a dam to be built on the Huai River to flood Shouyang with water.
Wang Zu quoted a northern nursery rhyme and said: Jingshan is the upper grid, Fushan is the lower grid, Tongtuo is the Jigou, and it is filled with Ju Yeze.
Emperor Gaozu thought it was reasonable and asked hydraulic engineer Chen Chengbo and Caiguan General Zuqu to inspect the terrain. After their inspection, they both said that the sandy soil in the Huaihe River was light and not solid, so dams could not be built.
Emperor Gaozu did not adopt their opinions and mobilized the people of Xuzhou and Yangzhou to transfer dings to build dams at the rate of 5 dings for every 20 households.
Granting Kang Xuan a holiday, he commanded the military forces in Huaishang and supervised the construction of weirs and dams. There were as many as 200,000 migrant workers and soldiers serving.
In Zhongli, it starts from Fushan in the south and reaches the rocks in the north. It piles earth along the river bank and joins it in the middle stream.
In the fourteenth year, when the weirs and dams were about to be closed, the Huaihe River became fast and turbulent, and the weirs were washed away by the water again. Everyone was worried about it.
Some people say that there are often dragons in the Yangtze and Huaihe rivers. They can ride on the wind and rain and destroy the cliffs and embankments. However, they are naturally afraid of iron. Therefore, people introduced iron tools smelted from the east and west, ranging from large pots like kefu to small shovels for farming. Iron tools weighing tens of millions of kilograms were sunk into the water where the big weir is.
Still unable to close it, they cut down trees to make manhole railings, filled the middle with large rocks, and added soil on top.
Within a hundred miles along the Huaihe River, all the trees and stones on the hills and hills, no matter how big or small, were chopped down, and the shoulders of those who carried the trees and burdens were worn out.
In the summer, an epidemic broke out, and the dead migrant workers piled together, sleeping on each other, and the sound of mosquitoes, flies and insects continued day and night.
Emperor Gaozu felt sorry for the slaves who had to work for too long, so he sent Shangshu's right servant She Yuan Ang and his minister Xie Ju Chijie to the construction site to express condolences and exempt them from taxes.
This winter was very cold. The Huaihe River and swimming pools were all frozen. Seventy-eight percent of the migrant workers and soldiers died. Emperor Gaozu also sent people to give clothes and trousers to the workers.
In November, Wei sent General Yang Dayan claiming to open Dayan. Kang Xuan ordered all troops to withdraw from the barracks and sleep in the open, waiting for the arrival of the Wei army.
He sent his son Kang Yue to challenge and killed Xu Fangxing, the Sima of Wei Xianyang Palace. The Wei army retreated slightly.
In December, the state of Wei sent Minister Li Tanding to lead an army to challenge. Kang Xuan, Xuzhou governor Liu Sizu and others resisted.
Emperor Gaozu also sent right-guard general Chang Yizhi, imperial servant Yu Hongwen, Zhihe Cao Shizong, and Xu Yuanhe to resist the guards one after another.
In April of the fifteenth year, the weir was built.
It is nine miles long, one hundred and forty feet wide at the base, forty-five feet wide at the top, twenty feet high, and nineteen feet five feet deep.
There is a dike in the middle. Willow trees are planted on the dike, and the soldiers and civilians live side by side on it.
The river water is very clean. Looking down from above, you can see the houses and tombs below at a glance.
Someone said to Kang Xuan: The Yangtze River, the Huaihe River, the Yellow River, and the Jishui River are used by God to regulate and release its Qi, and they should not be blocked for a long time.
If a culvert is dug to allow water to pour eastward, the flow will be wide and gentle and the weir will not be damaged.
Kang Xuan thought he was right, so he dug a hole to the east and filled it with water. He also sent people to Wei State to counterattack and said: The people of Liang Dynasty were most afraid of digging holes, but they were not afraid of fighting in the wild.
The Wei people believed this and dug a cave five feet deep. They opened a hole in the embankment and let the water flow north into the cave. The river flowed day and night, but the water in the cave remained unabated.
That month, all the Wei troops were defeated and returned.
Wherever the river reaches, there are hundreds of miles along the Huaihe River.
The garrison of Shouyang City in the Wei State had to move to Bagong Mountain to settle down. It was a graveyard formed by scattered people from the south.
Initially, when Dayan was being built within the boundaries of Xuzhou, Zhang Baozi, the governor, threatened everywhere within the territory that he would definitely take charge of the matter.
Later Chenmian sent other officials to supervise and supervise this work. King Jibao felt very ashamed.
Soon, the emperor ordered Zhang Baozi to be under Kang Xuan's command and to consult him first on everything. Therefore, Zhang Baozi falsely accused Kang Xuan of colluding with the state of Wei. Although Gaozu did not accept his words, he still consulted Kang Xuan on everything.
Soon after, Kang Xuan was transferred to Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Sizhou, General Xinwu, and governor of Sizhou. He also served as the prefect of Anlu County, adding 200 households to the city.
After Kang Xuan returned, Zhang Baozi stopped building the dam until the autumn and August of the Qian year. The backwater surged, all the weirs and dikes were broken and destroyed, and the river flowed all the way to the sea. Zuqu was arrested and imprisoned.
During Kang Xuan's three years in office in the state, he overhauled the city moat and gave strict orders to the government.
In the eighteenth year, Kang Xuan was called to serve as a regular attendant of Yuanwai Sanqi, and also served as the captain of Changcheng. He was on duty in the palace with the guard Tong He and the prince's right guard led Huang Jian.
In the first year of ordinary life, Kang Xuan was awarded the title of Wei Qing, but he passed away before he could formally become an official. He was fifty-seven years old.
The emperor went to mourn in person that day.
He was posthumously awarded the title of General Youwei and given to the Ministry of Advocacy.
One hundred thousand dollars and one hundred bolts of cloth were given for the funeral.
Mi Hao Zhuang.
Chen's face is generous and cheerful, and his joy and anger are invisible. In the court, when he sees others, he looks like a person who can't speak, so he is called a long and thick person.
In the provincial capital, every time in the cold winter months, when I saw the provincial officials in ragged clothes, I would give them cotton-padded clothes. This was how he was so kind and charitable.
His son Kang Yue succeeded him.
Chang Yizhi, Bi Yan: Sister. He had a strong body when he was young.
During the first expedition, he followed Xuanxu in the expedition and made many military exploits.
When Cao Hu took office in Qian, he asked Zhan Zhi to fill the post of Fanghe and serve as the garrison commander of Feng Yi.
When Xuanxu was exchanged, Zhanzhi stayed to serve Zhizhuo. At that time, the world was in chaos, and Gaozu treated justice well.
After the righteous army rose up, Shanzhi was awarded the title of general of the auxiliary country and military commander, and was appointed as the middle soldier of King Jian'an to join the army.
At that time, Tong Zuodeng's Tongdan had a warehouse for storing military supplies. Chantan sent him to fight, and he won every time.
When the uprising army was stationed in Saimi, Chang Yizhi followed Wang Jian and fought hard in Qianhuang and Yuquexiao, killing and capturing many of them.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Emperor Gaozu appointed Chang Yizhi as General Zhihe and Lord of Ma Youjiahu.
The first year of Tianjian. The owner of the lamp was granted the title of Lord Chengfengxuanbao, and he was granted the title of Lord of Chengfengxuanbao, with a settlement of 500 households.
Ren Xiaoqi General.
Served as the prefect of the disgraceful face sculpture.
In the second year, he was moved to the post of Jiejie, supervising the military affairs of Xu maggot in the north, general of the auxiliary state, governor of Rentiao Prefecture, and guarding Zhongli.
The Wei army invaded Jitu and was defeated by Dan Zhanzhi's troops.
Three years later, Chang Zhanzhi was awarded the title of Champion General and added 200 households in the city.
In the fourth year, Luanqu launched a large-scale Northern Expedition. King Linchuan, the governor of Yangzhou, commanded various armies to be stationed in Chi. Zhanzhi led the state soldiers to accept Jiedu and served as the front army, attacked Wei's Liangcheng garrison and captured the garrison.
In the fifth year, Zhidan felt that the military conscription was too long, so he ordered the army to return to the court, and all the troops retreated. Wang Chenglong of Zhongshan in Wei State took advantage of the situation to follow and pursue, and captured Matou City. The city packed the stored grain, and all the Soviet troops moved to the north.
Commentators all said: The troops transported the rice back to the north, so they should not invade further south.
Shandan said: No, the Japanese must be marching into the army. The current situation is not the truth of the matter.
So he sent civil craftsmen to build clock plates and ordered Danzhan to prepare for war.
In the winter of this year, Cheng Ji indeed led an army of hundreds of thousands including King Seruan Wu Huaqie, General Pingdong Yang Zuozu, and invaded Zhongli southward.
The north side of Zhongli City was blocked by Qishui, so the Wei army built a pontoon bridge on the west bank of Yingbao Xun across the Huaihe River as a passage.
Yuan Ying occupied Shu'an, Yang Dayan occupied the west bank, and attacked the city with a hammer.
At that time, there were only 3,000 people in the city, and Chang Yizhi led them to resist at any time.
The Wei army then loaded trucks with earth to fill the trenches, and asked the Wei army soldiers to follow them carrying the earth on their backs. Officers rode behind them to urge them. Some people had not had time to come back, and the earth followed them, and soon the trenches were filled.
Yuan Ying and Yang Dayan personally supervised the battle, attacking hard day and night, taking turns in the battle, climbing up again after falling down, and no one retreated.
They also erected flying towers and rushed cars to ram the city wall. Wherever they hit, the soil on the city wall collapsed.
Chang Yizhi used mud to fill the gap. Even if the car crashed into the city wall, it could not destroy the city wall.
Chang Yizhi was also good at archery. When the city was in danger of being attacked, Yoshizhi rushed to the rescue. Every time he bent his bow and drew an arrow, he was invincible and no one fell down.
There were dozens of rounds of fighting in a day, with tens of thousands of casualties before and after. The number of soldiers killed by the Wei army was as high as the city wall.
In April of the sixth year, Emperor Gaozu sent Cao Jingzong and Wei Jiao to lead an army of 200,000 troops to come to the rescue. When they arrived at Zhongli, they fought with the Wei army and defeated the Wei army. Wujie, Lao Qumeng and others escaped each other.
Danxianzhi led the light cavalry and pursued them all the way to Luokou before returning. In this battle, countless Wei troops were killed or captured alive.
Due to his meritorious service, Dan Zhanzhi was promoted to the title of Military Advisor General, and he was granted an additional 200 households in the city. He was moved to the post of Chijie, Supervisor of the Military Affairs of Qingji and Qingji Prefectures, General of Conquering Captives, and Governor of Qing and Hebei Prefectures.
Before formally becoming an official, he was appointed governor of the military affairs of the five states of Southern Yanzhou, Xu Qingji, general of the auxiliary state, and governor of Southern Yanzhou.
Because he committed the crime of taking prohibited items out of his jurisdiction, he was dismissed from office by the relevant officials.
In the same year, Yizhi was appointed as Zhu Yi Zhihe and was awarded the title of General Zuo Xiaoqi. He still served as Zhihe.
Later, he moved to the right guard of the crown prince, and concurrently served as the Yueqi school captain.
In the eighth year, Chang Yizhi was appointed as Chijie, Supervisor of all military affairs in Chiye, General of Expeditions, and Governor of Xiangzhou.
In the ninth year, he returned to the court with his original title and was soon appointed Sima, King of Sikong Linchuan. His position as general remained as before.
Ten years later, he was promoted to right-guard general.
In the thirteenth year, he was appointed general of Zuowei.
In the winter of the Qian year, Emperor Gaozu sent Prince Youwei to lead Kang Xuan to supervise the army's construction of Jingshan Weir.
The next year, Wenwang sent Kui Kenxuan to lead an army to advance towards Xingshan, threatening to open the dam. The emperor ordered Yi Zhijie to lead his servant Qing Yu Hongwen, Zhihe generals Cao Shizong, Xu Yuanqu and others to rescue Chenmian. Before the army arrived, Chenxuan and others had defeated the Wei army.
The Qiao army sent General Kui Nuo to attack Chu, and surrounded General Zhihe Zhao Zuyue. Chang Yizhi then led Zhu Yi Zhihe, Wang Shennian and others to rescue him.
At that time, the morale of the Wei soldiers was high. Wang Shennian failed to attack the pontoon bridge in Xia Shi, so reinforcements could not come in immediately, so Xia Shi was trapped.
When Changyi's teacher returned to the court, he was presented with a memorial by the relevant officials. Emperor Gaozu thought that he was a meritorious official and did not ask about his faults.
In the fifteenth year, Chang Yizhi was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Xiang maggot military affairs, general Xinwei, and fishery governor.
In the same year, he was changed to the governor of North Xuzhou, Yuanjin Zhujun, the general of Pingbei, and the governor of North Xuzhou.
Changyi had a generous nature, and as a general, he could soothe people's hearts and rule well, so he could be rewarded by his subordinates for their desperate efforts. When he was an official in the feudal state, his subordinates and the people were very stable.
Soon, the emperor gave him a piece of propaganda, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Yingdao County, with the same number of households as before.
After three years of Xuanbi's reign, Dan Zhanzhi was summoned to serve as the general of the army, and his propaganda continued as before.
Died in October four years.
Emperor Gaozu deeply regretted his death and wrote in the edict: Chang Yizhi, the general who protected the army and the founder of Yingdao County, was steady in his work, successful in his strategy, broad-minded and majestic, and outstanding in loyalty. At the beginning of the national destiny, he served on the border and achieved results.
After he was declared an important minister of the country, he was assigned to command the imperial guards. His sudden death is extremely sad.
He can be posthumously given the title of regular servant of scattered cavalry, general of chariot cavalry, and a department of advocacy.
Give Shuyuan a secret weapon and a set of court uniforms.
Send 20,000 yuan, 200 pieces of cloth, and 200 catties of wax.
Mi Hao Lie.
Chang Yizhi's son Chang Shiye succeeded him, and his official positions reached General Zhihe and Governor of Qiaozhou.
Ta Sai, the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Nansu Eyelashes, said: Ji Saiyi, Zhou Kan, Chen Mian, Chang Yizhi, when he first followed the emperor, his achievements were still very slight.
When a group of bandits burned the city gates, Zhang Huishao showed his merits by fighting hard; when the two cities of Hedan and Dankuang were besieged, Mai Daogen and Chang Yizhi made the most contributions; when the battle of Can broke out, it was Chun Xuan who was in charge: each of them had their own merits, so they were favored, and it was natural for them to be promoted to officials.
Before that, when Saturn was guarding the Tianjiang star, a large dam was built. After Saturn moved its position, the dam broke. This was not just a matter of personnel, but the will of heaven.
