Liu Jiao, King of Chu Yuan Dynasty, was the younger half-brother of Emperor Gaozu. His courtesy name was You.
There were four Gaozu brothers, the eldest brother was a famous uncle, and his uncle had died long ago.
When Gao Zuwei was a child, in order to avoid trouble, he often passed by his sister-in-law's house to have dinner with guests.
The eldest sister-in-law hated her brother-in-law. When the uncle and guests came to the house, the eldest sister-in-law pretended that she had finished the soup and scraped the pot with a spoon, so the guests left.
Later, when he saw that there was still soup in the pot, Emperor Gaozu resented his sister-in-law from then on.
When Emperor Gaozu became emperor, he divided his brothers into feudal lords, except for the eldest brother's son.
The Emperor interceded for his grandson, and Emperor Gaozu said: It's not that I forgot to confer him a title, because his mother is so unlike her elders.
So her son Xin was granted the title of Genjiehou.
He named his second brother Zhong as acting king.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, after arresting King Han Xin of Chu in Chen County, he made his younger brother King of Chu and made his capital Pengcheng.
Jiao died in the 23rd year of his reign, and his son Ying, King of Yi, succeeded him.
King Yi died in the fourth year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Wang Wu. Twenty years after Wang Wu took the throne, in winter, he committed a private crime during the mourning period for Empress Dowager Bo, and the fiefdom of Donghai County was cut off.
In the spring of the next year, Wu conspired with the King of Wu to rebel, but his prime minister Zhang Shang and Taifu Zhao Yiwu tried to stop him and refused to listen.
Wu killed Zhang Shang and Zhao Yiwu, raised an army and went westward with King Wu to attack Liang State, and captured Jibi.
He went to the south of Changyi and engaged the Han general Zhou Yafu.
The Han army cut off the food routes of the Wu and Chu armies, and the soldiers were hungry. King Wu was defeated, King Wu of Chu committed suicide, and the Wu and Chu armies surrendered to the Han army.
The Han army had put down the rebellions of Wu and Chu. Emperor Xiaojing wanted Dehou Guang's son to inherit the throne of Wu and King Yuan's son Li to inherit the throne of Chu.
Empress Dowager Dou said: King Wu is of the older generation and should be loyal to the clan and do good deeds.
Now he is leading the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms and disrupting the world. Why should he continue his descendants!
It is not allowed to establish the descendants of the King of Wu, but only the descendants of the King of Chu.
At that time, Li was the Zongzheng of the Han Dynasty, so Li was named King of Chu and enshrined in the ancestral temple of King Yuan. This was King Wen of Chu.
King Wen died three years after he took the throne, and his son An Wangdao succeeded him.
King An died in the 22nd year of his reign, and his son Jian Wangzhu succeeded him.
King Xiang died in the fourteenth year of his reign, and his son Wang Chun succeeded him.
After Wang Chun succeeded to the throne, in the second year of Dijie, the eunuchs complained to the King of Chu of rebellion. The King of Chu committed suicide, the country's title was abolished, and the fiefdom was returned to the Han Dynasty and changed to Pengcheng County.
Zhao Wang Liu Sui, his father ranked in the middle among Gaozu's sons, was famous as a friend, and his posthumous name was "You".
King You died of sorrow, so his posthumous name was You.
Empress Gao made Lu Lu the king of Zhao, and Empress Gao died a year later.
The ministers executed Lu Lu and other Lu family members, and then made King You's son King of Zhao.
In the second year after Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, Li Sui's younger brother Piqiang cut off the Hejian County of Zhao State and became the King of Hejian. This was King Wen.
He died in the thirteenth year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Ai Wangfu.
Fu died in the first year, without any children, and had no descendants. The title of the country was abolished, and the fiefdom was returned to the Han Dynasty.
Sui had been king of Zhao for twenty-six years. During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Chao Cuo deprived him of Changshan County because of his negligence.
Wu and Chu rebelled, and King Zhao conspired with them to raise troops.
His prime minister, Jian De, and his internal history king fiercely resisted and refused to obey.
He burned Jiande and Wang Han to death, and stationed troops on the western border of Zhao State, hoping to wait for the Wu army to advance westward.
He also sent people to the Xiongnu in the north, hoping to unite with the Xiongnu to attack the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent Quzhou Hou Liji to attack Zhao.
King Zhao then retreated and defended Handan. They faced off for seven months. The Wu and Chu armies were defeated in Liang State and could not advance westward.
When the Xiongnu heard the news, they also stopped sending troops and refused to enter the Han border.
After Luan Bu returned from the front line where he defeated Qi, he joined forces with Li Ji to divert water to the capital of Zhao.
Zhao's capital city was destroyed by water, King Zhao committed suicide, and Handan surrendered.
King Zhao You cut off his descendants.
Tai Shigong said: When a country is about to rise, there must be auspicious omens. Gentlemen will be valued and villains will be dismissed.
When the country is about to perish, the wise men retire and the treacherous officials become dignified.
If King Wu of Chu did not punish Duke Shen and listened to his words, how could King Zhao appoint Mr. Fang Yu to have a conspiracy to usurp him and be killed by everyone in the world?
Wise man! Wise man!
How can a king who is not inherently virtuous use you?
So important! The safety of the country depends on the decrees issued, and the survival of the country depends on the ministers appointed. This is so true.
