Xiao Xiangguo Xiao He was born in Fengyi, Peixian County.
His knowledge of the law was unparalleled, and he was an official under the magistrate of Peixian County.
When the great ancestor Liu Bang was still a commoner, Xiao He relied on his authority as an official to protect him many times.
Liu Bang became the chief of the pavilion, and Xiao He often helped him.
Liu Bang went to Xianyang to serve as an official. All the officials gave him three hundred coins, but Xiao He gave him five hundred coins.
When the censor of the Qin Dynasty went to Sishui County to supervise the work of the county, Xiao He followed his subordinate officials and always handled things in an orderly and clear manner.
Xiao He then took on the job of being the historian of Sishui County, and ranked first in the official assessment.
The censor of the Qin Dynasty planned to enter the court to make suggestions to recruit Xiao He, but Xiao He repeatedly declined and refused to be transferred.
When the great ancestor Liu Bang rose up and became Pei Gong, Xiao He often served as his assistant to supervise the affairs.
When Pei Gong entered Xianyang, the generals rushed to the Qin Dynasty's treasury to collect gold and silk property. Only Xiao He entered the palace first to collect legal documents, geographical atlases, household registration files and other documents and materials in charge of the Qin Dynasty's prime ministers and censors, and treasured them.
Pei Gong became the queen of Han Dynasty and appointed Xiao He as prime minister.
Xiang Yu and the princes' troops entered Xianyang, slaughtered and burned them, and then left.
The reason why the King of Han was able to have a detailed understanding of the world's dangerous fortresses, the number of families and populations, the strength and weakness of various places, the sufferings of the people, etc. was all because Xiao He had completely obtained the maps, books and other materials of the Qin Dynasty.
Xiao He recommended Han Xin to the King of Han, and the King of Han appointed Han Xin as general.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Marquis of Huaiyin".
The King of Han led his troops eastward and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties. Xiao He stayed behind as prime minister to govern Bashu, pacify the people, issue decrees, and provide food and fodder for the army.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han and other princes attacked the Chu army. Xiao He guarded Guanzhong, served the prince, and governed Yueyang.
When formulating laws and regulations, establishing ancestral temples, communities, palaces, and counties, Xiao He would report everything he did to the King of Han in advance and only implement it with the King of Han's approval. If it was too late to report to the King of Han, he would handle certain matters as appropriate and report to him again when the King of Han came back.
Xiao He managed the registered population in Guanzhong and collected grain and grass to transport to the army at the front. Large numbers of soldiers fled from the Han army many times, so Xiao He often recruited soldiers from Guanzhong to make up for the shortfalls in the army.
Therefore, the King of Han specially appointed Xiao He to handle the political affairs in Guanzhong.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, the army of the King of Han and Xiang Yu's army faced off between Jingxian and Suocheng. The King of Han sent envoys many times to express condolences to Prime Minister Xiao He.
A man named Bao Sheng said to Xiao He: The King of Han is living in the open air on the front line, but he has sent envoys to comfort you many times. This is because he doubts your intentions.
For your sake, it is better to send all your descendants and brothers who are capable of fighting to serve in the military camp. The King of Han will definitely trust you more.
So Xiao He followed his plan, and the king of Han was indeed very happy.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu was eliminated and the world was pacified, so he was rewarded based on his merits.
Due to the competition among officials for more than a year, the credit cannot be determined.
Emperor Gaozu believed that Xiao He's contribution was the most outstanding, so he made him Marquis of Fou and gave him the most food.
The heroes all said: We wore armor, held weapons in hand, and participated in the battle in person. Some of us had experienced hundreds of battles, and some of us had fought for ten rounds. We captured cities and seized territory, and we all made military exploits of varying sizes.
Now Xiao He has no such great achievements. He just writes and talks, does not participate in battles, and the rewards are higher than those of us. Why is this?
Emperor Gao said: Do you know how to hunt?
The ministers replied: I know how to hunt. Emperor Gao asked again: Do you know about hunting dogs?
The ministers said: I know.
Emperor Gaodi said: When hunting, it is the hunting dogs who chase the wild animals, but it is the hunters who find the traces of wild beasts and point out where the wild beasts are.
Nowadays, everyone can only catch wild animals. This kind of credit is like the credit of hounds in the hunting process.
As for Xiao He, he was the one who discovered the traces of wild beasts and pointed out the hunting target. His contribution was just like the contribution of the hunter in the hunting process.
Besides, you are only following me individually, not more than two or three people from a family.
Xiao He, on the other hand, asked dozens of people from his own clan to join me in conquering the world. The credit cannot be forgotten.
None of the ministers dared to raise any objections.
All the princes had been rewarded, and when it came time to comment on their rankings to Emperor Gaozu, all the officials said: Pingyang Marquis Cao Shen suffered seventy wounds, attacked the city and captured the land, and made the most contributions, so he should be ranked first.
Emperor Gaozu had already wronged the heroes and rewarded Xiao He more. When it came to ranking, he did not refute everyone, but he still wanted to rank Xiao He first.
E Qianqiu, the Marquis of Guannei, said: The opinions of the ministers are wrong.
Although Cao Shen had the merit of fighting in various places and seizing territory, this was only a temporary matter.
The king had been in a stalemate with the Chu army for five years. He often lost his troops, his soldiers fled, and he escaped alone several times.
However, Xiao He often sent troops from Guanzhong to replenish the front line. These were not ordered by the emperor. When tens of thousands of soldiers went to the front line, it was the king's most critical moment. This has happened many times.
The Han army and the Chu army had been fighting against each other in Xingyang for several years. There was no existing rations in the army. Xiao He transported food by carriage and ship from Guanzhong, so the army's food supply was never lacking.
Although Your Majesty has lost the area east of Mount Laoshan many times, Xiao He has always preserved Guanzhong and waited for His Majesty. This is an immortal feat.
Even if there were not hundreds of people like Cao Shen now, what would be the loss to the Han Dynasty?
Even if the Han Dynasty obtained these people, they would not necessarily be able to survive.
How can one's temporary achievements be overridden by eternal merits?
Xiao He should be ranked first, followed by Cao Shen. Gaozu said: OK.
So Xiao He was determined to be the first, and he was specially allowed to bring a sword and wear shoes to the palace, and he could walk quickly without following etiquette when going to court.
Emperor Gaozu said: I heard that recommending talented people will receive high rewards.
Although Xiao He's contribution was very high, it became even more prominent after being commended by E Jun.
So based on the original title of Marquis of Guannei, E Jun was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
On that day, more than ten people including Xiao He, his father, his son and his brothers were granted food fiefs.
Later, Xiao He was granted the title of two thousand households. This was because when Gaozu went to serve in Xianyang, Xiao He gave him an extra two hundred coins.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled, and Gaozu personally led his army to Handan.
Before the suppression of the rebellion was over, Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, rebelled again in Guanzhong. Empress Lu adopted Xiao He's strategy and killed the Marquis of Huaiyin. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of the Marquis of Huaiyin".
Emperor Gaozu had already heard that the Marquis of Huaiyin had been killed, so he sent an envoy to worship Prime Minister Xiao He as the Prime Minister, granted five thousand households, and ordered 500 soldiers and a captain to serve as the Prime Minister's bodyguard.
Many people came to congratulate him, but Zhao Ping expressed his condolences.
Zhao Pingyuan was the Marquis of Dongling in the Qin Dynasty.
After the fall of the Qin Dynasty, he became a commoner, his family was poor, and he grew melons in the east of Chang'an City. The melons he planted tasted sweet, so people in society called them "Aventurine melons", which was named after Zhao Ping's title.
Zhao Ping said to the Prime Minister Xiao He: The disaster began from now on.
Your Majesty is out in the cold weather, and your troops are outside, but you stay in the middle of the court and are not in danger of war. Instead, you increase your fiefdom and set up guards. This is because the Marquis of Huaiyin has just rebelled in the capital and has doubts about your heart.
The purpose of setting up a guard to protect you is not to favor you. I hope that you will refuse the reward and donate all your property and assets to the army. Then the emperor will be happy.
Xiao Xiangguo followed his plan. Emperor Gao was indeed very happy.
In the autumn of the twelfth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu rebelled. Gaozu personally led an army to conquer him and sent people many times to ask what Xiao Xiangguo was doing.
Because the emperor was in the army, Xiao Xiangguo comforted and encouraged the people in the rear and donated all his wealth to the army, just like when he attacked Chen Xi.
A retainer advised Xiao Xiangguo: The day when your clan will be exterminated is not far away.
You are in the prime minister's position and have the highest number of merits. Can you add more merits?
You won the hearts of the people when you first entered Guanzhong. It has been more than ten years since the people have attached themselves to you. You are still so diligent in your work, have a harmonious relationship with the people, and are loved.
The reason why the emperor has repeatedly asked about your situation is that he is afraid that you will shock Guanzhong.
Now why don't you buy more land, use low prices, borrow money, etc. to ruin your reputation?
In this way, the emperor's heart will be at peace.
So Xiao Xiangguo followed his plan, and Gaozu was very happy.
When Emperor Gaozu returned from conquering the Taibu army, the people blocked the road and wrote a letter saying that the prime minister had forcibly bought a large number of people's fields and houses at low prices.
Emperor Gaozu returned to the capital and met with the Prime Minister.
Emperor Gaozu smiled and said: You, the prime minister, are so beneficial to the people!
Emperor Gaozu handed all the people's petitions to the Prime Minister and said: "You can apologize to the people yourself."
The Prime Minister took this opportunity to ask for orders and said: The land in Chang'an is narrow, and there are many open spaces in Shanglin Garden, which have been abandoned and deserted. I hope that the people can go in to cultivate and harvest grain, leaving the straw as feed for animals.
Emperor Gaozu was furious and said: Prime Minister, you accepted a large amount of property from merchants, and then requested for them to occupy my Shanglin Garden!
So he handed Xiang Guo over to Tingwei and imprisoned him in shackles.
A few days later, when a guard surnamed Wang was serving Emperor Gaozu, he came forward and asked: What heinous crime did the Prime Minister commit, and your Majesty detained him so harshly?
Emperor Gaozu said: I heard that when Li Si assisted Qin Shihuang, any achievements he made were attributed to the Lord, and any mistakes he made were his own responsibility.
Now the Prime Minister accepts a large amount of money from profiteers and asks them to occupy my garden and forest in order to please the people, so he is handcuffed and punished.
Wang Weiwei said: Within the scope of his duties, if it is beneficial to the people and he pleads for them, this is indeed the prime minister's duty. How can your majesty suspect that the prime minister accepts money from businessmen!
Moreover, Your Majesty resisted the Chu army for several years. When Chen Xun and Yingbu rebelled, Your Majesty personally led troops to quell the rebellion. At that time, the Prime Minister stayed in Guanzhong, and he only moved a foot, so the territory west of Hangu Pass would no longer belong to Your Majesty.
Didn’t the Prime Minister take advantage of this opportunity to benefit himself, but now he is coveting the money of businessmen?
Besides, Qin Shihuang lost the world because he couldn't hear his own faults. How could Li Si share his faults and be worthy of imitation?
Why does Your Majesty doubt the Prime Minister to such a shallow level!
Gaozu was not very happy after hearing this.
On the same day, Gaozu sent someone to pardon and release the prime minister.
The Prime Minister was old and always humble and cautious. When he came to see Gao Zu, he walked barefoot to apologize.
Emperor Gaozu said: Forget it, Prime Minister!
The prime minister asked for a garden for the people, but I refused. I am just a monarch like Jie and Zhou, and you are a wise prime minister.
The reason why I put you in chains is to let the people know my fault.
Xiao He and Cao Shen had never been on good terms with each other. When Xiao He was seriously ill, Emperor Xiaohui personally went to check on Xiang Guo's condition and asked by the way: "If you pass away, who can replace you?"
Xiao He replied: There is no one who understands his subordinates better than the monarch.
Emperor Xiaohui said: How about Cao Shen?
Xiao He kowtowed and said: Your Majesty has found a suitable candidate!
Even if I die, I will have no regrets!
Xiao He's purchase of land and housing must be in a poor and remote area, and he did not build a house with low walls when building his home.
He said: If my descendants are worthy, they can learn from my frugality; if their descendants are not worthy, they can avoid being taken away by powerful people.
In the second year of Xiaohui's reign, Prime Minister Xiao He passed away, and his posthumous title was Wen Zhonghou.
There were four generations of Xiao He's descendants who lost the title of marquis due to crimes. Every time the title was cut off, the emperor always sought Xiao He's descendants again and renewed their titles as Marquis of Fou. No one among the heroes could compare with him.
Tai Shigong said: Prime Minister Xiao He was just a small civilian official in the Qin Dynasty. He was ordinary and had no amazing achievements.
When the Han Dynasty prospered, relying on the emperor's remaining glory, Xiao He strictly adhered to his duties. Based on the fact that the people hated the harsh laws of the Qin Dynasty, he followed the trend of history and updated them.
Han Xin, Ying Bu, etc. have all been killed, but Xiao He's achievements are even more brilliant.
His status was the highest among the officials, and his reputation extended to later generations. He could compete with Hong Yao, San Yisheng and others.
