Emperor Mu's name was Sima Dan, whose courtesy name was Pengzi. He was the son of Emperor Kang.
In September of the second year of Jianyuan, Bingshen was established as the crown prince.
On Wuxu Day, Emperor Kangdi passed away.
On the day of Jihai, the prince became emperor and was only two years old at the time.
He granted amnesty to the whole world and honored the queen as the empress dowager.
On Renyin day, the Empress Dowager came to serve as regent.
In the tenth month of winter, Yichou buried Emperor Kang in Chongping Mausoleum.
In November Gengchen, the chariot general Yu Bing passed away.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yonghe, the Empress Dowager set up a white gauze curtain in the Taiji Hall and sat in front of the hall holding Emperor Mu in her arms.
Change the year name.
On the Jiashen day, Sima Xi, the king of Wuling and the general of the town army, was promoted to the general of the town army and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He appointed the leading general Gu Zhong as the minister's right servant.
In the fourth month of summer in Renxu, the king of Kuaiji, Sima Yu, was ordered to record six matters in the Shangshu.
On Wuyin day of the fifth month, the Dayu Festival was held.
Shangshu Ling, Jin Ziguanglu, and Jian'an Bo Zhuge Hui died.
In June of Guihai, an earthquake occurred.
On Gengwu in the seventh month of autumn, Chijie, the military commanders of Jiang, Jing, Si, Liang, Yong, Yi, and Ning, the governor of Jiangzhou, the general who conquered the west, and the dutinghou Yu Yi died.
Geng Yi's subordinates Zan, Dai Xi and others killed the champion general Cao Ju and raised their troops to rebel. Anxi Sima Zhu Tao crusaded and pacified them.
In August, Lu Yong, the governor of Yuzhou, rebelled and defected to Shi Jilong.
On Gengchen Day, Huan Wen, the general of the auxiliary state and the governor of Xuzhou, was appointed as the general of Anxi, Chijie, and the governor of the six states of Jing, Si, Yong, Yi, Liang, and Ning. He also took charge of the Nanman school captain and the governor of Jingzhou.
Shi Jilong's general Lu Yong garrisoned in Shouchun.
In September Bingshen, the Empress Dowager issued an edict: "Now that the people are working hard, please carefully consider ways to provide relief and pensions."
As for taxes and labor services, those that are not urgently needed by the military and state affairs should be stopped.
In the twelfth month of winter, Li Shi sent Cuan Yi to defect to him.
Zhang Jun, the herdsman of Liangzhou, attacked Yanqi and surrendered them.
In the spring of the second year, on the first month of the year, Bingyin, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the day of Ji Mao, the envoys Chijie, Shizhong, the commander-in-chief of Yangzhou's military affairs, the governor of Yangzhou, the general of hussars, the secretary of records, and the governor of Duxiang, He Chong, died.
In the second month of Guichou, Kui, the doctor of Zuo Guanglu, was appointed as the leader of the Situ. He recorded the six things of Shangshu, the generals of Fujun, Wang Yu of Kuaiji, and Cai Mo to assist in state affairs.
In March Bingzi, Yin Hao, the former Situ Zuo Chief, was appointed as General Jianwu and Governor of Yangzhou.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month in summer, there was a solar eclipse.
In May Bingxu, Liangzhou Mu Zhang Jun died, and his son Zhang Chonghua inherited the position.
June.
General Shi Jilong's general Wang Zhuo attacked Wujie and captured Zhang Chonghua's guard Hu Xuan.
Shi Jilong then sent Ma Qiu and Sun Fudu to attack Jincheng, and the prefect Zhang Chong surrendered.
Zhang Chonghua's general Xie Ai attacked Ma Qiu and defeated him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Chu Pei, the governor of Yanzhou, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the north.
In October of winter, an earthquake occurred.
At Xinwei in November, Anxi general Huan Wen led the conquest general Zhou Fu, the auxiliary general and Qiao Wang Sima Wuji, and the Jianwu general Yuan Qiao to attack Shu. They set off immediately after signing the memorial.
In December, the Wandering Star flows from southeast to northwest, traveling throughout the sky.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Yi Mao, Huan Wen attacked Chengdu and defeated it.
On Dinghai day, Li Shi surrendered and Yizhou was pacified.
Lin Yi Fanwen captured Rinan, killed the prefect Xia Houlan, and sacrificed his body to heaven.
Summer April, earthquake.
Shu people Deng Ding and Wei Wen led their troops to rebel, but Huan Wen defeated them and sent Yizhou Governor Zhou Fu to suppress Peng Mo.
Ding Si, Deng Ding, and Weiwen invaded Chengdu twice, and the conquering general Yang Qian abandoned Fucheng and retreated to Deyang.
In the fifth month of Wushen, Murong Huang was promoted to General Anbei.
Shi Jilong then sent his generals Shi Ning, Ma Qiu and others to attack Liangzhou and stationed in Quliu.
Zhang Chonghua sent General Niu Xuan to resist them and retreated to Fanhan.
In the Xinyou month of June, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.
In the seventh month of autumn, Fan Wen captured Rinan again and killed the guard Liu Xiong.
Wei Wen established Fan Bi as emperor.
On Wuwu in August, Zhang Chonghua's general Xie Ai attacked Ma Qiu and defeated them.
September, earthquake.
In the tenth month of winter, Yichou, Zhang Chonghua, the governor of Liangzhou, was temporarily appointed as the commander-in-chief of Longyou Guanzhong, the military commander of Longyou, and the general.
In December, Xiao Jingwen, the Zhenwei Guardsman, killed General Yang Qian, who conquered the captives, attacked Fucheng, and captured it.
Then he captured Brazil and connected with Hanzhong.
In the summer and April of the fourth year, Fan Wen violated Jiude and killed many people.
In May, there was a flood.
In autumn and August, Huan Wen, the general who entered Anxi, was appointed as the General of the Expedition to the West, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division were granted the title of Linhe County Duke; Xie Shang, the general of Xizhonglang, was appointed as the General of Anxi.
In September Bingshen, Murong Huang died, and his son Mu Rongjun succeeded to the pseudo-throne.
At the end of October in winter, there was an earthquake.
Shi Jilong sent his general Fu Jian to attack Jingling.
In December, Huang Tao from Yuzhang, who was proclaimed Emperor Xiaoshen, gathered thousands of people and attacked Linchuan. The prefect Yu Tiao conquered and destroyed them.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year of the Xinsi lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Gengyin day, earthquake.
Shi Jilong became emperor in Yecheng.
In February, Chu Pei, the general of the Northern Expedition, asked his general Wang Gong to expedition north, and captured Shi Jilong's general and led a heavy support.
In April of summer, Yizhou governor Zhou Fu and Longxiang general Zhu Tao attacked Fan Bi and captured him, and Yizhou was pacified.
He made Zhou Fu the Duke of the city.
He was temporarily appointed as General Murong Jun, Mu of Youping Erzhou, Da Chanyu, and King of Yan.
Huan Wen, the general who conquered the west, sent the governor Teng Quan to attack Pai Fan Wen, but was defeated by Fan Wen.
Shi Jilong died, and his son inherited the pseudo-throne.
In May, Shi Zun deposed Shi Shi and became emperor.
In June, Huan Wen stationed at Anlu and sent various generals to attack Hebei.
Shi Zun's Yangzhou governor Wang Bo led Shouyang troops to surrender.
In the seventh month of autumn, Chu Su entered Pengcheng and sent his generals Wang Gong and Li Mai to fight with Shi Zun's general Li Nong. The army was severely defeated, Wang Gong was captured by Li Nong, and Li Mai died in the battle.
In August, Chu Pei retreated to Guangling, and Xizhonglang burned Chen Kui to Shouchun City and fled.
Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, garrisoned the Great Wall and attacked Shi Zun, and Qiu Chigong Yang Chu attacked the west city and defeated the enemy.
In the tenth month of winter, Shi Zun's general Shi Yu attacked Wan, captured it, and captured Guo Qi, the prefect of Nanyang.
Sima Xun moved to Hangzhou, but Shi Jilong's general Ma Qiu resisted him, and Sima Xun returned to Liangzhou.
On Bingchen in November, Shi Jian killed Shi Zun and became emperor.
In the twelfth month of the twelfth month, Jiyou, the envoy Chijie, the governor of the two states Xu Yan, the governor of Xuzhou, the general who conquered the north, the three divisions of Kaifu Yitong, and the Marquis of Duxiang Chu Pei died.
General Jianwu and Wu's domestic history Xun Xian was appointed as envoy Chijie, superintendent of Xu, the military affairs of the two states of Yanzhou, Beizhong Lang general, and Xuzhou governor.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, Emperor Mu went to court. Because of Chu Su's funeral, the musical instruments were hung up instead of Qin music.
In the leap month, Ran Min killed Shi Jian and called himself the King of Heaven. His country's name was Wei.
Shi Jian's younger brother Shi Zhi also proclaimed himself emperor of Xiang Kingdom.
On Ding Chou day, the comet appeared in Kangsu.
On the day of Jichou, Yin Hao, the general of the Chinese army, was appointed to supervise the military affairs and holidays of the five states of Henan, Xu, Yanqing and Qing.
Di led Fu Hong and sent envoys to surrender. Fu Cai was appointed King of Di and granted the title of Duke of Guangchuan.
He temporarily aided Fu Hong's son Fu Jian and Fu Jie, supervised the military and right generals in Hebei, and was granted the title of Duke of Xiangguo County.
In March, Shi Jilong's veteran Ma Qiu killed Fu Hong in Fangtou. In summer and May, there are floods.
Yuan Zhen, the governor of Lujiang, attacked Hefei and defeated it.
In June, Shi Zhi sent his younger brother Shi Kun to attack Ran Min's general Wang Tai in Handan. Shi Kun's army was severely defeated.
In the eighth month of autumn, Sima Wuji, the general of the auxiliary state and the king of Qiao, passed away.
Fu Jian led the army into the pass.
In the eleventh month of winter, Ran Min besieged Xiangguo.
In December, Situ Cai Mo was demoted to a commoner.
This year, there was a great plague.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the seventh year of spring, there is a solar eclipse.
On Xinchou Day, Xianbei Duan Ni offered Qingzhou to surrender.
Fu Jiansu proclaimed himself king and the country was named Qin.
In February Wuyin, Duan Gong was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and granted the title of Duke of Qi.
Shi Zhi defeated Bai Ran in the Xiang Kingdom.
In April of summer, Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, marched with 30,000 troops from Hanzhong into Qinchuan. They fought against Fu Jian at Wuzhangyuan, and the army was defeated.
He was appointed Shangshu and appointed as the third division of Yitong in Kaifu.
Liu Xian killed Shi Zhi.
In May, Shi Zhi's Yanzhou governor Liu Qi came from Juancheng to defect to him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Shangshu Ling, Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong's third minister Gu He passed away.
On Jiachen day, floods rushed into Stone City and drowned hundreds of people.
In August, Ran Min's Yuzhou herdsman Zhang Yu led the Xuchang people and horses to surrender, and Zhang Yu was awarded the title of General of Zhenxi.
In September, Junyang and Taiyang Tombs collapsed.
Beginning on the Jiachen Day, the emperor wore plain clothes and went to the Taiji Hall for three days, and sent Zhao Ba, who was also Taichang, to repair the mountain tomb.
In October in winter, there is thunder, rain, lightning and thunder.
In November, Shi Zhi's general Yao Yizhong and Ran Min's general Wei Tuo each sent people to express their surrender. They appointed Yi Zhong as the general of chariots and cavalry, the Great Chanyu, and the title of Gaoling County Duke;
On Xinwei Day in December, Huan Wen, the general who conquered the west, led his army on the northern expedition and stopped after arriving at Wuchang.
At that time, Shi Jilong's old troops stationed Chengtun in Linqiu next week, Gaochangtun in Yewang, Lelitun in Xuchang, and Lilitun in Weiguo. They all surrendered one after another.
In the spring of the eighth year of the first lunar month, Xin Mao, there was a solar eclipse.
When Liu Xian took the imperial title in Xiangguo, Ran Min defeated Liu Xian and killed him.
Fu Jian proclaimed himself emperor in Chang'an.
In February, the Junping and Chongyang tombs collapsed.
Beginning on the Wuchen Day, Emperor Mu went to court for three days and sent Wang Hui, the captain of the palace, to Luoyang and appointed him to guard Wuling.
General Zhang Yu of Zhenxi rebelled in Xuchang and sent his comrade Shangguan En to defend Luoyang.
Lehong attacked the governor Dai Shi in Cangyuan.
In March, he sent Bei Zhonglang general Xun Xian to guard Huaiyin.
Fu Jian's troops invaded Shunyang, and the prefect Xue Zhen defeated them.
In April of summer, Ran Min was killed by Murong Jun.
Mu Rongjun proclaimed himself the emperor in Zhongshan and his country was named Yan.
Anxi general Xie Shang led Yao Xiang and Zhang Yu to fight at Jieqiao in Xuchang, and the army was defeated.
Fu Jian sent his younger brother Fu Xiong Hua Hua to attack Zhang Yu and capture him.
In the seventh month of autumn, people offer sacrifices to the sky to pray for rain.
Shi Jilong's former general Wang Zhuo sent an envoy to ask for surrender, and he was appointed as the General of the Conquest of the West and the Governor of Qinzhou.
On Dingyou day, Sima Xi, the general of the Zhenjun and King of Wuling, was appointed as Taizai, Sima Yu, the general of Fujun and King of Kuaiji, was appointed as Situ, and Huan Wen, the general of the Western Expeditions, was appointed as Taiwei.
In August, Pingxi general Zhou Fu attacked Xiao Jingwen in Fucheng and killed him.
Ran Min's son Ran Zhi led the Yecheng troops to surrender, and the governor Dai Shi obtained his imperial seal and presented it to the emperor. The seal read "Accepting the order of heaven, the emperor will live in longevity", and all the officials came to celebrate.
In September, Ran Zhi was arrested by his general Ma Yuan and surrendered to Murong Ke.
General Yin Hao of the Chinese Army led the army in the Northern Expedition and stationed at Sikou. He sent Dai Shi, the governor of Henan, to occupy Shimen, and Liu Sui, the governor of Xingyang, to garrison the canangyuan.
In the tenth month of winter, Wang Tiao, the governor of Qinzhou, was forced by Fu Jian and fled to Liangzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the ninth year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Zhang Chonghua sent Wang Zhuo to fight with Fu Xiong, the general of Fu Jian, and Wang Zhuo's army was defeated.
On Bingyin day, the empress dowager and the emperor jointly paid homage to Jianping Mausoleum.
In March, there was a drought.
Ruan Fu, the governor of Jiaozhou, attacked Linyi Fanfo in Rinan and broke through more than fifty enemy camps.
In April of Xia, General Xie Shang of Anxi was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
In May, the plague hit.
Zhang Chonghua sent Wang Ziao to attack Qinzhou twice and captured it.
Qiu Chi Gong Yang Chu was defeated by Fu Xiong.
In autumn and July, there is an earthquake and a thunderous sound.
In August, he sent Taiwei and Hejian Wang Qin to repair the Five Tombs.
In the tenth month of winter, General Yin Hao of the Chinese Army entered Shansang and sent Pingbei General Yao Xiang as the vanguard. Yao Xiang rebelled and attacked Yin Hao in turn. Yin Hao abandoned his baggage and retreated to Qiao City.
On Dingwei day, Zhang Chonghua, the shepherd of Liangzhou, passed away and was succeeded by his son Zhang Yaoling.
That month, Zhang Zuo killed Yaoling and called himself Liangzhou Mu.
In November, Yin Hao sent his generals Liu Qi and Wang Binzhi to attack Yao Xiang, but was defeated by Yao Xiang. Yao Xiang advanced to occupy Shaopi.
In December, Shangshu Pushe Xie Shang was added to serve as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in Yu, Yang, and Jiangxi. He also served as the governor of Yuzhou and guarded Liyang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the tenth year, the emperor went to court. Because the Five Tombs had not been repaired, the musical instruments were hung and not played.
Liangzhou Mu Zhang Zuosu ascended the throne.
Ran Min surrendered to Zhou Cheng and raised his troops to rebel and attack Luoyang from Wanling.
On Xinyou day, Dai Shi, the governor of Henan, rushed to Tuzhu.
On Dingmao day, there was an earthquake with a sound like thunder.
In the second month of Jichou, Taiwei and General Huan Wen led the army to attack Guanzhong.
Yin Hao, the governor of Yangzhou, was deposed as a commoner, and Wang Shu, the former internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
In the fourth month of summer in Jihai, Wen Ji, Fu Jianzi and Chang fought in Lantian and were severely defeated.
In May, Jiangxi beggar Guo Chang and others rebelled against Liu Shi, the internal historian of Chen. The capital was shocked and appointed Zhou Min, the minister of civil affairs, as the general of the Chinese army and stationed in Zhongtang. Xie Shang, the governor of Yuzhou, returned to the capital from Liyang.
In June, Fu Jian's generals Fu Xiong and Huan Wen fought in Bailuyuan, and the army was defeated.
In the Xinyou month of autumn and ninth month, Huan Wen ran out of food and returned it.
On the first day of the eleventh year in the spring, Sima Tong, the king of Runan, passed away.
Yang Chu, the captain of Pingqiang and Duke of Qiuchi, was killed by his subordinate Liang Shi. Yang Chu's son Yang Guo inherited the title, so Yang Guo became the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Qinzhou.
Qi Gong Duan Gong attacked Murong Jun's general Rong Guo at Langshan and defeated Rong Guo.
In the fourth month of summer, Renshen comes and frost falls.
Yiyou, earthquake.
Yao Xiang led his army to invade Waihuang, and the champion general Gao Ji defeated them.
On the last day of May, there was another earthquake.
In June, Fu Jian died, and his son Fu Sheng succeeded to the throne.
In the seventh month of autumn, Song Hun and Zhang Guan killed Zhang Zuo, and appointed Zhang Yaoling's younger brother Zhang Xuanliang as the general and the shepherd of Liangzhou, and sent envoys to surrender.
Zhou Min, the Minister of Civil Affairs, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and the leading general Wang Biaozhi was appointed as Shangshu Youpushe.
In the tenth month of winter, he was promoted to governor Xie Shang, the governor of Yuzhou, and joined the military forces of the three states of Jiyou and general Zhenxi to guard Ma Tou.
In December, Murong Ke led the army to invade Guanggu.
On Renxu day, Feng Yang, a Shangdang member, claimed to be the governor, betrayed Fu Sheng and sent people to surrender.
On Ding Mao, the first month of the twelfth year of spring, the emperor went to court. Because the empress dowager's mother died, the music was suspended and no music was played.
General Duan Gong of Zhenbei fought with Murong Ke in Guanggu and defeated Mu Rong Ke, who retreated to Anping.
On Xinchou Day in February, the emperor lectured on the "Book of Filial Piety".
In March, Yao Xiang entered Xuchang, and the imperial court appointed Taiwei Huan Wen as the commander-in-chief of the expedition against Yao Xiang.
In the autumn and eighth month of Jihai, Huan Wen fought with Yao Xiang in Yishui and defeated Yao Xiang. Yao Xiang fled to Pingyang, moved more than 3000 remaining family members to Jianghan, captured Zhou Cheng and returned.
General Yangwu Mao Muzhi was sent to supervise Chen Wu, and General Dai Shi, the auxiliary general and governor of Henan, was sent to guard Luoyang.
On the first day of the tenth lunar month in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
Murong Ke attacked Duan Gong in Guanggu, and the imperial court sent Beizhonglang General Xun Xian to lead an army to station in Langye to rescue Duan Gong.
In November, he sent Sikong, Sanqi Chang, Chaguan, Longxiang General Yuan Zhen and others to Luoyang to repair the Wuling.
In Gengxu, the twelfth month, because the Five Tombs were to be built and they went to the Ancestral Temple to pay homage to their ancestors, the emperor and ministers all wore silk and linen mourning clothes and stayed in the Taiji Hall for three days.
In this year, Qiu Chigong Yang Guo was killed by his uncle Yang Jun, and Yang Jun established himself as Qiu Cangong.
On the first day of the first month of the spring of the first year of Shengping, on the first day of Renxu, the emperor Jianyuanfu paid homage to his ancestors in the Ancestral Temple and began to personally handle national affairs.
Amnesty was granted, the year title was changed, and civil and military officials were promoted to the first rank.
The Empress Dowager lives in Chongde Palace.
On Ding Chou day, a meteorite fell in Huaili.
In the same month, General Zhenbei and Qi Gong Duanggong were captured by Murong Ke and killed.
When Zhu Zhantan of Funan offered tamed elephants, the emperor issued an edict saying: In the past, the late emperor had banned the practice because some of the foreign monsters had become a problem for people.
Now, before they arrive, you can let them return to their original place. In March, the emperor lectured on the "Book of Filial Piety".
On Renshen day, I personally paid homage to Confucius in the middle hall.
In the fifth month of summer, Xie Shang, the general of Zhenxi, passed away.
Fu Sheng's generals Fu Mei and Fu Jian attacked Yao Xiang. They fought in Sanyuan and killed Yao Xiang.
In the sixth month, Fu Jian killed Fu Sheng and proclaimed himself king.
The imperial court appointed military commander Xie Yi as envoy Chijie, governor, general Anxi, and governor of Yuzhou.
In the seventh month of autumn, Fu Jian's military reinforcement general Zhang Ping led the troops of Bingzhou to surrender and appointed Zhang Ping as the governor of Bingzhou.
On the day of Dingwei in the eighth month, Queen He was granted a general amnesty, and the filial widows and widowers were rewarded with five husks of rice each. Rent arrears and debt arrears were all exempted, and a banquet was given for three days.
In the tenth month of winter, the queen entered the Ancestral Temple.
In November, there is thunder.
In December, Taichang Wang Biaozhi was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the spring and first month of the second year, Situ and Sima Yuji, the king of Kuaiji, apologized and returned to power, but the emperor did not allow it.
In March, Murong Jun captured all the counties in Jizhou, and the emperor ordered Anxi general Xie Yi and Beizhonglang general Xun Xian to expedition north.
In March, Rao Jin, the governor of Yi Fei, offered poisonous birds. The emperor was very angry and punished him with two hundred lashes. He sent the censor in the palace to burn the poisonous birds at all the intersections.
In summer and May, there are floods.
There is a comet entering the Sky Ship sector.
In June, Zhang Ping, the governor of Bingzhou, was forced by Fu Jian and fled to Pingyang with 3,000 troops. Fu Jian caught up with him and defeated him.
Murong Ke advanced and took control of the Shangdang. Champion General Feng Yuan led a military rebellion and surrendered to Murong Jun. Murong Jun captured all the places in Hebei.
In the eighth month of autumn, General Xie Yi of Anxi passed away.
On Renshen day, Xie Wan, the prefect of Wuxing, was appointed as Xizhonglang general, Chijie, supervisor of Yuji and the military affairs of four states, and governor of Yuzhou.
Xi Tan, the regular servant of Sanqi, was appointed as Beizhonglang General, Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Xu Yanqing, the military commander of the five Hebei Youzhou states, and Xu Yan, the governor of two states, to guard Xiapi.
On Yichou day in the tenth month of winter, Cao Mai, king of Chenliu, passed away.
In November, there will be thunder.
Xinyou day, earthquake.
In December, Bei Zhonglang fought between Xun Xian and Murong Jun at Shanren, and Xun Xian was defeated.
In the spring of the third year of March, on the first day of the third month, an edict was issued. Because of the continuous wars and the transportation of grain and grass could not keep up, one person from every thirteen households below the prince was seconded to help with transportation for one year.
In the seventh month of autumn, Pingbei general Gaochang was attacked by Murong Jun and fled from Baima to Xingyang.
In the tenth month of winter, Murong Jun invaded Dong'a. The imperial court sent Xi Zhonglang's general Xie Wan to station in Xiacai and Beizhonglang's general Xi Tan to station in Gaoping to attack Murong Jun. The official army was defeated.
On Wuzi Day in November, Wang Shu, the governor of Yangzhou, was promoted to General Wei.
In December, the general of the Chinese army, Wang Pi of Langxie, was appointed as the general of hussars, and Wang Yi of Donghai was appointed as the general of cavalry.
The king of Wuling, Xi Zi and Wang Feng, was granted the title of King of Liang.
Wen Fangzhi, the governor of Jiaozhou, led an army to attack Linyi, Shenli and Danlan, and they all surrendered.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, Qiu Chigong Yang Jun passed away, and his son Yang Shi inherited the title.
On Bingxu day, Murong Jun died, and his son Mu Rongwei succeeded to the throne.
In February, Fenghuang appeared in Fengcheng with nine little phoenixes.
In the seventh month of autumn, due to frequent wars and corvee labor, the palace meals were reduced.
On the first day of Xin Chou in August, there is a solar eclipse, which is a total eclipse.
In October in winter, the star Tengu sets in the southwest.
In November, Taiwei Huan Wen was granted the title of Duke of Nanjun, his younger brother Huan Chong was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County, and his son Huan Ji was granted the title of Duke of Linhe.
The phoenix appeared in Fengcheng again, followed by many birds.
In the fifth year of spring and the first month of the year, there was a general amnesty, and five dendrobiums of rice were given to each of the widowers, widowers, and lonely people who had no means of living.
General Beizhong Lang, Commander-in-Chief Xu Yanqing, the military commanders of the five prefectures of Hebei You, and Xi Tan, the governor of Xu Yan and the second prefecture, passed away.
In February, Fan Wang, the general of the town army, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of Xu Yanqing, the military commander of the five states of Hebei You, the general of Anbei, and the governor of Xu Yan's two states.
General Pingnan, governor of Guangzhou, and Marquis of Yangxia Tenghan passed away.
In April in summer, there are floods.
Taiwei Huanwen guarded Wancheng and sent his younger brother Huanhuo to lead troops to attack Xuchang.
Fenghuang appeared in Mianbei.
In May of Dingsi, Emperor Mu died in Xianyang Hall at the age of nineteen.
He was buried in Yongping Mausoleum, with the temple name Xiaozong.
Emperor Ai's name was Sima Pi, whose courtesy name was Qianling, and he was the eldest son of Emperor Cheng.
In the eighth year of Xiankang's reign, he was granted the title of King Langxie.
In the first year of Yonghe's reign, he was appointed as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry. In the twelfth year, he was awarded the title of general of the Chinese army. In the third year of Shengping, he was promoted to the general of hussar cavalry.
In May of the fifth year of Shengping, Emperor Mu passed away.
The Empress Dowager ordered: Emperor Mu suddenly fell ill and could not be cured, and there was no successor. King Sima Pi of Langxie was an orthodox and virtuous descendant of the Zhongxing royal family.
In the past when he was in Xiankang, he should have been the crown prince.
Because he was too young to bear the national calamity, Emperor Xianzong abdicated his throne to Emperor Kang.
Now there is no one who can compare with him in terms of family ties, fame and status, so King Langxie can inherit the imperial throne.
So the officials prepared their carriages and went to King Langxie's mansion to greet him.
On the Gengshen day, King Langxie ascended to the throne of emperor and granted amnesty to the whole world.
On the day of Renxu, an edict was issued saying: I was able to accept the order of the Holy Ming and enter the court to accept the throne.
Thinking of the ancestral temple of the former kings, where the sacrifices had no owner, and the palace where the concubine mourned was empty and there was no place to stay, I felt very sad in my heart, and the five internal organs were as painful as being cut.
What the clan respects, love and etiquette are equally valued. The importance of descendants and heirs is no different from love and righteousness.
Sima Yi, the king of the East China Sea, is a close relative. He should respect the lineage of his clan and regard Sima Yi as the king of Langxie.
On the fifth day of the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Mu was buried in Yongping Mausoleum.
Murong Ke captured Ye Wang, and the guard general Lu Hu retreated to protect Xingyang.
On the night of Ji Mao in August, there was a crack in the sky, several feet wide, and there was a thunder-like sound.
In the ninth month of Wushen, Queen Wang was established.
Emperor Mu's wife, He, was called Yong'an Palace.
Lu Hu rebelled and defected to Morongwei.
In the tenth month of winter, General Fan Wang of Anbei committed a crime and was deposed as a commoner.
On Bingchen in November, an edict was issued saying: Emperor Xianzong Cheng left a legacy when he was dying. Because the current situation was difficult, he wanted to promote the customs of the high world and establish morality and justice to gain prestige, so as to revitalize the country.
However, national calamities continued. Emperor Kangdi and Emperor Mu passed away prematurely, and the continued national destiny was not prosperous.
With my meager virtues, I have inherited the legacy of the late king. I have longed for you in my heart, and my heart is broken by grief.
The righteousness of the two emperors Zhao and Mu should have been obeyed by God.
Inheriting the great cause of the country is a common practice in ancient and modern times.
It should be followed by the Xianzong to extend the lineage of the clan.
In December, Zhang Xuanliang, the governor of Jialiang Prefecture, was appointed as the military commander of Longyou, the military commander of Qiang, and the Duke of Xiping.
In the spring and first month of the first year of Longhe, Renzi received a general amnesty and changed his reign name.
On Jiayin Day, the land tax was reduced to two liters per mu.
That month, Murong Wei's generals Lu Hu and Fu Mobo captured Xiaolei and advanced to Luoyang.
At Xinwei in February, Yu Xi, the general of the auxiliary state and the domestic history of Wu, was appointed as the general of Beizhonglang and the governor of Xu Yan and the two states to guard Xiapi; he appointed Yuan Zhen, the forward supervisor and general of Longxiang, as the general of Xizhonglang to oversee the Yu Division and the military affairs of the four states of Hebei. He was also the governor of Yuzhou and the governor of Runan.
On the day of Bingzi, the birth mother Zhou was honored as the imperial concubine.
On the first day of the third lunar month, there is a solar eclipse. In April in summer, there is a drought.
The order was issued to release prisoners with minor crimes and to provide relief to the needy.
On Ding Chou day, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou, and mountains collapsed.
Lu Hu invaded Luoyang again.
On Yiyou day, Dai Shi, the general of the auxiliary state and the governor of Henan, fled to Yuwan.
On Dingsi Day in May, he sent Beizhonglang General Yu hope and Jingling Prefect Deng Xia to lead the navy to rescue Luoyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Lu Hu and others retreated to Xiaopingjin.
Sima Yi, king of Langye, was promoted to the rank of Shizhong, general of hussar, and opened the mansion.
When Deng Xia entered Xincheng, Yu Xi's general He Qian and Murong Wei's general Liu Ze fought in Tanqiu and defeated Liu Ze.
In August, Xizhonglang stationed Yuan Zhen in Runan and transported 50,000 dendrobium rice as a gift to Luoyang.
In the tenth month of winter, rice is given to the poor, five dendrobiums per person.
Sima Zhen, King of Zhangwu, passed away.
On the first day of the twelfth month of the lunar month, there is a solar eclipse.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The military flag was sent out to defend the country, but it failed to reduce taxes and corvees.
The celestial phenomena are out of control and a severe drought causes disaster. Could it be that the political affairs are still not in harmony, or are they still like legends and hermits on the shores of the Wei River?
You can visit and recommend hermits to be exempted from severe and cumbersome taxes, discuss laws carefully, and all comply with the requirements of reducing losses.
Yu hope retreated from Xiapi to Shanyang, and Yuan Zhen retreated from Runan to Shouyang.
On the day of Jihai in the second month of the first year of Xingning, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and the reign name was changed.
In the third month of Renyin, the imperial concubine passed away in Langye Mansion.
On Guimao day, the emperor went to the funeral and ordered Situ and Wang Yu of Kuaiji to take charge of internal and external affairs.
In the fourth month of summer, Murong Wei invaded Xingyang, and the prefect Liu Yuan fled to Luyang.
On Jiaxu Day, there was an earthquake in Yangzhou and the lakes and rivers overflowed.
In May, Huan Wen, the general who conquered the West, was granted the title of Shizhong, Grand Sima, Commander-in-Chief of all Chinese and foreign military affairs, Records of Shang Shushi, and the fake yellow axe.
He also appointed Xizhonglang general Yuan Zhen to supervise the military affairs of Si, Ji, and the three states, and Beizhonglang general Xiaoxi to supervise the military affairs of Qingzhou.
In Guimao, Murong Wei captured Mi City, and Liu Yuan, the governor of Xingyang, fled to Jiangling.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhang Tianxi killed Zhang Xuanliang, the governor of Liangzhou and Duke of Xiping, and was later called the general, the captain of the Qiang Protector, the shepherd of Liangzhou, and the Duke of Xiping.
On Dingyou day, Princess Zhang was buried.
In August, a comet entered the Ersu star region and entered the sky.
On Renxu day in the ninth month, Grand Sima Huanwen led his army in the Northern Expedition.
On the day of Guihai, because the prince was born, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In Jiashen, the tenth month of winter, Cao Hui, the eldest son of King Chenliu, was made king.
In November, Yao Xiang's original general Zhang Jun killed Zhao Bi, the governor of Jiangzhou, burned Wuchang City, and robbed the government warehouses to rebel. Huan Chong, the governor of Jiangzhou, attacked and killed Zhang Jun.
This year, Murong Wei's general Murong Chen attacked Chenliu prefect Yuan Pi in Shengping.
Zhu Bin, the governor of Runan, took advantage of the situation and successfully attacked Xuchang.
In the spring and February of the second year of Gengyin, there was an earthquake in Jiangling.
Murong Wei's general Murong Ping attacked Xuchang, and Yingchuan prefect Li Fu died in the battle.
Mu Rongping invaded Runan, and the prefect Zhu Bin fled to Shouyang.
Mu Rongping then marched to besiege Chen County, and the prefect Zhu Fu defended the city.
Huan Wen sent Jiang Xia Prime Minister Liu A to repel Mu Rongping.
The generals of the left army were changed to guerrilla generals, and the three generals of the five schools of the right army, the front army and the rear army were dismissed.
On Guimao day, the emperor personally went to work in the fields to develop agriculture.
On the first day of Gengxu in March, household registration numbers were checked on a large scale, and laws and regulations were strictly followed, which was called the Gengxu system.
On Xinwei day, the emperor was seriously ill.
The emperor always liked the art of immortality. He did not eat grains and only took elixirs. After taking too much, he was poisoned and could not govern the country. Empress Dowager Chongde came to serve as regent again.
In the fourth month of the summer in Jiashen, Murong Wei sent his general Li Hong to invade Xuchang. The army was defeated in Xuanhu, Zhu Bin fled to Huainan, and Zhu Fu withdrew to Pengcheng.
Huan Wen sent Xizhonglang General Yuan Zhen, Jiang Xia Prime Minister Liu Can and others to dig Yangyi Road for transportation. Wen led the navy to station in Hefei, and Murong Chen stationed in Xuchang again.
In May, the people of Chenjun were moved to the mainland to avoid the Mu Rong family.
On Wuchen Day, Wang Shu, the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed Shangshu Ling and General Wei.
Huan Wen was appointed as Yangzhou Mu and Lu Shangshu.
On Renshen day, the imperial court sent someone to summon Huan Wen to become prime minister, but Huan Wen did not agree.
On Dingmao in the seventh month of autumn, another imperial edict was issued to recruit Huan Wen to the court.
In August, Huan Wen arrived at Zheqi and built a city to live there.
Fu Jian's troops invaded Henan, and Murong Wei invaded Luoyang.
In September, the champion general Chen You left Chang Shi Shen Jin to guard Luoyang and fled to the new city with his troops.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Queen Wang passed away.
At the end of February Yi, he appointed the right general Huan Huo to supervise the military affairs of Yicheng in Yangzhou in Jingzhou and Jingzhao in Yongzhou, and to lead the Nanman school captains and the governor of Jingzhou; Huan Chong was appointed to supervise the military affairs of the six counties of Jiangxia Suijun in Jiangzhou, Jingzhou and Yingchuan in Xincai, Xiyang, Runan, as well as the general Nanzhong Lang and the governor of Jiangzhou, and to lead the Nanman school captains, and all were awarded festivals.
On Bingshen day, the emperor died in Xitang, when he was twenty-five years old.
Buried in Anping Mausoleum.
The deposed emperor's name was Sima Yi, whose courtesy name was Yanling. He was the half-brother of Emperor Ai.
In the eighth year of Xiankang's reign, he was granted the title of King of East China Sea.
In the eighth year of Yonghe, he was awarded the rank of regular servant of casual cavalry, and soon he was awarded the title of general of Zhenjun; in the fourth year of Shengping, he was awarded the title of general of chariot and cavalry.
Five years later, he was granted the title of King Langxie.
In the early years of Longhe, he was transferred to the third division of Shizhong, General of Hussar, and Kaifu Yitong.
In February Bingshen of the third year of Xingning, Emperor Ai died without a son.
On Dingyou Day, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is unexpectedly ill and incurable, disasters occur frequently, and the Ai family feels very sad.
Sima Yi, King of Langxie, has perfect moral character and is a relative with both ability and political integrity. He should inherit the throne, respect his ancestors and inherit the imperial line.
Please prepare quickly to ascend the throne so that people and gods can be at peace.
So all the officials went to Langxie Mansion to welcome King Langxie.
On that day, the emperor ascended the throne and granted amnesty to the whole world.
In the third month of Renshen, Emperor Ai was buried in Anping Mausoleum.
On Guiyou day, Sanqi Changshi and Hejian Sima Wang Qin passed away.
On Bingzi day, Murong Wei's general Murong Ke captured Luoyang, Ning Shuo general Zhu Yao fled to Xiangyang, champion Chang Shi and Yang Wu general Shen Jin died in battle.
In the sixth month of the Xia Dynasty, Wuzi, the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the two states of Yining, the general Zhenxi, the governor of Yizhou, and the Duke of Jiancheng Zhou Fu died.
In the seventh month of autumn, the Xiongnu left Xian Wang Weichen and right Xian Wang Cao Gu led an army of 20,000 to invade Fu Jian's Xingcheng.
On Jiyou Day, he changed the title of King Sima Yu of Kuaiji to King Langxie.
On the day of Renzi, Queen Yu was established.
Sima Changming, the son of Langxie King Sima Yu, was granted the title of King of Kuaiji.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, rebelled and claimed to be the King of Chengdu.
In November, Sima Xun led his army into Jiange and attacked Fucheng. Xiyi captain Guanqiu Wei abandoned the city and fled.
On Yi Mao Day, Sima Xun besieged Zhou Chu, the governor of Yizhou, in Chengdu. Huan Wen sent Jiangxia Prime Minister Zhu Xu to rescue Zhou Chu.
In December of 1898, Wang Biaozhi, the internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
In the spring and February of the first year of Taihe, Ji Chou appointed Zhang Tianxi, the governor of Liangzhou, as the general, the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Longyou Guanzhong, and the Duke of Xiping County.
On Bingshen day, Huan Mi, the internal historian of Xuancheng, was appointed to be the commander of the military expedition in Liangyi and Liangzhou.
In March of 1911, Sima Miao, the king of Xincai, passed away.
Huan Huo, the governor of Jingzhou, sent the governor to protect Huan Zheng to attack Nanzheng. Bi Qin, a native of Wei Xing, led an army to support Huan Huo.
In April, there is drought.
In the fifth month of Wuyin, Queen Yu passed away.
Zhu Xu attacked Sima Xun in Chengdu. Sima Xun's army was defeated. Zhu Xu captured Sima Xun and killed him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Guiyou, Empress Xiao was buried in Jingping Mausoleum.
In September, during the Sino-Japanese War, Liang and Yizhou were granted amnesty.
In Xinchou, the tenth month of winter, Fu Jian's generals Wang Meng and Yang An attacked Nanxiang. Huan Huo, the governor of Jingzhou, went to rescue them. The army was stationed in Xinye, while Wang Meng and Yang An retreated.
Appointed King Sima Yu of Kuaiji as prime minister.
In December, Nanyang natives Zhao Hong, Zhao Yi and others rebelled against Wancheng, and the prefect Huan Dan fled to Xinye to defend it.
Murong Wei's general Murong Li captured Lu County and Gaoping.
In the spring of the second year of the lunar month, Yu hope, the general of Beizhonglang, committed a crime and fled to the sea.
In April of summer, Murong Wei's general Murong Chen invaded Jingling, and the prefect Luo Chong defeated them.
Fu Jian's general Wang Meng invaded Kou Liangzhou, Zhang Tianxi attacked them, and Wang Meng's army was severely defeated.
In May, the right general Huanhuo attacked Zhao Yi, but Zhao Yi escaped. Henghuo attacked, captured Murong Wei's general Zhao Pan, and escorted him to the capital.
In the ninth month of autumn, Xi Min, the internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of Xu Yanqingyou's military affairs in the four states, the general of Pingbei, and the governor of Xuzhou.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Xuan, king of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the spring of the third year, on the first day of the third lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. On Guihai day, there is a general amnesty.
In the summer of April, there are hail and tornadoes.
In the eighth month of autumn, Renyin, Shangshu Ling, General Wei, and Lantianhou Wangshu passed away.
In the fourth summer and April of Gengxu, Grand Sima Huanwen led an army to attack Murong Wei.
In the seventh month of autumn, at Xin Mao, Murong Wei's general Murong Chui led his army to resist Ju Wen, but Huan Wen defeated them.
In the ninth month of Wuyin, Huan Wen's generals Deng Xia and Zhu Xu met Murong Wei's general Fu Mobo in Linzhu, and defeated them again.
On Wuzi day, Huan Wen arrived at Fangtou.
On Bingshen day, because the grain and grass transportation could not be picked up, they burned the boats and returned.
On Xinchou day, Murong Chui caught up with and defeated Huan Wen's rear army in Xiangyi.
In October in winter, a comet flies down to the west with a thunderous sound.
On the day of Ji Si, Huan Wen gathered scattered troops and stationed them in Shanyang.
Yuzhou governor Yuan Zhen led Shouyang to rebel.
On Xinchou Day in November, Huan Wen went from Shanyang to Tuzhong to meet with King Sima Yu of Kuaiji to plan future actions.
In December, he settled in Guangling.
In the spring of the fifth year of the first lunar month of Jihai, Yuan Zhen's sons Yuan Shuangzhi and Yuan Aizhi killed Zhu Xian, the internal history of Liang, and Zhu Bin, the internal history of Runan.
In February Guiyou, Yuan Yuanzhen died. Zhu Fu, the governor of Chen County, appointed Yuan Zhen's son Yuan Jin as his heir and asked Murong Wei for help.
At the end of the fourth month of summer, Huan Wen's general Zhu Yao defeated Yuan Jin in Wuqiu.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. In August Guichou, Huan Wen defeated Yuan Jin in Shouyang. In September, Fu Jian's general Wang Meng attacked Murong Wei and captured Shangdang.
The demon thief Li Hong of Guanghan and Li Jingen, the demon thief of Yizhou, gathered people and horses to make a rebellion. Li Hong claimed to be the holy king and had more than 10,000 people. Zhou Gai, the prefect of Zitong, attacked and pacified them.
In the tenth month of winter, Wang Meng defeated Murong Wei's general Murong Ping in Luchuan.
In November, Wang Meng conquered Ye, captured Murong Wei, and occupied all of his territory.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, Fu Jian sent general Wang Jian to rescue Yuan Jin. General Huan Yi attacked and defeated Wang Jian.
On Dinghai day, Huan Wen captured Shouyang and killed Yuan Jin.
On Renchen in the third month, Zhou Chu, who oversaw the military affairs of the two states of Yining, the champion general, the governor of Yizhou, and the founding father of the city, died.
On the fifth day of the fourth month of the summer, there is a general amnesty, and food is given to the poor and the elderly and childless, with each person receiving five huks of dendrobium.
Fu Jian's general Fu Ya attacked Qiu Chi, and Qiu Chi Duke Yang Zuan surrendered.
In June, there are floods in Kyoto, Danyang, Jinling, Wujun, Wuxing, and Linhai.
In autumn and August, Zhou Shisun, the former governor of Ningzhou, was appointed as the governor of Jiajie, supervising the military affairs of the two states of Yiliang and the governor of Yizhou.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jun, king of Gaomi, passed away.
In the eleventh month of Guimao, Huan Wen went from Guangling to station in Baishi.
On Ding Wei day, he planned to depose the current emperor and install a new emperor. He spread rumors that the emperor had suffered from impotence when he was feuding. His favorites Xianglong, Jihao, Zhu Lingbao and others were involved in the affairs of the inner chamber, which made his two beauties Tian and Meng give birth to three sick sons. They wanted to be enfeoffed and enthroned. People were confused at that time, so Huan Wen used the deeds of Yi Yin and Huo Guang to tactfully persuade the Queen Mother.
On Jiyou day, hundreds of officials gathered in the court hall and announced the order of Empress Dowager Chongde: The royal family is in a difficult situation. Emperor Mu and Emperor Ai's fortunes were short-lived and they did not have time to raise offspring and could not establish a prince.
Langxie King Sima Yi was the emperor's half-brother according to relatives, so he was allowed to succeed the throne.
Unexpectedly, he did not establish his moral character and would reach such a state of ignorance and disorder, violating etiquette and law.
I don’t know whose son these three evil obstacles are.
Human ethics are lost, and the reputation of ugliness spreads far and wide.
Sima Yi could not uphold the country and respect his ancestors, but he was also extremely confused and rebellious, yet he wanted to make a prince a vassal king.
It is intolerable to deceive the ancestors and shake the foundation of the royal family, but what is intolerable!
Now Sima Yi is deposed as the King of Donghai, and he returns to the mansion as the King of Donghai. The standards for enshrining and guarding are the same as those of the King of Changyi in the Han Dynasty.
It is my misfortune that I have encountered so many sorrows. Thinking of the living and the dead makes my heart feel like a knife.
The great plan of the country, the great righteousness has not been carried out.
How could I still speak when I was so sad in front of the paper?
So all the officials entered the front hall of Taiji, and that day Huan Wen asked Liu Xiang, the minister of Sanqi, to take back the emperor's seal and ribbon.
The emperor, wearing a white silk hat and single clothes, walked down the west hall and drove out of the Divine Beast Gate in an ox cart.
The ministers bid farewell respectfully, all looking at him and sighing.
The censor and eunuch led a hundred soldiers to escort him to Donghai Mansion.
At first, Huan Wen had the ambition to seize the throne and planned to perform meritorious service in Heshuo first to gain the attention and reputation of the world.
After Fangtou failed, his prestige was suddenly damaged, so he secretly planned to abolish the emperor and establish a new emperor in order to increase his power.
But he was also afraid that the emperor would stick to the right path and worry that doing so would attract criticism.
Because the affairs in the boudoir were secretive and the affairs in the bed were easy to be falsely accused, Gong Chan spread the word that the emperor was a man without sexual ability. So it was deposed.
At first, the emperor was often worried about Huan Wen. He once summoned the sorcerer Hu Qian to lower his banquet. After the hexagrams came out, Hu Qian said: The Jin royal family is as stable as a rock. Your Majesty has the slightest sign of leaving the palace.
The result turned out to be the same as Hu Qian said.
In the first month of the second year of Xian'an, the emperor was granted the title of Duke of Haixi County.
In April, he moved to Wu County. He ordered Wu Domestic Shi Diao Yi to defend himself, and sent Yu Shi Gu Yun to supervise.
In November, the demon thief Lu Ju sent his disciple Xu Long to the gate of Haixi County Duke early in the morning. He said that there was a secret edict from the Queen Mother to welcome Haixi County Duke back to restore the throne.
The emperor initially wanted to obey Xu Long, but gave up after listening to the centralized and unified advice.
Xu Long said: "The big thing is about to succeed, why do you still listen to women?"
The emperor said: I committed such a crime, but fortunately I was forgiven. How dare I act rashly!
And if the Queen Mother has an edict, she should send her confidants. Why should it be you?
You must be causing trouble.
He shouted to his attendants to tie him up, and Xu Long fled in panic.
The emperor knew that he could not win the throne again, and was very worried about misfortune, so he turned a blind eye to worldly affairs and was carefree. He drank and had fun all day long, indulged in his favorites, and did not raise his son in the hope of preserving himself.
People at that time pitied him and sang his praises.
Because the emperor was content with humiliation, the court no longer worried about his comeback.
In the tenth month of the eleventh year of Taiyuan (Jiashen), the emperor passed away in Wu State at the age of forty-five.
Shi Chen said: Xiaozong was young and was regent by his mother. There was no trouble at home and abroad, and it was stable for more than ten years.
If you use the talents of King Wu An to open up the battlefield; if you use the style of King Wen of Zhou and spread it to Jianghan, then this is what Confucius said and there is no objection.
The mournful emperor was generous and benevolent, and could be a king, but when he offered sacrifices and prayed to heaven, his virtue was tarnished.
Haixi Gong refused Xu Long to restore him to the throne and succumbed to the exiled ministers. As the saying goes, the weak is stronger than the strong and can enjoy the rest of his life.
Praise said: The emperor's throne is in vain, the mother is in power, and filial piety is the foundation. Follow your mother’s teachings and achieve integrity and humility.
It can be used as an example for the jade barrier in the west, and it can be used as a banner for the golden jade in the north.
The Yin people who migrated and the Bo people who followed the Japanese all came to submit.
After mourning, he was generous and benevolent, and the gods came to gather.
Haixi Gong was in trouble, and disaster befell him.
He is not a minister, and I am not Changyi.
