"Yi" said: "Kang has regrets". The meaning of the word "Kang" means that he only knows how to advance in officialdom, but does not know how to retire; he only knows how to survive, but does not know how to die.
I am afraid that only a saint can understand the principles of advance and retreat and survive without losing track of the right path!
"The Biography" says: If you are content, you will not be humiliated; if you know how to stop, you will not be in danger.
According to this, if you don’t know how to advance or retreat, if you don’t understand the principle of knowing where to stop and be content, you will be humiliated, embarrassed, and in a dangerous situation, and you will soon be in a dangerous situation.
The advancement of the ancients was to help people govern the world, and the retreat of the ancients was to promote the right path and encourage folk customs.
However, people's advancement in officialdom is glorious and easy, so it is the goal that ignorant people strive to pursue; people's retirement requires adhering to integrity and persisting in hardships and dangers, so it is something that mediocre people are afraid of.
Although it is common for people to see and hear cases of people who seek to advance in officialdom encounter disaster or defeat, people who live in seclusion are rarely seen in previous history books.
Moji retired from the emperor after his success, and was lying in his sick home, practicing the method of immortality. This is better than wandering around after he succeeded in Luanqi and Jianlong.
Later, Zheng Guangde, Shuguang, Shushou and others retired according to the court's etiquette and left their jobs to live in their homes, which is also worthy of praise.
Yu Kun's "Wei Lue Zhizuo Zhuan" compared Tian and Xu with Guan and Hu. In fact, their principles of conduct were originally different.
Xie Lingyun's "Jin Shu Zhizu Zhuan" first comments on those Jin Dynasty literati who escaped from the turmoil. They probably did not belong to the Zhizu type of people; only Ruan Sikuang liked to escape from the world, abandoning glory and wealth, which was considered to be far away from the embarrassing and dangerous situation of humiliation. "Song Book."
In "The Legend of Zhizu" there are biographies of Cha Ao and Wang Miao, both of whom are similar characters to the previous ones.
During the Revolution, Zhou Suyou, also named Wangbi, refused to be an official, insisted on integrity, traveled in the mountains and forests, cultivated his ambition, did not feel sad and sorrowful in poverty, and did not pursue wealth and glory greedily. He was a noble person among Confucian scholars.
After Liang took over the world, the way of villains declined, and wise men and officials invited each other to gather in the court to measure their own strength and stick to their ambitions of retirement. Those who have not been heard of in the contemporary era. Occasionally, some people retired due to old age, and some had little ambition and weak desires. The history of the country recorded the deeds of these people and compiled it into the "Zhizu Zhuan".
Gu Xian's courtesy name was Shisi, and he was a native of Wu County, Wu County.
His grandfather Gu Qianzhi was the general of the town army and the governor of Xiangzhou during the Song Dynasty.
Before he reached the age of twenty, Gu Xianzhi was appointed by the state as a councilor, promoted scholars, and accumulated merits and was promoted to Prince Sheren, Shangshu Bibu Lang, and Fujun Chief.
During the Yuan Dynasty, Gu Xianzhi was appointed as the Jiankang Order.
At that time, someone was stealing cattle, and the stolen cattle were recognized by the owner of the cattle. The person who stole the cattle also said that the cattle were his own. The verbal evidence on both sides was similar. No one of the previous county magistrates could decide this case.
After Gu Xianzhi arrived, he reviewed the case materials and then said to both parties: "No need to say more, I have thought of a solution."
So Gu Xianzhi ordered his people to untie the rope from which the cow was tied and let the cow go wherever it wanted. The cow went straight back to its original owner's house, and the thief confessed his crime.
Gu Saizhu exposed the evildoers hidden in the dark. He was so smart and decisive in many such things that people at the time called him a god.
As for dealing with the private requests of dignitaries and dignitaries in the imperial court, he never flattered or obeyed. He never tolerated the corruption and cruelty of his officials, and he judged them all fairly and in accordance with the law.
Gu Xianzhi was honest and frugal by nature, and worked hard to handle political affairs, so he won the hearts of the people. Therefore, drinkers in the capital got mellow and delicious wine, and often called the wine "Gu Jiankang". This means that Gu Xian's purity, purity, harmony and beauty are like good wine.
Gu Xianzhi moved to the post of chariot and cavalry meritorious officer, and was a friend of King Xi of Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Qi Gao took charge of the imperial court and ordered Gu Xianzhi to join the army as a hussar and green officer, and to move to the post of Taiwei Xicao.
After the establishment of the Qi Wangtai Mansion, Gu Xianzhi was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu.
When Emperor Gao of Qi ascended the throne, Gu Xianzhi was dismissed and appointed as the internal history of Hengyang.
Before Gu Xianzhi took office, there had been plagues in Hengyang for several years, and more than half of the people died of the disease. The price of coffins was extremely expensive, so the people all wrapped the dead in reeds and dumped them on the roadside.
As soon as Gu Xianzhi took office, he notified the counties under his jurisdiction to find the relatives of the dead and ordered them to bury the dead.
For those dead people who had no relatives, Gu Xianzhi took out his salary and ordered the chief clerk of the government to organize the burial.
According to the local folk custom in Hengyang, when people in the mountains are sick, they often say that the disaster was caused by their ancestors, so they dig graves, open coffins, and wash the bones of the dead with water. This is called "removing evil spirits".
Gu Xianzhi used principles to educate the people, explaining to them the difference between the living and the dead, and pointed out that diseases were not caused by the dead, and the local customs were therefore changed.
At that time, the governor Wang Huan had just taken office, and there was only one county in Hengyang where no one came to the governor's office to complain. So Wang Huan sighed and said: Gu Hengyang's education has reached a very good level.
Suppose all nine counties of this state are like this. So what else is wrong with me?
Gu Xianzhi returned to Beijing and served as Taiwei and Zhonglang.
He also left the capital and served as the chief historian of Shuzhong and engaged in the affairs of Kuaiji County.
Lu Wendu, a native of Shanyin, was favored by Emperor Wu of Qi, so he built a mansion in Yuyao and acted freely and unscrupulously in the area.
When Gu Xianzhi took office in Kuaiji County, he immediately went to court to demolish Lu Wendu's mansion.
Lu Wendu later went back to his hometown to bury his mother. Officials from counties and counties rushed to express their condolences, but Gu Xianzhi refused to associate with him.
Lu Wendu deeply hated Gu Xianzhi in his heart, but in the end he could not slander Gu Xianzhi.
Gu Xianzhi moved to Nanzhonglang and was appointed as the chief historian of Baling King. He also added General Wei to conduct affairs in southern Henan and southern Yanzhou.
At that time, King Situ Jingling established a military camp at the junction of Xuancheng, Lincheng and Dingling counties, demarcating Baili Mountain and marsh, and prohibiting people from entering to collect firewood. Gu Xianzhi resolutely stated that this could not be done, and his words were sincere and straightforward.
King Jingling answered him: If it weren't for you, I wouldn't be able to hear such sincere and kind words.
King Jingling immediately ordered the lifting of the ban.
Gu Xianzhi was moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen and the doctor of the Ministry of Officials.
When he was still in the Song Dynasty, Gu Xianzhi's grandfather Gu Jianzhi served as the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. When he was in office, he planted a row of orange trees in the courtyard of the government and said to people: I planted this tree for Xian.
By this time, Gu Xianzhi was indeed serving in the Ministry of Personnel.
Gu Xianzhi went to Beijing again to serve as the chief historian of the conquest, and went to Yanzhou in the south.
He left his job to mourn his mother's death. After the mourning period was over, during the Jianwu period, he was appointed as the minister of Huangmen and the captain of the infantry school. Before he could receive the ceremony, he was moved to the position of the prince's concubine and led the Zhongzheng of Wu Yi.
He left the capital and was appointed as General Ningshuo and Internal Secretary of Linchuan. Before he could take up his post, he was awarded the title of General of Auxiliary State and Prefect of Jinling.
Soon, Gu Xianzhi fell ill, and Chen Zuo fell ill, so he was dismissed and returned to his hometown.
In the early years of Yongyuan, Gu Xianzhi was recruited as a court official. He did not accept the post and was appointed as the internal history of Yuzhang.
There was a chaste woman named Wan Xi in Yuzhang. She lost her husband when she was young and became a widow with no children. She served her parents-in-law with great filial piety. However, her parents wanted to force her to change her ambition and remarry, but she refused to agree to her death. Gu Xianzhi gave Wan Xi five pieces of silk to commend her for her integrity.
In the second year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, the rebel army who attacked Qidong Hunhou pacified Jiankang. Emperor Gaozu was appointed as the shepherd of Yangzhou, and Gu Xianzhi was recruited to serve as a historian.
By the time Gu Xianzhi arrived in the capital, Gaozu had accepted Qi's concession and ascended the throne. Gu Xianzhi's condition gradually became serious due to a stroke, so he firmly requested to return to his hometown of Wuxian.
In the second year of Tianjian, the imperial court sent people to Gu Xian's home to confer him the title of Taizhong doctor.
Although Gu Xianzhi served as county magistrate many times, he did not even have any savings. When he returned to his hometown, his family was destitute, so he was inevitably suffering from hunger and cold.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, Gu Xianzhi died at home at the age of seventy-four.
When he was dying, Gu Xianzhi wrote in advance instructions on the funeral arrangements and warned his son:
From birth to death, Taoism changes like day and night.
Since we don’t know where life comes from, how can we know where we will go after death?
There is a reason why Yanling said that after a person dies, his essence rises and returns to heaven, his flesh and blood returns to the earth, and his soul can go anywhere.
Although this statement is difficult to understand and difficult to verify, it should not be false.
A person's life will pass quickly, like a fleeting moment.
I have written down the instructions for the funeral ceremony in advance. After I retire, I hope you will all follow my instructions and not go against my wishes.
Zhuang Zhou and Tantai Mieming were people who understood life well and were not bothered by worldly affairs; Yang Wangsun and Huangfu Shi'an were people who corrected the world's customs with their own actions.
If I advance, I cannot reach a state where I am not burdened by worldly affairs, and if I retreat, I will not be able to correct the world's customs.
I often say that the funeral rituals formulated by Confucius in Zhongdu are not only in line with natural principles, but also satisfy people's feelings of missing and respecting their relatives.
After death, clothes can wrap around the body to show that it does not violate etiquette; the coffin can hold the clothes of the corpse, enough to cover the stench.
Nothing else is needed to put in the coffin.
When buried, the coffin is transported in an oval cart and covered with coarse cloth so as not to offend people.
Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty was a noble emperor, and he also proposed that only a glass of water, dried meat, and food should be used as a memorial. Fan Shiwen, a well-known and ethical scholar, also left a message that only cold water and dry rice could be used as a memorial.
What's more, I'm just a humble and mediocre person, how can I not control my desires?
Rather than having thoughtful etiquette in funerals, I would rather feel sad in my heart, which is the deep feeling of missing my loved ones; rather than being extravagant and extravagant in etiquette, I would rather be simple and frugal, in order to suit my heart.
There is no need to hold a permanent memorial feast in front of the spirit. You can just light an oil lamp so that the mourners have something to rely on.
On the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month, the commemorative days of Daxiang and Xiaoxiang, or the anniversary of death, you can temporarily set up a small couch with a few tables and seats. You only need to buy a few vegetarian items, and do not use cattle, sheep, or pigs as memorials.
The sacrifice of smoke and taste to ancestors cannot be abandoned no matter how high or low they are.
It is difficult to prepare complete ritual utensils, which often leads to negligence.
The rituals for worshiping ancestors were previously stipulated and cannot be omitted.
Starting from me, only vegetables and fresh fruits will be used for sacrifices after death, not the same as those for ancestors of previous generations.
Just teach your children and grandchildren clearly not to forget your parents and relatives throughout the year.
Confucius said: Even if you use vegetable soup and vegetable food to offer sacrifices, you must do so respectfully, as if you are fasting.
The most important thing is sincerity and respect. What does it mean that the etiquette utensils must be complete? Gu Xianzhi wrote dozens of poems, poems, inscriptions, praises and "Hengyang County Records".
Tao Jizhi was born in Moling, Danyang.
His grandfather Tao Minzu was the governor of Guangzhou during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Tao Jingren, served as a doctor in Zhongsan.
Tao Jizhi was very intelligent when he was young. Tao Minzu liked him very much and thought he had an unusual temperament.
Tao Minzu once placed four envelopes of silver in front of him and ordered his grandchildren to take them. Tao Jizhi was just four years old at that time, and he was the only one who did not take money.
When asked about the reason why he did not take money, Tao Jizhi said: If my grandfather has a reward, it should be given to his father and uncles first, and should not be given directly to his grandchildren, so I do not take money.
When Tao Minzu heard this, he was even more surprised by his temperament and intelligence.
Tao Jizhi's mother died when he was five years old. He was as sad as an adult.
At first, when his mother was still sick, he was ordered to become a monk. After his mother died, his family redeemed him. Tao Jizhi hugged his mother's body and cried in mourning. Everyone who heard it was moved by sadness.
After growing up, Tao Jizhi loved learning and had little desire to pursue glory, fame and fortune.
When he first became an official, he was appointed as the Minister of the Guiyang Kingdom. He went west to join the army in Beizhonglang Town, but he did not take up the post. At that time, people called him "Bei Jun".
Tao Jizhi was in mourning because of his father's death. After the mourning period expired, Liu Bing, the Shangshu of Danyang Yin, promoted Tao Jizhi to the post of chief of the rear army and the county's meritorious officer.
Tao Jizhi went to Beijing again to serve as Wang Cai Ling, but was soon dismissed due to illness.
At that time, Liu Bing and Yuan Can plotted to overthrow Emperor Qi Gao because Emperor Qi Gao was becoming increasingly powerful.
Liu Bing had always respected Tao Jizhi, and he wanted to ask Tao Jizhi to study strategies to deal with Emperor Qi Gao. Tao Jizhi believed that both Yuan and Liu were Confucian scholars, and their conspiracy would definitely lead to their destruction, so he resolutely refused to keep the appointment.
Soon Liu Bing and others were executed for their crimes.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, Tao Jizhi was appointed as Shangshu Bibulang. At that time, Chu Yuan was appointed as Shangshu Ling. He had always been on good terms with Tao Jizhi, so he successively ordered Tao Jizhi to serve as Sikong and Situ chief clerk, and left the affairs of the mansion to Tao Jizhi.
After Chu Yuan passed away, Wang Jian, the minister of state, thought that Chu Yuan had noble virtues and wanted to confirm that Chu Yuan's title was Wen Xiaogong. Tao Jizhi made a request and said: "Wen Xiao" is the nickname of Sima Daozi. I am afraid that he is not perfect. Chu Yuan should not use the same nickname as him. It is better to give Mi as "Wen Jian".
Wang Jian followed Tao Jizhi's advice.
Tao Jizhi also asked Wang Jian to erect a monument for Chu Yuan. After the stele was erected, Tao Jizhi protected the stele well from beginning to end and maintained the ethics of an official. People at that time praised Tao Jizhi for this kind of virtue.
Tao Ji moved directly to the Taiwei Ji office and joined the army.
He also came to Beijing to serve as Champion Sima and Dongguan Prefect. During his tenure, Dongguan County was known as peaceful and stable.
Tao Jizhi returned to Beijing and was appointed as the minister of Sanqi, leading the left guard Sima, and was transferred to Zhenxi to consult and join the army.
Emperor Wu of Qi died, and Emperor Ming of Qi became prime minister. He punished dissenters, but Tao Jizhi refused to flatter him. Emperor Ming of Qi was very afraid of him, so he asked him to leave the capital and serve as the chief minister of the auxiliary state and the prefect of Beihai.
The subordinate officials of the DPRK held posts in border towns, and it was rare for scholars to be appointed as officials.
Someone advised Tao Ji to come to Emperor Qi Ming to apologize. After Emperor Ming of Qi met with Tao Jizhi, he left him in the capital and appointed him as a hussar to consult with the army and to serve as minister Zuo Cheng.
Then he was moved to the post of governor of Jian'an. Tao Jizhi advocated tranquility in his administration, and the people felt comfortable.
Tao Jizhi returned to Beijing and served as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu, and then moved to the post of guerrilla general and court lieutenant.
When Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, Tao Jizhi moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen.
Tao Jizhi often said that when an official reached a position with a salary of two thousand dan, all his life's wishes were fulfilled. He no longer pursued glory and wealth in the world, so he resigned and returned to his hometown on the grounds of illness.
In the early years of Tianjian, the imperial court sent people to his home to confer him the title of Taizhong doctor.
Emperor Gaozu said: Liang ruled the world, but he could not see this person.
In the tenth year of Tianjian, Tao Jizhi died at home at the age of seventy-five.
Tao Jizhi had always lived a poor life, no one could compare with him, and he had been living in seclusion for more than ten years. When he died, his family was destitute and his descendants had no money to bury him. Everyone who heard about the incident felt sad for his integrity. Xiao Wangsu was born in Lanling.
His grandfather Xiao Sihua was posthumously awarded the title of General Zhengxi and Kaifu Yitong Sansi in the Song Dynasty. His father, Xiao Huiming, served as the prefect of Wuxing. His grandfather and father both had great reputations.
Xiao Wangsu lost his father very early and his family was poor. He was adopted by his uncle Xiao Huixiu.
When he first became an official, he served as Situ Fa of Qi, Cao Xing joined the army, and moved to Zuo Lang, Prince Sheren, and Shangshu Sangong Lang.
In the last years of Yongyuan, Xiao Shisu was appointed as the prince to wash horses.
Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, and Emperor Gaozu selected him as a lieutenant in the Hussar Records Office to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, Xiao Shisu was appointed as Wangyou of Linchuan, and then as Prince Zhongsheren, Danyang Yincheng.
When he was first appointed to the official position, Emperor Gaozu gave Xiao Wangsu 80,000 yuan, and Xiao Wangsu gave all the money to his relatives and friends at once.
Xiao Wangsu moved to Situ Zuoxi and governed the center of Xuzhou in the south.
Xiao Shisu had a quiet and humble temperament, a pure heart, and a fondness for learning. He could talk about the mysteries of Lao and Zhuang, and he never talked about wealth and wealth, and his joy and anger were indistinguishable.
Regardless of whether he was living without an official or holding an official position, he acted according to his own temperament, was open-minded and frank, never arrogant, and showed his simple and simple nature. Scholars therefore respected him.
When he took office in Jingkou, he came up with the idea of ​​settling down in Jingkou for the rest of his life, so he built a house in Sheshan.
At this time, the imperial court recruited him as the minister of Zhongshu, so he refused to be an official and took up the post. He returned to his residence in Sheshan and lived alone without being concerned about worldly affairs. If he was not a relative, he would not be able to reach the gate of his residence.
Xiao Wangsu's wife was the daughter of Taiwei Wang Jian. Xiao Wangsu had separated from her a long time ago and had no children.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, Xiao Shisu passed away.
His relatives and friends inspected his deeds and conferred upon him the title of Mr. Zhenwen.
Shi Chen said: Gu Xianzhi and Tao Jizhi were people who retired to prolong their lives, but Xiao Shisu lacked enthusiasm for being an official. Compared with those who miss their salary, indulge in favors, and work hard in the world, there is indeed a big difference.
