The ancestors of the Zhao family and the Qin people have the same ancestor.
When it was passed to Zhongyan, he became the person who drove horses and chariots for Emperor Taiwu of the Shang Dynasty.
His descendant Feilian had two sons. One son was named Eilai and served King Zhou. He was later killed by the Zhou people. His descendants were the Ying Qin family.
Erlai's younger brother was named Ji Sheng, and his descendants were the Zhao people.
Ji Sheng gave birth to Meng Zeng.
Meng Zeng was favored by King Zhou Cheng, and this was Zhai Gaolang.
Gaolang begat Hengfu, and Hengfu begat Zaofu.
Zaofu was favored by King Mu of Zhou.
Cepheus selected eight horses and presented them to King Mu along with the famous horses such as Robber, Hualiu, and Luer obtained in Taolin.
King Mu asked Zaofu to drive his chariot to the west for inspection. He met the Queen Mother of the West and was so happy that he forgot to go back.
Soon, King Xu Yan launched a rebellion. King Mu rode a carriage and traveled thousands of miles a day to attack King Xu Yan and completely defeat him.
So he gave the city of Zhao to Zaofu, and he became the Zhao family from then on.
From Zaofu down through six generations, it was passed down to Yanfu, whose courtesy name was Gongzhong. When King Xuan of Zhou attacked the Rong people, he drove his chariot for King Xuan.
In the Battle of Thousand Acres, Yanfu saved King Xuan from danger.
Am's father gave birth to his uncle.
During the reign of his uncle, King You of Zhou was debauched and immoral, so he left the Zhou Dynasty and went to Jin, where he served Marquis Wen of Jin and began to establish the Zhao family in Jin.
From the uncle down, the Zhao family became more and more prosperous, and after five generations it was passed down to Zhao Su.
Zhao Su, in the 16th year of Duke Xian of Jin, conquered the three kingdoms of Huo, Wei, and Geng. He led the army to conquer the Huo Kingdom.
Huo Gongqiu fled to Qi State.
This year there was a severe drought in the Jin State, and the divination result said: The gods of Mount Huo Tai are causing trouble.
So Zhao Su was sent to Qi State to welcome back the king of Huo State, restored his status, and asked him to preside over the sacrifices at Mount Huo Tai. Only then did Jin State have a good harvest again.
Duke Xian of Jin gave the land of Geng to Zhao Su.
The year when Zhao Su came down to share the throne with Meng was the first year of Lu Min.
Mencius was born in the same family as Zhao Shui, whose courtesy name was Ziyu.
Zhao Shui used divination to decide whether to serve Duke Xian of Jin or other princes, but the result was unlucky. When the divination revealed that he was serving Prince Chong'er, the result was auspicious, so he went to serve Chong'er.
Chong'er fled to Zhai State due to the Liji Rebellion, and Zhao Shui followed him.
The Zhai people attacked Yao Jiuru and got two women. Zhai Jun gave the young girl to Chong'er as his wife, and the older girl to Zhao Shui as his wife, and they gave birth to Zhao Dun.
When Chong'er was in Jin, Zhao Shuai's first wife had already given birth to Zhao Tong, Zhao Kuo and Zhao Yingqi.
Zhao Shui fled with Chong'er for a total of nineteen years before he was able to return to Jin.
Chong'er became Duke Wen of Jin, and Zhao Shui became the official of Yuan. He lived in Yuan City and presided over state affairs.
The reason why Duke Wen of Jin was able to return and become the overlord was mostly due to Zhao Shuai's strategy. These things are all recorded in "Jin Family".
After Zhao Shui returned to Jin, his first wife in Jin insisted on welcoming back the wife he married in Zhai, and made Zhai's wife's son Zhao Dun the official heir, while his three sons served him in lower positions.
In the sixth year of Duke Xianggong of Jin Dynasty, Zhao Shui passed away, and his posthumous title was Cheng Ji.
Two years after Zhao Dun succeeded Cheng Ji in presiding over the state affairs, Duke Xianggang of Jin passed away and Prince Yigao was young.
Because the country was in trouble, Zhao Dun wanted to make Yong, the younger brother of Duke Xiang, the king of the country.
Yong was in Qin at that time, so he sent envoys to meet him.
The prince's mother cried day and night, kowtowed to Zhao Dun and said: "What sin did the late king have? Why did he abandon his legitimate son and establish another king?"
Zhao Dun was worried about this and was afraid that her clan members and officials would attack and kill her, so he appointed the crown prince, Duke Linggong of Jin, and sent troops to intercept the group of people who came to Qin to meet Duke Xianggong's younger brother.
After Duke Linggong ascended the throne, Zhao Dun took more control of the political affairs of Jin.
Fourteen years after Ling Gong succeeded to the throne, Zhao Lai became more and more arrogant.
Zhao Dun remonstrated many times, but Duke Linggong did not listen.
Once he ate bear paws, but because they were not cooked properly, he killed the catering officer and had his body carried out, where Zhao Dun happened to see him.
Duke Ling was frightened and wanted to kill Zhao Dun.
Zhao Dun was always kind and kind to others. He once gave food to a man who was hungry and fell under a mulberry tree. The man stepped forward to rescue Zhao Dun, and Zhao Dun was able to escape.
Before he could escape from the country, Zhao Chuan killed Duke Ling and made Heihui, the younger brother of Duke Xiang, the king. This was Duke Cheng of Jin.
Zhao Dun returned to preside over state affairs.
The gentleman ridiculed Zhao Dun: As a minister, he fled without leaving the country, and did not punish the rebels when he returned. Therefore, the historian recorded that Zhao Dun killed his king.
Zhao Dun died during the reign of Duke Jinggong of Jin Dynasty. His posthumous title was Xuan Meng, and his son Zhao Shuo inherited the title.
In the third year of Duke Jinggong of Jin Dynasty, Zhao Shuo led the Jin army to rescue Zheng State and fought with King Zhuang of Chu on the Yellow River.
Zhao Shuo married Jin Chenggong's sister as his wife.
In the third year of Duke Jinggong's reign in Jin Dynasty, the official Tu Anjia wanted to kill the entire Zhao family.
When Zhao Dun was still alive, he once dreamed that his uncle was hugging his waist and crying bitterly. He was very sad; then he laughed and clapped his hands and sang.
Zhao Dun performed a divination for this purpose, and the cracks burned on the tortoise shell were interrupted and then intact.
A historian named Yuan of Zhao State judged: This dream is unlucky. It did not come true on you, but on your son, but it was also because of your fault.
By your grandson's generation, the Zhao family will be even more in decline.
Tu Anjia was favored by Duke Lin at first. When he arrived at Jinggong, he became a scourge. When he was about to cause trouble, he first punished the rebels who killed Duke Lin in order to implicate Zhao Dun. At the same time, he informed all the generals that although Zhao Dun did not know about it, he was still the chief culprit.
A minister killed the king, but his descendants are still serving as officials in the court. How can we punish the criminals?
Please kill them.
Han Jue said: When Duke Linggong was killed, Zhao Dun was out of town. Our late king believed that he was not guilty, so he did not kill him.
Now you are going to kill his descendants. This is not the will of the late king but killing at will. Killing at will is causing chaos.
As a minister, if you have important matters but don't let the king know about it, this is to have no king.
Tu'anjia didn't listen.
Han Jue told Zhao Shuo to run away quickly.
Zhao Shuo refused to run away. He said: "You must not cut off the incense of the Zhao family. If I die, I will have no regrets."
Han Jue agreed to his request, and he lied that he was sick and would not go out.
Without asking the monarch for instructions, Tu'anjia and his generals attacked the Zhao family in the lower palace, killed Zhao Shuo, Zhao Tong, Zhao Kuo, and Zhao Yingqi, and exterminated their families.
Zhao Shuo's wife was Cheng Gong's sister. She was pregnant by Zhao Shuo, so she fled to Jin Jinggong's palace to hide.
One of Zhao Shuo's retainers was named Gongsun Chujiu. Chujiu said to Zhao Shuo's friend Cheng Ying: Why don't you die?
Cheng Ying said: Zhao Shuo's wife is pregnant. If she is a boy, I will support her; if she is a girl, it will not be too late for me to die.
Soon after, Zhao Shuo's wife gave birth to a boy.
After Tu'anjia heard about it, he went to the palace to search.
Zhao Shuo's wife put the baby in her pants and prayed: If the Zhao clan should be exterminated, cry loudly; if it is not going to be exterminated, don't make a sound.
When the search arrived, the baby had no sound.
After escaping from danger, Cheng Ying said to Gongsun Peijiu: "We didn't find anything in the search today. We must search again in the future. What should we do?"
Gongsun Chujiu said: Which is more difficult, raising an orphan or dying?
Cheng Ying said: It is easy to die, but it is difficult to raise an orphan.
Gongsun Chujiu said: The ancestors of the Zhao family treated you well, so you can do the difficult things reluctantly; I will do the easy things, and let me die first!
So the two of them managed to get someone else's baby to carry on their backs, wrapped him in embroidered swaddling clothes, and hid him in the mountains.
Cheng Ying came out of the mountain and pretended to tell the generals: "I, Cheng Ying, have no future and cannot raise the orphans of the Zhao family. If anyone can give me a thousand pieces of gold, I will tell them where the orphans of the Zhao family are hidden."
The generals were very happy, agreed to his offer, and sent troops to follow Cheng Ying to attack Gongsun Chujiu.
Chujiu pretended to say: Cheng Ying, you are such a villain!
You couldn't die when you were in trouble in the palace, and you plotted with me to hide the Zhao orphans, but now you betrayed me.
Even if you can't support him with me, how can you bear to betray him!
He held the baby and shouted: Oh my God! Oh my gosh!
What crime did the Zhao orphans have?
Please let him live and just kill me, Chujiu.
The generals did not agree and immediately killed Chujiu and the orphan.
The generals thought that the orphan Zhao was indeed dead and were very happy.
However, the real Zhao orphan was still alive, and Cheng Ying ended up hiding in the mountains with him.
Fifteen years later, Jin Jinggong fell ill and performed a divination. The divination revealed that Daye's descendants were causing trouble due to the cessation of sacrifices.
Jinggong asked Han Jue. Han Jue knew that the orphan of the Zhao family was still alive, so he said: Among the descendants of Daye who have now cut off their incest in Jin, isn't it the Zhao family?
The descendants descended from it all bear the surname Ying.
Zhongyan, a man with a human face and a bird's beak, came to the world to assist Emperor Taiwu of Yin, and the several emperors of Zhou assisted by his descendants all had good virtues.
Further down to King Li and King You, who were ignorant and ignorant, Shudai left the Zhou Dynasty and came to the Jin Dynasty to serve the ancestor Wenhou. Until they became dukes, they established achievements for generations and never stopped their incense.
Now only you, the monarch, have destroyed the Zhao clan, and the people of Jin are mourning for them, so it was revealed in the divination.
I hope you will consider this!
Jinggong asked: "Does the Zhao family have any descendants?"
Han Jue told Jinggong completely the truth.
So Jinggong discussed with Han Jue to create an orphan of the Zhao family, and first found him and hid him in the palace.
The generals entered the palace to inquire about Jinggong's condition. Jinggong relied on Han Jue's many followers to force the generals to meet the Zhao orphans.
The orphan of the Zhao family is named Zhao Wu.
The generals had no choice but to say: The incident in the palace was instigated by Tu'anjia. He falsely conveyed the emperor's orders and issued orders to the ministers. If not, who would dare to initiate a rebellion!
Even if the monarch is not sick, we ministers must support the descendants of the Zhao family.
Now that you have given the order, this is also our wish!
So Zhao Wu and Cheng Ying were asked to thank the generals one by one. The generals in turn joined Cheng Ying and Zhao Wu to attack Tu'anjia and annihilate his family.
Jinggong gave Zhao Wu the fiefdom that originally belonged to the Zhao family.
When Zhao Wu had the crowning ceremony and he was already an adult, Cheng Ying said goodbye to all the officials, and then said to Zhao Wu: "Everyone can die for the Lord because of what happened in the palace."
It's not that I can't die, I just want to support the descendants of the Zhao family.
Now that Zhao Wu has inherited his ancestral legacy, grown up, and restored his original title, I will go underground to report to Zhao Xuan and Gongsun Chujiu.
Zhao Wu cried and kowtowed, and insisted on requesting: "I would rather suffer my own bones and muscles to repay you until my death. Do you have the heart to leave me and die?"
Cheng Ying said: No.
Gongsun Chujiu thought that I could accomplish great things, so he died before me; if I don't come back to life now, he will think that I haven't accomplished this yet.
So he committed suicide.
Zhao Wu kept mourning for Cheng Ying for three years and arranged land for him to use for sacrifices. Spring and Autumn sacrifices have been passed down from generation to generation.
Eleven years after Zhao's title was restored, Duke Li of Jin killed three senior officials of the Que family.
Luan Shu was afraid that he would be implicated, so he killed Duke Li, the king of Jin, and replaced him with Duke Xiang's great-grandson Zhou, who was Duke Ao of Jin.
From then on, the power of the officials in the Jin Dynasty gradually became stronger.
Twenty-seven years after Zhao Wu succeeded the Zhao clan, Duke Ping of Jin came to the throne.
In the twelfth year of Ping Gong's reign, Zhao Wu became Zhengqing.
In the thirteenth year, Yanling Jizi of Wu State came to Jin State. He said: The power of Jin State will eventually fall into the hands of the descendants of Zhao Wuzi, Han Xuanzi and Wei Xianzi.
After Zhao Wu's death, his posthumous title was Wenzi.
Wenzi gave birth to Uncle Jing.
During the reign of Uncle Jing, Qi Jinggong sent Yan Ying as an envoy to the State of Jin. Yan Ying talked with Uncle Xiang of the State of Jin.
Yan Ying said: The political power of Qi will eventually fall into the hands of the Tian family.
Shuxiang also said: The political power of Jin will fall into the hands of the six ministers.
The Six Ministers are very presumptuous, but our monarch does not know how to worry.
Uncle Zhao Jing died, and he gave birth to a son, Zhao Yang, who became Zhao Jianzi.
During the reign of Zhao Jianzi, in the ninth year of Jin Qinggong, Jianzi joined the princes to garrison in Zhou territory.
The next year, he escorted King Zhou Jing back to the Zhou Dynasty because he was in exile to avoid his younger brother Zichao.
In the twelfth year of Qinggong's reign in the Jin Dynasty, the six ministers executed the Qi and Yangyu clans of the monarch according to the law, and divided their territory into ten counties. The six ministers asked their own clansmen to be officials.
The Jin government was further weakened from then on.
Thirteen years later, Yang Hu, a rebellious minister of Lu State, fled to Jin State. Zhao Jianzi accepted the bribe and treated him favorably.
Zhao Jianzi fell ill and was unconscious for five days. The doctors were all frightened.
Doctor Bian Que came out after seeing it. Dong Anyu asked about his condition. Bian Que said: "My blood is peaceful, why should you be surprised!"
Duke Mu of Qin also had this situation before, and it took him seven days to wake up.
The day I woke up, I told Gongsun Zhi and Ziyu: I am very happy when I arrive at the place where the Emperor of Heaven lives.
The reason I stayed so long was because I happened to be teaching.
The Emperor of Heaven told me: The Kingdom of Jin will be in chaos, and there will be no peace for the fifth generation; their descendants will dominate and die before they grow old, and the sons of those who dominate will let men and women mix in your Kingdom of Jin.
Gongsun Zhi wrote it down and hid it, and the prophecy of Qin came out.
You know the chaos during the reign of Duke Xian, the hegemony under Duke Wen, the great defeat of the Qin army at Mt.
Now your monarch's illness is the same as Duke Mu of Qin. He will definitely recover within three days. After he gets better, he will definitely have something to say.
After two and a half days, Jianzi woke up.
He said to the doctors: I was very happy when I arrived at the Emperor of Heaven. I traveled with hundreds of gods in Juntian. I heard magnificent music played many times and saw thousands of dances. It was not like the music of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. The music was very moving.
A bear came to catch me, and the Emperor of Heaven asked me to shoot it. The bear was shot and died.
Another turtle came over, and I shot it again. The turtle was shot and died.
The Emperor was very happy and gave me two bamboo boxes, both equipped with small boxes.
I saw a child next to the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven entrusted me with a Zhai dog and said to me: When your son grows up, give him this dog.
The Emperor of Heaven also told me: The Jin Kingdom will gradually decline and will perish after seven generations. The people surnamed Ying will defeat the Zhou people to the west of Fan Kui, but you cannot occupy it.
Now I recall the merits of Yu and Shun, and when the time comes I will marry Meng Yao, the daughter of Shun's descendants, to your seventh-generation grandson.
After hearing this, Dong Anyu wrote it down and kept it safely.
He reported what Bian Que said to Jianzi, and Jianzi gave Bianque four acres of land.
One day, when Jianzi was out, someone blocked his way and refused to leave even if he was driven away. His followers were very angry and wanted to kill him.
The roadblocker said: I have something to see the Lord.
The attendant reported his words to Jianzi. Jianzi summoned him and said upon meeting him: Hee! I have seen you clearly.
The man blocking the road said: "Please ask the attendants on the left and right to step aside. I have something to report."
Jianzi asked people to retreat.
The roadblock said: When you were sick, I was with the Emperor of Heaven.
Jianzi said: Yes, this is indeed the case.
What was I doing when you saw me?
The man who blocked the road said: The Emperor of Heaven asked you to shoot bears and pigs, but you shot them both to death.
Jianzi said: Yes, what will happen?
The person blocking the road said: Jin will be in great trouble, and you will be the first to bear the brunt.
The Emperor of Heaven has asked you to kill two ministers. Xiong and Zhu are their ancestors.
Jianzi said: The Emperor of Heaven gave me two bamboo boxes, each with matching small boxes. What does this mean?
The blocker said: Your son will defeat two countries in Zhai, and they both have the surname Zi.
Jianzi said: I saw a child next to the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven gave me a Zhai dog and said: When your son grows up, give him this dog.
What does it mean to give a Zhai dog to a child?
The blocker said: The child is your son, and Zhai Quan is the ancestor of Daiguo.
Your son will definitely occupy Daiguo in the future.
In your descendants, there will be changes in government decrees, and they will wear the clothes of the barbarians and annex two countries in Zhai.
Jianzi asked him his last name and wanted to appoint him as an official.
The man who blocked the road said: I am a countryman, and I just came to convey the will of the Emperor of Heaven.
After saying that, he disappeared.
Jianzi recorded these words and kept them in his secret palace.
Another day, Gubuziqing paid a visit to Jianzi. Jianzi called his sons to have his fortune read.
Ziqing said: There is no one who can be a general.
Jianzi said: Is the Zhao family finished?
Ziqing said: I once saw a child on the road, probably your son!
Jianzi called his son Wuxie again.
As soon as Wuji arrived, Ziqing stood up and said, "This is the real general!"
Jianzi said: This child's mother is a humble servant girl from Zhai. How can you say he is noble?
Ziqing said: Those given by God, even if they are humble, they will surely become noble.
From then on, Jianzi often called his sons to talk, and Wuxie behaved the best.
Jianzi once told his sons: I have hidden the treasure talisman on Mount Chang, and whoever finds it first will be rewarded.
The sons hurried to Changshan to look for it, but found nothing.
Wu Shi came back and said: The treasure talisman has been found.
Jianzi said: Just tell me.
Wuxie said: If you can see the state of Dai from Changshan Mountain, you can capture the state of Dai.
Only then did Jianzi realize that Wuxie was indeed a talented person. So he deposed Prince Bolu and made Wushe the crown prince.
Two years later, in the fourteenth year of Jin Dinggong's reign, the Fan family and the Zhongxing family rebelled.
In the spring of the next year, Jianzi said to Zhao Wu, the doctor of Handan, "Give me back the five hundred households of Weiguo's people, and I will resettle them to Jinyang."
Zhao Wu agreed, but when he returned, his father and brother disagreed, so he broke his promise.
Zhao Yang arrested Zhao Wu and imprisoned him in Jinyang.
He also told the people of Handan: I will kill Zhao Wu privately. Who do you want to take over?
So Zhao Wu was killed.
Zhao Wu's son Zhao Ji and his retainer Shebin rebelled with Handan.
The king of Jin sent troops led by Qin to besiege Handan.
Xun Yin, Fan Jishe and Zhao Wu had a good relationship, but they refused to help Qin and instead planned a rebellion. Dong Anyu knew about this.
In October, the Fan family and the Zhonghang family attacked Zhao Yang. Zhao Yang fled to Jinyang, and the Jin people surrounded Jinyang.
Fan Jishe, Xun Yin's enemy Wei Xiang, and others plotted to expel Xun Yin and replace him with Liang Yingfu; to expel Fan Jishe and replace him with Fan Gaoyi.
Xun Yue said to the king of Jin: The king ordered his ministers to kill those who lead the rebellion.
Now the three ministers are leading the rebellion, but expelling Zhao Yang alone is an unfair punishment. Please expel them all.
In November, Xun Yue, Han Buyi and Wei Duo followed the king's order to attack the Fan and Zhongxing clans, but failed to win.
The Fan family and Zhonghang family in turn attacked Dinggong, and Dinggong fought back. Fan family and Zhonghang family failed and fled.
On the day of Ding Wei, two people fled to Chaoge.
Han Buyi and Wei Duo interceded for Zhao Yang.
On Xinwei day in December, Zhao Yang entered Jiangcheng and swore an oath in the Dinggong Palace.
In the second year, Zhibo Wenzi said to Zhao Yang: Although the Fan family and the Zhonghang family did launch a rebellion, it was Dong Anyu who instigated it, which means Dong Anyu participated in the planning.
The state of Jin has laws, and anyone who starts to cause trouble will be put to death.
Those two people have been punished, but Dong Anyu is still there.
Zhao Yang was worried about this matter.
Dong Anyu said: If I die, the Zhao family can be peaceful and the Jin country can be peaceful. I died too late.
So he committed suicide.
Zhao Yang told Uncle Zhi about this matter, and the Zhao family found peace after that.
Confucius heard that Zhao Jianzi arrested Zhao Wu, the Handan official, without asking the king of Jin, and retreated to Jinyang, so he recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals: Zhao Yang rebelled with Jinyang.
Zhao Jianzi had a retainer named Zhou She who liked to speak out and give advice.
After Zhou She's death, Jianzi was often unhappy whenever he went to court to deal with political affairs, and the officials asked for forgiveness.
Jianzi said: You are not guilty.
I heard that a thousand sheepskins are not as good as the armpit fur of a fox.
When the officials went to court, they only heard respectful and obedient responses, but no arguments like Zhou She's. I was worried about this.
Therefore, Jianzi was able to make the people of Zhao obey and make the Jin people turn to him.
In the eighteenth year of Jin Dinggong, Zhao Jianzi surrounded Fan Jishe and Zhongxingyin in Chaoge, and Zhongxingyin fled to Handan.
In the second year, Wei Linggong passed away.
Zhao Jianzi and Yang Hu sent Crown Prince Kuai Chi to Wei State, but Wei State refused to accept him, so Prince Wei had to live in Qicheng.
In the 21st year of Duke Dinggong of Jin Dynasty, Zhao Jianzi invaded Handan, and Zhongxing Yin fled to Bairen.
Jianzi surrounded the Bai people again, and Zhongxingyin and Fan Jishe rushed to Qi again.
The Zhao family finally took possession of Handan and Bai people.
The remaining territories of the Fan and Zhonghang clans were assigned to the Jin State.
Zhao Jianzi was named Shangqing of Jin State, and he actually monopolized the political power of Jin State. His fiefdom was equivalent to that of the princes.
In the thirtieth year of Jin Dinggong's reign, Dinggong and Wu King Fu Chai competed to be the leader of the alliance at the princes alliance meeting in Huangchi. Zhao Jianzi followed Jin Dinggong and finally made Wu King the leader.
When Duke Dinggong passed away in the thirty-seventh year of his reign, Jianzi was exempted from the mourning ceremony for three years, which ended on the first anniversary.
In this year, King Goujian of Yue destroyed the state of Wu.
In the eleventh year of the Jin Dynasty, Zhi Bo attacked Zheng Guo.
When Zhao Jianzi fell ill, he sent Prince Wuxie to lead his troops to surround Zheng Guo.
Zhibo was drunk, so he forced Wu Shi to drink wine and beat him.
Wuji's subordinates demanded that Zhibo be executed.
Wuxie said: Your Majesty made me the crown prince because I can endure humiliation and bear heavy burdens.
But he also resented Zhibo.
After Zhibo returned, he told Jianzi that he should abolish Wuxie, but Jianzi did not listen.
Wuji resented Zhibai even more.
In the seventeenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Zhao Jianzi died and was succeeded by the crown prince Wuxie, who was Zhao Xiangzi.
In the first year of Zhao Xiangzi, the State of Yue surrounded the State of Wu.
Xiangzi reduced the stipulated diet during the period of mourning and sent his retainer Chu Long to visit King Wu.
Xiangzi's sister was originally the wife of the king.
After Jianzi was buried, Xiangzi had not yet taken off his mourning clothes, so he went north to climb Xiawu Mountain, invited King Dai, and asked the chef to use a copper spoon to invite King Dai and his entourage to have a meal. While pouring wine, he secretly asked the cook named Gege to beat King Dai and his attendants to death with a copper spoon, and then sent troops to pacify the land of Dai.
When his sister heard about this, she cried and called to heaven, sharpened her hairpin and committed suicide.
The local people sympathized with her and called the place where she committed suicide the Mountain of Moji.
Xiangzi granted the land of Dai to Zhao Zhou, Bolu's son, and made him the king of Dai.
Bolu is Xiangzi's brother and the original prince.
The prince died young, so his son was given the title.
Four years after Xiangzi came to the throne, Zhibo and the three families of Zhao, Han and Wei divided up all the original territories of Fan and Zhongxing.
Duke Chu of Jin was furious and notified Qi and Lu, hoping to rely on them to attack the four ministers.
The four ministers were afraid, so they attacked Jin Chugong together.
He fled to Qi State on duty and died on the way.
Uncle Duan appointed Zhaogong's great-grandson Jiao to take the throne, and this was Jin Yigong.
Zhibo became more and more arrogant.
He asked Han and Wei to cede their territory, and Han and Wei gave it to him.
Zhao was asked to cede territory, but Zhao refused because Zhibo had insulted him when he besieged Zheng.
Uncle Zhi was angry and led the Han and Wei families to attack the Zhao family.
Zhao Xiangzi was afraid, so he fled to Jinyang to retreat.
Yuan Guo followed Xiangzi and fell behind. When he arrived at Wangze, he saw three people. They could be seen from above the belt, but not from below.
The three of them gave Yuan a bamboo stick with two sections, but there was no passage in the middle.
He said to him: Give this bamboo stick to Zhao Wuxie for us.
After Yuan Guo arrived, he told Xiangzi the situation.
Xiangzi fasted for three days and cut open the bamboo stick himself. Inside, there were vermilion characters written: Zhao Wuxie, we are the angels of the Yanghou of Mount Huotai.
On Bingxu day of March, we will ask you to destroy Zhishi in turn.
You will also build temples for our hundreds of cities, and we will give you the land of Linhu.
Your descendants will have a brave and strong king with red and black skin, a dragon face and a bird's beak, sideburns and eyebrows, a mustache and cheeks, a broad chest and a big belly, a slender lower body, a strong upper body, a left skirt, wearing armor and riding a horse. All the raccoon tribesmen who occupied the middle reaches of the Yellow River and the Xiumun area went south to attack other cities in Jin and went north to destroy Heigu.
Xiangzi worshiped again and accepted the orders of the three gods.
The Three Kingdoms' attack on Jinyang lasted for more than a year, causing Fenshui to flood the city. Only three walls of the city wall were not flooded.
People in the city hang up pots to cook and exchange their children for them to eat.
All the ministers were disloyal and their etiquette became more and more neglectful. Only the Communist Party of China did not dare to be rude to Xiangzi.
Xiangzi was afraid, so he sent Prime Minister Zhang Mengtong to secretly make friends with Han and Wei in the middle of the night.
Han, Wei and Zhao conspired. On Bingxu in March, the three countries in turn destroyed the Zhi family and jointly divided his land.
So Xiangzi made a reward, and the Gao Communist Party ranked first in merit.
Zhang Mengtong said: During the time of trouble in Jinyang, only the Communist Party of China did not make meritorious deeds.
Xiangzi said: When Jinyang was in crisis, all the ministers were indifferent. Only the Communist Party of Gao did not dare to violate the etiquette of ministers, so he will receive a reward.
At this time, Zhao occupied Dai territory in the north and annexed the Zhi clan in the south, becoming stronger than Han and Wei.
So he built a temple to offer sacrifices to the three gods in Baiyi, and sent Yuan Guo to preside over the sacrifices at the Hotai Mountain Temple.
Later, Xiangzi married Kongtong and gave birth to five sons.
Because Bolu failed to succeed to the throne, Xiangzi refused to make his own son the crown prince, and insisted on passing the throne to Bolu's son Dai Chengjun.
Chengjun died first, so he chose Zhao Huan, Chengjun's son, as the crown prince.
Xiangzi died in the 33rd year of his reign, and Zhao Huan came to the throne. He became the Marquis of Xian.
Xianhou came to the throne at a young age, and his capital was Zhongmu.
Xiangzi's younger brother Huanzi expelled Xianhou and established himself as a marquis in Dai. He died a year later.
The people of Zhao thought that Huanzi's accession to the throne was not Xiangzi's wish, so they jointly killed his son and welcomed Xianhou to the throne.
In the tenth year of Xianhou's reign, Duke Wu of Zhongshan State began to ascend the throne.
In the thirteenth year, a city was built in Pingyi.
In the fifteenth year, Xianhou died, and his son Liehou Zhao Ji came to the throne.
In the first year of Liehou, Wei Wenhou attacked Zhongshan Kingdom and sent Prince Wei to garrison it.
In the sixth year, Wei, Han, and Zhao were all established as princes, and the Zhao family pursued and presented their sons as Xianhou.
Liehou liked music and said to the Prime Minister Zhonglian: "I have someone I like. Can I make him noble?"
Gong Zhong said: It is okay to make him rich, but not to make him noble.
Liehou said: Okay.
I will give each of Zheng's singers Qiang and Shi Shi ten thousand acres of land. Gongzhong said: Yes.
In fact, it was not given.
A month later, Liehou came back from Dai and asked about the land given to the singer. Gongzhong said: "I am looking for it, but I haven't found the right one yet."
Not long after, Liehou asked again, but Gongzhong still refused, so he said he was ill and would not go to court.
Lord Fanwu came from Daidi and said to Gongzhong: "The king indeed likes to implement good government, but he just doesn't know how to implement it."
You have been the prime minister of Zhao for four years now. Have you ever recommended talents? Gongzhong said: No.
Fan Wujun said: Niu Zhu, Xun Xin, and Xu Yue can all be recommended.
Gongzhong recommended these three people.
When it was time to go to court, Liehou asked again: How is the singer's land?
Gongzhong said: Send decent people to select the best fields.
When the cattle and animals served the Liehou, they taught him the principles of benevolence and righteousness and restrained him with royal principles. The Liehou's attitude was lenient.
The next day, Xun Xin accompanied him and suggested that talented people should be selected and able people should be appointed as officials.
On the third day, in addition to the Vietnamese escorts, it was recommended to save property and expenses, and to inspect and evaluate the merits and virtues of the officials.
The principles they taught were not insufficient, and the king was very happy.
Liehou sent someone to tell the Prime Minister: "The granting of fields to singers is temporarily suspended."
He appointed Niuxu as his division, Xun Xin as his lieutenant, and Xu Yue as his internal historian, and gave the prime minister two sets of clothes.
In the ninth year, Liehou died and his younger brother Wu Gong came to the throne.
Duke Wu died in the thirteenth year of his reign, and the State of Zhao appointed Prince Liehou Zhao Zhang to take the throne. This was Zhao Jinghou.
This year, Wei Wenhou died.
In the first year of Jinghou, Duke Wu's son Zhao Chao rebelled and fled to Wei after the failure.
Zhao State began to use Handan as its capital.
In the second year of Jinghou's reign, he defeated the Qi army at Lingqiu. In the third year, he rescued the Wei State in Linqiu and defeated the Qi army.
In the fourth year, the Zhao army was defeated by the Wei army at Tutai.
Zhao built Gangping City to attack Weiguo.
In the fifth year, Qi and Wei helped Wei Guo attack Zhao and captured Zhao's Gangping City.
In the sixth year, he borrowed troops from Chu to attack Wei and captured Jipu.
In eight years, Huangcheng of Wei State was captured.
In the ninth year, he attacked Qi.
The state of Qi attacked the state of Yan, and the Zhao army rescued the state of Yan.
In the tenth year, the State of Zhao and the State of Zhongshan fought in Fangfang County.
In the eleventh year of Jinghou's reign, Wei, Han, and Zhao jointly destroyed Jin and divided its land.
Zhao State attacked Zhongshan State and fought in the Zhongren area.
In the twelfth year, Jinghou died, and his son Chenghou Zhao Zhong came to the throne.
In the first year of Chenghou, the prince Zhao Sheng competed with Chenghou for the throne and launched a rebellion.
In June of the following year, it snowed.
Three years later, Taiwuwu was appointed as the Prime Minister.
He conquered Weiguo and captured seventy-three villages and towns.
Wei defeated Zhao Jun in Lin.
In four years, he fought with the Qin army in Gao'an and defeated it.
In the fifth year, he attacked the Qi army in Juancheng.
The Wei army defeated the Zhao army in Huai.
The Zhao army attacked the State of Zheng, defeated it, and gave the captured Zheng land to Han, and South Korea gave Changzi County to Zhao.
In six years, Zhongshan State built the Great Wall.
The Zhao army attacked Wei, defeated it at Huze, and besieged King Wei Hui.
In the seventh year, he attacked Qi and reached the Great Wall of Qi.
Jointly attack the Western Zhou Dynasty with South Korea.
In eight years, together with Korea, the Western Zhou Dynasty was divided into two parts.
In the ninth year, he fought with Qi State under Acheng.
In ten years, he attacked Weiguo and captured Zhencheng.
In the eleventh year, Qin attacked Wei, and Zhao Jun went to Shi'a to rescue him.
In the twelfth year, the Qin army attacked Shaoliang of Wei State, and the Zhao army went to rescue it.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Xiang of Qin sent a concubine named Guo to lead an army to attack Shaoliang of Wei State, and captured the crown prince of Wei State and Gongsun Cuo.
The Wei army defeated the Zhao army in the Huishui area and captured Pi Lao.
Chenghou and Han Zhaohou met in Shangdang.
In the fourteenth year, Zhao and Han attacked Qin together.
In the fifteenth year, Zhao Guo helped Wei Guo attack Qi.
In the 16th year, the State of Zhao, South Korea, and State of Wei divided the State of Jin. Confess Duanshi County to the King of Jin.
In the seventeenth year, Marquis Cheng and King Hui of Wei met in Ge Ni.
In the 19th year, Zhao State held an alliance meeting with Qi State and Song State in Pinglu, and met with Yan State in Xi'a League.
In the 20th year, Wei Guojin presented eaves and rafters made of high-quality wood, and then used these wooden rafters to build the sandalwood platform.
In the twenty-first year, the Wei army surrounded Handan.
In the 22nd year, King Hui of Wei captured Handan, and the Qi army also defeated the Wei army in Guiling.
In the twenty-fourth year, the State of Wei returned Handan to the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao and the State of Wei swore an alliance on the shore of the Zhang River.
The Qin army attacked Lincheng of Zhao State.
In the twenty-fifth year, Chenghou passed away.
Gongzi Zhen and Prince Suhou competed for the throne. Zhao Zhen failed and fled to South Korea.
In the first year of Suhou's reign, he captured Jinjun's Duanshi County and moved Jinjun to Tunliu.
In the second year, he met King Hui of Wei in Yinjin.
In the third year, Prince Zhao Fan attacked Handan and died without victory.
For four years, he paid homage to the Emperor of Zhou.
In the sixth year, he attacked Qi and captured Gaotang.
In the seventh year, Prince Zhao Ke attacked the capital of Wei.
In the eleventh year, Duke Xiao of Qin sent Shang Yang to conquer Wei and captured the general and son of Wei, Zhao Xian.
Zhao State attacked Wei State.
In the twelfth year, Qin Xiaogong died, and Shang Yang also died.
In the fifteenth year, construction of Shouling began.
King Wei Hui passed away.
In the 16th year, Suhou visited Daling and passed by Lumen. Prime Minister Tai Wuwu held the horse's head and said: When farming is busy, if you don't cultivate for one day, you will have no food for a hundred days.
After hearing this, Suhou immediately got out of the car and admitted his mistake.
For seventeen years, Huangcheng, which besieged Wei State, was not conquered.
Build the Great Wall.
In the eighteenth year, Qi and Wei conquered the State of Zhao. The State of Zhao used water from the Yellow River to flood the enemy troops, and the enemy troops withdrew.
In the 22nd year, Zhang Yi was appointed prime minister of Qin.
Zhao Zun fought with the Qin army and failed. The Qin army killed Zhao Zun in Hexi and captured Lin and Lishi of Zhao State.
In the twenty-third year, Han Ju fought with the Qi and Wei armies and died in Sangqiu.
In the twenty-fourth year, Suhou died.
Qin, Chu, Yan, Qi, and Wei each sent 10,000 elite soldiers to attend the funeral.
Suhou's son, King Wuling, ascended the throne.
In the first year of King Wuling, Yang Wenjun Zhao Bao was appointed prime minister.
King Xiang of Liang, Prince Si, King Xuan of Han and Prince Cang came to Xin Palace to congratulate.
King Wu Ling is young and cannot handle political affairs yet. He has three learned masters and three left and right officials.
When it comes to handling government affairs, the first thing to do is to greet the noble ministers of the late king, and to increase their rank and salary. The virtuous elderly people in the country who are over 80 years old give them gifts every month.
In the third year of King Wuling's reign, Ha City was built.
In the fourth year, he made an alliance with the King of Han in the District Rat Meeting.
Five years later, he married a Korean clan daughter.
In eight years, South Korea attacked Qin and withdrew without victory.
The five kingdoms called each other king, but only Zhao did not call himself king. Zhao Jun said: How can we have this title without reality?
He ordered everyone in Zhao to call him "Jun".
In the ninth year, he joined Han and Wei in attacking Qin. Qin defeated the armies of the three countries and killed 80,000 people.
Qi defeated Zhao Jun in Guanze.
In ten years, the Qin army captured Zhao's Zhongdu and Xiyang.
The state of Qi defeated the state of Yan, and the prime minister of the state of Yan, Zizhi, became the king, but the king instead became a minister.
In the eleventh year, King Wuling summoned the son of Yan State from South Korea, made him King of Yan, and sent Yuechi to escort him back to Yan State.
In the thirteenth year, the Qin army captured Zhao Ta's Lincheng and captured the general Zhao Zhuang.
The kings of Chu and Wei came to Zhao and reached Handan.
In the fourteenth year, Zhao He attacked Wei.
In the sixteenth year, King Qin Hui passed away.
King Wuling visited Daling.
One day, King Wu Ling dreamed of a girl playing the piano and singing a song: She is so beautiful, her appearance is like a wildflower.
O fate, O fate, no one knows my daughter-in-law’s name!
Another day, King Wuling was very happy while drinking. He talked about his dream many times and imagined the beauty of the girl in the dream.
After Wu Guang heard about it, he sent his daughter Waying to the palace through his wife.
This is Meng Yao. Meng Yao was especially favored by King Wu Ling, and she was Queen Hui.
In the seventeenth year, King Wu Ling went to Jiumen and built a wild platform to overlook the border between Qi and Zhongshan.
In the eighteenth year, King Wu of Qin and Meng Shuo lifted a red tripod with dragon patterns, broke his leg and died.
The King of Zhao sent his acting prime minister Zhao Gu to the Kingdom of Yan to meet Qin Gongzi Ji, send him back to the country, and established him as King of Qin. This was King Zhao of Qin.
In the first month of the spring of the nineteenth year of King Wuling, a grand court meeting was held in Xin Palace.
He summoned Fei Yi to discuss world affairs with him, and the conversation lasted five days before it ended.
King Wu Ling went to the north to inspect the territory of the Zhongshan Kingdom. He went to Fangfang County, then to Daidi, reaching Wuwu in the north, the Yellow River in the west, and climbed to the top of Huanghua Mountain.
Then he summoned Lou Huan for discussion and said: Our late king took advantage of the changes in world affairs and became the ruler of the southern territory. He connected the dangers of Zhangshui and Fushui, built the Great Wall, captured Lincheng and Guolang, and defeated the Linhu people in Edi. However, the work has not yet been completed.
Now the Zhongshan Kingdom is in our heart, with the Yan Kingdom to the north, Donghu to the east, and the borders of Linhu, Loufan, Qin, and South Korea to the west. However, without the rescue of powerful troops, the country will perish if this continues. What should we do?
To achieve a reputation that is higher than that of the world, one must be involved in deviating from customs.
I want to wear barbarian clothes.
Lou Huan said: Very good.
But none of the ministers were willing.
Fei Yi was serving at that time, and King Wu Ling said: The merits of the two rulers Jianzi and Xiangzi were that they considered the interests of Hu and Zhai.
As a minister, when you are favored, you should be filial, know your elders and children, and obey the principles. When you are wise, you should establish achievements that can benefit both the people and the king. These two points are the duties of a minister.
Now I want to inherit the cause of Lord Xiang and open up the land where the Hu people and Zhai people live, but I can't find such a wise minister in the world.
My purpose is to weaken the enemy and get twice the result with half the effort, so that I can continue the achievements of the two ancestors without using up the labor of the people.
Anyone who has great achievements in the world must bear the burden of abandoning customs; those who have unique wisdom must submit to the complaints of the arrogant people.
Now I want to wear a barbarian costume, ride a horse and shoot arrows, and use this to coach the people, but the world will definitely talk about me, what should I do?
Fei Yi said: I heard that if you hesitate in doing something, you will not succeed, and if you hesitate in taking action, you will not become famous.
Since you have decided to accept the blame for betraying customs, there is no need to worry about the opinions of the people in the world.
Those who pursue the highest morality will not conform to the world, and those who have achieved great achievements will not seek to negotiate with ordinary people.
In the past, Shun used dance to influence the three seedlings, and Yu took off his shirt when he went to the naked country. They did not do it to satisfy their desires and please their minds, but they had to use this method to promote virtue and achieve success.
Foolish people can't understand the true meaning of things until things succeed, but smart people can see things clearly when there are no signs. So why are you hesitating, my king?
King Wu Ling said: I don't hesitate to wear Hu clothes. I'm worried that people in the world will laugh at me.
The happiness of the ignorant is the sadness of the wise; the wise can see clearly what the fools laugh at.
There are people in the world who obey me, and the effect of wearing Hu clothing is immeasurable.
Even if everyone in the world laughs at me, I will definitely take possession of Hu Di and Zhongshan Country.
So I put on Hufu.
King Wu Ling sent Wang Jie to tell the young master Cheng: "I am going to go to court like this wearing Hu clothes, and I also hope that my uncle will wear it."
You should obey your parents in family affairs, and you should obey the king in state affairs. This is a code of conduct recognized by ancient and modern times.
Children cannot disobey their parents, and ministers cannot disobey the monarch. This is a common principle among brothers.
Now I am making decrees and changing my clothes, but if you don't wear them, uncle, I'm afraid the whole world will talk about it.
There are routines for governing the country, and benefiting the people is fundamental; there are routines for handling political affairs, and it is most important to follow orders.
Propaganda of virtuous government must start with the common people, and implementation of administrative decrees must first get the nobility to obey.
The purpose of wearing Hufu today is not to satisfy desires and please the mind; things must achieve a certain purpose before the work can be completed.
Things are done, achievements are established, and then things are considered proper.
Now I am afraid that my uncle has violated the principles of handling political affairs, so I have come to help my uncle think about it.
Moreover, I have heard that if you do things that are beneficial to the country, your behavior will not be biased; those who rely on noble relatives will not suffer damage to their reputation. Therefore, I am willing to rely on my uncle's loyalty to achieve the effect of Hu Fu.
I sent Wang Jie to pay homage to my uncle and ask you to put on Hu clothes.
Master Cheng kowtowed again and said: I have heard about your Majesty wearing Hu clothes. I have no talent. I am ill in bed and cannot go around to do my best.
The king ordered me, and I answered boldly to fulfill my foolish loyalty.
I heard that China is a place where smart and wise people live, a place where all wealth and wealth are gathered, a place where sages teach, a place where benevolence and righteousness can be practiced, a place where people from afar are willing to come and visit, and a place where barbarians are happy to imitate. Now that your Majesty has abandoned these and put on the clothes of a distant place, changed the ancient teachings, changed the ancient righteousness, violated the will of everyone, abandoned the teachings of scholars, and stayed away from Chinese customs, so I hope that your Majesty will consider this matter carefully.
The messenger went back and reported truthfully.
King Wu Ling said: I originally knew that my uncle was ill, so I wanted to go and plead with him personally.
King Wu Ling then went to the young master Cheng's home and asked him personally, saying: "Clothes are for ease of wearing, and etiquette is for ease of conduct."
The sage observes local customs and adapts to local customs, and formulates etiquette according to actual conditions. This is to benefit the people and enrich the country.
It is the custom of Ouyue people to cut off their hair, get tattoos on their bodies, paint on their arms, and leave their clothes open on the left side.
His teeth were stained black and he had tattoos on his forehead. Wearing fish skin hats and clothes with thick needles and threads is the custom of the great Wu Kingdom.
Therefore, the ceremonial clothing varies from place to place, but for convenience, it is the same.
The use will change in different places, and the etiquette will also change according to different things.
Therefore, the sage believes that if it can benefit the country, the methods do not need to be the same; if it can be done conveniently, the etiquette does not need to be the same.
Confucians were taught by the same master but have different customs. The etiquette in the Central Plains was the same but the education was different. How much more for the convenience of remote areas?
Therefore, the changes in the choice of advance and retreat cannot be consistent among wise people; nor can the sages be able to make the clothing of distant places and those of near places the same.
There are many different customs in remote areas, and the knowledge is shallow but full of sophistry.
Only those who do not doubt what they do not understand and do not criticize opinions that are different from their own can impartially learn from the opinions of others in order to achieve perfection.
Now what my uncle is saying is worldly view, and what I am saying is to stop worldly view.
There is the Yellow River and Boluojin in the east of our country, which are shared by Qi State and Zhongshan State, but there are no boating facilities.
From Changshan to Daidi and Shangdang, to the east are the borders of Yan State and Donghu State, and to the west are the borders of Loufan State, Qin State, and South Korea. Now there is no equipment for cavalry and archery.
So I think if there are no boat facilities, what will the people living on both sides of the river use to guard the waters of the Yellow River and Boluo? The purpose of changing clothes and practicing riding and shooting is to defend the borders with Yan, Sanhu, Qin and Han.
Moreover, in the past, Lord Jian did not set up fortresses in Jinyang and Shangdang. Lord Xiang annexed military lands and attacked the country in order to exclude the barbarians from all over the country. This is something that both fools and wise men can understand.
In the past, the Zhongshan State relied on the strong military power of the Qi State to invade and trample our land, plunder our people, and divert water to besiege Haocheng. If it were not for the blessing of the gods of Sheji, Haocheng would have almost been lost.
The late king was ashamed of this, but this revenge has not yet been avenged.
Now that we have the equipment of cavalry and archery, we can make Shangdang's terrain more favorable in the near future, and avenge the Zhongshan Kingdom in the distant future.
However, my uncle followed the customs of the Central Plains, violated the wishes of Master Jian and Master Xiang, hated the reputation of subjugation, and forgot the shame of being trapped in Haocheng. This is not what I hope.
Prince Cheng kowtowed again and said, "I am stupid. I failed to understand the profound meaning of your Majesty. I dared to talk about worldly opinions. This is my sin."
Now the king wants to inherit the legacy of Master Jian and Master Xiang and obey the wishes of the late king. How dare I disobey the king's order!
When the young master succeeds, he will bow again and kowtow.
King Wu Ling then gave him Hufu.
The next day, he put on Hufu and went to court.
At this time, King Wuling began to issue orders to change into Hu clothes.
Zhao Wen, Zhao Zao, Zhou Yu, and Zhao Jun all came to dissuade King Wu Ling from wearing Hu clothes. It was more appropriate to follow the original method.
King Wu Ling said: The customs of the previous kings were different. Which ancient method can be imitated?
If emperors don't follow each other's rules, what etiquette can be followed?
Fuxi and Shennong focused on education and not punishment; Huangdi, Yao, and Shun used punishment, but not cruelty.
In the Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties, the kings formulated laws and regulations according to the times, and prescribed etiquette according to the actual situation.
Laws and regulations are in compliance with actual needs, and clothes and equipment are easy to use.
Therefore, etiquette does not have to be just one way, and to facilitate the country, there is no need to imitate the ancients.
The rise of saints did not follow each other but they unified the world. The decline of Xia and Yin did not change the ritual system and finally perished.
So, it is understandable to violate the ancient rules, and it is not unworthy of praise to follow the old etiquette.
If people with strange costumes are said to have loose spirits, then there will be no people with strange behaviors in Zou and Lu. If people in places with strange customs are thoughtless, then there will be no outstanding talents in Wu and Yue.
Moreover, the sage believes that as long as it is beneficial to the body, it can be called clothing, and as long as it is convenient for doing things, it can be called etiquette.
The etiquette of advancing and retreating, and the system of clothing are stipulated so that common people can follow them uniformly, not to criticize sages.
Therefore, the common people always accompany the vulgarity, but the wise people go with the changes.
Therefore the proverb says: A person who drives a cart according to books will not understand the temperament of a horse; a person who uses ancient methods to restrain this world does not understand the changes of things.
The efficacy of following ancient laws cannot be superior to the secular world; it is impossible to govern this world by practicing ancient doctrines.
You don’t understand this!
Finally, Hu uniforms were implemented and soldiers were recruited to practice riding and shooting.
In the 20th year of King Wuling, King Wuling captured the land of Zhongshan and reached Ningjia; he also captured the land of the Hu people in the west and reached Yuzhong.
King Linhu presented horses.
After returning, he sent Lou Huan to Qin, Qiu Lie to South Korea, Wang Ben to Chu, Fu Ding to Wei, and Zhao Jue to Qi.
Let Zhao Gu, the acting prime minister, take charge of the Hu region and recruit soldiers from the Hu region.
In the twenty-first year, he attacked Zhongshan Kingdom.
Zhao Yuan led the right army, Xu Jun led the left army, Gongzizhang led the middle army, King Wuling led the three armies, Niu Jian led the chariots and cavalry, and Zhao Xi led Hu Yudai's soldiers together.
Zhao Xi and other troops passed through the pass and joined forces at Quyang, where they captured Danqiu, Huayang and Lushang Pass.
King Wuling led his army to capture Haocheng, Shiyi, Fenglong and Dongyuan.
Zhongshan offered four cities for peace, and King Wuling agreed and withdrew his troops to cease the war.
In the twenty-third year, he attacked Zhongshan Kingdom again.
In the twenty-fifth year, Queen Hui passed away.
He sent Zhou Yuan to wear Hu robes to assist and teach Prince Zhao He.
In the twenty-sixth year, he attacked Zhongshan Kingdom again and captured land as far as Yan and Dai in the north and as far as Yunzhong and Jiuyuan in the west.
On Wushen Day in May of the 27th year, a grand court meeting was held in the East Palace. King Wuling passed on the throne and made Prince Zhao He the king.
After the new king went to the ancestral temple to pay homage to his ancestors, he came out to attend court.
The officials are all ministers, Feiyi is appointed as the prime minister, and they are the masters of the new king.
This is King Huiwen.
King Huiwen was the son of Empress Hui Wuwa.
King Wu Ling calls himself the master father.
The master's father wanted his son to govern the country, so he put on Hu clothes and led the scholar-bureaucrats to the northwest to inspect the Hu land. He also wanted to attack Qin from Yunzhong and Jiuyuan to the south, so he disguised himself as an envoy and entered Qin.
King Zhao of Qin didn't notice, and was surprised that his appearance was particularly tall and uncharacteristic of a minister. He immediately sent someone to chase him, but his father had already galloped out of the Qin pass.
After asking carefully, I found out that it was the master's father.
The people of Qin were very frightened.
The reason why the master's father entered the Qin Kingdom was to personally inspect the terrain and take the opportunity to observe the behavior of the King of Qin.
In the second year of King Huiwen, the master's father inspected the newly occupied land, so he left Daidi and went west to meet King Loufan at Xihe and recruited his soldiers.
In three years, the Zhongshan Kingdom was destroyed and the king of Zhongshan was moved to Fushi County.
Start building Lingshou City. The land in the north began to belong to the State of Zhao, and the road to Dai was greatly smoothed.
After returning, he was rewarded based on his merits, implemented a general amnesty, held a banquet and drank for five days, and named his eldest son Zhao Zhang as the Anyang Lord of the place.
Zhao Zhang was always indulgent and dissatisfied with his younger brother's succession to the throne.
The master's father also sent Tian Buli to assist Zhao Zhang.
Li Dui said to Fei Yi: "Gongzi Zhang is in his prime and has an arrogant ambition. He has many followers and is very ambitious. I am afraid he may have selfish motives!"
Tian Buli is cruel and arrogant.
These two people are in sync with each other, and there will definitely be conspiracy and chaos. Once they hope to succeed by chance, they will take risks.
When villains are ambitious, they will be rash when thinking about things, and they will be superficial in their plans. They only see benefits and ignore the harm. If accomplices encourage each other, they will walk into the door of disaster together.
As far as I'm concerned, this won't happen for long.
You bear great responsibilities and hold great power. Turmoil will begin from you, and disasters will concentrate on you. You must be the first to encounter disasters.
A benevolent man loves all things, and a wise man takes preventive measures before they happen. How can a country be governed without benevolence or wisdom?
Why don't you claim to be sick and stay away from home, handing over political affairs to Young Master Cheng?
Don't be a place where resentment gathers, don't be a stepping stone for disaster. Fei Yi said: No.
When the Lord and Father entrusted the new king to me, he said: Do not change your laws, do not change your heart, and remain single-minded until your death.
I bowed again to accept the king's order and recorded it.
Now I am afraid that Tian Buli will cause trouble and forget the king's orders that I have recorded. What sin is greater than betrayal!
I entered the palace to accept a solemn royal order, but failed to fulfill it after leaving the palace. Is there any greater injustice than this?
The punishment for betraying an unfaithful minister is intolerable.
The proverb says that if the dead comes back to life, the living should not feel ashamed in front of him.
What I said earlier is that if I want to fully fulfill my promise, how can I care about my body!
Moreover, a loyal minister's integrity will show up when disaster strikes, and a loyal minister must behave clearly when encountering trouble.
You have taught me and given me counsel. Despite this, I have already said it before and I never dare to go against it.
Li Dui said: Well, do your best!
I can see you only this year.
After saying that, he burst into tears and left.
Li Dui went to see Gongzi Cheng several times to prevent Tian Buli from causing trouble.
Another day, Fei Yi said to Xinqi: "Gongzi Zhang and Tian's disrespect is very worrying."
They spoke nice to me but were actually very bad. They were unfilial and unfaithful.
I have heard that treacherous ministers in the court are a scourge to the country; slanderous ministers in the palace are a worm to the monarch.
This kind of person is greedy and ambitious. When the monarch favors him in the palace, he goes out to do evil and misbehaves.
It is arrogant and rude to falsely convey the king's order. Once an order is issued without authorization, it is not difficult to do so, and the disaster will endanger the country.
Now I worry about it, forgetting to sleep at night, and forget to eat when I am hungry.
Beware of thieves.
From now on, if someone asks to see the king, he must meet with me. I must resist him with myself first. Only if there is no change can the king come in.
Xinqi said: Great, I can hear this!
In the fourth year of King Huiwen's reign, all ministers came to pay homage, and Lord Anyang also came to pay homage.
The master's father asked the new king to preside over the worship, and he secretly observed the etiquette of the ministers and royal family members.
Seeing the dejected look of his eldest son Zhao Zhang, who instead surrendered to the north and bowed before his younger brother, he felt pity for him. At that time, he wanted to divide the Zhao country into two and make Zhao Zhang the king of the country. This plan was aborted without a decision.
The master father and King Huiwen visited the sand dunes and lived in different palaces. Gongzizhang used his disciple Hetian Buli to cause trouble and summoned King Huiwen with false orders from his father.
Fei Yi went in first and was killed.
Gao Xinliji and King Huiwen fought against Gongzi Zhang.
Prince Cheng and Li Dui arrived from the capital and mobilized troops from four cities to resist the rebellion. They killed Prince Zhang and Tian Buli, wiped out their followers, and pacified the royal family.
The young master was appointed prime minister, with the title Lord Anping, and Li Dui was appointed Sikou.
When Gongzi Zhang was defeated, he fled to his master's father, who took him in. Prince Cheng and Li Dui then surrounded his master's palace.
After the death of Gongzizhang, Gongzicheng and Li Dui discussed: Because Zhao Zhang has surrounded his father, even if we withdraw our troops, the whole clan of us will be killed!
So he continued to surround his father's palace.
He ordered the people in the palace to kill the last person who came out, and everyone in the palace came out.
The father wanted to go to the palace but could not get out and could not get food, so he had to hunt for chicks to satisfy his hunger. He died of starvation in the Sand Dune Palace more than three months later.
The master's father's death was certain, and then the obituary notice was issued to the princes.
At that time, King Huiwen was young, and his sons Cheng and Li Dui had sole power. They were afraid of being killed, so they besieged their father.
At first, the master's father made his eldest son Zhao Zhang the crown prince, but later he got Wu Wa and doted on her very much. For this reason, he stayed away from Wu Wa's palace for several years. After giving birth to his son Zhao He, he abolished Prince Zhang and made Zhao He the king.
After Wu Wa's death, her love for Zhao He became weaker and weaker, and she began to pity the original prince again. She wanted to make her two sons kings simultaneously, but she was always hesitant. Therefore, an accident happened, and the father and son died together, and were laughed at by everyone in the world. How can it not be regrettable!
The master's father died, and King Huiwen succeeded him.
In the fifth year of King Huiwen, the State of Zhao gave the lands of Min and Yi to the State of Yan.
In eight years, the southbound Tang City was built.
In the ninth year, Zhao Liang led the troops and jointly attacked South Korea with Qi State, all the way to Lu Pass.
By ten years, Qin claimed to be the Western Emperor.
In the eleventh year, Uncle Dong and the Wei family conquered the Song Dynasty and captured Heyang in the Wei Kingdom.
Qin captured Gan Yang.
In the twelfth year, Zhao Liang led troops to attack Qi.
In the thirteenth year, Han Xu was the commander-in-chief and attacked Qi.
The princess died in the same year.
In the fourteenth year, the prime minister of Yan State, Le Yi, led the five-state coalition of Zhao, Qin, Han, Wei, and Yan to attack Qi State and captured Lingqiu.
King Zhao and King Qin met in Zhongyang.
In the fifteenth year, King Zhao of Yan came to meet King Zhao.
Zhao State joined forces with Han, Wei, and Qin to attack Qi. The king of Qi was defeated and fled. The Yan army went deep alone and captured Linzi City.
In the sixteenth year, Qin and Zhao attacked Qi several times, which made the people of Qi very worried.
Su Li wrote a letter to King Zhao for the State of Qi, saying in the letter:
I heard that for the wise kings in ancient times, their virtues were not spread all over the sea, their education was not spread to all the people, and the offerings of the four seasons were not always enjoyed by their ancestors.
However, the dew fell everywhere, the rain was timely, the grain harvest was abundant, and the people were free from diseases. Everyone praised this, but the wise master had to think deeply.
Nowadays, your virtue and skill are not always shown to Qin; your accumulated resentment and anger are not always particularly deep in Qi.
Qin and Zhao united and forced South Korea to send troops. Does Qin really love Zhao?
Does it really hate Qi?
If something goes too far, the wise master should observe it carefully.
Qin did not love Zhao and hate Qi, but wanted to destroy Korea and annex the Eastern and Western Zhou Dynasties, deliberately using Qi as bait to attract the world.
He was afraid that the matter would not succeed, so he sent troops to coerce Wei and Zhao.
And he was afraid that all the countries in the world would be afraid of him, so he sent hostages to gain his trust.
He was also afraid that all the countries in the world would soon oppose it, so he conscripted troops in South Korea as a threat.
On the surface, it is said to be beneficial to the allies, but in fact it is to conquer the empty South Korea. I think Qin's strategy must be based on this aspect.
Things have different situations but the same disaster. Chu State has been attacked for a long time but Zhongshan State has been destroyed. Now Qi State has been attacked for a long time and South Korea must be destroyed.
After conquering Qi, your Majesty will share the benefits with the other six countries.
After destroying South Korea, Qin will take possession of it alone.
After occupying it for two weeks, you can get the ritual vessels for the emperor's sacrifice to the west, and the Qin State will monopolize them.
When granting land, the benefits must be calculated. Your Majesty, who has received more benefits than Qin?
The lobbyists discussed: South Korea loses Sanchuan, Wei loses Jin, and the city and dynasty have not yet changed, and disaster is about to come.
After the Yan State occupied all the northern land of Qi State, it was three hundred miles away from the sand dunes and giant deer. The Shangdang of South Korea was one hundred miles away from Handan. The Yan State and the Qin State conspired to seize Zhao's rivers and mountains, and they could collude through a small road three hundred miles away.
Qin's Shangjun is close to Tingguan and is 1,500 miles away from Yuzhong. If Qin relies on the three counties to attack Zhao's Shangdang, the west of Yangchangban and the south of Gouzhu Mountain will no longer be yours.
Crossing Juzhu Mountain, cutting off Changshan and stationing there, it is only three hundred miles away from Yan State. From now on, Dai Ma Hu Dog will no longer enter Zhao State from the east, and the jade from Kunshan will not be transported to Zhao State. These three treasures will no longer be owned by the king.
Your Majesty has been attacking Dai Qi for a long time, and following the strong Qin to attack South Korea, the disaster will definitely reach this point.
I hope you will give it more consideration.
Moreover, the reason why Qi State was attacked was because it served the king; the armies of various countries gathered together just to bring trouble to the king.
As soon as the alliance between Yan and Qin was concluded, the day of sending troops was not far away.
The five countries wanted to divide the land of Zhao into three parts. Qi betrayed the five-nation alliance and sacrificed itself to relieve Zhao's troubles. It marched westward to suppress the powerful Qin, causing Qin to abolish the imperial title and ask for surrender. It returned Gaoping and Genrou to Wei, and returned Xianfen and Xianyu to Zhao.
Qi State's service to the king should be said to be the highest form of friendship. Now that Qi State has been asked to plead guilty, I worry that the country that serves the king will not dare to be so resolute in the future.
I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
Now that the king will not attack Qi with other countries, all countries in the world will definitely think that the king is upholding justice. Qi will hold the country and the country and serve the king more wholeheartedly. All countries in the world will definitely respect the justice of the king.
The king can lead all countries to be friendly with Qin. If Qin is violent, the king will lead all countries to suppress it. In this way, the reputation and glory of the whole life will be controlled by the king.
So Zhao State stopped advancing troops, declined Qin State, and stopped attacking Qi State.
King Huiwen and King Yan met.
Lian Po led his troops to attack Xiyang in Qi State and captured it.
In the seventeenth year of King Huiwen, Le Yi led the Zhao army to attack Boyang of Wei.
Qin resented Zhao for not attacking Qi with it, so it sent troops to attack Zhao and captured two of Zhao's cities.
In the eighteenth year, Qin captured Zhao's Shicheng.
King Zhao once again went to Dongyang in Wei, broke open the dam of the Yellow River, and conquered Wei.
Floods caused disasters and the Zhang River overflowed.
Wei Ran came to Zhao State to serve as prime minister.
In the 19th year, the Qin army captured two cities of Zhao.
Zhao Guo returned Boyang to Wei Guo.
The State of Zhao asked Zhao She to lead the army to attack Maiqiu of the State of Qi and captured it.
Twenty years later, Lian Po led his troops to attack Qi.
King Zhao and King Zhao of Qin met outside Xihe.
In the 21st year, Zhao Guo changed the water channel of Zhangshui to the west of Wuping.
In the twenty-second year, the plague spread on a large scale.
Make Gongzi Dan the crown prince.
In the twenty-third year, Lou Chang led his troops to attack several cities of Wei State, but failed to capture them.
In December, Lian Po led his troops to attack several more cities and occupied them.
In the twenty-fourth year, Lian Po led his troops to attack Wei's house. After conquering it, he built a wall before returning.
He also attacked Anyang and captured it.
In the twenty-fifth year, Yan and Zhou led troops to attack Changcheng and Gaotang, and conquered them all.
Zhao and Wei attacked Qin together. Qin's general Bai Qi defeated the Zhao army in Huayang and captured a Zhao general.
In the twenty-sixth year, he regained the land that Donghu had forced to rebel.
In the twenty-seventh year, the Zhang River was redirected to the south of Wuping.
Zhao Bao was granted the title of Lord Pingyang.
The Yellow River overflowed and floods caused disasters.
In the twenty-eighth year, Lin Xiangru conquered Qi and reached Pingyi.
Stop building the big city in Jiumen County to the north.
Generals Cheng Anjun and Gongsun Cao of Yan killed their king.
In the twenty-ninth year, Qin and Han assisted Zhao and surrounded Yan Yu.
The State of Zhao sent Zhao She to lead troops to attack the Qin army and defeated the Qin army at the gate of Yanyu City. King Zhao gave him the title of Ma Fujun.
In the thirty-third year, King Huiwen died and Prince Dan came to the throne. This was King Xiaocheng.
In the first year of King Xiaocheng's reign, Qin attacked Zhao and captured three cities.
King Zhao had just ascended the throne and the Queen Mother took power, and Qin stepped up its attack.
Zhao State asked Qi State for help, and the King of Qi said: "You must let Lord Chang'an come as a hostage before you can send troops."
The Queen Mother refused, and the ministers tried their best to remonstrate.
The Queen Mother clearly said to her left and right: If anyone comes back to talk about letting Lord Chang'an as a hostage, the old woman will definitely spit in his face.
Zuo Shichulong said that he wanted to see the Queen Mother, but the Queen Mother was waiting for him angrily.
After Chulong entered the palace, he walked slowly and took small steps and sat down. He apologized and said, "Old minister, I have a problem with my feet. I can't run fast. It's been a long time since I came to see you."
I forgive myself privately, but I am afraid that the Queen Mother is not feeling well, so I really want to visit the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother said: Old woman, I rely on chariots to move around.
Chulong said: Your diet has not been reduced, right?
The Queen Mother said: Just drink porridge.
Chulong said: Sir, I don't feel like eating lately, so I force myself to take a walk. I walk three or four miles every day, which increases my appetite somewhat and makes my body more comfortable.
The Queen Mother said: Old woman, I can't do it.
The Queen Mother's uneasy expression softened slightly.
Master Zuo said to the dragon: My son Shu Qi is the youngest and has no future, but I am already old and love him very much. I hope he can fill the vacancy of the black guards to defend the palace. I risk death to report to you. The Queen Mother said: OK!
How old are you?
Answered: Fifteen years old.
Although he is not old yet, I hope to entrust him to you before I am buried.
The Queen Mother said: Do you men also love your youngest son?
He answered: More than women.
The Queen Mother smiled and said: Women love even more.
Chu Long said: Privately, I think you love Empress Yan more than Lord Chang'an.
The Queen Mother said: You are wrong, it is much worse than loving Mr. Chang'an.
Master Zuo said: Parents who love their children should consider them thoughtfully and long-term.
When you sent Queen Yan off to get married, you held her heels and cried for her. You felt sorry for her when you thought that she was going so far away.
After leaving, it's not that I didn't miss her, but during the sacrifice, I prayed, "Never let her come back." Isn't it because of her long-term plan, hoping that her descendants can inherit the throne? The Queen Mother said: Yes.
Zuo Shigong said: From now on to three generations ago, until the descendants of every monarch in the Zhao Kingdom were granted the title of marquis, are their heirs still in office?
The Queen Mother said: No more.
Chulong said: Not only Zhao, but also the descendants of princes from all over the world, are there any heirs still in office?
The Queen Mother said: This old woman has never heard of it.
Chulong said: This is because disasters that are close to you will fall on you, and disasters that are far away will fall on your descendants.
Is it not bad for the descendants of a monarch to be ennobled?
It is because they have an honorable status but no merit, a generous salary but no achievements, and they have too many precious treasures.
Now that you have honored Lord Chang'an, granted him fertile land, and given him many valuable treasures, but if you don't let him serve the country now, how can Lord Chang'an establish himself in the State of Zhao once you bid farewell to this world?
The old minister thinks that you are short-sighted in your plans for Lord Chang'an, so I think it is better to love Queen Yan than to love him.
The Queen Mother said: Well, you can send him wherever you want!
So a hundred chariots were prepared for Lord Chang'an, and they all came together to serve as hostages. Only then did Qi send troops.
When Ziyi heard about this, he said: The son of a monarch, who has a family relationship of flesh and blood, cannot enjoy honor without meritorious deeds, cannot enjoy salary without merit, and thus cannot keep precious treasures such as gold and jade, let alone people like us?
Tiandan, Lord Anping of Qi State, led the Zhao army to attack Zhongyang of Yan State and captured it.
The enemy who attacked Korea again were also captured.
In the second year of King Xiaocheng's reign, Queen Huiwen died.
Tian Dan was appointed as the prime minister of Zhao.
In the fourth year, King Xiaocheng dreamed of wearing two-colored clothes and riding a flying dragon to the sky. He fell down before reaching the sky and saw mountains of gold and jade.
The next day, King Xiaocheng summoned a historian named Gan to divine fortune. He said: Wearing left and right clothes in a dream symbolizes incompleteness.
Riding a flying dragon to fly to the sky but then falling down before reaching the sky symbolizes momentum but no strength.
Seeing gold and jade piled up like a mountain symbolizes sorrow.
Three days later, Feng Ting, the guard general of Shangdang in South Korea, sent an envoy to Zhao. He said: If South Korea cannot hold Shangdang, it will be merged with Qin.
The officials and people there were willing to belong to the State of Zhao but not to the State of Qin.
Shangdang has seventeen cities and is willing to surrender to the State of Zhao again. Please judge how the king shows kindness to the officials and the people.
King Xiaocheng was overjoyed and summoned Pingyang Lord Zhao Bao to tell him: "Does Feng Ting offer seventeen cities? How about accepting it?"
Zhao Bao replied: The sage regards unprovoked benefits as great harm.
King Xiaocheng said: People are inspired by my kindness, how can you say it is for no reason?
Zhao Bao replied: The Qin State encroached on South Korea's land and immediately cut it off, preventing the two sides from communicating with each other. I originally thought that I would get the Shangdang's land safely.
The reason why South Korea did not submit to Qin was because it wanted to blame Zhao.
Qin has worked hard but Zhao has benefited in vain. Even strong and big countries cannot benefit from small and weak countries at will. Can small and weak countries benefit from strong and big countries?
How can we say this is not an unwarranted benefit?
Moreover, Qin State used the waterways of Niutian to transport grain and encroached on Korea. It used its best tanks to fight hard and divide the land of Korea. Its decree has been implemented. You cannot be an enemy of it and you must not accept it.
King Xiaocheng said: Now if we send out a million troops to attack, we will not be able to get a single city in a year and a half.
Now people have given seventeen cities as gifts to our country. This is great benefit!
After Zhao Bao went out, King Xiaocheng summoned Lord Pingyuan and Zhao Yu to tell them about the incident.
They replied: If we send out an army of millions to attack, we will not be able to get a single city in a year. Now we have obtained seventeen cities in vain. Such a huge bargain cannot be thrown away. King Xiaocheng said: OK.
So Zhao Sheng was sent to receive the land. Zhao Sheng told Feng Ting: I am Zhao Sheng, the envoy of our country. The monarch of our country sent me to convey the order. Grant three cities with thousands of households to the prefects, and three cities with thousands of households to each county magistrate.
Feng Ting shed tears and did not see the envoy. He said: I cannot be in the position of three injustices: guarding the land for the monarch and not being able to defend it to the death, which is one injustice; the king of Han transferred Shangdang to Qin State, but I did not obey the monarch's order, which is two injustices; selling the monarch's land to get a reward, which is three injustices.
Zhao then sent troops to occupy Shangdang.
Lian Po led his troops to Changping.
In the sixth year of King Xiaocheng's reign, Lian Po was dismissed from his post and Zhao Kuo succeeded him in leading the army.
Qin general Bai Qi led his army to surround Zhao Kuo. Zhao Kuo died in the battle and the Zhao army surrendered. More than 400,000 soldiers were killed.
King Xiaocheng regretted not listening to Zhao Bao's advice, which led to the disaster of Changping.
King Xiaocheng returned to the capital and refused to agree to Qin's request, so the Qin army besieged Handan.
Wu Yuan ordered Fu Bao, Wang Rong, and Su She to lead the Yan people to return to Yan.
The State of Zhao granted Lingqiu to Chun Shenjun, the prime minister of the State of Chu.
In the eighth year, Lord Pingyuan went to Chu State to ask for help.
After returning home, the Chu army came to rescue, and Wei's son Wuji also came to rescue. Only then did Qin lift the siege of Handan.
In the tenth year, the Yan army attacked Changzhuang and captured it in May.
Zhao's generals Lecheng and Qingshe attacked Qin's Xinliang army and defeated him.
The prince of Zhao died.
The Qin State attacked the Western Zhou State and captured it.
Tu Fuqi led the troops out of the country.
In the eleventh year, Yuanshi City was built and Shangyuan County was established.
Wu Yangjun Zheng Anping died and his fiefdom was recovered.
In the twelfth year, the fodder warehouse in Handan was burned down.
In the fourteenth year, Pingyuan Lord Zhao Sheng passed away.
In the fifteenth year, Wei Wen was granted the title of Prime Minister Lian Po and was given the title of Lord Xin Ping.
The King of Yan sent Prime Minister Li Fu to make good friends with the State of Zhao and sent 500 kilograms of gold to the King of Zhao to celebrate his birthday. After returning home, Li Fu reported to King Yan: All the strong men of Zhao died in Changping, and their orphans have not grown up yet. We can go to conquer.
King Yan summoned King Chang Guo Le Xian to question him.
Le Xian replied: Zhao is a country surrounded by enemies. Its people have received military training and cannot attack it. King Yan said: "We attack the few with more, two against one, okay?" Answered: No.
King Yan said: Then I will use five to fight one, okay?
He replied: No.
King Yan was furious.
All the officials thought it was okay.
The State of Yan finally dispatched two armies with two thousand chariots. Li Fu led his army to attack Haocheng, and Qing Qin led his army to attack Daidi.
Lian Po was the general of Zhao State. He defeated and killed Li Fu, and captured Qing Qin and Le Xian.
In the sixteenth year, Lian Po besieged the capital of Yan.
King Zhao named Lecheng Lord Wu Xiang.
In the seventeenth year, acting prime minister General Wu Xiangjun attacked Yan and surrounded its capital.
In the 18th year, Yanlingjun led the army and followed the Prime Minister Xinping Jun Lianpo to help Wei attack Yan.
The Qin army captured thirty-seven cities in the Yuci area of ​​Zhao State.
In the 19th year, Zhao State and Yan State exchanged territory: Zhao State gave Longdui, Fenmen, and Linle to Yan State; Yan State gave Gecheng, Wuyang, and Pingshu to Zhao State.
Twenty years ago, King Qin Yingzheng had just ascended the throne.
The Qin army captured Jinyang of Zhao State.
In the twenty-first year, King Xiaocheng passed away.
Lian Po led his troops to attack Fanyang and captured it.
King Zhao sent Lecheng to replace Lianpo, Lianpo attacked Lecheng, Lecheng escaped, and Lianpo fled to Wei.
Zhao Yan, the son of King Xiaocheng, came to the throne and became King Mouxiang.
In the first year of mourning for King Xiang, he made good friends with the state of Wei with great gifts.
He tried to build a road to Pingyi and Zhongmu in the state of Wei, but failed.
In the second year of King Mouxiang's reign, Li Mu led his troops to attack Yan State and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
The State of Qin summoned Lord Chunping of Zhao State and detained him in Qin State on some pretext.
Xie Jun said on his behalf in front of Qin Xiang Wenxin Hou Lu Buwei: Chunping Jun, King Zhao loves him very much, but the doctors are jealous of him, so they discussed with each other: When Chunping Jun comes to Qin, Qin will definitely detain him.
So they discussed together to send Lord Chunping to Qin.
Now that you are detaining him, you are severing the relationship with Zhao Guo, and you have just fallen into the tricks of those doctors.
You might as well send Chunping-kun back and let him stay in Pingdu.
Chunping Jun's words and deeds are trusted by King Zhao, and King Zhao will definitely cede a lot of land to redeem Pingdu.
Marquis Wenxin said: OK.
So Chunpingjun was sent back to Zhao State.
Zhao Guo built a city in Han Gao.
In the third year of King Xiang's mourning, Pang Nuan led his troops to attack Yan State and captured Yan State's general Ju Xin.
In four years, Pang Nuan led the elite troops of Zhao, Chu, Wei, and Yan to attack Qin's territory, but failed to conquer it. He then moved his troops to attack Qi and captured Rao'an.
In the fifth year, Fu Da led troops and stationed in Pingyi; Qing She led troops from Dongyang and Hebei to guard the bridges of the Yellow River.
Six years ago, King Zhao granted Raoyang to Lord Chang'an.
Wei State gave Ye to Zhao State.
In the ninth year of King Xiang's reign, Zhao State attacked Yan State and captured Licheng and Yangcheng.
Before withdrawing its troops, Qin came to attack Ye and captured it.
King Zhao Daoxiang died, and his son King Youmiao Zhao Qian came to the throne.
In the first year of Zhao Qian, King Youmiao, he built a city in Bairen.
In the second year, the Qin army attacked Wucheng, and Hu Le led the army to rescue. The army was defeated and Hu Le died in battle.
In the third year, the Qin army attacked Chili and Yi'an. Li Mu led his troops to fight with the Qin army under Feicheng and defeated the Qin army.
King Zhao granted Li Mu the title of Lord Wu'an.
In the fourth year, the Qin army attacked Fanwu, and Li Mu fought with the Qin army and drove it back.
In the fifth year, a major earthquake occurred in Dai, from the west of Lexu to the north of Pingyin. Most of the buildings, houses, and walls were destroyed, and a chasm 130 paces wide from east to west opened in the ground.
In the sixth year, there was a great famine in the State of Zhao, and a folk song spread among the people: The people of Zhao are crying, and the people of Qin are laughing.
If you don’t believe it, just see if there are seedlings growing in the field.
In the seventh year, the Qin army attacked the State of Zhao. General Li Mu and General Sima Shang of the State of Zhao led their troops to counterattack the Qin army.
Li Mu was framed and killed, Sima Shang was dismissed, and Zhao Chong and Qi General Yan Ju took over their posts.
Zhao Chong was defeated and Yan Ju fled.
Therefore, Zhao Wangqian surrendered.
In October of the eighth year, Handan belonged to the State of Qin.
Tai Shigong said: I heard Feng Wangsun say: Zhao Wangqian, his mother was a singer, and was favored by King Mouxiang.
King Mouxiang deposed his legitimate son Zhao Jia and established Zhao Qian as the crown prince.
Zhao Qian had always behaved improperly and listened to slander, so he killed Zhao Guoliang's general Li Mu and re-employed Guo Kai.
Isn't this ridiculous?
After the Qin State captured Zhao Qian, the fugitive officials of the Zhao State jointly supported Zhao Jia as king, and he reigned as king in Dai for six years. Qin invaded and defeated Zhao Jia, finally destroyed Zhao and changed it into a county.
