The next year, the emperor wanted to boast to the barbarians about the abundance of animals. In autumn, he ordered You Fufeng to recruit the people into Nanshan, starting from Baoxie in the west, Hongnong in the east, and Hanzhong in the south. He opened nets and set traps to catch bears, porcupines, tigers, leopards, and even foxes, dodders, and elk. They were loaded on carts and transported to the Changyang Shooting Bear Pavilion.
They used nets as a siege, wrapped the animals in dough, and taught the barbarians to fight with their bare hands. They took away the ones they caught, and the emperor went to watch them in person.
At this time, farmers cannot harvest crops.
Yang Xiong followed him to Shexiong Pavilion, and when he came back, he presented "Ode to Chang Yang". Since it was written in pen and ink, he used Hanlin as his host and Zimo as his guest to satirize him.
The words said:
Zimo Keqing asked the master of Hanlin: I heard that the Holy Lord nourishes the people, is benevolent and nourishing, and does not act for himself.
This year when hunting in Changyang, we first ordered the right to Fufeng, the left to Taihua and the right to Baoxie, cut down the banks for cruising, and arranged them around Nanshan. Thousands of horses were arranged in the forest, and tens of thousands of cavalry were distributed at the foot of the mountain. They led the troops to the paddocks and rewarded Rong, Di, and animals.
Catching bears, catching porcupines, and piling up wooden guns as savings is something you only see in the world.
Even so, it is very harassing to the farmers.
More than thirty years old, very hardworking, but unable to achieve anything. I am afraid that people who don’t know better will think of it as an entertainment trip outside, but not as a dried bean sacrifice inside. Isn’t it for the people?
Moreover, the monarch regards silence as his spiritual thought and indifference as his moral character. Now he likes to go far away to show his power. He has mobilized many armies and exhausted his chariots and soldiers. This is not something that the monarch needs to do urgently. I am privately puzzled.
The master of Hanlin said: Hey, that’s really weird!
Like you, you only know one but not the other. You see the outside but don’t know the inside. I'm too tired to talk about it in detail. Please allow me to give you a rough outline. You can decide for yourself what's necessary. The guest said: OK, OK.
The master said: In the past, there was a strong Qin Dynasty, which killed the scholars and the people like Feng Bo and Mo Nu. The chisel-toothed people grinded their teeth and fought with each other. The heroes were like elk boiling and the clouds were turbulent, so the people were restless.
So God favored the great ancestor, and he was ordered to follow the dipper, move the Tianguan, cross the sea, shake Kunlun, raise his sword and shout angrily, attack the city and seize the town, and defeat the generals. One day's battle cannot be fully remembered.
After working so hard, his hair was messy and he had no time to comb it. He was hungry and had no time to eat. Qian Sun was infested with lice and his armor was covered with sweat. He came to ask the emperor for orders for Wan Xing.
So he extended the people's subjugation, raised what the people lacked, planned for ten thousand years, restored the emperor's business, and made the world peaceful in seven years.
When Emperor Shengwen arrived, he followed the wind and waves, so he focused on Daning. He was frugal in person, as long as his silk clothes were not torn, and his leather shoes were not see-through. He did not live in high buildings and did not carve wooden utensils. Therefore, the harem did not like tortoiseshell pearls, did not wear jade, did not make clever carvings, hated to stay away from luxury and luxury, did not use fragrant things, banned the music of silk and bamboo banquets, and did not like to listen to Zheng Wei's profound music.
Later, Xunhuan invaded, Dongyi rebelled, Qiang and Rong turned against each other, and Fujian and Vietnam interfered with each other. As a result, distant people were uneasy and the Central Plains suffered disasters.
So Shengwu was furious, rectified the division and brigade, ordered the hussars and Wei Qing, and attacked with all their strength, like lightning and clouds gathering, wind and clouds surging, like crossbows and flying bees, as fast as meteors, and striking like thunder, attacking the frame rollers, smashing the felt tents, smearing the sand curtain in the head, and entering Yuwu in the marrow.
So he went hunting in the royal court.
Driving camels, burning weeds, separating chanyus, dividing vassal states, leveling pits and valleys, clearing out grass, cutting mountains and rocks, trampling corpses to collect prisoners, tying up the old and weak, hitting horses in arrow boats, and injuring hundreds of thousands of people with golden arrowheads.
When the heavenly troops approached, they first arrived at Youdu, and they deployed their weapons and pointed their weapons at one another. South Vietnam was pacified, and then they marched westward and the Qiang meandered eastward.
Therefore, far away places that are isolated from customs have not been able to be benevolent since ancient times and are not satisfied with virtue. They have always raised their hands and asked for treasures to contribute to peace in the sea and never have the disaster of border wars.
Now the imperial court is pure and benevolent, abides by the Tao and attaches great importance to righteousness, is compatible with all learning, and has great holy virtues; its splendor spreads all over the world, moistening everything in the world; if there is a scholar who does not talk about the royal way, the woodcutter will laugh at him.
Therefore, some people believe that nothing can prosper without declining, so peace does not forget the danger. He often sent out troops in good years to reorganize his chariots and soldiers, and sent out troops to train horses in Changyang, wrestling with fierce beasts, and competing with light birds.
Then the group climbed up the Nanshan Mountain and looked at Wu Yi in the distance, Yue Kiln leaning towards the west, and the Sun Territory shaking in the east.
I am also afraid that future generations will be obsessed with temporary pleasures, often replacing national affairs with these, and debauching in fields and hunting, which will continue. Therefore, the carriage is not stable, and the sun has not moved, and the followers have never seen the real thing, so they meander back; they are also used to continue Taizong's legacy and comply with the civil and military system. Restoring the hunting fields of the three kings and returning them to the entertainment of the five emperors; making farmers keep plowing, workers not getting off their machines, getting married on time, and men and women not being confused; going out peacefully, moving easily, rewarding hard work, and avoiding corvee; visiting the elderly, caring for the orphans and weak, and sharing the joys and sorrows with them.
Then set up the music of bells and drums, play the harmony of the Shuo chime, set up the bravery, beat the jade chime, and make eight rows of dances; drink Xinyi, dine with ceremonial music, listen to the sound of Yong Yong in the temple, and receive the blessings of the gods;
You are so hardworking, so God encourages you.
We have to wait for Fu Rui to come to the base of Liangfu Mountain to add to the majesty of Mount Tai. It will be more glorious than the past and continue in the future. Is it just a wanton tour, galloping in the japonica rice fields, wandering around the pear and chestnut forests, trampling on the grass and trees, showing off to everyone, and harvesting more deer and elk!
Moreover, blind people cannot see things close at hand, but Li Lou can see corners thousands of miles away. You only regret that the Hu people got our beasts, and you don't know that we have got their princes.
Before he finished speaking, Mo Jie left the table and paid homage to Jishou twice and said: "You know the general picture!"
It's really not something I can compare to. Inspire Chaos today and it has become very clear!
During the reign of Emperor Ai, Ding, Fu, and Dong Xian were in power, and some of their vassals were appointed officials up to two thousand shi.
At that time, Di was drafting "Tai Xuan" to keep himself indifferent.
Some people mocked the slut for using black and advocating white. La gave an explanation for this, which was called "Explanation of Mockery".
The words said:
The guest laughed at Yangzi and said: I heard that the scholars of the past world were guided by the following principles: before they were born, they would respect the king upwards, honor their parents below, distinguish people's honors, receive other people's titles, own other people's talismans, receive other people's salaries, wear blue and purple ribbons, and ride in the car of Zhu Dan.
Now you are lucky enough to meet the Ming Dynasty, to be in the court where you don't have to worry about, and to be among the wise men. It has been a long time since you passed through the Golden Gate and went to the Jade Hall.
His eyes are like stars, his tongue is like lightning, he moves vertically and horizontally, no one can resist the debating, but he wrote "Tai Xuan" with five thousand words, spread out among the branches and leaves, and only explained more than one hundred thousand words. The depth is as deep as the underworld, the height is as high as the sky, the big one contains the vitality, and the fine one is incomparable. However, he cannot be ranked as a minister, and he has only been promoted to serve in the Huangmen.
Did you expect that Xuan can't be used to worship the color white?
Why is being an official so reclusive?
Yangzi smiled and replied: You just want my chariot and horses to be gorgeous, but you don't know that one mistake will make my family bleed!
In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was weakened and the feudal princes were in dispute. They were divided into twelve, which were combined into six or seven. They were divided into four parts and became the Warring States Period.
Scholars do not have a permanent monarch, and the country does not have fixed ministers. When they gain wealth from scholars, they become poor when they lose them. They fly with their wings and rest wherever they want. Therefore, some scholars use bags to pack themselves, and some cut through walls to escape.
Therefore, Kuiyan gained fame due to his uncertainty, and Meng Ke was still a master of ten thousand chariots despite encountering difficulties.
Now the Han Dynasty has the East China Sea on its left, Qusou on its right, Panyu in front, and Taotu in the back.
There is a lieutenant in the southeast and a lieutenant in the northwest.
The guilty were tied to Hui Mo, and the more serious ones were beheaded with a sword, the rituals and music were distributed, the "Poems" and "Books" were taught, and the schools were built, which lasted for a long time.
The scholars in the world all move like thunder, gather like clouds, and overlap like fish scales. They are all operating in all directions. Every family thinks they have a bond with Ji, and everyone thinks they are guilty. Those who wear tassels on their heads and talk about themselves are compared to Aheng, and a five-foot boy is ashamed. Compared with Yan Yingyiwu, those who have a smooth journey are as high as the blue clouds, and those who have nowhere to go are abandoned in ditches. In the morning, they are ministers, and in the evening, they are ordinary men. They are like small sparrows in rivers and lakes, and small birds in Bojie. The gathering of four wild geese is not too many, and the flying of two ducks is not too few.
In the past, Yin was weak after the three benevolent men left, and the two old men returned to the Zhou Dynasty and became strong. Zixu died and the Wu subjugated the country.
Therefore, when the world is in turmoil, it will not be stable unless it is Xiao, Cao, Zifang, Ping, Bo, Fan, and Huo; when the world is stable, there is nothing to be afraid of if the Confucian scholars of Zhang, Ju and Xiao sit together to guard.
Therefore, when the world is in turmoil, it is not enough for the sages to drive; when the world is stable, it is enough for the mediocre to rest easy.
Scholars of the past generations, some were untied to make appearances, some took off their brown clothes, some leaned on their clothes to laugh, some crossed the rivers and lakes to fish; some lobbied for seventy times but were not used, some were made marquises while standing and talking; some let the king of thousands of chariots come to the back alley, and some made the king hold a broom as a guide.
Therefore, scholars are very good at sticking out their tongues and picking up their pens, and there is no limit to how they can squeeze into gaps.
Nowadays, county magistrates do not invite scholars, county guards do not welcome teachers, ministers do not treat guests politely, and generals do not lower their eyebrows. Those who talk about strange things are suspected, and those who behave strangely are punished. Therefore, those who want to talk are silent, and those who want to go are hesitant.
If the scholars of the previous generations were to be in today's situation, if their strategy was not to be disciplined, their behavior was not to be filial and honest, their behavior was not to be upright, they could only be sparse, they often commented on right and wrong, if the good ones waited for Shao Shu, if the bad ones were reported, they were dismissed, how could they be covered with bruises?
And I heard that the blazing fire will eventually be extinguished, and the roar of thunder will eventually disappear; looking at the thunder and looking at the fire, I think it is full, the sky collects its sound, and the earth hides its heat.
Tall and bright home, ghost peeks into his house.
Those who struggle for power will perish and survive in obscurity; their ancestors in high positions are in danger, and they are self-protective to protect their bodies. Therefore, knowing Xuanmo is the pinnacle of observing the Tao; being able to be quiet and visiting the divine palace; being lonely and indifferent is the home of observing virtue.
Things change, but human nature remains unchanged. I don’t know what will happen if we change times.
Now you use the owl to laugh at the phoenix, and you use the roundworm to laugh at the turtle and dragon. Isn't it wrong?
You laugh in vain at me for using Xuan to advocate whiteness. I also laugh at you for being very ill, but you can't touch Chu Ta or Bian Que. How sad!
The guest said: So can you not become famous without "Xuan"?
Why do we need to use "Xuan" below stems and bases?
Yangzi said: Fan Ju, the outlaw of Wei, broke his ribs and pulled his bones to avoid imprisonment. He put his shoulders and backs on his back and was helped into a bag. He impressed the king of ten thousand chariots with his intelligence. He alienated Jingyang and resisted the marquis Zhou to replace him. It was the right time.
Cai Ze, a commoner in Shandong, with his nose broken and tears streaming down his face, bowed to the west and worshiped the prime minister of Qin, strangled his throat, cut off his breath, clung to his back and seized his position. It was the right time.
The world has been pacified, weapons have been put away, and Luoyang has been established as the capital. Lou Jing abandoned the jurisdiction and released it. He turned his tongue and suggested a firm strategy. It was appropriate to move from the Central Plains to Chang'an.
The five emperors passed down the scriptures and the three kings passed down the rituals, which remained unchanged for a hundred generations. Shusun Tong started his career among the robes and drums.
"Fu Xing" was scattered, the Qin law was harsh, the Holy Han Dynasty restructured it, and Xiao He established the law, which was appropriate.
Therefore, if someone formulates the law of Xiao He in the Tang and Yu Dynasties, it will be unreasonable; if someone makes the Shusun Tongyi Law in the Xia and Yin Dynasties, it will be confusing; if someone proposes Lou Jing's strategy in the Chengzhou Dynasty, it will be wrong; if anyone talks about Fan and Cai's theories between Jin, Zhang, Xu, and Shi, it will be crazy.
Xiao rules and Cao follows, Liu Hou plots, Chen Ping makes clever plans, their skills are as good as Mount Tai, and their sound is like a landslide. Are those people so wise? It’s also about what they can do when they meet.
Therefore, if you do what you can do when you can do it, you will get your wish; if you do what you can't do when you can't do it, it will be unlucky.
Mr. Lin made meritorious service in Zhangtai, Sihao got his name in Nanshan, Gongsun started his business in Jinma, Xiuqi made his fortune in Qilian, Sima Changqing provoked the Zhuo family and made a huge sum of money, Dongfang Shuo cut the flesh of Mr. Bao and moved the emperor.
I really can't talk to these people, so I keep my "Tai Xuan" silently.
Yang Xiong believes that Fu is used to satirize and admonish. If we must promote the discussion and use gorgeous rhetoric, the magnificence and extravagance will be endless, making people unable to add more, and then return to the right path, but the people who read it have already turned over it.
In the past, Emperor Wu liked immortals, so Xiangru presented "Adult Fu" as a satirical admonishment. After reading it, the emperor had wandering thoughts.
From this point of view, it is very clear that Fu advises but does not stop.
It is also very similar to the haiyu Chun Yu Meng and his like. They are not where the law is. The poems and poems of wise men and gentlemen are correct, so they stop composing poems.
Then he thought deeply about the celestial phenomena and divided them into four parts, finally reaching eighty-one.
Three copies and nine records next to it, and finally seven hundred and twenty-nine likes, which is also the natural way.
Therefore, those who read "Yi" can call it famous when they see a hexagram; those who read "Xuan" can be sure by counting its paintings.
The four layers at the beginning of "Xuan" are not hexagrams, but numbers.
Usage: From the Tianyuan, the yin and yang of a day and a night are counted in the calendar, and the nine-nine great fortunes are in harmony with the sky.
Therefore, "Xuan" has three directions, nine states, twenty-seven divisions, eighty-one families, two hundred and forty-three tables, and seven hundred and twenty-nine praises. It is divided into three volumes, called 123, which corresponds to the Taichu Calendar and the Zhuanxu Calendar.
The three strategies are used for divination, linking good and bad luck, mixed with elephants, making predictions about personnel affairs, and the five actions are used for writing to compare morality, justice, etiquette and wisdom. There is no name for the subject, and it is consistent with the Five Classics. If it is not the real thing, there will be no empty text.
Because it is too chaotic and unknowable, there are eleven chapters including "Shou", "Chong", "Cuo", "Chess", "Tan", "Ying", "Shu", "Wen", "Wan", "Pictures" and "Gao", all of which are used to dissect the "Xuan" style and analyze the articles. The chapters and sentences are no longer passed down.
There are too many texts in "Xuan", so I won't record them; it's difficult to understand after reading them, and it's difficult to learn them successfully.
Some guests blamed "Xuan" for being too deep, and everyone disliked it. Yang Xiong wrote an essay to explain it, called "Resolving Difficulties."
The words said:
The guest blamed Yangzi and said: Anyone who writes a book must cater to everyone's preferences. He hopes that the delicious food will be pleasing to the mouth, and the beautiful sound will be pleasing to the ear.
Now you speak with eloquent words and profound meanings, with broad meanings and small meanings, galloping alone between existence and non-being, making a large pottery furnace, and painting various living things. I have read it for a year, but I still don’t understand it.
It's just a waste of energy here and trouble for scholars there. It's like a painter painting on the invisible, and a piano player following the silence, maybe it won't work, right? Yangzi said: Yes.
As for the lofty words and subtle ways, it is probably difficult to communicate with the readers.
In the past, there were people who observed celestial phenomena, observed the dimensions of the earth, and judged the laws of people. The sky was obviously vast, and the earth was large and deep. In the words of the predecessors, it was gold or jade.
Does he like to pretend to be difficult?
The situation is unavoidable.
Don't you see that the Cui Qiu and Jiang Chi are about to ascend to the sky, and they must rise to the abyss of Cangwu; if they don't rely on floating clouds and strong winds to rise in the air, they can't reach Liao Kuo and soar to Jiu Hong.
If the sun and the moon do not travel a thousand miles, they cannot illuminate the heavens and the sky and shine on the eight strings; if Mount Tai does not tower into the clouds, they cannot gather floating clouds and disperse floating air.
Therefore, Fu Xi wrote the Book of Changes to connect heaven and earth and unify them with the Eight Diagrams. King Wen attached the Six Yao Lines and Confucius mixed the hexagrams and symbols into his rhetoric. Then he brought out the goodness of the Heaven and Earth and established the foundation of all things.
The chapters of "Dian" and "Mo", and the voices of "Ya" and "Song" are not gentle, pure and deep, and they are not enough to carry forward the great cause and show the light.
Therefore, we use nothingness to take charge and loneliness as the principle: the best taste must be bland, the best sound must be rare; the greatest words can spread far, but the road is crooked.
Therefore, beautiful sounds cannot be recognized by the ears of everyone, beautiful images cannot please the eyes of the world, and distant words cannot be heard by mediocre people. Nowadays, when playing the piano, the tone is high and urgent, catering to the public, and everyone will come unexpectedly; if you play "Xianchi", "Liugui", "Xiao Shao", and "Jiucheng", no one will respond.
So when Zhong Qi died, Boya broke his harp and broke the strings and refused to play for everyone. When Huo died, Craftsman Shi threw away his ax and did not dare to chop anything easily.
When Master Kuang tuned the bell, he had to wait for his close friend to arrive before proceeding; when Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, he expected a gentleman to read it first.
Lao Dan has a saying, it is more valuable to have fewer people who understand me. Isn't this his moral integrity!
Yang Xiong saw that the scholars were all at odds with each other in their knowledge. Most of them slandered the saints, acted eccentrically, and made clever sophistry to disturb the current affairs. Even though they were small remarks, they would eventually destroy the great road and confuse everyone, causing them to indulge in what they heard but did not know that they were wrong.
By the time Tai Shigong recorded the Six Kingdoms, through the Chu and Han Dynasties, and by the end of "Lin Zhi", his views were different from those of the sages, and his concepts of right and wrong were very different from those of the classics.
Therefore, people often asked Yang Xiong, and Yang Xiong often imitated the words of the classics to answer them. He wrote a thirteen-volume imitation of the Analects of Confucius, called "Fayan".
Most of the articles in "Dharma Preface" do not record it, only its table of contents: All people are born ignorant, wanton and indulgent, their intelligence is not enlightened, and they are taught by reason.
He ranked first in "Xue Xing".
From Dan Gong to King Kong, the king's way was established. After that, falsehood prevailed and deviated from the way, and the plans of all the disciples declined.
The first one to write "My Son".
Things have their true nature, which is present in everything. If actions cannot be perfect, the reason lies within oneself.
The third chapter of "Cultivation".
The radiant way of heaven was created by the ancient saints. If it exceeds it, it will be incompatible. If it falls short, it will not be achieved. It must not be treacherous and false.
The fourth work of "Asking".
The mind is in a trance, the latitude and longitude are thousands of directions, and it is related to morality, benevolence, justice and etiquette. The fifth volume of "Asking God".
With wisdom and beauty, illumination has no boundaries, avoiding unexpected events and preserving destiny.
The sixth chapter of "Asking for Ming".
It is said from far across the heaven and earth to praise the gods. It is profound, vast and grand, surpassing the modern world.
The seventh volume of "Little Views".
The sage is wise, profound and beautiful. He follows the divine destiny and surpasses all others. This is a common practice.
The eighth of "Five Hundred".
To establish a government and persuade the people, to influence the world, neutrality is the highest, and the use of neutrality lies in knowing the people's sentiments.
The ninth work of "Prophet".
Since Zhongni, the kings, generals, ministers, ministers and famous ministers have different ambitions and careers, but they are unified in the path of sainthood.
The tenth chapter of "Chongli".
After Confucius, he ended up in the Han Dynasty, where Yan and Wei were highly respected for their virtues. The ministers of Gu Gong promoted Gai and Cao.
The eleventh edition of "Yuan Qian".
A gentleman has a good reputation, corrects himself and then takes action to promote the holy law.
The twelfth chapter of "The Gentleman".
The greatest filial piety is to bring peace to one's parents, the best peace of mind is to bring peace to one's gods, and the best peace of mind is to win the favor of all parties. The thirteenth chapter of "Filial Piety".
Praise: This is Yang Xiong's self-preface.
At first, when Yang Xiong was in his forties, he came from Shu to visit the capital. Wang Yin, the chief chariot general, admired his literary talent and called him a sect's historian. He recommended Yang Xiong to wait for the imperial edict. More than a year later, he presented "Yu Hunter Fu" and was dismissed from his official position as a Lang. He was given a job in Huangmen, alongside Wang Mang and Liu Xin.
At the beginning of Emperor Ai's reign, he became the same official as Dong Xian.
During the Cheng, Ai, and Ping years, both Wang Mang and Dong Xian became the Three Dukes. They were more powerful than other rulers and promoted everyone they recommended. However, Yang Xiong did not get promoted in the third generation.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, commentators used talismans to praise his merits and many people were knighted. Yang Xiong was still not knighted. He was gradually promoted to a doctor because of his age. He was so indifferent and snobbish.
He really loved the ancient times and loved Taoism, and wanted to be famous for his articles in later generations. He believed that the greatest classic was "Yi", so he wrote "Tai Xuan"; In the "Exuns and Compilations", the best precepts are "Yu Zhen", so I wrote "Zhou Zhen"; the most profound poems are "Li Sao", so I contradict it and promote it; the most gorgeous words are Danru, so I wrote four poems: they all explore the origin and imitate it.
His heart was inward and he did not seek anything from the outside. At that time, people despised him. Only Xingti and Liankui respected him, while Danai thought he was incomparable.
During the reign of Wang Mang, both Liu Xin and Zhen Feng became princes. Since Wang Mang relied on the talisman to establish himself, after he came to the throne, he wanted to ban this practice in order to deify his past affairs. Zhen Feng's son Zhen Xun and Liu Xin's son Liu Fen also presented the talisman's fortune.
Wang Mang killed Zhen Feng and his son, and exiled Liu Fen to the fourth generation. Anyone implicated in his confession was immediately dismissed without any need to report.
At that time, Yang Xiong was writing to the colonel in Tianlu Pavilion. The envoy handling the case came and wanted to arrest Yang Xiong. Yang Xiong was afraid that he could not escape, so he jumped from the pavilion and almost died.
After hearing this, Wang Mang said: Yang Xiong has never been involved in this matter, why is he in this case?
They secretly inquired about the reason and found out that Liu Fen had learned to write strange characters from Yang Xiong, but Yang Xiong didn't know about it.
Shao Shao will not pursue him.
However, the capital master commented on this: Because of loneliness, he is in harmony with himself; because of tranquility, he is a talisman.
Yang Xiong was dismissed from his post due to illness and was called a doctor again.
His family has always been poor and he likes to drink. People rarely come to his home.
At that time, troubled people brought wine and food to study with him. Julu Houba often lived with Yang Xiong and learned "Tai Xuan" and "Fa Yan".
Liu Xin also saw it and said to Yang Xiong: You have made yourself suffer in vain!
Nowadays, scholars with good fortune cannot understand "Yi", let alone "Xuan"?
I'm afraid that future generations will use it to cover sauce pots.
Yang Xiong smiled but didn't answer.
He lived to be seventy-one years old and died in the fifth year of Tianfeng. Houba built a tomb for him and kept a mourning for him for three years.
At that time, Grand Sikong Wangyi and Nayan Yanyou heard that Yang Xiong had died and said to Huan Tan: Can your book praising Yang Xiong be passed down to future generations?
Huan Tan said: It will definitely spread.
But you and Huan Tan can’t see it.
Mortals despise the near and value the far. Seeing with their own eyes that Yang Ziyun's status and appearance are not impressive, they despise his books.
In the past, Lao Dan wrote two articles on nothingness, which underestimated benevolence and righteousness and refuted rituals. However, later generations liked it and thought it surpassed the Five Classics. Emperors Wen, Jing, and Sima Qian of the Han Dynasty all said this.
Nowadays, Yangzi's books have the deepest meaning, and their expositions do not violate the saints. If they meet the monarchs of that time, read them by the wise men, and are praised by them, they will definitely surpass the scholars.
Some scholars ridiculed Yang Xiong for not being a saint but writing scriptures, just like the Spring and Autumn Period monarchs of Wu and Chu who overrode and proclaimed themselves kings, which should be the crime of annihilating their clans and their descendants.
It has been more than 40 years since Yang Xiong's death, and his "Fayan" has become popular in the world. However, "Xuan" has not been revealed in the end, but the chapters are there.
