"The Biography" says: Hearing but not hearing is called not planning, and the crime is impatience, and the punishment is continuous coldness, and ultimately poverty.
Sometimes there are drum monsters, sometimes there are fish evils, sometimes there are pigs, sometimes there are strange ear diseases, sometimes there are black disasters and black signs.
It is fire overcoming water.
To listen but not to hear is called not to seek, which means that the superior listens to one's will, and the subordinate's feelings are blocked and cannot be communicated. If one considers interests, there will be failures due to extreme urgency, so the crime is to be impatient.
The days are short in midwinter, the cold hurts everything, and politics are urgent, so the penalty is lasting cold.
The cold will prevent all grains from growing, and the top and bottom will be impoverished, so in the end there will be poverty.
The monarch is harsh and mighty and blocks his subordinates' emotions. The ministers are frightened and panicked and unable to listen to opinions. The spirit of listening will arise, so there is a drum demon.
The cold air is moving, so there are fish evils.
Turtles can become monsters. Turtles can move on land, which is not extremely yin. Fish will die when they leave the water. They are extremely yin monsters.
In "Yi", "Kan" refers to water and pigs. Pigs have big ears but cannot hear clearly. Listening to Qi is damaged, so pigs are troubled.
It is also correct to say that in cold years more pigs die and become monsters.
As for people, there are many people with ear diseases, so they have strange ear diseases.
The color of water is black, so there will be black disaster and black auspiciousness.
Anyone whose hearing is damaged is diseased by water vapor; if water vapor is diseased, fire will be suppressed.
In the end, it is poverty. After adapting, its blessing is called wealth.
Liu Xin's "Listen to the Legend" says that there are beetle monsters.
The usual sign of continuous cold is heavy snow, snowfall when snow is not supposed to fall, heavy hail, and frost that freezes the seedlings and grasses to death. These are all punishments for continuous cold.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: A virtuous person who encounters hardships and dangers is called rebellious fate, and his abnormal sign is coldness.
The punishment of killing was too severe, it was cold when it should be hot, and there was hail for six whole days.
Framing loyalty and not punishing him is called raising thieves. It will be cold for seventy-two days and birds will freeze to death.
The wise people begin to leave this is called injury, this cold, all things are frost-free but will die, and the gushing water comes out.
Fighting without considering the strength of the enemy is called humiliation. With this kind of coldness, even though there is rain, everything is not lush.
He who hears good things but does not agree with them is guilty of being deaf.
On the first day of September in the third year of Jiahe of Wu Sun Quan, frost fell and damaged the grains.
Liu Xiang said that the punishment of execution is not determined by the king, but depends on the behavior of his ministers.
At this time, Lu Yi, the school official, was monopolizing power and doing things well, which was the same sign as when the five children of Yao were in power and were in power.
The inaccurate record is that it is September 2nd, and Chen Shou said it was the first day of the lunar month, both of which indicate that grain cannot be harmed when sending time.
Lu Yi was later executed.
Jingfang's "Yi Lai" said: Raising troops to kill at will is called a violation of law. The disaster is frost, which damages the grains in summer and the wheat seedlings in winter.
Killing without caring about love is called unkindness. There is frost. In summer, there is a strong thunder and wind. In winter, there is rain first, and then there is frost, which has horns like awns.
Sages and saints were killed, and frost clung to the trees and did not come down to the ground.
The treacherous person who relies on the criminal law is called a private thief, and the frost is in the cracks of the grass roots and soil.
Punishing without educating is called cruelty, and the frost is under the grass.
In July of the fourth year, there was hail and frost.
Liu Xiang said that hail is Yin Qi threatening Yang Qi.
At that time, Lu Yi had the power to slander important ministers and exclude innocent people.
Everyone from the prince Sun Deng down hated him, but Lu Yi was particularly favored by the feudal lord. It was the same as the sign of hail falling from the sky when the prince arbitrarily ruled the government in the day and autumn.
Emperor An of the Han Dynasty listened to the slander and killed many innocent people. It was also hail from the sky.
Dong Zhongshu said: Any hailstorm is caused by coercion and arbitrary politics.
In the first month of the fourth year of Chiwu, there was heavy snow, the ground was three feet deep, and most of the birds and beasts died.
In the summer of that year, Quan Cong and four other generals captured Jinlu and Saiyan, and more than a thousand people died in the battle.
After that, Jian Jiu scolded Lu Yi many times for listening to the slanderous words, and Lu Yi died in anger, which was the same as the incident of Liang Tong and Gen Shi Shi in the Han Dynasty.
In April of the eleventh year, there was hail.
At this time, Sun Quan listened to the slander and was about to endanger the prince.
After that, Zhu Ju and Qu Huang were deposed and humiliated for going against his will, Chen Zheng and Chen Xiang were reduced from their clans for their loyal admonitions, and the crown prince was eventually deposed.
This is a sign that a virtuous person will encounter danger and severe punishment.
In the winter of the sixth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was heavy snow.
In December of the seventh year, it snowed heavily again.
In the second year, Youbu Chan and Yang Zhao were defeated, and many people were killed and injured. This was a punishment for being unable to listen to opinions.
At the end of April in the ninth year, frost fell.
At this time, the trusted cronies colluded with each other to control the government, which was the same sign of frost during the reign of Lu Dinggong and Mo Yuan.
In August of the third year of Xianning, there was frost in Pingyuan, Anping, Shangdang and Taishan counties, damaging three beans.
That month, there were storms and ice in Hejian County, and five frosts in the county damaged the grain.
After that, he launched a large-scale campaign against Wu, and Ma Long led his elite troops to conquer Liangzhou.
In the fifth month of the fifth year of Dinghai, hail fell in Julu and Wei counties, damaging the crops and wheat.
On Xinmao, hail fell in Yanmen County, damaging autumn crops.
In the sixth month of Gengxu, there was hail in Jijun, Guangping, Chenliu and Rongyang.
On Bingchen, hail and frost fell again, damaging more than 1,300 hectares of autumn wheat and destroying more than 120 houses.
Guihai, there is hail in peace.
In July Bingshen, there was another hailstorm in Wei County.
In the leap month of Renzi, there is another hailstorm.
In August Gengzi, hail fell again in Henan, Hedong, and Hongnong, damaging autumn crops and three beans.
In March of the first year of Taikang, there were frost and hail in Hedong and Gaoping, which damaged mulberry and wheat.
In April, hail fell in Henan, Hanoi, Hedong, Weijun, and Hongnong, damaging wheat and beans.
On Gengwu of that month, hail fell in two counties in the capital area, Shuping and Fanyang.
Guiyou, there was another hailstorm in five counties in the Beijing area.
In May, hail fell in Shuping, Pingyang, Shangdang, Yanmen, and Jinan, damaging wheat and beans.
When Wang Jun was dispatched, he had great achievements, but the powerful ministers and nobles belittled and framed each other, and Emperor Wu did not stop him. This was a sign that Yin Qi was coercing Yang Qi.
In February of the second year of the second year of Xinyou, frost fell in Jinan and Langxie, hurting wheat. In Renshen, there was hail in Langxie, which damaged the wheat.
In March, frost fell on the east side of the river, damaging the mulberry trees.
In the fifth month of Bingxu, Chengyang, Zhangwu, and Langxie were injured in wheat.
Hail fell in Gengyin, Hedong, Le'an, Shuping, Jiyin, Hongnong, Puyang, Qiguo, Dunqiu, Weijun, Hanoi, Jijun, and Shangdang, damaging crops.
In June, the county hailed seventeen times.
In July, there was hail in Shangdang.
In December of the third year, it snowed heavily.
In the seventh month of the fifth year on Yi Mao, hail fell in Zhongshan and Dongping, damaging the autumn crops.
On Jiachen, there was hail in Zhongshan.
In September, it snowed heavily in Nan'an, breaking trees.
In February of the sixth year, frost fell on the East China Sea, hurting mulberry and wheat.
On the Wuchen day of March, frost fell in four counties including Linzi and Changguang Buqi in Qi County, eight counties including Liangzo in Le'an, eight counties including Langxie Linyi, six counties including Yicheng in Hejian, and four counties including Beixincheng in Gaoyang, damaging mulberry and wheat.
In June, there was hail in Rongyang, Jijun and Yanmen.
In April of the eighth year, frost fell in the counties of Qi and Tianshui.
In December, it snows heavily.
In the first month of the ninth year, strong winds and hail fell in Kyoto, knocking down houses and uprooting trees.
In April, frost falls in Longxi.
In April of the tenth year, frost fell eight times in the county.
In August of the second year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was hail in Hedangyin, Pei County.
In April of the third year, there was hail in Rongyang.
In June, there was another hailstorm in Hongnong Lake and Huayin, which was three feet deep.
During the Han Dynasty, Empress Jia was vicious, dissolute and domineering. The situation was the same as that of Duke Huan of Lu in the Spring and Autumn Period. She had too much yin energy.
In June of the fifth year, there was hail in Shuhai, which was five inches deep.
In December, there was hail in Danyang Jianye.
That month, it snowed heavily in Danyang Jianye.
In March of the sixth year, snow fell in the East China Sea, damaging Sangmai.
In the fifth month of the seventh year, there was hail in the state of Lu.
In July, frost fell in Qin and Yong prefectures, damaging crops.
On March 18, 1999, frost fell in the three counties of Henan, Xingyang, and Yingchuan, damaging the seedlings.
In May, there was hail.
At this time, Maizheng's violence became increasingly serious, and in winter, Prince Minhuai was finally deposed.
In July of the first year of Yongning, there was hail in Xiangcheng and Henan.
In October, there were strong winds and hail in Xiangcheng, Henan, Gaoping, and Pingyang, which broke trees and damaged crops.
On the first day of the eighth leap month in the first year of Guangxi, there was snow in Jiashen.
Liu Xiang said: Strong Yang Qi will cause rainfall, but if it is invaded by heat and Yin Qi threatens it, it will turn into hail.
Strong Yin Qi causes snow to condense and stagnate; when Yang Qi approaches it, it disperses and becomes graupel.
Snowfall is out of season now, which is a bad sign.
This year, Emperor Hui died.
In the winter of December of the first year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, snow fell and the flat ground was three feet deep.
In October of the seventh year, it snowed heavily.
In the third month of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was strong wind and hail in Chengdu, and people died.
In March of the third year, there was hail on the sea salt.
During the period of the Han Dynasty, Wang Dun invaded and invaded the king.
In December of the second year of Yongchang, it rained heavily in You, Ji, and Bingzhou.
In December of the first year of Taining, Emperor Ming, it snowed heavily in You, Ji, and Bingzhou.
In April of the following year, there was hail in Kyoto and the sparrows died.
In March of the third year, it snowed.
Guisi, the frost comes.
In April, there was massive hail.
That year, Dan Mi passed away, and soon there was the Lan Jun Rebellion.
In the third month of Guiwei, the sixth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, there was hail.
When he was sent, Emperor Cheng was young and weak, and the political power was controlled by his ministers.
In August of the ninth year, there was heavy snow in Chengdu.
That year, Li Xiong died.
On Dingsi day of the first month of the second year of Xiankang, the queen appeared in the Ancestral Temple. It was hailed that night.
In August of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's reign, it snowed heavily.
At this time, the political power is controlled by the generals, and the Yin energy is too strong.
Liu Xiang said: All rain is yin, and snow is the yin of rain.
The appearance is not at the normal season and is a sign of persecution.
In August of the second year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, it snowed heavily in Jizhou, and many people and horses froze to death.
In June of the fifth year, there was a storm in Linzhang, with thunder and lightning and hail as big as a liter.
In May of the tenth year, it snowed in Liangzhou.
In August of the next year, Zhang Zuo took charge of his army and led Song Hun and others to attack and destroy Zhang Zuo.
Saigu's "Yi Zhuan" said: Snow in summer is a warning to ministers to cause trouble.
This is a sign that Zhang Guan is causing trouble.
On the first day of April in the eleventh year of Renshen, there was frost.
On Wuwu in December, there was thunder.
Jiwei, there is snow.
At this time, Chamu was young, his mother was in charge of the government, and the government was controlled by ministers. This was due to the strong Yin energy.
In the first month of the second year of Shengping, there was heavy snow.
In the fourth month of the third year of Hercynian Taihe, there was hail and the trees were broken.
In April of the second year of Xiaowu Taiyuan, there was hail.
In December, it snows heavily.
At this time, Emperor Xiaowu was young and the political power was controlled by generals, so the Yin energy was too strong.
In April of the twelfth year, there was hail.
In the fifth month of the 20th year, there was hail and rain.
On April 21, Dinghai, there was hail.
At that time, Mrs. Zhang was favored. Emperor Wu died suddenly, and the people blamed Mrs. Zhang.
In December, it snowed for twenty-three days.
At this time, the monarch who succeeded to the throne was young, and the prime minister was arbitrary in government affairs.
In March Yimao of the second year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was hail.
In the autumn of that year, Wang Yu and Yin Zhongkan raised troops to invade the capital, and were eventually killed.
In December of the second year of Yuanxing, it was extremely cold.
At this time, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and the political affairs were harsh.
Insightful people believed that the fault of the government was looseness and leniency, but Huanxuan went against the grain and became harsh.
Liu Xiang said: There was no cold year when the Zhou Dynasty fell, and there was no hot year when the Qin Dynasty fell.
That's the case.
In the first month of the third year of Jiashen, there was snow and thunder.
The appearance of thunder and lightning at the same time is a sign of violating the rules.
On Bingwu in April, there was hail in Jiangling.
At this time, Emperor An was in trouble.
In the fourth month of the first year of Yixi, there was hail in Renshen.
During the period of time, there was no unity in the world, and the army was on alert every day.
In March of the fifth year of Jihai, it snowed several feet deep.
In the fifth month of Guisi, there was hail in Liyang.
In the ninth month of September, there was hail in Guangling.
The next year, Lu Xun went to Caizhou.
In the first month of the sixth year, Bingyin, it snowed and thundered.
In Renshen in May, there was hail.
On the first day of April in the eighth year of the lunar month, there was hail.
In June of Guihai, there was hail and strong winds destroyed the houses.
In the autumn of that year, Liu Fan and others were executed.
In April of the tenth year, there was hail.
During the reign of Emperor Wei and Ming Dynasty, the perforated wooden pillars of Luoyang Chengshu Bridge and Luoshui Floating Bridge in the west of the city were struck by lightning on the same day.
Soon there was another thunder and lightning that shook the trees on the west side of the city.
At that time, labor was greatly promoted, and Emperor Ming died soon after.
In the summer of the eighth year of Wu Sunquan's reign in Chiwu, lightning struck the gate pillars of the palace and the perforated wooden pillars of the Nanjin Bridge.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month in the first year of Jianxing's reign by Sun Liang, there were strong winds and thunder and lightning.
That month, there was another thunderstorm.
The meaning is the same as what was said before, Sun Liang was finally deposed.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month in the sixth year of Taikang, Emperor Wu, there was thunder and lightning in Huainan County.
In the twelfth month of the seventh year of Jihai, there was thunder and lightning near the mausoleum, and Dai Liang, the salt captain of Nanshasi, reported it.
In December of the 10th year of Guimao, there were thunder, lightning and heavy rain in Lujiang and Jian'an.
In the sixth month of the first year of Emperor Hui's Yongkang reign, lightning struck 500 steps southwest of the Chongyang Mausoleum cairn, and the cairn broke into seventy pieces.
At this time, Empress Jia framed the three ministers and favored and trusted her relatives, which was the same as Emperor Mohuan when lightning struck the Xianling mausoleum.
After buying it, he was eventually executed and his family was exterminated.
In October of the second year of Yongxing, there was thunder.
In October of the fourth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, there was thunder and lightning.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, there was heavy rain and thunder and lightning in Kuaiji County.
At night, there was red air shining in the northwest.
That night, there was heavy rain and thunder.
Gengwu, it snowed heavily.
Liu Xiang said that thunder appeared in February and subsided in August.
Now that there is thunder and lightning in this month, it means that Yang Qi has not retreated and converged.
It snowed heavily the day after I vented my anger, and I felt weird and out of control.
At this time, Liu Zai cares about Yang and claims the title of emperor, Li Xiong establishes political power in Shu, the world is divided, and Xijing is isolated and weak, which is a sign that the monarch has lost his time.
Chi Qi means red color symbolizes auspiciousness.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, there was heavy rain and lightning.
On the first day of the seventh month in the second year of Yongchang, lightning struck the pillars of Tai Chi Hall.
In December, there were thunder and lightning in Kuaiji and Wu counties.
In October of the first year of Emperor Cheng's Xianhe reign, there was heavy rain and thunder and lightning in Kuaiji County.
In the sixth month of the third year of Xinmao, there was a big thunder near the sea. It broke ten pillars of the hut in the county mansion and killed people.
On September 2nd, the beginning of winter at Renwu, there was thunder and lightning in Kuaiji.
In November of the fourth year, there was thunder and lightning again in Wujun and Kuaiji.
In the tenth month of the seventh year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, there was a thunderstorm and electric shock.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Shengping, there was thunder.
Yi Chou, thunder struck again.
On Gengwu day in October of the fifth year, thunder occurred in the southeast.
In the sixth month of Jiayin in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaowu's Taiyuan period, lightning struck four pillars in Hanzhang'e, killing two chamberlains at the same time.
In December of the 10th year, there was thunder in the south.
In July of the 14th year of Jiayin, there was a thunderstorm and the west pillar of Xuanyang Gate was burned.
In the ninth month of the second year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a thunderstorm.
In the third year of Yuanxing, Queen Yong'an came from Baling and was about to set up a guard of honor to lead the palace into the palace. There was a thunderstorm and one person and one horse were killed.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the fourth year of Yixi, there was a strong wind blowing from the northwest.
Guichou, thunder.
In the sixth month of the fifth year, Bingyin, thunder and lightning struck the Ancestral Temple, breaking the decoration of the beamed roof, penetrating the pillars, and hitting the hall of the Prince's West Pool.
At that time, Emperor An did not hold the autumn and winter sacrifices in person, so lightning struck from the sky, indicating that he was neglecting the ancestral temple.
Xichi is where Emperor Ming stayed when he was the crown prince, so it is called Prince Pond.
When Emperor An was sick, he was worried that he would not have an heir, so he was struck by lightning, indicating that he had no descendants.
In the first month of the sixth year, Bingyin, there was thunder and snow.
On Renchen in December, there was a big thunder.
In November of the ninth year of Jiaxu, there was thunder.
Yihai, there is thunder again.
In March of the ninth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, a sound like a cow's braying came out of Xuchang City.
In December, Prince Minhuai was deposed and imprisoned in Xu Palace.
The next year, Empress Jia sent Huangmen Sunlu to kill the prince and beat him with a pestle. The sound was heard outside the palace, which was a sign of his death.
Su Jun was in the barracks outside Liyang City. The general's drum sounded by itself, as if someone was playing with the drum.
Su Jun broke the drum with his own hands and said: Sometimes this happens in my hometown, and the city becomes empty.
Not long after, he rebelled and was killed, which was a punishment for being indifferent.
In the last years of Shi Jilong's life, nine miles northwest of Luoyang City, a stone cow was sitting on a bluestone foot. Suddenly it howled, and the sound spread for forty miles.
Shi Jilong sent people to knock off the ears and tail of the stone cow and nail its four feet with iron nails.
Shi Jilong died soon after.
On the first day of the third month of the fifteenth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, there was a sound like thunder in the northeast.
Liu Xiang said that he believed that thunder should rely on clouds, just like a king relies on his ministers.
If there are no clouds but thunder, this is a sign that the king is not considerate of his subjects and that they will rebel.
After Xiaowutong died and the world gradually became chaotic, Sun En and Huan Xuan invaded the capital one after another.
There is a stone drum on Xiajia Mountain of the Wuxing Great Wall, which is more than one foot long and has a diameter of about three feet. There is a rock underneath for support. When it sounds, it sounds like a golden drum. There is a war in the three counties.
During the Long'an period of Emperor An, there was a loud noise, and later there was the Huanmo Rebellion.
In May of the fourth year of King Jiaping of Wei Qi, two fish fell on the roof of the arsenal. This was a fish evil.
Wang Su said: Fish are born in the water, but they are as high as the roof. They are scaly animals and have lost their place.
Border generals will have to abandon their mail armor!
Later, there was indeed the defeat of Dongguan.
Wang Mo also thought it was a sign of the military disaster of Gaogui Township.
Both statements are the same as what Ban Gu said.
During the Taikang period of Emperor Wu, carp appeared twice on the arsenal house.
Wang Xuan believes: The arsenal is the weapons department, and fish have scales and armor, which is also a category of soldiers.
The fish is extremely yin, and the house is the sun. The fish appearing on the house symbolizes the extremely yin invading the sun with the disaster of war.
In the early years of Emperor Hui's reign, Gui was killed, the Queen Mother was deposed, and bows and arrows were fired at each other in the pavilions.
In the last years of Yuan Chen, he was framed and killed by the prince, and he was soon deposed and punished.
In ten years, the disaster caused by the mother happened twice. This was a sign, and the disaster took shape from then on.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When fish leave the water and fly onto the road, war is about to happen.
"Spring and Autumn", locusts are katydids.
Liu Xin regarded it as a monster of beetles, which is the same as the divination of fish monsters.
In July of the third year of Huangchu, Emperor Wen of Wei, there was a severe locust plague in Jizhou and the people were famine.
Cai Yong said that the locust plague was caused by the Lord's greed and harshness.
At this time, Sun Quan surrendered. Emperor Wen took advantage of the battle between Xiling and Shu to launch a large army to attack him, and Sun Quan betrayed him.
In June of the tenth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was a locust plague.
At this time, Xun and Jia were in power and persecuted just and upright people.
In the first year of Emperor Hui's Yongning reign, locust plagues occurred six times in the county.
In May of the fourth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, there was a great plague of locusts. From You, Bing, Si, and Ji to Qin and Yong, all vegetation, cattle and horses were eaten away.
At this time, the world was in chaos and the common people were being invaded. Only Sima Yue and Gou Xi could decide life or death.
The competition is cruel and harsh, and there are no laws and regulations in governance, so there are monsters like this.
In June of the fourth year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, there was a great locust plague.
Last year, Liu Yao attacked Beidi and Feng Yi many times. Qu Yun and others led all his troops to resist him, but were finally defeated by Liu Yao, and Xijing was defeated.
In the fifth year, when Emperor Min was in Pingyang, there was a locust plague in Sizhou, Jizhou, Qingzhou, and Yongzhou.
In June of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, there was a locust plague in Hexiang, Lanling, which damaged crops.
Yiwei, locusts spread across three hundred miles in Dongguan, damaging crops and seedlings.
In July, locusts damaged crops and beans in Shuhai, Pengcheng, Xiapi and Linhuai counties.
In August, there was a plague of locusts in Ji, Qing, and Xuzhou, which ate up all the growing grass for two years.
At this time, Zhongzhou fell and the riots became increasingly serious.
In May of the second year, locusts ate autumn wheat in the five counties of Huailing, Linhuai, Huainan, Anfeng and Lujiang.
In the month of Guichou, there was a locust plague in Xuzhou and Yangzhou counties west of Jiangxi. Many people in Wu County starved to death.
At that time, Wang Dun also led Jingzhou, and the disaster of harshness and cruelty began.
In August of the fifteenth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign in Taiyuan, there was a locust plague in Yanzhou.
When he was sent, Man Rongdan forced Dong Huinan, and the conquests continued, so there was such a monster.
In May of the 16th year, migratory locusts came from the south and gathered in Tangkenxuan, damaging the seedlings and crops.
In the spring of this year, 2,000 soldiers from the Liaoye Barracks and 6,000 to 7,000 family members were recruited and assigned to the guard army and the East Palace. Soon after, almost all of them fled.
In addition, the soldiers on the border continued to work in battles, so there were such monsters.
In the first year of Wu Sun Haobao Ding's reign, a wild boar entered the Youda Si Martin Feng military camp. This was a pig disaster.
Later, Ding Feng was sent to attack Guyang, but returned without success.
Sun Hao became angry and killed his leading officer.
When it came time to mobilize the army to march north, Ding Feng, Wan You and others said to each other: If they reach Huali, they will have to return separately.
The conspiracy was exposed. Although Ding Feng was already dead at that time, Sun Hao pursued the crusade against Guyang and killed his son Ding Wen. His family members were exiled to distant places. This was a sign of the pig disaster.
Gong Sui said, "When wild beasts enter the palace, the palace will be empty. This is another sign."
During the Yongjia period of Emperor Huai, a sow in Shouchun City gave birth to two piglets, but they did not survive. Zhou Fu took them for inspection.
Knowledgeable people at that time said: Pigs are animals from the north and are the symbol of Hu Di.
The two ends are not up.
It cannot be accomplished by dying immediately after birth.
Tian Jie said this: Do not make plans solely for profit, otherwise you will lead to your own destruction.
Zhou Fu could not wake up, so he wanted to coerce the emperor to order the princes, but was soon defeated by Emperor Yuan. This was a sign.
Soon Shi Le also crossed the Huaihe River, and nine out of ten people died.
In the first year of Emperor Jianwu of the Yuan Dynasty, a pig grew eight legs. This was a punishment for being indifferent and a punishment for those who allowed evil.
After that, there was Liu Wei's change.
In June of the sixth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, a boar from a family in Qiantang gave birth to two offspring. Both had human faces, resembling barbarians, but their bodies were still pig's.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" says: Pigs giving birth to things with human heads and pig bodies are dangerous and bring disaster.
Nowadays, when boars give birth, the evil is even more serious.
In April of the 10th year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, a pig in Kyoto had two spines and eight legs.
In the thirteenth year, a pig in Kyoto gave birth to piglets with one head, two bodies and eight legs, all of which were the same as the monsters during the Jianwu period.
After that, the prime minister indulged in alcoholism and ignored the government affairs. People close to him took power and gradually messed up the country's principles and disciplines until he was defeated.
In the twelfth month of the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, black air spread in all directions, almost black and auspicious. Emperor Xiaohuai soon fell, and the royal family became a deserted hill and ruins, which was a sign of his death.
On the first day of the first month of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, black mist clung to people's bodies like ink. It lasted for several nights and five days before it ended. It was almost a black mist.
In the fourth year, Emperor Min surrendered to Liu Yao.
In October of the first year of Emperor Yongchang of the Yuan Dynasty, there was heavy fog in the capital, black air covered the sky, and the sun and moon lacked light.
In November, Emperor Yuan died.
In the sixth month of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign in Taikang, the water in Ren Yue and Dieyu's cities was as red as blood.
Xi Roo said that it was close to fire overcoming water, and it was a punishment for those who listened but refused to comply.
Zhiqing's "Yi Zhuan" said: The king is fond of women, the wise men are hidden, the country is in danger, and the strange sign is that the water is red.
In February of the third year of Emperor Mu's reign, there was a fire in Liangzhou City.
In April of the fourth year, there was fire again in the water in Guzang.
This is the magic of fire overcoming water.
The next year, Zhang Tianxi killed Zhang Yong, the central guard.
Zhang Yong is the one who holds the power.
In October of the second year of Yuanxing of Emperor An, the water of Linping Lake in Qiantang turned red. Huanxuan persuaded Wu County to order the removal as a good omen. Soon after, Huanxuan failed.
"Zhuan" says: If the mind and heart are not allowed, it is called unholy. The disaster is dark weather, the punishment is continuous wind, and the result is early death.
Sometimes there may be demons of fat night, sometimes there may be flower evils, sometimes there may be cow troubles, sometimes there may be strange diseases in close friends, sometimes there may be yellow disasters and yellow signs of auspiciousness, sometimes there may be metal, wood, water, and fire overcoming the earth.
If your mind and heart don't allow it, this is called unholiness.
Thinking about the heart is thinking about the mind. Capacity means tolerance.
Confucius said: If the superior is not tolerant, how can I observe him?
It means that if the master is not tolerant and tolerant, his subordinates will not be able to occupy virtuous positions.
Appearance, speech, vision, and hearing are dominated by the heart. If all four are lost, then there will be darkness, so the disaster will be dark weather.
Rainfall, drought, cold, and heat are also wind-based, and the four qi are chaotic, so the penalty is continuous wind.
Continuous wind harms all things, so it is extremely short-lived.
Injury to people is called fierce, injury to animals is called short, injury to vegetation is called broken.
One thing is that bad luck is from heaven; when a brother loses a younger brother, it is called short, and when a father loses a son, it is called zhe.
For people, the fat in the belly and surrounding the heart is fat.
When the mind is dim, it is dark and unclear, so there is the demon of fat night.
One theory is that fat things become monsters at night, just like fat and water staining people's clothes at night, which is a sign of sexual immorality.
One theory is that night demons are clouds and winds that appear simultaneously and are dark and unclear, so they have the same symptoms as regular winds.
When it is warm and windy, moths and naked insects will appear.
Liu Xiang believes: In "Yi", "Xun" is wind and wood.
The hexagram is in March and April, following the Yang and governing the flowering and fruiting of vegetation.
The wind is strong, and the vegetation will bloom again in autumn and winter, so there are flowers.
It is said that if the earth's energy is strong, it will bloom again in autumn and winter.
When I say it, Hua means color, earth means internal affairs, and it refers to female evildoers.
In "Yi", "Kun" is soil, which refers to cow.
The cow has a big heart but cannot think, and the heart energy is damaged, so the cow is in trouble.
It is also correct to say that many cows die and become monsters.
For people, most of the time their close friends are sick, so they have strange illnesses in their close friends.
The color of earth is yellow, so there are yellow disasters and yellow auspiciousness.
Anyone whose thoughts and minds are hurt is caused by earthy energy. When earthy energy is sick, metal, wood, water, and fire will overcome earth. Therefore, it is said that metal, wood, water, fire, and earth may sometimes overcome earth.
Instead of saying that there is only sex, saying that sometimes there is sex is not a kind of restraint, which shows that it is very strange.
Its extreme is bad luck, short break, obedience, and its blessing is called test of death.
Suda's "Si Xin Zhuan" says: Sometimes there are evil insects, which refers to moths and the like.
The sign is continued wind.
In November of the ninth year of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, strong winds occurred for dozens of days, overturning houses and destroying trees.
The Wuwu Festival at the end of December was particularly serious, shaking the Donghe of Taiji Hall.
On Renchen, the first day of the first month of the first year of Jiaping, there was a strong wind from the northwest, overturning houses and breaking trees, and dark flying dust covered the sky.
Jurisdiction said that this was the worry of killing ministers and governing at that time.
When he was sent, Cao Shuang was ignorant and arbitrary, arrogant and overbearing. God's warnings appeared many times and he never changed his ways. This was a punishment for his unwise thoughts and continuous strong winds.
More than ten years later, Cao Shuang and others were executed and their clans were reduced.
Jingqing's "Yi Zhuan" said: When the people rebel against the same aspirations, people with extremely high virtues cannot hide, and there are strange trends.
If the wind lasts for a long time, all things cannot grow; if the rain is light, it will cause damage.
When politically ignorant and virtuous people retreat, this is called chaos. The wind blows first but does not rain, and strong winds rise suddenly, overturning houses and destroying trees.
Maintaining righteousness but not advancing is called ignorance. The wind rises with the clouds and breaks the stalks of the grain.
When a subordinate takes the place of his superior in power, this is called disobedience, and the strong wind blows and overthrows the house.
If taxes are collected without management, this is called disaster. The wind will cut off the law. When the wind stops, there will be warmth, and when the warmth is warm, there will be insects.
The princes and kings arbitrarily divide the land into feudal states, which is called disunity. The wind is swift but the trees cannot shake and the grains cannot mature.
Rejecting and not thinking about moral interests is called being ruthless. The wind does not shake the trees, the drought is cloudless, and it harms the seedlings.
The public minister often pays attention to the wind, which is called chaos. The wind is weak and gentle, causing insects and locusts to harm the grain.
Abandoning political affairs and engaging in sexual immorality is called confusion. The wind is gentle, causing borers to appear and damage crops that are beneficial to people.
If the princes do not come to pay homage, it is called rebellion. The wind is unstable, the ground turns red, and the rain causes disasters and kills people.
On the first day of August in the first year of Taiyuan of Wu Sunquan, there was a strong wind. The rivers and seas surged and overflowed. The water on the plains was eight feet deep. Two thousand trees in Gaoling were uprooted. The stone tablets shook and cracked, and two gates of Wucheng fell down.
Hua Sou's response was that the many corvees and heavy taxes were a punishment for ignorance and intolerance.
The next year, Sun Quan died.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Jianxing reign of Sun Liang, there was strong wind and thunder and lightning.
In the year of Han, Wei sent a large army to attack in three directions. Zhuge Ke defeated Shu Xing's army and the other two armies also retreated.
The next year, Zhuge Ke attacked Xincheng again and lost most of his troops. He returned and was executed.
In November of the first year of Sun Xiu's reign, the wind turned five times and the fog continued for several days.
At that time, five members of Jianchui's family were granted the title of marquis, and their power exceeded that of the Xi monarch. The misfortune of wind and fog was the same as the omen of the five marquises, Gong, and Chuan who fell into the mold.
On the night of Ding Mao in December, there was a strong wind, uprooting trees and raising sand and dust.
The next day, Luo Ji was killed.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was a strong wind in Guangping and the trees were broken.
In May of the first year of Xianning, strong winds occurred in Xiapi and Guangling, destroying more than a thousand homes and breaking trees.
In Jiashen this month, there were strong winds in Guangling, Siwu, and Crafts, which broke trees.
In August of the third year, there was a strong wind and the trees were broken.
In May of the second year of Taikang, there was a storm in Jinan, which broke the trees and damaged the wheat.
In June, there was a strong wind in Gaoping, which broke trees and damaged more than 40 government buildings.
In July, strong winds hit Shangdang again, damaging autumn crops.
In June of the eighth year, there were strong winds in the county eight times.
In the first month of the ninth year, there were strong winds and hailstorms in Kyoto, which overturned houses and uprooted trees.
In the third year, Emperor Wu died.
In June of the fourth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was a strong wind and rain, which uprooted the trees.
On Gengyin night in April of the fifth year, there was a storm, and the waves in the city's canals drowned people.
In July, there was a strong wind in Xiapi, which damaged the house.
In September, strong winds damaged crops in Yanmen, Xinxing, Taiyuan and Shangdang.
The next year, the Di and Qiang rebelled and their army marched westward.
In June of the ninth year, a strong wind blew away Jia Mi's court clothes and flew several hundred feet away.
The next year, Jia Mi was killed.
On the first day of November, there were continuous strong winds in Kyoto, blowing down houses and breaking trees.
In December, Prince Bihuai was deposed and imprisoned in Xuchang.
In February of the first year of Yongkang, strong wind uprooted the trees.
In March, Prince Minhuai was killed.
On Ji Mao, the coffin left Xuchang and returned to Luoyang.
That day, there were strong winds and thunder and lightning, and the curtains and car covers flew and cracked.
In April, a strong wind blew up in Zhang Hua's mansion and buildings, breaking trees, blowing silk and silk, and breaking six or seven axles.
That month, Zhang Hua was killed.
On the first day of November, a strong wind came from the northwest, breaking trees and blowing sand and rocks. It took six days to stop.
In the first month of the second year, King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne.
In August of the first year of Yongning, there were three strong winds in the county.
In the first month of the first year of Yongxing, there was a strong wind blowing from the northwest.
In the first month of the first year of the founding of King Sima Lun, King Sima Lun of Zhao was worshiping the Ancestral Temple. A storm arose and flying dust was everywhere.
In April of this year, Sima Lun was convicted.
In the seventh month of the first year of Emperor Yongchang of the Yuan Dynasty, strong wind uprooted the trees and blew off the roof tiles.
In August, a storm destroyed houses and uprooted more than a hundred willow trees along the road to the palace.
This wind is erratic, like wind blowing from all directions.
At this time, Wang Dun was in power and framed Shangshu Ling Diao Xie, Pushe Zhou Zhuan and others, so Feng Zongheng did not come from the same direction.
This is the punishment for the subordinates to take power on behalf of the Lord and the princes not to come to perform Hajj.
In November, the emperor died.
In the third month of Renchen, the fourth year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, there was a strong wind in Chengdu, which blew down houses and broke trees.
In April, Li Shou attacked and killed Li Qi and proclaimed himself king.
In the seventh month of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, Jinling and Wujun were affected by the wind. In the eighth month of the first year of Emperor Mu's rise to peace, he decided to establish the Queen He family.
That day, there was strong wind.
Later, Huanxuan usurped the throne and demoted the queen to be the king of Lingling County, which was a punishment for unwiseness.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, there was a strong wind.
In February of the sixth year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, there was a strong wind. In the year of Qian, Haixi Gong was deposed.
In March of the first year of Ningkang, Emperor Xiaowu, there was a strong wind in Kyoto and a fire broke out.
At this time, Huan Wen entered the court and wanted to invade the emperor. Emperor Xiaowu was still young, so people were worried and fearful. This was an unwise sign.
On the first day of March in the third year of Wushen, a storm came quickly, blowing from the Chou position, and quickly changed direction, blowing from the Zi position, raising sand, dust and gravel.
On the first day of the second lunar month in the second year of Taiyuan, a storm broke the trees.
On the first day of the third month of leap month, a storm came, knocking down houses and breaking trees.
In June of the third year, there was a strong wind in Chang'an, which uprooted the trees in Fu Jian's palace.
After that, Fu Jian went south again to conquer, but was defeated at Feishui and died.
At the end of August in the fourth year, a storm blew up sand and rocks.
On the night of Renzi in the first month of the twelfth year, there was a storm.
On the first day of the seventh month, strong winds broke the trees.
At the end of December of the thirteenth year, there was a strong wind and the day was dark.
After that, when the emperor died and the princes disobeyed the imperial orders, their power was seized by Wu Ti, and disasters were caused by Pan, which was a sign.
On Yimao, June of the seventeenth year, strong winds broke the trees.
On the night of Jiachen in February of the second year of Yuanxing of Emperor An, there was a heavy storm and the roof tiles of Dahangmen were blown off.
In the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and entered through this gate.
In the first month of the third year, Huanxuan traveled to Dahangnan. A whirlwind blew away the hood of his Han-wan chariot. Three months later, Huanxuan failed and returned to Jianglu.
In May, strong winds broke trees again.
That month, Huan Xuan was defeated in Junyibi and his body was cut into pieces.
There was a strong wind on Dingyou in November, and many people died in Jiangling.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the fourth year of Yixi, there was a strong wind in the northwest.
In the leap tenth month of the fifth year, a strong wind blew down the house.
The next year, Lu Xun visited the tomb.
In May of the sixth year of Renshen's reign, strong winds uprooted the trees in the northern suburbs. The trees had grown for hundreds of years.
At the same time, the two shooting halls in Langye and Yangzhou were blown down and destroyed.
On this day, Lu Xun's ship drifted and sank.
In Jiaxu, there was another strong wind, which blew down the houses and broke the trees.
That winter, the imperial army marched south.
In the first month of the ninth year, there was a strong wind, and the pillars of the White Horse Temple were broken and destroyed.
On the first day of April of the tenth year, strong winds uprooted the trees.
In June of Xinhai, strong wind uprooted the trees.
In July, there was a strong wind in Huaibei, which destroyed the houses.
In the second year, he went west to conquer Sima Xiu.
In the first month of the 52nd year of Zhenggong in Gaogui Township, Wei Dynasty, Xingyi was conquering Danqiu Jun. A strong wind blew, the sky was dark, and pedestrians stopped and approached the night demon.
Xingzhi said: It is daytime but it is dim, yin becomes yang, the minister controls the monarch.
In October of the third year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, a great earthquake occurred in Kyoto. The day was dark and it was a night demon.
Ban Gu said: Night demons are dark and dark when wind and clouds arise at the same time, so they are the same as the signs of regular wind.
"Liu Xiang Chunqiu Shuo" said: Tian Jie said this, don't let the officials have hereditary official positions, which will make them arbitrary.
The sky is dark and the royal family is in decline.
The appearance of such monsters in Wei is a sign that Jin will dominate the world.
In the tenth month of the fourth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, Xin Mao, the day was dark until Gengzi, which was the night demon.
In the third year, Liu Yao invaded Luoyang, and the imperial army was defeated by the enemy many times. Emperor Huai went into exile in Pingyang.
In the late twelfth month of the fifty-third year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, there was a strong wind and the sky was dark.
After that, Yu Genyou died, and the princes disobeyed the imperial order and raised troops to invade the capital. The power was seized by Yuan Xian, and the disaster was caused by Huan Xuan.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: When ministers are content with their salaries and official positions, this is called greed, and the disaster is that worms eat the roots.
Virtue cannot be maintained for a long time and is called annoying, and insects eat the leaves.
If you do not demote the immoral, the worms will eat the stems and roots.
This is called fighting with the bunches from time to time, and the stem insects eat them.
Ignorance and evil produce monsters, and worms eat away at the heart.
In July of the first year of Xianning, Emperor Wu, there were borers in the county.
In September, borers appeared again in Qingzhou.
That month, there were caterpillars in the county that ate up the crops.
In four years, there were twenty borer infestations in the counties of Sizhou, Jizhou, Yanzhou, Yuzhou, Jingzhou, and Yangzhou.
In the fourth year of Taikang, there were many Pengchu and crabs in Kuaiji County who turned into rats. There were so many of them that they ate rice and became a disaster.
In August of the ninth year, there were borers in twenty-four counties.
In September, insects damaged autumn crops again.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Emperor Wu listened to slanderous words and favored Yong Maichong and Yang Jun. Therefore, there was a plague of locusts, which was a punishment for those who did not demote or retreat without virtue.
In September of the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, there were borers in six counties including Daifang, which ate up all the leaves of the seedlings.
In July of the first year of Yongning, there were borers in Liangzhou, Yizhou and Liangzhou.
At this time, King Sima Tong of Qi took control of the government, which was a sign of greed and harshness.
In October, caterpillars ate the leaves of rice seedlings in Nan'an, Brazil, Jiangyang, Taiyuan, Xinxing, and Beihai, causing serious injuries.
In December, borers appeared six times in the county.
In the ninth year of Emperor Wu's Taikang reign, a dead bull's head spoke in the northern part of Youzhou, which was close to a bull disaster.
At this time, Emperor Wu was very sick and cared about his posthumous affairs. However, the unfair entrustment was a sign of confusion.
Shi Kuang said: When people complain, there is something that does not speak but speaks.
That's what it means.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If you kill an innocent person, the cow will produce monsters.
When Emperor Hui was in Tai'an, the ox ridden by Zhang Cheng of Jiangxia said: "The world is in chaos, where can I ride you!"
Zhang Cheng was frightened and returned. Quanmai said, "Why did you come back so early?"
Soon the cow was standing and walking like a human again.
Zhang Cheng asked someone who was good at divination to divine the matter and explained: There will be war in the world, and more than one family will be the cause of disaster.
At that time, Tui Dan rebelled and attacked first, and Zhang Bi was appointed as the general. As a result, the five states were destroyed and in chaos, and Zhang Cheng was also reduced from his clan.
Jingqing's "Yi Zhuan" said: The cow can talk and predict good and bad fortune according to its words.
"Yi Meng Qi Shu" says: If the monarch does not like wise men, good horses will wear ornaments and embroidery, and dogs and wolves will eat human food, then there will be six animals talking.
At that time, the emperor and the princes did not care about the common people, which was another sign.
In July of the first year of Emperor Jianwu's reign, Chen Mencai's cow in Jinling gave birth to a calf, one body and two heads.
An Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: A cow gives birth to a baby with two heads and one body, which is a sign that the world will be divided.
When he was sent, Emperor Min went into exile in Pingyang, and was soon killed by the rebellious Lang people.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne in Jiangdong, and the world split into two, which was a sign.
In the first year of Taixing, Wang Liang, the prefect of Wuchang, gave birth to a cow with two heads, eight legs and two tails on the same body. He died three years later.
There was also a cow with one foot and three tails. They all died after being born.
Sima Biao said: "Two heads" is a sign that the government is in private hands and there is no distinction between top and bottom.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: "To have many legs means to employ evil spirits; to have few legs means to be incompetent."
After that, Wang Dun and others disrupted the government, which was a sign of good fortune.
In December of the fourth year, the cow used for suburban sacrifice died.
Liu Xiang explained the death of an ox recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals: Duke Xuan was ignorant and confused, so God did not enjoy his sacrifice.
Now Emperor Yuan's great cause of resurgence is actually Yu Zun's strategy.
Liu Wei understood the emperor's will and gained favor, while Wang Feng was alienated. This was a disaster caused by ignorance.
In the fifth month of the second year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the ox guarding the army gave birth to a calf with two heads and six feet.
In the winter of this year, Su Jun made trouble.
In the seventh year, the cow of Yuan Rong's family from Jiude gave birth to a calf with two heads, eight legs, and two tails.
Huanxuan went to Fengguo and visited Yin Zhongkan, the governor of Jingzhou. When he walked to Crane Cave, he met an old man driving a green ox with a strange appearance and color. Huanxuan offered him the ox in exchange.
Riding to the Lingling Jing River, Huan Xuan stopped his carriage and drank from the cow. The cow went straight into the river and never came out.
Huan Xuan sent someone to guard him, but he still didn't see him after a day.
Later Huan Xuan failed and was killed.
In the second year of Shu Liu Bei's reign, he went on an eastern expedition.
In February, he moved from Zigui to Taidao.
In June, yellow air appears in Hanging Mo, which is more than ten miles long and dozens of feet wide.
Later, after ten years, Liu Bei was defeated by Lu Yi, who was close to Huang Zhengxiang.
During the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, King Zhou Nan of Zhongshan was appointed as the magistrate of Xiangyi County.
A mouse came out of the cave and said: Wang Zhounan, you will die on a certain day.
Wang Zhounan did not respond, and the mouse returned to the cave.
On the said date, the mouse put on a turban and black clothes and came out, saying: "My mother, you are going to die at noon."
There was no answer again, so the mouse entered the hole again.
Come out soon and say as before.
When the sun was approaching noon, the mouse went into the hole and came out quickly, came out and went in again, going back and forth many times, and the story was still the same as before.
When the sun reached noon, the mouse said: Danchen, if you don't answer, what else can I say?
After saying this, the mouse fell to the ground and died, immediately losing his clothes.
Looking at it, it looks exactly like an ordinary mouse.
Ban Gu said, this is Huang Zhengxiang.
At this time, Cao Shuang was dictatorial in government affairs and formed factions for personal gain, so the mice mutated.
In December of the fourth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was heavy fog.
Emperor Xian was ignorant at that time, and he could not control the political power, so there was a strange phenomenon of ignorance.
In August of the fourth year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, yellow fog enveloped all directions, and dust and smoke covered the sky.
In October of the first year of Yongchang, there was heavy fog in the capital, black air reached into the sky, and the sun lost its light.
In the first month of the first year of the Ming Dynasty, the yellow mist shrouded all directions.
In February, there was another yellow fog covering all directions.
At this time, Wang Dun was in power, and the conspiracy and rebellion became increasingly intense.
In March of the seventh year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, a strong wind uprooted the trees in Yuanye, and yellow mist dropped dust.
At this time, Zhang Chonghua listened to the slander and demoted Xie Aiwai to be the prefect of Jiuquan. However, the person he appointed was incompetent. He died in the ninth year and his successor son was killed. This was a sign.
Jingfang's "Yi Ming" says: Hearing good words but not obeying them is called unwise, his evil is yellow, his punishment is deafness, his disaster is having no heir.
Yellow means yellow and turbid air covering all directions.
Covering up talented people cuts off morality and justice, so the disaster is the severing of the lineage.
In the second month of Guiwei in the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, yellow mist enveloped all directions.
At this time, Sima Daozi was monopolizing power and was close to treacherous people, and the rules and regulations of the court were corrupted.
On the first day of October in the first year of Emperor An's Yuanxing reign, the yellow fog was dim and dirty, and it didn't rain.
This was a sign of Huan Xuan's conspiracy and rebellion at that time.
In November of the fifth year of Yixi, there was heavy fog.
In November of the following year, there was heavy fog again.
When he was sent, the royal family declined, the power of his subordinates was great, and most of the army and land were not owned by the emperor. This was a sign.
Plastic Roar said: Earthquakes are caused by metal, wood, water, and fire overcoming earth. Zhi Kenmi said: The Qi of heaven and earth cannot be chaotic; if the order goes wrong, people will be in chaos.
If Yang Qi is hidden and cannot come out, and Yin Qi is oppressed and cannot rise, there will be earthquakes.
In the fourth year of Wu, Sunquan and Huangwu, there were successive earthquakes in Jiangdong.
At this time, Sun Quan accepted the title of General of Wei and King of Wu. He changed his title to rule the roost and did not practice the behavior of a courtier.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: Although the ministers behave uprightly, arbitrariness will definitely cause earthquakes.
This earthquake will cause waves to form on the water, shake the trees, and cause tiles to fall off the houses.
If the Tao is not straight and the ministers change, it is called Yin movement, and earthquakes will shake the palace.
The regular Tao shakes political affairs and is called unyin. Earthquakes shake mountains and water gushes out.
A son who succeeds to the throne has no virtue and only excels in his position, which is called unfavorable. Earthquakes shake the hills and water gushes out.
Liu Xiang also said: This is the fulfillment of the fact that my subordinates are powerful and will act to cause harm.
In November of the second year of the Qinglong reign of Emperor Wei Ming, there was an earthquake in Kyoto. It came from the east and made a low sound, shaking the tiles on the house.
In June of the first year of Jingchu, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
In the autumn of that year, Wu general Zhu Ran led his troops to besiege Jiangxia, but Hu Zhi, the governor of Jingzhou, repulsed him.
Also, Gongsun Wenyi rebelled and proclaimed himself King of Yan. He changed his reign and appointed hundreds of officials.
The next year, he was put down.
In May of the sixth year of Jiahe, Sun Quan of the State of Wu, there was an earthquake in Jiangdong.
In the first month of the second year of Chiwu, there were two earthquakes.
At that time, Lu Yi was in power, and Bu Lu Shangshu said: I heard that he was picky about school affairs, indulged in selfish desires, framed others, and acted arrogantly, innocent people were accidentally severely punished, and even ministers were not trusted. How could there be no variation in heaven and earth like this!
Therefore, there were earthquakes one after another, which was the fulfillment of the minister's expertise in government affairs.
Heaven and Earth hope that it can be used to alert the emperor. How can we not think deeply about its purpose?
Lu Yi finally failed.
In November of the second year of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, there was an earthquake in Nan'an County.
In July of the third year of Jiashen, there was an earthquake in Nan'an County.
In December, there was an earthquake in Weijun.
On Ding Mao in February of the sixth year, there was an earthquake in Nan'an County.
At that time, Cao Shuang was specialized in government affairs and asked the Queen Mother to move into Yongning Palace. The Queen Mother and the Emperor parted in tears.
Earthquakes in successive years are the fulfillment of this.
In February of the eleventh year of Wu Sunquan's reign in Chiwu, there were successive earthquakes in Jiangdong.
At that time, Sun Quan listened to the slander and soon deposed Zhu Ju and deposed the prince.
In the first year of Yanxing of Shu Liu Chan, there was an earthquake in Shu.
At that time, the eunuch Huang Hao had exclusive power.
According to Sima Biao, Chuang Guan does not have a penis, just like a woman.
The fulfillment of Huang Hao's trust was the same as what happened during the Han Dynasty.
That winter, the Kingdom of Shu perished.
In April of the fifth year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, there was an earthquake.
That winter, the Di and Qiang people in Xinping rebelled.
The next year, Sun Hao sent a large army into the mouth of the vortex.
In June of the seventh year, there was an earthquake.
In August of the second year of Xianning, there were earthquakes in Henan, Hedong, and Pingyang.
In the sixth month of the fourth year, there were earthquakes in Yinping and Guangwu, and another earthquake in Jiazi.
In February of the second year of Taikang, there were earthquakes in Huainan and Danyang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In the seventh month of the sixth year, there was an earthquake.
In July of the seventh year, there was an earthquake in Nan'an and Qianwei.
In August, there was an earthquake in Beijing.
In May of the eighth year of Renzi, there was an earthquake in Jian'an.
In July, there was an earthquake in Yinping.
In August, there was an earthquake in Danyang.
In the first month of the ninth year, there were earthquakes in Kuaiji, Danyang, and Wuxing.
In April Xinyou, there were eight earthquakes in Changsha, Nanhai and other counties.
Between July and August there were four more earthquakes, three of which sounded like thunder.
In September, there was an earthquake in Linhe, and another earthquake in December.
In December of the tenth year of Jihai, there was an earthquake in Danyang.
In the first month of the first year of Taixi, the earth shook again. During the reign of Emperor Wu, from Jia Chong to Chaoshuang, they formed cliques for personal gain and stole the power of the government.
In the last years, the appointment of officials became even more corrupt. As a result, there were earthquakes year after year, the Yin and Yang order went wrong, and the world was finally lost.
In the Xinyou month of the first year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
In the summer of the year of Zao, Empress Jia ordered Sima Zhang, King of Chu, to kill Wang Liang of Runan and Taibao Guan. This was because the vagina was strong and the Yang Dao was weak.
In February of the fourth year, there were earthquakes in Shanggu, Shangyong and Liaodong.
In May, the mountains in Shu County moved; floods surged out in Shouchun, Huainan, landslides and landslides occurred, and the government buildings were damaged.
In August, there was an earthquake in Shanggu, and water surged out, drowning more than a hundred people.
In October, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
In November, there were earthquakes in Rongyang, Xiangcheng, Ruyin, Liangguo, and Nanyang.
In December, another earthquake hit Kyoto.
At that time, disturbing the imperial court after the purchase was the fulfillment that finally led to disaster.
During the regency of Empress Dowager Deng in the Han Dynasty, there was an earthquake in the county.
Li Gu believes: The earth belongs to Yin, so it should be peaceful according to the law.
Now it has exceeded the responsibilities of yin and specializes in yang political affairs, so there are earthquakes. It's the same kind of thing. Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: A villain takes away someone's shelter, and a monster is like a landslide. This is called Yin taking advantage of Yang, and the weak defeats the strong.
He also said: When yin deviates from yang, the earth will split, father and son will be separated, and the Yi and Qiang will rebel.
In May of the fifth year of Ding Chou, there was an earthquake.
In June, there was an earthquake in Jincheng.
In the first month of the sixth year of Ding Chou, there was an earthquake.
On Bingchen of the first month of the eighth year, there was an earthquake.
In October of the first year of Tai'an, there was an earthquake.
This was the fulfillment of the fact that Sima Tong, the king of Qi at that time, was good at government affairs.
In December of the second year, there was an earthquake.
At that time, Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, was specialized in government affairs, which was fulfilled.
In October of the third year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, there was an earthquake in Jingzhou and Xiangzhou.
At that time, Sima Yue was specialized in government affairs.
In April of the fourth year, there was an earthquake in Yanzhou.
In the fifth month, Shi Le invaded Ji County and captured the prefect Hu Chong, so he crossed the Yellow River southward, which was fulfilled.
In April of the second year of Emperor Min's reign, there was an earthquake.
On Ding Mao in June of the third year, there was another earthquake in Chang'an.
This is the fulfillment of the fact that the monarch was young at that time, his power was controlled by his subordinates, and there was turmoil in all directions and endless wars.
In April of the first year of Taixing, Emperor Yuan, there was an earthquake in Xiping, and water gushed out.
In December, earthquakes occurred in Luling, Yuzhang, Wuchang, and Xiling, causing water to gush out and landslides.
The royal family believed that this was the fulfillment of Lord Wang Dunlingling.
In May of the second year, Ji Chou suffered an earthquake and landslide in Qishan Mountain, killing people.
This is a sign that Sima Bao, the king of Nanyang in the prime minister state at that time, proclaimed himself the king of Jin in Qishan and did not end well.
In the fifth month of the third year of Gengyin, there was another earthquake in Danyang, Wujun and Jinling.
In February of the second year of Xianhe, Emperor Cheng, there was an earthquake in Jiangling.
In March, there was an earthquake in Yizhou.
At the end of April, there was an earthquake in Yuzhang.
At that time, Su Jun caused chaos.
In March of the ninth year of Dingyou, there was an earthquake in Kuaiji.
There was an earthquake in Guihai in June of the first year of Yonghe, Emperor Mu.
At that time, the stepfather was young and his mother came to the court to listen to the government. The political power was controlled by his subordinates, so there were earthquakes year after year.
In October of the second year, there was an earthquake.
On Bingchen of the first month of the third year, there was an earthquake.
In September, there was another earthquake.
At the end of October of the fourth year, there was an earthquake.
In the first month of the fifth year, there was an earthquake.
At that time, Shi Jilong usurped the throne of emperor, which also caused a breakdown in order.
On August 9th of the ninth year, there was an earthquake in Kyoto, with a sound like thunder.
On Ding Mao, the first month of the tenth year, there was an earthquake. The sound was like thunder, and the pheasants howled.
In April Yiyou of the eleventh year, there was an earthquake.
At the end of May, there was an earthquake.
In November of the second year of Shengping, there was an earthquake.
In August of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou.
In April of the first year of Emperor Longhe's reign, there was an earthquake in Jiaxu.
At that time, the state affairs were in the hands of the generals, and the emperor was in name only.
In April of the first year of Xingning, there was an earthquake in Yangzhou and the lakes and rivers overflowed.
In February of the second year of Gengyin, there was an earthquake in Jiangling.
At that time, Huan Wen was specialized in state affairs.
In February of the first year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou and water gushed out.
This is the fulfillment of the fact that Haixi will be deposed.
In the tenth month of the second year of Emperor Jianwen's reign in Xian'an, there was an earthquake in Ancheng.
This year the emperor died.
In the tenth month of the first year of Ningkang, Emperor Xiaowu, there was an earthquake.
In February of the second year of Dingsi, there was an earthquake.
In July, there was another earthquake and landslide in Liangzhou.
This is the fulfillment of the fact that the successor was young at that time, the power was in the hands of generals, and Yin was strong.
In the second year of Taiyuan, there was an earthquake at Renwu in the leap month of March.
Ding Chou in May, earthquake.
In June of the eleventh year, there was an earthquake.
This was the fulfillment of the fact that the generals in the Yellow River Basin fought for years and the people were exhausted.
On the first night of March in the fifteenth year, there was an earthquake.
In August, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
At the end of December, there was an earthquake.
In June of the 17th year of Guimao, there was an earthquake.
At the end of December, there was another earthquake.
At that time, when villains wielded power, people all over the world looked at him with suspicion.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the eighteenth year, Guihai, there was an earthquake.
It's night in February. earthquake.
At the end of April in the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was an earthquake.
September Guichou, earthquake.
At that time, the emperor was young and ignorant, and the affairs of the country were controlled by his subordinates.
In the first month of the fourth year of Yixi, at night of Renzi, there was an earthquake and there was a sound.
In October Guihai, there was an earthquake.
On the night of Wuxu in the first month of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in Xunyang, and there was a sound like thunder.
The next year, Lu Xun failed.
In eight years, from the first month to April, there were four earthquakes in Nankang and Luling.
The next year, the imperial army attacked Jingzhou and Yizhou in the west.
In March of the 10th year of Wuyin, there was an earthquake.
In August of the 13th year of Wu Sunquan's reign in Chiwu, landslides occurred in Danyang, Jurong, Guzhang, and Ning states, and floods overflowed. According to Liu Xiang, mountain belongs to Yang and governs the emperor.
Water belongs to Yin and governs the people.
God has shown a warning, the emperor's way has collapsed, and the people will lose their favor!
In the Spring and Autumn Period, the Liangshan Mountains collapsed and the mountains in the Han, Qi and Chu lands flooded. It was the same thing.
During the Three Dynasties, the king's sacrifices did not exceed the number of sacrifices, and the good and bad fortunes did not exceed these.
Although Lord Wu is proclaimed emperor, he is actually one of the nations. The disaster in Danyang is God's will.
Liu Xin believed: The country is dominated by mountains and rivers, and landslides and rivers dry up. This is a sign of national subjugation.
Two years later, Sun Quan died, and twenty-six years later, the state of Wu fell.
In February of the second year of Xianxi, Emperor Yuan of Wei, a landslide occurred in Taihang Mountain. This was a sign of the demise of Wei.
This winter, the Jin Dynasty dominated the world.
In the third month of the third month of the third year of Emperor Wu's reign, a landslide occurred in Dashi Mountain.
In July of the fourth year, Mount Tai collapsed three miles away.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: What goes from top to bottom is called collapse, which is true for the stone of Mount Tai falling from a high place, and the sage king was ordered to be captured.
After the death of Emperor Wu, Fulu left the royal family. Emperor Hui was cowardly. Emperor Huai and Emperor Min were all bullied by the barbarians and imprisoned in the north. Emperor Yuan was resurrected in the south. This was fulfilled.
On Bingwu in the fifth month of the fifth year of Taikang, the ground of Emperor Xuan Temple sank.
In October of the sixth year, a landslide occurred in Xingxing, Nan'an, and water gushed out.
In February of the seventh year, the Dalu Mountain in Zhu Ti collapsed, damaging the county building, and the cliff of Qiu Chi in Yin Ping collapsed.
In July of the eighth year, there was heavy rain, and the ground in front of the palace collapsed. It was five feet square and several feet deep, and there was a broken boat wrapped around it.
In the fourth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, a landslide occurred in Shu County, causing some casualties.
In the fifth month of Renzi, a landslide occurred in Shouchun, floods came out, the city wall was washed away, and the ground collapsed thirty feet square, causing some casualties.
In June, there was a loud thunder in Shouchun, the mountains collapsed and the ground cracked. Some people fell into the ground and died, and the same happened in Shangyong.
In August, the ground in Juyong cracked, with a width of 36 feet and a length of 84 feet. Water gushed out, and a great famine occurred.
Landslides occurred in four places in Shangyong. The area where the ground fell was 30 feet wide and 130 feet long. Water gushes out and drowns people.
These are all manifestations of disrupting government affairs after buying.
In April of the first year of Tai'an, the Xiyong Mountain collapsed.
In March of the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, the ground in Buguangli, northeast of Luoyang, sank.
In August Yihai of the second year of the year, more than 70 feet of the Juancheng wall collapsed for no reason. Sima Yue hated this and moved to Puyang. This was a conflicting disaster.
Sima Yue eventually suffered disaster for offending the emperor.
On the Wuchen day of the seventh month of the third year, the ground cracked in three places in Dangyang, which was three feet wide and more than three hundred steps long.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: The ground is cracked, which means that the ministers are separated and unwilling to follow.
Later, Sima Yue and Gou Xi had conflicts, and officials from all directions were separated, and the royal family perished.
In October of the third year, a landslide occurred in Yidao, Yidu.
In April of the fourth year, a landslide occurred in Lingheishi Mountain in eastern Hunan.
In February of the first year of Taixing, Emperor Yuan, there were earthquakes and landslides in Luling, Yuzhang, Wuchang, and Xiyang.
In May of the second year, there was an earthquake and landslide in Qishan Mountain, killing people.
Three years ago, a landslide occurred in Nanping County, releasing thousands of kilograms of realgar.
At that time, Wang Dun was arrogant and domineering, and the emperor's tolerance for him meant that he would bring disaster.
In August of the fourth year, a landslide occurred in Changshan, water gushed out, the Hucan River overflowed, and the big trees collapsed.
In October of the fourth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the northwest cliff of Chaisanglu Mountain collapsed.
In December, Liu Yin was killed by Guo Mo.
In September of the seventh year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, the two imperial tombs, Junping and Chongyang, collapsed.
In November of the twelfth year, some cavalrymen were sent to repair the Junping Mausoleum, and the passage to the tomb collapsed, killing dozens of people.
In February of the fifth year of Shengping, Nanye Gate fell into the ground and found a bell with four characters on it.
In April of the first year of Emperor Longhe's reign, Ding Chou and the Haomi Mountain collapsed, which was a sign of Zhang Tianxi's demise.
In the third month of the eighth year of Emperor An's Yixi reign, the ground in Shanyin collapsed, measuring four feet square, and the sound was as loud as thunder.
In the fifth month of the tenth year of the lunar calendar, the ground of Ximing Gate cracked and water gushed out, destroying the bow fan and threshold. This was water overcoming earth.
In May of the eleventh year, a landslide occurred in Huoshan, and six bronze bells appeared.
In July of the thirteenth year, a sound like thunder appeared on the water bank of Chenggu County, Hanzhong. Soon the water bank collapsed and twelve bronze bells appeared.
One night in June of the ninth year of Emperor Hui's reign, there was a thunderstorm. The pillars of Jia Mi's house sank into the ground, pressing down on Jia Mi's bed tent. This was wood overpowering earth, and earth lost its nature and could not bear the weight.
The next year, Jia Mi was killed.
In the fifth month of the first year of Guangxi's reign, the ground in Fanyang Kingdom was burning, and cooked rice could be cooked. This was fire overcoming earth.
At that time, the princes made the decision on ritual and music expeditions.
"The Biography" says: If the monarch's words and deeds are inappropriate, he will be said to be unable to achieve success, his crime will be ignorance, his punishment will be a long period of cloudy weather, and in the extreme, his country will be weak.
Sometimes there are shooting monsters, sometimes there are monsters like dragons and snakes, sometimes there are horse troubles, sometimes there are bad things like inferior people attacking superior people, sometimes the sun and the moon move out of order, and the stars go retrograde.
If the ruler's words and deeds are inappropriate, this is called being unable to achieve success.
The emperor is a monarch, extremely appropriate and established.
The monarch's appearance, speech, eyes, hearing, and thoughts, and the five behaviors are all defective. They are not appropriate and cannot achieve success. The mistakes are due to confusion and confusion, so the crime is due to confusion.
The king inherits the destiny and governs all things.
Clouds rise from the mountains and fill the sky; the air in the sky is chaotic, so the punishment is long cloudy days. Another way of saying it is that if the Lord's words and deeds are inappropriate, then the subordinates will become powerful and obscure the monarch's wisdom.
The Book of Changes says: A man who has become a dragon has regrets; he who is noble loses his title; he who is noble loses his people; a wise man loses his assistant when he is in a low position.
In this way, the king is the emperor, but there is no one to help him, so he is extremely weak.
Shengyang moves quickly.
According to the etiquette, in spring the emperor needs to perform sacrifices and perform the shooting ceremony to adapt to the yang energy.
If the upper level is weak, the lower level will be alarmed, so there is a shooting demon.
"Yi" says: The factory cloud follows the dragon.
He also said: Dragons and snakes hibernate in order to preserve themselves.
Yin Qi is moving, so there are evil spirits like dragons and snakes.
In "Yi", "Qian" means king and horse.
The manpower appointed is strong, and the monarch's spirit is damaged, so there will be trouble with the horse.
Another way of saying it is that horses die more and become monsters, which is also correct.
If the monarch is confused and weak, people will betray him, and God will not want him. If there is no sage monarch to be killed, there will be the danger of usurping the throne and killing himself, so there will be the disadvantage of attacking from below.
Anyone whose way of being a ruler is damaged will have abnormal Qi from Heaven.
The reason why we don't say that the five elements conquer the sky, but say that the sun and the moon move in disorder, and the stars move retrograde, is because the underworld dare not conquer the sky. Just like the Spring and Autumn Annals said that Zhou's army defeated Maurong. Instead of saying that Maorong defeated Zhou, it said that he defeated the battle. This is a way of respecting the noble.
Liu Xin's "Huang Ji Zhuan" said that there is a disadvantage that the lower body is born in the upper body.
He sent someone to explain that by attacking from below, God's punishment has become a reality and it can no longer be a disaster.
During the three years of peace in Sun Liang in the state of Wu, it started to be gloomy and rainless from August for more than forty days.
At that time, he was preparing to kill Sun Sui, but the plan was leaked.
On Wuwu in the ninth month, Sun Sui led troops to besiege the palace and deposed Sun Liang as King of Kuaiji. This was punishment for a long period of cloudy weather.
In the twelfth month of Wu Sun Hao Baoding, Taishi reported that if it is cloudy and does not rain for a long time, there will be a conspiracy.
Sun Hao was surprised and scared.
At that time, Zuo Kai and others planned to depose Xun Bi while he was visiting the ancestral temple.
When Sun Hao came out, Liu Ping led the troops as the vanguard. Lu Kai told Lu Kai in advance, but Lu Kai disagreed, so it failed.
Sun Hao was tyrannical, and most of his ministers had separate homes. Finally surrendered and perished.
When Shu's chariot general Langzhi was on an expedition against the mainland, he saw a black ape climbing a mountain and shot it with his bow.
The ape pulled out the arrowhead and rolled up some leaves to cover the wound. Deng Zhi said: Alas!
I have violated the nature of all things and will die!
He died in a short time, and he was the shooting demon.
According to another theory, the mother ape was holding the young ape, and Deng Zhi shot the mother ape. The young ape pulled out the arrow for the big ape and used leaves to block the wound.
Deng Zhi sighed and threw his bow into the water, knowing that he was going to die.
When Emperor Gong was King Langxie, he liked to play some strange games. He once locked a horse in a door and asked him to shoot it, hoping to see how many arrows it would take to kill the horse. The person next to me remonstrated: "Ma is the surname of the country."
It is unlucky to shoot it now.
It stopped, but the horse had been shot with more than ten arrows.
Creation means shooting demons.
Soon, Emperor Gong gave the Zen throne to Song Dynasty.
In the first month of Jiashen in the first year of Qinglong, Emperor Wei Ming, Qinglong appeared in the well in Mobei, Jia Di.
Any auspicious sign that does not appear at the right time becomes a monster, not to mention being trapped in a well is not a good omen.
Therefore, Li changed the year name and did something wrong.
Gan Shi said: From the beginning of Danxi to the end of the tomb, the appearance of green dragon and yellow dragon is the fulfillment of the rise and fall of the emperor.
Wei is the luck of earth, and green is the color of wood, but it cannot beat gold.
It is a symbol of yellow gaining the throne and green losing the throne.
The green dragon appears many times, indicating that the virtue of the king and the fate of the country are at odds with each other.
Therefore, Zhi Zhen Sha Gong was finally defeated.
According to Su Pao, if the dragon is a noble elephant but is trapped in a well, it is a sign that the princes will be imprisoned.
In the Wei Dynasty, dragons appeared in wells, which was the fulfillment of the persecution of those in superior positions.
Gao Guixiang's "Poetry of Qianlong" has the meaning of respite.
In October of the Wuxu Day in the fifth year of Zhenggong in Gaogui Township, Huanglong appeared in the well in Ye.
In Xinchou, the first month of the first year of Ganlu, a green dragon appeared in the well in Ruan County.
In the sixth month of Yichou, a green dragon appears in a well in Yuancheng County.
In February of the second year, Qinglong appeared in a well in Wen County.
In the past three years, Huanglong and Qinglong have appeared in wells in Dunqiu, Champion, and Yangxia counties.
In the first month of the fourth year, Huanglong appeared twice in the well in Ningling County.
In the twelfth month of Jiashen in the first year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, Huanglong appeared in the well of Hua Zhuixun.
In February of the third year, the dragon appeared in the well in Ruan County.
During the Yuce period of Wu Sun Haotian, Long gave birth to a son in a common people's home in Kensi and ate the common people's babies.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" says: Dragons give birth to children in people's homes, and kings will become common people.
Later Sun Hao surrendered to Jin.
On Bingwu in June of the second year of Xianning, Emperor Wu, the white dragon appeared twice in the well in Jiuyuan.
In the first month of the fifth year of Taikang, two dragons appeared in the well in the arsenal.
When the emperor saw it, he was delighted.
When all the officials were about to congratulate, the Holy Tunnel came up and said: Once upon a time, a dragon spit in the summer court, and disasters came from the Dan room.
The dragon appeared in Zhengmen, but the king did not celebrate.
The emperor replied: My virtuous government has not yet been established, and I have nothing to do to fulfill the good omen.
So there was no celebration.
Sun Chu said: Dragon is a water creature, what does it have to do with humans!
Zichan is right. But appearing in inappropriate places is actually a demonic disaster.
It is auspicious that the dragon appears in flight, but now it is lurking in the deep place, which is not a good omen.
In the second year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, two dragons appeared in the well in Lanling. I thought it was a symbol of King Tang's imprisonment and death.
The arsenal is where the emperor hides the tools for ruling the country. The building is deep and tight, not suitable for dragons to stay.
In the next seven years, the vassal kings harmed each other. In the twenty-eighth year, two barbarians usurped the title of emperor and sent two rebels named Long. There is evidence for the disasters recorded in the package.
In November of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, a Paohan Qiang prostitute gave birth to a little dragon, which looked like a gorgeous pattern. It often went to its mother to nurse. She could see the divine light from a distance, but could rarely see it up close.
This also means that the emperor failed to make any achievements and eventually fell.
In the last years of Lu Zuan's reign, the dragon appeared in the well in the east chamber, lay down in front of the main hall, and disappeared the next morning.
Soon another black dragon flew to the palace gate.
Lu Zuan thought it was a good omen.
Some people say: Dragons are yin types and come and go at certain times. If they appear many times now, there must be subordinates plotting against those above.
Later, Lu Zuan was indeed killed by Lu Chao.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of Xianning, there were two large snakes in Situ's Mansion, more than ten feet long, on the rafters of the hall. No one knew about it, but for many years it was strange that children, pigs and dogs often disappeared in the Mansion.
Later, a snake came out at night and was injured and could not leave. Only then did it find out and sent people to kill it. It took some time before it died.
Situ is the home of the Five Religions; this is because the ruler's words and deeds are inappropriate, so snake evil appears.
During the reign of Emperor Mo Ling, a snake appeared on the throne. Yang Ci said that this was the fulfillment of the emperor's addiction to women.
There are many people in the Wei palace, and Jin surpasses Wei. They indulge in banquets and entertainment. This is the fulfillment of these things.
"Poetry" says: Snakes and snakes are bad omens for women.
In the third month of Guisi in the fifth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was a big snake in Linzi, more than ten feet long. It entered the north gate of the city carrying two small snakes on its back, went directly from the market to the Yangjing Prince Temple in Seoul, and disappeared.
Tian Jie said this: In the past, King Mojing had great achievements in stabilizing the country, but he was not loyal and cautious, so that he had the shame of losing his official position and being deprived of his merits.
Now Sima Tong, the king of Qi, is not aware that although he has made great achievements in reviving the country, he is domineering and invites disasters, which is a sign.
In the early years of Emperor Taining's reign in the Ming Dynasty, there was a big snake in Wuchang. It often stayed in the empty tree of the old temple and often stretched out its head to accept people's food.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" says: If a snake appears in a city, a big war will break out within three years, and the country will be in great trouble.
Soon there was the Wangdun Rebellion.
In the first year of Emperor Wu Taixi's reign, a horse in Liaodong grew horns, which were three inches long below its ears.
According to Liu Xiang, this is a symbol of war.
After the emperor's death, the royal family was harmed by war, and this was fulfilled.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: If the ministers despise the lord, the country's government will not be smooth, and its monster is the horse with long horns. This means that there are not enough virtuous people.
He also said: When the emperor goes to war in person, the horses grow horns.
"Lu's Spring and Autumn Annals" says: When the emperor loses his way, the horse grows horns.
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he was ignorant and lost his way, and he personally conquered Chengdu. This was fulfilled.
In December of the eighth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the crown prince was about to enter school to pay homage to his ancestors. Sima Lun, Prince of Zhao, accompanied him by car. When they arrived at the south city gate, the horse stopped and the strong men could not push it.
Sima Lun got into the cart and the horse moved forward.
It's a horse disaster.
Tian Jie said this: Sima Lun does not know how to be a human being and will eventually rebel and cause chaos. He is not a person who can teach and behave politely.
In November of the ninth year of Wuyin, suddenly a stallion was frightened and ran to Tingwei's interrogation hall, neighed sadly and died.
Tian Jie said this, this is a sign of King Si falling off the wall and dying unjustly.
Appearing in Tingwei's hearing hall, this is God's will!
In February of the sixth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, the divine horse neighed at the south gate.
In September of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, a horse in Puzi County gave birth to a child.
Jingwu's "Yi Zhuan" said: There is no emperor above, the princes are fighting each other, and the monsters are horses and people.
At that time, the royal family was in decline, and the barbarians and Di people were invading each other. Wars were fought every day. Soon the emperor also fell into the hands of his enemies, so monsters appeared.
In the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Puyang, an official of Danyang County, played a horse with two heads separated from the front of the neck, and died after birth.
Dan Xingbiao said: This is a symbol of the two heads of government orders coming from a selfish door.
Later Wang Dun deceived the emperor.
During the Jiaxu period in May of the eighth year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, a horse, as red as blood, ran from Xuanyang Gate into the palace, then circled out, and soon it was unknown where it was.
Ji Mao, the emperor was unwell.
In June, died.
This is a horse disaster, and it is Chixiang.
One year later, Ji was wilting in the distant bushes and was about to kill each other. Ten horses wrapped in the stable were missing their tails at the same time.
In October of the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a horse in Liangzhou with horns, and the governor Guo Quan gave it to Huan Xuan to see.
According to Liu Xiang, horses should not have horns, just like Huan Xuan should not raise an army to attack the emperor.
Huan Xuan didn't realize it, which led to the annihilation of his clan.
When Shi Jilong was in Ye, a horse's tail seemed to have been burned. It entered Zhongyang Gate and exited Haoyang Gate. It could not enter Shu Palace, so it ran to the northeast and disappeared after a while.
The sorcerer Fotucheng sighed and said: Disaster has arrived!
A year later, Shi Jilong died and his country perished.
In the early years of Huang Chu, Emperor Wen of Wei, the mother of Song Shizong in Qinghe turned into a turtle and entered the water.
In the third year of Taihe reign of Emperor Ming, the daughter of Qiu Xi Nong, a soldier of Cao Xiu's family, died and came back to life.
In addition, someone dug up Zhou Shi's tomb and found the woman who was buried. After a few days, she breathed and after a few months she could speak. Empress Dowager Guo liked her and adopted her.
Also, the Taiyuan people dug up the grave and opened the coffin. There was a living woman in the coffin. They asked her about herself. She didn't know. Looking at the trees on her grave, they were about thirty years old.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When yin becomes yang, those who are subordinate are superior.
It is a symbol of the rise of Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Ping and Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty had such strange things, and divination believed them to be signs of Wang Mang and Cao Cao.
In the fourth year of Yong'an reign of Sun Xiu, Chen Jiao, a commoner in Anwu, came back to life seven days after his death and came out of his tomb.
Gan Shi said: This is the same as the case of Emperor Mo Xuan. Sun Hao, Marquis of Wucheng, inherited the abandoned business, which is a good omen for gaining the throne.
In the first year of Sun Hao Baoding's reign, the eighty-year-old mother of Xuan Qian, a native of Danyang, turned into a turtle after taking a bath, so the Xuan Qian brothers closed the door to protect her.
Dig a big hole in the hall, fill it with water, and play in the hole. For a day or two, they often stretch their necks to look out.
When he saw the door opened slightly, he turned around and jumped out, into the pool in the distance, and never came back.
This is the same as what happened to Huang's mother during the reign of Emperor Mo Ling, and it is a symbol of the demise of the Wu Kingdom.
In August of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, there was a rumor in Xiangwu County that a giant appeared in Xiangwu County. He was more than three feet tall, with footprints three feet and two inches long. He had white hair, wore a yellow scarf and yellow single clothes. He leaned on a cane and called Wang Shi, saying: "There will be peace now."
The Jin Dynasty soon replaced Wei.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was a man in Yuancheng who grew horns on his head when he was seventy years old.
This is a sign that King Sima Lun usurped the throne and rebelled.
In December of the second year of Xianning, Yan Ji from Langxie died of illness and had been buried for a long time. Everyone in his family dreamed that Yan Ji said to them: I will be resurrected, so open the coffin quickly.
He was removed from the coffin and gradually became able to eat, drink, stretch his limbs, and see. However, he was unable to move or speak. Two years later, he died again.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: When the yin becomes yang, the inferior becomes the superior, and its evil spirit is the resurrection of the dead.
Later, Liu Yuanhai and Huqin rebelled against the rebellion and proclaimed themselves emperors, and destroyed Zhishi. This was the fulfillment of a subordinate becoming a superior.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Hui, there was a woman named Zhou Shining in Anfeng. At the age of eight, she gradually became a man. By the age of seventeen or eighteen, her temperament and temperament became that of a man.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When a woman turns into a man, this is called Yin Sheng. A bitch wants to be a king.
Qian is also the evildoer Liu Yuanhai and Shi Le who overthrew the world.
In the early years of Yongning, King Sima Wen of Qi led a group of righteous soldiers to eliminate rebellion and bring order to the country.
Suddenly a woman came to Da Sima's gate and asked for a boarding house to give birth. The gatekeeper questioned her, and the woman said, "I will leave as soon as the umbilical cord is cut."
At that time, Sima Tongkuang, the king of Qi, restored the royal family, and the whole world was indebted to him. People of insight despised him, and he was actually killed later.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Yongning, a white-headed old man walked into the mansion of Sima Wen, King of Qi, and shouted: A large-scale army has risen in less than a year.
Sima Tong killed him.
In December of the following year, Sima Jian failed. That was one year.
In the fourth month of the first year of Tai'an, on Guiyou day, someone entered the temple from Yunlong Gate, bowed twice to the north and said: I am going to be the scribe.
He was caught and killed at that time.
Qian Bao believes that in the secret place of the Forbidden Court, lowly people can come in directly but the guards are not aware of it. This is a monster that the palace is going to be empty and the people below are overtaking the people above.
After that, the emperor moved north to Ye and then to Chang'an, leaving the palace empty.
During the Yuankang period, there was a woman in the Liang State who made a marriage contract and accepted the bride price. Soon her husband was stationed in Chang'an and did not come back for a whole year. The woman's parents married her to someone else.
The woman didn't like to go, so her parents forced her to go. She got sick and died soon after.
Later, her husband came home and asked where the woman was, and the woman's family explained the situation in detail.
Her husband went directly to the woman's grave. He was very sad, dug up the grave and opened the coffin. The woman soon came to life and went home with her.
After the son-in-law heard about it, he went to the government to plead his case and wanted to take the girl back, but the government could not make a decision.
Secretary Lang Wangdao commented: This is an unusual thing. We cannot use common sense to make a decision. It should be returned to the ex-husband.
The imperial court agreed with this opinion.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the Du Xi family buried dead people, and the slaves were mistakenly imprisoned until they could not get out of the tomb. Ten years later, the graves were dug up and buried together, and the slaves were still alive.
It felt like a drowsiness at first, but soon she gradually woke up. She said she had just slept for two nights.
At first, the slave was fifteen or sixteen years old when he was buried. When the grave was dug and he woke up, he was still fifteen or sixteen years old. He got married and gave birth to a son.
In the first year of Guangxi's reign, Xie Zhen of Kuaiji gave birth to a son. He had a big head and hair, and his two feet were turned upside down. He had both male and female genitals. His voice was like that of an adult man. He died a day later.
This is a malady caused by inappropriate behavior of the emperor, attacks by subordinates, and the appearance of tyranny among the kings.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, there were people in Jingluo who had both male and female genitals and could use them normally. They were particularly lascivious by nature and were born from disordered energy.
Since Xianning and Taikang, the trend of favoring men has become more and more popular, even more so than lusting after women. Scholars and officials all advocate this custom, and people all over the world are eager to imitate it. Some couples even have no contact with each other. There are many situations where women have no husbands and men have no wives. Therefore, the auras of men and women are confused and evil spirits appear.
In the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, Wanxiang's slave in Wu County, Wu County, gave birth to a son with a bird's head, two feet like horse hooves, only one hand, no hair, and a yellow tail as big as a pillow.
The 逭 is also a human-demon, a symbol of war.
In May of the fifth year, Paohan ordered Yangen, a female prostitute, to give birth to a dragon, a daughter, and a goose.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: If a person gives birth to other things, which are not encountered by humans, there will be war.
At that time, the emperor succeeded Emperor Hui, and the world was in turmoil. Soon after, he fell into the hands of his enemies in Pingyang and was killed by rebel Hu, which was a sign.
In the fourth year of Emperor Min's Jianxing reign, the wife of Xincai County official Ren Qiao gave birth to two daughters. The two babies were connected from the abdomen to the heart, and separated from the chest to the navel. This is a monster that has not yet been unified in the world.
At that time, Lu Huihui, the internal historian, wrote: "Zhao Rui Ying Tu", different roots but the same body is called Lianli, not a seedling but the grains and ears are connected together is called Jiahe.
Abnormalities in the grass and trees are auspicious, and now the hearts of two people are connected together. "Book of Changes" says that two people are of the same mind, and their sharpness can break the metal. This is the auspicious sign that the world is united in one heart and one mind.
People at that time laughed at him.
Soon the world fell apart and the emperor fell into the hands of his enemies.
In the early years of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was a woman whose vulva was in the abdomen, just below the navel. She came from Zhongyuan to Jiangdong. She was lustful by nature but could not give birth to children.
There was also a woman with a vulva on her head who took a boat to Yangzhou. She was also lustful by nature.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" said: When a person gives birth to children, if the genitals are on the head, the world will be in chaos; if the genitals are on the abdomen, there will be changes in the world; if the genitals are on the back, there will be no offspring in the world.
At that time, Wang Dun occupied a high position and was about to cause chaos, so it was a sign.
In December of the third year, Shangshu Xie Ping's wife gave birth to a daughter. She made a buzzing sound after birth and died soon after.
The baby's nose and eyes are on the top of its head, its face is like a neck, its mouth is wrapped with teeth, all connected together, its chest is like a turtle, and its fingers and toes are like bird's claws, all hooked downwards.
Sending is also a strange thing in life, not something that people have ever encountered.
Two years later, there was the defeat of Shitou.
In July of the second year of Taining, Emperor Ming, the wife of Hou Ji of Jiangning in Danyang died and came back to life three days later.
In April of the fifth year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, Wang He, a commoner from Xiapi, lived in Jiyang. His biological queen, Wu, was twenty years old. She said that she had come back from heaven and received the Zhengrui seal ribbon, and would be her mother's example.
The prefect of Jinling thought she was a monster, so he arrested her and put her in prison.
In November, someone holding a eucalyptus crutch and wearing red clothes stopped in front of the car door, saying that he was an envoy sent by the saint to see the emperor.
The gatekeeper asked her name and said that her surname was Lu Mingci. Wang Ke, Wang He's daughter, had seven stars under her right foot. The stars were all hairy and seven inches long. God had appointed Wang Ke as her mother's model.
After these words were reported to the emperor, Lu Ci was executed. The emperor also ordered the prefect of Jinling to execute Wang Ke.
In October of the second year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, Sutai, the daughter of Suyi, who was led by Suyi, the general of the Wei camp, had a calligraphy on her feet, which was called "Mother of the World". It became more obvious after moxibustion.
There was an uproar in Kyoto, and the relevant officials arrested Sutai and reported it.
Soon Sutai escaped from Jiankang County Prison.
The next year, the emperor died, and the queen came to the court to listen to the government. This was a sign of it.
In the early years of Emperor Xiaowu's Ningkang reign, the Tang family from Nanjun Prefecture gradually became a man.
In the seventh year of Yixi reign of Emperor An, Zhao Wei from Wuxi was eight years old. One day he suddenly grew eight feet tall and had a thick beard. He died three days later.
During the Yixi period, Mo, a native of Dongyang, gave birth to a daughter and did not want to raise her, so she buried her in the sky. The baby cried in the soil, so she took her home and raised her.
In the late years of Yixi, there was a man in Wu Yuzhang who had two penises, which were overlapping and long.
In the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, there was a man in Jian'an who had no head on his penis. He was very straight and looked like a woman underneath.
