Zhao Sheng, Lord of Pingyuan, was a young master of the State of Zhao.
Among the many princes, Zhao Sheng was the most virtuous and talented. He was hospitable and cultivated scholars. There were about thousands of guests who came to his sect.
Lord Pingyuan served as the prime minister of King Zhao Huiwen and King Xiaocheng. He left the position of prime minister three times and was reinstated three times. His fiefdom was in Dongwu City.
Mr. Pingyuan's house has a tall building facing the houses below.
There was a lame man in the house who always limped out to fetch water.
A beautiful concubine of Mr. Pingyuan lived upstairs. One day she looked down and saw the lame man fetching water, and she burst out laughing.
The next day, the cripple came to Lord Pingyuan's house and asked: "I heard that you love scholars. The reason why scholars are not afraid of traveling thousands of miles to join your family is because you value scholars and despise concubines."
I was unfortunately ill and disabled, but your concubine was laughing at me from a high building. I wanted to get the head of the person who laughed at me. Mr. Pingyuan smiled and replied: "Okay."
After the lame man left, Lord Pingyuan smiled again and said: Look at this boy, he wants to kill my concubine just because of a smile. Isn't it too much?
I didn't kill that person after all.
More than a year later, more than half of the guests and diners on errands left one after another.
Mr. Pingyuan felt very strange about this situation and said: I, Zhao Sheng, never dare to be rude in all aspects of my treatment of gentlemen, but why are so many people leaving me?
A retainer stepped forward and replied: Because you did not kill the concubine who laughed at the cripple, everyone thought that you liked beauty and despised the scholars, so the scholars left one after another.
So Lord Pingyuan cut off the head of the concubine who laughed at the cripple. He personally visited the lame man's house and offered it to him, and took the opportunity to apologize to him.
From then on, the original guests came back one after another.
At that time, Qi State had Lord Mengchang, Wei State had Lord Xinling, and Chu State had Lord Chunshen. They were all hospitable to scholars, so they competed to be more courteous to scholars than others in order to attract more talents to themselves.
When the Qin State besieged Handan, King Zhao sent Lord Pingyuan to ask for help. At that time, he planned to recommend Chu as the leader of the alliance and make a joint alliance to fight against Qin. Lord Pingyuan agreed to go to Chu State with twenty of his followers who were brave, resourceful, and capable of both civil and military affairs.
Mr. Pingyuan said: It would be best if we can succeed through polite negotiations.
If the negotiation fails to succeed, then the king of Chu will be coerced to confirm the alliance in public, and he must confirm the alliance before returning home.
The civil and military people who are going with me don’t have to look outside. It’s enough to choose from the diners under my sect.
In the end, nineteen people were selected, and there was nothing left to choose from. There was no way to gather twenty people.
At this time, a man named Mao Sui among the diners walked up to the front and recommended himself to Lord Pingyuan: I heard that you are going to Chu State, and let Chu State be the leader of the alliance to make an alliance. You also agreed to go with twenty diners, and no one will go outside to search.
There is still one person missing now, I hope you can use me to recharge and go together.
Mr. Pingyuan asked: How many years has it been since Mr. Wang stayed with me?
Mao Sui replied: It has been three years now.
Mr. Pingyuan said: A talented wise man living in the world is like an awl placed in a pocket, its sharp edge will be revealed immediately.
It has been three years since your husband has been under my care for three years now. None of my close ministers have ever praised or recommended you, and I have never heard of you. This is because your husband has no expertise.
Sir, you can't go. Sir, please stay.
Mao Sui said: I just want to put it in my pocket today.
If I had been placed in the pocket, the entire cone would have been exposed, not just the tip.
Lord Pingyuan finally agreed to let Mao Sui go with him.
The nineteen people winked at each other and laughed at Mao Sui secretly, but did not make a sound.
When Mao Sui arrived in Chu, he discussed and argued with the nineteen people about the situation in the world. All nineteen people admired him.
The Lord of Pingyuan negotiated with the King of Chu to establish a joint alliance. They repeatedly stated their interests. They negotiated from morning until noon until no decision was made. The nineteen people encouraged Mao Sui and said: "Sir, please come to the court."
So Mao Sui gripped the hilt of his sword tightly, trotted all the way up the steps to the palace, and said to Lord Pingyuan: Talking about cooperation is either beneficial or harmful, just two sentences.
Now we have been talking about the marriage since the morning, but by noon we still can’t decide. What’s the reason?
When the King of Chu saw Mao Sui coming to the court, he said to Lord Pingyuan: "What does this man do?"
Lord Pingyuan replied: "This is my retainer."
The King of Chu shouted sternly: "Why don't you let me go down?"
I'm negotiating with your master, what are you doing here?
Mao Sui clenched the hilt of his sword and stepped forward and said, "Your Majesty, you dare to scold me, but you are relying on the large number of people in Chu."
Now I am only ten steps away from you. Within ten steps, the king cannot rely on the large number of people in Chu. The king's life is in my hands.
My master is right in front of me. Why are you scolding me like this in front of him?
Moreover, I heard that Shang Tang once ruled the world with a land of seventy miles, and King Wen of Zhou made the world surrender with a land of a hundred miles. Is it because they had many soldiers? In fact, it was because they were good at grasping the situation and exerting their power.
Nowadays, the Chu State has a territory of 5,000 miles and millions of soldiers. This is the capital it relies on to strive for kingship and hegemony.
With the Chu State being so powerful, no one in the world could stop its power.
Bai Qi of the Qin State was just a child. With tens of thousands of troops, he sent troops to fight against the Chu State. In the first battle, he captured Yancheng and Yingdu, in the second battle, he burned Yiling, and in the third battle, the king's ancestors were greatly humiliated.
This is a hatred that has lasted for centuries in the Chu Kingdom. Even King Zhao felt ashamed, but the king did not feel ashamed.
The alliance alliance is for the Chu State, not for the Zhao State.
My master is right in front of me, why are you scolding me like this?
After hearing Mao Sui's words, the King of Chu immediately changed his attitude and said: Yes, yes, it is indeed as the gentleman said. I will do my best to fulfill the alliance covenant.
Mao Sui pressed further and asked: Is the alliance agreement confirmed?
King Chu replied: "It's confirmed."
So Mao Sui said to the king of Chu's ministers in a commanding tone: "Bring the blood of chickens, dogs, and horses."
Mao Sui knelt down with the copper plate in his hands, presented it to the King of Chu and said: Your Majesty, you should suck the blood first to show your sincerity in confirming the alliance. The next one is my master, and the next one is me.
In this way, the alliance alliance was confirmed in the palace of Chu State.
At this time, Mao Sui held up a plate of blood with his left hand and called to the nineteen people with his right hand: "Everyone in the audience will also suck the blood from the plate. Although you are mediocre, you have completed your task. This is what is called relying on the strength of others to complete your task."
Lord Pingyuan confirmed the alliance and returned to Zhao State. After returning to Zhao State, he said: I don't dare to observe and identify talents anymore.
When I observe and identify talents, I say thousands at most and hundreds at least. I thought I would not miss out on all the talented people in the world, but now I have missed Mr. Mao.
Mr. Mao's first visit to the Chu State made the status of the Zhao State more noble than the national treasure of Jiuding Dalu.
Mr. Mao, with his eloquent mouth, was actually more powerful than an army of millions.
I no longer dare to observe and identify talents.
So he treated Mao Sui as a distinguished guest.
After Lord Pingyuan returned to the State of Zhao, the State of Chu sent Lord Chunshen to lead troops to rescue Zhao State. Lord Xinling of Wei State also pretended to ask for his orders and seized the military power of Jin Bi to lead troops to rescue State of Zhao, but none of them arrived yet.
At this time, Qin State quickly besieged Handan. Handan was in a hurry and was about to surrender. Lord Pingyuan was extremely anxious.
Li Tong, the son of an official at the Handan Hotel, persuaded Lord Pingyuan: "Aren't you worried about the demise of Zhao?"
Lord Pingyuan said: If Zhao is destroyed, then I will be a prisoner. Why not worry?
Li Tong said: "The people of Handan are using human bones as firewood and exchanging children for food. It can be said that they are in extreme danger. However, you have hundreds of concubines and maids in your harem. The maids wear silk embroidered clothes and cannot eat the fine food. However, the people are unable to cover themselves with coarse shorts and cannot eat enough wine dregs and grain husks."
The people are tired and their weapons are exhausted. Some people sharpen wood to use as spears and arrows, but your precious playthings, copper bells and jade, are still intact.
If the Qin army breaks Zhao, how can you have these things?
If the State of Zhao can be preserved, why would you worry about not having these things?
Now you can really order all the members below the wife to be organized into the soldiers, and they will be responsible for the labor of guarding the city, and distribute all the things in the house for the soldiers to enjoy. When the soldiers are in crisis and hardship, it is easy to be grateful.
So Pingyuan Jun adopted Li Tong's advice and got 3,000 soldiers who dared to risk their lives.
Li Tong joined a team of 3,000 people and rushed to the Qin army for a decisive battle. As a result, the Qin army was pushed back thirty miles.
At this time, it happened that reinforcements from Chu and Wei arrived, and the Qin army withdrew, and Handan was preserved.
Li Tong was killed in battle with the Qin army, and his father was granted the title of Marquis Li.
Yu Qing wanted to request additional fiefdoms for Lord Pingyuan on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan.
When Gongsun Long heard the news, he drove overnight to see Lord Pingyuan and said: I heard that Yu Qing wanted to ask for additional fiefs on your behalf on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan. Is this true?
Mr. Pingyuan replied: Yes.
Gongsun Long said: This is very inappropriate.
It is said that the monarch appointed you as the prime minister of Zhao State, not because your intelligence and talent are unique to Zhao State and no one else has them.
The title of Dongwu City is granted to you not because of your meritorious deeds, but because you are a close relative of the monarch.
You didn't refuse to accept the seal because you were incompetent, and you didn't refuse to accept the title because you had no merit. It was also because you considered yourself a close relative of the monarch.
Now Lord Xinling has sent troops to save Handan and you ask for an increase in the number of fiefs. This is because you accepted the fiefs as close relatives when you had no merit, but when you did meritorious service, you asked for rewards based on ordinary people's merits.
This is obviously very inappropriate.
Moreover, Yu Qing holds the initiative on both sides of success and failure. If the thing succeeds, he will ask for compensation like a deed to collect debt; if the thing does not succeed, he will use the false name of claiming credit for you to make you grateful to him.
You must not listen to his advice.
Lord Pingyuan then rejected Yu Qing's suggestion.
Lord Pingyuan died in the fifteenth year of King Zhao Xiaocheng's reign.
Lord Pingyuan's descendants inherited his title from generation to generation, and his descendants were finally cut off when the Zhao Kingdom was destroyed.
Lord Pingyuan treated Gongsun Long very kindly.
Gongsun Long was good at debating the "Li Jian Bai" proposition. When Zou Yan visited Zhao State, he discussed the most upright principles and refuted Gongsun Long's famous debate proposition. After that, Lord Pingyuan dismissed Gongsun Long.
Yu Qing was a talented person who was good at lobbying. He wore straw sandals and an umbrella on his shoulders and came all the way to lobby King Zhao Xiaocheng.
When he visited King Zhao for the first time, King Zhao gave him a hundred yi of gold and a pair of white jade. When he visited King Zhao for the second time, he became the minister of Zhao, so he was called Yu Qing.
Qin and Zhao fought in Changping. Zhao was unfavorable in the first battle and lost one captain.
King Zhao summoned Lou Chang and Yu Qing to discuss the situation and said: "Our army did not go well in the first battle and the captain died in battle. I will roll up my armor and go to the enemy to fight the Qin army. What do you think?"
Lou Chang said: If there is no benefit, it is better to send important envoys to seek peace.
Yu Qing said: The reason why Lou Chang advocated for peace was that he believed that if he did not seek peace, our army would be defeated.
But the initiative to control the peace talks lies with Qin.
Moreover, Your Majesty, please estimate Qin's war intention. Is it to defeat Zhao's army, or not?
King Zhao replied: Qin has tried its best without reservation and will definitely defeat Zhao Jun.
Yu Qing went on to say: Your Majesty listened to my words and sent envoys to bring valuable treasures to unite Chu and Wei. If Chu and Wei want to get your Majesty's valuable treasures, they will definitely accept our envoys.
When envoys from the State of Zhao enter Chu and Wei, the State of Qin will definitely suspect that all the princes in the world are united to fight against Qin, and will definitely panic.
In this way, peace talks can proceed.
King Zhao did not listen to Yu Qing's advice and negotiated peace with Pingyang Lord Zhao Bao, so he sent Zheng Zhuxian to Qin to contact Qin.
Qin accepted Zheng Zhu.
King Zhao summoned Yu Qing again and said: I sent Lord Pingyang to Qin to seek peace. Qin has accepted Zheng and Zhu. What do you think?
Yu Qing replied: If the king's peace talks cannot succeed, Zhao Jun will definitely be defeated.
The envoys from all the princes in the world to congratulate Qin on its victory are all in Qin.
Zheng Zhu is a noble person. When he enters Qin, the king of Qin and the princes of Ying will definitely publicize Zheng Zhu's arrival in Qin and show it to all the princes in the world.
Chu and Wei believed that if Zhao went to Qin to seek peace, they would definitely not rescue the king.
The State of Qin knows that if the princes of the world do not rescue the king, then the peace talks will not be successful.
As expected, Marquis Ying publicized the fact that Zheng Zhu came to Qin and showed it to the envoys from all over the world who congratulated Qin for his victory, but he refused to negotiate peace after all.
The Zhao army was defeated in Changping, so Handan was besieged and was ridiculed by the world.
After the Qin State lifted the siege of Handan, King Zhao was planning to visit the King of Qin, so he sent Zhao Hao to the State of Qin to make a treaty and make peace with six counties.
Yu Qing said to King Zhao: "Look, Your Majesty, did Qin attack your Majesty and then withdraw because it was exhausted?"
Or is it able to attack, but stops attacking out of pity for the king?
King Zhao replied: Qin attacked me without any reservation and tried his best. He must have withdrawn because he was tired from the attack.
Yu Qing said: Qin used all its strength to attack the land it could not seize, but returned exhausted. However, the king gave Qin the land it could not seize for free. This was tantamount to helping Qin attack itself.
If Qin attacks the king again next year, the king will be unable to save himself.
King Zhao told Zhao Hao what Yu Qing said.
Zhao Hao said: Can Yu Qing really know the details of Qin's military strength?
If you really know that Qin's troops cannot attack this year, if you don't give it such a small piece of land, and let Qin attack the king again next year, won't the king want to cede the hinterland to it to sue for peace?
King Zhao said: I followed your advice and ceded six counties. Can you ensure that Qin will not attack me next year?
Zhao Hao replied: This is not something I dare to take on.
In the past, Han, Zhao and Wei had contacts with Qin and were friendly to each other.
Now that Qin is friendly to Han and Wei and attacks the king, it seems that the king's intention to serve Qin must be less than that of Han and Wei.
Now I will relieve you of the attack caused by betraying the good relationship with Qin, open the checkpoints, exchange trade, and have the same level of friendship with Qin as Korea and Wei. If next year the king alone invites Qin's attack, it must be that the king's intention to serve Qin has fallen behind Korea and Wei.
So, this is not something I dare to take on.
King Zhao told Yu Qing what Zhao Hao said.
Yu Qing replied: Zhao Hao said that if Qin doesn't make peace, next year Qin will attack the king again. Wouldn't the king want to cede his hinterland to it to seek peace?
Now that they are making peace, Zhao Hao believes that there is no guarantee that Qin will not attack again.
So what is the benefit of ceding six cities now?
Attack again next year, and cede to it the land that its troops cannot seize to sue for peace. This is a recipe for self-destruction, so it is better not to make peace.
Even if Qin is good at attacking, it cannot easily capture six counties; even if Zhao cannot defend, it will not lose six cities in the end.
If Qin is tired and withdraws its troops, the army will inevitably be weak.
I used six cities to gather the princes of the world to attack the weak Qin army. This is why I lost six cities to the princes of the world and gained compensation from Qin.
Our country can still benefit, which is better than ceding land for nothing, weakening itself and making Qin strong?
Now Zhao Hao said that the reason why Qin was on friendly terms with Han and Wei and attacked Zhao was that the king was not as willing to serve Qin as Han and Wei. This was to ask the king to devote six cities to serve Qin every year, which meant giving away all the cities in vain.
Next year Qin will ask for land again, will your Majesty give it to it?
If you don't give it, you will abandon the gains obtained by ceding the land and provoke Qin's attack; if you give it, there will be no land to give.
As the saying goes: The strong are good at attacking, the weak cannot defend.
Now they are simply at the mercy of Qin, and Qin's army can gain more land without any effort. This will make Qin stronger and Zhao weaker.
Let the increasingly powerful Qin State seize the increasingly weak Zhao State, and Qin's plan to seize Zhao's land every year will not stop.
Moreover, the king's land is limited but Qin's demands are unlimited. If the limited land of Zhao is used to meet the unlimited demands of Qin, then there will inevitably be no more Zhao.
Before King Zhao's idea was settled, Lou Huan returned to Zhao from Qin. King Zhao discussed this issue with Lou Huan and said: Which approach is better, giving land to Qin or not?
Lou slowly declined and said: This is not something I can know.
King Zhao said: Even so, you might as well try to express your personal opinions.
Lou Huan then replied: "Has your Majesty also heard about Gongfu Wenbo's mother?"
Gongfu Wenbo, who was an official in the state of Lu, died of illness. Two of his wives and concubines committed suicide in their bedroom for him.
His mother didn't even cry when she heard this.
The nanny of Gongfu Wenbo's family said: Where is the mother who doesn't cry when her son dies?
His mother said: Confucius was a great sage who was expelled by the State of Lu, but he no longer followed Confucius.
Now that he is dead, two of his wives and concubines have committed suicide for him. In such a situation, it must be that he has a weak affection for his elders but a deep affection for his wives and concubines.
So if a mother says something like this, she is a virtuous mother; if a wife says something like this, she must be a jealous wife.
Therefore, although the words are the same, the meaning of the words changes due to the different standpoints of the speakers.
Now I have just come from Qin. If I say not to give it, it is not the best policy. If I say to give it, I am afraid that the king will think that I am helping Qin. So I dare not answer.
If I can think about it for your Majesty, I might as well give it to you.
After hearing this, King Zhao said: Yes.
When Yu Qing heard about this, he went to the palace to see King Zhao and said, "This is a hypocritical argument. Your Majesty must not give Qin six counties!"
Lou Huan heard about it and went to see King Zhao.
King Zhao told Lou Huan what Yu Qing said.
Lou Huan said: No, Yu Qing knows one thing but not the other.
The enmity between Qin and Zhao caused war disasters, but all the princes in the world were very happy. Why is this? Said that we will use the strong country to bully the weak country. Now that Zhao's army is besieged by Qin, all the princes in the world congratulating them on their victory must be in Qin.
Therefore, it is better to cede the land quickly and make peace, so as to make the princes of the world doubt that Qin and Zhao are already on good terms and to appease Qin.
Otherwise, the princes of the world will take advantage of Qin's anger and Zhao's fatigue to carve up Zhao.
The State of Zhao is about to perish, so what plans does it have for the State of Qin?
Therefore, Yu Qing knows one thing but not the other.
I hope your Majesty will consider these aspects and decide to give it to you, and stop thinking about it.
After Yu Qing heard this discussion, he went to see King Zhao and said: "We are in danger. Lou Huan is here to help Qin. This only makes the princes of the world more suspicious of us. How can we appease Qin?"
Why didn't he say that doing so would show the princes of the world that Zhao was weak and could be bullied?
Besides, what I advocate about not giving land to Qin does not mean that we should just refuse to give it to Qin.
Qin asked the king for six cities, and the king gave these six cities to Qi.
The State of Qi is the mortal enemy of the State of Qin. If we get the king's six cities, we can join forces with us to attack the State of Qin. The King of Qi listens to the king's plan and agrees without waiting for the words to be finished.
This means that although the king lost six cities in Qi, he was compensated by Qin.
By doing this, the deep hatred between Qi and Zhao can be avenged, and it can also show to the princes in the world that King Zhao is capable.
Your Majesty, spread the word about the alliance between Qi and Zhao. Our troops will not have to go to the border to conduct reconnaissance. I will see Qin's valuable gifts sent to Zhao and in turn sue for peace from your Majesty.
Once peace is made with the King of Qin, when Han and Wei hear the news, they will try their best to respect the King. Since they want to respect the King, they must take out precious treasures and rush to pay tribute to the King.
In this way, the king's move can establish friendship with the three countries of Han, Wei, and Qi, and thus change the status of dealing with Qin. After hearing this, King Zhao said: Great.
So he sent Yu Qing east to visit the King of Qi and discuss with him the issue of attacking Qin.
Before Yu Qing returned to Qi, Qin's envoys were already in Zhao.
When Lou Huan learned the news, he immediately ran away.
King Zhao then granted a city to Yu Qing. Soon after, Wei State requested a treaty with Zhao State.
King Zhao Xiaocheng summoned Yu Qing to discuss the matter.
Yu Qing first went to visit Lord Pingyuan. Lord Pingyuan said: I hope to hear you discuss the way of combining vertical and horizontal lines.
Yu Qing entered the palace to meet King Zhao.
King Zhao said: The state of Wei requested an alliance.
Yu Qing said: Wei Guo was wrong.
King Zhao said: I didn't agree to it at first.
Yu Qing said: Your Majesty is wrong.
King Zhao said: Wei Guo asked for alliance, but you said Wei Guo was wrong; I did not agree to it, and you said I was wrong again. In this case, is it impossible to form a vertical alliance after all?
Yu Qing replied: I heard that small countries work together with big countries. If there are benefits, the big countries will enjoy the fruits, and if there are disadvantages, the small countries will bear the disasters.
The current situation is that Wei is willing to bear the disaster as a small country, but you refuse to enjoy the fruits as a big country. So I say that the king is wrong, and the state of Wei is also wrong.
I personally think that a vertical alliance is beneficial. King Zhao said: OK.
So he made an alliance with Wei State.
Because of Wei Qi, the Prime Minister of Wei State, Yu Qing preferred to abandon the title of Marquis of Wanhu and the Prime Minister's seal, and fled from a small road with Wei Qi. Finally, he left Zhao State and was trapped in Daliang of Wei State.
After Wei Qi's death, Yu Qing became even more dissatisfied. He wrote a book, collected historical facts from "Spring and Autumn", observed the modern world situation, and wrote a total of eight articles: "Jieyi", "Title", "Speculation" and "Political Strategy".
It is used to criticize the success and failure of national politics. It has been circulated in the world and is called "Yu's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Tai Shigong said: Mr. Pingyuan is a handsome and talented son in troubled times, but he cannot understand the overall situation.
As the saying goes: greed for personal gain will lead to loss of reason. Lord Pingyuan believed in Feng Ting's heresy and coveted the Shangdang he gave, which led to the Zhao State's defeat in Changping, more than 400,000 Zhao soldiers were killed, and the Zhao State was almost destroyed.
Yu Qing analyzed the affairs, speculated on the situation, and made suggestions for the State of Zhao. How thoughtful and ingenious he was!
In the end, I couldn't bear to watch Wei Qi being hunted down, and finally found himself in trouble in Daliang. Ordinary people knew they couldn't do this, let alone talented people.
But if Yu Qing had not been poor and sad, he would not have been able to write books and make his reputation known to the world and pass on to future generations.
