Where did Wang Xiang and Zheng Chong ever
Lithos
Wang Xiang, whose courtesy name was Xiuzheng, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was a descendant of Wang Ji, an admonishing official of the Han Dynasty.
His grandfather, Wang Ren, was the governor of Qingzhou.
His father, Wang Rong, was recruited by the government, but he refused to become an official.
Wang Xiang is very filial by nature.
His mother died when he was young, and his stepmother Zhu was not loving and spoke ill of him many times, thus losing his father's love.
Wang Xiang is often asked to clean the cattle pen, and Wang Xiang is more respectful and cautious.
When his parents were ill, he couldn't take off his clothes, so he had to taste the medicine himself first.
His stepmother once wanted to eat live fish. It was freezing cold at that time. Wang Xiang took off his clothes and was about to break the ice to catch fish. The ice suddenly cracked on its own and two carps jumped out. He took the fish home.
Stepmother wants to eat roasted oriole again. Dozens more orioles flew into his tent and took them to his stepmother.
The villagers were amazed and thought it was caused by the influence of filial piety.
There was a red sand fruit tree bearing fruit, and his stepmother ordered him to guard it. Whenever there was wind or rain, Wang Xiang would hug the tree and cry.
His filial piety reaches such an extent.
During the war at the end of the Han Dynasty, he supported his mother and took his younger brother Wang Lan to escape to Lujiang. They lived in seclusion for more than 20 years and refused to accept appointments from prefectures and counties.
When her mother passed away, she became ill due to grief and could only stand with a cane.
Lu Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, asked him to be his guest. Wang Xiang, who was nearly sixty years old, resolutely refused to accept the offer.
Wang Lan persuaded him and prepared an ox cart for him. Only then did Wang Xiang answer the call, and Lu Qian handed over the affairs of the state to him.
At that time, there were robbers and thieves everywhere. Wang Xiang led and encouraged the soldiers to defeat the enemy many times.
The state is peaceful and peaceful, and political decrees and enlightenment are passed unimpeded.
People at that time sang: Haiyi's happiness really depends on Wang Xiang.
The fact that the feudal country is not poor is due to others.
Wang Xiang was recommended as a scholar, appointed as Wen Ling, and promoted to Da Sinong many times.
Gaogui Xianggong ascended the throne, participated in the planning and made meritorious services, and was named Guannei Marquis. His official title was Guang Luxun, and he was transferred to Sili Xiaowei.
Following his attack on his mother Qiu Jian, he increased his residence by 400 households, was promoted to Taichang, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wansui Ting.
The emperor came to the Imperial Academy and ordered Wang Xiang to be the third elder.
Wang Xiang faces south, leaning on several tables and holding a walking stick, and considers himself a teacher.
The emperor asked for advice from the north, and Wang Xiang taught him the key points of political education for emperors and ministers of the Ming Dynasty. Everyone who heard this was inspired.
When the noble countryman was killed, the ministers of the court held a mourning ceremony. Wang Xiang cried and said, "The old minister has no face to see others." His nose burst into tears and everyone looked ashamed.
Soon after, he was promoted to Sikong, and was transferred to Taiwei, and then to Shizhong.
He was awarded the fifth-class title and was named Suiling Marquis, with a settlement of 1,600 households.
When Emperor Wen became the king of Jin, Wang Xiang and Xun Pin went to see him. Xunjie said to Wang Xiang: "The Prime Minister respects his position. He Hou has already respected him, so he should kneel down and worship him now."
Wang Xiang said: The prime minister is indeed noble, but he is the prime minister of Wei.
We are the three princes of the Wei State. The difference between the prince and the king is only one level, and the ranks are the same. How can the three princes of the emperor be bowed to others easily?
It damages the prestige of the Wei Dynasty and the reputation of the King of Jin. A gentleman treats others with courtesy, so I will not bow down.
After entering, Xunjie knelt down and worshiped, while Wang Xiang performed a long salute alone.
Emperor Wen said: Today I know the reason why you are appreciated!
When Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he granted Wang Xiang the title of Taibao, promoted him to the title of Duke, and granted him the powers of seven additional officials.
Not long after Emperor Wu came to the throne, he humbly sought out honest opinions.
Wang Xiang, He Zeng, Zheng Chong and other senior ministers wished to see him again, so the emperor sent Ren Kai, an aide-de-camp, to inquire about the gains and losses and the primary measures for political enlightenment.
Wang Xiang requested to retire many times on the grounds of old age and frailty, but the emperor refused.
The censor, Zhongcheng Hou Shiguang, requested that Wang Xiang be removed from his official position on the grounds that Wang Xiang had been ill for a long time and could not attend court.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The Taibao is an experienced official with high qualifications and high virtues, and I rely on him to govern.
I have not complied with his wishes despite humility and concessions many times before and after. This is not something that officials can discuss.
So the memorial of Bao Huangguang was withheld.
Xingmang firmly requested to resign and issued an edict to allow Duke Suiling to return to his residence. His official position was the same as that of Baofu. He was above the three divisions and his salary was the same as before.
The edict said: People in ancient times retired and no longer served princes.
Now, although he is staying in the capital as the Duke of the country, he should not be made to suffer any more hardships due to court invitations.
Give him a cane for several cases, so you don't have to go to court. Ask him for advice on important matters.
He was given a chariot and four horses, a house, one million dollars, five hundred pieces of silk, beds and mats, six housekeepers named Suiling Gong's housekeepers, and twenty officers and cavalrymen.
Wang Zhao, Wang Xiang's son, the Cavalry Commander, was appointed to serve as a minister, so that he would always have time to pay respects to Wang Xiang.
Because Taibao was of high moral character and did not have a house at home, he temporarily stayed in the house until the house given to him was completed before moving out.
When he was critically ill, he wrote a will to instruct his descendants: "Within life comes death. This is a natural principle."
I am eighty-five years old, what regrets do I have when I die?
Failure to leave any last words will leave you with nothing to follow.
I was born in the last days and was selected for important positions. I had no meritorious service and could not repay it after I died.
After dying, you only need to wash your hands and feet. You don’t need to take a bath. You don’t need to wrap your body around your body. You only need to wear old clothes you find in the wash and wear them according to the season.
Do not put the Shanxuan jade pendant, Wei jade piece, and ribbon that were given to me into a coffin.
The soil on Ximang is inherently solid and clean, so there is no need for bricks, stones or grave mounds.
The pit should be dug two feet deep and the coffin should be large enough to hold the coffin.
It is not necessary to build a front hall, set up a sacrificial feast, set up bookcases, mirrors, etc. Just set up a bed in front of the coffin.
A plate of dry food and dried meat, and a cup of black wine, as a morning and evening memorial.
Family members do not need to be buried, only special sacrifices are held on the anniversary and second anniversary.
Don't disobey my orders!
Gao Chai cried for three years, and Confucius said he was stupid.
Minzi took off his mourning clothes and came out to meet people. He played the harp sadly, and Confucius said he was filial.
Therefore, the expression of sorrow by crying decreases with the passage of time, and the sacrifice of food and drink has its own system.
Being consistent in words and deeds is the pinnacle of faith; giving a good reputation to others while shouldering the blame yourself is the pinnacle of virtue; spreading a good reputation to make relatives famous is the pinnacle of filial piety; brotherly harmony and clan rejoicing are the pinnacle of brotherhood; there is nothing better than humility in the face of property: these five principles are the foundation of a good life.
The remarks made by Yan Zi were not thought through and are not far from these five points.
The sons were ordered to do so.
When Taishi died in the fourth year, an edict was issued to give the nobles a coffin, a set of court clothes, a set of clothes, three hundred thousand money, and one hundred pieces of cloth.
It had just been a month since the death of Empress Dowager Wenming. After this, Xia Shaoshu said: I express my condolences to Duke Sui, and the matter has been postponed until today.
Although I often feel sad for him, I never express my sorrow specifically.
Cry him today.
In the second year, he was granted the title Yuan.
When Wang Xiang passed away, the mourners were either wise ministers in the court, relatives or former officials. There were no idle mourning guests in the house.
Wang Rong, the grandson of the family, sighed and said: The Taibao can be said to be honest and open-minded!
He also said: During the Zhengshi period, Wang Xiang was not among the celebrities who were good at speaking.
When talking to him, the truth is fresh and profound. Isn't it because his virtues cover up his kind words?
Wang Xiang had five sons: Wang Zhao, Wang Xia, Wang Fu, Wang Lie, and Wang Fen.
Wang Zhao was a concubine, Wang Xia died early, and Wang Fu inherited the title.
In the early years of Xianning, because Wang Xiang's family was very poor, he was given 300 pieces of silk and appointed Wang Fu as the prefect of Shangluo. After his death, he was named Xiao.
His son Wang Gen inherited the title and was appointed Sanqi Lang.
From Wang Zhaogong to Shiping, he was the prefect.
Wang Zhao's son Wang Jun was appointed Prince Sheren and was granted the title of Eternal Marquis.
Wang Jun's son Wang Xia was appointed as the governor of Yulin.
Wang Lie and Wang Fen both became famous when they were young and were loved by Wang Xiang.
The two sons died at the same time.
When he was about to die, Wang Lie wanted to be buried in his hometown, and Wang Fen wanted to be buried in the capital.
Wang Xiang said with tears: Not forgetting your hometown is benevolence; not being nostalgic for your homeland is broad-minded.
Ren and Da, our two sons are ready.
Wang Lan's courtesy name is Xuantong.
His mother, Mrs. Zhu, treated Wang Xiang unkindly.
When Wang Lan was a few years old, he cried and hugged Wang Xiang when he saw Wang Xiang being beaten by a branch.
As an older child, he often remonstrated with his mother, who somewhat restrained her cruelty.
Zhu repeatedly drove Wang Xiang unreasonably, so Wang Lan went with Wang Xiang.
He also tortured and instigated Wang Xiang's wife, and Wang Lan's wife also did the same.
When Mr. Zhu had concerns, he gave up sending his talents.
After the death of his father, Wang Xiang gradually gained reputation.
Zhu was deeply jealous and secretly poisoned Wang Xiang with poisonous wine.
Wang Lan found out about this and got up to get the wine.
Wang Xiang suspected that the wine was poisonous and fought for it but refused to give it to him. Zhu quickly grabbed the wine and poured it away.
After that, Zhu gave Wang some food, and Wang Lan tasted it first.
Zhu was afraid that Wang Lan would be poisoned first, so he gave up.
Wang Lan has a lower reputation than Wang Xiang in terms of filial piety, kindness and respect.
When Wang Xiang became an official, Wang Lan also responded to the call from the county and was gradually promoted to Situ Xicao and Qinghe prefect.
After being awarded the fifth-class title, he was named Jiqiuzi and was granted a settlement of 600 households.
In the last years of Taishi's reign, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Hongxun.
After serving in the province, he was transferred to Taizhong doctor, and his salary and reward were the same as those of the minister.
In the early years of Xianning, Xia Shao wrote: Wang Lan had good conduct since he was a child, and he was benevolent and righteous in his work. His chaste conduct became more stable as he grew older.
Wang Lan was appointed Zong Zhengqing.
Soon, he submitted a letter requesting to resign on the grounds of illness.
Xia Shaoshu agreed that he would return to his old age as a Taizhong doctor, give him two hundred thousand yuan, a bed tent and a mattress, and send palace doctors to treat his illness and deliver medicine.
Later, he became a doctor of Guanglu, and a wooden frame was set up in front of the door to block the passage of people and horses.
He died in the fourth year of Xianning at the age of seventy-three, and his nickname was Zhen.
He has six sons: Wang Cai, Wang Ji, Wang Hui, Wang Zheng, Wang Yan and Wang Chen.
Wang Cai, whose courtesy name was Shichu, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Fu Army.
Wang Ji's courtesy name was Shixian, and he was appointed as the Censor of Zhishu.
Wang Hui's courtesy name was Shihe, and he was appointed as the censor.
Wang Zheng, courtesy name Shize, was appointed Shangshulang.
Wang Yan, nicknamed Shizhi, was appointed as the Central Guard.
Wang Chen, whose courtesy name was Shiwei, was appointed as the son of the state to offer wine.
At first, Lu Qian had a sword. The craftsman looked at it and thought that it must be someone who was in the position of Sangong and could wear this sword.
Lu Qian said to Wang Xiang: If it were not so, this sword might be a disaster.
You have the courage of a public servant, so I will give you the knife.
Wang Xiang firmly refused, but Lu Qian insisted that he accept.
Before Wang Xiang died, he handed the sword to Wang Lan and said: Your descendants will be prosperous enough to match this sword.
Wang Lan's descendants had many talented people from generation to generation and prospered in Jiangzuo.
There is another biography in this book about Wang Cai's son Wang Dao.
Zheng Chong, courtesy name Wenhe, was born in Kaifeng, Rongyang.
He was born in a poor and humble background, and established moral integrity beyond ordinary people. He was quiet and had few desires. He loved to ponder the classics and history, and he had extensive research on Confucianism and hundreds of schools of thought.
He has good looks and good reputation, must follow etiquette in his actions, be sincere and self-responsible, and does not seek the reputation of his hometown people. Therefore, the state and county did not discover his talent for a long time.
When Emperor Wen of Wei was the crown prince, he searched for and promoted lowly talents, appointed Zheng Chong as the literary minister, and was promoted to Shangshulang many times. He also went to Beijing to replace Chenliu as the prefect.
Zheng Chong regards elegance as his virtue. He does not have the reputation of being talented or magnanimous in his position. He only needs food and clothing and does not seek wealth. The world values ​​him for this.
General Cao Shuang recommended him to serve as a lieutenant, and then he was promoted to a regular attendant of Sanqi and Guang Luxun.
In the third year of Jiaping's reign, he was appointed Sikong.
When the Duke of Gaogui was giving lectures on Shangshu, Zheng Chong took the scriptures and taught them in person, and was rewarded together with his attendant Zheng Xiaotong.
Soon he was transferred to Situ.
Chang Daoxiang came to the throne and appointed him as Taibao, ranking above the three divisions, and named him Shouguang Hou.
Although Zheng Chong's official rank is the same as that of prime minister, he does not interfere in world affairs.
At that time, Emperor Wen assisted the government and after pacifying the Shu Kingdom, he ordered Jia Chong, Yang Hu and others to formulate etiquette and legal regulations respectively. They all asked Zheng Chong first and then implemented them.
When Emperor Wei announced his abdication, he sent Zheng Chong to present the policy letter.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, appointed him as Taifu, and promoted him to Duke.
Soon, Si Li Yi and Zhong Cheng Hou Shi Guang wrote a letter saying that Zheng Chong, He Zeng, Xun Hao and others should be relieved of their official positions due to illness.
The emperor did not allow it.
Zheng Chong then stopped dealing with political affairs and asked to resign.
He issued an edict to dissuade him with good words, and sent someone to explain.
Zheng Chong resolutely refused and handed over Diao Chan's seal ribbon, but the edict did not allow it.
In the sixth year of Taishi, Xia Shao Shu said: In the past, the emperor of the Han Dynasty was able to pacify the world by relying on his knowledge of people and his good deeds. He traced his merits and attributed his good name to the three heroes.
So he made an oath with the meritorious ministers to collect Fu Jiefeng and kept it in the ancestral temple, and the copy was left in the relevant departments, so as to show his virtue and appoint meritorious service, thereby protecting the auxiliary royal family.
In the past, my ancestors encountered difficulties in the world, recruited and appointed talented people, and worked with them to achieve worldly things and establish the great cause of the country.
The Grand Tutor Shouguang Gong Zheng Chong, the Taibao Langling Gong He Zeng, and the Taiwei Linhuai Gong Xun Hao each advocated virtue, benevolence and righteousness, were wise, fair and loyal, assisted the late emperor and prospered the emperor's career.
The former Sikong Bo Ling Yuan Gong Wang Shen and Wei General Ju Ping Hou Yang Hu were talented in both civil and military affairs, and they were loyal, respectful and upright. I admire them very much.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say: The order of heaven is polite, and the five levels of clothing and color are used to distinguish the superior and the inferior!
He appointed Langzhongling for Shouguang, Langling, Linhuai, Boling and Juping, gave seals to his wife and prince, and received one-third of the original official salary. Everything was like a prince in a county.
In the ninth year, Zheng Chong went out to resign again.
The edict said: The Taifu contains virtues, noble conduct, and is extraordinary. He is truly unparalleled in the world.
He has been involved in royal affairs for more than sixty years and is loyal to the public and does not consider personal gain.
According to everyone's recommendation, he once ascended to the position of Sangong.
He is still responsible for the important task of protecting the emperor, diligently discussing Taoism, and assisting generation after generation. He has completed the responsibilities entrusted by God, contributed strategies, and achieved great achievements. He can be said to be an outstanding veteran in the court and a person respected by everyone.
I am ignorant about politics, and many things have not been done yet. I rely on the advice of my old ministers to enlighten me. I hope that by relying on the virtue of my ministers, great things can be done.
However, the Duke resigned from his post many times on the grounds of old age and serious illness.
If I follow the Duke's wishes, then who should I ask for advice?
It’s like crossing a river on foot and not knowing where to get into the water.
So I didn't allow it, and it's been several years now.
However, my desire to resign became more and more determined, and it was difficult to go against my sincere intentions. Looking at his good intentions, I felt disappointed.
It is a sign of a noble person to accomplish something without enjoying it. Fulfilling the good deeds of others is what a gentleman should do.
Do you have to obey my wish to rely on dependence and violate the request of a talented and virtuous person to resign?
Now he obeys his wishes and returns to the mansion as Duke Shouguang. His status is like that of Taibao Taifu, above the three divisions.
Gong should maintain his spirit and maintain the harmony of yin and yang in order to enjoy his life.
I was given a cane for several cases, so I didn't have to go to court.
The sage kings of ancient times admired and respected the senior ministers of the country, imitated their actions, and solicited their opinions to make up for their shortcomings.
If there is any important matter in the court, go and ask them.
He was also given four chariots and horses, a house, one million coins, five hundred pieces of silk, beds and mats, six servants, and twenty cavalry. The eldest son Zheng Hui was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi, so that he would always have free time to pay respects to Zheng Chong.
Salaries, rewards and supplies, as well as orders and ritual systems, are all more comprehensive according to the old regulations.
He died the following year.
The emperor expressed his condolences in the court hall and posthumously presented Zheng Chong as Taifu. He also gave the nobles a coffin, court robes, a set of clothes, 300,000 yuan, and 100 pieces of cloth.
Mi Hao succeeded.
In the early years of Xianning, relevant officials reported that Zheng Chong, Anping King Sima Fu and other twelve people set up inscriptions in Taichang Temple and attached sacrifices in the temple.
At the beginning, Zheng Chong, together with Sun Yong, Cao Xi, Xun Hao and He Yan, collected various commentaries on "The Analects of Confucius", selected the good ones and recorded their names, followed their opinions, and changed the comments where inappropriate, which was called "Collected Commentary of the Analects of Confucius".
After the book was completed, it was reported to the Wei Dynasty and has been passed down to this day.
Zheng Chong had no sons, so his nephew Zheng Hui inherited the title and became an official in Pingyuan Neishi.
When Zheng Hui died, his son Zheng Jian inherited the title.
He Zeng, courtesy name Yingkao, was born in Yangxia, Chen State.
His father, He Kui, was the Taipu of Wei and the Marquis of Yangwu Ting.
He Zeng inherited the title when he was young. He was eager to learn and knowledgeable, and had a reputation with Yuan Kan from the same county.
Emperor Wei Ming was originally a Marquis of Pingyuan, but he was not a literary scholar.
When the emperor came to the throne, he was promoted many times to the positions of Minister of Sanqi, General of Diannong in Jijun, and Minister of Huangmen in Guishi.
He Zeng Shangshu said: I heard that the rule of the country is based on tranquility, and the people based on good officials.
Nowadays, the world is empty and depleted, and there are many corvees. We should be considerate of the people and make them happy to pay taxes.
Although the power of the county governor is light, he is in charge of thousands of miles of territory. Compared with ancient times, he is the king of all countries.
To those above, one should respectfully and publicize the court's grace in order to gain harmony, while to those below, one should promote benefits and eliminate harm.
If you employ people appropriately, you will have stability; if you employ them inappropriately, you will have disaster.
Therefore, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty said: The reason why the people can live and work in peace and contentment without any resentment is because the politics are fair and the litigation is reasonable.
The people who started my business with me relied on those good officials with a salary of two thousand dan!
This can actually be said to be the foundation of knowing how to govern.
Nowadays, the country vigorously recruits talents, and there are often dispatches and transfers, military expeditions, and hard work.
The people can enjoy success with the court, but it is difficult to think about the beginning together.
Foolish people can be satisfied with the current small hardships and forget about the big disasters that cause turmoil. Therefore, the county governor cannot appoint inappropriate people.
It is difficult to find talented people, so it is better to use people who are a little dignified and trusted and respected by the people.
I heard that some county guards, some of whom are old or sick, leave political affairs to their subordinate officials and do not worry about political affairs.
Some people are lazy by nature and do not take government affairs to heart.
He has been in office for many years and has not been kind to the people.
However, when officials are evaluated, they will not be dismissed if they commit crimes.
Therefore, he can go year after year without being dismissed.
I think we can secretly send people in charge to secretly examine and inspect the county governors. Those who are too old and sick to be in charge, and those who lack grace among the officials and like to engage in personal affairs and annoy the people can be recalled to Beijing and replaced by replacements.
Soon, he was promoted to a regular attendant of Sanqi.
When Emperor Xuan was about to attack Liaodong, he went to Emperor Wei and said: I heard that the former king must be cautious and thorough when formulating laws and regulations.
Therefore, when officials are appointed, deputy assistants are set up; when generals are dispatched, deputy posts are set up to supervise the army; when orders are announced and envoys are dispatched, deputies are set up; when fighting the enemy, a right guard is set up, all for the purpose of careful planning and preventing changes in safety.
Therefore, in times of danger and difficulty, the powers are sufficient to restrict each other; in the event of injuries or shortages, they are sufficient to provide substitutes.
Construction has far-reaching significance for national defense.
In the Han Dynasty, the old rules were also followed. When Han Xin conquered Han, his 丸 was his deputy; when a donkey conquered Han, his legs were his deputy.
The events of past lives are written in history books.
Now the Taiwei is ordered to punish the criminals. The soldiers are brave and have sharp weapons. There are tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry. The road is winding and dangerous, and it is four thousand miles long.
Although with the power of God, there is no battle, the enemy may abscond and kill time.
There is no fixed date for military orders, and people are not gold and stones. For comprehensive and far-reaching considerations, there should be a deputy position.
Nowadays, the generals of the Northern Army and the people led by the Taiwei are all subordinates, and there is no difference in their status. They have never had the status and the prestige of commanding the army. Suddenly, there is an emergency and they cannot control them.
It is the decision of a sage king to worry about defeat when you win.
I think we should select the most prestigious ministers and veterans among the famous ministers and generals, arrange their official positions, and send them to the Northern Army to plan the advance together and retreat as their deputies.
Even if something unexpected happens, the army commander will still have a deputy position, so there will be no worries.
The emperor did not listen.
He left the capital to serve as the governor of Hanoi, and had a majestic reputation in office.
He was recruited as a servant, but resigned due to the death of his mother.
During the Jiaping period, he served as the school captain of Sili.
Yin Mo, the official of the Fujun Academy, showed off his authority by being favored and made a lot of illegal profits. He was feared both inside and outside the court, and no one dared to speak out.
Tanshou impeached him, and the court praised the incident.
At that time, Cao Shuang was in power, and Emperor Xuan claimed to be ill, but he retired due to illness.
Cao Shuang was killed and became an official. How could he participate in the planning of Emperor Wei's deposedness?
At that time, the infantry colonel Ruan Ji was dissolute and eccentric because of his talent, and he did not pay attention to etiquette when in mourning.
The fish beast confronted the doctor in front of Sai Tong and said: You are indulgent and violate the etiquette, and you are a corrupt person. Now that the loyal and virtuous people are in power, based on the facts and names, people like you cannot last long.
He also said to Emperor Wen: "The Duke governs the world with filial piety, but let Ruan Ji drink wine and eat meat in front of you while he is observing filial piety."
He should be excluded from the country and not allowed to pollute China.
Emperor Wen said: This is what's wrong with this man. Can't you be patient for me?
He once quoted scriptures and argued with great enthusiasm.
Although Emperor Wen did not obey, people at that time were in awe of He Zeng.
Guanqiu Jian was executed, and his son's mother, Qiudian's wife, Xun, should be sentenced to death.
Clan brother Xun Zhuan and clan father Xun Yu were both related by marriage to Emperor Jing, and they both petitioned Emperor Wei for her life.
The edict stated that they were allowed to divorce. Qiu Zhi, the daughter of the Gou family, was the wife of Liu Ziyuan, the prefect of Yingchuan. She was also sentenced to death and was thrown into prison because of her pregnancy.
Xun sent a message to He Zeng to beg for mercy, saying: "My mother Qiu Zhi is in prison. Gu Ying feels sorry for himself and is counting the days to prepare for punishment."
He begged to become an official slave and redeem his mother Qiu Zhi's life.
How could he ever pity her and send a letter to her for discussion?
The imperial court thought it was appropriate and amended the law.
The memorial can be found in the book "Criminal Law Chronicles".
He Zeng held the position of Sili for many years and was promoted to Shangshu. In the first year of Zhengyuan, he was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the commander-in-chief of all military affairs and holidays in Hebei.
When he was about to take office, Emperor Wen sent Emperor Wu and King Sima You of Qi to see him off for dozens of miles.
Have you ever solemnly performed the courtesy of guest and host, and prepared meals of cattle, sheep, pigs, etc.?
All the attendants accompanying him were well fed and drunk.
After Emperor Wu left, he stopped by to visit He Zeng's son He Shao.
He Zeng warned He Shao in advance: Guests will definitely drop by to visit you. You should prepare in advance and treat the guests grandly.
He Shao didn't wear a crown or lace, which made Emperor Wu stay for a long time, and he never scolded He Shao severely.
Have you ever been valued like this?
He was promoted to General of the Northern Expedition and granted the title of Marquis of Yingchang Township.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was appointed Situ and was granted the title of Marquis of Langling.
When Emperor Wen was the king of the Jin Dynasty, he, Gao Rou and Zheng Chong were the three princes. When they were about to enter the palace to pay homage, they knelt down in the most respectful manner. The two of them only bowed their hands.
Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne and appointed He Zeng as the prime minister of Jin and as a minister.
He Zeng, Pei Xiu, Wang Shen and others persuaded the King of Jin to ascend the throne.
After ascending to the throne of the emperor, He Zeng was promoted to Taiwei, his title was promoted to Duke, and he was granted an estate of 1,800 yuan.
In the early years of Taishi, the edict said: Plan shrewdly to assist harmony and protect the royal family, so as to spread teachings and spread throughout the world.
He Zeng, a Shizhong and Taiwei, was of high moral character, loyal and straightforward, erudite and far-sighted. He assisted the late Emperor and made outstanding contributions.
I inherited the great cause, and he first served as the prime minister of the royal family.
Just like the ancients, help me.
In fact, it was Sasuke who granted destiny, promoted enlightenment, and praised politics.
Although the position of the Third Division can influence the political affairs of the dynasty, if I disobey your assistance and the rewards of the Third Division's correction are insufficient, Baofu will be responsible.
Therefore, it is best to use talented people to assist the king and put him in an important position.
He Zeng was appointed as Taibao, and his position as servant remained as before.
After a long time, he also served as Situ in addition to his own duties.
He once insisted on giving in, but Emperor Wu would not allow it.
He was sent to serve as a regular attendant on Xiao's orders, and then he took office.
The carry is Taifu.
He had repeatedly begged to resign on the grounds of old age.
The edict said: Taifu is upright, upright, strong and decisive. It can be said that he is highly respected and a famous minister of the country.
For the sake of state affairs, he resigned from his official position many times.
I am not very virtuous, so I relied on the blessing and looked at the seal. I was really disappointed.
Although I think about the beauty of adulthood, how can I follow his elegant ambition and forget the benefits of his assistance!
However, the tasks in charge of Situ were heavy and could not tire the old man for a long time.
If he is promoted to Dazai, he will remain as a servant.
During the court meeting, he wore a sword, wore shoes, and rode in a carriage, just like Xiao He, Tian Qianqiu, and Wei Taifu Zhong Yao of Mo Xiangguo.
He was given a million dollars, five hundred bolts of silk, and two sets of eight-foot beds, tents, mats, and mattresses.
The setting up of the chief minister's subordinates to offer wine and attendants shall all follow the old regulations.
The soldiers, officers and cavalry given were the same as before.
The person in charge must follow the etiquette in order and must be rich and complete.
From now on, whenever he was summoned, he was asked to bring his usual food and clothing with him, and his two sons were asked to serve him.
Sheng Ning died in the fourth year of his reign at the age of eighty.
The emperor paid his respects in plain clothes in the court hall, and gave the nobles a coffin, a set of court uniforms, a set of clothes, three hundred thousand dollars, and a hundred pieces of cloth.
When he is about to be buried, let the ceremonial officials discuss the title of Mi.
The doctor's stage show was given the nickname "Miao Chou", but the emperor did not comply, so he decided to give him the nickname "Xiao".
In the last years of Taikang's reign, his son He Shao changed his name from Mi to Wu.
He was born with a very filial nature and his family was serious and solemn. From childhood to adulthood, he had no interest in singing, dancing or favoring maids and concubines.
When you get older, when you meet your wife, you should dress appropriately and treat each other with respect as a guest.
He faces south and his wife faces north, bows twice to drink wine, and goes out after toasting and socializing.
This happens only two or three times a year.
At the beginning, Sili Xiaowei Bao Sai wrote an article praising Bao Shouji: The title said: Isn't it the Marquis of Yingchang He who serves his relatives according to the way of King Sai? Isn't it Bao Bao!
The ancients praised Daofeng for participating in the alliance's losses, and today he can be counted as a bud and a bag.
Serve your loved ones wholeheartedly at home, and respect and treat others with courtesy outside.
A filial son is a master of all generations; a benevolent man is an outstanding talent in the world.
If you can practice filial piety, you will have the appearance of a gentleman.
"The Book of Songs" says: The mountains stand tall and the scenery stops. Those who pursue virtue and do not follow the two masters do not like the upright way.
He also said: Xun and He are the masters of the gentleman.
He also said: Marquis Yingchang served his relatives, didn’t he fulfill the duty of a filial son?
He was as kind as possible when he was asked, he was as respectful as possible when he served, and he was as sad as possible when he was buried. I saw these qualities in Marquis Yingchang.
He also said: Meeting like-minded people is like meeting a relative. Although he is sixty years old, he looks up to and loves him like a young child. I saw this kind of character in Yingchang Hou.
However, if you have ever been extravagant in nature, you must be luxurious and extravagant.
The curtains, carriages, and clothes should be as gorgeous as possible, and the food, wine, and food should exceed those of the royal family.
Whenever he attended a banquet and refused to eat the food prepared by the eunuch, the emperor would order him to get his own food.
He won't eat the steamed cake until it splits into a cross.
One day's food costs ten thousand yuan, and he says he has nowhere to put down chopsticks.
Someone had written a letter on a small piece of paper and he told the concierge not to report it.
Liu Yi and others went to court for impeachment several times and were extravagant. The emperor, because he was an important minister, did not ask any questions.
Liu Xiang, the official in charge of the capital, once reported to He Zeng that he was extravagant, using copper hook ribbons to make cow nose ropes to decorate the cow's hoof horns.
Later, Liu Xiang was recruited as an official, but some people advised Liu Xiang not to agree. Liu Xiang believed that this was entirely a business matter and would not involve personal grudges, so he applied.
Why was he often punished with a stick and a seal box for trivial matters?
The so-called tolerance on the outside but jealousy on the inside is this kind of thing.
At that time, Sikong Jia Chong's power was similar to that of a king. How could he be humble and dependent on Jia Li?
When Mai Chong and Yu Chun quarreled over wine, He Beast favored Gen Chong and suppressed the clock. Therefore, he was criticized by the upright people.
He once had two sons: He Zun and He Shao.
He Shao inherited the title.
He Shao, named Jingzu, was the same age as Emperor Wu when he was young, and they had a friendship since childhood.
When Emperor Wu was the crown prince, He Shao was considered the concubine.
When he came to the throne, He Shao was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, and he was very close to him.
He Shao had good looks and reputation, and when guests from far away came to court, He Shao would definitely accompany him.
Whenever various places made contributions, the emperor would reward him and watch him express his thanks.
In the early years of Xianning, officials reported that He Shao and his brother He Zun had accepted property from Sai Yao, a former member of the family. Although they had been pardoned, they should still be completely prohibited.
The matter was left to Ting Wei.
Shao Shu said: Taibao and Saiqian have been friends for several generations, and He Zun and others have been exempted from all the minor charges they received.
Promoted to the position of minister.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and began to build the East Palace. The prince was young and wanted him to govern personally, so he solemnly selected the Sixth Fu and appointed He Shao as the prince's grand master and also in charge of the affairs of the minister.
Later, he became a special scholar and was gradually promoted to Shangshu Zuopushe.
He Shao was erudite, good at writing articles, and described modern events with a thorough knowledge.
In the early years of Yongkang, he was appointed Situ.
King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne and appointed He Shao as Grand Prime Minister.
When the three kings fought, He Shaochengxuan and Dai Mian were among them, and no one resented him.
And arrogant and extravagant, just like his father's style.
There are a lot of old and new clothing and toys.
You must eat rare and exotic foods from all over the world, and the daily supply is limited to 20,000 yuan.
Comments at the time believed that the food served by imperial officials could not surpass He Shao's meals.
However, he is self-sufficient and not greedy for power.
He once said to Wang Quan, a fellow countryman: Although I was too lucky in my fame and position, there was nothing that could be recorded when I was young. Only the fact that I and Chang Rong, the Marquis of Xia, came to admonish and confer a doctorate could be passed down in the annals of history.
The "Biography of Xun Can", "Biography of Wang Bi" and those memorial articles written by him are all spread in the world.
When Yongning died in the first year of his life, he gave it to Situ and gave him the nickname Kang.
His son He Qi inherited.
When He Shao just passed away, Yuan Can paid his condolences to He Qi, but He Qi declined on the grounds of illness.
Yuan Can came out crying and said: This year, He Qi is determined to be demoted to the level of a slave.
Wang Quan said to him: Why do you need to see the living when you are mourning the dead?
He Qi had committed too many crimes before, but he was not demoted at that time. Just after He Gong passed away, he was demoted. People would say that you were afraid of bullying the weak.
Only then did Yuan Can give up.
He Zun, whose courtesy name was Sizu, was He Shao's concubine.
Talented at a young age.
He was initially appointed as Huang Menlang of Sanqi, Changshi of Sanqi, and Shizhong, and was gradually promoted to Dahonglu.
He was also extravagant, forcing the imperial craftsmen to make items for use in the palace, and selling the monarch's travel equipment. Liu Yi, the secretary, participated in the performance and was dismissed from office.
In the early years of Taikang, he was appointed as the prefect of Wei County, promoted to the imperial servant, and was dismissed from office. He died at home. He has four sons: He Song, He Sui, He Ji, and He Xian.
He Song, also known as Taiji, was a generous lover, well-read in classics, and especially proficient in "Historical Records" and "Hanshu".
When he was young, he held an official position with a high status and not complicated political affairs, and also served as a writer.
He Sui's courtesy name was Bo Wei, and he was a minister in the imperial court.
He considers himself a noble person, is excessively extravagant, has a scornful temperament, and is arrogant in his work.
When King Ni of Chengyang saw He Sui writing a memorial, he said to someone: "Bo Wei is so arrogant when he is in war. How can he avoid disaster?"
Liu Yu and Pan Tao spoke ill of Shuhai King Sima Yue in front of him, so Sima Yue killed He Sui.
At first, He served Emperor Wu at a banquet. After returning, he told He Zun and others: The country accepted the abdication in accordance with the destiny and created great achievements to be passed down to future generations.
Every time I go to a banquet, I never hear any long-term strategies for running the country, only trivial things. This is not a sign of plans for future generations.
If you can still be in power, your descendants may be in danger!
This is a worry for our descendants.
You can still be safe.
Pointing to his grandchildren, he said: These people must be in troubled times.
When He Sui died, He Song cried to him and said: My grandfather is really a great saint!
He Ji is Zouping Ling.
He was also arrogant and ordered fellow countrymen Xie Kun and others to kneel down and worship.
Someone warned him: Etiquette is based on age and title, and virtue is the main thing.
Asking Xie Wan to worship power is probably against the customs.
He Ji didn't feel ashamed.
He Xian is Lihuling.
He is arrogant and loves money, and he puts himself above others. The villagers hate him as an enemy.
In the last years of Yongjia, every member of the He family died.
Shi Bao, courtesy name Zhongrong, was from Nanpi, Bohai Sea.
Elegant, cheerful and intelligent, with beautiful appearance and appearance, he does not pay attention to details.
Therefore, when people talked about him at that time, they said: Shi Zhongrong is unparalleled in beauty.
The county called him as a minor official to be dispatched by the farmers and horses.
It happened that Guo Xuanxin, the visitor to Yangzhai, was ordered to go on an envoy to find the driver. Sima gave Shi Bao and Deng Ai to him.
After walking for more than ten miles, Xuanxin said to the two of them: You will all become officials and prime ministers in the future.
Shi Bao said: How can a servant who drives a carriage become a minister?
After that, he was sent to Ye again. He could not finish his work for a long time, so he sold iron in the market of Ye.
Mayor Pei Guo and Zhao Yuanru were known for being good at discovering talents. When he saw Shi Bao, he was surprised and made friends with Shi Bao.
Sighing that Shi Bao had great energy, he served as an official and served as a auxiliary to the public, so Shi Bao became famous. I met Xu Yun, the official of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and asked to be appointed as the magistrate of a small county.
Xu Yun said to Shi Bao: "You are a generation sent by us. We should recommend each other to the court. Why do you want a small county?"
Shi Bao sighed after going back. He didn't expect Xu Yun to be such a confidant. Gradually he was promoted to Sima of the Imperial Guard of Emperor Jing.
Emperor Xuan heard that Shi Bao was a womanizer but did not pay attention to his character, so he blamed Emperor Jing.
Emperor Jing replied: Although Shi Bao is deficient in small matters, he has the talent to govern the country.
A chaste and honest person may not be able to manage state affairs.
Therefore, Duke Huan of Qi did not care about Guan Zhong's extravagance and arrogance, but adopted his great strategy to conquer the world; Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty did not consider the shortcomings in Chen Ping's life, but adopted his six wonderful strategies.
Although Shi Bao can't compare with them, he can still be considered as today's candidate.
Only then did he get rid of his scruples.
He was promoted to Ye Diannong Zhonglang Jiang.
At that time, most of the princes of the Wei Dynasty lived in Yexia. The power of Shangshu Ding Mi was unparalleled at that time, and he cared about temporary interests.
There are memorials on the stone buds displaying these things, so they are even more praised.
He has successively served as the governor of Donglai and Langye, and he has gained prestige and favor wherever he took office.
He was promoted to the governor of Xuzhou.
When Emperor Wen was defeated at Dongguan, only Shi Bao retreated.
Emperor Wen pointed to the talisman he took and said to Shi Bao: I regret not giving it to you to complete the great thing.
So Shibao was promoted to General Fenwu, Jiajie, and supervised the military affairs of Qingzhou.
When Zhuge Dan raised troops in Huainan, Shi Bao led the troops in Qingzhou, supervised Zhou Tai, the governor of Yanzhou, and Hu Zhi, the governor of Xuzhou, and selected elite soldiers as mobile troops to resist foreign enemies.
The state of Wu sent generals Zhu Yi, Ding Feng and others to fight. Zhuge Dan and others left their baggage in the capital and crossed the Lishui River with light troops.
Shi Bao and others attacked and defeated the enemy.
Hu Lie, the prefect of Taishan, sent out surprise troops to attack Dulu in a hidden way and burned all the enemy's transportation supplies. Zhu Yi and others gathered up the remaining troops and retreated.
After Shouchun was pacified, Shi Bao was awarded the title of General Zhenshu, and was granted the title of Marquis of Shuguang and Jiejie.
Soon, the acting king Jidu was in charge of the military affairs in Yangzhou.
Shi Bao therefore entered the court.
When it was time to return to his post, he announced his resignation to Gaogui Township and left him talking for a whole day.
After coming out, he said to Emperor Wen: He is not a permanent lord.
A few days later, Cheng Ji killed Gao Gui.
After that, he was promoted to General of Zhengshu, and soon changed to General of Hussars.
When Emperor Wen passed away, Jia Chong and Xun Xu discussed the funeral but failed to decide.
Shi Bao went to the funeral at that time and cried bitterly: "With such a foundation, how can we end up being a minister?"
The funeral was then decided.
After that, he often talked to Chen Qian to persuade Wei Emperor politely when he had exhausted his energy and had a choice in destiny.
When Zen abdicated the throne, Shi Bao stepped in.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, promoted him to the rank of Grand Sima, granted him the title of Duke of Leling County, added him as a servant, and used Yu Bao's chariot cover and drum unit.
Since Zhuge Dan was defeated, Shi Bao had been guarding Huainan, with strong troops and horses, and troubled borders. Shi Bao not only tried his best in various matters, but also convinced others with his majesty and kindness.
Huaibei Supervisor Wang Chen despised Shi Bao's humble background, and heard a nursery rhyme saying: The big horse in the palace has become a donkey, and the big stone can't help it.
So he secretly reported that Shi Bao was colluding with the Wu people.
The fortune teller said earlier that a large army was coming from the southeast.
When Wang Chen's seal arrived at the palace, Emperor Wu was very suspicious.
Just when Hu Lie, the governor of Jingzhou, reported that the Wu people planned to invade on a large scale, Shi Bao also heard that the Wu people would invade, so he built a wall to block the water for defense.
Emperor Wu heard about this and said to Yang Hu: Every time the Wu invaded, they always responded to each other from east to west. There was no reason to send troops from one side. Did Shi Baoguo really want to rebel?
Yang Ku tried his best to explain, but Emperor Wu still doubted Shi Bao.
It happened that Hu Man's son Hu Man was sold to be Shangshu Lang. The emperor summoned him, but he didn't arrive for a whole day.
Emperor Wu thought it must be a rebellion and planned to attack Shi Bao without making any announcement.
Then he issued an edict saying that Shi Bao lacked estimates of the enemy, built forts to block water, and worked hard to disturb the people, so he was dismissed from his official position.
The Taiwei Yiyang King Sima Wang was sent to lead a large army to recruit him back to Beijing to prepare for emergencies.
He also ordered Zhendong General and Langxie King Sima Dian to join forces with Huahua from Xia Li.
Hu Bao used the strategy of returning lithium by subordinate officials. He went out on foot without an army and lived in Duting to await punishment.
After Emperor Wu heard about it, he dispelled his suspicions.
Shi Bao arrived at the court and ordered him to return to the mansion as a public servant.
Shi Bao felt ashamed that he had no merit and had no intention of complaining.
At that time, the governor of Yexi, Juhuang, wrote a letter to defend Shi Bao.
The emperor wrote a letter to Shao saying: The former Grand Sima Shibao was loyal, fair, upright and upright. He was capable of managing world affairs, and his achievements in doing things can be recorded in all his experiences.
It is suitable to take charge of education and assist in government affairs.
Appoint Shi Bao as Situ.
The officials reported: Shi Bao has made mistakes before and cannot bear this important responsibility.
Resigning and returning home in his official capacity is already treating him favorably, and it is not appropriate to promote or appoint him.
Xia Shao said: The Wu people are weak and will not be able to accomplish anything.
Therefore, on the battlefield, the only purpose is to improve the defense so that the enemy cannot invade.
Because Shi Bao had different plans and was too worried about the enemy, he was recruited back to Beijing to be re-appointed.
In the past, Hengxi suffered a setback in Youzhong, but in the end he assisted the Han Dynasty. How can a small mistake cover up a great virtue?
So Shi Bao took office.
Shi Bao reports: There is no reward and punishment system for mulberry farming in prefectures and counties. Subordinate officials should be dispatched to patrol. They should determine the best and worst performance based on the soil and crops suitable for planting in each place, and then decide on the promotion or demotion of officials.
The edict said: Agriculture and breeding are the foundation of government and a major event in governing the country.
Although he wanted to stabilize the situation and promote enlightenment, it would not work without first getting rich and then educating the people.
However, there are many wars in the world, and the country's military needs are great, plus conquests. There are frequent floods and droughts, warehouses are not full, and people have no savings.
In ancient times, Situ was in charge of planting and harvesting.
Although it is in charge of education now, the governance of the country and the establishment of government affairs can only be based on the urgent needs of the time. Therefore, in the era of Dilu, the Farm Palace was the most important.
Now that Situ is in this position, he is loyal to the court and has the ambition to destroy his family and save the country and strive for self-improvement.
I sent Situ to supervise the farming in the prefectures and counties, and I will leave the matter to him. I hang my clothes and look forward to success.
If it is necessary to send someone to patrol the country and appoint ten additional officials, let him choose those who have experience in farming among the officials.
Shi Bao was known as loyal and diligent in his position, and the emperor often entrusted him with important tasks.
He died in the eighth year of Taishi.
The emperor paid his condolences in the court hall and gave him a coffin, a set of court robes, a set of clothes, three hundred thousand dollars, and one hundred pieces of cloth.
During the burial, the emperor's funeral was carried out outside Shuye Gate with festivals, buildings, huts, qugai, chariots, drums, warriors, and carts, all according to the old practice of Wei Sikong and Chen Tai.
Ce Feng Mi was named Wu.
In the early years of Xianning, Shi Bao and others were ordered to enjoy the king's funeral ceremony and to keep inscriptions and sacrifices.
Shi Bao had written the "Final System" in advance and said: If Yanling was buried lightly, Ren Yuan would consider it a courtesy; if Hua Yuan was buried generously, "Spring and Autumn" would consider him unfaithful. This is a clear teaching in ancient times.
From now on, those who die will be buried in the clothes they wear at the time, and they cannot wear two sets of clothes.
You cannot put pearls, jade, beans, etc. into the mouth of the deceased and do what ordinary people do.
It is also not allowed to set up bed tents and sacrificial vessels.
After the coffin is buried, the hole is filled with soil, and no trees can be planted at the grave.
In the past, Yang Wangsun rectified the current situation by burying him naked. His sons followed their father's orders, and a gentleman would not ridicule them, not to mention those who conformed to the etiquette and codes. The sons all obeyed the orders, and refused to offer sacrifices to relatives or former subordinates.
Shi Bao had six sons: Shi Yue, Shi Qiao, Shi Tong, Shi Jun, Shi Jun, and Shi Chong.
Shi Tong inherited the title.
Shi Tong, whose courtesy name was Hongxu, served successively as the captain of Shesheng and Dahonglu.
His son Shi Shun was appointed Shangshu Lang.
Shi Yue, whose courtesy name was Honglun, died early.
Shi Qiao, whose courtesy name was Hongzu, served successively as Shangshu Lang and Sanqi Shilang.
Since Emperor Wu could not summon Shi Qiao, he suspected Shi Bao of rebellion.
When Shi Bao arrived, Emperor Wu looked ashamed and said to him: Your son almost destroyed your family.
Shi Bao then deposed him and refused to let him serve as an official for the rest of his life.
Because of his dirty behavior, he was exiled to Dunqiu and was killed together with his younger brother Shi Chong.
His two sons, Shi Chao and Shi Xi, escaped and were not killed.
When King Sima Ying of Chengdu raised an army, he appointed Shi Chao as General Zhechong to attack Sun Xiu. He was granted the title of Marquis for his meritorious service.
He was also appointed General Zhenwu to conquer the Jingzhou bandits and bandits who were fighting for the house.
Sima Ying and Sima Yi, king of Kensha, attacked each other. Shi Chao served as the vanguard and was promoted to the central guard.
Chen Zhen and others kidnapped Emperor Hui for the Northern Expedition, and Shi Chao returned to Ye.
Sima Ying sent Shi Chao to resist the emperor in Dangyin. The emperor's army was defeated, and Shi Chao forced the emperor to visit Ye Palace.
When Wang Jun attacked Sima Ying in Ye, Sima Ying appointed Shi Chao as the right general to resist Wang Jun, but he returned with a disastrous defeat.
Follow the emperor to Luoyang and move west to Chang'an.
Sima Ji, the king of Hejian, appointed Shi Chao and General Beizhonglang, and sent him and Sima Ying to jointly resist Sima Yue, the king of the East China Sea.
Shi Chao recruited troops in Rongyang. Wang Chan, the right general, and Zhao Ze, the commander of the Dian soldiers, were both under Shi Chao's command and served as backup for Liu Qiao, the governor of Yuzhou.
Fanyang King Sima Chengcheng attacked and killed Shi Chao, but Shi Xi was able to escape and avoid death.
In the reign of Yongjia, Sima Yue was appointed as Taifu and joined the army.
Shi Jun, whose courtesy name is Jinglun, is honest, frugal, knowledgeable, and respectful.
He was a well-known scholar at the time when he reached the rank of Huangmen Shilang. He died early.
Shi Jun, courtesy name Yanlun, was famous when he was young. People who commented on him said that he was an outstanding talent.
When he reached Yangping Prefecture, he died early.
Shi Chong, whose courtesy name was Jilun, was born in Qingzhou, so his nickname was Qinu.
When he was young, he was smart, brave and resourceful.
When Shi Bao died, he divided his property among his sons, but not Shi Chong.
Shi Chong's mother spoke for Shi Chong, and Shi Bao said: Although this son is young, he can get it later.
In his twenties, he was practicing martial arts and had a reputation for being capable.
He entered the court as a Sanqi Lang and was promoted to the prefect of Chengyang.
For his meritorious service in the crusade against Wu, he was granted the title of Anyang Marquis.
Although he had a position in the county, he was eager to learn and asked to be dismissed due to illness.
Soon, he was awarded the title of Huang Menlang.
Brother Shi Tong offended Sima Jun, King of Fufeng. Officials accepted the decree and impeached Shi Tong, who was about to be severely punished, but he was later forgiven.
Because Shi Chong did not go to the palace to thank him, the officials wanted to accuse Shi of ruling again.
Shi Chong himself said in the letter: With the grace of his late father, my brother Shi Tong received favorable treatment early on. His official position is clean and he works hard in office.
I guessed the emperor's heart and was aware of this.
Recently, he was slandered and slandered by King Sima Jun of Fufeng. Sili Zhongcheng and others used words to emphasize the memorial, and the impeachment memorial quoted the law and fabricated charges to cover up the emperor's hearing.
My two brothers were terrified and worried.
Sima Jun was a relative of the emperor, with a respected position and great power.
Officials at home and abroad can obey his will when they hear the news.
As long as you are disgusted, it is easier than throwing an egg.
Since Shi Tong was wronged and impeached, our brothers have not dared to say anything to defend ourselves.
Remain silent and wait for the execution letter.
The ancients said that if you follow people's wishes, you will be rich, but if you go against people's wishes, you will be unlucky. This is absolutely true. Today I believe it.
Therefore, although the officials concerned are fair, they cannot use the law to unjustly accuse people. Although they are unjustly accused and slandered, they cannot help but admit defeat.
Fortunately, Your Majesty is attentive to all directions and discerns every detail. He remembers the merits and virtues of our late father and understands our diligence and loyalty.
He personally issued an edict and appealed to the court, and the charges were clarified.
Our broken bones are not enough to repay the kindness.
On the 14th of this month, I waited at the bus door with my brothers Shi Tong and Shi Jun to express our gratitude.
I thought that when the time came to play, the emperor would soon hear it.
On the 20th of this month, I suddenly received a ban from Lantai, saying that Shi Tong was pardoned, which was an unusual grace, but I actually stayed at home without expressing my gratitude, and was impeached again. The ridicule and humiliation were unreasonable.
When I first heard these words, I was frightened and uneasy, but when I calmed down and thought about it, it was not surprising at all.
There is nothing that cannot be done when driven by noble and powerful people, and it is impossible to expect impartial enforcement of the law.
With my unremarkable talents, I shouldered heavy responsibilities many times and was unable to pull a cart and chop firewood just to repay the unexpected.
Over the past month, impeachment memorials have been thrown at us frequently, and I don’t care about them anymore.
What I am ashamed of is that I cannot flatter my relatives and I am in trouble.
If you don't curry favor with the powerful, you are really ashamed of Wang Sun. "Sui Chao Zi" explains the character of the king, first understand the situation, and then understand the situation.
Everything I think of is in line with holiness. I am waiting for punishment. There is nothing more I can say.
Thanks to this table, things work out.
Gradually he was promoted to serve as a regular attendant and an attendant on Sanqi.
Emperor Wu thought highly of Shi Chong because he was the son of a meritorious official and was talented.
In the early years of Yuankang, Yang Jun assisted in government affairs, awarded many rewards and established many party members.
Shi Chong and San Qi Lang He Pan of Shu County jointly formulated their opinions and reported to Emperor Hui: Your Majesty's holy virtue shines in all directions, the emperor's spirit opened Fu Zuo, and he became the prince of Shu Palace. For more than 20 years, moral education was spread and all countries surrendered.
Now I have inherited a grand inheritance, which is a gift from God.
As for the awards and titles awarded, they are more generous than at the beginning of the Taishi Revolution.
This is the first point of uneasiness.
Wu Hui was arrogant and rebellious for almost a hundred years. The border was damaged by them and the court was too busy to eat on time.
The late emperor, with his decisive wisdom and powerful strategies, swept away and eliminated the fleeing enemies, just like destroying the dead.
However, the fierce advisers and generals still have their own merits.
Nowadays, the reward for Enze is more generous than the reward for reducing Wu.
This is the second point of uneasiness.
God's favor and help are indeed in Da Jin, and Da Jin has been prosperous for countless generations.
The system created now should be passed on to future generations.
If there is no difference between superiority and inferiority, and those who have a title must be given a title, then after a few generations, no one will be a prince.
This is the third point of uneasiness.
We take the liberty of stating what we have heard.
We believe that from the beginning of the Taishi year to the time of the pacification of Wu, all the merits and official documents of the system have been preserved.
Even if you cannot follow the ancient laws, you should still follow the old laws of modern times.
The document was submitted but was not accepted.
He served as general of Nanzhonglang, governor of Jingzhou, captain of Nanman school, and general of Yingyang.
When Shi Chong was in the south, he got a small bird and gave it to General Gong Kai of the rear army.
Under the system at that time, the poisonous bird was not allowed to cross Kuang Liao. He was impeached by the Sili captain for being a witch. The emperor forgave him and burned the poisonous bird to death on the streets of the capital.
Shi Chong was intelligent and talented, but he acted recklessly and misbehaved.
In Huicong, they robbed envoys and merchants who came quickly, and gained countless wealth.
He was recruited as a senior agricultural officer, but he was dismissed because he left his post without permission before the recruitment documents arrived.
Soon after, he was granted the title of Imperial Servant, and was appointed as General of the Conqueror Army. During holidays, he supervised the military affairs of Xuzhou and guarded Gongpi.
Shi Chong had another residence in Jingu, also known as Zize, in Heyang. People from all over the city saw him off and set up a tent here to drink.
When he arrived at his post, he and Gao Dan, the governor of Xuzhou, insulted each other due to a drinking quarrel and were reported by the military commander to be dismissed from their official posts.
He was also appointed as a guard, and he flattered Pan Yue and bought rice cakes.
Buying is friendly to him and is known as the "Twenty-Four Friends".
Every time Guangcheng Jun went out, Shi Chong got off the car and walked to the left side of the road, bowing to Che Chen. He was so humble and flattering.
The property is very large and the houses are gorgeous.
There were hundreds of wives and concubines, all wearing silk and gold and jade, using the best musical instruments of the time, and eating delicacies from all over the world.
Comparing with people like Wang Kai and Yang You, the royal relatives, they compare themselves with luxury.
Wang Kai used sugar paste to wash the pot and used wax as firewood.
Wang Kai used purple silk cloth to make a screen forty miles long, and Shi Chong used brocade to make a screen fifty miles long to match.
Huya used pepper to paint the house, and Wang Kai used red weathered stone.
This is how Wang Kai and Wang Kai fight for wealth.
Emperor Wu often supported Wang Kai and once gave him a coral tree, which was about two feet high and had staggered branches, which was rare in the world.
Wang Kai showed it to Husai, who struck it with Tie Ruyi and it shattered.
Wang Kai felt sorry for each other, but also felt that they were jealous of each other's treasures.
Shi Chong said: "It's not worth the regret. I will compensate you today."
So he ordered everyone to fetch all the coral trees from their homes. There were six or seven of them three or four feet high, with good trunks and brilliant brilliance. There were many like Wang Kai.
If Wang Kai missed something, Shi Chong made bean porridge for the guests. He ordered it to be cooked immediately.
Every winter, pickles are made with leeks.
Once on a trip with Wang Kai, they competed to enter the Robbery Castle first. The cattle that were crossing each other were as fast as birds, and Wang Kai could never catch up.
Yu Kai often regretted these three things, so he secretly bribed Shi Sai's men to ask him the reason.
He replied: It is extremely difficult to boil beans. Make the minced beans in advance. When guests come, you only need to cook the porridge and put the cooked minced beans on it.
Chive Jiangkui is made by pounding chive roots and adding wheat seedlings.
The cow runs slowly only because the driver does not drive it properly and restricts it. It can run as fast as it can if it is allowed to run wildly.
So they all obeyed his words and gained dignity.
Shi Chong later learned the reason and killed the informer.
Once he entered the Imperial Academy with Wang Dun and saw the portraits of Yan Hui and Yuan Xian. While looking at them, he sighed and said, "If you go to the Jiezi Hall with them, why should you be different from others?"
Wang Dun said: I don’t know what other people said, but Zigong is closer to you.
Shi Chong said with a serious expression: A scholar should be distinguished both in body and reputation. Why should he be so poor that he uses a broken urn as a window?
His concept is roughly the same.
When the Liu Yu brothers were young, they were jealous of Wang Kai. Wang Kai invited them to stay overnight and wanted to take the opportunity to bury them alive.
Shi Chong had always been friendly with Liu Yu and others. When he heard that something was going to happen, he drove to Wang Kai overnight and asked where the Liu brothers were. Wang Kai was in a hurry and had no time to hide.
Shi Chong went directly into the back room to find them and left in the same car.
He said to them: How can young people stay overnight at other people's homes?
Liu Yu was very grateful to him.
Jia Mi was executed, and Shi Chong was removed from office because he was a comrade.
At that time, King Zhao Sima Lun was in power, and Shi Chong's nephew Ouyang Jian had conflicts with Sima Lun.
There was a prostitute named Luzhu in Shi Chong who was beautiful and good at playing the flute.
Sun Xiu sent someone to ask for her.
Shi Chong was at the villa in Jingu. He was on the balcony, facing the clear water, with the woman waiting beside him.
The messenger came to ask for someone.
Shi Chong called out all his dozens of maids and concubines to show the envoys. They were all smelling of fragrance and wearing silk clothes. Shi Chong said: Pick whatever you want.
The messenger said: The king's maids and concubines are beautiful, but the order I accepted asked for green beads. I don't know which one is it?
Shi Chong was furious and said: Luzhu is the one I love, and you can't get it.
The messenger said: Your Majesty is knowledgeable about the past and the present, and can see clearly from far and near. I hope you will think twice.
Shi Chong said: No.
The envoy went out and came back, but Shi Chong still refused.
Sun Xiu was furious and persuaded Sima Lun to kill Shi Chong and Ouyang Jian.
Shi Chong and Ouyang Jian also secretly knew Sun Xiu's plan, so they secretly persuaded Huainan King Sima Yun and Qi King Sima to come to Pu to seek advice from Sima Lun and Sun Xiu.
When Sun Xiu noticed this, he falsely claimed that the emperor had issued an edict to arrest Shi Chong, Pan Yue, Ouyang Jian and others.
Shi Chong was having a banquet upstairs when the soldier arrived at the door.
Shi Chong said to Lu Zhu: I am going to get you guilty today.
Luzhu cried and said: I should die in front of you in retribution.
So he jumped downstairs and died.
Shi Chong said: I was just exiled to Jiao and Guangzhou.
When the car took him to Dongshi, Shi Chongcai sighed and said: That slave is interested in my wealth.
His captor replied: Knowing that wealth can bring disaster, why didn't you distribute it early?
Shi Chong had nothing to say.
Shi Chong's mother, brothers, wives and children were all killed, regardless of age. Fifteen people died. Shi Chong was fifty-two years old at the time.
At first, Shi Chong's rice fell on the ground and turned into snails overnight. People at the time thought it was a sign of family extinction.
Officials checked the books and found that Shi Chong had more than 30 water-powered rice milling facilities, more than 800 slaves, and other treasures, properties and houses equivalent to this.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne again and issued an edict to bury Shi Chong according to Qing's rites.
Feng Shichong's great-nephew Shi Yan was named Leling Gong.
Shi Bao's great-grandson Shi Pu, named Xuan Zhen, was a respectful and kind man with no other talents. He died in a barbaric area.
Because Shi Le and Shi Pu had the same surname and were both from the north of the Yellow River, he regarded Shi Pu as a clan member, so he treated Shi Pu with special privileges and favored him, and he was promoted to Situ.
Ouyang Jian, whose courtesy name is Jianshi, has been a wealthy family in Jizhou for generations.
Elegant, talented, and eloquent, he is famous in the northern states and counties.
People at that time commented on him: Ouyang Jianshi is famous in the Bohai area.
He was recruited to the palace and served successively as Shanyang Ling, Shangshu Lang, and Feng Yi Grand Administrator. He was highly praised by people at that time.
When disaster strikes him, no one will fail to mourn and pity him. He was in his thirties.
He wrote poems before his death, which were very sad and desolate.
Sun Shuo, courtesy name Juye, was a native of Huaidi, Hanoi.
When he was young, he was willing to serve as a county official. Wu Fen, the prefect, made him the chief official.
Sun Shuo rose from a humble position to an official career, and the bureaucrats at that time were still unwilling to sit with him.
Wu Fen was furious and recommended him to serve as the governor of Sili.
Liu Na, the captain of Sili School, appreciated him very much.
At that time, Wu Fen recommended Sun Shuo to the Grand Sima Shi Bao, who recruited him as an official.
Sun Shuo was about to accept the appointment and traveled to Xuchang, just when the imperial court had secretly dispatched light troops to attack Shi Bao.
At that time, King Ruyin was guarding Xuchang, and Sun Shuo went to see him.
King Ruyin knew Sun Shuo before, and he told Sun Shuo privately as a fellow villager: Don't get involved in disasters.
After Sun Shuo left, he rushed to Shouchun to plan for Shi Bao. Fortunately, Shi Bao was able to avoid disaster thanks to him.
He was promoted to Shangshulang, and he refuted more than ten petitions by others while in office, and was highly praised at the time.
Shi Chen said: If we talk about being the emperor's teacher, then Zheng Chong deserves it; filial piety is the foundation of morality, so Wang Xiang can be regarded as benevolent; how could he ever be kind to his relatives and extend it to his relatives?
Xia Yu was frugal and simple, while the Yin Shang Dynasty increased and decreased.
When used for sacrifices, each has its own hierarchy. Lords do not always use oxen, and scholars do not always use pigs.
Stopping luxury is related to the governance of the country.
Take advantage of the opportunity to formulate a system, and there will be no failure to follow it.
Shi Chong was well-educated, had a surly temperament and rarely repented. He showed wealth beyond all wealthy families, and competed with princes to win.
The bean leaves in the spring vegetable field can be obtained in the freezing morning; the brocade barrier winds and connects to the mountains and rivers beyond.
The bell-ringing dancer lingers, but as for the death in the Golden Valley, the banquet place is about to crash. As the saying goes, the cicada under the tall tree does not know that the mantis is attacking behind.
Praising: Zheng Chong was simple in nature, and Wang Xiang became an official in his later years.
Various qualities merge and walk together on the path guided by God.
He Zeng and Shi Bao had different conduct and strange lives.
The emperor's style was luxurious, and Shi Chong pursued him wholeheartedly.
Arrogance and luxury have no end, and assets cause harm.
Nations divide and destroy themselves, joy and sorrow accompany them.
