◆Ren Guangchuan Ren Guangzi Boqing was born in Wan County, Nanyang County.
He was loyal and loyal in his youth and loved by the villagers.
At first he was a local miser and a county official.
When the Han soldiers arrived in Wan, the soldiers saw Ren Guang's bright uniform and ordered him to take off his clothes, preparing to kill him and seize his clothes.
Just then Guang Luxun and Liu Ci arrived. Seeing that Ren Guang looked like an elder, he rescued him.
Ren Guang led his disciples to follow Liu Ci, to secure the governorship, and to worship him as a partial general. Together with his ancestors, he defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi.
Gengshi arrived in Luoyang and appointed Ren Guang as the governor of Xindu.
When Wang Lang rose up, all the prefectures and states surrendered to Wang Lang. Ren Guangdu refused, so he and the captains Li Zhong, Ling Wanxiu, Gong Cao Ruan Kuang, Wu Guan Yu Guo Tang and others stood firm.
Ting Ping took Wang Lang's message to Ren Guang's house to persuade Ren Guang. Ren Guang beheaded Ting Ping in the city to declare to the people, and sent 4,000 elite soldiers to strengthen the city defense.
In the spring of the second year of Gengshi, Shizu came back from Ji and was so embarrassed that he didn't know where to go. Hearing that Xindu was alone in the Han Dynasty and rejected the prince, he rushed to Xindu.
Ren Guang and others were guarding the isolated city alone, fearing that they would not be able to save it. When they heard that Shizu had arrived, they were overjoyed. The officials and the people all said long live the city. They immediately opened the door and, together with Li Zhong and Wan Xiu, led the officials to welcome Jin Ye.
When Shizu arrived at his residence, he said to Ren Guang: "Boqing, we are now alone and weak. I want to go with you to the soldiers at Chengtouzi Road and Lizidu. What do you think?" Ren Guang said: No. Shizu said: You have few soldiers, what should you do? Ren Guang said: We can recruit quick troops to attack neighboring counties. If they do not surrender, we will let them plunder.
People are greedy for money, so soldiers can be recruited. Shizu obeyed.
He appointed Ren Guang as the General of the Left and granted him the title of Marquis of Wucheng. He left Nanyang Zongguang to take over the position of prefect of Xindu, allowing Ren Guang to lead his troops to follow him.
Ren Guang wrote more propaganda articles and said: Grand Sima Liu Gong led Chengtou Zilu and Lizidu and millions of soldiers came from the east to conquer the rebels from various ministries. He sent his horse galloping into the realm of giant deer.
Officials and the people received the proclamation and circulated it to each other.
Shizu then entered Tangyang Realm with Ren Guang and others at dusk, and ordered the cavalry to each hold a torch, so that the fire filled the lake and illuminated the sky and the earth. Everyone in the city was shocked and horrified, and they surrendered that night.
In ten days, the army's strength increased greatly, so they turned to attack the city and captured Handan, so they sent Ren Guang back to the county.
Chengtou Zilu was from Dongping, his surname was Yuan, his given name was Zeng, and his given name was Zilu. He and Liu Xu of Feicheng set up an army in Chengtou, so he called his army Chengtou Zilu.
Zilu claimed that he was engaged in military affairs, and Liu Xu called him the three elders of the school. He invaded and plundered between the Yellow River and Jishui, and his troops numbered more than 200,000.
When Gengshi was established, Yuan Zeng sent envoys to surrender. Gengshi worshiped Yuan Zeng as the prefect of Donglai County and Liu Xu as the prefect of Jinan, both of whom exercised military power as generals.
In this year, Yuan was killed by his subordinates, and Liu Xu was elected as the leader. Liu Xu was granted the title of Marquis of Help, and ordered him to withdraw his troops and return to his county.
Li Zidu, a native of Donghai, raised troops in the countryside, plundered and attacked Xuzhou and Yanzhou, with a tribe of 60,000 to 70,000 people.
Gengshi was established, and his envoys were sent to surrender. They all worshiped Lizi as the shepherd of Xuzhou.
He was killed by his subordinates, and the rest of the party gathered again to meet the thieves in Tanxiang, so they were named Tanxiang.
Dong Cizhong, the commander-in-chief of Tanxiang, started from Chiping County, crossed the river into Qinghe, Wei County, and joined the five schools with more than 100,000 troops.
In the first year of Jianwu, Shizu entered Luoyang and sent the Grand Sima Wu Han army to attack Tanxiang. In the spring of the next year, Tanxiang failed and surrendered.
In this year, Ren Guang was granted the title of Marquis of Aling, with a population of over 10,000 households.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he was recruited to the capital and invited by the court.
He died in the winter of that year.
The son was appointed as the heir to the throne.
◆Li Zhongchuan
Li Zhong, courtesy name Zhongdu, was from Huang County, Donglai County.
His father is the captain of Gaomi. During the reign of Emperor Li Zhongping, his father was appointed as the minister, and he had dozens of people in his office. However, Li Zhong was famous for his good manners and neat grooming. Wang Mang was the chief of Xinbo at that time, and everyone in the county respected and trusted him.
After Gengshi ascended the throne, he sent envoys to patrol the prefecture and the country, and then worshiped Li Zhong as the captain.
Li Zhong and Ren Guang jointly worshiped the ancestors of the world and became the right generals, and they were granted the title of Wu Guhou.
At that time, Shizu took off the ribbon he was wearing and put it on for Li Zhong, so he attacked the subordinate counties from Shizu and arrived at Kushan County. Shizu met with the generals and asked them what property they had obtained, but Li Zhong was the only one who did not plunder it.
Shizu said: I want to reward Li Zhong specially. You won't have any resentment, right? He gave Li Zhong a large horse and embroidered quilt and clothes.
All the generals were horrified and said: "Your mother and wife are still in the hands of others. Isn't it too much to kill his brother?" Li Zhong said: If you don't punish the rebels, you are having second thoughts. After hearing this, Shizu praised Li Zhong and said: Now that my army is ready, the general can go back to save your mother and wife. I want to recruit officials and people who can save their families. I will give you a reward of tens of millions. Come to me to receive it. Li Zhong said: I am so grateful to Duke Ming. I only think about serving the public and I really don't dare to take care of my family. Shizu ordered Ren Guang to lead his troops to rescue Xindu. Ren Guang's troops scattered on the road and surrendered to Wang Lang. Ren Guang returned without success.
It happened that Gengshi sent generals to conquer Xindu, and Li Zhong's family was safe.
Shizu then asked Li Zhong to return to Xindu and perform the duties of governor. Li Zhong killed hundreds of people in the county who had surnamed Wang Lang.
When Ren Guang returned to the county, Li Zhong was restored to the rank of captain.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Zhongshui, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
In this year, Zheng was worshiped as Wugan Zhonglang General, and followed to pacify Pang Meng, Dong Xian and others.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, he moved to Danyang to be the prefect.
At this time, the country had just been calmed down, and many people in the Jianghuai area along the southern coast were supporting troops to seize control.
Li Zhong went to the county and recruited envoys to join him. All those who disobeyed were killed, and they were all put down within ten days.
Li Zhong thought Danyang was more vulgar and did not like to study, and the wedding ceremony was not as grand as that in the Central Plains, so he set up a school to learn etiquette, held ceremonies in the Spring and Autumn Period, selected people who were proficient in classics, and presided over it by people who admired him in the county.
As a result, more land was cultivated, and within three years, more than 50,000 refugees became local indigenous people.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, he was ranked first in the world in the Sangong assessment and was moved to Yuzhang as the prefect. He was dismissed from office due to illness and was recruited to the capital.
Jianwu died in the 19th year.
◆Wan Xiu Chuan Wan Xiu, named Junyou, was from Maoling, Fufeng County.
At the time of Gengshi, in order to obey the capital order, he guarded the city together with the prefect Ren Guang and the captain Li Zhong, welcomed the ancestors, worshiped him as a partial general, and created a righteous marquis.
After Handan was defeated, he was appointed as the right general and followed him to pacify Hebei.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Huaili.
He and General Jiantan of Yanghua attacked Nanyang together, but failed to capture it and fell ill and died in the army.
Zi Wanpu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of the Hu clan.
Wan Pu died, his son Wan Qin succeeded him to the throne, and he moved to Fuliu Hou.
Ten thousand relatives died, no children, the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Mrs. Deng later granted Wanxiu's great-grandson Wanfeng the title of Marquis of Qupingting.
Wan Feng died, and his son Wan Chi succeeded him.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Wan Chi died without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of Yanxi, Emperor Huan renewed the title of Wan Gong, the great-great-grandson of Wan Xiu, as Marquis of Mendeting.
◆Pi Tong Biography: Pi Tong, courtesy name Weijun, was a native of Xindu.
His father, Pi Ji, was the governor of western Liaoning.
Pitong initially served as Wang Mang and Cheng Zuzheng.
Shizu captured Hebei and reached Xiaquyang. Pitong surrendered the city, and Shizu made Pitong the governor and stayed for a few days.
Shizu went north to Ji, and it happened that Wang Lang's army rose up and sent generals to conquer the land. Every county he went to welcomed him, but Hecheng and Xin could not hold on.
When Pitong heard that Shizu had lost his army when he returned from Ji and was preparing to go to Xindu, he first sent Zhang Wan, the Five Officials Commander, and Yin Sui, the Superintendent of Posts, to select more than 2,000 horses to meet Shizu's army along the road.
Pitong soon met Shizu in Xindu.
Although Shizu received help from the two counties, the soldiers did not gather. Many of his subordinates said that they could send him back to Chang'an west by letter.
Pi Tong immediately replied: What the commentators said is wrong.
The officials and the people had been praising the Han Dynasty for a long time, so when Gengshi came to the throne, the whole country responded. The third auxiliary of the Qing Dynasty swept the couches and cleared the roads to welcome him.
If one man raises his halberd and shouts, all the generals from thousands of miles away will offer their city and flee, and the thieves will prostrate themselves and beg to surrender.
Since ancient times, no animal or human has reached this level of sensitivity.
That prince was just a fortune-teller who took advantage of the chaos in the world under the guise of the Liu clan and mobilized a mob to frighten the land of Yan and Zhao. What's more, Ming Gong raised the troops of the two counties and promoted the power of response. If you want to attack, no city can be conquered, if you want to fight, no army can't surrender!
If you abandon this and return now, you will not only lose Hebei, but also alarm the three assistants. Once the prestige and reputation are lost, this is not a good plan.
If Duke Ming had no intention of conquest again, then even if there were soldiers from Xindu, it would be difficult to meet him.
Why?
Now that Ming Gong has returned to the west, the people of Handan are unwilling to abandon their parents and the city lord, and send the Duke back to the west after thousands of miles. Their separation and flight is inevitable.
The founder of Shizu did good deeds and stopped returning to the west.
Immediately, I appointed Pi Tong as the general of the rear, and asked him to lead the troops in front as the prefect did in the past.
When they arrived at Tangyang, Tangyang belonged to Wang Lang. Pitong sent Zhang Wan and Yin Sui to inform the officials and people first. When Shizu arrived at night, Tangyang opened the door to welcome him.
He also led troops to defeat the Baishe bandits in Zhongshan.
From then on, Pitong often attacked and fought from Shizu.
Xindu was restored and surrendered to Wang Lang. The Xindu king set up by Wang Lang arrested and imprisoned Pitong's uncle, wife and children, and asked them to call Pitong in handwriting and say: If you surrender, you will be crowned, if you don't surrender, your clan will be exterminated. Pitong cried and reported: "Those who serve the king should not take care of their families."
It is Liu Gong's kindness that Pitong's relatives are still able to settle down in Xindu.
Liu Gong is currently busy with state affairs, and I, Pi Tong, must not worry about private matters. It happened that the generals sent by Gengshi captured Xindu, and Wang Lang's troops were defeated, so Pitong's family was spared.
After capturing Handan, he granted Pitong the title of Marquis of Wuyi.
In the first year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis Lingshou and acted as the chief minister in charge of affairs.
When the emperor entered Luoyang, he worshiped Pi Tong as Taichang. He transferred to the Shaofu in the remaining months of the month and was exempted from Taichang's duties this year.
Then he served as Zuo Cao's servant and often went on expeditions.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, he returned to the feudal state.
When Pitong died, his son Pitang succeeded him. In the ninth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of Leling.
In the 19th year of Jianwu's reign, Pitang died, and his son Pi took the throne. He had no children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Mrs. Deng subsequently granted Pitong and Sun Piyin the title of Pingtinghou.
When Pi Yin died, his son Pi Chai succeeded him.
At first, Zhang Wan, Yin Sui and Pi Tong welcomed Shizu, and they all worshiped him as partial generals and followed him in the expedition.
Zhang Wan was granted the title of Chongping Marquis, and Yin Sui was granted the title of Platform Marquis.
The historian commented: Anyone who talks about success is easy to become famous because of his outstanding achievements; those who plan things in advance are difficult to be known because of their obscure reasons.
This is of course based on actual comparison and should be reasoned and investigated.
As for Shizu, although he had gained the people of the two counties, he still wanted to return to Chang'an in the west, abandon his achievements, and face unexpected situations, but Shizu did not realize it, and all those who made suggestions agreed to follow him. In this case, aren't Pitong's words prescient!
The Analects of Confucius says, "One sentence can make a country prosperous." Pi Tong's words are very close.
◆Biography of Liu Zhi Liu Zhi, courtesy name Boxian, was a native of Changcheng, Julu.
After Wang Lang's uprising, Liu Zhi, his younger brother Liu happy, and his elder brother Liu Xin led thousands of clan guests to occupy Changcheng.
When Shizu heard that Shizu had returned from Ji, he opened the city gate to welcome Shizu. Shizu made Liu Zhi his valiant cavalry general, Liu happy and Liu Xin his partial generals, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
At this time, Liu Yang, the king of Zhending, raised an army to surrender to Wang Lang. There were more than 100,000 people. The ancestor of the emperor sent Liu Zhi to persuade Liu Yang, and Liu Yang surrendered.
Therefore, Shizu stayed in Zhending and took in Empress Guo. Empress Guo was Liu Yang's niece, so she made a strong connection with her.
So he and Liu Yang and other generals held a banquet to celebrate at Guo's home in Qili. Liu Yang was so happy that he built a building for it, so he had to march to capture Handan and follow him to pacify Hebei.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Liu Zhi was granted the title of Marquis of Changcheng.
He defeated the bandits in Mi County and died in the war.
His son Liu Xiang succeeded him.
The emperor's envoy Liu happy led Liu Zhi's army on his behalf, and was granted the title of General Xiaoqi and the title of Marquis of Guanjin.
After Liu happy's death, Liu Xin was made a heroic cavalry general and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuyang.
Liu happy and Liu Xin followed the expedition and both passed down the feudal state to their descendants.
Liu Xiang was granted the title of Marquis of Dongwuyang. After his death, his son Liu Shu succeeded to the throne. In the fifteenth year of Yongping, the feudal state was abolished because of his involvement in the rebellion of Chu King Liu Ying.
◆The biography of Geng Chun Geng Chun, courtesy name Boshan, was born in the Song Dynasty in Julu.
His father, Geng Ai, is Wang Mang Ji Pingyin.
Geng Chun studied in Chang'an, so he was awarded the title of Nayanshi.
Wang Mang was defeated and Gengshi ascended the throne, causing Wuyang King Li Yi to surrender to various counties. Geng Chun's father Geng Ai surrendered and returned to serve as the prefect of Jinan.
At that time, brother Li Yi was in power and acted arbitrarily, and there was a lot of lobbying from guests.
Geng Chun asked for a meeting many times but was not informed. It took a long time before he was able to see him. So he said to Li Yi: Your Majesty, with the majestic appearance of a dragon and a tiger, met at the stormy moment and rose up quickly. Within a month, the brothers became kings. However, the scholars and the people did not know what your virtues were, and you did not publicize your merits to the people. Sudden favors and official positions are taboo for smart people.
I am afraid that if I work hard and be vigilant and self-sufficient, I will not end well, let alone if I suddenly break out and become self-sufficient, can I succeed? Li Yi was very strange, and because Geng Chun was Julu's surname, he accepted Geng Chun as the cavalry captain according to the emperor's decree, awarded him the talisman, and ordered him to settle in Zhao.
It happened that Shizu crossed the river to Handan, and Geng Chun went to see him. Shizu happily received him.
Geng Chun retreated and saw that the methods of commanding the army by his officials were different from other generals, so he asked to make friends and adopt them himself, and donated hundreds of horses and silk.
Shizu went north to Zhongshan, leaving Geng Chun in Handan.
Coinciding with Wang Langzhao, Shizu ran from Ji to the southeast. Geng Chun, together with his younger brothers Geng Yanjin, Geng Su and Geng Zhi, led more than 2,000 guests from the clan. The old and sick all carried coffins to welcome Shizu in Yu County.
Geng Chun was worshiped as the former general and Geng Xianghou was granted the title. Geng Genjin, Geng Su, and Geng Zhi were all worshiped as partial generals, so that they and Geng Chun were in the front line, surrendered to Songzi, and followed to capture Quyang and Zhongshan.
At this time, many counties surrendered to Handan. Geng Chun was afraid that the clan had double-minded intentions, so he sent Geng Jinjin and Geng Su back to burn down all the clan houses.
Shizu asked Geng Chun why he did this, and Geng Chun said: I saw Ming Gong coming to Hebei on his bicycle. He had no savings in the government, so he could use it as bait for a heavy reward.
Now that Handan has established its own title, Beizhou is confused. Even though I have surrendered my entire family to Duke Ming, and the old and the weak are traveling with me, I am still afraid of those who disagree with me among my clan members and guests, so I burned down my hut to eliminate any hope of him turning back. Shizu sighed.
When they arrived at Gaohuang, Shizu stopped at the inn. Su Gong, the surnamed Gaohuang, opened the city gate and let Wang Lang and Li Yun in.
Geng Chun discovered it first and led his troops to fight fiercely with Li Yun, defeating him and beheading him.
He followed and pacified Handan, and defeated the bronze horse.
At this time, more than 100,000 tribesmen from Chimei, Qingdu, Shangjiang, Datong, Tiejin and Wuban were shooting dogs, and Shizu led his troops to prepare for the attack.
Geng Chun's army was in front, a few miles away from the camp. The thieves suddenly attacked Geng Chun at night. Arrows rained down into the camp, killing many soldiers.
Geng Chun ordered his troops to stand firm.
A death squad of 2,000 people was selected, all armed with powerful crossbows and three arrows each. They ordered them to sneak with light cavalry, get behind the thieves, and shout in unison.
Geng Chun sent a fast horse to report to Shizu.
Early the next morning, Shizu and all the generals came to the camp and comforted Geng Chun, saying: "Were you sleepy last night?" Geng Chun said: By relying on the power of Ming Gong, luckily you will be safe. Shizu said: Soldiers are not allowed to move at night, so they did not rescue each other.
There are no rules for the advancement and retreat of the military camp. Your clan cannot all be in the army. He appointed Geng Ji, a member of Geng Chun's clan, as the chief of Puwu, and ordered all of Geng Chun's relatives to live in Puwu County.
Shizu ascended the throne and granted Geng Chun the title of Marquis of Gaoyang.
Attack Liu Yong at Jiyin and capture Dingtao.
At first, Geng Chun followed Wang Lang and broke his shoulder after falling off his horse. He often suffered from shoulder injuries, so he returned to the palace.
The emperor asked: Which of your brothers can be used? Geng Chun recommended his younger brother Geng Zhi to follow him, so he asked Geng Zhi to lead Geng Chun's army and horses. Geng Chun still followed his previous position as general.
At this time, Zhending King Liu Yang made another prophecy and said: After Chijiu, Ying Yang will dominate. Liu Yang was suffering from gall disease and wanted to confuse the masses and associate with Mianman thieves.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent Cavalry Captain Chen Fu and guerrilla general Deng Long to recruit Liu Yang. Liu Yang closed the city gates and prevented Chen Fu and others from entering the city.
So he sent Geng Chun to hold the talisman festival and issue amnesty orders to Youzhou and Jizhou. He also sent him to comfort the princes wherever he passed.
Geng Chun was secretly ordered to say: If Liu Yang sees you, arrest him. Geng Chun led more than a hundred cavalrymen, deputy Chen and Deng Long to meet Yuanshi, and together they arrived at Zhending and stayed in a hotel.
Liu Yang claimed that he was ill and refused to visit him. He thought Geng Chun was the son of a sister from the Zhending clan, so he sent an envoy to send a letter to Geng Chun, preparing to meet him.
Geng Chun reported back: "I have been entrusted to see the prince Mu Shou. I cannot go to see you first. If you want to meet, you should go to the tavern." At this time, Liu Yang's brother Linyi Marquis Liu Rang and his brother Liu Xi each had more than 10,000 troops. Liu Yang believed that his troops were strong and Geng Chunyi was quiet, so he took his officials and family to see him, while each brother led light troops outside the door.
Liu Yang went in and saw Geng Chun. Geng Chun treated him with courtesy and invited Liu Rang and Liu Xi into the house. He then closed the door and killed all Liu Yang brothers before leading his troops out.
They were really shocked and horrified, and no one dared to move.
The emperor took pity on Liu Yang and Liu Rang, so he banished their sons and restored their homeland before their conspiracy was launched.
Geng Chun returned to the capital and requested: "I am originally a descendant of an official family. I am lucky enough to see the revival of the Han Dynasty and the Holy Lord ascending the throne. I have prepared to be a general and be given the title of Tonghou."
Now that the world has been calmed down, I have no place to display my talents. I am willing to try to govern a county and do my best to serve. The emperor smiled and said: "Do you want to practice martial arts as well as martial arts?" He worshiped Geng Chun as the prefect of Dongjun.
At that time, Dongjun had not yet been pacified, and Geng Chun had been in charge for several months, and the thieves were all at peace.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Geng Chun was ordered to lead his troops to attack Fan Jing, the prefect of Dongping in Gengshi, and Fan Jing surrendered.
They also attacked the Taishan, Jinan and Pingyuan bandits and put them down.
In the fourth year of Judong County, Magistrate Faqian was found guilty. Geng Chun was imprisoned, and the magistrate was surrounded and guarded. However, the magistrate Faqian committed suicide because he could not come down.
Geng Chun was implicated and dismissed from his post, and the princes of Yilie came to court to invite him.
The followers attacked Dong Xian and passed by Dongjun. Thousands of people, old and young, followed Shizu's chariot and wept and cried, saying that they would like to win Geng Jun again.
The emperor said to the ministers: Geng Chun has only been wearing armor and working as a military official since he was a child. How can he, as the prefect of Dongjun, be so missed by the people?
In the sixth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Dongguang Hou.
Geng Chun said goodbye to the country, and the emperor said: Emperor Wen said to Zhou Bo that the prime minister is someone I respect. Now you are leading the princes to the feudal country for me, and you are doing the same now. Geng Chun accepted the order and left.
When he arrived at Ye, he was given ten thousand hu of grain.
When he arrived in Fengguo, Geng Chun expressed condolences to the deceased and condolences to the sick. The people respected and loved him very much.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, bandits arose in Dongjun and Jiyin. The emperor sent Grand Sikong Li Tong and Hengye General Wang Chang to attack them.
The emperor thought that Geng Chun had high prestige in the Wei area, so he sent an envoy to worship Geng Chun as Taizhong doctor and asked him to meet with the army in Dongjun.
When Dongjun heard that Geng Chun had arrived, more than 9,000 thieves surrendered to Geng Chun, and the army returned without a fight.
The seal again appointed Geng Chun as the governor of Dongjun, and the officials and the people were convinced.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, he died in the official position and was given the posthumous title of Marquis Cheng.
Zi Geng Fu succeeded to the throne.
Geng Zhi later became General Weiwei and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyi.
Geng Su was appointed as the prefect of Daijun and was granted the title of Marquis of Suixiang.
Geng Jinjin was the Red Eyebrow General and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu. He followed Deng Yu in the western expedition and died in Yunyang.
There are four people in the clan who have been awarded the title of Liehou, three people have been granted the title of Guanneihou, and a total of nine people have been awarded the title of Two Thousand Stones.
