Emperor Xiaojing had fourteen sons.
Queen Wang gave birth to Emperor Xiaowu.
Li Ji was born to Liu Rong, the Min king of Linjiang, Liu De, the Xian king of Hejian, and Liu Yan, the Ai king of Linjiang.
Cheng Ji gave birth to Liu Yu, king of the Communist Party of Lu, Liu Fei, king of Yi in Jiangdu, and Liu Duan, king of Jiaoxi.
Buying a wife gave birth to King Zhao Jingsu, Liu Pengzu, and King Jing of Zhongshan, Liu Sheng.
Tang Ji grew up and settled with King Liu Fa.
Mrs. Wang was born as Prince Hui of Guangchuan, Liu Yue, Prince Kang of Micellar, Liu Ji, Prince Ai of Qinghe, Liu Cheng, and Prince Xian of Changshan, Liu Shun.
Liu De, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of king in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign. He studied academically and loved ancient affairs. He always started from reality and reached correct conclusions.
If you get a good book among the people, you must make a good copy to the book owner, leave the original copy of the book, and give money and silk to widely recruit good books.
In this way, people with moral knowledge from all over came from far and wide, some of whom had books collected by their ancestors, and most of them donated to King Xian, so the number of books obtained was as large as that of the Han Dynasty.
At the same time, Huainan King Liu An also loved books, and most of the books he recruited were useless.
The books that King Xian obtained were all old ancient texts from before the Qin Dynasty, such as Zhou Guan, Shangshu, Rites, Book of Rites, Mencius, Laozi and other books. They were all written by seventy disciples of Confucius.
King Xian studied and applied the Six Classics, and established doctors of Mao's Poetry and Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals.
Practice rituals and music, experience Confucian academics personally, and everything you learn must be based on Confucianism.
Many scholars from Shandong followed him there.
During the period of Emperor Wu, King Xian came to court, offered elegant music, and answered more than 30 questions from Sanyong Palace and imperial edicts.
As far as the moral scholarship he talks about is concerned, it is reasonable and the language is concise and clear.
King Xian died after reigning for twenty-six years.
Lieutenant Chang Li reported to the court, saying: The king himself is upright and clear in his behavior. He is gentle, kind, respectful and frugal. He sincerely respects and loves his subordinates. He knows deeply and is kind to widowers.
Daxing ordered: "Mi Fa said that the wise and wise people are called Xian, and Mi should be Lu Zhi."
His son King Pi Zhou succeeded him and died after reigning for four years.
His son Liu Kan, King Gang, succeeded him and died after reigning for twelve years.
His son Liu, the king of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for seventeen years.
His son, Xiaowang Liu Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for forty-three years.
His son Liu Yuan succeeded to the throne.
Liu Yuan married the deceased King Li of Guangling, his crown prince, and the former concubine Lian of King Huai of Zhongshan as his concubines.
During the Ganlu period, the governor of Jizhou Chang reported Liu Yuan's case. The emperor handed the matter over to Tingwei for trial and wanted to arrest Lian and others.
Liu Yuan forced and threatened Gong Qi and ordered them to commit suicide.
Relevant officials petitioned Liu Yuan to be executed, and the emperor issued an edict to cut down two counties, totaling 11,000 households.
Later, Liu Yuan resented the young official Liu Gui. Liu Gui was afraid of escaping over the wall and wanted to report Liu Yuan. Liu Yuan sent people to kill Liu Gui's mother.
Relevant officials reported that Liu Yuan's cruel nature would not change and he could not govern his subjects as the king of the country.
So he was deposed and allowed to live in Fanling, Hanzhong.
After several years of encountering each other, he became angry with Ruo because he and his wife were riding a chariot together, so he whipped her and ordered her to shave off her hair.
The prefect of Hanzhong asked Liu Yuan to be punished, but Liu Yuan later died of illness.
In the seventeenth year of Liu Yuan's reign, the Hejian Kingdom was abolished.
The Hejian Kingdom was cut off for five years, and in the first year of Emperor Cheng's founding, Liu Liang, Liu Yuan's younger brother, was re-established as King Hui of Hejian.
Liu Liang learned the behavior of offering sacrifices to the king. His mother, the Empress Dowager, passed away and observed the funeral as a courtesy.
Emperor Ai issued an edict of praise and said: Liu Liang, the king of Hejian, stayed in mourning for the Queen Mother for three years. He actually set an example for the clan and granted him the title of Ten Thousand Households.
He died after reigning for twenty-seven years.
His son Liu Shang succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang's line of succession was cut off.
Linjiang Ai Wang Xing'er was granted the title of king in the second year of the Yuan Dynasty in Jicha. He died after reigning for three years without leaving any sons, and the title was abolished as a county.
Linjiang Min King Liu Rong was the crown prince in the fourth year of Emperor Jing's reign. Four years later, he was deposed as the prince of Linjiang.
Another three years passed. Because he occupied the open space of the temple to build a palace, the emperor conscripted Liu Rong.
When Liu Ming set out, he worshiped his ancestors at the north gate of Jiangling. After getting on the car, the axle broke and the car broke down.
The elders of Jiangling cried privately and said: Our king will not come back!
After Liu Rong arrived in the capital, he went to the Lieutenant's Mansion for trial.
Lieutenant Zhidu interrogated the king with a confession. The king was frightened and committed suicide.
He was buried in Lantian, and tens of thousands of swallows placed earth on the grave. The people felt pity for his plight.
Liu Rong was the oldest and had no sons, so his feudal state was abolished.
The fiefdom was transferred to the Han Dynasty and became Nanjun.
King Gong of Lu, Liu Yu, was granted the title of King of Huaiyang in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign.
Wu Chu rebelled, and after being defeated, Liu Yu moved to Lu in the third year of Emperor Jing's reign.
Liu Yu liked to build palaces, gardens, and raise dogs and horses. In his later years, he liked music but disliked literature.
He was born with a stutter and had trouble speaking.
King Liu Gong of Lu died after reigning for twenty-eight years.
His son An Wang Liu Guang succeeded to the throne. He was initially fond of music, carriages and horses, but in his later years he was greedy and stingy for fear of insufficient wealth.
He died after reigning for forty years. His son Xiao Wang Qingji succeeded him and died after reigning for thirty-seven years.
His son Liu Jin, King of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-eight years.
His son, King Wen Liu, succeeded him to the throne. He died after reigning for eighteen years without any sons, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the third year of Emperor Ai's reign, he also made Liu Min, Marquis of Buxiang, the younger brother of King Wen Liu Sui, the son of King Qing, as king.
It was cut off when Wang Mang died.
Prince Gong initially liked to expand his palace and destroyed Confucius' old house to expand his palace. When he heard the sound of bells, chimes, harps and harps, he did not dare to destroy it any more, and he obtained ancient scriptures and scriptures in the walls of the old house.
Liu Fei, the king of Yi in Jiangdu, was granted the title of King of Runan in the second year BC of Xiaojing.
When Wu Chu rebelled, Liu Feigang was fifteen years old and talented. He wrote a letter asking for an attack on Wu.
Emperor Jing gave Liu Fei the seal of general to attack Wu.
The State of Wu was conquered, and the king moved to Jiangdu to govern the former State of Wu. He was awarded the emperor's flag for his military exploits.
During the Yuanguang period, the Xiongnu invaded the Han border in large numbers. Liu Fei wrote a letter willing to attack the Xiongnu, but Emperor Jing did not agree.
Liu Fei liked strength, expanded his palaces and buildings, attracted heroes from all over, and was very arrogant and extravagant.
After reigning for twenty-seven years, his son Liu Jian succeeded him.
When Liu Jian was the crown prince, Liang Jue, a native of Handan, brought a girl to offer to King Yi. Liu Jian heard that the girl was very beautiful, so he called her to her privately and kept her there.
Liang Ha spread the rumor: The son actually competed with his father for his wife!
Liu Jian sent people to kill Liang Ai. Liang Ai's family wrote a complaint and handed the matter to Tingwei for review. They were pardoned but not punished.
Before King Yi died, Liu Jian stayed in the same room where he was mourning and summoned Nao Ji, the beauty King Yi loved, and ten others to commit adultery with him.
Liu Jian's sister Zhengchen was Gaihou's daughter-in-law. When she came back for the funeral of King Yi, Liu Jian committed adultery with her again.
Liu Jian's half-brother Dingguo was the Marquis of Huaiyang, the youngest son of King Yi. His mother hoped to make him the heir of King Yi. She knew in detail what Liu Jian had done, so she paid a man to send a letter to Tu Tian, ​​accusing Liu Jian of promiscuity and should not be his successor.
The matter was handed over to Tingwei, who punished Tutian for accepting money from others and wrote a letter on his behalf, and sentenced him to death.
Liu Jian's crimes went unpunished.
Later, he sent people to Chang'an many times to greet the conscripts. When the Queen Mother of Lu Gong heard about this, she sent a letter to the conscripts saying: There are noisy discussions in the country, so be careful not to come to Jiangdu again.
Later, Liu Jian sent his visitor Ji Jin to see the Empress Dowager. The Empress Dowager cried and told Ji: Go back and tell your king what I said. The king acted arbitrarily in the past, but he should be cautious in the future. Haven't you heard about the affairs of Yan and Qi?
Say I weep for your king.
Ji came back to explain to Liu Jian what the Empress Dowager had said. Liu Jian was furious, beat Ji and repelled him.
Liu Jian visited Zhangtai Palace and sent four women on a small boat. Liu Jian jumped over the boat with his feet. All four fell into the water and two of them drowned.
Later, when traveling to Leibo, there was a strong wind. Liu Jian sent two men into the wave in a small boat.
The boat capsized, and the two men fell into the water. They clung to the boat and appeared and disappeared in the water. Liu Jian looked on and laughed, but did not save them, causing them to drown.
If the eight concubines of the palace were at fault, they were asked to play drums naked or put them on a tree for thirty days before they could be clothed; some had their hair shaved, tied around their necks with iron rings, and pounded with lead pestles. If they did not comply with the rules, they were whipped;
A total of thirty-five innocent people were killed.
Liu Jian wanted people to have sex with animals and have children. He forced the people in the palace to be naked and held them down, and had sex with male sheep and dogs.
Liu Jian was devoted to lewdness and violence, and he knew that he had committed many crimes. Many people in the country wanted to report him. Liu Jian was afraid of being killed and felt uneasy. Together with his queen Cheng Guang, he made Yue's maid curse the emperor.
If you have any dissatisfaction with Lang Zhongling and others: If the envoys of the Han Dynasty punish me, I will never die alone!
Liu Jian also heard a lot about the conspiracies of Huainan King and Hengshan King. He was afraid that one day they would launch an attack and he would be annexed, so he made weapons.
Hu Ying, the father of the queen, should be a general.
The middle-level doctor was ill and physically strong, good at shooting and riding, and was known as Lord Lingwu.
Make yellow roofs; engrave the emperor's seal, cast the gold and silver seals of generals and captains, make twenty talismans for Han envoys, and more than a thousand ribbons; fully set the ranks of officers, and reward them when they become princes and marquises; collect the geography and army deployment maps of the world.
He sent people to communicate with the Marquis of Min, King of Yue Yao, and presented rare treasures of brocade and silk. King Xunzhidao also presented Xingjianquan, Ge, Zhuji, rhinoceros armor, Cuiyu, ape, bear and exotic beasts. The envoys came and went many times and agreed to help in emergencies.
When the Huainan incident happened, Liu Jian was punished and many of his comrades were implicated. Liu Jian was bribed with money many times by people sent by Xingjian to avoid going to jail.
Later, he said to his ministers: I am the king, and the officials sent by the emperor to examine the case come every year. There are no happy days in life. Warriors cannot wait to die. They have to do things that humans cannot do.
Liu Jian often wore the general's seal given to him by his father and traveled with the emperor's flag.
A few years later, the matter was discovered, and the Han Dynasty sent Prime Minister Chang Shi and Jiangdu Prime Minister to investigate and find weapons, seals, ribbons, flags and other utensils. Someone asked Liu Jian to be arrested and executed.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: Discuss with Dr. Erqian Shi, a senior official.
During the discussion, they all said: Liu Jian has lost his way as a minister for a long time, and he has always been favored by the emperor and cannot bear to be punished, so he plans to rebel.
What he did was inhumane, and even Jie Zhou's sins could not reach the point of creating seeds.
Those who cannot be forgiven by heaven's punishment should be punished for the crime of rebellion.
The emperor ordered Zong Zheng and Ting Wei to interrogate Liu Jian.
Liu Jian committed suicide, and later Chengguang and others were sentenced to abandonment of the market.
In the sixth year, the feudal state was abolished, and the feudal land was transferred to the Han Dynasty and became Guangling Sculpture.
One hundred and twenty-one years later, during the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang, the new capital lord, came to power and succeeded in succession. He established Liu Gong, the son of Liu Jian's younger brother Xuyihou, as the King of Guangling and adopted him as the heir of King Yi.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and the feudal country was exterminated.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, was granted the title of king in the third year of Emperor Jing's reign.
He was cruel and tyrannical, and physically weak. Whenever he was near a woman, he would be ill for several months.
There was a young man he loved who became his attendant. The attendant had an affair with the harem. Liu Duan captured and killed him, as well as his son and mother.
Liu Duan broke the law many times, and the Han Dynasty officials requested that Liu Duan be killed several times, but the emperor couldn't bear it, so Liu Duan's actions became even more wanton.
After Yousi requested many times, his feudal state was reduced by more than half.
Liu Duan was angry, so he stopped managing the capital.
The treasury was ruined and leaked, all the property was rotten, and the losses amounted to tens of thousands of dollars, but they were never cleaned up or moved.
Officials were ordered not to collect taxes.
Liu Duan removed the guards, sealed the palace, and entered and exited through one door.
He changed his name many times, pretended to be a civilian, and traveled to other countries.
When Xiang Erqianshi arrived, he followed Han law to govern Jiaoxi. Liu Duan often tried to find out their crimes and sued them, and the innocent ones were killed with poison by fraud.
Therefore, he deceives others to seek change, is strong enough to refuse other people's advice, and is resourceful enough to cover up his mistakes.
Xiang Erqianshi followed the king to govern, but was brought to justice by Mo Mo.
So Jiaoxi is a small country, but the two thousand stones killed are quite a lot.
The King of Jiaoxi died in his forty-seventh year without a son. The feudal state was abolished and the land was transferred to the Han Dynasty and became Jiaoxi County.
King Zhao Jingsu and Liu Pengzu were named King of Guangchuan in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign.
King Liu Sui of Zhao rebelled and was defeated, so he moved the king to Zhao.
Jie Dan is hypocritical, flattering, overly respectful to others, but cruel at heart, accustomed to using the law, and using sophistry to frame people.
Dona's favorite concubine has many descendants.
Xiang Erqianshi planned to govern according to Han law, which would be harmful to the Wang family.
Therefore, every time he saw someone arriving with a promise of two thousand stones, Peng Zu would wear a single coat of silk and go to the front door of the hall to greet him. He would deceive him with many suspicious things and make him shake. If Erqianshi's words were wrong or consistent with taboo things, he would write them down.
If Erqianshi wanted to govern, he would use these records to coerce and threaten; if he did not obey, he would write a letter to report and falsely accuse him of greed for profit.
Pengzu had been in power for more than sixty years, and Erqianshi's term of office could not last more than two years. He resigned due to crimes. The elder was executed and the younger was tortured. Therefore, no one in Erqianshi dared to govern, and King Zhao had exclusive power.
Envoys were sent to various counties to negotiate deals with merchants and collect taxes. The revenue was more than the national tax.
Therefore, King Zhao's family had a lot of money, but all the gifts given to Ji and his disciples were spent.
Pengzu did not like to build palaces to worship ghosts and gods for blessings, but preferred to govern for officials.
Write a letter willing to supervise thieves in the country.
He often patrols Handan with his officers at night.
Many envoys and travelers did not dare to stay in Handan because of Peng Zu's evil flattery.
For a long time, Prince Liu Dan and his younger sisters had committed adultery.
Jiang Chong accused Liu Dan of promiscuity and sent people to kill and rob Liu Dan. He committed many evil deeds.
Emperor Wu sent envoys to mobilize officials and soldiers to arrest Liu Dan, and went down to the place where prisoners were imprisoned in Wei Shao to punish him with death.
Peng Zu wrote a letter to avenge Liu Dan, and was willing to attack Xiongxi together with the brave and courageous people in the country to atone for Liu Qie's sins. Zha did not agree.
After a long time, he was pardoned.
Later, Pengzu entered the court and requested through the emperor's sister, Princess Pingyang Longlu, to make Liu Dan the crown prince again, but Emperor Wu disagreed.
Peng Zu married the favored concubine of King Yi of Jiangdu, Naoji, who had been raped by Wang Liujian. He loved her very much and gave birth to a son named Naozi.
Peng Zu died in the first year of Zhenghe, and Mi Jingsu paid homage to King Su.
When Peng Zu died, Naoji's brother was a eunuch of the Han Dynasty. The emperor summoned him and asked: How is Naozi?
The answer is: He is greedy.
The emperor said: Greedy is not suitable for being a monarch to manage the people.
Wu Shi also asked how Hou Chang was doing, and he replied: He has nothing to blame and nothing to praise.
The emperor said: Just like this. So he sent envoys to establish Liu Chang as king. He was the king of Qing, and he died after reigning for nineteen years.
His son, King Huai, ascended the throne and died after reigning for five years.
Without a son, the feudal state was closed for two years.
Emperor Xuan appointed Liu Zun's younger brother Liu Gao. This was King Ai, who had died in a few months.
His son Liu Chong, the co-king, succeeded him and died after reigning for fifty-six years.
His son Liu Yin succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang was cut off.
In the past, Emperor Wu, because of his love for his relatives, appointed Liu Yan, the youngest son of King Jingsu, as King Pinggan, making him King Qing. He reigned for eleven years until his death.
His son Liu Yuansi, King Miao, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-five years.
Dahong Yu Yu reported: Liu Yuan used a knife to kill a slave, and his son killed someone who came to see him. He was reported by the governor and the crime was confirmed.
During the illness, an order was issued to bury the slaves who could enjoy themselves. A total of sixteen people were forced and threatened to commit suicide. They were cruel and cruel.
According to the principles of "Spring and Autumn", the son of the king who was executed should not be crowned.
Although Liu Yuan was not sentenced to death, he should not have an heir.
Permission is given. The feudal state was abolished.
Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, was granted the title of king in the third year of Emperor Jing's reign.
When Emperor Wu first came to the throne, the ministers took into account the actions of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu. Most of the people who discussed it defended Chao Cuo's strategy. They all believed that the princes, with dozens of cities in their ranks, were too powerful and wanted to gradually weaken them. They wrote several memorials to disclose their faults.
The princes and kings thought that their flesh and blood were the closest to them. The reason why the late emperor encircled the city and made them intertwined was to make the clan as strong as a rock.
Nowadays, some are innocent but are violated and humiliated by their ministers. Some officials find fault and torture their ministers to obey, forcing them to testify for their monarch. Most of the injustices are caused in this way.
In the third year of Jianyuan, King Liu Deng, King Liu Fa of Changsha, King Liu Sheng of Zhongshan, and King Liu Ming of Jichuan came to court. The emperor prepared wine. Liu Sheng heard the music and cried. When asked why, Liu Sheng replied:
I have heard that those who grieve should not cry excessively, and those who mourn should not sigh.
So Gao Jianli attacked the Yishui River, and Jing Ke bowed his head and refused to eat; Yongmenzi groaned slightly, and Mengchang Jun was unhappy about it.
Nowadays, the knot in my heart has been knotted for a long time. Every time I hear the subtle and tortuous sounds, I can't help crying.
People can move mountains by blowing air, the sound of flying mosquitoes is like thunder, and a group of friends can catch tigers. Ten men can bend an iron spine.
Therefore, King Wen was detained in Youli, and Confucius was surrounded in Chen and Cai.
The result is that the crowd becomes popular, accumulating harm. The minister is far away from the capital and has no relatives or friends, so he cannot make a name for himself. A word from a crowd can kill someone, a bush can break its axis, a feather feather can fly, and when frightened, it will be caught in a snare and shed tears.
I heard that when the sun shines during the day, even dark places can be seen; when the moon shines at night, mosquitoes can also be seen.
But the clouds are dense, and the day is dark; the dust is scattered, and Mount Tai is not visible in the darkness.
Why?
Because there is something covering it.
Today, I can't hear anything due to the congestion. Slanderers are swarming in. The road is far away, so I can't hear anything, and I feel sad secretly.
I heard that the rats in the land temple cannot be watered, and the rats in the house cannot be smoked.
why is that?
It's because of the place where the mouse rests.
Although the minister is minor, he is close to the emperor; although his status is humble, he can serve as a vassal with a face-to-face, and he can also call the emperor his brother.
Now the ministers are not as close as Jia Chu, nor as heavy as a feather. They all criticize together, causing the clan to be abandoned and their flesh and blood to disappear.
This is the reason why Birch was displaced and Bigan was separated from his body and head.
"The Book of Songs" says: My heart is sad, just like a hammer pounding my heart; I lie down with my clothes on and sigh, my sadness makes me old; my heart is filled with endless anguish, like a headache and a high fever.
This is talking about my subordinates.
He reported all the infringements committed by officials to the emperor, and the emperor gave generous gifts to the princes, subtracting the things reported by Yousi to the princes and increasing the kindness of close relatives.
Later, Zhufuyan's strategy was adopted, so that the princes would allocate land to their children as a personal favor, and the Han Dynasty would formulate systems and titles for them, and they would be assigned to another Han county.
The Han Dynasty was generous, but the land of the princes gradually became scattered, weakened and became smaller.
Liu Sheng was a drunkard and had more than 120 children.
Chang and Zhao Wang Pengzu blamed each other and said: My brother is the king and specializes in managing affairs on behalf of the officials.
As a king, you should listen to music and enjoy singing and dancing beauties.
King Zhao also said: The King of Zhongshan only cares about luxury and pleasure, and does not assist the emperor to appease the people. How can he be called a Fan minister?
Liu Sheng died after reigning for forty-three years.
His son Ai Wang Liu Chang succeeded him and died after reigning for one year.
His son, King Kang, Kunchi, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-one years.
His son Liu Fu, King of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for four years.
His son, King Xian Liu Fu, succeeded him and died after reigning for seventeen years.
His son, King Huai Liu Xun, succeeded him. He reigned for fifteen years and died without any sons. He was absent for forty-five years.
In the second year of Emperor Hongjia's reign, Yunke, the son of Lixianghou, the grandson of King Xian's younger brother, was named King of Yi in Guangde.
After reigning for three years, he died without any children, and the country was isolated for fourteen years.
Emperor Ai also appointed Guanghan, Yunke's younger brother, as King Guangping.
Dead, no descendants.
In the second year of Emperor Ping's reign, Liu Lun, the great-grandson of King Hui of Guangchuan, was appointed King Guangde, and he was adopted as Queen Jing.
It was cut off when Wang Mang died.
Liu Fa, the king of Changsha, whose mother Tang Ji was the former attendant of Cheng Ji.
Emperor Jing summoned Cheng Ji to accompany him, but Cheng Ji was inconvenient and unwilling to go, so he asked his attendant Tang Er to disguise herself and go in at night.
The emperor was drunk and didn't know it. He thought it was Cheng Ji and had sex with her, and Tang Er became pregnant.
It was only after the emperor had a relationship with her that he realized she was not Cheng Ji.
When a son was born, he was named Liu Fa.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, he was granted the title of king.
Because her mother was born in a humble family and could not be favored, she went to govern a poor country with low-lying and humid land.
He died after reigning for twenty-eight years.
His son, King Dai Liu Yong, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-seven years.
His son, King Qing, Yuxuan, succeeded him and died after reigning for seventeen years.
His son assassinated King Jiande and succeeded him to the throne. During the reign of Emperor Xuan, he burned down ninety-six houses and killed two people due to hunting and arson. He also resented the internal history due to court affairs and instigated others to make false accusations. He was punished for abandoning the city. Eight counties were reduced and the lieutenant was dismissed.
He died after reigning for thirty-four years.
His son, King Yang, Liu Dan, succeeded him and died after reigning for two years.
He has no son and has been in isolation for more than a year.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Yuan appointed Liu Dan's younger brother Liu Zong as King Xiao, who reigned for five years until his death.
His son, a native of Lu, succeeded him to the throne, but Wang Mang's reign was cut off.
Liu Yue, King Hui of Guangchuan, was granted the title of king in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign and passed away in the thirteenth year of his reign.
His son Liu Qi, King Miao, succeeded him and died after reigning for forty-four years.
Once upon a time, Liu Qi had a favored minister, Chengju, who later committed a crime. Liu Qi wanted to kill Chengju.
He took advantage of the opportunity to escape, and Liu Qi captured his clan.
Chengju resented Liu Qi and wrote a letter accusing Liu Qi of committing adultery with his half-sister.
From then on, Liu Qi sued the Han officials and favored ministers such as Suo Zhong several times. He also sued Lieutenant Cai Pengzu to arrest his son Liu Ming, cursing: I will get rid of all your descendants!
There is a case filed for investigation. Unlike what Wang said, it is disrespectful to impeach Liu Qi for making false accusations. Please arrest him and imprison him.
Liu Qi panicked and wrote a letter willing to fight with the Guangchuan warriors against the Huns, and the emperor allowed him. Before setting off, he died of illness.
Someone requested that the fiefdom be abolished, and the petition was approved.
A few months later, an edict was issued saying: King Hui of Guangchuan is my elder brother. I can't bear to cut off his ancestral temple, so I will let King Hui's grandson Liu go to Guang! king.
Liu Qu was the crown prince of King Miao Liu Qi. He studied "Yi", "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety" as a teacher and was proficient in it. He was fond of literature, folk skills, chess, singing and dancing, etc.
There is a portrait of Cheng Qing at the gate of his palace, with a short coat, a big man and a long sword. Liu Qu liked it very much and made a seven-foot-five-inch sword. All his clothes imitated the portrait. His favorite concubines were Wang Zhaoping and Wang Diyu, and he promised them to be queens in the future.
Liu Qu was ill. Concubine Ji Yangcheng Zhaoxin served her very attentively and loved her even more.
Liu went to play with Diyu, and got a sharp knife in his sleeve. He whipped her and interrogated her, and confessed that she planned to murder Zhaoxin together with Zhaoping.
Zhao Ping was also tortured, but Zhao Ping refused to accept and stabbed her with an iron needle to force her to confess.
So he summoned all his concubines, and Liu went to stab Diyu himself with his sword, and asked Zhaoxin to stab Zhaoping, and they all died.
Zhao Xin said: The two concubines’ maid will tell the story.
He also strangled the three servant girls who accompanied him.
Later, Zhaoxin fell ill and dreamed of Zhaoping and others, and told Liu Qu about it.
Liu Qu said: They showed up to make me afraid, so they can only be burned with fire.
The corpses were exhumed and burned to ashes.
Later, Liu went to make Zhaoxin his queen; Tao Wangqing, the lucky concubine, became Mrs. Xiumi and was in charge of silk fabrics; Cui Xiu became Mrs. Mingzhen and was in charge of Yongxiang.
Zhaoxin also falsely accused Wang Qing, saying: She was rude to me, her clothes were often more gorgeous than mine, and she even gave all the silks she had to the palace people.
Liu Qu said: "You have slandered Wang Qing many times, but it cannot diminish my love for her. If I hear that she is promiscuous, I will cook her."
Later, Zhaoxin told Liu Qu: In the past, the painter was painting Wangqing's residence. Wangqing exposed his shoulders and Fu Fen approached the painter. He went in and out of the south house several times to peek at the official, suspecting adultery.
Liu went and said: Pay close attention to her.
For this reason, I gradually disliked Wang Qing.
Later, he drank with Zhao Xin and others, and all the concubines were waiting on him. Liu went to write a song for Wang Qing and said: Hiding the secret from my uncle and aunt, I indulged in fornication for a while, seeking strange things and bringing about my own destruction.
Traveling all over the country, causing disasters of your own, and sincerely not what you expected, what's the point of complaining now!
Make beauties sing in harmony.
Liu Qu said: "You should be self-aware when sending people to you."
Zhaoxin knew that Liu Qu was angry, so he falsely accused Wangqing of pointing out where the lieutenants were sleeping many times. He knew all their names and could recognize the brocade quilt of the lieutenant, so he suspected adultery.
Liu Qu immediately went to Wangqing's residence with Zhaoxin and Zhu Ji, made her naked, then beat her, and ordered each Ji to burn Wang Qing with a red-hot iron.
Wang Qing escaped, threw himself into a well, and committed suicide.
Zhaoxin fished her out of the well, drove a wooden stake into her vagina, cut off her nose and lips, and cut off her tongue.
He said to Liu Qu: "I killed Zhaoping before, but you scared me. Now I want to crush Wangqing so that she can't become a god."
Together with Liu, they dismembered her body and put it into the harvest. They cooked it together with peach wood ash and poison. They called all the concubines to watch. They cooked her for days and nights until they were completely rotten. Then they killed her sister together.
Later, Liu went to summon Concubine Ji Rongai several times to drink, but Zhaoxin framed her again, saying: Concubine Rong was looking around, but her attitude was not kind enough, and she suspected of having an affair.
At this time, Rong Ai was embroidering a square collar for Liu, and Liu went to take it and burn it. Rong Ai was scared and threw herself into a well. She was not dead when she was rescued. Rong Ai was tortured, and Rong Ai falsely accused herself of adultery with the doctor.
Liu went to tie her to a post, burned her eyes with a hot knife, cut her legs raw, and poured molten lead into her mouth.
Rong Ai died, dismembered his body and buried it among thorns.
Zhao Xin framed and killed all the concubines Liu Qu loved. A total of fourteen of them were buried in the longevity palace where the Queen Mother lived.
The palace people were afraid, and no one dared to disobey her again.
Zhaoxin wanted to monopolize Wang Ai, so he said: The king has made Mrs. Mingzhen in charge of the concubines, and it is difficult to stop fornication.
Please close the door of Zhu Ji's house and don't let them go out to play.
She made her older maid serve as a servant and take charge of the addresses of the concubines and palace maids. All the houses were sealed and the keys were given to the queen. She could not see the king unless summoned by a big banquet.
Liu Qu took pity on them and wrote a song for them: How sad they are, with nowhere to live.
The heart is knotted and the mind is unhappy.
What's the use of life if you're still depressed inside, filled with sorrow and sorrow, and can't see the heaven above!
The days and months are wasted, and the time never comes.
I am willing to abandon my body and die without regrets.
Let Zhaoxin beat the drum as the rhythm to teach the concubines to sing. After singing, they return to Yongxiang and seal the door.
Only Brother Zhaoxin's daughter, who was Mrs. Chenghua for the first time, could see each other day and night.
Zhao Xin and Liu Qu followed more than a dozen slaves and drank and had fun every day.
Once upon a time, when Liu Qugang was fourteen or fifteen years old, he studied "Yi" from a teacher. The teacher warned Liu Qu directly many times. As Liu grew older, he drove the teacher away.
Naishi asked him to be his Sasuke, and the teacher asked Naishi to restrict the Wang family several times.
Liu sent his slaves to kill the teacher and his son without anyone noticing.
Later, Liu went to hold banquets many times, and entertained the music players and opera performers by sitting naked in the middle.
The prime minister impeached the imprisoned prisoners and advocated excellence, entered the palace gate without permission, and filed a petition to appeal.
The matter was ordered to come down to investigate and interrogate, and advocate for the best explanation. Wang Qing's sister, who was originally Wang Jiao Xiu Mi's wife, sang and danced.
The envoy summoned Wang Qing and Du, and Liu went to answer that they all committed suicide due to sexual immorality.
It happened that the case of pardon was not punished.
When Wang Qing was cooked, he took the corpses of others and Du's corpse and gave them to their mothers.
Mother said: Du's body is correct, but Wangqing's body is wrong.
She cried many times and sought death, so Zhaoxin ordered his slaves to kill her.
The slave was captured by the officials and confessed.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the Prime Minister reported the situation and fully stated that it was a crime committed before the amnesty.
The emperor sent Da Honglu, Prime Minister Chang Shi, Yu Shicheng, and Ting Wei Zheng to punish the prisoners ordered by Emperor Julu to be imprisoned, and to request the arrest of Liu Qu and Hou Zhaoxin.
The emperor issued an order: Queen Zhaoxin and all the concubines and slaves who testified were imprisoned.
Confession.
Yousi once again asked to kill the king.
The emperor issued an edict: Discuss with the princes, Zhong Erqian Shi, Er Qian Shi, and the Doctor.
The deputies all thought that Liu Quni was tyrannical, listened to Queen Zhaoxin's slander, burned and cooked, cut and skinned people alive, refused the teacher's advice, and killed his father and son.
A total of sixteen innocent people were killed, including a mother and three children in a family, which violated morality and destroyed human ethics.
Fifteen of them still committed serious crimes before the amnesty, and they should be beheaded in public.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: I can't bear to put the king to death, but we can discuss how to punish him.
Yousi requested that he be deposed and no longer be the king, so he and his wife and children moved to Shangyong.
Permission was granted.
One hundred households were given Tangmuyi.
Liu Qu committed suicide on the way, and Zhaoxin was abandoned.
In the twenty-second year of his reign, the feudal state was abolished.
Four years later, in the fourth year of Emperor Xuan's Dijie, Liu Wen, Liu Qu's elder brother, was appointed King of Dai.
Liu Wen was always upright and had repeatedly advised Wang Liu to go. Therefore, the emperor appointed him and he died after reigning for two years.
His son Haiyang succeeded to the throne. During his fifteenth year of reign, he hung a painting of naked men and women having sex in the studio, and offered wine to his uncles and sisters to drink, making them look up at the paintings. Haiyang's sister was already a wife, and he allowed her to commit adultery with his favorite ministers. He also murdered three people in the family with his cousin Liu Tiao and others.
In the fourth year of Ganlu's reign, he was convicted and abolished. He moved to Fangling and the feudal state was abolished.
Fifteen years later, in the second year of the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, Liu Yu, the son of King Dai's brother Xiangdihou, was appointed King of Guangde, and he succeeded King Hui as his queen. He reigned for two years until his death.
His son Liu Chi succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang cut off the throne.
King Kang Xingzhou of Jiaodong was granted the title of king in the second year of Zhongyuan in Jihu, and he died after reigning for twenty-eight years.
When the King of Huainan rebelled, Xingyi heard about it secretly, secretly made chariots, bows and arrows, and prepared all the troops to guard against the rebellion.
When the officials dealt with Sui's affairs, he confessed to King Chen.
Cho Yi faced her closest relative, secretly sad, fell ill and died, not daring to have any heirs.
So I heard that Liu Ji had his eldest son Liu Xian, who was not favored by his mother, but his younger son Liu Qing was favored. Liu Ji often wanted to make him king, but it was not in the right order. Because of his mistakes, he finally had something to say.
The emperor took pity on him and made Liu Xian the King of Micellar to accept the sacrifices of King Kang. He also made Liu Qing the King of Liu'an and the king of the former Hengshan Mountain.
Wang Xian died after reigning for fifteen years, and he became King Ai.
His son Dai Wangtongping succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-four years.
His son Liu Yin, King of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for fifty-four years.
His son Liu, the co-king, succeeded him and died after reigning for fourteen years.
His son Liu Yin succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang cut off the throne.
Liu Qing, the communist king of Liu'an, passed away after reigning for thirty-eight years.
His son Liu Lu, King of Yi, succeeded him and died after reigning for ten years.
His son Liu Ding, King Mu, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-two years.
His son Liu Guang, King of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-seven years.
The son Jianyu succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang cut off the throne.
King Ai Xingchui of Qinghe was crowned king in the third year of Zhongyuan in Mancha, and died after reigning for twelve years.
Without a son, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Shun, the Xianwang of Changshan, was granted the title of king in the fifth year of Emperor Jing's reign.
Liu Shun, the emperor's youngest son, was arrogant and extravagant and violated the ban several times, but the emperor often forgave him.
After reigning for thirty-two years, his son Liu Bo succeeded him as king.
Once upon a time, King Xian's unloved Ji gave birth to his eldest son Liu Shui. Liu Yue was not loved by the king because his mother was not favored.
The queen concubines the prince Liu Bo.
The king had many wives and concubines, and his beloved Ji gave birth to sons Liu Ping and Liu Shang. The queen was rarely lucky.
When King Xian was seriously ill, all his beloved concubines served the sick man. The queen was not always around due to jealousy, so she often retired to rest.
The imperial doctor brought medicine, but Prince Liu Bo did not try the medicine himself, nor did he stay overnight to treat the disease.
The queen and the prince did not arrive until the king died.
King Xian never regarded Liu Yue as his son and did not give him any property.
Lang sometimes persuaded the prince and queen to give Liu Yue's property, but they didn't listen.
The prince succeeded to the throne, but Liu Yue was not placed there.
Liu Shui resented the queen and the prince.
The Han Dynasty sent envoys to inspect the funeral of King Xian. Liu Yue said that when King Xian was ill, the queen and the prince did not serve him. When the king died, he went out of the house after six days of mourning.
The emperor sent Zhang Qian, a high official, to investigate and arrest all the witnesses. The king hid the witnesses again.
The officials requested that they be arrested, but Liu Bo sent people to beat the officials and released the suspects detained by the Han without authorization.
Some officials requested that Liu Bo and King Xian and Queen Xiu be killed.
The emperor said: "Xiu Ping has no virtue, so let Liu Yue make her fall into sin."
Liu Bo had no good teachers and could not bear to kill him.
Some officials asked him to depose him as king and move King Liu Bo and his family to live in the mausoleum, and the emperor agreed.
Liu Bo was granted the title of king for several months, but was abolished and the fiefdom was taken back.
More than a month later, because the emperor was closest to the king, he issued an edict to Yousi, saying: King Xian of Changshan died early, and later he was at odds with his concubines. His concubines and concubines made false accusations and fought with each other. They fell into injustice and reduced the country. I have great sympathy for him.
He ordered Liu Ping, the son of King Xian, to have 30,000 households and be the king of Zhending; his son Liu Shang to have 30,000 households and be the king of Surabaya.
Liu Ping, the king of Qing, died after reigning for twenty-five years.
His son, King Lie, Liu Yan, succeeded him and died after reigning for eighteen years.
His son, Xiao Wang Liu, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-two years.
His son Liu Yong, King An, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-six years.
His son, King Liu Pu, succeeded him and died after reigning for fifteen years.
His son Liu Yang succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang cut off the throne.
Liu Shang, the king of swimming, died after reigning for twelve years.
His son Ai Wang Anshi succeeded him, but he died after one year of reign and had no children.
So Emperor Wu took pity on the swimming king's heir, and appointed Liu He, An's younger brother, as King Dai.
After his death in the 22nd year of his reign, he sent his son Liu Nuan away, but the Prime Minister did not report this matter.
The Empress Dowager wrote that Emperor Zhao took pity on them and punished Xiang Neishi accordingly, and granted Liu Nuan the title of King Qin.
He died after reigning for thirty-nine years.
His son, King Liu Jun, succeeded him and died after reigning for thirty-one years.
His son Liu Jing succeeded to the throne, but Wang Mang cut off the throne.
Zanri: Once upon a time, Duke Ai of Lu said: I lived in a deep palace and grew up under the hands of women. I never knew what sorrow was or what fear was.
This is believable! Even if you don't want to be in danger, it's not possible.
Therefore, the ancients regarded comfort as poisonous wine, and wealth without morality was called misfortune.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, by the time of Xiaoping, there were hundreds of princes and kings, most of whom were arrogant and immoral.
Why is this?
It is because they are indulged in indulgence and are in power that they become like this.
Ordinary people still stick to customs, let alone those who mourn the public!
Noble, elegant, and outstanding, only King Xian of Hejian is similar to this.
