Liu Chang, King Li of Huainan, was the youngest son of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. His mother was the concubine of Zhang Ao, the former king of Zhao.
In the eighth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Gao passed by Zhao from Dongyuan County, and King Zhao dedicated King Li's mother to him.
She was favored by the emperor and became pregnant.
From then on, King Zhao Zhang Ao did not dare to let her live in the palace, so he built another palace for her to live in.
The following year, the imperial court discovered that Zhao Xiangguan and others were plotting to kill Emperor Gaozu in Bairen County. King Zhao was also arrested and charged. His mother, brothers and concubines were all arrested and imprisoned in the Hanoi County government.
King Li's mother said to the jailer in prison: I am favored by the emperor and am pregnant.
The jailer reported truthfully that the emperor was angry because of King Zhao's incident and ignored the complaint of King Li's mother.
Zhao Jian, the younger brother of King Li's mother, asked Piyang Hou Shenshi to inform Empress Lu. Queen Lu was jealous and refused to plead with the emperor, so Piyang Hou stopped trying to persuade him.
King Li's mother was resentful after giving birth to Queen Li, so she committed suicide.
The jailer carried King Li to the emperor. The emperor regretted it and ordered Queen Lu to raise him and bury King Li's mother in Zhending County.
Zhending is the hometown of King Li's mother, and her ancestors lived there.
In July of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled, so the emperor appointed his son Liu Chang as King of Huainan, putting him in charge of the four counties and fiefdoms that were formerly under Yingbu's territory.
The emperor personally led an army to go out and annihilated Yingbu, so King Li took the throne of Huainan.
King Li lost his mother when he was young and grew up dependent on Empress Lu. Therefore, he was able to avoid political disasters during the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu. However, he always resented Marquis Piyang in his heart and did not dare to take action.
When Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, King Huainan considered himself the closest to the emperor. He was arrogant and arrogant, and repeatedly violated laws and disciplines.
The emperor thought of his brother-sister relationship and often tolerated and pardoned his faults.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, King Huainan professed his own country and entered the dynasty. His attitude was very arrogant.
He followed the emperor to the imperial garden for hunting, rode in the same car with the emperor, and often called the emperor "big brother".
King Li was talented and brave, and could lift a heavy cauldron with all his strength, so he went to the mansion of Piyang Hou to seek an audience.
When Marquis Piyang came out to see him, he took out an iron mallet from his sleeve and struck Marquis Piyang, and ordered his attendant Wei Jing to cut off Marquis Piyang's head.
Afterwards, King Li galloped to the palace and apologized to the emperor, saying: "My mother should not have been convicted of Zhao's rebellion. At that time, if Marquis Piyang had tried his best to save her, he would have been able to get help from Empress Lu, but he did not try hard. This was the first crime." King Zhao Ruyi and his son were not guilty. Empress Lu deliberately killed them, but Marquis Piyang did not try to dissuade them. This was the second crime. Empress Lu made a relative of the Lu family king, intending to threaten the Liu family, and Marquis Piyang did not stand up to fight. This is the third crime.
I killed the treacherous minister Piyanghou for the people of the world, and avenged my mother. I came to the court to kneel down and plead guilty.
The emperor's desire to pity King Li, and out of brotherly love, did not punish him and pardoned him.
During this period, the Empress Dowager Bo, the Crown Prince, and all the ministers were all afraid of King Li. Therefore, King Li became more arrogant and unruly after returning to the country. He did not act in accordance with the court decrees. He issued orders to warn Qingdao when entering and leaving the palace. He also called the orders he issued "zhi" and made laws by himself, imitating the emperor.
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, King Li asked seventy men without official titles to discuss with Chai Qi, the son of Chai Wu, Marquis of Jipu, and planned to use forty large trucks to rebel in Gukou County, and sent envoys to Minyue and Xiongnu to contact various places.
The imperial court found out about this, punished the rebels, and sent envoys to summon King Huainan to the capital. King Huainan came to Chang'an.
Prime Minister Zhang Bao, Dian Kechen Feng Jing, Imperial Censor Shizong Zhengchenyi, Tingwei Chenhe, and the thief Lieutenant Chenfu risked death. They reported: Huainan King Liu Chang abandoned the grammar of the late emperor, disobeyed the emperor's edict, and engaged in non-compliance with the law in daily life. He made his own chariot with a yellow satin umbrella that the emperor rode.
He appointed officials without authorization, appointed his doctor Zhongchun as the prime minister of the country, collected people from various counties and vassal states, as well as fugitives who had committed crimes, hid them in places to live, settled their families, and granted them money, materials, titles, salaries, and houses. Some people were even granted titles to marquises in Guannei, enjoying the favor of two thousand shi. King Huainan wanted to do evil by giving them everything they didn't deserve.
The doctor Dan, together with seventy people including the guilty and disgraced official Kaizhang, conspired with Chai Qi, the son of Chai Wu, the Marquis of Ji Pu, to cause harm to the ancestral temple and the state.
They asked Kai Zhang to secretly report to Liu Chang and discuss sending people to contact Minyue and the Huns to send troops to respond.
Kai Zhang went to Huainan to meet Liu Chang. Liu Chang met and had banquets with him many times, and also helped him get married and marry him, and provided him with a salary of two thousand dan.
Open the chapter and tell people to report to the doctor that everything has been settled with the King of Huainan.
Prime Minister Chun also sent envoys to inform Dan.
After the officials in the DPRK discovered this, they sent Wei Qi and others from Chang'an County to arrest Kai Zhang.
Liu Changzang refused to make friends with the people, and secretly discussed with the former lieutenant Ji, and killed Kaizhang and silenced him.
They bought a coffin, mourning clothes, and blankets, and buried Kai Zhang in Feiling. They deceived the officials handling the case and said they didn't know where Kai Zhang was.
Later, a tomb was forged and a mark was erected on the tomb, saying "Kaizhang's body is buried here."
Liu Chang also personally killed one innocent person; ordered officials to kill six innocent people based on the crime; hid escaped death row prisoners and captured those who did not escape to take the blame for them; he added crimes arbitrarily, leaving the victims with nowhere to redress their grievances, and sentenced 14 people to more than four years of hard labor; he also pardoned the criminals without authorization and exempted 18 people from the death penalty. Fifty-eight people have served four years or less of hard labor; ninety-four people have been given the title of Guannei Marquis or less.
Some time ago, Liu Chang was seriously ill. Your Majesty was worried about him and sent envoys to give him letters and preserved dates.
Liu Chang did not want to accept the gift, so he refused to receive the envoy.
The Nanhai people living in Lujiang County rebelled, and the officers and soldiers of Huainan County were ordered to conquer them.
His Majesty was sympathetic to the poverty of the people in Huainan, and sent an envoy to give Liu Chang five thousand pieces of cloth, ordering them to be forwarded to the hardworking and poor among the officers and soldiers.
Liu Chang did not want to accept it and lied that there were no hard workers in the army.
Wang Zhi, a native of Nanhai, wrote a letter to offer the jade jade to the emperor. He should not burn the letter and refuse to submit it.
Officials in the DPRK requested to summon Ji to discuss the crime, but Liu Chang refused to order, falsely claiming that "Ji was ill."
The Prime Minister of the State Chun asked Liu Chang for permission. Liu Chang was angry and said that you wanted to betray me and join the Han Dynasty, so he sentenced Chun to death.
The ministers and others request your majesty to punish Liu Chang according to law.
The emperor issued an edict saying: I cannot bear to sanction the King of Huainan according to law. Let the princes and the two thousand stone officials discuss it.
Chen Cang, Chen Jing, Chen Yi, Chen Fu, and Chen He reported the crime of risking death: I have discussed it with forty-three people including the princes, the officials Chen Ying, and the two thousand stone officials. Everyone said that Liu Chang did not obey the law and the emperor's edict. He secretly recruited party members and conspirators, and treated those who were guilty and fled, out of evil intentions.
The ministers and others decided that Liu Chang should be punished according to law.
The emperor's instructions said: I cannot bear to punish King Huainan according to law. I should pardon his death penalty and dethrone him.
Chen Cang and others committed the crime of risking death: Liu Chang was guilty of committing a crime of death. His Majesty could not bear to punish him according to law, so he graciously pardoned him and deposed him from the throne.
The ministers and others requested that Liu Chang be sent to the Qionglai Mountain Post Pavilion in Yandao County, Shu County, and that his concubines and concubines with children should live with him. The county office would build a house for them and provide them with grain, firewood, vegetables, salt, tempeh, cooking utensils, utensils, and mats.
I risked my death and requested to inform the world about this matter.
The emperor issued an edict saying: "Please allow Chang Liu to eat five kilograms of meat and two measures of wine every day."
He ordered ten concubines who had been favored in the past to live with him in Shu County. All others are allowed to play.
The imperial court executed all those who participated in the rebellion, and then ordered the King of Huainan to set off, carrying prisoners in baggage carts along the way, and ordered all counties along the way to pick him up in turn.
At that time, Yuan Anquan remonstrated with the emperor and said: The emperor has always been arrogant and pampered the King of Huainan, and did not arrange for him to have a stern tutor and minister to persuade him, which is why he fell into this situation.
Besides, the King of Huainan has a strong temperament. Now that he is being brutally tortured, I am worried that he will suddenly catch wind and cold and die of illness on the way.
What if Your Majesty ends up with the reputation of killing his younger brother?
The emperor said: I just let him taste the pain, and I will let him come back.
Those who were escorting King Huainan from various counties along the way did not dare to open the door of the prison car, so King Huainan said to his servant: Who said you, me, and I are brave men?
How can I still be brave!
I ended up in this predicament because I was too arrogant to hear my own faults. How can one endure such depression in this life!
So he went on a hunger strike and died.
When the prison car arrived at Yong County, the county magistrate opened the sealed door and reported the news of Liu Chang's death to the emperor.
The emperor cried very sadly and said to Yuan Ang: I didn't listen to your advice, and King Huainan died.
Yuan An said: There is nothing we can do about the matter. I hope your majesty can forgive himself.
The emperor said: What should we do?
Yuan Ang replied: It is enough to kill the prime minister and censor to apologize to the people of the world.
So the emperor ordered the prime ministers and censors to arrest, torture, and escort the king of Huainan from all counties. Anyone who refused to eat in Kaifeng would be thrown out of the market and executed.
Then the King of Huainan was buried in Yong County according to the etiquette of the princes, and thirty families were arranged to guard the tomb and offer sacrifices.
In the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the emperor took pity on King Huainan. King Huainan had a son, both seven or eight years old, so he named his son Liu An the Marquis of Fuling, his son Liu Bo the Marquis of Anyang, his son Liu Ci the Marquis of Yangzhou, and his son Liu Liang the Marquis of Dongcheng.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, some people composed a song about the plight of King Li of Huainan, saying: A foot of linen can be sewed; a bucket of millet can be pounded.
The two brothers are incompatible.
When the emperor heard this, he sighed and said: Yao and Shun exiled their families, Duke Zhou killed Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai, and the people of the world praised them for their wisdom.
Why?
Because they do not compromise justice due to personal feelings.
Do the people of the world think that I am coveting the fiefdom of the King of Huainan?
So Liu happy, the king of Yang who moved to Chengcheng, went to take charge of the original fiefdom of King Huainan. He posthumously named the late King of Huainan as King Li, and built a cemetery for him according to the rituals of the princes.
In the sixteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the emperor moved to Huainan and Wang Liu happy returned to his hometown in Chengyang.
The emperor pitied King Li of Huainan for abandoning the royal law and plotting evil, causing trouble and losing the country and died early, so he named his three sons: Fuling Hou Liu An as the King of Huainan, Anyang Hou Liu Bo as the Hengshan King, and Yangzhou Hou Liu Ci as the Lujiang King. They all regained the fiefdoms of King Li and shared three shares.
Liu Liang, Marquis of Dongcheng, had died before and had no descendants.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled. Envoys from the state of Wu went to Huainan to contact them, and the king of Huainan wanted to send troops to respond.
The Prime Minister of Huainan said: If the king insists on sending troops to respond to the king of Wu, I would like to be the commander-in-chief of the army.
The king of Huainan handed over the army to him.
After the Huainan State Prime Minister obtained military power, he commanded the army to occupy the city to defend the rebels. He did not listen to the Huainan King's orders and served the court. The court also sent Qucheng Hou Gujie to lead an army to rescue Huainan: Huainan State was thus preserved.
The envoy from the State of Wu came to Lujiang, but the King of Lujiang refused to respond, and instead sent someone to contact the State of Yue.
The envoy from the State of Wu went to Hengshan. The king of Hengshan was loyal to the imperial court and defended the city without hesitation.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the Wu and Chu rebels had been defeated. King Hengshan came to Beijing to see him. The emperor believed that he was loyal and trustworthy, so he comforted him and said: The land in the south is low-lying and humid.
As a reward, he was appointed King of Hengshan to take charge of the area north of Jishui.
After his death, he was granted the title of King Zhen.
King Lujiang's fiefdom was adjacent to the Kingdom of Yue, and he repeatedly sent envoys to make friends with it. Therefore, he was moved north to become King of Hengshan and took charge of the area north of the Yangtze River.
King Huainan is the same as before.
Liu An, the king of Huainan, liked reading and playing the piano, but he didn't like shooting and letting dogs and horses race. He also wanted to do good deeds secretly to appease the people and spread his good name throughout the world.
He often complained about the death of King Li and often wanted to rebel against the court, but he had no chance.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowu's founding, King Huainan went to Beijing to see the emperor.
Tianfan, the Marquis of Wu'an, who had always been good friends with him, was serving as a Taiwei at that time. Tian Fu greeted King Huainan at Bashang and told him: Now the emperor has no prince. Your Majesty, you are the grandson of Emperor Gao. Your benevolence and righteousness are known to everyone in the world.
If the emperor dies one day, who should succeed him if not you?
The King of Huainan was very happy and gave Marquis Wuan a generous gift of gold, silver, money, and items.
The king of Huainan secretly made friends with guests, appeased the people, and planned rebellion.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, a comet appeared, and the king of Huainan felt strange.
Someone advised the King of Huainan: In the past, when the Wu army rose up, the comet appeared only a few feet long, but the battle was still bloody for thousands of miles.
Now that the comets have grown all over the sky, there will be a great war in the world.
The King of Huainan thought that the emperor had no crown prince, and if something happened in the world, all the princes and kings would fight for the throne together, so he stepped up his efforts to organize weapons and offensive equipment, and accumulated gold and money to bribe the county guards, princes, lobbyists and talented people.
All the eloquent and eloquent people gave advice to the King of Huainan, but they all made up absurd and heresies to flatter the King of Huainan. The king of Huainan was very happy and rewarded them with a lot of money, but he was even more interested in rebellion.
The King of Huainan has a daughter named Liu Ling. She is smart and eloquent.
The King of Huainan loved Liu Ling and often gave her more money to spy on the inner affairs of the court in Chang'an and make friends with people close to the emperor.
In the third year of Yuanshuo, the emperor rewarded King Huainan with a walking stick and allowed him not to go to Beijing to see him.
The king and queen of Huainan were named Tu, and the king of Huainan favored her very much.
The queen gave birth to the prince Liu Qian, and Liu Qian married the daughter of Xiuchengjun, the grandson of the queen mother, as his concubine.
The King of Huainan planned to create a tool for rebellion. He was afraid that the prince's concubine would leak the secret to the court after knowing it, so he planned with the prince and asked him to pretend that he did not love the concubine and not sleep with her at the same table for three months.
So the king of Huainan pretended to be angry with the prince, locked him up, and made him live in the same room with his concubine for three months, but the prince never got close to her.
The concubine asked to leave, so the King of Huainan sent an apology to the court and sent her back to her parents' home.
Queen Tu, Prince Liu Qian and daughter Liu Ling were favored by the King of Huainan. They monopolized state power, invaded people's fields and houses, and arbitrarily arrested innocent people.
In the fifth year of Yuanshuo, the prince learned to use the sword and thought that his swordsmanship was superb and unmatched. Hearing that Lang Zhonglei was a master of swordsmanship, he summoned him to compete.
Lei was repeatedly given in, and later accidentally injured the prince.
The prince was angry and Lei was frightened.
At this time, anyone who wanted to join the army was immediately sent to the capital. Lei Fang immediately decided to join the army to fight against the Huns.
Prince Liu Qian repeatedly spoke ill of Lei Qui to King Huainan, so King Huainan ordered Lang Zhongling to dismiss him from his official position as a warning to future generations. So Lei fled to Chang'an and wrote to the court to complain about his grievances.
The emperor ordered Tingwei and Henan County to review the matter.
Henan County decided to arrest the prince of Huainan. The king and queen of Huainan planned not to send the prince, but took the opportunity to send troops to rebel. However, after repeated planning and hesitation, I could not make a decision for more than ten days.
At the same time, another edict was issued from the court to summon the prince on the spot.
At this time, the Huainan Prime Minister was angry that the Prime Minister of Shouchun County withheld the order to arrest the prince and accused him of "disrespect".
The King of Huainan asked the Prime Minister not to pursue the matter, but the Prime Minister refused to listen.
The King of Huainan sent a letter to accuse the Prime Minister, and the Emperor handed the matter over to the Tingwei for trial.
There were clues during the handling of the case that implicated King Huainan. King Huainan sent people to secretly inquire about the opinions of the ministers in the court. The minister requested that King Huainan be arrested and punished.
The King of Huainan was afraid of what would happen, so Prince Liu Qian offered advice: If envoys from the imperial court came to arrest my father, my father could have people wearing guard clothes and holding halberds stand in the courtyard. If anything unexpected happens around my father, he would be assassinated. I will also send people to assassinate the lieutenant of Huainan Kingdom, so it is not too late to launch an army.
At this time, the emperor did not approve the petition of the ministers, and instead sent Yin Hong, the lieutenant of the court, to the Huainan Kingdom to inquire and verify the case on the spot with the King of Huainan.
After hearing the news, the king of Huainan immediately made preparations according to the prince's plan.
After the imperial lieutenant arrived, King Huainan saw that he had a gentle attitude and only asked him the reason for deposing Lei Gui. He figured that he would not be convicted of any crime, so he did not have an attack.
The lieutenant returned to the court and reported the status of the inquiry.
The person responsible for handling the case among the ministers said: Huainan King Liu An obstructed Lei Bian from joining the army to attack the Xiongnu and other actions, which undermined the execution of the emperor's clear edict and should be sentenced to death for abandoning the market.
The emperor ordered not to do so.
The ministers requested that he be dethroned, but the emperor issued an edict not to allow it.
The minister requested to seize five of his county fiefs, and the emperor issued an edict to seize two counties.
The imperial court sent Lieutenant Yin Hong to pardon King Huainan's sins and cut off the land as punishment.
The lieutenant entered the territory of Huainan and announced a pardon for the King of Huainan.
The King of Huainan initially heard that the ministers of the imperial court requested to kill him, but he did not know that he had been pardoned and lost his land. When he heard that the imperial envoys had arrived, he was afraid that he would be arrested, so he and the prince prepared to assassinate him according to the previous plan.
When the lieutenant arrived, he immediately congratulated King Huainan on his pardon, so King Huainan did not rise up.
Afterwards, he lamented to himself and said: I did benevolent and righteous things but my land was cut off. This is too shameful.
However, after the Huainan king cut off the land, the conspiracy to plot a rebellion intensified.
Envoys came from Chang'an and created absurd and deceptive heresies. If they claimed that the emperor had no children and the Han Dynasty was not at peace, the King of Huainan would be happy to hear it. If they said that the Han Dynasty was peaceful and the emperor had children, the King of Huainan would be angry and thought it was nonsense and unbelievable.
The King of Huainan, Wu Bei, Zuo Wu and others checked the map day and night and planned the march route.
The King of Huainan said: The emperor has no prince. Once he dies, the court ministers will definitely summon the King of Jiaodong, or the King of Changshan, and all the princes and kings will compete for the throne. How can I not be prepared!
Besides, I am the grandson of the great ancestor, and I personally practice benevolence and righteousness. Your Majesty treats me kindly, and I can endure his rule. How can I serve your little son and become a minister in the north after your Majesty's eternity?
The King of Huainan was sitting in the East Palace. He summoned Wu Bei to discuss matters together and called him: "General, come to the palace."
Wu Bei said unhappily: The emperor has just forgiven and pardoned the king, how can he say such things as to destroy the country?
I heard that Wu Zixu was admonishing the King of Wu, but the King of Wu did not respond, so Wu Zixu said, "I will soon see elk wandering in and out of Gusu Terrace."
Now I will also see that the palace is full of thorns and the dew is soaking my clothes.
The King of Huainan was furious and imprisoned Qi Wu's parents for three months.
Then the King of Huainan summoned Wu again and asked, "General, will you agree to this?"
Wu was answered: No, I'm just here to make plans for the king.
I heard that people with good hearing can hear movement in silence, and people with good vision can see signs before they are formed. Therefore, the wisest and most moral saints are always foolproof in their actions.
In the past, King Wen of Zhou led the Zhou people to march eastward to destroy Shang Zhou. One action showed his achievements for thousands of generations, making the Zhou Dynasty join the "Three Dynasties" after Xia and Shang. This is the so-called result of obeying the will of God, so people all over the world followed him unanimously.
This is a historical fact that can be seen thousands of years ago.
As for the Qin Dynasty a hundred years ago, and the two countries Wu and Chu in modern times, they are enough to explain the survival of the country.
I dare not escape the fate of Wu Zixu being killed, and I hope that the king will not make the same mistake as the king of Wu who did not listen to his loyal advice.
In the past, the Qin Dynasty abandoned the way of saints, killed Confucian scholars, burned "Books" and "Books", abandoned etiquette and justice, advocated hypocrisy and violence, and relied on punishment to force the people to transport millet from the seaside to the Xihe River.
At that time, men worked hard but could not eat enough chaff, and women weaved and made linen but had no clothes to cover their bodies.
Emperor Qin sent Meng Tian to build the Great Wall, which stretched thousands of miles from east to west. There were often hundreds of thousands of soldiers guarding the border and sleeping in the open for many years. The dead were countless. Zombies roamed for thousands of miles, bleeding spread over hundreds of acres. The people were exhausted. Five out of ten families wanted to rebel.
Emperor Qin sent Xu Fu to the East China Sea to visit gods and rare objects. When Xu Fu returned, he made up a lie and said: When I saw the great god of the sea, he asked: Are you the envoy of the Emperor of the West?
The minister replied: Yes.
What have you come to seek?
The minister replied: I hope to find the elixir that can prolong life.
Poseidon said: Your gifts from King Qin are meager. You can admire the elixir but cannot take it.
Immediately, Poseidon's followers traveled southeast to Penglai Mountain and saw a palace built with Ganoderma lucidum grass. There was an envoy whose skin was like bronze and his body was shaped like a dragon. His radiance shone upward to reflect the sky.
So I bowed twice and asked, "What gift should I give?"
Poseidon said: If you offer boys and girls from good families and the skills of various craftsmen, you can get the elixir.
The emperor was overjoyed and sent 3,000 boys and girls to the East China Sea, as well as providing grain seeds and various craftsmen to the God of Poseidon.
On the way, Xu Fu found a vast wilderness and lake, so he stayed there and established himself as king without returning to the court.
As a result, the people mourned and missed their relatives, and six out of ten families wanted to rebel.
Emperor Qin also sent Zhao Tuo, the captain of Nanhai County, to cross the Five Ridges to attack Baiyue.
Zhao Tuo knew that the Central Plains was extremely exhausted, so he stayed in South Vietnam and proclaimed himself king instead of returning. He sent a letter asking the court to recruit 30,000 women without husbands to sew clothes for the soldiers.
Emperor Qin agreed to give him fifteen thousand people.
As a result, the people's hearts were scattered, and seven out of ten families wanted to rebel.
The guest said to Emperor Gao: The time has come.
Emperor Gao said: Wait and see, when a saint rises up in the southeast.
Within a year, Chen Sheng and Wu Guang rebelled.
Emperor Gao started to rebel in Peixian County, Fengyi, and as soon as he launched his initiative, countless people from all over the world responded.
This is the so-called stepping into the gap to spy on the opportunity and taking advantage of the Qin Dynasty's peril to take action.
The people looked forward to him, just like they look forward to rain in a drought, so he was able to rise up in the army and be supported as the emperor. His achievements were higher than those of Xia Yu, Shang Tang and King Wen of Zhou, and his kindness was passed down to future generations endlessly.
Now the king has seen how easy it was for Emperor Gao to conquer the world, but why can't he see the fall of Wu Chu in modern times?
The King of Wu was given the title of Liu Shi Jijiu. He was highly respected and favored, and he was not required to go to Beijing for court as usual. He was in charge of the people of the four counties, covering an area of ​​thousands of miles. He could smelt copper and cast coins at home, boil seawater and sell salt in the east, and collect Jiangling wood to build large ships up the river.
The King of Wu used pearls, jade, gold and silk to bribe the princes, nobles and ministers of the court, but he did not give it to the emperor's wife Dou.
The rebellion plan was completed, and the king of Wu sent troops to march westward.
However, the Wu army was captured in Daliang and defeated in Hufu. The King of Wu fled eastward and went to Dantu, where he was captured by the Yue people and died, making everyone in the world laugh at him.
Why couldn't Wu Chu accomplish great feats even though he had such a large army?
It is really contrary to the way of heaven and not aware of the current situation.
Today, the king's military strength is less than one-tenth of Wu Chu's, but the peace of the world is ten thousand times better than that of Emperor Qin. I hope that the king will listen to the opinions of his ministers.
If the king does not listen to the advice of his ministers, he will inevitably reveal the secret to himself without saying anything when he sees the big event.
I heard that Jizi was very sad when he passed by the old capital of the Yin Dynasty, so he composed "Song of Maixiu". This song is to lament that King Zhou did not listen to the advice of Prince Bigan and his country perished.
Therefore, "Mencius" said that King Zhou was the emperor, but he was not as good as the common people when he died.
This is because King Zhou had already renounced the world before his death, and it was not until his death that the world turned their backs on him.
Now I also secretly feel sad that if the king abandons the dignity of the princes and kings, the court will definitely give the king a book of death, causing the king to die in the East Palace before other ministers.
As a result, Wu was filled with resentment and looked gloomy. Tears filled his eyes and flowed down his face. He immediately stood up, walked down the steps and left.
The King of Huainan had a son named Liu Buhai who was a concubine. He was the oldest. The King of Huainan did not like him, and neither the queen nor the prince regarded him as his son or brother.
Liu Buhai had a son named Liu Jian, who was very proud and resentful that the prince did not come to greet his father. He also complained that at that time, all the princes and kings could ennoble their children as princes, but the King of Huainan only had two sons, one of whom became the prince, but Liu Jian's father was not allowed to make princes.
Liu Jian secretly made friends and wanted to inform and defeat the crown prince and replace him with his father.
When the prince learned of this, he imprisoned and tortured Liu Jian many times.
Liu Jian was fully aware of the prince's plot to kill the imperial lieutenant, so he asked Zhuang Zhi, a native of Shouchun County with whom he had a good personal relationship, to write to the emperor in the sixth year of Yuanshuo: Poison is bitter to the mouth and good for the disease, and loyal words are harsh to the ears and good for deeds.
Nowadays, King Huainan's grandson Liu Jian is very talented. Queen Tu of Huainan and Tu's son Prince Liu Qian are often jealous and persecute him.
Liu Jian's father, Liu Buhu, was not guilty, but they detained him many times and tried to kill him.
Now Liu Jian is here and can be summoned for questioning. He knows all the secrets of King Huainan.
After the report was sent to the emperor, the emperor handed the matter over to Tingwei, who then sent it to Henan County for trial.
At this time, Shen Qing, the grandson of the former Piyang Marquis, had a good relationship with the Prime Minister Gongsun Hong. He hated Huainan King Li for killing his grandfather, so he tried his best to frame the Huainan King against Gongsun Hong. Therefore, Gongsun Hong suspected that the Huainan King had a treasonous conspiracy and decided to investigate the case in depth.
The Henan County Government interrogated Liu Jian, and he confessed to the Huainan Crown Prince and his cronies.
The King of Huainan was worried that the situation was serious and wanted to raise his troops to rebel, so he asked Wu, "Is the world of the Han Dynasty peaceful or not?"
Wu was answered: The world is at peace.
The king of Huainan was unhappy and said to Wu Sui: On what basis do you say the world is at peace?
Wu was answered: I observed the government privately. The etiquette and righteousness between the monarch and his ministers, the affection between father and son, the distinction between husband and wife, and the order between elders and children were all in line with the proper principles. The emperor's administration followed the ancient way of governing the country, and there were no defects in customs and laws.
Wealthy merchants laden with goods traveled all over the world, and the roads were open everywhere, so trade flourished.
South Vietnam surrendered, the Qiangbo people donated their products, Dongou Nei moved to the Han Dynasty, the imperial court expanded Chang Yusai and opened up Shuofang County, which made the Huns lose their wings and become languid without assistance.
Although this is not as good as the peaceful and prosperous times of ancient times, it can be regarded as a stable world.
The king of Huainan was furious, and Wu Ban quickly pleaded guilty to death.
The king of Huainan said to Wu Cheng again: If there is a military war east of Mount Laoshan, the imperial court will send the general Wei Qing to lead the troops to suppress it. What kind of person do you think the general is?
Wu Bei said: My good friend Huang Yi once followed the general to attack the Huns. When he returned, he told me: The general was polite to the scholar-bureaucrats and kind to the soldiers, and everyone was willing to serve him.
The general's ability to ride a horse up and down mountains as fast as flying is outstanding.
I think he is so powerful in martial arts and has led troops in many battles and is proficient in military affairs that he will not be easily resisted.
He also paid a visit to Cao Liang when he returned from his mission to Chang'an and said that the general had strict orders, was brave in fighting the enemy, and always took the lead.
When setting up camp and resting, and the well is not dug, every soldier must have a drink of water before he is willing to drink.
When the army returned from the expedition, he crossed the river after the soldiers had finished crossing.
He gave all the money and silk that the Empress Dowager rewarded to his officers.
Even the famous generals of ancient times have no one who can compare with him.
King Huainan was speechless after hearing this.
When the King of Huainan saw Liu Jian being summoned for trial, he was afraid that the conspiracy of rebellion in the country would be exposed, and wanted to raise an army first. However, Wu was considered to be difficult to achieve, so the King of Huainan asked him again: Do you think it was right or wrong for King Wu to raise troops to rebel?
Wu Bei said: I think it is wrong.
The king of Wu was extremely wealthy, but he did something wrong. He died, his disciples died, and his family was divided, causing disaster to his descendants and no one survived.
I heard that King Wu was very regretful.
I hope your Majesty will consider this matter carefully and not have the same regrets as King Wu again.
The King of Huainan said: A man can die for the words he speaks.
Moreover, how could King Wu know how to rebel? He actually allowed more than forty Han generals to break through the Chenggao Pass in one day.
Now I order Lou Huan to first seize the Chenggao Pass, order Yingchuan County, which was captured in Zhou Dynasty, to lead troops to block the roads of Shenyuan Pass and Yique Pass, and Chen Ding to lead the army of Nanyang County to guard Wuguan.
The governor of Henan County only has Luoyang, so there is nothing to worry about.
However, there are Linjin Pass, Hedong County, Shangdang County, Hanoi County and Zhao State to the north.
People say that if the Chenggao Pass is blocked, the world will be impassable.
We relied on the Chenggao Pass, which is the land of Sanchuan, to mobilize the troops from the counties east of Mount Laoshan to respond. What do you think of such an uprising?
Wu was answered: I see its disasters but not its blessings.
The King of Huainan said: Zuo Wu, Zhao Xian and Zhu Jiaoru all believe that they are lucky and will succeed nine times out of ten. You just think that there is no blessing but misfortune, why?
Wu was said: Among the ministers who were favored by the king and could usually command everyone, they were all imprisoned in the criminal cases ordered by the emperor last time, and the remaining ones could not be reused.
The King of Huainan said: Chen Sheng and Wu Guang, who had no place to stand, gathered a thousand people and started a uprising in Daze Township. They shouted for rebellion, and the whole country responded. When they went west to play in the water, there were 1.2 million people with them.
Although our country is small today, there are more than 100,000 strong men who are qualified to fight. They are by no means a mob forced to guard the border, and they do not hold wooden crossbows and halberd handles. Why do you say there is disaster but no luck?
Wu Bei said: In the past, the Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and cruel, and harmed the people of the world.
The imperial court requisitioned tens of thousands of private vehicles, built the Epang Palace, collected most of the people's income as taxes, and sent the poor people from the family to remote frontiers. As a result, the father could not protect his son's safety, and the elder brother could not let his younger brother live a comfortable life. The government's decrees were harsh and the punishments were harsh, and the people of the world endured all kinds of torture and were almost exhausted. The people craned their necks in hope, listened attentively, raised their heads to the sky and cried out in sorrow, beating their chests and resenting the emperor. Therefore, Chen Sheng shouted for rebellion, and everyone in the world responded immediately.
Now the emperor is ruling the world from his dynasty, unifying all parts of the country, loving the people of the world, and extending virtues and benefits.
Even if he does not speak, his voice spreads as fast as thunder; even if the edict is not promulgated, the rapid promotion of education seems to have magical power; if he has a thought in his heart, it will move thousands of miles, and the people will respond to the Lord, just like the shadow follows the shape and the echo responds to the voice.
Moreover, the talents of General Wei Qing are not comparable to those of Qin generals Zhang Han and Yang Xiong.
Therefore, I think it is inappropriate for your Majesty to describe yourself as Chen Sheng and Wu Guang rebelling against Qin.
The King of Huainan said: If it is really like what you said, can't it be a lucky success?
Wu Bei said: I have a stupid plan.
King Huainan said: What should we do?
Wu Bei replied: Today, the princes have no doubts about the imperial court, and the people have no resentment towards the imperial court.
However, Shuofang County has vast fields and rich water and grass, and the people who have migrated are not enough to fully develop the area.
The minister's stupid plan was to forge memorials written by the prime minister and censor to the emperor, requesting the relocation of powerful men, righteous men, and prisoners sentenced to more than 100 edicts from various counties to fill the borders.
Then he forged the case-handling documents issued by the emperor personally issued by the officials of Du Sikong, Shanglinyuan and the capital of Zongzheng Mansion to arrest the princes and favored ministers of the princes.
If this happens, the people will be resentful and the princes will be afraid. Then let the voluptuous lobbyists persuade them to rebel. Maybe they can get a tenth chance of success!
The King of Huainan said: This plan is feasible.
Although your worries are reasonable, I don't think it is that difficult to achieve this.
So the King of Huainan ordered his slaves to enter the palace and forged the emperor's seal, the prime minister, the imperial censor, the general, the military historian, Zhong Erqian Shi, the official seals of the various officials in the capital and county magistrates, the official seals of the prefects and captains of neighboring counties, and the official hats worn by the court envoys and judges, all planning to act according to Wu Qui's plan.
The King of Huainan also sent people to pretend to be convicted and escape from the Huainan Kingdom and go west to Chang'an to serve the general and the prime minister. He intended to have them assassinate the general Wei Qing immediately if an army broke out, and then persuade the prime minister to surrender. It would be as easy as removing a covering cloth.
The King of Huainan wanted to mobilize the army in the country, but he was worried that his prime minister and ministers would not obey his orders.
He and Wu Bei conspired to kill the Prime Minister and the Minister of Two Thousand Stones first. To this end, they pretended that there was a fire in the palace. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Two Thousand Stones would come to put out the fire, and they would be killed as soon as they arrived.
Before the plan was decided, they planned to send people wearing the clothes of soldiers who captured thieves, holding feathers, and galloping from the south, shouting "South Vietnamese soldiers have entered the border", so as to take the opportunity to send troops to march.
So they sent people to Lujiang County and Kuaiji County to implement the strategy of pretending to hunt down the thieves, but did not send troops immediately.
The king of Huainan asked Wu Bei: I am leading my troops to advance westward, and the princes must have people to respond. What if no one responds?
Wu was replied: You can seize the Hengshan Kingdom to the south and attack Lujiang County, seize Xunyang's warships, guard the city of Xiaji, strangle the mouth of Jiujiang River, block the passage of the Yuzhang River from the north to the Yangtze River at the mouth of Pengli Lake, and attack with strong bows and crossbows. Fortify the Yangtze River to prevent the Nanjun army from moving down the river; then attack the Jiangdu Kingdom and Kuaiji County in the east, and make friends with the powerful Yue Kingdom in the south. In this way, they can bend and stretch freely between the Yangtze and Huaihe Rivers and delay for some time.
King Huainan said: Very good, there is no better strategy.
If the situation is critical, go to Yue.
So Tingwei reported to the emperor that the confession of Huainan Prince Liu Jian implicated Huainan Prince Liu Qian.
The emperor sent Wei Lin to seize the opportunity to visit the lieutenant of Huainan Kingdom and arrest the prince.
When Ting Wei came to the Huainan Kingdom, the King of Huainan learned about it and planned with the prince to summon the Prime Minister and the Minister of Two Thousand Stones to come and kill them before sending troops.
The minister of state was summoned to the palace, and the minister of state came; the internal history was able to escape because he was out.
The lieutenant said: I am welcoming the envoys sent by the emperor and cannot come to see the king.
The King of Huainan thought that it would be of no use to kill only the Prime Minister, but the internal history and the lieutenant refused to come, so he gave up and let the Prime Minister go.
He hesitated again and again, unable to decide on a plan of action.
The prince thought that what he had committed was a conspiracy to assassinate a lieutenant of the imperial court, and that the people involved in the conspiracy were dead, so he thought that all the survivors would be cut off, so he said to his father: "All the ministers who can be relied on have been arrested before, but now there is no one who can be relied upon to carry out the task."
If you send troops when the time is not ripe, I am afraid you will not succeed. I am willing to go to the court to be arrested.
King Huainan also secretly wanted to give up, so he agreed to the prince's request.
So the prince cut his neck and committed suicide, but he did not die.
Wu Ban went to the law enforcement officials alone and reported his participation in the Huainan King's rebellion, and gave all the details of the rebellion.
The legal officials therefore arrested the prince and the queen, surrounded the palace, searched and arrested all the guests of King Huainan who participated in the rebellion, and also found the utensils of the rebellion, and then reported the matter to the emperor.
The emperor handed the case to the ministers for trial. The case implicated several thousand princes, two thousand stones, and local tycoons who had conspired with the Huainan King. They were all sentenced to death according to the severity of the crime.
Liu Ci, the king of Hengshan, was the younger brother of the king of Huainan. He was found guilty of the same crime and should be arrested. The official responsible for handling the case requested the arrest of the king of Hengshan.
The Emperor said: Each prince and king regards his own feudal state as the foundation of his life and should not involve each other.
You, together with the princes and princes, go to meet with the prime minister to discuss.
After discussion, forty-three people including King Pengzu of Zhao and Cao Xiang, the princes of Lieutenant, all said: King Liu An of Huainan is extremely treasonous and immoral. His crime of rebellion is clear and he should be punished without mercy.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, expressed his opinion: Liu An, the king of Huainan, ignored the king's law and did evil things. He was deceitful, disrupted the world, confused the people, betrayed his ancestors, and spread heresy.
"Spring and Autumn" once said that ministers should not lead the people to cause chaos, and they should be killed if they lead the people to cause chaos.
Liu An's crime was more serious than the rebellion, and his rebellion was a foregone conclusion.
I have seen clear evidence of his forged documents, talismans, seals, maps and other treasonous and immoral facts. His crime is extremely treasonous and immoral, and he should be executed according to law.
As for the officials in the Huainan Kingdom with an official rank of more than 200 shi and less than 200 shi, as well as the favored ministers of the clan who have not violated the law, if they cannot fulfill their duties to correct the Huainan King and prevent the rebellion of the King of Huainan, they should be removed from their posts, have their titles reduced, and be demoted to soldiers, and they will not be allowed to serve as officials again in the future.
Those other criminals who are not officials can use two pounds and eighty taels of gold to pay for the death penalty.
The imperial court should publicly expose Liu An's crimes so that everyone in the world will clearly understand the way of being a minister and will not dare to have evil ambitions to betray the emperor.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, Tingwei Zhang Tang and others reported everyone's opinions, and the emperor sent Zongzheng holding a talisman to judge the Huainan King.
Before Zongzheng arrived in Huainan, King Liu An of Huainan had committed suicide in advance.
Queen Tu, Prince Liu Qian and all those who collaborated in the rebellion were all killed.
When the emperor of Huainan, Liu An, was dissuaded from rebelling because of Wu, his words were elegant and upright. He said a lot of good things about the government and wanted not to kill him.
Ting Wei Zhang Tang said: Wu Ban was the first to plot a rebellion for the King of Huainan, and his crime cannot be forgiven.
So Wu Bei was killed.
Huainan Kingdom was abolished as Jiujiang County.
The king of Hengshan was named Liu Ci, and Queen Chengshu gave birth to three children. The eldest son Liu Shuang was established as the prince, the second son Liu Xiao, and the third daughter Liu Wucai.
Concubine Xu Lai also gave birth to four children, and concubine Jue Ji gave birth to two children.
The two brothers, the King of Hengshan and the King of Huainan, blamed each other and complained about etiquette. Their relationship was estranged and they were not harmonious.
When the King of Hengshan heard that the King of Huainan was making utensils for rebellion, he also made friends with guests to guard against him, fearing that he would annex him.
In the sixth year of Yuanguang, King Hengshan came to Beijing to pay homage. His visitor, Wei Qing, knew alchemy and wanted to write a letter asking him to serve the emperor. The King of Hengshan was very angry and deliberately accused Wei Qing of committing a capital crime and tortured him to force him to admit it.
The domestic history of Hengshan thought it was wrong and refused to hear the case.
The King of Hengshan ordered people to write a letter to accuse the internal history. The internal history was forced to handle the case, but he bluntly said that the King of Hengshan was wrong.
The King of Hengshan repeatedly usurped other people's fields and destroyed other people's tombs to create fields.
The head of the relevant department requested that King Hengshan be arrested and held accountable for his crimes, but the emperor did not agree. He only took back his original power to appoint officials with an official rank of more than 200 shi in his country and replaced them with appointments by the emperor.
The King of Hengshan was filled with resentment and conspired with Xi Ci and Zhang Guangchang. They visited people who were familiar with the art of war and could observe the stars to predict good and bad luck. They encouraged the King of Hengshan day and night to plot a rebellion.
Queen Chengshu died, and the King of Hengshan made Xu Lai his queen.
Jue Ji also received favor at the same time.
The two were jealous of each other, and Jue Ji spoke ill of Queen Xu Lai to the prince. She said: Xu Lai ordered his maid to kill the prince's mother with false accusations and sorcery.
From then on, the prince resented Xu Lai.
Xu Lai's brother came to Hengshan Kingdom. The prince drank with him and stabbed the queen's brother with a knife during the dinner.
The queen was resentful and angry, and repeatedly slandered the prince to King Hengshan.
The prince's sister Liu Wucai was divorced and returned to her natal family after her marriage. She committed adultery with a slave and a guest.
The prince blamed Liu Wocai many times, and Wucai was very angry and stopped interacting with the prince.
When the queen learned of this, she showed great solicitude.
Wucai and his second brother Liu Xiao lost their mother when they were young, so they could not help but rely on Queen Xu Lai. She cleverly used tricks to protect them and let them slander the prince together. Therefore, the King of Hengshan beat the prince severely many times.
In the fourth year of Yuan Shuo, someone killed or injured the queen's stepmother. King Hengshan suspected that the prince had instigated the crime, so he beat the prince severely with a bamboo board.
Later, King Hengshan became ill, and the prince often claimed that he was ill and refused to serve.
Liu Xiao, the queen, and Liu Wucai all said bad things about him: The prince was actually not sick, but he claimed to be sick, with a happy face.
The King of Hengshan was furious and wanted to abolish his title of crown prince and replace him with his younger brother Liu Xiao.
The queen knew that King Hengshan had decided to depose the crown prince, so she wanted to depose Liu Xiao as well.
The queen had a maid who was good at dancing, and King Hengshan dotes on her. The queen planned to have the maid have an affair with Liu Xiao to taint him, so that she could depose the prince brothers and make her son Liu Guang the prince.
The prince Liu Shuang knew the queen's plot and thought that the queen had repeatedly slandered him and refused to give up, so he planned to have an affair with her to silence her.
One time when the queen was drinking, the prince came up to toast her birthday. Taking advantage of the situation, he sat on the queen's lap and asked to sleep with her.
The queen was very angry and told the king of Hengshan.
So the King of Hengshan summoned the prince and planned to tie him up and beat him severely.
The prince knew that his father often wanted to depose him and establish his younger brother Liu Xiao, so he said to him: Liu Xiao has committed adultery with his father's favored maid, and Wucai has committed adultery with his slaves. Father, please try your best to have more food. I request to write a letter to the court.
After that, he turned his back to King Hengshan and left.
The King of Hengshan sent people to stop him, but it failed, so he drove himself to hunt down the prince.
The prince talked nonsense, and the King of Hengshan imprisoned him in the palace with shackles.
Liu Xiao became increasingly close and favored by the King of Hengshan.
The King of Hengshan was amazed at Liu Xiao's talents, so he gave him the royal seal, called him a general, let him live in a mansion outside the palace, and gave him a lot of money to attract guests.
The guests who came to seek refuge secretly knew that both the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan had plans to betray the imperial court, so they welcomed and encouraged the King of Hengshan day and night.
So the King of Hengshan ordered Liu Xiao's guests Jiangdu people to rescue He and Chen happy to make chariots and arrows, and to engrave the emperor's seal and the official seals of the generals and military officials.
The King of Hengshan visited day and night for heroes like Zhou Qiu. He repeatedly praised and gave examples of Wu Chu's strategies during the rebellion, and used them to standardize his own rebellion plans.
The King of Hengshan did not dare to imitate the King of Huainan and hope to usurp the throne of emperor. He was afraid that the King of Huainan would rise up and annex his country. He thought that after the King of Huainan moved westward, he could take advantage of the situation and send troops to pacify and occupy the territory between the Yangtze River and the Huai River. He hoped that he would be able to do so.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuan Shuo, King Hengshan was about to go to Beijing to see the emperor. When passing through the Huainan Kingdom, the King of Huainan actually said some words of brotherhood, which eliminated the previous resentment and agreed to jointly create tools for rebellion.
The King of Hengshan wrote a letter saying that he was ill, and the emperor gave him a letter allowing him not to enter the court.
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, King Hengshan sent people to write to the emperor requesting that the crown prince Liu Shuang be deposed and Liu Xiao be established as the crown prince.
After Liu Shuang heard the news, he sent Bai Ying, who was close to him, to Chang'an to write a letter accusing Liu Xiao of secretly making chariot arrows and committing adultery with the Huainan King's maid, intending to thwart Liu Xiao.
When Bai Ying came to Chang'an, before he could submit a letter, the officials arrested him and imprisoned him because he was involved in the rebellion of the King of Huainan.
When the King of Hengshan heard that Liu Shuang sent Bai Ying to write a letter, he was afraid that he would reveal the secrets of the country, so he wrote a letter accusing the prince Liu Shuang of committing treason and committing treason and should be punished with death. The court handed the matter over to Pei County for trial.
In the winter of the first year of Yuanshou, the minister responsible for handling the case went to Pei County to search for the criminals who had conspired with the King of Huainan. He was not arrested, but Chen happy was captured at the home of Liu Xiao, the son of the King of Hengshan.
Officials accused Liu Xiao of taking the lead in hiding Chen happy.
Liu Xiao thought that Chen Xiping had repeatedly plotted rebellion with the King of Hengshan, and was very afraid that he would confess the matter. He heard that the law stipulated that those who surrendered in advance would be exempted from guilt, and he suspected that the prince had instructed Bai Ying to report the rebellion, so he surrendered first and accused Jiu He, Chen happy and others of participating in the rebellion.
The interrogation by Tingwei confirmed that it was true, and the minister requested the arrest and interrogation of King Hengshan. The emperor said: Do not arrest.
He sent Lieutenant Sima An and General Li Xi to Hengshan Kingdom to interrogate King Hengshan on the spot, and King Hengshan answered truthfully one by one.
The officials surrounded the palace and guarded it closely.
The lieutenant and Daxing returned to the court and reported the situation. The minister requested that Zongzheng, Daxing and Peijun be sent to jointly try the King of Hengshan.
When the King of Hengshan heard the news, he cut his neck and committed suicide.
Liu Xiao was acquitted because he voluntarily surrendered and rebelled; but he was still sentenced to death for committing adultery with the maid of the Prince of Hengshan.
Queen Xu Lai was also guilty of murdering the former Queen Chengshu by falsely accusing her of poison, and Prince Liu Shuang was accused of unfilial piety by the King of Hengshan, so they were all executed and abandoned in the market.
All the criminals who participated in the rebellion of King Hengshan were killed.
Hengshan State was abolished and became Hengshan County.
Tai Shigong said: "The Book of Songs" says: "Fight the Rong and Di, punish the Chu people. This is true!"
Although the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan were close relatives, owned thousands of miles of territory, and were granted the title of vassal, they did not devote themselves to abide by the duties of vassals to assist the emperor. Instead, they blindly harbored evil plans and plotted rebellion. As a result, father and son were subjugated for the second time in succession. No one was able to enjoy the full life of his life, and was ridiculed by the world.
This is not only their fault, but also the result of the weak local customs and the bad influence of subordinate ministers.
The people of Chu are agile, brave, fierce, and fond of causing chaos. This has been recorded in books since ancient times.
