◆Guo Taichuan, named Lin Zong, was born in Jiexiu, Taiyuan. Family background is poor and humble.
His father died early, and his mother wanted him to work in the county.
Lin Zong said: How can a man engage in such a despicable job?
Just quit.
He studied with Chenggao Qu Boyan, graduated in three years, and became well-versed in many books.
He is good at speaking, eloquent, and has a loud voice.
While traveling in Luoyang, he first met Li Ying of Henan Province. Li Ying praised him greatly, and they became good friends and became famous in the capital.
Later, when I returned to my hometown, the scholar-bureaucrats and Confucian scholars brought thousands of cars to the river.
Guo Linzong only crossed the river with Li Ying in the same boat. The guests seeing him off looked at them like gods.
Situ Huang Qiong recruited him, and Taichang Zhao Dianju was wise.
Someone advised Guo Linzong to become an official. Lin Zong replied: I watch the sky at night and investigate social and human affairs during the day. It is unsupportable to abandon the destiny.
So, he didn't respond.
He is talented in understanding people and likes to reward and educate scholars.
He is eight feet long, has a tall and majestic appearance, wears loose clothes and wears a large belt, and travels around the country.
I once walked between Chen and Liang, and when it rained, I folded a corner of the towel and put it up. At that time, people also learned to deliberately fold a corner of the towel, which was called Lin Zongjin. Most people admired it like this.
Someone asked Fan Pang of Runan: What kind of person is Guo Linzong?
Fan Pang said: Living in seclusion like Jie Zitui does not violate the mother's will; serving as an official is like Liu Xiahui, who is loyal and not pretentious. The emperor cannot treat him as a minister, and the princes cannot treat him as a friend. Others, I don't know.
Later, his mother died and he had a reputation of being extremely filial.
Although Guo Linzong was good at identifying and criticizing people, he did not make passionate and profound discussions, so the eunuch dictatorship could not harm him.
The party disaster arose, and most of the famous people suffered from it. Only Guo Linzong and Runan Yuan Hong were spared.
So he taught behind closed doors and had thousands of students.
In the first year of Jianning, Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu were killed by eunuchs. Guo Linzong cried in the wild and was extremely sad.
Because he sighed and said: When people die, the country is also in danger.  The crow landed on that person's house.
In the spring of the next year, he died at home at the age of forty-two.
More than a thousand people from all over the world came to pay their respects to the funeral.
The comrades then carved a stone and erected a stele together, and Cai Yong wrote the inscription. When it was completed, he said to Lu Zhi of Zhuojun: I have written many inscriptions! Everyone felt a little ashamed, but Guo Youdao was the only one who didn't feel ashamed.
The scholars rewarded and selected by Guo Linzong were all as he appraised.
He speaks first and then proves it, and everyone admires him. Later, those who liked to appreciate characters might add exaggerations, so there were some flashy and grotesque words added, just like a book of divination.
Now I record the facts that clearly show effect and write them at the end of the article.
Zuo Yuan, Chen Liuren. As a county student, he broke the law and was expelled.
Guo Linzong once met him on the road and held a banquet to comfort him.
He said to him: In the past, Yan Zhuoju was a big thief of Liang Fu, and Duan Qianmu was a big market broker in the Jin State. In the end, he became a loyal minister of the Qi State and a famous sage in the Wei State.
Qu Yuan and Yan Hui are not without faults, let alone ordinary people?
Don't be angry, just ask yourself and blame yourself.
Zuo Yuan accepted his opinion and left.
Some people also ridiculed Guo Linzong for associating with bad people. He replied: If a person is unkind, hating him too harshly will force him to do more bad things.
Later, Zuo Yuan suddenly became more resentful and gathered guests to take revenge on all living beings.
Guo Linzong was at school that day. Zuo Yuan felt ashamed that he had failed to live up to what Guo Linzong had said before, so he left.
Later the story leaked out and everyone thanked him. Mao Rong, courtesy name Jiwei, was born in Chenliu.
In his forties, he was plowing in the wild. At that time, he and his peers were sheltering from the rain under a tree. Everyone was squatting facing each other, and Mao Rong was sitting alone, very respectful.
Guo Linzong felt strange when he saw that he was different from everyone else. Because of the conversation with him, Mao Rong invited Lin Zong to stay at his house.
The next morning, Mao Rong killed a chicken and made vegetables. Lin Zong thought it was for him. Later he found out that it was for his mother, and he used vegetables to eat with the guests.
Guo Linzong bowed to him and said, "You are so wise!"
Because he persuaded him to study, he finally became a moral person.
Meng Min, courtesy name Shuda, was a native of Yang County, Julu County.
When he was a guest in Taiyuan, he was carrying a steamer. The steamer accidentally fell to the ground and broke. He left without even looking at it.
Guo Linzong saw him and asked what he meant. Meng Min replied: The steamer is broken, what's the use of it?
Guo Linzong believed that Meng Min was not an ordinary person and advised him to study abroad.
After ten years of becoming famous, he was recruited by all three princes, but none of them went.
Yucheng, whose courtesy name was Shiyou, was from Yanling County, Yingchuan County.
When he was young, he worked as a servant in the county. Guo Linzong saw him, promoted him, and persuaded him to study as an official because all students were doing odd jobs.
Later, when he was able to lecture on knowledge, he thought that he was from a humble background and often sat in the lower seat. Students and doctors asked him questions, so in the school, he was regarded as the most respected person in the lower seat.
Later, when the imperial court called for him, he didn't answer the call. People called him "Zhengjun".
Song Guo, courtesy name Zhongyi, was born in Fufeng.
He has a strong personality and likes to avenge others and cause suffering for the county.
Guo Linzong then taught him the right way of life and threatened him with disaster and failure.
Song Guo was moved by him and repented, kowtowed and admitted his mistake. Therefore, correct your evil ways and discipline yourself.
Later, he became famous for his uprightness. He was recruited by the government and served as a censor and governor of Bingzhou. Wherever he went, he taught widely.
Jia Shu, whose courtesy name is Zihou, is a fellow villager of Guo Linzong.
Although he comes from a family that has been officials for generations, his character is sinister and the village is troubled by him.
Guo Linzong's mother passed away, Jia Shu went to express condolences, and later Julu Sun Weizhi also arrived.
Sun Weizhi thought that Guo Linzong was a virtuous man but accepted the condolences of a wicked man. He felt strange and left without entering the house.
Guo Linzong caught up with Sun Weizhi and said: Jia Zihou is indeed a bad person, but he has changed his mind and changed his mind.
Zhongni does not refuse to visit home, so I allow him to come in.
Jia Shu listened, changed her ways, encouraged herself, and eventually became a good person.
When there were people in distress in the village, Jia Shu often tried her best to rescue them, and was praised by the governor.
Shi Shubin, Chen Liuren.
He was famous when he was young.
Guo Linzong told people when he met: "The wall is high but the foundation is low. Even if you gain something, you will definitely lose it."
Later, he really lost his reputation because of his flattery.
Huang Yun, courtesy name Ziai, was born in Jiyang.
Famous for his outstanding talents.
Guo Linzong met him and said: You have extraordinary talents and can become a great weapon.
However, I'm afraid that if you don't stick to the truth, you may lose what you gain.
Later, Situ Yuan Wei wanted to propose to his niece. When he saw Huang Yun, he sighed and said, "I am so satisfied with my son-in-law."
When Huang Yun heard about it, he dismissed his wife Xiahou.
Xiahou said to her aunt: Now that I have been abandoned, I will break up with Huang Yun. I will invite relatives to express my feelings of separation.
So there were more than 300 guests gathered. Xiahou sat in the middle, rolled up his sleeves and counted Huang Yun's fifteen filthy and evil things. After that, he took the car and left.
Huang Yun was despised by people at the time.
Xie Zhen, courtesy name Ziwei, was from Zhaoling County, Runan County.
Both Chen Liu and Bian Rang were good at talking and both were famous.
Chang Tong always went to see Guo Linzong day and night. Guo Linzong said to his disciples: These two people are talented, but neither of them has entered Taoism. What a pity!
Xie Zhen later failed to pay attention to details and was attacked by public opinion.
Bian Rang was killed by Cao Cao for insulting Cao Cao.
Wang Rou, also known as Shuyou, and his younger brother Wang Ze, named Jidao, were from Jinyang County in the same county as Guo Linzong.
When the brothers were young, they went to see Lin Zong together and asked each other about the direction of talent development.
Lin Zong said: Shuyou should make a fortune as an official, and Ji Dao should become famous for his expertise in Confucian classics. However, changing direction and doing something else will not reach this point.
Later, as he said, Wang Rou served as a protector of the Xiongnu Zhonglang General, and Wang Ze became the prefect of Daijun.
He also met Zhang Xiaozhong among the woodcutters and herders, and met Fan Tezu in the post office. Zhao Gongzi and Xu Wei were both butchers and wine servants, while Sima Ziwei was an ordinary soldier.
As well as sixty people from the same county, including Guo Changxin, Wang Changwen, Han Wenbu, Li Zizheng, Cao Ziyuan, Dingxiang Zhou Kangzi, Xihe Wang Jiran, Yunzhongqiu Jizhi, Hao Lizhen, etc., all became famous because of him. ◆The biography of Fulong, whose courtesy name is Weiming, was from Junyi, Chenliu County. When he was young, he served as a capital official. He thought it was shameful and abandoned him.
Later, he traveled to Taixue and became a teacher of Shaofu Li Ying.
Li Ying had a noble and pure temperament. Every time he met with Fulong, he often declined other guests and listened to Fulong's words.
Fulong waved his sleeves and talked fluently, while Li Ying often held his hands and sighed.
Guo Linzong began to go to the capital, and he didn't know each other at the time. Fulong admired him when he met him, and introduced him to Li Ying. Guo Linzong became famous all over the world.
At that time, Wenjing of Jin Dynasty in Hanzhong and Huang Ziai of Liang Dynasty all relied on their talents to show off to the capital, and excused themselves to stay home due to illness and did not receive guests.
Sergeant Luo, a nosy doctor, admired his reputation and sat outside his door to ask questions, but did not receive him.
Sangong was recruited and often visited him, using what they said was good or bad as a criterion for choosing.
Fulong understood that there was a lie in it, so he went to Taixue and met with Li Ying. He said: "I have not heard that these two people have any virtues, and they consider themselves heroes. Therefore, I sent the minister to ask about their illness. Wang Chen sat outside the door and asked to receive him."
I'm afraid they are heresy, with false reputations and no facts. We should examine them carefully!
Li Ying thinks it is right.
From then on, the reputation of the two gradually declined, and there were fewer guests and disciples. Within ten days, they ran away with a sigh of shame.
Later I found out that they were really frivolous boys and both were abandoned for committing crimes.
Fulong became more famous because of this.
The prefectures and counties invited him with courtesy and commended him for his filial piety and integrity. The government summoned him many times, but he failed.
The prefect Feng Dai was famous. When he arrived, he asked Fulong to meet him.
As soon as Fulong left, he recommended three county officials, including Fan Ran, Han Zhuo, and Kong Qianyou, but excused themselves from contact with the prefect because of illness.
In case of party disaster, he was also banned from serving as an official.
His wife died, and she was too poor to bury her. The villagers wanted to help him organize a coffin, but Fulong refused to accept it.
Said: In ancient times, dead people were thrown into the wild.
Only my wife can carry out my will, so let me bury her in the ground.
Tian Sheng, whose courtesy name was Zhongxiang, was from the same county as Fulong. He was close to Guo Linzong and had a good understanding of people. He did not hold an official position and was carefree and died at home.
◆The biography of Xu Shao, named Zijiang, was from Pingyu County, Runan County.
When he was young, he established a reputation, was morally responsible, liked to talk about people, and was appreciated by many people.
For example, Fan Zizhao and He Yangshi were all famous at that time.
He began to serve as a meritorious officer in the county, and the prefect Xu Chu respected him very much.
When I heard that my son was going to be an official, there was no one in the government who would not change his conduct and be careful about his words and deeds.
Yuan Shao, a member of the same county, was a noble knight. He left the Puyang Order and returned home with a large number of carriages and horses. He was very luxurious. When he was about to enter the county, he sent away the guests and others and said, "Can Xu Zijian see my carriage and horse attire like this?"
So I just took a car back home.
Xu Shao once went to Yingchuan, and the people who traveled with him were some moral and knowledgeable elders. He did not visit Chen Chen alone.
Chen Fan's wife died and she returned to her hometown for burial. Everyone in the village went to attend the funeral, but Xu Shao did not go.
Someone asked him why, and Xu Shao said: Taiqiu's Taoism is too broad, and it is hard to be thorough in wideness; Zhongju has a severe temperament, and he cannot be thorough in Jun.
So I won't go.
Most of his comments on people are like this.
When Cao Cao didn't want to make a name for himself, he once made generous gifts and humbly asked Xu Shao to talk to him.
Xu Shao looked down on him and refused to speak, so Cao Cao found an opportunity to threaten Xu Shao. Xu Shao had no choice but to say, "You are a traitor in a time of peace and a hero in a time of trouble."
Cao Cao left very happily.
Xu Shao's uncle Xu Jing, Xu Jing's son Xu Xun, and Xu Xiang were all ministers of the Three Dukes. Because Xu Xiang flattered the eunuchs, he went to Taisi to grant him the title of Marquis. He sent people to invite Xu Shao many times. Xu Shao thought that Xu Xiang had no virtue and behaved abominably, so he never visited him.
Li Kui, a native of the same county as Xu Shao, was upright and had noble ambitions. Xu Shao began to be friendly with him, but later they had conflicts and discord with his brother Xu Jing. Public opinion at that time was dissatisfied with him.
At first, Xu Shao and Xu Jing were both well-known and liked to comment on township party figures. They changed the topic every month, so there was a custom of commenting on the first day of the month in Runan.
When Sikong Yang Biao summoned Xu Shao, he promoted him as upright, upright, and honest, but he failed to respond.
Someone advised Xu Shao to become an official. He replied: "Now that the villain has succeeded, the royal family will be in chaos. I want to go to Huaihai to escape to save the children and the elderly."
So we went south to Guangling.
Tao Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, treated each other with courtesy and was extremely considerate.
Xu Shao felt uneasy and told his disciples: "Tao Gongzu has a good reputation on the surface, but he is not true in his heart."
Although it is very kind to me, this situation cannot last long, so it is better to leave.
So he went to Qu'a to join Liu Yao, the governor of Yangzhou.
Later, Tao Qian indeed captured the guests who were staying with him. After Sun Ce pacified Wu, Xu Shao and Liu Yaonan fled Yuzhang and died there at the age of forty-six.
Xu Shao's brother Xu Qian was also famous. People in Runan said Pingyu had two dragons.
