◆In the preface to the biographies of eunuchs, "Book of Changes" says: Heaven shows down the image of the Dharma, and the saints imitate it.
There are four eunuch stars in the sky, next to the emperor star, so the "Book of Rites of Zhou" includes eunuchs to fill the number.
The eunuchs guard the inner gate of the palace, and the eunuchs guard the precepts of the female palace.
"The Rites of Zhou" also says: There are five servants in the king's bedroom.
The "Moon Order" records: In the middle of winter, the officials in charge of the eunuchs were ordered to inspect the gates and keep the doors open and closed.
There is also a poem called "Xiang Bo" written by an eunuch in "The Book of Songs·Xiaoya" that satirizes King You of Zhou for believing in slander.
It can be seen that eunuchs have been serving in the imperial court for a long time.
Probably because they have insufficient yang energy in their bodies, are single-minded in temperament, and have no evil thoughts. They are easy to interact with and manage the people in the palace, right?
However, later generations followed this system and the scope of their appointment gradually expanded. Among them, talented ones such as Bo Diao and Guan Su made contributions to the Jin and Chu states. Jing Jian and Miao Xian made contributions to the Qin and Zhao states because they recommended Shang Yang and Lin Xiangru respectively.
As for the disasters caused by eunuchs, they caused chaos to the Qi State and brought violence to the Song State. These are obvious examples.
When the Han Dynasty flourished, the system of the Qin Dynasty was still used, and the official position of Zhongchangshi was set up.
But it is also cited that scholars participated in the selection of regular servants. They all wear hats decorated with silver bells and sable tails, and work in the palace and Taiwan Province.
When Empress Lu came to the throne, she appointed Zhang Qing as her chief visitor, who came in and out of her bedroom to receive and convey her orders.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, there were uncles Zhao Tan and Beigong, who were very lucky to have relatives.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty also loved Li Yannian.
Emperor Wu had banquets in the harem many times, or secretly visited the villa outside the palace. Therefore, eunuchs were usually responsible for reporting confidential matters.
By the time of Emperor Yuan, Shi You was the magistrate of Huangmen. He was loyal and diligent, and was very helpful to political affairs.
Later, Hong Gong and Shi Xian relied on insidious flattery to get promoted, which finally led to the murder of Xiao Wangzhi and the deposed Zhou Kan, which damaged and tarnished the emperor's virtue.
At the beginning of the Eastern Han Dynasty when the dynasty was reestablished, all eunuchs were eunuchs and no longer mixed with other scholars.
During the Yongping period, the staff began to be recruited: four people from the Zhongchang sect and ten people from the Xiaohuang sect.
Emperor He ascended the throne at a young age, and the Dou Xian brothers controlled the government. Officials inside and outside were unable to approach Emperor He, and only eunuchs lived with Emperor He.
Therefore, the eunuch Zheng Zhong was able to make plans with Emperor He alone in the forbidden palace, and finally killed the traitorous minister Dou Xian. Zheng Zhong was named the Marquis of Chao'an Township and was given the title of Palace Minister.
The power of eunuchs began to grow.
From Emperor Ming to the Yanping period, the scope of eunuch appointments was gradually expanded, and the number of eunuchs was slightly increased. The number of eunuchs increased to ten, and the number of small Huangmen was twenty. The decorations on their hats were all changed to gold right mink, and they also served as Jiuqing and other foreign court officials.
Empress Dowager Deng presided over the government as a heroine, and there were many political affairs. The courtiers discussed national affairs and could not enter the inner palace to participate in planning and issue edicts without going beyond the queen's residence. Therefore, she had to appoint eunuchs and pin the fate of the country on them.
They hold the power of nobility in their hands and carry the royal decrees in their mouths. They no longer just hold positions in the palace and Yongxiang.
Later, the eunuch Sun Cheng made great achievements in supporting Emperor Shun, and Cao Teng participated in the plan to support Emperor Huan. Subsequently, the five marquises Shan Chao, Xu Huang, Ju Yuan, Zuo Xuanguan, and Tang Heng conspired to have Liang Ji, a relative of his, executed. What they did was fair and just, and their kindness was in the emperor's heart, so they obeyed both inside and outside the court, and no one dared to criticize them.
Some people praise them for having the same achievements as Yi Yin and Huo Guang, and are worthy of the previous generations; some say that the strategies of Zhang Liang and Chen Ping have appeared again today.
Although there were loyal ministers who served the public affairs at that time, they were eventually rejected.
Their actions move mountains and oceans, and their breath turns frost into dew.
Those who try their best to satisfy their demands will bring glory to the three tribes; those who do not hide their feelings and go against their wishes will have their relatives near and far destroyed.
The laws and regulations of the Han Dynasty were extremely chaotic.
The eunuchs wearing high crowns, long swords, and red ribbons with gold seals were all over the palace; there were probably dozens of eunuchs who were granted the title of marquis, worshiped as county guards, and ruled over others in the south.
Their government offices and residences are dotted in large and small cities; their descendants, clans and their dependents account for more than half of the state; the treasure house is filled with gold, He's jade, thin and transparent silk yarn from the south; "playthings" such as concubines, maids, singers, and dancers fill the gorgeous rooms; dogs and horses are decorated with floral silks, and civil buildings are decorated with brocade silks and satins.
They plundered and exploited the common people, and were extravagant and lustful.
They framed virtuous people and specially built party members.
There are even some pulling each other's back, trying to follow others' trends, and not hesitate to embarrass themselves in order to show off.
They help each other and have similar odors, so the number of party members is increasing, and they have committed countless crimes that have ruined the country and harmed the government.
As a result, the whole country was filled with sighs and resentment, and there was no place for people with lofty ideals. Bandits and thieves took advantage of the opportunity to rise up and disrupt China.
Although loyal and good people were resentful and sometimes stood up to denounce the eunuchs, if they spoke out, they would be immediately arrested and killed.
The party's prisons were also established, and those who were convicted turned around and made false accusations.
Anyone who is called a good person is not immune to persecution.
Although Yuan Shao respectfully carried out heaven's punishment and killed all the eunuchs, replacing chaos with violence could not be said to have achieved the goal of stabilizing the Han Dynasty!
Since Cao Teng persuaded Liang Ji to establish a weak emperor, Emperor Huan, Wei Emperor Wu Cao Cao used this method to control the weak emperor, and finally made the emperor's treasures belong to Cao Wei. The so-called, what you start from here must also end at this point. The Han Dynasty began to favor and trust the eunuchs, but eventually perished because of the eunuchs. This is indeed the case!
◆Zheng Zhongchuan, whose courtesy name is Ji Chan, was born in Tao County, Nanyang County.
He is cautious, alert and calculating.
In Yongpingzhong, he began to work at the prince's house.
When Suzong ascended the throne, he was granted the title of Xiaohuangmen and promoted to a regular attendant.
In the early days of Emperor He's reign, he was granted the title of "Yi Judun".
At this time, Empress Dowager Dou was in power, and the Empress Dowager's brother, General Dou Xian, and others were stealing authority. All officials in the court were dependent on him. Only Zheng Zhong was devoted to the royal family and did not curry favor with powerful parties. The emperor trusted him very much.
When the Dou Xian brothers were plotting evil, Zheng Zhong first planned to kill them, and he was promoted to the Great Changqiu due to their merits.
When the emperor gives rewards based on merit, he always says more and receives less.
Therefore, the emperor often discussed matters with him.
The use of power by eunuchs began with Zheng Zhong.
In the fourteenth year of Yongyuan, the emperor read Zheng Zhonggong's works and made him the Marquis of Chao'an Township, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the first year of Yongchu, Queen Hexi granted him 300 more households.
He died in the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, and his adopted son Zheng Hong succeeded to the throne. After Zheng Hong died, his son Zheng An succeeded to the throne.
After the country is gone.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, Emperor Huan issued an imperial edict to confer Zheng Zhong's great-grandson Shi Yan as the Marquis of Guannei.
◆Cai Lun's biography, Cai Lun's courtesy name is Jingzhong, a native of Guiyang County.
In the last years of Yongping, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, he began to work in the inner court of the imperial palace. In the early years of Emperor Zhang's reign, it was the Xiaohuang Gate.
When Emperor He came to the throne, Cai Lun became a regular servant and participated in the formulation of government orders.
Cai Lun was talented, dedicated to official duties, honest and cautious. He violated the emperor's will many times and assisted in correcting the emperor's gains and losses.
On vacation days, he often closes the door without receiving guests and walks in the fields.
Later he was promoted to Shangshu Ling.
In the ninth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Cai Lun supervised the production of swords and other instruments used in royal funerals. They were all exquisite and strong, and were imitated by future generations.
Since ancient times, most writings have been carved on bamboo slips and then compiled into books. Those who write on silk silk call it paper.
The tapes are expensive and the bamboo slips are heavy and inconvenient.
Cai Lun then created designs and made paper out of tree bark, hemp heads, rags, and fishing nets.
In the first year of Emperor Yuanxing's reign, he presented the paper to Emperor He, who appreciated Cai Lun's talents. Since then, everyone has used this kind of paper, and it is called Caihou Paper in the world.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty of Emperor An of the Han Dynasty, Empress Dowager Deng named Cai Lun the Marquis of Longting because he had been in the imperial court for a long time, and granted him a fief of 300 households. Later, he was made a servant of Changle Palace.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor An was unable to correct the text errors in the classics, so he sent Liu Zhen, an emissary who was proficient in Confucianism, and Liang Shi, a doctor, to Dongguan. They each used their own Confucian teachers' theories to collate the classics, and ordered Cai Lun to supervise and manage the affairs.
Cai Lun first accepted Empress Dowager Dou's hint and framed Song Guiren, the grandmother of Emperor An.
After the death of Empress Dowager Dou, Emperor An began to take charge of the government personally and ordered Cai Lun to confess to Tingwei himself.
Cai Lun was ashamed of being insulted by the jailer, so he took a bath, straightened his clothes, took medicine and committed suicide.
The feudal states were cancelled.
◆The biography of Sun Cheng, whose courtesy name is Zhiqing, was born in Xincheng, Zhuojun County.
During the reign of Emperor An, he worked for Zhonghuangmen and worked in Changle Palace.
At that time, Empress Dowager Deng was in court, and the emperor did not care about political affairs.
Li Run of Xiaohuangmen and Wang Sheng, the emperor's nanny, often slandered the Queen Mother's brother Zhijinwu, Deng Kui and others, saying that they wanted to depose the emperor and make Pingyuan Wangyi the emperor. Emperor An was afraid and hated him.
After the death of the Queen Mother, she executed the Deng family, deposed the King of Pingyuan, and granted Li Run the title of Marquis of Yongxiang. In addition, Jiang Jing of Xiaohuangmen framed others with sweet words. He first welcomed the emperor to his residence, and granted him the title of Marquis of the capital and township for his merits, with 300 households each.
Li Run and Jiang Jing were both promoted to Standing Ministers, and Jiang Jing also served as Changqiu. Together with Fan Feng, Huangmen Ling Liu An, Goudun Ling Chen Da, Wang Sheng, and Wang Sheng's daughter Bo Rong instigated internal and external disputes in the royal family.
In addition, the emperor's uncle, General Geng Bao, and the queen's brother, Da Hong, Yan Xian, formed a clique with each other for personal gain. They killed Taiwei Yang Zhen in vain and deposed the crown prince as King Jiyin.
The emperor died the next year and made the Marquis of Beixiang the emperor.
Yan Xian and others concentrated on the government and fought for power and profit, so they suggested that those in charge kill Fan Feng, depose Geng Bao, Wang Sheng and their party members, banished those who moved, and executed those who died.
In October, the Marquis of Beixiang became seriously ill.
Sun Cheng said to Chang Xingqu, the visitor of King Jiyin: King Jiyin is the direct descendant, and there was nothing wrong with him. The late emperor deposed him because of his slander.
If Beixiang Hou's illness cannot be cured, we can kill Jiang Jing and Yan Xian, and great things can be accomplished.
Xingqu and others think it is right.
Wang Kang of Nanyang, Huangmen, was first the history of the prince's palace. Since the prince was deposed, he often harbors resentments and sighs.
In addition, Changle Taiguan, Cheng Jingzhao Kingdom, all agreed with Sun Cheng's idea.
On the 27th, the Marquis of Beixiang died of illness.
Yan Xian told the Queen Mother to recruit the princes Jian to be the emperor's heirs.
Before it arrived, on November 2, Sun Cheng, Wang Kang and other eighteen people gathered under the West Bell to plan. They all cut off their clothes and swore an oath.
On the night of the fourth day, Sun Cheng and others gathered at Chongde Hall and entered Zhangtai Gate.
At this time, Jiang Jing, Liu An, Li Run, Chen Da and others were all sitting under the provincial gate. Sun Cheng and Wang Kangyin jointly killed Jiang Jing, Liu An, and Chen Da. Because Li Run was powerful and was obeyed by the palace, they wanted to make him the master. They raised their swords and threatened Li Run and said: Now we should establish King Jiyin and not be shaken.
Li Run said: Yes.
So Li Run was lifted up, and everyone welcomed King Jiyin under the West Bell to succeed him to the throne as Emperor Shun.
Summon the minister, Ling and Pushe, and follow the emperor's carriage to Yuntai, Nangong. Sun Cheng and others stayed at the palace gate to isolate the inside and outside.
Yan Xian was in the palace at this time. He was worried and didn't know what to do. Fan Deng of Xiaohuangmen persuaded Yan Xian to send troops. He used the Queen Mother's edict to summon Yue Cavalry School Captain Feng Shi and Huben Zhonglang General Yan Chong to station at Shuoping Gate to resist Sun Cheng and others.
After luring Feng Shi into the palace, the Empress Dowager ordered someone to grant him a seal, saying: Anyone who can capture King Ji Yin will be granted the title of Marquis of 10,000 households, and anyone who captures Li Run will be granted the title of Marquis of 5,000 households.
Yan Xian, because Feng Shi led few soldiers, asked him and Fan Deng to greet the officials outside Zuoye Gate.
Feng Shi killed Fan Deng and returned to the camp to garrison.
Yan Xian's younger brother, Wei Wei Yan Jing, hurriedly returned from the palace to the outer palace and withdrew his troops to Shengdemen.
Sun Cheng summoned the ministers to arrest Yan Jing.
Shangshu Guo Zhen was ill at this time. After listening to Sun Cheng's order, he immediately led Yu Lin, who was on duty, out of the south carriage door. When he met Yan Jing's entourage, he drew his white blade and shouted: "No troops are allowed."
Guo Zhen immediately got out of the car and ordered him with a talisman.
Yan Jing said: What edict?
Because he raised his knife to stab Guo Zhen, but missed, Guo Zhen hit Yan Jing with his sword and fell out of the car. The people on the left and right stabbed Yan Jing in the chest with their halberds, so they captured Yan Jing and sent him to Tingwei Prison, where he died that night.
The next morning, he ordered the imperial censor to arrest Yan Xian and others and send them to prison, and everything was settled.
The emperor issued an edict: Praising meritorious service and rewarding good deeds have the same meaning in ancient and modern times.
Jiang Jing, the former chief servant of the Central Government, Liu An, the Huangmen commander, Chen Da, the Goudun commander, and the former Chariot and Cavalry General Yan Xian brothers conspired to rebel and subvert the world.
Zhonghuangmen Sun Cheng, Wang Kang, Changle Taiguan Chengguo, Zhonghuangmen Huanglong, Peng Kai, Meng Shu, Li Jian, Wang Cheng, Zhang Xian, Shi Xun, Ma Guo, Wang Dao, Li Yuan, Yang Tuo, Chen Yu, Zhao Feng, Li Gang, Wei Meng, Miao Guang, etc., with loyalty, enthusiasm and generosity, worked together to eradicate the great evil and stabilize the royal family.
Didn't "Poetry" say: There is no unanswered word, and there is no unworthy virtue.
Sun Cheng was the mastermind, and Wang Kang and Guo Guo worked together.
Now Sun Cheng is granted the title of Marquis of Fuyang, with ten thousand households in the city; Wang Kang is the Marquis of Huarong, and the kingdom is the Marquis of Li, with nine thousand households each; Huanglong is the Marquis of Southern Hunan, with five thousand households; Peng Kai is the Marquis of Xipingchang, Meng Shu is the Marquis of Zhonglu, and Li Jian is the Marquis of Fuyang, with four thousand two hundred households each; Wang becomes the Marquis of Guangzong, and Zhang Xian is the Zhu Ahou, Shi Xun is the Marquis of Linju, Ma Guo is the Marquis of Guangping, Wangdao is the Marquis of Fanxian, Li Yuan is the Marquis of Baoxin, Yang Tuo is the Marquis of Shandu, Chen Yu is the Marquis of Xiajun, Zhao Feng is the Marquis of Xixian, Li Gang is the Marquis of Zhijiang, each with 4,000 households; Wei Meng is the Marquis of Yiling, with 2,000 households; Miao Guang is the Marquis of Dong'a, with 1,000 households.
It is for the Nineteenth Marquis.
There is a difference in the amount of gold, silver, money and silk given to chariots and horses.
Li Run did not participate in the planning, so he did not seal it.
Sun Cheng was promoted to the rank of Cavalry Captain.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Sun Cheng, Zhang Xian, Meng Shu, Ma Guo and others appealed to Yu Xu, the captain of the Sili school. They went to the palace with the petition and scolded the people around him.
The emperor was angry and dismissed Sun Cheng from his official position. All the nineteen marquises he had created were sent back to their fiefdoms. Later, Sun Cheng was granted the title of Marquis of Yicheng.
After Sun Cheng arrived at the fiefdom, he was angry and resentful. He returned the seal, ribbon and talisman, fled back to the capital, and traveled to the mountains.
The imperial edict summoned him, restored him to his original title, gave him carriages, horses and clothing, and sent him back home.
Three years later, the emperor thought of the merits of Sun Cheng and others and sent them back to the capital.
Sun Cheng, Wang Dao, and Li Yuan were all awarded the title of Cavalry Commander, and the rest were invited by the court.
In the first year of Yangjia, Sun Cheng fell seriously ill, so he was awarded the title of Captain of Fengche, a special promotion.
After his death, he was awarded the posthumous title of Marquis Gang after his death.
The imperial censor Shi Chijie was in charge of the funeral, and the emperor went to Beibu Weichuan to visit the chariots and cavalry.
When Sun Cheng was dying, he wrote a letter in his last words and passed the feudal state to his younger brother Sun Mei.
The emperor agreed to his request, but gave Sun Cheng half of his fiefdom, and made Sun Cheng's adopted son Sun Shou the Marquis of Fuyang.
Later, an imperial edict was issued to reward minor achievements, and Xingqu was granted the title of Gaowangtinghou.
In the fourth year, the eunuch issued an edict that all adopted sons should be descendants of the eunuch, be granted titles, and write laws and regulations.
Wang Kang, Wang Guo, Peng Kai, Wang Cheng, Zhao Feng and Wei Meng all died early.
Huang Long, Yang Tuo, Meng Shu, Li Jian, Zhang Xian, Shi Xun, Wang Dao, Li Yuan, and Li Gang bribed Song E, the Lord of Yang of Amu Mountain, to seek high-ranking officials and increase their settlements, and they also falsely accused Cao Teng, Meng Ben, and others.
In the second year of Yonghe, it was discovered that they were all sent to the country and their rent was reduced by a quarter.
Song E was deprived of her title and returned to her farm.
Only Ma Guo, Chen Yu, and Miao Guang retained their fiefdoms.
At that time, the emperor was deposed. Ji Jian, Fu Gaofan, Changqiu Chang Zhao Xi, Cheng Lianghe, and Medicine Chief Xia Zhen were all found guilty of no fault, and Ji Jian and others moved to Shuofang.
When the emperor ascended the throne, they were all promoted to the rank of regular attendants.
Gao Fan committed the crime of stealing stolen goods and received a reduced death penalty.
Later, he was granted the title of Marquis of Dongxiang, with 300 households.
Lianghe was Qing, thrifty, modest and dignified, and he was in power until Changqiu.
In Yangjiazhong, the nine ministers were ordered to recommend powerful military talents, but Liang He alone had no recommendation.
The emperor summoned him and asked him what was the reason. Lianghe replied: I was born in the countryside and grew up in the court. I neither know the wisdom of others nor make friends with intellectuals.
From then on, the avant-garde Martingale met the King of Qin because of Jingjian, and knowledgeable people knew that he would not have a good outcome.
To be recommended by a minister now is not an honor, but a disgrace.
Resolutely not to lift it.
After his death, Emperor Si Liang congratulated Zhong Zhong and granted his adopted son the title of Marquis of Duxiang, with a household of three hundred.
◆Cao Teng's biography, Cao Teng's courtesy name is Jixing, and he was a native of Qiao County, Peiguo.
During the reign of Emperor An, he was awarded Huangmen as an official.
When Emperor Shun was the crown prince, Queen Mother Deng, because Cao Teng was young and cautious, asked him to serve the crown prince while he was studying, and she was particularly dear to him.
When Emperor Shun came to the throne, Cao Teng was appointed as Xiaohuangmen and was promoted to regular attendant.
When Emperor Huan was established, seven people, including Cao Teng and Changle Taipu Zhoufu, were granted the title of Tinghou due to their merits in making decisions. Cao Teng was named Feitinghou. He was promoted to Changqiu and was given special advancement.
Cao Teng served in the palace for more than thirty years, serving the four emperors, and never made any mistakes.
Those he recommended were all domestic celebrities, such as Chen Liu, Yu Fang, Bian Shao, Nanyang Yangu, Zhang Wen, Hongnong Zhang Huan, Yingchuantang Xi Gudian, etc.
At that time, the prefect of Shu County bribed Cao Teng for planning an official. Zhongfan, the governor of Yizhou, searched the prefect's letter to Cao Teng at Xiegu Pass and reported it to the prefect of Shu County. He impeached Cao Teng and asked the imperial officer to punish him.
Emperor Huan said: It is not Cao Teng's fault that books come from outside.
There is no memorial to establish a vassal state.
Cao Teng did not take it to heart and often said that Zhongfan was a capable official. People at that time praised Cao Teng's conduct.
Cao Teng passed away and was succeeded by his adopted son Cao Song.
Later, Zhong Fan became a Situ and told his guests: Now that I am the Duke, it is Cao Chang's contribution.
When Cao Song was Emperor Ling, he bribed middle-ranking officials and lost 100 million in Xiyuan money, so he became a Taiwei.
His son Cao Cao raised an army, but Cao Song refused to join him, so he and his youngest son Cao Ji fled the chaos in Langxie and were killed by Tao Qian, the governor of Xuzhou.
◆Shan Chao Chuan, Shan Chao, was from Henan; Xu Huang was from Liangcheng, Xiapi; Ju Yuan was from Yuancheng, Wei County; Zuo Xiangguan was from Pingyin, Henan; Tang Heng was from Yan, Yingchuan.
In the early years of Emperor Huan's reign, Chao, Huang, and Yuan were appointed as regular servants, while Xinguan and Heng were appointed as historians of Xiaohuangmen.
At first, Liang Ji's two younger sisters were the queens of Emperor Shun and Emperor Huan. Liang Ji's father, Liang Shang, served as a general. He was authoritative and powerful in the world for two generations.
Liang Ji became even more proud and tyrannical after he killed Taiwei Li Gu and Du Qiao. The queen also took advantage of the situation to become jealous and unruly, and poisoned many people in the palace, and no one above or below dared to speak.
The emperor was forced to be afraid and often harbored injustices. He was afraid that the incident would be leaked and did not dare to plan and deal with them.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, the queen passed away. The emperor took advantage of the opportunity to go to the toilet and called Tang Heng alone and asked: Who among the people around him is not good to the queen's family?
Tang Heng replied: Shan Chao and Zuo Xianguan went to Yin Bujie in Henan Province before. They didn't give many gifts. Busuo arrested their brothers and sent them to Luoyang Prison. They went to him to admit their mistakes, so they were not punished.
Xu Huang and Ju Yuan often hated the Queen's family for being violent, but they dared not speak out.
So the emperor called Shan Chao and Zuo Xuanguan to his room and said: General Liang and his brothers have monopolized the court, oppressing and threatening both internal and external affairs. Everyone from the minister to the minister is following them. Now I want to kill them. What does Chang Shi mean?
Shan Chao and others replied: He is truly a traitor to the country and should have been killed long ago.
We are cowardly and incompetent, we just don’t know what the emperor wants.
The emperor said: "Since this is the case, Chang Shi will do it secretly."
He replied: It is not difficult to carry out, but I am afraid that the emperor will be suspicious again.
The emperor said: A traitor who threatens the country should be punished. Why should he hesitate?
So Xu Huang, Ju Yuan and other five people were summoned and they decided to kill the Liang family. The emperor bites the single super arm and bleeds as an alliance. So an edict was issued to arrest Liang Ji and other members of the clan and kill them all.
Zuo Xingguan and Tang Heng were promoted to regular servants, and they were entrusted with Chaoxin Fenghou, with 20,000 households. Xu Huang, Wuyuanhou, and Gu Yuandong, Wuyanghou, each had 15,000 households, and were given 15,000,000 yuan each. Zuo Xingguan, Shang Caihou, and Tang Heng, Ruyang Hou, each had 13,000 households, and were given 13,000,000 yuan each.
Five people were granted the same title on the same day, so they were called "Five Marquises" at that time.
Liu Pu, Zhao Zhong and other eight people from Xiaohuangmen were also granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside.
From then on, power returned to the eunuchs, and the court became more chaotic day by day.
Shan Chao fell ill, and the emperor sent an envoy to confer him the title of Chariot and Cavalry General.
When he died in the second year, he was given a coffin, jade utensils in the coffin, the seal and ribbon of the general, and envoys conducted funeral arrangements.
During the burial, five battalions of knights and imperial censors were sent to protect the funeral car, and master craftsmen were appointed to build the tomb.
Later, the four princes became violent and popular in the world: Zuo Huitian, Gu sitting alone, Xu Crouching Tiger, Tang Lianglai.
They are all vying to build houses with magnificent buildings and exquisite skills.
Gold and silver woolen fabrics decorate Malaysia.
He also took many good men and beautiful women as his concubines, and they all dressed up luxuriously and luxuriously, like palace people. Their servants were all on chariots and horses, and they were accompanied by cavalry.
They also raised their relatives, some even asked for heirs with different surnames, and some bought slaves as sons, who could pass on the country and receive titles.
Brothers in law and relatives are all state and county officials. They deprive the people and are no different from thieves.
Shan Chao's younger brother Shan An was the prefect of Hedong, his younger brother's son Shan Kuang was the prefect of Jiyin, Xu Huang's brother Xu Sheng was the prefect of Hanoi, Zuo Xuan's brother Zuo Min was the prefect of Chenliu, and Ju Yuan's brother Gu Gong was the prime minister of Pei. They were all local pests.
Xu Huang's brother Xu Wangxuan was appointed as the commander of Piling, and he was particularly cruel.
I first asked the former Runan governor to go to Pi to get Li Fan's daughter, but when he arrived in the county, he sent officials to Li Fan's house, took the girl back in a car, shot her to death as a joke, and buried her in the official residence.
At that time, Xiapi County belonged to the East China Sea, and Huang Fu of Runan was the Prime Minister of the East China Sea. Someone reported on Xu Wangxuan's affairs, so Huang Fu arrested Xu Wangxuan's family members, and tortured and interrogated them, old and young.
The following officials tried their best to dissuade Huang Fu, but Huang Fu said: "King Xu is a traitor to the country. Kill him today, and he will be punished and die tomorrow. You can close your eyes."
According to Xu Wangxuan's crime, he abandoned the market and exposed his body to the people. The county was shocked and frightened.
Xu Huang then complained to the emperor, and the emperor was furious. He shaved off his yellow hair, tied his neck with an iron ring, and sent him to the right school for a labor camp.
The guests of the Wuhou clan harmed the world, and the people could not survive and were forced to become bandits.
Seven years later, when Tang Heng died, he also gave the chariot and cavalry general as a gift, just like Shan Chao.
When Xu Huang died, he was given money and cloth for funeral rites and a place for his tomb.
In the second year, Han Yan, the lieutenant of the Sili School, committed the crime of serving as an official of Zuo Xian. He and his elder brother Nanxiang Houcheng invited the prefecture and county to build relationships, gathered people into traitors, indulged the guests, and harmed the officials and the people.
Zuo Xuanguan and Zuo Cheng both committed suicide.
Han Yan also reported that Ju Yuan's elder brother Peixiang Jugong was embezzling and was recruited to Tingwei.
Ju Yuan went to Tingwei Prison to plead guilty, and returned the seal of Dongwu Marquis. He was demoted to Duxiang Marquis and died at home.
Those who were enfeoffed by Shan Chao, Xu Huang, and Tang Heng were all demoted to the rank of rural marquis, and rented a capital of three million yuan per year. Those who were enfeoffed by their children were deprived of their nobility.
Liu Pu and others were demoted to the rank of Marquis of Guannei.
◆Hou Lanzhuan, Hou Lan, Shanyang Fangdongren.
In the early years of Emperor Huan, he served as a regular attendant. He was good at flattery and cunning, and gained Emperor Huan's favor and trust. Relying on power and being corrupt, he accepted bribes worth tens of thousands of dollars.
During the Yanxi period, the country was empty due to successive conquests and troops, so it borrowed the salaries of hundreds of officials and the taxes of princes.
Hou Lan also brought out five thousand pieces of silk and awarded him the title of Marquis of Guannei.
He also made excuses and discussed the merits of killing Liang and Ji, and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoxiang by the Jin Dynasty.
The family of Wang Gui, Duan of Xiaohuangmen, lived in Jiyin. Together with Marquis Landu, they bought land, close to the border of Jibei. Their servants and guests harassed the people and robbed their travellers. Teng Yan, the prime minister of Jibei, arrested them all, killed dozens of people, and left their bodies on the road.
Hou Lan and Duan Wanggui were extremely resentful and told the emperor about this. Teng Yan was not guilty of multiple killings and was conscripted into Tingwei, removing him from the post of Prime Minister of Jibei.
Teng Yan, named Bo Xing, was a native of Beihai, later known as Jing Zhaoyin. He had a good reputation for good governance, and people called him an elder.
Hou Lan and others became even more indulgent and acted recklessly.
Hou Lan's elder brother Hou Shen was appointed as the governor of Yizhou. The wealthy people often falsely accused him of treason and treason, so they all killed him and confiscated his property, which totaled hundreds of millions.
Taiwei Yang Bingzhuo Hou Shen was recruited in a prison car and committed suicide on the road.
Jingzhao Yin Yuan Feng saw Hou Shen's more than 300 cars at the hotel, all of which contained countless treasures of gold, silver, brocade and silk.
Hou Lan was dismissed from office for his crime, but was reinstated not long after.
In the second year of Jianning, when his mother passed away, he returned home and opened a grave.
Superintendent Zhang Jian reported to Hou Lan that he was corrupt and extravagant and did everything. He took away 381 houses and 118 hectares of land.
There are six out of ten districts in the building, all with high buildings, pools and gardens, facing each other, decorated with exquisite paintings, and a complex system, similar to a palace.
He also made a tomb for strangers in advance, with a double stone coffin and a building next to the hall, which was a hundred feet high. He destroyed other people's houses and excavated other people's tombs.
If you kidnap your beloved, rob women, and commit all kinds of crimes, please kill him immediately.
Hou Lan inquired about the news and blocked Zhang Jian's memorial.
Zhang Jian broke into Hou Lan's tomb, confiscated his property, and exposed Hou Lan's crimes.
He also reported that Hou Lan's mother was visiting guests during her lifetime and causing chaos in the county, so she was not allowed to enter the palace.
Hou Lan then falsely accused Zhang Jian of being a gangster, and killed him together with Li Ying, the former Changle Shaofu, and his servant Du Mi.
Because Cao Jie led the servant of Changle.
In the first year of Xiping, officials complained to Hou Lan about his power, arrogance and extravagance, and ordered him to take away his seal and ribbon. Hou Lan committed suicide and all his colleagues were dismissed from their official positions.
◆Cao Jie's biography, Cao Jie's courtesy name is Hanfeng, a new savage from Nanyang.
He was originally from Weijun, and his family had two thousand shi from generation to generation.
In the early years of Emperor Shun's reign, Yixiyuanqi was promoted to Xiaohuangmen.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he was promoted to regular attendant and served as captain of chariot.
In the first year of Jianning, the general Zhijie led thousands of soldiers from Huangmen to the Yulin to welcome Emperor Ling from the north and accompanied Emperor Ling's chariot into the palace.
Emperor Ling ascended the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an Township and six hundred households due to his merits in making policies.
At this time, the Empress Dowager Dou came to power. The Empress Dowager's father, General Dou Wu, and the Grand Tutor Chen Fan discussed the execution of the eunuchs. Cao Jie, along with Changle Wuguan Shi Zhu Wangyu, Congguan Shi Gongpu, Zhang Liang, Zhonghuangmen Wang Zun, Changle Ye Zhe Tengshi and other seventeen people jointly pretended to be the emperor's edict and appointed Wang Fu, Changle Food Supervisor, as the Huangmen Order, and led troops to kill Dou Wu, Chen Fan and others. The matter has been recorded in "Chen Fan" and "Dou Wu".
Cao Jie was promoted to Changle Weiwei, and was granted the title of Marquis of Yuyang, adding 3,000 households to the city; Wang Fu was promoted to a regular servant, and was still the Huangmen Order; King Zhu Yu was granted the title of Duxiang Marquis, with 1,500 households; Gong Pu, Zhang Liang and other five people each had 300 households; the remaining 11 people were all Guannei Marquis, with an annual food rent of 2,000 dendrobium.
At that time, Zhu Wangyu and others secretly prayed to Huangtian in the Mingtang and said: Dou is an immoral man. Please help Huangtian to kill him. Good things will happen and the world will be peaceful.
After Dou Wu and others were executed, he ordered the eunuchs to give him ancestral tools and gave Zhu Wangyu 50 million yuan. The rest of them had different differences, and later they were granted the title of Marquis of Huarong.
In the second year, Cao Jie fell seriously ill and was ordered to serve as a general of chariots and cavalry.
It didn't take long for him to recover from his illness. He was given the seal and ribbon, and then he became a regular servant again. He was promoted to a special rank and was awarded two thousand stones. Soon he was promoted to Changqiu.
In the first year of Xiping, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. I don't know who wrote in Zhuque Que: The world was in chaos. Cao Jie and Wang Fuyou killed the empress dowager. Chang Shi Hou Landuo killed party members. The ministers were all people who had nothing to do with their bodies and had no loyal words.
So he ordered Commander Liu Meng to arrest them one by one and report them every ten days.
Liu Meng believed that the slanderous letter was honest and refused to rush to arrest him. For more than a month, the main culprit was not caught.
Liu Meng was convicted and demoted to the position of admonishment official, and he was replaced by Yushi Zhongcheng Duan. So he searched everywhere and arrested more than a thousand people including Taixue wanderers.
Cao Jie and others resented Liu Meng, so they sent Duan to do other things to punish Liu Meng, so as to offend Liu Meng and send him to the left school labor camp.
Many people in the court spoke up for him, so he was exempted from punishment and was recruited in a public car.
Cao Jie, together with Wang Fu and others, falsely accused Emperor Huan's brother Bohai Wang Kui of treason, and Liu Kui was executed.
Twelve people were sealed for their merit.
Wang Fu was awarded the title of Champion Hou.
Cao Jie also added 4,600 households to the city, adding a total of 7,600 households to the previous ones.
Their father, brother and children are all public ministers, ministers, pastors and commanders, and they are all over the world.
Cao Jie's younger brother Cao Poshi was the captain of the Yueqi camp. Wubai had a beautiful wife in the Yueqi camp. Cao Poshi proposed to Wubai, but Wubai did not dare to disobey him. His wife refused and committed suicide.
His fornication and immorality are mostly like this.
In the second year of Guanghe's reign, Wei Yangqiu, the commander of the Sili School, executed Wang Fu and his sons, Wang Meng, the Shaofu of Changle, and Wang Ji, the Prime Minister of Pei. They all died in prison.
There were often disasters at this time, and the doctor Liang Zhong believed that it was caused by the sins of Zhu Wangyu and others, and wrote a letter saying: I heard that when a country is governed by virtuous people, it will be safe, but if it loses virtuous people, it will be in danger. Therefore, Shun had five ministers and the world was peaceful, and Tang Wu used Yi Yin, so bad guys could not enter.
When the emperor came to the throne, he could not take care of everything. The empress dowager thought that you still needed to be taken care of, so she temporarily acted as a political agent. Su Kang and Guan Ba ​​were often killed in the front and middle.
Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu scrutinized their party members and determined to clean up the politics of the court.
Zhu Wangyu, the Marquis of Huarong, knew that a disaster would be imminent if the incident broke out, so he launched a rebellion, disrupted the royal family, trampled the palace, snatched seals and ribbons, forced and threatened the emperor, gathered ministers, alienated the relationship between mother and son, and killed Chen Fan, Dou Wu, Yin Xun and others.
Therefore, they jointly divide the country and reward themselves.
Fathers, sons, and brothers all enjoy honors, and people who are usually close to each other are scattered across the prefectures and counties, some occupying the ninth rank, and some occupying the third division.
He does not want to pay attention to his position and responsibilities, but only wants to engage in personal fraud, accumulate more wealth, build houses, and fill alleys.
He stole the water in the palace and used it for fishing, chariots, horses, clothing and playthings to compare with the emperor.
All the officials and ministers kept their mouths shut and did not dare to say a word.
The state, animal husbandry and county governors followed their will and recruited and elected them. They rejected the talented people and promoted those who were ignorant.
Therefore, locusts broke out and the barbarians were in chaos. God's will is full of resentment, which has accumulated for more than ten years.
Therefore, there are solar eclipses above and earthquakes below for consecutive years. This is a warning to the master, hoping that the master will wake up and kill the bad guys.
In the past, Emperor Gaozong cultivated virtue and revived the Shang Dynasty due to the mutation of the pheasant rising to the level of the tripod's ear.
Recently the gods enlightened the emperor and made him furious. Wang Fu and his son were killed in time, and everyone on the road, regardless of gender, clapped and cheered, as if they had avenged their parents.
But it is strange that the emperor tolerates the evil officials and does not eliminate them all.
In the past, Qin Xin and Zhao Gao caused the country to fall, and Wu appointed him as a torturer, but he was killed by the torturer.
Duke Yu held the treasure and led the horse, and Lu Zhao was expelled from Qianhou. They both perished and were humiliated because they did not listen to Gong Ziqi and Zi Jiaju.
Now, with the unbearable kindness, I am pardoning the heinous crime of the Yi people. Once the evil plan is completed, it is too late to regret!
I have been a man for fifteen years, and I have heard and seen what Zhu Wangyu did, which the emperor and heaven can no longer forgive.
May your Majesty spare a little time to look at my list and wipe out the ugly ones to answer the wrath of God.
When questioning Zhu Wangyu, if there are any untruthful words, he is willing to be killed and his wife to move with him to stop the way of speaking nonsense.
The memorial was suppressed.
Cao Jie also served as minister of law.
Four years later, he died and was presented to the general of chariots and cavalry.
Later, Zhu Wangyu also died of illness, and both adopted sons to pass on the country.
Shen Zhong was named Gongcheng, and after being killed by the eunuchs, he was summoned to the palace.
◆Biography of Lu Qiang, whose courtesy name was Han Sheng and a native of Chenggao, Henan.
When he was young, he served as an eunuch as a small Huangmen, and then he was promoted to a regular attendant.
He is honest, loyal, and law-abiding.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, he was granted the title of eunuch in accordance with the regulations, and Lu Qiang was granted the title of Duxiang Marquis. Lu Qiang's words were sincere and he refused to accept them, so Emperor Ling had no choice but to obey him.
At that time, Emperor Ling accumulated a lot of private wealth and collected treasures from the world. The contribution of the county and the country had to be paid to the internal affairs department first, which was called "guide fee". In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban bandits were causing trouble. Emperor Ling asked Lu Qiang what to do.
Lu Qiang's opinion was to first kill the corrupt elements around the emperor, grant amnesty to party members, and examine the merits of the governor and Erqianshi.
Emperor Ling accepted it. So he first granted amnesty to the party members.
In this way, the various ministers resigned from the court at everyone's request, and each recalled their relatives and children in the prefectures and counties.
Zhao Zhong, Xia Yun and others jointly framed Lu Qiang, saying: Lu Qiang discussed the court with party members, often read "Huo Guang Zhuan", and wanted to depose the emperor and establish another emperor.
Wherever the Lu Qiang brothers were, there was corruption and perversion of the law.
The emperor was unhappy and sent Zhonghuangmen to summon Lu Qiang with weapons.
When Lu Qiang heard that the emperor called him, he said angrily: If I die, the country will be in chaos!
How can a doctor, who is loyal to the country, obey the jailer's instructions?
Just commit suicide.
Zhao Zhong and Xia Yun also framed him and said: Lu Qiang was summoned by the emperor for questioning. He didn't know what to ask, but committed suicide in the weeds outside. It was obvious that he had a conspiracy.
At that time, the eunuchs Jiyin Dingsu, Xiapi Xuyan, Nanyang Guo Dan, Ruyang Li Xun, Beihai Zhao and other five people named Qingzhong were all in the alleys, not fighting for power. Li Xun thought that the doctors were taking exams for subjects A and B. The superiors and inferiors talked to each other, and one even offered bribes to change the characters of the Lantai lacquer script to suit his article. So he told the emperor that he and other Confucian scholars would carve the "Five Classics" on the stone, and ordered Cai Yong and others to correct the characters.
Since then, the Five Classics have been affirmed, and the debate has ceased.
Zhao was erudite, read a lot, wrote and revised books, and was praised by all Confucian scholars.
Also, the Wu couple in Ganling, Xiaohuangmen, wait for the wind in all directions to predict good and bad luck. They are broad-minded and have a reputation of being law-abiding.
Knowing that he would not be appointed, he often returned to his dormitory due to illness and calmly cultivated his ambitions.
◆Zhang Rangzhuan, Zhang Rang was from Yingchuan County; Zhao Zhong was from Anping.
When he was young, he worked in the palace, and Emperor Huan served as the Xiaohuangmen.
Zhao Zhong was granted the title of Marquis of the capital for his participation in the execution of Liang Ji.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, he was deposed as Marquis of Guannei and rented thousands of dendrobium from the county.
During the reign of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Rang and Zhao Zhong were promoted to the rank of Zhongchangshi and were granted the title of lord. He is in harmony with Cao Jie, Wang Fu and others both internally and externally.
After Cao Jie's death, Zhao Zhong concurrently took charge of Changqiu.
Zhang Rang had slaves in charge of housework, colluded with powerful people, accepted bribes, and gained great prestige.
Meng Tuo, a native of Fufeng, had a wealthy family. He became friends with Zhang Rang's slaves and gave all he had to the slaves, leaving nothing he loved.
The prison slave was grateful to him and asked Meng Tuo: "What do you want?"
I can do it for you. Meng Tuo said: I just want you to bow to me. At that time, guests requesting to see Zhang Rang often had hundreds or thousands of cars parked at the door. Meng Tuo also went to see Zhang Rang at that time, but because he arrived later and could not go in, the prison slaves led their slaves to greet Meng Tuo on the road, and together they carried his cart through the door.
The guests were greatly surprised, thinking that Meng Tuo and Zhang Rang were very close friends, and they all tried to bribe him with treasures and curiosities.
Meng Tuo gave some to Zhang Rang, who was overjoyed and made Meng Tuo the governor of Liangzhou.
At this time, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Xia Yun, Guo Sheng, Sun Zhang, Bi Lan, Li Song, Duan Wanggui, Gao Wang, Zhang Gong, Han Kui, and Song Dian were all appointed as regular servants, and were granted the title of marquis. Their fathers, sons, and brothers served as officials in various prefectures and counties. They were corrupt and cruel, and were a scourge to the people.
The Yellow Turbans create chaos, and thieves are like boiling porridge. Zhang Jun, a doctor in Zhongshan, wrote a letter saying: I think the reason why Zhang Jiao was able to raise armies and cause chaos, and thousands of people were willing to follow him, was because he sent their fathers, brothers, children, relatives, and guests to various states and counties to monopolize wealth and plunder the people. The people had nowhere to redress their grievances, so they plotted evil and gathered together to become thieves.
The ten permanent servants should be killed and their heads hung in the southern suburbs to apologize to the people. Then send envoys to inform the world, so that there is no need to use troops, and the big bandits will disappear on their own.
The emperor showed Zhang Jun's memorial to Zhang Rang and others. They all took off their hats and boots, kowtowed to plead guilty, begged to be sent to Luoyang Prison, and used their family wealth to support the military.
The emperor ordered them all to put on their hats and boots and work as before.
The emperor was angry at Zhang Jun and said: You are really a madman!
Isn't there a good one among the ten regular attendants?
Zhang Jun wrote another letter, which was still the same as the last memorial. But they were always detained and refused to report.
The emperor ordered the imperial eunuchs and censors to investigate those who engaged in Zhangjiao's Taiping Dao. The censors, adhering to the wishes of Zhang Rang and others, falsely accused Zhang Jun of learning the Yellow Turban Dao, arrested him, tortured him, and died in prison.
However, Zhang Rang and others colluded with Zhang Jiao.
Later, Zhongchang Shifeng and Xu Feng's collusion with the Yellow Turbans was exposed and killed. The emperor became angry and asked Zhang Rang and others: You often say that the party members are plotting evil, and you order to imprison and kill some of them. Now that the party members have become useful talents in the country, you have an affair with Zhang Jiao. Can you kill him or not?
Zhang Rang and others all kowtowed and said, "This was done by Wang Fu and Hou Lan, who were often at the front and center."
The emperor did not pursue it.
The next year, Nangong suffered a fire.
Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong and others persuaded the emperor to collect land tax of ten yuan per mu from all over the world and use it to build palaces.
Timbers and patterned stones from Taiyuan, Hedong, and Didao counties were recruited. Whenever the prefectures and counties sent these things to the capital, Huangmen Changshi always ordered to reprimand those who failed to deliver the wood and stone. They also forcibly discounted the price and bought it at a low price. They only paid one cent in ten and sold it to the eunuch. The eunuch did not accept it immediately. As a result, the wood piled up and rotted, and the palace could not be repaired year after year.
The governor and prefect secretly increased the number of conscripts, and the people cried out and sighed, suffering unspeakably.
Whenever the emperor asked for something, he would send knights in the Western Garden to secretly carry the emperor's orders, known as "envoys", to intimidate states and counties, and often accept bribes.
The governor, Erqianshi, Maocai and Xiaolian were all promoted and appointed, and they were all ordered to provide military supplies and palace repair money. For large counties, the amount was 20 to 30 million, and the rest were different.
Anyone who should take office must first go to Xiyuan to assess his worth before going there.
Some people don't pay enough and even commit suicide.
Those who maintained their innocence begged not to take office and were sent by force.
At that time, the newly appointed governor of Julu County, Sima Zhi, who was from Hanoi County, had a clear name, so he reduced the number and was ordered to pay three million.
Sima went directly to the edict and said melancholy: "As the parents of the people, I plunder the people to meet today's needs. I can't bear it!"
Resigning due to illness is not allowed by the superiors. Walking to Mengjin, he wrote a letter to state the faults of his time and the lessons of ancient and modern disasters, and then committed suicide by taking medicine.
After the memorial was published, the emperor temporarily suspended the collection of palace repair money for this purpose.
He also built the Wanjin Hall in the Western Garden, collected money and silk from the farmers, and filled it with silk.
He returned to Hejian to buy land and houses and build mansions and buildings.
Emperor Ling was originally a marquis and had always been poor. He often lamented that Emperor Huan could not buy a family property, so he collected money and property as private property, and also collected tens of millions each from the small Huangmen's regular servants.
Emperor Ling often said: Zhang Changshi is my father-in-law, and Zhao Changshi is my mother.
The eunuchs were successful and fearless, and everyone built private residences imitating the palaces.
Emperor Ling often climbed to the Yong'an Marquis Tower. The eunuch was afraid that he would see his residence, so he sent Shang Dan, the great minister of Zhongda, to persuade the emperor: "The emperor should not climb high. If you climb high, the people will be scattered."
From then on, the emperor no longer visited the pavilions.
The next year, he sent Gou Dun to order Song Dian to repair the Yutang of Nangong.
He also sent Ye Ting to order Bi Lan to cast four bronze figures and arrange them in front of Canglong and Xuanwu palaces. Four more bells were cast, which could hold two thousand grains, and were hung in front of the Yutang and Yuntai Halls.
He also cast a Tianlu shrimp toad, spitting water to the east of the bridge outside Pingmen, and then diverted the water into the palace.
They also built overturned carts and placed them on the west side of the bridge to spray the roads in the northern and southern suburbs to save the people the cost of spraying the roads.
Four more coins were cast, each with four patterns connected to the side wheels.
People who understand privately say that luxury and tyranny have reached the extreme. When a sign appears, this kind of money must be scattered in all directions.
When the capital was in chaos, this kind of money was indeed scattered all over the world.
He also appointed Zhao Zhong as a general of chariots and cavalry, and was dismissed from his post after more than a hundred days.
In the sixth year of Zhongping, Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty died. Yuan Shao, the lieutenant of the Central Military Academy, persuaded General He Jin to order the killing of eunuchs to make the world happy.
The plan was leaked, and Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong and others took advantage of He entering the palace and jointly killed He Jin.
Yuan Shao led his troops to kill Zhao Zhong, hunted down the eunuchs, and killed them all, young and old.
Zhang Rang and dozens of others took the emperor hostage and fled to the Yellow River. They were pursued urgently. Zhang Rang and others cried sadly and said goodbye to the emperor, saying: "We will be extinct, and the world will be in chaos!"
I hope your Majesty will take good care of yourself!
After saying that, they all committed suicide by throwing themselves into the river.
The historian commented: Since ancient times, the loss of the country and the destruction of the clan did not happen overnight, but happened slowly.
The Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties brought disasters due to lust, Qin Shihuang caused troubles due to luxury and cruelty, the Western Han Dynasty died due to relatives, and the Eastern Han Dynasty lost the country due to eunuchs.
Success or failure has been discussed a lot in history books in the past.
As for the crime of eunuchs, there is probably something to discuss.
Why?
People like eunuchs are different from ordinary people. They have a bad reputation and are not from noble families. His skin and blood cannot be passed on to future generations. On the surface, no disadvantages can be seen in him. He can easily gain trust in his work. In addition, he is well-informed in the court and familiar with the rules and regulations. Therefore, the young monarch relies on his cautious and sophisticated strengths, and the female monarch uses him to come in and out to obey orders. There is no suspicion or fear when visiting him, and there is a joyful feeling when approaching him.
There are also those who are loyal and upright, and use their skills to correct evil; there are those who are quick to deal with things and use tricks to confuse things; there are also those who borrow the reputation of being loyal and good and gain reputation in advance.
Not all of them are wanton and evil, they are just blindly violent.
However, the truth and falsehood go hand in hand, seemingly loyal, but actually evil, so it can confuse the weak and weak master, and confuse the audience. There is probably a certain reason in it.
Since there are many fraudulent profits and the number of party members is growing, loyal ministers will definitely leak out in advance if they protest outright. They are worried and angry and want to impose sanctions, which just gives them the opportunity to seize it.
"Book of Changes" says: Walking on frost and solid ice.
That is to say, it has been around for a long time. Did it just happen overnight?
