Dong Zhongshu is from Guangchuan.
He studied "Spring and Autumn" when he was young, and became a doctor during the reign of Emperor Jing of Han Dynasty.
He hung a curtain indoors and sat behind the curtain to give lectures. The disciples who entered the school first taught their studies to those who entered later. Some students had not even seen him.
Dong Zhongshu didn't look at the garden for three years and studied his knowledge carefully to this extent.
The bachelors all respected him as their teacher because of his manners and manners when advancing and retreating, and did not do anything that was not in line with etiquette.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he ordered the recommendation of more than 100 virtuous writers. Dong Zhongshu responded to the emperor's policy questions as a virtuous person.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked: I have inherited the highest status and the most beautiful virtues of the late emperor, and they must be passed on forever and extended to the endless future. This task is huge and the duties are important, so I have no time to enjoy and rest from morning to night. I have to think about the whole story for a long time, lest I am not thoughtful.
Therefore, I widely invite heroes and talents from all over the country, virtuous, virtuous, and knowledgeable talents who are justly selected by governors, kings, and princes. I want to know the outline of the road to governing the country and the highest principles of the theory of peace and security for the people.
Nowadays, doctors are regarded as the first choice for virtuous people, which I think is very good.
Doctors should think carefully. What I really want to know and ask is as follows.
It is said that the way the Five Emperors and Three Kings governed the country was to reform the system and create music, so that the world was stable. Hundreds of subsequent kings also did the same thing.
The most beautiful music of Yu and Shun was "Shao", and the most beautiful music of Zhou Dynasty was "Shao".
After the death of the sage king, the sound of bells, drums, and orchestras still existed, but the Great Way declined and gradually deteriorated to the point where Jie and Zhou behaved like that, and the royal way was greatly corrupted.
In the past five hundred years, the kings and scholars in power who abided by the old system wanted to learn from the legal system of the previous kings to assist the politics of the time, but they were not reversed, and the royal way continued to perish day by day. It was not until the rise of the later kings that this declining trend was stopped. Could it be that what they believe in is wrong and they have lost the tradition of Tao?
Or is destiny just like this, it cannot be reversed by human power, and it must evolve until the country is in danger before it stops? well!
Doesn’t all the hard work day and night and trying to imitate the distant ancient times have no effect?
So, what was the basis for the monarchs of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties to accept the mandate of heaven?
What caused the disaster?
The reality of life may be death, longevity, benevolence, or despicability. We often hear these names, but we fail to fully understand the truth behind them.
I want to use the power of customs and education to implement orders; to reduce punishments and change evildoers; to make the people harmonious and happy, and to make politics enlightened. How should we rectify the political system so that the dew will fall everywhere, the crops will be harvested, and the people in the four seas will be benefited from the virtues, and even the vegetation will be nourished? How can we prevent the three lights of the sun, moon, and stars from eclipsing at all, keep them normal during the cold and summer seasons, and be able to receive the blessings of heaven and be enjoyed by ghosts and gods? How about overflowing with virtue, spreading it abroad, and spreading it to all living beings?
The officials are familiar with the career of the sage kings of the past, familiar with the principles of changes in customs, and understand the order of things from their origin, development to end. Moreover, you have been studying profound principles for a long time. I hope you can clearly tell me the results of your research!
It should be organized, not abstract, not confusing, and the proposed plan should also be carefully considered.
If there are officials who are dishonest, dishonest, and do not follow the right path, tell me boldly and they will never be leaked. I will take a look at it myself. I hope you don’t have to worry about anything later.
Doctors, feel free to tell me everything you know, don’t hide it, I want to see it myself!
Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures said: Zhongshu said: Your Majesty issued a virtuous voice and wise Shao Shu to seek answers to destiny and sentiment. These two questions cannot be answered by a foolish minister.
I carefully followed the records in "Spring and Autumn" and examined what previous generations had done to study the interaction between heaven and man. The situation was terrifying!
If a country is about to experience corruption that violates morality, then heaven will send disasters to condemn and remind it; if it does not know how to wake up, heaven will send out some strange things to warn and scare it; if it does not know how to repent, then harm and destruction will come.
From this we can see that Heaven is kind to humans and hopes to help humans eliminate disasters.
If the generation is not very unethical, God will always want to support and protect him. The thing is that the monarch works hard.
If you work hard to study knowledge, you will be knowledgeable and knowledgeable, and your talents will be smarter; if you work hard to practice the Tao, your virtue will become noble and more successful. These can be obtained quickly, and they can be effective quickly. The Book of Songs says: From morning to night, do not dare to slack off. "Shang Shu" says: Work hard! Work hard!
It all means hard work.
Tao is the way to govern the country. Benevolence, righteousness, etiquette, and music are all tools for governing the country.
Therefore, even though the wise king died, his descendants can still rule for a long time and enjoy peace for hundreds of years. This is all due to the effect of ritual and music education.
When the king did not compose music himself, he would choose the music of previous kings that was suitable for the society at that time, and use it to deeply educate the people.
Without the actual effect of enlightenment, elegant and praising music cannot be made. Therefore, the king only makes music after he has achieved fame and praises his merits with music.
Music is used to change folk customs and influence folk customs; music is easy to change folk customs and has a significant effect in influencing people.
Therefore, the sound of music comes from a harmonious atmosphere, is based on emotion, touches the skin, and is hidden deep in the bone marrow.
Therefore, although the royal way has declined, the sound of orchestral music still circulates.
The politics of Yu and Shun have been gone for a long time, but the music and hymns handed down still exist, so Confucius could hear the music of "Shao" in Qi State.
There is no ruler who does not want the country to be peaceful and hates danger. However, there are many cases of political chaos and country danger. This is because the people appointed are inappropriate and their words and deeds are not in line with the principles of governing the country. Therefore, political affairs deteriorate day by day.
The Tao of the Zhou Dynasty declined by the time of King Li and King You of Zhou. It was not that the Tao died, but that King Li and You did not follow the Tao.
King Xuan of Zhou missed the virtues of the previous sages, revived long-stagnant undertakings, rectified the shortcomings of the times, carried forward the achievements created by King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, and the "Tao" of the Zhou Dynasty was revived brilliantly. Poets praised him and wrote poems for him, thinking that God had blessed him and gave him a virtuous assistant. Later generations praised King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, and they continue to this day.
This was the result of King Zhou Xuan's unremitting efforts to do good deeds day and night.
Confucius said that people can light the great road, not Daoguang.
Therefore, the control and chaos, the destruction and the prosperity, all depend on oneself. The world is in decline and chaos not because destiny is irreversible, but because of the absurd behavior of human kings and the loss of the fine traditions of the previous kings.
I have heard that a person who is respected by Heaven and becomes a king must have something that cannot be accomplished by human power. This is the proof that a king has received the destiny of Heaven.
Everyone in the world obeyed him with one heart, just like obeying their parents, so the gods sensed sincerity, and auspiciousness appeared.
"Shangshu" says: The white fish jumped into the boat the king was riding in. Fire covered the king's house and turned into a crow. This is the proof of receiving the destiny. Duke Zhou said: You deserve good retribution! You deserve good retribution! Confucius said: A virtuous person will never be isolated and will definitely be helped. This is all the result of accumulated good deeds.
However, in later generations, the monarch became licentious and extravagant, his morals declined, and he was unable to govern the people. The princes betrayed him, killed good people, fought for land, abandoned moral education, and abused punishment.
Improper use of punishment will produce evil spirits; evil spirits will accumulate at the bottom, resentment will gather at the top, and there will be disharmony between the upper and lower levels, causing yin and yang to become disordered and evildoers to breed.
This is the reason why disasters occur strangely.
I heard that destiny is the order of heaven, sex is the nature of birth, and love is human desire.
Some people die young, some live long, some are kind, and some are despicable. Just like making tiles and gold, they cannot all be pure and beautiful. Due to the influence of social chaos, people's life span and character are inconsistent.
Confucius said: The virtue of a gentleman is like the wind, and the virtue of a villain is like grass. Whichever way the wind blows, the grass will fall.
Therefore, when Yao and Shun practiced virtuous governance, the people were merciful and long-lived; when Jie and Zhou were tyrannical, the people were greedy and perish.
The ruler above educates the people below, and the people below obey the ruler above, just like clay placed in a mold and left to be worked by a potter; or like metal placed in a container, left to be cast by a blacksmith. "The Analects of Confucius" says: Make the people stable, and the people will come to obey; make the people inspired, and the people will work together.
That's what it means. I carefully studied the meaning of "Spring King's first month" in "Spring and Autumn", looking for the beginning of the king's way, and got the correct answer. Zheng is inferior to Wang Wang, and Wang Wang is inferior to Chun.
Spring is the work of heaven. That’s what the king does.
It means that when a monarch flatters Heaven above and corrects his own behavior below, this is the beginning of the kingly way.
However, if a king wants to make a difference, he should ask heaven for this beginning.
The greatest thing in the way of heaven is yin and yang, yang is the virtue, yin is the punishment, punishment is the main force of killing, and virtue is the main force of life.
Therefore, Yang is always in the midsummer, taking birth and growth as its own business; Yin is often in the harsh winter, accumulating in empty and ineffective places.
It can be seen from this that Heaven uses moral education and does not use punishment.
The angel Yang appears, gives alms above, and is in charge of the harvest of the year; he makes the yin enter, hide below, and often comes out to help the yang; without the help of the yin, the yang cannot complete the years alone.
From the beginning to the end, Yang is in the name of completing the years. This is God's will.
The king does things according to the will of God, so he uses moral education instead of punishment.
Punishment cannot be used to govern society, just as Yin cannot be used to complete the years.
To use punishment while in power is not to obey the will of heaven, so the former king was not willing to do so.
Now that the former king's officials in charge of moral education have been abolished, and only law enforcement officials are used to govern the people, is this the original intention of the former king's use of punishment?
Confucius said: Killing people without education is called tyranny.
It is difficult to achieve the goal of spreading moral education to the whole world when brutal politics is applied to the lower levels.
I carefully examine the meaning of "Yi Yuan" in the Spring and Autumn Annals. "Yi Yuan" is the beginning of all things, and "Yi Yuan" is what is said in the vocabulary.
Saying that one is Yuan shows a big beginning and wants to correct its fundamentals.
"Spring and Autumn" deeply explores its origin, but it turns out that it starts with noble people.
Therefore, as a monarch, you must first rectify your heart before you can rectify the court. Only by rectifying the court can you rectify the hundreds of officials. Only by rectifying the hundreds of officials can you rectify the people. Only by rectifying the people can you rectify the four directions.
When the four directions are upright, no one near or far dares not to be upright, and there is no evil spirit mixed in the surface.
Therefore, the yin and yang are harmonious and the wind and rain are timely, all things are in harmony and the people are growing up, the grains are harvested and the vegetation is luxuriant, the heaven and the earth are blessed, and a very rich and beautiful scene is presented, and people from all over the world come to pay homage to the monarch when they hear his virtues.
Confucius said: If the phoenix bird does not come and the river map does not appear, I am afraid I will be finished!
This is because he is sad that his virtue can bring about such auspiciousness, but he cannot because of his humble status.
Now His Majesty is the emperor, rich in the world, in a position that can attract auspiciousness, has mastered the situation that can attract auspiciousness, and has the qualifications that can attract auspiciousness. His behavior is noble and virtuous, his intelligence is bright and his intentions are good, he loves the people and likes the scribes, and he can be said to be a moral monarch.
However, the heaven and earth did not respond, and the beautiful auspiciousness did not arrive. What is the reason?
Probably because education has not been established and the people have not been brought into the right path.
The pursuit of profit by all the people is like water flowing downward, and it cannot be stopped unless education is used as a dike.
Therefore, when enlightenment is established and treachery ceases, it is because its embankments are intact; when enlightenment is abolished and treachery and evil coexist, and punishment cannot be used to stop them, it is because its embankments are broken.
Ancient kings understood this truth, so when they sat down to govern the world, they always regarded education as their main task.
Taixue was set up in the capital to educate, county schools and township schools were set up in the counties to educate the people, benevolence was used to educate the people, righteousness was used to influence the people, and etiquette was used to control the people. Therefore, although the punishment was light, no one violated the prohibition. This is because of the implementation of education and beautiful customs.
The sage king inherited the troubled times. He swept away all the traces left by the troubled times, restored enlightenment, and gave special praise.
By the time the teachings have been understood and the customs have been developed, if the descendants continue to follow them and implement them, they will not decay even after five or six hundred years.
By the end of the Zhou Dynasty, the monarch was so unethical that he lost the world.
After the Qin Dynasty succeeded the Zhou Dynasty, not only did it not change, but it became even more unethical than the last years of the Zhou Dynasty. It strictly prohibited literature and private collection of books, abandoned etiquette and justice, and even hated hearing the words of etiquette and justice. He wanted to completely destroy the morality of the previous king, and exclusively used his own unbridled, sloppy, and crude methods to govern the country. Therefore, the country perished after only fourteen years as emperor.
Since ancient times, there has never been a situation like the Qin Dynasty that used chaos to fight chaos and seriously harmed the people of the world.
The poison left over from the Qin Dynasty is like a residual flame that has not been extinguished until now. It has made the customs evil, the people deceitful and stubborn, resisting, breaking laws and morals, and corruption has reached such a serious level.
Confucius said: Rotten wood cannot be carved; mud walls cannot be whitewashed.
Now that the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, the social situation is like rotten wood and mud walls. Although we want to manage it well, there is no good way.
As soon as the law is promulgated, evil will occur, and as soon as the order is issued, deception will follow. Just like using hot water to stop boiling or holding firewood to put out a fire, it will only get worse and worse without any benefit.
For example, if the sound of the harp and the harp are not harmonious, the strings must be broken off and reinstalled before it can be played; if it is not good at handling political affairs, it must be destroyed and replaced with new ones before it can be managed.
If the strings of the instrument should be re-stretched but not changed, even if there are excellent craftsmen, they cannot adjust them; if the strings of the instrument should be reformed but not reformed, even if there are great sages, they cannot be repaired.
Therefore, since the Han Dynasty conquered the world, it has often wanted to govern it well, but it has not been governed well yet. The problem is that it should be reformed but there is no reform.
The ancients have testified: It is better to go back and weave a fishing net yourself if you stand by the pond and envy others for catching fish.
The Han Dynasty came to power and wanted to manage political affairs well. It has been more than seventy years now. It is better to go back and carry out reforms. After reforms, we can govern well. If the country is well governed, disasters will be eliminated day by day, and blessings will come day by day.
"The Book of Songs" says: Be suitable for the people, suitable for people, and accept the blessings given by heaven.
If your governance is suitable for the people, you will naturally receive blessings from God.
Benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and trust are the five eternal ways, which the king should cultivate and cultivate. If these five ways can be cultivated and well-organized, he will be blessed by heaven. Ghosts and gods will also come to help him accept sacrifices, and his kindness will spread abroad and expand to all living things.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty saw Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures and thought it was very unusual, so he asked the officials again: "When I heard about Yu Shun, Yu Shun often walked in the corridors of the palace and did nothing, but the world was peaceful."
King Wen of Zhou was so busy all day that he turned his head to the west and had no time to eat. The world was also at peace.
Isn’t there a common order and a consistent set of principles for the emperor’s way of governing the world?
Why is there such a big difference between ease and labor?
Those diligent and frugal emperors did not even make black or yellow flags.
But in the Zhou Dynasty, two viewing platforms were built outside the palace gate, people rode in jade-decorated carriages, made red shields and jade ax handles, and sixty-four people danced around the court, and songs of praise rang out everywhere.
Isn’t the purpose of the emperor’s way different?
You Ru said: Good jade does not need to be carved. Some people say that without literary talent, it cannot support virtue. The two views are different.
The people of the Yin Dynasty formulated five types of criminal laws to prevent treachery and punished evil by mutilating the body.
However, King Zhou Cheng and King Zhou Kang abandoned these criminal laws for more than 40 years, and no one in the world broke the law. The prison was empty.
Qin State used these criminal laws, killing many people, and people were tortured one after another. The world was empty and the population was reduced. How sad! well!
I went to bed late and got up early, thinking about the laws of the previous emperors, and thinking for a long time about what would be suitable for the supreme status and to carry forward the cause of my ancestors. I thought the key was to work hard to improve agriculture and appoint wise men.
Now I am personally cultivating my own land to set an example for farmers, and encourage the people to honor their parents, be friendly to their brothers, and respect virtuous people. I have also sent many envoys to comfort the hardworking people and help the lonely people who have no parents or children. I have tried every method, but I have not achieved great results or good virtues.
Now the yin and yang are in chaos, the world is full of bad atmosphere, many living things cannot grow, the people are trapped in poverty, honest people and shameless people are confused together, good people and bad people cannot be distinguished, and the real situation cannot be obtained. Therefore, I have widely invited particularly outstanding scholars to ask for advice. Maybe the goal can be achieved!
Now there are more than a hundred officials waiting for the edict. Some of them talk about today's affairs but it is unrealistic. They use ancient history to prove it, and it is difficult to implement it when using the current situation. Is it because they are hampered by the civil servants' decrees and cannot express themselves arbitrarily?
Or is it because the academic sources are different and the insights obtained are different?
Everyone can answer the questions to the best of their ability and write them on the paper. Don’t be afraid of the officials in charge. Explain your intentions and strategies, and conduct discussions and studies to conform to my wishes.
Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures said: I heard that Yao had received the mandate of heaven, and I was worried that the world would not be easy to govern. I did not take pleasure in being the emperor, so I killed and exiled the ministers who disturbed the country. I tried hard to find virtuous people, so I got Shun, Yu, Hou Ji, Gao, and Jiu Yao.
Many sage people came to help him improve his moral character, and many virtuous people came to assist him in fulfilling his duties. As a result, enlightenment flourished, the world was peaceful, and the people were content to be benevolent and happy to do righteousness. Everyone found their place, acted in accordance with etiquette and justice, and moved forward calmly on the right path.
So Confucius said: If there is a king, it will take thirty years to realize benevolent government. This is what he meant.
Yao reigned for seventy years and gave way to Yu Shun.
After Yao's death, the people of the world did not turn their hearts to Yao's son Danzhu, but turned their hearts to Shun.
Shun knew that he could not escape, so he ascended the throne and became the emperor, made Yu the prime minister, continued to appoint the people appointed by Yao, and inherited Yao's tradition and career. Therefore, he handed over his clothes and did nothing to bring peace to the world.
Confucius said that the music of "Shao" is very beautiful and very good. This is what it means.
As for Shang Zhou, he violated God's will, destroyed all things, killed virtuous and intelligent people, and harmed the people.
Both Boyi and Jiang Taigong were wise men at that time. They hid themselves and did not want to become officials.
Those who were serving as officials fled to rivers and seashores.
The world was dark and chaotic, and the people had no peace, so the people in the world abandoned King Zhou of Yin and supported King Wen of Zhou.
King Wen of Zhou obeyed the will of God to govern all things, and appointed virtuous and virtuous people as teachers. Therefore, Hong Yao, Dadian, San Yisheng and other wise men gathered in the Zhou court.
He showed benevolence to the people, and everyone in the world obeyed him, so Jiang Taigong came from a remote seaside to join him, and later became the third Duke of the Zhou Dynasty.
At this time, King Zhou of Shang was still the emperor, and the order of hierarchy was chaotic. The people fled in all directions. King Wen of Zhou was very sad and wanted the people to live a stable life, so he was too busy all day to tilt his head to the west and had no time to eat.
When Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, he first wrote about Wang Zhengzheng, and then recorded various things. This showed the so-called Su Wang who was in a lower position and was virtuous.
From this point of view, the emperor's organizational system is the same, but diligence and ease are different because the times they encountered are different.
Confucius said that the music of "Wu" is very beautiful, but it is not very good. This is what it means.
I heard that the institutional literary style and black and yellow decorations are used to distinguish between superior and inferior, to distinguish between high and low, and to encourage people to be virtuous.
"Spring and Autumn" was written under the mandate of heaven, so the first thing it formulated was to change the calendar and the color of clothes to conform to heaven.
Then, the system of palaces and banners is based on effective laws.
Therefore Confucius said: If you are extravagant, you are not humble enough; if you are frugal, you are simple.
Frugality is not a system of sage moderation.
I heard that good jade does not need to be carved because its texture is smooth and beautiful and does not need to be carved. It is as if Xiang Lu could know it by himself without studying.
But if ordinary jade is not carved, it cannot achieve beautiful patterns; if a gentleman does not learn, it cannot achieve virtue.
I heard that the sage king governed the world, and taught the young to develop good study habits, and gave the elders positions to test their talents. Positions and salaries are used to cultivate their virtues, and punishments are used to prevent them from doing evil. Therefore, the people understand etiquette and are ashamed to offend their superiors.
King Wu of Zhou exercised righteousness and pacified the remnant thieves, and Duke Zhou performed rituals and music to bring order. Until the prosperous times of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou, the prison remained empty for more than forty years. This is also the influence of education and benevolence, not just the result of physical mutilation and dissection.
This was not the case in the Qin Dynasty. They followed the methods of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang, implemented Han Fei's teachings, and hated the ancient emperors' principles of governing the world. Corruption became common, and they did not educate the world with etiquette and justice.
Qin only seeks fame but does not check the reality. Good people who do good deeds may not be exempted from crime, and bad people who break the law may not be punished.
Therefore, all the officials lied and deceived and were not practical. On the surface, they showed respect for the emperor, but in their hearts they harbored the intention of betraying the emperor. They used deception to cover up their cunning and pursued selfish interests without shame. They also always liked to use cruel and vicious officials to collect taxes without limit and drained the people's financial resources. The people fled everywhere and could not engage in farming or textile work, so bandits broke out everywhere.
Therefore, many people were tortured and died one after another, but the bad people did not stop. This was caused by customs and education.
Therefore Confucius said: Use political laws to teach the people, use punishments to punish the people, and the people will pretend to be exempted from punishment but have no shame. That's what it means.
Now His Majesty has unified the world, and there is no one who is disobedient in the four seas. Your Majesty observes extensively, listens to many aspects, and absorbs the wisdom of the people as much as possible. He possesses the virtues of the world, and his noble virtues shine universally and spread abroad.
Yelang and Kang Ju, who traveled thousands of miles away, were so impressed that they returned to their hearts. It was such a sight to behold.
But kindness has not been extended to ordinary people. Maybe you haven't noticed this problem yet.
Zengzi said: If you respect the principles you have heard, you will be wise; if you practice the principles you know, you will be glorious.
Being brilliant does not depend on anything else but paying attention to these things.
I hope that your Majesty will adopt the principles you have heard and act accordingly sincerely. So, what is the difference between you and the three kings?
His Majesty personally cultivated his own land to promote agriculture, got up early and went to bed late, worried about the people, missed the ancient times, and sought wise men with all his heart. This was also the intention of Yao and Shun, but he did not find wise men. This was because he did not encourage and exhort the scholars in ordinary times.
Trying to seek wise men without cultivating talents is like asking for literary talent without carving jade.
Therefore, there is nothing more important to cultivate talents than to run the Imperial College well. The Imperial College is the place where wise men are produced and the source of education. Nowadays, there are many people in all counties and counties, but some counties have not yet appointed virtuous people to provide literary advice and make countermeasures. This is because the royal way is often cut off there.
I hope that your majesty will establish an imperial college. Hire talented teachers to educate and train the world's scholars, and constantly question them so that they can give full play to their talents, and then handsome talents can be obtained.
Today's county governors and county magistrates are teachers and role models for the people. They are entrusted to inherit the monarch's benevolence and propagate enlightenment. If the teachers are not virtuous, the benevolence of the monarch will not be promoted, and the benevolence will not be spread to the people below.
Nowadays, since the officials do not educate the people, or do not implement the monarch's decrees, they brutalize the people, collude with bad people, and seek personal gain, causing the poor and weak to suffer unjustly and become homeless, which is not in line with His Majesty's wishes.
Therefore, the yin and yang are disordered, full of resentment, the people cannot live, and cannot get help in their sufferings. This is all caused by the unwiseness of the county governors and magistrates.
Most of the county governors and county magistrates were selected from the sons of senior officials with an annual salary of two thousand dan, and they were chosen because they were rich and not necessarily wise.
Moreover, in ancient times, the evaluation of officials' merits was based on whether they were competent officials and not based on the length of time in office.
Therefore, although a person with little talent has served for a long time, he is still a minor official; although a person with talent has served for a short time, it does not prevent him from being promoted to an assistant minister.
Therefore, officials who are responsible for their duties use their talents and wisdom to do their jobs well and strive to achieve meritorious service.
This is not the case now. Officials can get high positions by accumulating time, and they can be promoted as time goes by. Therefore, integrity and shamelessness are confused, good people and bad people are not distinguished, and true talents cannot be obtained.
I foolishly thought that the princes, prefectures, and 2,000 stones should each choose the officials and talents under their jurisdiction, recommend two people every year, and use them to guard the palace. This can also be used to observe the ability of the ministers. If the recommended people are talented, they will be rewarded; if the recommended people are not good, they will be punished.
If like this, the princes and the two thousand stone officials are dedicated to seeking talented people, the talented people in the world will be able to get them, and they will be given official positions and appointed.
If there are wise men all over the world, it will be easy to achieve the prosperity of the three kings, and the reputation of Yao and Shun will be able to catch up. Never use the length of time as an official to calculate merit. It is best to actually examine the virtuousness of officials. After measuring the talents, they will be awarded official positions, and after examining the virtues, they will determine the positions. In this way, the treatment of honesty and shamelessness will be different, and good people and bad people will be able to be distinguished.
Your Majesty gives me favors, forgives my sins, teaches me not to be afraid of the officials in charge, enables me to discuss and study, and I dare not not express my superficial opinions.
So the emperor asked again.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked: It is said that those who are good at talking about heaven will definitely find people and events to prove it; those who are good at talking about the past will be proven in reality.
So I ask you about the relationship between heaven and man, praising Tang Yao and Yu Shun at the top, mourning Xia Jie and Shang Zhou at the bottom. Seeing these principles of gradual demise and gradual prosperity, I want to correct my mistakes with an open mind.
Doctors are well aware of the changes and functions of yin and yang, and are familiar with the Taoism and career of the ancient saint kings, but your articles do not fully express these. Do you have any doubts about contemporary government affairs?
Some truths are not systematically organized and fully expressed. Maybe it’s because I’m not smart, or I’m confused by what I’m told?
The teachings of the three kings were different at first, but they all had shortcomings. Some people say that they are eternal and unchangeable. Are there any different meanings between these two statements?
Now that the officials have written down the highest principles of the Great Dao and stated the methods for governing troubled times, I hope you will elaborate more, be more profound, and be more thoughtful.
The Book of Songs does not say: Gentleman, don’t rest in peace, God is listening to you and will help you obtain great blessings.
I will personally see your countermeasures, and the doctors will work hard to clarify your opinions.
Dong Zhongshu made another countermeasure and said: I heard from the Analects of Confucius: Only saints have a beginning and an end!
I am honored to receive your majesty's favor to listen carefully to the opinions of our ministers who have received traditional knowledge, and to issue wise books that are in line with the meaning of them, and to study the holy virtues thoroughly, which is beyond the ability of foolish ministers to state in detail.
Some of the countermeasures I proposed before lacked systematic organization and complete expression, the words were not clear, and the meaning was unclear. These are all my faults.
Cewen said: Those who are good at talking about heaven will definitely find people and events to prove it; those who are good at talking about the past will be able to get practical proof.
I heard that Heaven is the ancestor of all things, so Heaven universally covers and includes all things without partiality.
Heaven creates the sun, moon, wind, and rain to coordinate all things, and gives birth to all things through yin, yang, cold, and heat.
Therefore, the sage imitates Heaven and establishes the Tao, and he also spreads benevolence without any selfishness, treats the people with kindness and love, and establishes principles and etiquette to guide the people.
Spring is used by heaven to bring forth all things, benevolence is used by man to care for the people; summer is used by heaven to nourish all things, virtue is used by man to nourish the people; autumn frost is used by heaven to kill all things, and criminal law is used by man to punish criminals.
From this point of view, the verification of heaven and man is the truth from ancient times to the present.
Confucius wrote "Spring and Autumn" to measure the way of heaven. To verify human feelings, refer to ancient times and examine today.
Therefore, what the "Spring and Autumn" ridicules is what is violated by disasters; what "Spring and Autumn" hates is what is touched by weirdness.
Confucius wrote about the country's faults and changes in disasters. It can be seen from the law that the good and bad behavior of people are connected with heaven and earth and respond to each other. This is also a way of talking about heaven.
In ancient times, there were officials in charge of education and training, whose duty was to educate the people with virtue and kindness. After the people were greatly influenced, there was often no one in prison in the world.
In modern times, this system has been abandoned and it is impossible to educate the people. Therefore, the people do not know how to do justice and die in pursuit of wealth. Therefore, more people commit crimes. Within a year, tens of thousands of people are imprisoned and prosecuted.
It can be seen from this that the laws of ancient times have to be adopted, so "Spring and Autumn" will ridicule changes in ancient systems.
The command of heaven is called destiny, and a person who is not a sage cannot follow this destiny; the nature he is born with is called sex, which cannot be achieved without education; the desire of man is called emotion, and this emotion cannot be controlled without laws.
Therefore, the king must be very careful to flatter and obey the will of heaven; below, he must educate the people so that they can fulfill their nature; he must establish laws that should be followed, distinguish the order of superiority and inferiority, and prevent greed; if these three things are done well, the foundation of the country will be laid.
Human beings have received destiny and are originally superior and different from other creatures. At home, we have the relationship of father, son, brother, and outside, we have the status of king and minister. When we meet at gatherings, we have the rules of respecting the elderly and distinguishing the elders from the younger. We have clear etiquette to receive each other, and we love each other happily and kindly. This is a valuable place for people.
Planting grains for food, sowing mulberry and hemp for making clothes, raising livestock, driving oxen and horses, penning leopards and guarding tigers are all manifestations of man receiving the aura of heaven, which is more precious than all other things.
Therefore Confucius said: Human beings are the most precious creatures born from heaven and earth.
When people understand nature, they know that they are more valuable than all things; when they know that they are more valuable than all things, they know etiquette and righteousness; they know etiquette and righteousness, and then they pay attention to etiquette; they pay attention to etiquette, and then they are at ease in the good way; they are at ease in the good way, and then they are willing to follow the principles and do things; they are willing to follow the principles, and then they are called gentlemen.
So Confucius said, "If you don't know destiny, you can't be a gentleman." This is what it means.
Ce Wen said: From the top we praise Tang Yao and Yu Shun, and from the bottom we mourn Xia Jie and Shang Zhou. Seeing the gradual demise and gradual prosperity of these principles, I must humbly correct my mistakes.
I heard that accumulating a little can make a lot, and accumulating a small amount can make a big thing. Therefore, the saints all accumulate dim light to reach the light, and step by step from humble status to greatness.
Therefore, Yao was promoted from a prince to emperor, and Shun was raised from farming in the mountains. They did not achieve respect in one day, but gradually.
If you speak your own words, you can no longer block them; if your actions are made by yourself, you can no longer cover them up.
Words and deeds are the most important conditions for governing a country. The reason why a gentleman can move the world is also his words and deeds.
Therefore, small things add up to big things, and careful attention to subtle behaviors will make you famous. The Book of Songs says: This King Wen, be careful.
Therefore, Yao cautiously carried out his way of governing the country every day, and Shun fulfilled his filial piety every day carefully and fearfully. As he accumulated more good deeds, he naturally became famous, had outstanding virtues, and was respected by others. This created the principle of gradual prosperity.
Accumulating good in oneself is like a person growing up without realizing it; accumulating evil in oneself is like a lamp burning oil, and it is not easy for people to see it.
Who can understand this truth unless he is a person who understands emotions and has insight into worldly situations?
This is the reason why Tang Yao and Yu Shun gained good reputations, but Xia Jie and Shang Zhou caused people pain and fear.
The consequences of good or evil actions are like shadows following human figures, reverberations following sounds.
Therefore, Jie and Zhou were violent and neglectful, the slanderous people were exploited, and the virtuous and wise people were hidden. As a result, Jie and Zhou's crimes became more and more obvious day by day, and the country became more and more chaotic. However, they were still peaceful and contented, thinking that they were like the sun in the sky, and finally gradually became corrupted and destroyed.
Those cruel and unkind monarchs did not perish all at once, but also gradually. Therefore, even though Jie and Zhou were immoral, they still reigned for more than ten years, which meant that they gradually declined and even perished.
Ce Wen said: The teachings of the three kings are imitated in different ways, and all have shortcomings. Some people say that they are eternal. Is there any difference in the intention of these two statements?
I have heard that the way of enjoying things without becoming sexually immoral and practicing them repeatedly without getting tired of them is called Tao.
The ways of the former kings must be biased and cannot be implemented, so in politics, there are sometimes dark and unworkable aspects. Just point out its biases and remedy its shortcomings.
Although the three kings follow different ways, they are not opposite. They are all designed to remedy mistakes and support decline. The reason why they are different is because the environment they encounter has changed.
Therefore Confucius said: The one who can govern the country without doing anything is Shun!
Shun only changed the calendar, changed the colors of carriages, horses, sacrifices, and clothing to comply with the destiny of heaven. The rest completely followed Yao's way of governing the country. Why should he change it!
Therefore, the king only changed the name of the system, but did not change the essence of the Tao.
However, the reason why the Xia Dynasty valued loyalty, the Yin Dynasty respected respect, and the Zhou Dynasty respected Wen is because when dynasties changed, the previous generation had faults, and this should be done in order to remedy them.
Confucius said: It can be known that the Yin Dynasty has increased or decreased according to the ritual system of the Xia Dynasty; that the Zhou Dynasty has increased or decreased according to the ritual system of the Yin Dynasty; and that others who succeeded the Zhou Dynasty have experienced hundreds of generations, but this can also be known.
Creation means that what hundreds of kings use are loyalty, respect, and culture.
The Xia Dynasty followed Yu and Shun, but did not mention additions or decreases. This is because the principles of the Xia Dynasty and Yu Shun were the same; the loyalty that the Xia Dynasty advocated was the same as that of Yu Shun.
The root of Tao comes from heaven. Heaven does not change and Tao does not change. Therefore, Yu inherited Shun's Tao, and Shun inherited Yao's Tao. The three saints taught each other and followed the same Tao. There were no measures to remedy disadvantages, so we do not say that they added or subtracted from Tao.
From this point of view, those who inherit the rule of the world have the same way; those who inherit the troubled times have to change their way.
Now that the Han Dynasty has inherited great chaos, it should reduce the literature of the Zhou Dynasty and use the loyalty of the Xia Dynasty.
Your Majesty has sage virtues and beautiful ways. He is saddened by the decline of the secular world and the unclearness of the royal way. Therefore, he elects virtuous and upright scholars, conducts discussions and tests, and intends to raise the virtues of benevolence and righteousness, clarify the emperor's legal system, and establish a peaceful way of governing the country.
I am ignorant and dishonest, recounting what I have heard, reciting what I have learned, and speaking the principles taught by the teacher, just to avoid forgetting them.
As for discussing the gains and losses of political affairs and studying the prosperity and poverty of society, these are the duties of ministers and assistants. The responsibilities of the three ministers and nine ministers are beyond the knowledge of Zhongshu. But I have a strange problem privately.
The world in ancient times is the world now, and the world now is the world in ancient times. They are the same world. In ancient times, the world was peaceful, in harmony, with beautiful customs. Things were done without orders and without restraint. Officials did not Evil, there are no thieves among the people, the prisons are empty, there are no prisoners, the kindness of the Lord has nourished the grass and trees, and spread to the four seas, the phoenix has flown, and the unicorn has appeared. If we compare the situation in ancient times to the present, how can it be so different?
What went wrong that led to this decline? I think maybe it goes against the ancient way of governing a country?
Maybe it goes against the laws of nature?
If you try to examine the past and trace it back to the laws of nature, you might be able to spot some problems, right?
Heaven gives creatures separately. Those who give sharp teeth will no longer give horns, and those who give wings will only give two feet. That is to say, if you accept the big one, you can no longer take the small one.
In ancient times, those who received salaries did not rely on manual labor for food, nor did they seek industrial and commercial benefits. This also accepted the big one and could not choose the small one, which was the same as God's will.
If you have already obtained the big one, and you go to take the small one, God cannot give it like that, let alone man?
This is the reason why people are suffering from insufficient food and clothing.
Those who are favored by the monarch and occupy high positions, whose families are well clothed, fed and provided with generous salaries, rely on their wealth and power to compete with the people below for profit. How can the people compare with them?
Therefore, those people used many slaves and maids, owned many cattle and sheep, expanded their fields and houses, expanded their industries, and increased their savings. They devoted themselves to these without any end, oppressed the people, made them frightened, and the people were exploited every day and gradually became poor.
The rich are extravagant and wasteful, the poor are poor and miserable; the poor are poor and miserable but those in higher positions do not provide relief, then the people will have no means of living; if the people have no means of life, the people will not even be afraid of death, so how can they be afraid of committing crimes!
This is the reason why there are many punishments, but treachery cannot be banned.
Therefore, families who enjoy their salaries should just live with their salaries and not compete with the people for profit-making industries. In this way, the benefits can be evenly distributed and the people can have enough money for their families.
This is the principle of heaven and the way of ancient times. The emperor should follow the legal system and the officials should abide by it.
So when Gongyizi was the prime minister of the State of Lu, he came home and saw his wife weaving silk. He was very angry and drove his wife away. When he was eating at home, he ate the sunflower seeds grown in his home. He angrily pulled out the sunflower seeds in the garden and said, "I already have a salary, do I want to take away the benefits of the vegetable growers and the weaver girls?"
In ancient times, wise men and gentlemen served as officials in this way. Therefore, the people respected their virtues and listened to their teachings. Influenced by their integrity, the people would not behave greedily and despicably.
By the end of the Zhou Dynasty, officials in the Qing Dynasty were less concerned about etiquette and justice and were eager to seek profits. They lost the spirit of humility and started lawsuits over land disputes.
Therefore, the poet hated and satirized them and said: That high Nanshan, the rocks are so stacked; O the famous Shi Yin, the people are all looking at you!
If an official has a heart for benevolence and righteousness, the people will naturally love benevolence and righteousness, and the customs will be kind; if an official is interested in profit, the people will not be upright, and the customs will be corrupted.
From this point of view, the emperor and the great officials are the examples that the people look up to and imitate. They are the people who look up to and imitate them from afar. How can they be in the position of sages and behave like common people?
Those who are busy seeking financial gain and often worried about poverty are the thoughts of the common people; those who are busy seeking benevolence and righteousness and often worried about not being able to educate the people are the thoughts of the officials.
"Book of Changes" says: Carrying things on your back and riding in a car will lead to the arrival of robbers.
Riding in a carriage means that you are in the position of a gentleman, and carrying things is the business of a villain. This means that if you are in the position of a gentleman but behave like a commoner, disaster will definitely come to you.
If you are in the position of a gentleman and do what a gentleman should do, then there is nothing else you can do except be like Gong Yixiu who was the prime minister of the state of Lu.
"Spring and Autumn" emphasizes unity, which is the eternal principle of heaven and earth and a common truth between ancient and modern times.
Nowadays, the principles stated by teachers are different from each other, and people's opinions are also different from each other. The research directions of various schools of thought are different, and their intentions are also different. Therefore, the superiors cannot grasp the unified standards, the laws and regulations have been changed many times, and the people below do not know how to abide by them.
I believe that all subjects that do not belong to the Six Arts and Confucian academic theories are prohibited and they are not allowed to develop in the same way.
Once the eccentric doctrines disappear, the academic system can be unified, the legal system can be understood, and the people will know who to obey.
After the countermeasures were completed, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty appointed Dong Zhongshu as the Prime Minister of Jiangdu to assist King Yi.
Liu Fei, King of Yi, was the elder brother of Emperor Wu of Han Dynasty. He was always very arrogant and liked to be brave.
Dong Zhongshu supported King Yi with courtesy and justice, and King Yi respected him very much.
After a while, King Yi asked Dong Zhongshu: King Gou Jian of Yue and the officials Xie Yong, Wen Zhong, and Fan Li conspired to attack the state of Wu, and finally reduced the state of Wu.
Confucius said that King Zhou of Yin had three benevolent people, and I think King Gou Jian of Yue also had three benevolent people.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, Duke Huan of Qi asked Guan Zhong to answer some difficult questions. I have questions, please explain.
Dong Zhongshu replied: I am ignorant and cannot answer your question.
I heard that in the Spring and Autumn Period, Duke Xi of Lu asked Liu Xiahui, an official of Lu: I want to attack Qi, what do you think? Liu Xiahui said: No.
When he returned home, he looked worried and said, "I heard that attacking other countries does not involve virtuous people. Why does the king want to attack Qi? Why do you ask me?"
Liu Xiahui was just questioned and felt ashamed, let alone plotting a false surrender to attack the state of Wu?
From this point of view, there is no benevolent person in Yue State.
A benevolent person upholds his righteousness but does not seek personal gain, and expounds his way but does not care about his own merits. Therefore, among Confucius's disciples, even underage children are ashamed to talk about the Five Hegemons, because the Five Hegemons promote deception and force and do not pay attention to benevolence and righteousness.
The king of Yue and his ministers were just practicing unfair tricks, so they were not worthy of discussion by Confucius's disciples.
The Five Hegemons are wiser than other princes, but compared with the Three Kings, they are like jade-like stones compared with beautiful jade. King Yi said: Well said.
When Dong Zhongshu governed the country, he used the disasters and changes recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals to find out the reasons for the misalignment of yin and yang. Therefore, when praying for rain, he closed the yang and moved the yin. When he stopped the rain, he closed the yin and moved the yang. This method of praying for rain to stop waterlogging has been implemented throughout Jiangdu, and everyone does what they want.
Later, Dong Zhongshu was deposed as a middle doctor.
Prior to this, fires broke out successively in the Gaomiao Temple in Liaodong County where emperors of the Han Dynasty worshiped their ancestors, and in the Gaoyuan Hall in Changling, where the emperors of the Han Dynasty worshiped their ancestors. Dong Zhongshu deduced the relationship between fires from heaven and the human world. He wrote the draft of the memorial but did not submit it. The master's father Yan came to visit Dong Zhongshu and read the draft of the memorial in private. He was always jealous of Dong Zhongshu, so he stole the draft of the memorial and handed it to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty summoned many Confucian scholars and asked them to read the draft of Dong Zhongshu's memorial. Dong Zhongshu's student Lu Bushu didn't know that this draft of the memorial was written by his teacher, and thought it was very ignorant.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty handed Dong Zhongshu over to the officials for questioning and sentenced him to death. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty issued an edict to pardon him. From then on, Dong Zhongshu did not dare to talk about disasters and changes.
Dong Zhongshu is honest and upright.
At that time, the Han Dynasty was using troops from surrounding ethnic minorities. Gongsunhong's research on "Gongyang Chunqiu" was not as good as Dong Zhongshu's. However, Gongsunhong catered to the secular world, gained great power, and became a high official.
Dong Zhongshu thought Gongsun Hong was flattering, but Gongsun Hong hated Dong Zhongshu.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, was also the brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. He was particularly indulgent, cruel and arrogant, and repeatedly murdered two thousand stone officials sent by the imperial court.
Gongsun Hong told Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty: Only Dong Zhongshu can serve as the king of Jiaoxi.
King Liu Duan of Jiaoxi heard that Dong Zhongshu was a famous Confucian master and treated him with respect.
Dong Zhongshu was afraid that he would be punished by accident over time, so he resigned and went home on the grounds of old age and illness.
Dong Zhongshu served as prime minister of Jiangdu and Jiaoxi, assisting the arrogant princes and kings. He set an example for his subordinates by setting an example for his subordinates. He went to the eunuch many times to give outright advice, and formulated edicts to be implemented in the country. Both Jiangdu and Jiaoxi where he was located were well governed.
After he resigned from office and returned home, he didn't care about the family property at all. He just immersed himself in reading and writing books.
Dong Zhongshu was recuperating at home. If the court discussed important issues, it would send envoys and the court official Zhang Tang to his home to ask for his opinions. Dong Zhongshu's answers were all well-founded.
From the time when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, Wei Qihou Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tian successively became prime ministers and began to promote Confucianism. Dong Zhongshu responded by promoting Confucius and suppressing hundreds of schools of thought.
It was Dong Zhongshu who set up officials to manage schools and recommended talents, filial piety and honesty in the prefectures and counties.
Dong Zhongshu died at home in old age. Later, his family moved to Maoling County, and his son and grandson became high officials based on their knowledge.
Dong Zhongshu's works all clarify the purpose of Confucian classics. Together with memorials and teachings, there are a total of 123 works.
There are dozens of articles explaining the gains and losses of the "Spring and Autumn" records, as well as "Wen Ju", "Jade Cup", "Fan Dew", "Qingming" and "Bamboo Forest", with more than 100,000 words, all of which have been passed down to later generations.
I selected the content that is relevant to today's society and the imperial court and wrote it in the article.
Praising day: Liu Xiang praised: Dong Zhongshu has the ability to be an assistant to the king. Even Yi Yin and Lu Wang cannot surpass him. Guan Zhong and Yan Ying are the assistants of the overlord, so I am afraid they are not as good as him.
Liu Xiang's son Liu Xin believed that Yi Yin and Lu Wang were the companions of a saint, and a king could not rise without them.
So when Yan Yuan died, Confucius said, "Oh!"
Heaven destroys me. Only Yan Yuan can compare with Yi Yin and Lu Wang. As for Zai Wo, Zigong, Ziyou, Zixia and others, they cannot be included in the ranks of saints.
After the Western Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty and the burning of scholarship, Dong Zhongshu's "Six Classics" fell apart. So he put down his work and devoted himself to studying Confucian classics, which enabled later scholars to have a systematic and consistent understanding of Confucianism and became the leader of the group of Confucian scholars.
However, when examining the origins of his mentors and friends and looking at their influence on each other, Dong Zhongshu could not catch up with Zi You and Zi Xia, but it is wrong to say that Guan Zhong and Yan Ying were not as good as him, and Yi Yin and Lu Wang were not as good as him.
Liu Xiang's great-grandson Liu Gong is a gentleman who is good at commenting on figures. He believes that Liu Xin's evaluation of Dong Zhongshu is appropriate.
