◆Zhu Hui's biography, Zhu Hui's courtesy name Wen Ji, was born in Wan, Nanyang. The family has been dressed for generations.
Hui's father died when he was young, and he had Qi Jue.
When he was thirteen years old, Wang Mang failed and the world was in chaos. Zhu Hui and his grandmother's family rushed from the fields to Wancheng.
On the way, I met a group of thieves who robbed women with white blades and robbed them of their clothes and property.
Kundi's guests were all frightened, lying on the ground and not daring to move.
Zhu Hui drew his sword and stepped forward and said: "All property can be taken away, but the mother's clothes are not allowed to be touched."
Today is the day that I, Zhu Hui, will die!
The thief saw that he was young but had strong ambitions, so he smiled and said: "Young man, put your knife away!"
He abandoned them and went away.
At first, Emperor Guangwu and Zhu Hui's father, Zhu Cen, both studied in Chang'an and had old friendships.
After Guangwu came to the throne, he looked for Zhu Cen. Zhu Cen was dead by then, so he called Zhu Hui to be his minister.
Zhu Hui soon resigned due to illness and graduated from Taixue.
He has a reserved and severe temperament and must observe etiquette when entering and leaving. Confucian scholars praised him for his high moral character.
In the early years of Yongping, Xianzong's uncle Xinyang Houyin admired Zhu Hui's talents and went to greet him personally, but Zhu Hui avoided seeing him.
Yin then sent Jiacheng to give gifts, but Zhu Hui closed the door and ignored them.
Yin heard this and sighed: "You are such an ambitious man, don't take away his integrity."
Later, when Zhu Hui became a county official, the prefect Ruan Kuang once wanted to buy a maid from Zhu Hui's family, but Zhu Hui refused.
When Ruan Kuang died, Zhu Hui sent generous gifts to his home.
Some people ridiculed him, and Zhu Hui said: In the past, Mr. Ruan asked for help from me, but I did not dare to obey him. I was really afraid of insulting him with my wealth.
Sending her off now shows that I don't mean to cherish you.
Liu Cang, the hussar general and king of Dongping, heard about it and promoted him and treated him politely.
At dawn on the first day of the first lunar month, Liu Cang should come to congratulate you.
According to the old custom, the Shaofu gave jade.
At this time, Yin is the official of the government, noble and arrogant, and the officials are arrogant and do not abide by the law.
Liu Cang was sitting in the court hall, and the leakage was almost exhausted, but the jade he was seeking could not be found. Liu Cang turned around and said to his subordinates: "What's going on?"
Zhu Hui saw the chief secretary of the young mansion holding a jade, so he went to deceive him and said: "I have heard about jade many times but I have never seen it. Please show it to me."
The chief clerk gave the bib to Zhu Hui, and Zhu Hui turned around and summoned Shi Feng to deliver it to Liu Cang.
The chief clerk was shocked and quickly reported the situation.
Yin then said: "Zhu Yu is a righteous man, don't ask him any more."
He also presented himself with another jade stone.
After Liu Cang finished his salute, he said to Zhu Hui: "Who do you think is better, you or Lin Xiangru?"
The emperor heard that he was brave.
Later, when he was in Chang'an, he wanted to strictly adjust the guards, so Zhu Hui was used as the guard order.
Then he was promoted to the prefect of Linhuai.
Zhu Hui is good at moral integrity, and he implements his duties strictly.
Some people who complained were righteous offenders, and Zhu Hui sought justice for them and got more money.
Those unjust prisoners fell immediately.
The officials were very afraid of Zhu Hui and wrote a song: "If you are strong, you will succeed, Zhu Ji of Nanyang."
Officials fear his power, but others cherish his benefits.
A few years later, he was removed from his official position for breaking the law.
Zhu Hui was very upright as an official and was disliked by his superiors. He was impeached many times.
Since going to Linhuai, he has been living in Yeze, living in civilian clothes and eating a vegetarian diet. He has not interacted with the town. The township party ridiculed him for not being different from the others.
During the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, there was a great famine in Nanyang, and rice was worth more than a thousand dollars per stone. Zhu Hui dispersed all his family property and distributed it to the poor and weak in his clan and hometown, and all the villagers and clansmen joined him.
At first, Zhang Kansu, a native of Zhu Hui's county, had a name. He once saw Zhu Hui in Taixue and thought highly of him. He made friends with Zhu Hui and held Zhu Hui's arm and said, "I want to entrust my wife to Zhu Hui."
Zhu Hui thought Zhang Kan was his ancestor and did not dare to answer him. They never met again.
After Zhang Kan's death, Zhu Hui heard that his wife was poor, so he went to see her in person and provided generous relief to them.
Zhu Hui's youngest son Zhu Jie felt strange and asked: "My lord does not make friends with Zhang Kan. I have never heard of it in my life. My descendants feel strange."
Zhu Hui said: Zhang Kan once said something about a confidant, and I have long remembered it.
Zhu Hui also had a good friendship with Chen Yi from the same county. Chen Yi died early and had a posthumous son, Chen You. Zhu Hui often sympathized with him.
When Situ Huanyu became the governor of Nanyang, he called Zhu Hui's son Zhu Pian as an official. Zhu Hui dismissed Zhu Pian and recommended Chen You.
Huan Yu sighed very much, so he summoned Chen You.
Such is his righteousness.
During the Yuanhe period, Suzong went on a hunting tour, told the Nanyang prefect to ask about Zhu Hui's daily life, and summoned Zhu Hui to serve as a minister.
In the middle of the year, he moved to Taishan Prefecture.
Zhu Hui asked Shangshu to stay in China, and the imperial edict agreed.
So he wrote a letter to talk about politics and tell secrets, which was deeply praised and adopted.
The imperial edict said: This is a good person who makes up for the shortcomings of the public and does not impair the quality of innocence.
The common officials are obedient, obedient, have no ambition to advance, but have no thought of retreat, and worry for a long time.
Only what I say now suits my wish.
Please encourage me, sir!
At this time, grain prices were high, county officials were short of funds, and the court was very anxious.
Shangshu Zhang Lin wrote: The reason why grain is expensive is because money is cheap.
You can seal off the money as much as possible, and use cloth and silk as rent, so that it can be used by the whole world.
Salt is also an urgently needed item in food. Although it is expensive, people cannot do without it, so it can be sold by the officials.
We should also buy treasures and harvest their benefits through the exchanges of officials in Jiaozhi and Yizhou. This is the so-called method of losing all during the reign of Emperor Wu.
So an edict was issued to the ministers for discussion.
Zhu Hui reported that Zhang Lin's plan was not feasible, so the matter was settled.
Later, some of the presenters repeated Zhang Lin's proposal and thought it would be beneficial to the country. The emperor agreed and the edict was implemented.
Zhu Hui then soloed and said: In the royal system, the emperor does not care about whether there is anything, the princes do not care about how much, and the officials do not compete with the people for profits.
Today's method of equalizing losses is no different from that of merchants. If salt and profits are returned to the officials, the people will be poor and urgent. If cloth is rented, many officials will cause trouble. It is indeed not a method that should be implemented by the Ming Dynasty.
The emperor finally thought that what Zhang Lin and others said was right. After Zhu Hui reconsidered, he became angry and blamed the ministers.
Zhu Hui and others asked themselves to be imprisoned.
Three days later, the imperial edict pardoned them.
The edict said: The country is willing to listen to different opinions. The veterans are not at fault. The edict is wrong. Why do you ask yourself to go to jail?
Zhu Hui then claimed that he was too ill and refused to participate in political discussions anymore.
The minister ordered the following people to be frightened, and said to Zhu Hui: Now that we are facing criticism, why do we claim to be ill and not come out? The disaster is not small!
Zhu Hui said, "I am already eighty years old. I have received the emperor's favor in secret, so I should repay him with death."
If you know it is impossible but follow the will, you will have the meaning of being a minister.
Today I hear nothing and see nothing, just wait and die.
So he kept silent and stopped talking.
The ministers didn't know what he was doing, so they impeached Zhu Hui together.
The emperor understood what everyone meant and would not pursue the matter further.
A few days later, the imperial edict Zhishilang asked about Zhu Hui's daily life, sent an imperial doctor to treat his illness, and the imperial official gave him food.
Zhu Hui then stood up to thank him and gave him another hundred thousand pieces of money, a hundred pieces of cloth, and ten sets of clothes.
Later, Zhu Hui was promoted to Shangshu Ling. Zhu Hui requested to retire because of his old age and illness. He was appointed as the Cavalry Captain and was given 200,000 yuan.
Emperor He came to the throne, Dou Xian went north to conquer the Xiongnu, and Zhu Hui went to Shu to give advice.
Soon, he died of illness.
His son Zhu Jie studied Confucianism and became prime minister at Chen during the reign of Emperor An.
Zhu Jie's son was Zhu Mu.
◆Zhu Mu's biography, Zhu Mu's courtesy name is Gongshu.
At the age of five, he had the reputation of being filial.
My parents are sick and often don't eat or drink. They only return to normal after recovering from the illness.
In the prime of life, it is easy to study and put more effort into speaking and reciting. Sometimes when thinking about a problem and concentrating on it, the clothes and clothes are missing without realizing it, and the team is in a state of confusion.
His father often thought that he was too attentive and almost stupid, and almost didn't know how to count the odds.
Zhu Mu studied his knowledge more carefully.
He began to be promoted as Xiaolian.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, thieves arose in the Jianghuai area, and the prefectures and counties could not stop them.
Someone advised the general Liang Ji: "Uncle Zhu is a versatile man in both civil and military affairs and a great scholar in the country. If you use him as the mastermind, it will not be difficult to put down the thieves."
Liang Ji also often heard about Zhu Mu's reputation, so he promoted him to be in charge of military affairs. He was very close and valued.
When Emperor Huan came to the throne and Empress Dowager Shunlie came to the court to listen to the government, Zhu Mu believed that Liang Ji was powerful and hoped that he could support the royal family. So he deduced the source of the disaster and wrote a memorial to advise Liang Ji: Mu thought that next year will be the year of Ding Hai, and the punishment and virtue will be in line with the Qian position. The "Book of Changes" talks about the Dragon War Meeting. Its text says: When dragons fight in the wild, their path is exhausted.
It means that the Yang Dao will win and the vagina will lose.
The weather in September this year is depressing, and the five four-year-olds have lost their integrity. This is to explain each other's problems.
The good path belongs to yang, and the evil path belongs to yin. If you correct and guard the yang and destroy the evil, then blessings will follow.
Mu doesn't know how to do anything, he just likes to learn and teach it to his teachers, so he can try it out from time to time.
I hope the general will think about my foolish words, respect the opinions of Confucian scholars, be close to loyal and upright people, sever the ways of villains, concentrate on government affairs, cut off personal selfishness, seek talents widely, and reject the evil of villains.
To be a ruler, one must learn, and to be a minister, one must let heaven and earth follow the path of his heart.
It is necessary to appoint masters and lecturers for the emperor, and find some careful, loyal and polite people. The general will work with them to consult and teach, and teach the virtuous and ancient laws. This is like sitting on the plain with Nanshan Mountain. Who can topple it!
This summer, the moon will be dimmed by the house stars, and there will be minor disasters next year.
Some traitorous ministers who are hated by the world should be killed to put an end to the disaster. The positions of Yilang and Dafu were supposed to be filled by people who were highly skilled in Confucianism, but most of them are not occupied now. There are also those among the nine ministers who are not qualified, and I hope the general will investigate.
He also recommended Zhongfan, Luanba and others.
In the second year, Yan Tun planned to establish Qinghe King Suan, and Huanglong appeared twice in Peiguo.
Liang Ji was uneducated and incompetent, so he took Zhu Mu's words of "Longzhan" as a reality, so he invited Zhong vassal to be the minister, recommended Luan Ba ​​to be the Yilang, and promoted Zhu Mu to the highest rank to serve as the imperial censor.
At this time, Zhao Kangshusheng of the same county lived in seclusion in Wudang Mountain. He was quiet and did not want to be an official. He taught his disciples by passing on the classics.
Zhu Mu was fifty years old, so he was called his disciple by letter.
After Zhao Kang died, Zhu Mu mourned him like a teacher. His behavior of respecting morality and morality was admired by people at that time. Zhu Mu often felt that the customs at that time were shallow and he admired honesty and honesty, so he wrote "Lun on Chonghou". He wrote another article "On Severing Diplomacy", which was also a work to correct the shortcomings of the times.
Liang Ji was proud and tyrannical, and the government and the public were very resentful. Because Zhu Mu was an old official of Liang, he was afraid that he would accumulate evil and bring disaster, so he wrote a letter to admonish: A wise monarch in ancient times must have virtuous ministers to support virtues, officials to regulate and admonish, and down to the utensils, inscriptions of success and failure to prevent mistakes.
Therefore, the ruler has the right way, and the ministers have the right way. Following it is like ascending to the throne, and violating it is like going to hell.
Now in the land of General, there is the honor of Uncle Shen, who is at the head of the group of princes. If he does good deeds one day, the world will obey him, but if he does bad deeds all the time, the world will suffer.
Recently, officials and people have been in short supply, caused by floods and insect pests.
The expenses of officials in the capital increased, and the number of edicts issued sometimes reached ten times.
Everyone said that the officials had no money and were paid by the people. They resorted to plundering and exploiting to force orders to meet the requirements.
Public gifts were originally very heavy, but private exploitation was quite heavy.
Most of the local shepherds and chief officials were not strictly selected people. They were greedy and treated everyone like prisoners. Some people died under beatings and torture, and some were forced to commit suicide.
In addition, officials plundered the people, all in the name of the government.
So the generals complained to the world, the officials were bitter and bitter, and the roads were full of sighs.
In the past, the politics of the Qin Dynasty were troubled and the people were in disarray. Chen Sheng raised his arms and shouted, and the whole world was abuzz, but the ministers who tried to please him in person said that everything was peaceful.
If you keep taboo on your evil deeds and do not change them, you will perish.
In the past, in the last years of Yonghe, the rules and regulations were slightly relaxed, which was quite disappointing.
In four or five years, the wealth is empty and the household is scattered, and there is a sense of disunity.
Ma Sen's followers took advantage of the situation and almost caused serious trouble between Jingzhou and Yangzhou.
Fortunately, Queen Shunlie had a peaceful administration in the early days and worked together internally and externally to bring peace.
Now the people are worried that the difficulties are greater than everlasting peace. Internally, it is not tolerated by a benevolent heart, and externally, it is not suitable for the long-term peace of the country.
The generals, ministers, ministers, and the head of state are one body. They ride in the same car and go out to sea in the same boat. If the car capsizes and the ship sinks, we will suffer hardships together.
Is it possible to let go of light and darkness, take risks, be alone and trapped, and no one comes to save you?
Incompetent people should be replaced in time, the cost of houses and gardens should be reduced, and the property donated by the county should be rejected.
It is self-explanatory internally and resolves people's doubts externally, so that the corrupt officials who kidnap people have no support, and the supervisory officials can fulfill their responsibilities as eyes and ears.
Once the laws are established and the laws are kept clear far and near, then the general will show his respect for his actions and his virtues will shine forever in future generations.
The way of heaven is clear and I don’t believe it. I hope you will read it carefully.
Liang Ji did not adopt it, but became even more indulgent. He also accepted gifts and bribes from left and right, had close contacts with the eunuchs, and appointed his children and guests to important positions in the state and county.
Zhu Mu wrote another letter to remonstrate, but Liang Ji never realized it.
Liang Ji reported a book and said: Doesn't this benefit me?
Although Zhu Mu spoke sincerely, he did not think he was guilty.
In the first year of Yongxing, the Yellow River swelled, hundreds of thousands of households were affected by floods, and the people were starved and displaced.
There were more thieves in Jizhou, so Zhu Mu was promoted to be the governor of Jizhou.
The people of Jizhou had three eunuchs who served as regular attendants and visited Zhu Mu with letters of appeal.
Zhu Mu hated them and refused to see them.
When the commander of the Ji Ministry heard that Zhu Mu had crossed the river, more than forty people took off their seals and ribbons and left.
When Zhu Mu took office, he impeached all the counties, and some of them committed suicide.
Zhu Mu used his might and expediency to kill all the bandit leaders.
The powerful were impeached, and some died in prison.
There was an eunuch named Zhao Zhong who died of his father and returned to Anping for burial. He was good at making jade boxes and puppets to be buried with him.
Zhu Mu heard about it and went to the county to examine the case.
The officials were afraid of Zhu's strictness, so they dug the tomb, dissected the coffin, laid out the body, and arrested his family members.
The emperor was furious after hearing this and summoned Zhu Mu to the Tingwei, where he was defeated by Zuo Xiao.
Thousands of people, including Liu Tao, a scholar from Taixue, went to the court to file a lawsuit against Mu Dao: "When I saw the torturer Zhu Mu, I stood on the public side and was worried about national affairs. On the day of worship, I was determined to eliminate the evildoers."
However, the ministers relied on their nobles and favors, and their fathers, brothers, and sons spread across the states and counties, vying to become tigers and wolves, devouring the villains. Therefore, Zhu Mu set up a sky net to mend leaks and capture the harmed people to thwart God's will.
As a result, all the internal officials were filled with hatred. They slandered and annoyed Xing, and continued to make slanderous remarks. They were severely punished and banished, and he was defeated as a leftist school.
All knowledgeable people in the world believe that Zhu Muqin was harmed by Gonggong and Gun when he was with Yu and Ji. If the deceased knew about it, then Emperor Tang would be angry at Chongshan and Emperor Shun would be angry at Cangwu.
At that time, the middle-ranking officials approached the emperor, stole the power of the country, held the king's title in their hands, and spoke of the constitution of heaven. They used rewards to make the hungry officials richer than Ji Sun, and used punishments to make Yi Yin and Yan Hui become Xia Jie and Tao Zhi.
But Zhu Mu was alone and arrogant, regardless of his own harm.
It's not that he hates glory but loves humiliation, hates life but loves death, but he feels Wang Gang's lack of persistence and is afraid that the Skynet will be lost for a long time, so he is worried and making long-term plans for the emperor.
I am willing to be punished by having my head tattooed and my toes tied, so that I can edit it in Zhu Mu's place.
The emperor read the memorial and pardoned Zhu Mu.
Zhu Mu lived at home for several years. Many of the princes in the court recommended him to him, so he worshiped him as minister.
Zhu Mu hated eunuchs deeply. After arriving at Taige, he worked with them morning and night, determined to get rid of them.
So Shang Shudao said: According to the old rules of the Han Dynasty, the ministers were often invited to participate in the selection of scholars.
After the founding of the military, eunuchs were all used.
Since Yanping, they have gradually become more noble and prosperous. They wear fake mink clothes and have important responsibilities as servants. Once the political affairs of the celestial dynasty are in their hands, they have overwhelming power. There is no limit to their favor. Their children and relatives are all shouldering heavy responsibilities. Therefore, they are overflowing with arrogance and no one can stop it.
A ruthless, cunning person who seeks official status by flattering others, relying on the power of his parents' favor, preying on the common people, depriving the world of poverty, and devouring villains.
The foolish minister thought that all these people could be dismissed from the province, restored to the original state, according to the old rules, and more honest and honest people in the country and people who understood the state system could be selected to supplement their positions.
Your Majesty can become the king of Yao and Shun, all officials will be ministers of Ji, and millions of people will be sanctified.
The emperor did not accept it.
Later, Zhu Muyin came to see him and stated: I heard that in the old Han Dynasty, there was a minister and a regular minister to review the affairs of the minister. There was also a minister of Huangmen to pass on the books and memorials, and quoted the famous scholars among the family.
Since the Empress Dowager Hexi has been addressed as a heroine, she has not received any ministers, and has used eunuchs as regular attendants. The Xiaohuang Gate communicates with the two palaces.
Since then, the power of eunuchs has been overthrown by human masters, making the world poor.
They should all be dismissed and senior Confucians and virtuous people should be selected to participate in political affairs.
The emperor was furious and refused to agree.
Zhu Mu fell to the ground and refused to get up.
Orders were sent out from left to right, but it took a long time for them to all come together.
From then on, Zhongguan repeatedly issued edicts to slander Zhu Mu.
Zhu Mu was by nature upright and unhappy. Not long after he returned home, he developed ulcers out of anger.
Yanxi died in the sixth year of his reign at the age of sixty-four.
After working as an official for decades, he lived on a vegetarian diet and lived in ordinary clothes, and his family had no money left.
The ministers jointly stated that Zhu Mu should be favored because he was loyal to the Qing Dynasty, pious and respectful of secrets, and upheld the right path to death.
The imperial court issued an edict and praised it, and presented it posthumously to the governor of Yizhou.
He wrote a total of twenty articles, including treatises, strategies, memorials, teachings, books, poems, notes, and ridicules.
When Zhu Mu was in Jizhou before, the people he promoted were all elders of Qingde, and most of them became public ministers and prefectures and counties.
His son Zhu Ye, who was rarely famous, served as an official in Yin, Henan.
At first, Zhu Mu's father died. Zhu Mu and other Confucian scholars followed the ancient meaning and gave him the posthumous name Mr. Zhenxuan. After Zhu Mu's death, Cai Yong shared his virtues with his disciples and was posthumously named Mr. Wenzhong. ◆The biography of Le Hui, whose courtesy name is Boqi, was from Changling, Jingzhao.
My father, Leqin, was a county official. He offended the county magistrate and was arrested and executed.
Lehui was eleven years old. He often fell down at the temple gate and cried day and night.
The county magistrate heard this and took pity on him, and immediately released Leqin.
When Lehui grew up, he was fond of studying Confucian classics and took Dr. Jiao Yong as his teacher. When Jiao Yong became the governor of Hedong, Le Hui followed Jiao to his official residence, where he studied behind closed doors and did not interact with others.
Later, Jiao Yong was investigated for his crimes, and his students were all arrested for opening his joints. Le Hui, whose innocence was not contaminated by the law, decided to become a famous Confucian.
If Lehui is upright and upright by nature, but his behavior does not suit his own will, he will not be friends with him even if he is very powerful.
Hou Yin of Xinyang sent gifts to Hui many times to please Hui, but Hui never responded.
Later, when Le Hui became a minor official in the county, the prefect was killed for breaking the law. Old friends did not dare to interact with each other, so Le Hui went to the funeral alone to pay for his crime.
After he came back, he did meritorious deeds again, and the election was fair and unfair. Please ask for help.
Yang Zheng of the same county slandered Le Hui several times in public. Later, Le Hui still promoted Yang Zheng's son as a filial and honest man, and the whole village obeyed him.
Later he was promoted to Sikong Mourong Mansion.
It happened that the fifth Lun, the governor of Shu County, replaced Mou Rong as Sikong. Lehui thought that Lun was from the same county and refused to stay in the post. He recommended Du An of Yingchuan and resigned himself.
Many princes praised his conduct, and he was summoned several times but failed to respond.
Later, the imperial court recruited Le Hui to serve as a minister.
At the time when Dou Xian, the chariot general, was on an expedition against the Huns, Le Hui wrote several letters to remonstrate with him, and the court said he was loyal.
He became a servant of Shangshu.
At this time, Henan Yinwangdiao and Luoyang ordered Li Fu and Dou Xian to have a close friendship and give up their freedom.
Yue Hui impeached Wang Tiao and Li Fu, and also involved Sili Xiaowei.
He did not evade the people he exposed and reported, so the nobles hated him.
Dou Xian's younger brother, Xia Yanghou Dou Wangxiang, wanted to greet Le Hui, but Hui declined and would not associate with him.
Dou Xian's brother indulged in indulgence, but he hated Le Hui for not agreeing with him.
Le Hui's wife said to Le Hui: In ancient times, there were people who took shelter to avoid harm. Why should you complain with your words?
Le Hui sighed: How can I bear to eat free rice and stand in someone else's court?
So Shangshu remonstrated: "I heard that the faults of hundreds of kings were all caused by their falling in power."
Ministers presiding over state affairs are often blamed for the prosperity of the country.
Thinking of the late emperor, his saintliness was not long enough and he abandoned all nations long ago.
Your Majesty is in his prime years and is inheriting a great cause. Your uncles should not interfere with the royal family to show the selfishness of the world.
The scriptures say: Heaven and earth behave in harmony with each other, and all things die prematurely.
If the ruler and his ministers are out of order, thousands of people will suffer.
If political mistakes are not corrected, unexpected disasters will occur.
The current measures should be based on righteousness at the top, and modesty at the bottom.
The fourth uncle can protect the honor of the nobility and the emperor forever, and the empress dowager will never have to worry about being ashamed of the ancestral temple. This is the best policy.
The book was ignored.
At that time, Empress Dowager Dou was in charge of the government, and Emperor He did not personally intervene in state affairs. Le Hui thought that his opinions were not accepted, so he claimed illness and asked to retire.
The imperial court issued an edict to grant money and send imperial doctors to treat patients.
Lehui recommended Ren Chengguojun and Chengyang Gaofeng, but he said he was seriously ill.
The imperial court worshiped Lehui as the Cavalry Commander, and Lehui wrote a letter of thanks, saying: "I still received a great favor, but I can't repay it."
Confucius hated the fact that politics fell into the hands of officials; when Shiqing held great power, the Spring and Autumn Annals warned against this.
What the saint worries about is not empty words.
In recent times, when relatives are rich and powerful, they will inevitably suffer from arrogance.
Today, Your Majesty is obsessed with the mountains and mausoleums and has no involvement in political affairs. His uncles favor him and his power extends to all directions.
If you cannot reduce your own losses, punishment will surely come.
My life is about to end, and I will try my best to be loyal before my death, hoping to be noticed.
After hearing the imperial edict, he returned to his hometown.
Dou Xian therefore ordered the prefectures and counties to persecute Le Hui, and Le Hui drank the medicine and died.
Hundreds of disciples were buried in mourning clothes, and the people were grieved.
Later, the Dou family was killed and the emperor began to rule personally. He Rong, one of Le Hui's disciples, and others wrote a letter stating Le Hui's loyalty, and the imperial court granted his son Le Ji the title of doctor.
◆Biography of He Chang, He Chang was a native of Pingling, Fufeng.
His ancestor's home is in Ruyin.
Bigan, the sixth generation ancestor, studied Shangshu by mistake from Chao Dynasty. During the reign of Emperor Wu, he served as Tingweizheng at the same time as Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang upheld the Dharma deeply and was more benevolent and forgiving than Gan. He fought with Tang several times, and although he could not win all of them, he helped thousands of people live.
Later he was promoted to Danyang Captain. So he moved to Pingling.
He Chang's father, He Chong, served as a captain of Qiancheng during the Jianwu period. He was dismissed from his post due to illness, so he lived in seclusion and did not serve as an official.
He Chang's character advocates justice.
He thinks that his hobbies are not suitable for the current affairs. Whenever he is called upon, he often complains that he is ill.
During the Yuanhe period, he was appointed Taiwei Song Youfu, and Song You treated him with special etiquette.
He Chang's discussion was very high, and he often cited general ideas and made many corrections.
Situ Yuanan also respected him very much.
At this time, there were many strange birds, animals, and plants in the capital and all around, which were regarded as auspicious signs by those who spoke about them.
He Chang is well versed in scriptures and can be appointed as a heavenly official, which means he is very disgusting.
So he said to the Second Duke: Auspiciousness should come according to virtue, and disasters should also arise due to politics.
Therefore, when the Qu bird and the eagle came to its nest, Duke Zhao was in trouble with the Marquis of Qian; when he hunted to the west and caught Lin, Confucius was buried with two couplets.
Seabirds take shelter from the wind, Zang Wen worships them, and gentlemen ridicule them.
Nowadays, strange birds are flying in the palace room, and strange grass is growing in the courtyard. You must pay attention to it.
Song You and Yuan An showed fear and did not dare to answer. Soon Suzong died.
At that time, the Dou family was under the dictatorship, and the relatives were extravagant. The rewards exceeded the regulations, and the money was empty.
He Chang reported to Song You: I heard that the meaning of serving the king is to be loyal when you think about it and to make up for your mistakes when you retreat.
Looking at the lords and ministers of the past dynasties, they all want to make a difference and make it permanent. However, there is no such thing as a peaceful government. This is probably because the saintly lords and virtuous ministers cannot meet together.
Now the country is adhering to the wise path, the wise dukes are practicing the pure virtue of gentleness, the monarch and his ministers are in harmony, the world is in order, and peace is achieved. Now there is great hope.
Confucius said: If you use me, you will be successful in three years.
Now that the Ming Gong is in charge of matters, he has been in and out for two years. He should restrain himself in order to reward the people of the world.
"Book of Rites" says that if the harvest is not good one year, the king will reduce his clothing and food.
The lack of people in the world seems to have been caused by oneself.
But now there have been years of floods and droughts, and people have had no harvest. In the areas on the edge of Jingzhou, the Western Qiang have invaded and caused harm. Men are tired of fighting, women are tired of transportation, old and young, orphans and widows, sigh and depend on each other for survival. In addition, in the provinces and counties, public and private affairs are exhausted. This is the time to reduce food and save money. The country's favor covers the world, and rewards are excessive. It is said that only one reward is given in the twelfth lunar month, ranging from Langguan and above, to Gongqing and Prince below. As for using empty money to hide, it is a waste of national assets.
The public expenses are all paid for by the labor of the common people.
The rewards given by a wise king should be in good quality, and the rewards given to loyal ministers should also be limited. Therefore, Xia Yu used Xuan Gui and Zhou Gong received silk.
Nowadays, the Ming Dynasty has a high position and heavy responsibilities, deep responsibilities and great responsibilities. At one time, it is to correct the rules and regulations, and at the next time, it is to appease the people. Is it just empty and does not violate the imperial edict?
You should first set an example by setting an example for your subordinates, return the rewards you received, express your interests and losses, and ask the princes to return to their respective fiefdoms, remove the ban on the gardens, save unnecessary expenses, and provide relief to the poor orphans and widows in Xuetan. Then, if the favor is given, the people will be happy, and God will be wise, there will be immediate retribution.
Let the people sing praises of virtue and the historians record the virtues and policies. Is it possible that only Ziwen escapes his salary and Gongyi withdraws his food?
Song You cannot adopt it.
At that time, Liu Chang, the Duxiang Marquis of Qi Shang, came to express his condolences to the country, but without reporting it, his servant Dou Xian sent someone to assassinate Liu Chang in the garrison at the city gate, but his name was not established.
He Chang also told Song You: A close relative of Liu Chang's clan and a minister of the Maotu vassal came to express his concern about the country's great worries. He wrote a letter to be reported. He was in the military guard and suffered this murderous attack.
Officials under the Constitution have no hope of catching the murderer. The traces are not obvious and the name of the murderer is not established.
I am considered an arm, and my job is to guard the thieves, so I want to go to the place where the trouble occurred and find out what happened. However, Situ Sikong thinks that according to the old practice, the prime minister will not participate in the theft case.
In the past, during the war years, Chen Ping still knew the duties of the prime minister. He said: "Suppress the foreign barbarians outside, and pacify the princes internally, so that the ministers and officials can each do what they want."
Now Situ, Sikong, and the deacons do not have a deep sense of righteousness, and are confused by what they have heard. They openly indulge the bad people, and no one is held accountable for their faults. Only Ming Gongyun has a unique vision, which is clear and unquestionable, and cannot be fully seen. Please give me a solo.
Song Youcai agreed.
When the two houses of Situ and Sikong heard about He Chang's actions, they both sent their master to know the thieves, Cao, to follow him. They then found out the specific facts, and the capital praised him for doing it properly.
He Chang worshiped Gao Di as his censor.
At that time, Dou Xian was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry, and he mobilized troops to attack the Xiongnu. The envoys were Dou Du and Dou Jing, Dou Xian's younger brothers. They both established official residences and built labor services, which made the people suffer.
He Chang came up and remonstrated: "I heard that the Huns have been rebellious for a long time."
Emperor Gaozu's siege of Pingcheng, Empress Lu's daughter Manshu's humiliation, these two humiliations, the officials sacrificed their lives for these two humiliations and were bound to die, but Gaozu and Empress Lu endured their anger and returned their anger without giving up their lives.
Thinking of the Empress Dowager adhering to Wen Mu's integrity and Your Majesty's peaceful behavior, the Huns were not guilty of violating the moral integrity, and the Han Dynasty had no shame to be ashamed of. However, in the busy farming season of spring, when wars were launched and the people were resentful, they all felt unhappy.
However, Dou Du, the captain of the guard, and Dou Jing, the captain of the Fengche army, repaired the building and built a vast street. Although I was a young man, I felt strange, thinking that Dou Du and Dou Jing were close noble ministers and should set an example for all officials.
Now that the army is on the road, the court is in a hurry, the people are miserable, and the county magistrates are useless, but rushing to build big houses and decorate them for fun is not a way to show your virtue to future generations.
We should temporarily stop working as craftsmen, focus on the north, and sympathize with the poverty of the people.
No inspection is allowed when the book is played.
Later, He Chang was appointed as the Minister, and was granted the title of Minister: "A loyal minister is worried about world affairs, offends the monarch's strict appearance, ridicules noble ministers, and ends up killing himself and destroying his family. But he is still doing it. Why?"
The righteousness between the king and his ministers is so important that it has to be like this.
I look at those past events. The country is in crisis and the family is in danger. There are reasons. The truth is obvious.
Once upon a time, Zheng Wujiang loved his uncle Duan Gong, and Duke Zhuang of Wei doted on his son Zhouxu. He loved him but did not teach him, and eventually became cruel.
From this point of view, loving your son like this is like giving poison to him when he is hungry, it is harming him.
General Dou Xian began to suffer from serious worries. The ministers petitioned him to take charge of state affairs. Dou Xian was very humble and resigned from his position. He spoke diligently and profoundly. Everyone in the world listened and no one was unhappy.
Now, a few years have passed, and the gift has not yet ended. Suddenly, the plan changes midway, and the brothers are in power.
Dou Xian was in charge of the three armies, while Dou Du and Dou Jing were in charge of the palace guards. They abused the people, were extravagant, and killed innocent people, which made them happy.
Nowadays, everyone is talking about whether Shu Duan or Zhou Xu was born in the Han Dynasty.
The ministers saw that the ministers were taking a wait-and-see attitude and were unwilling to speak frankly. They thought that if Xian and others had the will to work tirelessly, they would have received Jifu's praise for Shenbo's merits. If Xian and others fall into the abyss of sinfulness, then they should take the power of Chen Ping and Zhou Boshun and Empress Lu, and never worry about the good or bad fortune of Xian and others.
With my open heart, I really want to plan for the two sides, cut off the endless stream and prevent it from becoming a snare, stop the trickling stream from becoming a river, and prevent the Empress Dowager from damaging the title of Mother Wen. Your Majesty has not sworn to ridicule the underworld, so that Xian and others can maintain their happiness for a long time.
However, the slave's plan is to protect his master's father at the top and his mistress at the bottom, but he is not immune to severe anger.
I think of the favor I have received from my ancestors. I have been here for eight generations, and with my humble talents, I have been in power for ten years.
Even though he knew that speaking out would lead to death, he risked his life to speak out his loyal words, but he couldn't bear to see the disaster coming and kept silent and tried to save his life.
Although the Prince Consort was still twenty years old, he was unbearably loyal and asked to retire, thus suppressing his family power.
But consulting with him and listening to his opinions is indeed a clever way to preserve the ancestral temple and the Dou family's happiness.
He Chang earnestly remonstrated many times and told the sins of the Dou brothers. Dou Xian and others hated him very much.
At this time, King Liu Kang of Jinan was very proud, so Dou Xian proposed to make He Chang the Taifu of Jinan.
When He Chang arrived in Jinan, he assisted Liu Kang with moral principles and gave him advice and corrections several times. However, Liu Kang was very polite.
More than a year later, He Chang was promoted to the prefect of Runan.
He Chang hated the civil and secular officials who sought reputation for being harsh, so he used leniency and gentleness in his official duties.
On the day of the beginning of spring, the governor was summoned back to the government, and Confucian officials were assigned to the county to commend those who were filial and righteous.
Judgment of unjust cases shall be based on the righteousness and law of the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Therefore, there was no voice of resentment in the county, and the people were influenced by the kindness.
Those who lived outside the country went home to support their parents. Those whose parents died were dressed in mourning, and there were more than 200 people who gave away their wealth.
Establish ritual officials but not civil servants.
The old Yutongyang canal was also repaired, which the people relied on for irrigation, and the cultivated land increased by more than 30,000 hectares.
Officials carved stones and erected monuments praising He Chang's merits.
Later, the Dou family failed, and a minister reported that He Chang's son had a close friendship with Xia Yanghou, so he was relieved of his official position.
In the twelfth year of Yongyuan, he was recruited again and moved to Wugan Zhonglang general for three times.
He Chang often hated Cai Lun, the official servant of Zhongchang, and Lun deeply regretted it.
In the first year of Yuanxing, He Chang was not fasting because of the seriousness of the temple. Later, Empress Deng went to the tomb of Taifu Yuzhong, and He Chang went to the meeting with hundreds of officials. Cai Lun then played He Chang for pretending to be ill, so as to atone for the crime.
Died at home.
