◆Ban Gu's biography, Ban Gu's courtesy name is Meng Jian. When he was nine years old, he could compose sentences and recite poems. When he grew up, he was familiar with classics and all the opinions of hundreds of schools of thought were discussed in depth.
He has no fixed teacher and does not work on the chapters and sentences, but only grasps the general principles. He has a generous and kind personality, is compatible with everyone, and does not think he is superior to others just because he is talented. Some Confucian scholars envy him for this.
In the early years of Yongping, King Cang of Dongping used his relatives to assist the Hussar General, opened the East Pavilion, and admitted the heroes. At this time, Ban Gu was only twenty years old. The former Duke of Zhou and the current generals, as recorded in "Poems" and "Books", are not like you three.
Ancient books say: There must be extraordinary people, and then there will be extraordinary things; there must be extraordinary things, and then there will be extraordinary achievements. Ban Gu was fortunate to be born in the Qingming era, and was at the end of his participation in the audio-visual world. With his smallness as a mole cricket, he privately viewed the greatness of the country's affairs. He really praised the general for having a thousand-year important responsibility, following the footsteps of the ancestors, and embodying the beautiful qualifications. Based on his high-level position, he widely picked up all kinds of things, followed the Six Classics, if white and black are different from each other, there is no end to the pursuit of goodness, he adopts the words of a madman, and does not go against the opinions of a salaryman.
I saw privately that the shogunate was newly opened, with handsome men and women from all over the country. They came forward enthusiastically, regardless of their clothes being turned upside down.
The general should carefully study the actions of Tang and Shang, and observe the recommendations of Yi Yin and Gaotao, so that there is no partiality from far and near, and talents in every corner can know. The purpose is to have an overview of talents, collect wise people, find capable people for the country, and bring peace to the dynasty.
Then the general will cultivate his ambition and spirit, travel in temples, spread his fame to the present, and leave his legacy to the endless generations. I saw that the old minister had long been known as a Confucian scholar. His moral character was the highest in the state. He followed his heart at the age of seventy and did not violate the rules. He was the glory of the Qing temple and a contemporary talent.
Jingzhao offered wine to Jin Feng. He cultivated his moral character at a young age. Even when his hair turned gray, he still kept his original intention. He loved ancient music and Taoism, and was silent and self-sufficient. The beautiful qualities of the ancients cannot be matched by contemporary people. Fufeng rafter Li Yu, Ming Dynasty scriptures, good conduct, taught hundreds of people, lived in Duling, in a thatched house with earthen steps.
Jingzhao and Fufeng counties both invited him, but because his family was poor, he resigned several times due to illness. Review the past and learn the new, be clear-headed in discussion, honest and upright in cultivation, and perfect in conduct. Although he was famous as a Confucian in his previous life, he was highly regarded by the country, Wei, Ping, Kong, and Zhai, and there is no better one.
Respondents evaluate performance and participate in everything. Guo Ji, the governor of Jingzhao, was well-known in the state for his filial piety. His Confucian studies were praised by his disciples, and his achievements in government affairs had special effects.
If you encounter the Ming Dynasty and work under the subordinates, you can advance like a bird and fly high, and retreat like Qiliang and die for your country.
Wang Yong, who was engaged in Jingzhou, had Bian Yan's integrity, coupled with his artistic writings, there was no leading figure in Jingzhou before Wang Yong. In ancient times, when the Duke of Zhou promoted the talents of one party, the other three parties complained, saying, "Why did you put me behind?"
The door of the house should be opened in time so that people far away can be comforted.
Yin Su, the envoy of Hongnong Gongcao, was well-educated, knowledgeable and talented. He could recite three hundred poems and could receive foreign guests.
These six people all have special character and talents, and their moral character is higher than that of the world. If they are accepted, they can assist Gao Ming. This is what Confucius sighed in the autumn of the mountains!
In the past, Bian He offered treasures and had his toes amputated, and Qu Yuan offered loyal advice and finally sank to Miluo. However, He's jade has retained its glory for thousands of years, and Qu Zi's legacy has been praised forever.
I hope that the general will be aware of everything, broaden his horizons, be less humble, and listen more to subordinates, so that there will never be any regrets from Jingshan and Miluo in the dust.
Wang Cang of Dongping adopted Ban Gu's opinion.
His father Ban Biao died and returned to his hometown. Ban Gu thought that the history written by Ban Biao was not detailed enough, so he studied in depth and wanted to complete his father's legacy.
Soon someone wrote a letter to Xian Zong, accusing Ban Gu of secretly changing the history of the country. The imperial court sent an edict to the county, imprisoned Ban Gu in Jingzhao Prison, and confiscated all his books.
First, Su Lang, a man from Fufeng, made false predictions and was imprisoned and died.
Ban Chao, Ban Gu's younger brother, was afraid that Ban Gu would be examined by the county and would not be able to distinguish right from wrong, so he went to the court and was summoned by the emperor to tell all the original meaning of Ban Gu's writings. Later, he was promoted to Lang and secretary of the school.
Ban Gu also wrote about the deeds of heroes, Ping Lin, Xinshi, Gongsun Shu and others, and wrote 28 biographies and records, which were reported to the emperor. The emperor also asked him to complete the history book he had written before.
Ban Gu believed that the Han Dynasty inherited the fate of Tang Yao and established the emperor's empire. As for the Six Dynasties, historians traced the merits and deeds, and privately wrote this chronicle, which was compiled at the end of the Hundred Kings and included in the Qin and Han Dynasties. After the beginning of the Tai Dynasty, it was missing and not recorded, so he explored the previous records, compiled what he heard, and wrote the "Book of Han". From the time of Emperor Gaozu to the death of Wang Mang of Xiaoping, there were ten or two generations, a total of two hundred and thirty years. Their actions were combined with the "Five Classics" and linked up and down, and a total of one hundred chapters of records, records, records and biographies were written in "Spring and Autumn".
Ban Gu began to receive the imperial edict in his middle age in Yongping. He racked his brains and pondered for more than 20 years before writing it in the early years of Jianchu.
Contemporary people attach great importance to his books, and there are many scholars who do not read them. Ban Gu later left his official position due to his mother's death.
In the early years of Yongyuan, General Dou Xian went out to conquer the Xiongnu, using Ban Gu as the central guard and counselor.
When Beidan heard that the Han army was coming out, he sent an envoy to Juyansai. He wanted to continue the Huhanxie story and meet with the emperor, so he asked for an envoy.
Dou Xian sent a letter to General Ban Guxing Zhonglang, leading hundreds of cavalry and captive envoys to come out from Juyan fortress to greet them.
Just as the Huns from the south were covering up the Beiting, Ban Gu arrived at Sequhai. When he heard about the chaos among the captives, he led his troops back.
When Dou Xian failed, Ban Gu was dismissed first.
Ban Gu did not educate his sons. Most of his sons did not abide by the laws, which made the officials very troubled.
At first, Luoyang ordered Zhong Jing to go out for inspection. Ban Gu's domestic slaves interfered with his riding, and the officials scolded him. The slaves cursed others when they were drunk. Zhong Jing was furious, afraid of Dou Xian and did not dare to vent, and he held a grudge in his heart.
When Dou's guests were all arrested and interrogated, Zhong Jing arrested Ban Gu and died in prison.
He was sixty-one years old.
The imperial court issued an edict condemning Zhong Jing and those who resisted the master as officials.
Ban Gu wrote "Dian Yin", "Bin Xi", "Ying Ji", poems, rhymes, inscriptions, edicts, odes, books, articles, notes, treatises, discussions and six words. There are a total of forty-one words in existence.
