◆The Story of Su Jing
Su Jing, courtesy name Bo Kuang, was born in Pingling, Fufeng County.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Su Jing, who was proficient in the Book of Changes, lectured on the Book of Changes and offered wine to his doctor.
He is good at drawing and can understand books from hundreds of schools of thought.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he worked with Liu Xin and others to compose and compile books, and was appointed Lieutenant of Daijun.
At that time, the Huns were in trouble, and the northern frontier suffered many disasters, but Su Jing's Daijun was completely safe.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he was worshiped as the governor of Daijun and asked to strengthen the frontier to resist the Xiongnu.
In the winter of the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang plundered the northern counties, and the emperor sent a partial general to follow his younger brother to garrison the counties.
Su Jing was seriously ill, so he handed over his troops and horses to his younger brother and went to the capital to apologize.
He was worshiped as a servant, but a few months later he was dismissed due to illness.
At first, Yancen's army guard Deng Zhongkuang supported his troops and occupied Yin County in Nanyang as bandits, while Liu Xin's nephew Liu Gong served as Deng Zhongkuang's military adviser.
Su Jing was in Nanyang at that time, so he wrote to Liu Gong to tell him: You and your left are well.
I used to work with your uncle Liu Xin as a compilation and compilation talent, and I was a proofreading secretary. I only relied on your uncle's guidance and did not achieve much on my own.
I heard that a gentleman shows mercy to his fellow men and hurts them.
No matter whether a person is stupid or wise, he must first avoid harm and then seek benefit, and first set his mind and then seek fame.
In the past, Zhiguo saw that Zhibo was prone to war and would die, so he changed his name and went away. Chen Ping knew that Xiang Yu was abandoned by heaven, so he returned to Liu Bang. These are extremely smart people.
I heard that you once temporarily abdicated and served Yancen, but later you woke up and stopped serving Yancen.
In the past, Zhiguo and Chen Ping were not higher than you.
You live in the underworld, where there are many wise men. If you can spend some time to study and examine the similarities and differences between people and things, infer from books, and measure from people and things, then the gains and losses will be clear at a glance. Why do you carry the confusion of rebellion and remain determined to keep the name of evil?
Why is it contrary to the moral behavior of a gentleman?
The superficial knowledge of the pedantic Confucian scholars in the world cannot distinguish between waking and drunkenness, but they want to comment on the affairs of the world, confusing and misleading others.
In other words, the world changes and rises. I don’t know who will rise up. I can support the army and separate the kingdoms, and I can achieve extravagant hopes.
In other words, the Holy King has not revealed yet, so for the time being, we should observe the changes in current affairs, rely on the strong, and wait and see.
Are these two arguments correct?
Confucius' Weishu was made in red form in the Han Dynasty. It is mysterious and hidden in a secret room. Although the text is slightly hidden, the facts are very clear.
Moreover, the great virtue was the successor of Yao. Even though he was usurped by Wang Mang, now that Guangwu is resurrected, he will be bright again. He will inherit the throne for generations and have infinite auspiciousness. Although Wang Mang took the opportunity to usurp it, he would eventually be killed, his limbs would be dismembered, and the clan would be slaughtered. Isn't this the result?
The reason why the Emperor favors Hesitation is because he is worried about the descendants of the great man.
If the people who discuss it are not based on heaven and refer to the holy things, and they casually use "Shi Kuang Miscellaneous Affairs" to be easily confused, and they arbitrarily write weft books to persuade others, and they deviate from the scriptures, how can they be believed?
Some corrupt scholars say: Now the five stars in the southeast, northwest and northwest are abnormal, the weather is wrong, the stars have been in and out for a long time, the Taibai star has been in and out excessively, the Yinghuo star is advancing and retreating, the star of the year is orbiting the sky street, and the star of the year is unwilling to give up Di and Fang.
I think these signs should be attributed to the country.
Disasters are not set in vain. They all correspond to the positions of states and countries on the earth, and each has its own owner.
That room and heart are the location of Song Dynasty and the East China Sea.
The tail is the position of Yan, which is Yuyang.
Dong Xian in the East China Sea was confused and refused to surrender, and Peng Chong in Yuyang supported his troops and rebelled. The emperor was furious and sent generals to conquer. Therefore, Yinghuo responded, and Dong Xian and Peng Chong suffered disaster.
Taibai and Chenxing have been moving irregularly since the fall of Wang Mang, and until now, they either stay in the East Well, or disappear in the Yulin, or linger and submerge the stars on both sides, or cannot go up or down in the imperial palace, or are bright in the sky, or have been hidden for a long time, or are dim and dim, or bright in the north and south, or shrink into a hook shape, or high and bright without restraint. These are the talismans of the rebellious ministers who deserve to be eradicated, and the good omen of the Holy Emperor's talisman.
Rebellious ministers and traitors often interact with each other, command nonsense, and spread lies.
From this point of view, what other laws are there to abide by in astronomy?
Once upon a time, in the fifth month of Jiashen, there was a white rainbow in the sky. From Zi time to noon, it was ten feet wide and ten thousand feet long, approaching Yimi.
Yimi is Liqiu, the capital of Qin Feng.
At this time, the moon is at its end.
Bi is the heavenly net, which symbolizes the trap for unruly kings. Therefore, King Wu of Zhou, who was going to attack the Shang Dynasty, offered sacrifices to Bi to seek help from heaven.
In mid-summer, Jiashen was the eighth leader.
Bakui is the general who opens the fortress from heaven, responsible for driving away evil people and fighting against rebels.
The shape of the meteor is like the Chiyou flag, which is sometimes called Yingtou or Heavenly Spear. It leaves Kui and travels northwest. When it reaches Yanya Camp, it disperses into hundreds of meteors and is destroyed. Kui is the poisonous stinger, the main soldier in the arsenal.
These two changes were seen by the county and Yanya scholars.
So Yanya arrived in Wudang, nominally to send troops, but actually to avoid disaster.
This year, "Bi Gua" is the year, "Kun" governs the beginning of winter, and "Kan" governs the winter solstice. The water element extinguishes fire. The soldiers in the south will suffer disaster this year.
Virtue is in the middle palace, punishment is in wood, wood wins over earth, and punishment controls virtue. After the war ends this year, China will have the effect of peace.
Among the thirty-five surnames of the Wuqi family, Peng, Qin, and Yan are not allowed to participate.
Why be confused and dependent?
The poem "Ge Lei" says that seeking happiness and fortune with integrity is like this!
You understand the divination of prophecies and their ever-changing effects.
The difference between good and evil, and the decision to go or stay, must be carefully considered. Don’t ignore my advice!
The reason why Duke Zhou was kind to Uncle Kang was because Uncle Kang did not participate in the rebellion of Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai; Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty liked Liu Zhi, King of Jibei, because Liu Zhi refused to follow the rebellion of King Wu Liu Bi.
Since the Reformation, the treatment of those who are ungrateful and rebellious and those who turn to righteousness and do good has been completely different. How can we not examine it?
A good doctor cannot save a lifeless person, and a strong beam cannot fight against the sky. Therefore, if the sky wants to destroy it, humans cannot support it.
You should secretly discuss the surrender with Liu Jun, the prefect.
Confucius lived in peace, Mozi did not care about others, and he was very worried about others.
Slaughtering sheep to save Chu was not for promotion and wealth; was Mao Jiao admonishing Qin Shihuang to ask for rewards?
With sincerity of loyalty and fraternity, I can't help but be angry.
He also wrote to Deng Zhongkuang to persuade him, but most of his articles were not recorded, so Deng Zhongkuang and Liu Gong surrendered.
Liu Gong, courtesy name Meng Gong, was from Chang'an. He was good at argumentation. Fufeng, Ma Yuan and Ban Biao both thought highly of him.
Su Jing did not take credit for his work, but devoted himself to Taoism. He wrote "Records of Teachings" and other articles that have been passed down to the world.
He died at home when he was seventy years old.
◆Biography of Yang Hou Yang Hou was named Zhonghuan and was a native of Xindu, Guanghan County.
Grandfather Yang Chunqing was good at prophecy and was a general under Gongsun Shu.
When the Han soldiers defeated Shu, Yang Chunqing committed suicide. Before his death, he told his son Yang Tong: "In my collection, there are secret records passed down by my ancestors for the use of the Han family. You should study them carefully."
Yang Tong was grateful for his father's last words. After three years of mourning, Cijia followed Jianwei Zhouxun to learn the methods of his ancestors. He also learned the "He Luo Shu" and the astronomical push technique from Zheng Boshan, a native of the same county.
When Jian Chuzhong was appointed as the magistrate of Pengcheng County, a severe drought hit the state. Yang Tong implemented the technique of yin and yang to eliminate depression, and the county boundaries were covered with rain.
The prefect Zong Zhan asked Yang Tong to pray for rain for the county, and the rain also fell.
From then on, whenever there was a disaster or disaster in the imperial court, he would often visit him for help.
Yang Tong wrote two volumes of "Family Law Chapter Name" and "Nei Prophecy" to explain it. He reached the rank of Guanglu Dafu and was the third elder of the country.
He died at the age of ninety.
Yang Tong gave birth to a son, Yang Hou.
Yang Hou's mother and her ex-wife's son, Yang Bo, were not on good terms. Yang Hou was nine years old. She wanted them to reconcile, so she used the excuse of being sick to not talk or eat.
When the mother knew his intentions, she changed her original attitude and became more kind to her ex-wife and son.
Yang Bo later became a doctor in Guanglu.
Yang Hou studied Yang Tong's studies since he was a child, and he thought energetically.
At the beginning of the year, in the third year of Emperor An's reign, Taibai entered Beidou and Luoyang was flooded.
At that time, Yang Tong was the servant, and Yang Hou followed him in the capital.
The imperial court asked Tong about this, and Yang Tong excused himself by saying that he was old and hard of hearing, and his son Yang Hou was well versed in books, so he knew what he meant.
Empress Dowager Deng sent Zhong Changshi to ask Yang Hou about her wishes. Yang Hou replied: Many of the princes are in the capital. Changes may occur. They should be sent back to their home countries as soon as possible.
The Queen Mother obeyed, and Taibai Star disappeared soon.
The flood in Luoyang also withdrew, just as Yang Hou said.
So Yang Hou was appointed as the middle man.
The Queen Mother specially introduced him and asked him about the prophecy. Yang Hou's response was not in line with the Queen Mother's wishes, so he was dismissed from his post and returned home.
When he resumed his studies in Qianwei, he did not respond to the orders of the prefecture, county, and the three public officials.
In the second year of Yongjian's reign, Emperor Shun ordered the counties and counties to supervise and dispatch the troops.
Yang Hou had no choice but to travel to Chang'an and report that he was ill. Because of the misfortune of the Han Dynasty for three hundred and fifty years, Yang Hou should clarify the principles of improving laws and regulations and eliminate disasters and anomalies, a total of five things.
When writing a book of praise, there was an edict ordering the imperial physician to give medicine to treat illnesses, and the imperial official to reward sheep with wine.
When he arrived, he paid homage to Yilang and moved to the imperial court for the third time. He was specially introduced and visited to discuss current affairs.
In the fourth year, Yang Hou said: There will be a severe cold this summer, and there will be a plague of locusts.
This year, there was indeed a large locust infestation in six states, and the epidemic was prevalent.
Later, they were connected to the northwest. The two sides had military strength and it was time to prepare for the war against the border bandits.
The driver was preparing to tour the west, but stopped because of Yang Hou's words.
In the third year of Yangjia, the Western Qiang invaded Longyou. The next year, Wuhuan besieged Liao general Geng Ye.
In the first year of Yonghe, Yang Hou went to the capital again. There should be floods and fires in the capital, the three officials should be dismissed, and the barbarians should rebel.
In the summer of that year, there was a flood in Luoyang, killing more than a thousand people; in the winter, the Chengfu Palace was on fire, and Taiwei Chong was spared; the barbarian thieves in Jingzhou and Jiaozhou killed the chief officials and invaded the city.
He also said that the evil ministers, close relatives, and concubines should be affected by the disaster.
Next year, Song's mother committed adultery with the eunuch Baoxinhou Li Yuan and others and was deposed; in the next two years, Zhang Kui and others, who were in charge of the imperial court, were executed for false accusations against the dictatorship of General Liang Shang.
Whenever there was a disaster, Yang Hou would always come up with relief measures, but since the eunuchs were dictatorial, their words could not be trusted.
At that time, the general Liang Ji was so powerful that he sent his younger brother Liang Busuo to serve Yang Hou with carriages, horses, pearls and playthings, hoping to meet him.
Yang Hou did not answer and insisted that he was sick and wanted to withdraw.
The emperor agreed and rewarded him with carriages, horses, money and silk to go home.
He practiced Huang Lao's art and taught it to his disciples. More than 3,000 people are listed on the list.
Taiwei Li Gu recommended him several times.
In the first year of Benchu, the Empress Dowager Liang issued an edict to prepare ancient rituals to hire Yang Hou. Yang Hou said that he was ill and could not resign.
Three years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the Queen Mother issued another edict to recruit people, but it took less than four years.
He died at home at the age of eighty-two.
The emperor issued a memorial with a policy letter.
The villagers gave him the posthumous title Wen Fu.
Students built a temple for him, and the county literature and history, Chunqiu, and She often worshiped him.
