Lu Zhonglian was a native of Qi.
He is good at analyzing unique, grand and extraordinary strategies, but he is unwilling to serve as an official and is willing to maintain high integrity.
He once visited Zhao State.
When Zhao Xiaocheng was king, King Zhao of Qin sent Bai Qi to lead an army to defeat Zhao Changping's army, killing more than 400,000 people in total. As a result, Qin's army advanced eastward and besieged Handan, the capital of Zhao.
King Zhao was very afraid, and no one from the reinforcements from the vassal states dared to attack the Qin army.
King Anli of Wei sent General Jin Bi to lead troops to rescue Zhao. However, he was afraid of the Qin army and stationed in Tangyin and did not dare to advance.
The king of Wei sent his guest general Xinyuan Yan into Handan through a hidden path, and met with the king of Zhao through Pingyuan Jun. He said: The reason why the Qin army is eager to besiege Zhao is because it used to compete with King Qi Min to become emperor, and soon King Qi Min revoked the title of emperor.
If Zhao can send envoys to honor King Qin Zhao as emperor, King Qin will be very happy and will withdraw his troops.
Mr. Pingyuan was hesitant and unable to make a decision.
At this time, Lu Zhonglian traveled to the State of Zhao and caught up with the Qin army to besiege Handan. He heard that the State of Wei wanted Zhao to honor King Qin Zhao and proclaim himself emperor, so he went to Jin to see Lord Pingyuan and said: "What are we going to do about this?"
Mr. Pingyuan said: How dare we talk about such a big event in our country!
Not long ago, 400,000 troops were lost abroad, and now they are surrounded by the Qin army in Handan, and they cannot make them retreat.
The King of Wei sent the guest general Xinyuan Yan to ask the State of Zhao to honor King Qin Zhao as emperor. This man is still here.
How dare I talk about such a big thing!
Lu Zhonglian said: I used to think that you were the most virtuous son in the world, but today I know that you are not the most virtuous son in the world.
Where is Wei Guo's guest Xinyuan Yan?
I will blame him for you and send him back.
Mr. Pingyuan said: I would like to introduce you to Mr. Pingyuan.
So Mr. Pingyuan met Xinyuan Yan and said: "There is a Mr. Lu Zhonglian in Qi State. He is here now. Please let me introduce him to you so that he can get to know the general and make friends."
Xinyuan Yan said: I heard that Mr. Lu Zhonglian is a noble person in Qi State.
I am a minister of the King of Wei, and I have been ordered to be an envoy and bear my responsibilities. I do not want to see Mr. Lu Zhonglian.
Mr. Pingyuan said: I have revealed the news that you are here.
Niiguan Yan had no choice but to agree.
Lu Zhonglian saw Xinyuan Yan but said nothing.
Xinyuan Yan said: I think those who stay in this besieged city are all people who seek help from Lord Pingyuan. But now, I don’t think Mr.’s appearance looks like someone who wants help from Lord Pingyuan. Why do you stay in this besieged city for a long time and not leave?
Lu Zhonglian said: The world thinks that Bao Jiao committed suicide because of his narrow-mindedness. This view is completely wrong.
Most people don't understand his shame in living in a troubled world, and think he just has personal agenda.
The Qin State was a country that abandoned etiquette and only valued military merit. It treated its soldiers with power and deceit and enslaved its people like slaves.
If it were allowed to proclaim itself emperor without restraint and rule the world, I would rather jump into the East China Sea and die than be its obedient citizen. The reason why I came to see the general was to help Zhao.
Niiguan Yan said: How do you plan to help Zhao Guo, sir?
Lu Zhonglian said: I will ask Wei and Yan to help it. Qi and Chu have already helped Zhao.
Xinyuan Yan said: Yan State, I believe I will listen to you; as for Wei State, I am from Wei State. How can I ask Wei State to help Zhao State?
Lu Zhonglian said: Wei did not see clearly the dangers of Qin's proclaiming emperor. If Wei could see the dangers of Qin's proclaiming emperor, he would definitely help Zhao.
Xinyuan Yan said: What disaster will happen if Qin becomes emperor?
Lu Zhonglian said: In the past, King Wei of Qi once pursued benevolence and righteousness and led the princes of the world to pay homage to the Emperor of Zhou.
At that time, the Emperor Zhou was poor and weak, and no princes were willing to go to worship him. Only the state of Qi went to worship him.
More than a year later, King Zhou Lie died, and King Qi was late for the funeral. The newly succeeded King Zhou Xian was very angry and sent people to Qi State to report the funeral and said: The death of the emperor is as big as the earth falling apart. The newly succeeded emperor also has to leave the palace to mourn and sleep on a straw mat. Tian Yingqi, a minister of the eastern vassal country, dares to be late and should be executed.
After hearing this, King Qi Wei became furious and cursed: Bah! Your mother is nothing but a maid!
King Qi Wei was finally ridiculed by everyone in the world.
The reason why King Qi Wei went to see Emperor Zhou when he was alive and cursed him loudly when he was dead was because he couldn't stand Emperor Zhou's harsh demands.
Those who are emperors are like this, so there is nothing to be surprised about.
Niiguan Yan said: Sir, haven't you seen the slave?
If ten slaves serve one master, are they unable to match their master's strength or intelligence?
It's because I'm afraid of him. Lu Zhonglian said: Alas!
Comparing the King of Wei and the King of Qin, are they like servants and masters? Niiguan Yan said: Yes.
Lu Zhonglian said: Then, I will let the King of Qin cook the King of Wei and chop him into meat sauce?
Araguan Yan was very unhappy and said unconvinced: Oops! What you said, sir, is too much!
How could you let the King of Qin cook the King of Wei and chop him into meat sauce?
Lu Zhonglian said: Of course, I can tell you.
In the past, Jiuhou, Ehou, and Wenwang were the three princes of Yin Zhou.
Jiuhou had a beautiful daughter, so he dedicated her to Yin Zhou. However, King Zhou thought she was not beautiful, so he chopped her into pieces.
The Marquis of E was forthright in his remonstrances, argued fiercely, and killed the Marquis of E to make dried meat.
When King Wen heard this, he just sighed deeply, so King Zhou imprisoned him in Youli Prison for a hundred days, hoping to kill him.
Why do you become king like others, only to end up being chopped into meat paste and made into jerky?
When King Min of Qi went to the State of Lu, Yiweizi drove his chariot and served as his entourage. He said to the officials of Lu State: How are you going to receive our king?
The officials of the State of Lu said: We intend to receive your king with the etiquette of ten Tailao.
Yiweizi said: Where do you follow the etiquette to receive our king? My king is the emperor.
When the emperor goes to inspect various countries, the princes should move out of the main palace and move to other places. They should hand over the keys, lift up their clothes, arrange a few tables, and stand in the hall to serve the emperor's meal. After the emperor has finished eating, he can return to the court to listen to the governor.
After hearing this, the officials of the State of Lu closed the gate and locked it up, preventing King Qi Min from entering.
King Min of Qi could not enter the state of Lu, so he planned to go to Xuedi via the state of Zou.
At this time, the king of Zou State passed away, and the king wanted to go into the mirror to mourn. Yiweizi said to the heir of Zou State: When the emperor is mourning, the mourner must change the direction of the coffin and place the coffin facing north in the south. Then the emperor faces south to mourn.
The ministers of Zou State said: This must be the case, we would rather commit suicide with swords.
Therefore the king did not dare to enter the kingdom of Zou.
The ministers of Zou and Lu were unable to serve the king well during his lifetime, and they could not assist in the funeral ceremony after the death of the king. However, they wanted to perform the rites of the emperor in Zou and Lu, and the ministers of Zou and Lu finally refused to allow King Qi Min to enter the mirror.
Today, Qin is a country with ten thousand chariots, and Wei is also a country with ten thousand chariots.
They are all big countries with ten thousand chariots, and each has his own title of king. If it only wins a battle, he will obediently support it and call it emperor. This makes the ministers of the Three Jin Dynasties inferior to the servants and concubines of Zou and Lu.
If the Qin State is greedy enough and finally proclaims itself emperor, then the ministers of the princes will be replaced.
He will depose those he deems unworthy and replace them with those he deems worthy; he will depose those he deems unworthy and replace them with those he loves.
How could the King of Wei live a peaceful life when his children and troublemaking concubines were also allowed to be married to princes as concubines and live in the palace of Wei?
And how can you, general, gain your original favor?
At this time, Xinyuan Yan stood up, bowed to Lu Zhong twice and apologized, saying: "At first I thought you were an ordinary person, but today I know that you are a wise man in the world."
I will leave Zhao State and no longer dare to talk about King Qin proclaiming himself emperor.
When the Qin army general heard the news, he withdrew his army fifty miles.
It happened that Wei Gongzi Wuji seized the military power of Jin Bi and led the army to rescue Zhao and attack the Qin army, so the Qin army withdrew from Handan and returned.
Lord Pingyuan wanted to reward Lu Zhonglian, but Lu Zhonglian repeatedly refused and refused to accept.
Lord Pingyuan held a banquet in honor of him. When his ears were full of wine, Lord Pingyuan stood up and offered a thousand pieces of gold as a reward to Lu Zhonglian.
Lu Zhonglian said with a smile: The reason why outstanding people are respected by people in the world is because they can eliminate troubles, eliminate disasters, and resolve disputes without asking for compensation.
If you ask for remuneration, it will become a businessman's behavior. I, Lu Zhonglian, cannot bear to do that.
So I bid farewell to Lord Pingyuan and left, never to see each other again for the rest of our lives.
More than twenty years after this incident, a Yan general captured Qi State's Liaocheng. Someone in Liaocheng spoke ill of General Yan in front of King Yan. General Yan was afraid of being executed, so he stayed in Liaocheng and did not dare to go back.
Qi Guotian attacked Liaocheng alone for more than a year. Many soldiers died, but he could not capture Liaocheng.
Lu Zhonglian wrote a letter, tied it to an arrow and shot it into the city to General Yan.
The letter read:
I heard that a wise person will not go against the current situation and give up a favorable opportunity, a brave person will not avoid death and ruin his reputation, and a loyal minister will not take care of himself first and then the king.
Now you are venting your temporary anger and not taking into account that the King of Yan cannot control his ministers, which is disloyal; you die in battle, lose Liaocheng, and your reputation cannot be extended in Qi, which is not brave; your achievements fail, your reputation is ruined, and future generations will have nothing to say, it is unwise.
These three types of people will not be used as ministers by the current monarchs, and will not be recorded by lobbyists. Therefore, smart people will not be hesitant, and warriors will not be greedy for life and afraid of death.
Now is the key to life and death, honor and disgrace, dignity and inferiority. You cannot make a decision at this time, and the opportunity will never come again. I hope you will make detailed plans and not be like ordinary people.
Moreover, Chu State attacked Qi State's Nanyang, and Wei State attacked Qi State's Pinglu. However, Qi State had no intention of counterattacking south. It believed that the loss of losing Nanyang was small and outweighed the benefits of capturing Jibei, so it made such a decision to implement it.
Now that the Qin State has sent troops, the Wei State does not dare to march eastward; the situation of the Qin State's continuous alliance has formed, and the Chu State's situation is dangerous; Qi State abandons Nanyang, cedes the territory on the right without saving it, and pacifies Jibei, which is a decision made after weighing the pros and cons.
Besides, Qi State is determined to recapture Liaocheng, so you should not hesitate any longer. Now the armies of Chu and Wei have withdrawn from Qi State and Yan State’s reinforcements have not arrived.
All the troops of Qi State have no other aspirations for the world and are attacking Liaocheng with all their strength. If you still want to defend Liaocheng, which has been besieged for more than a year, I don't think you can do it.
Moreover, the Yan State was in turmoil, and the emperor and his ministers were helpless and confused. Li Fu led an army of 100,000 to fight five consecutive defeats abroad. However, the great country with 10,000 chariots was surrounded by the State of Zhao. The land was reduced, the king was trapped, and he was ridiculed by the people of the world.
The country is in decline, disasters abound, and the people's hearts are in disarray.
Now, you use the exhausted soldiers and civilians of Liaocheng to resist the attack of the entire Qi army, which is like Mo Zhai defending Songcheng.
When food and grass were exhausted, they ate human flesh to satisfy their hunger. They had no firewood and burned human bones, but the soldiers did not have the heart to rebel. This is like Sun Bin who is good at leading troops.
Your ability has been revealed to the world.
Even so, for your sake, it is better to preserve our troops and use them to thank the State of Yan.
The king of Yan will be happy if his troops return to the country of Yan in good condition; if his body returns to his country, the people will feel like they are seeing their parents again, friends will praise and praise him excitedly when they get together, and his achievements will be displayed.
On the one hand, it assists the monarch in commanding the ministers; on the other hand, it not only supports the people but also provides lobbyists, corrects state affairs, changes customs, and builds career and reputation.
If you do not have the intention to return to the Yan State, abandon the Yan State, abandon worldly opinions, and go east to the Qi State. The Qi State will divide the land and enfeoff it, so that you can be as rich and powerful as Wei Ran and Shang Yang.
These two options are good ideas to show off your reputation and are rich and affordable. I hope you will choose one of them carefully after careful consideration.
I heard that those who seek small details cannot achieve a glorious reputation, and those who are ashamed of small things cannot achieve great achievements.
In the past, Guan Zhong shot Duke Huan's belt hook, which was a crime. Giving up Prince Jiu instead of letting him die was cowardly. Being imprisoned with instruments of torture was a shame.
For a person with these three conditions, the king will not use him as a minister and the villagers will not associate with him.
If Guanzi had been imprisoned for a long time and died in prison without being able to return to Qi, he would have had a shameful and despicable reputation.
Even Nu Bei is ashamed to have the same name as him, let alone the public opinion in society!
Therefore, Guan Zhong did not feel ashamed because he was in prison, but he felt ashamed that the world could not be at peace. He did not feel ashamed that he could not die with his son Jiu, but he felt ashamed that he could not show his prestige among the princes. Therefore, although he had the triple fault of committing crimes, fearing death, and being humiliated, he assisted Duke Huan of Qi to become the leader of the five hegemons. His reputation was higher than anyone else in the world, and his glory shone on neighboring countries.
After Cao Mo became a general of Lu, he failed in many battles and lost 500 miles of land.
If Cao Mo had cut his throat and committed suicide without careful consideration and hastily made a plan, he would have been infamous as a defeated general.
Cao Mo ignored the humiliation of being defeated many times and came back to discuss matters with Lord Lu.
Taking advantage of Duke Huan's opportunity to convene the princes of the world, Cao Mo used a dagger to get close to Duke Huan's heart on the altar. His face remained unchanged and his speech was calm. He defeated the lost land many times and regained it in a short time. The world was shaken, the princes were horrified, and the reputation of Lu was higher than that of Wu and Yue.
Like these two patriots, it is not that they disregard the honor and integrity of the whole family and think that if they die, their reputation will be destroyed and their achievements will not be established. This is not a wise approach.
Therefore, give up temporary anger and establish a lifelong reputation; give up temporary anger and establish achievements for generations to come.
Therefore, these deeds and the achievements of the three kings compete to spread, and their reputation coexists with heaven and earth.
I hope you will choose one of these options and take action!
General Yan read Lu Zhonglian's letter and cried for several days, but still hesitated to make a decision.
He wanted to return to the Yan State, but there was already a rift, and he was afraid of being killed; he wanted to surrender to the Qi State, but too many Qi people had been killed and captured, and he was afraid that he would be humiliated after surrendering.
He sighed deeply and said: It is better to commit suicide than to let others kill me.
Just committed suicide.
Liaocheng was in chaos, so Tian Dan marched into Liaocheng and bloodbathed Liaocheng.
When he returned, he reported Lu Zhonglian's affairs to the King of Qi. The King of Qi wanted to knight him.
After hearing this, Lu Zhonglian fled to the seaside and lived in seclusion. He said: Instead of being rich and serving others, it is better for me to be poor and despise the world and let my own ambitions go.
Zou Yang is from Qi State.
When he traveled to Liang State, he interacted with Zhuang Ji, a native of Wu State, and Mei Cheng, a native of Huaiyin.
He wrote a letter of self-recommendation and was a disciple of King Liang Xiao among Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui.
Yang Sheng and others were jealous of Zou Yang and spoke ill of him in front of King Xiao of Liang.
King Xiao of Liang was very angry. He handed Zou Yang over to his subordinate officials and wanted to kill him.
Zou Yang traveled in the Liang Kingdom and was arrested for being slandered. Worried about being accused of unwarranted charges after his death, he wrote a letter to King Xiao of Liang from prison. He wrote: I heard that loyal people will be rewarded and honest people will not be suspected. I always thought it was right in the past, but today it seems to be just an empty talk.
In the past, Gao Yi, whom Jing Ke admired from Prince Dan of Yan, went to assassinate the King of Qin. Although there was a sign of a white rainbow penetrating the sun in the sky, Prince Dan of Yan was still worried that Jing Ke would regret it and did not dare to go; Mr. Wei planned the Changping event for the King of Qin, and there was also a sign that Venus would cover the Pleiades, but King Zhao of Qin was still full of doubts.
Their sincerity moved the world and showed signs, but they were not understood by the two masters Yan Dan and Zhao Wang. Isn't this sad!
Now I am trying my best to be loyal and give my best advice, hoping that your Majesty will adopt it. The people around you did not understand the situation and finally handed me over to the officials for interrogation. I was misunderstood by the world. Even if Jing Ke and Wei were resurrected, King Yan Dan and Qin Zhao would not wake up.
I hope your Majesty will examine this situation carefully.
In the past, Bian He offered jade, and the king of Chu chopped off his feet; Li Si tried his best to be loyal, but Hu Hai had him executed.
So Jizi pretended to be crazy and took his father into seclusion to hide from the world. They were all afraid of suffering such a disaster.
I hope your Majesty will carefully examine the sincerity of Bian He and Li Si, and don't believe in slander like King Chu and Hu Hai, and don't let me be ridiculed by Ji Zi and Jie Yu.
I heard that Bigan was disemboweled and Wu Zixu's body was put into a leather bag and thrown into the river. I didn't believe it at first, but now I know that such a thing happened.
I hope your Majesty will examine it carefully and show me a little mercy!
As the saying goes: Some people are strangers even after getting along with them for a long time, while some people feel like old friends as soon as they stop and talk.
What is this wish for?
It lies in knowing one's heart and not knowing one's heart.
Therefore, in the past, Fan Yuqi fled from Qin to Yan, and lent his head to Jing Ke to carry out Yan Dan's mission of assassinating the King of Qin; Wang She left Qi for Wei, and committed suicide on the city wall to retreat the Qi army and protect Wei.
Wang She and Fan Yuqi were not new friends with Qi and Qin, but old acquaintances with Yan and Wei. The reason why they left Qi and Qin to die for the two kings of Yan and Wei was because their actions and aspirations were consistent and they had infinite admiration for justice!
Therefore, Su Qin was not trusted by the people of the world, but he was as trustworthy to the Yan State as his first son; Bai Gui was defeated and lost the cities of the Six Kingdoms, but he captured Zhongshan for the Wei State.
Why is this?
It's really because of mutual acquaintance.
Su Qin was appointed as the Prime Minister of the Yan State. Someone from the State of Yan slandered him in front of the king. The King of Yan was angry with his sword and slaughtered his beloved horse and gave him the meat to eat.
Why is this?
The two masters and two ministers were so heart-to-heart and believed so deeply, how could they be swayed by rumors?
Therefore, regardless of whether a woman is beautiful or ugly, she will be jealous when she enters the court; whether a scholar is virtuous or unworthy, he will be jealous when he enters the court and becomes an official.
In the past, Sima happy was punished by having his kneecaps cut off in the Song Dynasty and finally became the prime minister of the Zhongshan Kingdom. Fan Sui had his ribs broken and teeth knocked out in the Wei Kingdom, and was finally made a Marquis of Ying by the Qin Kingdom.
Both of these people abide by certain rules and abstain from forming parties for personal gain. They are in a lonely position, so they are not immune to the persecution of jealous villains.
The reason why Shentu Di threw himself into the river and Xu Yan threw himself into the sea with stones in his arms was because they were not tolerated by the world, adhered to justice and were unscrupulous, and did not form cliques in the court for selfish purposes to shake the monarch's will.
So Baili Xi was begging on the road, and Duke Mu of Qin entrusted him with the affairs of state; Ning Qi was feeding cattle under the cart, and Duke Huan of Qi entrusted him with the administration of state affairs.
Could it be that these two people relied on the recommendation of officials and the praise of their cronies in the court to win the trust of Duke Mu and Duke Huan?
Inspiration is in the heart, unity is in action, intimacy is like glue, and inseparable like brothers. How can we still be deceived by so many slanders?
Therefore, only listening to one side of the story will lead to evil, and only using a few people will lead to disaster.
In the past, Lord Lu only believed in Ji Sun's words and drove away Confucius; Lord Song only believed in Zihan's strategy and imprisoned Mo Zhai.
The eloquence of Confucius and Mozi was not immune to the harm of slander, so the two countries of Lu and Song were in crisis.
Why is this?
If everyone agrees, even gold and stone will melt; if there is too much slander, even the relationship between flesh and blood will be destroyed.
Therefore, Duke Mu of Qin appointed Yu Yu, a Rong man, to dominate China; Qi State appointed Yue Meng, and made the two generations of King Wei and King Xuan strong.
Are the two countries of Qin and Qi stuck to popular customs, implicated in the world's customs, and bound by flattery and paranoid slander?
They listen to opinions fairly, observe things comprehensively, and maintain a good reputation in the world.
Therefore, if one's mind is in harmony, even if a foreigner is from Yue, one can be as close as a brother, as is the case with Yu Yu and Yue Meng; if one's mind is not in harmony, even the flesh and blood of the closest relatives will be driven away without leaving behind, as is the case with Zhu, Xiang, Guan, and Cai.
Today, if the monarch can adopt the methods of Qi and Qin and abandon the mistakes of Song and Lu, then the achievements of the five hegemons are not worthy of praise, and the achievements of the three kings are easy to achieve.
Therefore, if a wise monarch has a clear mind, abandons the hypocritical heart of Zi Zhi, and does not appreciate Tian Chang's false wisdom; if he imitates the descendants of King Wu of Zhou and appoints the loyal minister Bigan, and renovates the tombs of innocent pregnant women, then he will surely succeed in governing the world.
Why is this?
There is no satisfaction in following the good.
If Duke Wen of Jin gets close to his enemies, he can dominate the feudal lords; if Duke Huan of Qi appoints his former enemies, he can bring the world into order.
Why is this? Being kind-hearted, sincere to others, and influencing people's hearts with sincerity cannot be replaced by vain words.
When the Qin State appointed Shang Yang to carry out reforms, he weakened Han and Wei in the east, and his army became powerful in the world, but he was finally killed by his chariot. The Yue State adopted the strategy of Dafu Zhong, attacked and destroyed the powerful Wu State, and dominated China, but was finally killed.
Therefore, Sun Shuao left the position three times without regret; Yu Lingzhong resigned from the position of Sangong to water gardens for others.
Now if the king can really get rid of his arrogance, have the intention of letting others serve, reveal his confidants, show his true feelings, show courage and kindness, always share the joys and sorrows with others, and love the nobles, then even the arrogant dog can let him bite Yao, and Zhi's retainer can let him assassinate Xu You; not to mention you rely on the power of a great country and the talents of a holy king?
If this is the case, then Jing Ke is willing to risk the catastrophe of annihilating the seven clans and burning his wife and children to death. Is there anything worthy of praise?
I heard that although luminous pearls and luminous jade are treasures, if you throw them at pedestrians on the road in the dark, people will squint with their swords in surprise.
Why?
It's because the treasure was thrown in front of you for no reason.
The twisted tree roots are unique, but they can become objects of appreciation by the king.
And why?
It's because the people around the king have carved and beautified it in advance!
Therefore, treasures are thrown in front of you for no reason, even if they are a waiting pearl or a luminous jade, you still have to make a grudge and not please.
Therefore, if someone recommends it in advance, even a dead tree will make a contribution and will not be forgotten.
Nowadays, the common people and the scholars living in the back alleys are in a poor and humble environment. Even if they have the way of governing the country like Yao and Shun, have the eloquence of Yi Yin and Guan Zhong, and have the ambition of Long Feng and Bigan, they intend to be loyal to the king of the day, but there is usually no one. With good words of recommendation, even if you try your best to dedicate your loyalty to assist the monarch in governing the country, then the monarch will definitely look at you sideways like a person throwing treasures. This is why the wise men in common cannot obtain the value of a dead tree!
Therefore, a sage monarch governs the country like a potter's fortune, with his own laws and regulations to educate the world, and will not be swayed by despicable opinions or changed by everyone's tongue.
Therefore, Qin Shihuang listened to the words of his concubine Meng Jia and believed Jing Ke's lies. Jing Ke was able to take out the dagger secretly and assassinate people unprepared. King Wen of Zhou was hunting in the Jing and Wei areas and carried him back to Lu Shang in a chariot, so that he could become the king of the world.
Therefore, King Qin listened to his ministers and was almost killed; King Wen of Zhou unexpectedly became king of the world.
Why is this?
Because King Wen of Zhou could transcend the restraints of the left and right, get rid of the restrained discussions of the world, and independently see the broad and bright road.
Nowadays, the king is indulged in flattery and flattery, surrounded by concubines and attendants, causing outstanding scholars to be mixed up with horses and old oxen. This is the reason why Bao Jiao is resentful of the world and has no nostalgia for wealth.
I heard that those who go to court solemnly and strictly will not be greedy for profit and moral integrity; those who pursue fame will not indulge their selfish desires and corrupt their character. Therefore, the county is called Shengmu, but Zengzi will not enter; the city is called Chaoge, and Mozi returns to his carriage and leaves.
Nowadays, if people with lofty ideals are frightened by the mighty power, suppressed by the high position, and deliberately use evil faces and dirty conduct to serve the flattering villains in order to get close to the king, then the ambitious people will die in the caves of old age. How can they be willing to follow the king with all their loyalty and faith?
This letter was presented to King Xiao of Liang, who sent someone to release Zou Yang from prison, and finally became King Xiao of Liang's honored guest.
Tai Shigong said: Even if the main purpose of Lu Zhonglian's discussion is not righteous, I applaud him for being a common man, free and easy, not yielding to the princes, commenting on the current world, but he has convinced the powerful ministers and prime ministers.
Even though Zou Yang's words are not modest enough, his comparisons between similar things are indeed touching. He can also be said to be frank, honest and unyielding, so I attach him to this biography.
