During the few years that Xiangru served as a Langguan, Tang Meng was ordered to open Yelang and Fenzhong in the west, and levied a thousand officials and soldiers from Bajun and Shujun. The county also sent tens of thousands more people to transport grain from land and waterways, and executed the leaders who disobeyed the order according to wartime laws. The people of Bajun and Shujun were greatly frightened.
When the emperor learned of this, he sent Sima Xiangru to blame Tang Meng and others, and took the opportunity to inform the people of Ba and Shu counties that Tang Meng's actions were not the emperor's original intention.
The message said: Inform the governors of Bajun and Shujun that the barbarians do not submit to the jurisdiction of the Han Dynasty and have not attacked them for a long time. They often invaded the border and made the sergeants and generals work hard.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he has taken care of the world and brought peace and stability to China. Then he mobilized troops to attack the Huns in the north. Shanzi was frightened, surrendered, and begged for peace.
Kangju and other countries in the Western Regions sent envoys with generous gifts, tributes, and sacrifices.
The army pointed eastward, and Minyue was pacified. To appease Panyu on the right, the King of Nanyue sent the prince to the court.
The monarch of Nanyi and the commander-in-chief of Xifen often served and contributed to the court, and did not dare to slack off. They hoped to return to Daoyi as soon as possible and wanted to serve the Han family. However, because of the long distance and the obstacles of mountains and rivers, they could not pay their respects in person.
Those who disobeyed have been killed, but those who have done good have not been rewarded, so Zhonglang will be sent to make them submit. Five hundred soldiers each from Bajun and Shujun were recruited to offer gifts and guard the envoys to prevent accidents, so that there would be no war or danger of war.
Now that I heard that there is a plan to raise troops, the young people are frightened, the elderly are worried, and the county is transporting food and supplies without authorization. This is not His Majesty's original intention.
Some of the people who applied for the conscription committed suicide, and some ran away. Recruitment was not the moral character that a subject should have.
When the soldiers in border counties heard that beacons were raised and their accumulated wages were burning, they all took their bows and arrows and galloped forward to the battlefield, carrying their weapons and rushing to the battlefield. They were so tired that they were sweating but still followed closely for fear of falling behind. When fighting, they clash with sharp blades, risk flying arrows, and move forward bravely for the sake of morality without retreating. Everyone is filled with anger, just like seeking personal revenge.
Could it be that they love death and hate life, are not good citizens registered in the household registration, and are they not the same monarch as Bajun and Shujun?
Rather, they plan and think deeply, put the country's danger first, and are willing to fulfill their obligations as subjects!
In the past, some people cut talismans and received rewards, were awarded titles, were promoted to nobles, and lived in high-class residences. When they died, they left noble titles for their descendants and passed them on to their descendants. They were extremely loyal and respectful in their work during their lifetime, and felt very comfortable in their official positions. After their death, their fame lasted endlessly, and their achievements were outstanding and will never be extinguished.
Therefore, wise men and gentlemen will not hesitate to use their liver and brain to smear the Central Plains, and use their flesh and blood to nourish the grass.
Now when the coin envoys have arrived in Nanyi, they kill each other, some escape and are killed, and die without a good reputation. They should be called the most stupid people. The shame involves their parents and they are ridiculed by everyone in the world.
Isn’t there a huge gap in people’s measurements?
Of course, this is not only the fault of those who applied for the draft, but also because their fathers and brothers were not strict in their education and did not set an example for their children. The people had no moral integrity and were shameless, and the customs were not honest.
Isn’t it right for some of them to be killed?
Today, the emperor is worried that the envoys and officials will be like this, as are the sad and unworthy ignorant people. Therefore, he sends honest envoys to clearly inform the people about the recruitment of soldiers. He takes this opportunity to rebuke the fools who are disloyal and escape and commit suicide, and blames the three elders and filial brothers who are in charge of education for not teaching.
It was the farming season, and I was particularly careful not to bother the people. I had already personally informed the people in the nearby counties. I was worried that the people in the remote areas and in the valleys and mountains would not be widely heard. When the message arrived, I quickly distributed it to all counties and provinces to generally inform the emperor of his thoughts, hoping that they would not be ignored.
Xiangru returns the report.
Tang Meng had already opened up Yelang, and took advantage of this to open the road to the southwestern Yi. He recruited soldiers from the three counties of Ba, Shu, and Guanghan, and tens of thousands of them worked.
It took two years to build the road, but it was not completed. Most of the soldiers died, and the money spent was calculated in hundreds of millions.
Most people in Shu County and those in power in the Han Dynasty said that it was not good for the country.
At that time, the commanders of Yinyi and Zha heard that Nanyi had interacted with the Han Dynasty and received many rewards. Most of them were willing to become vassals of the Han Dynasty and requested that they be given officials so that they could be treated the same as Nanyi.
The emperor asked about Wing Kou, and Nuojia said: The Yi tribes of Yin, Jia, Ran and Xiao are close to Shu County, and the roads are easy to open. During the Qin Dynasty, they were opened and set up as counties and counties, but they were abandoned after the establishment of the Han Dynasty.
Now if it is opened again and counties are set up, it will be better than Nanyi.
The emperor thought it was right, so he worshiped Xiangru as Zhonglang General and sent envoys to Xiyi with integrity.
The deputy envoys were Wang Ranyu, Hu Chongguo, and Lu Yue, driving four chariots. They planned to rely on the officials and property of Ba and Shu counties to win over and bribe the southwestern barbarians.
When they arrived at Shu County, the prefect of Shu County and his officials came to greet him on the outskirts. The county magistrate personally led the way with bows and arrows on his back. The people of Shu County were proud of this.
So Zhuo Wangsun and the elders of Linyin all became Xiangru's disciples through their marriage relationships, and offered beef and wine to please Xiangru.
Zhuo Wangsun sighed deeply, thinking that it was too late for his daughter to marry Sima Changqing, so he distributed generous property to his daughter equally with his son.
Sima Changqing sent people to pacify the southwestern barbarians, and the princes of Yin, Zha, Ran, Qo and Siyu all asked to submit to the Han Dynasty. So the old passes were demolished, and the new passes were expanded outwards, reaching Keshui and Ruoshui in the west and the border of Yangge in the south. Lingshan Road was opened and a bridge was built on Sunshui River to connect Gongkou and Zhao.
The emperor was very happy when he returned the report.
When Xiangru was sent as an envoy, most of the senior people in Shu County said that opening up the southwestern barbarians was of no use, and some ministers also thought so.
Xiangru wanted to admonish the emperor, but he remembered that he had already made suggestions and did not dare to deviate from the preface, so he wrote an article and used the form of a conversation with the elders of Shu County to question the other party and use it to satirize the emperor. He also announced his decree to let the people know the emperor's mind.
His article said:
In the seventy-eight years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the benevolence and virtues have been flourishing for six generations. They are mighty and majestic, and their benevolence is profound and wide, benefiting all living beings and filling China and foreign countries.
So he sent envoys to march westward, and the barbarians retreated along the current. Wherever the king's wind covered them, everything collapsed with the wind.
So Ran Yi came to court, Ji Yi obeyed, pacified the capital of Jiao, and the capital of Pingsuo, occupied Siyu, captured Baopu, and drove back and forth with horses and horses to report to the court and drive to the capital of Shu.
Twenty-seven people, including elderly and high-ranking officials in the local area, solemnly went to pay homage to the envoy.
After greetings, we went to Xiju: I heard that the emperor's principle in dealing with the Yi and Di was to contain them and prevent them from severing relations.
Now we have tired the soldiers in the three counties and opened the road to Yelang. It has been three years since the success was achieved. The soldiers are tired and tired, and the people's supplies cannot be satisfied. Now we are opening the road to Xiyi. The people are exhausted, and I am afraid that we will not be able to complete this task. It is also a burden to the envoy. I am worried about you privately.
Moreover, Yin, Zha, and Xijia are juxtaposed with the Central Plains. They have experienced so many years that I can’t remember them clearly.
Since ancient times, emperors, despite their benevolence and virtue, could not be recruited, and although they were powerful, they could not be conquered. I am afraid that this was impossible because the road was difficult, dangerous and far away!
Nowadays, the property of the people who are divided into households is divided to make the barbarians rich, and the common people who the emperor relies on are exhausted and useless land is opened up. We are short-sighted and do not know whether what we are saying is right or wrong?
The messenger said: Why do you say this?
If it is like what you said, it means that the people of Ba and Shu do not need to change their original clothing customs similar to those of the Yi and Di.
I never like hearing this. However, this matter is so important that it cannot be understood by onlookers.
My schedule is urgent and I don't have a chance to explain it to you.
Allow me to give you gentlemen a rough outline of the situation:
In the world, only when there are extraordinary talents can there be extraordinary careers; only when there are extraordinary careers can there be extraordinary achievements.
It's so unusual that ordinary people would think it was strange after seeing it.
Therefore, when something unusual begins to appear, the people are afraid; when it succeeds, the world is at peace.
In the past, floods surged and overflowed. People moved around in search of high places and avoided low places, and the ground was rugged, making it difficult to live in peace.
Xia Yu was worried about this, so he blocked the floods, dredged the rivers, and dispersed the deep water to provide relief. From then on, the water flowed to the east and returned to the sea, and the world was forever peaceful.
At this time of strenuous effort, is it only the people who are doing the hard work?
Xia Yu was tired of thinking and participated in the work himself. Calluses appeared on his hands and feet, no muscles could be seen on his legs, and no hair could grow on his skin. Therefore, the beautiful deeds are manifested throughout the ages, and the praises are passed down to this day.
When a wise monarch fulfills his position, can it be that he is just trivial and narrow-minded, sticks to words, involves popular customs, follows ancient legends and records, pleases the current world, and follows what others say?
There will be lofty and grand discussions that can create a foundation and pass it on to future generations, and establish laws for future generations.
Therefore, it can run around and accommodate all things, and be diligent in thinking and juxtaposed with the heaven and earth.
Besides, it is said in the Book of Songs: There is no place in the whole world that is not the king’s territory; there is no place in the four seas that is not the king’s subject.
Therefore, within the heaven and the earth, and beyond the eight directions, there is more than enough moisture. If any living thing is not moistened, it is a matter of shame for a wise monarch.
Now within the borders, all officials and officials are happy and there is no shortage of help.
The Yi and Di are areas with different customs, far away and isolated, a place where rebels are exiled. There is no access to vehicles and boats, and there are few people. Politics and education have not yet been implemented, and the Yimei customs inherited from the previous generations have not yet been revealed. If they adopt it, they will violate Li Yi on the border. If they abandon it, they will become barbaric and rampant, killing their monarchs wantonly, reversing the status of monarchs and ministers, and the hierarchy? During the Kunlun Rebellion, fathers and brothers were killed without charge, orphans were turned into slaves, and people who were caught, robbed, and imprisoned cried and cried.
He complained inwardly towards the Central Plains and said: I heard that the Central Plains has the most beautiful benevolent government. There are many virtues and benefits, and there is no inappropriate place for people. Why have you abandoned me today!
Standing on tiptoes to think about it, like withered and dry grass and trees longing for rain, even the fierce and violent people will shed tears for it, not to mention the current emperor's sage, how can he stop enlightening Yi Di?
Therefore, troops were sent to the north to attack the powerful Xiongnu, and rushing envoys were sent to the south to question the powerful South Vietnam.
Envoys were sent in all directions to proclaim benevolence, and the princes of the Western Yi and Southwestern Yi regions were like fish gathering in the upper reaches of the river. Hundreds of millions of them hoped to receive titles.
Therefore, the Nianshui and Ruoshui are used as pass, Panggu is used as the border, the road to Nangshan is dredged, a bridge is built at the source of Sun River, a path of morality is opened, and the tradition of benevolence and righteousness is spread. It will extend favor widely, appease and control distant places, so that the alienated are not closed, and light shines in the dark, so as to calm the war here and stop the conquest there.
Isn't it also happiness to be united near and far, and to be healthy at home and abroad?
It is the emperor's top priority to save the people from dire straits, respect the emperor's virtues, reverse the decline of the last days, and inherit the cause of the founding monarch of the Zhou Dynasty.
Although the people are working hard, how can they stop?
Moreover, the career of an emperor originally started with sorrow and ended with happiness.
If this is the case, then all the signs of destiny are here.
The title of Mount Tai will be increased, the fear of Liang's father will be added, the luan bells and harps on the carriage will jingle, the sound of music and praise will be loud, and the top will be as tall as the five emperors, and the bottom will be higher than the three kings.
The viewer does not see the fingers, and the listener does not hear the sound, as if the Jiaoming bird has soared in the vast sky, while Zhang Gang's bird-catcher is still watching the lake. How sad!
So the officials were at a loss and lost the expectations they had when they came and the opinions they wanted to state when they came to see you. They sighed and praised together: "It is true that the kindness of the Han Dynasty is exactly what we want to hear."
Although the people are tired, please let us lead by example and walk in front of the people.
Feeling disappointed, he moved back, and after a while he said goodbye and left.
After that, someone wrote a letter to accuse Xiangru of accepting money from others when he was on a mission, and he was dismissed from his official position.
More than a year later, he was summoned to serve as Lang Guan again.
Xiangru stutters but is good at writing articles.
Often suffer from diabetes.
Marrying the Zhuo family, she has abundant property.
Therefore, when he held an official position, he was never willing to participate in the affairs of the public and the country. He excused himself to stay at home due to illness and did not envy his official title.
I once followed the emperor to Changyang Palace for hunting.
At this time, the emperor liked to personally kill bears and wild boars, drive horses to chase wild beasts, and give advice and advice.
Shuwen wrote:
I have heard that some people are of the same type but have different abilities, so when it comes to strength, they are in vain, when it comes to agility, they are jealous, and when it comes to bravery, they are compared to Meng Ben and Xia Yu.
I am ignorant and secretly believe that this is indeed the case for humans, and it should be the same for beasts as well.
Nowadays, Your Majesty likes to climb dangerous places and shoot wild beasts. Suddenly, you encounter a particularly powerful beast, which frightens your horse in an unexpected place and offends your auxiliary carriage to clear the road. The carriage has no time to turn the shaft, and the guards have no chance to display their skills. Even if they have the skills of Wuhuo and Fengmeng, if their talents are not used, even the dead trees can become a disaster.
Just like the Hu people and Yue people raised troops in the capital, and the Qiang and Yi people were also very close, wouldn't it be dangerous?
Even if it is absolutely safe and no disaster occurs, this is not a place that the emperor should approach.
Moreover, when pedestrians are warned, then move forward, interrupt the road, and drive on, there are often incidents where the iron bars and crossbars carried by the horses are broken.
What's more, when passing through lush grass or running on barren hills, with the joy of hunting wild beasts in front of you and no preparation for unexpected events in your heart, disaster may easily happen!
I don’t think your Majesty should do this if you look down upon the position of an emperor and do not take pleasure in peace, but take pleasure in traveling on a road that may be in danger.
Perhaps a perspicacious person can foresee things that have not yet sprouted, and a wise person can avoid disasters without any traces. Most disasters are hidden in places that are not easy to detect, and occur when people are careless.
Therefore, as the proverb goes: If you accumulate thousands of gold at home, you will not sit under the hanging tiles on the eaves.
Although the idiom talks about small things, it can be used to describe big things.
I hope your Majesty will pay attention to these words.
The emperor thought it was well written.
When he returned, he passed by Yichun Palace and presented a gift to Xiangru to express his condolences for Qin II's mistakes.
His words read:
Climb the long and slightly sloping hillside and enter the palace. From the winding dock next to the Qujiang River, you can see the jagged layers of Nanshan Mountain in the distance.
The towering mountains are so long and the valleys leading to them are so deep that they are unreachable.
The water flows swiftly and quickly, and flows into a vast area of ​​water.
Spectators are surrounded by dense trees and can see patches of bamboo growing into forests.
It runs through earthy mountains in the east, and crosses shallow currents and rocks in the north.
If you want to stop, stop and pay tribute to the second generation.
Being careless in doing things will lead to the destruction of the country and loss of power; listening to slander and not awakening, the ancestral temple will be exterminated.
Alas!
If someone enters the house without moral integrity, the tomb will be dirty and no one will repair it, the soul will have no place to go and no one will worship it.
Xiangru was appointed as the Order of Xiaowen Garden.
After the emperor praised Zixu's deeds, Xiangru saw that the emperor loved the immortal way, so he said: "The deeds in Shanglin are not beautiful enough, there are also gorgeous ones."
I once wrote "Adult Fu", but it has not yet been completed. Please allow me to complete it and dedicate it to you.
Xiangru thought that the legendary immortals and sorcerers lived among the mountains and swamps, and were very thin in appearance. This did not look like the emperor's immortality, so he wrote "Adult Fu".
His poem reads:
There is an emperor in Zhongzhou who lives thousands of miles away but cannot stay there.
Sad that the world is so narrow, leave it and travel far away.
The car drove onto the white neon with the red flag fluttering, carrying the clouds floating upward.
Build the beam of light from the Zexing as a long flagpole, and tie the rays of light together as the flag of the flag.
The tassels of the star banner of the first ten days of the month are hung, and the comet with its light tail is used as the feathers decorated on the banner.
The flag swayed with the wind and tugged at the staff, swaying affectionately and swaggering.
Bring the Heaven's Powder and Heaven's Spear Star and let them be used as banners, wrapped in colorful silk made of curved rainbows.
The red mist is thin and misty, and the wind and clouds float in response to the movement of the air.
Driving a flying dragon, riding an elephant chariot, walking in a meandering way, driving a red dragon and a green scorpion in a meandering procession. He raised his head and bent his neck to show his pride, and he moved up and down and rolled his arms. Sometimes he pauses and stands still, sometimes his head is raised and his dignity is released.
Advancing and retreating, pacing and turning, looking left and right, running and leaning on each other. They were entangled, clamored, trampled, and for some reason they jumped like a wild dragon. During the exhalation, fire and lightning passed by, and the fog suddenly disappeared.
Cross Shuji diagonally and climb to the North Pole to invite the immortals.
They exchanged greetings with each other and turned west, then crossed the Feiquan and headed due east.
All fairies were collected and selected, and the gods were arranged to shine in the Beidou.
Let the Five Emperors take the lead, reject Taiyi and use the attendant Immortal Lingyang.
On the left is Xuan Ming, on the right is Qian Lei, in front is Chang Li and behind is Nan Huang.
The servant is the Immortal Zheng Boqiao, who has a high family, and orders Qi Bo to manage the prescription.
Let Zhu Rong's guards clear the way and clear away the evil spirits before proceeding.
Gather my ten thousand chariots and set up a gorgeous flag with colorful clouds.
Let Jumang serve as a general. I want to go to the south to play.
Passing through Chongshan where Tang Yao lived, and passing through Jiuyi where Yu Shun lived, the roads were crisscrossed, and the cars and cars were driving in confusion.
Rampages and tramples are coming one after another, and the boundless water is flowing. They are gathered together, arranged and gathered, scattered and scattered, and the lights are strange and strange.
Go straight into the Leiyuan to listen to the rumbling thunder, and walk out of the Ghost Valley to see the steep mountains.
See the eight wastelands and the four seas, cross the Jiujiang River and cross the five rivers.
After passing Huoyan Mountain, I drifted on the weak water, wading on the sandbank in the river and saw desert quicksand.
The river from the green ridge is for me to play in, and Nuwa plays the harp and dances with the river god.
At this time, it seemed dark and turbid, so he summoned the God of Thunder to punish Feng Bo and Rain Master.
Looking to the west, the Kunlun Mountains are full of chaos and evil, and they are flying straight towards the three dangers.
Pushing through the Tianmen Gate, he entered the imperial palace and returned with the jade girl in his arms.
Climb the Minfeng Mountain and call from afar, flying like a bird and stopping neatly.
Circling and twisting in the low altitude of Yinshan Mountain, I only now saw the Queen Mother of the West.
Haoran has white hair and a jade hairpin and lives in a cave. Fortunately, there is a three-legged blue bird to serve her.
This must be the case in order to live forever. Even if you can live through eternity, it is not a joy.
Return to the car and leave, cross Buzhou Mountain and eat in Youdu.
Inhale the dew and eat the morning glow, and taste the Zhiying and Qionghua.
They raised their heads upward and gradually rose up, leaping and flying rapidly.
Encounter the light and shadow of high-altitude lightning, and survive the heavy rain of the rain master.
The guide car of the galloping tour bus falls from the sky, leaving behind the fog and disappearing in the distance.
Due to the narrow confines of my home, I slowly headed north to see the vast expanse. I left my chariots and horses in Xuan'er and my ancestors in Duliudan. When I looked down, I couldn't see the earth, and when I looked up, I couldn't see the sky.
The eyes are dizzy and cannot see, and the hearing is blurred and cannot hear anything.
Riding on nothingness and wandering far away, transcending existence and nothingness and existing alone.
After Xiangru presented "Adult Fu", the emperor was very happy, and he had the spirit of flying clouds, as if he had the artistic conception of traveling between heaven and earth.
After Xiangru was dismissed from his post due to illness, he lived in Maoling's home.
The emperor said: Sima Xiangru is seriously ill. You can send someone to fetch all the books he has written. You are already lagging behind others.
When the dispatcher went there, Xiangru was already dead and there was no book left at home.
Asked his wife, she replied: "It turns out that Chang Qing never had a book."
He often wrote books, and they were often taken away from him.
When Chang Qing was alive, he wrote a book and presented it to the court when an envoy came to look for it.
He sent the letters he left behind to talk about Feng Fang's affairs, and presented the faithful notes to the emperor. The emperor thought the book was strange.
His book said: In ancient times, at the beginning of the creation of the world, people were born.
Count the monarchs of all dynasties until Qin.
Follow the relics of modern times and listen to the sounds of ancient times.
There are countless people who are mixed and confused, buried and not praised by the world.
It can be said that there are seventy-two monarchs who carry forward the uprightness, advocate the beauty of the title, and enshrine Zen in Mount Tai.
No one can govern well but fail to prosper, and who can go against the grain and fail to survive for a long time?
Before Xuanyuan, time was extremely far away, things were unclear, and the details were no longer known.
The movements of the Five Emperors and Three Kings can be known from the records and legends in the "Six Classics". "Shangshu" says: The monarch is wise!
Well done, minister!
Based on this, no monarch can be more beautiful than Yao of the Tang Dynasty, and no minister can be more virtuous than Hou Ji.
Hou Ji established his achievements during the reign of Yao in Tang Dynasty, Gong Liu succeeded in Xirong, and King Wen reformed the system. By the time Zhou Dynasty was extremely prosperous and achieved peace, his achievements were completed. Although it declined weakly in the future, there was no evil voice for thousands of years. Isn't it a good beginning and a good end!
However, there is no other reason than to be cautious at the beginning and carefully uphold the instructions at the end.
Therefore, the rules are simple and easy to follow; the benevolence is deep and broad, it is easy to be rich; the laws are clear and easy to follow; the inheritance is smooth and easy to inherit.
Therefore, the king's business prospered when he became king, but his achievements were made during the years of King Wen and King Wu.
Measuring the beginning and competing for the end, there are no particularly outstanding and unusual deeds that can be compared with the Han Dynasty.
However, he also climbed Mount Tai and Mount Liangfu, established a noble title, and gained a lofty reputation.
The kindness of the Han Dynasty flows like a source, reaching all over the land, covering all directions, spreading like clouds and mist, reaching up to the nine heavens and flowing down in all directions.
All living things will be blessed, and harmony will spread everywhere. The mighty flames surged, passing through the roots in the near and narrow places, and reaching the branches and leaves in the far and wide places. The culprits were all annihilated. The people of Yi and Di saw the light, and all kinds of animals were joyful and joyful, and turned back to face the Central Plains.
Then he raised a herd of precious crepe fish, intercepted the rare elk monster, selected a six-ear rice stem from the kitchen to offer sacrifices, brought a beast with two horns as a sacrifice, obtained the tortoises that were released in the Zhou Dynasty beside Qishan Mountain, and summoned the divine horse that the Yellow Emperor rode when he ascended to immortality in the swamp.
The most virtuous people are connected with the gods. Immortals live in leisure taverns. Wonderful objects change unpredictably. Excellent talents can study the changes deeply.
I admire you so much. Even now, Fu Guangxiangrui still thinks he has little virtue and dare not mention Feng Chan.
During the Zhou Dynasty, a jumping fish fell onto the boat. King Wu roasted it and offered it to the heavens as a talisman. It was so small, but if he used the white fish as auspiciousness to climb Mount Tai, wouldn't it be shameful?
The Zhou Dynasty could not grant the title of Zen and then go to the Shan Dynasty, but the Han Dynasty could grant the title of Zen without the fear of granting the title of Shan. What a huge difference between fighting and letting!
So the Great Sima spoke to the emperor and said: Your Majesty cares for the people of the world with kindness, relies on morality to fight against unfavorable conditions, China is willing to contribute, and barbarians pay tribute to the court. The virtues are the same as before, and the merits are unparalleled. The grand and beautiful achievements are harmonious. The auspicious signs are ever-changing, and they come one after another according to the period. This is not the first time.
It seems that the altars in Taishan and Liangfu Mountains are looking forward to the emperor's visit, and want to add a title to compare with the glory of the previous generation. God has favored me and accumulated blessings, and they want to celebrate the success. Your Majesty is humble and courteous and refuses to hold a ceremony.
Cutting off the joy of the three gods of heaven, earth and mountain, causing the loss of royal etiquette and justice, and making all the officials feel ashamed!
Some people say that, besides, God's will has indeed hinted that the rare talisman cannot be rejected; if it is rejected, Mount Tai will have no chance to set up a sign and Mount Liang will have no hope of enjoying the sacrifice.
Moreover, if the emperors from ancient times have been prosperous with the times, and the throne has ended and the sacrifices have been discontinued, what else can the narrator say to future generations, and how can he say that there are seventy-two monarchs who passed Mount Tai in Zen?
If one has perfected his virtue and is bestowed upon Fu Rui, and if he respects Fu Rui and performs Zen rituals, it is not regarded as being too arrogant and arrogant.
Therefore, a sage monarch does not abolish his feudal title, but respects the earth gods, sincerely addresses the gods of heaven, and inscribes his merits on stones in Zhongyue. This shows his supreme status, develops his prosperous virtues, reveals his title of glory, and receives abundant blessings to infiltrate the people.
This is the kind of thing Mosaic is doing! The majestic scene of the world and the grand cause of the emperor cannot be diminished!
I hope your majesty will do it more completely.
Then the opinions of the Confucian scholars were gathered, so that they could be illuminated by the last flames of the sun and the moon, so as to promote their official positions and carry out their careers.
Therefore, it is necessary to organize the time and place, personnel, affairs, and the meaning of Zen, and revise and polish the text. As a new chapter of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the original Six Classics will be added to the Seven Classics.
This is the reason why the former sage kings can always maintain their good reputation and are often praised.
You should let the anecdote present the etiquette of the Zen ceremony to you.
So the emperor changed his expression in emotion and said: Yes, let me try it!
Then he changed his mind, changed his mind, summarized the discussions of the ministers, consulted on the important matters of Feng Pang, wrote poems to praise the vastness of Daze, and increased the wealth of Fu Rui.
So he sung:
The sky is covered with self, and the clouds are oily.
The dew rains intermittently, and the soil is swimmable.
No matter how wet the fluid is, why is it infertile?
The six ears of Jiagu, my harvest?
The bandit only rains on it and moistens it; the bandit only favors me and spreads to protect it; all things are bustling, cherishing and admiring it.
A famous mountain shows its position, and I hope you will come.
You are here, you are here, you are not here!
The beast with crotch and crotch is happy in my garden; the white body and the black seal are pleasing to the eye; the croaking and muttering are the attitude of a gentleman.
Gai heard its sound and now sees it coming.
Jue Tu Mi Cong, Tian Rui's sign.
Zi Er was in favor of Shun, and Lu was suppressed in favor of prosperity.
The Lin of Zhuo Zhuo, the wandering spirit stands.
In the tenth month of Mengdong, you worship in the suburbs.
Chi my king and father, the emperor enjoys the benefits.
Before the third cut, there was no cover.
Wanwan Huanglong rises with virtue; its color is mysterious and brilliant.
Zhengyang is visible, and Li Yan is aware of it.
According to the legend, Yun was ordered to ride on it.
There are rules to follow, no need to be careful.
According to the analogy, I entrusted the residence and ordered to seal the mountains.
Looking at the "Six Classics", we can see that the boundaries between heaven and humanity have been connected, and heaven and the people express harmony with each other.
The career of the Holy King is conscientious and cautious.
Therefore, when you are prosperous, you must think about decline, and when you are safe, you must think about danger.
Therefore, King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou occupied the supreme position without losing the courtesy; Yu and Shun observed the stars and observed the gains and losses of political affairs.
It's about making things happen. Sima Xiangru had been dead for five years, and the emperor had just offered sacrifices to the earth god.
In the eighth year, he first worshiped the god of Zhongyue, then sealed Mount Tai, went to Mount Liangfu, and offered sacrifices to Mount Suran.
Xiangru's other works, such as "A Letter to the Marquis of Pingling", "A Difficulty with the Five Young Masters", and "Caomu Shupian" are not included. Only his articles that are particularly well-known among the ministers are included.
Praise: Taishi Gong said: "Spring and Autumn" uses subtle words to deduce the righteousness of human affairs, "Book of Changes" uses natural subtleties to explain human affairs, "Daya" talks about princes and great men, and their virtue extends to the common people, "Xiaoya" criticizes political affairs based on one's own gains and losses, and its rumors reach princes and princes.
Therefore, although the appearance of words is different, they are all consistent in meeting moral standards.
Although Xiangru contains many fictional words and exaggerations, its main point boils down to one point: it advocates frugality. How is this different from the satire in the Book of Songs?
Yang Xiong thought that his gorgeous words encouraged extravagance and the words admonishing frugality accounted for only one percent, as if he were racing among the lustful voices of Zheng and Wei, and only played elegant music at the end of the song. Isn't this also a frivolous play!
