Zhao Chongguo, named Wengsun, was from Shangbang in Longxi. He later moved to Jincheng Lingju.
He was just a knight at the beginning, but later he was a member of a good family in six counties and was good at horseback riding and archery and was promoted to a guard of the feather forest.
He was calm and courageous, with profound strategies. When he was young, he liked the integrity of a general, so he went to study the art of war and became familiar with the affairs of the barbarians in all directions.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Chongguo followed the Second Division General as a fake Sima to attack the Xiongnu, and was heavily surrounded by the enemy.
The Han army was without food for several days and suffered many casualties. Zhao Chongguo and more than 100 strong men broke through the siege and captured the enemy's formation. The general of the Second Division led the soldiers to follow him, and they were able to escape the siege.
Zhao Chongguo suffered more than 20 injuries all over his body. General Ershi reported the situation to Emperor Wu, who ordered Zhao Chongguo to be summoned to the place where he was traveling. Emperor Wu personally received Zhao Chongguo and visited his injuries. He praised him, awarded him the title of Zhonglang, and promoted him to the post of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, the Di people in Wudu County rebelled. Zhao Chongguo led troops to attack and quelled the rebellion as a general to protect the army. He was promoted to Zhonglang General and led his troops to garrison in Shanggu County. After returning, he was appointed as the captain of Shuiheng.
Later, he went to attack the Xiongnu and captured King Xiqi. He was promoted to the post-general, and he still served as the captain of Shuiheng.
Zhao Chongguo and General Huo Guang decided to support Emperor Xuan and were named Yingpinghou.
During the Benshi period, he used the post of General Pulei to conquer the Xiongnu and killed hundreds of enemies. After returning the army, he was appointed as the Hou General and Shaofu.
The Xiongnu mobilized more than 100,000 cavalry and went south to approach the Han Dynasty border fortress. They reached Mount Fuxi and prepared to invade and plunder.
Tichu Qutang, who had escaped from the Xiongnu, surrendered to the Han Dynasty and told the story. The Han Dynasty sent Zhao Chongguo to lead 40,000 cavalry to garrison the nine counties on the border.
After Shanyu heard what had happened, he led his troops and left.
At this time, Guanglu doctor Yiqu Anguo was on an envoy to inspect various Qiang tribes. The chief Xianling expressed his hope to cross the river to the north bank of the Huangshui River at a certain time to find places where Han people did not cultivate their livestock.
Anguo reported the dispatch to the emperor.
Zhao Chongguo impeached Anguo for the crime of disrespect after being ordered to send an envoy.
After that, the Qiang people violated Han law and crossed the Huangshui River as mentioned above, but the counties and counties could not stop them.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xianling resolved his grudges with more than 200 Qiang chiefs, exchanged hostages and signed an oath of alliance.
After the emperor learned about this, he consulted Zhao Chongguo. Zhao Chongguo replied: The reason why the Qiang tribe was easily suppressed is because each tribe has its own leader. They often attack each other and their forces cannot be unified.
More than 30 years ago, when the Xiqiang people created the Han Dynasty, they resolved their enmities in advance and made an alliance to attack Lingju and compete with the Han Dynasty. It took five or six years to calm down.
In the fifth year of Zhenghe, Xianling leader Feng Jian and others sent envoys to the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu sent envoys to Xiaoyueshi. Rumors told the tribes that: General Ershi of the Han Dynasty led more than 100,000 people to surrender to the Xiongnu.
The Qiang people had a hard time serving the Han Dynasty.
Digging? The land was originally our place, the land was fertile, and we could attack and occupy it together. From this, we can see that Bao Xi wanted to unite with the police for a long time.
Not long ago, the west side of Lisu was trapped. Hearing that Wudan was coming to defend the frontier, and fearing that the war would start from the east, he sent envoys to Weili and Weisu countries many times, promising to give them men and women and mink clothes, in an attempt to alienate the friendly relationship between them and Lian.
This plan did not materialize.
I suspect that Baosu sent envoys to the sent tribes to transport salt via the Shayin area. After passing the title, they entered Yongmu and went south to the Dangsu vassal state to join forces with Sailing.
I am afraid that the changes among the Qiang people are not limited to these, and that they will collude with other tribes. We should make preparations before this happens.
More than a month later, the shy retreat sent envoys to the Xiongnu to borrow troops, preparing to attack Chachencha and Dunhuang to cut off the channels of communication between Xuan and Youji.
Langtongli believes that the Langdan and Shaojiedan tribes are in the southwest of Tunhui, so it is impossible to make such a plan alone. I suspect that the envoys of Xiongqu have already arrived among the Qiang tribes, and they first broke off the enmity and entered into an alliance with Ling, Han, and Ji.
When the horses are fat in autumn, trouble will inevitably occur.
Envoys should be sent to patrol the border and prepare in advance, and give orders to tell the tribes not to let them resolve their grudges, so as to find out their plot.
So the two governments asked for instructions to send envoys from Yiqu Anguo to inspect the tribes and distinguish the good from the bad.
After An Guo went to Nabao, he summoned more than thirty leaders of the previous tribes. Since they were all particularly ferocious and cunning, he killed them all.
They also sent troops to attack their tribe and killed more than a thousand people.
So all the Qiang tribes who originally submitted to the Han Dynasty, as well as the Guiyi Qiang Marquis Yang Yu and others, were afraid and angry. They lost trust and returned to the Han Dynasty. They coerced and kidnapped the weak tribes, betrayed and invaded the border fortresses, attacked the cities, and killed the officials.
As the cavalry captain, Anguo led three thousand cavalry to assemble to defend against the Qiang people. When they arrived at Haodian, they were attacked by enemy soldiers and lost many vehicles, baggage and weapons.
An Guo led his troops back and reported the situation after arriving at Ling's residence.
This year is the spring of the first year of Shenjue.
Zhao Chongguo was already over seventy years old at that time. The emperor thought he was old, so he sent Bingji, the imperial censor, to ask who could lead the army. Zhao Chongguo replied: There is no one more than the veteran.
The emperor sent someone to ask again: "General, what do you think will happen to the Qiang enemy? How many people should be used?"
Zhao Chongguo said: Seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times.
The military situation is difficult to predict remotely. I hope to rush to Jincheng and formulate a battle plan before submitting it.
However, the Qiang Rong are just a weak Yi tribe. They have betrayed the country against God's will and will soon perish. I hope your Majesty will leave this matter to the old ministers and don't worry.
The emperor smiled and said: "Okay."
Zhao Chongguo arrived at Jincheng and waited until the army gathered 10,000 cavalry to prepare to cross the Yellow River. However, he was afraid of being intercepted by the enemy, so he sent three schools of troops to cross the river at night.
Dozens and hundreds of enemy cavalry came and entered and exited the edge of the military camp.
Zhao Chongguo said: "Our troops and horses are tired and cannot gallop to chase."
This is difficult for the enemy's brave cavalry to subdue, and I'm afraid this is a tactic used by the enemy to lure troops.
Attack the enemy with the goal of total annihilation. The small benefits are not worth coveting.
Zhao Chongguo sent an order to the army not to attack.
The cavalry was sent to conduct reconnaissance in the surrounding areas, but no enemy was found.
He led his troops upriver to Luodu at night, then summoned the Sima from each school and said to them: I already know that the Qiang people don't know how to use troops.
If the enemy sends thousands of people to stand in the middle of nowhere, how can our troops get in?
Zhao Chongguo often made it a priority to send scouts far away. He must be prepared for battle when marching and strengthen the forts when stationed. He must be cautious and prudent, love his soldiers, and plan in advance before fighting.
So Zhao Chongguo went west to the Western Commandant's Mansion, and rewarded the sergeants every day, and the soldiers wanted to serve him.
The enemy came to challenge him several times, but Zhao Chongguo could not hold on.
Once a prisoner was captured, and he confessed that the Qiang leaders blamed each other several times and said: "I told you not to do it. Today the emperor sent General Zhao. He is eighty or ninety years old and is good at using troops."
Is it still possible to fight to the death now?
Zhao Chongguo's son Youcao Zhonglang, general Zhao Yin, led Qimen Yinfei, Yulin Orphan, Hu and Yue cavalry as branch troops to Lingju. The enemy attacked at the same time and cut off the Han army's transportation routes. Zhao Yin reported the matter.
Xia Shao ordered him to lead the Eighth School Lieutenant, Xiaoqi Captain, and Jincheng Prefect to work together to hunt down the enemies in the mountains and clear the transportation roads and Jinliang Ferry.
At first, Midang'er, the leader of Han and Kai, sent his younger brother Diaoku to tell the captain that Xianling wanted to build it. After a few days, Xianling actually built it.
There were many people from the Diaoku tribe in Xianling, so the captain detained Diaoku as hostages.
Zhao Chongguo believed that he was not guilty, so he sent him back to tell the tribal leaders: The Han Dynasty army only killed guilty people. They should understand and distinguish among themselves and not destroy themselves together.
The emperor told the Qiang people of all tribes that those who broke the law could be captured and killed and other criminals could be exempted.
Anyone who kills a guilty leader can get a reward of 400,000 yuan; whoever kills a mid-level leader can get 150,000 yuan; whoever kills a low-level leader can get 20,000 yuan; whoever kills an adult man can get 3,000 yuan; whoever kills women, old people and children can get a reward of 1,000 yuan, and all the women, children and money and items he captured must be given to him.
Zhao Chongguo planned to use a combination of kindness and power to recruit Han, Kai tribe and other tribes that were coerced into rebellion, disrupt the enemy's conspiracy, and wait until they were in trouble before attacking again.
At this time, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty had already recruited prisoners with reduced sentences from Sanfu and Taichang Temple, officials from Sanhe, Qingchuan, Peijun, Huaiyang, and Runan counties, knights and Qiang cavalry from Jincheng, Longxi, Tianshui, Anding, Beidi, and Shangjun, as well as troops stationed in the counties of Wuwei, Zhangye, and Jiuquan prefects, a total of 60,000 people.
Xin Wuxian, the prefect of Jiuquan, wrote a memorial saying: The troops of each county are stationed in the south of Qilian Mountain, and the north is empty. This situation will not last long.
Some people say that we will not send troops until autumn and winter. This is the strategy we adopt when the enemy is outside the country.
Now the enemy is harassing them day and night, and the land is cold and barren. The horses of the Han Dynasty cannot spend the winter in Zaobao. There are more than 10,000 horses stationed in Wuwei, Zhangye, and Jiuquan, and most of them are emaciated.
You can increase the horse's feed and carry thirty days of food and grass in early July. At the same time, send troops from Zhangye and Jiuquan to attack the troops of the Han and Kai tribes in the upper reaches of Xianshui.
The enemy regards livestock as their lifeblood and is now dispersed. Our army quickly divides its troops to attack. Even if we cannot kill them all, as long as we seize their livestock, capture their wives and children, retreat and return, and attack again in winter, the enemy will definitely collapse if large forces launch frequent attacks.
The emperor handed this memorial to Zhao Chongguo and asked him to discuss it extensively with the officers and soldiers below the captain who knew the situation of the Qiang people.
Zhao Chongguo and Chang Shi Dong Tongnian believed that Xin Wuxian wanted to lead 10,000 cavalry in two directions from Zhangye, which was a thousand miles away.
Assuming that a horse can carry food for thirty days, it needs to carry two bushels of rice, four bushels of rice, eight bushels of wheat, as well as luggage and weapons. It will be difficult for the horse to chase and run.
By the time they arrived with great difficulty and exhaustion, the enemy must have planned the army's itinerary, gradually retreated, and entered the mountains and forests along the water and grassland.
If we follow the enemy and go deeper, they will occupy the dangerous obstacles in front, guard the fortress behind, and cut off our food routes. This will definitely lead to the danger of casualties, which will be ridiculed by the Yi and Di, and will never be undone.
However, Xin Wuxian believed that he could seize the enemy's livestock and capture their wives and children. This was just an empty talk and not the best strategy.
Wuwei County and Zhangye Rile are both located in northern fortresses, with unobstructed valleys and abundant water and grass.
I am afraid that the Xiongnu and Qiang people have already planned a large-scale invasion. I hope to cut off the roads from Zhangye and Jiuquan to the Western Regions, so that the troops from the two counties will not be able to dispatch.
Xianzerg was the first to rebel, and the other tribes were simply hijacked by it.
Therefore, I have a stupid plan. I plan to ignore the mistakes of the Qiang people and hide them instead of publicizing them. First, I will eliminate them first and then shock them. I should make them repent and pardon their crimes. Then I will select outstanding officials who understand the customs of the Qiang people to appease and unite them. This is the best way to ensure the army's victory.
The emperor handed this memorial to all officials for discussion.
The ministers all believed that Xianling had strong troops and relied on the assistance of Han and Kai. If Han and Kai were not defeated first, Xianling would not be easy to deal with.
The emperor appointed Xu Yanshou, the successful lord of the imperial court, as the general of strong crossbows, and appointed Xin Wuxian, the prefect of Jiuquan, as the general of Po Qiang. He gave him a seal of Shao Shu to commend him for adopting his strategy.
He also wrote a letter blaming Zhao Chongguo, saying:
The emperor sent greetings to the general, who was marching very hard outside.
The general planned to attack Hanqiang in the first month. The Qiang people would have harvested their wheat, moved their wives and children, and assembled an elite force of 10,000 people to invade Jiuquan and Dunhuang.
We have few troops on the border, so farming cannot be carried out unless the people guard and protect it.
Nowadays, a stone of millet in Yishu area of ​​Zhangye costs more than one hundred yuan, and a bundle of hay and straw sells for dozens of yuan.
Transporting grain and grass from place to place added to the trouble for the people.
The general led a large force of more than 10,000 people, and did not take advantage of the convenience of sharing water and grass in autumn to fight for their livestock and food. If the enemy had already accumulated food by winter, most of them relied on dangers to hide in the mountains, and the general's soldiers had their hands and feet cracked by the cold. Wouldn't it still be advantageous?
The general does not care about the expense of the country and plans to defeat the enemy in a few years. Who is a general who would not be happy with this!
现在我已诏令破羌将军辛武贤带兵六千一百人，敦煌太守快带兵二千人，长水校尉富吕、酒泉候冯奉世率领蜡、月氏兵四千人，大概不下一万二千人。

Bring thirty days of food and grass, attack Hanqiang on July 22, enter the bend of the north bank of Xianshui, 800 miles away from Jiuquan and 1,200 miles away from the general.
The general will lead his troops to advance westward from the access road at the same time. Even if they cannot meet up, letting the enemy know that the armies from the east and north are coming together will distract the enemy's fighting spirit and separate their party members. Even if they cannot completely annihilate the enemy, it should still disintegrate them.
I have ordered Zhonglang General Zhao Yin to lead Hu, Yueyin Fei Archers and the Second Infantry School to increase the general's strength.
Now the five stars appear in the east, which will be of great benefit to China, and the barbarians will be defeated.
The Taibai Star appears in a high place, and those who lead troops deep into the field and dare to fight will be lucky, while those who dare not fight will be in danger.
General, hurry up and pack your bags, rely on the weather and attack the injustice, and you will be sure to be foolproof. General, don't have any more doubts.
After Zhao Chongguo received the edict blaming him, he believed that the generals leading troops outside should insist on their opinions according to the situation to stabilize the country.
So he wrote a letter to plead guilty and stated the interests of using troops. He said:
I met privately with the edict that His Majesty had recently given to the Cavalry Commander An Guo, asking him to choose those among the Qiang people who could be sent as envoys to Han Qiang, announcing that the army was about to arrive, and that the Han Dynasty would not kill the Han people in order to disrupt their conspiracy.
The emperor's kindness is extremely profound and cannot be matched by his subordinates.
The ministers privately praised His Majesty for his great virtues and endless ingenuity, so he sent Diaoku, the leader of the Jian Qiang, to publicize the Emperor's great virtues. The tribes of Han and Kai all heard about the wise Shao order.
At present, Yang Yu of Ling Qiang led 4,000 cavalry and 5,000 Jian Gong cavalry. They used mountains, rocks and trees as obstacles, waiting for an opportunity to invade, but Han Qiang did not invade.
Now, putting Xian Ling aside and attacking the Han Qiang first, acquitting the guilty and killing the innocent, causing danger to one side but causing harm to both sides, is really not His Majesty's original plan.
I heard from the Art of War that if the offensive force is insufficient, the defensive force will be more than enough. He also said that those who are good at fighting control others and will not be controlled by others.
Now that Han Qiang wants to invade Dunhuang and Jiuquan, we should rectify weapons and horses, train combat soldiers, and wait for their arrival. This way we can get the tactics to subdue the enemy, and use a recharged army to attack the exhausted enemy. This is the way to win.
Now he is worried that the troops in the two counties are not enough to defend, so he launches them to attack. He abandons the tactics of subduing the enemy and chooses the method of subduing the enemy. The minister foolishly thinks that this is inappropriate.
The enemies of the Xianling Qiang wanted to betray the Han Dynasty, so they made an alliance with the Han Qiang and Kai Qiang to dissolve their former enemies. However, in their hearts they had to be afraid that the Han army would betray them when Houhan and Kai Qiang arrived.
The minister foolishly believed that Xianling Qiang's strategy was often to go to Hanqiang first and open the Qiang's critical situation to strengthen their alliance. If they attacked Hanqiang first, Xianling would definitely come to their aid.
Now that the enemy's horses are fat and their food and grass are plentiful, attacking him will probably not cause any harm to them. This will allow Xian Ling to show kindness to the Han Qiang, allowing them to strengthen their alliance and unite their party members.
If the enemy makes a strong alliance and unites their party members, their elite troops can reach more than 20,000 people. If they coerce other weak tribes, the number of people who will join them will gradually increase, and small tribes like Mosu will not leave easily.
If this is the case, the enemy's strength will gradually increase, and it will take several times the force to kill them. I am afraid that the country's worries and burdens will take ten years to calculate, not two or three years.
The ministers were favored by the emperor, and both father and son were important officials of the court.
The minister's official position reaches Jiuqing. I have reached the rank of lord and am seventy-six years old. I threw my body into a ditch in pursuit of a wise edict. Even though I am immortal, I have nothing to worry about.
I just consider that I am most familiar with the advantages and disadvantages of using troops, so as a minister, I attack the zeros first and then conquer the Han Qiang, Ji Qianqiang and so on without using troops.
After the Ling Qiang was killed, the Han Qiang and Kai Qiang still refused to surrender. They waited until the first month to attack them, which not only had the rationale for using troops, but also the timing of using troops.
It is really not profitable to march at this time, so I hope your Majesty will make a clear decision.
In June, Wushen submitted a memorial, and in July, Emperor Jiayin sealed a letter to Zhao Chongguo telling him to follow his strategy.
Zhao Chongguo led his troops to where Xianling Qiang was.
The enemy had been stationed for a long time and relaxed their vigilance. When they saw the large army, they abandoned their vehicles and baggage and wanted to cross the Huangshui River. The road was narrow, so Zhao Chongguo marched slowly to catch up with the enemy.
Some people say that chasing and winning should be fast, but it is too slow to move forward like this. Zhao Chongguo said: This is the so-called pursuit of poor enemies.
If you pursue slowly, they will run away without looking back; if you pursue them too quickly, they will turn back and fight to the death. All the captains said: OK.
Hundreds of people were drowned by the enemy. More than 500 people surrendered or were beheaded. More than 100,000 horses, cattle and sheep were captured, and more than 4,000 vehicles were captured.
When the army arrived at a place where the Qiang were rare, they were ordered not to burn villages and not to cut grass in the fields for grazing.
After hearing this, the Han and Qiang people said happily: The Han army will not attack us as expected!
The leader Miwang sent someone to say: I hope to return to the original place.
Zhao Chongguo reported this to the emperor, but received no answer.
Mi Wang came to surrender in person, and Zhao Chongguo gave him food and drink and let him go back to inform his people.
The officers below the guard army all argued with Zhao Chongguo about this matter, saying: "This is a traitor and we cannot let him go without permission."
Zhao Chongguo said: You just want to completely comply with the official document and plan for your own sake, not for the sake of loyalty to the country.
Before he finished speaking, the seal came down, ordering Mi Wang to be punished as atonement.
Later, Hanqiang was finally conquered without any troops.
In the autumn of this year, Zhao Chongguo fell ill, and the emperor sent a letter saying: General after issuing the imperial edict: I heard that you are suffering from pain in your legs and feet, and the wind and cold are coming down. The general is old and sick, and I cannot hide the changes. I am very worried about this.
Now Shao ordered General Po Qiang to arrive at the station. As the general's deputy, he quickly took advantage of the favorable weather and the vigor of the officers and soldiers to attack Xianling Qiang in December.
If the condition is serious, you can stay at the station and only send Poqiang and Qiannu generals.
By this time, more than 10,000 Qiang people had surrendered.
Zhao Chongguo considered that the enemy would definitely fail, so he prepared to withdraw his cavalry to garrison the fields to wait for the enemy to be trapped.
Before the memorial was written and reported, the seal requesting the march was received. General Zhao Yin of Zhonglang was frightened, so he sent his disciples to admonish Zhao Chongguo, saying: "Ordering the army to attack will really cause the army to suffer defeat. If the general is killed and the country is in danger of overthrow, it is okay for the general to stand firm."
If it is only based on the relationship between pros and cons, then why should we fight?
Once you do not comply with the emperor's wishes, the emperor sends a censor in embroidered clothes to rebuke the general. The general will not be able to protect himself. How can there be any security for the country?
Zhao Chongguo sighed and said: How disloyal are your words!
If you had listened to my words, could the Qiang enemy be in such a situation?
In the past, I recommended people who could patrol the Qiang people first, but I recommended Xin Wuxian. The prime minister and censor asked the emperor to send Yiqu to stabilize the country, but the plan to defeat the Qiang was ruined.
The dendrobium grains in Jincheng and Huangzhong were sold for eight cents each. I told Geng Zhongcheng that as long as I bought two million dendrobium grains, the Qiang people would not dare to do anything rashly.
Geng Zhongcheng asked to buy one million dendrobium, but in the end he only got 400,000 dendrobium.
Yiqu spent nearly half of his time on two missions.
After making two mistakes, the Qiang people dared to rebel.
A slight error, a thousand miles difference, has become a fact.
Nowadays, the war is going on for a long time and cannot be ended. If the barbarians from all over the world suddenly launch an uprising and take advantage of the opportunity, even the most resourceful people will not be able to deal with the aftermath well. After all, only the Qiang people need to worry!
I am determined to die to defend it. A wise monarch can give loyal advice.
So he submitted a memorial to the garrison and said:
I have heard that the army is used to demonstrate morality and punish evil. Therefore, when victory is achieved with troops, blessings will appear on the inside. Therefore, we must be cautious in doing so.
The food and grass for the officers, soldiers, horses, and oxen led by the minister requires 199,630 hu of grain, 1,693 hu of salt, and 250,286 shi of hay and straw in a month.
As long as the war cannot be lifted, the corvee will not stop.
They are also afraid that other barbarians and Di will suddenly have unforeseen events, which will happen together and become a worry for the Mingjun. This is really not a strategy that the imperial court has formulated in the past to defeat the enemy.
Moreover, the Qiang enemy is easy to defeat with tactics but difficult to crush with force, so I think it is unfavorable to attack.
It is estimated that from Linqiang to Haodian in the east, the old fields and public fields of Qiang enemies, and the land that has not been cultivated by the common people, can reach more than two thousand hectares, and most of the post stations in the middle are ruined and dilapidated.
Not long ago, my subordinates sent soldiers into the mountains, cut down more than 60,000 large and small trees, and placed them near the water.
The minister hopes to withdraw the cavalry, leaving behind commuted prisoners and conscripted soldiers, as well as infantrymen from Huaiyang and Runan, and personal entourage of officers and soldiers. There are 10,281 people in total, with 27,363 hu of grain and 308 hu of salt per month, stationed in key places.
Once the ice melts, the wood can be transported down, the post station can be repaired, the ditches can be dredged, and the seventy bridges on the road west of Huanghou can be repaired so that they can lead to fresh water.
After farming begins, each person can be granted twenty acres of land.
When the pasture grows in April, a thousand strong men each from the county cavalry and the barbarian cavalry from the tribes they belong to are recruited, with two-tenths of the auxiliary horses, to graze the grass and serve as a patrol for the people cultivating the fields.
Using the income from farming to enrich Jincheng County and increase savings can save a lot of money.
Now the grain brought by Da Sinong is enough to feed ten thousand people for a year.
I would like to submit the location of the farm and the account books of the equipment and supplies required, hoping that your Majesty will approve it.
The emperor wrote back and said: The emperor greets the general, you said that the retreating cavalry will leave 10,000 people to farm. If we follow the general's plan, when will the enemy be wiped out and the war be resolved?
Please consider its convenience carefully before reporting back to me.
Zhao Chongguo reported the situation and said:
I have heard that the emperor's army wins by being able to protect itself, so it attaches great importance to strategy and despises war.
Being able to win every battle is not the best, so we must first prevent the enemy from defeating us and then wait for the opportunity to defeat the enemy.
Although the customs of the barbarians are different from those of the countries of etiquette and justice, they are all the same in terms of seeking advantages and avoiding disadvantages, loving relatives, and fearing death.
Now that the enemy has lost its fertile land and lush grasslands, they are worried about living in a foreign land, far away from their homeland, separated from their flesh and blood, and everyone has a heart of betrayal. At this time, the wise monarch has withdrawn his troops and left tens of thousands of people to work in the fields. This is to follow the weather and take advantage of the geographical advantages to wait for the opportunity to defeat the enemy. Even if the enemy does not immediately avenge his crime, the war can be resolved within a year.
The Qiang enemy was disintegrated, and more than 10,700 people surrendered. There were also 70 groups who accepted my persuasion and left. These are the details of waiting for the Qiang enemy to be disbanded.
I would like to list twelve advantages of not sending out troops but staying in the fields.
The ninth infantry school, with a total of ten thousand officers and soldiers, stayed in the fields as an armed defense, relied on the fields to harvest grain, and exercised martial power and benevolence at the same time. This is the first point.
They also took the opportunity to crowd out the Qiang enemies and frustrate them, preventing them from returning to fertile areas. Due to poverty, they could not unite, and gradually formed a situation where the Qiang enemies rebelled against each other. This is the second point.
The third point is that local residents can farm together with the soldiers who are stationed in the fields, without hindering the farmers' business.
A month's supply of food and fodder for the army and horses is estimated to be enough for the soldiers stationed in the fields for a year. Withdrawing the cavalry can save a lot of money. This is the fourth point.
In the spring, armed soldiers were inspected and grains were transported along the Yellow River and Huangshui River to the Qiang. This showed the Qiang enemies that vigorous use of force was a method that could be passed on to future generations to resist invasion. This is the fifth point. Use your free time to transport the felled trees to renovate the inn and enrich the golden city. This is the sixth point.
The army goes out to attack and takes risks to achieve victory by chance. If the army does not attack, the rebellious enemy will flee to the wind, frost and cold land, suffering from frostbite, frostbite and broken fingers. Sitting still can achieve the point of victory. This is the seventh point.
There is no danger of death or injury caused by dangers and long-distance pursuits. This is the eighth point.
Do not damage the country's mighty image internally, and do not allow the enemy to take advantage of it externally. This is the ninth point.
It also did not disturb the Dakai and Xiaokai Qiang people south of the Yellow River, causing them to cause trouble. This is the tenth point.
The bridge on the middle road in Huanghou was built so that it could reach Xianshui, so as to control the Western Region and spread its power thousands of miles. Marching is as easy as crossing a pillow mat. This is the eleventh point.
Huge expenses have been saved, and the people can be exempted from corvee and used to be wary of unexpected events. This is the twelfth point.
You can get twelve benefits by staying in the field, but you will lose these twelve benefits by sending troops.
Your Majesty, Zhao Chongguo, has low talents, is old and frail, and does not understand long-term strategies. I hope that your Majesty will order the ministers to discuss your words extensively and carefully, and then choose to adopt them.
The emperor sent another letter and replied: The emperor greets the general, I already know the twelve benefits you mentioned.
Although the enemy has not been eliminated, it is expected that the war will be over within a year. Just one year, does it mean this winter, or some other time?
Doesn't the general consider that the enemy knows that after withdrawing a large number of troops, he will gather strong men to attack the people who are harassing the farmers and the soldiers stationed on the road, and will burn, kill and plunder the people again? What will he do to stop the enemy?
In addition, Dakai and Xiaokai Qiang had previously said: We reported the location of Xianling to the Han army. If the Han army did not go to attack and stayed behind for a long time, would they attack us together without distinguishing between them in the fifth year of Benshi?
There is always fear in their hearts.
Now that the army is not dispatched, will something happen to them and become one with Xian Ling?
I hope the general will consider it carefully before reporting.
Zhao Chongguo said:
I have heard that strategy is the basis of military use, so those who have more strategies will defeat those who have less strategies.
The elite troops of the Xianling Qiang now have no more than seven or eight thousand people left. They have lost their land and are living in distant places. They are falling apart and suffering from hunger and cold. The Han, Kai, and Mosu Qiang often rob their elderly and weak people, livestock, and property. There is an endless stream of people who rebel and surrender. They all know that the emperor has made it clear that those who capture and kill each other will be rewarded.
I believe that we can wait for months to defeat the enemy, and it will be next spring at the latest. Therefore, the war can be resolved within a year.
I saw that in the north, which is more than 11,500 miles from Dunhuang to Liaodong, there are only a few thousand officers and soldiers guarding the fortresses and beacon towers along the border. The enemy has repeatedly used large forces to attack, but to no avail.
Now there are 10,000 infantry soldiers left to work in the fields. The terrain is quite flat, and there are many high mountains for the convenience of distant views, so that the various troops can protect each other. They build Haogou barriers and watchtowers. The forts are continuously connected with each other. Weapons, swords and crossbows are prepared, and war equipment is refurbished.
When the beacon fire is launched, the troops are in sync with each other, the strength is concentrated, and people are at ease waiting for work. This is a favorable condition for the use of troops.
The minister believes that farming has the advantage of not spending military expenses internally, and it also provides preparations for defensive resistance externally.
Even if the cavalry is withdrawn, if the enemy sees that 10,000 people are left in garrison as a necessary measure to capture the enemy, it will not be long before they collapse and surrender to the court.
It will not be more than three months from now. The enemy's horses are weak and they will not dare to leave their wives and children among other tribes and travel long distances across mountains and rivers to invade.
He also saw that there were 10,000 elite soldiers stationed in the field, and in the end they did not dare to return to the old place with their wives and children.
This strategy of my ministers is based on the expectation that the enemy will collapse on the spot and be defeated without fighting.
As for the enemy's invasion by small groups and killing people from time to time, this cannot be completely prohibited in the first place.
I have heard that if the war cannot be won with certainty, do not engage in casual combat; if the attack cannot guarantee victory, do not mobilize large numbers of troops.
If we really order the troops to attack, even if they cannot eliminate Xian Zero, if they can prevent the enemy from carrying out small-scale invasions, then it is okay to send troops.
Now it is also impossible to prohibit the enemy from invading on a small scale, and then give up the method of waiting for victory and take risks. Going forward will not be beneficial in the end, but it will make the internal empty and exhaust yourself, reduce the strength and deplete yourself. This is not a good way to demonstrate to the barbarians.
In addition, once the soldiers attack, they cannot stay when they come back, but the Huangzhong area has to defend. If this happens, the corvee will have to be requisitioned again.
Moreover, the Xiongnu could not help but be on guard, and the Wuhuan could not help but worry.
At present, long-term transportation costs a lot, and I think it is inappropriate to use up the country's war preparation savings to supply one place.
The school captain Lin Zhong was fortunate enough to be able to uphold his mighty virtue, carry abundant money, appease various Qiang tribes, and issue edicts. The Qiang people should all follow the instructions.
Even if they said some time ago, will it be like the first five years? , and there should be no other ideas. It is not worth sending troops for this reason.
I thought privately, followed the imperial edict, went out to the fortress, led an expedition, exhausted the emperor's elite troops, and scattered the chariots, horses, and weapons in the mountains and fields. Even if there was no merit, I could still get the benefit of avoiding suspicion, and there would be no subsequent fault or punishment. This would only be beneficial to the ministers who were not loyal to their duties, but not beneficial to the emperor or the country.
I am fortunate enough to be able to lead elite troops to fight against injustice, but I have delayed God's punishment for the enemy for a long time. I deserve death.
Your Majesty is merciful and merciful, and cannot bear to kill me, so I have been able to consider it carefully several times.
Now that my plan has been formulated, I dare not avoid the punishment of axes and cymbals, risking my life to state my foolish opinions, and hope that your majesty will understand clearly.
Every time Zhao Chongguo's memorial was reported, it would be handed over to the ministers for discussion.
Three out of ten people agreed with Zhao Chongguo's strategy at the beginning, five out of ten in the middle, and eight out of ten in the end.
Emperor Shao questioned those who had previously said that Zhao Chongguo's strategy was not good, and they all kowtowed and admitted their mistakes.
Prime Minister Wei Xiang said: I am stupid and do not understand the military interests. The general made military strategies several times, and what he said was always correct. I guarantee that his strategies will be feasible.
Emperor Xuan then wrote back to Zhao Chongguo and said: The emperor greets the general, you wrote a letter explaining how the Qiang enemy can be defeated. Now listen to the general. The general's strategy is good.
Please report to me the number of men and horses left behind in the fields and those who should be withdrawn.
General, please eat more, use troops, be kind and take care of yourself!
Because the two generals Po Qiang and Qiannu said many times that they should attack, and because Zhao Chongguo's farming areas were scattered and he was afraid of being invaded by the enemy, he adopted their two strategies at the same time and ordered the two generals and Zhonglang General Zhao Yin to send troops to attack the enemy.
General Qiangnu's troops attacked and surrendered more than 4,000 enemies. General Poqiang sent troops to kill 2,000 enemies. General Zhao Yin of Zhonglang also killed more than 2,000 enemies and captured more than 2,000 enemies. Zhao Chongguo captured more than 5,000 people.
The imperial edict ordered the troops to withdraw, leaving only Zhao Chongguo to farm.
In May of the following year, Zhao Chongguo reported: The Qiang people originally had an army of about 50,000 people. A total of 7,600 people were killed, 31,200 people surrendered, and 5,000 or 6,000 people drowned in the Yellow River and Huangshui River or died of starvation. In the end, it is estimated that no more than 4,000 people escaped and fled with Jian Gong and Huang Qiang.
Qiang Miwang and others ordered themselves to capture them and requested that the troops stationed in the field be withdrawn.
The memorial was approved, and Zhao Chongguo reorganized his army and returned.
Zhao Chongguo's friend Hao Xingci greeted him and persuaded him: Everyone thought that the two generals Poqiang and Qiannu sent troops to attack the enemy, killed a large number of them and surrendered, so that the enemy was eliminated.
But knowledgeable people believe that the enemy is extremely weak, and even if the army does not attack, the enemy will surely surrender on its own.
If the general sees the emperor, it should be attributed to the attack of the two generals, saying that the two generals are not comparable to the ministers.
If this is the case, the general's plan is not at fault.
Zhao Chongguo said: I am old and my title has reached its peak. How can I still deceive the wise monarch because of my temporary merits to avoid suspicion?
The military situation is a major national event and should be imitated by future generations.
If the old minister does not clearly tell His Majesty the stakes of using the army during his lifetime, who can tell him again if he suddenly dies?
Finally, he dealt with the emperor according to his own opinions.
The emperor agreed to his plan, dismissed and sent Xin Wuxian back to his post as prefect of Jiuquan, and Zhao Chongguo was appointed as the rear general and guard.
In the autumn of that year, the Qiang people Ruoling, Liliu, Qizhong, and Erku killed the Xianling leaders Youfei and Yang Yu, and together with other leaders Di Ze, Yang Diao, Liang'er, and Mi Wang, they led more than 4,000 people from the Jiangong and Huanghuang tribes to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Ruo Ling and Di Ze were named Shuai Wang, Liliu and Qizhong were named Marquis, Erku was named Lord, Yang Diao was named Yan Binghou, Liang Er was named Lord, and Mi Wang was named Xian Niu Lord.
Wen Shi set up the Jincheng vassal state to arrange the surrender of the Qiang people.
Shaoling elected people who could serve as captains to protect the Qiang. At this time, Zhao Chongguo fell ill, and all the four prefectures recommended Xin Wuxian's younger brother Xin Tang.
Zhao Chongguo got up in a hurry and reported: "Xin Tang is drunk and cannot be in charge of barbarian affairs. It is better to send Xin Tang's brother Xin Linzhong."
At that time, Xin Tang had already accepted Fu Jie and issued an edict to change his position to Xin Linzhong.
Later, Xin Linzhong was dismissed from office due to illness, and the Five Governments again recommended Xin Tang. Xin Tang often got drunk and cursed the Qiang people, so the Qiang people rebelled, and finally agreed to what Zhao Chongguo said.
At first, Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian often chatted with Zhao Yin, the Zhonglang general in the army. Zhao Yin said: Chariot general Zhang Anshi was not in line with Emperor Xuan's wishes at the beginning, and Emperor Xuan wanted to kill him. My general believed that Zhang Anshi had served Emperor Xiaowu for decades with a book bag in his hand and a brush in his hair. He was recognized as loyal and prudent, so he should be preserved.
Zhang Anshi was able to avoid death because of this.
When Zhao Chongguo came back and discussed military affairs with the emperor, Xin Wuxian was dismissed from office and returned to his original post. Feeling deeply resentful, he wrote a letter to sue Zhao Yin for leaking what was said in the palace.
Zhao Yin violated the ban and entered Sima Zhong, the shogunate of Zhao Chongguo, and disrupted the military regulations. He was sent to a judge for trial. He committed suicide.
Zhao Chongguo asked for retirement and was given a four-horse carriage, sixty pounds of gold, and was relieved of his duties and returned home.
Whenever there was a major discussion about Sebari, the imperial court often invited him to participate in military planning and asked him about plans and strategies.
He died at the age of eighty-six, two years after Ganlu died, and was given the title Zhuanghou.
The title was passed from his son to his grandson Zhao Qin, who married Princess Jingwu.
The princess had no son, so she asked Zhao Qin's husband Xi to pretend that she was pregnant, but in fact she was someone else's son.
Zhao Qin died, his son Zhao Cen succeeded to the throne, and Xi became the dowager.
Zhao Cen's biological parents had no end to their demands for money, so they resentfully reported on each other.
Zhao Cen was exempted from his title and fiefdom because he was not his biological son.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the descendants of the heroes were reborn and Zhao Ji, the great-grandson of Zhao Chongguo, was granted the title of Yinghuhou.
At the beginning, Zhao Chongguo painted his portrait in Weiyang Palace because his merits and virtues were comparable to Huo Guang's.
When he became emperor, there was an alarm in Xiqiang. The emperor missed the generals and ministers, commemorated and praised Zhao Chongguo, so he summoned Yang Xiong, a man from Huangmen, to write a eulogy next to Zhao Chongguo's portrait:
In the era of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty who was wise and holy, there were Xianling in Rong and Di.
Xian Ling was rampant and invaded the western frontier of the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty appointed only valiant ministers, including the Hou General. He led the six divisions of the Han Dynasty to attack the rebels, causing a great earthquake in the world.
After arriving in the Qiang region, Xiao Yiwei was so powerful that some governors were greedy for credit and said that he could not win.
Asking for orders to lead the army to Hanqiang, the emperor ordered Zhao Chongguo to follow the army to the north bank of Xianshui.
The strong marquis of Yingping adhered to his integrity and played seal seals several times. He expected the enemy to be as confident as possible in winning, and no one dared to stop him with his wisdom and courage.
Finally defeated Xirong and returned to the capital. The ghosts surrendered, and no tribe did not come to see him.
In the past, when King Xuan of the Western Zhou Dynasty came, there were Fang Shu and Shao Hu. The poets sang their praises and were listed in Daya.
The Han Dynasty was revived, Zhao Chongguo showed his power and majesty, and Uncle Fang Shao Hu had a successor.
Zhao Lichong was promoted to the post general and was moved to Zhuduo.
Seven years had passed since Xin Wuzhi returned from the mission and led troops. He was re-appointed as the general of Po Qiang. He conquered Wusun and arrived at Dunhuang. He did not go out again. He died of illness before the emperor summoned him.
His son Xin Qingji was appointed as the highest official.
Xin Qingji, given the courtesy name Zizhen, was appointed Youxiaocheng when he was young because of his father's relationship. He followed Changluo Hou Changhui to farm in Wusun Chigu City, fought with Shehou, and charged into battle to repel the enemy.
Chang Hui reported his achievements and was promoted to the rank of Shilang. He was promoted to the rank of captain and led the officers and soldiers to station in the Yanqi Kingdom.
After returning, he was appointed as a visitor, but he was not well-known yet.
In the early years of the Yuan Dynasty, he was appointed as the chief historian of Jincheng, was recommended as Maocai, and was promoted to the rank of doctor, chariot and cavalry general. There were many people in the court who valued him. Later, he was appointed as a school captain, promoted to the governor of Zhangye, and moved to Jiuquan. The places he passed became famous.
At the beginning of his reign, Xin Qingji was recruited and appointed as Doctor Guanglu. He was promoted to Zuocao Zhonglang general until he held Jinwu.
Originally there was a conflict between Xin Wuxian and Zhao Chongguo, and later someone in Zhao Chong's state was killed. When Xin's family died in Xinqing, the official was Zhijinwu. Because his son committed a crime by killing the Zhao family, he was demoted to the prefect of Jiuquan.
More than a year later, General Wang Huang recommended Xin Qingji. He had made outstanding achievements as an official in the two counties. After being recruited to the imperial court, he held various palace positions. No one distrusted and admired him.
His character, integrity, kindness and courage are deeply loved by everyone. Moreover, he is proficient in military affairs, understands strategy, has great prestige, and can serve as the pillar of the country.
His father, Poqiang general Xin Wuxian, was very famous in the previous generation and was powerful in Western Yi.
Your Majesty Wang Feng should not stay in Xin Qingji's position for a long time.
So Xin Qingji was recruited again and appointed as Guanglu Doctor and Zhijinwu.
A few years later, he was demoted to Yunzhong Prefect for committing a minor crime, and was later re-recruited as Guang Luxun.
At that time, there were many disasters and mutations. Prime Minister Sizhi He Wufeng wrote in a book: Due to the strange palace in Yu State, Duke Xiang of Jin could not sleep; when Wei Qing was on the throne, the King of Huainan had to stop his conspiracy.
Therefore, when a wise person is in the court, he can defeat the conspiracy, make the enemy more difficult, and defeat the enemy invisible.
"Sima Law" says: Even if the world is stable, it will be very dangerous if war is forgotten. If generals do not make arrangements in advance, they will not be able to cope with sudden difficulties; if soldiers are not strictly trained in peacetime, they cannot be allowed to fight the enemy to death.
Therefore, the late emperor established the official positions of various generals, with close relatives in charge of the internal affairs, and people with foreign surnames in charge of the external affairs. Therefore, evil and evil behaviors cannot sprout and be destroyed. This is really a long-term solution for all generations.
Guang Luxun Xin Qingji practiced benevolence and righteousness and followed the right path. He was gentle, perseverant, honest, generous, and far-sighted.
In the past, in the border counties, Yi and Di knew that they had defeated and captured enemies several times.
Some very weird things have appeared some time ago, but they have not been confirmed.
In addition, there has been no military service for a long time.
"Spring and Autumn" says that great disasters must be prepared before they happen in the future, and it is advisable to occupy the position of a military general in order to prepare for unexpected events.
After that, Xin Qingji was promoted to the right general, and the officials were sent to Shizhong. More than a year later, he was transferred to the left general.
Xin Qingji usually behaved respectfully and modestly, and was particularly frugal in food and clothing, but he was fond of carriages and horses, and his signs were very eye-catching. This was the only luxury.
As a brave minister of the country, when the world was at peace, the Xiongnu and the Western Regions closely attached themselves to him and respected his prestige.
The eldest son Xin Tong was dismissed from office due to old age, and his eldest son Xin Tong was appointed as the captain of the Huqiang School. His second son Xin Zun was appointed as the captain of Hangu Pass.
There are more than ten relatives from the side branches of the clan who are worth two thousand shi.
During the Yuanshi period, Prince Mang of Anhan controlled the government. Seeing that Xin Qingji was accomplished by General Wang Feng and that his three sons were very capable, he wanted to be close to him and treat him favorably.
At this time, Wang Mang had just established his authority and appointed Zhen Feng and Zhen Han to help him. Zhen Feng and Zhen Han were newly prominent and their power shocked the court.
Xin Mao, the captain of Shuiheng, thought that he was the descendant of a famous official. Since his brothers were both in high positions, it would not be difficult for him to serve his two wives.
Emperor Ping was young at that time, and his maternal grandfather's Wei family could not live in the capital. Brother Xinci, the eldest son of Xintong, the captain of the Qiang Guard, was usually very close to Emperor Ping's cousin Wei Zibo. Both of them had a knight-errant demeanor and had many guests.
When Lu Kuan's incident happened, Wang Mang killed the Wei family.
The two princes falsely accused the Xin brothers of secretly colluding with Wei Zibo and plotting to betray their kindness and dissatisfy Duke Anhan.
So Si Zhi, Chen Chong, reported that the Xin clan, Longxi Xinxing and others, violated and bullied the common people and were domineering in the prefectures and counties.
Wang Mang examined Xin Tong and his son, Xin Zun, Xin Mao brothers, and Xin Bo, the governor of Nanjun, and killed them all.
As a result, the Xin family declined.
Xin Qingji was originally from Didao County. After becoming a general, he moved to Changling.
After Changling was revoked, he stayed in Chang'an.
Zan said: Since the Qin and Han Dynasties, prime ministers have always appeared from Yishu on Mount Tai, and generals have often appeared from the west of Mount Tai.
General Bai Qi of the Qin Dynasty was from the county; Wang Jian was from Pinyang.
Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, Wang Wei and Gan Yanshou of Yuzhi, Gongsun He and Fu Jiezi of Yiqu, Li Guang and Li Cai of Chengji, Su Jian and Su Wu of Duling, Shangguan Jie and Zhao Chongguo of Shangbang, Lian Bao of Xiangwu, Xin Wuxian and Xin Qingji of Didao are all famous for their bravery and might.
Su and Xin father and son are both known for their integrity. This is something they can praise, and the rest are countless.
why is that?
Tianshui, Longxi, Anding, Beidi and other places to the west of Mount Tai are very close to the Qiang and Hu people. The folk customs teach armed war preparation and advocate bravery, horseback riding and archery.
Therefore, there is a "Qin Poetry" that says: If the king wants to fight, he will prepare his armor and weapons and go out with you.
It can be seen that their customs have been like this since ancient times. Today's songs sound impassioned, but the old style of singing is still there.
