Tang Tan's biography, Tang Tan's courtesy name is Zichan, a native of Nanchang, Yuzhang.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue and studied "Jing's Yi", "Han Shi", and "Yan's Spring and Autumn". He was especially interested in astrology of disasters and aliens.
Later, when he returned to his hometown, he often taught more than a hundred students.
In the seventh year of the Yuan Dynasty, there was Zhicao growing in the county boundary. The prefect Liu Yu wanted to speak up and asked Tan for his opinion.
Tan replied: Currently, my relatives are powerful and my Yang Dao is weak. Is this a good sign?
Liu Yue stopped reporting.
In the first year of Yongning, a woman in Nanchang gave birth to four children. Liu Yu asked Tang Tan what the mutation was.
Tan believed that the capital should have military strength, but the disaster occurred within the imperial court. In the fourth year of Yanguang, Sun Cheng of the Zhonghuang Gate raised his troops in the palace province, killed the queen's brother, the cavalry general Yan Xian, and others, and established King Jiyin as the crown prince. As expected, it was as he had occupied.
In the fifth year of Yongjian's reign, Tang Tan was promoted to Xiaolian and was promoted to doctor.
At this time, a white rainbow appeared in the sky and penetrated the sun. He wrote three things and stated its fault.
According to the memorial, he abandoned his official position and left.
He wrote twenty-eight chapters called "Tang Zi".
Died at home.
Gongshamu's biography, Gongshamu's courtesy name Wengui, was from Jiaodong, Beihai.
The family is poor and humble. Ever since he was a child, he has not been fond of teasing and playing. When he was older, he studied "Han Shi" and "Gongyang Chunqiu", and especially liked to delve into the magic of "He Luo" to push the steps.
He lived in the built mountains, built a house near the woods, and stayed alone without any companions.
At this time, there was a strong storm and thunder, and there were voices calling Mu many times outside, but Mu refused to answer him.
After a while, the shouter came in through the window, and the shape of the voice was very strange, but Gongshamu recited his sutra as usual, and in the end there was no other strange thing, which made people feel strange at the time.
Later, he lived in seclusion in Donglai Mountain, and students came from afar.
There was a rich man, Wang Zhong, who had a family worth thousands of gold.
He said to Mu: In today's era, wealth naturally prevails. How about I give you a million dollars as capital?
He replied: The intention is very good, but wealth has its own destiny, and getting it requires life. I can't bear to use wealth to seek a position.
Gongshamu was later promoted to the title of Xiaolian, and because Gao Di was in charge, he was promoted to the prime minister of Zeng County.
At this time, Marquis Liu Chang, a descendant of Prince Gong of the East China Sea, did many illegal things. He abolished his legitimate son and established a concubine. He was arrogant and wanton.
After Mu reached the official position, he said during his audience: When I first received orders, people in the capital all said to me: There is an evil prince in Zan.
Come and worry about me, why does Minghou have such an ugly reputation?
Fortunately, he inherited the branches of his ancestors and inherited the importance of the soil. He was not wary and cautious, but violated the legal system, so he was supplemented by imperial envoys.
I hope Minghou will change the mistakes of the past, repair the future, and seek happiness for himself.
So the superiors confiscated the land that had been occupied by officials and people, deposed his concubine, and established his legitimate son as his heir.
Their Cangtouer guest broke the law and was arrested and interrogated.
He also bitterly remonstrated with Liu Chang. Chang wept and thanked him, and listened more to his advice.
Later it was promoted to Hongnong Order.
There are borers eating crops in the county boundary, and the people are very scared.
Gong Shamu then set up an altar to thank him and said: "The people have made mistakes, and Mu's guilt is the root cause. Please pray with yourself."
So there was a heavy rain. After the rain stopped, the borers died on their own, and the people called them gods. In the first year of Yongshou, there was a heavy rain and the floods surged, and all areas east of Sanfu were submerged.
Gongshamu knew how to divination, so he warned the people to move to high ground, so the Hongnong people were spared.
Later, he was moved to the position of captain of the vassal state of Liaodong, and he was very popular with the officials and the people.
He died in office at the age of sixty-six.
All six sons are famous.
Xu Manzhuan, Xu Man was from Pingyu, Runan.
My grandfather, Xu Jun, also known as Jishan, was good at divination and had many obvious effects. At that time, people compared him to Jingfang in his previous life.
He said that he had suffered a serious illness when he was young and had not been cured for three years, so he visited Mount Tai to ask for blessings from the gods. On the way, he met Taoist priest Zhang Jujun and taught him alchemy.
His book "Yi Lin" is still popular in the world today.
Xu Man inherited his grandfather's business when he was young.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, Feng Zui, the prefect of Longxi, began to pay homage to the county. When he opened his ribbon, two red snakes escaped in the north and south.
Kui was called Xu Manzhi, and the hexagram was completed. Xu Man said: Three years later, you will be appointed as a border general, with an official name of Dongming, and you will travel three thousand miles northeast.
In another five years, he will become a general and march south.
In the first year of Yanxi, Feng Nui came out as the governor of Liaodong to attack Xianbei. In the fifth year, he became a general of chariots and cavalry, and attacked Wuling barbarians, just as the divination said, and many other similar things.
Zhao Yanchuan, Zhao Yan, was from Langyi.
When I was young, I had some skills.
In the third year of Yanxi's reign, Langfu thief Lao Bing and Taishan thief Shusun Wuji killed the captain, captured Langfu County, and killed the officials and people.
The imperial court sent Nanyang Zongzi to serve as the general of Lang and Zhang Yue in the battle against the invaders, to urge the prefectures and counties to jointly attack Wuji.
Zhao Yan explained to him the method of "Gu Xu". He believed that the thieves were stationed in Ju and that there was a land of Wuyang in Ju. The soldiers of Wuyang County should be mobilized to attack Guxu.
Zongzi reported the situation and issued an edict to send Wuyang soldiers.
Zhao Yan pushed Dunjia and taught them to advance at the right time. They defeated the traitors in one battle and burned their camps. Xuzhou and Yanzhou temporarily pacified the barbarians.
Fan Zhi Zhang Chuan, Fan Zhi Zhang, was born in Nanzheng, Hanzhong.
He is learned and versatile, and lives in seclusion without being an official.
He once traveled to Longxi and was sent by Qiang general Duan Zhen to conquer the Western Qiang. He asked to see Zhi Zhang.
That night, the Qiang army was surrounded by several layers of Qiang people, so Fan Zhizhang stayed in the army and was not allowed to go out for three days.
In the evening Fan said to Fan: There are no Qiang people in the southeast corner. We should take advantage of the situation and live a hundred miles away. If we return to attack, we can win a complete victory.
Duan Yu obeyed and defeated the traitor.
So I heard about the situation.
He also said that Fan Zhizhang was a man with the knowledge of Zi Shen, Jiao Yanshou and Dong Zhongshu, so he should assist the Holy Dynasty and consult on some strange phenomena.
So there was a special edict, and Fan died of illness.
Shan Yang's biography, Shan Yang's courtesy name is Wuxuan, a native of Shanyang Hulu.
He lives a lonely and independent life, and knows how to be a heavenly official and arithmetic.
He was promoted to Xiaolian and soon promoted to Taishi Ling and Shizhong.
He became the prefect of Hanzhong and was dismissed due to official duties.
Later, he became a minister and died in office.
At first, in the last years of Xiping, Huanglong appeared in Qiao. Qiao Xuan, the doctor of Guanglu, asked Shan Yang: What auspicious sign is this?
Yang said: The country should have a king rise up.
In less than fifty years, the dragon will reappear. This is the fulfillment.
Yin Deng, a native of Wei County, secretly wrote it down.
In the spring of the 25th year of Jian'an, Huanglong appeared in Qiao again. In the winter of this year, Wei accepted the abdication.
Han Shuozhuan, whose courtesy name was Shuru, was from Shanyin in Kuaiji.
He has extensive knowledge of the Five Classics, and is particularly good at the study of graphs and latitudes.
He was promoted as Xiaolian.
He is a good friend with Yilang Cai Yong.
Reports of disasters and disasters were reported many times, as well as poems, odes and renditions of poems.
Soon he was promoted to servant.
In the tenth month of the first year of Guanghe, Han Shuo told Emperor Ling that there would be a solar eclipse on the 30th day of the month, and asked all the officials to prepare carefully and wait for it.
The emperor obeyed, and it was just as he said.
In February of the second year of Zhongping, he went to the imperial court again, saying that there was a disaster in the palace.
On that day, there was a big fire in Nangong.
He was promoted to the governor of Jiangxia, and was dismissed due to official business. He died at home at the age of seventy.
Dong Fuzhuan, whose courtesy name is Mao'an, was born in Mianzhu, Guanghan.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue. He was as famous as Ren An, a fellow countryman, and both studied prophecy with Yang Hou from the same county.
I teach at home, and students come from far away.
He was called up ten times by the Zaifu before and after him, and three times by public transport. He was promoted to be a virtuous and upright man, a doctor, and a wise man, but he was still ill.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, the general He Jin recommended Dong Fu and made him a servant, and he held him in high esteem.
Dong Fu privately said to Taichang Liu Yan: There will be chaos in the capital, and there is an emperor's spirit in Yizhou.
Liu Yan believed what he said, so he asked to be the shepherd of Yizhou. Dong Fu was also made the captain of the vassal state of Shu County and went to Shu together.
A year after he left, the emperor died and the world was in chaos, so he left his official position and returned home.
Died at the age of eighty-two.
Later Liu Bei said that the emperor was in Shu, which was exactly what Dong Fu said.
Zhuge Liang, Prime Minister of Shu, asked Guanghan Qin Mi Dong Fu and Ren An who they were.
Qin Mi said: Dong Fu rewards small good deeds and demeans small bad deeds.
Ren'an remembers people's good points and forgets their faults.
Guo Yuzhuan, Guo Yu, was born in Luo, Guanghan.
At first, there was an old man who came from nowhere and often fished in Fu River. Everyone called him Fu Weng.
The old man often begged people for food. When he met a sick person, he would use needles and stones to treat them, which would produce immediate results. Later, he wrote "Acupuncture Classic" and "Pulse Diagnosis Method" and passed them on to future generations.
The student Cheng Gao had followed his teacher for many years before the old man taught him the book.
Cheng Gao also lived in seclusion and did not serve as an official.
When Guo Yu was young, he worshiped Cheng Gao as his teacher and learned the skills of diagnosing the six subtleties and the method of calculating yin and yang.
During the reign of Emperor He, he became the imperial physician and was very effective in treating diseases.
The emperor felt strange. Once, a favored minister with beautiful arms and a woman were asked to hide in the tent, each stretched out a hand, and asked Guo Yu to diagnose his pulse and ask what disease he had.
Guo Yu said: There is yang on the left and yin on the right. The pulses are male and female. It looks like a strange person. I suspect there must be a reason.
The emperor sighed and praised him well.
Guo Yu was kind-hearted and not arrogant. Even when he was treating poor and humble servants, he would do his best, but when treating noble people, sometimes it would not be effective.
The emperor asked the nobleman to wear ragged clothes to see a doctor, and the disease was cured with just one injection.
The emperor called Guo Yu and asked him the reason. Guo Yu said: Medicine is meaning.
The texture of the skin is very fine, so use it skillfully, and there won't be any mistakes between needles and stones.
When I treat a disease, I concentrate my energy between my heart and my hands. I can relieve the pain but cannot explain the reason.
Those wealthy people in a high position asked me to treat their illnesses. I accepted the task with fear.
There are four difficulties in treating diseases in this way: the patient makes his own decisions and does not listen to my instructions, which is the first difficulty; the patient does not pay attention to taking care of the body, which is the second difficulty; the patient's joints are not strong and cannot make the medicine effective, which is the third difficulty; the patient is inactive and hates work, which is the fourth difficulty.
The needle is measured, and sometimes there will be some errors. In addition, I am afraid and cautious. My thoughts are not fully in place. How can I concentrate on the condition?
This is why the disease cannot be cured.
The emperor thought his words made sense.
Guo Yu was old and died while serving as the imperial physician.
Hua Tuo's biography, Hua Tuo, Ziyuanhua, was a native of Pei State. Also known as Fufang.
He traveled and studied in Xuzhou and became proficient in several scriptures.
He knew how to cultivate his mind and nature, and he still had the appearance of a man in his fifties. At that time, people thought he was a god.
Chen Wanggui, the Prime Minister of Pei State, recommended him as Xiaolian, and Taiwei Huang Wan also recommended him, but he did not take up the post.
Hua Tuo was proficient in prescriptions. He prescribed very few medicines and knew them well, so he didn't need to use a scale to weigh them. He only used acupuncture in a few places.
If the disease originates from the internal organs and cannot be reached by acupuncture, he would ask the patient to drink Mafei San medicinal wine first. After the patient loses consciousness after anesthesia, he would make an incision on the abdomen or back, cut out the root of the disease and then suture it.
If the disease is in the intestines and stomach, the intestines and stomach should be cut open and washed with medicinal water to remove the lesions, then sutured and applied with divine ointment. The wound will heal in four or five days, and the patient will be fully recovered after a month.
Hua Tuo was walking outside and saw a man with a throat disease. He said to the patient: There is a cake seller on the roadside in front. The water chestnuts he uses are very sour. Ask him for three liters and drink it, and the disease will be cured.
The patient did as he was told. After drinking it, he immediately vomited out a snake and hung the snake on the car to wait for Hua Tuo to come.
At that time, Hua Tuo's youngest son was playing outside the door. When he saw the patient, he came into the house and said, "There is a snake beside the guest's car. He must have seen my old man."
When the guests entered the room and saw more than ten snakes hanging on the north wall, they realized Hua Tuo's wonderful medical skills.
Another county governor had been ill for a long time. After seeing the doctor, Hua Tuo thought that the patient would have to lose his temper to get better.
So he accepted a lot of money from the county guard without going to see him. He left soon after and left a letter scolding the county guard.
As expected, the county governor was furious and sent people to chase Hua Tuo, but when he failed to catch up, he lost his temper and vomited several liters of black blood, but he recovered.
Another patient came to Hua Tuo for medical treatment. Hua Tuo said, "The root of your disease is very deep and you should have a caesarean section."
But your life span is only ten years, and the disease cannot be eradicated.
If the patient cannot bear the pain, the root cause of the disease must be removed. Hua Tuo treated him according to law and recovered from his illness. He finally died ten years later.
Chen Deng, the governor of Guangling, suddenly suffered from depression in his chest, his face was red, and he didn't want to eat.
Hua Tuo felt his pulse and said, "There are worms in Fu Jun's stomach, which will lead to internal gangrene. This is because he ate too much fishy food."
So I drank two liters of medicinal wine and drank it twice. Soon I vomited out three liters of worms, the red heads were squirming, and the second half was still raw fish and meat, so I was cured.
Hua Tuo said: This disease will relapse after three years. It can be cured by a good doctor.
Three years later, Chen Deng's illness relapsed and Hua Tuo died.
When Cao Cao heard these legends, he summoned Hua Tuo and kept him by his side. Cao Cao had been suffering from head wind for a long time. Hua Tuo gave him acupuncture and he recovered immediately.
General Li's wife was ill and asked Hua Tuo to check her pulse. Tuo said: "Her body is injured but the fetus has not been removed."
The general said: The body is indeed injured and the fetus has been removed.
Tuo said: According to the pulse, the fetus has not been removed.
The general thought it was wrong.
After his wife's illness improved a little, the fetus moved again after more than a hundred days, so she invited Tuo to come again.
Tuo said: The pulse is the same as last time. This is the second pregnancy.
After the first baby was born, she lost too much blood, so the second baby couldn't come out.
The fetus is dead and the blood no longer circulates, which will definitely make the mother sick.
So he gave her an injection and asked her to take medicine.
The woman will then give birth but cannot give birth.
Hua Tuo said: The stillborn fetus has dried up and cannot be born naturally.
They asked people to investigate, and sure enough they took out the stillborn fetus. The fetus was human-shaped and its skin was black.
Tu's unique medical skills are all like this.
Hua Tuo had a bad temper and was very unhappy. He felt ashamed of practicing medicine as a profession, and he had been away from home for too long and wanted to go back. So he asked Cao Cao for leave, saying that he was going back to get medicine. When he arrived in Beijing, he said that his wife was sick and would not come back after the expiration date.
Cao Cao wrote to him many times and ordered the counties to urge him. Hua Tuo refused to reply because of his ability. Cao Cao was furious and sent someone to inquire. He learned that Hua Tuo's wife was not sick, so he arrested Hua Tuo and imprisoned him. After interrogation, Hua Tuo admitted his guilt.
Xun Yu asked Cao Cao: Hua Tuo has excellent medical skills and can save lives, so he should be forgiven.
Cao Cao refused to listen and finally killed Hua Tuo.
Before Hua Tuo died, he took out a medical book and gave it to the jailer, saying: "This can save the patient."
The jailer was afraid of being implicated and did not dare to accept it. Hua Tuo did not force himself and burned the book with fire.
At first, military official Li Cheng had a severe cough and could not sleep during the day and night.
Hua Tuo thought it was an intestinal disease and gave him two qian of medicine. After eating, he vomited out two liters of pus and blood, and the disease was cured.
Hua Tuo said to Li Cheng: Eighteen years later, the disease will attack again. If this medicine cannot be found, it will not be cured.
So give him the medicine. Five or six years later, a man from Tongli fell ill with the same disease as Li Cheng and needed medicine urgently. Li Cheng sympathized with him and gave him his own medicine. Then he went to Qiao State to ask Hua Tuo for medicine. Hua Tuo happened to be in jail and he couldn't bear to ask.
Eighteen years later, Li Cheng became ill and couldn't find any medicine, so he finally died.
Wu Pu in Guangling and Fan A in Pengcheng both studied medicine from Hua Tuo.
Wu Pu followed Hua Tuo's method and saved many people.
Hua Tuo said to Wu Pu: The human body should exercise regularly, but not excessively.
More exercise can help digest food, circulate blood, and prevent diseases. Like a door hinge, it rotates frequently and is not prone to decay.
Therefore, ancient gods often guided the human body to move, imitating the movements of a bear owl, to move the waist, head, and joints to delay aging.
I have a method called Wu Qin Xi. Five animals: the first is tiger, the second is deer, the third is bear, the fourth is monkey, and the fifth is bird.
Imitating their movements is used to remove diseases, allow the limbs to move more, and is used to replace the guidance methods of gods.
When you feel uncomfortable, get up and do the movements of a bird to make your body sweat. Then apply medicinal powder on your body to make your body feel relaxed and increase your appetite.
Wu Pu did as he was told. He was over ninety years old, had smart eyes and ears, and his teeth were intact and strong.
Fan Ah knows acupuncture.
Doctors generally say that needles should not be used indiscriminately on the back and chest, and even if the needles are used, they should not exceed four points. However, Fan A's needles penetrated one or two inches into the back, and five or six inches into the chest, and all the diseases were cured.
Fan A asked Hua Tuo for a prescription that would be beneficial for long-term use. Hua Tuo gave him Lacquer Leaf Qingnian Powder, which is one bucket of lacquer leaf chips and fourteen taels of Qingnian, and used this as a standard. It is said that if you believe it for a long time, it can remove three kinds of worms, benefit the five internal organs, make the body lose weight, and prevent the hair from becoming gray.
Fan A obeyed and lived for more than a hundred years.
Xu Deng's biography, Xu Deng, a native of Fujian, was originally a woman and became a husband.
Good at witchcraft.
There is also Zhao Bing, named Gong'a, who is from Dongyang and can serve Yue Fang.
At that time, there was a military turmoil and an epidemic broke out. The two met on the Wushang River and made a pact to share their magic to cure diseases.
They discussed with each other: Now that we are comrades, we can each try our best for the time being.
Xu Deng then banned the stream, and the water stopped flowing; Zhao Bing then banned the withered tree, and the tree sprouted immediately. The two looked at each other and smiled, and practiced their method together.
Xu Deng was a little older, so Zhao Bing treated him as his teacher.
They advocate frugality, and only use east flowing water as water supply when worshiping gods, and peel mulberry bark to make dried meat.
As long as the forbidden technique is used, the disease treated will be eliminated.
Later, Xu Deng died and Zhao Bing went eastward to Zhang'an, but the people didn't know it.
Zhao Bing then deliberately boarded the hut and used the trunk of a plane tree to support the pot to cook. The owner was shocked when he saw it, but Zhao Bing smiled and did not answer. Soon the food was cooked and the house was not damaged.
I once went to the river to ask for a crossing. The boatman didn't allow it, so Zhao Bing sat in the boat with an umbrella, shouted to the wind, and passed through the turbulent current. So the people were convinced, and those who followed him were like returning home.
The magistrate of Zhang'an was disgusted that he used sorcery to confuse people, so he was arrested and killed.
The people built a temple for him in Yongkang, and now no mosquitoes can enter the temple.
Fei Changfang was passed down by Fei Changfang, who was from Runan and once served as a city official.
There was an old man selling medicine in the city. He hung a pot in front of the shop. When the sale was completed, he jumped into the pot without anyone seeing him.
Only the long house was seen upstairs, which was strange. So he went to see the old man with wine and dried meat.
The old man knew that Changfang came because of his own magic, so he said to Changfang: You can come again tomorrow.
The eldest son went to the old man again at dawn the next day, and the old man took the eldest son into the pot together.
I saw that the jade hall in the pot was solemn and gorgeous, full of fine wine and delicious food. The two of them drank the wine together before coming out.
The old man asked him not to talk about this matter with others.
Later, the old man went upstairs to wait for the elder and said: I am a god, and I was punished because I made a mistake. Now that the matter is over, I should go back. Can you go with me?
There is a small amount of wine downstairs, and I came here to say goodbye to you.
The chief sent someone downstairs to get the wine, but he couldn't carry it. He sent ten more people to carry it, but they still couldn't carry it.
The old man heard it, went downstairs with a smile, and lifted it up with one finger.
It looked like the container of wine only held one liter, but the two of them couldn't finish it after drinking it all day.
The eldest son wanted to become a god, but he was afraid that his family would be anxious.
The old man cut a piece of green bamboo, which was probably equal to the height of the eldest son, and asked the eldest son to hang the bamboo behind the house.
The family members saw the image of the eldest son and thought that the eldest son had hanged himself. The whole family cried in surprise and buried Qingzhu.
In fact, the elder was standing nearby, and the family did not notice it.
From then on, he followed the old man to the deep mountains, stepped on thorns, and entered among the tigers. The old man asked the chief to stay alone, but the chief was not afraid at all.
He also asked the chief to sleep in an empty room, and hung a stone weighing ten thousand kilograms above his heart with a rotten rope. Many snakes came to bite the rope, and the rope was about to break, but the chief did not move.
The old man came back, caressed the eldest son and said: "You can be educated."
He also asked the eldest son to eat feces. There were three kinds of insects in the feces, which was smelly and dirty. The eldest son felt disgusted.
The old man said: You are almost enlightened, but unfortunately you have not passed this level. What should you do?
The elder said goodbye to the old man. The old man gave him a bamboo stick and said, "You ride on it and let it run around, and you will get home naturally."
After you get home, you can throw the bamboo stick into Gepi.
Then he drew a talisman for Changfang and said: With this, you can dominate the ghosts and gods on the earth.
Changfang rode his bamboo horse and arrived home soon. He thought it had been ten days since he left home, but he didn't know that more than ten years had passed.
So he threw the bamboo stick into the pond and it turned into a dragon.
His family said he had been dead for a long time and did not believe he could come back alive.
The chief said: It was not me who was buried before, but a bamboo stick!
So they asked people to dig the grave and open the coffin, but the staff and sticks were still there.
From then on, Changfang could cure people of all diseases, drive away ghosts with a whip, and dispatch the father-in-law of the land.
Sometimes he would sit alone and lose his temper. When others asked him why, he would say: I am interrogating a criminal who committed a crime!
Runan is haunted by ghosts every year. Some ghosts pretend to be governors and come to the gate to play drums, which scares everyone in the county.
One time, when the ghost just arrived, he met the head of the house to pay homage to the Lord. The ghost was frightened and could not leave for a while, so he stepped forward and took off his clothes, kowtowed and begged for mercy.
The chief yelled loudly: "Just show your true colors in the court!"
The ghost immediately transformed into an old turtle, as big as a wheel, with a neck ten feet long.
The head of the house also asked him to go to the prefect to confess his crime and gave him a letter to give to Lord Gebei.
The ghost kowtowed and shed tears, stood by the pond with the letter in his hand, and died with his neck wrapped around the letter.
Later, Lord Donghai came to see Lord Gebei and committed adultery with his wife, so the head of the house locked up Lord Donghai for three years. A severe drought occurred in the East China Sea.
When the eldest brother arrived at the seaside, he saw many people praying for rain, so he said to everyone: "The dragon king of the East China Sea is guilty. I used to shut him up in Gebei, but now he lets him come out to make rain."
Then it rained heavily.
The eldest son once went out with others and saw a scholar wearing a yellow scarf and a sheep's fur riding a saddleless horse. He came down and kowtowed to the eldest son. The chief said: Return the horse to others, and you will be spared the death penalty.
When others asked the reason, the chief said: "This is a fox stealing the land father-in-law's horse."
One time, there was a visitor at home. He sent someone to Wan City to buy fish and fish, and he came back in a while, just in time for dinner.
Sometimes he was seen several times in one day, thousands of miles away.
Later, Changfang's talisman was lost, and Changfang was killed by ghosts.
Ji Zi Xun Chuan, Ji Zi Xun, I don’t know where it came from.
During the Jian'an period, he lived in Wanju, Jiyin.
There are magical spells.
He once hugged a neighbor's baby and deliberately let the baby fall to the ground and died. His parents screamed and complained, which was unbearable to hear. However, Zihun only said that he was wrong and said nothing else, so he buried the baby. More than a month later, Zihun came back with the baby in his arms.
The parents were very panicked and said, "Death and life are different paths. Although I miss my son, I ask not to see him again."
But the baby knew its parents, laughed loudly, and wanted to throw itself into their arms. The mother unconsciously took it with her hands and it turned out to be her own son.
Although he was overjoyed to celebrate, he still had doubts in his heart, so he secretly dug up his dead son's grave. Only seeing the clothes and quilt did he believe it.
From then on, Zi Xun's name spread throughout the capital, and scholar-bureaucrats all admired him.
Later, he drove a donkey cart to Xuxia with all the living beings.
Passing by Xingyang, he stayed at the owner's house. The donkey he was riding suddenly died and maggots crawled out. The owner quickly told him.
Zi Xun said: Is that so?
He was sitting down to eat. After the meal, he slowly came out and beat him with his stick. The donkey got up in response to the sound and walked as before, and could walk on the road again.
There are often thousands of people following to watch the fun.
He has arrived in the capital, and there are often hundreds of people waiting for him, including ministers and ministers. They have arranged food and drinks for them, and there is no shortage of them all day long.
Later, because he escaped, I don’t know where he went.
When I first arrived, I saw white clouds rising in dozens of places from morning to night.
At this time, there was a centenarian who said that when he was a child, he saw Zixun selling medicine in Kuaiji City, and his face was almost the same color as now.
Later, someone saw him in Dongba City, Chang'an, rubbing the bronze figures with an old man. The two talked and said, "I just saw some bronze figures being made for nearly five hundred years."
Looking back, I saw that people were leaving, still driving the same cars they were riding in before.
The person who saw it called him: "Mr. Ji, please stay for a while!"
I promised him while walking. It seemed that I was walking very slowly, but the horse could not catch up, so there was no news.
Liu Genzhuan, Liu Gen, a native of Yingchuan.
Live in seclusion in Songshan Mountain.
Some good people came from far away to learn Taoism from him. The prefect Shi Qi thought that Liu Gen was a monster, so he arrested him and sent him to the county. He scolded him and said: "What kind of magic do you have to deceive the people? If there is a god, it can be fulfilled. Otherwise, you will be executed immediately."
Liu Gen said: There is really no other magic that can make people see ghosts.
Shi Qi said: Call him in quickly and let the prefect see it in person, so that you can understand.
Liu Gen then looked back to the left and let out a loud roar. After a while, Shi Qi's dead father and dozens of close relatives of his ancestors all walked forward with their hands tied behind their backs, kowtowed to Liu Gen and said: "This kid is rude and deserves death."
The ghosts turned around and scolded Shi and prayed: "As descendants, you cannot benefit our ancestors, but instead bring humiliation to the spirits of the dead. You can kowtow and thank us."
Shi Qi was frightened and afraid of sorrow, so he kowtowed and begged to suffer the consequences, but Liu Genhe refused and suddenly left together, unknown to where.
Zuo Ci Zhuan, Zuo Ci, courtesy name Yuanfang, was from Lujiang.
He received Shinto at a young age.
I was once a guest at Cao Cao's place in Sikong. Cao Cao said to the guests calmly: "Today is a rare event. We have prepared all kinds of delicacies and vegetables. The only thing missing is the seabass from Wu Songjiang."
Yuan Fang replied below: This can be done.
So I found a copper plate filled with water, fished into the plate with a bamboo pole and fish food, and soon I caught a bass.
Cao Cao applauded and laughed, and everyone present was surprised.
Cao Cao said: One fish is not enough for everyone, can we catch a few more?
Yuan Fang changed the fish food and fished again. After a while, he caught many more fish, all of which were more than three feet long, fresh and lively.
Cao Cao asked people to cook it on the spot so that everyone could taste the fresh fish.
Cao Cao said again: "The fish has been obtained, but it is a pity that there is no ginger produced in Sichuan!"
Yuan Fang said: This can also be done.
Cao Cao was afraid that he would find ginger nearby, so he said: I sent someone to Sichuan to purchase silk and satin last time. Please inform him to buy two more pieces.
As soon as he finished speaking, Jiang bought it back and received a reply from the envoy sent by Cao Cao.
Later, the messenger came back and asked him about the circumstances and time of buying silk and satin, and he was absolutely right.
Later, Cao Cao traveled to the suburbs, and there were more than a hundred scholar-officials following him. Zuo Ci took a liter of wine and a pound of dried meat and poured wine for everyone with his own hands. All the officials were drunk and full.
Cao Cao felt strange and asked people to investigate the reason. They checked the taverns and found that the wine and dried meat were missing.
Cao Cao was very unhappy, so he imprisoned Zuo Ci on some pretext and wanted to kill him. Zuo Ci fled into the wall and suddenly couldn't see where he was.
Someone found him in the market and sent people to catch him, but everyone in the city had the same image as Zuo Ci, and they didn't know who Zuo Ci was.
Later, someone encountered Zuo Ci on the top of Yangcheng Mountain and sent people to chase him. Zuo Ci fled into the sheep.
Cao Cao knew that he could not find Zuo Ci, so he sent someone to the sheep to tell Zuo Ci: "I won't kill you anymore, I'm just testing your skills."
Suddenly, an old ram bent its front legs, stood like a human and said, "Why did you do such a thing suddenly?"
So the pursuers rushed into the flock, but hundreds of sheep turned into old rams and stood up with their front legs bent, saying: Why did you do such a thing suddenly?
The pursuer would not know which old ram to catch.
