I am a native of Qurenli, Li Township, Kuxian County, Chu State. His surname was Li, his given name was Er, and his courtesy name was Dan. He was a historian in charge of the library in the Zhou Dynasty.
Confucius went to the capital of Zhou and wanted to ask Laozi about etiquette.
Lao Tzu said: The etiquette you are talking about, the person and the bones of the person who advocated it have rotted away, only his words remain.
Moreover, a gentleman will drive his car and go out to be an official when his fortune comes. If he is born at the wrong time, he will be blown away by the wind like a fluffy grass.
I have heard that people who are good at business hide their goods as if they were nothing. A gentleman has a noble character, but his appearance is as humble as a dull person.
Abandon your arrogance and excessive desires, abandon your artificial moods and unrealistic ambitions, these are not good for yourself.
That's all I can tell you.
After Confucius left, he said to his disciples: I know birds are good at flying; fish, I know they are good at swimming; animals, I know they are good at running.
Those that can run can weave a net to catch it, those that can swim can be made into silk thread to catch it, and those that can fly can shoot it with arrows.
As for the dragon, I don't know what to do. It is said that it rides the wind and soars into the sky.
The Lao Tzu I saw today probably looks like a dragon!
Lao Tzu studied moral knowledge, and his teachings aimed at concealing traces and not seeking to be heard.
He lived in Zhoudu for a long time. Seeing that the Zhou Dynasty was declining, he left Zhoudu.
When he arrived at Hangu Pass, Guan Ling Yinxi said to him: You are going to live in seclusion and try your best to write a book for us.
So I wrote a book, divided into two parts, expounding the original meaning of morality, with a total of more than 5,000 words. Then I left. No one knows where he went in the end.
Some people say: Lao Laizi was also from the Chu state. He wrote fifteen books on how to apply Taoist knowledge. He was a contemporary of Confucius.
It is said that I lived for more than 160 years, and some people say that I lived for more than 200 years. This is because he can cultivate his mind and live a long life.
One hundred and twenty-nine years after the death of Confucius, historical records record that when Taishi Dan of Zhou met with Duke Xiang of Qin, he prophesied: When the Qin State and the Zhou Dynasty were united, they were united for five hundred years and then separated. After seventy years of separation, there will be people who will become kings and hegemons.
Some people say that Taishi Dan is Lao Tzu, and some people say that he is not. No one in the world knows which statement is correct.
In short, I am a true hidden gentleman.
Lao Tzu's son is called Li Zong. He served as a general of Wei State and his fiefdom was in Duanqian.
Li Zong's son is called Li Zhu, Li Zhu's son is called Li Gong, and Li Gong's great-great-grandson is called Li Jie. Li Jie served as an official during the reign of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
Li Jie's son Li Jie served as the Taifu of Jiaoxi King Liu Xuan, so the Li family settled in Qidi.
Anyone in the world who studies Laozi's knowledge will disparage Confucian thought and doctrine; and those who study Confucianism will also disparage Laozi's doctrine. People with different opinions cannot agree with each other. Is this the case?
Lao Tzu believes that if you govern by doing nothing, the people will naturally become corrupt; if you are quiet and do nothing, the people will naturally return to righteousness.
Zhuangzi was a native of Mengyi, and his name was Zhuangzhou.
He once served as a minor official in Mengdi Lacquer Garden, and was a contemporary of King Hui of Liang and King Xuan of Qi.
He is knowledgeable and has covered all-encompassing areas of research, but his central idea originated from the teachings of Laozi.
He wrote more than 100,000 words of works, most of which are allegorical fables. He wrote "The Fisherman", "The Stealer" and "The Suit" were used to slander the Confucius school of thought. The purpose is to express Laozi's teachings.
"Wei Leixu" and "Kang Sangzi" are all made up out of thin air and have no basis in fact.
However, Zhuangzi was good at writing words and describing the situation of things to attack and refute Confucianism and Mohism. Even the most knowledgeable people in the world were inevitably attacked by him.
His language was vast, arbitrary, and arbitrary, and he spoke casually, so no one from the princes to the princes wanted to reuse him.
King Wei of Chu heard that Zhuang Zhou was a capable man and sent envoys with generous gifts to hire him and promised him to be the prime minister of Chu.
Zhuang Zhou smiled and said to the Chu envoy: A thousand pieces of gold is indeed a generous gift; the minister is indeed a noble and high position.
Have you never seen the cattle used in sacrifices to heaven and earth?
After feeding it for several years, covering it with patterned silk and satin, and taking it to the Ancestral Temple as a sacrifice, at this time, even if it wants to be a lonely little pig, can it be done?
Please leave quickly and don't taint me.
I would rather play happily in the ditch than be bound by the king. I will not be an official for the rest of my life to make myself happy.
Shen Buhai was a native of Jingyi and was originally a low-level official in the state of Zheng.
Later, he studied the knowledge of criminal names and magic, and asked for an official position from Han Zhaohou, who appointed him as prime minister.
He cultivated politics and religion internally and dealt with the princes externally. He was in power for fifteen years.
Until the death of Shenzi, Korea was well governed, with clear politics and a strong military. No country dared to invade Korea.
The origin of Shen Buhai's theory is Huangdi and Laozi, who mainly follow the name and fulfill the responsibility. He has two works called "Shenzi".
Han Fei is a Korean son.
He likes the knowledge of criminal names and magic. The theoretical basis of his theory comes from the theories of Huangdi and Laozi.
Han Fei has a stuttering defect and is not good at speaking, but he is good at writing books and explaining things.
He and Li Si were both students of Xun Qing, and Li Si thought he was not as knowledgeable as Han Fei.
Seeing that South Korea was gradually weakening, Han Fei repeatedly wrote to the King of Han to persuade him, but the King of Han did not adopt his opinions.
Under this situation, Han Fei hated that the monarch who governed the country did not devote himself to improving the legal system, could not use the power in the king's hands to control his ministers, could not enrich the country and strengthen the army, and sought to appoint virtuous people. Instead, he appointed literary lobbyists who were rhetorical and harmful to the country, and made their status higher than those who emphasized utilitarianism and effectiveness.
He believed that Confucians used classic texts to disrupt state laws, while knights violated state prohibitions by using force.
When the country is at peace, the monarch will favor those who have false reputations. When the situation is critical, he will use those armored warriors.
Now the people supported by the state are not the people it wants to use, and the people it wants to use are not the people it needs to support.
He lamented that honest and upright people would not be tolerated by evil and treacherous ministers. He examined the changes in gains and losses throughout the ages, so he wrote more than 100,000 words of works such as "Indignation", "Five Worms", "Inner and Outer Storage", "Shuo Lin", and "Shuo Nan".
But Han Fei knew how difficult lobbying was. He wrote a complete discussion of this in "Speaking of Difficulties". Han Fei eventually died in Qin and was not immune to the disaster caused by lobbying. "Speaking of Difficulties" wrote:
Generally speaking, the difficulty in lobbying is not that my intelligence is not enough to persuade the monarch; nor is it that my eloquence is not enough to clearly express my thoughts; nor is it that I dare not express all my opinions without hesitation.
In general lobbying, the difficulty lies in how to understand the psychology of the target of lobbying and then use my words to satisfy his wishes.
If the person you are lobbying intends to gain a high reputation, but the lobbyist uses heavy profits to persuade him, the other party will think that you have low moral character and will be treated despicably. You will definitely be abandoned and alienated.
If the target of the lobbying is greedy for huge profits, but the lobbyist uses the idea of ​​gaining high reputation to persuade him, he will think that you have no brains and are divorced from reality, and he will definitely not accept your opinions.
If the person you are lobbying actually wants to make a lot of money, but pretends to be noble on the surface, and the lobbyist tries to persuade him by gaining a high reputation, he will accept you on the surface but actually alienate you; if the lobbyist tries to persuade him with a lot of profit, he will secretly adopt your opinions but abandon you on the surface. This is what the lobbyist has to know.
If you keep secrets in action, you will succeed; if you reveal secrets in speech, you will fail.
It is not necessarily that the lobbyist himself intentionally leaks secrets, but he often unintentionally reveals the secrets hidden in the monarch's heart during his speech. In this way, the lobbyist will suffer disaster.
If the monarch makes a mistake, but the lobbyist cites some good arguments to deduce the seriousness of his fault, then the lobbyist will be in danger.
The monarch's favor towards the lobbyist has not yet reached a deep level, but the lobbyist will tell you everything he knows. If the opinion is adopted and implemented and the results are seen, then the monarch will forget your credit; if the opinion does not work and fails, then the lobbyist will be suspected by the monarch. In this way, the lobbyist will be in danger.
The monarch thinks he has a good plan and plans to take credit for it. If the lobbyist participates in this matter, there will be dangers. The monarch is doing one thing publicly, but he has other purposes. If the lobbyist knows his plan, then he will also be in danger.
If the monarch is determined to do something that he does not want to do, but he is forced to do it; if the monarch wants to do something that cannot be ignored, but prevents him from doing it, the person who persuades him will be in danger.
Therefore, if you discuss ministers in office with the monarch, they will think you are alienating their relationship; if you discuss people with low status with the monarch, they will think you are showing off your power.
If you talk about what he likes, he will think you are taking advantage of him; if you talk about what he hates, he will think you are testing the depth of his anger.
If the lobbyist is concise, he or she will think that you have no intelligence and you will be humiliated; if you are rhetorical and rhetorical, you will be thought that your language is indulgent and inappropriate.
If you follow the king's advice and state things, you will be said to be timid and unsatisfactory. If you have far-reaching ideas, you will be said to be vulgar, arrogant and arrogant.
We have to be aware of the difficulties of these lobbying efforts.
The key to lobbying the monarch is to know how to beautify the things the monarch admires and cover up the things he thinks are ugly.
If he thinks his strategy is brilliant, don't embarrass him with his past mistakes; if he thinks it is a brave decision, don't use his will to anger him; if he boasts of his strength, don't use embarrassing things to reject him.
If the lobbyist plans another thing that is the same as the monarch, and praises another person with the same character as the monarch, he should beautify the thing and the other person, and do not harm the other person.
If there is a person who has the same fault as the monarch, the lobbyists will clearly whitewash it and say that he is not at fault.
When the lobbyist's loyalty makes the monarch no longer resist, and the monarch no longer rejects the lobbyist's words, then the lobbyist can use his eloquence and wisdom.
This is the difficulty of being close to the monarch without being suspected, and being able to speak your mind!
After a long period of time, the monarch's favor to the lobbyist has been profound, the lobbyist's far-reaching strategies are no longer doubted, and the cross-controversy is no longer aggravated. Then the interests can be clearly discussed to help the monarch achieve success, and the monarch's rights and wrongs can be directly pointed out to correct him. Supporting the monarch in this way means that the lobbying is successful.
Yi Yin once worked as a cook, and Baili Xi once worked as a prisoner, both of whom were employed by the emperor.
So these two people are both saints. They still have to do mean things and experience the world as so mean, so this is not something that worthy people find shameful.
There was a rich man in the Song Dynasty who destroyed the wall because of the rain.
His son said: If it is not repaired, there will be thieves. An old man in his neighbor also said the same. Sure enough, a lot of property was lost in the night. His whole family thought his son was particularly smart, but they were suspicious of the old man next door.
Once upon a time, Duke Wu of Zheng wanted to attack the State of Hu, but instead gave his daughter to the monarch of the State of Hu. He asked the ministers: If I want to use troops, who can I attack? Guan Qisi replied: We can attack Hu.
Duke Wu of Zheng killed Guan Qisi and said, "The State of Hu is the country of our brothers. What do you mean by attacking it?"
When the king of Hu heard about this, he thought the king of Zheng was his relative and did not guard against him. Zheng took the opportunity to attack Hu and occupied it.
The lobbyists in these two cases were correct in their predictions. However, the more serious ones were killed and the less serious ones were suspected. Therefore, it is not difficult to know certain things, but it is difficult to know how to deal with known things.
Once upon a time, Mi Zixia was favored by the monarch of the Wei Kingdom.
According to the laws of Weiguo, anyone who secretly drives your car must have his or her feet cut off.
Soon, Mi Zixia's mother fell ill. Someone knew about it and informed him overnight. Mi Zixia pretended to be the Lord's order and drove out in the King's car.
When the monarch heard about this, he praised him and said: How filial you are, you are willing to commit the punishment of amputating your feet because of your mother's illness!
Mi Zixia and Wei Jun went to the orchard to play. Mi Zixia ate a sweet peach and offered it to Wei Jun before finishing it.
Wei Jun said: You really love me, you don’t eat but you think about me!
When Mizi's beauty faded, Lord Wei's love for him also faded away, and he later offended Lord Wei.
Wei Jun said: This man once pretended to be my order to drive my car, and he also gave me the leftover peach to eat.
Mi Zixia's moral character has not changed from before. The reason why he was considered filial before but was later punished was because Wei Jun's love and hatred for him changed.
Therefore, when a monarch favors him, he is considered smart and capable, and becomes closer to him. When someone is hated by a monarch, he or she feels that he deserves it, and he becomes even more estranged.
Therefore, those who advise and lobby must investigate the monarch's likes and dislikes before lobbying.
A dragon is an animal that can be tamed, played with, and ridden on.
However, there is a foot-long inverse scale at the bottom of his throat. Anyone who touches its inverse scale will definitely be hurt by it.
The monarch also has negative scales. If a lobbyist can avoid violating the monarch's negative scales, he is almost considered to be a good lobbyist.
Someone spread Han Fei's works to Qin.
When the King of Qin saw the books "Gu Ang" and "Five Beetles", he said: Oh, if I want to meet this man and be able to associate with him, even death will not be a regret.
Li Si said: This is a book written by Han Fei.
Therefore, King Qin immediately attacked South Korea.
At first, the King of Han did not use Han Fei seriously. When the situation became serious, he sent Han Fei as an envoy to Qin.
King Qin liked him very much, but he didn't trust or use him seriously.
Li Si and Yao Jia were jealous of him and slandered him in front of the King of Qin, saying: "Han Fei is a son of a Korean noble."
Now that the king wants to annex other countries, Han Fei will eventually help South Korea but not Qin. This is human nature.
Now that the king does not use him, although he can be kept in Qin for a long time, he will eventually be put back. This is a disaster for himself. It is better to add a crime to him and execute him according to law.
The King of Qin thought he was right and ordered the judicial officials to convict Han Fei.
Li Si sent someone to send poison to Han Fei and told him to commit suicide.
Han Fei wanted to tell King Qin face to face, but he couldn't see King Qin.
Later, the King of Qin regretted it and sent someone to pardon him. Unfortunately, Han Fei was already dead.
Shenzi and Hanzi both wrote books and established theories, which were passed down to later generations. Most scholars have their books. I only lament that Han Fei wrote "Shuo Nan" but he could not escape the disaster of lobbying the monarch.
Tai Shigong said: The "Tao" that I admire highly is nothingness, conforming to nature, and adapting to various changes by doing nothing. Therefore, many of the books he wrote have subtle wordings that are difficult to understand.
Zhuangzi preaches morality and makes inferences freely. The key points of his teachings are also based on the principle of natural inaction.
Shenzi is diligent and self-motivated, and adheres to the principle of abiding by name and responsibility.
Han Zi makes decisions based on laws as a standard of conduct, distinguishes right from wrong, is harsh and harsh in his usage, and rarely shows favor.
Their theories are all originated from moral theory, so Laozi's thoughts can be said to be profound and far-reaching.
Laozi established enlightenment, pursuing a clean mind, free from external interference, and allowing people to gain great wisdom; his teachings were highly praised in the Lu region in the east, but people's footprints went to the western frontier.
Zhuang Zhou indulged in reasoning and was happy and contented, Shen Buha was diligent and self-motivated, full of intrigues, and Han Fei's "Speaking of Difficulties" was extremely wise.
It's sad that their careful precautions ended in Li Si's hands.
