Liu Hou Zhang Liang, his ancestors were Koreans.
His grandfather served as the prime minister of Han Zhaohou, King Xuanhui and King Xiangai in Kaidi.
His father, Zhang Ping, served as prime minister to King Li and King Tuohui.
In the twenty-third year of King Hui's reign, his father Zhang Ping passed away.
Twenty years after Zhang Liang's father died, the Qin State destroyed South Korea.
Zhang Liang was young at the time and had not been an official in Korea.
After the fall of Korea, Zhang Liang's family had 300 servants. When Zhang Liang's younger brother died, he was not buried well. He used all his property to find warriors to assassinate the King of Qin and avenge Korea. This was because his grandfather and father had served as the kings of Korea for five generations.
Zhang Liang once studied etiquette in Huaiyang and went to the East to meet Lord Canghai.
He found a strong man and made a hammer weighing 120 kilograms.
Qin Shihuang went on a tour to the East. Zhang Liang and Hercules attacked Qin Shihuang at Bolangsha, and accidentally hit the auxiliary car.
Qin Shihuang was furious and launched a massive search across the country, hoping to catch the assassin quickly. This was exactly what Zhang Liang had caused.
Zhang Liang then changed his name and surname, fled to Xiapi and hid.
Zhang Liang was wandering on the Xiapi Bridge in his spare time. He met an old man wearing coarse clothes. He walked up to Zhang Liang and deliberately threw his shoes under the bridge. He looked at Zhang Liang and said to him: Boy, go down and pick up the shoes!
Zhang Liang was a little surprised and wanted to beat him, but seeing that he was old, he reluctantly endured it and went down to pick up the shoes.
The old man said: Put on my shoes!
Since Zhang Liang had picked up the shoes for him, he knelt down and put them on for him.
The old man stretched out his feet and put on his shoes, smiled and left.
Zhang Liang was very surprised and followed the old man's figure and stared at him.
The old man left for about a mile, then returned and said, "You, my boy, can teach."
Meet me here at dawn five days later. Zhang Liang thought this was strange, knelt down and said, "Yeah."
At dawn five days later, Zhang Liang went there.
The old man was already there first and said angrily: "I date an old man, but I arrive late. Why?"
The old man left and said: Come and meet early in five days.
Five days later, when the rooster crows, Zhang Liang goes.
The old man was there first and said angrily: "I'm late again. Why is this?"
The old man left and said: Come back early in five days.
Five days later, Zhang Liang left before midnight.
After a while, the old man also came and said happily: It should be like this.
The old man took out a book and said: After reading this book, you can become the emperor's teacher.
There will definitely be some development in ten years.
Thirteen years later, when your boy comes to Jibei to meet me, the yellow stone at the foot of Gucheng Mountain will be me.
After saying that, he left without leaving anything else, and he never saw the old man again.
At dawn, I looked at the book given by the old man and found it was "Tai Gong's Art of War".
Zhang Liang felt that this book was extraordinary and often studied and recited it.
When Zhang Liang lived in Xiapi, he was a chivalrous and righteous man.
Xiang Bo once killed someone and hid with Zhang Liang.
Ten years later, Chen She and others rebelled against Qin, and Zhang Liang also gathered more than a hundred young people.
Jing Ju established himself as the acting King of Chu and stationed in Liu County.
Zhang Liang planned to follow him, but met Pei Gong on the way.
Peigong led thousands of men to seize the area west of Xiapi, and Zhang Liang joined him.
Pei Gong appointed Zhang Liang as the stable general.
Zhang Liang offered suggestions to Pei Gong based on "Tai Gong's Art of War" many times. Pei Gong appreciated him and often adopted his strategies.
Zhang Liang taught "Tai Gong's Art of War" to others, but no one could understand it.
Zhang Liang said: Pei Gong was probably bestowed on earth by heaven.
So Zhang Liang followed Pei Gong instead of joining Jingju.
When Pei Gong arrived at Xuedi, he met with Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang supported King Huai of Chu.
Zhang Liang then persuaded Xiang Liang: "You have already supported the descendants of the King of Chu, and Han Cheng, Lord of Hengyang among the Korean princes, can be made king and increase the strength of his allies."
Xiang Liang sent Zhang Liang to find Han Cheng and made him king of Han.
Appointed Zhang Liang as the Situ of South Korea, and led more than a thousand people to the west to attack South Korea's original territory with the King of Han, and captured several cities. The Qin army soon recaptured them, and the Han army only conducted guerrilla operations in the Yingchuan area.
When Pei Gong passed through the Sheyuan Mountain south from Luoyang, Zhang Liang led his troops to follow Pei Gong, captured more than ten cities in Han, and defeated Yang Xiong's army.
Peigong then asked Han Wangcheng to stay in Yangzhai, and he and Zhang Liang went south to attack Wan County and westward into Wuguan.
Peigong wanted to attack Qin's army at Yaoguan with 20,000 troops. Zhang Liang advised: The Qin army is still very strong and should not be underestimated.
I heard that the guard at Yongguan was the son of a butcher, and it was easy for the philistines to lure him with profit.
He hoped that Pei Gong would stay in the camp for the time being and send people to prepare food for 50,000 people. He also hung more flags on the hills and ordered Li Shi to bring valuable treasures to lure the generals of the Qin army.
As expected, the generals of the Qin army rebelled and planned to join forces with Pei Gong to attack Xianyang westward. Pei Gong wanted to follow the Qin general's plan.
Zhang Liang said: This is just a rebellion by the general at Yaoguan. I am afraid that the soldiers under his command will not listen.
Disobedience of soldiers will definitely bring harm, so it is better to attack them while they are slack.
Peigong then led his troops to attack the Qin army and defeated the enemy.
Then they chased the defeated army to Lantian and fought for the second time. The Qin army finally collapsed.
Then Pei Gong arrived in Xianyang, and Qin Prince Ying surrendered to Pei Gong.
Pei Gong entered the Qin Palace. There were thousands of palaces, tents, dogs and horses, precious treasures, and beautiful women. Pei Gong's intention was to stay in the palace.
Fan Kuai advised Pei Gong to go out and live there, but Pei Gong refused to listen.
Zhang Liang said: The Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and immoral, so Pei Gong was able to come here.
To eradicate cruel tyranny from the world, we should be honest and simple.
Now that we have just invaded the capital of Qin, we have to enjoy it in peace. This is what people say, "helping Jie to do harm."
Moreover, good advice is unpleasant to the ear but beneficial to action, and good medicine is bitter to the mouth and beneficial to the patient. I hope Pei Gong will listen to Fan Kuai's opinion.
Only then did Pei Gong return to his carriage and stop at Bashang.
Xiang Yu came to Hongmen and wanted to attack Pei Gong. Xiang Bo rushed to Pei Gong's camp overnight and met with Zhang Liang privately, hoping that Zhang Liang would leave with him.
Zhang Liang said: I am escorting Pei Gong on behalf of the King of Han. Now the situation is urgent and it is unethical to escape.
So he told Pei Gong everything.
Pei Gong was very surprised and said: "What will we do about this?"
Zhang Liang said: Does Pei Gong really want to betray Xiang Yu?
Pei Gong said: "The ignorant villain taught me to block Hangu Pass and prevent the princes from entering. He said that in this way the land of the Qin Dynasty could be completely controlled, so I followed this advice."
Zhang Liang said: Pei Gong thinks for himself, can he defeat Xiang Yu?
Pei Gong was silent for a while and then said, "It shouldn't be possible. What should we do now?"
Zhang Liang then firmly invited Xiang Bo to see Pei Gong.
Xiang Bo met with Pei Gong.
Pei Gong drank with Xiang Bo, toasted and blessed him, and married him.
Pei Gong asked Xiang Bo to explain to Xiang Yu in detail that Pei Gong did not dare to betray Xiang Yu. The reason why Pei Gong blocked Hangu Pass was to prevent other bandits.
After Pei Gong met with Xiang Yu, the two parties reached a reconciliation, which was recorded in "The Notes of Xiang Yu".
In the first month of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Peigong became the king of Han and ruled the Bashu region.
The king of Han rewarded Zhang Liang with a hundred yi of gold and two measures of pearls. Zhang Liang gave them all to Xiang Bo.
Therefore, the King of Han asked Zhang Lianghou to give Xiang Bo a gift, so that Xiang Bo asked King Xiang to allocate the Hanzhong area to him on his behalf.
King Xiang agreed to the request of the King of Han, and the King of Han obtained the Hanzhong area.
The King of Han went to Fengguo, Zhang Liang sent the King of Han to Baozhong, and the King of Han asked Zhang Liang to return to Korea.
Zhang Liang then advised the King of Han: "Why don't you burn down the plank road you pass by to express your determination not to come back to the world, so as to stabilize King Xiang's heart?"
The king of Han then asked Zhang Liang to return to Korea.
When the king of Han was marching, he burned down the plank road he passed.
Zhang Liang arrived in South Korea. Because Han Wangcheng asked Zhang Liang to follow the king of Han, King Xiang did not send Han Cheng to the feudal country, but asked him to follow him eastward.
Zhang Liang explained to King Xiang: The King of Han burned down the plank road and has no intention of returning.
Zhang Liang then wrote to King Xiang about the rebellion of King Tian Rong of Qi.
King Xiang no longer worried about the King of Han in the west, so he raised his troops north to attack Qi.
King Xiang still refused to send King Han back to Korea. Instead, he demoted King Han to the rank of Marquis and killed him in Pengcheng.
Zhang Liang fled and secretly returned to the King of Han by taking a small road. At this time, the King of Han had returned to his army to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
The king of Han also granted Zhang Liang the title of Marquis Chengxin and followed him eastward to conquer Chu.
When they arrived at Pengcheng, the Han army was defeated and returned.
When he arrived at Xiayi, the King of Han dismounted and leaned on the saddle and asked: I plan to give up some places east of Hanguguan and other places as rewards. Who can join me in making achievements?
Zhang Liang Jin said: King Yingbu of Jiujiang is a fierce general of Chu, and there is a barrier with King Xiang; Peng Yue and Qi King Tian Rong rebelled against Chu in Liang. These two are available immediately.
Among the generals of the King of Han, only Han Xin could be entrusted with important tasks and take charge alone.
If you want to abandon these places and give them to these three people, then the Chu State can be defeated.
The king of Han then sent Sui He to lobby the king of Jiujiang for Yingbu, and also sent someone to contact Peng Yue.
When King Bao of Wei rebelled against the Han Dynasty, the King of Han sent Han Xin to lead his troops to attack him, and took advantage of the situation to capture the territories of Yan, Dai, Qi, Zhao and other countries.
It was the power of these three people that finally defeated Chu.
Zhang Liang was ill and never led an army independently. He always followed the King of Han as a minister who made suggestions.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu urgently besieged the King of Han in Xingyang. The King of Han was frightened and worried, and discussed with Li Shiqi to weaken the power of Chu.
Li Shiqi said: In the past, Shang Tang attacked Xia Jie and granted the descendants of Xia Dynasty to Qi State.
King Wu of Zhou attacked Shang Zhou and granted the descendants of the Shang Dynasty to the Song Dynasty.
Now the Qin Dynasty has lost its virtues, abandoned morality, invaded the princes and countries, and wiped out the descendants of the six countries, leaving them with no place to stand.
If your Majesty can really re-ennominate the descendants of the Six Kingdoms and make them all accept your Majesty's seal, then the monarchs, ministers and people of the Six Kingdoms will all be grateful to your Majesty for your kindness, and they will all obey and admire your Majesty's morality, and be willing to be your subjects.
With the implementation of kindness and morality, Your Majesty can face the south and dominate. The King of Chu will surely dress up and come to worship respectfully. The king of Han said: OK.
Hurry up and engrave the seal and take it to them while your husband is on this trip.
Li Shiqi had not yet left for his trip, and Zhang Liang came back from his trip to pay homage to the King of Han.
The King of Han happened to be eating and said: "Come forward Zhang Liang!"
Someone among the diners can help me make suggestions to weaken the Chu army.
So he told Zhang Liang what Li Shiqi had said, and asked Zhang Liang: "What do you think of this plan?" Zhang Liang said: Who planned this for Your Majesty?
If you really do this, His Majesty's great cause will be ruined.
The king of Han said: Why do you say that?
Zhang Liang replied: Please allow me to use the chopsticks in front of me to help the king plan the situation.
Zhang Liang continued: In the past, when Shang Tang attacked Bao Jie and divided the descendants of Xia in Qi, it was because he estimated that he could kill Xia Jie.
Can His Majesty be sure that Xiang Yu will be put to death now?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the first reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
In the past, King Wu defeated Zhou and enfeoffed the descendants of Shang in Song Dynasty because he thought he could get King Zhou's head.
Is Your Majesty now sure of getting Xiang Ji's head?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the second reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu entered the capital of the Shang Dynasty, commended Shang Rong at the gate where he lived, released the imprisoned Jizi, and rebuilt Bigan's tomb.
Can your majesty now rebuild the tombs of saints, commend them at the door of the virtuous, bow your head and press the wood in front of the cart to show respect to him at the door of the wise? The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the third reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu of Zhou once distributed grain from the Juqiao warehouse and money from the Lutai treasury to the poor.
Can your Majesty now distribute the money and food in the treasury to the poor?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the fourth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
After King Wu of Zhou destroyed the Shang Dynasty, he abandoned the chariots and modified them into manned vehicles. He stacked all war weapons upside down, covered them with tiger skins, and told everyone in the world that they would never fight again.
Can your Majesty now give up force, advocate civil rule, and stop fighting?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the fifth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu of Zhou once put all his war horses south of Mount Hua to be pastured, as a sign that he would no longer fight.
Can your Majesty now allow the war horses to rest and not be used again?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the sixth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu of Zhou once put the cattle transporting grain and grass to the north of Taolin for grazing, to show that he no longer needed to transport and store military grain.
Can your Majesty now graze cattle instead of using them to transport and store grain?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the seventh reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
Travelers all over the world stay away from their relatives, abandon their ancestral graves, say goodbye to their hometown friends, and follow His Majesty to fight everywhere, looking forward to it day and night just to get a fiefdom.
Now your Majesty has re-divided the descendants of the Six Kingdoms and established the descendants of Han, Wei, Yan, Zhao, Qi and Chu as princes and kings. The wanderers in the world have returned to serve their monarchs, reunite with their long-lost relatives, and return to their old friends and hometowns where their ancestral graves are. Who will your Majesty go with to conquer the world?
This is the eighth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
Moreover, the Chu State is currently invincible in the world. The descendants of the six kingdoms you have re-enfranchised will all surrender to the Chu State. What method can your Majesty have to make them surrender?
If your majesty really adopts the diner's plan, your majesty's great affairs will be ruined.
The King of Han stopped eating, spit out the food in his mouth, and cursed: This ignorant person almost ruined my big event!
Immediately ordered the seal to be destroyed immediately.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin wanted to proclaim himself king of Qi after conquering Qi, but the king of Han was furious.
Zhang Liang advised the King of Han, and the King of Han sent Zhang Liang to grant Han Xin the seal of King Xin of Qi. This matter was recorded in the "Biography of the Marquis of Huaiyin".
In the autumn of this year, the king of Han pursued the Chu army to the south of Yangxia. Because of the defeat in the battle, he held fast to the Guling camp. The princes did not come on the appointed day.
Zhang Liang proposed a plan to the king of Han, and the king of Han adopted his plan, and all the princes came.
This incident is recorded in "The Chronicles of Xiang Yu".
In the first month of the sixth year of Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao rewarded the meritorious officials.
Zhang Liang had no military exploits. Emperor Gao said: "It is the contribution of Zifang to make plans in the camp and decide the victory or defeat thousands of miles away."
Zhang Liang was asked to select 30,000 households from Qi State as fiefdoms.
Zhang Liang said: When I started an uprising in Xiapi and met Your Majesty in Liu County, it was God who handed me over to Your Majesty.
Your Majesty adopted my strategy, and luckily my prediction turned out right. I only wanted to be granted a county seal, and I did not dare to bear 30,000 households.
So Zhang Liang was granted the title of Liuhou, along with Xiao He and others.
The emperor has awarded awards to more than 20 great meritorious officials, but the rest are competing for merit day and night, unable to decide who will win, and cannot award awards.
The emperor was in the Nangong Palace in Luoyang. From the bridge, he saw some generals often sitting on the sand and talking to each other.
The emperor said: What are these people talking about?
Liuhou said: "Don't your Majesty know?"
This is discussing rebellion.
The emperor said: The world is close to peace, why do we still want to rebel?
Liu Hou said: Your Majesty rose up as a commoner and won the world with the help of these people. Now you are the emperor, and the people you reward are Xiao He and Cao Shen, your close and favored friends, and the people you kill are all the people you hate in your life.
Now the officers are counting their merits and believe that the land in the world is not enough to reward them all. These people are afraid that Your Majesty will not be able to grant them all, and they are afraid that they will be suspected of their faults in their lives and be executed, so they gather together to plot a rebellion.
The emperor then said worriedly: What should we do about this matter?
Liu Hou said: "Your Majesty hates the most in his life, and all the ministers know it. Who is the most outstanding?"
The emperor said: Yong Chi has an old grudge with me and has embarrassed and humiliated me many times.
I originally wanted to kill him, but I couldn't bear it because of his many contributions.
Marquis Liu said: Now, hurry up and show Yong Chi to the ministers. When the ministers see that Yong Chi has been awarded, everyone will have no doubt that they can be awarded the title.
So the emperor held a banquet, made Yongchi a Marquis of Shifang, and urgently urged the prime minister and censor to assess his merits and implement rewards.
After drinking, all the officials said happily: "Yong Chi has been granted the title of Marquis, so we don't have to worry."
Liu Jing advised Emperor Gao: We should make Guanzhong our capital.
The emperor had doubts about this.
The ministers around the emperor were all from the Guandong region, and most of them advised the emperor to make Luoyang the capital. They said: Luoyang has Chenggao to the east, Mount Xiao and Mianchi to the west, with the Yellow River as its back and Yishui and Luoshui as its back. Its terrain is dangerous and the city walls are strong enough to rely on.
Liu Hou said: Although Luoyang is strong, the territory in the middle is small, only a few hundred miles in radius, the land is barren, and it is surrounded by enemies on all sides. It is not a place for military use.
To the east of Guan Guan are Laoshan and Hangu Pass, to the west are Longshan and Minshan. The fertile land is thousands of miles in circumference, to the south are the fertile counties of Ba and Shu, and to the north are Huyuan, which is good for grazing. We rely on the dangers on three sides to hold on, and only need to control the princes on the east side.
If the princes are stable, the world's grain can be transported from the Yellow River and the Wei River to the west to supply Kyoto; if something happens to the princes, it can be transported down the river, enough to transport supplies.
This is the so-called "Golden City Thousand Miles, Land of Abundance", Liu Jing's suggestion is right.
So Emperor Gao immediately decided to set off and head to Xiguan to make his capital Guanzhong.
Liu Hou followed Emperor Gao into the pass.
He was frail and sickly by nature, so he practiced Tao Yin's technique and refused to eat grains. He stayed in seclusion for more than a year.
The emperor wanted to depose the prince and establish Ruyi, the son of Mrs. Qi's son, King Zhao.
Many ministers tried to dissuade him, but they failed to change Emperor Gao's unwavering mind.
Queen Lu was frightened and didn't know what to do.
Someone said to Queen Lu: Marquis Liu is good at making suggestions, and the emperor trusts him very much.
Empress Lu sent Lu Ze, the Marquis of Jiancheng, to coerce Marquis Liu, saying: "You have always been the emperor's adviser. Now the emperor plans to replace the prince. How can you sit back and relax?"
Liuhou said: The emperor was in crisis many times and adopted my strategy.
Now that the world is at peace, if I want to change the crown prince due to my preference, what good will it do even if more than a hundred people like me come to remonstrate with me about these matters between close relatives?
Lu Ze tried his best to threaten and said: You must give me an idea.
Liu Hou said: This matter is difficult to argue with words.
There are four people in the world who cannot be provoked by the emperor.
These four people were already old, and they all thought that the emperor was arrogant, so they fled and hid in the mountains. They refused to be ministers of the Han Dynasty according to morality.
But the emperor respected these four people very much.
Now if you can really spare no expense on money and silk, ask the prince to write a letter, be polite in your words, prepare a carriage, and send eloquent people to earnestly invite them, they should come.
After arriving, treat them as distinguished guests, let them follow you into the court from time to time, and ask the emperor to see them. Then the emperor will be surprised and ask about them.
When he asked them, the emperor knew that these four people were capable, so this would be a help to the prince.
So Empress Lu asked Lu Ze to send someone to carry the prince's letter and greet the four people with humble words and generous gifts.
Four people came and stayed as guests in the mansion of Marquis Jiancheng.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu rebelled. The emperor was seriously ill at this time and planned to send the prince to lead his troops to attack the rebels.
The four people discussed with each other and said: The reason why we are here is to protect the prince. If the prince leads troops to suppress the rebellion, things will be dangerous.
So he advised Marquis Jiancheng: If the prince leads his troops to battle and achieves success, his position will not be higher than that of the prince; if he returns without success, he will suffer disaster from now on.
Besides, the generals who went on the expedition with the prince were all fierce generals who once conquered the world with the emperor. Now letting the prince lead these people is no different from letting a sheep command a wolf. They will never work hard for the prince. It is certain that the prince cannot make achievements.
We heard that if you love your mother, you must embrace your son. Now Mrs. Qi serves the emperor day and night, and Zhao Wang Ruyi is often held in front of the emperor. The emperor said, "After all, I cannot let my incompetent son be placed above my beloved son. Obviously, it is inevitable that Zhao Wang Ruyi will replace the crown prince."
Why don't you quickly ask Empress Lu to take the opportunity to cry to the emperor: Ying Bu is a fierce general in the world and is very good at using troops. All the generals today are your Majesty's contemporaries in the past, but you let the prince lead these people. This is no different from letting a sheep command a wolf. No one is willing to serve the prince, and if Ying Bu hears about this situation, he will invade westward with great fanfare.
Although the emperor was ill, he could still manage to ride in a carriage and command the army while lying down, and the generals dared not fail to do their best.
Although the emperor has suffered some hardships, he still has to work hard for his wife and children.
So Lu Ze immediately went to see Empress Lu that night. Empress Lu found an opportunity to cry to the emperor and said what the four people had instructed her to do.
The emperor said: "I just thought that this guy couldn't be sent. I should go myself."
So the emperor personally led the troops to march eastward, while all the officials stayed behind and sent them to Ba Shang.
When Liuhou fell ill, he managed to support himself and sent him to Quyou. He went to see the emperor and said, "I should have gone with you, but I was seriously ill."
The Chu people and horses are very fast and agile. I hope the emperor will not compete with the Chu people.
Liuhou took the opportunity to persuade the emperor: Let the prince be a general and oversee the army in Guanzhong.
The emperor said: Although the ovary is sick, she still has to help the prince while he is in bed and recuperating.
At this time, Shusun Tong was appointed as Taifu, and Liu Hou was appointed as Shaofu.
In the twelfth year of the Han Dynasty, the emperor returned with the army that defeated Yingbu. His illness became more serious and he wanted to replace the prince even more.
The emperor refused to listen to Liu Hou's advice, so Liu Hou excused himself from the affairs because of illness.
Taifu Shusun quoted ancient and modern examples to persuade him, and fought desperately to protect the prince.
The emperor pretended to agree to him, but still wanted to change the prince.
When there is leisure, a banquet will be set up, and the prince will be waiting on him.
The four men followed the prince. They were all in their eighties, with white men and eyebrows, and very magnificent and unique clothes.
The emperor felt strange and asked: "What do they do?"
The four people came forward to answer each other's questions, and each said his name: Dong Yuan Gong, Mr. Jiao Li, Qili Ji, and Xia Huang Gong.
The emperor was shocked and said: I have been visiting you for several years, but you have all avoided me. Why do you voluntarily follow me to socialize with me now?
All four said: Your Majesty is contemptuous of scholars and likes to curse. We are righteous and do not want to be humiliated, so we fled in fear.
We have heard privately that the prince is benevolent, filial, courteous, and loves scholars. There is no one in the world who would not stretch their neck to serve the prince to the death. So here we are.
The emperor said: Please take good care of and protect the prince.
The four people finished toasting and blessing, and walked away quickly.
The emperor watched them off, summoned Mrs. Qi, pointed to the four people, and said, "I want to replace the prince. The four of them will assist him. The prince's wings have already been formed and it is difficult to change them."
Queen Lu is truly your master.
Qi Fu began to cry, and the emperor said: You dance Chu dances for me, and I sing Chu songs for you.
The emperor sang: The swan flies high, fluttering its wings for thousands of miles.
The wings are ready, soaring all over the world.
Soaring all over the world, there is nothing you can do!
Although there are short arrows, where can I use them?
The emperor sang several times, and Mrs. Qi sobbed and shed tears. The emperor got up and left, and the banquet was over.
The emperor did not replace the prince in the end. It was originally Liuhou who caused the influence of these four people.
Liuhou followed the emperor to attack the country of Dai, made a clever plan under the city of Mayi, and persuaded the emperor to appoint Xiao He as the prime minister. He and the emperor usually talked about many things in the world casually, but because they were not important matters related to the survival of the country, they were not recorded.
Liuhou declared: My family has been the prime minister of Korea for generations. When Korea was destroyed, I spared no expense on my family wealth to avenge Korea against the powerful Qin. The world was shocked by this. Now with my three-inch tongue, I am the emperor's commander, granting tens of thousands of households, and ranking among the nobles. This is supreme for a commoner. I, Zhang Liang, am very satisfied.
I am willing to abandon the things in this world and plan to travel with Chisongzi.
Zhang Liang then learned the science of bigu and practiced the Tao to lead the way of lightening one's body.
When Emperor Gao died, Empress Lu was grateful to Liu Hou, so she tried her best to let him eat, saying: "In this life, time flies as fast as a fleeting moment, why do you have to be so ascetic?"
Liu Hou had no choice but to eat as ordered.
Eight years later, Liuhou died, and his posthumous title was Wenchenghou.
His son Zhang Busuo was granted the title of Marquis.
Zhang Zifang first met the father-in-law who gave him "Tai Gong's Art of War" on the Xiapi Bridge. Thirteen years after their departure, he passed through Jibei with Emperor Gao. Sure enough, he saw the yellow stone at the foot of Gucheng Mountain, so he took it back and worshiped it as a treasure.
Liuhou died and Huangshi was buried together.
From then on, whenever Zhang Liang was worshiped during tomb sweeping and winter and summer festivals, Huangshi was also worshiped at the same time.
Zhang Buyi, the remaining marquis, committed the crime of disrespect in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaowen, and the feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: Most scholars say that there are no ghosts and gods, but they also say that there are spirits.
As for things like when Liu Hou met his father-in-law and gave him a book, it was magical enough.
Emperor Gaozu encountered difficulties many times, and Liu Hou often performed effective in such critical moments. Can it be said that it is not God's will?
The emperor said: Planning is done in the camp, and victory or defeat is decided thousands of miles away. I can't compare with Zifang.
I originally thought that this person might be tall and mighty, but when I saw his portrait, he looked like a beautiful woman.
Confucius said: If you judge people by their appearance, you will be wrong in treating Ziyu.
The same can be said for Liuhou.
