The expression of spirituality, for some reason, turns to chanting; the expression of emotion, for some reason, involves the hands and feet.
What arises from the heart is called Tao, and what is reflected in images is called Yong.
It is also influential to use this principle to look at the heaven and earth. All animals dance together, not to mention humans. They praise peace and mourn for chaos. In this case, the use of music can spread the sound.
Shennong made the harp and Fuxi made the harp, and then made the bell and the chime to express the soul and temperament, and to imitate the achievements of all things. From this point of view, its origin is very old.
The Yin Shang Dynasty had no discipline and left behind a very bad atmosphere. After the rise of obscene music, elegant music was lost and scattered. Works such as "Five Heroes" and "Six Stems" have declined.
Confucius said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people.
Starting from the Zhou Dynasty, there were two "Southern", and "Guofeng" was compatible with six generations.
In the past, the Yellow Emperor wrote "Yunmen", Yao wrote "Xianchi", Shun wrote "Da Shao", Yu wrote "Da Xia", Yin wrote "Da Xi", and Zhou wrote "Ren Wu". It is said that they inherited the etiquette of the virtuous kings of the previous generation and formulated the etiquette of bowing and behaving. The accumulation of gentleness is included, and the elegance is expressed on the outside.
"Shang Shu" said that Kui was ordered to take charge of music and teach the noble children, which is what "Zhou Guan" said about playing Da Lu and singing Huang Zhong.
When God's gift came down, people looked respectful and solemn, inheriting the glory of the Zhou Dynasty and promoting elegant music.
When Bao Si Yan Ji caused disaster, King Ping was in troubled times, etiquette was destroyed, relatives were alienated, and elegant music was lost in the rivers and seas.
Therefore, Yanling Jizi heard the song "Xiaoya" and said: "Probably it is the decline of virtue in the Zhou Dynasty that still has the legacy of the previous kings."
And the nations became kings and raised their own music.
Marquis Wen of Wei was afraid of falling asleep when he heard the music of ancient kings. Duke Ping of Jin forgot to eat when he heard new music. The way of the kings gradually declined because of this.
The customs are different in all directions, and the practices in Kyushu are different.
The Qin family annexed the world and unified the legal system. As for Xiange "Poetry". "Ode" and other works, Qian Qi Yanyu and other props were all thrown into the fireworks, and nothing was left behind.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised his sword to revolt and pacified the world. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty devoted all his efforts to implement moral education, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty devoted himself to making rituals and music.
The Queen Mother abandoned Confucianism, and the ministers rejected Jia's remarks. Mr. Wu Shen sighed deeply, but Zizheng and Dong Zhongshu still could not give up.
When the Cambodian-Han Dynasty resurgence, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne, Li Tugui watched the shadow of the sun and used "Song of Zhou". In the "Qing Temple", a pagoda market was established to carry out enlightenment; in the Mingtang, Emperor Guangwu was worshiped to be worthy of enjoying God; Huan Rong was summoned to the Imperial Academy to perform the circumcision ceremony in person; it was solemn, solemn, grand and solemn, and it was worth seeing.
Since then, rituals and music have become more prosperous.
In the third year of Yonghu, the official position in charge of music in the government was renamed as Dayu Le. It promoted the laws and etiquette, searched for prophecy documents, and was close to the "Ya" and "Song" in moral terms, and close to neutrality in affairs.
If there is music from all over the world, it is called great music and there are many variations, so God can get them and use them appropriately.
If there is sacrificial music from the ancestral temple, it is the so-called solemn and harmonious sound, and the ancestors would listen to this.
If there is music such as worshiping Sheji, it is the so-called "playing the harp and drums to welcome the ancestor Shennong".
If there is ceremonial music such as Piyong, it is the so-called change of customs. There is no better way than music.
If there is court music such as Huangmen, it is the so-called "let the ministers enjoy elegant music and let us dance solemnly".
If there is military music such as short flute, it is the so-called victory of the king's division, and he ordered the army to play a triumphal song.
Emperor Wei took the emperor hostage and ordered the princes, hoping to use war to pacify the four sides. At that time, he was annexed and destroyed, and all the constitutional laws were lost.
After Liu Biao was defeated, Du Kui was obtained. He beat the drum and picked up the shield, fully complying with the records of the previous generation.
The three emperors were talented and proficient in poetry. Although the rhythms of songs and poems were different, their favorite thing was to carve out lyrics.
Therefore, Wang Can and others each composed new poems, used their writing talents, chanted and sung to the gods, and praised and publicized their achievements.
Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty adopted the standards left by the Han and Wei Dynasties, referred to the rules passed down by Emperors Jing and Wen, updated the dingnai, and left the music of the previous generations unchanged.
In the ninth year of Hula, Xunxu, the official of Guanglu, began to make an ancient ruler to adjust the rhyme, and then used the superb poems and essays written by Zhang Hua and others to be played at the grand ceremony.
After the Yongjia turmoil, the number of musicians decreased, and the school's music stage and martial arts lecture hall all turned into filthy wastelands.
Although there were singers from "Elephant Dance" who returned to the Jin Dynasty from outside the Great Wall, as for wind instruments such as Guzhu, the harp produced by Yunhe Mountain, the harp produced by Kongsang Mountain, and the stone chimes produced by the swimming bank, at that time, less than one piece could be owned in a hundred pieces.
Human beings inherit the spirituality of heaven and earth, contain the essence of charm, use hardness and softness interchangeably, and distinguish between sadness and joy.
It’s natural to be happy when you see the sunshine in spring, but unhappy when it fades in autumn.
Wandering in the sound of gold and stone, transcending the melody of the orchestra, rising and dying with the changes of all things, following the trend without turning back.
Therefore, the King of Chu boarded a light Xuan chariot at Pengli, and Emperor Shun of Han listened to the crow of the crow at Fanqu.
The saints composed music for their achievements and songs for their enlightenment. It was precisely to use rhythm to express their inner harmony, beautify their joy and joy, and control their sorrow.
In terms of general music, there are five tones, eight tones, six temperaments, and twelve pipes as its outline and backbone.
Five tones: Palace means king, palace means middle.
There is nothing that cannot be cured by the way of neutralization.
Shang is a minister, and Shang means strong, referring to the strong attribute of gold.
Jiao refers to the people, and Jiao refers to touch, which refers to the energy similar to Yang that can be generated when it encounters all things.
Zheng is a matter, and Zheng refers to cessation, which means that the prosperity of things will stop.
Feather is a thing, and what it means is comfort. It means that the Yang Qi will be restored, and all things will thrive and grow.
There is an ancient saying: etiquette and joy can never leave your side for a moment.
Those who have been influenced by those in high positions always seem to find it not enough to change evil and do good.
Therefore, hearing the music of the palace tune makes people gentle, kind and magnanimous; hearing the music of the Shang tune makes people upright, upright and upright; hearing the music of the Jiao tune makes people compassionate and loving; hearing the music of the Zheng tune makes people willing to support and like charity; hearing the music of the Feather tune makes people humble, frugal and fond of etiquette.
Bayin is the wind from all directions.
The sound of dryness is that of stone, and its sound of wind is not clear.
The sound of "Kan" is Ge, and its wind is called "Guang Mo".
The sound of Gen is Gu, and its wind is called Rong.
The sound of the vibration is bamboo, and its wind is called Ming Shu.
The sound of Xun is wood, and its wind is called Qingming.
The sound of separation is silk, and its wind is called scenery.
The sound of Kun is earth, and its wind is called cool.
The sound of Dui is gold, and its wind is called Lu He.
The six items of Yang are the law, which are called Huang Zhong, Taizu, Guxi, Ruibin, Yize, and Wushe; the six items of Yin are the Lu, and they are called Da Lu, Ying Zhong, Nan Lu, Lin Zhong, Zhong Lu, and Jia Zhong. There are twelve items in total, used to correspond to the twelve chen.
Lu refers to law, which means that Yang Qi has its own rules when it is generated; Lu refers to help, which is used to help achieve the effect of Yang.
The Chen of the first month is called Yin, and Yin is Jin, which refers to the path of living things.
The Chen name of February is Mao, and Mao means Mao, which means that Yang Qi is generated and grows luxuriantly.
The name of Chen in March is Chen, which means earthquake, which means that all things sprout and grow during this time.
The Chen in April is called Si, which means rising. All things have grown up by this time.
The Chen in May is called Wu, and Wu means long and big, which means that all things grow up.
The Chen in June is called Wei, and Wei is the flavor, which means that everything begins to mature and taste at this time.
The Chen of July is called Shen, and Shen means body, which means that the body of all things has grown up at this time.
The chen in August is called You, and You means shrinkage, which means that everything is restrained at this time.
The chen in September is called Xu, and Xu means destruction, which means that all things decay during creation.
The month of October is called Hai, and Hai is Ji, which means that the Yin Qi is executing all things at this time.
The chen in November is called Zi, and Zi means breeding, which means that Yang Qi breeds again at this time.
The chen in December is called Chou, and Chou is the knot, which means the place where the beginning and the end intersect, and the knot is used as the name.
The tube in November is called Huang Zhong, yellow is the middle color of yin and yang.
Heaven has the so-called six qi, and the earth has the so-called five talents. In this way, the numbers of heaven and earth are complete.
Some people say that the nature of the Winter Solstice is earth, and the color of the earth is yellow, so it is called the Yellow Bell.
The name of the first month of the month is Tai Cong. The so-called Cong means Cong, which means that all things grow following the Yang Qi Tai Cong.
The name of the month of March is Guxi. The so-called Guxi: Gu means dry; wash means wash. It means that all things are fresh and clean when they are reborn, washing away their dryness and replacing their branches and leaves.
The name of the tube in May is Ruibin, Wei Rui, which means hanging down; Bin means Jing, which means that at this time, Yang Qi declines and Yin Qi begins to rise, and they treat each other respectfully like guests.
The name of the seventh month is Yi Ze, Yi means flat; Ze means Dharma, which means that all things will grow evenly and conform to the law.
The name of the month of September is Wushe. The so-called "shoot" means "out", which means that the Yang Qi rises during the period, and all things are collected and there is no rebirth.
The name of the supervisor in December is Da Lu. The so-called Lu means help, which means that the Yang Qi has just arrived and the Yin Qi is coming to assist.
The name of the month of October is Ying Zhong. The so-called Ying means harmony, which means that the work of the year has been completed. It responds to the activities of the world, converges and gathers.
The name of the month of August is Nanlu. The so-called Nan means Ren, which means that everything is heading at this time, which is a symbol of pregnancy.
The official name of June is Lin Zhong. The so-called Lin means Mao, which means that everything is flourishing everywhere at this time.
The name of the tube in April is Zhonglu because Lu means help, which means that Yang Qi thrives and grows, and Yin Qi assists success.
The name of the tube in February is Jia Zhong because Jia is the assistant, which means that all things have not fully grown yet, and Yin virtue assists Yang Qi to make all things born.
After the chaos in Tokyo in the Han Dynasty, there was no epigraphic music at all, and the music was scattered and incomplete, and can no longer be known.
When Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty pacified Jingzhou, Du Kui, a native of Henan, who was appointed Yale Lang in the Han Dynasty, remembered the old rules and regulations, appointed him as a military adviser, and asked him to create Yale.
At that time, there were also Sanqi ministers Deng Jing and Yin Shang who were good at singing elegant music, singer Yin Hu who could sing songs for the ancestral temple suburbs, dancers Feng Su and Fu Yang who were familiar with the various dances of the ancestors, and Du Kui led them all.
They studied classic ancient books in detail, collected old stories and legends recently, studied ancient music, and began to set up shelves to hang bells and chimes.
However, during the early years of the Huang Dynasty, people such as Chai Yu and Zuo Yannian became favored because of new music, which changed the charm of their music.
In the early days when Emperor Wu of Jin received his destiny, everything was in the preliminary stage.
In the second year of Taishi, an edict was issued stating that the rituals and music of the Suburban Sacrifice Mingtang should be based on the rituals of the Wei Dynasty. In compliance with the principle that the Zhou Dynasty adopted the Yin and Shang ritual systems at the beginning, it was only necessary to modify the lyrics and let Fu Xuan compose the lyrics for the music.
Sacrifice songs for heaven and earth and the five suburbs:
God gave the Jin Dynasty his destiny because the way of heaven was far-reaching and the emperor was virtuous.
I will work day and night to serve God reverently.
Always comes on time and waits until ready.
A black bull is sacrificed, and one comes on the eve of the sacrifice to view the animals prepared for sacrifice.
When he upholds virtue and governs, he plays music, and both the gods and the earth hear this.
Sacrifice to the heaven and earth and the greeting and farewell songs of the five suburbs:
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Wen were so wonderful, they comforted everyone all day long.
Keep this country for a long time and never rest day or night. God is honored by magnifying God’s command.
Beautiful music has been presented again and again, and it is a great omen for the wonderful National Games.
Gods and earth only send blessings, and there is no end to the enjoyment of blessings.
A song to worship the five suburbs of heaven and earth:
God made the Jin Dynasty rule the world and gave orders to establish a new government.
Received the world from the Wei Dynasty and owned all the people.
Let the great gods rest assured, and let the gods be at peace.
Glorify the achievements left by the previous kings and their virtues and goodness.
Offering a black bull, imitating the founding method of the Western Zhou Dynasty.
Gods and gods came together, and fortune and fortune gathered together.
Patrolling the world on time, God Wu Tian bless us.
Bless us to enjoy the Jin Dynasty, and the people of the world support us.
Fear the majesty of God and carefully inform the people of the seasons.
Guangyao inherits the mandate from God and constantly ponders over his mission.
From then on, he set a glorious example of being respectful and diligent without rest.
I hope to work hard day and night for the good fortune of the Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Wen, as monarchs, were able to comply with the will of God. Soothe the world and maintain prosperity.
Be respectful, diligent, and keep working hard, so you can stabilize the people of the world.
Establish rules and regulations and revise etiquette and laws.
The establishment of people's behavioral norms always begins at this time.
It can make future generations prosperous and keep this inheritance forever.
Evening sacrifice songs used for sacrifices in the suburbs of heaven and earth and in bright halls:
The great Jin Dynasty patrols on time to implement his virtuous government.
He inherited the world from heaven and helped all the princely states.
The princes and kingdoms have been appeased, and the gods have confirmed the good deeds of those who have been appointed.
Treat suburban priests with piety and serve the emperor respectfully.
Serve the Emperor respectfully, and thousands of blessings will come to you.
The great ancestors were able to comply with the will of God.
Delicious sacrifices are not what the gods need. The only thing they accept is the beauty of virtue and governance.
Accept God’s blessing. Miraculously enlighten the four directions.
A divine song used for sacrifices in the suburbs of heaven and earth and in Mingtang sacrifices: O great Jin Dynasty, you have complied with the will revealed by heaven.
The two late emperors worked hard to establish their virtues and carry forward such great virtues for generations to come.
The emperor of our dynasty inherits the mandate of heaven and owns the land and people in the world.
Large-scale sacrifices are held in the suburbs to share the benefits of ancestors. The ritual music is very solemn and grand.
The gods and earth only came to accept the sacrifices, and the ancestors were more glorious because of it.
It can make future generations prosperous and preserve the inheritance without ever ending.
Sacred songs used to worship heaven in the suburbs:
The altar for worshiping heaven in the southern suburbs was repaired and treated with courtesy to the great god.
The spirit of the spirits was sensed, and all the gods came together.
Light up a red flame and add fragrant firewood.
Purple smoke swirled up and floated to the top of the blue clouds.
There is no visible trace of the gods' bodies.
It's vast and boundless, deep and lofty.
The gods have arrived, and the sky and sun are very bright.
No sound is heard, no image is seen.
The gods arrived and they were all moved and delighted.
The essence and energy resonate and touch my heart.
The gods took their seats and everyone rejoiced together.
The clouds that moisten all things are lingering, and the gentle breeze that nourishes all things is blowing.
Beautiful music plays, forming a harmonious sound.
The sounds of various instruments were in harmony, and the gods listened to this.
The grains are all clean and the flavor is all fragrant.
The whole animal of pure color was cooked, and the fine wine wrapped in jade cups was presented.
The gods enjoyed it happily and smelled the aroma of the sacrifice.
Bless the great Jin Dynasty and bring you many blessings.
Build the capital and own the world.
Preserve the heavenly years and govern the earth.
Sacred songs used in suburban rituals:
The earth-sacrifice temple in the northern suburbs has been repaired to wait for the great earth god.
The gods got the message and all the earth gods came together.
Yin sacrifices were set up and auspicious rituals were performed.
The night is about to pass, and time seems to have not changed.
The bodies of the earth gods have no form.
Hidden in an extremely deep place, it is chaotic and fuzzy and has no shape.
The appearance of the earth gods seems to be invisible. The spirit is not far away, the world considers her as its mother.
The earth gods came, leaving behind light and shadow.
Bright and seemingly there, but ultimately difficult to see.
The earth gods arrived and they were all delighted.
Dance a dance that symbolizes virtue, and sing a hymn that constitutes civility.
The earth gods have already sat down, and everyone is rejoicing together.
The rain that moistens all things falls, and the clouds that nourish all things spread.
Music has many movements, and the prestige and education are widespread.
All things develop smoothly, and the earth gods rejoice in this.
The consecrated grains have been cleaned and served respectfully by the waiters.
Present jade cups of fine wine and respectfully greet each other.
Offering carefully raised animals smells the fragrance of virtue.
Bless the Jin Dynasty and all living beings.
Beyond the land of Kyushu, it touches the heaven.
It maintains a lifespan of tens of thousands of years and extends to hundreds of millions of years.
Sacred songs used in Mingtang sacrifices:
Build a bright hall and enjoy the sacrifices without slacking off.
O great ancestors, gloriously worthy of God.
Glorious God, so great and sublime.
The sacred ancestors deserve to be blessed, and the virtues of the saints are displayed.
Officials from all over the country performed their duties respectfully, and people from all over the world came to worship.
Always comes on time to bless and bless you forever.
Evening sacrifice songs in ancestral temples:
I came at dusk to check on the animals used for sacrifice. How respectful.
Carefully raised according to the season, this bundle is provided as an offering for sacrifices.
The gods understood the sincerity and accepted these fat sacrifices.
Ancestors, please come and enjoy it so that your filial descendants can feel at ease.
Welcome and farewell songs for ancestral worship in ancestral temples:
How high and far away, the sun is looking down here.
If you make offerings and sacrifices according to the seasons, the gods will come.
The gods descend upon us to bless us and enjoy our offerings.
Let our inheritance have no end and receive endless blessings from God.
O supreme God, ancestors of great saints, fathers of virtuous conduct, gloriously inherited the responsibility of ruling the world. The temple commemorates Sima Jun, the general of the Han Dynasty who conquered the west.
The Sima clan's ancestral temple was built, and the gods came.
The bountiful gifts are boundless, and the sacrifices are made devoutly.
O wonderful ancestor, bring peace to our descendants.
Benefits affect future generations and give us happiness.
The temple worships Sima Liang, the king of Yuzhang Prefecture, and sings:
A beautiful and joyful banquet, with sacrifices brought to the hall.
The great ancestral temple has prospered because of this.
All the wise men gathered together to assist me in performing sacrifices.
Offering sacrifices will not cause any accidents, and the blessings will be abundant.
The temple worships Sima Jun, Lord of Yingchuan Mansion:
Our distant ancestors, emperors, were actually officials in heaven.
The great ancestor began to establish his empire.
The roots are strong and the branches and leaves are prosperous, so the sect was founded.
Give me boundless favor and enjoy blessings forever.
The temple worships Sima Fang, Lord of Jingzhao Prefecture:
The imperial great-grandfather was extremely virtuous.
Mild and pure. Be patient and restrained, stabilize the place, and become a king by imitating him.
Nurturing the holy ancestors, illuminating all directions.
The temple worships Emperor Xuan Sima Yi’s song:
Great imperial grandfather, you are holy, respectful and discerning.
Manage the surrounding areas diligently and perform your duties diligently day and night.
Promote culture and education widely and promote martial arts.
Assist in stabilizing the country and carry out God's punishment.
Lay a great cause and create an imperial foundation.
Respect the destiny and protect it at all times.
The ancestral hall worships the emperor's son and the mirage sings:
Jihuangtong, who is constantly striving for self-improvement, can understand the truth and know right from wrong.
Do everything with foresight. Stay in awe.
Inherit Emperor Xuan Zao's achievements and achieve his own achievements.
Promote those with outstanding talents and correct those who are evil.
He was conscientious in his duties and the emperor was very diligent.
The way of heaven is infinite and profound. The temple worships Emperor Sima Zhao’s song:
The great Jin Dynasty, the virtuous Emperor Wen was smart, wise, sage and mighty.
If no one can handle government affairs, the emperor will solve them.
Long snakes and big pigs disobeyed orders and harmed people, so the emperor came to pacify them.
He cares about the land near and far, and selects and appoints talented people.
Create a foundation that will be passed down, and your merits will reach the sky.
Two songs of worship in ancestral temples:
In the Jin Dynasty, it was a routine practice to offer sacrifices in accordance with the seasons.
Pay tribute to the ancestors in the ancestral temple, accompanied by music and rituals.
Speaking of those who come to offer sacrifices, they represent all places in the world.
The sacrificial bottles have been laid out and the wine has been filled.
There are also delicious soups and delicious food prepared.
The endless longing full of filial piety was born out of the scene at that time.
Songs and dances are performed in the hall, and the gods are happy with the harmony and beauty.
Our ancestors have come to bless our homeland.
Everything in the world is beautiful and auspicious.
The respectful ruler, the ministers and officials gathered together.
He came here from all over the world and looked very handsome.
The bells and drums are ringing, the orchestra is melodious, dancing for the beginning of a new era, singing for the eternal foundation, the gods are very happy!
The respectful ruler, ministers and officials gathered together.
Both junior and senior officials are respectful, and both superiors and subordinates are courteous.
The orchestras are tuned, the drums and bells are played, the dance symbolizes virtue, and the songs sing about meritorious deeds. The gods are all happy!
Respectful incumbents, guests are calm and generous.
The emperor is solemn and the princes join hands.
There are rituals to perform rituals, music to play according to laws, dance to symbolize merit, and songs to sing about virtue. The gods are all happy!
The old "Grace" passed down by Du Kui has four parts, the first part is called "Lu Ming", the second part is called "Liu Yu", the third part is called "Fa Tan", and the fourth part is called "Wen Wang", all of which are ancient melodies and lyrics.
During the Taihe period of the Wei Dynasty, Zuo Yannian adapted Du Kui's three pieces, "Lie Yu", "Fa Tan" and "King Wen", and created his own melody and beat. Although the name was retained, the melody was actually different.
Only Du Kui's "Lu Wu" was used without any changes.
Whenever there is a general meeting on the first day of the first lunar month, the Taiwei holds the jade and the ministers salute, and that is the elegant music that is often played in Shuxiang.
Later, three more poems were adapted and used as ceremonial poems.
The first part is called "Yu He Pian", which praises Emperor Wu of Wei. The melody and rhythm are the same as the ancient "Lu Ming".
The second part is called "Weiwei Pian", which praises Emperor Wen of Wei and uses the melody of "Lie Yu" adapted by Zuo Yannian.
The third part is called "Yangyang Pian", which sings about Emperor Wei Ming, using the melody of "King Wen" adapted by Zuo Yannian.
The fourth part uses "Deer Moo" again.
The melody of "Deer Wu" was reused, while the ancient "Cutting Sandalwood" was removed.
In the early years of the Jin Dynasty, "Lu Ming" was also used during meals.
In the fifth year of the Taishi period of the Jin Dynasty, the minister asked Fu Xuan, the imperial servant, Xun Xu, the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and Zhang Hua, the Huangmen minister, to compose songs for ceremonial ceremonies on the first day of the first lunar month, as well as songs for princes and princes to celebrate their longevity with wine, and songs for eating and drinking.
Xun Xu said: The Wei Dynasty repeatedly used the Zhou Dynasty poem "Deer Island" as lyrics when performing rituals and eating.
In addition, "Deer Ming" is used to entertain guests, and has no merit in matters involving the court. Based on the research of old records and legends, I don't know how it is suitable.
Gou Xu removed the old "Lu Ming" song and composed four additional ceremonial poems. First, he stated the significance of the etiquette of meeting the emperor on the first day of the first lunar month as the "Three Dynasties".
He also wrote the poem "Songs for the Birthday of Princes and Dukes at the Zhengdan Conference" and the poem "Songs of Food and Music", totaling thirteen articles.
And because the poems of the Wei Dynasty had two words per sentence, some three words per sentence, some four words per sentence, and some five words per sentence, which were different from ancient poems, I asked Chen Qi, the general in charge of the law.
Chen Qi said: It may not always be appropriate to pair it with metal and stone instruments.
Therefore, Xun Xu’s songs of the Jin Dynasty all used four characters per sentence. Only "The Prince Sending Birthday Wine" had either three characters per sentence or five characters per sentence.
Zhang Hua believes that the poems "Shangshou" and "Shiju" in the Wei Dynasty and those used in the Han Dynasty are uneven in length and sentence, and do not completely conform to the ancient style.
Perhaps because singing according to the melody and rhythm has something to rely on, and understanding the music is enough to prepare the music, and the application of the program is usually beyond the ability of ordinary people to modify.
It has been used throughout the two dynasties and three capitals without any change. Although the words and phrases of the poems are different, and their use and abolition vary with the times, the length of its sentences is completely related to the old ones, and they all have their reasons.
Therefore, everything remains the same and I dare not make any changes.
Creation has different meanings explained by Zhang Hua and Xun Xu.
At that time, Xia Shao asked Cheng Gongsui, the minister of Zhongshu, to compose songs and poems.
Now collect and list them together. Four compartment music:
The ceremonial song on the first day of the first lunar month: Cheng Gong Sui
The solemn emperor rules over all nations.
The court is full of talented people, and there are all those who are outstanding in ability and morals.
There is no end to his influence and enlightenment, and his royal way spreads all over the world.
A beautiful banquet is served, and the courtyard is filled with beautiful guests.
Feathered flags shone in the sky, and bells and drums rang between heaven and earth.
Bai Gong came to worship on the first day of the first lunar month, and his literary talent and beauty showed in his appearance.
Talents gather together, the sound of music is sonorous, and the sound of gold is vibrating.
Ceremonial music is provided and guests are entertained.
Let the wise emperor live long and have great blessings renewed every day.
All the ministers came together, and they were graceful and generous.
Toast each other as a greeting gift, and this etiquette behavior is highly respected.
Thousands of delicious dishes and thousands of wines.
Wonderful music brings joy together, and endless blessings are shared.
Joy, peace in the world.
The king's teachings are widespread, and the folk customs are clear and clear.
Beautiful music like the flute "Shao" was played and the song was sung over and over again. The years will be fruitful and the world will be peaceful.
O best rule, joy boundless.
The head of state is smart and loyal.
Like the good rain that nourishes all things, like the warm wind blowing gently.
Beautiful auspiciousness appears, and psychic induction is revealed.
The unicorn comes out and the phoenix flies.
Li spring gushes and flows through the courtyard.
Harvest crops grow and fill the barns.
May you be blessed and help the Holy Emperor.
Inherit the throne of heaven and rule all nations.
Accept the destiny, comply with the fate, impart holy virtues, and inherit the brilliance of the four generations.
Emperor Xuan established a grand foundation, Emperor Jing carried it forward, Emperor Wen was respectful and discerning, and his virtues were even more evident.
From then on, the Jin Dynasty was founded, and the blessings spread without borders.
The establishment of the first reign title, Taishi, is like a phoenix taking flight.
What is it like to take off and enjoy the blessings of the King of Ten Thousand Vehicles?
Owning remote places in all directions, educating and raising the people.
Books and articles are full of brilliance, and epigraphs and music are represented.
Virtue flourishes and righteousness flourishes.
It affects all directions, reaching up to the sky.
Illuminate for all generations, be brilliant and have a good death.
May you have endless blessings, as high as the sky.
The sage emperor reigns over the world, obeys the people and responds to the expectations of heaven.
Three generations have inherited the glory for eternity and created a magnificent foundation from the beginning.
The light is as bright as the sun and the moon, and merit and enlightenment coexist with the four seasons.
The universe is peaceful and peaceful, and the common people are living in peace and harmony. How wonderful it is to live in peace and harmony!
God has sent great orders to assist benevolent people and protect saints.
The three solemn and great emperors were even more virtuous.
Take over the power and be in charge of the seven political affairs.
All officials are competent and their education is comparable to the rule of gods and saints.
The four seas are of the same style, with supreme benevolence.
Helping the people cultivate all things is comparable to the creation of heaven and earth.
It is comparable to the goodness of heaven and earth that bestows beautiful kindness.
Many outstanding ministers and outstanding talents.
Virtue and enlightenment spread, and the fragrance is passed on to future generations.
Pass it on to future generations and set an example for future generations.
The Imperial Ancestral Temple is so solemn and solemn. The emperor established four Mingtang gates.
The emperor established four gates of the Mingtang, and all state affairs were handled.
Be diligent and tireless, be respectful and prudent, be happy and not be confused and absurd, and be hungry without thinking about eating.
Now that the great gift has been performed, the joy is boundless.
Climb the Kunlun Mountains and walk up to the Upper City.
Ride a flying dragon and rise into the sky.
The sun and moon are used as crowns, and the five stars are used as accessories.
Raise the rainbow and raise the waiting flag.
Dressed in Qingyun and decorated with flowers.
Look at the eight poles and visit the heaven.
Comply with heaven and earth, harmonize yin and yang.
Work and rest according to the four seasons, based on the sun, moon and stars.
Open up the outline of the emperor's business and correct the principles of the dynasty.
Extensively promote benevolent governance and expand favor and prosperity.
Work diligently on the great teachings and promote the mighty power.
Make all directions return home and make Jiuyi pay tribute.
Those who come to worship seem to be in heaven, and the banquet is as if it is arranged on the purple star.
Set up five flags and list Zhong Yu.
Place the four hangings and play "Chi" and "Wu".
The gold and stone are clanging, and the feathers are flying.
Eight hundred people were discharged and danced "Bayu".
Sing elegant songs and harmonize the rules and regulations.
Rejoice together, rejoice with the Holy Lord.
Education is swaying, and the atmosphere is clear.
Lead heroes and drive heroes.
Open up an era and clear out the four descendants.
Brilliant, beautiful sage.
Beyond EMI, carry forward great achievements.
Pass down the emperor's legacy, and his achievements will last forever.
The great one shows his ancestors and saves the world.
Stabilize the sea and accept the destiny. Magical and mighty, great and bright.
Open up the road and achieve the foundation of the emperor.
Brilliant as a pot, incomparable achievements.
Save the people and achieve unparalleled achievements.
The country is healthy and the nine realms are clear.
The destiny comes, and Mingzhe is born.
The solemn ancestor is wise and outstanding.
He is born with virtue and adapts to his spiritual destiny.
Established the imperial industry and founded the Jin Dynasty.
Virtue is passed down from generation to generation, and merit is passed down to future generations.
The Holy Ming Emperor, the dragon soars to the sky.
It is in line with God’s will and understands the principles of heaven.
It looks up to the blue clouds and feeds hundreds of rivers.
Receive blessings for hundreds of millions of years.
On the first day of the first lunar month, there is a song for princes and princes to celebrate their birthdays: Xun Xu enters the first day of the new year, let the light spread.
Offer wine and pray for a better future.
My emperor is long-lived and prosperous, and my emperor's foundation is prosperous and great.
May your good luck be passed down to your descendants for generations.
The Song of Eating and Rejoicing in the East and West Chambers: Xun Xu
The seven shining stars shine brightly.
I have wonderful guests, and I will take care of them and feast them.
The government affairs of the country have been planned, and then a big banquet will be held.
People are friendly to me, observe virtue and courtesy.
The guests began to take their seats and gathered together.
After the court, a banquet was held to harmonize various etiquettes.
The seats are arranged according to official positions, with some at the top and some at the bottom.
Let the three elders take the seat and take care of the brothers.
Small officials and small officials should take this as a rule and model.
Observe the right way of maintaining health, and there will be a lot of blessings from heaven.
In the past, our three emperors laid a great foundation.
Today our Shengming Emperor can match the glory of the previous generations.
From generation to generation, merits and deeds continue, and the light illuminates Jiuji.
What I want is to unite the people and prosper the country, and there will be no contradiction at all times.
Following in the footsteps of Dayu, there is no one who will not be attracted.
God has given you a distinguished position and you can enjoy this blessing.
How great our great ancestor is to carry forward the virtues of the sage.
Open up a new era, correct the world and establish laws.
Change what is absurd so that the people will not make mistakes.
The establishment of a foundation left a legacy and gave the Jin Kingdom a beginning.
The brilliant Bocao was Emperor Jing.
To overcome hardships and put an end to chaos in the world, be mighty but not fierce.
Drive the cart without getting lost, the broad road is bright and bright.
If all seven virtues are promoted, peace and tranquility will be maintained forever.
How prosperous!
The late Emperor Shengming was Emperor Wen.
It is great for a monarch to imitate God and establish integrity.
Promote the five canons respectfully and work diligently in the imperial industry.
Literary talents and martial arts were brought into play together, and many wonderful achievements were made.
Self-cultivation is beneficial to governance, and the people are at peace in Yinfu.
It soothes the distant places and cares for the secluded places, and the beautiful teachings cover all directions.
In a peaceful world, there is no conquest and the situation of maintaining the divided world is maintained.
Virtue and government are extensive and enlightening, and Taoism is infinitely prosperous.
The moral integrity is boundless, and the mandate given by the Emperor of Heaven is so vast.
Let us establish the path of the Jin Dynasty and surpass the previous sage kings.
Like a dragon taking flight, it changes fortunes and protects far-flung places in all directions.
He is wise, respectful and discerning, and his deeds are worthy of Yu Shun and Tang Yao.
The feudal land and the founding of the country enjoyed his blessings, and the results of extensive land reclamation and farming were very auspicious.
On the days of the Three Dynasties, I got good omens through divination, and it turned out really good in the end.
To ask what that good looks like, it is to rule over all parties.
Important ministers, high officials, ministers, hundreds of officials, leaders of princes, and kings of vassal states.
Enjoy it from time to time and from generation to generation. Follow these principles and remain unchanged.
Everyone bowed in the court, and guests were guests in the hall.
Song and Wei gathered together, as well as King Chenliu and Duke Shanyang.
Guests and envoys came to see the splendor of the country.
Recommend wise men to propose strategies and offer jade to Guizhang.
Bless them and give them life, and there is no end to your abundant gifts.
Like flocks of egrets gathering together to fly, like swans flying together one after another.
The vast city is majestic and majestic, and it serves as a model in all directions.
Incomparable talents have been gathered, and the royal laws and regulations have been completely rectified.
Gentlemen all came to worship and watch such a grand occasion.
The great and respectful monarch is the dawn of hope for the people.
Carefully handle affairs on behalf of God, and you will never lack blessings and health.
Treat those who are not benevolent and righteous in distant places and teach them with pure and unmixed principles.
There is a hierarchy of good, evil, virtuous and foolish, and outstanding talents obtain positions.
The nine ethnic groups are in harmony, and there is no conflict between the common people and the country.
A constitution was issued to open the era, and people from all over the world came in droves.
According to the current situation, we can rectify and unify the world and achieve the same goal through different ways.
Deep virtue carries all things, and inspiration in the heart elevates noble people.
There was no hesitation in expressing honest opinions to the emperor and adopting them.
Set an example and teach them with good people.
The teachings from above are like the breeze, and the responses from below are like flowers.
When a person has a good idea, everyone rises up to help him succeed.
Our monarch rejoices in his feasts, and his kind greetings are never lost.
The banquet went on and the mood was joyful, making all the countries live in harmony.
The rituals were finally carried out, and things took on their own appearance.
The courtyard is lit by bright torches and the sound of bells and drums is clanging.
The sheng and stone chimes praise virtue and governance, and the ten thousand dances symbolize meritorious deeds.
The sounds of various musical instruments are harmonious, and customs change and education follows.
That kind of harmony is like music, and everything is in peace and harmony.
The world is peaceful, culture and quality are both harmonious, and the heaven, earth and universe are mixed and unified.
Once upon a time, our ancestor Emperor Xuan dominated neighboring countries in all directions.
First, the Jingchu area in the south was pacified, and then the Yan and Qin lands in the north were pacified.
The diligent and tireless Emperor Wen worked hard to cultivate virtue and spread benevolence and righteousness.
From its inception, it followed the will of God and the will of the people.
The auspicious signs shown by heaven coincided time and time again, and the auspicious signs came true one by one.
Heaven and earth are not in conflict with each other, and the relationship between gods and humans is harmonious.
He not only conquered the Yong and Shu areas, but also became the master of Wu Hui.
Su Shen came to pay tribute and presented Zhu arrows, bows and crossbows.
Han Jia presented music, and the palace was clear and harmonious.
Xirong presented mastiff dogs, and tribes in the south presented rare treasures.
Where the Wild Four need multiple translations, those with black teeth or tattoos.
Our emperor reassured them that the great destiny favored the new dynasty.
A beautiful banquet that is harmonious and joyful, has a good reputation and is not noisy.
The sake has been poured and the beans have been put on display.
The ceremony was complete with music, and the flute "Shao" was played.
Drink cheerfully and happily, but not too much.
Everywhere is happy, and the country is at peace.
The royal way is fully implemented and will not change for thousands of generations.
Small gathering song at the beginning of winter solstice: Zhang Hua
The sun and menstruation never stop, and the four seasons come and go.
Seasons and solar terms change, and all nations share blessings.
Hundreds of officials and officials came to the court to celebrate his birthday.
I have prepared birthday gifts to entertain hundreds of officials.
The sumptuous delicacies are displayed like a brocade, and the sweet wine gathers like spring water without flowing.
The sheng and the flute played harmoniously, and the chime and the pipe emitted a beautiful sound.
The emperor loves me deeply and my subordinates are devoted.
Let out the stagnation in your chest and use the sound of virtue to teach you.
It has been vented and guided, and the emperor and his ministers are of one heart and one mind.
Always maintain the atmosphere of benevolence and righteousness, and be comforted for a long time without any external intentions.
Banquet Song: Zhang Hua
Our industrious and tireless Emperor sends down light like the sky.
Concentrate your energy until the sun turns west, and your governance will be unparalleled.
I have some free time to deal with government affairs, so I invite all my ministers.
Crown ribbons and car hoods gathered like clouds, wine bottles and food utensils were displayed like stars.
There are many varieties of dishes and countless variations in cooking.
Clink glasses countless times and enjoy the feast.
The singers sang and the dancers danced their sleeves.
The movements and gestures have their own rhythm, and the silk and bamboo instruments play together.
The dancing limbs are very appropriate, and the playing technique is complex and measured.
He stamped his feet happily and sang loudly, enjoying himself without forgetting the etiquette.
There is no end to the wonderful joy, respectful, cautious and neat.
Song of ordering soldiers to go to war: Zhang Hua
Emperor Yu and Shun prospered, but some barbarians in Rong and Di refused to obey.
In the Zhou Dynasty, Yuan was arrested for causing rebellion, and some members of the imperial family rebelled.
Nowadays, in the prosperous world, bandits and tyrannical people are active in all directions.
The ferocious jackals dyed their fangs and claws red, and the people's wails filled the sky.
The marshal commanded China and sent troops to pacify the Qin region of Liangzhou.
The beauty and kindness of everyone must come from the law, and whether to praise or criticize depends on yourself.
Majesty and integrity are imposed on foreigners, and they are thinking of their own relatives in remote places.
Just the glutinous rice glutinous rice is full of flavor, and care and comfort make people feel true benevolence.
The merits of force are to stop fighting, and the most beautiful of the seven virtues of force is to bring peace to the people.
Great achievements start from here, and there will never be any trouble in going to war.
Song of condolence to the troops returning home: Zhang Hua
The rhinoceros disobeyed the virtue of heaven and caused turmoil to disturb the country.
The military chariots shook the fields of Shuofang, and the commanders praised the emperor's majesty.
The generals and soldiers worked together to fight, grateful for the kindness and forgetting themselves.
The accumulated offensive is like an open crossbow, and rushing to the battlefield is like firing the trigger.
The sound of shouting shook the valley, and the cold light of the golden armor shone brightly on the moon.
He wielded his long sword and charged towards his powerful enemy, stepping onto the corpse with long strides.
Fierce enemies like the whale salamanders all surrendered or were killed, and the northern territories remained peaceful forever.
When I went out, I braved the scorching heat, but now when I come back, the snow is falling.
The men who went on the expedition were indeed working hard, and the song "Plucking Wei" has been sung since ancient times.
Honor is obtained when the armor is taken off, and happiness and joy are obtained when the victory is achieved.
Song of Zhonggong: Zhang Hua
The late king led a great foundation, and his beautiful teachings affected all directions.
His demeanor convinces all nations, and his internal admonishment and education make the palace honest.
Ehuang and Nvying left the example of Emperor Shun's family, and "Daya" sings of the three women of Zhou Wen and Wang's family.
Maintain virtue and preach honest education, and take care of her loom in the right place.
Containing beauty and showing suppleness, it serves as an example of etiquette and acts of humility.
"Katydid" promotes kindness and virtuousness, while "狋木" involves subtlety.
The good reputation is like a gentle breeze, and the noble morality cannot catch up.
The honor behind them is as high as the sun and the moon, and generations later still look up to their afterglow.
Clan song: Zhang Hua
At family gatherings, the order of etiquette is clearly defined, and those who eat together are those who are close to themselves.
Even if the flesh and blood are separated, there will be no difference. Are the brothers just outsiders?
Just like the roots and branches of a tree, they pay attention to celebrating together, just like the ancestors sung in "Tangdi" have a good brotherly relationship.
O great and sage monarch, protect us with vastness and benevolence like the sky covering the earth.
Put aside the etiquette of monarch and minister to promote kinship, and spread kindness to bring harmony to family in-laws.
Everyone was drinking and having fun at the banquet, and rare delicacies were prepared while drinking.
Harmony and happiness have spread universally, and people from top to bottom are rejoicing and rejoicing together.
Moral education is exerted all over the world, and the influence of honesty and harmony is boundless.
In the ninth year, Baoti, the doctor of Guanglu, used the rhythm and Lu made by silk sculpture to check the various instruments of Taiyue, Zongzhang, and drumming bands. The rhythm and rhythm were inconsistent, so he developed an ancient ruler and made a new rhythm and rhythm.
For details, see "Lü Li Zhi".
After the law was determined, it was promulgated to Taichang for use by Taiyue, Zongzhang, Zhangchuang, and Qingshang.
Xun Xu then took charge of music affairs and asked those in the court who knew music to be jointly responsible for the music.
Guo Xia, Song Shi and others were asked to create two dances, "Zhengde" and "Dayu". The lyrics of the two dances were also written by Zhang Hua. "Zhengde Dance" Song: Zhang Hua
The great God knows everything clearly.
The emperor's artifacts take turns to be owned. The replacement of the five virtues of the dynasty is demonstrated.
God blessed Jin with sages and emperors from generation to generation.
Help China widely and educate all directions.
The great light shines down, illuminating everything without end.
All things of all kinds are honest and ignorant, and their moral character will always be in peace.
The only rule for governing the country is purity and clarity, and ritual and music rely on such implementation.
Golden bells, stone chimes, etc. were hung on the shelves, and Wanwu performed in the court.
The appearance that symbolizes the country shows good omens, and the rhythm of the music is reflected in the pleasant sound.
It broke through the Zhou Dynasty's "Wu" and surpassed Shang Tang's "Yi", and absorbed the essence of rhythm from the emperor Zhuanxu's "Liu Ying".
We should be courteous when moving forward and retreating together, and invisibly straighten out the educational order.
There is general harmony and harmony everywhere, even to the remote and remote places. "Dayu Dance" Song: Zhang Hua
God bestows destiny, and great fortune has its destination.
In the great Jin Dynasty, the three late emperors reflected each other.
Inherit the sage and pass it on to future generations, and widely appease the places within the nine regions.
Our emperor inherited the great cause and ascended the throne.
The people obey orders and rule the world.
Respectfully promote the Five Classics, and enlightenment spreads to all sides.
The same system exists in all directions, and everything is harmonious.
So "Dayu" was created to promote virtue and political achievements.
Make the education pure and the royal way harmonious and prosperous.
Charity extends to the vegetation, and favor extends to the insects.
Hundreds of millions of people from all over the world admire the imperial style with joy.
The great and bright foundation is getting more developed from generation to generation.
Xun Xu also created twelve new rhythmic flutes, which were used to adjust the rhythm and standardize elegant music. They were used in the palace and courtyard for formal gatherings. They claimed that they could harmonize the palace and merchants, but the people who discussed it still called Xun Xu "Anjie".
At that time, Ruan Xian was proficient in eight tones, and the commentators called him "Shenjie".
Ruan Xian often criticized Xun Xu's new rhythm in his heart for its high tone, thinking that the high tone was close to sadness and melancholy, which was not in line with the spirit of Zhongzheng and harmony.
Every time the guild played music, Xunxu felt that Ruan Xian thought he was out of tune and regarded him as a dissident, so he transferred Ruan Xian out of the capital to serve as the Prime Minister.
Later, some farmers were farming in the fields and found that the jade rulers from the Zhou Dynasty, which Xun Xu used to check the bells, drums, gold, stone, silk, bamboo and other musical instruments he made, were all a little short. They were impressed by Ruan Xian's cleverness and recruited Ruan Xian back again.
Xun Xu created two dances based on the new rhythm, and later revised the instruments.
When Xun Xu died, his work was not completed.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xia Shao asked his son Gou Fan to repair musical instruments and use them in suburban sacrifices and ancestral temple sacrifices.
Soon he was in mourning and was not recorded.
Emperor Mo Gaozu sent troops from the Shu Desert to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. Fan Yin from Banzhong led the people from Bindi to follow him and act as the vanguard.
When the Qin Dynasty was pacified, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yan Zhonghou and the seven surnames of the guests were restored.
Their custom was to love dancing. Emperor Gaozu liked their brave elites and watched their dances many times, and later sent Yue to learn from them.
There is a Yushui River in Khotan. According to the place where they live, it is called "Bayu Dance".
The dance music includes "Songs from Mao Yu", "Songs from Annu Yu", "Songs from An Tai" and "Songs from Xingci", a total of four pieces.
The lyrics are very ancient and no one can understand its sentences.
In the early years of the Wei Dynasty, Wang Can, who served as a military adviser and offered wine, was asked to adapt its lyrics.
Wang Can asked Bayu generals Li Guan and Zhong Yu about the meaning of the songs, and tried to get them to sing them and listen to them. Based on this research, he studied the songs and adapted them into "Maoyu New Fortune Songs", "Zayu New Fortune Songs", "Antai New Fortune Songs", and "Xingci New Fortune Songs". "Xingci" is used to describe the virtues of the Wei Dynasty.
In the third year of Wei Huangchu's reign, "Bayu Dance" was renamed "Zhaowu Dance".
In the first year of Wei Liangchi's reign, the minister of state reviewed and studied the music left by the three generations in terms of ritual music. According to the symbol of merit, it was recommended to create three dances: "Wu Shi", "Xian Xi" and "Zhang Bin", all of which should hold feathers and harps.
In the Jin Dynasty, "Zhaowu Dance" was renamed "Xuanwu Dance" and "Yuxi Dance" was renamed "Xuanwen Dance".
In the first year of Xianning in Jin Dynasty, Xia Shao determined the name of the ancestral temple, so the two dances "Xuanwu" and "Xuanwen" were stopped in the ancestral temple music, and under the same situation, the two dances "Zhengde" and "Dayu" composed by Guo Xia, Song Shi and others were used.
