◆Biography of Fan Hong, named Mi Qing, a native of Huyang, Nanyang County, and the uncle of Shizu.
His ancestor, Zhou Zhongshanfu, was granted the title of Fan, and because of this, he became a prominent surname in the village.
His father, Fan Zhong, whose courtesy name was Junyun, was good at farming and breeding goods.
Fan Zhong was kind-hearted and law-abiding. He lived together for three generations, and his descendants respected him day and night, always like a public servant.
In his business operation, he threw away nothing, taught children, slaves, and slaves, and everyone found his own suitability. Therefore, he was able to work together, and his financial profits doubled every year, so he opened more than 300 hectares of land.
The cottages they built all had high halls and pavilions, and were filled with ponds and canals.
There are also fish and livestock in the pond, and everything you ask for will be given.
He once wanted to make utensils, so he first planted Ziqi lacquer, which was ridiculed by people at that time. However, over time, it was put to good use, and people who had ridiculed him in the past borrowed it from him.
With a huge capital of tens of thousands, he provided relief to support the clan and enga the village.
Fan Zhong, his grandson and his brothers, fought over property. Fan Zhong felt ashamed and settled their grievances with two hectares of land.
The county praised him and recommended him as the third elder.
He died at the age of eighty.
The people who borrowed money from him accumulated millions in debt, and Fan Chong ordered the deeds to be burned.
The debtors were very ashamed when they heard about it and tried to repay their debts, but the sons obeyed their father's orders and refused to accept.
Fan Hong rarely has ambitions.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, rebels rose up. Liu Boxheng and his clan brother Liu Ci both led their troops to attack Huyang, but failed to capture it.
Liu Ci's sister was Fan Hong's wife, so Huyang arrested Fan Hong's wife and ordered her to tell Bo Sheng, but Fan Hong stayed behind and refused to return.
The military commander of Huyang wanted to kill his wife, and the chief officials said the following: Fan Zhong and his son lived in the countryside with courtesy, justice, and kindness. Although they are guilty, we will talk about it later.
Just when the Han soldiers arrived, the Yang army was frightened and anxious and did not dare to kill Fan's wife, so they were able to escape from danger.
When Gengshi was appointed, he wanted to make Fan Hong his general, but Fan Hong kowtowed and declined, saying: Scholars don't understand military affairs.
Unexpectedly, he was exempted from returning and built a camp with relatives of the clan to defend himself. More than a thousand people, old and weak, followed him.
At that time, the Red Eyebrow bandits plundered Tangzi Township and killed many people. They also wanted to attack Fan Hong's camp. Fan Hong sent people to bring cattle, wine, rice and grain to the Red Eyebrows.
The red eyebrow elders first heard about Fan Hong's benevolence and said: "Fan Jun has always been kind, and now he treats us so favorably, why attack him."
So he led his troops away, and Fan Hong was spared.
When Shizu ascended the throne, he paid homage to Dr. Guanglu and was promoted to the throne, second only to the Three Dukes.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Changluohou.
In the thirteenth year, he named his younger brother Fan Dan the Marquis of Sheyang, his brother Xun as the Marquis of Xuanxiang, and his elder brother Fan Zhong as the Marquis of Gengfu.
In the fifteenth year, Fan Hong was granted the title of Hou Zhang.
In the 18th year, the Emperor's South Temple Zhangling offered sacrifices, and he passed through Huyang to pay homage to Fan Zhong's tomb. He posthumously named Fan Zhong the longevity Zhang Jinghou, and built a temple in Huyang. Every time the emperor visited the south, he often worshiped his tomb and held reward meetings.
Fan Hong is modest and cautious, and does not seek luck.
Chang warned his son: If you are too wealthy, you will never have a happy ending.
It's not that I don't like glory and power, but the way of heaven hates abundance and prefers humility. The fate of noble relatives in previous lives was all Ming Jie.
Isn’t it happy to protect yourself and yourself?
Whenever there was a court meeting, he would always arrive first as scheduled, lie down in the palace and wait quietly, and only get up when the time came.
When the emperor heard about it, he often ordered his master's charioteers and servants to come to court before suing him, preventing him from arriving in advance.
Fan Hong often wrote the memorials that should be done in the country's favor and the speeches discussing the pros and cons, and destroyed the manuscripts.
When the public visits and arrests, they dare not confront the public.
It is not illegal for the clan to be influenced by his teachings.
The emperor valued him very much.
When he fell ill, the emperor personally visited him, stayed overnight, and asked him what he had to say.
Fan Hongton said to himself: "I have no merit in enjoying a great country. I am afraid that my descendants will not be able to preserve their kindness and make my soul and spirit feel ashamed under the nine springs. I wish I could live longer and live in a small village pavilion."
The emperor's words were not allowed. Twenty-seven years later, he died.
If the deceased is buried lightly, nothing will be used. Only a coffin will be used for burial. It is not suitable to have a thick burial. If there is corruption, it will hurt the filial son's heart and make him and his wife share the same grave.
The emperor praised his will and wrote it to all officials, so he said: If he does not follow the wishes of Hou Zhang, there is no way to commend his virtue.
And I will use this as a model even after I die.
He received tens of millions of money and tens of thousands of pieces of cloth, was given the posthumous title of Marquis Gong, was given a seal and ribbon, and was buried by the emperor himself.
Zi Fan succeeded to the throne.
The emperor was in mourning and granted the title of Marquis Pingwang to his youngest son Fan Mao.
The Fan family has made marquises from five countries.
In the second year, Fan Qi's younger brother Fan Qian and seven of his younger brothers Cong Kun were given a total of 50 million yuan.
The historian commented: In the past, King Qingxiang of Chu asked Lord Yangling: How is the gentleman's wealth?
Lord Yangling replied: He who lends money to others does not regard himself as virtuous and does not charge him with repayment; he who gives others food but does not use him as slaves, therefore relatives love each other and everyone praises him as good.
Fan Zhong's burning of the deed to stop the lawsuit may be said to be the wealth of a gentleman! The land is divided to use the way of heaven, and the land is implemented to respect etiquette. The enlightenment based on this theory can also be applied to governance.
How is it different from those who love and fear?
◆Yin Shizhuan, the second uncle of Yin Shizi, a new savage from Nanyang County. The brother of Queen Guanglie’s ex-mother.
His ancestors came from Guan Zhong. Guan Zhong's seventh grandson Guan Xiu moved from Qi to Chu and became a doctor of Yin, so he changed his surname to Yin.
During the Qin and Han Dynasties, they began to settle in Xinye.
When Liu Bo raised a volunteer army, Yin Shi was studying in Chang'an at this time. When he heard about it, he abandoned his studies and returned, leading more than a thousand people from his descendants, clans and guests to meet Bo Sheng.
Bo Sheng took Yinshi as his captain.
In the first year of Gengshi, he moved to the general position and followed Gongwan, and conquered the five counties of Xinye, Puyuyang, Duyan, Champion, and Huyang respectively.
In the second year, Gengshi granted Yin Shi the title of Marquis of Yin De, and became a general in the military.
In the first year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent envoys to welcome Yin nobles to Xinye and recruited Yinshi.
Yin Shi arrived with Yin Guiren, and he was worshiped as a Cavalry Captain and even named a Marquis of Yin Township.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted additional titles based on his military exploits. Yinshi kowtowed and humbly said: "The world has just been settled, and there are many generals who have made meritorious services. I entrusted my relatives to the nobles of Yin, and they still added titles. They cannot be made public to the world."
The emperor praised him very much and made him the captain of Guandu to guard Hangu.
Later, he moved to serve as a servant and returned home in the name of his mother's death.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Luhou.
After Xianzong was established as the crown prince, he used his Yin consciousness to guard King Wu and guide the East Palace.
Every time the emperor visited the prefectures and counties, Yinshi always stayed to guard the capital and entrusted him with the ban of troops.
Although he spoke very seriously when he entered the palace, when he spoke to the guests, he did not mention state affairs.
The emperor respected him and often pointed to his yin consciousness to warn his relatives and encourage his surroundings.
The scribes used by Yinshi are all concise and virtuous people, such as Yu Ting, Fu Kuan, Xue Yanyin, etc., most of whom were public officials and lieutenants.
When Xianzong ascended the throne, he was worshiped as Zhijinwu, and his position was particularly advanced.
In the second year of Yongping, he passed away. He was given the official seal and ribbon as a gift and was given the posthumous title of Zhenhou.
