◆The Legend of Huan Tan
Huan Tan, whose courtesy name is Junshan, was born in Xiangxian County, Peiguo County.
His father was Tai Leling when he became emperor.
Huan Tan was appointed as a minister due to his father's relationship, so he loved music and was good at drums and harp.
He is very knowledgeable, has read all the Five Classics, and can explain the great meanings of ancient books. Distinguish sentences without leaving chapters.
He wrote good articles, and especially loved ancient learning. He repeatedly analyzed difficult and different meanings through debates between Liu Xin and Yang Xiong. He also loved miscellaneous dramas. He was a simple man and did not put on official airs. He liked to slander secular Confucian scholars, so he was often ostracized and attacked.
During the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, his status was only that of a man.
Queen Fu's father, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, thought highly of Huan Tan.
At that time, Gao'an Hou Dong Xian was favored by the emperor, and his sister was named Zhaoyi. The emperor became increasingly alienated from Empress Fu, and Fu Yan was silently dissatisfied.
Huan Tan said to Fu Yan: In the past, Emperor Wu wanted to appoint Wei Zifu, and secretly collected Empress Chen's faults. Empress Chen was finally deposed, and Wei Zifu was actually appointed.
Now Dong Xian is favored and his sister is especially favored. There may be another change of "Wei Zihu". Don't you worry?
Fu Yan was alarmed and said: Yes, what should we do?
Huan Tan said: Punishment cannot be imposed on innocent people, and evil spirits cannot defeat righteous people in vain.
A scholar serves his master with his intelligence, and a woman seeks his master with a charming way.
The queen is young and has not experienced many hardships. There are people who are driving witch doctors inside, seeking magic skills outside, and practicing evil ways. We must be on guard against these.
Moreover, because the king is respected as the father of the queen, he communicates with the guests. The guests will definitely use this to enhance their power, which will attract people's ridicule.
Why don't you thank the guests and send the disciples away? You must be humble and cautious. This is the way to cultivate yourself and your family to avoid disaster.
Fu Yan said: OK.
So he dismissed the guests and went to the palace to tell the queen, just as Huan Tan said.
Later, Dong Xian indeed hinted to the imperial physician Ling Zhenqin to collect the Fu family's crimes and arrest Fu Xi, Empress Fu's younger brother. During the interrogation, no evidence of guilt was found, and the case was eliminated, so the Fu family was finally saved during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Later, Dong Xian became the Grand Sima. Hearing about Huan Tan's reputation, he wanted to make friends with him.
Huan Tan first wrote to Dong Xian, saying that Dong Xian could not use the method of assisting the country and protecting himself, so Huan Tan would not have any contact with him.
When Wang Mang was regent and usurped Emperor Ping, the intellectuals at that time all praised Wang Mang. Or they described auspicious signs to create public opinion to please Wang Mang, but Huan Tan kept his innocence and remained silent.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he was the official in charge of music. After Gengshili, he became the official of Taizhong.
When Shizu ascended the throne, he was summoned to wait for the imperial edict. Huan Tan wrote a letter and said something that was inconsistent with Shizu's will, so he did not adopt it.
Later, Song Hong, the Grand Sikong, recommended Huan Tan and paid homage to Yilang, so he wrote a letter stating the matters that should be paid attention to in political affairs at that time, saying: I heard that the failure of a country depends on political affairs; and the gains and losses of political affairs depend on whether the assistants are recruited.
If the auxiliary is wise, the court will be filled with virtuous people, and the governance will be consistent with world affairs; if the auxiliary is unclear, and the things discussed are inappropriate, the actions will be more error-prone.
As the monarch of the country, everyone wants to promote education and establish good governance. However, political affairs cannot be managed well because the wise men have different opinions.
In the past, King Zhuang of Chu asked Sun Shuao, "I don't know how to handle state affairs well."
Shu Ao said: "Everyone hates the inability to decide the affairs of the country. I'm afraid the king cannot decide."
The King of Chu said: It cannot be determined that it is just the monarch, but also the ministers.
Shu Ao said: The monarch is proud of his ministers, saying that the ministers can't be rich without me; the minister is proud of the monarch, saying that the monarch can't live without his ministers.
Some monarchs have lost their country but still don't realize it, and some ministers have no food and clothing but can't even join the court.
If the ruler and his ministers are not in harmony, national affairs cannot be decided.
King Zhuang said: OK.
I hope that the prime minister and all the officials will jointly decide on national affairs.
Those who are impatient in handling political affairs teach according to customs, try to prevent mistakes wherever they are found, use both power and virtue, and use civil and military affairs in a mixed manner. Then the political affairs are adjusted to suit the time, while those who are impatient can make them stable.
Dong Zhongshu once said: Governing a country is like a harp and a harp. If it cannot be adjusted, it should be changed.
It is difficult to change the course, and disobeying everyone's requirements will lead to death. Therefore, Jia Yi was expelled because of his talent, and Chao Cuo died because of his wisdom.
The reason why people with special talents in the world dare not speak is because they are afraid of making the same mistakes as their predecessors.
Moreover, the establishment of laws and prohibitions cannot completely block the evildoers in the world. They are all in line with the wishes of everyone. Generally speaking, they can be adopted to facilitate the country and benefit many things.
Set up officials to govern the people, offer rewards and punishments to distinguish between good and evil, evil people will be punished and bruised, and good people will be happy.
Nowadays, people kill each other, and although they have been punished, they have developed grudges in private, and their descendants still want to take revenge. Later, the hatred is deeper than before, and even the whole family is killed and the property is destroyed. However, the customs still call him a heroic and strong man, so although some timid people still reluctantly learn from them, this is to let people take care of themselves and there is no legal prohibition.
The old order should now be reiterated. If someone has been executed by the government and kills someone privately, even though he has escaped, his family members should be moved to the border area. Those who hurt someone will be given a second-class rank, and they are not allowed to hire people to go to the mountains to cut trees to atone for their sins.
In this way, the grudges will be resolved and the thieves will be put to rest.
The principle of governing a country is to strengthen the original industry and suppress the unfinished business. Therefore, the late emperor banned people from engaging in secondary industries and banned merchants from serving as officials. This is the method of suppressing the unfinished business and cultivating integrity.
Nowadays, most wealthy merchants and magnates engage in usury, and the children of middle-class families work as guarantors for them, working as hard as ministers, and the interest they receive is as much as the nobles in the fief. Therefore, everyone admires and imitates each other, abandons farming and doing business, and eats without farming, so that they are extravagant and wasteful, and enjoy themselves to the fullest.
Now merchants can be ordered to report each other, and if the income is not their own labor, they will confiscate it and use it to reward those who have done meritorious service.
In this way, you will only rely on your own labor and dare not hire others. If you have few people and weak strength, you will definitely give up business and return to farming.
When acres of land are cultivated, food income increases and soil fertility is fully utilized.
We also see that laws are now used to decide things, with different severity, or several laws for one thing, and the crime is the same but the punishment is different. This gives the traitors an opportunity to use the evidence of life if they want to live, and use the death penalty to compare if they want to die. This opens two doors for the criminal law.
Now we can gather a group of people who are familiar with the law in general theory to analyze and compare the legal provisions one by one, unify the laws, promulgate them to the states, and abolish all the old provisions.
In this way, everyone in the world will know the policy of the imperial court, and there will be no indiscriminate resentment in prisons.
The book was sent up, but was not accepted.
At this time, the emperor was superstitious about prophecies and used them to determine suspicions.
Moreover, the rewards are few and thin, and the world is sometimes unstable.
Huan Tan wrote again and said: I was angry when I didn't get anything in return when I submitted my letter last time, so now I risk my life to do it again.
An ordinary person's suggestions are beneficial to politics because they are in line with people's hearts and serve as the basis for affairs.
Human nature often ignores the matter itself and regards various rumors as precious. The records of the former kings are all based on benevolence and righteousness and following the right path, and there is nothing strange and absurd.
Probably even the saints find it difficult to explain the laws of heaven and life.
No one understands it from Zigong on down, let alone some shallow vulgar scholars in later generations. Can they understand it?
Nowadays, some clever and talented people create all kinds of books, pretending to be prophecies, and use them to deceive the greedy people and mislead the people. Why don't you resist it and abandon it?
I heard that your Majesty severely punished the alchemists for their magic in gold and silver. How wise this is! But to actually want to hear prophecies, what a mistake this is!
Although the prophecies sometimes coincide with each other, it is the same as the divination that sometimes tells the truth.
Your Majesty should pay attention to listening clearly, carry forward your own will, reject the distorted heresies of villains, clarify the justice of the Five Classics, get rid of those common sayings that follow what others say, and carefully observe the opinions of people who are knowledgeable in matters.
I also heard that when the country is in peace, people will respect Taoists, and when the country is in trouble, they will respect the generals.
Now the Holy Dynasty has restored the legal system of its ancestors and is a monarch who is subject to others. The reason why the thieves from all directions have not been completely surrendered is because they have not obtained good power plans.
I, Huan Tan, have observed your Majesty's use of troops, and found that for those who surrendered, there were no heavy rewards to induce kindness, and some even plundered their property. Therefore, the generals, large and small, were suspicious and colluded with each other, and could not solve the problem after many years.
The ancients said: Everyone in the world knows that taking is taking, but they don’t know that giving is also taking.
If Your Majesty can be more considerate than the official title but more important than the reward, and share it with the soldiers, then who will be unable to recruit, and who will not be able to explain it? Where does it point and where does it not open? Conquer the enemy, which enemy cannot be conquered!
In this way, narrowness can be used as broadness, delay can be used as speed, death can be reborn, and loss can be gained again.
The emperor was even more unhappy after reading the memorial.
Later, there was an edict to convene ministers to discuss the location of the spiritual platform. The emperor said to Huan Tan: I want to use prophecies to decide, how about it?
Huan Tan was silent for a long time and said: I don't read prophecies.
The emperor asked the reason, and Huan Tan once again argued that the prophecy was grotesque and unreasonable.
The emperor was furious and said: "Huan Tan is not a saint, so he should be taken down and beheaded."
Huan Tan kowtowed and the bleeding lasted for a long time.
Transferred to Liu'an County Cheng. Huan Tan was in a bad mood and died of illness on the road. He was over seventy years old.
At first, Huan Tan wrote twenty-nine articles on how to deal with the current situation, named it "New Treatise", and presented it to the imperial court, which was praised by his ancestors.
One chapter of "Qin Dao" was not completed, so Suzong ordered Ban Gu to continue completing it.
He wrote a total of twenty-six poems, admonitions, books and memorials.
During the Yuan Dynasty, Suzong went on a hunting tour to the east. When he arrived at Pei, he sent envoys to pay homage to Huan Tan's tomb, which made the village proud.
◆Feng Yan's biography: Feng Yan, courtesy name Jingtong, was from Duling, Jingzhao.
The ancestor Feng Yewang was Dahonglu during the Yuan Dynasty.
Feng Yan was a genius when he was young. He was able to recite "Poetry" at the age of nine. By the time he was twenty, he was well versed in many books.
During Wang Mang's reign, many people recommended him to be an official, but Feng Yan declined.
At this time, the army was rising, and Wang Mang sent Gengshi General Lian Dan to attack Shandong.
Lian Dan recruited Feng Yanshou as an official and went to Dingtao with him.
Wang Mang issued an edict to Lian Dan, saying: "The food in the warehouse has been exhausted, and the money in the treasury is empty. It's time to get angry and fight."
A general has a heavy responsibility for his country, and he cannot repay his kindness without sacrificing his life in the wilderness.
Lian Dan was frightened and summoned Feng Yan at night to read him the edict.
Feng Yan then said to Lian Dan: I heard that those who follow the right path are the greatest; those who go against the right path but can succeed, this should be taken seriously when weighing.
Therefore, if you hope to achieve success, don't ask about the reasons; if the principles are consistent with the general principles, don't stick to the details.
In the past, Feng Chou's father asked the Marquis of Qi to pretend to be a charioteer and go to Huaquan to drink, thus saving the Marquis of Qi from disaster, and was praised by the princes. Zheng Zhong's Ji Zhong succumbed to the intimidation of the Song Dynasty and made the prince Hu finally return to his throne, which was praised in the "Spring and Autumn Annals".
It is the way of a gentleman to sacrifice death to live, to survive to perish.
It is a wise consideration of a sage to use secrets when it is difficult to go against the public opinion in order to ensure the peace of the country and protect oneself.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says: If you are poor, seek change; if you change, you will be successful; if you are successful, you will be long-lasting. Therefore, you will get blessings from heaven, good luck, and no disadvantages.
If you insist on doing it despite knowing that it is not feasible, your army will be destroyed and your troops will be crippled, and you will be of no use to the Lord. If you die, you will have betrayed your responsibilities at that time. This is something that a wise man cannot do and a brave man cannot do it.
And I heard, don’t slack off when you get the chance.
Zhang Liang became the prime minister of Korea for the fifth time, and Qin destroyed Han. Zhang Liang hired dead soldiers to attack Qin Shihuang with spines on the Bolang Sands. His courage surpassed that of Meng Ben and Xia Yu, and his reputation was higher than Mount Tai.
The ancestors of the generals were loyal ministers of the Han Dynasty.
The new kingdom founded by Wang Mang was not wanted by Yingjun.
Now that the country is in turmoil, people miss the kindness of the Han Dynasty even more than the poet misses Duke Zhao. In the past, Uncle Zhao rested under the Gantang tree, and future generations loved his Gantang tree. How much more so since you are a descendant of Han officials?
Whatever man wants, God will follow it.
Now for the general's advice, it is best to garrison troops in large counties, control the officials, hone their moral integrity, and reward them with cattle and wine every day within a hundred miles, so as to recruit heroes and heroes, consult loyal and wise strategies, restrain their future wishes, wait for changes in the situation, revitalize the interests of the country, and eradicate the harm of thousands of people. Then blessings will spread endlessly, and great achievements will be immortal.
How does this compare to the destruction of the army in the Central Plains, the use of one's own flesh and blood as fertilizer for weeds, the ruin of one's success and the disgrace to one's ancestors?
The sage turns misfortunes into blessings, and the wise men turn failures into success. I hope that the wise will consider it deeply and not be like the common people.
Lian Dan didn't listen.
Entering Suiyang, Feng Yan said to Lian Dan again: I heard that people who understand can see things before they are formed, and smart people can think about problems before they sprout, let alone things that are clearly out there.
All disasters arise from neglect. Disasters occur in subtle and hidden places. If you fail, it will be too late to regret it. The opportunity cannot be lost.
Gongsun Yang said: Those whose behavior is higher than that of ordinary people always have a bad reputation; those who have unique insights are always doubted and disliked by others.
Therefore, believing in mediocre arguments will destroy a firm strategy, and following contemporary ethics will lose noble virtues.
Decision-making is the master of wisdom, and doubt is not worth it.
This opportunity will never come again, so don't hesitate any longer.
Lian Dan refused to listen, so he marched into Wuyan, fought with Chimei and died.
Feng Yan fled for his life in Hedong.
In the second year of Gengshi's reign, he sent Minister Bao Yong to act as the general's military force and settled in the north. Feng Yan offered advice to Bao Yong and said: I heard that Ming Jun does not hate practical words to speculate on far-reaching remarks; loyal ministers ignore the consequences of arguments to achieve changes in complicated government affairs.
Therefore, both the monarch and his ministers prospered, their reputations were established, their reputations were engraved on gold and stone, and their good reputations were left to future generations.
Now that I, Feng Yan, have the good fortune to meet Kuan Ming, it is the time to speak out and remonstrate. How dare I stay silent to avoid sin and not be sincere!
I have been thinking about the disaster caused by Wang Mang for a long time.
At first, Zhai Yi raised troops in Dongjun, then there was the battle of the West Sea. In Ba and Shu, there were wars in Ba and Shu, where the southwestern barbarians attacked Yizhou and killed Dayin. In the northwest frontier, there was the Beidi invasion of Yunzhong, killing people and plundering. Wang Mang sent troops on expeditions thousands of miles away, exposing his soldiers for months and months. Disasters continued, wars continued, criminal laws became more cruel, and taxation became more severe.
Many violent party members were tyrannical outside, and officials and ministers were greedy and cruel inside. The common people were helpless, hungry and cold, fathers and sons were exiled, couples were separated, villages were turned into ruins, fields were deserted, diseases and disasters were widespread.
So on the rivers and lakes, on the shores of Haidai, there were turbulent waves, and they disturbed each other. People from all directions were devastated, and more than half of them died. The poison of the disaster was painful to the bone, and every man and every woman was filled with resentment in their hearts.
With the power of the most holy virtues and gods, the emperor led the troops of Wan and Ye, commanded the scattered soldiers, entered Kunyang in bloodshed, and then drove straight into Wuguan, defeated a million enemies, destroyed Wang Mang's nine tiger army, shocked the world, swept the world, swept away the chaos, and punished the unjust. Within a year, the whole country was settled.
Inheriting the great cause of the Emperor Gaozu, he restored the imperial legacy that had been interrupted by the Han Dynasty and the Han Dynasty. The country was restored and the Han Dynasty became more glorious. His kindness was greater than that of the past, and his merits cannot be added.
Since the world has left Wang Mang and followed the Holy Han, it should receive his blessings and rely on his wishes.
It is as easy as flying feathers in the strong wind to establish love and charity, and to make this kind of kindness deeply rooted in people's hearts.
However, now the generals are plundering, violating ethics, killing fathers and sons, taking women as wives, burning other people's houses, plundering other people's property, leaving the hungry without food, the cold with bare feet, the hatred and hatred cannot be resolved, and the despair has no fate.
Today, with his virtuous and kind-hearted virtues, and the authority of an ambassador, the general is in charge of the political affairs of the three armies, rescues the people of the state, and has a sincere love for the people. He has a noble reputation and is heard by the people like thunder. Therefore, he cranes his neck and stands on tiptoes in hope. It is not just one person.
Moreover, how can the general's career be like that of Wang Guibi, who only seeks to restrain himself and cultivate his moral integrity?
He will establish the great cause of the country and become the hero of heaven and earth.
In the past, King Xuan of Zhou was just the leader of the ZTE, and Duke Huan of Qi was just a powerful king. But they also had heroes like Shen Bo, Zhao Hu, Guan Zhong, and Ji Fu to fight against thieves from outside and secure territory from inside.
What's more, in the Han Dynasty, which was thousands of miles away, Emperor Ming was revived, and the general assumed the important task of being the pillar of the country. This really cannot be ignored.
Moreover, I have heard that if a soldier is used for a long time, his strength will be exhausted, and when people make mistakes, accidents will happen.
Now that the thieves in Handan have not been wiped out, and the Zhending border has been disturbed again, and the troops commanded by the general can only govern a hundred miles, the city is constantly guarded, wars are endless, the troops are in trouble, and the people are disturbed. Why are you slacking off and not making further considerations?
Bingzhou is a place close to the fortress Mingguan in the east and Qianghu in the north. The grain harvest is abundant every year and the people are rich and wealthy. This is a place where wars are fought on all sides and a place for attack and defense.
If a problem occurs, how to deal with it?
Therefore, if kindness is not accumulated from ordinary times, people will not use it.
If you are not prepared on a daily basis, it will be difficult to cope with unexpected events.
Now the lives of the people depend on the generals, and the generals must rely on good talents. Those who are incompetent should be replaced, and more talented people should be selected.
A city with ten houses must have loyal people.
If such people are found through inspection, they will be able to accept the direct use of the general. Even though they are from the mountains and wilds, they will not be unworthy of virtue and will be happy to serve the general.
Then select elite soldiers and soldiers who work hard to garrison. Now that the three armies have been organized and armored soldiers are available, look for where the land is rich and where the water springs are convenient. Wherever you can cultivate the art of farming and practice the training of warfare and archery, you will be majestic and peaceful, and people will settle down.
If you guard Taiyuan, pacify the Shangdang, win the favor of the people, and establish a virtuous and good assistant, then you can show your reputation when there is no trouble in the world, and you can achieve great success if there is trouble.
I hope that the general will enlighten the sun and the moon, make far-reaching considerations, learn from the arguments of the "Six Classics", observe the strategies of Sun Wu and Wu Qi, examine the rights and wrongs of public opinions, and distinguish the right and wrong of all scholars in detail, so as to surpass the relics of "Zhou Nan", spread the legacy of "Gantang", let the meritorious deeds be used for thousands of years, and the wealth and honor will be passed on endlessly.
Yi Yin and Lu Wang's good strategy, how can there be any better than this!
Bao Yong had always valued Feng Yan, and he could appoint his own general when he accepted the mission, so he appointed Feng Yan as the general of the Han Dynasty, led the magistrate of Langmeng County, stationed troops in Taiyuan, and repaired armor and maintained soldiers with Tianyi, the Shangdang governor, to defend the land of Bingzhou.
After Shizu ascended the throne, he sent his clan member Liu Yan to attack Tianjing Pass. They fought with Tianyi for more than ten consecutive battles, but Liu Yan could not advance.
Tianyi welcomed his mother's brother's wife and was captured by Liu Yan.
Later, when Tianyi heard that Gengshi had failed, he sent envoys to Luoyang to present jewels and horses, and he was worshiped as the governor of Shangdang.
So he sent envoys to recruit Bao Yong and Feng Yan to surrender. Bao Yong and Feng Yan were suspicious and refused to surrender. They were angry that Tian Yi had betrayed the previous agreement. Feng Yan wrote to Tian Yi and said: I heard that Duke Wen of Jin fled and Hu Yan expressed his loyalty. Zhao Wu was in trouble but Cheng Ying showed his virtue. The loyalty of the two of them is very appropriate.
Now the three kings have betrayed, the red eyebrows are endangering the country, the world is in turmoil, and the country is overthrown and destroyed. This is the day when loyal ministers perform meritorious service and the time when patriots gallop forward.
You, Boyu, were promoted to be the governors of the great counties.
Shangdang is a place with strong fortresses on all four sides, three passes in the east, and a shield of the country in the west. Why is it not sad to hand over your hands to a powerful enemy, start the world's disputes, and use the enemy's sword to kill people?
I have heard that people who bend their knees to be a minister have no second thoughts; even though they are only smart enough to draw water, they can still keep the utensil and not lend it to others.
Therefore, Yan Ying was kidnapped to attend Cui Zhu's alliance. Cui Zhu threatened him with a halberd and sword, but Yan Ying refused to change his tune and obeyed.
From this point of view, there are no internal disasters, no external benefits, but I am known as a traitor and suffer the shame of surrendering to the city. I am really ashamed of myself.
Moreover, Dr. Zhu, a concubine, stole the land and rebelled against the emperor in order to seek great profits. "Zuo Zhuan" considered it to be despicable and must be written down; Dr. Mou Yi of Ju used the land to seek food, but his reputation will never be destroyed.
Therefore, when a man acts, he thinks of propriety, and when he acts, he thinks of justice. If he does not violate this, his reputation can be preserved.
To make an in-depth design for you Boyu, it is best to work together with Bao Shangshu to show your loyalty and make extraordinary achievements.
If you can abandon your official position and surrender to the minister because of the reason that your respected relatives are imprisoned, your righteousness will be fulfilled, and your enemies will be able to forgive their grievances. You will not compromise the responsibility of cutting the talisman, save the lives of the young and old, raise your eyebrows and speak loudly, and you will be worthy of the world.
If it is for the sake of coveting the power of the governor of Shangdang and cherishing the world's property, I am afraid that Boyu will suffer the same fate as King Zhao, and Shangdang will have the same disaster as before.
In the past, Yan Pingzhong accepted the advice of Prince Zha of Wu State and returned the political power and fiefdom of Yanling through Chen Huanzi, thus avoiding the chaos launched by the Luan family and the Gao family; but Geng Lin's father violated the advice of his uncle and grandson Muzi and fell into lifelong evil.
I think Boyu must have heard these wise words deeply in his heart. Naturally, he would either circle the city and hold on, or ride his horse and ignore it.
The sage turns misfortune into blessing, and the wise man turns defeat into victory. May you be stronger than the people of your time, and do not conform to the customs.
Tianyi wrote back and said: Although my servant is dull and timid, he still wants to be a good man. Could he be someone who is greedy for life and afraid of death?
The curved halberd on the neck does not change the mind. This is my ambition.
In the past, my mother and brothers were detained in the army, but I ignored them. Isn't this a matter of integrity?
Suppose a person lives between heaven and earth and values ​​life as precious as gold and stone. If he wants to live forever and avoid falling into death, it is enough.
Nowadays, no one can reach the age of 100. How big is the distance between old and middle-aged people?
If the Gengshi regime still exists and loyalty can be established, Tianyi will be willing to do so even if his mother is killed and his wife and children are quartered.
Recently, the cunning thieves of Shangdang surrounded the city in large numbers, and two generations of rebel soldiers entered Jingxing.
I, Tianyi, personally defeated the enemy siege and fought against Zongzheng Liu Yan. I estimate that from the perspective of intellectual ability, I am not unable to resist.
However, I know that Gengshi has died in the war, the new emperor Situ Dengyu has put down the three assistants, and Longxi and the north have responded.
The facts are very clear, even the sun, the moon, the sky, the rivers and the sea are not enough to compare.
Life and death have destiny, wealth and honor are in heaven.
The survival of the world can truly be said to be predestined.
Even if I, Tianyi, die, can I change this fate?
From the fundamental point of view of human nature, there is kindness and righteousness, righteousness is suitable, and kindness is given.
The monarch and his ministers are righteous, and the mother and son are the most kind.
Now that the old master is dead, who can he fulfill his justice for? The old mother has been detained, so in terms of repaying her kindness, she should stay.
But you severely accused me of being greedy for power and tempted me to ride my horse anyway, thinking that as long as I restrained my self-interest, I would ride my horse regardless. How stupid is this!
I, Tianyi, am already thirty years old and have been a minister. Personally speaking, I have few hobbies and desires, and I hate being meddlesome and reckless.
What's more, now that my position is high and my body is at risk, my wealth and life are at risk. I know it very well, so why do I need others to wonder?
Bao Yong and you Feng Yan, holding the talisman seal and ribbon, established themselves as officials. In the past, Zhong You made his disciples ministers, but Confucius ridiculed their deceit and deceived heaven.
Bao Yong controlled two states and one county, but Gengshi was defeated. The countries in Hedong rebelled, and Bao Yong launched a campaign. The cunning thieves besieged Shangdang, but Bao Yong did not send troops to rescue him. Liu Yan was approaching, and Bao Yong could not help.
The military power was humiliated, the authority of the country was weakened day by day, the three kings were betrayed, and the red eyebrows harmed the reform. Bao Yong was not seen as a diligent king who did double duty, like Mo Zhai who had thick calluses on his hands and feet to save the Song Dynasty, Shen Baoxu endured hardships but still wanted to survive in Chu, and the guard daughter Mrs. Xu Mugong wanted to return to mourn her brother's loyalty.
Gengshi has been dead for a year, and he still doesn't know where he is. He is dreaming and talking nonsense, and he is living in peace and despise.
If you can't serve a servant, how can you serve a dead person?
If you don’t know how to be a minister, how can you know how to be a master?
Could it be that he is tired of being a minister and wants to be a king and father?
If you want to shake Mount Tai and swing across the North Sea, you will not succeed and your body will be in danger. I hope you will think carefully about my words.
Feng Yan refused.
Some people spread rumors that Gengshi was following Chimei in the north. Bao Yong and Feng Yan believed it, so they stationed troops in Jiexiu. They were about to send a letter to the party, saying that the emperor was in Yong, in order to confuse the people.
Bao Yong sent his younger brother Bao Sheng and son-in-law Zhang Shu to lure him back to Niecheng County. Zhang Shu's family was in Shangdang, and his family was imprisoned in Tianyi.
He also wrote a letter to persuade Bao Yong to surrender, but Bao Yong never responded. From then on, Bao Yong and Tianyi had a grudge.
Tianyi, named Boyu, was born in Feng Yi, and later served as the prefect of Yuyang.
Bao Yong and Feng Yan knew for sure that Gengshi was dead, so they jointly stopped their troops and surrendered to Hanoi without any hats.
The emperor complained that Feng Yan was unwilling to surrender. Bao Yong was able to atone for his sins by performing meritorious service, so he was appointed, while Feng Yan was dismissed.
Bao Yong said to Feng Yan: In the past, Emperor Gaozu pardoned Ji Bu's sins and killed Ding Gu, who had contributed to him.
Now that I have met the Ming Lord, what else do I have to worry about?
Feng Yan said: I remember "Warring States Policy" tells about a man who teased his neighbor's wife and teased his eldest wife. The eldest wife cursed him and teased his younger wife, and the younger wife agreed. Later, when his neighbor died, he married his eldest wife.
Someone asked him: Didn’t the eldest wife scold you?
One person said: When I'm at someone else's house, I want her to agree to my flirting, but when I'm at my house, I want her to scold the person who teases and seduces her.
Destiny is hard to know, but the way of humanity is easy to follow. Are ministers who keep the way still afraid of death?
Soon, the emperor appointed Feng Yan as the Quyang Order, killed the big thief Guo Sheng and others, and surrendered more than 5,000 of them. They were awarded officials and titles based on merit. However, they were slandered and slandered, so the rewards were not implemented.
There was a solar eclipse in the sixth year of Jianwu, and Feng Yan wrote a petition asking for eight things: first, to show literary virtue, second, to praise military heroes, third, to repair old merits, fourth, to recruit heroes, fifth, to clarify likes and dislikes, sixth, to simplify laws, seventh, to improve rank and salary, and eighth, to care for borders.
After the book was written, Emperor Guangwu prepared to summon him.
At first, when Feng Yan was the magistrate of Langmeng County, he punished Linghu Luo for his crimes. At this time, Linghu Luo became the chief minister of Sikong, and said to Shangshu Ling Wang Hu and Shangshu Zhou Shengfeng: Feng Yan asked for help because he wanted to slander you.
Wang Hu and others were afraid, so they united to exclude Feng Yan. Therefore, Feng Yan could not be received by Guangwu.
Later, Weiwei Yinxing and Xinyang Houyin became rich and distinguished because of their relatives, and they deeply respected Feng Yan. Feng Yan made friends with them and was hired by the kings. Soon he became a minister.
Later, Guangwu punished his relatives and guests in Xijing, and most of them were brought to justice. The most serious ones were even put to death and relocated, while the rest were demoted.
Feng Yan was offended by this. He went to prison to plead guilty, but was pardoned by an imperial edict.
Feng Yan then returned to his hometown in the west and closed the door to protect himself. He did not dare to interact with his relatives and old friends again.
