Xie Ju, whose courtesy name is Yan Yang, is the younger brother of Xie Lan, who was ordered by Zhongshu Ling.
He was eager to learn when he was young, could talk about mystical principles, and was as famous as Xie Li.
When Xie Gao was fourteen years old, he once presented a selected five-character poem, which was praised by the composer.
People in the world therefore say: The person named Wang has Yang and Ju, and the person named Xie has Lan and Ju.
Yang and Ju are the nicknames of Wang Yun and Wang Tai.
Xie Ju first served as Secretary Lang, and later moved to Prince Sheren. He was Cao Shi of Qingchao Gong, Secretary Cheng, Sikong Zhonglang, Prince's concubine, family order, and in charge of the management of the East Palace. He was deeply appreciated by Prince Zhaoming.
When Ren Fang, the secretary supervisor, took office as the prefect of Xin'an County, he bid farewell to Xie Ju with a poem and said: If you miss the elderly, remember my sustenance deeply.
He was valued like this.
Once at a banquet, Emperor Gaozu asked Xie Ju for advice. Xie Ju replied: "My knowledge and skills are far superior to those of my ministers, but I am not as good as my ministers in drinking."
Emperor Gaozu was very happy.
He was transferred to the position of concubine among the crown princes and was still in charge of the records.
In the eleventh year of Tianjian, he moved to serve in the middle school.
In the fourteenth year, he served as General Ningyuan and Internal History of Yuzhang. His administration was tolerant and gentle, which won the hearts of the people.
In the 18th year, he entered the imperial court and served as a servant and an infantry captain.
In the first year of Pongyong, he served as General Zhenyi and Taiwei Wang Changshi of Linchuan.
Four years later, he entered the court and was appointed Minister of Zuo Min.
In the same year, he was moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, but was soon dismissed due to official business.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as the prince's concubine and led the right army general.
In the sixth year, he was again appointed Minister of Zuo Min and led the infantry school captain.
Soon he was moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and then he was added to the post of Shizhong.
He served as General Renwei and Governor of Jinling.
In the county government, the people were influenced by their virtues and their policies, and the territory was awe-inspiring.
After the dismissed governor returned to the capital, officials and people went to the court to request that a monument be erected for him, and Xia Shao agreed.
In the second year of Taibi's reign, he was appointed as Shizhong and Shangshu of the Five Arms. Before taking office, he was moved to the position of Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel, and Shizhong remained as before.
Xie Ju's grandfather, Xie Zhuang, was in charge of the election of officials twice in Fengfa, and Xie Ju held this position three times. This was not done in previous generations.
Xie Ju read a lot of books when he was young and was able to understand them all. He was especially good at Lao, Zhuang, Xuanli and Buddhist philosophy.
When he was appointed as the prefect of Jinling County, monk Chang Yuyi took turns explaining Buddhist scriptures, and the conscript He Yin came from Huqiu Mountain to listen to the lectures.
Such a grand occasion.
Before that, Lu Guang, who came from across the Yangtze River, was proficient in Confucianism and was a doctor of the Imperial Academy. When he explained the Confucian classics, everyone under Xu Mian went to listen.
Xie Ju sat on the floor and pointed out Lu Guang's mistakes many times, and his rhetoric was beyond the ordinary. Lu Guang was so impressed that he gave him the pawn tail he held and gave him a precious seat.
In four years, he was appointed as a minister.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu, and he continued to serve as the minister.
In the third year of Datong, Chen resigned due to illness and was transferred to Dr. Youguanglu, giving 20 close followers.
That year, he served as General Yunhui and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
Previously, He Jinrong served as the county governor and performed in politics, and was known as "He Wujun". He was in power with Xie Ju, and his reputation was roughly the same.
In the sixth year, he was appointed as Shizhong and Zhongshu Supervisor. Before taking office, he was moved to Prince Zhan Shi and General Yizuo, and Shizhong remained as usual.
Xie Ju's father, Xie Man, ended up in this position in the Qi Dynasty. Xie Ju went to the court many times to beg for a new appointment, but was not allowed to do so. It took a long time before he could take up the post.
In the ninth year, he was moved to the post of Minister Pushe, but Shishen and General remained as before.
Although Xie Ju held the position of prime minister, he was unwilling to participate in current affairs and requested to be dismissed many times due to illness. The emperor granted him leave, wrote prescriptions in his own hand, and gave the emperor medicine.
He was so favored by the emperor.
In the year of dispatch, I used my official position to participate in the election.
In the second year of Taiqing's reign, he was moved to the post of Shangshu Ling, but the ministers and generals remained as before.
This year, Hou Jing invaded the capital, and Xie Ju died in the besieged city.
Shao Ling posthumously presented Shizhong, Zhongwei General, and Kaifu Yitong to the three divisions, while Shizhong and Shangshu Ling remained as before.
The collected works were all lost during the war.
The two sons, Xie Xi and Xie Gu, both became famous at a young age.
Xie Gu, during the Taiqing period, served successively as the concubine among the crown princes and as the prefect who built the house.
He Jinrong, courtesy name Guoli, was born in Lujiang.
His grandfather Youzhi served as Taichang Qing of the Song Dynasty; his father Chang Jue served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel of the Qi Dynasty: both were well-known at that time.
He Jinrong came from a well-known family, and when he came of age, he married Princess Changcheng, the daughter of Emperor Wu of Shang Qi, and was awarded the title of Prince Consort.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as Secretary Lang, and successively served as Prince Sheren, Zhonglang of Shangshu Palace, Prince Xima, Zhongshu Sheren, Secretary Cheng, and moved to Yangzhou to rule the country.
He served as the internal history of Jian'an. He was honest, fair and effective in politics, and the people all praised him.
After returning to the capital, he was granted the title of Huang Menlang, and was later moved to the crown prince's concubine.
In the second year of ordinary life, he was appointed as a servant again, led by Yulin Supervisor, and soon became the Grand Chief of Honshu.
Immediately, he acted as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and selected officials carefully and strictly, and was known as competent.
In four years, he served as General Zhaoyuan and County Governor. He was able to understand the people's sentiments and resolve cases like a god. After four years in office, his political performance ranked first in the world.
Officials and people went to the court to request that a monument be built for him, and they were allowed to do so.
In the second year of Zuotong's reign, he entered the court and served as the Secretary of the Central Committee. Before taking office, he still served as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, leading the general of the right army, and soon he was appointed as the Minister of Internal Affairs.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine.
He Jingrong is eight feet tall, with fair complexion and beautiful eyebrows.
He is solemn and dignified, and his clothes are particularly beautiful. Whenever he is in the court, his appearance must be top-notch.
In the third year, he was moved to the right servant of Shangshu, and participated in the election of ministers. However, he continued to serve as the minister.
At that time, the servant Xu Mian was in charge of secrets and asked to resign due to illness, so he recommended Jingrong as his successor, so Jingrong was given this position.
In the fifth year, he moved to Zuopushe and was appointed General Xuanhui. He was appointed as an assistant historian, and his ministers and ministers remained as usual.
In the first month of the third year of Datong, the Zhuque Gate caught fire. Gao Dan said to the ministers: "This gate is too small. I was trying to rebuild it, but it was hit by fire from heaven."
The ministers looked at each other without answering.
He Jinrong said: This so-called majesty precedes heaven and does not violate it. People at the time thought this was right.
Soon he was moved to the post of General Zhongquan and Danyang Yin, and his duties as Shizhong, Shenzhang and Assistant Shi remained as before.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as Shangshu Ling, with the titles of Shizhong, General, Shenzhang and Assistant Shi remaining as before.
He Jingrong had been in the court for a long time and was familiar with past events. He was also smart and capable. He was familiar with government affairs and was diligent in writing. He worked early in the morning and worked day and night.
Since the Jin and Song Dynasties, all prime ministers have entertained themselves with literary words. Only Jingrong is diligent in government affairs and is despised by the world.
At that time, Xiao Xun, Xiao Chen's son. He was very frivolous, so he composed famous hexagram poems and acrostic poems to ridicule him. He respected Cha as if nothing had happened and disdained to care about him.
In the eleventh year, because his concubine Fei Huiming was appointed as the director of Cangcheng, he was convicted of stealing official rice at night and was arrested by the Imperial Bureau and sent to the leading army mansion.
At that time, King Yu of Hedong was appointed as the leading general. Jingrong wrote a letter to excuse Huiming, and Yu was about to submit the letter.
Emperor Gaozu was furious and submitted it to the imperial censor for review. Zhang Wan, the censor's chief minister, reported that Jingrong had deceived the emperor for personal gain and should be put in public display on the street. Shao Ling was dismissed from office and dismissed.
At the beginning, during the Tianjian period, the monk Shi Shizhi once met Jingrong and said to him: The queen will be rich and powerful, but in the end it will be nothing more than a loss.
When Jingrong was appointed prime minister, he thought that people named He were harming him, so he suppressed his fellow clansmen and prevented them from serving as officials. Only then did he know that he was defeated by the King of Hedong.
In March of the first year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu went to Tongtai Temple to lecture on the "Three Wisdoms Sutra with Golden Characters". Jingrong asked to attend the lecture and was allowed to do so.
He was also allowed to greet the emperor on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month.
Soon he was promoted to the post of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu. Before taking office, he was appointed as a servant.
Jing Rong's former guest disciple is as proud as ever, hoping that he will be reused again.
Xie Yu from Kuaiji wrote a letter warning: I, a man from the grassland, have heard that you can pay homage to the monarch day and night when he goes in and out of the forbidden gate. The drunk captain dare not scold him. The resurgence of death always has its origins. It should really stop, it should really stop!
So I would like to congratulate you first, and then I will miss you.
In the past, rumors spread that Zhou Gongdan fled to the east; as soon as the letter from Yan State arrived, Zimeng stopped entering the country.
When a sage is falsely accused, he should first blame himself and not seek help because he is hated by the people of his time.
Moreover, the fish with its gills exposed in the dragon's gate will not miss the water in the cup; the bird flying in the sky will not miss the food in the birdcage.
Why?
Because its support has become grand.
In the past, you wore a Nayan frame scarf on your head, Mingyu around your waist, walked into the Wenchang Department wearing a precious sable fur coat, and walked straight to the military tent wearing a high hat decorated with cicada patterns. You were so majestic.
Don't recommend talented people at this time to repay the kindness of the Holy Lord. Now, just like Yuan Ang said, you are being blamed for your mistakes, but you still beg the court and complain about the court. I don't think you should adopt this approach.
In the past, Baoying and Yang Geng offended the Ming Dynasty. They could not refuse the guests and made friends. In the end, they did not gain blessings, but only increased the disaster.
This is what worries me about you.
The reason why people still follow you is not necessarily because they are grateful for your kindness, as in the sentiments of Guan Fu and Ren An, but because of the sentiments expressed by Zhai Gong in writing on the door, expressing his feelings about the harsh conditions of the world, hoping that you would be reused again.
Having the thought of being reused after thinking about past mistakes cannot be the opinion of a wise man.
You should shut yourself up and think about your mistakes, don't interact with others, build a hut in Zhongfu, live leisurely and contentedly, look down on your pitiful thoughts, express your feelings of waiting for the end, think twice about Confucius's words about correction, consider Zigong's metaphor about correction, let people stop talking bad about you, and save yourself in books and history.
in this way. Let the Lord know, there is still hope.
I am a man from the fields. Although I live in a cave, I am fortunate that I do not resent my poverty and simplicity. I am ashamed that the people in the world do not explain the truth to you. Therefore, I express my true feelings with all my heart and courage, and the princes should be able to understand clearly.
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, he was moved to the position of Prince Zhan Shi, but his service remained as usual.
In the second year, Hou Jing attacked the capital, and Jingrong moved from his home to the official residence.
At the beginning, Hou Jing was defeated in Guoyang, but the court did not receive any definite news. Rumors claimed that Hou Jing's generals had rebelled, and that Hou Jingji and everyone else were dead. The court was worried about this.
Jingrong was summoned by the prince soon, and Taizong said to him: There is news from Huaibei. Hou Jing will definitely be able to avoid death, unlike the rumors.
Jingrong replied: "If Hou Jing can die, it will be a blessing to the court."
Taizong became pale after hearing this and asked him the reason.
Jing Rong said: Hou Jing overthrew his rebellious ministers and would eventually bring chaos to the country.
During the reign of Emperor Taizong, he lectured on the two books "Lao" and "Zhuang" many times in Xuanpu. Bachelor Yu Jian lived in Zhan Shifu at that time and went to listen to the lectures every day.
Qian Rong said to Xian Qi: The decline of Zhiqu in the past was due to advocating metaphysics, which led to the occupation of the Central Plains by the barbarians.
Today, the prince still advocates Gui and Lan, which may not be the right way. Are we going to have another war?
Soon there was a rebellion, and his words came true.
In the first month of the third year, Qianjiao died in the besieged capital. Shaoling posthumously awarded him to General Renwei, but his original official position remained the same.
Since Sikongchong of the Jin Dynasty and Sikongshang of the Song Dynasty, He family has believed in Buddhism for generations and built pagodas and temples. Zhi Jingrong abandoned his house to build a Buddhist temple in Shubu. Trendsetters donated money for him to build, and Jingrong did not refuse. Therefore, the temple halls were decorated very magnificently. At that time, the frivolous people called the Buddhist temple "Zhongzao Temple".
When Jingrong was dismissed from his post and left his house, he only had common utensils and clothes in his bag, but no extra possessions. People at that time praised him for this.
His son's name was Yong, he was appointed Secretary Cheng, and he died early.
Yao Chari, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: From the Zhengpan and Youzhi of the Wei Dynasty, Xuanxu was regarded as high, and birthdays were valued. Officials above Chenglang, the Minister, ignored the copywriting and left everything to the Lingshi.
When we arrived at Jiangzuo, the situation became even more popular. Only Bian Yi, the general of Tai Pavilion, wanted to take charge of the government affairs. Yifu said to him, "Isn't it very hard for you to be so busy?"
King Jinghong of the Song Dynasty was the governor of Shangshu Province, but he did not read official documents. He advocated romance and had a profound influence.
Officials who only sign documents and do not care about government affairs are called noble people; while those who are respectful, diligent and unswerving stay in vulgar positions for life.
In this way, those in power do not follow the rules and regulations, and those below cannot fulfill their duties. This may be the reason why the villain gains power.
Alas!
He is immoral but does not wake up.
The decline of the Western Jin Dynasty and frequent wars were inevitable. He Jingrong had a premonition, but was ridiculed, which was a pity.
