Zang Dun, whose courtesy name was Xuanqing, was from Ju, Dongguan.
His great-great-grandfather Zang Tao was the doctor Zuo Guanglu during the Song Dynasty.
His grandfather Zang Tanzhi was appointed Minister of Zuo Min.
His father, Zang Weizhen, was extensively involved in literature and history and was very talented. He was highly appreciated by his cousin Runan Zhou Yi when he was young.
At the end of the Song Dynasty, Zang Weizhen was recruited from his family to serve as the leader of the army and serve Emperor Wu of Qi.
After entering the Qi Dynasty, he successively served as Taiwei Jijiu, Shangshu Zhugulang, Jian'an Luling Second Prince's Palace Recorder, Former Military Cao Shi, Tongzhilang, Nanxuzhou Zhongzheng, Danyang Yincheng.
Emperor Gaozu pacified the capital, established the royal palace, and selected Zang Weizhen to serve as a hussar in the prison and join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, Zang Weizhen was appointed as the Houjun Consultation Zhonglang and Nan Xuzhou Biejia. He also went to Beijing as Huangmenlang, and later moved to the right army Ancheng Wang Changshi and Shaofu Qing.
He came to Beijing to serve as the prefect of Xin'an and was known for his ability in handling affairs.
After returning to the capital, he served as the crown prince's concubine, Sinong Qing, and Taiwei Chief of History.
Zang Weizhen mourned her biological mother and built a thatched cottage next to the cemetery for three years.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed Tingweiqing.
Zang Weizhen left the capital and served as Changshi of King Ancheng and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia. He died in office.
Zang Dun studied the "Five Classics" from the concubine Langye Zhuge Gu since he was a child, and he was proficient in analyzing chapters, sentences and explaining the meaning of the classics.
Zhuge Can's students often numbered from dozens to hundreds. Zang Dun got along with them every day, but never got close to them.
Zhuge Zhang admired him and sighed: This person is a great weapon to shoulder important responsibilities and a great talent to assist the emperor!
Zang Dun first became an official and served as Fu Junxing to join the army, and later moved to Shangshu Binglang.
He had a handsome demeanor, beautiful appearance, and elegant manners. Whenever he came to pay homage to him, Gaozu was very happy to see him.
Zang Dun entered Beijing and served as Zhongshu General Secretary Shiren, and was later appointed as An Youlushi to join the army, but Shiren's position remained unchanged.
Zang Dun had a filial nature. One day, while he was on duty with his father in Tingwei, his mother Liu was at home and suddenly fell ill and died in the middle of the night.
That night, Zang Dun suffered a sudden severe pain in the middle finger of his left hand and could not sleep. When dawn came, someone at home reported the news of his mother's death. The spiritual connection between him and his relatives had reached such an extent. Zang Dun mourned for his mother before his father died. Zang Dun stayed in mourning for five years without leaving his thatched cottage. He was so haggard and skinny that no one in his family could recognize him.
Wang Duan, a fellow countryman, reported the situation to the court. Emperor Gaozu praised him very much and sent people to comfort him many times.
After the mourning period expired, Zang Dun was appointed Yin Cheng of Danyang, transferred to Zhongshu Lang, and also served as Zhongshu Sheren, and later moved to Shangshu Zuocheng, Shu Zhonglang, Wuling Wang Changshi, conducted state affairs in the prefecture, and served as the governor of Kuaiji County.
After returning to Beijing, he was appointed as Shaofu Qing, led the infantry school captain, and moved to Yushi Zhongcheng.
Zang Dun has a strong and fair character and is very competent in the Yushi Mansion.
In February of the fifth year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu came to Tongtai Temple to lecture on Buddhist scriptures and held a conference for the four tribes of monks, bhikshunis, Upasakas and Upasikas. Tens of thousands of people attended the meeting.
During the meeting, the tame elephant presented by South Vietnam suddenly ran wild in the crowd. The emperor's chariots, horses, honor guards and people in the public gathering were frightened and fled. Only Zang Dun and Sanqi Lang Pei Zhili remained motionless and calm. Emperor Gaozu admired them very much.
Soon the emperor issued an edict and appointed Xian Dun as a regular servant of the Sanqi. Before Xian Dun was appointed, Gaozu issued another Shao order saying: The post of commanding the six armies cannot be given to people without talent.
Zang Dun, the censor Zhongcheng and the newly appointed Sanqi Changshi, is ambitious, loyal and prudent, knows people well and is cautious and thoughtful. He holds official positions fairly and fairly, and handles government affairs diligently and respectfully. He will definitely be able to handle military affairs well.
He can also lead the army, and his position as a regular servant remains unchanged.
In the second year of Datong, Zang Dun was moved to the position of leader.
The leader is in charge of the military power of the country and is responsible for many affairs.
Zang Dun was smart, agile, well-informed, courageous, and good at handling complex government affairs, so all matters within his scope of responsibility were handled in an orderly manner.
During the Tianjian period, Wu Pinghou Xiao Jing held this position and gained an outstanding reputation. By this time, Zang Dun had succeeded Xiao Jing in gaining such a reputation.
In the fifth year of Datong, Zang Dun came to Beijing to serve as General Renwei and Governor of Wu County. He served for less than a year and petitioned to be dismissed due to illness.
He was appointed Guanglu doctor and was given a gold seal and purple ribbon.
In the seventh year of Datong, Zang Dun recovered from his illness and became the leading general again.
In the ninth year of Datong, Zang Dun died at the age of sixty-six.
On the day of his death, the emperor issued an edict to mourn for him.
Zang Dun was posthumously given the title of Attendant, and his position as leader remained unchanged.
The imperial court gave Shuyuan a secret weapon, a set of court clothes, and a set of funeral clothes? Coins and cloth were given in certain quantities.
Mi cup.
Zang Dun's eldest son Zang Changbo, named Meng Hong, served as the internal history of Guiyang.
The second son Zang Zhongbo was appointed Qu'aling.
Zang Dun's younger brother is Zang Jue.
Zang Jue, also known as Xianqing, was also known for his talent and magnanimity.
When he first took up his official position, he served as Xizhonglang and joined the army, serving as the chief guest of the Shangshu. Later, he entered Beijing and served as the general secretary of the Zhongshu, and was promoted to Zhengyuanlang and Hongluqing. His position as the general secretary of the Zhongshu remained unchanged.
He was moved to the position of Minister Youcheng. Before he could take office, he left the capital to serve as the prefect of Jin'an.
Jin'an County is located near the mountains and the sea, where escaped criminals often gather. Although the former county governor recruited sergeants to carry out raids, the thieves' intrusion could not be stopped.
As soon as Zang Jue took office, he preached enlightenment, and the criminals dragged their sons and daughters and their families out of their hiding places to join them. The local people resumed their normal business, the roads were smooth, and merchants and travelers continued to come and go.
However, Zang Jue believed in severe punishments and strict laws in handling political affairs and was unwilling to be lenient. Officials and people would be punished with rods for even the slightest mistake. The people called him "Zang Hu".
When Zang Jue returned to the capital, he was appointed as a hussar to the king of Luling, where he consulted to join the army and also served as a soldier.
Later, he was moved to serve as a regular servant of the Sanqi outside the Yuan Dynasty, and also as a minister of agriculture. His position remained unchanged.
In the eighth year of Datong, he died in office at the age of forty-eight.
When Zang Jue took office successively, the emperor ordered that all important matters in the official office and matters that the imperial censor Tingwei could not decide were handed over to him.
The pressure analysis and judgment should be accurate, thorough and reasonable. After Kuan Hao passed away, someone beat the Dengwen drum to complain, requesting that the case be handed over to Yue Jue, the upright Sheren.
Emperor Gaozu said: Zang Jue has passed away, so there is no one to entrust with this matter.
Zang Jue was understood and appreciated by Emperor Gaozu to this extent.
Xian Jue's son Zang Cao was appointed Sangong Lang of Shangshu.
Fu Qi, named Jingping, was from Lingzhou in the north.
His great-great-grandfather Fu Hongren was Taichang during the Song Dynasty.
Grandfather Fu Yan served as the Shanyin magistrate in the Qi Dynasty. He had the ability to manage political affairs and was promoted from the county magistrate to the governor of Yizhou.
Fu Xie's father, Fu Hui, was a member of the Shanyin and Jiankang orders during the Tianjian period. He was also famous for his talents and served as an official for consultation.
Fu Qi started out as a student of the Imperial Academy of Ming Dynasty. He first became an official and served as Zuo Changshi, King of Nankang. Later, he moved to join the army and served as minister of Jinbulang. He resigned due to the death of his mother, and he did all the etiquette of mourning with all his heart.
After the mourning period expired, he did not serve for a long time due to illness.
During the Han Dynasty, the imperial court rebuilt the altar in the northern suburbs and began to appoint Fu Qi to supervise the construction. After the project was completed, the imperial court appointed him as the new order.
Some people in Shixin County fought with each other and died. The family members of the deceased went to the county to file a complaint. The county guard arrested their enemy and tortured him in every possible way. The man still refused to plead guilty. The county guard transferred the case to Shixin County for trial. Fu Qi immediately ordered the handcuffs to be removed and asked the criminal gently, and the man immediately pleaded guilty.
According to the law, the criminal should be sentenced to pay for his crime with his life. It happened to be the winter solstice, so Fu Qi let the criminal go home for reunion and let him return to prison after the winter solstice.
The county official refused to release him and argued with Fu Qi: "This was done in ancient times, but it cannot be practiced now."
Fu Qi said: If he is not trustworthy, I, the county magistrate, should be punished. You, the supervisor, don't worry.
The criminal returned as scheduled.
The prefect was amazed by this incident and immediately reported it in detail.
Later, when Fu Qili established a new county, all the people, young and old, left the country to say goodbye. The sound of crying could be heard dozens of miles away.
Fu Qi arrived in the capital and was appointed Tingweizheng. He entered the court and served as Zhongshu General Secretary and Shiren. He also moved to the Ningyuan Yueyang Prince's Office to join the army, but his position as Shiren remained unchanged.
Fu Qi left the capital to serve as Jiankang Order, but was dismissed due to official duties.
Soon after, he was appointed as a secretary. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to the Anxi Zhongji Office. He consulted in Zhennan to join the army, but his position as a concurrent secretary remained unchanged.
Fu Qi has a handsome appearance, a smart manner, a wide range of interests, and fluent answers.
During the Datong period, the imperial court made peace with the State of Wei. Envoys from the State of Wei came twice a year, and the emperor often sent Fu Qi to receive them.
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, he was promoted to the rank of Imperial Servant and Minister of Agriculture, but his position remained unchanged.
He has served in the imperial palace for more than ten years and participated in the planning of state secrets and worked diligently, which is comparable to Zhu Yi.
In the winter of this year, Xiao Yuanming, Marquis of Zhenyang, the governor of Yuzhou, led his troops to attack Pengcheng. After the failure, he was trapped in the Wei state.
In the second year of Taiqing, Xiao Yuanming sent an envoy back to Liang to convey the intention of the Wei people to resume friendly relations with Liang. The emperor ordered Yousi and close ministers to discuss the decision.
Zuowei General Zhu Yi said: Gao Cheng's intention this time is to continue to maintain the previous friendly relations between the two countries; by doing so, our border will be free from foreign enemies and the people can live in peace. It will be beneficial to things if we agree to make peace.
Everyone who participated in the discussion believed that Zhu Yi's opinion was correct.
Only Fu Qi said: Gao Cheng just won the battle and his power is not weak. Why must he ask for peace?
Wei must have set up a plan to alienate Marquis Zhenyang, and deliberately asked Marquis Zhenyang to send an envoy to make Hou Jing suspect that the emperor would exchange himself for Marquis Zhenyang.
Hou Jing felt uneasy and must plot a rebellion.
If we agree to Gao Cheng's request for peace now, we will fall into his treacherous scheme. Besides, our army failed in Pengcheng last year and Wuyan was recently defeated. We reconciled with Gao Cheng as soon as he expressed his intention. This further shows the weakness of the country's strength.
If you follow my opinion, you cannot agree to Gao Cheng's request for peace this time.
Zhu Yi and others insisted on their opinions, and Gaozu followed Zhu Yi and others' opinions.
After sending the peace envoy, Hou Jing became suspicious and petitioned the emperor many times to recover the envoy, but the emperor just kept him vague. In August, Hou Jing raised his troops to rebel.
In October, he invaded the capital and requested Zhu Yi be killed.
Three years later, you were moved to the position of leader, but your position remained unchanged.
In February of the Qian year, he tried his best to submit a memorial to the court in front of the palace, requesting to divide the four states west of the lower reaches of Changsi to accommodate his subordinates. Then he lifted the siege of the capital and returned to Shouchun. The emperor ordered to agree to his request.
So the two sides made an alliance in the west of the city, and Hou Jing requested that King Xuancheng be sent out of the city to see him off.
He insisted on his own opinion and believed that King Xuantan was his legitimate son and had an important position, so he should not agree to Hou Jing's request, so the emperor sent Xiao Daqian, Duke of Shicheng, to see Hou Jing off.
After the alliance was signed, the civil and military ministers in the city were very happy, hoping that the capital would be able to relieve the siege.
Only Fu Qi said to everyone: The rebels launched an army to rebel and asked for peace without achieving their goals. This foreigner has a human heart like a beast. He must not be trusted. This time he signed a covenant and he will eventually be deceived.
Everyone complained and blamed him.
When Hou Jing broke the covenant, no one could not express his admiration for Fu Qi.
Not long after, the emperor issued an edict that because of Fu Qi's hard work, he should be granted the title of Marquis of Nanfeng County, with a settlement of 500 households, but Fu Qi firmly refused to accept it.
After the fall of Miyagi, Fu Qi escaped from the siege despite being ill and later died at home.
Yao Cha, the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Chen, said: Those who preside over affairs must plan carefully first, so they will not make mistakes in anything they do. What Kuo said is so true.
Fu Qi saw through the Qi family's conspiracy to pretend to sue for peace, and it can be said that he was good at planning. If Fu Qi's ideas had been adopted at that time, the chaos in the Taiqing period would not have happened in the first place.
Shenzi said: One sentence of deviation will lead to the decline of the country.
This is the situation you are talking about!
