Jing Wang Liu Jia, the cousin of Mo Gaozu Liu Bang, did not know when he participated in the uprising.
In the first year of Han Dynasty, when the king of Han Dynasty returned to the Three Qin Dynasty, Liu Mai was appointed as the general. After pacifying Sima Xin's territory, he followed Liu Bangdong to attack Xiangji.
The King of Han was defeated by Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River to the north, captured the armies of Zhang Er and Han Xin, and stationed their troops in Xiuwu County. On the one hand, they dug deep trenches and built high barriers; on the other hand, they sent Liu Mai to lead 20,000 troops and hundreds of cavalry to attack Chu, crossed Baima Jin, and entered the Chu land. They burned Chu's grain and grass, destroyed the Chu army's military supply, and made it impossible to supply food to King Xiang's army.
Soon, the Chu soldiers attacked, but Liu Jia always avoided it and did not fight the Chu soldiers. Instead, he and Peng Yue relied on each other to protect themselves.
The king of Han pursued Xiang Ji to Guling and sent Liu Mai to lead his troops south across the Huaihe River to surround Shouchun.
After returning, he sent people to alienate and recruit Zhou Yin, the great commander of Chu State, to surrender.
Zhou Yin rebelled against Chu and returned to Han, assisted Liu Mai in capturing Jiujiang, catered to Yingbu's army, fought at Gaixia, and defeated Xiang Yu.
Therefore, the King of Han sent Liu Jia to lead the Jiujiang soldiers, together with Taiwei Lu Wan, to attack Linjiang King Gongwei in the southwest. After Wei Gong's death, Linjiang was renamed Nanjun.
Since Liu Jia had achieved great military exploits, the emperor's son at that time was young, had few brothers, and was not very talented and virtuous. He wanted to make someone with the same surname king to conquer the world, so Xia Shao said: "General Liu Mai has meritorious service, and he is qualified to choose the king among his descendants."
The ministers said: Let Liu Mai be made King of Jing and take charge of Huaidong.
Six years later, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled and attacked Jingdi eastward.
Liu Mai fought with him but failed to win. He fled to Fuling County and was killed by Yingbu's pursuers.
Liu Ze, King of Yan, was the brother of Gaozu and his great-grandfather.
In the third year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Liu Ze became a doctor.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, as a general, he led troops to defeat Chen Xi's general Wang Huang and was named Yinglinghou.
When Empress Gao was in power, Tian Sheng, a native of Qi, was short of funds when lobbying outside, so he turned to Liu Ze for help by offering suggestions.
Liu Ze was very happy and gave Tian Sheng two hundred pounds of gold when he passed away. Tian Sheng got the gold and immediately returned to Qi.
The following year, Liu Ze sent a messenger to Tian Sheng: We are no longer friends!
When Tian Sheng came to Chang'an, he did not go to see Liu Ze. Instead, he stayed in a big house and asked his son to find a way to work under Zhang Qing, the great emissary favored by Empress Lu.
A few months later, Tian Sheng's son invited Zhang Qing to his home as a guest, and Tian Sheng hosted a banquet for him in person.
Zhang Qing went there and was greatly surprised when he saw that the curtains and other decorative appliances wrapped in Tiansheng's house were in compliance with the standards of the princes.
When the wine was in full swing, Tian Sheng asked everyone to retreat and said to Zhang Qing: I have seen more than a hundred princes' postal residences, all of which were occupied by the meritorious officials of Emperor Gaozu.
Nowadays, the Lu family originally assisted Emperor Gao in conquering the world. Their contribution was very great, and they also had relatives such as the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother was old and the power of the Lu family was still weak. The Queen Mother wanted to establish Lu Chan as King Lu to rule over the country.
But the Queen Mother found it difficult to speak out, fearing that the ministers would disagree.
At present, you are the most favored, and the ministers respect you. Why don't you persuade the ministers to agree to make Zhu Lu king, and then report it to the Queen Mother, who will definitely be happy.
If the Lu family is granted the title of king, you must also be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households.
As a minister, if you don't realize what the Queen Mother wants to achieve quickly, I'm afraid there will be disaster.
After Zhang Qing heard this, he thought it was right, so he sarcastically persuaded the ministers to approve the granting of the title of Zhu Lu, and reported it to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother went to court and asked the ministers for their opinions.
Ministers please grant Lu Chan the title of King Lu.
Afterwards, the Empress Dowager rewarded Zhang Qing with a thousand catties of gold. Zhang Qing gave half of it to Tian Sheng, but Tian Sheng refused and took the opportunity to persuade him: "Lü Chan can be crowned king, but the ministers may not be very convinced."
Now the Marquis of Yingling, Liu Ze, is the elder of the Liu clan and a general. He is the only one who harbors resentment for not being crowned king.
Now you go and tell the Queen Mother that more than a dozen counties in Qi will be crowned king. Liu Ze will be happy and leave, and the status of the Lu family kings will be more stable.
Zhang Qing told the Queen Mother.
And because the daughter of the Queen Mother's sister Lu Xu was the wife of Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, Liu Ze was granted the title of King Langxie.
King Langxie and Tian Sheng went to Fengguo, and Tian Sheng advised him to leave quickly and not to stay.
After walking out of Hangu Pass, the Queen Mother indeed sent someone to chase him.
Liu Ze had already left the customs, and the visitor went back.
The year after Liu Ze became King Langxie, Empress Dowager Lu died of illness. Liu Ze then said: The emperor is young, Zhu Lu is in power, and the Liu clan is lonely and weak.
So he led his troops and conspired with the King of Qi to march westward, intending to kill Zhu Lu.
When he arrived in Liangdi, he heard that General Guan Ying of the Han Dynasty was stationed in Rongyang, so he withdrew his troops and stationed them in the western frontier of his country, and then rushed to Chang'an alone.
At this time, Liu Heng, the king of Dai, also arrived in Chang'an, the capital of Dai. The generals and ministers and Liu Ze jointly supported the king of Dai as the emperor of the Han Dynasty, that is, Emperor Xiaowen.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Liu Ze was renamed King of Yan. The Langye area was still given to Qi.
Liu Ze died after two years as King of Yan, and Mi paid tribute to him.
His son Kang Wang Liu Jia succeeded to the throne and died in the ninth year.
Dingguo, the son of King Kang, succeeded to the throne.
Dingguo committed adultery with his father's concubine. She gave birth to a boy, took his sister-in-law as a concubine, and committed adultery with her three daughters.
Dingguo planned to kill the Ying people, the magistrate of Feiru County. The Ying people and others reported to the court, and Dingguo sent envoys to kill the Ying people and silence them for violating other laws.
During the Yuanshuo period, the brothers of the Ying people once again wrote to the court to report Dingguo's crimes in detail.
Emperor Wu asked the ministers to discuss it, and they all said: Dingguo's behavior is like an animal, messing up human relations and violating the will of God, and he should be punished with death.
The emperor approved this proposal.
Dingguo then committed suicide. Forty-two years after the establishment of the feudal state, it was abolished.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, in order to continue the vassal family that had cut off the feudal state, Liu Guisheng, Liu Ze's great-great-grandson's grandson from Wuzhong County, who had only a first-class title, was granted the title of Marquis of Yingling. During the Gengshi period, Liu Guisheng was killed by soldiers.
King Wu Liu Bi was the son of Liu Zhong, brother of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Gao made Liu Zhong the acting king.
When the Xiongnu attacked Dai, Liu Zhong could not hold on, so he secretly abandoned the country and fled, returning to the capital Chang'an from Luoyang. The emperor could not bear to bring him to justice, so he deposed him from the throne and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Heyang.
His son Liu Bi was granted the title of Marquis of Pei.
King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled, and Emperor Gaozu personally led troops to attack him.
At this time, Liu Bi was twenty years old and followed Gaozu as a cavalry general to defeat Yingbu.
After King Liu Mai of Jing was killed by Ting Bu, he had no descendants.
Emperor Gaozu was worried that the people of Wu County and Kuaiji County were frivolous and fierce, and there were no powerful princes to control them. His son was still young, so he appointed Liu Bi as King of Wu in Pei, with jurisdiction over three counties and fifty-three cities.
After receiving the seal, Emperor Gaozu summoned him and gave him a face, saying: You have the appearance of rebellion.
I regretted that I should not have sealed him, but I could not take back my life, so I patted Liu Bi on the back and said: Fifty years after the founding of the Han Dynasty, there will be a rebellion in the southeast. Could it be you?
However, everyone with the same surname is one family, so don’t rebel!
Liu Bi kowtowed and said, "I don't dare."
During the reign of Emperor Hui and Empress Lu, due to the initial order of the world, all the princes in the prefectures and states were devoted to the rule of their own countries.
There was a copper-producing mountain in Yuzhang County of the State of Wu, which led to desperadoes from all over to steal coins and boil seawater in the southeast to make salt. Therefore, no taxes were collected from the people, and the country's finances were very rich.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, Prince Wu went to the capital for an audience and was able to accompany the crown prince to drink and play chess.
Prince Wu's masters were all from Chu, so he was as frivolous, fierce, arrogant and wanton as the Chu people.
When they were playing chess, they were competing for moves and were disrespectful to the crown prince. The crown prince raised the chessboard and threw it at Prince Wu, killing him and sending his body back to the state of Wu for burial.
King Wu said angrily: "Everyone with the same surname in the world is one family. If you die in Chang'an, you will be buried in Chang'an. Why should you be buried in Wu!"
He also sent Prince Wu's body back to Chang'an for burial.
As a result, the King of Wu became dissatisfied and gradually lost the etiquette of the princes towards the Han court. He pretended to be ill and refused to see the emperor.
The imperial court knew that it was because his son was killed, and after examination, he was actually not sick. Therefore, every time Wu sent envoys to him, he was always arrested and punished.
King Wu was afraid and even more determined to rebel against the court.
Later, Liu Bi asked someone to pay his respects to the emperor on his behalf, and Emperor Wen again questioned the envoy from Wu.
The messenger said: It would be unlucky for the emperor to find out about the private affairs of his ministers and cause them to worry and change.
Now the king of Wu began to lie about being ill, and the emperor noticed it. Seeing that he was punished quickly, he hid his conspiracy even more.
He was afraid that the emperor would kill him, and his plan would be of no benefit to the court.
It would be best if the emperor pardoned his past crimes. Therefore, the emperor pardoned all the Wu envoys and released them back to Wu. He also rewarded King Wu with Pingji and a walking stick, saying that King Wu was old and could not visit the emperor in the capital.
After King Wu was acquitted, his conspiracy became even more unscrupulous.
However, the state of Wu had profits from copper and salt, so the people did not have to pay taxes; if there were those who had to do hard labor, the government would also pay for them.
Every New Year's Day, we should visit the talented and learned people and give rewards to the residents of the village.
Officials from other counties were sent to the state of Wu to arrest criminals who had fled to Wu. The state of Wu also acquitted them of their crimes and strictly prohibited them.
It was governed like this for more than thirty years, and the king of Wu was able to serve his people.
Shi Chaocuo was the prince's family order and gained the prince's favor. He talked about King Wu's sins more than once and advocated cutting off his land and punishing him.
He also wrote to Emperor Wen several times about this matter. Emperor Wen was kind-hearted and could not bear to punish him, so King Wu became more and more arrogant.
Later, when Emperor Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo was appointed as the imperial censor. He told the emperor: Once upon a time, when the great ancestor first established the world, he had few brothers and his sons were young, so he made the same surnames the princes and kings. Therefore, Liu Fei, the concubine of Emperor Gaozu, was the King of Qi Huihui, and had jurisdiction over seventy-two cities; Liu Jiao, the concubine, was the King of Chu Yuan, and was in charge of forty cities in Chu; and his elder brother's son Liu Bi was the King of Wu, and was in charge of more than fifty cities in Wu.
These three vassal states occupy half of the country's land.
Now because his son was killed, the King of Wu lied about being ill and did not come to court. According to ancient laws, he should be executed.
Emperor Wen couldn't bear to execute King Wu, but instead rewarded him with a pen and a cane. His kindness to him was so profound.
However, instead of reforming his ways, the King of Wu became even more arrogant and indulgent. He openly minted money on the mountains and boiled seawater into salt, luring people fleeing from all directions to plot rebellion.
If his territory is reduced, he will rebel, and if it is not reduced, he will rebel.
If it is reduced, he will rebel faster and cause less harm; if his territory is not reduced, he will rebel later and cause greater harm.
In the winter of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, the King of Chu came to see the emperor. Chao Cuo said that King Chu Liu Wu had committed adultery in the mourning room during the mourning period for Empress Dowager Bo a few years ago, and he should be punished with death.
The emperor issued an edict to pardon his capital crime and only reduced his territory of Shuhai County.
Two years ago, King Zhao was guilty and cut off his territory of Changshan County.
Liu Yin, the king of Jiaoxi, committed a crime by selling his official title and was deprived of six counties.
When the ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed reducing the territory of Wu State, the King of Wu was worried that the land reduction would be endless, so he wanted to rebel according to the predetermined plan.
Considering that there was no one among the princes and kings who could scheme with him, I heard that the King of Jiaoxi was brave and fond of military affairs, and the princes were all afraid of him, so he sent Zhongda Yinggao to persuade the King of Jiaoxi and said: King Wu is incompetent and has worries day and night. We are one family, so he sent me to tell you what is on King Wu's mind.
King Jiaoxi said: Any advice?
Ying Gao said: Now the emperor appoints treacherous ministers, listens to slander, changes laws, invades the territories of princes and kings, and expropriates more and more things. The condemnation and punishment are too heavy, and they are increasing day by day.
As the saying goes: When a dog starts eating, he licks the chaff, and then he eats the rice.
Wu and Jiaoxi are famous among the princes. If they are investigated and punished for a while, they will not be able to act safely and indulgently.
King Wu was ill and could not see the emperor for more than twenty years. He was often afraid of being suspected, but could not explain clearly. He spent all day studying on his own, fearing that he would not be released by the court.
I heard that your Majesty once made a mistake in buying and selling official titles, and as a result, your territory was reduced and the punishment was inappropriate. I am afraid that the purpose of the court is not just to reduce the land. King Jiaoxi said: There is such a thing.
What do you want?
Ying Gao said: If you want to do bad things together, you should help each other; if you are friendly together, you should leave the benefits to each other; if you want to sympathize with each other, you should satisfy each other's requests for help; if you have a common desire, you should rush forward together; if you want to share common interests, you should fight to the death to pursue them together.
Now the King of Wu thinks that he is worried about the same thing as the King, and is willing to follow the timing and the laws of things, even if it means sacrificing his own life, in order to eliminate the disaster in the world. Do you think it's okay?
King Jiaoxi looked at him in surprise and said: How dare I do this?
Although the emperor is forcing us to be very anxious, we only have one chance of death. How can we disobey him?
Ying Gao said: Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, seduced the emperor, invaded the princes, and blocked the loyal and virtuous. All the ministers in the dynasty resented him, and all the princes and kings wanted to rebel. The matter was extremely bad.
Comet appears in the sky and locusts appear on the earth. This is rare in all the world. When the people are worried and laboring, it is time for the saint to take action.
King Wu's purpose for the Han court was to get rid of Chao Cuo, and for the princes, he followed the king and galloped around the world, surrendering wherever he went; wherever the army attacked, it collapsed, and no one dared to disobey.
If the king sincerely agrees and gives me a reply, then the king of Wu will lead the king of Chu to seize Hangu Pass, guard the food in Rongyang Aocang, resist the Han soldiers, build a simple house for the march to stop, and wait for the king.
If the king is lucky enough to come, then the world can be annexed and divided and ruled by Wu and Jiaoxi. Isn't this feasible? The king of Jiaoxi said: "Treachery."
Ying Gao went back and reported the situation to King Wu. The King of Wu was also worried that the King of Jiaoxi would not fulfill his promise, so he personally sneaked to Jiaoxi as an envoy and made an agreement with Liu Yin face to face.
Some of the ministers of the Jiaoxi Kingdom learned about the King of Jiaoxi's plan and advised him: "The territory owned by the princes is only two-tenths of the imperial court. It is not a good strategy to make the Queen Mother sad because of rebellion."
It is not easy to serve an emperor now. If the rebellion succeeds and two emperors compete for power, there will be more disasters.
The King of Jiaoxi did not listen to the advice, but sent envoys separately to make appointments with Qi, Miaochuan, Jiaoqiang, and Jinan, and they all agreed.
The princes were shocked and frightened by the new punishment of cutting off their lands, and most of them resented Chao Cuo.
When Shaoshu, who had beheaded Wu's Kuaiji and Yuzhang counties, arrived, the king of Wu first rebelled and executed the officials in the Wu court who were under two thousand stones.
The countries of Jiaoxi, Micelle, Miaochuan, Jinan, Chu, and Zhao then rebelled and marched westward.
At this time, the King of Qi regretted and broke his promise and defended the city without sending troops. Because the city wall was not repaired, the King of Jibei was threatened by his Lang Zhongling and was not allowed to send troops.
The two kings of Jiaoxi and Miaojie were the commanders, and together with the king of Miaochuan and the king of Jinan, they jointly besieged Linli.
King Liu Sui also secretly asked the Xiongnu to join forces with him.
When the joint rebellion of the seven countries began, King Wu invested all his troops and issued an order to the country: I am now sixty-two years old, and I personally lead the troops on the expedition; my youngest son, who is fourteen years old, also leads the army.
All Chinese citizens who are older than sixty-two and younger than fourteen years old must join the army.
A total of more than 200,000 people were recruited.
At the same time, envoys were sent to Fujian and Shuyue in the south, and the two countries also sent troops to accompany them.
In the first month of the first year of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, King Liu Bi of Wu first raised his troops in Guangling, crossed the Huaihe River to the west, and joined the Chu troops.
He sent envoys to send letters to all the princes and kings, saying: King Wu Liu Bijing greeted and asked for advice from the princes of Jiaoxi, Miaochuan, Jinan, Zhao, Chu, Huainan, Hengshan, Lujiang, and the late Changsha: Because there was a thief in the Han court named Chao Cuo, he had no merit, but he invaded the territories of the princes, and made the officials expose, imprison, interrogate, and punish the princes. It was his duty to plunder and insult the princes. He did not treat the Liu family members with the courtesy of princes, did not honor the late emperor's meritorious officials, used evil people, used deceptive words to harm the world, and put the country in danger.
The emperor was sick and obsessed with happiness and could not see the truth clearly.
Therefore, I want to raise my troops to kill Chao Cuo, and I would like to ask everyone for advice.
Although our country is small, with a radius of only 3,000 units, and although its population is small, it has 500,000 elite soldiers.
I have worshiped the South Vietnamese Kingdom for more than thirty years, and its king and leaders are willing to detach troops to support me, so I can get another three hundred thousand people.
Although I am incompetent, I am willing to follow the kings myself.
The South Vietnamese soldiers attacked the Changsha Kingdom from the north. After the prince pacified the north of Changsha, they then attacked Shujun and Mozhong westward.
Inform King Shuyue, King Chu, and the three kings of Huainan, Jibei, and Hengshan to march westward with me. After the kings of Qi and King Tou pacify Hejian and Hanoi, they will either enter Linjin Pass or join me at Luoyang; King Yan , King Zhao had an agreement with the Xiongnu Chanyu. After King Yan pacified Dai and Yunzhong in the north, he led the Xiongnu soldiers into Xiaoguan and took the capital Chang'an directly to save the world, secure the temple of Gaodi, and encourage all the kings.
The prince of Chu Yuan and the three kings of Huainan, Hengshan and Jibei have not received favor from the court for more than ten years, so they hate Moting deeply and have wanted to send troops to attack the Han Dynasty for a long time. I did not get the opinions of the kings and did not dare to listen to them.
Now, if the kings can save the country from subjugation, succeed in the peerless era, revitalize the weak, defeat the tyrannical, and stabilize the Liu family, it will be a great blessing for the country.
Although the state of Wu is poor, for more than thirty years I have scrimped on food and clothing, accumulated money, trained the army at night, and hoarded food.
All this is for this reason, and I would like to work with all the kings to achieve it.
Anyone who can capture and kill a general will be rewarded with five thousand jins of gold and be granted the title of 10,000 households; if he captures and beheads a general, he will be rewarded with 3,000 jins of gold and be granted the title of 5,000 households; if he captures and beheads a general, he will be rewarded with 2,000 jins of gold and be granted the title of 2,000 households.
If a person comes to surrender with an army and a city or land under his jurisdiction, and if he brings ten thousand soldiers and households each, the reward will be the same as if he captured a general; if he brings five thousand soldiers and households each, his reward will be the same as if he captures and kills a general; if he brings three thousand soldiers and three thousand households, he will be treated as if he captured and beheaded a general; if he brings one thousand soldiers and one thousand households, he will be treated as if he captures and kills a general. Other ordinary minor officials can enjoy titles and bounties according to their levels.
The rewards given were twice as many as those stipulated by the Han court.
Those with original titles and fiefs will be given additional rewards in addition to retaining their original titles.
I hope that the kings will openly announce it to the scholar-bureaucrats and others and not dare to deceive.
My gold and coins are available everywhere in the world, not necessarily from Wu, and the kings can use them day and night.
If there is anyone who deserves a reward, you can tell me and I will send someone to send gold and coins.
We respectfully inform you of the above situation.
When the Han court learned about the rebellion of the seven kingdoms, Emperor Jing sent Taiwei and Tiaohou Zhou Yafu to lead thirty-six generals to attack Wu and Chu; he sent Quzhou Hou Liji to lead troops to attack Tongguo; he sent General Lebu to lead troops to attack Qi; and General Dou Ying was stationed in Rongyang to monitor the movements of the Qi and Zhao armies.
At the beginning, when the news of Wu and Chu's rebellion had just been heard and before troops were sent out, Dou Ying told the emperor about Yuan An, the former prime minister of the state of Wu.
The emperor then summoned Yuan Ang and asked about strategies to resolve Wu Chu's rebellion. Yuan Cong said: Wu and Chu communicated with each other, and they both said that the traitor Chao Cuo had monopolized power, demoted the princes, reduced the invasion of the princes' fiefdoms, and rebelled because of this, which was called a crusade to the west. They jointly killed Chao Cuo, restored the original fiefdoms, and then stopped the army.
The only plan now is to put Chao Cuo to death, send envoys to pardon the sins of the seven kingdoms, and restore the original fiefdoms of the seven kingdoms. Then there will be no need to fight with swords, and bloodshed and sacrifice can be avoided.
The emperor followed his advice and beheaded Chao Cuo.
The details are recorded in "The Biography of Yuan Ang".
Therefore, Yuan Ang was granted the title of Taichang, in charge of worshiping at the ancestral temple, and sent an envoy to see the King of Wu. Dehou, the nephew of the King of Wu, was a Zongzhengguan and was sent to the State of Wu as an auxiliary envoy because he was closely related to Wu.
By the time they arrived at Wu State, the armies of Wu and Chu were already attacking the military camp of Liang State.
Because Zong Zheng was a relative, he went to see the King of Wu first and ordered the King to kneel down and accept the edict.
King Wu heard that Yuan An was coming and knew what he wanted to say. He smiled and replied: I am already Emperor Shu, who do I still want to bow to?
He refused to see Yuan An and detained him in the army, trying to force him to become a general of Wu.
Yuan Ang refused to agree, so the King of Wu sent troops to surround him and prepare to kill him.
Yuan An fled to Liang State at night, then returned to the capital and reported the situation to the emperor.
Tiaohou Zhou Yafu took six official carriages to pass the news and mobilized the army to join forces in Rongyang.
When he arrived at Luoyang, he met Ju Meng and said happily: "The Seven Kingdoms rebelled. I arrived here in an official car. I didn't expect that I could reach here safely."
I thought the rebellious princes had obtained Ju Meng. Now that Ju Meng has not wavered, I have occupied Rongyang, so there is no need to worry about the area east of Rongyang.
When he arrived in Huaiyang, he asked Captain Deng, who was his father's aide to Jianghou Zhoubo, "What's your plan?"
Captain Deng said: Wu's army is very elite, and it is difficult to win between them. The Chu army was impetuous and could not stay long.
Now for the general's plan, it is better to lead troops to the northeast and garrison Changyi, leaving Liang State to Wu State. Wu State will definitely attack Liang State with all its elite troops.
The generals dug deep trenches, built high fortifications, and sent light troops to guard the entrances and exits of the Huaihe River and the Swimming River to cut off Wu's food and salary supply.
Wu and Chu are exhausted and short of food and grass. We use the advantages of complete equipment and materials to control the disadvantageous situation of Wu and Chu who are eager to end the war due to lack of food and materials. This will definitely defeat Wu. Zhou Yafu heard this and said: This plan is very clever.
Therefore, he followed his strategy and stood firm to the south of Changyi. At the same time, he sent light troops to cut off Wu's grain transportation road.
When King Wu first started his army, his minister Tian Lubo was the general.
He said to the King of Wu: It is difficult to achieve success by gathering the troops to the west. There is no other way to win by surprise.
I am willing to lead 50,000 people to advance along the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, recover Huainan and Changsha, enter Wuguan, and then join the king. This is also a good plan.
The Crown Prince of Wu advised: Your Majesty raised the army in the name of fighting against the Desert, and it is difficult to lend the army to others to lead. What if others also rise up against King Wu?
Moreover, if someone else takes over the military power and divides the troops, if something goes against me, it will only be a waste of losses for myself.
King Wu therefore did not agree to Tian Lubo's request.
General Huan, the young general of Wu State, persuaded the King of Wu: Wu State has many infantry, which is beneficial to fighting in dangerous places; there are many chariots and cavalry in Moting, which is beneficial to fighting in plains.
I hope that if the city that the king passes through is not captured, he can go straight west for the time being, quickly occupy the weapons depot in Luoyang, seize the grain of Aocang, occupy the dangerous places on the mountains and rivers, and use this to command the princes. Then, even if he does not enter the pass, the world will be peaceful.
If the king marches slowly and stays in every city he encounters, once the desert army comes with chariots and cavalry and enters the outskirts of Liang and Chu, the war will fail.
The King of Wu asked the old generals for their opinions. The old generals said: This man is young. Although he can charge into battle, how can he know how to make foresight?
Therefore, the King of Wu did not adopt General Huan's strategy.
The King of Wu took over the power and personally led the troops. Before crossing the Huaihe River, many of his guests were named generals, lieutenants, marquises of Xingjian, Sima and other officials, but Zhou Qiu was not appointed.
Zhou Qiu, a native of Xiapi, was guilty of a crime and fled to the state of Wu. He was engaged in the wine business and behaved badly. The king of Wu looked down on him, so he did not appoint him.
So Zhou Qiu asked to see the King of Wu and said to the King of Wu: Because I am incompetent, I cannot take the blame and serve in the army.
I dare not ask the king to bring me some troops. I only hope that the king will give me a Desert Talisman Festival, and I will definitely repay you.
The king of Wu then gave him the Han Fu Festival.
Zhou Qiu got Hanjie and quickly entered Xiapi at night.
At that time, Xiapi had heard about Wu's rebellion, and they all defended the city.
Zhou Qiu arrived at the inn, summoned the county magistrate into the room, and announced the magistrate's crime. Let the attendants execute the county magistrate.
Then he called together the powerful officials who were friendly with his brothers and said: Wu: Zheng's troops are coming. It only takes one meal to kill all the people in Xiapi City.
Now that we surrender to Wu, everyone's family members and properties will definitely be saved, and the opportunity for those with great ability to fight for the title of marquis has arrived.
After these people went out, they informed each other, so Xiapi City surrendered.
Zhou Qiu obtained 30,000 soldiers overnight, so he sent people to report to the king of Wu and led his soldiers to attack the city and seize the territory in the north.
By the time they arrived in Chengyang, they had more than 100,000 soldiers and defeated the lieutenant's army in Chengyang.
After hearing the news of King Wu's defeat, he thought that he could not succeed with King Wu, so he returned to Xiapi with his soldiers.
On the way, he died of a poisonous sore on his back.
In February, the king of Wu was defeated and fled. The emperor was General Shao, who said: It is said that those who do good deeds will be rewarded with blessings, and those who do evil will be rewarded with disaster.
The merits of my dynasty will last forever, and I will establish a kingdom of vassals. King You of Zhao and King Hui of Qi had no Gen son to succeed them to the throne. Emperor Wen took pity on them and showed favor to them. He made Liu Sui, the most prosperous son of land reclamation, and Xingsheng, the prince of Pantou, etc., as vassal kings. He ordered them to continue to worship their ancestors' ancestral temples and became vassal states of the Han Dynasty. His kindness can be described as the sky is thick and the earth is thick, and the light is brighter than the moon.
However, King Liu Bi of Wu betrayed his moral integrity, lured outlaws from all over the world, minted coins privately, disrupted the country's currency system, and pretended to be ill and failed to see the emperor on time for more than 20 years.
The competent authorities requested that Liu Bi be punished several times, but Emperor Wen tolerated it and refused to punish him, in order to make him change for the better.
Now, he and King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Tang, King Liu Yin of Jiaoxi, King Liu Biguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Miao Chuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Miao Chuan agreed with each other to conspire against the will of heaven, rebel against the Han Dynasty, and raise troops to overthrow the central dynasty. The rebels killed the ministers and envoys of the Han Dynasty, forcibly robbed the people, killed innocent people indiscriminately, burned down people's houses, and dug up people's graves. They were very cruel.
But Liu Yin and others were even more rebellious and unscrupulous. They burned down the ancestral temples in the prefectures and looted the clothes and utensils used in the ancestral temples. I hated them very much.
Now I wear plain clothes and do not go to the main hall. I hope the generals will mobilize the scholar-bureaucrats to fight against these rebels.
In order to attack the rebels, they killed many people and went deep into the ground to plan their merits. Rebels with a salary of more than 300 dan were killed and were not allowed to be released.
Anyone who dares to discuss the edict or not do what it requires will be cut in half.
It turned out that after the King of Wu crossed the Huaihe River, he and the King of Chu went west to defeat the Liang army of Liu Wu, the younger brother of Emperor Jing, at Jibi. They took advantage of the victory and advanced to attack, making them unstoppable.
King Xiao of Liang was afraid of this and sent generals to attack him. The Wu and Chu armies defeated the two armies of Liang Guo again, and the soldiers all fled back.
King Xiao of Liang sent envoys several times to ask for help from Taiwei Zhou Yafu, but Zhou Yafu did not come to his rescue.
He also sent envoys to report Zhou Yafu's attitude to the emperor. The emperor sent people to ask Zhou Yafu to rescue Liang, but Zhou Yafu did not send troops to rescue Liang due to special circumstances.
The king of Liang then sent Han Anguo and Zhang Yu, the brother of Zhang Shang, the prime minister of Chu, who had killed himself to stop Chu's rebellion, as generals to lead the army, and they were able to slightly defeat the Wu army.
Wu soldiers wanted to advance westward, but Liang's cities were well defended, so they did not dare to go westward and instead ran towards Zhou Yafu's army.
In Xiayi, the Wu army asked for a fight, but Zhou Yafu stood firm and refused to fight.
The Wu army was out of food and the soldiers were hungry. They challenged Zhou Yafu several times, so they attacked Zhou Yafu's camp at night and pretended to attack the southeast. Zhou Yafu ordered to guard the northwest.
Sure enough, Wu soldiers attacked from the northwest, but failed to break through. Wu soldiers were defeated. Most of the soldiers starved to death or surrendered and dispersed.
So the king of Wu and his thousands of strong men fled at night. After crossing the Huaihe River, I followed Dantu and surrendered to Shuyue.
Shu Yue had about ten thousand soldiers and sent people to recruit deserters.
The Han court sent people to lure Dongyue, and Dongyue deceived the King of Wu. When the King of Wu came out to comfort the soldiers, he sent people to kill the King of Wu with a spear and halberd, put the King of Wu's head in a wooden box, and reported to the Han court on a flying horse.
Prince Wu Liu Ju fled to Fujian and Yue.
After the death of King Wu, the Wu army collapsed, and soldiers surrendered to Han Taiwei Tiaohou and Liang Jun anytime and anywhere.
King Liu Wu of Chu was defeated and committed suicide.
Jiaoxi, Micelle, Miao! The three kings besieged Linmiao in Qi State, but it lasted three months and still was not broken.
As soon as the Han soldiers arrived, they led their troops back to their countries. After the King of Jiaoxi returned home, he walked barefoot, slept on straw mats, drank plain water, and apologized to the Queen Mother.
His prince Liu De said: The Han army is already withdrawing. I think they are quite tired, so I can attack them. I hope the king will collect the remaining troops and pursue them. If he cannot win, he can escape to the sea before it is too late.
The King of Jiaoxi said: Our soldiers have suffered too many casualties and cannot fight anymore.
Not listening to his son.
The general of the Han Dynasty, Gong Gaohou Han Daodang, sent a letter to the King of Jiaoxi. The letter said: I have come to kill the rebels in accordance with the Emperor's Shao Shu. Those who surrender will have their sins pardoned and their original positions restored; those who do not surrender will be destroyed.
Wherever you go, King of Jiaoxi, I must deal with it accordingly.
The King of Jiaoxi went to the Han army camp with his chest and arms exposed, kowtowed to pay homage, and said: "Your Majesty Liu Yin was not cautious in obeying the law, so he frightened the people. General, I have come all the way to my poor country. Please give me the punishment of being chopped into meat sauce."
Han Dai met him with a golden drum in his hand and said: The King of Jiaoxi is distressed about sending troops to rebel. I am willing to hear your reasons for sending troops.
The King of Jiaoxi kowtowed, walked forward on his knees, and replied: It's like this: Chao Cuo was a minister in power before the emperor. He changed Emperor Gao's decree and invaded the territories of the princes. Liu Yin and others thought it was unfair.
We were afraid that he would bring chaos to the country, so the seven countries sent troops at the same time to kill Chao Cuo.
Now that they heard that Chao Cuo had been killed, Liu Yin and others wanted to withdraw their troops and return home.
Han Daedang said: If the king thinks that Chao Cuo did something bad, why not appeal to the emperor?
At the same time, without the emperor's edict and tiger talisman for sending troops, troops were sent to attack the just country without authorization.
Judging from this, your intention is not just to kill Chao Cuo.
He immediately took out the emperor's edict, read it to King Jiaoxi, and said: Your Majesty, commit suicide.
The King of Jiaoxi said: People like Liu Yin and others deserve to die.
So he committed suicide and died.
The queen mother and the prince also died.
When he was dispatched, the three kings of Miaochuan, Miaochuan and Jinan were also killed.
Li Shiqi led his troops to attack the State of Zhao, and fought for ten months before winning. Liu Sui, the king of Zhao, committed suicide.
The king of Jibei, Liu Zhichu, was coerced and plotted, but later he insisted on not sending troops, so he was pardoned but not killed. At the beginning, it was King Wu who rebelled first. He also led the troops of Chu and contacted Qi and Zhao.
Starting from the first month to the third month, they were all conquered and destroyed.
Zan said: The reason why Jing Wang Liu Jia was named king was because the world was not yet stable, so even though he was a distant relative of the Liu family, he was also named king and sat in the Jianghuai area.
Liu Ze's title of king began with Tian Sheng's plan. He first provoked Empress Lu to grant Lu Chan, and then asked people to ridicule Empress Lu to grant Liu Ze the title of king. Finally, he faced south and was left alone for three generations.
Once the matter is revealed, it will be a serious crime. Isn't it very dangerous?
King Wu Liu Bi had the exclusive advantage of mountains and seas, which could reduce taxes, win over and control the people, and the rebellion plan started when his son was killed.
The ancient vassal states were no more than a hundred miles in radius, not including mountains, forests, rivers and swamps. This was probably to prevent them from rebelling against the central government.
Chao Cuo thought of the country's long-term interests, but disaster struck him and he died. Don't be the mastermind of the rebellion, because you will suffer disaster. Isn't this exactly what Chao Cuo said?
