The principles mentioned in the "Six Classics" all achieve the same goal, and the functions of "Li" and "Yue" are particularly urgent.
Once those who cultivate themselves forget the propriety, they will suffer from evil and contempt; once those who govern the country lose the propriety, desolation and disorder will come.
Human beings contain the yin and yang of heaven and earth, and have emotions of joy, anger, sorrow and joy.
Heaven upholds its characteristics but cannot exercise restraint, but saints can use it restrainedly and without interruption. Therefore, rituals and music are made according to the laws of heaven and earth to communicate with gods, establish human ethics, correct human temperament, and regulate all things.
It is human nature to have differences between men and women and to be jealous of others, so we have formulated the etiquette of marriage; it is human nature to have the order of interaction between elders and younger generations, so we have formulated the drinking ceremony in the countryside;
Grief has the etiquette of crying and mourning, joy has the appearance of singing and dancing, which is enough for the upright person to be sincere, and it is enough for the evil person to prevent mistakes.
Therefore, if the marriage etiquette is abolished, then the etiquette between husband and wife will be coarse, and the sins of debauchery and lewdness between men and women will increase; if the country drinking ceremony is abolished, then the order of elders and younger generations will be confused, and there will be more lawsuits; If the etiquette is abolished, the kindness between flesh and blood will be weakened, and more and more people will abandon the dead and forget their ancestors; if the etiquette of meeting the emperor is abolished, then the positions of the monarch and his ministers will be wrong, and the phenomenon of aggression and bullying will gradually occur.
Therefore, Confucius said: There is no better way to stabilize a country and govern the people than propriety; to change the atmosphere and change customs, there is no better way than music.
Etiquette can control the thoughts of the people, music can harmonize the voices of the people, implement it with government decrees, and prevent it with criminal laws.
If etiquette, music, government orders, and criminal laws are all passed without hindrance, then the kingly way is complete.
If music is used to govern the interior, harmony is needed; if ritual is used to modify the exterior, diversity is needed; harmony can lead to harmony and mutual affection, and difference can produce fear and respect; harmony and mutual love will not cause resentment, and fear and admiration will not cause strife.
The world is governed well by doing nothing, the effects of etiquette and music.
The two are used together and become one.
Fear and respect are difficult to express, so they use wine and food, speeches, and kneeling to express it; the joy of harmonious love is difficult to describe, so they use poems, songs, chants, words, and bells and stones to express it.
This is to praise a person's respect without touching his property, and to praise a person's happy mood without touching his voice.
So Confucius said: "Etiquette, etiquette, can it be expressed in jade and silk?"
Joy, joy, how can we use bells and drums to express it?
This is the foundation of etiquette and joy.
Therefore, it is said: Those who understand the nature of ritual and music can innovate, and those who understand the system of ritual and music can inherit it; those who innovate are called saints, and those who inherit it are called Ming.
Mingsheng is all about innovation and inheritance.
The emperor must implement the rites of the previous emperors in accordance with the requirements of the times, add or delete them, and gradually make them according to the people's ideas, until the world is at peace and complete.
The Zhou Dynasty learned from the Xia and Yin Dynasties, and the etiquette system was particularly complete. Systems were established for major events and precautions were taken for minor matters. Therefore, there are 300 etiquette rituals and 3,000 etiquette details.
As a result, education was widespread, the people were harmonious, there were no disasters, no chaos, and the prisons were empty. This situation has been maintained for more than forty years.
Confucius praised it and said: The etiquette is so complete!
I want to learn from the Zhou Dynasty.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, the princes exceeded the limits of the law and hated the etiquette system for harming their own interests, so they deleted the relevant books and documents.
Then the Qin Dynasty destroyed various schools of thought, and rituals and music were scattered and lost.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, he began to control the troubled times and restore normalcy and stability. Although he did not have a day to spare, Emperor Gaozu still ordered Shusun Tong to formulate etiquette to correct the status of the monarch and his ministers.
Emperor Gaozu happily exclaimed: "I just realized today that being the emperor is the most expensive thing!"
Shusun Tong was appointed as a regular official and etiquette laws were formulated, but Shusun Tong died before they were fully prepared.
At the time of Emperor Wen, Jia Yi believed that the Han Dynasty had inherited the bad customs of the Qin Dynasty, without regard for etiquette and integrity, and now even went so far as to kill his father and elder brothers, and thieves stole artifacts from the ancestral temple, and the ministers also used the copybook as an excuse for not reporting the implementation of the decrees. As a result, evil practices were rampant, and everyone felt at ease and did not feel strange, thinking that this was the case.
It can be seen that it is probably not something that mediocre officials can do to change the atmosphere, change customs, and make everyone in the world change their minds and move towards the right path.
The establishment of monarchs and ministers, the distinction between superiors and subordinates, the ordering of the country's system, and the harmony among relatives are not God's arrangements, but are established by man himself.
Since it is established by people themselves, it cannot be established if they are not practiced, and it will be destroyed if they are not cultivated.
The Han Dynasty has been established for more than 20 years now. It is necessary to formulate systems and promote rituals and music. Then the princes can get on the right track, the people can be simple and unpretentious, and lawsuits will gradually disappear.
So Jia Yi established etiquette, and Emperor Wen was very happy.
But ministers Zhou Bo and Guan Ying were jealous of him, so his suggestions were not adopted.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he promoted and appointed people with outstanding talents, discussed the establishment of a bright hall to clarify politics and religion, and formulated etiquette and clothing colors to revitalize peace.
It happened that Empress Dowager Dou liked the Taoist teachings of Huangdi and Laozi, but did not like Confucianism, so the matter was dropped.
Later Dong Zhongshu answered in the test paper: If the emperor wants to make a difference, he should explore his behavior according to heaven.
The way of heaven is boundless, it all depends on yin and yang.
Yang is benevolence and yin is punishment.
The angelic yang is always in the midsummer to nourish all things and make them grow, while the yin is always in the midwinter and accumulates in empty and unused places. From this we can see that heaven advocates virtue and not criminal law.
Yang Qi appears and spreads upward to dominate the time sequence of the year, while Yin Qi enters the underground reservoir and comes out from time to time to assist Yang Qi.
Yang Qi does not have the help of Yin Qi and cannot form the time sequence of the year alone.
The emperor acts according to the will of God, so he must devote himself to benevolent education and reduce punishment.
Punishments cannot be used to govern a country, just as Yin energy cannot be used to form the timing of a year.
Nowadays, the benevolent teachings of the previous kings are abandoned and only officials in charge of laws are used to govern the people. If we want to use virtue to inspire people all over the world, it will be difficult to succeed.
Therefore, the ancient emperors all regarded the political and religious culture as a major matter. They established the Taixue in the capital to carry out teaching and the Xuexu in the small town to carry out education.
The political and religious ethos has been clarified, habits and customs have been formed, and no one in the world will be in prison.
By the end of the Zhou Dynasty, he was doing so many unethical things that he lost the world.
The Qin Dynasty followed the Zhou Dynasty and did even worse things.
From ancient times to the present, there has never been a situation where chaos was used to increase chaos and extremely destroy the world like the Qin Dynasty did.
The customs are frivolous and abominable, and the people have no fear.
Now that the Han Dynasty is following the Qin Dynasty, even if it wants to control this situation, there is no way.
As soon as the law is promulgated, cunning people appear, as soon as the decree is promulgated, deception occurs, and there are tens of millions of lawsuits a year. Just like using hot water to stop boiling water, it will only make the water boil more and will not help.
For example, if the piano and the harp are not harmonious, if the instrument is more powerful, it must be disassembled and put back together before it can be played.
When political affairs are handled but not implemented, if the situation is very serious, it must be changed again before it can be managed.
Therefore, since the Han Dynasty took over the world, it has always wanted to govern it well, but it has not yet been able to transform the violent people into good people, so that they can be exempted from the death penalty. This is because they did not change their education when it should be changed.
The ancients once said: If you are envious of the abundance of fish by the pond, it is better to go back and tie the fishnet.
Now that we have been in power and have been planning to govern the country well for more than 70 years, we might as well make changes first.
Reform can govern a country well, reduce national disasters and increase happiness.
At this time, the emperor was in the process of conquering the barbarians and was devoted to martial arts. He had no time to pay attention to etiquette and rituals.
At the time of Emperor Xuan's reign, Langxie Wangji was appointed as an admonishment official, and he wrote to the emperor: There are not all monarchs who want to govern the world well in every generation. Officials such as public ministers are lucky enough to be at the right time, but they have no long-term strategy to help the wise monarchs achieve the prosperity of the third generation.
Their task is only to rely on official documents to decide and hear lawsuits. This is not the foundation of peace in the world.
Nowadays, the vulgar officials use it to rule the people. There are no rules of etiquette and justice that can be passed from generation to generation. They just follow the rules with their own ideas and strive for temporary stability.
Therefore, cunning and hypocrisy sprout, punishment has no limit, simplicity disappears day by day, and love gradually fades away.
Confucius said that there is nothing better than propriety to stabilize a country and govern its people. This is not empty talk.
I am willing to work with ministers to select Confucian scholars, inherit the old etiquette, clarify the king's system, and urge the people of a generation to achieve the state of benevolence and longevity. How can such etiquette and customs be inferior to those of King Zhou Cheng and King Kang of Zhou?
How come his longevity is not as good as that of Yin Gaozong?
The emperor did not adopt his suggestion, so Wang Ji had to resign due to illness.
When he became emperor, Jianwei County dug up sixteen ancient chimes by the river. Everyone thought they were very auspicious.
Based on this situation, Liu Xiang persuaded Emperor Cheng: Piyong should be built, a preface should be established, rituals and music should be arranged, so that the sound of elegant songs can be prosperous, and the etiquette of bowing and yielding can be prevalent, so as to educate the world.
If this has not brought peace to the world, it has never happened.
Some people say that all etiquette cannot be complete.
Rites are based on educating people. Even if there are mistakes, these mistakes still educate people.
Mistakes in punishment can sometimes result in death or injury.
Today's criminal law is no longer the law of Gao Tao's time. Relevant departments make laws and deletions at any time, and add them at any time, just to assist the important affairs of the world.
As for adding rituals and music, I say I dare not. This means that I dare to kill people but not to educate people.
For the sake of not having all the ritual utensils and orchestral instruments available, I would definitely not do it. This would be giving up a small thing that is not available and end up in a situation where most of the things are not available. There is nothing more disadvantageous than this: compared with education and criminal law, criminal law is relatively light. This means abandoning important things and rushing to deal with minor things.
Moreover, education relies on it to govern the country, and criminal law is used to assist governance.
Now abandoning what should be relied on and only establishing things that are only used to play a supporting role is not the way to achieve the world.
From the disobedient and unfilial descendants in the capital to those who suffered the punishment of Dapi killing, this is because they do not understand the five principles of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith.
The Han Dynasty inherited the thousand-year decline of the Zhou Dynasty and the legacy of the brutal Qin Dynasty. The people gradually became infected with bad customs, were greedy and sinister, and did not understand the truth. They did not educate them and only used punishment to restrain them. The folk customs would never be corrected.
Therefore, it is said: Use ritual and music to guide the people, and they will be in harmony. Originally, when Shusun Tong was about to formulate etiquette, he was criticized by scholars in Qi and Lu, but in the end he became the master of Confucian scholars in the Han Dynasty, and his achievements were passed down to future generations and became a code of law.
Emperor Cheng handed Liu Xiang's words to his ministers for discussion. Liu Xiang died of illness, and Prime Minister Da Sikong asked the emperor to establish Piyong.
While inspecting the south side of Chang'an City, Emperor Cheng died before the table to determine the location was completed, and the officials quoted this incident to determine his title.
When Wang Mang was promoted to Prime Minister, he wanted to confuse everyone, so he built Piyong, thus usurping the throne, and the people in the country began to rebel against him.
Emperor Guangwu, the ancestor of the Han Dynasty, was mandated by fate to revive the declining Han Dynasty. He managed the troubled times, restored normalcy and stability, and changed the capital of the country to Luoyang.
After reigning for thirty years, the barbarians surrendered, the people became rich, and the political education was clear, so Mingtang and Biyong were established.
Xianzong ascended the throne and personally presided over the etiquette, worshiped Emperor Guangwu in Mingtang, and supported the three elders and five more in Piyong. The etiquette details were both numerous and perfect.
However, moral education was not widely spread because the rituals and music were not in place, the officials and the people had nothing to talk about, and the preface had not yet been established.
Confucius said: For example, if you are still short of building a mountain, but you stop doing it, I will no longer teach him.
Now the etiquette and rituals written by Shusun Tong are recorded together with the laws and regulations, and are collected by judges, but they have not been passed down by the Legalists.
The classics of the Han Dynasty no longer recorded it, and the common people and officials no longer mentioned it.
After Shu Sun Tong's death, He asked King Xian to select some old stories about rituals and music, and gradually added them to the collection, reaching more than 500 pieces.
Today's scholars cannot make it clear. They only recommend the "Shili" to the emperor, and the principles stated are often wrong. Therefore, the rules for the relationship between elders and juniors between emperors and ministers are gradually blurred.
Music is loved by saints because it can change people's minds for the better.
It has a profound power to move people and is easy to change the atmosphere and customs, so the former kings praised its educational role.
People have the nature of emotions, thoughts and wisdom, but there is no normal state of sadness, joy, joy and anger. When there are reactions, there are inner activities, and then the methods and ways for people to understand things are formed.
Therefore, when subtle and rapid music sounds, people will be worried; when harmonious and soothing music sounds, people will be happy; when high-pitched and exciting music sounds, people will be strong-willed; when upright and pure music sounds, people will be in awe; when broad and smooth music sounds, people will be kind and loving; when licentious and scattered music sounds, people will be evil and confused.
The former king was ashamed of this chaos, so he formulated the music of Yasong. It was based on human emotions, examined the principles of music, and made it according to etiquette and rituals. It coordinated with the harmony of yin and yang to guide the actions of the five constants, making it exposed but not discrete, and hidden but not condensed. Stagnation, hard energy does not cause anger, soft energy does not disperse, the four elements of yin and yang, hardness and softness are smoothly integrated into one body and dispersed outside the body, so that they can settle in their own positions without collision. This is enough to move people's conscience and prevent evil spirits from invading. This is the policy of the ancient kings in establishing happiness.
Before the emperors composed music, they would use the music of their ancestors to teach the people and make them happy and happy. After that, they would make changes to the music to highlight their merits and virtues.
"Book of Changes" says: The ancient kings made music to promote virtue, and played grand music to worship heaven and to entertain their ancestors.
In the past, Huangdi made "Xianchi", Zhuanxu made "Liuji", Emperor Shu made "Wuying", Yao made "Dazhang", "Shun" made "Shao", Yu made "Xia", Tang made "Yi", King Wu made "Wu" and Zhou Gong made "Shao".
"Shao" means that one can obtain the way of ancestors.
"Martial Arts" means to stabilize the world through merit.
"婩" means saving the people.
"Xia" refers to the large-scale succession of Emperors Yao and Shun.
"Shao" means to succeed Yao.
"Big Chapter" means manifesting virtue.
"Five Heroes" means that morality is very prosperous.
"Six stems" means that the rhizome has been affected.
"Xianchi" is complete.
From Xia onwards, this kind of music has not been heard again, and "Song of Yin" is still preserved.
The "Poems of Zhou" are also all in place, and its musical instruments and "Officials of Zhou" are all in charge.
Those in charge, starting from Shi Gu, the senior official, and below, all select moral people to train them in the morning and evening to teach the sons of the country.
The sons of the state, that is, the children of the high officials, must learn to sing the nine virtues, recite the six poems, and practice the six dances, five tones, and eight tones.
Therefore, when Emperor Shun appointed Kui, he said: You are in charge of music and teach the sons of the country, making them upright and gentle, tolerant and prudent, resolute but not rough, simple but not arrogant.
Use poetry to express aspirations, use songs to express your heart, use the five tones to assist singing, and use the six rhymes to harmonize the sounds, and the eight tones will be harmonious.
That's what I'm talking about.
In addition, he also rewards those among the princes who have great virtues and whose teachings are respected.
The etiquette details of music are enough to make people see enough, the sound is enough to mesmerize people to listen, and the poetry is enough to touch people's hearts. Therefore, when you hear the sound, your morals will be harmonious, when you read the poems, your aspirations will be upright, and the laws and regulations for discussing them will be established.
Therefore, if you use it in the suburbs to worship heaven and earth, the ghosts and gods can enjoy it; if you use it in the court, the officials will be docile; if it is set up in a school, all people will be harmonious.
Everyone who listened was attentive and humbly immersed in it happily. Therefore, everyone in the country knew that the emperor's benevolence and bathing in his spirit could renew the brilliance and make people noble and kind. Therefore, the "Poetry" says: If the bells and drums ring together, and the chimes and pipes play in unison, God will bring more blessings.
"The Book" says: When the stone chime is struck, all kinds of wild beasts will dance to the music.
It has a touching influence on black beasts, not to mention people?
What’s more, what about ghosts and gods?
Therefore, music is used by saints to move heaven and earth, reach gods, calm people, and form character types.
However, since the rise of "Ya" and "Song", the inherited music of decline and turmoil still exists. This is the so-called confusing and noisy sound, and we must try to ban it.
When the world is declining and people's hearts are scattered, villains will bully gentlemen and their thoughts are shallow, then evil will prevail over righteousness.
Therefore, the preface to "Book" says that Shang Zhou abandoned the music of his ancestors and made music that confuses people's hearts. He changed the sound to make it chaotic in order to please women.
The official Shi Gu fled away with his musical instruments, some to various princes, and some to the Yellow River and the sea.
Music is based on human emotions, penetrating the skin and hiding deep in the bone marrow. Even after thousands of years, its lingering sound is still endless.
In the Spring and Autumn Period, Chen Gongzi fled to Qi State.
Chen is a descendant of Shun, and "Shao Le" is preserved there.
Therefore, after Confucius arrived in Qi and heard "Shao", he didn't know what meat tasted like for three months and said: "I didn't expect music to reach such a state!"
Confucius admired it very much.
When the Zhou Dynasty began to be immoral, poems such as resentment and satire began to rise.
After the emperor's favor has dried up, poetry can no longer be written.
When the emperor's officials lost their positions, "Ya" and "Song" became mixed. Confucius studied and determined it, so he said: After I returned to Lu from Wei, the music was corrected, and "Ya" and "Song" had their own original uses.
At this time, the Zhou Dynasty was in serious decline, and the princes were running rampant. They set up two temples and rode in the emperor's car.
The ministers of the princes, Guan Zhong and Ji, married three women, played the music of "Yong" when removing eels, and danced "Eight Yi" indoors.
The system was corrupted and gradually declined without hope of revival. The music of Sangjian, Pushang, Zheng, Wei, Song, and Zhao appeared together, which caused diseases and shortened life span internally, and disrupted politics and harmed the people externally.
Crafty and false use it to decorate, in order to confuse the eyes and ears of the rich.
Common people use it to seek benefits, and vassal states use it to alienate each other.
Therefore, after Duke Mu of Qin gave the female singer to Xirong, Yu Yu left. The Qi people rewarded the female singer of Lu, Confucius, and left.
When it came to the Six Kingdoms, Wei Wenhou was the most ancient, but he said to Xia: I want to doze off when I hear ancient music, but when I hear the music of Zheng and Wei, I will not be tired.
Zixia rebuked him and argued with him, but in the end he was not accepted. From then on, ritual and music were lost.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there was a member of the musical family who was appointed as a music official for generations because he knew the official music and the five tones and six rhythms of the suburban temple court gatherings. However, he could only memorize the rhythm and dance of the music, but could not tell their meaning.
During the reign of Emperor Gaozu, Shusun Tong relied on musicians from the Qin Dynasty to produce music for the ancestral temple.
I wish to welcome the gods at the temple gate and play the music "Jia Zhi", just like the music that brought the gods to visit in ancient times.
When the emperor entered the temple gate, he played the music of "Yongzhi" as a walking rhythm, just like the ancient music of "Picking Shepherd's purse" and "Sixia".
Dried beans are offered and "Dengge" is played. Only one person sings, and no orchestras are used to disturb people's voices. It is hoped that all the officials can hear it, just like the ancient song "Qing Temple".
After "Deng Ge" is played twice, "Xiu Cheng" is played again to praise the gods for having enjoyed the sacrifice.
The emperor went to Shuxiang to drink. After sitting down, he played the music "Yong'an" and praised the completion of the ceremony.
There is also "Ancestral Music in the Fang", which was composed by Mrs. Tangshan of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
There was "Fang Zhong Yue" in the Zhou Dynasty, and it was called "Shou Ren" in the Qin Dynasty.
As with music, if you like what it creates, the etiquette is not to forget the fundamentals.
Emperor Gaozu liked the music of Chu, so "Music in the Fang" has the melody of Chu music.
In the second year of Xiaohui's reign, he asked Yuefu to order Xiahou Kuan to prepare Qi Xiaoguan, so he changed the name to "An Shile".
The dance music played in Gaomiao is "Wude", "Wenshi" and "Five Elements"; the dance music played in Xiaowen Temple is the dance music of "Zhaode", "Wenshi", "Four Seasons" and "Five Elements"; the dance music played in Xiaowu Temple is the dance music of "Shengde", "Wenshi", "Four Seasons" and "Five Elements".
The most commonly performed songs in various imperial temples are "Wen Shi", "Four Seasons", "Five Elements Dance", etc.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he produced "Zhao Rong Le" and "Li Rong Le".
"Zhao Rong Le", like the ancient "Zhao Xia Le", mainly comes from "Wude Dance".
"Li Rong Yue" mainly comes from "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements Dance".
If a person dances without music, it means that he does not dare to use music when he is about to appear in front of the most respected person; using music means that the dance will not lose the rhythm and can end with the music.
Most of them are based on the old events of the Qin Dynasty.
At first, after Emperor Gaozu brought peace to the world, he passed by Peixian County to celebrate with his old friends and fellow villagers. After getting drunk, he became extremely happy and sad, so he composed the poem "The Wind Rises" and ordered one hundred and twenty children in Peixian County to practice and sing it.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, Peigong was used as the original temple, and all the singing children were asked to practice playing and playing to harmonize each other. The capacity was often 120 people.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, the etiquette officers only practiced what was available.
By the time of Emperor Wu, the etiquette for worshiping ancestors in the suburbs was determined. For worshiping Taiyi in Ganquan, the Gan position northwest of the capital was chosen; to worship the earth god in Fenyin, the square hilly land in the puddle was chosen.
So he established a Yuefu, collected poems and sang them at night, including songs of Fang, Dai, Qin and Chu.
He appointed Li Yannian as the Lieutenant of Xielu, repeatedly recommended Sima Xiangru and dozens of other people to compose poems, briefly discussed Lu and used it to harmonize the tones of eight musical instruments, and wrote nineteen chapters of songs.
On the first day of the first lunar month, Xin Yue was worshiped at Ganquan Circle Hill, and seventy boys and girls were sent to sing together from dusk to dawn.
At night, divine lights like shooting stars would often stop at the altar, and the emperor would look out from the bamboo palace and worship. Hundreds of officials who accompanied the sacrifice were awe-struck.
"Songs in Anshifang" has seventeen chapters. This poem says:
Both filial piety and filial piety are complete, and virtues are obvious.
Hang the instruments high and around them so that they fill the palace.
The feathers erected one after another are like woods, as high and invisible as cloud shadows, the gold-decorated musical instrument feathers are as gorgeous as grass and trees, and are as beautiful as banners decorated with neat oxtails and green feathers.
"Qi Shi Hua Shi" requires respectful and harmonious singing.
The gods also came to feast, have fun, and listen to the songs.
Use music to respectfully and discreetly bid farewell to the gods, allowing them to feel a little bit of human emotion.
The gods suddenly ascended to the sky and left, and everything auspicious was in place.
The faint thoughts are misty and quiet, and the world is empty and high.
I determined the calendar, and everyone tried their best.
Fast religiously and educate constantly.
So they built ancestral temples to worship their respected and dear ones.
The blessing of filial piety is great and can reach far away places in all directions.
If a prince is virtuous, the people around him will be respectful, which is very obvious. Political clarity and smoothness are the filial piety of the emperor.
Great work was accomplished and all parties were appeased.
There are evil people in the country who are causing unrest in the Northeast.
I issued an edict to express my condolences to the troops, and the military ministers accepted the virtues.
Use music to conquer, "Xiao" and "Shao" can appease the evil spirits.
They obeyed respectfully, and the country of Yan was peaceful.
The sea is vast and boundless, and all the water flows back together. The wise man is kind and handsome, and everyone yearns for him.
The mountains are Cuiwei, which can give birth to hundreds of flowers.
What do people admire?
They admire moral people.
All things are in their own place, and everyone is happy.
If everyone is happy, it can be passed down from generation to generation.
The galloping dragon is parading in the sky.
If virtuous people are harmonious and cheerful, the people will be happy.
The grass is lush and the usneas stretch.
What can be better than this, who can come and destroy it!
No matter how big or small, it can form the virtue of education; whether it is long or not, it can cover infinite space.
Thunder shook and lightning flashed.
The principle of clarifying morality and justice is the foundation of political governance.
The foundation of governance is a great blessing.
With virtuous government, everyone is favored, and families can protect each other.
If virtuous government is implemented widely, it will last longer from generation to generation.
Zeoran and vanilla are fragrant, and the sweet-scented osmanthus is undulating.
Offering to heaven with filial piety is like the light of the sun and moon.
The gods ride on four-dragon chariots and gallop back and forth.
There are many flags decorated with bird feathers and yak tails, dense and long.
As long as filial piety exists in the world, I will write articles.
"Osmanthus fragrans"
Grand and numerous, inherit the laws of heaven.
Strong and long-term. Lighting all around.
Kind and generous people love like virtue.
Yao Yao Mingming, can enjoy happiness forever.
"Beauty"
Tall and substantial, like a mountain.
Use filial piety to appease ethnic minorities.
The barbarians rejoiced and sent translators to pay tribute.
Accepting this love, no war finally broke out.
Good sacrifices are very fragrant, and the sacrifices tell the gods to enjoy them.
Offer sacrifices to the gods, wait for them to enjoy, and then sing enthusiastically.
Only good virtues are common to princes.
Inherit the virtues of God and your good reputation will not be forgotten.
It is so wise, the world is peaceful, it is the virtue of the emperor.
To bear the peace of God well, this is the blessing brought by music.
Appreciate music but don't indulge, this is people's rule.
With profound laws and numerous morals, all peoples can be nurtured.
If his good reputation spreads for a long time, his appearance must be very respected.
The rule of good appearance is to accept the wisdom of God. The happiness of the people can ensure that the descendants will remain glorious forever.
Being respectful and kind can receive God's care.
Fragrant and beautiful tributes can prolong the lives of all living beings.
Bear the perfect virtue of God and be like a mountain without loss or collapse.
Give alms fairly and benevolent like clouds, and the people will enjoy happiness forever.
There are rules of appearance and the wisdom of God.
The people on earth will be happy and enjoy happiness forever. "Song of Suburban Sacrifice" has nineteen chapters, and its poem says:
When you choose the day, go and offer sacrifices! Light the grease and mugwort, and invite the gods from all directions.
The gates of heaven are wide open, and the gods travel, sending favors and bringing great blessings.
The car of the gods is surrounded by blue clouds, riding a flying dragon, and the flags decorated with bird feathers and yak tails are flying?
Below the spirit, galloping horses are as fast as the wind, with a blue dragon on the left and a white tiger on the right.
The arrival of Shenxia is so fast, it rains first, and it rains heavily.
The gods arrived, covering the sky and the sun, and the scene seemed to shock people's hearts.
After the god is seated, the five notes are arranged in order, and the music is played until dawn, so that the god's mane is quiet.
The gods from all over the world are entertained with the calf, the fragrant millet in the sacrificial vessel, and the sweet-scented osmanthus wine in the bottle.
The spirit stayed very quietly, singing green and yellow music, looking around and overlooking the Yaotang.
Many beauties were together, soft and beautiful, with beautiful faces, and the people rushed to see them.
Wearing gorgeous clothes, as light as clouds and mist, holding thin silk bundles and wearing pearls and jade.
They embrace fragrant herbs, which are as fragrant as orchids, are peaceful and relaxed, and offer good wine. "Practice Day" 1
The Emperor of Heaven descended to the altar in the middle, and the gods from the four directions each occupied a space. They were careful to prevent unexpected changes and prepared in their own positions.
When the weather is clear and warm, and the moon is in conjunction with the sun and the celestial body, it is auspicious to use five to make the number.
There will be peace in the sea, and civilization and martial arts will flourish.
The land is rich and prosperous, and the aura of mist reaches the sky.
Calm and leisurely, the auspicious color is yellow. "The Emperor's Arrival" 2
In spring, everything comes into play, roots grow, and with the blessing of nourishing rain, they can catch up quickly.
The sound of thunder revives the vegetation and makes the insects in the cave listen. The withered grass and dead trees begin to grow again and form life again.
They are all harmonious, infecting young and embryos, and enriching all living beings, which is the blessing brought by spring.
"Qingyang" Sanzou Ziyue
In summer, everything grows luxuriantly, stretches freely, grows freely, shines beautifully, and there is nothing to hinder it.
If you combine the splendor with the fruits, they will be large and plentiful. Because the fields are large and the harvest is abundant, the gods can enjoy the sacrifices.
If the sacrifice is carried out grandly and the cooking is not forgotten respectfully, the gods will protect it in a friendly manner and pass it on from generation to generation. "Zhu Ming" Si Zou Zi Yue
In the West, there is a white air, and the autumn air is strong and desolate. The grains and grasses can be fully mature because the old seedlings are not destroyed.
Treachery and hypocrisy did not sprout, so the evildoer had no choice but to hide in hiding, and all the barbarians in remote and remote places surrendered.
Afraid of such majesty and yearning for virtue, they became pious and respectful after joining, and did not dare to be proud or negligent.
"west Hao" Wu Zou Zi Music
The gods of the north ascend to the underworld, hibernating animals hide, vegetation withers and falls, and frost falls in winter.
At this time, the turmoil is ended, evil is eliminated, weird customs are corrected, and hundreds of millions of people return to their original professions and return to their true nature.
Distinguish between loyalty and etiquette, and worship the Five Mountains from a distance.
At harvest time in the fields, all the grain will be harvested.
"Xuan Ming" Liu Zou Zi Yue
The gods of heaven have the highest status and the gods of earth have the greatest blessings. They rule heaven and earth respectively, forming the four seasons.
The moon and stars move accurately, and the yin and yang and the five elements cycle back and forth.
Storms, clouds, thunder and lightning bring timely rain and dew, and the people rely on this to thrive and maintain their business.
The emperor inherits his ancestral heritage, is respectful and diligent, and obeys the virtues of heaven. The Yu family's chariots are as bright as dragon scales, and all of them are decorated.
The sacrificial utensils filled with preserved fruits were placed one after another, and it was almost time to enjoy the sacrificial wine and food, eliminate evil and disasters, and the power spread across the remote areas in all directions.
The bells, drums, yu and sheng were played in unison, and everyone danced gracefully, holding swaggering sacred flags, and all ethnic groups surrendered.
In the first year of the seventh founding year of Wei Tai Yuan, Prime Minister Kuang Heng changed the name of the poem to "Juan Xuan Xiucheng" after playing "Long Lin on the Luan Road".
I yearn for the blessings given by heaven and earth, and build purple altars, hoping to find the way for God to descend.
The sacrifices were received respectfully, clouds and smoke filled the air, and clothes embroidered with axe-shaped patterns were hung everywhere to welcome the most noble gods.
Many children danced together in eight rows, and they all sang joyful songs to make Taiyi happy.
After playing various songs, I felt very different. In front of Xuan Kan, I played various musical instruments such as the harp, harp, and harp.
The jade chimes and golden buttons and the drums sounded, and the gods were very happy. All the officials gathered together, all respectfully busy with their own affairs.
The ritual vessels containing the sacrificial animals are presented to the gods, and the fragrance reaches directly to the place where the gods are. The gods stay for a while and visit the place.
The long beautiful bird in front emits light to illuminate the sky. It is not bad in cold and heat. It is given to the king to commend the virtuous.
The performance of poetry and music is played by the sound of jade, and the palace tune is filled with weak horn sounds, high pitched and crisp sounds.
The singing voices are high-pitched and overlapped with Shang tunes, creating such a new type of music that will be preserved forever.
The sound is long and flowing, the phoenix bird soars, and the gods happily enjoy the sacrifices. "Heaven and Earth" 8
After Prime Minister Kuang Heng played "Fu Embroidery Zhou Zhang", he changed the poem to "Sure as an Old Classic".
How can there be an end to the sun’s appearance?
Time will not be equal to human lifespan.
Therefore, spring is not my spring, summer is not my summer, autumn is not my autumn, and winter is not my winter.
Compared with the life span of human beings, the sun is like the four seas, and humans are like the pool of water. What does it mean to see this situation all over the place?
I know how to be happy. I only like to control the six dragons. The six dragons are easy to control. They make my heart smooth.
Why doesn't Huanglong come down?
"Sunrise and Exit" 9
Gifted by Taiyi, Pegasus descended, his body soaked with bloody sweat and dripping with red ocher saliva.
Its ambition is magnificent and its energy is extraordinary. It leaps into the clouds and gallops forward.
With a slight movement of the body, it can cross thousands of miles. What can rival it now? Only the dragon can be its friend.
It was written when Pegasus was born in Wowa Water in the third year of Yuanshou.
The Pegasus came from the far west and waded through the quicksand, and all the ethnic minorities surrendered.
The Pegasus came out of the spring. Its fur was like a tiger's and its back had two sides, changing like ghosts and gods.
Pegasus came from a place where there was no hair and grass, and traveled thousands of miles before reaching the road to Shumian.
When the Pegasus comes, the star will be in the sky, and it will fly high. Who can determine its date?
When the Pegasus comes, it opens the door very far away and carries my body to Kunlun.
The Tianma came as a medium for the dragon, traveling around the Tianmen and watching at the Jade Platform.
In the fourth year of Taichu, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty killed the King of Dayuan and wrote when he obtained the real horse of the Kingdom of Dayuan.
"Pegasus" ten
The gate of heaven is wide open, the sky is empty, and all the gods with solemn expressions are galloping together to come and offer sacrifices.
The divine light shines at night, my virtue and faith are outstanding, and the divine favor is vast. I can live forever, which makes people very happy.
Zhudan was painted everywhere, stones on the road were flattened to build bright halls, flagpoles decorated with jade were used for dancing and singing, and the Beidou painted on them could often be seen.
The stars retained the gods and asked to enjoy their sacrifices. They competed to shine, shining on the purple veil, and the pearl color turned yellow.
Tossing and turning like a double-click of a bird's wings, free and easy.
The soft moonlight emits golden light waves, and the bright sun emits dazzling light.
Coming under the guise of a gentle breeze, it was fast but also took a long time, so I had to keep giving.
The spirit is whirling back and forth, as if it wants to stay, so I can pay him an audience, hoping to show my sincerity in person.
Happiness will be just around the corner, and God alone and far away knows this time.
The mighty and mighty flying upwards followed him, and he served diligently all the way to state what he wanted to ask for.
Happiness and contentment must be promoted and spread loudly to all directions.
Concentrate and invigorate your spirit to fly to the nine heavens, ambitiously travel across the earth and float on the sea.
"Heaven's Gate" Eleven
The scenery stars appear, the stars are arranged prominently, and magical things are hung to make them appear clearly in the court. When the sun shines, they can be seen clearly.
Comparing it with heaven and earth, we must first recommend the current dynasty. The tripod was discovered in the high hills of Fenyin, and great blessings appeared.
The five tones and six rhythms are harmonious and loud. When they meet the noise, the elegant music becomes more melodious.
Kongsang's harp and harp are worthy of their name, and the dancers exchange eight styles with each other in four rows.
The bells and chimes sounded loud and clear.
River dragons provide carp, cattle and sheep are pure colors.
Mix the essence of Baicao into wine, and the wine will be fragrant and beautiful.
Fill a large glass with sugar cane juice to cure hangover.
The subtle induction can make the mind reach as far as the good name announced by heaven, and walk back and forth to think about how to meet the divine way.
God blessed him with many blessings and allowed him to return to the right path. This was his only hope. He Bo ordered Qiaogui to cooperate with the water god to channel the river and make the water flow evenly.
God arranges for the God of Earth to carry out the plan, so that there will always be good harvests and prosperity in all four seasons.
"Scenery Star" was created when the tripod was obtained in Fenyin in the fifth year of the Twelfth Yuan Dynasty.
The grass produced in the fasting room has many roots with leaves attached. This is a strange sign for the servants in the palace. Expand the map to find the family tree.
The essence of the weather circulates back and forth in the capital city of Yunyang. After a long time, it becomes more and more lush and the grass has aura.
"Qi Fang" was created when Zhi Cao was growing in Ganquan Zhaifang in the second year of Feng Dynasty in the 13th Yuan Dynasty.
Good altars to the gods of earth and gods were built, with black and yellow as the color of the sacrificial robes. The treasure tripod was discovered in Jizhou, and hundreds of millions of people gained happiness.
Numerous border fortresses in all directions, and the Rong and Di in the distance all surrendered, ruling hundreds of millions of people, and all gained their territory. "The Empress" Fourteen
The brilliance shines, and it turns out to be the ancestors.
The gods paraded through the Tianmen, and thousands of vehicles gathered in Kunlun.
The gods came out, set up houses decorated with jade, gathered together in cycles, and lived in Lantang.
The gods are walking, flags are flying, chariots and horses are speeding, and everyone is connected.
The divine haze arrives and floats in the sky, the dew falls, and the five-colored clouds gather.
The gods were attracted to the altar and the palace, and Kui and the dragon danced among the nine doubtful guests.
The gods sit down peacefully and fly high at the auspicious moment, respectfully and politely, in line with people's imagination.
The gods were very happy and drank again and again. The happiness was boundless and lasting.
The blessings bestowed upon him were so great that at the bend of the Fen River, golden light shone, filling the river, as grand as clouds, increasing the light waves of the sun.
Scenes of joy appeared everywhere, and songs rose to the sky.
"Hua Ye Feng" fifteen
The Five Emperors assisted and embraced all directions. The land was vast and clouds were floating above it.
Touching the altar, spreading the fragrance of pepper and orchid, the jade is exquisite and gives off a beautiful luster.
After another 100 million years, Fuqing began to prosper, meeting gods with respectful expressions.
Invite the gods extensively, let the wine glasses be emptied, and the gods' chariots and horses take their places and gallop through the air.
Quickly separate and display, where can you stay after scattering?
After bestowing blessings on Guang Yi, he went back. "Five Gods" 16
I worshiped the head of Longshan Mountain, looked at the western horizon, and when I offered sacrifices, the sound was like thunder and the light was like lightning, and I obtained Bailin.
Bai Lin has five hooves, shows virtue, and plots evil and cruelty, and the Xiongnu will be destroyed.
Suppress evildoers, suppress bad luck, invite officials from hundreds of gods to be guests, and offer sacrifices to mountains and rivers.
The carriage turned around in an instant and flew very far. The rain god flew up and cleared the road.
When the meteor falls, I sigh with emotion at such a good wind, stepping on the returning clouds to soothe the surrendered soul.
"Chaolongshou" was created by Bai Linshi in the first year of Yuanshou in the 17th year of Yongshi Dynasty.
Red geese are as beautiful as chariots, and the white ones are concentrated in the west. They feed on nectar and drink from clear and glorious spring water.
The red wild geese flew in and gathered together. Six batches of red wild geese came one after another. The fur on the necks of the wild geese was colorful.
This is the blessing given by the appearance of God, ascending to Penglai and reaching the realm of infinity.
"Xiang Zaiyu" was created when he came to the East China Sea in the third year of Taishi in the 18th year and got red geese.
Glittering red like a red dragon, shrouded in yellow golden light, dew falls at night, and clouds are dark during the day.
Pour some pepper-flavored wine for Baishen and Liulong, and they are already drunk.
After the sacrifice is completed, the gods will bestow auspiciousness that is vast and boundless. This is because they are happy with good wine.
The gods are grand, the light is brilliant, the life span is extended, there is no end.
It is vast and boundless, filling the four directions of heaven and earth, and its bounty reaches all nations.
The gods couldn't bear to leave, but the chariot and carriage were ready, and they drifted away with their flags meandering.
After the rituals and music are completed, the gods will return, relying on heaven's virtue and never failing.
In "Red Jiao" 19, there are no records in the suburban temple about some other inspections in other places and Fu Rui's fulfillment, so there is no need to discuss the plan.
At that time, King Xian of Hejian was very talented. He also believed that the rules of governing the country would not work without ritual music, so he presented the official music he had collected for use in suburban temple dynasties.
The emperor gave it to the great music officials and asked them to keep it and practice it. They would use it to make up for the sacrifices every year, but it was not commonly used. The suburban temple music that was usually used was not a formal music.
But for poetry and music to continue to future generations, they must learn from their predecessors and present something.
In the past, the "Ya" and "Song" of the Yin and Zhou Dynasties were inherited by You Ze and Jiang Yuan. When the Gao and Ji began to appear, the virtues of Xuan Wang, Gong Liu, Gu Gong, Uncle, Wang Ji, Jiang Nu, Da Ren and Tai Si made Tang, Wen and Wu accept the virtues of heaven. The order made King Wu Ding, Cheng, Kang, and Xuan prosper from decline, and later came to assist people such as Aheng, Zhou, Zhao, Taigong, Shenbo, Zhaohu, and Zhongshanfu. The monarchs and ministers, men and women, who had meritorious service and moral conduct, were all commended and praised.
Merit and virtue are indeed beautiful, and the voices of praise and praise fill the world. Therefore, the great name is famous in the contemporary era, and the reputation of Qianliu will be passed down endlessly.
The suburban temple poems of the Han Dynasty today do not have the deeds of ancestors, the harmony of the eight tones, and do not match the bell rhythm. Moreover, there are talents from Yeting inside and Yuefu from Shanglin outside, all of which use Zheng Sheng for the imperial court.
When he became emperor, the king of Changshan, King Yu, had taught the music of Hejian for generations and could explain its meaning. His disciples Song Ye and others wrote to the emperor to tell him about it, and the emperor handed it over to the doctor Dr. Pingdang and others for examination.
Pingdang believes that the Han Dynasty was established after the Qin Dynasty wiped out morality. It relied on the saintly virtues of the previous emperors, widely accepted people from all walks of life, renovated the declining official system, established the Imperial Academy, presented kings in Hejian to visit hidden things, and cultivated and collected Zhengle to assist education.
At that time, the great Confucians Gongsun Hong, Dong Zhongshu and others believed that all positive sounds in music were classified into the Taiyue government.
In the spring and autumn seasons, competitions were held to select scholars, and they were managed by school officials, who were kept distant and not trained.
Therefore, from officials to ordinary people who watch and listen, they only hear the sonorous sound but do not know its meaning. They want to use it to persuade the people. This method has no source.
Therefore, it has been popular for more than a hundred years, and moral education has not yet been formed.
Today, Song Ye and others insist on practicing unique knowledge, and their main purpose is to promote auxiliary education.
The decline and decline of knowledge, its rise and fall, all depend on people.
Zhengle should be collected to continue the decline of unique skills.
Confucius said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people. There are only a few small states and vassals in the river. Because they like learning and studying ancient things, they can preserve them. The people still praise them. What's more, a wise monarch has a wide range of qualifications. He writes and compiles old texts, stays away from Zheng Sheng and approaches elegant music. He transmits statements without creating new ideas. He believes in and likes ancient knowledge, so he uses it to advise the country and become famous for future generations. It is really not a small meritorious deed.
The matter was handed over to the ministers for discussion. They thought that the matter was too long to distinguish, and Pingdang's suggestions were withheld.
At this time, Zheng Guo's music became more abundant.
The famous song and dance artists Bingqiang and Jingwu among the imperial officials showed their wealth and wealth to the world. The noble relatives Wuhou Dingling, Fu Pingping and other relatives' families indulged in extravagance and even competed with the emperor for kabuki.
Emperor Ai had hated these things since he was appointed King of Dingtao, and he didn't like music by nature. When he ascended the throne, he went to Shao and said: Due to the world's customs of extravagance and ink, the music of Zheng and Wei has flourished.
Spending extravagantly will cause the people below to be disobedient and lead to poverty in the country. Flirting and writing will increase the number of people who are rebellious. The prosperity of Zheng Guo and Wei Guo's music will make indulgence and evil education popular. To make the people honest and simple and self-sufficient at home, is it not very difficult to make the source muddy but require the water to be clear?
Didn’t Confucius say that? Stay away from Zheng Guo's music, Zheng Guo's music is evil.
Therefore, Yuefu officials were abolished.
Music for suburban festivals and military music in the ancient art of war, which were in the classics but not music of Zheng and Wei, were played piece by piece and then distributed to other officials.
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Hewu reported: There are sixty-two suburban sacrificial musicians for worshiping in the northern and southern suburbs.
There are six drummers in Da Le, ten drummers in "Jia Zhi", two drummers in Handan, three drummers in Qi Chui, two drummers in Jiangnan, four drummers in Huainan, thirty-six drummers in Bayu, twenty-four drummers in Song. There is one drummer from Yan, four from Emperor Liang, thirty-five from Linhuai, and three from Zifang. There are twelve drums in total and one hundred and twenty-eight drummers. The banquets purchased for the audience and celebrations are displayed on His Highness's behalf to correspond to the ancient art of war.
In addition, there are thirteen people for the suburban sacrifice, musicians of various ethnic groups and sixty-seven people for "Yunzhao" for the southern suburbs, plus four people for playing formal music, five people for reciting poetry at night, and two drummers for playing Gang and Bie drums. "Shengde" the two people who presided over the music and tuned the music, the craftsman who listened to the music knew the sun's winter and summer solstice according to the music, one craftsman each of the bell craftsman, the chime craftsman, and the flute craftsman, and the two servants and shooters presided over the leadership of the musicians, and they cannot be abolished.
There are three Yu craftsmen, one person can be subtracted.
There are five piano craftsmen, and three can be laid off.
There are two pillar craftsmen, and one person can be eliminated.
There are six craftsmen who string the strings, and four can be cut.
There are sixty-two people in Zheng Guo's party with the four directions of music and dance. One person is used to preside over the music, and the remaining sixty-one people can be eliminated.
There are eight craftsmen working for Sebu Xian, and seven can be laid off. The drummer of "An Shile" is Erbu Ren.
Nineteen people can be cut.
There were twelve drummers in Pei, twenty-seven drummers in folk songs, three drummers in military formations, four drummers in Shang music, sixteen drummers in Shuhai, thirteen drummers in Changle, and thirteen drummers in miscellaneous music. There were eight drums in total and one hundred and twenty-eight drummers. The banquet arranged for the audience celebration was placed in the room in the front hall, which was not in accordance with the scriptures. There are five people who study Yu weapons, six people who are Chu drummers, three people who usually follow singing and dancing artists, and four people who follow people who wear masks. There are sixteen people who usually accompany the singers and dancers, twenty-nine singers and dancers of Qin State, three of the singers and dancers of Qin State who wear masks, one person who follows the singers and dancers of Qin State, and Yaren, who are ordinary people, who come to the court to celebrate, serve wine and play music.
The number of people who played the music of Chu State to toast people and celebrate their birthdays was ten people. The people who played the music of Ba people were ten people and two people. The people who played the music of Jian State were twelve people. The people who played the music of Qi State were nineteen people. The people of Cai singing were three people. The people of Qi singing were six people. The people of five people were playing the music of Yu Se and Zhong Qing. They are all the music of Zheng State and can be abolished.
There are one hundred and forty-two people who are studying under the teacher, twelve of them are used for the Tongma Wine Palace of the eunuch, and the remaining seventy people can be reduced.
These totaled eight hundred and twenty-nine persons. Among them, 388 people cannot be exempted and can be assigned to the Taiyue government. The remaining 441 people can be exempted because they do not conform to the scriptures or are the music of Zheng and Wei.
This memorial was approved.
However, the common people have been infected by Nissan for a long time, and they have not produced Zhengle to change it accordingly. The wealthy officials and people are still indulged in it, and it gradually declined and even fell into the hands of Wang Mang.
Now the country is starting over, the people are returning to the basics, the household registration is increasing year by year, criminal crimes are being dealt with, and good and capable people are used to rule the country. As for family autonomy, if there are many and rich, it is necessary to carry out etiquette and music education in schools.
Fortunately, now there are the etiquette details of the system left by the wise people of the previous generation, which can be imitated and supplemented, so that the laws can be preserved significantly.
King Kong said: The Yin Dynasty followed the rituals of the Xia Dynasty, and after adding and subtracting them, we can know the Xia rituals; the Dan Dynasty followed the chisel rituals, and adding and subtracting them, we can know the Yin rituals; later, if someone inherited the Zhou rituals, we can know them within a hundred years.
Now Zuo Hui continues to scrape, and for a long time there has been a lack of etiquette, and no etiquette system has been established to form a music system. This is the reason why Jia Yi, Dong Zhongshu, Wang Zhou, Xing Xue and others were so angry that they lamented.
