Emperor Xiaohuai, named Sima Chi, was the twenty-fifth son of Emperor Wu. He was made Prince of Yuzhang in the first year of Taixi. During Emperor Hui's reign, amid royal chaos, he remained peaceful and reclusive, studying classics and gaining prestige. He served as a regular attendant but was imprisoned when Sima Jian usurped the throne. After Sima Lun's failure, he held various military posts, including general of chariots and cavalry. In the first year of Chenglei, he became general of Zhenbei and governor of Yecheng. In December, he was made emperor's younger brother but feared taking responsibility due to Sima Tan being prince. Doctor Kaisheng advised him to accept the crown prince role to stabilize the state, and he eventually ascended.

In the first year of Guangya, after Chu Zhao's death, Queen Jian urged Sima Tan to enter the palace, but the crown prince was summoned instead. The emperor granted amnesty, honored Queen Yang as Queen Hui, and his mother as Empress Dowager. A solar eclipse occurred, and Sima Rong was made King of Lecheng. Sima Mo killed Sima Yi. Various officials were appointed, and Emperor Xiaohui was buried. Kui Zheng invaded Luan Ye. In the first year of Yongjia, a general amnesty was declared, and Sima Yue was asked to assist the government. Wang Mi rebelled, invading Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Zhou Fu beheaded Chen Min. Sima Quan was made crown prince. Sima Yue guarded Xuchang, and other kings were assigned to guard key cities. Liu Yuanhai captured most of Bingzhou. Ji Sang rebelled, killing Sima Teng and others, and burning Ye Palace. A ground sinkhole in Luoyang released two geese. Yi people killed over 3,000 in Ningzhou. Sima Yue prepared to attack Ji Sang. Gou Xi defeated Ji Sang, and six prefectures were granted amnesty. Jingzhou and Jiangzhou were divided into Xiangzhou. Gou Xi defeated Ji Sang again. A large star fell, and thunder sounded. Wangjin Fort was built. Solar eclipses occurred. Tian Lan killed Ji Sang. Liu Shi was made Taiwei. Sima Tan was imprisoned. Sima Yue became prime minister. Gou Xi was made general.

In the second year, a solar eclipse and amnesty occurred. Sima Qin was killed by Sima Yue. Huqin invaded but was defeated. Sima Yue guarded Juancheng. Wang Jiang invaded Haoshi. Liu Wuji invaded Naodang. Sima Yue moved to Yimeng. Huqin invaded Longzhu. Xingwutu declared himself emperor. Shi Le invaded Ye. A general amnesty was declared. Sima Shuo and Sima Shi were made kings. In the third year, Sima Shi died. Sima Jian died. Sima Yue returned to the capital, killed close ministers, and amnesty was declared. Liu Shi retired. Sima Yue became Situ. Liu Yuanhai invaded Liyang, and Wang Kan was defeated. A severe drought occurred. Zhu Dan defected to Liu Yuanhai. Shi Le captured fortresses in Jizhou. Ground cracks appeared in Dangyang. Liu Mangdang declared himself emperor. Wudaosou rebelled. Liu Cong besieged Huguan. Liu Kun was defeated. Pang Chun surrendered. Liu Cong besieged Junyi. Sima Yue defended the capital and defeated Liu Cong. Shi Le invaded Changshan. Wang Jun defeated Shi Le. Sima Mo defeated Liu Mangdang. Wang Kan was defeated. Li Xiong's deputy submitted. Liu Cong attacked Luoyang but failed. Landslides and earthquakes occurred. Shi Le captured Changle and massacred Liyang. Refugee leaders rescued the capital. A white air appeared in the sky.

In the fourth year, a general amnesty was declared. Shi Le attacked Juancheng and Baima, killing officials. Qian Fen rebelled but was killed. Floods occurred. Qi Hong defeated Liu Lingyao. Earthquakes and locusts infested six prefectures. Liu Yuanhai died, and Liu Cong became emperor. Liu Yao and Shi Le besieged Huai. Song Tuo died. Hanoi people surrendered to Shi Le. Wang Ru rebelled in Wan. Shan Jian and others were defeated. Days were dark for ten days. A large star fell. Shi Le besieged Cangyuan but was defeated. Wang Jun and Liu Kun were promoted. Famine struck the capital. Sima Yue urgently recruited troops, but no one came. Shi Le captured Xiangcheng and attacked Wan. Wang Jun defeated Shi Le. Sima Yue left Xuchang. The capital lacked guards, and chaos ensued. Sima Yue stationed in Xiang. Di people attacked Yidu. Wang Shenshi defeated Liu Yao. Zhou Fu welcomed the emperor to Shouyang but was attacked by Sima Yue. A plague killed over 3,000 in Xiangyang. Zhang Gui was made general. Gou Xi defeated Cao Yi. Li Hong caused trouble.

In the fifth year, the emperor secretly ordered Gou Xi to attack Sima Yue. Gou Xi was defeated. Sima Yue sent troops to attack Gou Xi. Shi Le invaded Jiangxia. Li Xiong captured Fucheng. Du Sou rebelled. Sima Rui attacked Zhou Fu. Sima Qian died. Shi Le invaded Runan. Xia Shao announced Sima Yue's crimes. Sima Yue died. Shi Le chased his coffin, killing many officials and princes. Wang Sang and Leng Dao captured Xuzhou. Refugees rebelled in Xiangzhou. Wang Jun was promoted. Sima Yue left Yin Pantao behind. Gou Xi proposed moving the capital, but ministers refused. Famine worsened, and people ate each other. The emperor tried to leave but was robbed. Liu Yao, Wang Mi, and Shi Le invaded Luochuan. The imperial army was defeated. Xun Fan and others fled. Liu Yao and Wang Mi entered the capital. The emperor tried to flee but was captured. Liu Yao burned palaces and killed many. The emperor was taken to Pingyang and made Duke of Kuaiji. Xun Fan sent messages to military towns. Sima Duan was made crown prince. Famine continued. Wang Jun established a crown prince. Shi Le invaded Guyang. Liu Can captured Chang'an, killing Sima Mo. Shi Le attacked Yangxia, killing Gou Xi and Sima Duan. Shi Le invaded Yuzhou. Yilu invaded Taiyuan. Liu Kun moved people.

In the sixth year, the emperor was in Pingyang. Liu Cong invaded Taiyuan. Hu Kang rebelled. A solar eclipse occurred. Sima Rui issued a proclamation. Wang Jun forwarded a message. Sima Xi was killed. Shan Jian died. Stars gathered. Shi Le invaded Jizhou. Liu Can invaded Jinyang. Liu Kun fled. Dong Chong surrendered to Li Xiong. Liu Kun asked Yilu for help. Yilu sent his son. Maizhen defeated Liu Can. Sima Ye was made crown prince. Yilu led cavalry. Liu Can fled. A great plague occurred. In the seventh year, Liu Cong humiliated the emperor. The emperor was killed at age 30. He was born with auspicious signs. He was respectful and studied history. As emperor, he followed old systems and discussed affairs with ministers. Fu Xuan praised him. Xun Song said he could have been a good monarch in peace. However, after Emperor Hui's disturbance, he faced exile.

Emperor Xiaomin, named Sima Ye, was grandson of Genzao and son of Sima Yan. He was adopted by Sima Dong. In the second year of Cheng Sai, he became a regular servant. After Luoyang fell, he fled to Mi County. Xun Fan and others planned to serve him in Chang'an. Yan Ding took him to Lantian. Jia Zong escorted him to Chang'an. A jade turtle appeared. In the sixth year, he was made crown prince. He appointed officials. In the first year of Jianxing, he learned of Emperor Huai's death and ascended the throne. He appointed generals. Shi Le killed Li Tan. Sima Rui was made prime minister. The emperor issued edicts to raise troops. Shi Le killed Tian Hui. Shandong was captured. Du Chen invaded Wuchang. Du Sou's general attacked Mianyang. Xun Fan died. Liu Cong invaded Henan. Tao Kan was defeated. Heavy hail and snow fell. Yang Wu captured Liangzhou. Earthquakes and rain of meat occurred.

In the second year, black fog and three suns appeared. A general amnesty was declared. Yang Wu defected to Li Xiong. Wang Jun was promoted. Shi Le captured Youzhou, killing many. Du Sou's deputy attacked Tao Kan. Earthquakes occurred. Zhang Gui died. Liu Yao invaded but was defeated. Liu Yao invaded again but was defeated. Liu Yan captured Dunqiu. Qilin appeared. Yilu offered horses. A horse gave birth to a human. In the third year, thieves killed officials. Xu Fu killed the prefect. Song Zhe was stationed in Huayin. Sima Rui was promoted. Yilu was made king. Tao Kan defeated Wang Zhen. Du Hong and Zhang Yan were defeated. Zhou Fang killed Zhang Yan. A general amnesty was declared. Liu Cong invaded Bingzhou. Tombs were robbed. The emperor ordered burial of dead bones. Shi Le captured Puyang. Liu Cong invaded Shangdang. Tao Kan pacified Xiangzhou. Liu Yao invaded the north. Qu Yun attacked Qingbaicheng. Suo Sui was appointed. Liu Cong captured Feng Yi. Zhang Xuan sent the imperial seal. Thieves killed Zhao Ban.

In the fourth year, Yilu died. Liu Yao invaded Shangjun. Zhang Shi sent troops. Shi Le captured Linqiu. Lei Zhao rebelled. A solar eclipse and locusts occurred. Liu Yao attacked the north. Qu Yun's army collapsed. Liu Yao entered Jingyang. The capital was cut off. Qu Yun defended Chang'an. Famine struck. The emperor surrendered. Liu Yao accepted the surrender. The emperor was taken to Pingyang. Qu Yun committed suicide. Many officials were killed. Shi Le besieged Leping. Liu Kun fled. In the fifth year, the emperor was in Pingyang. Rainbows and three suns appeared. Song Zhe fled. Li Xiong invaded Ba Shu. Liu Chang attacked Rongyang. Sima Rui changed the reign title. A solar eclipse occurred. Drought and locusts infested. Shi Le collected crops. Zhao Gu killed Hua Lei. A solar eclipse occurred. Liu Cong humiliated the emperor. The emperor was killed at age 18. The Yongjia Rebellion caused chaos. Chang'an was in ruins. The court lacked resources. The emperor was forced to surrender. Historians commented on the decline of the Jin dynasty, blaming weak governance, corrupt officials, and moral decay. The emperors were unable to restore order, leading to their capture and death.