Emperor Xiaowu had six sons.
Queen Wei gave birth to Prince Ru, Zao Jieyu gave birth to Emperor Xiaozhao, Mrs. Wang gave birth to King Huai of Qi Liu Hong, Li Ji gave birth to King Liu Dan of Yanla, King Li of Guangling Liu Xu, and Mrs. Li gave birth to King Ai Liu of Changyi.
The ruthless prince Liu Ju was established as the crown prince in the first year of Yuanshou. He was seven years old at that time.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was only 29 years old and he was the crown prince. He was very happy and built a Plum Temple for this purpose. He ordered Dongfang Shuo and Meigao to write congratulations to worship the Plum God.
When the prince grew up, he was ordered to study "Gongyang Chunqiu" and "Gu Liang Chunqiu" from Duke Xiaqiu Jiang.
When he was twenty years old, he was crowned and lived in the Tai Palace. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty built Bowang Garden for him, allowing him to interact with guests and act according to his interests. As a result, many heresies came to him as tribute.
In the fourth year of Yuanding's reign, he married Shi Liangdi and gave birth to his son Liu Jin, who was called the grandson of Emperor Shi.
In the later years of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the imperial guard fell out of favor and Jiang Chong was reused. Jiang Chong had grudges against the prince and the Wei family, and was worried that the prince would execute him after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. At this time, a witchcraft case occurred, and Jiang Chong took advantage of this to seek personal revenge.
At that time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was already old and tired of things. He suspected that everyone around him was guilty of curses and poisons, and issued an edict to investigate the matter severely.
Prime Minister Gongsun He and his son, the princesses of Yangshi and Zhuyi, and the Queen's brother's son Changping Houwei and his wife were all implicated and killed.
All these are recorded in "The Biography of Gongsun He" and "The Biography of Jiang Chong".
Jiang Chong was responsible for investigating the witchcraft case. He already knew the emperor's mood, so he told the emperor that there was a poisonous atmosphere in the palace. He entered the palace and went to the emperor's residence, demolished the throne and dug up the ground.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Hou Hanshuo, Yushi Zhanggan, Huangmen Suwen and others to assist Jiang Chong.
Jiang Chong went to the prince's palace to dig for poisonous things and found a little figure carved from paulownia wood.
At that time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was ill and went to Ganquan Palace to escape the summer heat. Only the queen and the prince were in the palace.
The prince summoned his young master Shi De and asked him what he should do about this matter. Shi De was afraid that he would be executed together because he was the master, so he said to the prince: Before this, the prime minister and his son, the two princesses, and the Wei family were all implicated and punished. Now the witch and the officials who came to investigate the matter dug up the ground and found the evidence. We don't know if the witch put it there intentionally, or if it was really there. We can't explain it ourselves. We can pretend to be an imperial edict and use talismans to arrest Jiang Chong and others in jail, and trace out their treacherous conspiracy.
Besides, the emperor is recuperating in Ganquan Palace, and the greetings from the queen and the prince's staff have not been answered. The emperor's life or death is unknown. And now that a traitor has done such a thing, prince, don't you remember the murder of Prince Fusu of the Qin Dynasty?
The prince was very anxious and accepted Shi De's opinion.
On Renwu day in the seventh month of the second year of Zhenghe, the prince sent a retainer to pretend to be a messenger and arrest Jiang Chong and others.
According to Dao Hou Han Shuo, he suspected that the envoy was deceitful and refused to obey the edict, so the retainers killed Han Shuo.
Yushi Zhanggan escaped after being chopped and ran back to Ganquan Palace.
The prince ordered his family to be abandoned and entered the Changqiu Gate of the Weiyang Palace overnight with the talisman. He reported it to the queen through Changyu Yihua, sent a carriage wrapped in the middle stable to load the archers, moved the weapons from the arsenal, dispatched the Changle Palace guards, declared to the civil and military officials that Jiang Chong was rebelling, and then killed Jiang Chong to patrol the government and the public, and burned the barbarian shaman to death in Shanglin Garden.
Then he deployed the guests as generals to fight against the army of Prime Minister Liu Quli and others.
There was great chaos in Chang'an City, and there were rumors that the prince was rebelling, so the people refused to join the prince.
The prince's army was defeated and he fled without being caught.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was furious, and his officials were worried and didn't know what to do.
A Huguan elder named Mao wrote a letter saying: Sir, I heard that father is like the sky, mother is like the earth, and children are like all things in the world.
Therefore, if the balance of the heaven and earth is peaceful and the yin and yang are harmonious, all things can flourish and grow; if a father is kind and the mother is loving, within the family, the children will be filial.
If Yin and Yang are not in harmony, all things will be injured and die prematurely; if father and son are not in harmony, the family will be in disarray and die.
Therefore, if the father is not like the father, the son will not be like the son; if the king is not like the king, the subjects will not be like the subjects. Even if there is food, can we eat it?
In ancient times, Yu Shun was the most filial person, but he did not please his father Gusou. His filial piety was slandered, and Boqi was exiled. Although they were the closest relatives, father and son were suspicious of each other.
Why is this?
It is caused by the accumulation of more and more slander.
From this point of view, no son is unfilial, but fathers are sometimes unaware. The current crown prince is the direct heir of the Han Dynasty, inheriting the legacy of thousands of generations, and feeling the weight of the creation of his ancestors. In terms of kinship, he is your eldest son.
Jiang Chong is just a commoner, a lowly official in the countryside. Your Majesty allows him to be prominent and put him in important positions. He passes your supreme orders to persecute and embarrass the crown prince. He forges to cover up his evil deeds and deceit. He is a bunch of villains who confuse right and wrong, causing a gap between relatives and preventing them from communicating.
The prince came forward to express his gratitude but was not received by the emperor. He retreated and defended himself and was besieged by the rebellious ministers. Because he had been wronged and had nowhere to appeal, he could not bear the grief and anger, so he raised an army to kill Jiang Chong. Afterwards, he was frightened and fled out. This was just the son secretly using his father's troops to solve problems and save himself. I privately believe that the prince has no evil intentions.
"The Book of Songs" says: The black flies flying around are covered with fences; a gentle and kind-hearted gentleman should not listen to simple words; endless slanders will cause chaos and unrest in neighboring countries.
In the past, Jiang Chongjin slandered and killed the crown prince of King Zhao. Everyone in the world knew that he should have been killed.
Now, without understanding the truth, His Majesty thought that the Crown Prince had made a mistake and severely blamed him. He was so angry that he sent a large army to capture the Crown Prince. My lord, I secretly feel sad for this.
I heard that Wu Zixu lost his title for being loyal, Bigan sacrificed himself for being benevolent, and the loyal ministers were loyal and expressed their opinions regardless of the sword or ax on their necks. Their purpose was to help the king stabilize the country.
The Book of Songs says: Catch those bad guys who are slandering and throw them to the wolves, tigers and leopards. I hope your majesty will feel relieved and appreciate the relationship between father and son a little. Don't worry about the prince's mistakes, withdraw your troops quickly, and don't let the prince live in exile for a long time.
Your Majesty, I am very sincere. Once the king's order is issued, I will be punished respectfully under the Jianzhang Gate.
After reading the letter, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was moved and woke up.
The prince fled eastward to Hu County and hid in a common people's house in Quanjiu.
The family was poor and often sold shoes to support the prince.
The prince had an old friend living in Hu County. Hearing that he was wealthy, he sent someone to call him, and he was discovered.
The local officials brought people to round up the prince. The prince thought that he could not escape, so he went into the house, closed the door and hanged himself.
Zhang Fuchang, a big man from Shanyang County, was a soldier. He kicked the door open. Shi Lishou, the magistrate of Xin'an County, hurriedly stepped forward to untie the prince and hug him. The owner of the house fought with the soldiers and died, and the two royal grandchildren were killed together.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was already sad about the death of the prince, but he still issued a Shao Shu saying: "The promised reward is to prove our faith."
Li Shou was granted the title of Marquis of Han, and Zhang Fuchang was granted the title of Marquis of Ti.
After a long time, most of the stories about witchcraft harming people were untrue.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty knew that the prince was just scared and ran away, and had no other intentions. In addition, Che Qianqiu once again appealed for the prince's grievances. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty promoted Che Qianqiu to the rank of prime minister, and then executed Jiang Chong's entire family.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was saddened that the prince had died innocently, so he built the Palace of Thoughts and a Tower for Returning and Watching Thoughts upon Return in Hu County.
Everyone in the world felt sad after hearing about it.
At the beginning, the prince had three sons and one daughter. The daughter was married to the son of Chengsi of Marquis Pingyu.
When the prince failed, they were all killed at the same time.
Empress Wei and Shi Liangdi were buried in the south of Chang'an City after their deaths.
His grandson, his concubine, his wife, and his granddaughter were buried in Guangmingyuan.
The two grandsons who fled with the prince were buried in Hu County with the prince.
The prince had a grandson who survived, and he was the son of Emperor Shi and Mrs. Wang. When he was eighteen years old, he inherited the throne and became Emperor Mo Xiaoxuan. As soon as Emperor Xiaoxuan came to power, he issued an edict saying: The former crown prince is buried in Hu County. There is no Mi name and a temple to hold sacrifices throughout the year. It is necessary to decide on the Mi name, build a cemetery and arrange for the households to guard the tomb.
Relevant officials petitioned and said: According to etiquette and law, if you become someone else's heir, you must be someone else's son. Therefore, your biological parents were demoted and condescended to enjoy no sacrifices. This was out of respect for their ancestors.
Your Majesty is the successor of Emperor Xiaozhao. He must inherit the great sacrifices to his ancestors and the etiquette must not go beyond the limits.
You must act respectfully and in accordance with Emperor Xiaozhao's decision: the former crown prince's mausoleum will be built in Hu County, Shi Liangdi's mausoleum will be built in the north of Bowang Garden, and the mausoleum of your father Shi Huang's grandson will be built in the north of the Guangming Garden wall.
According to the Mi method, Mi is an actual assessment of the behavior during life. I think your biological father's Mi name can be used as a mourning, and your biological mother can be mourned. After that, a cemetery will be built according to the specifications of the princes and kings, and three hundred households will be allocated with the land for worship.
The former crown prince Mi's nickname was Ru, and he was assigned 200 households to enshrine the land.
Shi Liangdi was Mrs. Ru, and she was assigned thirty families to guard the tomb.
The cemetery is set up with official positions such as chief and chief to protect, worship and protect the surrounding area according to the regulations.
Therefore, Xieliju, Quexiang, Hu County, was designated as the Violent Garden, the area east of Baiting in Chang'an County was designated as the Violent Houyuan, and Chengxiang in Guangmingyuan was designated as the Mourning Garden.
Mausoleums were built and buried.
Eight years later, the relevant officials said: "Li" records that the father is a scholar. If the son becomes the emperor, the father must also perform sacrifices according to the emperor's standards.
The mourning king should be honored as Huang Kao, build an ancestral temple, build a dormitory hall on the basis of the cemetery, and offer sacrifices and enjoyment here on time.
The number of households dedicated to the mausoleum reached 1,600, and Fengming County was established here.
Mrs. Li was respected as Queen Li, and a cemetery and a land for worship were set up. It was also necessary to increase the number of households in Liyuan and Lihouyuan, each with a total of 300 households.
King Huai of Qi Liu Hong, King Liu Dan of Yan, and King Liu Xu of Guangling were canonized on the same day. They were all given policy books. Taking into account the different folk customs of each fiefdom, they made separate admonitions and admonishments, saying: On Yisi day of April in the sixth year of Yuanshou, the emperor sent Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, to consecrate the prince Liu Hong as the king of Qi in the temple. The book said: Woohoo!
Less than Liu Hong, he accepted the green social soil.
In accordance with the order arranged by the Emperor of Heaven, and with reference to the ancient system, I established your country, established it in the east, and served as a barrier and auxiliary wing of the Han Dynasty from generation to generation.
Alas!
Remember, please listen to my edict.
Destiny is fickle, and a person's love for benevolence can make him smart and brilliant; if he does not pursue benevolence and righteousness, it will make a gentleman slack.
If you wholeheartedly adhere to the virtues of being righteous and tolerant, you will be able to preserve the blessings given to you by the Emperor of Heaven forever; if you commit sins and behave badly, disaster will befall your kingdom and yourself. Alas!
To protect the country and govern the people, can we not be cautious?
You, the king, need to be vigilant!
Liu Hong's mother, Mrs. Wang, was favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. Liu Hong was especially favored by Emperor Wu. Eight years after becoming king, he died without a son and the feudal state was abolished.
The policy letter to Liu Dan, King of Yanla, said: Woohoo!
Little Liu Dan, accept this black soil, build your country, seal it in the north, and serve as a barrier and auxiliary wing of the Han Dynasty for generations.
Alas!
The Xunhuan family mistreats the elderly, has a heart like an animal, and uses cunning and cunning to conquer hundreds of thousands of people on the border.
I ordered the generals to go and punish them for the crimes they committed.
The commanders of tens of thousands, the commanders of thousands, and the thirty-two military commanders all stopped their troops and rushed to surrender to us.
Xunhuan migrated to other places, and my northern region was peaceful.
You must be whole-hearted, do not create any grudges, do not do immoral things, and do not weaken border defenses.
Soldiers who have not received training are not allowed to be called into battle.
You, the king, need to be vigilant!
When Liu Dan grew up, he came to the feudal state. He was an eloquent person, studied classics and various schools of thought extensively, and was fond of astrology, calendars, mathematics, advocating leisure travel, archery and hunting, etc., and attracted knights and warriors.
When Prince Wei was defeated and King Huai of Qi died again, Liu Dan thought that he should be made the crown prince according to the ranking of his brothers, so he wrote a letter requesting to return to Beijing to stay in the palace.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was angry and imprisoned the envoy he sent to write the letter.
Later, because of harboring fugitives, his fiefdom was cut off from Liangxiang, Anci, and Wen'an counties.
From then on, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty disliked Liu Dan, and later made his youngest son the prince.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty died, the prince succeeded to the throne and was named Emperor Xiaozhao. He issued letters stamped with jade seals to various princes and kings.
When Liu Dan received the letter, he refused to mourn. He said: The envelope containing the seal is small. I suspect there has been a change in the capital.
He sent his cronies Shou Xichang, Sun Zongzhi, Wang Ru and others to Chang'an to inquire about the news in the name of asking about etiquette.
Wang Ru went to see Jinwu Guo Guangyi and asked what kind of illness the emperor had when he died, who succeeded him and how old he was.
Guo Guangyi said that at that time, he was waiting for the emperor's edict in Wuzha Palace. People in the palace were clamoring that the emperor had died. The generals supported the prince as emperor. The prince was about eight or nine years old and would not leave the palace during the funeral.
Wang Ru and others came back and reported to King Yanla.
King Yanla said: "The emperor abandoned his ministers and left without saying anything. The eldest princess of Gaiyi was not seen. It's very strange."
Then he sent a senior official to Chang'an, the capital, to write a letter saying: I privately saw Emperor Xiaowu practicing the way of a sage. He was filial to his ancestors and loving to his relatives. He harmoniously united his subjects and billions of people. His benevolence united the heaven and earth. The sun and the moon shined brightly. Might permeated the world. Countries from far away offered treasures. Come to worship, add dozens of counties and counties, nearly double the territory, offer sacrifices to Mount Tai, worship Father Liang, travel around the world, and place treasures and foreign objects from far away in the Ancestral Temple. His benevolence is so majestic and grand. I request that temples be built for Emperor Xiaowu in every county.
The memorial was submitted and reported back that the emperor had read it.
At that time, the general Huo Guang was in charge of the government and rewarded King Yan with 30 million yuan and increased the number of 13,000 households in the fiefdom.
Liu Dan said angrily: I should be the emperor, how can you reward me!
So he formed a conspiracy with Liu Chang, the son of King Ai of Zhongshan, and Liu Ze, the grandson of King Xiao of Qi, and others in the clan. They lied that they had received an edict from Emperor Wu and could take charge of local administration, build military preparedness, and prepare for extraordinary incidents.
Liu Chang then issued an order to the ministers on behalf of Liu Dan: "I relied on the virtue of the late emperor to lead the northern vassal country. I personally accepted the wise edict. I have to take charge of local administration, command the arsenal and weapons, organize the military equipment. I have important responsibilities and work hard from morning to night. How will you, the officials, assist me with advice?"
Furthermore, although the Yan State was small, it was founded in the Zhou Dynasty. The first was Zhao Gongxi, and the second was King Zhao and Xiang of the Six Kingdoms period. It has been a thousand years, how can we say that there are no wise men in the Yan Kingdom?
It has been more than 30 years since I took charge of the government and listened to the government, but I haven't heard anything yet.
Is it because I have poor hearing and vision?
Or is it that the doctors’ thinking is insufficient?
What's the mistake?
Now I want to correct evil and prevent bad behavior, commend knowledge and promote gentleness, appease the people, and change customs. Where should I start?
Doctors, please answer with all your heart, I will consider and adopt your suggestions.
All the ministers took off their hats and thanked him.
Cheng Zhen, the doctor, said to Liu Dan: Your Majesty, you have lost the status you deserve. Now you can only get up and claim it, not sit back and wait.
As long as the king joins the army, the people, subjects, and even women in the country will move forward and follow the king.
Liu Dan said: In the past, when Empress Lu was in power, she made Liu Hong, the son of Emperor Hui, the emperor through deception, and the princes and kings served him for eight years.
Later, Empress Dowager Lu died, and the ministers killed all the kings of the Lu family and ushered in Emperor Xiaowen of the Han Dynasty. Only then did the world know that Liu Hong was not the true son of Emperor Xiaohui.
As the eldest son of Emperor Wu, I was not able to be established as emperor. I wrote a letter suggesting building a temple for Emperor Wu, but it was not accepted.
I doubt that the current emperor is from the Liu family.
He then planned with Liu Ze and others to write a proclamation of fraud and slander, claiming that the young emperor was not the son of Emperor Xiaowu, but was a forgery planned by some ministers, and that the people of the world would rise up to attack him.
Send people to spread the news to all counties and counties to shake the people's hearing and hearing.
Liu Ze planned to return to Linzi to send troops and launch an uprising together with King Yan.
Liu Dan immediately took action to recruit local evil people, collected copper and iron to make armor and weapons, drilled chariots and cavalry officers and soldiers many times, built flag and drum chariots, and used the horse-headed knight as the pioneer.
Liu Dan, an official from prime minister to lieutenant, supervised the chariots, cavalry and horses, mobilized the people to gather and set up paddocks, and conducted large-scale hunting in Wen'an County to train soldiers and horses and wait for the arrival of the uprising.
The doctor Han Yi and others repeatedly tried to stop Liu Dan, but Liu Dan killed Han Yi and fifteen others in total.
At this time, Liu Cheng, the Marquis of Fu, learned of the plot of Liu Ze and others, and reported it to Jun Buyi, the governor of Qingzhou, who arrested Liu Ze and reported it to the court.
The emperor sent Da Honglucheng to review the matter, which implicated King Yan.
The edict did not punish King Yan, but put Liu Ze and others to death.
Liu Cheng, the marquis of Fu, was granted the title.
After a long time, Liu Dan's sister Eyigai Princess, Zuo General Shangguan Jie and his son had a feud with Huo Guang because of the struggle for power. They all knew that Liu Dan resented Huo Guang, so they secretly formed a relationship with the Yan State.
Liu Dan sent Sun Zongzhi and other more than ten groups of people to bring a lot of gold, silver, treasures and horses as gifts to Princess Gai.
Shangguan Jie and the imperial censor Sang Hongyang colluded with Liu Dan. They wrote down Huo Guang's faults many times and told Liu Dan, asking him to report Huo Guang to the emperor.
Shangguan Jie wanted to send his memorial to all the officials from the palace.
Liu Dan was very happy when he heard about it, so he went to the bookstore and said: In the past, King Qin Zheng seized the throne of the emperor, controlled the order of a generation, and intimidated all the nations. However, he despised and weakened his close relatives, relied on foreign people and foreign surnames for glory, abandoned the royal way and liked to use punishment, and did not take care of the interests of the clan.
Later, Wei Tuo went to Nanyi to proclaim himself king, and Chen She roared in rebellion in Daze Township, Chu Land. People close to him also took the opportunity to cause trouble, and both internal and external forces launched an uprising. The Qin Dynasty was destroyed.
Emperor Gaozu looked over the course of the Qin Dynasty's demise, observed its successes and failures, and saw that the establishment of the Qin Dynasty was fundamentally wrong, so he corrected its path, planned the land and built cities together, and spread his descendants to become kings everywhere.
Now His Majesty has inherited the legacy of Shengming and appointed ministers to take charge of the affairs of the state. However, the officials formed cliques and slandered the clan. Rumors filled the court every day. Vicious officials violated the law and exercised arbitrary power, so that the emperor's favor could not truly benefit the people below.
I heard that during the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, he sent Zhonglang General Su Wu to the Xiongnu. He was detained for twenty years and refused to surrender. After returning, he was only granted the title of Dian vassal state.
Now the general's chief historian, Yang Chang, has no merit, but he is named the captain of Sosu.
Also, when the general was meeting with the Yulin imperial army, he actually used the emperor's etiquette to call on pedestrians on the road to stop and avoid, and sent eunuchs to wait on him in advance.
For this reason, my minister Liu Dan is willing to return the talisman seal he received and return to the court to stay in the palace to protect His Majesty in order to prevent the treacherous minister's conspiracy.
Emperor Zhao was fourteen years old at this time. He realized that King Yan was deceitful, so he trusted Huo Guang closely and alienated Shangguan Jie and others.
Shangguan Jie and others therefore planned to kill Huo Guang, depose Emperor Zhao, and make King Yan the emperor.
Liu Dan sent people to deliver letters at high speed, and responded to each other, promising to make Shangguan Jie king in the future, and to contact thousands of heroes from various counties and counties.
Liu Dan told Yan Xiangping this, and Ping said: Your Majesty conspired with Liu Ze before, but the matter was discovered before it was successful, because Liu Ze has always boasted, liked to bully others, and caused trouble.
I heard that Shangguan Jie, the general of the left, has always been rash, and Shangguan An, the general of chariots and cavalry, is young and arrogant. I am worried that they may not succeed like Liu Ze did, and I am worried that if they succeed, they will turn against the king.
Liu Dan said: A few days ago, a man went to the court and claimed to be the former prince. The people in Chang'an City rushed to see and greet him. At a time when there was a lot of excitement and excitement, and it was difficult to control the situation, the general became afraid and sent troops to set up a warning for self-defense.
I am the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowu, and I am trusted by the people and subjects of the world. Why should I worry about being opposed by others?
Later he told the officials: Princess Gai Zhou wrote that she was only afraid of the general and the right general Wang Mang.
Now that the general on the right is dead and the prime minister is ill, good things will surely happen and will come true soon.
Order all ministers to get ready.
It was raining at that time, and the rainbow came down to the palace to drink water from the well. The water in the well suddenly dried up.
The pigs wrapped in pens ran out together and broke the official's pet.
The black magpie fights to death.
Rats danced at the main entrance of the hall.
The windows in the main hall closed automatically and could not be opened.
Fire from heaven burned down the city gates.
The strong wind destroyed the towers of the palace and broke and uprooted the trees.
Meteor falls to the ground.
The queen, princess and palace people were all frightened.
King Yan himself was frightened and fell ill. He sent people to Jia River and Tai River to offer sacrifices and pray for God's blessing.
King Yan's guests Lu Guang and others knew astrology and divined for King Yan: "There will be a large army besieging the city in September or October, and a minister of the Han court will be executed."
These words of his are contained in the "Book of Han." "Five Elements Chronicles".
King Yan was even more worried and frightened, and said to Lu Guang and others: "The plan has not been successful yet, monsters and auspiciousness have appeared many times, and soldiers are about to come. What should I do?"
At this time, Yancang, the father of Princess Gai and Sheren, knew of their conspiracy and reported it, and was discovered by the court.
The prime minister issued a seal, deploying two thousand officials to hunt down Sun Zongzhi, General Shangguan Jie and others, and execute them all.
When Liu Dan learned of this, he summoned Yan Xiangping and said, "The matter has been exposed. Should we send troops just like that?"
Ping said: General Zuo has been executed, and the people all know the truth of the matter, so we can no longer send troops.
The King of Yan was sad and angry. He held a banquet in Wanzai Palace and gathered the guests, ministers and concubines to sit down and drink.
King Yan himself sang: When I return to this empty city in the future, I will not hear dogs barking or roosters crowing. The streets are so empty. It turns out that there is no one here!
Mrs. Huarong also danced and sang: The hair is filling the ditch; the corpses are scattered.
No place to bury. The mother searches for her dead son, and the wife searches for her dead husband.
Wandering between the two canals, where can a gentleman live in peace?
Everyone here cried.
A pardon order came from the court. After reading it, King Yan said: Alas!
He only pardoned the officials and the people, but not me.
So he welcomed the queen, concubines, and ladies to the Mingguang Hall. King Yan said: "I, an old slave, should be punished by the clan for doing such a thing!"
He said that he would commit suicide.
The entourage on the left and right advised: If you can ask the emperor to cut off the feudal country, you may be lucky enough to survive.
Hou Ji and his wife all cried and tried to stop King Yan.
At this time, the emperor sent a special envoy to give King Yan a seal, which read: When Emperor Gaozu conquered the world, he made his children kings to control the country and the country.
Previously, the Lu family kings conspired to usurp the throne, and the Liu family was in critical danger. They relied on Jianghou Zhou Bo and others to punish the rebels, and established Emperor Xiaowen, so that the ancestral temple was safe. Isn't it because there were people inside and outside the court who cooperated accordingly!
Fan Sha, Li Shang, Cao Shen, Guan Ying and others charged with their swords, followed Emperor Gaozu to eradicate disasters and cut off the heroes in the sea. At that time, their hair had been left alone for a long time and became as messy as tangled grass. They were extremely hardworking and hardworking. However, the rewards they received were just titles. Nowadays, the descendants of the clan have no need to expose their clothes to the wind and the sun. Instead, they divide the land and make kings, divide the wealth and give rewards. When the father dies, the son succeeds, and when the elder brother dies, the younger brother takes over.
Today, the King of Yan is a close relative of flesh and blood, and you and I are one, but he has conspired with foreigners to harm the country. He treats outsiders as relatives and relatives as outsiders. He has a rebellious and rebellious heart and has no loyalty to the king and patriotism.
If the person who died in ancient times knew something secretly, what face would you have on offering Zhaichuo sacrifices to visit the temple of Emperor Gaozu?
Liu Dan received the seal, handed over the seal and talisman of King Yan to the chief medical officer, and confessed to the Prime Minister of Yan with two thousand stones, saying: I have been disrespectful to the imperial court, and I have only one chance of death.
Then he hanged himself with a ribbon and died.
More than 20 people including the queen and his wife followed Liu Dan to commit suicide.
The emperor showed kindness and pardoned Prince Yan Liu Jian as a commoner. Liu Danmi was given the title of King of Assassination.
Liu Dan was executed for thirty-eight years after he became King of Yan.
Abolish the feudal state. Six years later, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, and named Liu Dan's two sons as Xindan Castle and Dayshi Castle. He also named Liu Jian, the former prince of Qianrui, as king, making him the King of Qing in Guangyang. He reigned for twenty-nine years.
His son King Mu Liu Shun succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-one years.
Liu Shun's son, King Si Liu Huang, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty years.
Liu Huang's son Liu Jia succeeded to the throne.
During the reign of Wang Mang, all the vassal kings of the Han Dynasty were deposed as common people. Only Liu Jia was named Fumeihou and given the surname Wang because he offered Wang Mang the talisman to replace Han as emperor.
The policy book conferring the title of King Li Xingzhi on Guangling said: Woohoo!
Brat, accept this red bag of social soil and build your country. He was established in the south and had to serve as a vassal assistant for generations to come.
The ancients said: South of the Yangtze River and around the Five Lakes, the people there are frivolous.
The Yangzhou area was strong and rebellious. In the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, it was an important place far away from the royal territory. The imperial decrees could not reach that level, woohoo!
You must do your best, be respectful to others, be cautious, be kind to others, and be loyal to others. Don't like to have fun, don't get close to villains, and behave according to the law!
"Shangshu" says that when you are a minister, you should not be arrogant or unruly; this will leave humiliation in the future.
You, the king, need to be careful!
When Liu Xu grew up, he liked to advocate excellent entertainment and debauchery. He was very strong, could lift a tripod, and could fight bears, wild boars and other beasts with his bare hands.
His behavior was inconsistent with the rules, so he was later unable to be made the crown prince of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
When Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he granted Liu Xu an additional 13,000 households. When Liu Xu came to court in the Yuanfeng year, he granted another 10,000 households. He also rewarded 20 million yuan, 2,000 kilograms of gold, a special car for riding, a cart with four horses and a sword, and a sword.
When Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Liu Xu's four sons Liu Sheng, Liu Zeng, Liu Bao, and Liu Chang were all granted the title of marquis, and Liu Xu's youngest son Liu Hong was also appointed as King of Gaomi.
The praises and rewards given were very generous.
When Emperor Zhao was in power, Liu Xu saw that the emperor was young and had no sons, so he coveted the throne.
Chu Di was also superstitious about ghosts, gods and witches, so Liu Xu took the witch Li Nuxu and asked her to invite the gods to the lower world to pray for disaster.
Li Nuxu cried and said: Emperor Xiaowu surrendered to my body.
Liu Xu's left and right attendants all knelt down.
Li Nuxu then said in the tone of Emperor Wu: I must make Liu Xu the emperor.
Afterwards, Liu Xu rewarded Li Nuxu with a lot of money and asked her to go to Wushan to pray.
While it was being built, Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty passed away. Liu Xu said: Li Nuxu is a witch who can really communicate with gods!
In return, a cow is killed as a sacrifice.
When King Changyi was conscripted into the capital and succeeded to the throne, Liu Xu asked witches to sacrifice to the gods in order to bring disaster.
Later, when King Changyi was deposed, Liu Xu became even more superstitious about Li Nuxu and other witches, and rewarded them with money and materials many times.
When Emperor Moxuan ascended the throne, Liu Xu asked: Why was the grandson of the former prince made emperor instead?
Let Li Nuxu pray to God for curses again as before.
In addition, Liu Xu's daughter was the younger brother-in-law of Chu King Liu Yanshou. They often exchanged gifts and exchanged private letters with each other.
Later, Liu Yanshou was executed for treason, and his confession implicated Liu Xu.
The emperor ordered Liu Xu not to be held accountable, and gave Liu Xu gold, weighing five thousand kilograms before and after, and many other utensils.
When Liu Xu heard that the imperial court had appointed a prince, he said to Ji Concubine and others: I can never be made emperor.
It also stops letting witches curse.
Later, Liu Xu's son Nanlihou Liu Shi was deprived of his title for committing murder. He returned to Guangling and committed adultery with Liu Xu's concubine Zuo Xiu.
After the incident, Liu Shi was thrown into prison and his head was beheaded in public.
Guangling Xiangshengzhi asked the court to seize Liu Xu's grassland at Sheshuibei and distribute it to the poor people, and the court agreed.
For this reason, Liu Xu asked the witch to pray to God to bring disaster to the emperor as before.
In Liu Xu's palace garden, the jujube tree sprouted more than ten new branches. The branches were straight and red in color, but the leaves of the tree were as white as plain silk.
The water in the garden turned a dull color and all the fish died.
During the day there were mice dancing in the Queen's courtyard.
Liu Xu said to Ji Concubine and others: The strange phenomena of jujube trees, pond water, fish, and rats are too abominable.
A few months later, the matter of asking God to bring disaster was exposed, and relevant officials came to investigate. Liu Xu became frightened and poisoned more than 20 witches and maids to silence him.
The ministers of the imperial court requested that Liu Xu be executed. The emperor sent Ting Wei and Da Honglu to interrogate.
Liu Xu apologized and said: I deserve to die, and there are indeed all the things I reported to you.
It's been a long time since this happened. Please go back first. I'll tell you frankly after I've thought about it.
When Liu Xu saw that the court officials had left, he set up a banquet in the Xianyang Hall and invited the prince Liu Ba and his other children Liu Dongzi and Liu Husheng to have a night of drinking. He also asked his favorite eighth lady Guo Zhaojun and his domestic singer Tzuo Jun to play the harp and sing and dance.
Liu Xu himself sang: The reason why people want to live forever is because there is no end to comfort and enjoyment.
But I am never happy in this life, why should I live till the end of my life? I must abide by the time limit given to me by the emperor, and I must not live any longer. Look at the imperial envoy's thousand-mile horse, parked at the inn, waiting to go on the road.
Under the Yellow Spring, there is no bottom. People are going to die eventually. Why should we suffer and be sad about death?
What is the joy of living in this world? It lies in being able to do whatever you want. Now that I am not happy when I go out, I will just have a brief moment of happiness.
The wormwood is calling me to go, and I have seen its outline. You can't use money to hire someone to die. Go die yourself!
People on the left and right were crying and toasting each other, and the banquet didn't end until dawn.
Liu Xu said to Prince Liu Ba: The emperor treated me very well, and I feel so sorry for him now.
When I die, my body will be exposed to the public.
If you are lucky enough to be allowed to be buried, just bury it hastily and don’t give it a grand burial.
After saying this, he hanged himself with a ribbon and died.
Guo Zhaojun, the eighth aunt, and two others committed suicide.
The emperor was lenient and kind, pardoned Liu Xu's sons from the death penalty, demoted them to common people, and gave Liu Xu the honorific title of King Li.
Liu Xu was granted the title of king for sixty-four years, and was finally executed and the feudal state was abolished.
Seven years later, Emperor Mo Yuan appointed Liu Xu's crown prince, Liu Ba, as Prince Xiao, who reigned for thirteen years before his death.
Liu Ba's son Liu Yi, the co-king, succeeded him and died after reigning for three years.
Liu Yi's son, King Ai Liu Hu, succeeded him and died after reigning for sixteen years. Liu Hu had no sons and died without any heirs.
Six years later, Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty established Liu Shou, the son of Liu Ba, the filial king, and made him King Jing. He reigned for twenty years until his death.
Liu Shou's son Liu Hong succeeded him until Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty.
Initially, Liu Hong, the Ai King of Gaomi, was granted a title in the first year of Benshi because he was the youngest son of Liu Xu, King of Guangling. He died nine years after becoming queen.
Liu Hong's son Liu Zhang, the king of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for thirty-three years.
Liu Zhang's son, King Huai Liu Kuan, succeeded him and died after reigning for eleven years.
Liu Kuan's son Liu Shen succeeded to the throne and ended the Wang Mang era.
Liu Zhen, the Ai king of Changyi, was established in the fourth year of Tianhan Dynasty. He died in the eleventh year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu He.
Thirteen years after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty died without heirs. General Huo Guang summoned the mourning king Liu He to preside over the funeral.
The seal said: The king of Changyi heard the order: Shi Lecheng, Zongzheng Liude, Guanglu doctor Bingji, and Zhonglang general Limo were sent to recruit the prince to take a seven-horse post carriage to the Chang'an mansion.
It took less than a moment and the book was published quickly overnight.
At about noon, Liu He set out from Changyi and arrived at Dingtao in the evening. After running for 135 miles, the horses ridden by his attendants died of exhaustion one after another on the road.
The doctor's order, Gong Sui, persuaded Liu He, and then more than 50 subordinate officials including the doctor and Yezhe were allowed to return to Changyi.
Liu He arrived in Jiyang, looking for a bird whose whine could make a longer sound. On the way, he also bought a few walking sticks made of bamboos.
When passing by Hongnong, he sent a big servant named Shan to rob the women and hide them in the clothes and carriages with curtains.
When they arrived at Hu County, the imperial envoy scolded Changyi Prime Minister Anle for this matter.
Anle told Gong Sui, and Xi Sui came to ask Liu He. Liu He said, "It doesn't happen."
Gong Sui said: Since there is no such thing, why should you ruin your character for the sake of being a slave of goodness?
I request that Shan be captured and handed over to the officials for punishment, so that the king's reputation can be cleared.
So he seized Shan and handed him over to the chief guard for justice.
When Liu He came to Bashang, Da Honglu went to the outskirts of Chang'an to greet him. The knights in the palace attended him and got into the imperial carriage.
Liu He asked his servant Shoucheng to take charge, and the doctor ordered Gong Sui to ride on his right.
When they arrived at the east gate of Chang'an in Guangming at dawn, Gong Sui said: "According to etiquette, mourners should weep bitterly when they see the capital."
It was built as Shumen, the outer city of Chang'an.
Liu He said: My throat hurts and I can't cry.
When he came to the inner city gate of Chang'an again, Gong Sui reminded him again, Liu He said: Aren't the inner city gate and the outer city gate both city gates?
The carriage and horse were about to arrive at the gate of Shumen Tower of Weiyang Palace. Gong Sui said: "The curtain of King Changyi is set up on the north side of the galloping road outside the palace. Before reaching the curtain, there is a north-south road. The horse can reach it in only a few steps. Your Majesty, you should get off the car, kneel down to the west and face the gate tower, and cry loudly in mourning." Liu He said: Okay.
When we got downstairs, we cried according to the etiquette.
Changyi King Liu He accepted the emperor's seal and inherited the emperor's title.
During his twenty-seventh day in office, he behaved lewdly.
General Huo Guang discussed with the ministers, and then reported to Queen Xiaozhao, deposed Liu He, returned him to his hometown of Luyi, and gave him 2,000 households in Tangmuyi. All the property he had when he was king of Changyi was returned to him.
The four daughters of the former Ai King Liu Li were also given to Tang Muyi with one thousand households each.
The story of this incident is recorded in "The Biography of Huo Guang".
The feudal state of King Changyi was abolished and changed to Shanyang County.
When Liu He was in the feudal state, strange things happened many times.
I once saw a white dog, three feet tall, headless, like a human from the neck down, and wearing a square mountain crown.
Later he saw a bear, but no one around him saw it.
There were also swarms of big crows flying into the palace.
Liu He knew this was not a good thing and was very annoyed, so he told his doctor Gong Sui and asked him what was going on.
Gong Sui told him the reason, and his words were recorded in "Five Elements Chronicles".
Liu He looked up to the sky and sighed: Why do ominous things always come?
Gong Sui kowtowed and said: As a minister, I dare not keep my words in my heart without giving you advice. I have given advice many times that is related to the danger of the country, but your Majesty is not happy to hear it.
But does the existence or failure of a country depend on a few words from its ministers?
Please think about it yourself, Your Majesty.
Your Majesty, you have recited three hundred and five chapters of the Book of Songs, which are very thorough in explaining how to behave as a human being, and are also complete in terms of how to govern a country. Which chapter of the Book of Songs does your behavior conform to?
Your Majesty, as a vassal king, the things you do are even more filthy than those of common people. It is very difficult for you to survive for a long time in this way, but it is very easy for your country to perish because of this. You should reflect deeply on this.
Later, Liu He's throne was stained with blood. Liu He asked Gong Sui, and Gong Sui shouted loudly: "The palace is about to be empty as evil spirits and weird things happen one after another."
The appearance of blood is a sign of inner sorrow.
You should beware of careful self-reflection.
Liu He did not regret his behavior after all.
It didn't take long before he was drafted into the DPRK.
After he became emperor, he later dreamed that fly excrement was piled up on the east side of the steps of the West Palace. It was as much as five or six stones, and it was covered with large tiles from the roof. When he uncovered it, it turned out to be fly excrement.
I asked Gong Sui about this matter again, and Gong Sui said: Isn't there a verse like this in the "Book of Songs" that your Majesty has read: Flies flying here and there are all over the fences. A gentleman who enjoys peace and prosperity should not listen to slander.
There are many slanderous and sycophantic people around Your Majesty, just like this fly excrement.
You should use the descendants or close confidants of the former ministers as your close ministers.
If you cannot bear to alienate your old subordinates in Changyi and listen to their slanderous words and flattery towards you, great disaster will surely happen.
I hope to turn misfortunes into blessings and banish all the old people in Changyi from the capital. As a minister, I will be the first to be banished home.
Liu He did not accept his words and was finally deposed.
General Huo Guang changed his position to the great-grandson of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and became Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, he was suspicious of Liu He. In the second year of Yuankang, he sent an envoy to give Zhang Chang, the prefect of Shanyang, an imperial edict saying: The edict to the prefect of Shanyang: Be careful to guard against thieves and monitor your comings and goings.
However, this order cannot be passed down to the public!
From then on, Zhang Chang reported Liu He's activities and daily life to the imperial court, explaining Liu He's reaction or performance after he was deposed. The report said: My minister Zhang Chang came to take office in May of the third year of Dijie. The former King of Changyi lived in the former palace. There were one hundred and eighty-three slaves in the palace. The main door was closed and only the small door was opened. An honest official was selected to come out to collect money and buy things. Food was collected every morning, and items other than food were not allowed to come in and out at will.
One person who supervises thieves is responsible for patrolling and monitoring people coming and going.
He used the money from the former royal family in Changyi to hire soldiers to protect the palace walls and courtyards from thieves.
I sent the chief official many times to check.
One day in September of the fourth year, as a minister, I went to the palace to inspect his living conditions. I saw that the former King of Changyi was about 26 or 26 years old. He had a blue-black face, small eyes, a pointed and low nose, sparse eyebrows, a tall stature, and suffered from paralysis and hemiplegia, which made it difficult to walk.
Wearing a short coat on the upper body, long trousers on the lower body, a Huiwen crown on his head, a jade ring on his body, a pen on his head, and a wooden slip in his hand, he came to see him.
Your Majesty, I sat with him in the middle hall, talking, and looking at his wife and slaves.
I wanted to touch him so I could observe his mood, so I used birds that people hate to stimulate him. I said: Changyi Xiao Wuduo. The former King of Changyi responded and said: Yes.
I once went west to Chang'an and never saw one.
When I came back, I walked east to Jiyang and heard the cry of the owl again. I saw his children holding the bridle. He knelt down and said: The mother holding the bridle is the daughter of Yan Changsun.
I originally knew that Yan Yannian, the eldest grandson of Zhijin Wu, had a daughter named Luo Yu, who was the ex-wife of the former King of Changyi.
I observed the former King of Changyi's clothes, speech, kneeling, sitting, and walking. He looked stupid and stupid.
He had sixteen wives and concubines, and a total of twenty-two children, including eleven sons and eleven daughters.
Now, at the risk of death, I will present to you the name list of the former King of Changyi and the account books concerning his slaves and property.
I mentioned in my previous letter: Zhang Xiu, the kabuki girl of King Ai of Changyi, and ten others have no children and are not the king's concubines. They are children of good families and have not been admitted to the officialdom. King Ai has passed away, so they should be released to their own families.
Taifu Bao and others stayed without authorization and made them serve as palace servants in King Ai's garden. This is against the law. Please let them go home.
When the former king learned about this, he said: These palace servants were asked to guard the garden, and the sick were not treated, and they fought and killed each other without any punishment. Just to let them die quickly, why did the prefect let them go home?
He really likes chaos and death by nature, and he has always been so devoid of benevolence and righteousness.
Later, the Prime Minister and Censor submitted my petition to Your Majesty, and it was confirmed that it was done accurately.
Then all these people were released and sent away.
From then on, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty knew that Liu He had nothing to worry about.
In the spring of the following year, he issued an edict saying: "I heard that Xiang was guilty, but Shun still sealed him. The relationship between flesh and blood was divided and continued."
Today, Liu He, the former king of Changyi, is granted the title of Marquis of Haihun, with a settlement of 4,000 households.
Jin An, the imperial guard, wrote a letter saying: Liu He is a man abandoned by heaven. Your Majesty is extremely kind and makes him a prince.
Since Liu He was a dull, stubborn and abandoned person, he should not participate in the rituals of offering sacrifices to the ancestral temple and meeting the emperor.
The performance is feasible.
So Liu He was sent to the fiefdom of Yuzhang.
A few years later, Liu He, the governor of Yangzhou, Ke La, became friends with Sun Wanshi, the former governor's soldier. Sun Wanshi asked Liu He: When he was deposed, why didn't he stay in the palace and kill the general, but instead allowed others to take the jade seal away?
Liu He said: You are right, I was wrong.
Sun Wanshi also believed that Liu He would be named King of Yuzhang and would not be a prince for a long time.
Liu He said: It's almost like this, but we shouldn't say it out loud.
Relevant officials investigated and found out the truth and asked Liu He to be arrested.
The emperor issued an order: Cut off three thousand households in the city.
Afterwards Liu He passed away.
Liao Shang, the prefect of Yuzhang, reported: Shun sealed the elephant with a trunk. After the death of the elephant, he did not establish a queen for him. He believed that a violent and confused person should not be the founder of a feudal state.
After the death of Liu He, Marquis of Haihun, it was reported to the government that his son Liu Chongguo was the heir. When Liu Chongguo died, his brother Liu Fengqin was reported to the government. Liu Fengqin also died. This was God cutting off his heirs!
Your Majesty was wise and kind, and was very kind to Liu He. Even Shun did the same to his subjects.
Liu He's title should be terminated according to etiquette to comply with the will of the Emperor of Heaven.
The request was handed over to the relevant officials for discussion.
The result of the discussion was that they should not establish heirs for the sake of plastic fall, and abolish the feudal state.
After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, he also granted Xinghe's son Liu Fese the title of Marquis of Haihun. The succession was passed on to his grandson, and he is still a marquis.
Praising: How sad the harm caused by the witchcraft case!
But this is not Jiang Chong's fault alone. It is also God's will and cannot be caused by human power.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, the demon star Chiyou Banner appeared, and its tail grew to the horizon.
After that, the imperial court ordered generals to go out to conquer Henan and establish Shuofang County.
In the spring of that year, Prince Ru was born.
From then on, during the thirty years of the war, the army killed and destroyed countless people.
When the witchcraft case broke out, the capital Chang'an became a river of blood, with tens of thousands of corpses lying on the ground. The prince's family, father and son, were all destroyed.
Therefore, the prince was born and grew up during the military era, and was always accompanied by wars. How can it be said that it was caused by just a favored minister?
During the thirty-nine years of Qin Shihuang's reign, he flattened six kingdoms internally and defeated barbarians from all directions externally. Many people died, their bones were exposed under the Great Wall, and their heads were visible along the way. There was no day without fighting.
Therefore, the Shandong Incident occurred, and the rule of the four parties collapsed and rebelled against Qin.
The military generals and civil servants of the Qin Dynasty rebelled outside, and the treacherous official Ni Xing made trouble within the court. The chaos started within Xiao Qiang, and the disaster was caused and broke out during the reign of Hu Hai, the second generation.
Therefore, it is said: War is like setting fire. If it cannot be stopped, it will burn itself.
Indeed. Therefore, Cangjie coined the character Zhijia Ge which is the character for 武.
Saints use force to prohibit riots, restore order, and stop wars, not to commit cruelty and indulge in chaos.
"Book of Changes" says: The Emperor of Heaven helps those who obey the will of Heaven, and the people help those who are trustworthy. If a gentleman fulfills his faith and has a gentle mind, then the Emperor of Heaven will bless him, and everything will be good and nothing bad will happen.
Therefore, Che Qianqiu can reveal the true nature of the witchcraft case and clear up the grievances of the prince.
Che Qianqiu's intelligence may not be better than others, but because he eliminates bad luck, curbs the source of disaster, eliminates major disasters in times of crisis, and guides good fortune, he attracts the blessing and help of the Emperor of Heaven and the people.
