Kuang Heng, courtesy name Zhigui, was born in Haicheng County, Cambodia.
His grandfather had been farming for generations, and when he came to Kuangheng, he liked to study. Because his family was poor, Kuangheng worked as a hired worker to pay for his expenses.
Kuang Heng's energy exceeded ordinary people. Many Confucian scholars praised him and said: Don't talk about "Poetry", Kuang Heng will come; Kuang Heng comes to talk about "Poetry", making people happy and laughing.
Kuang Heng was awarded the title of "Jia Ke", but because he failed to pass the "Jia Ke" regulations, he was only appointed as Taichang's storyteller, and later he was appointed as "Pingyuan County Literature".
Many scholars wrote letters recommending that Kuang Heng was proficient in classics and was unparalleled in the world. He should be appointed as a literary scholar and go to the capital as an official. The younger generation were willing to follow Kuang Heng to study in Pingyuan County. Kuang Heng should not be an official far away from the capital.
The emperor handed this matter over to Prince Taifu Xiao Wangzhi and Shaofu Liang Qiuhe for questioning. Kuang Heng answered with the righteousness of the Book of Songs, which was very profound and brilliant.
Xiao Wangzhang reported that Kuang Heng was proficient in classics and his lectures were passed down from a teacher's perspective, which can be viewed.
Emperor Xuan did not make much use of Confucian scholars, so he sent Kuang Heng back to his original place.
However, after the crown prince saw Kuang Heng's correct question, he secretly appreciated him.
When Emperor Xuan died and Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, a relative of Leling Marquis Shi Gao was appointed as the Great Sima Cavalry General and concurrently as Minister, with former general Xiao Wangzhi as his deputy.
Xiao Wangzhi was a famous Confucian and the emperor's mentor. The emperor valued him and made great contributions in recommending talents.
Shi Gao, on the other hand, had no interest in political affairs and only had a reputation, which created a gap between him and Xiao Wangzhi.
Yang Xing, the magistrate of Chang'an County, persuaded Shi Gao: "The general assists in political affairs with relatives, and his reputation is noble and unparalleled in the world. However, in everyone's discussion, the good reputation and honor are not all attributed to the general. Why?"
Because they heard that generals cannot recommend virtuous and talented people.
As the shogunate of the shogunate, everyone in the world looks up to and admires him, but the people recommended by the shogun are just private guests and the children of wet nurses.
The general ignored everyone's comments because of favors and did not know that there was anything wrong with him. However, as long as one person discusses it in private, it will spread throughout the world.
Although you are rich and noble, the scholars do not praise you. It is like wearing a pure white fox fur coat, which is flashy.
The ancients were very taboo about such things, so they deigned to take the trouble to find worthy people as their own duty.
The Sutra says: Because wise men are rare, you cannot wait for wise men to arrive when doing things; because food is rare, you cannot wait for food to arrive when you are full.
There are more serious situations than this kind of waiting. Pingyuan Literature Kuang Heng's talents and wisdom were more than enough, and his attainments in classics were outstanding. Because he had no chance of promotion in the imperial court, he had to follow the selection and supplementary documents and move to a place far away from the capital to serve as an official.
If the general summons Kuangheng to serve in the shogunate, scholars all over the world will definitely follow him, let him participate in discussing political affairs, and recommend him to the court based on his expertise, and he will definitely become a pillar of the country. If you do this for everyone to see, your reputation will spread throughout the world.
Shi Gao thought Yang Xing was right, so he appointed Kuang Heng as the historian of Cao and recommended him to the emperor. The emperor asked him to be a doctor, and later he was promoted to a doctor and served concurrently as Shizhong.
At this time, disasters such as solar eclipses and earthquakes occurred. The emperor asked about the relationship between these changes and political gains and losses. Kuangheng Shangshu said:
I heard that the rituals of the five emperors were different, the politics and religion of the three kings were different, and the people's customs were very different. The reason is that the times have changed.
His Majesty has personally extended his holy virtues and opened the way to peace in the world. He has shown mercy to ignorant officials and people who have violated legal prohibitions. He has granted amnesty every year to allow the people to correct their behavior and reform themselves. It is indeed a blessing to the world.
I saw that after the amnesty, the cunning, treacherous and evil behavior has not decreased. Today I am amnesty, tomorrow I break the law, and then I am jailed again. This is probably to persuade the people to miss the point.
Generally speaking, to educate the people, as the "Book of Filial Piety" says: state morality and righteousness to them, publish the standards of good and bad to them, observe their mistakes and clarify the rules of conduct, so that actions will lead to harmony, and comfort will lead to peace and quiet.
Nowadays, the customs are greedy for wealth and disdain for benevolence and righteousness, fond of sensuality, advocating luxury, despising integrity, indulging in debauchery, and losing order. The natal families of distant wives and concubines are more important than the relatives of the same surname. The kindness between relatives is weak, and the trend of forming parties through marriage is prevalent. They act on each other's side and sell themselves for glory.
They still do not change their original character, although amnesty is granted once a year, and the criminal law can hardly be ignored.
In my humble opinion, this trend should be completely changed.
Confucius said: How can we govern a country with courtesy and humility?
The imperial court is the pillar that supports the world.
If the ministers and officials follow the etiquette and are respectful and modest to each other, then the people will not fight each other; if the ministers love benevolence and are willing to give charity, then the people will not use violence; if the superiors advocate high moral integrity, then the people will pay attention to their conduct; if the superiors are gentle and tolerant, then the people will love each other.
The above four points are the reasons why an enlightened monarch can change the world's customs without imposing harsh criminal laws.
Why?
Because there are impulsive and unreasonable arguments and words and deeds in the court, there will be the disaster of fighting below; if there are arbitrary people at the top, there will be people who are not humble;
Today's secular officials do not govern the country according to the principle of etiquette and humility. Instead, they advocate violence to win, greed for wealth, and admiration for power. Therefore, there are many people who break the law, and evil cannot be stopped. Even if strict criminal laws are used, this situation cannot be changed.
This is not their nature, but because the people in power have not educated them well.
I personally studied "Guo Feng", among which "Zhou Nan" and "Zhao Nan" were deeply educated by sages and sages, so they showed honest conduct, not lustful but aware of shame.
Duke Zhuang of Zheng advocated bravery, so his people would fight tigers with bare hands; Duke Mu of Qin valued credibility, and many scholars would die to obey her; Mrs. Chen liked witchcraft, so the people made sacrifices; the Marquis of Jin liked frugality, so his people accumulated wealth; King Tai of Zhou practiced benevolence, and neighboring countries respected forgiveness.
From the above, it can be seen that governing a country is to promote a fashion that can be followed. Today's customs are filled with hypocrisy, shallowness, jealousy, and dissatisfaction to the extreme.
I heard that the popularization of education does not mean going to every house and preaching to everyone.
As long as virtuous people are in the right positions, talented people are assigned suitable positions, the court advocates etiquette, and all officials pay attention to humility. Moral education starts from the inside out, starting from the people around you. Then the people will know the principles to follow and they will become kind without knowing it.
In this way, the people will be happy, the yin and yang will be in harmony, the gods will be inspired, and a happy and auspicious atmosphere will appear.
"The Book of Songs" says: The etiquette and customs of the Shang capital can be imitated, and it is a model for all parts of the world.
Long life and good health to protect my descendants. This is precisely the reason why Chengtang achieved great governance in the country, preserved his descendants, changed the customs of foreign countries, and made people from far away join him. Now Chang'an is the capital of the emperor, and he personally accepts the teachings of the emperor. However, the customs of Chang'an are no different from those in a remote place. People from the country cannot imitate them. Some people see the extravagant and chaotic customs and imitate them.
This is the foundation of education and the key to changing customs. It is the customs that should be corrected first.
I heard that between heaven and earth, the qi of yin and yang interact with each other, forming disasters or auspiciousness, and good and evil evolve with each other. What happens to the people at the lower level must have signs on the upper level. The changes in the qi of yin and yang react to each other. When yin becomes quiet, it becomes dynamic, when yang is covered, the light becomes dark, and disasters such as floods or droughts will follow.
Nowadays, there is famine every year in Guandong, and the people are poor and impoverished. In some places, people are eating each other. This is because the taxes are too high, the people pay too much, and the officials are incompetent in arranging the people.
Your Majesty feared God's warning, cherished and mercied the people, and was very frugal. He reduced the number of guards in Ganquan and Jianzhang Palaces, stopped Zhuya County, stopped using force, and promoted civil rule. He will inherit the prosperity of Yao and Shun and avoid the decline of Yin and Zhou Dynasties.
After everyone saw the edict to abolish Zhuya County, everyone was happy. Everyone thought that they were about to see a peaceful and prosperous age.
Therefore, Your Majesty should immediately reduce the expenses of the palace and royal family, eliminate the extravagant and gorgeous decorations, revise the rules and regulations, rectify the internal and external affairs of the court, pay more attention to the loyal and upright ministers, alienate the smooth-talking and sycophantic people, prohibit Zheng and Wei Promote the etiquette and music of "Ya" and "Song", recommend people with outstanding talents, open up channels for speaking out, appoint kind and virtuous people, remove cruel and mean officials, commend noble and innocent people, and read "Six The general idea of "Art" is to clearly understand the essentials of governing the country in the past, understand the way of natural change, and promote the atmosphere of harmonious coexistence, so as to promote the supreme benevolent government, correct the corrupt customs, change the desires of the people, and let the world Everyone clearly knows the example set by the imperial court. Let the moral ethos be carried forward in the capital and the good reputation spread abroad. After that, education can be achieved and etiquette and humility can become a common practice.
The emperor was very happy after hearing what he said, and promoted Kuang Heng to the rank of Guanglu Doctor and Prince Shaofu.
At this time, the emperor liked Confucian scholarship and articles, and made many political changes during the reign of Emperor Xuan. Many people who discussed political affairs in Shangshu were summoned by the emperor, and everyone thought that what they said would be in line with the emperor's wishes.
At the same time, because Fu Zhaoyi and his son King Dingtao were favored by the emperor, they surpassed the queen and crown prince.
Kuang Heng went to Shu again and said:
I've heard that the key to a country's peace and security lies in examining one's own intentions.
Generally speaking, the main task of an emperor who accepts the mandate of heaven is to establish a business and continue the power of the country. The main purpose of a monarch who inherits the system of the previous kings is to inherit and carry forward the virtues of the previous kings and praise the achievements of the previous kings.
In the past, when King Cheng of Zhou inherited the throne, he wanted to trace the way of governing the country by King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, so as to cultivate his moral character. All his achievements and reputations were attributed to King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, and he did not dare to enjoy the fame alone. Therefore, God was satisfied with his achievements, and all the ghosts and gods protected him.
The Book of Songs records this incident.
Zhou Song. "Min Yu Xiaozi" said: I miss the virtues of our late kings Wen and Wu, inherit and carry them forward, and all the ghosts and gods come to the court.
Creation means that King Zhou Cheng often thought about the achievements of his ancestors and moved the ghosts and gods of heaven and earth to bless him and help him govern the country. Your Majesty's holy virtue covers the heaven and the earth, and your benevolence spreads all over the sea. However, the yin and yang are not harmonious, and evil and evil are not prohibited. The reason is that those who discuss political affairs in Shangshu do not promote the great achievements of the late emperor. They all rush to say that the late emperor's system can no longer be used, and desperately try to change it.
Privately, I hate the fact that the state has abolished the rituals, music and achievements that the people have been happy to accept, and made various changes in vain.
I hope that your Majesty will carefully examine the foundation of the country, pay attention to following the system of the late emperor, and carry forward the achievements of the late king, so as to stabilize the minds of the officials. "Book of Songs."
Daya. "King Wen" said: Always miss your ancestor and inherit and carry forward his virtues.
Confucius wrote it in the first chapter of "The Classic of Filial Piety" because it is the foundation of holy virtue.
The Sutra says: Observe good and evil, adjust your temperament, and the king's way will be completed.
If you can regulate your own temperament, you can regulate the sentiments of the people and all things; if you can regulate the sentiments of the people and all things, you can understand the changes in the world.
The way to manage your mind is to identify your own strengths and then work hard to make up for your shortcomings.
Generally speaking, smart people should pay attention to large-scale observations; ignorant people should avoid being closed-minded, and brave and strong people should avoid being too violent; kind, loving, gentle and kind people should be wary of being indecisive; people who are calm, quiet, and slow-moving should avoid missing opportunities; people with broad minds should be careful about forgetting things.
We must carefully identify the areas where we should be vigilant and cautious, and constantly restrain ourselves in terms of moral principles. Only in this way can we achieve the enlightenment of a harmonious temperament and prevent the clever and hypocritical people from comparing themselves with each other and hoping for advancement.
I hope that your Majesty will realize that you should be on guard in order to promote your saintliness.
I also heard that if you understand the way of running a family, you will also understand the principles of running a country. Therefore, the Book of Songs begins with the chapter "Guofeng·Guanju" and the "Book of Rites" takes "Guan Yi" and "Marriage Yi" as its foundation.
With "National Style." The reason for starting with "Guanyong" is to study human emotions and understand the way of human relations; the reason for starting with "Guanyi" and "Yi for Marriage" is to lay the foundation and nip problems in the bud.
The acquisition of happiness is all based on the family, and the decline of the way of governing the country also starts from the way of the family.
Therefore, the holy king must carefully pay attention to the boundary between the queen and the concubine, and determine the status of the eldest son.
Etiquette within the family is such that those of low status do not surpass those of high status, and the younger generation does not precede those of older generations. This is the principle of governing people's temperament and managing the family.
Respect the direct line and humble the common line. The eldest son is crowned on the main steps of the palace, holds a coming-of-age ceremony, and drinks fine wine during the ceremony. Other sons from the side branches are not allowed to stand side by side with him. The reason is to respect the righteousness and avoid suspicion.
It is not a needless addition of etiquette styles, but the inner feeling that there is a big difference between the two. Therefore, etiquette is used to express inner feelings and express them in actions.
Whether the saint is active or quiet, playing or having fun, the things he comes into contact with, no matter how big or small, high or low, have their own order; things can each get their proper place, the world will be naturally governed, and the people will obey the teachings.
People who should be close will be alienated, people who should be respected will be despised, and treacherous and obedient people will take advantage of the opportunity to disrupt the country.
Therefore, the sage carefully prevents such things from happening, prohibits them before they happen, and does not harm the great justice of the country because of personal favors.
If His Majesty possesses pure holy virtues and nothing is left rectified, then the country can be governed by inaction.
The Book of Songs says: To govern a country, one should first govern his family.
The Sutra says: If you manage your family well, then the country will be stable.
During the years when Kuang Heng was the Crown Prince and Young Fu, he wrote to the emperor many times to state what the emperor should do. When there were political matters in the court that needed to be discussed, Kuang Heng always answered based on the scriptures and his words were mostly in line with the laws and principles.
The emperor thought that he could assume the duties of a public minister, so he appointed Kuang Heng as Guang Luxun and Yushi Dafu.
In the third year of Jianzhao's reign, he succeeded Wei Xuancheng as prime minister, was granted the title of Marquis of Le'an, and enjoyed a settlement of 600 households.
After Emperor Yuan died and Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, Shangshu Kuang Heng warned the emperor to be careful in choosing a spouse, and explained the rules of Confucian classics and etiquette, saying:
Your Majesty is of a filial nature, and he mourned and longed for Emperor Yuan endlessly. He did not hold any entertainment or hunting banquets. This is indeed a sign of observing filial piety and not forgetting the fundamentals of governing the country at all times.
I hope that Your Majesty, although already extremely filial by nature, will make further efforts. "Book of Songs." Zhou Song.
"Min Yu Xiaozi" said "How sad, as if he was in illness". It said that after the funeral, King Cheng still missed and mourned the late king, and his heart could not calm down for a long time. This is the fundamental reason why King Cheng of Zhou was able to accomplish the achievements of King Zhou Wen and King Wu of Zhou and carry forward the teachings of the saints.
I heard the teacher say again: Choosing a spouse is the beginning of life and the foundation of all happiness.
Only after the great gift of marriage is confirmed can all things be accomplished and destiny preserved.
Confucius started his discussion of "The Book of Songs" with the "Guan Sui" chapter, saying that the emperor who occupies a high position is the parents of the people. If the character of his queen cannot match the heaven and earth, she will not be able to worship the governance of the gods and be unable to regulate all things. "Book of Songs."
Zhou Nan. "Guan Sui" chapter says: A lady who is quiet and dignified is the good spouse that a gentleman pursues.
What it means is that only those who can maintain a chaste and dignified character, do not act half-heartedly, do not keep lust in their hearts and show it in their appearance, and do not show their pleasures and private feelings in their behavior and speech, only in this way can they be worthy of being the emperor and can preside over sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
This is the primary point of social order and national law, and it is also the beginning of the teaching of the Holy King.
Since the previous generation, the rise and fall of the three generations have all started from this point.
I hope that Your Majesty will lay the foundation for governing the country by carefully studying the experiences and lessons of success and failure in governing the country, choosing a virtuous spouse, admonishing the concubine with a good voice, being close to the concubine who is dignified and respectful, and alienating the villain who has skills but no virtue.
I see that the emperor's holy virtues are pure and vast, he is proficient in the "Shi Zhi" and "The Book of Books", and he loves rituals and music untiringly.
The talents of the ministers were not sensitive, and they were not used to assist in governing the country and promoting the virtues of the saints.
I heard that the "Six Classics" are the works used by sages to govern the world, to distinguish good from evil, to know the difference between good and bad, to lead to the right path of humanity, and to prevent people from violating their own nature.
If the gist of the "Six Arts" can be examined, the relationship and laws between man and nature can be obtained and harmonious, and flowers, plants, trees, insects, birds and animals can be reproduced. This is the truth that never changes.
As for the two books "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety", they are compendium works that record the words and deeds of saints, and their significance should be deeply understood.
I also heard that the words and deeds of the Holy King were all in accordance with the mandate of heaven and the ancestors. He came to the court, appointed ministers, and everything was in accordance with the etiquette system to clarify the way of human relations.
Because respect and prudence, reverence and trembling are the etiquette for serving the destiny; gentleness, respect and humility are the etiquette for respecting and raising parents; being dignified and easy, rigorous and respectful are the majesty of ruling the people; being kind and cheerful, benevolent and benevolent are the etiquette for treating ministers.
If all words and deeds follow etiquette, then the image of the Holy King will become a symbol of benevolence and righteousness, and his actions will become an example for everyone to follow.
Confucius said: If one is virtuous, benevolent and righteous, and can be respected by others, one's appearance and behavior can be imitated, and one's advancement and retreat are in line with the law, if one governs the people in this way, then the people will respect him, love him, and imitate him. "Book of Songs."
"Daya" said: Respect and rigorous majesty are an example for the people to follow.
In the first month of the first month, all the princes came to the court to pay homage to the emperor. The emperor received them with strict and solemn etiquette according to moral etiquette, performed rituals and music, and feasted with wine before letting them go back. Therefore, all the princely states received blessings from the emperor, accepted the teachings of the Holy Emperor, and improved their customs.
At the beginning of the first month of this year, the emperor will receive congratulations from all officials in the main room, and arrange a banquet to entertain guests from all over the world. "Yi Zhuan" says that a gentleman starts with caution. I hope that your majesty will pay attention to the etiquette of your behavior so that the officials and people can look up to the glory of your noble virtues and establish the foundation for governing the country. In this way, the world will be very lucky!
The emperor respected his advice.
Soon after, Kuang Heng made a memorial to renovate the northern and southern suburban temples and cancel all kinds of extravagant and extravagant sacrifices. His memorial was recorded in "Jiao Sacrifice Chronicles".
When Emperor Yuan was in power, Zhongshu ordered Shi Xian to take charge of court affairs. From the former prime minister Wei Xuancheng to Kuang Heng, everyone was afraid of Shi Xian and did not dare to go against his wishes.
When Emperor Cheng first came to the throne, Kuang Heng and the imperial censor Zhen Tan jointly submitted an impeachment report to Shi Xian, investigating his old evil deeds one by one and tracking down his party members.
At this time, Wang Zun, the lieutenant of the Sili School, submitted an impeachment report saying: Kuang Heng and Zhen Tan were serving as ministers, and they knew that Shi Xian and others were dictatorial, tyrannical, and a great harm to the country. However, Kuang Heng and Zhen Tan did not file an impeachment report in time to punish them.
After impeaching Shi Xian and others, he did not state his crime of disloyalty to the emperor. Instead, he publicized the fault of the late emperor for appointing bad guys who subverted the country and the country. He committed an unethical and grave crime.
The emperor issued an edict not to impeach Kuang Heng.
But Kuang Heng still felt ashamed and frightened. Shangshu confessed, claimed that he was ill and asked to return to his hometown, and handed over the seal of Prime Minister Le'an Hou.
The emperor replied: You have high moral cultivation and hold the important position of the Three Dukes. The late emperor entrusted you with political affairs, and now you are helping me with political affairs.
You follow and amend the legal system and serve the country diligently. I am very happy to work with you to govern the country together.
Now Wang Zun, the captain of Sili School, is arrogantly slandering you and saying what you are wrong about. I sympathize with you.
Wang Zun will be submitted to a competent authority for interrogation. Why are you still suspicious and writing a letter asking for resignation? This is publicity and I don’t realize it.
Didn't "Yi Zhuan" say: As long as there are no faults in etiquette and morality, why should you worry about other people's opinions?
You should understand this.
Concentrate, take your medicine, eat hard, and take care of your body.
He was also rewarded with fine wine and raised beef cattle.
Kuang Heng took charge of government affairs again.
Because the emperor had just ascended the throne, he praised his ministers a lot, but most of the court officials were people like Wang Zun.
Kuang Heng was very uneasy. Every time there were floods, droughts, or bad weather, he would write letters to resign and ask to give up his position.
The emperor always comforted and encouraged Kuang Heng with edicts and did not allow Kuang Heng to abdicate in old age.
Later, Kuang Heng's son Kuang Chang served as a captain of the Yue Cavalry School. He killed someone while drunk and was imprisoned.
Yueqi officials and Kuang Chang's brother prepared to conspire to save Kuang Chang.
After the incident was discovered, Kuang Heng took off his official hat and went to plead guilty with bare feet. The emperor sent envoy Shao Ling to restore Kuang Heng's official hat and shoes.
However, a supervisor impeached Kuang Heng for monopolizing land theft, and Kuang Heng was implicated and was dismissed from office.
At the beginning, Kuang Heng's fiefdom was in Le'an Township, Tong County, Linhuai County. The entire township had a total of 3,100 hectares of farmland, bounded by Fujian and Bai in the south.
In the first year of the Chu Yuan Dynasty, the county map of Linhuai County mistakenly identified Min Bai as Pingling Bai.
For more than ten years, the Kuangheng fiefdom in Linhuai County actually used the original Pingling Bai as the boundary of the fiefdom, which was 400 hectares more than the real Minbai as the fiefdom.
In the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the national boundaries were demarcated, the acres were re-counted, new books were made, the maps were re-drawn, and the matter was reported to the Prime Minister's Office.
Kuang Heng said to Zhao Yin, a close official: Lu Ci, the chief secretary, used to serve as a memorial to Cao and was familiar with the division of fief boundaries. Now he serves as a gathering of Cao.
When conducting land statistics the next year, Kuang Heng asked Cai Yin about the boundaries of the fiefdom: What does the clerk in charge of this matter want to do?
Zhao Yin replied: Lu Ci believed that he should take the initiative to truthfully report the statistical land account books, and asked the local officials to change the fiefdom to Pingling Bai as the boundary according to the actual situation.
I'm afraid the local people are unwilling to change it like this, so we can ask Jiacheng to write to the emperor.
Kuang Heng said: "The main consideration is whether we should get it. Why should we write to the emperor?"
However, Kuang Heng did not instruct the official in charge of the matter to report the accounts of the fields, leaving it to the clerks.
Later, Lu Ciyu's subordinate official named Ming reported land statistics and said: According to the original territory, the south of the Le'an Township fiefdom is bounded by Pingling Bai. It does not follow the original demarcation, but Min Bai is used as the boundary. What does it mean?
Linhuai County immediately allocated another 400 hectares of land to Le'an Kingdom.
Kuang Heng sent responsible clerks to Tong County to collect the rent for the returned land, which amounted to more than a thousand stones of millet.
Sili Xiaowei Jun and Shaofuzhong were responsible for the affairs of acting Tingwei. They impeached Kuang Heng and said: Kuang Heng supervised the fiefdom of Linhuai County and stole local property privately. The crime is punishable by a fine of more than ten gold.
The principles of "Spring and Autumn" indicate that princes cannot monopolize land and must abide by the country's legal system.
Kuang Heng had a high official position among the three public officials, assisting the state in government affairs, mastering the land acreage book of the fiefdom, and knowing the actual situation of demarcating the boundaries of the county and land. He should draw the boundaries correctly. However, after the local land recalculation and the redrawing of the fiefdom boundaries, Kuang Heng still violated the national regulations. According to the family's legal system, land was stolen and arbitrarily used to increase personal gain. His subordinate officials Lu Ci and Ming Ai flattered Kuang Heng's will, distorted the statistics of reported fiefdoms, reduced county boundaries indiscriminately, deceived superiors and subordinates, and annexed land to ministers without authorization, which was all illegal.
So the emperor approved the two men's memorials and did not punish Kuang Heng. He was only removed from the post of prime minister and demoted to a commoner. Kuang Heng finally died at home.
Kuang Heng's son Kuang Xian was also proficient in classics and righteousness, and once held the position of Jiu Qing.
His descendants produced many doctors of Confucian classics.
Zhang Yu, whose courtesy name was Ziwen, was a native of Ruan County, Hanoi County. When his father arrived, he moved to Lianshao County.
When Zhang Yu was a child, he often went to the market with his family and liked to watch those who performed divination and fortune telling.
As time goes by, I am very good at identifying the good and bad meanings of yarrow and gossip, and I often tell what I mean from the sidelines.
The fortune teller liked him very much and thought he was extraordinary in appearance, so he said to Zhang Yu's father: This child is very smart and he can learn scriptures.
When Zhang Yu grew up, he went to Chang'an, the capital, to study. He learned the Book of Changes from Shi Yu, a native of Peijun, and the Analects of Confucius from Wang Yang, a native of Langxie, and Yongsheng, a native of Jiaodong. When he became proficient in these classics, he gathered his disciples to teach them, and was later recommended as a county literature scholar.
During the Ganlu reign of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, various Confucian scholars recommended Zhang Yu, and the emperor ordered the prince and Taifu Xiao Wangzhi to be responsible for inspecting Zhang Yu's knowledge.
Zhang Yu answered about the great meaning of "The Book of Changes" and "The Analects of Confucius". Xiao Wangzhi appreciated it very much and reported to the emperor that Zhang Yu was very proficient in Confucian classics and had learned the classics. He suggested that the emperor should try Zhang Yu as an official.
However, this report was not approved, and Zhang Yu returned to his original official position.
Much later, the emperor tried Zhang Yu as a doctor.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the crown prince was established. At that time, Dr. Zheng Kuanzhong taught the prince "Shang Shu". He recommended that Zhang Yu was good at "The Analects of Confucius", so the emperor ordered Zhang Yu to teach the prince to learn "The Analects of Confucius".
Therefore, Zhang Yu was promoted to doctor Guanglu.
A few years later, he served as the internal history of Shuping County.
Emperor Yuan died and Emperor Cheng ascended the throne. Zhang Yu and Zheng Kuanzhong were recruited to Chang'an. They were both given the title of Marquis of Guannei because they had been teachers of the prince. Zheng Kuanzhong had a settlement of 800 households, and Zhang Yu had a settlement of 600 households.
Zhang Yu was appointed to the various officials as Guanglu Dafu, with an official rank of two thousand shi, and was assigned to Shizhong, and he was in charge of the secretarial affairs.
When he was sent, Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty's uncle Yangpinghou Wang Feng was appointed as a general. He was called assistant to the government, but he was actually authoritarian. The emperor was very young, modest, fond of classics, and respected teachers.
At that time, Zhang Yu and Wang Feng concurrently served as ministers, and he felt very uneasy. He petitioned to resign and return to his hometown several times due to illness, and wanted to avoid working with Wang Feng.
The emperor replied: I ascended the throne at a young age and was very worried about making mistakes. You became my teacher because of your high moral character, so I entrusted the affairs of the country to you.
What do you have to worry about, so that you repeatedly asked to resign? Are you forgetting our master-disciple relationship, or are you avoiding some rumors?
I haven't heard any rumors about you.
You should work with peace of mind, still be in charge of political affairs, show your tireless spirit, and don't go against my wishes.
Then he rewarded Zhang Yu with a hundred catties of gold, beef cattle and fine wine, ordered the eunuchs to provide food for Zhang Yu, ordered the doctors to treat him, and often sent envoys to express condolences to him.
Zhang Yu was deeply disturbed, so he began to go to court again. In the fourth year of Heping reign of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Yu succeeded Wang Shang as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Anchang.
Zhang Yu served as prime minister for six years. In the first year of Emperor Hongjia's reign, he requested to resign on the pretext that he was old and sick. The emperor praised him repeatedly before allowing him to resign.
At the same time, he also gave Zhang Yuan a chariot and horse, and a hundred catties of gold. After Zhang Yu resigned, he returned to his residence and attended the court as a marquis on every first and fifteenth day of the lunar month. The emperor also granted him the official title of Tejin, summoned Zhang Yu according to the etiquette of the prime minister, allowed him to choose five people to engage in history, and increased the food for 400 households.
The emperor successively rewarded Zhang Yu with tens of millions in property.
Zhang Yu was a cautious and kind man, and his family was engaged in business and farming.
Zhang Yu rose to prominence in the officialdom and bought 400 hectares of farmland in the Jingshui and Weihe river basins, both of which were fertile lands with convenient irrigation.
There are also quite a lot of other belongings.
Zhang Yu himself was proficient in and fond of music, and lived a relatively luxurious and luxurious life. After he resigned and returned home, he often went to the back hall to play silk, bamboo, wind, string and other musical instruments.
Among Zhang Yu's students, the more accomplished ones were Peng Xuan from Huaiyang, who had an official rank of Da Sikong, and the other was Dai Chong, a Peijun native, who had an official rank of at least Jiuqing.
Peng Xuan treats others with respect and humility, and pays attention to laws, while Dai Chong is harmonious, simple, smart and versatile. Their characters are different. Zhang Yu liked Dai Chong more in his heart, but stayed away from Peng Xuan.
Every time Dai Chong visited Zhang Yu, he often asked the teacher to prepare a banquet with wine and share the fun of playing the harp with him.
Therefore, Zhang Yu always brought Dai Chong to the back hall to have dinner together, and asked women to accompany him while drinking, and made the ladies sing and dance to entertain him, and they did not leave until late at night.
Whenever Peng Xuan came to visit, Zhang Yu would sit in the banquet to receive him, chatting with him about the present and the past. The meal was very simple, just a meal of meat and a bowl of wine. He never invited Peng Xuan to the back hall.
When Peng Xuan and Dai Chong learned that the teacher received them in different ways, they both thought it was suitable for their personalities.
When Zhang Yu was old, he built a tomb and temple for himself. He liked the Fei Niu Pavilion in Pingling, which was close to Yanling, so he asked the emperor for the land. The emperor granted Zhang Yu permission to build a tomb and temple here, and Shao ordered the prefect of Pingling County to move the Fei Niu Pavilion to another place.
After Wanggen, the Marquis of Quyang, heard about this, he remonstrated with the emperor: Feiniu Pavilion was the place where the royal family worshiped their ancestors in the Pingling Temple. As a teacher, Zhang Yu did not value humility and thought too much about his own interests. It was very inappropriate to ask for a place to build a tomb regardless of destroying the old pavilion.
Confucius once said to Zigong: You love his sheep and I love his rituals. The emperor should give Zhang Yu another place.
Although Wang Gen was the emperor's uncle, the emperor did not respect him as much as Zhang Yu. Although Wang Gen spoke very sincerely, the emperor did not listen to his dissuasion and finally gave the Fei Niu Pavilion to Zhang Yu.
Wang Gen was jealous of Zhang Yu's favor, so he wrote many times to slander Zhang Yu.
But the emperor respected Zhang Yu even more and treated him favorably.
Every time Zhang Yu fell ill, the emperor would ask about his daily life and even visit Zhang Yu in person.
When the emperor arrived, Zhang Yu was grateful, kowtowed and thanked him, and took this opportunity to report to the emperor: I have four sons and one daughter, and I prefer my daughter, but she is married to Xiao Xian, the prefect of Zhangye. I miss her very much and hope she will be closer to me.
The emperor immediately ordered Xiao Xian to be transferred to be the prefect of Hongnong.
In addition, Zhang Yu's youngest son did not have an official title at that time. When the emperor visited him, he looked at his youngest son many times. After the emperor understood what he meant, he appointed his youngest son as Huang Menlang in front of his bed, giving him the title of "Huang Menlang".
Although Zhang Yu has resigned, he still serves as the emperor's teacher as a special official. Whenever the country makes major decisions, the emperor must ask Zhang Yu.
During the reigns of Emperor Cheng Yongshi and Yuanyan, there were many solar eclipses and earthquakes. Officials and people wrote letters saying that these were disasters, and ridiculed that they were caused by the Wang family's monopoly.
The emperor was afraid that disasters would occur many times, and he was worried and uneasy. He did not express his clear position on the petitions from ministers and people, so he drove to Zhang Yu's mansion, dismissed the guards on the left and right, and then asked Zhang Yu about his views on food and earthquakes, and stated the opinions of the officials and people on the Wang family.
Zhang Yu considered that he was old and his descendants were weak. His relationship with Quyanghou Wanggen had always been mediocre, and he was afraid of being resented by him.
So he told the emperor: During the two hundred and forty-two years of the Spring and Autumn Period, there were more than thirty solar eclipses and five earthquakes. During this period, sometimes the princes killed each other, and sometimes the barbarians invaded the Central Plains. The disasters were unpredictable. Therefore, ancient saints rarely talked about destiny, nor did they blame gods.
Starting from the time of Zigong, the relationship between life and the way of heaven has no longer been discussed, let alone what Qianjian despised Confucianism said!
It is only natural that Your Majesty should revise his country's governance policies to adapt to the current situation and share the well-being of the people.
New students who mislead others should not be trusted and reused, and should use classics to judge what they say.
Because the emperor usually trusted and favored Zhang Yu, Zhang Yu's words dispelled the emperor's doubts about Wang.
Afterwards, when King Gen of Quyanghou and the descendants of various princes and kings heard about Zhang Yu's remarks, they were all delighted and began to approach Zhang Yu.
Zhang Yu saw that abnormal phenomena often occurred at that time, and the emperor was in poor health, so he chose auspicious days to cleanse himself and fast, and exposed yarrow under the stars to catch the heavenly energy.
After Emperor Cheng died, Zhang Yu served Emperor Ai again. He died in the second year of Jianping, Emperor Ai's reign, and was given the title of Marquis of Jie.
Zhang Yu had four sons. The eldest son, Zhang Hong, inherited his father's title as Marquis of Anchang. His palace was in Taichang and he was among the nine ministers.
The other three sons were all appointed as school captains and various cavalry officers.
When Zhang Yu became the emperor's teacher, he recorded the difficult problems the emperor encountered while studying scriptures, annotated them, and compiled them into "The Analects of Confucius" to present to the emperor.
At that time, Lu Fuqing, Xia Housheng, Wang Yang, Xiao Wangzhi, and Wei Xuancheng all taught the Analects of Confucius and wrote books with different views.
Zhang Yu first worshiped Wang Yang as his teacher, and then studied "The Analects" under Yongsheng's disciples. He learned from the best of other schools and became his own school. In the end, he stood out and gained a more distinguished status.
Confucian scholars therefore said: If you want to understand the Analects of Confucius, you must study Zhang Yu's articles.
After that, many Confucian scholars rushed to study Zhang Yu's articles, and other schools of thought gradually declined.
Kong Guang, courtesy name Zixia, was the fourteenth generation grandson of Confucius.
Confucius's son was given the given name Boyu, and his given name was Li; Kong Li's son was given the given name Zisi, and his given name was Ji; Kong Ji's son was given the given name Zishang, and his given name was Bo; Kong Bo's son was given the given name Zijia, and his given name was Qiu; Kong Qiu's son was given the given name Zizhen, and his given name was Ji; Kong Ji's son was given the given name Zigao, and his given name was Chuan.
Kong Chuan's son was named Shun, and Kong Shun served as the prime minister of Wei.
Kong Shun's son was named Yu. Kong Yu served as Chen She's doctor and died in Chen.
Kong Yu's disciple Xiang was Dr. Xiaohui, the Taifu of Changsha.
Zixiang's son was named Zhong, and Zhongzhong had two sons: Kong Wu and Kong Anguo. Kong Wu was born in Yannian.
Yannian's son was named Ba, named Ciru.
Kong Ba's son was Kong Guang.
Anguo and Yannian both became doctors during the reign of Emperor Wu by studying "Shangshu".
An Guoguan arrived at Linhuai Prefecture.
Kong Ba also studied "Shangshu" and followed the Taifu Xiahou Sheng. He was awarded the title of doctor in the last years of Emperor Zhao. During the reign of Emperor Xuan, he served as Taizhong doctor. Because he was selected to teach the classics to the crown prince, he was promoted to Zhanshi and Gaomixiang.
At this time, the ministers of the princes and kings were all above the county guards.
Emperor Yuan came to the throne, recruited Kong Ba as his teacher, rewarded Kong Ba with the title of Marquis of Guannei, granted him eight hundred households in the city, and gave him the title of Chengjun.
Kong Ba is humble and courteous in his treatment of others, and does not like power. He often says that his title is too high and he has no moral character to be qualified for the job!
The emperor wanted Kong Ba to serve as prime minister. From the death of Gong Yu, the imperial censor, to the dismissal of Xue Guangde, the emperor always wanted to worship Kong Ba as prime minister.
Kong Ba gave way again and again, and the emperor knew that he was sincerely humble, so he did not appoint him as prime minister.
After that, the emperor respected Kong Ba even more and his rewards became more generous.
After Kong Ba passed away, the emperor came to mourn twice in mourning clothes. He gave Shuyuan's secret utensils, money and silk, and gave them according to the etiquette of the princes, calling him Liejun.
Kong Ba had four sons. The eldest son, Mingfu, inherited the title of Marquis of Guannei.
The second son Kong Jie and the third son Kong happy both served as school captains and other officials.
Kong Guang, the youngest son of Kong Ba, was particularly proficient in Confucian classics. He was elected as Yilang when he was less than twenty years old.
Guang Luxun Kuang Heng recommended Kong Guang to be an admonishing doctor because of his good conduct.
Because his discussion of political affairs was inconsistent with the emperor's wishes, he was demoted to the magistrate of Hong County. Kong Guang was dismissed in vain and went home to teach Confucian classics.
When Emperor Cheng first came to the throne, Liao Guang was elected as a doctor. He was repeatedly asked to be responsible for redressing injustices, regulating customs, and providing relief to victims. Kong Guang successfully completed the mission every time he was ordered to go on an envoy, and Kong Guang's reputation spread throughout the government and the public.
At this time, doctors were divided into three subjects to select officials. Those with excellent grades were selected as ministers, and those with lower grades were selected as governors. Those who were not familiar with government affairs were left to serve as princes and tutors in the future. The ones with excellent grades were appointed as ministers, responsible for inspecting the laws, regulations, etiquette and rituals of the previous dynasties. After many years of study, they became proficient in the systems and laws of the Han Dynasty.
The emperor trusted him very much and was successively promoted to Pu She and Shan Shu Ling.
The emperor had a letter from Shao to commend Kong Guang for his careful and prudent work and never making any mistakes. He was promoted to an official and appointed his son Kong Fang as the minister of ministers to the Huangmen.
A few years later, Kong Guang was promoted to the official position Guanglu Dafu, with a salary of 2,000 dan, a reward of 100 jin of gold, and the title of Shangshu.
Later, he was promoted to Guang Luxun, still responsible for the affairs of the minister, and served as an official in charge of affairs as before. Kong Guang was in charge of the government affairs for more than ten years, maintaining laws and revising systems.
When the emperor asked about political affairs, Kong Guang always answered with the answer he thought was right according to the classic laws, and did not want to be in conflict with the emperor's will. Just as sometimes the emperor did not obey, Kong Guang did not dare to forcefully remonstrate, so Kong Guang served as an official for a long time and was safe.
Sometimes he wrote letters to express his opinions, and the memorials he had already written were always deleted and revised. He believed that writing letters to publicize the emperor's faults in order to gain a reputation for loyalty and uprightness was a major sin in officialdom.
When Ziguang recommended others to become officials, he was also afraid that others would hear him.
When it was my turn to have a holiday, I would go home to rest and talk to my brothers, wives and children about everyday things, but never mention the political affairs surrounding the imperial court.
Someone asked Kong Guang: What kind of trees are there in the greenhouse of Changle Palace?
Kong Guang just smiled, did not answer, and then distracted him with other words. This is how Kong Guang did not leak the political affairs of the court.
Kong Guang was the son of the emperor's teacher. He was famous for his classical studies and conduct when he was young. He became famous very early when he became an official. He did not form a party, support or train lobbyists, nor did he seek help from others.
This is not only the result of his introverted and rigorous personality, but also determined by his early academic life.
Later, Kong Guang was promoted from Guang Luxun to imperial censor.
During the Suihe period, the emperor ascended the throne for twenty-five years and had no son to inherit the throne. His closest relatives were his half-brother, King Zhongshan Xiao, and his half-brother's son, King Dingtao.
King Dingtao was as knowledgeable as the emperor's son.
The Queen Mother Fu, the grandmother of King Dingtao, secretly sought to inherit the throne for King Dingtao, and secretly colluded with Queen Zhao, Zhaoyi and the emperor's uncle, General Wang Gen, so they all persuaded the emperor to appoint a successor.
The emperor then summoned Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin, imperial censor Kong Guang, right general Lian Bao, and rear general Zhu into the secret room to discuss which one of Zhongshan King Xiao and King Dingtao should be designated as the heir to the throne.
Zhai Fangjin and Wang Gen believed that King Dingtao was the son of the emperor's younger brother. "Li" said that the son of a compatriot brother is just like his own son. He is his descendant and his son, so King Dingtao should be designated as the heir.
Lian Guo and Zhu Bo also had the same idea as Fang Jin and Wang Gen.
Only Kong Guang believed that the selection of heirs should be based on blood relations according to etiquette. King Zhongshan was the son of the late emperor and the emperor's biological brother. According to "Shang Shu." According to "Pangeng", when the elder brother dies and the younger brother inherits the throne, for example, King Zhongshan should be established as the heir.
According to the "Li", the emperor had records that not all brothers could enter the temple. In addition, the queen and Zhaoyi wanted to establish King Dingtao, so he selected King Dingtao as the crown prince.
Kong Guang was demoted to Tingwei because his comments were not in line with the emperor's wishes.
Kong Guang has been in charge of Shangshu affairs for a long time and formulated the legal system, which is known as fine and peaceful.
At this time, Chunyu Chang, the Marquis of Dingling, committed a crime of treason and was killed. Chun Yuchang's concubine Naishi and the other six people all left Chunyu Chang before his crime was discovered, and some of them remarried.
After Chunyu Chang's incident happened, Prime Minister Fang Jin and Grand Sikong Hewu discussed it and believed that according to the law, those who broke the law should be punished according to the law at the time of breaking the law, and there was a clear limit on time. When Chunyu Chang committed the crime of treason and immorality, it was his wife who had already committed the crime of implication, just as he had committed the crime.
They left him only after committing a crime, and according to the law, they could not be exempted from guilt. Please make your decision.
Kong Guang expressed his opinion that he had committed a crime of treason, and that the offender's parents, wife, children, and co-mother were involved. Relatives, regardless of age, should be beheaded and their bodies dumped on the streets as a warning to future criminals.
The rule between husband and wife is that if there is affection for each other, they will be united; if there is no affection, they will separate.
Chunyu Chang himself did not know that he was committing a crime of treason, so he abandoned Naishi and others. Some of them remarried, and the friendship between husband and wife was no longer true. If he still thought that they were Chun Yuchang's wives and killed them, it would be unfair in name, so he should not be implicated in the crime.
The emperor wrote to Shao, confirming that Kong Guang's opinion was correct.
In this year, the right general Lian Bao and the rear general Zhu Bo were also dismissed as commoners because of their close friendship with the criminal Dingling Marquis Chun Yuchang and Hongyang Marquis Wangli.
Kong Guang was appointed as the left general and held the official position of the right general, and Zhijinwu Wang Xian was appointed as the right general and held the official position of the rear general.
The post of general was revoked.
A few months later, Prime Minister Fang Jin passed away. The emperor summoned Kong Guang, the general of the left, and prepared to worship him as prime minister. He had already carved the seal of Hou and written a policy letter to worship him as prime minister. At this time, the emperor suddenly died. On the night of the emperor's sudden death, before the funeral, he paid homage to the Prime Minister and the Marquis of Boshan.
When Emperor Ai first came to the throne, he set an example and advocated frugality, which reduced a lot of expenses. The emperor was responsible for handling all court affairs. The court was shocked and looked forward to the arrival of peace and prosperity.
The emperor praised and rewarded the ministers and granted Kong Guang an additional 1,000 households.
At this time, Emperor Cheng's mother, the Empress Dowager, lived in Changle Palace by herself, while Emperor Cheng's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Dingtaofu, lived in the emperor's residence. The emperor issued an edict asking the prime minister, Da Sikong: Where should the Empress Dowager Dingtao live?
Kong Guang had often heard that Empress Dowager Fu was fierce and cruel in dealing with others, and was good at playing politics and strategies. She raised the emperor when he was still in his infancy and educated him until he became an adult. She also helped when the emperor ascended the throne.
Kong Guang was worried that Empress Dowager Fu would interfere in government affairs and did not want her to be close to the emperor day and night, so he expressed his opinion that Empress Dowager Dingtao should build another palace to live in.
Grand Sikong Hewu said: You can live in Beigong.
The emperor listened to He Wu's words.
There is a Purple Room in the North Palace and a pavilion in the air is connected to the Weiyang Palace. Mrs. Fu indeed went to the emperor's residence from the pavilion in the morning and evening and asked the emperor to grant her a title so that her relatives could be rich and favored, which prevented the emperor from acting impartially according to the principle of integrity.
Soon, Fu Qian, the son of the Queen Mother's cousin, displayed treacherous tricks around the emperor. The emperor dismissed him from his official position and sent him back to his hometown.
Empress Dowager Fu was angry, and the emperor had no choice but to keep Fu Qian again.
Kong Guang and the Grand Sikong Master Alchemy reported: The emperor issued an edict saying: Fu Qian, the prince-in-law of the imperial court, is a clever and evil person who leaked the secrets of the court and was disloyal to the emperor. He is a scourge to the country. He should be dismissed from his official position and sent home.
Later, an edict was issued to stop the operation. All officials were puzzled and felt that there was nothing worthy of trust. This was a great damage to the emperor's sanctity, and it was indeed not a small fault.
Due to the occurrence of disasters one after another, His Majesty once left the main hall and summoned all the officials of the court to think about the reasons for the disasters. Until now, those things that were not done well in the past have not been corrected.
We ask the emperor to still send Fu Qian back to his hometown to eliminate the traitors and obey God's warning.
But Fu Qian was not sent home in the end and became a servant again.
The emperor acted in a coercive manner and obeyed the Queen Mother Fu, which was the same situation.
In addition, Empress Dowager Fu wanted to receive a title together with Emperor Cheng's mother. Many ministers obeyed her will, saying that the mother was distinguished by her son and should be given a title to promote filial piety.
Only Shidan and Renmi thought it was impossible.
It was difficult for the emperor to go against the honest opinions of his ministers, and he was internally coerced by the Empress Dowager Fu, so the matter was delayed for several years without being resolved.
Shi Dan was dismissed from office for committing a crime, and Zhu Bo replaced him as chief minister.
When Kong Guang was the late emperor, he disagreed with the emperor when discussing the successor to the throne. Later, he seriously violated the will of Empress Dowager Fu. Therefore, Fu's reigning chief minister Kong Zhubo colluded to slander and frame Kong Guang. After a few months, the emperor dismissed Kong Guang and said: The prime minister is a minister who assists the monarch. He inherits the country with the monarch and is responsible for governing the country. He also assists the emperor's deficiencies so that the country can be governed.
The emperor is confused, disasters continue, the sun and moon lose their light, mountains collapse, the Yellow River bursts, and the five stars move abnormally, these all show that I am not moral enough, and that the ministers who assist the monarch are not virtuous enough.
When you were the imperial censor, you assisted the late emperor for eight years, but you never had any loyal words or good strategies. Now I have been serving as my prime minister for three years, and I have not yet heard your advice on caring for the country and the people.
Recently, the yin and yang qi between heaven and earth have been erroneous and inconsistent. There has been no harvest for many years. The country's granaries are empty. The people are starving. Fathers and sons are scattered and wandering around. In a few days, more than 100,000 people have been displaced.
However, the duties of all the officials in the imperial court were abolished, all kinds of evil spirits were rampant, and bandits were rampant. Some attacked the government and killed officials.
I asked you many times about these things, but you showed no sorrow or fear and replied that there was no harm.
Therefore, all the officials became lazy and neglected, and did not take these things to heart. This is all your responsibility.
You bear the important responsibility of governing the country and the officials, but you can't correct my mistakes when you are above me, and you can't appease the people when you are below.
The Book of Books does not say: Do not appoint incompetent officials.
Those who manage hundreds of officials on behalf of heaven must be competent, Daohu! You hand over the palace seal of Prime Minister Boshan Hou, dismiss from office and go home.
After Kong Guang retreated to his hometown, he stayed behind closed doors.
Zhu Bo replaced Kong Guang as prime minister. A few months later, he committed suicide by following the instructions of Empress Dowager Fu and mistaking political affairs.
Pingdang succeeded Zhu Bo as prime minister, but died a few months later.
Wang Jia then took over as prime minister and made several remonstrances, disobeying the emperor's will.
Three prime ministers were replaced frequently in a short period of time, and public opinion believed that none of these prime ministers could keep up with Kong Guang.
Therefore, the emperor often missed Kong Guang.
There happened to be a solar eclipse on the fifteenth day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yuanshou, and Empress Dowager Fu died more than ten days later.
This month the emperor summoned Kong Guang to the government office to inquire about the solar eclipse.
Kong Guang replied: I heard that the sun is the origin of all penises, the representative of the king, and the symbol of supreme dignity.
When the monarch's virtue declines and his ministers become prosperous and powerful, encroaching and blocking the light of the sun, then the phenomenon of eclipse will occur.
"Shu Jing" says to use the five things of appearance, speech, sight, hearing, and thinking to establish the broad and righteous way. If there are faults in the five aspects of appearance, speech, sight, hearing, and thinking, and the righteous way is not established, then the phenomenon of disaster will gradually occur, and the six kinds of punishments and disasters given by God, namely, evil, evil, illness, poverty, weakness, and sorrow, will occur frequently.
It is said that the sun and the moon will often move randomly at this time. The sun and the moon will either move faster or rotate slower, and even a solar eclipse will occur.
"Yi Zhuan" also said that six kinds of evil qi are blocked. The dynasty of the year, the dynasty of the month, and the dynasty of the day are called three dynasties, and their induction is very strong.
A solar eclipse occurred on the first day of Xinchou in the first lunar month, which was a disaster that occurred at the meeting of the three dynasties.
God is wise and discerning. If nothing happens in the country, the phenomenon of mutation will not happen for no reason.
"Book" says: First, use the name of the Supreme King to correct the matter, which means that the phenomenon of mutation occurs because something incorrect happens.
I heard the teacher say that in order to assist the monarch, God allows disasters and strange phenomena to occur many times to warn the monarch and ask him to change his mistakes.
If the monarch is not afraid, but still conceals and perverts, ignores God's warnings, and deceives God with street noise, then there is no doubt that punitive disaster will befall him. "The Book of Songs" says: Respect God, respect God, God is extremely discerning, how difficult it is to accept the destiny!
He also said: Only by fearing the power of God can you maintain peace. These all mean that if you don't fear God, you will suffer disaster, and if you fear God, you will have good luck.
His Majesty is wise and wise, conscientious in his work, respects and obeys the warnings of God, respects various phenomena of variation, is diligent, and is open-minded. He summons hundreds of officials and officials to reflect on the causes of variation, and then leads by example, self-disciplines, prime minister, corrects everything, and neglects everything. Staying away from villains who form factions for personal gain, accepting loyal and good people, removing greedy and cruel officials, appointing wise and loyal officials, fairly rewarding and punishing people, reducing taxes, and extending benefits to the people. This is truly the foundation of handling government affairs and the primary task of dealing with all kinds of disasters.
This is a great blessing for the country.
"Shu Jing" says: Since you have accepted the destiny, you should implement virtuous government, which means implementing virtuous government to comply with God.
He also said that God will assist him sincerely, which means that if he has a loyal heart, God will assist him.
Wisely accepting and obeying the way of heaven is to improve your moral character, extend your kindness widely, become more sincere and never slack off.
The little tricks used by the world to seek blessings and eliminate misfortunes are ultimately useless in complying with God, eliminating disasters, and eliminating misfortunes to seek blessings. It is clearly revealed, and there is no doubt about it.
When the memorial was handed in, the emperor was very happy after reading it. He rewarded Kong Guangguang with silk and worshiped him as Guanglu doctor. He was given a salary of two thousand dan, and his official position was second only to the prime minister.
The emperor issued an edict asking Kong Guang to recommend someone who could serve as minister. After he wrote it and sealed it, Kong Guang wrote a letter of thanks and said: As an old man, I have held various important positions in the past without any success. I was spared from being executed for no crime and saved my life. Now I have been promoted and appointed again. As a reserve minister of the imperial court, I participate in the affairs of the government.
I, Kong Guang, am very short-sighted in wisdom and strategy. Now that I am old, I am really worried that I will die suddenly one day and have nothing to repay the emperor.
I have seen privately that in national government affairs, the post of Minister has been constantly changing, and it is very difficult for someone without outstanding talents to be qualified.
The servant of the minister is open, fair, diligent in his duties, and quick-witted when dealing with problems, so he can serve as the minister.
Now solemnly write it down and seal it for memorial.
Because of Kong Guang's recommendation, Chang became the prefect of Shuping.
Chang's surname is Chenggong, and he is from Shuhai County.
Kong Guang served as doctor for a month. Prime Minister Wang Jia was imprisoned and died. The censor doctor bought an extension and was dismissed.
Kong Guang resumed his role as the imperial censor, and two months later he resumed his role as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Boshan again.
Only then did the emperor realize that the reason why Kong Guang had been dismissed from his official position was not that Kong Guang had committed a crime, but that the ministers around him had slandered and framed him, so he dismissed Fu Jia from his official position, saying: When Fu Jia was serving as a minister, he slandered and framed people who were benevolent, righteous and virtuous, and falsely accused ministers, so that virtuous and handsome people could not be reused for a long time.
On the contrary, Fu Jia was clever and hypocritical, harbored treachery, deceived the emperor, formed cliques for personal gain, blocked the sky with one hand, slandered loyal ministers, and acted unscrupulously.
Didn't the "Book of Songs" say: The flattering villain was rampant in deception and caused chaos in the country, so Fu Jia was removed from his official position and became a civilian, and was sent back to his original county.
The next year, the official position of the three princes was evaluated, and Kong Guang was changed to the post of Grand Situ.
Coinciding with the death of Emperor Ai, the Empress Dowager took Wang Mang, the new capital lord, as the Grand Sima and elected King Zhongshan as the emperor, namely Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Ping was very young, so the Empress Dowager was in charge of the government, and the Empress Dowager entrusted political affairs to Wang Mang.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, the Wang family was deposed. Therefore, the Queen Mother and Wang Mang were very resentful towards Ding, Fu and Dong Xian.
Wang Mang believed that Kong Guang was the former prime minister, a famous Confucian, trusted and admired by the world, and the Queen Mother also respected him and always received him with courtesy.
Whenever it was necessary to attack political opponents, Li Guang was always asked to help draft documents. According to the Queen Mother's orders, Kong Guang was asked to write the memorial. Anyone who has enmity against the Queen Mother, even if it is a small amount of hatred, will be retaliated and no one will be killed.
Wang Mang's power became stronger day by day. Kong Guang was very frightened and worried. He didn't know what to do, so he wrote to the emperor to resign.
Wang Mang then said to the Queen Mother: The emperor is very young and should be given a teacher.
He appointed Kong Guang as the emperor's Taifu, with the official position of Fourth Assistant. He was responsible for providing food, clothing, carriages, horses and food.
In the second year, he was promoted to Taishi, and Wang Mang served as Taifu.
Kong Guang often complained of illness and did not dare to take the throne with Wang Mang in the court.
The emperor ordered Wang Mang to go to court on the first and fifteenth day of each month and asked Wang Mang to command the city gate guards.
Wang Mang also ordered his officials to submit a memorial praising Wang Mang's merits. Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty gave Wang Mang the title of Prime Minister, ranking him above the princes and kings and commanding hundreds of officials.
Seeing this situation, Ziguang felt even more panicked and insisted on resigning due to illness.
The Queen Mother then issued an edict saying: Taishi Kong Guang is a descendant of a saint and the son of the late emperor's teacher. He is pure and upright in virtue, proficient in morality and academics, and serves as the fourth assistant to assist the emperor.
Now I am old and sick. But highly respected ministers like Kong Guang are important ministers of the country and are still indispensable. "Book of Zhou."
Zhao Gao said: "Never abandon mature people. If the country wants to prosper, it must respect and reuse teachers."
He ordered Grand Master Kong Guang not to go to court, but to reward him with a meal every ten days.
The Grand Master was given a longevity stick, and the Huangmen Order set up a place for the Grand Master to sit within the palace. The Grand Master could hold the staff when entering the palace, and was rewarded with seventeen kinds of food. Then he returned to the mansion to retire, while his subordinate officials continued to work as usual.
Kong Guang served as the imperial censor and prime minister twice, and once as the chief situ, Taifu and Taishi. He experienced three generations of emperors and held the high position of auxiliary minister for a total of seventeen years.
After becoming the minister, he stopped teaching activities, and later became the prime minister. Sometimes he would meet his disciples to discuss and raise difficult questions, and Kong Guang would often explain his principles to them.
Many of Kong Guang's disciples were successful in their studies and became doctors and doctors. When they saw their teacher holding important positions, they all wanted his help. However, Kong Guang never recommended them, so some people complained about him.
Kong Guang acted fairly, that's all.
Kong Guang was seventy years old and died in the fifth year of Yuanshi.
Wang Mang told the Queen Mother that he would give Jiu Qing's policy book to the Taishi Boshan Hou Yinshou, and give him a carriage, a coffin, money, and miscellaneous silk.
The Shaofu set up the curtains, and sent the admonishing doctor to hold the talisman and the visitor to receive the guests to take charge of the funeral. The doctor was responsible for the funeral ceremony.
The Queen Mother also sent visitors to come with talismans in hand to express their condolences.
All the ministers and officials paid their condolences and paid their respects together.
A funeral car and an auxiliary funeral car were used to carry the emperor's Habayashi guards and many Confucian scholars, a total of four hundred people.
There were more than 10,000 funeral vehicles. Everywhere they went, passers-by burst into tears. The crying stopped after the motorcade finished.
Five hundred soldiers were used to dig a hole and lower the coffin, and the tomb was raised, just like the funeral of General Wang Feng.
He was given the title of Jian Liehou.
At first, Kong Guang was granted the title of prime minister, and later he was granted additional titles, with a total of 11,000 households.
When Kong Guang was seriously ill, he wrote a letter to return 7,000 households and the first house given by the emperor.
Kong Guang's son Kong Fang inherited the title.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, he appointed Kong Yong, the son of Kong Guang's brother, as the Grand Sima and a marquis.
Four or five of my brothers' sons became officials and reached the rank of minister.
At the beginning, Kong Guang's father Kong Ba was granted the title of Guannei Hou Shiyi in the first year of Chuyuan.
Kong Ba wrote a letter requesting that Confucius be enshrined and sacrificed. Emperor Yuan issued an edict saying: My respected master, I commend Kong Ba, the Marquis of Guan Nei, to sacrifice 800 households with the enfeoffed food town. son.
Therefore, Kong Ba moved his eldest son's household registration back to Lu to worship Confucius.
After Kong Ba's death, his son Kong Fu succeeded to the throne.
After Kong Fu died, his son Kong Fang succeeded to the throne.
After Kong Fang died, his son Kong Mang succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor granted the descendants of Zhou Gong and Confucius the title of marquis, with 2,000 households each.
Kong Mang was later granted the title of Marquis of Baocheng, and was later renamed Kong Jun to avoid Wang Mang's taboo.
Ma Gong, courtesy name Youqing, was born in Qixian County, Shuhai.
After studying Yan's "Spring and Autumn Annals", he was selected as a member of the Jia Division in response to the examination, and served as a minister. He was later promoted to the chief historian of Chu, and was dismissed soon after.
Later he served as Prime Minister Shi Sizhi.
Shi Dan recommended that Ma Gong was of high moral character and was promoted to Ting Weiping. He served successively as the governor of Qingzhou and the prefect of Runan and Jiujiang. He was qualified for official positions and received praise everywhere he went.
Therefore, he was recruited by the emperor as Zhan Shi, Guang Luxun, and General You. He replaced Kong Guang as the chief disciple and was granted the title of Fudehou.
After Kong Guang's death as Grand Master, Ma Gong succeeded Kong Guang as Grand Master and concurrently served as Situ.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, Ma Gong discussed the issue of the title of the emperor's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu, with the prime minister and the imperial censor. During the Yuanshi period, Wang Mang moved the tomb of Empress Dowager Fu back to Dingtao, buried it according to common people's etiquette, and investigated the charges against those who had discussed the funeral.
Because Ma Gong had a close friendship with Wang Mang, he was the only one who was not forced to investigate. Ma Gong felt ashamed and frightened, so he wrote a letter to the emperor to confess his guilt and asked to retire.
Wang Mang issued an edict in the name of the Empress Dowager and gave Ma Gong a policy letter saying:
Taishi and Grand Situ Fudehou wrote a letter saying: When I was serving as Guangluxun, I discussed the nickname of the mother of the late Dingtao Gongwang. It was said that a woman should be honored by her husband's title, and the nickname should be Empress Xiaoyuan Fu, and she should be called Weiling Shuyuan.
I know that concubines cannot represent the king, and the lowly ones cannot be compared with the noble ones, but they cater to the will of the superiors, agree with them, go against the scriptures, and express heresy, causing the emperor to be confused and make mistakes.
As a minister, if you are disloyal to your superior, you should be put to death. Fortunately, the emperor asked me to repent and changed my ways, and I was able to save my life.
I have deeply reflected on myself. I served as the fourth minister in the court, enjoyed the treatment of the three princes when I came in and out, and was given the title of lord. I really have no face to enter the court again, no intention to hold an official position anymore, and I should no longer enjoy the food.
I respectfully hand over the great seal of Grand Master and Grand Situ Fudehou to make way for the virtuous people.
They all believe that the four auxiliary ministers are responsible for implementing the country's charter laws, and the three ministers shoulder the important task of assisting the monarch. Without outstanding moral character, they cannot hold this position.
What you said in your letter shows that you are loyal and heartwarming, but just because you made the mistake before you repented, no one dared to protect you. I respect you very much and will not deprive you of your title and land, in order to promote the great righteousness of people since ancient times.
You hand over the seal of Grand Master Situ to the envoy, and return home to take care of yourself in your old age.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, he appointed Ma Gong as the crown prince's counselor and died in office.
His real surname is Ma Ya, and Ma Gong is the name of the academic officer he studied at, so he is called the Ma family.
Zan said: After Emperor Xiaowu attached great importance to Confucianism and appointed Gongsun Hong as his Confucian prime minister, Cai Yi, Wei Xian, Xuancheng, Kuang Heng, Zhang Yu, Zhai Fangjin, Kong Guang, Pingdang, Ma Gong and Pingdang's son Pingyan all regarded Confucianism as great Confucianism. He held the position of prime minister, wore Confucian clothes, preached the words of the previous kings, was erudite and tolerant, had good conduct, and was worthy of praise. However, in order to preserve his salary and official position, he suffered from flattery and ridicule.
They all act according to the ancient principles of straight conduct, how can they be qualified for their duties!
