Emperor An's name was Dezong and his courtesy name was Dezong. He was the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowu. In August of the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Xin Si was established as the crown prince. In September of the 21st year of Gengshen, Emperor Xiaowu passed away.
Xin You, the crown prince becomes the emperor and offers amnesty to the whole world.
In Guihai, Situ and Prince Daozi of Kuaiji were appointed as Taifus to act as agents of the government.
In Jiashen, the tenth month of winter, Emperor Xiaowu was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
It's snowing heavily.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Long'an, the emperor was crowned, his reign title was changed, and a first-class official rank was added to the civil and military officials.
Taifu and King Daozi of Kuaiji returned to power.
Appoint Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Xie as Shangshu Ling, and the leading general Wang Guobao as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In February, Lu Guang's general Wu Gu called himself the Great Governor and the Great Chanyu, and his country was named Nanliang.
In Jinchang, he attacked Lu Guang's general Dou Gou and defeated his army.
In the third month of Jiayin, the Empress Dowager Li was honored as the Empress Dowager.
On Wuwu day, Wang was made queen.
Lu Guang's son Lu Zuan was defeated by Qifu Qiangui.
Lu Guang's subordinate Duan Ye, the prefect of Jiankang, named himself Liangzhou Mu.
Murong Shi Ji defeated the Wei army.
In the fourth month of the summer, Jiaxu, Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, and Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, raised troops in the name of attacking Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Guobao and Jianwei general Wang Xu.
Jiashen killed the national treasure and Wang Xulai to please Wang Gong, and Wang Gong stopped his troops.
Wuzi, amnesty to the world.
In May, former Situ Chief Shi Wangchang rebelled in Wu County, but Wang Gong conquered him and put him down.
Murong Shi's general Murong Xiang ascended the throne as the pseudo-emperor in Zhongshan, and Murong Bao fled to Huanglong.
In the eighth month of autumn, Lu Guang was attacked by his servant She Yang Gui and his Sanqi Changshi Guo Mo. Lu Guang's son Lu Zuan defeated them.
In September, Murong Shi's general Murong Lin beheaded Murong Xiang in Zhongshan, and then ascended the throne as the pseudo-emperor.
In October of winter, Murong Lin was defeated by the Wei army.
In the spring and March of the second year, the dragon boat caught fire twice.
In the fifth month of summer, Lan Khan killed Murong Shi and proclaimed himself the general and the king of Changli.
In the seventh month of autumn, Murong Bao's son Murong Sheng beheaded Lan Khan and assumed the title of King of Changle, taking over the throne of emperor.
Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, Yin Zhongkan, the governor of Jingzhou, Huan Xuan, the governor of Guangzhou, and Yang Quanqi, the Nanman captain, rebelled.
In August, Wang Yu, the governor of Jiangzhou, fled and arrived.
In Bingzi, Ning Shuo's general Deng Qifang fought with Murong De's general Murong Fa in Guancheng, and Wang's division was defeated.
In Bingxu, Murong Sheng usurped the throne in Huanglong and called himself emperor.
Huan Xuan defeated Wang Shi in Baishi.
On Xinmao in the ninth month, Huang Tie, the Taifu and Prince Daozi of Kuaiji, was added.
He sent the conquest general Yuan Xian, the eldest son of King Kuaiji, the former general Wang Shi, and the right general Xie Yan to attack Huan Xuan and others.
Jihai defeated Yu Kai at Niuzhu.
On Bingwu, King Daozi of Kuaiji stationed troops in the middle hall, and Yuan Xian guarded the stone.
In Jiyou, the former general Wang died defending the northern suburbs, and the right general Xie Yan guarded Xuanyang Gate.
Liu Laozhi, the general of the auxiliary state, was stationed in Xinting and sent his son Jingxuan to defeat Wang Gong. Wang Gong fled to Changtang Lake in Qu'a. The lake captain arrested him and sent him to the capital, where he was beheaded.
So he sent Taichang Yin Maoxiao to inform Zhongkan and Huanxuan, and Huanxuan waited in Xunyang.
In October of winter, there were reports of the appearance of righteous beasts in Xinye.
Bingzi, amnesty to the world.
In Renwu, Zhongkan and others formed an alliance in Xunyang and elected Huan Xuan as the leader of the alliance.
In November, King Dewen of Langxie was appointed as the general of Wei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the leading general Wang Ya was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, Ji Chou, King Tuoba Gui of Wei ascended the throne and was named Tianxing.
Wei Hua, a native of Jingzhao, led the refugees in Xiangyang to rebel and surrendered to Yao Xing.
In Jiyou, the former Xin'an prefect Du Jiong was in Beijing: he rebelled, and Yuan Xian, the prince of Kuaiji, attacked and beheaded him.
The bald Wugu calls himself King Wuwei.
On the Xinyou day of the first month of the third year of spring, Sima Yun of the clan was granted the title of King of Huailing.
On the first day of February, Hejian Kingdom passed away.
Fanhuda of Linyi captured Rinan and Jiuzhen, and then invaded Jiaotou. The prefect Du Yuan defeated him in a crusade.
Duan Ye calls himself King of Liang.
Qiu Chi Gong Yang Sheng sent an envoy to express his willingness to offer local products to the vassal.
On March 9th, he honored his biological mother, Mrs. Chen, as the Empress Dowager De.
At the end of April in Xia, he was granted the title of Shangshu Ling Wang to die as General of the Guard, and Yuan Xian, the prince of Kuaiji, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
In the sixth month of Wuzi, King Dewen of Langxie was appointed Situ.
Ji Jiade captured Qingzhou and killed General Long Xiang Pi Jianhun, so he assumed the throne of emperor in Guanggu.
In the eighth month of autumn, Bald-haired Wugu died, and his younger brother Lilugu succeeded to the pseudo-throne.
In the tenth month of winter, Yao Xing captured Luoyang and captured Xin Gongjing, the governor of Henan.
In the 11th month of Jiayin, the demon thief Sun En captured Kuaiji. Wang Ning, the internal historian, was killed. Huanqian, the internal historian of Wu, Sima Chong, the king of Xincai, the prefect of Linhai, and Wei Yin, the prefect of Yixing, all abandoned their offices and fled. Xie Miao, the prefect of Chengyuan, and Sima Yi, the prefect of Chengtai, were all killed.
General Wei Xie Yan and General Liu Laozhi were sent to attack him and beat him away.
In December, Danshi attacked and Xingye governor Bulili and Nanman captain Yang Quanqi were killed together.
Lu Guang made his crown prince Lu Shao the king of heaven and called himself the Supreme Emperor.
On the same day, Lu Guang died, and Lu Zuan killed Lu Shao and then became independent.
One year later, there was a flood in Jingzhou, and the water in the flat land was three feet deep.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first lunar month of Yihai, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In February, a comet appeared between Kuisu and Lousu, entering the Ziwei constellation.
In March, the comet appeared too faint.
Summer April, earthquake.
Sun En invaded this day.
In the fifth month of the fifth month, Bingyin, the regular servants of Sanqi, the generals of the guards, and the prince of Shutinghou died.
In Ji Mao, He Ji Nei Shi Yao Tuo was defeated by Jian Mo and died in battle.
Sun En turned to invade Linhai.
The first day of the Gengchen lunar month in June. There is a solar eclipse.
drought.
Liu Yu, Sima of the auxiliary state, defeated Sun En in Nanshan.
Sun En's general Lu Xun captured Guangling, killing more than 3,000 people.
Tan Kuan, the master of King Langxie, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the seventh month of Autumn, the Empress Dowager Kui passed away.
Ding Mao, amnesty to the world.
That month, Yao Xing attacked Beggars Yue Ni and made him surrender.
In the eighth month of Dinghai, Shangshu's right servant Wang Ya died.
Renyin buried Empress Dowager Wen in Xiuping Mausoleum.
September Guichou, earthquake.
In November of winter, General Ningshuo Gao Yazhi fought against Jianmo in Yuyao, and the Wang division was defeated.
Yuan Xian, the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed as the rear general, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, the governor of Yangyu, Xu Yanqingyouji, and the military commander of the sixteen states of Baosi, Yuluan Yikuilu. Former general Liu Laozhi was appointed as the general of Zhenbei, and Tong Jian, the son of Douti, was appointed as the king of Sai Nie.
On December Wuyin, a comet appeared in the Tianshixing area.
After one year of dispatch, he returned to the right counties and consecrated King Li Xuansheng of Wuzhao of Liang as the shepherd of the two prefectures of Taiji and the Duke of Liang, with the title of Gengzi.
In the spring of the fifth year, Sun En invaded the country again. Lu Chao killed Lu Zuan and made his brother Lu Long the false emperor.
In March Jiayin, many stars fell to the west and passed through the Taiwei Star Yuan.
In the fifth month of summer, Sun En invaded Hudu, and Wu Domestic Shi Yuan Shansong died in battle.
Juqu Mengxun killed Duan Ye and called himself the Grand Governor and the Mu of Northern Liang Prefecture.
In the sixth month of Jiaxu, Sun En arrived at Dantu.
In Yihai, martial law was imposed both internally and externally, and hundreds of officials lived in the Taiwan Provincial Government Office.
The champion general Gao Su and the right guard general Zhang Chongzhi guarded Shitou. The auxiliary general Liu Xi used a wooden fence to block Huaikou.
The governor of Yuzhou and King Qiao Shangzhi were recruited to defend the capital.
Ning Shuo's general Gao Yazhi attacked Sun En at Yuzhou in Guangling and was captured.
In the seventh month of autumn, Duan Ji killed Murong Sheng. Murong Sheng's uncle Murong Xi killed everyone in the Duan family and then claimed to be emperor.
In September, Lu Long surrendered to Yao Xing.
In the tenth month of winter, Yao Xing led his army to invade Wei and returned with a great defeat.
In the first year of the lunar month, there was a famine and it was forbidden to make wine.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Wuxing, there was a general amnesty and the reign name was changed.
He appointed the rear general Yuan Xian as the hussar general and the governor of the expedition, appointed the Zhenbei general Liu Laozhi as the vanguard of Yuan Xian, and the former general Qiao Wang Shangzhi as the rear to attack Huan Xuan.
On Bingwu in February, the emperor dressed in military uniform and paid a farewell visit to Yuan Xian in Xichi.
Ding Si sent King Rouzhi of Qi, who was also serving as a minister, to use Yu banners to inform Jing and Jiang states.
In Ding Mao, Huan Xuan defeated Wang Shi in Gushu, and King Qiao Shangzhi and King Qi Rouzhi died together.
Wu Yinzhi, the right general, was appointed as the commander-in-chief and handed over to the military affairs of the two states of Guangzhou and the governor of Guangzhou.
In March, Liu Laozhi betrayed and surrendered to Huan Xuan.
At Xinwei, the king's army was defeated in Xinting. General Hussar, Prince Yuanxian of Kuaiji, Wang Yanzhang of Shuhai, champion general Mao Tai, and guerrilla general Mao Sui were killed together.
In Renshen, Huanxuan appointed himself as a servant, prime minister, and recorded the affairs of the minister. He appointed Huan Qian as the minister's servant, and moved the Taifu and King Daozi of Kuaiji to Ancheng.
Huanxuan soon called himself Taiwei, Yangzhou Mu, and Prime Minister of political affairs, and made Langxie Wang Dewen the Grand Prime Minister.
Gui Liang, the corrupt prefect, attacked Zhu Mo and killed him.
That month, Tu'elu died alone, and his younger brother Tu'an succeeded to the throne.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Yihai, Sima Chong, the king of Xincai, was killed by his servants.
In the eighth month of Gengzi, a fire broke out in Shangshu's private residence.
In the tenth month of winter, Liu Gui, the governor of Jizhou, rebelled and fled to Jichashan.
In the 12th month of Gengshen, King Dao of Kuaiji was killed by Danxuan.
Special amnesty will be given to criminals in Guangling and Pengcheng who have committed crimes of treason and below.
In the spring and February of the second year of Xinchou, Jianwei general Liu Yu defeated Xu Daofu in Shuyang.
In Yimao, Huan Xuan called himself a general.
Ding Si, Sun Wu, the governor of Jizhou, was killed by Huan Xuan.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month in summer, there is a solar eclipse.
In the eighth month of autumn, Huan Xuan called himself Prime Minister and King of Chu.
September. Yu Ping, the prefect of Nanyang, raised an army but was defeated by Huan Xuan.
In Renwu, the eleventh month of winter, Huan Xuan moved the emperor to Yong'an Palace.
Guiwei moved the ancestral tablets wrapped in the Ancestral Temple to Langye Kingdom.
On Renchen in the twelfth month, Huan Xuan usurped the throne of emperor and made Zhou Yi the king of Pinggu.
In Xinhai, the emperor was imprisoned in Xunyang.
In the spring and February of the third year, Emperor An was in Xunyang.
On the night of Gengyin, the river poured into Huti, washing away property and drowning people.
On Yimao, Jianwu general Liu Yu led Liu Yi from Pei, He Wuji from Shuhai and others to raise troops.
In Bingchen, Dankai, the governor of Biezhu appointed by Danbao in Saidan, was killed, and Dancong, the governor of Yiye appointed by Danbao in Luzuo. At Dingsi, the rebel army crossed Kendou.
On Wuwu in the third month, Liu Yu took advantage of the situation and killed Huan Xuan's general Wu Fuzhi in Jiang, and killed Huang Zhisu in Shen.
Before long, Danxuan's tribe collapsed and fled.
Gengshen and Liu Yu established Liutai and appointed hundreds of officials.
In Renxu, Huanxuan's Situ Wangxi recommended Suqi to be temporarily the general of the Zhenjun army, the governor of Tuye, and the governor of Dangtuman.
Wang Gan was appointed concurrently as governor of Zhimaggot and secretary of green affairs.
In Xinyou, he killed Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Yu in Suai, Wang Yu's son Wang Sui, the governor of Jingzhou, and Tuijin, the governor of Sizhou.
At the end of the Xin Dynasty, the Yuanshi kidnapped the boy and walked west.
Bingxu secretly told Shao that state affairs could not be handled because he was imprisoned and forced by Huanxuan. The King of Wuling, Sima Zun, was ordered to follow the old regulations and uphold the emperor's will to lead all officials to handle political affairs, and to increase the number of servants. The other official positions remained as before.
In addition, except for those who committed treason and treason, only members of the Yushi clan could not be forgiven.
In April of the Xia Dynasty, Sima Zun, the general and king of Wuling, exercised the power of the emperor and became the prime minister of the government.
Gengyin, Baotong arrived at Liaolu.
In Gengxu, General He Wuji, the auxiliary general, and Liu Daodan, the Zhenwu general, fought at Yudan and Yuanbaobu generals Li Zheng and He Shizhi, and severely defeated their armies.
Huan Xuan took Emperor An away and took him hostage.
In the fifth month of Guiyou, the champion general Liu Yi and Huan Xuan fought in Zhengrongzhou and defeated the enemy.
On Ji Mao, the emperor came to Jiangling again.
At Xinsi, Wang Kangchan, the king of Biejia in Jingzhou, and Wang Shengzhi, the prefect of Bedeng, served the emperor and lived in Zhixian.
In Renwu, the governor Feng Qian beheaded Huan Xuan in Qianpanzhou.
The emperor returned to the capital from Jiangling.
Jiashen issued an edict saying: Traitors and murderous people usurp the throne and seek rebellion. This has happened since ancient times.
I couldn't stop them, so I went into exile.
Relying on the town army general Liu Yu to display his talents and strategies, with unparalleled loyalty and bravery, as well as the champion general Liu Yi and other loyal ministers and famous generals, we can work together to formulate good strategies.
After the reputation of the volunteers spread, scholars and common people came to pledge their allegiance, and the country was stabilized, and people from all over the world celebrated together.
A general amnesty is hereby granted, and all those who serve and submit to the rebels due to coercion will not be held accountable. Wuyin returned the ancestral tablets to the Ancestral Temple.
On the leap month of Jichou, Panjiu's general Yangwu captured Yandu, Liuqian and Baocu; he retreated to Manbao, where Zhutong was kidnapped again and taken to the bandit camp.
In June, the governor Wang Bi attacked the fake Luanye governor Zou Hua and beheaded him.
In the seventh month of autumn in Wushen, Queen He of Yong'an passed away.
In the eighth month of Guiyou, Queen Dietongtong was buried together in Chengduo.
In September, Wang Yan, the former secretary and secretary of Danbi, rebelled and was executed.
In the tenth month of winter, Lu Zhong invaded Lu Cong, and the governor Chengluzhi was defeated by Lu Zhong. He captured the leader of the doctor, Duoxing, and left.
Fucha Shan died, and his elder brother's son Murong Chao succeeded to the false throne.
In the first month of spring of the first year of the year, Xuantong was in the world of mortals.
A prefect formed a fortress and mobilized righteous soldiers to attack and break the fortress house.
Ji Chou, Xing Qian entered Mo Nuo.
Danzuo took Saitong to station in Sida.
In Xinmao, the leader of the fortress defeated Danzhong's general Wen Ji in Lioxuan. He advanced and stationed his troops in Jingzhi, but was defeated by Dan Tu.
General Zhenwu attacked Dansui and drove him away.
Sai Tong came back and returned to Dao Nie's boat with the Fallen Witch King.
In the year of Wuxu, an edict was issued saying: Because of my lack of benevolence, I inherited the great inheritance prematurely.
It cannot bring stability and peace to all directions, far and near, and subdue the rebellion of good people.
The rebellious minister Frog took the opportunity to cause chaos, deceiving God and the people, and usurping the emperor's position.
I was exiled and reduced to a remote place, and the foundation of Emperor Xuan fell into decline.
Fortunately, Liu Yu, the general of the town army, was loyal, brave, wise and decisive, and his loyalty was unparalleled in ancient and modern times.
When planning and timing, loyal and virtuous people worked together with him; when he led the crowd to swear an oath with anger and tears, the loyal warriors were moved by his loyalty.
Therefore, with a single blow of the sword, the cunning and cunning people will run away, the general's majesty will be unstoppable, and the most evil person will be punished.
However, the remnant Huan Zhen is still rampant and continues to show off his evil deeds.
Fortunately, God has blessed the country, the rebels have been victorious one after another, the ferocious evil party has been defeated in despair, and I have been able to return.
It is the protection of the ancestors and the merits of the diligent king.
How can I enjoy that blessing alone? I want to celebrate the rebirth of the national destiny with billions of people.
A general amnesty is hereby granted and the reign name is changed. Only Huanxuan and Huanzhen's tribe and associates are not included in the amnesty.
The hundred officials were given the rank of second grade, the widows and widowers were given five dendrobium grains each, and the banquet was held for five days. On Dingsi in February, he stayed in Taiwan, prepared his carriages and horses, and went to Jiangling to welcome the emperor back.
Dai Ningzhi, the governor of Hongnong, Xu Huizi, the chief secretary of Jianwei, and others plotted a rebellion and were executed.
Pingxi joined the army and Qiao Zong killed General Pingxi and Yizhou governor Mao Chu, and led the Shu region to rebel.
In March, Huan Zhen attacked Jiangling again, and Sima Xiuzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, fled to Xiangyang.
General Jianwei Liu Huaisu attacked Huan Zhen and beheaded him.
The emperor arrived in the capital from Jiangling.
At the end of the day, hundreds of officials came to the palace gate to plead guilty.
Xia Shao said: This is not your fault, you should go back and perform your duties. In the year of Wuxu, we mourned for Empress Zhang for three days and held her funeral in the West Hall.
Liu Yu, He Wuji and others petitioned for permission to give up their seats, but were not granted permission.
Gengzi appointed King Dewen of Langye as Grand Sima, King Sima Zun of Wuling as Taibao, and appointed General Liu Yu of the Zhenjun as Shizhong, General of Chariots and Cavalry, and Commander-in-Chief of all Chinese and foreign military affairs.
Jiachen, issued an edict: Since the national disaster occurred not long ago, the population and property have been greatly reduced, but the daily supply has not changed the old regulations. Is it not the ancients' warning to care for the people like wounds, or to attribute the fault to oneself like Yu Tang?
Reductions and savings can be considered. In April of summer, Liu Yu returned to guard Jingkou.
Wuchen, farewell in the east hall.
During the fifth month of Guiwei, the manufacture of silk fans and gambling games are prohibited.
Sima Xiu, the guerrilla general and King of Zhangwu, and Sima Gui, the governor of Yizhou, rebelled and were executed.
Huan Xuan's old generals Huan Liang, Fu Hong, and Diao Yu invaded Xiangzhou, and the defenders beat them away.
In the eighth month of autumn, Jiazi, Xiu, the son of King Lin, was granted the title of King of Kuaiji.
In the eleventh month of winter, Qifu Gan returned to attack Qiuchi, but Yang Shengda, the Duke of Qiuchi, defeated them.
This year, King Xuan Sheng of Liangwu Zhao sent an envoy to express his willingness to declare himself a vassal state.
In the spring and first month of the second year, Sima Rongqi, the governor of Yizhou, attacked Qiao Zong's general Qiao Ziming in Baidi and defeated him.
In the fifth month of summer, Falian, the son of King Gaomi, was granted the title of King Gaoyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Yang Zijing, the governor of Liangzhou, committed a crime and was executed.
In the tenth month of winter, based on Kuang Fu's merits, Liu Yu, the general of chariots and cavalry, was granted the title of Duke of Yuzhang, General Liu Yi of the Fu army was granted the title of Duke of Nanchuo, and General He Wuji of the right was granted the title of Duke of Ancheng.
In Yihai, Kong Anguo, the general of the left, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In December, thieves killed Ruan Ye, the prefect of Lingling.
In the spring and February of the third year, Liu Yu, the general of chariots and cavalry, came to see him.
Killed Yin Zhongwen, the prefect of Dongyang, Yin Shuwen, the prefect of Nanluan, Yin Daoshu, the prefect of Jinling, and Luo Qiu, the prefect of Yongjia.
If you are ugly, you will be granted amnesty and the ban on making wine will be lifted.
In May of summer, there was a big flood.
In June, Yao Xing's general Helian Bobo proclaimed himself the King of Heaven in Shuofang, and his country was named Xia.
There is a solar eclipse on the first day of the Lunar New Year in the seventh month of autumn.
King Zunzhi of Runan committed a crime and was executed.
In August, the champion general Liu Jingyi was dispatched to supervise various military affairs in the conquest of Shu.
In the eleventh month of winter, Helian Bobo defeated Bald Shetan, who fled to Nanshan.
A year later, Gao Yun and Feng Ba killed Murong Xi, and Gao Yun ascended the throne as emperor.
In the spring of the fourth year, on the first month of the first lunar month, King Dewen of Langxie was appointed concurrently as Situ, and General Liu Yu was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou and the official secretary of Yangzhou.
Gengshen, Shizhong, Taibao, and Wuling King Sima Zun died.
In the fourth month of summer, Sanqi Changshi and Shangshu Zuopushe passed away in Anguo.
In the Jiawu period, Meng Chang, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, was granted the title of Minister Zuopushe.
On the Xinmao day of November in winter, strong wind uprooted the trees. Guichou, there is thunder.
Yang Siping, the governor of Liangzhou, committed a crime and was executed and his body was left on the street.
That month, Bald Hair hired Tan to usurp the throne of Liang.
In December, Cao Ling, king of Chenliu, passed away.
In the spring of the fifth year of the first lunar month of Xin Mao, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In Gengxu, Liu Yi, the general of the Fu army, was appointed as the general of Wei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He Wuji, the general of the auxiliary state, was also appointed as the general of Zhennan.
In 1898, an earthquake occurred in Xunyang.
In February, Murong Chao's general Murong Xingzong invaded Suyu. Liu Qianzai, the governor of Yangping, and Zhao Yuan, the governor of Nanyang, were both captured by the thieves.
In March, it snowed heavily, and the snow was several feet deep on the flat ground.
Chariot general Liu Yu led the army to attack Murong Chao.
In the sixth month of summer, Bingyin, the Imperial Ancestral Temple was struck by lightning.
Liu Zheng defeated Murong Chao in Linqu.
In the seventh month of Autumn, Yao Xing's tribe led the Qi Fu Gang Crocodile to claim the title of King of Western Qin in Yuanchuan.
On Wuchen in the ninth month, Liban killed Gao Yun. Gao Yun's general Feng Ba attacked Liban and killed him.
Feng Ba ascended the throne, still known as Yan.
In the tenth month of winter, Tuoba Shao, king of Qinghe in Wei, killed his lord Tuoba Gui.
In the sixth year of spring Dinghai, Liu Yu attacked Murong Chao and defeated him, and the barbarian land was completely pacified.
That month, Lu Xun, the governor of Lu industry, rebelled and invaded the silk industry.
In March, Tufa invaded and invaded and fought against Juqu Mengxun in Seki, and Coupan Tan was defeated.
In Renshen, He Wuji, the general of Zhennan and the governor of Jiangzhou, fought with Lu Xun in Yuzhang. The king's army was defeated and Wuji died in the battle.
In April of summer, Zhuge Changmin, the governor of Qingzhou, Liu Fan, the governor of Yanzhou, and Liu Daolian, the governor of Bingzhou, came to defend the capital.
On the third day of May, strong winds blew and the trees were uprooted.
In Wuzi, Wei general Liu Yi fought with Lu Xun at Sangluozhou, and Wang's division was defeated.
Shangshu Zuopu shot Meng Chang out of fear and committed suicide.
Ji Wei, amnesty.
Yichou and Lu Xun arrived at Huaikou, and martial law was imposed inside and outside the capital.
Da Sima and Langye King Dewen commanded all the military forces in the palace and were stationed in Zhonghuangtang; Taiwei Liu Yu was stationed in Shitou, Liang Wangzhenzhi stationed troops in Nanyemen, and champion general Liu Jingxuan stationed troops in the northern suburbs to assist the generals. Meng Huaiyu of the army stationed troops on the south bank, General Wang Zhongde of Jianwu stationed troops in Yuecheng, and General Liu Huaimo of Guangwu stationed troops on Jianyangmen. Three forts, namely Zupu, Yaoyuan and Tingwei, were built at Huaikou to resist the enemy.
In Bingyin, the decorative building on the roof of the Imperial Ancestral Temple was struck by lightning.
In the seventh month of autumn, Gengshen and Lu Xun fled.
Jiazi, let the auxiliary general Wang Zhongde, Guang Taishou Liu Zhong, Hejian Neishi Kuai En and others lead their troops to pursue.
That month, Lu Xun invaded Jingzhou, and the governor Liu Daogui, the governor of Yongzhou Lu Zongzhi and others defeated him.
Xu Daofu was defeated in Huarong again, and the thieves fled to Xunyang again.
In August, Yao Xing's general Huan Qian invaded Jiangling, and Liu Daogui defeated him.
In the eleventh month of winter, Qiao Zong, a traitor from Shu, captured Ba Shu, and the defenders Wen Zuo and Shi Yanzu were killed in the battle.
In December of Renchen, Liu Yu defeated Lu Xun in Yuzhang.
In the spring and February of the seventh year, at Renwu, the right general Liu Fan beheaded Xu Daofu in Shixing and sent his head to the capital.
In April of summer, Lu Xun fled to Jiaozhou, where the governor Du Huidu killed him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Ding Mao, Liu Daogui, the governor of Jingzhou, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the west and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
In the tenth month of winter, Juqu Mengxun attacked Liang. King Xuansheng of Liang Wuzhao fought with him and defeated him.
In the spring and February of the eighth year, Bingzi appointed Kong Jing, the prefect of Wuxing, as Shangshu Youpushe.
In the third month of Jiayin, the ground in Shanyin sank four feet, and there was a sound like thunder.
In the fifth month of summer, Qifu Gongfu killed Qifu Qiangui. Qiangui's son Chipan killed Qifu Gongfu and ascended the throne of the puppet emperor.
In June, Pingbei General Lu Zongzhi was appointed as Zhenbei General.
In the seventh month of autumn, during the Jiawu period, King Wuling died.
Gengzi, Liu Daogui, the general who conquered the West, passed away.
In August, Queen Wang passed away.
In 1911, Wang Chunzhi of Gaomi died.
In the ninth month of Guiyou, Queen Xi was buried in Xiuhu Mausoleum.
In Ji Mao, Taiwei Liu Yu killed Liu Fan, the governor of Yanzhou, the general on the right, and Xie Hun, the minister Zuopu shot.
In Gengchen, Liu Yu falsely sent an edict saying: Liu Yi harbored evil intentions and conspired to rebel in Southern Xia. Liu Fan and Xie Hun assisted in the rebellion and wanted to break the law and cause chaos.
The ministers who rely on the peace and stability of the country can see clearly, calm down the crisis and defeat the sharp, the stubborn rebel party is eradicated, and the country is peaceful.
The virtue of cherishing living beings makes those who receive kindness grateful and submissive, and pardoning the guilty and extending kindness to others is conducive to the implementation of the emperor's favor.
Moreover, the incident was caused by a big evil person, and the disaster came from several culprits.
A general amnesty is hereby granted to the whole world, but Liu Yi is not included in the amnesty.
Civil and military officials are generally promoted one level.
Anyone who is filial and loyal and lives in seclusion must report it to his superiors. Ji Chou, Liu Yu led the army to attack Liu Yi.
Wang Zhenye, who joined Liu Yu's army, captured Jiangling City, and Liu Yi committed suicide.
In the eleventh month of winter, Juqu Mengxun assumed the title of King of Hexi.
In December, Zhu Lingshi, the governor of Xiling, was appointed as General Jianwei and governor of Yizhou, and led the army to attack Shu.
Ten counties were separated from Jingzhou to establish Xiangzhou.
This year, four earthquakes occurred in Luling and Nankang.
In the spring and March of the ninth year of Bingyin, Liu Yu killed former general Zhuge Changmin, his younger brother Li Min, the general of the state, and his cousin general Ning Shuo Xiuzhi.
In Wuyin, Liu Yu was awarded the title of General Zhenxi and Governor of Yuzhou.
Fan Huda from Linyi invaded Jiuzhen, and Du Huidu, the governor of Jiaozhou, killed him.
In the fourth month of the summer, Renxu, the Queen's forty hectares of Zhize fields in Linyi and Hushu were cancelled, and were used to give to the poor, and the ban on the management of lakes and ponds was relaxed.
Lu Zongzhi, the general in the north of the town, was made Duke of Nanyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhu Lingshi conquered Chengdu, killed Qiao Zong, and Yizhou was pacified.
In September, Liu Yu's second son Yizhen was granted the title of Duke of Guiyang.
In December of winter, Wang Qiu of Anping passed away.
This year, Tongtou masters from Goguryeo, Japan, and Southwest Yi all came to offer local specialties.
In the spring and March of the tenth year, there was an earthquake.
In the sixth month of summer, Qifu Chipan led an army to attack Bald-haired Tan and destroyed him.
In autumn and July, a strong wind in Huaibei destroyed the huts and houses.
On the first day of September, Dingsi, there is a solar eclipse.
Lin Yiguo sent envoys to offer local specialties.
This year, the city wall of Shufu was built.
In the first month of the spring of the eleventh year, Sima Xiuzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, and Lu Zong, the governor of Yongzhou, rebelled against Shaqiang. Liu Zong led the army to attack them.
Geng Wu, amnesty. Ding Chou appointed Xie Yu, Minister of Civil Affairs, as Minister Zuopushe. In the third month of Xinsi, Sima Yun, the king of Huailing, passed away.
In Renwu, Liu Yu fought with Xiuzhi in Jiangjin, but Xiuzhi was defeated and fled to Xiangyang.
In the fourth month of summer, Liu Jingxuan, the governor of Qingzhou and Jizhou, was killed by Sima Daoci, who joined the army.
In May Jiashen, comets appeared twice.
On Jiawu, Xiuzhi and Zongzhi fled to Yao Hong.
Based on their contribution to the pacification of Shu, Liu Yu's son Yilong was granted the title of Duke of Pengcheng, and Zhu Lingshi was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng.
In Jiyou, a landslide occurred in Huoshan Mountain, and six bronze bells were unearthed.
In the autumn and seventh month of Bingxu, the capital was hit by a flood and the Ancestral Temple was flooded.
On the dark day of Xinhai, there will be a solar eclipse.
At the end of August, Shangshu Zuopushe Xie Yu died, and Shangshu Youpushe Liu Muzhi was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Jihai Amnesty in September
In the first month of the spring of the twelfth year, Yao Hong sent his general Lu Gui to invade Xiangyang, but Zhao Lunzhi, the governor of Yongzhou, beat him away.
At the end of February, Yao Xing died, and his son Yao Hong succeeded to the throne. This month, Liu Yu was awarded the title of Grand Governor of China and foreign countries.
In the sixth month of summer, Helian Bobo attacked Yao Hong's Qinzhou and captured it.
In Jiyou, Liu Liu, the newly appointed Shangshu Ling and the Marquis of Duxiang Pavilion, passed away.
In the eighth month of autumn, Liu Yu and Langxie Wang Dewen led their troops to attack Yao Hong.
Bingwu, amnesty.
On Bingyin in the tenth month of winter, Yao Hong's general Yao Guang led Luoyang City to surrender.
己丑，派遣兼司空、高密王恢之修缮拜谒五陵。

On the first day of the first lunar month of the thirteenth year, there was a solar eclipse.
In February, King Li Xuansheng of Wuzhao of Liang passed away, and his son Shiye succeeded him as Muzhou Mu and Duke of Liang.
In March, Longxiang's general Wang Zhen'e defeated Yao Hong's general Yao Shao at Tongguan.
In the summer, Liu Yu defeated Wei's general E Qing in Hequ and killed E Qing's general A Bogan.
In the same month, Liang Gong Kuisei defeated Juqu Mengxun in Xianzhijian. In May, the plastic tunnel conquered Tongguan.
On Dinghai, King Xiuzhi of Kuaiji passed away.
In the sixth month of Guihai, Lin Yiguo presented tame elephants and white parrots.
In autumn and July, Liu Yu captured Chang'an, captured Yao Hong, confiscated his Yi weapons, and sent them back to the capital.
Xu Daoqi, a bandit from the South China Sea, captured Guangzhou, and Liu Qian, the Prime Minister of Shixing, suppressed him with a crusade.
In the eleventh month of winter, Zuo Pushe and former general Liu Muzhi passed away.
In the spring of the fourteenth year of the first lunar month of Xinsi, there was a general amnesty.
Shen Tianzi, the governor of Qingzhou, killed General Long Xiang and Wang Zhene in Chang'an.
In June of Xia, Liu Yu was appointed prime minister and promoted to the title of Duke of Song Dynasty.
In the tenth month of winter, Liang Gongshiye was appointed General of Zhenxi and granted the title of Jiuquan Gong.
In November, Helian Bobo defeated Wang's army north of Qingni.
Zhu Lingshi, the governor of Yongzhou, burned the palace in Chang'an and fled to Tongguan.
Soon there was another great defeat, and Ling Shi died as a result.
In December Wuyin, Emperor An died in Shutang at the age of thirty-seven.
Buried in Xiuping Mausoleum.
Emperor An was not smart. He could not speak since he was a child. He did not know how to distinguish between winter and summer, cold and heat.
He cannot take care of himself in any activities of daily living.
Therefore, Huan Xuan was not killed when he usurped the throne.
There was a prophecy that there would be two emperors after the Ming Dynasty. Liu Yu wanted Sima to abdicate the throne and proclaim himself emperor, so he secretly sent Wang Shaozhi to hang Emperor An and establish Emperor Gong in order to fulfill the prophecy of the two emperors.
Emperor Gong's name was Dewen and his courtesy name was Dewen. He was the half-brother of Emperor An.
At first, he was granted the title of King Langxie, and he successively served as General of the Central Army, Changshi of Sanqi, General of Wei, and Kaifu Yitong. He was also granted the title of Shizhong, and concurrently served as Situ and Lu Shangshu.
At the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to the general of chariots and cavalry.
After Huanxuan came to power, he was promoted to Dazai, and was awarded the ceremonial dress of Gongyi, crown, and green ribbon.
After Huanxuan usurped the throne, he appointed the emperor as the Duke of Shiyang County and lived in Xunyang with Emperor An.
When Huan Xuan was defeated, he followed the defeated army to Jiangling.
After Huan Xuan died, Huan Zhen suddenly arrived, leaping on his horse and waving his arms, until he reached the steps and said to Emperor An with eyes wide open: "How could the Chen family be so sorry to the country that they were massacred like this?" The emperor then stepped down from the bed and said to Huan Zhen: "Is this what our brothers meant?" So Huan Zhen dismounted his horse and saluted.
After pacifying Huan Zhen, he became King Langxie again. He also served as the governor of Xuzhou, and soon became the Grand Sima and Situ, with special courtesy.
In the fifth year of Yixi's reign, a total of four subordinate officials including Chang Shi, Sima and Zhonglang were appointed, and they were awarded Yu Bao and Zhang Bu.
In the twelfth year, the edict said: The great Sima Zhaoxian's virtues made the royal family more prosperous, and the Taiwei's moral achievements were glorious. All of them made human ethics beautiful and orderly, and harmoniously blended the yin and yang. The talented people led and admired them and wanted to assist him in managing the affairs of the country.
However, he was usually good-looking, humble and self-restrained, and kept the door open. This was in line with the principles of elegance and humility, but actually went against his eagerness to seek virtuous people and help the world.
In the past, the recruited wise men were carried on wheels wrapped in cattails, and extraordinary talents continued to appear. When Shuping opened the mansion, there were many talents, which I long for in my heart.
You can order the two governments to recruit virtuous people according to the old rules, and you will definitely select virtuous talents and follow the example of their predecessors. So he began to select officials under his subordinates.
At that time, Taiwei Liu Yu was in charge of all the Chinese and foreign armies. There was an edict saying: "Da Sima's status is high and he has great responsibilities. He has no second thoughts about his relatives."
Although his officialdom was controlled by the imperial court, he himself did not have to abide by the rules to show respect. When Liu Yu was on the northern expedition, the emperor sent an edict to Emperor An, requesting him to take over his troops and visit the tombs of his ancestors before embarking on the expedition.
The imperial court listened to his opinion and set off with Liu Yu.
When the relevant departments proposed that participants in military affairs were not allowed to visit the mausoleum temple, the emperor once again wrote to Shu: "I will leave the capital with the army for a long time. I will not be able to express my feelings in front of the tombs of my ancestors, and I will have endless regrets in my heart."
I hope to be merciful and grant this request, so that the envoy's sincerity can be expressed, and there will be no regrets on the journey.
approved him. After Yao Hong was eliminated, he returned to Kyoto.
In December of the 14th year of Wuyin, Emperor An passed away.
Liu Yu falsely claimed the imperial edict and said: Only we, the Jin Dynasty, comply with the glorious destiny, lead the nine states with achievements, and protect the whole world with glory.
Because of my lack of virtue, I was in trouble. Fortunately, I relied on the assistant minister to save the country from overthrow.
Still relying on his protection and protection, he defeated and eliminated the chaos, so the court was stable and unified the world.
Just when he was about to rely on his assistant minister to renew and develop a great cause, he fell seriously ill and it seemed difficult to recover.
Rely on the instructions of the ancestors and gods, and entrust important tasks to those who are close to the wise.
Da Sima and King Langxie are the flesh and blood of the late emperor, with outstanding virtues. You are the heir apparent, and you are the one everyone expects.
I hope you will come to the Jin Kingdom, inherit the mission, govern the country carefully, and integrate the people of the world.
Implement my final warning and do not corrupt the great mission of our great ancestor. Send one day, ascend the throne of the emperor, and grant amnesty.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the first year of Yuanxi, the year name was changed.
Since Emperor An had not been buried yet, there was no court meeting.
Make Chu the queen. In the Sino-Japanese War, Liu Yu was summoned to return to the court.
On the 18th day of the 18th century, a comet appeared in the west of Taiwei Star Wall.
Gengshen buried Emperor An in Xiuping Mausoleum.
The emperor accepted worship and suspended instruments but did not play music.
Appointed hussar general Liu Daolian as Sikong.
In autumn and August, Liu Yu moved to Shouyang to guard.
Liu Huaishen was appointed as the former general and governor of Northern Xuzhou to guard Pengcheng.
In September, Liu Yu voluntarily dismissed his post as governor of Yangzhou.
In Yiyou, the tenth month of winter, Liu Yu appointed his son Guiyang Gongyizhen as the governor of Yangzhou.
On the first day of November, Dinghai, there is a solar eclipse.
On Xinmao in December, Liu Yu was granted special treatment.
Ji Mao, according to Taishi, the black dragon appeared in the east four times.
In the summer and June of the second year of Renxu, Liu Yu arrived in the capital.
Following Liu Yu's secret instructions, Fu Liang persuaded Emperor Gong to abdicate, drafted the Shao Book, and asked Emperor Gong to write it.
Emperor Gong happily said to the people around him: The Jin family has lost the world a long time ago, so what are the regrets now?
So he wrote the edict on red paper. Jiazi, abdicated to the palace of King Langxie.
Liu Yu made Emperor Gong the king of Lingling and lived in Moling. According to the chronology of the Jin Dynasty, the colors of his vehicles, flags and clothing were all the same as before, but in reality it was no longer in name only.
From then on, Emperor Gong was worried about the coming disaster. Empress Chu was often by his side, and all the food and drink items were in his hands, so the people of Song Dynasty could not find an opportunity to attack. In September of the second year of Song Yongchu's reign, Liu Yu sent the queen's brother Shudu to invite the queen. After a while, the soldiers entered over the wall and killed Emperor Gong in the inner room.
He was thirty-six years old.
Mi was named Emperor Gong and was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.
When the emperor was young, he was cruel and impetuous. Later, when he was a feudal country, he once let those who were good at archery shoot horses as a game.
Soon someone said: "Ma is the surname of the country, but it would be unlucky to kill the horse yourself." Emperor Gong also woke up and regretted what he had done.
From then on, he believed deeply in Buddhism. He cast tens of thousands of coins together and made a bronze statue one foot six feet high. He went to Waguan Temple to welcome him in person and followed him on foot for more than ten miles.
Emperor An was an idiot, and Emperor Gong often served him, taking care of his daily life and food. He was famous for his courtesy, and people at that time praised him.
At the beginning, when Emperor Yuan was proclaimed King of Jin in the year of Ding Chou and established the ancestral temple, he asked Guo Pu to hold the zodiac, saying that he would enjoy it for two hundred years.
The year from Ding Chou to the Zen Dynasty was the year of Gengshen, which was exactly one hundred and four years.
But Ding Chou began to have the Western Jin Dynasty, and Geng Shen became the Song Dynasty, and there were only one hundred and two years left in between.
Guo Pu probably said that one hundred and two years was too short, so he euphemistically said it was two hundred years.
Shi Chen said: The period when Emperor An came to the throne was a period of intense war and chaos. Daozi and Yuan were in power, the monarch was mediocre and his ministers violated the law. How could the country not be destroyed in this way?
Even if they had soldiers and horses in their hands and thought of their homeland and court in their hearts, they would suddenly disperse because they could not see the virtuous people when they looked around.
So Huanxuan took advantage of this opportunity, and the momentum surpassed that of the violent wind, and all six armies were wiped out, and the emperor went into exile.
Therefore, Zhitan of Song Dynasty was not a minister of the Sima clan, but Semo was an enemy of Zhushi.
As for the overthrow of the dynasty, Emperor Fu Gong would be the most unfortunate.
How could the people in Shimai go to the Yandan Cave? How could the people at the foot of Kuaiji Mountain lament that they were other people's subjects?
He left the palace and returned to his old home, writing edicts on red paper without regrets.
The alternation of the five fortunes between heaven and earth, and the end of the three positive years, are like the withering away of all things in late autumn, which is a natural principle.
Some people will cry when they see Jin already falling to pieces.
Zan said: Emperor An inherited the unruly national destiny, and the thieves took advantage of the situation and became rampant.
Emperor Gong was temporarily ordered to do so, and the matter was decided by others.
Just like retaining King Nan of Zhou, but replacing him with King Huai of Chu.
False honors and titles, different methods but the same destruction.
