Emperor Gaozu had eight sons: Ding Guibin gave birth to Prince Zhaoming, Emperor Taizong Jianwen, King Wei of Luling Xu, Ruan Xiurong gave birth to Shizu Xiaoyuan Huangtong, Wu Shuyuan gave birth to Wang Zong of Yuzhang, Dong Shuyi gave birth to Wang Ji of Nankang Jian, Ding Chonghua gave birth to Shaoling and Wang Lun, and Ge Xiurong gave birth to King Ji of Wuling.
There are other legends about Jiao Zhong and Lu Qi.
Xiao Ji, the king of Nankang Jian, whose courtesy name was Shijin, was the fourth son of Emperor Gaozu.
In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Nankang County and was granted the title of 2,000 households.
He served as General of Light Vehicles and led the military garrison with stones.
In the tenth year, he was moved to the post of envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in South Xuzhou, governor of South Xuzhou, and was promoted to General Renwei.
Xiao Ji was only seven years old at the time. When the person in charge was receiving the goods, he changed the letter he sent. Wang Sengru, the chief historian, did not notice it. When Xiao Ji saw it, he immediately blamed him. The person in charge surrendered himself and pleaded guilty. Everyone praised him for being smart and alert.
In the 16th year, he was appointed General Xuanyi and led the Shitou garrison.
In the seventeenth year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the five states of Nan Yan, Bei Yan, Xu, Qing, and Ji. He was also the governor of Nan Yanzhou and became famous in the state.
Not long after, Shao ordered the army to return to the capital. Cao Jiale, a commoner, and 370 other people went to the court to express their gratitude to Xiao Ji for his outstanding political achievements.
In ordinary four years, he was recruited as Shizhong and Yunhui General, leading the stone garrison army.
In the fifth year, he served as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Jiangzhou, and governor of Jiangzhou.
When his mother Dong Shuyi passed away, mourning was strictly in accordance with etiquette. Gaozu Shou Shao persuaded him to act as the governor of Jiangzhou. He insisted on being relieved of his post, so he was conscripted into General An You and led the Shitou garrison. Soon he was added to the guard army.
A weak person cannot manage government affairs.
In the third year of Datong, he died in office due to illness at the age of twenty-five.
As a posthumous gift to the Shizhong, the General of the Central Army, and the three divisions of Kaifu Yitong, I gave him a piece of propaganda.
Mi's name is Jian.
Xiao Ji had few pleasures and hobbies, and few hobbies and desires. He had no servants or concubines at home. He handled matters personally, was simple and frugal, and sent all his land, taxes, and salaries to the court's warehouse.
After his death, there were tens of millions of unnamed money from Nankang in the warehouse.
The son will be responsible for the title of heir, and the word is long and talented.
Young and intelligent, he likes literature and history.
His father died when he was only eleven years old, and he was loved by his great ancestor. His clothes and ceremonial salary were no different from those of King Zheng.
At the age of fifteen, he became a general of light chariots and governor of Xiangzhou, and also led the stone garrison army.
He was moved to serve as a minister and also as a leading general.
Soon, in addition to General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin, he was appointed an assistant historian.
He served as an envoy to control the military affairs of the seven states of Nanyan, Beiyan, Beixu, Yi, Ji, Saitu, and Long. He was also the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yimanzhou.
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, the governor led the army to attack the north and reached Pengcheng. He was defeated by the Wei army and retreated to Yanzhou in the south.
In the second year, Hou Jing besieged the capital, and Hui was organizing his gear and preparing to send in reinforcements. At this time, Hou Zhengbiao, the governor of Northern Xuzhou, Fengshan, was about to join forces with his brother Zhenglong and made excuses to come to the rescue. He actually wanted to attack Lu Duo, but He Xi defeated him and was able to advance.
When Taicheng fell, Hou Jing sent Dong Niuxian, the former prefect of Linjiang, to summon Heli by directing his hand. His subordinates all advised him to refuse the call. Huili said: "Your thoughts are different from mine. The emperor's life is noble and controlled by thieves. Now that I have been summoned to the court by hand, how can I violate my heart?"
Moreover, far away from Jiangbei, it is difficult to achieve achievements. It is better to go to Kyoto and make plans for the emperor.
My plan has been decided.
So he set out with all the armaments and handed over Nan Yanzhou to Yu Shaoxian.
When he arrived in Beijing, Hou Jing appointed him as Shizhong, Sikong, and Zhongshuling.
Although he served under the bandits, he always wanted to recover. Together with Hou Quan of Xixiang and others, he secretly deployed his cronies and invited warriors.
During the Han Dynasty, Tong Kuangbi, a native of Fanyang, beheaded Niu Xian and occupied Lubao Ball to revolt, hoping that He Yi would be an internal response.
Zu Hao failed and confessed his resignation to Huili. Hou Jing falsely claimed that the imperial edict had removed him from the position of Huili, but he still received the Shangshu order as a commoner.
In winter, when Jing went to Jinxi, the troops in the capital were weak, so Helifu and Liu Jingli planned to raise an army.
He saluted and said: To hold a major event, you must have the resources to support it. How can we act now that we have no troops?
Heli said: There are more than 3,000 old soldiers of mine in Hushu. Yesterday someone came to tell me that they would gather accordingly. When they heard that the date for my army was set, they went to the capital.
It is estimated that the thieves' garrison is no more than a thousand people. If the soldiers attack outside, we should cooperate inside and take Wang Wei directly. Everything will be successful.
Even if Hou Jing returns later, he will not be able to accomplish anything.
He saluted and said "yes", so he agreed to raise troops.
At this time, the people were disgusted with thieves and wanted to obey orders. From Danyang to Jingkou, no one disagreed.
Later, the matter failed, and he tried to reconcile with his younger brother Qiyanghou and was killed.
Tongli's courtesy name was Zhongxuan, his position was Prince Xima, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Qiyang.
Tongli's younger brother Yili, courtesy name Jiying, was Huili's sixth younger brother.
One hundred days after he was born, King Jian died. At the age of three, he had an idea. When he saw his wife dispersed and left, they bid farewell to each other with tears. Yili asked about the reason. Someone said: These are the people in King Jian's palace who left after the funeral.
Giri cried, unable to control himself with grief. When the people in the palace saw it, they all felt sad because there were three people left like this.
After the period of mourning was over, when he saw Gaozu, he cried again and could not control himself.
Emperor Gaozu burst into tears because of this, and said to the people around him: "This son will definitely become a wonderful man when he grows up."
In the eighth year of Datong, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anle County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Cong Ling had a generous temperament and longed for fame. Whenever he read about the deeds of loyal ministers and martyrs, he would never stop closing the book and exclaiming: "These people's lives will not feel ashamed in front of the ancients."
He was well-read and talented in literature. He once worshiped Kong Wenju's tomb and erected a stele for him. The inscription on the stele was extremely beautiful.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jingnei invaded the capital. Yili gathered hundreds of guests and rushed to Nanyanzhou with light equipment. He joined his brother Huili to aid the court. He often resisted the arrows personally and was always in front of the soldiers in charge.
After the city fell, he followed Heli back to Luchang, wanting to take him as a hostage and begging for help.
On the second day of the journey, Hou Jing sent Dong Shao to occupy Guangling first, and then hunted down Huili, and Congli was captured.
Niu was very well guarded, and he could not see his brothers, so he occasionally asked to return to the capital first so that he could say goodbye to his mother. He said to his sister, Princess Angu: "Now that things have come to this, how can we let the whole family be killed."
If my brother comes back, I hope you can tell him on my behalf, let him think of a plan and work hard to do it, and stop missing me.
My family and country are in danger, so I don’t feel resentful if I sacrifice my life for it. I also want to contribute to the country in the future, but I don’t know what my destiny will be.
When he arrived in the capital, he thought that Yuan Zhen, a native of the Liang Dynasty who had surrendered to Wei, was loyal and upright, and valued honor and integrity. He could let him collect his body after his death, so he gave him a fan with a jade handle.
Yuan Zhen felt strange about the gift, so he did not accept it.
Giri said: I will understand later, I hope you won’t refuse.
At this time, Zu Hao raised troops, and Yili also rushed to Changlu, recruiting more than a thousand troops.
There was a traitor beside Yili who took the opportunity to kidnap him. The soldiers he had gathered dispersed in fright, and he was killed by Hou Jing at the age of twenty-one.
Only then did Yuan Zhen realize his previous intentions and went to collect his body and bury him.
King Wei of Luling was named Shixin and was the fifth son of Emperor Gaozu. In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Luling County and was granted the title of 2,000 households in the town.
In the tenth year, he was awarded the title of General Qingche and Governor Langxie of Nanpeng City.
In the thirteenth year, he was transferred to the post of governor of Kuaiji.
In the 16th year, he served as the governor of Liaoye's military affairs, general Yunhui, and governor of Jiangzhou.
In the first year of Pongyang, General Xuanyi was recruited to lead the stone garrison army.
When Xiao Xu was young, he acted bravely and decisively, with superhuman physical strength. He could shoot arrows on horseback and go hunting with perfect accuracy.
Emperor Gaozu often praised and said: This is my family's Rencheng.
Zeng Yu came to congratulate Wang Zhengde, Hu Guitong, Tang Bochao and others on horseback and shoot arrows in front of Gaozu. Xiao Xu ranked first, Gaozu was very happy.
In the third year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yong, Liang, Qin and Shazhou, general of Xizhonglang, and governor of Yizhou.
In the seventh year, he was appointed General Xuanyi.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yong, Liang, Qin and Shazhou, general of Pingbei, captain of Ningman, governor of Yongzhou, and advocated for the first department.
Xiao Xu collected many weapons, raised fine horses, filled the interior with money and goods, and filled the warehouse outside with food.
Four years later, he was transferred to General Anbei.
In the first year of Datong, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Jiangzhou, general Annan, and governor of Jiangzhou.
Three years later, he was recruited as the general of the army guard and the leader of the military seal.
In the fifth year, he served as General of Hussars and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong.
He also served as an envoy to control the military affairs of Jingzhou, Ying, Si, Yong, Southern Qin, Northern Qin, Liang, Ba, and Hua Jiuzhou, and was the governor of Jingzhou.
In the second year of Zhongda Tong, he died in Yuzhou at the age of forty-four.
As a posthumous gift to Sikong, the regular servant of Sanqi, and the general of hussar, they were promoted to one department, and the Mi trumpet was regarded as awe-inspiring.
The eldest son Xiao An succeeded.
Shaoling, with the courtesy name Shidiao, Wang Xiaolun, was the sixth son of Emperor Gaozu.
He was very smart when he was young, had outstanding talents, was erudite, wrote beautiful articles, and was better at writing letters.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of Prince of Shaoling County and was granted the title of 2,000 households in the town.
He served as general of Ningyuan and prefect of Langye and Pengcheng counties, and moved to general of Qingche and prefect of Kuaiji.
In the eighteenth year, General Ren Xinwei was recruited.
In the first year of Pongyang, he led the Shitou garrison army and soon became the governor of Hongzhou.
In the fifth year, Yixi Zhonglang will act as the governor of southern Yanzhou. If he is found guilty, he will be dismissed from his official position and his title will be removed.
Seven years. Pay homage to Shizhong.
In the first year of Datong, the title of nobility was restored, and soon he was appointed General Xinwei and appointed subordinate officials.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed Danyang Yin.
In four years, he served as Shizhong, General Xuanhui, and Governor of Yangzhou.
Because he had embezzled civilian property, the Shaofu Prime Minister He Zhitong reported the matter. Xiao Lun found out about it and ordered his retainer Dai Zigao to assassinate him in the alley of the capital.
Zhitong's son complained to the emperor about this, and Emperor Gaozu ordered people to surround Xiao Lun's house and arrest Dai Zichan. Xiao Jian hid him but couldn't catch him.
Corun was dismissed from his post and became a civilian because of this incident.
Soon, the title was restored.
In the first year of Datong, he was appointed as Shizhong and General Yunhui.
In the seventh year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Ying, Xuan, Huo and Genzhou, general of Pingxi, governor of Yingzhou, and moved to general Anqian and Danyang Yin.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he served as the general who suppressed Cambodia and the governor of southern Xuzhou.
In the second year of Taiqing, he was promoted to General of Zhongwei and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong.
Baoliang launched a rebellion, appointed Gai Qiang to conquer the governor, and led all the troops to attack and punish him.
Before setting off, Emperor Gaozu told him: "This villain Mi is very familiar with the formations of war. It is impossible to eliminate him in just one battle. We should consider the long term."
When Xiao Lun arrived at Zhongli, Hou Jing had already passed the quarrying site.
Xiao Lun then marched day and night, without setting up fixed defensive positions, and led mobile troops to catch up.
When a strong wind blew from the Yangtze River to the center of the river, one or two tenths of the people and horses were drowned.
So he led Ningyuan generals Xifeng Gong Dachun, Xingan Gong Dacheng and others, and led 30,000 infantry and cavalry to set out from Beijing.
General Tsai Bochao said: If you take Dong Yue Road, you will definitely encounter thieves. It is better to take a small road straight to Zhongshan to catch them by surprise.
Lu Cang obeyed.
The soldiers suddenly appeared. The thieves were frightened and divided into three groups to attack Xiao Lun's army. Xiao Lun's army fought and defeated him, killing more than a thousand people.
The next day, the bandit army came to attack again. The two armies were in a stalemate until dusk. The bandit army retreated slightly, and Nan'an Hou Gaimin led dozens of cavalry in pursuit.
The traitors attacked Xiao Jun, and Xiao Shu's troops were in chaos. As a result, the traitors approached the army and the army was defeated.
When Lu lost to Zhongye, his army only had more than a thousand men. The thieves besieged him again. Xiao Lun was defeated again and fled back to Jingkou.
In the spring of the third year, Xiao Lun and Shu Yangzhou governor Dalian and others went to aid the imperial court and arrived at Piusizhou.
Advance to Sikong.
Taicheng fell and fled to Yu's cave.
In the first year of Dashi, Xiao Lun arrived in Yingzhou. Xiao Ke, the governor of Nanping, wanted to cede Yingzhou to Xiao Lun. Xiao Lun refused, so he recommended Xiao Lun to Xiao Lun and appointed him as the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
Xiao Lun then set up a hundred palaces and changed the hall to Zhengyang Palace.
Xiao Lun was disgusted by the many disasters and strange things that happened.
At that time, Emperor Yuan had been besieging Xiao Yu, the king of Hedong, in Changsha for a long time, and internal and external communication was cut off. Xiao Lun heard that Xiao Yu's situation was urgent and wanted to rescue him, but he stopped because of insufficient military rations.
So he wrote to Shizu saying:
With the holy virtues of the previous emperors, he governed the world with filial piety, and all relatives lived in harmony. People from all over the world have no resentment. This is how the country should be governed and how our family tradition should be.
Only you and I listen to the emperor's teachings. We should encourage each other to abide by the edict and promise not to repent.
Moreover, at the highest level of Tao, harmony is valued, and possession of the right time and place is not as important as human relations. Are your brothers killing each other?
In the past, I heard that Xiao Yu acted arbitrarily, violated the teachings, and bullied his elders with his juniors. A war broke out in the Xiangjiang and Xiajiang rivers.
When Fang and others participated in the battle and encountered rebels, they were killed in the battle formation and lost their lives in Wu. It was not unjust at this time.
The voices were wailing and crying, which added to the grief and indignation, and they remembered sadly and said what good things could be said.
I am in Yingzhou, which is far away from here. Although I know what happened, I don't know why it happened.
When I came here, I consulted with various parties, and they all said that Xiao Yu should take over many positions and not send troops and food. You educated him and he would not correct himself, so you raised an army to attack him.
Xiao Yu didn't understand the general situation and made arbitrary decisions. Even if there was an emergency, he would not know how to think about it.
If you can't compete with him for courtesy, you send troops.
There are internal changes, and brothers become enemies. Once this happens, how can one not feel sad.
There have been books and inquiries, favors have been passed down, and discussions have been mixed, and everyone knows that there is no way to go into detail.
Today's country is in danger and humiliation, and the pain is profound. What makes people different from birds and insects is that they know how to serve their king and father.
The enemy has been very strong these days, and the enemy has not yet avenged it. I, you, my brother, and three of us are out there. If we don’t save the country from danger, where else can we be needed?
We should only meet each other sincerely, weep blood on the pillow, swear to the sky, rely on the gods and ancestors, plan day and night, and think about recovery together.
As for the rest of the minor grudges, perhaps they should be forgiven.
If you continue to hate for a moment, you will not be able to do anything about the unjust injustice of the country.
It is time to change the importance of things, re-determine the size of things, get rid of useless emotions, let go of the grief of losing your son, and be magnanimous and open-minded with reason and common sense.
Now that Zhongshan has been lost and his son has been killed, there is no need to do things like pouring soup to stop boiling or swallowing ice to cure cold.
If everyone hates Xiao Yu because of his immorality, and you imitate them, it will not be his fault alone.
I hope that the public will be lenient to him and that patience will calm the conflicts.
If the foreign invaders are not eliminated and domestic troubles still occur, looking at the present and the past, no country will survive.
The principle of war is to win the battle; as for the war between flesh and blood, the more victorious it is, the more cruel it becomes. Victory is not merit, and failure is mourning. Toiling the army and damaging morality is a huge loss.
The reason why Hou Jing's army did not dare to peek into the south of the Yangtze River was precisely because the fence was entrenched and the brothers of the same clan were closely guarded.
If we fight against each other, we will send troops for Hou Jing. Hou Jing will not have to use his troops and reap the results. The ugly man will be very satisfied when he hears this.
Another villain, Zhuang Tie, created a rebellion and held the Marquis of Guanning and Huai'an hostage for a long time. Under their banner, when there was a war, he drew troops from the side and extremely abolished the border defense forces. When he heard that troops were to be sent out for conquest, he dispersed his troops and turned everything from Guazhou to Xiang and Yong into battlefields, causing all the troops to be exhausted.
Hou Jing finally accepted the false provocation and crossed the river on a rampage. Wouldn't it have created a situation where he was surrounded by worries and it was difficult to rescue him from the beginning to the end?
It's chilling, the matter is already very urgent.
If my brother resolutely captures Dongting and does not stop the war, Xiao Cha in Yongzhou will also suspect that you want to invade him. How will he feel at ease?
Wei's army must be brought in for assistance.
Hou Jing's incident was like a malignant abscess growing inside himself, and the reinforcements from the Western Wei Dynasty were like tumors growing outside his body.
The soldiers of the Western Wei Dynasty were stationed in Guanzhong, and their throats were blocked by him. What's more, their greedy hearts are unpredictable and they are bound to invade inwards.
If my brother feels uneasy and attacks Dongting, his family and country will be destroyed.
I don't have deep insights, I just can spread the truth. I just collected rumors, extensively listened to people's comments, and found them suspicious. These are the strategies to disintegrate.
Over the past fifty years since the founding of our country, we have been grateful to heaven and have spread virtue throughout the country. Although adversities have occurred, they have not destroyed the country's peaceful and prosperous era.
In the territory of the whole world, loyal ministers are angry, and neighbors are in trouble. Everyone is loyal and loyal, carrying armor and weapons on their backs. They are furious, their eyes are split with anger, and they all want to insert their swords into Hou Jing's belly. All they need is the advice of the commander.
Now people are willing to die, and the number of people participating is like water.
My brilliant strategy shocked the distant world and dominated the contemporary world. Your virtues and arts, your literature and martial arts can save lives and help people in trouble. The government and the public belong to you. The princes of the Nine Harmonies can rule the world. Who but my brother can do that?
How can you go against public expectations and incur complaints and slander from everyone!
The difficult situations are all as I have described.
This truth is very clear and needs no elaboration. The tests are all true and no need to be precise.
The reason why I crossed the dangerous road of Jianguan and came out from Saichuan was to tell the kings in the upper reaches of Kenjiang that they must unite in close relations to send troops and spend the remaining years of my life in the army. When I reached Jiujiang, Brother Anbei should go upstream because the army's food supplies would be cut off. Most of the food for the soldiers was vegetables, and they looked hungry, so they could no longer make progress.
Hou Jing took the opportunity to rest and recuperate, and his death sentence was suspended. His anger increased and he wanted to live without a place.
The grain and millet of Shuiyou should be abundantly stored. If I stop my brother Chen Bing, but the matter is urgent, as for the operation, I may not have time to distribute it.
What I sincerely hope for these days is that there will be enough food. If we wait for the transfer from Youzhou, the current situation will be dangerous.
I must hope that my worthy brother will quickly follow this approach to lift the siege and save the country, so that he can transport grain stores and supply the army. As long as we work together, the world will be peaceful and peaceful.
The ancestral temple is restored and the world is restored. Isn't it very lucky to recommend my brother for his contribution?
How can I do these things because I have so little talent? All of this depends on my virtuous brother. If I can express my feelings, I will die in the morning and die in the evening. What resentment will there be in dying ten thousand times?
Let me state my experience and hope that I will not be blamed.
When I wrote the letter, I was confused and lost order in many places.
Shizu replied and stated that the King of Hedong was guilty and the reason why the siege could not be lifted.
Lun read the letter and cried and said: Things in the world have turned out to be like this!
Everyone on the left and right didn't cry when they heard it.
So Lushu overhauled his weapons and sent out troops to conquer Zhuqiang.
Wutong heard that his army was strong, so he sent Wang Sengbian and ten thousand boatmen to attack Lu Lun. Xiao Lun, Liu Longwu and others surrendered to Wang Sengbian. Xiao Lun's army was defeated, so he fled to Wuchang by boat with his son Xiao Zhi and more than ten people.
At that time, Xiao Lun's chief ministers, Wei Zhi and Sima Jianglu, were outside. When they heard that Xiao Lun was defeated, they drove their horses to meet him. Xiao Lun then gathered some scattered troops and stationed them in Qichang County, intending to introduce the Wei army to attack Nanyang together.
Hou Jing's general Ren Yue heard about this and sent two hundred cavalry to attack Lu Qiang. Dong Jian was unprepared and was defeated and fled to Xuanzhou.
Tian Longzu, the governor of Shizhou, welcomed Lu Qiang. Lu Qiang was afraid of being captured because Lungdan was in charge of Plastic Chew, so he returned to Qichang.
Traveling to Runan, Kuese, the lord of this mu city appointed by the Western Wei Dynasty, was an old subordinate who was defeated in a single defeat. Hearing that Lu Jian was defeated, he opened the city to accept him.
They built the city and gathered soldiers to attack Jingling.
Ma Xiu, the governor of Anzhou in the Western Wei Dynasty, heard about this and reported it to Xi Gong. Yousu sent generals Danggu and Yitongbaozhantong to come with their troops. Qianggu and others arrived at Dazhi, and Gai Yao personally surrounded the city and defended it.
It was cold and snowy at the time of dispatch, and Yang Zhong and others failed to attack the city, and many people died.
Later, Li Su was killed by an arrow and the city fell.
Zha Locust and others captured Lu Shou, but Dong Jian refused to yield to them, so he was killed and his body was thrown to the river bank. Xiao Lun's expression remained unchanged for many days, and no birds or animals dared to approach him.
He was thirty-three years old.
The people sympathized with him and built a temple for him. Later, Shizu gave him the title of Mi.
The eldest son Xiao Jian, named Changbai.
In the first year of Datong, he was granted the title of Marquis of Runan as usual, with a settlement of 500 households.
He is also good at cursive script and official script, and his temperament is very lazy and superficial.
Hou Jing besieged the city, and Xiao Jian was stationed at the Sun Gate. He ended up gambling and drinking, and did not care about military affairs.
Officials did not report their meritorious services, and when they contracted the plague, they were not cared for by the military and government. The soldiers were very angry.
In March of the third year of Taiqing, Xiao Jian's assistants Dong Xunhua, Bai Tanlang and others used ropes to lure thieves to the building. The city fell immediately and Xiao Jian was killed.
His younger brother Xiao Que, also named Zhongzheng.
When he was young, he was brave and talented.
In the second year of Datong, he was granted the title of Zhengzhihou, with a settlement of 500 households. Later, he was granted the title of Chengxubao.
He often practiced riding and shooting at home and learned the art of war. People at the time thought he was arrogant.
Someone on the left and right warned him bluntly. Xiao Que said: "Wait until I break thieves for the country and let you know me."
He was awarded the title of Secretary Cheng, and he was born in the prince's family.
In the battle at Zhongshan, Lu Bie fought hard and was invincible. All the captives were afraid of him.
Whenever Lu Qian faced the enemy in battle, he would be full of energy, put on armor and mount a horse, galloping back and forth from morning to night, not realizing the hard work. The generals admired his bravery.
When Qiang begged for an alliance, Lu Bing was outside. Bao Jing was afraid that Xiao Que would become a trouble in the future, so he asked to summon Xiao Que into the city.
So Xiao Que was appointed as the general of Nanzhong Lang and the governor of Guangzhou under the Shaoshu Order, and he was granted the title of 2,000 additional households.
Xiao Que knew that this alliance was suspicious and the city would be destroyed. He wanted to go to the south. He led the king to find out and forced Xiao Que to enter the city.
Xiao Que still refused, and King Xie said to him in tears: "You want to rebel?"
At that time, the Taiwan envoy Zhou Shizhen was present. Xiao Que said to Shizhen: Although Hou Jing wanted to withdraw his troops, he did not lift the long siege. By inference, the alliance was very clear.
I don't see any benefit in calling me into the city now.
Shi Zhen said: "The edict is like this, how can you refuse it?"
Xiao Que insisted on his decision and was furious with the king. He said to Cao Bochao: "Qiaozhou, please behead him for me and carry his head to the palace."
Bo Chao waved his sword and looked at Xiao Que sideways and said: I know you, but does the sword know you?
Xiao Que came out with tears in his eyes and entered the city.
When Hou Jing betrayed the alliance and besieged the city again, the city fell. Xiao Que pushed open the palace gate and entered, reporting to Emperor Gaozu: The city has fallen.
Emperor Gaozu said: Can we still fight to the death?
The answer is: It’s impossible.
I have always fought in person, and the existing power cannot stop it. I can only go down the rope and go down to the city. This is the only way.
Emperor Gaozu sighed and said: The country was gained from me and lost from me, so there is nothing to regret.
So Xiao Que was asked to write a letter of condolences.
Xiao Que went out of the city to meet Hou Jing. Hou Jing loved his physical strength and often asked him to stay by his side.
Once when he was traveling with Hou Jing, he saw an eagle in the sky. The captives tried to shoot it but failed. Xiao Que shot an arrow, but the arrow fell off the eagle.
The thieves were angry and jealous of him, and they all advised Hou Jing to get rid of him.
First, he and the king sent a secret messenger to guide Xiao Que. Xiao Que said to the envoy: Hou Jing is very frivolous and one person can deal with him. Xiao Que is not afraid of death and wanted to kill him with his own hands, but he has not got the chance yet.
Qing also told the king of his family not to worry about this matter.
He was killed by thieves when he failed to get the job done.
Shi Chen said: Since the Zhou and Han dynasties, many princes and kings have been granted the title of protector of the imperial court, and they have consolidated their roots. Emperor Gaozu wanted to follow the ancient system when he enfeoffed princes.
The King of Nankang and the King of Luling occupies a rock-like position because of their noble positions in the clan. Xiao Ji is famous for his filial piety, and Xiao Xu is famous for his courage.
Police officer Xiao Luncong was talented and learned, but had a sinister and impetuous temperament. He was dismissed from his post many times due to convictions. During the war in the Taiqing Dynasty, their loyalty and filial piety survived, which is worthy of commendation.
